Plauti Pcenulus.

How strangely in this life good with evil mixes :
God throws the dice, but the devil gets double sixes !

Laurence Farquhar.

A STUDY OF TO-DAY

BY

X. L.

AUTHOR OF 'AUT DIABOLUS AUT NIHIL

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXIX

All Rights reserved

V.I

^

^

TO

^^ ALGEENON Charles Swinburne

c^

'I

I

CHAPTEK I.

It may, we think, be asserted without any fear
of contradiction, that no event since the time
when young Bonaparte caught and strangled*
the fair and fierce Republic with her feet of
fire " has so entirely, from garret to basement,
as it were, from palace to hovel, turned topsy-turvy
all French social life, as did the mysterious
plot hatched in the Palace of the Elysee
by a handful of adventurers some 
years ago, and known to the student of
history as the coup - d'etat of Prince Louis
Napoleon. Many men went to bed prosperous
and happy on the night of the 1st December
1851 — that famous and terrible night when

Mornyy, the arch-conspirator, on being asked by
a lady into whose box at the Opera Comique
he had sauntered, if it were true that the
Prince - President intended to sweep out the
Chamber, replied, with characteristic flippancy
and cynicism, *' I can't say. Countess ; but if
he does, you may rely upon it I shall endeavour
to be on the side of the broom handle," — many
men, we say, went to bed prosperous and happy
on that eventful night, to awake in the morning
to find themselves utterly ruined, deprived of
all that makes life worth the living, and even
in very many cases prisoners, and destined to
pass the remainder of their unhappy days in
exile. Indeed, the coup - cVetat of the 2d
December, being far more sudden and unexpected
than that of the 18th Brumaire, had a
more immediate and terrible effect throughout
the length and breadth of France. The nephew,
being a far weaker man than the uncle, had to
snatch where the other grasped. The blow
given by Napoleon I., although not to be
avoided, could be seen coming : the spring
with which Napoleon III. leaped into despotic
power took nearly all save his fellow-conspirators
by surprise.

Multitudes were ruined ; and men of every
class and rank in life, from the ambitious politician,
high-spirited general, or powerful financier,
who found their career and speculations
abruptly and finally brought to a close, down
to the humble artisan and mechanic who learnt
too late, when their food and that of their
children was thus peremptorily snatched from
them, the bitter lesson that it is a dangerous
thing in France for a man who has his daily
bread to earn to indulge in the luxury of having
political opinions. And it is, indeed, no wonder
that the French nation was taken by surprise,
for the whole thing, as we know now, was done
in a great hurry ; and the only wonder is, that
a plot so amazingly simple, and so hastily put
together, should have been so thoroughly successful.
There was, however, no time to be
lost — not a moment ; for as every one was in
debt, and as nobody had anything to pay with,
as a last chance France herself had to be seized
upon to prevent the Palace of the Elysee from
being exchanged for the debtor's prison of
Clichy. Prince Louis Napoleon, who could
not shake ofi* the habits of extravagance contracted
at Rochford's, was besieged by creditors.

Mornyy, who had begun his life of a dandy and
lady-killer under the auspices of the eldest son
of King Louis Philippe, the ill - fated Due
orleans, and concerning whom that Prince
had written to his brother, the Due de Memoirs,
six years before, " apropos des femmes explores
tu auras que Mornyy part pour Algerine," had
at the time of the coiip-d'etat an execution in
his house, and all his worldly goods would have
gone to the hammer in a day or two had he not
caught France by the throat just in time to
save his furniture from being sold ; while as for
that most delightful of men, Fleury, and that
typical adventurer, St Arnaud, they had never
known what it was to be out of debt, and were
ever ready, at a moment's notice, to lend their
hand and brain to the furthering of any scheme
that would seem to offer them any reasonable
chance of being able to inspire still further
credit. So, as it is often the smallest and most
contemptible causes that bring about the most
important results, here we find the fact of a few
sheriff's officers and a handful of impertinent
tradesmen clamouring for the settlement of
their little outstanding accounts, effecting the
change of government in France in 1851,

which, deluging the Boulevards in blood, and
eventually leading, as this change did, to the
Franco - Prussian war, altered the map of
Europe !

But though very many suffered most bitterly
nay more, were utterly crushed and ruined by
this change — no small number greatly benefited
by it. Men who had never been even heard
of the previous November occupied the most
important and exalted positions in the following
December, and the bankrupt of yesterday
became in many cases the millionaire of today.
Country attorneys and provincial journalists
blossomed into prefects and Cabinet
Ministers with appalling swiftness ; and women
who had often cooked their own dinners and
washed up the dishes afterwards, found themselves
suddenly called upon to represent the
proudest country in Europe at foreign courts.
That this sudden revolution in France should
so have affected for good or for ill Frenchmen
and Frenchwomen, need not (all the extraordinary
circumstances of the case being taken
into consideration) surprise us so very greatly ;
but that this general and complete upsetting of
things Gallic should have very greatly benefited

a very humble native of perfidious Albion, may
indeed fill our minds with wonder and astonishment.
And yet such was the case.

William Meredith was the son of a chemist
who kept a small shop on the High Road,
Chiswick ; and if it had not suited. Prince Louis
Napoleon to break his word pledged to the
French nation, and seize upon the reins of
Government on the terrible December night
already alluded to, it is more than probable
that *' Bill " Meredith would never have been
known to fame, and would have gone to his
long home only remembered by a very restricted
and small circle of very humble individuals
as having been a man of quite
extraordinary personal beauty, and one endowed
with a bountiful supply of good-nature,
and a well-developed bump of intrigue. It
was, indeed, the beauty that did it all. When
the poor Chiswick chemist, who found it difficult
to make both ends meet, looked upon this,
his fourth, son, he would have groaned inwardly
at the appalling generosity of Providence in so
amply filling his quiver had the lad not been
so comely in aspect. But who could resist that
smile ? Many of the most beautiful women in

Europe gladly refrained from attempting to do
so a few years later, and so Timothy Meredith
sighed and set to work to collect the necessary
funds to provide his pretty boy with some smattering
of a knowledge of medicine. But the
beauty grew with the boy, and kisses but too
often interrupted the making of pills and the
pounding with the pestle— kisses which grew
more lingering, more fervent, and more caressing
as the golden curls turned to a rich brown, the
fluff of early manhood began perching on the lip.
In vain the family of the youth expostulated,
prayed, entreated : he found the kisses pleasant,
and had inwardly decided to make them, if
possible, profitable. And he was not far wrong
in his reckoning, for one kiss got him apprenticed
to a good London medico, and another
landed him in Paris, and enabled him to pursue
his studies, and eventually take out his diploma
as M.D. at the Acadt^mie de Medicine of that
town, — sundry intermediate embraces enabling
him to live in good style, to send something
home to Chiswick — where indignation at these
osculatory exercises had given place to well-fed
satisfaction, not uncoupled with awe — and to
make many valuable friends. It was at the

close of the reign of Louis Philippe that young
Meredith took his diploma ; and, in fiict, it was
on the very morning that all Paris had been
shocked with the news of how the Due de
Praslin had basely murdered his Duchess, that
the Chiswick youth ordered his first breakfast
at Food's as M. le Docteur.

Every one in Paris saw that the end was fast
approaching. The Marie Capelle, Martin du
Nord, and Praslin scandals all plainly foreshadowed,
in the eyes of superstitious Frenchmen,
that the days of the Citizen King were
numbered, and that some radical change was
imminent. Every one was consequently in a
hurry to make hay while the sun still shone ;
and as the ladies of Paris have never lagged
far behind the sterner sex in matters of agility
and quickness, they displayed the same ardour
in the pursuit of pleasure as their husbands,
brothers, fathers, and sons did in the chase
for wealth. The kissing, therefore, naturally
enough, became sharper and brisker than ever ;
and, as was also natural, so good-looking an
adept in the art as Dr Meredith was not left
out in the cold during these busy times.

The result of all this was, that in a few

months the young English doctor found himself
on terms of intimacy with many people of
very great social and political importance in
Paris, and had the good and rare luck to meet
on two or three occasions the arch - conspirator
and dandy mentioned above, the half-brother
of the Prince-President — Mornyy himself. This
was the turning-point in Meredith's life. Mornyy
saw at a glance that the good-looking and
ambitious young English doctor, who seemed
to do very much what he pleased with the ladies
of the Chaussee d'Antin, might be very likely of
great service to him if properly handled, and so
this most fascinating bastard of a queen determined
to keep his eye on this most lawfully begotten
son of a Chiswick chemist. Of course, it
was impossible for the Count to be more than
loftily gracious to one so infinitely beneath him
in social position ; but as he and Meredith only
met under rather peculiar circumstances — never,
of course, in society, but merely coming in and
going out of boudoirs on Ic roi est mort, vive le
roi principle — Mornyy was able to let the young
Englishman see very plainly that he had excited
his interest and favour, without any one else
suspecting this important fact. What, therefore,

was Meredith's surprise when, on awakening
on the memorable morning of the 2d
December 1851 in his little apartment in the
Eue Rumford — a street now destroyed by
Haussmann — he found himself arrested, and
agents from the Commissaire de Police busily
rummaging among his papers ! In vain he
expostulated, pointed out that he was a harmless
Englishman, and begged the myrmidons of
the law to respect the privacy of his correspondence.
They merely laughed, shrugged their
shoulders, and took the medico and his letters
off to the depot together. Ten days did
Meredith languish in jail, but on the eleventh
he was taken to see Mornyy, whom he found
comfortably ensconced at the Home Office, and
who had read with amused interest some of the
very ardent epistles which the tender-hearted
disciple of aesculapius had had the imprudence
to keep.

It was by my order that you were arrested,"
explained Mornyy, airily. " I knew you knew a
great many ladies of the Chaussee d'Antin, and
I fancied that, like most of your countrymen,
you had fallen into the bad habit of not destroying
letters. I find I was right ; but as your

letters have taught me nothing, and as I fear I
have put you to some inconvenience, I sent to
tell you that I shall be happy to be of service
to you."

M. le Comte ! " stammered Meredith, overcome
with sudden joy, for he saw with apocalyptic
foresight that here at length was fortune
within his grasp — " oh, M. le Comte ! " And
he bowed his head as his eyes filled with grateful
tears.

The Count himself was visibly affected by
this display of emotion on the part of the ingenuous
young man, and a calm, grave smile
passed over his handsome face as he continued
—

^' Being an Englishman, I suppose you are
naturally anxious to leave Paris during these
troubles and return home."

Meredith wasted no time in useless fencing
with the shrewdest master of intrigue in Europe,
and replied boldly —

''No, M. le Comte. This morning I should
have been but too enraptured at the idea of returning
home, leaving all these perils behind me,
and clasping my aged parents once more to my
bosom ; but now — now — I cannot leave Paris."

Ah' said the Count, quickly, his interest
awakening as he scented some amusing liaison,
'* and may I ask why ? "

Because, M. le Comte, your kindness has
laid upon my shoulders a debt of gratitude
which I never can repay, but which I can at
least endeavour to lighten. I beseech, I implore
your Excellency to allow me to remain in your
service, and devote all my poor powers to the
furtherance of your wishes."

'' Well," replied the Count, vastly amused by
the fellow's shrewdness, and not a little pleased
with himself on finding that he had not mistaken
his man, ^' you are certainly the first man
I ever met who thanked me for having had him
imprisoned and his letters confiscated ; but
after all, tous les go'tits sont dans la nature,
and as you are so easily pleased, I daresay I
shall be able to find you something to do. Go
back to your apartment now : don't stir out,
and see nobody. When I want you I will send
for you. In the meantime, in case you should
be in want of money, here is a thousand francs
to go on with. Now, good morning ; and," he
added, smiling and twirling his mustachios,
don't forget, my dear doctor, that the Prince-president

and his friends can alone save France
from revolution and civil war" — at that very
moment civil war was raging, and they were
fighting in the streets. " Never in politics trust
yourself to say more than that. Au revoir."

At the end of another ten days Meredith
was again sent for, but this time to the Elysee,
where he not only saw his patron Mornyy, but
also Mocquard, and for a few minutes the
Prince - President himself. The result of this
interview was, that he was sent on a secret
mission of no importance to London ; but as he
acquitted himself creditably on this occasion,
on his return he was employed in delicate matters
of more moment in. Paris, where his knowledge
of not a few of the alcoves of the Chaussee
d'Antin enabled him to be of real service to
the cause of the Prince-President. Indeed so
brightly shone his lucky star that, within six
months of the coup-d'etat, Meredith found himself
very comfortably housed in a pretty apartment
in the Eue de la Ville I'Eveque, and one
of the men pointed out as being au mieux with
the triumphant and successful gang of conspirators
who had conquered France. Mornyy was,
indeed, with all his faults, like his half-brother

Napoleon 111. a good and staunch friend, and
knew how to generously reward any services
rendered to him ; and as he found that the
great personal attractions of the young English
physician, coupled with rare shrewdness, and
a still more rare absence of all kind of moral
scruple, formed a most useful combination in
many emergencies — for Morn}^ firmly believed
in governing the women and letting them influence
the men — no wonder that he, Mornyy,
being now really the head of the State, Meredith
found his good luck increasing day by day.
He met, indeed, at first with some little difficulty
in being received at the British Embassy ;
but pressure from the Elys^e was brought to
bear, and that obstacle was successfully surmounted.
Patients now poured in ; and as
Mornyy advised him to have a speciality, he
chose the heart, and ' Meredith on Cardiac
Affections' was ordered like a ham, and sold
like sandwiches, the four men who sat up during
three nights to write it being amply rewarded,
and then shipped off to Algiers.

About this time one Stephen Houghton, a
very wealthy and successful Liverpool merchant,
happened to pass through Paris on his

way to Italy for his only daiigliter's health.
They put up at Maurice's. The London physicians
had said the lungs, but somebody in
Paris whispered the word " heart," and Dr
Meredith was sent for. The case would seem
to have been a serious one, for Dr Meredith
was constant in his attendance, and could not
think of allowing his fair patient to move onto
the south. The heart, he said, was weak,
but not diseased ; the young lady must avoid
the fatigue engendered by travelling, but at
the same time she must be amused. Miss
Houghton, who had been greatly struck with
the beauty of her medical adviser, and delighted
to look down on his brown curls as he'
pressed his ear against her bosom, coincided
absolutely with this opinion ; and as the poor
stockbroker knew nobody in Paris, and hardly
dared venture to the Embassy, where they might
or might not have opened his eyes, it naturally
devolved upon Dr Meredith to amuse the Liverpool
heiress. It must in all fairness be admitted
that in this praiseworthy and charitable
undertaking the fascinating physician was most
successful. He took his patient everywhere
where her delicate state of health would allow
VOL. I, B

her to go, — not into society, of course, for there
she would meet with too many people and be
fatigued. Nor was she allowed to receive many
visitors ; but the doctor neglected scores of
patients for the sake of his fair and wealthy
fellow-countrywoman, and long where the drives
they took together in the splendid spring days,
while in the evening Each el at the Comedie
Franchise was a constant source of joy. At
length Dr Meredith proposed marriage to the
fair invalid and was accepted, but Mr Houghton
would not hear of it : certain rumours had
reached the ears of the Liverpuddlian which
he did not like, and he very bluntly told Dr
Meredith that he would sooner see his daughter
dead than married to a man concerning whom
such offensive tales were rife. Now just at
this time the troops had shouted " Vive Empereur
" at the review at Story, and everyone
knew that the Empire was an imminent
fact ; so when Mr Houghton told Dr Meredith
that he had heard he was a blackguard, not only
did the latter deny the charge, but offered to
bring the stockbroker to the Emperor to hear
the rights of the story. Such a temptation
could not, of course, be resisted : Mr Houghton

allowed himself to be brought to Saint Cloud.
Napoleon II L good-naturedly said a few words
in praise of the protege of his half-brother, and
before the week was out Dr Meredith was
engaged to be married to Miss Laura Houghton,
who had inherited from her mother £6000 a-
year, and who was the sole heiress of her father.
Meredith Alas, however, far too clever a man
to let the grass grow under his feet ; and fearing
that some one of his numerous envious enemies
might come and undo the good work accomplished
by the Emperor, he urged the stockbroker
to return at once to Liverpool, accompanied,
of course, by his daughter and himself,
so that the necessary formalities preliminary to
marriage might be begun without delay — for, ashe
most truly averred, he was longing to call
the young lady his own. This happy forethought
and despatch saved him : for twenty-four
hours after the engagement had been published
in the ' Morning Post,' the Paris and
Liverpool post-offices were literally encumbered
with letters, both signed and anonymous, but
all highly derogatory in their contents to the
honour of the successful doctor. Meredith intercepted
four of these letters and destroyed

them ; but then losing patience, put the young
lady's arm within his own, strolled into the
registrars office, got married, and returned to
his father-in-law's house just in time to have
the door slammed in his face by Mr Houghton,
who yelled from the doorstep that he hoped
never to see his daughter or her '* most filthy
bargain " again. The happy pair — for nothing
could interfere with the £6000 per annum — then
returned to Paris, where Mornyy received his
adventurous protege with a warm benevolence
which the great beauty of Mrs Meredith did not
tend to diminish.

The doctor now took a sumptuous apartment
in the Kue Royale, and began to live that life
of splendid excitement only known to men who
make it their principle to live beyond their
means. Patients flocked to him by hundreds,
and the few gentlemen who came With sound
hearts lost that useful organ when they saw Mrs
Meredith. His wife's beauty, indeed — although
it was by no means extraordinary — worked
wonders for the doctor, and gave him access to
certain drawing-rooms, the doors of which would
otherwise have remained for ever closed against
him. Mrs Meredith went everywhere and knew

everybody, from the Emperor and Empress to
the latest landed millionaire from California.
Her salon was anything but a select one, but it
was certainly a very amusing place of meeting ;
and in the clays of the Second Empire in Paris,
amuse was, of course, the chief and, in fact,
whole duty of man.

Mornyy, now made duke, began speculating,
and of course Meredith followed his protector,
and in a few months netted over two hundred
thousand pounds ; and that very year Mrs Meredith
had extended to her for the first time the
signal honour of being included in one of the
famous series of his Imperial Majesty's guests
at Compiegne. Another piece of good fortune
happened to the worthy doctor at about the
same time. He himself cared for nothing but
money and pretty women, but his wife's Liverpool
blood pulsated with the wildest ambition,
and she longed to be something other than plain
"Mrs Meredith." At one time, indeed, she
had half thought of persuading her husband —
whom she could twist easily around her finger,
and who obeyed her every caprice — to renounce
his nationality, and accept the prettiest of the
thousand and one foreign titles which, in the

palmy days of the Second Empire, could have
been had for the paying ; and the only consideration
which induced her to refrain from
taking this rather extreme step, was a fear lest
it might not only excite ridicule and contempt,
but also very gravely injure her husband's
practice and reputation as a physician. * Meredith
on Cardiac Affections ' — and cardiac affections
had indeed made his fortune — was a
text-book, and had made him famous ; and as
celebrity and glory have their penalties, so must
her husband remain for ever Meredith — the
Meredith. Mornyy again came to the rescue,
whispered something in Mrs Meredith's pretty
ear, and she straightway proceeded to London
and took a small house in Hill Street, Berkeley
Square. Lord Clarendon, who had heard a great
deal of her from his dear friend the Empress,
was very kind, and offered to endeavour to obtain
for her any invitations she might require.
But Mrs Meredith — who had come over to
gloomy London (which she hated) on far more
important business than to seek a social recognition,
which she felt sure would at the best
be but coldly extended to her — declined the
dear old nobleman's hesitating; offer, and

averred that she had only come over to see
Poole about a riding-habit. This riding-habit
took a long time to make, but in the meantime
Mrs Meredith hardly ever left the pretty little
furnished house she had hired, and only received
a few leading political and financial magnates.
By degrees, however, disagreeable and absurd
rumours began to get about concerning the
frequency with which a well-known white horse
was seen turning; down Hill Street : and at last
things got so bad, that even the cabman and
policemen would smile when they saw a gentleman
whose face was even better known than
that of her Majesty herself, ride up to the door
of No. 999 regularly every day at three, and
many a smile was exchanged as they averred
*they would be blessed" if a certain noble
Whig statesman could get on without the
ladies. Then suddenly the house was given
up, as suddenly as it had been taken ; Mrs
Meredith returned to Paris, and the papers
announced that the honour of knighthood
had been conferred on the " eminent and amiable''
Paris physician, Dr William Meredith.
Nobody seemed to know exactly how this had
come about. Something was said about the

iiiHueiicc of Moriiy, about the Crimean war,
about the treatise on Cardiac Affections, and
about how very pretty Lady Meredith was ;
but nothing very disagreeable on the whole
was said, and every one seemed to think that
Meredith had been made a knight, principally
because he was just the sort of man who
ought to be a knight : in fact, many people
wondered what her Majesty could have been
about, not to have recognised his services in
this way long before.

Meredith's cup of happiness was now full,
and very nearly brimmed over when, two
months after he had blossomed out as Sir
William, the Liverpool stockbroker forgave
him and died, leaving Lady Meredith twenty
thousand a-year, invested in all sorts of outlandish
American securities, bringing in fantastically
high interest. Meredith had begun
with the Second Empire, and risen with the
Second Empire ; and as the splendour of the
Second Empire was now at its zenith, so had
the fortunes of Sir William now reached their
very highest limit. He and the Empire had
reached the very top of the hill. They might
indeed pause on the summit for a while and

survey the surrounding landscape, and count
with a contented smile every step taken, every
obstacle which they had overcome together, but
further ascent was impossible. After a rest —
a breathing-time — all that remained for the
nephew of the great Napoleon and the son of
the Chiswick apothecary was to go down as
slowly as might be, — above all things avoiding
stumbles, but go down. So the descent began.
Mornyy died ; pitiless Prince Death laid his
ruthless hand on that most charming of men,
and left his inconsolable young widow, with
her hair cut short after the Russian fashion, to
smoke cigarettes alone and wonder if her life
were indeed over. The Duke's death was a
terrible blow to Meredith in more ways than
one, for not only did he really dearly love the
architect of his fortunes, but this rather sudden
demise of Mornyy entirely upset and brought to
ruin numerous little speculations in which he
and the gallant Duke had been engaged. So
the blow, both from a cardiac and a financial
point of view, was a severe one. Then Mock
died, and another link which bound the
English adventurer to the glorious past was
broken. Then the Emperor became sadder and

more reserved than ever, and the Empress
seemed to look with some coldness on the
diamonds and white shoulders of Lady Meredith.
Then the Mexican campaign began, and
while that hideous tragedy was being played
out Meredith's affairs went from bad to worse —
a terrible disaster coming: to him in the form of
a telegram, informing him that the American
securities which represented his wife's fortune
had not been able to recover from the effects of
the secession war, were temporarily paralysed,
and had now ceased for the time being to pay
any interest whatsoever ; and a still worse misfortune
befalling him in the death of his only
son and darling, who was thrown from his pony
while out riding in the Bois and killed on the
sjDot. This sad catastrophe left Sir William
with but one child, a daughter, Muriel ; but as
it is with her we shall be chiefly concerned in
these pages, it were perhaps best to speak of
her at once before continuing the enumeration
of the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
which, though so long withheld, seemed — dating
from the death of Mornyy — to have selected the
handsome Chiswick adventurer for a target.

CHAPTER II.

The houses in the Rue Royale — at least those
nearest the Place de la Concorde — are all large,
comfortable, and old-fashioned ; and Sir William
Meredith and his family occupied one of the
largest, most comfortable, and most old-fashioned
of them, situated between the Garde Meuble and
the Faubourg St Honore. In this house he had
taken two apartments, and joined them by constructing
a private staircase which, quite apart
from the grand escalier, led from the diningroom
on the first floor to the doctor's study,
which was situated on the second. It would
indeed have been much more economical to have
taken a hotel than to indulge in these extravagant
alterations ; but Meredith cared but little
for economy, and could find nothing to suit him
so well as the Rue Royale, where he was near
his club (the Imperial), and midway between

his friend Mornyy's place of abode and the Palace
of the Tuileries ; and so he took the two flats on
a very long lease, and joined them together in
the way just mentioned.

Although, owing to long residence abroad,
Meredith had become very foreign both in
manners and appearance, he strongly resembled
one of his very celebrated fellow-countrymen,
Mr Dombey, in one particular, — that the dream
of his life having been to have a son, he had
been greatly disappointed when a daughter was
born to him first ; and although he always
treated little Muriel with kindness, the tenderest
sources of paternal love in his heart
were not touched until, a year after the birth
of Muriel, a son was bestowed on him by a
beneficent Providence, which seemed hardly
able to refuse hint the gratification of even the
merest whim or caprice.

As he had often laughingly compared himself
to Dombey, liked the name of Paul, and was in
no wise superstitious, he called his long-wished-for
son after the well-known and wearisome
infant whose inquiries as to the wild waves and
whose untimely decease have worn out so many
pocket-handkerchiefs, and reddened so many

noses. It would seem, however, by an odd
coincidence, as if there really did exist some
resemblance between the brother of Florence
Dombey and the brother of Muriel Meredith.
For little Paul Meredith was the most puny and
ailing of infants, and coughed his way up into
the most delicate of childhoods. It was therefore
natural enough that, under these circumstances,
Paul should become the idol of the
family, and the very centre and focus of all
the affection and devotion the worthy doctor
and his wife could muster, and that little
Muriel should in consequence be left out in
the cold. It was not, however, in the nature
of the little girl to harbour in her tender,
sympathetic heart, so ferocious a sentiment as
jealousy ; and as her parents were really kind
to her, and as she adored her little brother, the
only way in which this real absence of affection
acted on her child-life was by creating in her
heart a general feeling of loneliness, and a longing
for love of any sort. And her early childhood
was indeed a lonely one, and the more
so because she was thoughtful, observant, and
sensitive beyond her years. From about six
months after the birth of her little brother

until that interesting infant readied the aoje
of four, Muriel hardly ever saw him, for the
doctors had declared the Paris air unfit for the
child, and he had been sent with his nurse to
Plombieres, whither his mother, accompanied
by two maids and eight large trunks, took
special train every two months to pass a week.
Daring this period, from babyhood up to the
age of five and a half, Muriel was left almost
wholly alone with her nurse, an old Scotch-woman
named Agnes, who looked upon Paris
and its frivolities, and especially Lady Meredith's
bare shoulders and diamonds, with most
special abhorrence. Such religious training as
this stern Calvinist could give her she obtained,
and no more, for " papa '^ and " mamma " found
this present world far too pleasant a place to
waste any of its delicious moments in bothering
about the next ; and so while the sterner side of
Christianity, with all the eternal penalties attached
to even trivial sins, was put before heron
all and every occasion, she heard little or
nothing of the lessons of mercy embodied in the
doctrine of Jesus. The result was that this
thoughtful little child found herself face to face
with a terrible enigma, which it distracted her

brain, and nearly broke her heart, to try and
solve. If what Agnes said was true, then papa
and mamma were not only surely and everlastingly
damned, but were moreover day by day
and hour by hour sinking deeper and deeper
into the night of perdition ; and yet they did not
seem to care ! That was the strangest part of
it. Surely if there really was a dreadful fire
waiting for them, they must know it; and as
they both of them, as Muriel well knew, hated
even sultry weather, they could not be comfortable
thinking of all this sulphur and brimstone
which was being got ready for them. And
yet they were comfortable, and never, so far as
Muriel heard, ever said anything about hell.
She had, indeed, on one occasion overheard the
great Duke, whom she adored, — for he always
brought her marrons glaces, dolls, and all sorts
of nice things, — and whom she really fell wildly
in love with dien she was eight, and used to
write verses to, say that he would make Paris
an enfei' for some obnoxious individual. But
then papa and mamma had both laughed, as if
they thought it a good joke. Which theory, therefore
was she to adopt, — that preached by her
nurse, or that practised by her parents ? This

tempest of doubt and perplexity nearly drove
the nervous and quick-witted child into rank
atheism, for what Agnes said was very unpleasant,
and seemed to lead to nothing very nice
just now, at all events ; whereas what papa and
mamma did was evidently at least amusing, for
they seemed to enjoy it very much.

This peculiar phase of feeling may perhaps be
best illustrated by the following incident, which
will at the same time nye the reader an insight
into the very practical view of matters taken by
Miss Muriel, — a hard aspect which more frequently
accompanies tender and romantic natures
than a mere superficial observer might
suspect. Doctor Meredith had only been authorised
to adopt the prefix of " Sir " a few weeks,
and little Paul had only been back from Plom-
heres a week or so, when one day he stole into
the nursery where Muriel sat alone, pretending
her doll was the Due de Mornyy, and saying,
Comment ca va, mon cher Due," in imitation
of her father, with his face as white as a sheet,
and announced in an awe-frighted whisper the
following astounding intelligence : —

Oh, Muriel, God is dead 1 "

*' What ? " screamed that young lady, letting

her doll fall to the ground ; " what do you
say?"

God's dead ! "

What can you mean, Paul ? "

*^ Why, just now I went into mamma's
boudoir, and there I saw her lying on the sofa,
with her face turned to the wall, and crying so
oh, Muriel, crying so ! "

Poor mamma ! Why didn't she send forme?"


'^ Oh, no ; I was going up to her, but
Angelique caught me and brought me out of
the room, and when she got me outside she
told me that we must neither of us disturb
mamma to-day or worry her, for she had just
got very bad news, and that we had all of us
lost our best friend, and that was why mamma
was crying so."

Lost our best friend ! " echoed Muriel.

Yes ; and as you know God is our best
friend " — the theology taught to Paul at Plom-
heres had evidently been sounder than that
taught to Muriel in Paris — " it must be God
that's dead."

This pitiless logic of childhood seemed incontrovertible.
Deep silence followed the announce-vol.

I. C

ment of this really important news, and Paul
crept up to his sister and nestled under her arm,
waiting for her to speak and comfort him, as she
always did. She felt the meaning of his little
imploring squeeze ; she felt that she was called
upon now in this great crisis to afford comfort
to the weaker, and the woman's heart within
the child's rose to the situation.

Do you mind much, Paul ? " she said, turning
and kissing his pale trembling lips.

The poor little fellow only closed his eyes and
shuddered. Muriel burst into a merry laugh —

Because / don't ! "

Don't mind God's being dead, Muriel ? "
inquired the dumfounded Paul, hardly believing
his ears.

No, not a bit, and I'll tell you why, Paul,"
she continued, laughing, and giving him another
encouraging kiss, — '^ because, don't you
see, now we can all do as we please ! "

Whether, when later on in the day it was
explained to the children that it was the death
of their grandfather that had caused Lady
Meredith's tears to flow, Muriel felt any diminution
in her satisfaction, we hardly dare inquire
; but that this sudden glimpse of the

possibility of emancipation from all laws and
punishments had a great effect upon the plastic
and receptive nature of the little girl, is
beyond all doubt. When Paul was at home,
of course Muriel's life was one of almost unalloyed
happiness ; but then, even after what
was supposed to be his definite return from
Plombieres, his health necessitated frequent
jaunts to mild or bracing climes, and as by
that time little Muriel, with her beauty,
grace, and quaint sayings, had become quite a
celebrity in the child-world of Paris — and we
all remember the great social importance which
children's parties assumed in the days of the
Second Empire, and especially when there was
a possibility of such entertainments being
honoured by the presence of the Prince Imperial
— Lady Meredith did not think fit to
allow her daughter to leave the metropolis and
accompany the little invalid in his journeys in
search of health. So Muriel was forced to remain
at home and take her part in the social
life of the capital of pleasure, although poor old
Agnes held up her hands in holy horror, and
spoke of everlasting punishment as being the
inevitable result of Miss Muriel's having danced

with young De Drigodc, or of having allowed
one of the Bruttazu boys to kiss her.

But this excitement of social life, which would
have delighted most children, by no means satisfied
Miss Muriel Meredith ; for, by one of those
odd freaks of nature which are not uncommon,
although Lady Meredith was so totally and
entirely a thing dependent for her very breath,
life, and sustenance upon society and fashion
that her idea of Paradise would, had she ever
questioned herself on the subject, probably have
been quinqucnniads of waltzing with De Caux,
followed by an eternal and desperate flirtation
with Nieuwerkerke and Mornyy, while Worth
draped the clouds, and Pingat clothed the
cherubs in those becoming cloaks of his, — her
only daughter cared no more for the pleasant
fever of social life than if she had been the
natural child of an Esquimaux, born on an iceberg
and fostered by a polar bear. Lady Meredith
could not make this out, and puzzled her
brains in vain to find a plausible solution of
this tiresome enigma. The child was certainly
remarkably pretty, remarkably graceful, and
remarkably clever, and, moreover, she was
notoriously one of the most perfectly dressed

children in the capital of Fashion ; and yet,
although whenever she did go into society she
without any effort invariably took the palm,
little Muriel did not seem to care whether or
not her mother refused or accepted for her the
multitudinous invitations to all kinds of entertainments
for children with which she was
bombarded from early in November till late
in June every year.

The real cause of this diffidence was complex.
In the first place, the strong current
of her abnormally affectionate nature, which
had, during the long absence of her little
brother, naturally flowed towards her parents,
had, as we have already said, in that direction
received a decided check. When a mere baby,
her father had positively disliked her, and her
mother had simply ignored her ; and now that
she had otowu into a charming; and beautiful
child, both father and mother looked upon her
as being merely something to be proud of, inasmuch
as other people envied them the possession
of it : in other words, a precious and charming
commodity, not to be much more highly prized
than the splendid pair of bays, Sultan and Tzar,
for which Narischkine had once offered some

absurd sum to Sir William. Baffled in this
quarter, little Muriel had turned, as all children
do when disappointed in their parents, to her
nurse for that sympathy for which her little
heart yearned almost to bursting ; but here
again she met with a repulse, not indeed arising
from coldness and indifference, but from the
flames of Gehenna with which the wretched
Agnes scorched the young imagination, and
withered the opening buds of trustful tenderness
in the child's nature. Beaten back assail, and
standing in the agony of doubt alluded to above,
wondering whether mamma and Worth were
right or God and Agnes, she by degrees relapsed
into herself, and her love became, as De
Stendhal would say, crystallised, unconsciously
awaiting that sun to rise later on in girlhood
that might peradventure melt the glistening
icicles into tears of gladness or of sorrow.
What the child might have become but foro



her idolatrous love for her little brother, whom,
however, she saw but seldom, who can tell '?
But even this affection, strong as it was, was
wholly incapable of satisfying the thirst for
sympathy which devoured her, and for which
she sought in vain some appeasement in the

society of the silly little boys and girls whom
she met at the brilliant gatherings which it
suited her mother to order her to attend. She
went to these parties at first out of curiosity ;
but she soon found that the excitement wearied
without amusing her, and — for it must be borne
in mind these dissipations lacked in her case
that great attraction of being either half-forbidden
fruit, or at the best sweets but rarely to
be indulged in, which is perhaps the most commendable
quality in the eyes of childhood —
were it not that she knew her little social successes
gave her mother pleasure, she would
gladly have refused all invitations after her
tenth party. Muriel, in truth, felt herds
strangely ill at ease with children, except quite
babies, and when, only seven, felt herself to be
really older than any of her associates, who
were perhaps nearly double her age. In her
mind she would, in an old-fashioned motherly
way, call them, as she heard Agnes do, '' children,"
and would find herself wondering while
dancing d la roche, for instance, if any of these
"children" were troubled, like herself, with
doubts as to whether it were better to lead an
unhappy life of self-denial and escape hell-fixe

for Agnes never spoke of any particular reward
to be earned by crucifying the flesh, and
expended her eloquence wholly in describing in
hideous detail the punishment that must await
even the careless — or to dance and flirt, and
then burn for ever? So, as we have said, the
childhood of Sir William's daughter was a lonely
one, and all the more lonely in that she was
forced to associate with those with whom she
had no sympathy, and whom she in her very
heart, and almost unconsciously, perhaps, looked
upon as her inferiors.

Brought up according to French ideas, she
had been taught that manners were everything,
and that it is the first duty of a lady to be
agreeable to every one ; and so as none of her
young companions imagined for a moment how
their society bored her, and as her beauty, wit,
grace, and wealth made her very popular, the
urbanity of her manners encouraged them in
the pleasing hope that they were all her devoted
friends, and that she could not get on without
them. If they could have seen her sometimes
when alone and unobserved, they might perhaps
have altered their opinion — may have even wondered
if this were the same laughing, seemingly

careless, little playmate who had been singing
A la tour, prend garde " so merrily with them
but a few short hours ago — seen her, for instance,
in the early dawn kneeling by her bedside,
after a sleepless night, in an agony of
prayer, and beseeching God to burn her as
much as He liked, but to spare poor little Paul :
seen her glaring with incipient madness in her
eyes from the nursery window, and wondering
whether if, like her favourite Rebecca in * Ivanhoe'
— for she read what she liked, and had
devoured all Scott's novels before she was eight
she should attempt to leap from the parapet,
the mailed arm of some strong; knight v^ould
not steal around her waist to protect her,
clasp her, love her, ride away with her, and
make her happy in some far-distant land — of
course with Paul strong; and well — for evermore
: seen her, as once they might, in open
revolt, bowing down and worshipping her bolster
(bowing down before Baal, she called it), so as
to, by this deadly sin, render once and for ever
impassable the gulf fixed between her weak
endeavours to be good and the rigid requirements
of Agnes's religion.

Whether the course of time and the advance

of age would have calmed down these ecstasies,
or whether the child would have gone mad, it
would be difficult to determine ; but luckily, just
as her mental excitement was at its worst, she
made a chance acquaintance which was destined
to influence her life until its close. We have
described Sir William Meredith as a worldly
man, and one whom the world would doubtless
term a heartless man ; and there can indeed be
but little doubt that the earnest attention he
had paid to the hearts of others had induced
him to neglect to a most lamentable degree the
proper cultivation of his own. But then, on the
other hand, he was a most profoundly sensual
man, and liked giving pleasure when it cost him
nothing to do so ; nay more, would go out of
his way to do a kind deed, unknown to the
world, — not because he was really kind, but
because he liked to think himself so, and be
able to smile on reflecting how the world misunderstood
him. We have seen that he was a
dutiful son, in so far as the sending of large
sums to Chiswick was concerned — although he
certainly would not have left a duchess's boudoir
had he known his mother was dying at the corner
— and also that he was a devoted father, sofar

as his son was concerned. As regards Muriel,
and his early coldness for her when a child
which sentiment, by the way, gradually
warmed, as she grew up, into so much admiration
as to be a tolerably good imitation of sterling:
affection — much of this was doubtless due
to his great disappointment at the vexatious
conduct of Providence in giving him a daughter
when he wanted a son, and much also to his
utter lack of power to appreciate any possible
merit in a female human being who could not
be made love to or made use of. The nature of
the man was such, and the accidents and vicissitudes
of his life had taught him, that from
a worldly point of view — which, of course, w^soi
the only one he ever thought worthy of consideration
— his theory was not altogether without
its merit. But withal, Sir William was a
man who had ridden through more dirt, without
soiling his boots, than many another social adventurer,
more widely praised as a man of heart,
could have truly boasted of having done ; and
so, when he found the widow of an English
groom dying in penury in a garret in La Villette,
it struck him as the most natural thing in
the world to do, when he had given orders and

paid for the funeral, to take the poor little orphan
girl, Madge Tyrrell, back with him to the Rue
Royale, in the most perfect brougham Binder
ever built, and to consign her to the care of old
Agnes, to be looked after until he could find a
suitable home for the waif in England. It was
not his fault that Lady Cowley heard of it, and
that eventually the Empress heard of it: he had
really intended to do good by stealth, and he
was indeed almost distressed at the obtrusive
generosity of Fate in conferring on him so publicly
a reward which he had, as a matter of fact,
never sought for nor desired. As the Empress,
whose noble heart always went out in pity and
sympathy to meet the suffering and helpless,
chose to say charming things to Lady Meredith
about this trifling matter, so much the better :
he had not sought nor desired the praise ; but
as a man of the world and courtier, he felt bound
to accept and take advantage of it since it was
gratuitously bestowed.

The little girl was one year older than his
own daughter Muriel, and so unlike that young
lady in every way, that the two at once became
fast friends. Madge was as dark, proud, openly
passionate and wilful, as Muriel was fair, retiring,

apparently calm — although we know this
calmness was assumed — and obedient. Muriel
had been educated to a point but rarely attained
by girls even double her age, and moreover, by
the morbid introspection to which we have referred,
had educated herself, as it were, to a
degree wholly unsuspected by the outer world.
Madge was wholly unlettered, could neither read
nor write, and the sum total of all her communing
with her inner self would appear to
have resulted in the constantly expressed determination
to be an actress. This determination
she very boldly announced to Lady Meredith,
much to that lady's amusement, before she had
been half an hour in the house; and it wasfiot
long before the secret of how this one dominant
idea had got possession of her mind was extracted
from her. It was indeed simple enough.
Her father had been groom to one of the
actresses at the Varieties, and the child had
been petted and spoilt on one or two occasions
by her late father's mistress. But the few
transient and momentary glimpses into the
splendour of an actress's life which had been
thus afforded to poor little Madge had been
quite sufficient to make her decide that, no

matter what else the Fates might have in store
for her, she would become an actress as soon as
she should be old enough to tread the boards.
She had indeed already taken one step towards
the accomplishment of her ultimate purpose in
life ; she had learnt a song — " Le Chapeau de
la Marguerite " — and this song she would readily
sing whenever asked to do so, without any false
shame and without any effrontery, but with a
quaint pathos most astonishing in one so young,
so inexperienced and so wholly uncultured.

Before Madge had been a fortnight an inmate
of Sir William Meredith's hospitable house, she
and her song had become quite an object of
interest in the hlasc Court circle, presided over
by Madame de Metternich : and before the month
was over, Madge met with the high honour of
being ordered to sing her little song before no
less a personage than Caesar himself. After
this Sir William saw at once that it would not
be possible to put his original plan into execution,
and send the child back to England to
some charitable institution to be taken care of.
He consulted with Lady Meredith, and the
result of this conversation was that Mado^e was
told her kind benefactors had decided on not

only keeping her with them, but also on educating
her — so that if, when she had reached
years of discretion, she should still adhere to
her resolve to become an actress, she would
then be fully equipped with the weapons necessary
to engage in the combat with fair hopes of
winning the laurels of victory.

CHAPTER III.

Muriel Meredith was ten years old when the
advent of the ambitious little Miss Madge
T3^rrell into what, on the lucas a non lucendo
principle — for all the members of the family were
never at home at the same time, even for meals,
and Lady Meredith was indeed, some hinted, the
original of Sardou's famous Madame Benton
we will call the Meredith family circle, caused
a complete change and revolution in her child-life.
Madge was different in every way from
any girl she had ever met before, and this fact,
more perhaps than even the accident of living
together, and, after the first few weeks, sharing
the same bedroom, attracted her into a bond of
close sympathy with the waif. Madge's experiences
of life had been so wholly different
from those of Muriel, and seemed so strange
and romantic to the child who had been from

her cradle surrounded by every luxury, that the
groom's daughter very soon assumed the importance
of a heroine in the eyes of Miss Meredith.
Madge was indeed a most extraordinary child,
and not one of the least noticeable features in
her character was the perfectly calm and matter-of-fact
way in which she accepted her miraculous
change of fortune. Nothing seemed to
surprise her, and although she greeted with graceful
and pretty gratitude every new act of kindness,
she did so very much in the way Muriel
did, — as if it were, although, of course, very nice,
only natural and in the proper order of things
after all. She certainly never in her wildest
dreams could have seen such luxury and confort
as now surrounded her ; but she expressed
no astonishment, and, in fact, privately to
Muriel announced that in many particulars the
establishment of the great English physician was
not conducted in a degree of splendour equal to
that of the demi-montaigne whose unpaid-for
steeds her late father had had the privilege of
grooming. " Vois tu, ma chere Mu-mti," — for
such was the caressing little name she had
given to her companion, — " I can't understand
how such a great lady as Madame votre mere

VOL. I. D

does not take a milk bath every morning, as
Sophie Cradle used to do. It must be delightful
! "

*' A milk bath ! What for 1 " inquired Muriel,
her eyes opening wide with wonder.

Why, for the skin, of course. I have heard
poor father say that she used to send for him to
give him his orders while she was in her milk
bath, and that he never saw anything so pretty
as her little golden head emerging from the
great white sea. When Tm an actress, I shall
have a bath of milk every morning, and send
for my coachman to take his orders then, —
although," with a sigh, *' I can never hope to
be so pretty as Sophie ! "

Even the great honour of singing *' Le
Chapeau de la Marguerite " before the Emperor
one afternoon at St Cloud did not seem to
affect her as such an event might reasonably
have been expected to do ; and although little
Muriel — of course the whole matter was arranged
very privately, and as a mere joke by
the lady who called herself the " singe a la
mode " — nearly fainted with excitement when,
the opening bars of the accompaniment having
been boldly struck by Madame de Persian,

who presided at the piano, this strange, dark,
gipsy - looking little mite, her eyes already
luminous with the anticipated pathos of the
song, rose, bowed before the most powerful
sovereign of Europe, threw up her head, crossed
her little, thin, attenuated arms, and began, the
singer herself preserved a graceful composure,
worthy of Giulia Grist ; and it was only when
the Emperor kissed her, and a round of applause
had greeted the end of her song, that her satisfaction
in having succeeded found vent in a few
quiet tears.

Meredith having once decided that this
strange creature which an odd accident had thus
thrown upon his hands was worthy of his interest,
in that the attention which she attracted
for the moment to some extent benefited him,
gave general orders in his careless, extravagant,
good-natured way that she should enjoy the
same privileges as his own daughter, and that
the servants should treat her with the same
respect and deference which they were in duty
bound to show to Miss Muriel. Old Agnes, of
course, gibed at this, and terrible were the
conflicts waged in the nursery between the
gaunt apostle of damnation and dainty Miss

UBHARf
««iV£RSI7Y0FntrNnr«

Muriel, while the dusky little subject of all
this fighting stood calmly looking out of the
window.

*' How dare you speak so to Miss Madge, you
wicked Agnes ? "

*' Miss Madge, indeed ! a child born in a
manger, and no better than a collie pup ! Miss
Madge ! "

*' Agnes, take care ! "

Tak' care yourself', Miss Muriel, and mind
lest the pup cinna tear and rend ye ! " Was
this prophetic ? *' I cinna ken what the master
and mistress are about bringing strange gipsy
lassies into the house fra the kennels, as if they
diana neglect their ain bairns enough ! "

Agnes, how dare you ! "

Never mind her, Mu - mu,'^ Madge remarked
scornfully, turning her face slowly
round, and looking at the old Scotchman
with ineffable contempt; "the woman is mad,
or," she added, with a brutality bred of her
early training, " more likely drunk I '^

Drunk ! Me ? You hussy ! " and Agnes
made a rush at Miss Tyrrell, who would probably
have received a very severe North
British box on the ear had not Muriel interposed

and ordered Agnes out of the room.
Such scenes were at first of almost daily occurrence
; but as neither Sir William nor Lady
Meredith would ever listen to any complaints
against this plaything (who, moreover, was
always staunchly defended by Muriel), and as
time and education wrought considerable improvement
on the manners and bearing of Miss
Madge, the feud between the sour but well-meaning
retainer and the imperious intruder
by degrees smouldered down, although it was
never wholly extinguished, and would from
time to time break forth and burn with suddenly
renewed violence.

Madge — perhaps greatly owing to Muriel,
who was devoted to her, and whose almost
morbid refinement could not fail to have a very
powerful influence on the rough but plastic
nature of the groom's daughter — made rapid
progress in her studies, and very soon learned
all the natural tricks and habits of a child wellborn
; but as she grew up and improved, the
fashionable ladies who had taken a momentary
interest in her wildness and precocity declined
to extend the same indulgence to an ordinary
and well-behaved young lady who was born ina

coach-house and destined for the footlights,
and so by degrees, as a social factor in the
world of Paris, Madge ceased to exist ; and although
at home she was always treated on
a footing of equality with the daughter of
the house, the outer world drew a very strong
line of demarcation between the two, wholly
ignoring Madge, while beaming with ever-increasing
graciousness on Muriel. But this
change crept on so gradually, and was indeed
at first rendered so necessary by the extra
attention Madge was compelled to give to her
studies to make up for lost time, that it may be
doubted whether ever it gave rise to any unpleasant
feeling between the two girls. Muriel cared
nothing for social festivities, and only attended
them to please her mother ; and as Madge had
never been accustomed to social dissipations, she
found such entertainments — and they were
brilliant and of frequent occurrence — as the
Meredithss gave at home, and which, of course,
she always attended, quite sufficient to satisfy
her very modest ambition for social recognition.
The most pleasant hours of all, however, were
those passed in the long winter afternoons,
when, Agnes having gone to sleep in her room.

the girls would light up the nursery with the
two bedroom candles, and set to work to play
some deadly drama, or, more frequently, some
favourite opera, — for they were both passionately
fond of music, and rarely missed attending in
Lady Meredith's box at the Salle Ventadour orin
the Kue Lepelletier. " Lucrezia Borgia " was
their favourite ; and Agnes would certainly have
had a fit had she looked in and found, as she
might very often have done, her cherished
Muriel draped in a long cloak, and with a
plumed hat on her head, peering cautiously
around the piano, and then advancing with
stealthy tread to Madge, who, habited in a like
garb, and having gone through the same byplay,
met her half-way in the middle of the
room. Astolfo and Kustighello : " Qui che
fai?" Muriel — Rustighello — would sing in insolent
inquiry. " Che tu teen veda, sermo aspect,
e tu che fail" Astolfo — Madge — would reply,
with an equal amount of musical scorn and
mystery. Then Muriel again : " Che tu sombre
la contract. Ferme attend." 'icon chi
r hai ? " And so on.

But these histrionic performances were really
quite as much the suggestion and delight of

Muriel as of Madge ; for, oddly enough, as time
went on, the passionate desire to become an
actress which had inspired the groom's daughter
when a mere chill seemed to subside, and she
spoke less and less of her ambition to rival
either Rachel or Schneider. Perhaps this was
due partly to the refining influences of her new
life, and partly to the fact that as she grew up
she came to see more clearly that the career of
an opera-bouffe diva, or that of a tragedy queen,
was not quite of such untarnished splendour as
she had in her infancy fondly imagined it to
be. The Meredithss were, at all events, secretly
pleased with this change in the disposition of
their protegee ; for although, in the beginning,
the child's wishes, reasonably justified by her
precocious talent, had met with their careless
approbation, they looked forward with dismay
to the possibility of meriting the dubious
honour of having fostered some future Venus
aux Gazettes. The girl amused both Sir William
and his wife ; and moreover their children,
both Paul and Muriel, were warmly attached to
her. So the worthy medico and his consort decided
to leave the girl's future in the hands of
a Providence which, as experience had taught

them, ever evinced a laudable willingness to
meet their wishes. Sir William had, of course,
willed all his fortune to Paul, and Lady Meredith,
out of her father's money, had provided a
magnificent dowry for Muriel : so if, when he
and his wife were gone, the children wished to
take care of their old playmate, well and good. ;
if not, and if she had not shown shrewdness
enough to marry money, why, poor Madge
would have to shift for herself. In the meantime,
she should have the best of everything,
and it was quite on the cards that her very
beautiful eyes might win her a rich husband ;
and in the event of this last lucky accident
taking place during his lifetime. Sir William
was quite prepared to give the girl away, provide
her with a decent dot, and in fact reward
her very handsomely for the pleasure she had
given his children. More than this he could
not and would not do, and, as he complacently
admitted to himself, few men under the circumstances
would be prepared to do so much.

The series of pecuniary disasters to which
we have alluded at the end of the first chapter
of our story, but more especially the terrible
sorrow which came upon him when his only

son was brought home crushed and dead, greatly
modified Sir William's views concerning the
future of Madge Tyrrell, but in very different
ways. When Mornyy's untimely demise upset
many of his most brilliant schemes, — he had,
for example, invested over a hundred thousand
pounds in a speculation by which Danville
was to become the sea-side headquarters of the
Court, a kind of Yersailles-sur-Mer, and where
a splendid marble palace was to be built for
the Prince Imperial, — and when disaster followed
disaster. Sir William had told himself
that it was now quite all he could do to look
after his own children ; that Lady Meredith
must, in fact, greatly diminish the dowry destined
for Muriel, and give the greater portion
of it to Paul ; while as for Madge, she would
have, when grown up, to go out as a governess.
When the appalling news came that the American
securities which constituted the entire portion
of Lady Meredith were — at least for the
time being, although some faint hope were
held out that a revival might not be impossible
of absolutely no value, Sir William steeled his
heart still more against the little waif whom,
in a moment of quixotic generosity, he had

taken to his bosom ; and had Madge been at
that time old enough to earn her own living, it
is probable that she would without further
ceremony have been cut adrift. But then
came the terrible catastrophe, the crushing
blow, the death of Paul, and the horse that
killed the child killed all Sir William ^s hopes
and ambitions and dreams. When he had time
to think of anything save his overwhelming
sorrow, he remembered how fondly attached his
poor boy had been to Madge Tyrrell ; and he
felt that now as he had only Muriel to provide
for — and of course there was more than enough
of his splendid fortune still left for that purpose
— he would perhaps be acting in accordance
with his dead son's wishes if he made it
his special care to look after the welfare of
his boy's cherished companion and playmate.
Ready money to any great extent he could not
give her now, for what he could spare from
the dowry reserved for Muriel he needed for
purposes of speculation ; but he could use his
experience and social influence to get her a
good husband, and see her happily settled in
life before his time came to join Saint Arnaud,
Mornyy, Mocquard, and his old fellow-conspirators

who had passed on before him to the great
unknown. Muriel, of course, could pick and
choose for herself; for although many straitlaced
members of the French and English aristocracy
still coldly frowned when they heard
the name of William Meredith mentioned,
nevertheless there could be no doubt that the
girl's great beauty, grace, high intellectual
ability, and wealth, would easily enable her to
marry some man of rank and power.

With Madge, of course, it was wholly different.
She was the daughter of Bob Tyrrell, a
groom, and that was about all that was known
about her. Nobody even exactly knew whether
the child had been born in lawful wedlock or
not, for certainly nobody had ever taken the
trouble to inquire. Then, again, she was not
beautiful, like Muriel. Her face was full of
character, of dramatic energy, and her eyes
were fine, and that was about all that could be
said in her favour as regards personal charms.
That she was very clever and self-willed was
beyond all doubt ; but then, according to Meredith's
experience of life, an inch of beauty was
of more practical value to a woman than a
hundredweight of brains. In fact, he had always

feared and avoided clever women, and quite
believed in Gautier's maxim, " Une femme quia
assez esprit pour etre belle a bien assez
esprit pour moi.'^ What to do with this
young lady whose future welfare he now felt
it incumbent on him to ensure seemed indeed
a puzzle, for of course matrimony was the only
way out of the scrape, and who would be found
to marry the penniless daughter of a stableboy?
Doubtless Meredith could have got
scores of titled men as suitor for her hand had
he been prepared to endow her with a handsome
dot but that under the present circumstances
was impossible ; and, moreover, the
sudden tragic death of his son had inspired him
with a romantic spirit of sentimentality concerning
his son's playmate, and he wished to
see her not only well married in a worldly
sense, but happily married, in the way they
used to understand the term in the old days
when he was a boy at Chiswick, stealing lemon-drops
from his father's scanty stock-in-trade —
that is, married to an honest man ; and when this
view of the matter struck him, Sir William had
perforce to smile — a smile that would have delighted
wicked old Arouet, for the wonder swam

into his mind whether such a thing as an honest
man could be found ? Did he, Sir William
Meredith, the celebrated physician, the famous
author of the treatise on Cardiac Affections, the
confidential friend and adviser of innumerable
princes and potentates, the supposed millionaire,
the man who knew half Europe, — did he
know one honest man ? Yes I Parbleu ! he
did — Jim Anstruther !

CHAPTER IV.

At the time of little Paul's death Madge was
seventeen, and although she was but one year
older than Muriel, her dark complexion, which
was indeed almost swarthy, and indicated gipsy
blood, made her look quite three years the
senior of the slender, nervous, gold-crowned,
and blue-eyed Miss Meredith. Although almost
of equal height, — for Muriel had rather
outgrown her strength, — the coarse blood of
the elder girl had so developed her, that,
standing by the side of the younger, she looked
almost a woman by comparison. As all about
Muriel was quick, tender, passionate, and girlish,
so were the leading characteristics of
Madge's nature, — reserve, steady self - will
amounting almost to mulish obstinacy, and an
independence of spirit which, although out of
place in a girl of her years, promised well for

the future, if guided into the proper channel.
Such is doubtless the view that any casual
observer would have taken of the two friends ;
but as an author is proverbially endowed with
Ashmolean privileges, we would venture to submit
that the greater amount of real strength
of character lay in the girlish and impulsive
blonde rather than in the calm and reserved
brunette, and that what we should be tempted
to call the breeding of the former, were we not
speaking of the granddaughter of a country
chemist, would inspire any experienced student
of human nature with far greater confidence,
as betokening what in speaking of a horse is
called staying power, than the rather sullen
strength and decision of the latter. In other
words, the nervous power possessed by Muriel
Meredith was better calculated to sustain a
woman in great and bitter trials, and to aid her
in attaining great and high aims, than the
vulgar thick strength and sinew of Madge
Tyrrell.

But strength and power, though of this different
quality, were latent in both these girls, and
made themselves manifest in a thousand different
ways, but notably in their conduct one towards

the other. In the ordinary trivial affairs of
everyday life Muriel could always seek the
counsel and advice of Madge, and so taught the
latter to look upon herself rather as the strong
protector of her weaker and younger friend ; butin
any really serious emergency Madge almost
involuntarily would turn to Muriel for that true
and steel-like support and strength which might
bend but which could never break, and by the
side of which her own ordinary and commonplace
decision of character shrivelled to nothing.
When Paul was brought home mangled and
dead, the grief of Madge was as that of a madwoman,
and terrible to behold, — in fact, it
almost brought on a serious illness ; but the
anguish in the heart of Muriel was far too unspeakably
bitter to find expression in hysterics.
She bowed her head, and every nerve and sinew
in her body quivered with re-echoing pain ; but
she thought of her father and his grief, and of
Paul and his rest, and in the sweet pure well
of her womanly sympathy she found the balm
wherewith to comfort sorrow more boisterous
but far less poignant than her own. But the
two, notwithstanding this great difference of
character, — nay, rather perhaps because of it, —

VOL. I. E

lived together in apparently the happiest and
closest intimacy, the soft and tender nature of
Muriel finding a bracing stimulant in being
brought in contact with the rougher fibre of her
friend, while what still lingered of innate coarseness
in Madge could not fail to be beneficially
influenced by the refining gentleness of Muriel.

The long period of mourning succeeding the
death of Paul, and that sad event itself — for
death, the great disentangle, unites as frequently
as he separates — brought the two girls
still closer together, and no one but the shrewdest
reader of woman's heart would ever have suspected
that the two lives did not flow in perfect
harmony. Such, however, was far from being
the case. As she grew older, Madge began to
realise, vaguely at first, the false position which
she held in society ; but the relative coldness
which Sir William (quite unconsciously, be it
observed) showed her during the time when his
financial troubles before the death of his son
had filled his mind with perplexity regarding
the future of his pi^otegee, brought suddenly and
abruptly before Madge, with terrible distinctness,
the appalling fact that the whole making
or marring of her life depended upon the caprice

of a selfish man, who was not bound to her by
any tie of blood or affection, and to whom
already, in the eyes of the world, she doubtless
owed a debt of gratitude for having lifted her
out of the sphere in which she was born, and
exalted her to an altitude from which, should
this same support not be continued, she must
inevitably fall and be crushed. The effect upon
the coarse but imaginative nature of Madge,
when the full importance of this discovery
dawned upon her, was indeed terrible. All
idea of the stage she had abandoned : what
was to become of her in the event of her behoof
cut adrift by the Meredithss, or rather by Sir
William, — for she felt certain she could always
count on the lasting affection of his daughter ?
Why, she asked passionately in her heart, had
she not been left in the garret where she had
been found ? and what right had these people
to take up her life as if it were a plaything
which they might break or throw away or keep
at pleasure 1 The nature of Madge was eminently
a selfish one, and here she found her most
vital interests imperilled by what she chose to
look upon in the light of a mere heartless
caprice. The draught was a bitter one, and

might indeed have poisoned even a more healthy
and purer nature than hers. As it was, when
the girl became fully convinced that no member
of the family save Paul and Muriel really cared
for her, and that she had been merely taken out
of the gutter as a plaything for these two, her
whole soul turned in hatred against her benefactor,
and she longed for the day to come when,
at no matter what price, she could wain sufficient
independence to be able to indulge in the luxury
of revenge.

Her anger, however, did not blind her to the
innocence of Paul and Muriel. They, at least,
had never worked her harm ; it was no doing
of theirs that she found herself in the position
of a lapdog, to be caressed one minute and
then spurned away the next ; they, at least, had
frankly given her the whole wealth of their
love, and she had as frankly given hers to them.
She would not include the children in the hatred
she felt justified in feeling for the parents, —
nothing should ever separate her heart and
theirs ; and so, by a curious and morbid form
of reasoning, the more she felt her hatred
against Sir William deepen, the more she felt
it her duty, as it was her pleasure, to cherish

her love for his children. It was doubtless
owing to this dual sentiment that the death
of little Paul affected Madge so violently, and
that Muriel, far from having any reason to suspect
that her friend's feelings were undergoing
any change unfavourable to her or to her family,
on the contrary could not fail to notice a sudden
and unaccountable increase of most demonstrative
affection on her part. As for Sir William
himself and Lady Meredith, they saw so comparatively
little of Madge and Muriel, being forever
taken up and absorbed from morning till
night, the man with his business and the
woman with her social occupations, that even
if any change in Madge's manner towards them
had been observable — and it was not — they
neither of them would have noticed it. The
girls were indeed left very much to themselves,
and allowed an amount of liberty which spoke
eloquently of the indifference with which their
welfare was regarded. They could receive whom
they pleased, and go where they pleased, — for
Sir William greatly admired what he termed the
American system of bringing up young girls,
which system would seem to consist mainly in
letting them bring themselves up ; while as for

Lady Meredith, she never bothered her head
about the matter one way or the other. Old
Agnes had long since been forced to give way
before the determined spirit of Miss Madge;
and so these two young ladies found themselves,
at the respective ages of sixteen and a half and
seventeen and a half, enjoying a liberty which
in many countries would hardly have been
granted to a young married woman. It must,
however, in all fairness be admitted that they
took no undue advantage of the liberty thus
accorded to them. The moral atmosphere of
Paris during the last decade of the Second
Empire was far from pure, and men and women
of every rank in life seemed bent on enjoying
themselves at no matter what cost. That under
these circumstances, and in such a town, and
knowing all they knew, two such attractive
girls as Madge Tyrrell and Muriel Meredith
should have been able to thoroughly enjoy the
most unusual liberty of action allowed to them
without in any way incurring scandal, spoke
volumes in favour of the theory of the danger
of innocence. They went everywhere by themselves,
or accompanied by any friends whom
they might care to invite to go with them ; and

they had carte blanche to receive all their acquaintances
in the Kue Royale, and indeed
entertain them, so far as the consumption of
tea and cake may be considered as an entertainment
; and as I^ady Meredith was but rarely
at home, and Sir William never, the girls had
the spacious saloons generally to themselves.

The death of Paul, and the financial troubles
concerning which, by the way, the girls knew
little or nothing, although they continued increasing
in frequency and severity — had decided
Lady Meredith to postpone formally introducing
Muriel to society until her eighteenth birthday ;
and so the dissipations indulged in by the two
young ladies, besides the tea and cake mentioned
above, consisted mainly in going to the operas —
for Lady Meredith had a box at all three houses,
the Grand Opera, the " Italiens," and the Opera
Comique — attending concerts, and riding or
driving in the Bois. They were, however, both
of them far too attractive to pass unnoticed ina
metropolis so keenly alive to the charms of
female society as Paris, and before long these
afternoon teas, presided over by two graceful and
charming girls, became the place of rendezvous
for a few ladies who liked to meet after shopping

and talk gossip without the restraint of a
hostess, and many men who found Sir William's
drawing-room in agreeable proximity to the
Cercle des Dotards, as the Rue Royale Club
was called in those days. That the conversation
carried on at these gatherings would have
shocked and scandalised many a matron on our
chaste side of the silver streak is more than
likely, for Madge, if not Muriel, was well acquainted
with most of the mysteries of passion
as described by George Sand, Balzac, De Musset,
and others ; but their Parisian training, which
taught them that although no fruit may be
classified as being absolutely forbidden, much
of it must be looked upon as distinctly indigestible,
kept these two pretty moths from burning
their wings, although it might please them
from time to time to fly dangerously near the
flame.

But perhaps we had better let the ladies
speak for themselves. It is February — a cold,
chilly February. Paul has been dead a year.
It is hardly five, and the two girls are alone,
carelessly awaiting any chance visitor, for it
is too cold and bleak to think of venturing to
the Bois.

So you don't admire papa's friend, Madgy ? "
asked Miss Muriel, trying to stifle the ghost of a
yawn.

Who do you mean ? "

Colonel Anstruther."

Admire him ! Why, of course not. What
in the world is there in the man to admire ?
Do you ? "

Papa says he's ' a man of sterling merit.' "
Here we are forced to admit Miss Muriel
mimicked her father's rather pompous way of
speaking.

Madge laughed. " Oh, I've no doubt he is
all that : but old soldiers of sterling merit
ought to content themselves with the Invalides
or Chelsea Hospital when they get so
infirm."

But he's not infirm : he looks as strong as
iron. He's only lost a leg, and papa says he
lost that at Inkerman, when he got the Victoria
Cross for distinguished bravery under fire."

I don't care whether he lost it at Inkerman
or at Mabille — he's lost it."

Well, and what if he has ? What have his
legs got to do with you ? "

Madge laughed. " Nothing so far, certainly;

but I'm not at all certain Uncle Bill would not
like them to have."

'' What in the world can you mean ? "

Why, you know, I told you about the long
talk Uncle Bill had with me two months after

and she hesitated, and her voice dropped

" after poor Paul's death."

*' AVhat ! you mean when he told you you
ought to marry a man with money *? "

Madge nodded.

Why, you don't mean to say, Madgy, that
you think papa wants you to marry Colonel
Anstruther ? Why, you're crazy ; he hasn't got
a penny. I heard papa say so only yesterday."

I'm certain he wants me to marry him ; and
I feel sure the poor man was brought here all
the way from Cheltenham on purpose for me."

"But he hasn't got a penny' persisted
Muriel.

Not now ; but he will have, it seems, when
his father dies."

He can't have a father alive," Muriel exclaimed,
with the splendid disdain of seventeen
for all over forty. 'this father would be a
hundred."

"No; his father is just eighty-one. Sir

Eoderick Anstrutlier is his name. He's got. a
nice place in Kent, and is patron of four
livings."

How in the world do you know all that ?
Did he tell you ? "

No ; I looked him up in Debrett when I saw
how the land lay."

Muriel laughed. " Don't be taken in by any
nonsense of that kind, Madgy. I don't believe
in expectations. Look at poor Arthur."

We are sorry to be forced to chronicle that
these two very wayward and badly brought up
young ladies had acquired the detestable habit
of calling their male friends by their Christian
names. *

Oh, Arthur is very different," replied Madge.
He is only the second son."

Yes, but his father is a duke."

What difference does that make if he has no
chance of ever being duke himself '? "

'^ Well, I'd sooner be the second son of a duke
than the eldest son of a baronet any day."

*' That depends upon the money. I wouldn't,"
replied Madge, quietly.

So you've made up your mind to marry this
man of sterling merit, I see."

No, I haven't ; he hasn't asked me yet."

Of course not ; but you know you could
easily get him to do that whenever you like."

Well, I suppose I could," assented Madge,
smiling.

^' Well ? "

"Win"

Would you accept him if he did '? "

That depends."

Depends on what ? "

Madge burst out laughing. " Why, on the
state of his father's health, of course, you little
goose. I wouldn't marry an old man with only
one leg if his father wasn't going to give him
up the title and money before long."

I should think not," assented Muriel.
You'd rather marry Arthur, although he is
only the second son "of a duke, wouldn't you ?
He's young and good-looking, at least."

Yes, but Arthur wouldn't have me, you see."

'' Yes, he would. Why not "? "

Because he doesn't like me, and does like
somebody else."

I suppose you mean me ? " Muriel coloured
as she spoke.

Mado^e nodded.

'* What nonsense, Madge ! Arthur and I are
good friends, of course, and that's all. He
wouldn't marry me if I were the only girl in
Paris."

'' I know better ! " and Madge looked very
wise.

What do you know ? "

^' What every one knows."

'' And what is that ? "

That Arthur Pendragon is over head and
ears in love with you ! "

What an outrageous girl you are, Madge.
You really ought not to say such abominable
things. You know they are not true."

I know they are true." •

*' How do you know ? "

'^ Never mind ; I do know, and that's enough."

No, it isn% you wicked girl. How do you
know ? Tell me, how do you know ? He

hasn't " and Muriel stopped short, blushing

violently.

Hasn't what ? " asked Madge, with provoking
calmness.

Hasn't You know what I mean,

Madgy dear. Hasn't said anything to anyone
(

'' Hasn't said anything to any one ! " echoed
Madge. " What in the world do you mean ? "

You know what I mean, you wicked Madge."

Madge shook her head. " No, I am sure I
don't. You must explain yourself, Mu-mu,
before I can answer your question."

Muriel came appealingly up to her foster-sister
like a kitten seeking to be petted, and
put her arms around her neck and kissed
her.

*^ Tell me, you wicked Madge, tell me," she
whispered in her ear.

Madge tried to push her away laughingly.

You must tell me, Madgy ; do tell me," she
murmured, in a little soft whisper.

'' Tell you what ? "

'^ Has he ever said anything ? "

'^ Who ? "

Arthur."

About you ? " Muriel gave her a little
squeeze of assent. '* Yes, he has."

'' Oh ! " Muriel caught her breath. '' What
did he say, Madgy ? Tell me Avhat he said,"
she whispered. ** Whom did he say it to ? "

To me."

'what did he say'

He said a great deal for him, for you know
he is generally as cold as an icicle."

^'No, he isn't. Tell me what he said."

Well, he asked me all sorts of questions
about you the other day ; and when I had
told him all the good I could — which was
not much, you know — he said he thought
you were the very nicest little girl he ever
met."

*' He didn't say little girl ! Arthur never
dared say little girl ; " and Muriel relinquished
her hold on her friend, and threw up her head
proudly.

Yes, he did ; he said little girl most distinctly."
•

*^ What impertinence ! I don't believe it."

''So that's all the thanks I get, Miss Pussy,
is it?"

He never said little girl. Say he never said
little giriy

Yes, he said little girl. If you don't believe
me, ask him." Then, as a footman pulled back
the portiere — '' There he is, I daresay ! "

Muriel started back, but her fear was groundless.
It was not Lord Arthur Pendragon, buta
note for Miss Tyrrell. Madge glanced at the

writing, and remarking quietly, " from Laurence,"
opened the envelope, which contained
three tickets and a note.

"How good of him," exclaimed Madge.
*' He s got us those tickets to hear Cruelly ; "
and throwing the tickets over to Muriel, she
began to read what her correspondent had
written. It was only a few doggerel rhymes,
scratched with a bad pen on Jockey Club
paper : —

Dear Madgy,

I send you the tickets
For the place where they fiddle and shout.
At Love's cricket, were your lips the wickets,
My kisses would bowl you clean out.
And if Cupid were umpire, good innings
I might score with my heart for a bat,
Knowing he would forgive me my sinning

When appealed to — How's that ?

Yours ad eternal, L. F."

'' What impertinence ! " exclaimed Madge,
her face ablaze. ** I really think Laurence
Farquhar's coolness beats anything I ever heard.
Read that ! " and she tossed the letter over to
Muriel.

Outrageous I " exclaimed that young lady,
laughing, when she had read the verses. " Laurence
is really too bad. Imagine his daring to

call you Mad gy ! I'd like to hear him dare
call me Muriel ! "

"'No, you wouldn't. You'd sooner hear
Arthur " But just at this moment the footman
announced " Colonel Anstruther.'^

VOL. I. F

CHAPTER V.

The gallant officer who had won the Victoria
Cross, and lost his right leg at Inkerman,
and who now came slowly into the room on
crutches, was a man whose real age was not
over fifty, but hardships, privation, and exposure
had so aged him in appearance that he looked
quite sixty. Dr Meredith had attended him,
just before the outbreak of the Crimean war, in
Paris, and had seen him through a bad attack of
typhoid fever, and an intimacy had then sprung
up between them (for Lady Anstruther had
come over to nurse her son, and Dr Meredith
always made it a point to be particularly attentive
to all members of the aristocracy of his
own country, in order to overcome, if possible,
the bad odour in which he was held in London)
which was agreeable to both. Meredith was a
thorough man of the world, and though more

especially a lady's maTi, he could make himself
eminently agreeable to his own sex when he
chose to take the trouble. His experience of
life had been varied, his adventures numerous,
and when his memory failed him, an ever active
imagination supplied him with a store of fictitious
facts, always apropos, instructive, and entertaining.
He could be holy with the holy, pure
with the pure, and simple with the simple ; and
although the man's natural character and habits
were neither holy nor simple nor pure, yet he
would act his part so well that no one not on
the look-out for deception would for a moment
suspect his good faith. In the Anstruthers,
indeed, mother and son, he had found a simplicity
and absence of guile so far beyond anything
he had ever seen, heard, or read of, that he was
at first dumfounded and almost thrown off his
guard. Was it really possible that such Arcadian
simplicity, purity, and trustfulness could
exist in this nineteenth century, and, what is
more, come to Paris, and, what is more, be found
in so wholly unromantic a spot as the Hotel
Westminster 1 Was this gaunt tall officer in
earnest or trying to deceive him when he told
the doctor that his mother had made him promise

not to go to the theatre in Paris, unless he
thought he could see his way to reclaiming
some one of the unhappy wantons who trod
the boards ?

'' Not that / mind," Anstruther added with a
sigh, " for of course these poor women could not
hurt 'iii ; but my mother thinks, and no doubt
justly, that those poor unhappy outcasts imagine
when one is really merely applauding
their talent that one is countenancing their sin,
and thus they may become still more hardened
than before."

Meredith could not believe his ears, and told
the whole story to Mornyy that very evening.

'' What a pity," said the Duke, with a smile,
that your friend is not a Frenchman. I would
make him Preset de Police tomorrow ! "

And yet this pure and simple giant, who
made the doctor read a chapter of the Bible
mornings and evenings to him when he was too
weak and ill to read himself, was no fool — far
from it : he knew not a little about his profession,
was a first-rate mathematician, and a good
linguist. His simplicity was inborn, and his
purity was so natural that his comrades had,
after one or two feeble and futile attempts to

debauch him, decided to respect his spotlessness,
agreeing that it would be but a poor job at best
to cut up a first-rate saint into an indifferent
sinner. Lady Anstruther, his mother, was still
worse, for one evening during her stay in Paris,
having found her way to the Mabille Gardens,
she was arrested for causing a disturbance thereby
endeavouring to reclaim some of the stray
sheep, and it needed the personal intervention
of Lord Cowley to effect her release from
durance vile.

But they were not hypocrites or Pharisees,
this mother and son — far from it ; nor did they
wish to impose in any way their Christian views
on others. Sin was hateful to them, but they
would never be party to any harsh scheme for
the prevention or punishment of it. Exclaiming
was their forte : they did not mind the sheep
straying from the fold so much, if they would
only come back when they went out to fetch
them. Anstruther would cheerfully and almost
gladly help a drunkard to bed, but he would sit
by his bedside in the morning and exhort him
to come at once and take the pledge. Fallen
women were, however, his special hobby, and he
had probably in his time been more robbed and

hoodwinked by ladies of easy virtue than the
most inveterate debauchee. He would leave
the '' Rag " at night and walk up St James's
Street and Piccadilly, bestowing half-crowns
on gin - beholden wenches, on their readily-given
promises to go home and be quiet ; and
although the fallen women of London cost him
quite two hundred a-year, the money was
bestowed in such guileless simplicity that it
inevitably did far more harm than good. And
this was not done in any spirit of interference,
for he was far too well-bred for that ; nor was it
done to proclaim his own self-righteousness, for
he was the most modest and retiring of men,
and believed himself to be the worst of sinners.
His extraordinary conduct arose, first of all, from
his absolute simplicity and innocence ; and,
secondly, from his hatred of all cruelty, unkindness,
and oppression. Cruelty to him was a
thing so terrible, that he would readily have
risked his life to save a dumb animal from
the hands of a tormenter ; and thus as sinners
and more especially fallen women — must,
according to his views, be most miserable and
unhappy (for what more cruel bondage and
despotism can there be than that of sin ?), it

was his duty to leave his Chin and his fireside,
and go out into the highways and byways to
bring to his suffering sisters the succour of his
few shillings and his warm heart.

One, however, among many other amiable
qualities in this good man's nature, was his comprehensive
spirit of tolerance. He was used to
being laughed at, and did not mind it : it did
not embitter nor sour him in the least, nor did
he expect others to adopt his views, nor think
any the worse of them for not doing so. He
did not himself go to the opera or theatre, and
particularly objected to the ballet ; but yet you
might talk to him by the hour together about
Fiacre, Fioretti, Grana, or any other queen
of the tiptoe, and never by his questions or by
his answers be led to suspect for a moment
that he looked upon public dancing with disapproval.
He could not and would not associate
with an habitual drunkard or immoral person,
but he found it in his generous heart easy to understand
and forgive the ordinary backsliding
and improprieties of his weaker brethren.

Another rare and good quality which he
possessed to a most eminent degree, was his
belief in the goodness of others. He could

not believe evil of a man or woman until it
was proved to bim. Tbe women he met walking
the streets, and the men be visited in the
prisons, tbcre could be no doubt about : they
had fallen, and whether or not they regretted
their misdemeanours, it was his duty to try and
help them back into the path of happiness and
virtue. As for the other men and women
whom he met in the ordinary course of his
life, he believed them one and all to be true
and good, according to their lights, and stubbornly
refused to alter his opinion until some
overwhelming proof of his mistake should be
brought before him. So in the case of Meredith
: he had been told the most terrible
stories about this great doctor, but the man
had been kind to him. He liked him and believed
in him, and therefore he very quietly
closed his ears to the evil reports, and nailed
his flag of confidence and friendship to the
mast. Sir William had written to him about
a month before that he needed his advice
and counsel, and so simple-hearted Jim had,
at great personal inconvenience, left Cheltenham,
where he was residing, and come at once
to Paris. It had not as yet been made very

clear to his mind why his presence in the
French capital had been so urgently needed
by his friend, but he found much to interest
him in Paris, and the society of his friend's
family most delightful, so he was content to
stay so long as his limited means — for his
father was most penurious, and only allowed
his only son and heir a thousand pounds
a-year — would permit him to do so.

I hardly dared hope to have the good
fortune to find you ladies in this afternoon,"
he said, in his rambling old-fashioned way,
when he had at length got comfortably ensconced
in an arm-chair. " I thought all the
queens of fashion were at the Bois at this
hour."

Muriel laughed merrily. " So they are," she
said ; " but neither Madge nor I are queens of
fashion."

"No, Colonel Anstruther ; we are two quiet
and retiring little English maidens," put in
Madge, '^ who like quietly sitting at home by
the fireside and making tea for their friends
while the giddy world runs by."

"And very good taste, too. Miss Tyrrell,"
said the benevolent old warrior ; " but I thought

that you Parisians, or rather you English who
have lived so long abroad, had lost all idea of
what we call in England home life. I am glad
to see Sir William has kept alive the good old
feeling."

"Vive le home ! " cried Madge, ringing the
bell ; 'rand vive le plum-pudding and le rosbif !
Why, Colonel Anstruther, Muriel and I are full
of all sorts of good old feelings, and one of
them, I am sure, you will share with us."

And which is that, Miss Tyrrell ? "

A desire for a cup of very good tea, — the
de la caravans ! "

With great pleasure," said Colonel An-stretcher,
smiling ; " I am only afraid I am giving
you young ladies a great deal of trouble."

You are, mon Colonel, a great deal, but we
like it." Then turning to the servant — " The
tea, Selwyn, at once. Now, Muriel, tell Colonel
Anstruther what auntie said about the opera
on Friday."

The opera ? " said Anstruther, beginning
to feel rather uneasy.

Yes," said Muriel ; " mamma is going to the
Affaires Strangers, and so Madge and I are to
have the box for Friday, and we want you to

go with US. It's the * African,' with Naudin,
Passe, and Faure. You are fond of music, of
course, Colonel Anstruther *? "

Very fond of it, indeed, Miss Muriel," said
the Colonel, simply ; '' but I'm afraid I can't
accompany you to the opera, although I can
think of few things that would give me greater
pleasure."

Then why not come ? " said Muriel.

The Colonel hesitated.

Religious scruples ? " said Madge, carelessly,
never dreaming she was hitting the right nail
on the head.

Partly so, yes," said the Colonel, turning
towards her, delighted at having found someone
who seemed to understand his views. The
two girls stood petrified with astonishment.
They knew that some of their prudish countrywomen
disapproved of going to the Varieties
and Palais Koyal, but that even a bishop
should have scruples about going to the opera
seemed preposterous. And yet this man before
them was a soldier, a warrior, and a gallant
one, too, as the absence of that leg, lost in
Inkerman field, proved most distinctly.

*' Why, you don't think going to the opera

wicked, do you?" inquired Muriel, while Madge
very diplomatically held her tongue. The poor
Colonel moved uneasily in his chair.

Not wicked, no. Certainly not wicked. I
should be sorry to think that thousands of
people all over the world are every night doing
so very unnecessary a thing as go to the opera

if it were wicked ; but '' and he hesitated.

How could he hope to make these mere children
understand his views ? He hated to preach except
to fallen women, drunkards, gamblers, and
thieves, and yet he should feel like a coward if
he did not give his reasons for declining what
to him would have been a great pleasure ; for he
was passionately fond of music, and the idea of
sitting all the evening by the side of Madge
Tyrrell was in itself a greater delight to him
than he cared to acknowledge even to himself.
He looked at Madge appealingly. She caught
his glance, and saw the whole situation at once.

I can quite understand you, Colonel An-stretcher,"
she said, quietly; ^'you do not think
going to the opera is a sin in itself, but you
think it may perhaps encourage sin in others."
Where in the world had this imp picked up
this hackneyed Exeter Hall echo ? " You maybe

right," she continued, with a sigh ; "I believe
— I feel that you are ! " The Colonel was
radiant. He positively beamed with delight,
while Muriel, who had just been on the point
of putting her pocket-handkerchief to her face
to hide her smiles, let the little dainty piece of
batiste fall to the ground in her amazement.

Why, Madge " she began.

I feel sure Colonel Anstruther is right,
Muriel," she interrupted. " I can't tell you,"
she continued, turning to the Colonel, *' how
often I think, when I am sitting in auntie's
splendid avant-scene, of what a waste of time
and money it all is, and how many poor people —
children, for instance — might be reclaimed froth
a life of sin and misery by only one small part
of what rich people spend so thoughtlessly on
their pleasures ! "

Those sentiments do you honour. Miss
Tyrrell," said the Colonel, bowing; "and I
feel sure that when Miss Muriel has thought
the matter over, she will agree with you."

*' Lord Arthur Pendragon, Mr Laurence
Farquhar," announced the servant, most opportunely,
thus effectually preventing any little
explanation which Muriel in her honesty might

have been inclined to offer, and leaving Madge
triumphant mistress of the field. But as the
two gentlemen who have now entered are destined
to play parts of some importance in this
story, we must turn our attention to them.

Of Lord Arthur Pendragon, the second son
of the Duke of Tintagil, there is indeed nothing
very remarkable to chronicle, for he is merely
the ordinary type of the ordinary young English
nobleman to be met with in great profusion at
any good social gathering. Eton, where he had
rowed a little, and been pronounced a " nice
boy," and Oxford, where he had read a little,
and been pronounced a " promising young
man*' had been all his history until he entered
the diplomatic service, by the members of which
distinguished profession he was speedily voted
not half a bad sort' and his life from the
nice boy " to the '* not half a bad sort " period
had not contained any one incident worthy of
notice. He was nice-looking without beinor in
any way handsome, and his small regular features,
blue-grey eyes, curly light hair, and inexpressive
mouth, would not have drawn anyone's
attention to them in a crowd, though they
were pleasant enough to look at when the tall.

well-made young man to whom they belonged
happened to be talking to you. Although his
family was almost the most noble and aristocratic
of any in Great Britain, one might lookin
vain for any distinctive mark in this man
indicative of the blueness of his blood, for such
was not to be found in cither his face, figure,
voice, heart, or mind. He was a nice, clean,
strong, healthy, gentlemanly youth, with a very
pleasing countenance and rather shy manners ;
but when this has been said, all has been said,
unless, indeed, the very natural fact that he
was very proud of his name and family, and
very properly thought himself a personage of
considerable consequence, be judged worthy *of
record. As a matter of fact, however, his
family had never done anything very remarkable
in history except confiscate property and
pander to the vices of weak sovereigns. It had
produced a few statesmen, a warrior or two, the
inevitable traitor with the usual Tower-green
and headsman's block accompaniments, a score
of very ordinary blackguards, and, of late
years, some very hard-working, money-grubbing,
business men, under which last category
of worthies Arthur father, the present Duke,

and the eldest son, T^ord Camelot, would surely
come.

The noble Duke and his son the Marquis
knew the value of every inch of their vast property,
and made it the business of their lives to
increase, in every honest albeit harsh way they
could, and no matter at what expense of inconvenience
or toil, this value ; not, of course, because
their already vast wealth needed any
augmentation, but because it was in the nature,
character, and tastes of these descendants of the
blameless husband of Queen Guinevere to prefer
the desk to the saddle, the pen to the sword,
the ledger to the song. From Christmas to
Christmas, from morning to night, every day
throughout the year, the sole and one thought
of the Duke and of his eldest son was how to
add to the wealth and material splendour of
their house, — not by any act of prowess by sea
or by land, or by any grand and lofty intellectual
effort, but by raising tenants' rents here,
lowering miners' wages there, taking advantage
of the passing visit to England of a transatlantic
millionaire to sell, with a Hebraic view to profit,
some old painting or rare book, exchanging
worthless heirlooms with some parvenu for

articles of real current value, or giving the support
of their noble names, for a very important
consideration in cash, to some company or enterprise.
That was the present and nineteenth
century way in which these noble descendants
of crusaders understood their duties to their
name and house. The Duke had speculated inland
in Nebraska and in pork in Cincinnati ;
Camelot had his private agent on the London
Stock Exchange and on the Paris Bourse, and
all the company promoters in the city knew
exactly the price at which he valued his name
when he condescended to allow it to appear in
the list of directors.

Ceaselessly and untiringly did they work,
this noble father and son — flying to Australia
one year, dashing ofl" to California the next,
buying and selling at a profit every conceivable
kind of thing, from a yacht to a Sevres tea-cup,
dabbling slightly in turf matters, so as to keep
in touch with the knowing ones of the subscribe
when anything particularly " good "
might happen to be on ; flirting with philanthropy
and religion, not from any love of God
or pity for human suffering, but to keep their
names before the public in a way the best cal-vol.

I. G

Ciliated to inspire sympathy and admiration ;
ferreting out new inventions, and driving
hard bargains with the guileless inventor;
and opening their town - house and country
palaces to all and every condition of man or
woman who was worth anything like money,
either positively or relatively. The Duke had
sold his strawberry-leaves to a Manchester girl
for money, and Camelot had married a Chicago
widow for the same useful article. The Marchioness
had died childless ; but the red, coarse
face of the factory Duchess was still to be seen
at Court functions and other social ffatherino^s,
shining as a beacon-light to the outsider, to
remind him that for a pecuniary consideration
he might be permitted to take his seat among
the Olympian gods. No daughters, and only
two sons, had been born to this ducal couple,
Camelot and Lord Arthur. Camelot was a
source of unbounded satisfaction to his noble
parents, for he had shown, by his marriage and
by his habits of life, that he appreciated the
market value of his rank ; but Arthur was
viewed with less favour, for he had hitherto not
only flatly declined to marry for money, but
had elected to adopt a career which was wholly

incompatible with the raking in of many sheets.
One thing, however, might be said in his favour :
he had no expensive tastes, and as he refrained
from TattersalFs and the Divorce Court, and
merely indulged in the milder forms of enjoyment
provided by Cook, Lock, and Beale and
Inman, the ducal exchequer ran no immediate
danger of being impoverished by the younger
son.

His companion and friend, Laurence Farquhar,
was a totally different man in every way. Born
of poor parents in the south of England, he had
been sent to Eton to form connections which
might be useful to him in after-life ; but these
connections, such as they were, he had formed
in so extraordinary a fashion that their immediate
result was expulsion — the " Farquhar row "
behoof one of the most scandalous which has ever
been chronicled by Barnes's Pool. Nothing
daunted, his parents had sent him to Christ
Church, from which seat of learning pecuniary
embarrassment, engendered by unlimited loo,
horse grinds, and the Burlington, had forced
him to fly by stealth after two years' residence.
Just at this painful crisis in his career, an
aunt had died leaving him ten thousand pounds

in cash ; and young Farquliar found himself
face to face with the fact that his habits of life
had rendered it imperatively necessary to his
comfort and wellbeing that these ten thousand
pounds should be forced, by fair means or by
foul, to yield him a net income of not less than
five thousand golden sovereigns per annum. The
difficulty was not an insurmountable one, and
indeed, to a man of the very elastic morality
of Farquhar, rather embodied an amusing problem
to solve, the key to which, fashioned he
cared not how, he felt confident he should find
from year to year, as he took his time strolling
leisurely down the sunny side of the Road to
Ruin, leaving it to his more impetuous friends to
cab it. For we are forced to chronicle the fact,
though with regret, that Laurence Farquhar
was essentially a bad man, and a bad man in
the very widest and most comprehensive acceptation
of the term. He had been a bad son and
a false friend, and he was only looking out for
the first opportunity of proving his transcendent
ability to blossom into an execrable husband.
He had been a sneak at Eton — enticing
his comrades into nameless enormities, and
then quietly giving up their names, with a

highly coloured and detailed catalogue of their
iniquities, to the headmaster ; he had been
a thief at Oxford — intoxicating mere babies
fresh from home, and then rifling their pockets
under the kindly guiding light of ecarte and
loo, which on such occasions he took good care
should shine for him alone ; and he had proved
himself a villain at Pratt's by telling a man
of his wife's dishonour, merely because that
wretched woman had declined to continue furnishing;
him with further funds. He was wicked
and bad from head to foot ; and the evil in him
was rendered totus teres atque rotunda by the
fact that he was very clever, morally an arrant
coward, and personally attractive. His, indeed,
was not the bold, open wickedness that, while
inspiring horror, may in some morbid and sensitive
minds awaken feelings of wonder and awe
akin to admiration, but the effeminate, cold, and
calculating villainy which finds its ultimate expression
in the poisoned cup — the spirit of evil
which, shrinking from the fierce murder-heated
breath which dilated the nostrils of a Caesar
Borgia, sported and displayed itself in the
sickly and infernal fumes which nourished a
Lorenzaccio. But although it would be almost

impossible to exaggerate the dee]) baseness of
this man, it must not for one moment be supposed
that this baseness was apparent, or rather,
to speak with more absolute precision, that it
betrayed itself to society at large in any very
offensive form. He was known to be a man of
very limited means, who had been thrown into
and received with open arms by a society far
above that to which his birth or his fortune
would have entitled him honestly to aspire, —
that, in other words, he was one of those numerous
individuals who are forced to live more
or less by their wits, which modern euphemism
covers more sins than charity — and as such but
little was required of him, while much met with
forgiveness. He was good-looking, agreeable,
and amusing, writing and publishing pretty
verses, knowing every possible and impossible
way out of a scrape, and never loath to exchange
his precious advice for the still more
precious confidence which bound the luckless
seeker after aid to him for ever. Moreover, he
was good-tempered — nothing ever put him out
and generous when he had money. And what
difference did it make, after all, to the general
public whether or not this amiability and generosity

were the results of diplomatic calculation
or the spontaneous impulses of his nature ? He
was not a man born to succeed in the long-run,
for his character greatly needed real stability
(although for a short period he could be very
firm and inflexible) ; but he was one well
adapted to win many and small prizes, for he
could ruthlessly take advantage of a weakness,
and by his captivating manner frequently lead
an associate into an error which he found but
rarely any difficulty in turning to good account
for himself. Men liked him because he was
amusing, and they thought him useful ; women
because he was good-looking and dan onerous :
and so, as he went everywhere and knew everybody,
from a social point of view (taking into
consideration his obscure birth and meagre fortune)
he might be considered a success, for buta
very limited few suspected the cynical and
profound wickedness of the man ; and he had
avoided getting into any serious scrape since
Eton — the flight from Christ Church being
looked upon with most lenient eyes, and the
tragedy enacted at the fashionable little night-house
in Park Street, and which ended in the
suicide of the husband, being known but to three

persons on earth. Madge received him with
marked coldness, while Muriel looked on with
ill-suppressed amusement.

You got the tickets all right, I hope," he
said, carelessly.

"Yes," replied Madge, frigidly, 'rand the
letter which accompanied them." If she thought
she was going to disturb Farquhar's equanimity
by her severity, she was greatly mistaken. He
laughed — a frank musical laugh was one of
his many attractions, and he used it unsparingly
and threw back his head with a movement of
childish petulance which was so habitual to
him as to have won for him at Eton the
nickname of '' Toss."

Not a letter," he said, his deep blue eyes
sparkling with good-natured mischief. " I didn't
send you a letter. Those verses, you mean —
what did you think of them ? " Madge put all
the scorn she could into her eyes and kept
silent. Farquhar immediately assumed an air
of the greatest concern and contrition, and
drew nearer to her. *' I have not offended you,
I hope," he said with well-feigned emotion, looking
at her straight in the eyes. His anxiety
appeared so sincere, while the cause of it was

really so trivial, that Madge — who, after all, it
must be remembered, was hardly more than a
child — could not for the life of her refrain from
smiling.

"Ah, you're not really angry with me, I
see, after all'' he said, his own face lighting
up.

*^ Yes, I am : how dared you write such
things to me '? "

** Why, what was there wrong in the verses ? "

*^ Everything."

Well, that's certainly a great deal."

How dare you call me Madgy '? "

"You call me Laurence."

Madge coloured. " That's a very different
thing. It is very wrong, I know, and I shan't
do it any more, Mr Farquhar."

You can call me Larry if you like, or
^Toss.'"

Dignified silence on the part of Madge.

And then, what else was there wrong 1 "

"Everything."

"Ah, you don't understand cricket, I see.
Show the verses to Miss Muriel — she'll understand
them."

Madame la Mareschal de Chassepot-Lebel

and Madame la Comtesse d'Aramay," announced
Selwyn, and JMadge swept majestically
past Farquhar to the door to receive these two
distinguished visitors, casting as she did so a
glance of extreme severity on the good-looking
scoundrel who was teasing her, and who bowed
low in mock humility. Farquhar followed her
with his eyes, and as he did so a very peculiar
smile passed over his face. It was called forth
by a sudden wonder which had risen up in his
heart, whether he were not allowing himself to
take too much interest in this stylish, showy-looking
mrl who wore her clothes with such
peculiar grace, and whose swarthy complexion,
lighted up by such flashing and brilliant eyes,
seemed to him to represent something more
piquant and desirable than mere beauty. Love
of course was impossible : he was not capable
of such a paltry sentiment, but he was a man
of strong passions, which this strange girl appealed
to with a peculiar power. These passions
had made a fool of him already three
times in his short life of eight-and-twenty
years, and he had resolved that a similar
catastrophe should not occur again. What if
this Qfroom's dauc^liter should make him force

his good resolutions, and induce him to put his
head in the lion's mouth once more ? Had she
any money ? that was the question, for marry
her without money he could not. Did Sir
William intend doing anything for her ? How
could he find out ? That the girl liked him he
shrewdly suspected, — in fact, most girls did ;
and one of his many celebrated oft-quoted sayings
was, *' Only let me waltz with a girl three
times, and she is mine." The case was altogether
a difficult one, and needed thinking out.
He was seriously looking out for an heiress,
and even a temporary engagement to another
girl just now woukl do much harm, and at the
best cause much delay. What was to be done ?
He would consult Graham. Yes, that was the
best thing ; no man could give him better
advice on such a subject than Vincent Graham,
the only man he had ever met who was more
absolutely depraved even than himself, — the
worthy whose maxim it was that as vices outlive
virtues, they are the only thing a man has
to rely upon in his old age. Graham knew
everything and everybody, and could doubtless
find out about this girl's prospects at once.
This happy thought relieved Farquhar of his

perplexity, and enabled him to turn his attention
to what was c^oinof on about him.

The rooms were filling rapidly, for at a
certain hour every one seemed to come at once,
and Selwyn had to rattle off the names with
great volubility. These little five o'clock teas,
presided over by the two young girls, and
sometimes, though not often, graced by the
presence of Lady Meredith, had, as we have
said, become quite popular, and this afternoon
not a few of the notabilities of Paris where
present. Our own embassy was represented
by Arthur Pendragon, and our land forces by
the one-legged colonel ; but the United States
sent the beautiful Mrs Judge Buncomb and her
two no less beautiful daughters, — General
Obadiah L. Hitchcock of Poughkeepsie, who, although
his connection with the American army
would appear to have been of a shadowy nature,
had amassed untold millions by the sale of a
patent medicine ; while Russia came to the
front in the persons of Prince Dourak, the
beautiful Countess Marianne and her talented
son, who, at the age of twelve, played Chopin
as well as Gottschalk, and the wicked and
handsome young Prince Mantischefi"; Austria

stepping boldly forward with three members
of the embassy, and France leavening the mass
with innumerable pretty women and the dessus
du panier of the Jockey, Union, Imperial, and
Petit Club. Tea and scandal flowed in torrents,
and everything was discussed, from the
Empress's last bonnet to Pere Hyacinthe's next
sermon.

Have you heard about Kigolboche ? " inquired
in a low whisper the lovely Duchesse
Van in de la Tour Chardin, who ought to have
been ashamed, by the way, of mentioning the
name of the lady who had invented that most
expeditious method of removing a man's hat
with her toe to such a mere child as Muriel.

No," replied Miss Meredith, in an eager
undertone, her eyes sparkling with curiosity ;
'' what has she been doing now ? " Muriel
had been so used to hearing all sorts of extraordinary
tales, that it would have taken
a great deal to have shocked her, proceeding
from such lovely lips as those of Madame la
Duchesse.

Why, they say " — and the Duchesse's voice
sank still lower — '' don't say I told you; but they
say that she made that imbecile Dourak "

Which one ? " interrupted Muriel, nodding
towards a gaunt, pale-faced Kalmuck, who was
talking with Farquhar in the corner. " This
Dourak, or his brother Pierre 1 "

'' This very one, ma die re. They say," and
here she whispered into this mere child's ear a
scandalous anecdote of wanton and reckless extravagance
and folly, with which le gironde oic
Von s^amiise in Paris was then ringing.

C'est impayable ! " exclaimed Muriel.

"Au contraire, ma chere! " laughed the Duchesse,
" je trouve que ce n'est que trop bien paye.
Qu'en dites vous, ma mignonne, hein ? " Muriel
coloured slightly, and shrugged her shoulders
impatiently.

I hate Russians ! " she said.

Naturally you do, being English. I like
them."

What can you see to like in them '? "

They're the most generous men in the world,"
said the Duchesse. " They're the only men who
give presents worth having nowadays." But
Muriel had no experience of them in this way,
and so could make no reply.

'^ Who told you this dreadful story ? " she
inquired.

Oh, every one is talking of it ; but the Duke
told me. The Emperor had told him."

Here Mrs Buncomb and her two daughters
approached them, and this very naughty gossip
was diverted to another channel. Meanwhile
young Pendragon had been doing his best to
amuse his compatriot, Colonel Anstruther ; but
he found it uphill work, for the Colonel seemed
to have less to say for himself than usual, and
beyond the ever-exciting question of the weather
they could not get. Lord Arthur was just beginning
to say for the eleventh time, '' Yes, our
climate in England, although I admit we have the

November fogs " when the Colonel touched

him on the arm. •

I beg your pardon, my lord, but I think
Miss Meredith is making signs to you''

Arthur looked up, and there, sure enough, was
Muriel waving a tea-cup at him. He blushed
like a girl as he rose, and saying, '' Thank you,
Colonel Anstruther," obeyed the summons.

*' Come and make yourself useful, Arthur,"
said Muriel. ^' I've been signalling to you for
hours, but you would not notice me. Take this
to Madame de Chassepot-Lebel. She looks
furious, and I don't want to go near her."

Lord Arthur very meekly obeyed, but came
back as soon as he could to the young girl's
side.

Am I not to have a cup of tea ? " he inquired,
— not that he wanted it, but that he had
to say something, and his conversational powers
were limited.

Muriel looked at him mockingly. " Tea ?
Certainly not, sir. You know you hate it;
and then, again, it's not good for little boys.
Here, take this to the youngest Miss Bun-comb,
and stay with her, and make yourself
agreeable."

May I not come back ? " asked his lordship,
tea-cup in hand. " I don't like Miss Buncomb."

"That shows your bad taste. Who do you
like, pray ? "

'* Oh, I like a lot of people — you among
others."

He put as much meaning as he dared in these
three last words. Muriel met his eyes, coloured
slightly before his ardent gaze, and then, to hide
her confusion, made a low obeisance.

I am sure I ought to be very much flattered,
my lord, that you like me among others. Remember
I am only a little girl ! "

'^ More than others, I should have said." His
voice, which had sunk almost to a whisper,
trembled as he spoke.

Now go to Miss Buncomb : that tea will be
cold."

But tell me I may come back."

I'm going away myself. Madge must pour
out the tea now." Then, as she saw the look of
disappointment in his face, she added coquettishly,
" But Madge and I are going to the
Opera Comique to-night. You can come there
if you like."

Thank you. I shall surely come," said Lord
Arthur, departing with his cup.

VOL. I. . H

CHAPTER VI.

Vincent Graham, whose counsel as to the advisability
of his paying his court to Madge Tyrrelll
we have just seen Laurence Farquhar decide
upon asking, was one of the best-known menin
Paris, but ivlio he was exactly, nobody knew.
He was an Englishman, that was beyond
doubt ; but he hated England, and never went
there but when private business compelled him.
He moved in the best society, and always had
done so, — ever since, indeed, his face had first
become familiar on the Boulevards, and that
was now goii^g on for thirty years ; but nothing-was
knoAvn about his birth or condition of fortune.
Humour had, indeed, at one time asserted
that he was the natural son of an English
nobleman, who allowed him some few hundreds
a-year to keep out of England; but that was
unlikely, for he was on terms of intimacy withall

the leading members of an aristocracy, and
they were, apparently, as much in the dark regarding
his birth and family as others. He was
old and ugly now ; but some people, who could
remember him years back, said that in the old
days, when the famous Marquis of Hertford,
and his no less famous but more lovable brother,
Lord Henry Seymour, had made the French
capital ring with their splendid eccentricities,
and when there used to be a crowd around Tor-tone's
to see the handsome young Alfred d'Orsay
dash up in his Tilbury and throw his reins to
his tiger, Graham had been rather good-looking,
and certainly a great dandy. He had been one
of the original members of the Jockey Club,
when that celebrated coterie " hung out " far up
the Boulevard des Italiens, and, at the time we
now first make his acquaintance, had shared in
the vices of at least three generations. It was
he the late Duke of Hamilton was impatiently
waiting for on that fatal night when he met
with the accident which caused his death ; and
had *' old " Graham, as he was even then called,
not been detained by a game of piquet at the
Jockey, the Premier Duke of Scotland would not
have fallen down-stairs at the Maison Donee.

He was evidently not rich, for lie hated walking,
and did not keep a carriage ; but he had
collected together a mass of erotic monstrosities,
both in the way of books, engravings, ohjets
d/arty and, in fact, all kinds of bibelots. His
apartment over Morton's was small, but furnished
with artistic taste. But, rich or not
rich, he had evidently wasted the bulk of his
fortune in his special treasures ; for he was
never known to have any more ready money
than was necessary for his nightly dinner at
the Maison Donee. At that famous cabaret
on the very stroke of eight, always at the same
table — the first to the right on the ground floor,
in the window as you enter from the Boulevard
every night when he was not invited out to
dine, winter or summer — for he never left Paris
for more than a week in August — Vincent
Graham was to be found. The solar cannon in
the gardens of the Palais Royal was not more
exactly punctual in announcing mid-day than
was 'told" Graham in taking his seat at that
table ; and thus any one, man or woman, young
or old, who sought information concerning anything
connected in any way with the shafts of
Cupid, might be sure to find him.

Of course, every one in the restaurant knew
him fromVerdier, the proprietor, who would every
evening greet him on his arrival, and inquire
how he had liked his dinner on his departure ;
and Joseph, the famous head waiter and friendly
rival of the magnificent Ernest of the Cafe Anglais
opposite, who would descend from the
cabinets 'particuliers above to make similar inquiries,
to Casimir, the prince of cooks. He was,
as it were, one of the family ; and any boy in
the Guards or Household Cavalry, who might
wish to discover to what supreme pitch of excellence
French cooking in its most artistic and
delicate development can reach, had only to
leave it to Graham to have a confidential chat
with Casimir at two o'clock under a certain tree
on the Boulevards, where that great chefwsiS at
that hour always to be found taking a breath
of fresh air, and then to have another chat
with the proprietor and the venerable — for he
was born old — Joseph, to be certain that the
repast ordered would be a thing of joy for ever.
Of course, Laurence Farquhar knew perfectly
well where to find the old gourmet ; and of
course, when he strolled into the Maison Donee
at five minutes past eight, there was old Graham

at his table preparing to devour a dozen Ostend
oysters.

'' Ha ! lia 1 Farquhar ; so you are come to dine
with me, have you ? " said this high priest of
apolausticism. This was an old joke of his, for
he had never been known to pay for another
man's dinner in his life.

*' I'll dine at your table if you'll let me," replied
Laurence, giving his coat, hat, and stick
to the waiter, who was all bows and smiles on
seeing that this aristocratic-looking young Englishman
was a friend of *' Monsieur Gram." " I
want to ask your advice about something."
And he seated himself, opened his napkin, and
gave his curls an encouraging caress with his
hand.

Quite right, my boy," growled Graham,
sucking down his oyster with great gusto.
'' Bad luck at the club, I suppose 1 I couldn't
get there this afternoon."

No ; I haven't been playing to-day. I only
dropped in there for a moment on my way here."

Any one there ? "

Nobody much. There's going to be something
rather hot on there to-night, though, I
believe."

What ? "

Dourak is coming to try his hand at bezique."

Capital ! " and the old sinner grinned. " I
wouldn't miss it for anything. I suppose you'll
play ? " he added, slyly. The two men exchanged
a glance of intelligence.

Fathers' replied Laurence, laughing. " I
think I can beat Dourak at that game."

'* And at many others, too, my dear boy, I
don't doubt."

What shall I have to eat ? " asked Laurence,
looking from Graham to the waiter, and from
the waiter to Graham.

'' These oysters are not bad."

Have you ordered much of a dinner *? "

I have ordered what I wanted," replied
Graham dryly, rather disgusted that this man,
who was young enough to be his grandchild,
should know so little of his exquisite taste in
dining as to imagine for a moment that he
could have ordered what could be stigmatised
as " much of a dinner."

All right — keep your temper," said Laurence,
seeing the old scoundrel's irritation. Then
turning to the waiter — "I'll have exactly the
same dinner as M. Graham."

'' And will Monsieur Lave the same wine ? "
asked the servant, obsequiously.

'soil no," interrupted Graham, "you won't
like the wine Fve ordered. You boys of to-day
can't get on without champagne, and I never
touch it at dinner when I dine alone. Ce
n'est pas un vin ; ce nest qu'un boisson."

What have you ordered '? "

"Never mind — order your own drink."

Laurence looked inquiringly at the waiter,
who looked at Graham and then ventured to
murmur, " M. Gram has only ordered half a
bottle of chablis mouton and a bottle of
chateau margaux."

'' Capital ! that will suit me down to the
ground. See that everything is hot, and don't
keep me waiting."

'' I should think you were talking to a groom,"
mumbled old Graham, who was now gulping
down his route au pot, and making a dreadful
noise over it.

'' We don't pretend to have the manners now,
old chap, that you had when you were young,"
said Laurence, sarcastically.

It's a pity."

It wouldn't pay now."

'what do you want to ask me about ? '*

It's about a woman."

^' Well ? In some mess, I suppose."

No, not exactly. But I don't want to get
into one."

'' Of course not. Women are very dangerous
animals. Who is this woman ? Do I know
her ? "

Slightly, I think."

'' A lady ? "

'' Oh yes ; that is, not by birth."

What the devil do you mean, Farquhar ? "

Laurence laughed, and unfolded his tale
with so much minuteness (Graham only interrupting
him from time to time with some
very pertinent question), describing his feelings
from the day on which he first saw
Madge in the Meredithss' carriage at the Bois,
and omitting nothing till he came down to
the episode of the tickets and verses which
we know about, that dinner was over before
he had done.

'' The truth of it is," he said in conclusion,
'' I'm in a hole and don't know what to do.
She attracts me more than any girl I think I
ever saw. I know you'd advise me to chuck it

all up and go away — any sensible man would —
and I suppose I shall have to make up my mind
to go. But the whole thing is a frightful bore,
and if you should see any way out of it, my
dear old boy, and would tell me, you may
count on my eternal gratitude ! "

It was one of Graham's many peculiarities
that he never smoked cigars or cigarettes, —
only a pipe ; and no matter where he went,
where people smoked at all, they had to put up
with his arose meerschaum. He had had some
trouble about this once at the Travellers' Club
in London, but he had stuck to his guns, or
rather his pipe, and had eventually won the
day. He now, before replying to Laurence,
who, having at length completed his story and
his dinner, was fortifying himself with fine
champagne, pulled out his pipe, leisurely filled
it, grunting now and then, lit it, and began
puffing out volumes of smoke, much to the
horror and disgust of two Cockney solicitors
who had ordered a most sumptuous repast at
the adjoining table, and who were quite convinced
they were ** doing the dog" by dining
at the "Maison Dory," but who nevertheless
thought it the '^ correct " thing, and lent them

importance, to find fault with everything, as if
the fodder provided for them in Bloomsbury
had for ever unfitted their palate for more
civilised food.

*' Well, now, about your business, Farquhar,"
he at length said slowly and thoughtfully, after
a pause, during which he had been puffing at
his pipe like a steam-engine. " Decidedly the
best thing for you to do is to go away at
once."

I thought you'd say so," exclaimed Laurence,
greatly disappointed.

Wait a minute : go away, and before sou
go away write a letter."

What for ? I hate writing letters, they
are so dangerous."

That's a very common and boyish mistake.
Letters are the most valuable things in the
world. I never destroy one. I think, Farquhar,
I can help you in this matter."

"Can you?" exclaimed Laurence. *' You
dear old scoundrel I I knew you could ! "

"Yes, listen to me. I know Meredith, of
course, very well indeed ; knew him when he
was nobody, and old Mme. de Pimbeche used to
be his banker. That's years ago now. Of

course you know poor Mornyy took the man up
and made him."

I know all about it' said Laurence.
The man ought to have been hanged fifty
times, they say'

*' That I know nothing about. I daresay we
all of us deserve hanging, more or less. But,
as I said just now, I know the man very welland
he speaks to me more openly than to anyone
else. His wife used to be the most beautiful
woman, but not my style. I hate thin
women, and she was always like a toothpick "
and the old reprobate paused, musing for a
moment.

Well," said Laurence, impatiently. " What
were you going to say *? "

Ah, yes ! Well, I happen to know Meredith
wants to marry off this governess, or
whatever she is, of his, to some old fool he has
got over from England on purpose."

Colonel Anstruther ? was that the name ? "

"Yes, that's the man. I used to know his
mother. She was the most worthy woman,
and used to be very strong on the subject of
reclaiming fallen women. That, indeed, is what
first brought us together ! "

'' That's really too good ! " laughed Laurence.
'' You helped her, I suppose."

Yes. You see, I have unfortunately known
so many women of that class in my time, that
I was able to be of some real assistance to
her."

Your co-operation must have been invaluable."


It was. We worked wonders together, and
then the police locked the woman up for making
a row at Mabille's."

What brought her there ? " '

"Exclaiming, of course — the old game. I
told her lots of times to avoid those places, and
that I could bring her all the fallen women she
could possibly take care of, but the woman
would not listen to me, and so she got into
trouble. Cowley had to go himself and bail
her out. It made an absurd noise, and so I
dropped her'' Here again he relapsed into a
fit of musing.

*' Well," said Laurence ; " what were you
going to say about this girl ? "

Oh, ah, yes. Well, Meredith has got this
man over from England on purpose to marry
her. Of course, he's sure to do it if Meredith

makes up his mind lie shall ; for the man must
be a fool, like his mother. In fact, I think I
have heard he goes in for a little reclaiming
himself. Does he, do you know ? "

I believe he does," assented Farquhar.

Ah, so much the better ! We need that
kind of man very much in Paris. There's a
splendid field open for them here." And again
he fell a-musing.

'' Well ? "

Well, what I advise is this. Go away now,
but write some passionate kind of trash to the
girl — they tell me you're very good at that
kind of thing ; and, by the way, now I think of
it, I shall want you to do something for me in
that line presently."

*' With pleasure."

Write her that you can never love any one
else, but that as you are both too poor to
marry, you've gone away ; that you can never
forget her, but that she must try and forget you,
all that kind of thing — you know what I
mean i

*' Perfectly : go on."

^' That will be sure to bring an answer from
her. It's not worth while going too fur until

you have an absolute assurance in writing that
she cares for you. Telling her you love her,
but are too poor to marry her, does not in anyway
compromise you ; and if you get a favourable
answer, let me know, and I will find out
exactly what Meredith can and will do for her.
If he intends giving her a handsome dot, it
might be worth your while marrying her."

'^ But he wouldn't under any circumstances
like her to marry me," said Laurence. *' He
knows I haven't got a penny, and then he's got
this gallant Colonel over on purpose."

Graham nodded his head wisely. " Leave
that to me. If the girl cares for you, and
Meredith is going to give her a handsome dot,
I can manage it for you. I know how to work
the man. I know somebody who can twist
him round their finger, — find out all about the
dot, and make him do as he's told."

"And will you really do this for me,
Graham ? "

'^ I will," assented Graham. '* Of course, my
friend can't work for nothing, and we must
settle accounts before you are married ; for,
remember, it's easier to break those things than
make them, and my friend will stop at nothing

if she thinks you are not going to be liberal.
But I will introduce her to you when were
found out how the land lies, and you can make
your own terms. Of course, I want nothing
myself" And the old reprobate grinned.

*' Of course not," assented Laurence, with a
meaning smile. ''If you do that for me, I
shan't forget it. Thank you awfully, Graham.
Now, what can I do for you "? "

Oh, ah, yes, I forgot. You write verses,
do you not ? "

Yes ; rather good ones too."

"Very well. I've got hold of a splendid
American widow. I have not seen such a neck
and shoulders since the poor Duchesse d'Istrie's,
and that's many years ago ; " and again he
began musing.

What about the shoulders ? You want some
verses on them ? "

Oh no, not on the shoulders. The shoulders
will come in time. She has a pot of money, I
know, and it might be as well for me to settle
down perhaps ! "

Laurence smiled: the idea of Graham "settling
down " was too absurd.

This woman, unfortunately, is very romantic.

She writes verses herself, I believe,
for the * New York Mirror ' or some such rag.
She told me the name, and read me some of
them, but I forget all about it now. Of
course romance and poetry have never been
my forte, and I want just to say something
nice to her in verse that will let her understand
how much I admire her. Can you do it 1"

Of course, easily. What sort of thing do
you want ? ''

Something pretty, and at the same time
passionate and loving. Couldn't you say something
about roses, for instance ? I have always
found women of her class like talking about
flowers."

Roses are very useful," assented Laurence ;
and then taking a pencil, he wrote on the back

of his bill —

Together ']

One rose between us two,
The blossom all for you,

The thorn for me.
One tendril stem and flower,
Let us through sun and shower

United be ! "

*' How will that do ? '' he said, pushing the
paper over to his old friend.

Graham read the lines, smiled, nodded, folded
VOL. I. I

up the paper, and put it in his waistcoat-pocket.
*' Very good indeed — just the thing. I'll send
them oft' tomorrow. I suppose I must send
some flowers with these lines, or it will look
queer 1 "

You need only send one rose — a symbol, as
it were. It will be much less canal than to
bombard the woman with a lot of flowers."

"And much cheaper too," assented Graham,
rising. " And now I am ofi". I suppose you're
going too ? "

*' Yes. ril take you on to the club in a cab
if you like. It's too cold to go anywhere, and I
want to prepare for the fray."

What time is Dourak supposed to becoming
'? "

They've got something on at his Embassy,
I believe ; he's coming on after that."

'' How much is he supposed to drop to-night,
do you know ? "

Laurence laughed. '' Well, I believe we're
supposed to make it rather hot for him to-night.
Crawford takes him on at ecartc, and I'm supposed
to be the bezique man. I daresay before
we've done it may run into six or seven thousand
pounds."

That's nothing for Dourak. I'm sure I wish
you every success. I'm sorry to say I never
could play cards myself — not in that way, I
mean. Thank you." Laurence helped the old
man on with his greatcoat, and then got into
his own with the assistance of the waiter. " Now
give me your arm, Farquhar. I'm not so young
as I used to be." And so the two got into a
sapin and drove off to the Jockey.

That night's work at bezique was so profitable
to Laurence Farquhar, that he netted for his
share of the spoil nearly two thousand pounds ;
and when he got home to his hotel, instead of
going to bed, he contented himself with a cold
shower - bath, ordered his servant to pack his
things, take them to the Northern Station, and
meet him there, to go by the morning train to
London. Then having paid his bill, he sat down
and wrote the following : —

Hotel Wagram, February 9, 186—.

"My dear Miss Tyrrel, — Long ere these
lines reach you I shall be far from Paris. I am
going I know not and I care not where — anywhere
to try and forget my utter misery ; and
it is only because I know that we shall never

meet again that I tell you now what you must
have known all along — that I love you with all
the whole strength of my heart and soul, — love
you as I think woman never before was loved
by man, — love you so that I am ready to make
the sacrifice of my life for your happiness, as
indeed I am now doing by leaving you for ever.
You are too young and inexperienced to understand
all this now, but the time will come when
you will understand the magnitude of the sacrifice
that I am now making. My life has been
a lonely and unhappy one ; and although you
have always seen me flippant and gay in society,
you little know what a miserable and unhappy
wretch I am — miserable and unhappy before I
met you, for I was discontented with myself,
and knew that I was leading a useless and idle
life while I should have been working and striving
to be of some use to my fellow-beings, —
miserable and unhappy while I was with you,
for you revealed to me that heaven which I
might have aspired to if I had not wasted my
time and such talents as God has given me, —
miserable and unhappy for evermore, for I shall
be away from you. I am poor, Madgy (you
will let me call you Madgy now, won't you, oh

my darling ! now that we shall never meet
again ?), miserably poor, and the world you and
1 live in never forgives poverty. If I had cared
to stoop to such baseness as marrying for money,
I could have been rich long ago ; but I thank
God, now that I have seen you, that I had the
courage to resist that temptation. For now, my
own darling, I shall have the memory of you
all to myself in my heart for evermore. You
cannot deprive me of that. I do not complain ;
I have brought this punishment on my own
head by my idleness and selfishness. If I had
worked, I could have made perhaps a name for
myself that would have been a worthy offering
to you ; but as it is, I must go my own lonely
way to my death. Marriage is not made for
men like me."

(" I should think not, by Jove I unless there
is money to be made by it," he muttered, ashe
lit a cigarette.)

If you had been rich, I could not have given
you reason to suspect that, penniless as I am, I
was seeking your fortune. So even then we
could not have married. But you are poor too,
my darling, and the result must be the same,
for I cannot be so selfish as to seek to link your

lot to mine. I am not so cruel as to beg you to
ask your heart if you could ever have learnt to
love me. Forget me, that is all I ask. You
are a mere child 3^ct, and have all your life before
you. God grant that it may be full of
sunshine ! "

And so now, my darling, good-bye ; for ever
and ever and ever, good-bye, and God bless you !
Foro-et me. Laurence Farquhar''

That's the very thing," he said to himself,
with a smile, when he had read over this precious
epistle. "Just enough bad grammar to show
the presence of great emotion, and a sufficient
amount of God and despair in it to be palatable
to a young girl. She won't, of course, believe
all of it, but it will flatter and interest her."

He then closed, sealed, and directed the letter,
gave orders to have it taken to the Eue Royale
not earlier than mid-day, jumped into fiacre,
and rattled off" to the Northern Station en route
for London.

CHAPTER Iii.

While Laurence Farquhar was busy pitting
his experience and skill against the stupidity
and obstinacy of Prince Dourak at the apparently
simple game of bezique at the Jockey
Club, the two young ladies in the Rue Royale
were having a long and serious conversation,
some part of which it will be our duty hereto
chronicle.

What was formerly the nursery had now
been turned into a kind of sitting-room for
the use of Muriel and Madge (whose bedrooms
on either side opened into it), and in this room,
whenever the ladies had gone — as they often
did — to the theatre, opera, or what not, a
bright fire was always kept burning, and a
tea-kettle boiling, that warmth and refreshment
might greet them on their return. By
this blazing fire, wrapped in pretty dressing-gowns,

and their hair done up for the night,
sat Madge and Muriel, tea-cup in hand, having
a more serious talk than any they had indulged
in since the first terrible days succeeding the
death of little Paul.

No," repeated Madge, clasping her arms
around her knee, and looking dreamily into the
fire — " I don't think, Mu-mihi, that I would sell
myself for money to any man living, and I
think any girl who does so is most base ; but
then, again, one must have money to live, and
you must remember, darling, that I have none."

'' Nonsense, Madgy ; you know you will have
just as much as me."

I know nothing of the kind. I know that
Uncle Bill has already done too much for me,
and that if anything were to happen to him
tomorrow, 1 should have to look out for myself."


"Anything happen to papal Why, what
dreadful things you're saying to-night, Madge ;
what in the world could ever happen to
papa J

*ewe must all die some day, I suppose."

'^ What a dreadful girl you are, Madge,"
exclaimed Muriel, rising and putting her teacup

on the table. '* The idea of talking of poor
papa's death in that way ! You quite frighten
me ! What in the world is the matter with
you to-night '? "

Nothing, darling ; but you must remember
that I am one year older than you are,
and "

What's one year ? " interrupted Muriel,
laughing.

*' A year is a very long time, Muriel — a very,
very long time."

'* And so because you are one year older than
me, and you think poor papa is going to die,
you want to marry this meek, old, one-legged
Colonel?"

"I never said I wanted to marry him,
Muriel."

But you said just now that if he should offer
himself, you would think of it."

I did ; but that's not the same thing."

And then you say you think a girl is base
who sells herself for money. What would you
be doing if you married Colonel Anstruther but
selling yourself for money, as you say you don't
want to marry him ? "

He has no money — not now, at least."

But you know he will have — you told me
so yourself; and I remember you said you
wouldn't marry him till his father was dead,
and he had got his money. You are really
a dreadfully hard, worldly girl, Madge, to
talk about everybody dying in that cold
way 1

That was all said in fun, Muriel. If I
married the man at all, I should marry him
tomorrow. '^

To-morrow ! "

'' You know what I mean*'

Well, then, and what's to become of me ? "
and Muriel crept up to her friend, and put
her arms around her neck, and kissed her.
Madge drew her down on to her lap, and
beo:an caressing; her as if she were a child.

Become of you, my beautiful Mu-mihi ?
Why, you'll marry some great man, have a
lot of diamonds and children, and forget all
about your poor little friend Madgy ! "

Never ! "

** Yes, you will ; you'll marry Arthur ! "

Arthur isn't a great man ; and besides, I
shan't marry him."

Not if he asks you?"

*' Certainly not if he doesn't ! " laughed Miss
Meredith.

'' But if he does ? "

"No."

"Yes, you will."

No, I shan't, I tell you ; and then, besides,
Arthur is not such a fool as to think of
me.

I think he thinks a great deal about you."

That's only your fun, Mrs Anstruther."

Madge laughed.

We shall see," she said. " If you'd seen the
way he sat worshipping the back of your head
at the Opera Comique to-night, you'd have
thought he was thinking a great deal about
you!"

Arthur would worship the back of any one's
head," exclaimed Muriel, turning crimson.

*' Well, he certainly worshipped yours tonight.
It would be a splendid match for you,
Mil."

I don't see that at all. Arthur is nobody
in particular — only a good-natured, good-looking
boy."

He's twenty-eight, and the son of a duke,
and one of the richest dukes in England."

o

But he's only the second son."

But you always will forget, Muriel, that
people may die 1 "

There you are again, Madge. Dying, dying,
dying — every one is dying according to you !
You ought to marry the director of the Pompes
Funebres."

I shouldn't mind, if he was rich and good-looking."


You're the most mercenary heartless girl that
ever lived ! " exclaimed Muriel, sitting up in her
friend's lap. *' I wonder if you ever cared for
anybody ? "

Madge kissed her tenderly. 'nobody but
you, darling." ij

Not even poor papa and mamma, then ? "

Madge coloured. " Oh, of course. Uncle
Bill and Aunt Laura ! That foes Without
saying."

'' And nobody else ? "

Nobody else. Why ? "

Because I thought "

Madge looked at her sharply. " Thought
what ? "

I thought you might, perhaps, have cared
for somebody else."

'' Who ^ "

^' Never mind, as long as you don't."

But who did you think I cared for ? "

I thought you liked Laurence Farquhar."

Madge turned very red, and then deathly
pale, but Muriel was stooping down to put on
her mille that had slipped off, and this display
of emotion escaped her.

You talk about being silly ! I think you're
the silliest girl in the world, Muriel."

Why ? Because I said I thought you liked
Laurence 1 Why, there would be nothing silly
in that."

*' It would be worse than silly were it true."

Why % "

Because Laurence Farquhar has no money
and no heart." She spoke in a cold, decided
way that quite astonished Muriel, who looked
up into her friend's face with surprise.

What do you know about his money or his
heart ? "

Every one knows he has no money, and any
fool can see he has no heart."

"You've evidently been examining him very
closely."

I never knew you such a tease as you are

to-night, Muriel ! " exclaimed Madge pettishly,
pushing her friend roughly off her lap and
rising. " It's time to q-q to bed."

To bed ! to bed ! to bed ! " exclaimed
Muriel, tragically remembering past performances
of '' Macbeth " with Mado;e. '' So it's not
true, then ? "

What ? "

That you care just a little bit for Laurence
? "

What evil angel prompted her to equivocate
and not frankly confess to Muriel the truth ?
What endless misery might have been averted
had she done so ! She might indeed have
avowed her secret had Muriel pressed her
seriously, but this flippancy grated on her
nerves, and she replied sharply —

"You're a greater fool than I thought,
Muriel ! "

That's civil, certainly, but it's no answer."

** Well, * no ' is an answer, I suppose," and she
shook her head impatiently.

*' Shake not thy gory locks at me, Mad gy ! "
exclaimed the younger girl, laughing. "AVliy,
you look as cross as a bear'*

You're enough to vex a saint, Muriel."

'* Why, I am not angry when you chaff me
about Arthur. Why should you be angry when
I chaff you about Laurence ? "

I wish you wouldn't call him Laurence."

*' Why, you call him Laurence yourself."

"I shan't any more. Tm certain it's not
right."

"But you call Arthur Arthur."

"That's a very different thing."

I don't see it. They neither of them are
our brothers, or" — she hesitated, and then continued
in a lower voice — " our lovers ! "

Not mine, certainly," said Madge ; " but
Arthur is a good boy, and would never take
advantage of our silliness, whereas Laurence
"

Well, what would Laurence do ? eat us up,
I suppose ? "

"Mr Farquhar is a very different kind of
man."

Yes ; he's brown, and Arthur is as fair asa
lily."

"There's more difference than that between
them ; but if you don't see it, I shan't take the
trouble to tell you. You can go on calling him
Laurence for ever if you like ; I know I shan't."

"You'll call the Colonel 'Jim ' when you marry
him, I suppose ? "

*' Qui lo sa f " laughed Madge ; and then the
girls embraced and separated for the night.

As a matter of fact, Colonel Anstruther had
found that afternoon, before leaving, an opportunity
of saying to Madge Tyrrell a few words
which had clearly indicated to her that she had
only to give him the very slightest encouragement
for him to offer her his hand ; nor was the
idea wholly unpleasing to her. This was her
first serious conquest, and should he lay his
heart at her feet, this would be her first offer of
marriage. To no girl can such an event be
without interest and importance, nor in most
cases is it unmixed with a pleasing feeling of
flattered vanity, as in the present instance.

Although it had suited Madge to hold him
up to ridicule, she was not without having a
suspicion that in many ways Colonel Anstruther
was one of the most distinguished men that had
ever been in her presence. She had heard Lady
Cowley and others speak of him as a man of
whom his sovereign and country were proud;
and she had noted the marked respect with
which even so impassive an individual as Lord

Arthur Pendragon treated him on all occasions,
and that a man so spoken of and so treated
should be the first to bow the knee before her
was in itself no unsatisfactory triumph. That
he was a man of strikingly handsome manly
beauty would have been allowed by most ; that
he was kind, gentle, innocent, and tender as a
child, was admitted by all ; and that this glorious,
although time, battle, and storm-beaten
combination of heroism and gentleness, of valour
and simplicity, might be hers whenever she
should so please, was to Madge, after the few
words said that afternoon, no longer doubtful.
Should she accept him or not ? That was the
only question left to answer. But for one reason,
and one only, she would not have hesitated
for a moment — nay, would have thought herself
the luckiest girl in the world to have secured a
prize of so great and undoubted value, and one
so universally highly appreciated by the world
at large. Her peculiar experience and training
had made Madge Tyrrell a woman of the world
before her time, and she did not hide from herself
for one moment the fact that for her, the
penniless daughter of a groom, brought up with
the extravagant tastes of a duchess, to find a

VOL. I. K

man of honour and good social position ready to
give her his heart and name would indeed be no
easy task.

None of the many Frenchmen and foreigners
whom she knew would, of course, look at her
without a dot — that is, with a view to matrimony
— and she had long since told herself that
her sole and only chance of marriage was towed
one of her fellow-countrymen. But here
again the difficulty was great, for the few
Englishmen who found their way to the saloons
of the Meredithss were either aged celebrities
whose faculties for the making of love had been
chilled by their approach to Westminster Abbey
or St Paul's, or dashing youths of patrician
blood who were beginning life well provided
with every advantage that youth, wealth, and
rank can give, and who therefore could hardly
be expected to be willing to connect their
budding and brilliant fortunes with the ignoble
lot of a groom's daughter. Indeed, that Colonel
Anstruther had been specially brought over from
England and provided for her by Sir William,
she more than suspected ; for the Colonel's
sudden arrival in Paris and introduction to the
family circle in the Rue Royale had succeeded

only by a few days a long and serious interview
she had had with Sir William, in which he had
very plainly told her she must marry money,
and further announced to her that he was about
to make it his business to find a husband suitable
for her, adding, with a smile and a caress,
that he thought he had in his mind's eye the
very man.

But for one reason, Madge told herself, the
idea of this marriage with so good a man, and
one so easy to manage, and the independence
and social position such a marriage brought with
it, would have filled her soul with joy ; for the
fact which had occurred to her from the beginning,
that as Lady Anstruther she would be
millions of miles higher in the social scale than
poor Lady Meredith, was in itself so sweet to
her, that it would easily have counterbalanced
any drawbacks, had such existed, and more than
compensated for an ordinary sacrifice. But for
one reason — and that reason, of course, was that
she had been weak enough to fall wildly in love
with Laurence Farquhar. How this had come
about she hardly knew.

Arthur Pendragon had brought him to the
house only three or four months before, and

although he had been there every day since,
and indeed been the life of the ball given by
Lady Meredith on Christmas Eve — on which
occasion he had fairly bewildered Madge with
kisses under the mistletoe — he had never given
her any special reason to imagine that she occupied
his thoughts, and much less his heart, more
than Miss Muriel. His half-teasing, half-petting
manner had been the same to both, and he had
never sought the secret interviews, the long
walks together, or indulged in any of those
lover's tricks, such as the furtively delivered
letter, or the no less furtively acquired pocket-handkerchief,
or flower, or glove, which Madge
had read so much about in all the novels, and
which she firmly believed to be inseparable
accidents of the amorous state. And yet, although
his manner to her had been apparently
the same as to Muriel, Madge knew in her
heart that there had been a difference. We
have said that her nature was coarse, but
it was also passionate ; and the admiration,
leavened with a much warmer feeling, with
which she had inspired Laurence Farquhar was
not without having had a very appreciable effect
upon his attitude towards her, although he had

not unsuccessfully striven to so play his part that
his sentiments could be suspected by her alone.
It might have been merely by a hand pressure,
or a glance, or a tone, or a mere word ; but
be it as it may, the secret had been told her, and
she felt sure that Laurence Farquhar looked upon
her with much warmer feelings of regard than
he did upon Muriel. And this precious secret
once discovered, of course she had given up her
heart to him — given it up at first almost unconsciously,
but as naturally as flowers open and
expand beneath the warming rays of the sun.
She never stopped to ask herself whether or no
he loved her, and whether this tender difference
of manner, which her eyes alone had detected
as marking his attitude towards her, indicated
more than a mere passing feeling of pleasure
at being in her society. Madge, as we have
said before when speaking of her childhood,
was not, like Muriel, given to self-examination
and mental analysis. In all her affairs of life,
so far, she had listened merely to two voices
—"I like it" and "I don't like it'— and the
thought never for one moment entered her mind
to dissect her feelings, lay bare their cause, and
trace out their probable consequences.

Laurence Farquhar was to her simply the
most beautiful and fascinating man that had
ever come across her path, and this man had
in her heart been transformed into a god on
the day when she first discovered that she had
awakened some tender emotion — no matter how
slight — in his. But although she had at first
given up her heart wholly, and without reservation,
she had had time for reflection since ;
and without indulging in any complex mental
analysis, it was not long before she came to
the obvious conclusion that this love was folly,
and could only beget trouble. He was penniless,
extravagant, ambitious, and selfish : these
were all facts very well known to her, and these
facts were wholly incompatible with the idea of
any possibility of his uniting his fortunes to hers
by offering her his hand.

He had told her over and over again, in a
laughing way, that all he cared for in life was
money, and she knew that he, in so speaking,
spoke the truth ; but then, even while enunciating
these hard mercenary principles, a tender
and caressing light would come into his eyes,
which would tempt her to half believe that
that coveted money once possessed, his heart

would still remain unsatisfied until it had
absorbed that love which her own was dying
to outpour.

The conviction which, on the merest casual
reflection, her mind and common-sense had
arrived at, that under existing circumstances
marriage between herself and Laurence was
impossible, had not in any way checked the
current of her passion ; for it must be borne
in mind that breeding she had none, and that
the moral education afforded to her under the
roof tree of the Meredithss had all gone to teach
her to concentrate her forces more for the avoidance
of the appearance of evil than to avoid
evil itself. She saw men and women, and read
of men and women, every day who loved each
other passionately, and yet who could not
marry : why, therefore, should not she and
Laurence be as these ? Had he asked her, she
would gladly have fled with him, throwing her
honour to the winds, trampling under foot her
future, her youth, her life, and leaving all,
even Muriel, without the least compunction or
regret. But she felt sure he would not ask
her to take so bold a step, and this passion
must go on smouldering as it had been doing

for the past three months or more, until some
accident should occur to quench it, or to enable
it to burst out into a strength of flame.

What would be the end of it all 'i Madge
would ask herself, wearily. If Laurence would
only speak, matters would be better; some clear
understanding might be come to, and they might
find some way out of the difficulty by taking
counsel together. She might find some money,
or perhaps indicate to him some way in which
he might make some money ; or, lastly, she
might be able to induce him to cast all considerations
about money to the winds, and to
content himself with taking her, life, soul, and
body. But he had not, so far, spoken — that is,
not in words ; and the situation thus became
from day to day less bearable, especially as, of
course, Madge had to spare no pains to hide the
fact that she was madly in love with a man
who could not, or would not, marry her, not
only from the outer world and the Meredithss,
but from Muriel herself, who first of all could
not have understood, and then, when she had
been brought to understand, would surely have
strongly disapproved.

What Madge loosed for most of all was not

SO much that all the difficulties in the path of
her love might disappear, but that she might
be able to co-operate with him she loved in
endeavouring to overcome them.

It was while she was in this frame of mind
that the extraordinary epistle which Farquhar
had hastily composed before leaving Paris
reached her. It did not deceive her for a
moment : she saw through it at once, and far
from causing her pain, — or at least more thana
passing pang at the thought that weeks, and
perhaps months, might elapse before she should
be able to gaze upon his beloved face again, —
this precious document inspired her with great
joy, for now at length she held in her hand Ie
absolute proof of his love, and this letter formed
as it were the foundation of a compact or
partnership between them. She never thought
of answering it. She knew she was penniless,
and that Farquhar had nothing. He loved her ;
that was enough. She would marry money,
and then she might help him.

She immediately decided to marry Colonel
Anstruther, for it was only by the independence
that such a union would bring to her that she
could find the means of reaching and being of

service to lier beloved Laurence. So great was
Ler delight at the interruption of this inactivity
which was killing her, and at the thought that
she was now at length able to set forth on her
pilgrimage to a definite goal, that she found no
place in her heart to harbour any remorse for
the great act of treachery she was about to be
guilty of, in giving her hand to her elderly
adorer. It was a mariage de raison : such
things were done every day — in fact, even had
she never seen Laurence Farquhar, it would
have been impossible for her, or at least so
she told herself, to have contracted any other
kind of matrimonial alliance. As it was, she
could now at once better herself, make Colonel
Anstruther happy, and no doubt be of service to
the only man she loved.

It is probable that in coming to this decision
she had formulated in her mind no distinct intention
of ever forgetting in favour of Laurence
or another the sanctity of the marriage vow :
she indeed thought of nothing but the great
and all-important fact that she had now in
this terrible crisis of her life, when Laurence
had avowed his love for her, an opportunity
which might never offer itself again, of gaining

such liberty of action as would enable her to
benefit in some way, she stopped not to inquire
how, the only man she loved. As Lady
Anstruther (and the Colonel could not fail to inherit
soon, and the property was strictly entailed,
as she had found out), with twelve thousand a-
year, she could do much for her idol ; and this
thought so excited her imagination that she
would almost, in her exaltation, have spurned,
as a temptation to neglect her duty, any suggestion
that she was doing a dastardly and
damning act in accepting the Colonel's name
and fortune. But no such suggestion was of
course made to her, and ere ten days had
elapsed from the time of Laurence's precipitate
departure, Madge was the affianced wife of the
Inkerman hero, much to the surprise of Muriel,
and to the delight of Sir William and Lady
Meredith.

To Muriel, indeed, this was a terrible and
sudden blow, for she had paid no real attention
to what Madge had said about her matrimonial
intentions, believing that her foster-sister only
spoke in jest ; but now that all was settled and
arranged, and that Madge was to be married
almost at once, — for Sir William, whose ever-increasing

financial difficulties had induced him
to spur on the eager Colonel, and Madge had
offered no resistance, — she felt as one lost.
What in the world would become of her in the
home about to be left desolate and empty by
the departure of her one and only friend and
companion ? she asked herself in blank despair.
Her father and mother she now saw less of than
ever, and on such rare occasions, for the most
part only at luncheon and dinner. When she
did see them, they appeared so preoccupied and
out of sorts, that she could hardly look upon
the probability of being forced to give vent to
her love of sympathy in that quarter with any
degree of pleasure. Then, again, had Madge
been about to marry a Frenchman and live in
Paris, this catastrophe — for Muriel looked upon
the approaching nuptials in the light of an event
of ill omen — would not have been so overwhelmingly
terrible, for then, at least, she might
have had her foster-sister within call, and have
still enjoyed her love and sympathy ; but it had
been, of course, decided that the Colonel, after
a brief honeymoon in Italy, should take his bride
to reside at the family seat in Kent, — and Kent
seemed to Muriel, who knew little or nothing

about England save London, about as far from
Paris and the Rue Royale as Timbuctoo.

Muriel had, moreover, very grave doubts in
her young and inexperienced mind as to the
advisability of the step about to be taken ; and
notwithstanding all that her father and mother,
and, in fact, all their friends, said about this
being such a splendid match for Madge Tyrrell,
Muriel felt almost satisfied in her heart that
her friend was injuring her future happiness
by giving her hand to a man whom she did not
even pretend to love. For indeed Madge, in
their long chats in the nursery, was as frank to
her foster-sister as she dared be. She told her
very openly that she looked upon the Colonel
as a good and kind friend, and nothing more ;
but as she scornfully repudiated any suggestion
that her heart might be engaged elsewhere, and
spoke very plainly to Muriel about the perils
which would beset her future if — without any
fortune, and with only a few friends, of whose
protection she might be so easily deprived at
almost any moment, by any one of the thousand
and one accidents of life — she should not
take advantage of this unique opportunity of
settling down," as she called it, poor little

Muriel had to refrain from any active opposition,
and content herself with deploring the
hard destiny which compelled her one and only
friend to leave her, not in the full sunshine of
connubial bliss, but in the chill light of a mariage
de raison. It could not be helped, however
: the die was cast, and the only consolation
offered to heart-broken Muriel was the promise
that she should pass the coming summer with
Mrs Anstruther in England.

The necessary preparations were all pushed
forward rapidly, and before the end of April
the day dawned that saw Madge Tyrrell and
Colonel Anstruther standing before the altar in
the shabby little church in the Eue I'Aguesseau,
mutually swearing to love and honour one another
till death should release them from their
vow. Then came the breakfast and the departure,
and Muriel was left to sob her heart
out in the bony and unsympathetic arms of
old Agnes, who waxed eloquent in prophecies
of all sorts of horrors in store for a couple so
unsuited for one another both as regards age
and sympathies, and one merely united for the
common-sense reason of pounds, shillings, and
pence.

CHAPTER VIII.

The word loneliness would not adequately
express the miserably desolate condition of
Muriel after the departure of her only friend
and companion. A wedding is at the very best
a painful function for nearly all, save perhaps
the bride and bridegroom, entailing as it almost
invariably does the severance of many dear
and close ties which have wound around our
hearts like tendrils, and become part of our very
lives through habit ; but in this case the separation
was especially full of anguish, at least to
Muriel. We have seen how her childhood,
until the advent of Madge, had been lonely
and haunted with morbid doubts and fears,
and how a child's natural friends, the parents,
had in her case been little more than kindly
though indifferent acquaintances. In the old
days, however, she had had at least, even

though only at brief intervals, the companionship
of her baby brother whom she adored,
and around whom had grouped all her dreams
for the future. That, however, was all over
now, and nothing but a pretty marble cross in
the cemetery at St Germains was left to mark
the passage upon earth of one who, although so
frail himself, had been freighted with so rich
a cargo of ambitious dreams and tender care.
Then, again, in the days preceding the advent
of Madge she had but vaguely longed for love
and sympathy, not really knowing their sweet
power ; but now that she had tasted of these, —
that she had had a life and heart so intertwined
with her own during all the most receptive and
impressionable years of her childhood and early
girlhood — that these experiences and emotions
had been shared, — Muriel felt it harder to
walk alone than if she had never known the
sweet solace of sympathetic friendship. So the
first fortnight that succeeded the marriage of
Madge was full of anguish and despair to
Muriel, who shut herself up and refused to
receive any one. And it is not indeed unlikely
that this exaggerated grief might have brought
on a serious illness had not Lady Meredith, for

the first time in her life, just at this crisis began
to make some feeble attempts to treat her as a
daughter.

Acting probably on some hint given her by
Sir William (whose financial troubles grew
worse daily and almost hourly), and moreover
actuated perhaps a little by a natural pride
at possessing so attractive a daughter, whose
charms she, the mother, appeared only recently
to have discovered. Lady Meredith now called
upon Muriel to accompany her into society, and
to begin the game of life in earnest. There was
no formal presentation at Court — such, indeed,
under the circumstances, was not necessary,
according to the very lax laws of etiquette
which prevailed in the days of the Second
Empire ; but Lady Meredith gave it generally
to be understood that her daughter might be
considered as "out," and so a gracious and
entirely informal command to lunch with the
wife of Caesar at the Tuileries opened the ball,
and invitations came pouring in.

But the fever of excitement naturally caused
by these festivities, and the attendant splendour
of beautiful dresses and jewels, had but a very
temporarily beneficial effect upon Muriel, and

VOL. I. L

before she had been a month in society she
longed for the quietude of home, and looked
back with more poignant regret than ever to
the days of her sweet companionship with
Madge. This was perhaps partly owing to her
extreme youth, — for Muriel Meredith was in
years the youngest girl brought out into society
in Paris that season — and partly to the fact that
all this seemed to her as a twice-told tale.

Muriel had indeed in one sense been in
society all her life, and she found little or no
appreciable difference between the pleasures
offered to her, now that she was entitled to
enjoy all the privileges accruing to the fact of
being " out," and those which she had looked
upon with but an indifferent eye formerly when
she was a child. Very many of the young unmarried
men and women she met now were
the same individuals she had known for years,
the only difference being that a little while ago
they were amusing as little boys and little girls,
whereas now, as grown-up and important social
factors, they were not unfrequently dull and
pretentious. As for the really important personages
in society, and especially the young
married women, — and there had ever been a

goodly sprinkling of these at the little teas
presided over by herself and Madge, as we
have seen, — Muriel found them strangely cold
to her, now that she was almost on an equal
footing with them in society ; and being too
inexperienced to credit them with jealousy, she
ascribed it to some gaucherie on her part which
offended them. But although, after her first
month of social festivity, she would gladly have
retired and stayed quietly at home. Lady
Meredith would not listen to such a thing,
and so the ball was kept rolling — balls, dinners,
receptions, and concerts following each other in
bewilderingly quick succession.

Of her old friend Arthur Pen dragon, Muriel
had seen but little since the marriage of Madge,
for having met with an accident to his foot
while on a visit to his father the Duke, he had
been forced to remain in England, and Muriel
only heard of him now and then when someone
of his confreres at the Embassy brought her
some trivial message he had sent her.

And now a most annoying accident took
place. Colonel Anstruther's aged father fell
ill, and Madge was called upon to be the sick-nurse,
and dutiful and devoted daughter-in-law,

by the bedside of the dying man, whose
demise would give her the rank and fortune
she had married to obtain, so that for the present,
at all events, any chance of the two friends
meeting, as had been originally intended, was
of course quite out of the question. This was
a bitter disappointment to Muriel, but she endeavoured
to be patient and comfort herself
with Madge's promises, that when once she
should be Lady Anstruther and mistress of
Courthope Park, her Muriel should come and
stay with her on a visit so long that its
termination would be lost in the nicest of time.
So Muriel for the nonce had to content herself
with living on hope, and in venting her bad
temper engendered by disappointment on the
devoted heads of Worth, Pingat, and Virot.

One night, however, poor weary Muriel was
rewarded for her filial obedience in meeting lier
mother's wishes as regards going into society —
for at a ball given at the Austrian embassy her
delighted eyes lighted on the handsome and
familiar face of Laurence Farquhar, and the
mere sight of him brought back to her mind
a delightful flood of memories.

"Why, how you've grown. Miss Meredith!

you're quite a young lady now. But I hope
you're not ashamed to recognise an old friend ! "
'* No, indeed, Laurence — I mean Mr Farquhar !
I can't tell you how delighted I am to see you.
It seems quite like old times, does it not ? "

There is an isle called the Long Ago,
And my heart lies buried there ! "

quoted Laurence, romantically. He was, indeed,
most agreeably surprised at the astonishing
chancre for the better which he saw in Muriel.
A very few short months ago he had left her a
mere child, and now he found her in the full
delicate beauty of girlhood, verging on womanhood.
She was more beautiful than Mado^e, he
told himself — yes, a thousand times more beautiful,
for indeed Madge had had little real
beauty to recommend her — but not so piquant
and attractive to his hlase sensuality as the
odd, wayward, gipsy - looking girl had been.
The difference, in fact, was simply this : that
whereas Madge was a woman to be taken and
cherished during a few short months full of delicious
passion, and then put aside, Muriel was
the sort of girl a man might marry, and be
proud to see presiding at his dinner-table or
bending over his child's cradle.

What a pity there seems to be some doubt
about her fortune ! " he found himself mentally
soothing before he had been five minutes in Miss
Meredith's society.

Does your heart lie buried in the Long Ago,
Mr Farquhar 1 That's the question."

'•' Well, I thought so until I saw you ; but
now I am not so certain that it lies buried so
deep that it could not be dug up again if you
would help me."

Muriel laughed. " Well, I must think over
your proposition. Where have you been all
this time ? "

"Walking to and fro over the face of the
earth, like an old friend of mine."

You haven't come across Madge in your
wanderings, I suppose ? "

'^ No ; I haven't had such luck. Where is
she now 1 "

She's in England, taking care of Colonel
Anstruther's father, who is dying."

'^ Miss Madgy was certainly born under a
lucky star. Such well-conducted fathers-inlaw
are rarely to be met with. And what have you
done with Arthur Pendragon ? "

He's at home with his father. He was

thrown from his horse or something, and has
been laid up ; but they expect him back at the
Embassy very soon now."

'' Tant mieux, I want very much to see him.
He's an awful fellow for not answering letters.
I have not had a line from him since I left
Paris."

What made you run away so suddenly without
even coming to say good-bye ? "

*' Two reasons, and both good ones. I was to
be guillotined the following morning in Paris ;
and the prettiest girl in Europe, except yourself,
was longing to throw herself into my arms that
afternoon in London."

I hope it came off all right ! " •

You mustn't be too inquisitive, Miss Muriel.
Ah ! there's the ' Carmen ' at last. I asked
Waldteufel especially to play it for me. Shall
we enjoy it together ? "

With pleasure ! " and the next moment they
were waltzing.

And how is petit pere and Lady Meredith ? "
asked Laurence, when a pause came.

*' Oh, quite well. Mamma is here to-night ;
she will be delighted to see you. You must
come to see us without fail."

*' Of course I shall. I only arrived yesterday
morning. We must have long talks over old
times."

"Yes."

And you must not mind if I make love to
you a little bit. You see you are the only one
left now."

How about the girl in London, then ? "

"Ah, she proved a heartless jilt ! I look entirely
to you now, Miss Muriel, to pour balm on
my wounded heart's

Very well ; I will do what I can. But don't
fail to come."

Shall I come tomorrow 1 "

"Do."

Five o'clock tea as usual ? "

Well, if you'll promise to come at five, I'll
stay in for you. But we haven't had any of
those dissipations since Madge left."

"Poor Madge!"

Why do you say poor Madge 1 "

Showing such bad taste as to leave you."

Muriel laughed. " Oh, you must keep all that
till tomorrow. Have you brought any horses
with you this time ? "

No ; but I can always borrow one if there's
a chance of a ride with you."

Very well. Papa sold my two the other
day ; but I daresay I can manage, and the Bois
is divine just now."

Very well, then ; we'll indulge in equestrian
exercise together without fail, and I'll tell you
what Browning says about riding together."
And then their tete-ct-tete was interrupted, and
they parted.

That Meredith girl is vastly improved," said
Laurence that evening at the Jockey to old
Graham.

So they tell me. Quite one of the prettiest
girls in. Paris, they say." *

*rare you certain the father has gone a
mucker ? "

No, I am not certain. Some people say so ;
but then people tell such lies. I haven't seen
the man for some weeks. He's a great deal
absent from Paris now, I think."

"That looks queer."

Oh no. Meredith is an active man, and he
has got something very good on at Bordeaux, I
believe."

"Oh, indeed. How about the girl's dot do
you know ? "

Nothing at all ; but I daresay I can find
out. Why ? "

'' Well, if she's worth it, I might marry
her."

'* There's sure to be something left, for I
believe her mother's father left her a biggish
sum."

"Who was hew

*^ Some frightful creature from Liverpool.
Nobody ever saw him."

Well, I wish you'd find out and let me
know — that's a good fellow."

I will. I can know all about it tomorrow,
for I am lunching with a woman who knows all
about Meredith's private matters."

"Thanks, awfully. Will you dine with me
tomorrow night, then, at the Maison Dor^e, at
the usual time 1 You may have some news
then."

You seem to be in a great hurry. No impending
sword, I hope ? "

Oh no ; but I always believe in striking the
iron while it's hot."

Ah, so this iron is hot, is it ? "

Laurence laughed. " I think I could easily
make it so. The girl is lonely, I fancy, and
I'm going to console her. You know what that
trick leads to ? "

Capital ! But don't go too far till you hear
what I have learnt."

Oh no. I can easily afford to wait a few
days."

The following day, punctually at five, Farquhar
drove up to the Meredithss' and found
Muriel alone and waiting for him. The girl
took no pains to hide her delight at his arrival,
and had tea ready as in the olden times, although
she knew Laurence never indulged in that
harmless beverage. Farquhar was, of course,
greatly flattered by the very evident pleasure
which his presence caused this most attractive
young lady, and thought it was on the whole
lucky that Graham's report could be so speedily
delivered.

What a pity it is," he said, sadly, after they
had been laughing over many mutual recollections,
*' that you and I can't sit here for ever
just like this, chatting and amusing each other
and doing no harm to anybody ! "

But why can't we 1 " inquired Muriel.

Laurence sighed. "Because everything is
very different from what it was three months
ago."

Very different indeed for me, I know. Butin
what way do you mean ? "

Why, you were a little girl then, and now
you're a beautiful young woman."

Muriel coloured, and laughed. '' No," she
said, shaking her golden head, "I am the same
and you are the same. We remain steadfast,
true, and unchangeable — ' firm as the marble,
founded as the rock.' It's the others that
have changed."

*' You mean Masse ? "

I mean Mrs Anstruther."

'^ Mrs Fiddlestick ! Have you written to her
that you have seen me '? "

"No, not yet; but I shall tomorrow."

"Don't."

Muriel looked at him with surprise. 'why
not ? "

I ask you not to — that's all. I will explain
it all to you next week. It's only a joke I am
going to try and play on her, and you will
spoil it all by writing."

Muriel hesitated.

Well, you can do as you like, of course,
little Miss Goldenlieacl ; but if you do, I shan't
ever come to see you again — that's all."

Oh, I won't speak of you if you don't want
me to, of course ; only "

Does she ever speak of me in her letters 1 "
interrupted Farquhar.

Never ; except once, I think, I asked her if
she had met you or Arthur or anybody in
London, and she wrote that she had not."

Farquhar mused for a while, and then said
simply —

I'll tell you a secret, if you will promise, on
your word of honour, not to breathe a word of
it to any one."

Oh, I'll promise."

Not a word ever to any one. You will
swear 1 "

** Never a word to any one. I will swear —
what shall I swear by '? "

*' By the Emperor's moustache."

Very well — par les moustaches imperial
de Sa Majesty Empereur ! "

'' All right ; now I'll tell you. Do you know,

Muriel " Miss Meredith coloured slightly.

This was the first time since the old days that

he had called her by her Christian name, and
it sounded odd to her ears. Laurence felt
rather than saw this passing agitation, and
drew his chair a little nearer to the girl. " Do
you know," he continued — "and I think you
know me well enough not to think me a coxcomb
for saying so — that I have half an idea
I could have married Miss Madgy myself if Td
liked!"

Muriel was so perfectly dumfounded by the
cool, quiet, even gentle, audacity of the man,
that she could not reply at once.

"And what is more," resumed Laurence, "I
feel sure that you think so too. I defy you to
deny it."

She was caught here. She could not tell a
lie, and it was true, as we know, that she had
thought so.

I don't think it's fair to talk of a girl like
that," she said, coldly.

You mustn't be angry. Miss Muriel. You
and I are old friends, you know. You are the
best friend she has in the world, and I only
say this to you here now, where nobody can
hear us. I would tear my tongue out by the
root sooner than say it to any one else."

But why do you say it at all, even if you
are vain enough to think it ? "

*' Because it's a part of the past," he said, ina
low, sad, musical tone ; " and the past is, I
think, very dear to both of us, is it not ? "

"It is very dear to me."

"And very dear to me too. Dearer perhaps
than it ought to be — dearer perhaps than you
have any right to guess ! "

How well he knew how to puzzle a girl with
meaningless verbiage — entangle her so that she
might at any moment be forced to endeavour
to extricate herself by putting almost in his
mouth words he would otherwise hardly have
dared to speak. What he expected came, of
course.

*' I don't understand you," said Muriel.

Laurence sighed, and then smiled sadly,
No, I am glad you don't. But you asked
me why I said what I did, and what you know
to be true, and I must answer you, must I
not ? "

Not if you don't wish to. "

Yes, I must answer you, for you have
called me vain, and I am not vain ; but you
would have a right to think me vain if I did

not answer you. I told you what I did, because
it explains much of the past that is so
dear to both of us."

What does it explain, and what needs
explanation ? I don't understand you."

'' If I thought, as I just now said I thought,
that Miss Tyrrell would have accepted me if I
bad offered myself to her, Why did I not offer
myself? Does not that need explanation '? "

Laurence had a double motive in asking this
searching question, for not only he wanted to
get Muriel on to delicate ground, but he wanted
if possible to ascertain how much (if anything)
she knew about his letter to Madge.

I suppose you didn't care for her, or

else " and she hesitated. Laurence mistook

the cause of her hesitation, and leaned tenderly
towards her.

Or else — what ? " he murmured.

Muriel threw back her head, and laughed.
Well, as you're so frank I'll be the same. I
was going to say, or else because you were too
poor to marry her ! "

This was so entirely different from what
Laurence had expected to hear, that for a
second he was almost taken aback ; but he

recovered himself at once without allowing his
discomfiture to become apparent.

You are right ! " he said, with a weary sigh.
I knew you would see no further than that.
Thank God you see no further than that ! Yes,
you are partly right. Even if I had loved her,
I could not, beggar as I am, have married her.
Even if I had loved her ! " he repeated sadly.
He felt certain that this last remark of his
would show him how much Muriel might know.
She said nothing.

What a horrible thing money is, isn't it 1 "
he resumed, speaking now in his usual light,
trivial way.

'' I'm sorry to say I don't know much about
it," replied Muriel, smiling. " But you mustn't
think me rude for saying what I did just now.
You forced me to speak, you know."

Why, you said nothing rude, Miss Muriel.
Every one knows I am poor — penniless, as a
matter of fact. You only spoke the truth, and
the truth ought never to hurt any one," said
this professional liar.

I know I ought not to have said what I
did."

"Yes, you were quite right, on the contrary

VOL. I. M

that is, partly right. As I told you very
frankly just now, I think Miss Tyrrell might
not perhaps have refused me if I had offered
myself before the Colonel did, and you very
cleverly and rightly guessed that one of my
reasons for not offering myself was that I was
too poor. But that was only one of my reasons.
I am glad for your sake and for mine that you
did not guess the other. But now I must
go!"

So soon ? "

** Why, I have been here over an hour, and if
you are going to let me come every day as you
promised " — of course she had promised no such
thing, but she never thought of that — " I
mustn't wear out all your patience at one visit.
May I come to-morrow '? "

I shall always be delighted to see you. I
daresay mamma will be in tomorrow. Shall I
tell her you are coming at five ? ''

Yes, do. You arc not angry With me, are
you, Miss Muriel r'

Angry with you ? No ! Of course not !
Why should I be ? "

And do you think me vain, as you said you
did 1 " Muriel hesitated. Laurence burst out

into a joyous, boyish laugh. Things had taken
the very turn he wished. He always liked
closing an interview with a laugh or a smile ;
and his experiences of life had taught him that
sentimental exits are difficult and dangerous
things.

'' I see you do ! " he exclaimed, tossing back
his head in his old habitual manner. ** And as
we're so painfully frank this afternoon, I don't
mind confessing to you that you are not far
wrong 1 I believe I am the earnest coxcomb
living, vain enough to believe almost anything,
anything, in fact, but one thing — one thing
only, and to believe that would drive me mad
with joy — or grief — I don't know which 1 But
I must be off now. I shall hope to see Lady
Meredith tomorrow. Where is your father
now ? "

"Papa is at Bordeaux, but we expect him
back next week. You're a great favourite of
his, and he will be glad to see you again."

Don't add to my already overwhelming
weight of vanity, Miss Muriel ! And now goodbye,"
— and he stooped and kissed her hand and
departed, well satisfied with his afternoon's
performance.

Valentine tells me that the girl's dot is all
right' announced old Graham that evening at
dinner. " She says Meredith is in trouble for
the moment, and is realising all over the shop,
but that he will probably pull through if the
Emperor, and Persian, and all that lot, stick
up for him as they're bound to do ; but at all
events, Valentine says the girl's fortune is all
right."

How is that 1 "

It appears it's her grandfather's money, as I
told you — the Liverpool man. It's some property
in America, she thinks ; but at all events
it's settled on the mother and daughter, and
Meredith cannot touch a penny of it, even with
his wife's consent. Valentine swears she is sure
of that."

''So if the girl has not consented to cut it up,
it is intact?"

It must be."

What's about the figure ? "

"About ten thousand a-year."

'' Capital ! So much as that ? "

Quite that, Valentine says, and she knows
all about it, for she was very thick with Meredith
when the Liverpool man died ; and Meredith,

who can never keep anything from a woman,
told her all about it, and she, in fact, herself
saw all the papers. '^

Laurence mused for a while.

*^ The only thing is," resumed Graham, "the
girl may have been induced to give up her
money to tide over these difficulties. If she
has not, it is all right ; but if she has, it is all
wrong. Now, how are you going to find out
about this ? ^'

I shall ask her ! " replied Laurence, coolly.

'* That's certainly the best way," grinned
Graham, '' for I don't suppose she would be
such a fool as to lie about it ; but I don't quite
see how you can do it."

** Oh, I shall manage all right enough," replied
Laurence. " I always find plain open dealing
far better in all business matters."

*' Do you indeed?" said Graham, dryly.

''I do. Of course I shall bide my time and
put the question casually, so that she may not
think of deceiving me, as she might do if she
saw my game. I shall do it, however, not later
than tomorrow, for if this thing is to come off
at all, it might as well come off at once. If
Meredith is so hard up as you say, there's no

time to be lost, for if he hasn't swindled his
daughter already he may tomorrow."

You're quite right," assented Graham.
And then another thing is, the girl may be
bespoken before you know it if you waste time.
She's only been going about for the last two
months, or she'd have been engaged before, for
her father is an ambitious man, and has plenty
of young friends with good titles who would not
object to sharing his daughter's . ten thousand
a-year."

Of course. It's very lucky I'm first in the
field, so far."

On the following day Laurence was in the
Rue Royale punctually at five, and found Muriel
waiting for him alone, her mother, she explained,
having been forced to go out. " But we're
going to the opera to-night," said Muriel, " and
mamma wants you to join us there."

Of course Laurence accepted the invitation
with much gratitude, and that little matter
having been settled, he began asking her
about her experiences and impressions since
she had been out in society — his object, of
course, being to ascertain, if possible, whether the
matrimonial coast was still clear. It was not

long before he was fully edified on that point,
and Muriel's very conclusive and candid replies
to his searching questions thoroughly satisfied
him that, so far as she herself knew at any rate,
there were no suitors after her hand and dowry
as yet. Arthur Pendragon, he reminded himself,
might be dangerous, but then it was hardly
likely that even the second son of so great a
man as the Duke of Tintagil would marry the
daughter of a man like William Meredith ; and
then, again, Arthur Pendragon was absent, and
so, for the moment at least, not dangerous. He
hardly cared to sound the girl on this point, for
he, being an intimate friend of Arthur — who
indeed had introduced him to the Meredithss —
the subject, under the circumstances, was a
delicate one, and so he resolved to chance that
remote danger and content himself for the nonce
with finding out about the money.

^' We are old friends," he said at length, very
seriously, after a short pause — ^' are we not ? "

*' The oldest of old friends," assented Muriel,
smiling. They had known each other at the
outside about a year.

So if I ask your advice about a very important
and private matter concerning myself, you

will give it me *? And promise me solemnly to
say nothing about it to any one ? "

Why, of course I will. But what a funny
idea to ask m/y advice ; nobody asks it now," —
and she sighed, — "now that Madge is gone."

*' That's exactly it," said Laurence, catching
at the idea. " Miss Tyrrell often told me what
capital advice you always gave her, and that's
why I seek it. Besides, it is merely a matter of
sentiment ; and if I asked any of the men I
know, they would all laugh at me. When a
man of honour is in doubt, let him ask advice of
a lady. Women have a much higher and more
delicate sense of honour than we have."

Muriel acknowledged the compliment paid to
her sex by a playful bow.

^* What I want to ask you about is this," resumed
Farquhar, very gravely, *' and you will
see that it needs no knowledge of the world or
experience to give me the advice I ask, — only a
pure good heart, such as I am sure you have."
Muriel bowed again. " I told you yesterday,
or rather you told me, that I am a penniless
beggar."

Muriel turned crimson. '' Oh, Mr Farquhar
■ " she began.

Laurence held up a hand in playful warning.
'* Now don't interrupt me, Miss Muriel, I beg of
you, or else I shall never get through what I have
to say. Now, whether I told you or you told me
it makes no difference, and does not alter the
lamentable fact that I am a beggar. But how
do you suppose that I became so ? "

Muriel shook her head, rather amused. ^' Fm
sure I have no idea, but I must say that you
look a very comfortable and well-to-do beggar."

'' Tm not quite so offensive as Lazarus, and
that is about all you can say," he replied,
smiling. '* No ; but, seriously speaking, how do
you suppose I lost all my money, for wheat I
came of age I had all I wanted '? "

Muriel ransacked her brains for a minute,
and then said, hesitatingly, 'cards!"

Laurence could not for the life of him repress
a smile, so exactly had the girl in her innocence
hit the right nail on the head. *' No," he said,
laughing, " not cards, nor horses, nor gambling,
nor anything in any way wicked. Guess
again."

Muriel reflected again for a moment, and then
said, *' Robbed ? " Laurence shook his head.

Then I give it up," said Muriel. "If it

<( r

wasn't cards, or anything in any way wicked,
and if you were not robbed, I don't see how you
can have lost your money."

Laurence sighed, and cast down his eyes.
*' I gave it away," he said, simply.

Gave it away ! "

Yes, every penny of it ! "

Who to ? "

To my father, to save him from ruin," — and
as laurence uttered this audacious falsehood he
looked the girl straight in the eyes. But he
saw nothing there to frighten him — only astonishment
melting into pity ; and so, greatly encouraged
and relieved, and yet not wholly
satisfied, he continued with renewed and reinvigorated
eloquence — " The money was mine,
entirely mine, five thousand a-year, left solely
to me by a maiden aunt, and I had complete
control of it when I came of age. But when
my poor father came to me, and told me how
all his speculations had failed ; how he had been
robbed right and left, until he had come down
to his last sovereign ; how he was hopelessly
and irretrievably ruined and dishonoured, if I
did not come to his assistance ; and how his
heart was broken, — I gave him up every penny

of my fortune gladly, and resolved to — to — to —
do the best I could without it."

But how do you manage ? " asked Muriel,
the enormity of the sacrifice being as nothing
in her eyes compared to the miraculous fact of
this well-dressed dandy, who refused himself
nothing, living upon air. Laurence was hardly
prepared for this very practical and natural
question, and hesitated for a moment before
replying. Then he said, averting his head as if
in shame, but in reality to hide a smile, " I
write for the press ! "

What ? You mean the 'Times,' and ' Telegraph,'
and all those papers '? " ^

Yes. They like my style, and pay me
well, and even pay my expenses to go about in
society and pick up news for them, and so that
is why you always see me, and hear of me,
about so much. I couldn't possibly afford to
live in the way I do if the editors of these
great newspapers did not pay my expenses."

'' Oh, I see now ! " exclaimed Muriel. " Madge

and I often used to " and then she stopped

abruptly, her face suffused with blushes.

Used to wonder how I lived, I suppose,"
put in Laurence, laughing at her confusion.

Well, you know now'' Muriel said nothing.
Laurence tlious^ht he would give her time to
think the matter over, and so he rose from his
chair and walked moodily up and down the
room.

Well ? " he said at last, stopping in front
of her, and looking with fixed sadness into her
upturned face, " what do you think of my
story ? "

I think you were very, very, very good to
your poor father," exclaimed Muriel, earnestly.

*' But do you think I was right in doing
what I did ? " insisted Farquhar. " That's the
question I want to ask you ; that's what I am
seeking your opinion about."

Why, you say the money was yours, so of
course you could do what you liked with it."

Yes, of course ; but then, you see, by doing
this for my father — by giving him every penny
I had in the world — I ruined myself."

'^ Well," said Muriel, with exasperating coolness,
not really knowing what to say, but fully
conscious that some kind of remark was required
of her. Laurence had to bite his lip to
keep from laughing, but preserving his seriousness
with a mighty effort, he continued —

And don't you see that by ruining myself
I altered all my life, and perhaps did harm to
others ?"

How ? I don't understand."

"Why, here is an example. If I had kept
my five thousand a-year, of course I could have
afforded to marry any girl, no matter how poor
she might be, whom I loved. Now, of course,
I can't ; so by giving away my fortune to my
father, I have been doing perhaps a great wrong
to this poor girl who loves me, and whom I
might have married and made happy. Don't
you see V

Yes, I see now. Who is this poor girl ? .Do
I know her ? " inquired Muriel, innocently.

What a tease you are, Muriel ! " exclaimed
Laurence, not knowing whether to laugh outright
or not. " There is no poor girl really in
the matter at present. It's only a supposition,
of course. There might have been, and then of
course she would have been sacrificed."

Muriel said nothing.

Was I right ? "

"I suppose you were," said Muriel, hesitatingly.

Would you have done the same in my
place ? That's what I mean ? "

*' I don't quite understand you."

Suppose your father were ruined, and you
had money of your own, would you give him
up every penny of your money to pay his debts
with, and leave yourself a beggar, as I left
myself ? "

Certainly not ! " The reply came as clearly
and distinctly as a bell. Laurence could have
fallen on his knees before her there and then,
and worshipped her.

'' What ! " he exclaimed, trembling with delight.
" Do you mean to say that if your father
were ruined, and you had money, and he came
and begged you to give it to him to save him
from further ruin, you would refuse him ? Is
that what you mean, Muriel ? "

"It is. I would not give him a penny."

Laurence felt actually giddy with admiration,
and had to sit down. " You can't mean
what you're saying ! " he exclaimed, his voice
trembling with emotion.

"Yes, I do," replied Muriel excitedly, her
eyes flashing. " If papa were ruined, and came
to me for my money, I should say to him, ' No,
my darling, leave it in safety. You have been
robbed before, and you will be robbed again.

Let US keep what we have got, and go away
and leave all those horrid people who have been
cheating you, and live in peace somewhere else.'
That's what I should say, and I know I should
be doing right."

Doing right to refuse your own father —
your poor father '? " insisted Farquhar.

Yes, perfectly right ; and I know papa
would be the first person to say so too. You
ask him yourself when he comes back from
Bordeaux."

You are certainly the most extraordinary
girl I ever met," said Laurence, after a short
pause ; " and I only wish I had asked your advice
before doing what I did."

** I wish you had," replied Muriel, simply ;
'' and I certainly should have told you not todo
it."

*' I must see what I can do," said Laurence,
after a long pause, and anxious to get away,
now that he had ascertained all he wanted to
know. " It may not be too late to save something
out of the wreck yet. I see now that you
are right, and that your noble, splendid heart
has spoken the real truth, and shown me my
real duty. God bless you for what you have

just said ! " and he took her hand and kissed it,
his eyes filling with real tears. Muriel looked
at him with wonder and compassion : this sudden
emotion in one generally so flippant affected
her strangely.

'' Why, you're crying ! " she said, her own
voice trembling.

Tears of gratitude, Muriel, — gratitude, and
and more than that. I must go now. Forgive
me ; but these recollections have quite upset
me. I can never think of my poor father
without emotion. I'll come tomorrow if you'll
let me. Will you ? "

So you won't come to the opera to-night,
then ? "

Oh yes ; I forgot. I will be there at ten
without fail. Tell Lady Meredith I would not
miss seeing her for anything ; and don't forget
to remember me to Sir William when you write.
And now good-bye, or rather a rivederci!'^
And so he got away, the clumsiest and most
uncomfortable exit he had ever perpetrated in
his life.

The London morning papers received that
evening in Paris contained a piece of information
which interested many characters in this

story, for they announced briefly that no less a
personage than Uther, Marquis of Camelot, eldest
son of the Duke of Tintagil, had so far forgotten
the dignity due to his birth and rank as to fall
down a precipice in Switzerland, like a vulgar
curate, and lose his life. So our friend Arthur
Pendragon, as Marquis of Lyonesse, reigned in
his stead.

VOL. f. N

CHAPTEK IX.

The extraordinary confession of self-sacrifice
which Laurence Farquhar had made to Muriel
had affected her greatly — for, of course, it never
entered into her mind for a moment to doubt
its absolute veracity. He was then a hero —
a hero such as she had dreamt of, one capable
of the loftiest self - sacrifice, the splendour of
which was specially sanctified by the hidden
way in which it had been made. She had
been greatly mistaken in him all along, and
now bitterly reproached herself not only for
not having recognised the nobility of his nature
at once, but still more, of course, for having
really estimated his character as being by no
means above the ordinary level of the amusing
and selfish men of the world she met with everyday.
Had she been able to consult any one
in these first moments of astonishment, admiration,

and self-reproach, it is not improbable
that some healthy light might have been
shed upon the matter which would have caused
her to hesitate before at once enrolling Laurence
Farquhar among the gods ; but she was bound
to secrecy by her oath, and so the seed thus
artfully planted by Farquhar bore the fruit
which he had foreseen it would, and she began
by almost imperceptible degrees to look forward
to his daily visits as being not only
delightful breaks in the splendid and empty
monotony of her existence, but as glimpses
all too brief into a life of heroism, which
lost nothing of charm and fascination in lier
eyes by being carefully and voluntarily hidden
from vulgar admiration and reward by the
trivialities of fashionable society. That she
herself could never hope to rival such nobility
of nature, nor dare to reach up so high as to
become the heroine of one of her own dreams
of chivalry, she told herself over and over
again. How great, how in every way admirable,
therefore, was this paladin who went to
Lock and Poole for his helmet and armour,
and bought his battle - axe and lance at
Briggs'.

This admiration had not as yet merged into
a warmer and more tender sentiment, but it
went far to prepare the way for a favourable
reception of Cupid's shaft. Muriel was indeed
so far heart-whole : the only man she had ever
seen whom she thought she might in time
perhaps be brought to love was Arthur Pendragon
; but he had now — as it seemed to
this child, who counted days as months and
weeks as years — passed out of her life, leaving
behind no token that he Avould return,
and the only male being whom she now had
every day submitted to her inspection was
this amiable, amusing, and gay-hearted sympathiser
with her retrospective melancholy, who
had honoured her with the frank and modest
confession of his heroism, merely to seek her
girlish and unworldly approbation of his noble
conduct — an approbation which, in truth, her
impulsive commonsense had at first, as we
have seen, denied him. What wonder, then,
that these daily meetings, hallowed by constantly
recurring references to the happiest
period of Muriel's life, when she had had Madge
by her, and carefully regulated, as of course
they were, by Laurence's perfect knowledge

of the working of her girl-heart, should by
degrees have become inexpressibly and dangerously
sweet to this uncared-for child ? As he
had broken the ground by confiding to her
the great and sacred secret of his life, she felt
herself not only justified, but almost bound,
to repose a similar confidence in him, and thus
pour forth into his sympathetic ear that full
tide of her secret wishes, and aspirations, and
hopes, and dreams, and joys, and sorrows,
which, now that her only friend had been
removed from her, it almost stifled her to
retain within herself.

The inevitable end came about in this wise,
about ten days after Laurence had told her
the romantic cause of his impecuniosity. They
were riding together in the Bois on a glorious
summer morning, and had found their way
to the broad road running by the back of
Bagatelle. The world of fashion on horseback
they had left far behind them — in the Avenue
de imperative, by the lakes, in the Avenue
des Acacias, or in some one of the many umbrageous
and lovely alleys in which the Bois
abounds, and which, as a sign indicates, are
reserved *pour cavaliers seul." Here in this

wide shameless avenue they were alone, save
for the groom who followed Muriel, and two
or three sleepy keepers who yawned in the
sunshine, and longed for the hour to come
when they could recuperate their energies at
breakfast with an artic haut d simile, washed
down with half a bottle of petit heu. The
heavy air was musical with the hum of insects
and the shrill voices of innumerable
birds ; and there, to the right, beyond the belt
of trees which hid the river, the laughter of
a few noisy and early charioteers might be
heard as they dug their oars obstinately into
the stream, and gave vent from time to time
to the delirious joy begotten of this manly
exercise by lusty carolling of "La Femme a
barbe," or "Les Pompiers de Nanterre." The
time had come — the psychological moment, as
Dumas jilts calls it — the hour when Francesca
and her lover put aside the book that told
of Lancelot, *' Come Tamer lo strange," and
looked into each other's eyes. Laurence felt
it — perhaps Muriel was not wholly unconscious
of it ; at all events, Farquhar began, as their
horses walked side by side —

I am afraid I shall never get back any of

that money I spoke to you about the other day,
Muriel."

He had fallen into the habit of always calling
her Muriel now when they were alone, and
indeed they had exchanged during these last
few days so many confidences, that any such
trivial non-observance of the ordinary formalities
of social etiquette might easily be overlooked
or pardoned.

I am very sorry to hear that," she replied,
turning her head and looking into her companion's
face with serious concern.

'' Yes, your advice came too late. I had a
letter from my poor father's solicitor this morning,
telling me that very nearly all is lost, and
that what little remains is so compromised as
to be useless."

I am very sorry to hear that," she repeated.

"Oh, if I had only known you in time, how
different my life would have been ! " Muriel
merely bowed her head in silent acknowledgment
of the implied compliment.

Think of it, Muriel — just think of it ! Every
penny I possessed gone, and without doing any
good to anybody ; for my poor father, whom I
cannot even in my darkest moments of despair

blame, never benefited a farthing by my quixotic
and suicidal sacrifice ! The villains who
robbed him at first robbed him again, and now —
God help and bless him ! — he has only what I
may earn with my pen to support him ! "

As a matter of fact, Mr Farquhar, senior,
was endeavouring to forget some of the troubles
his son had caused him by indulging in the
luxury of playing battledore and shuttlecock
with delirium tremens in a small cottage on the
Sussex coast.

But you have your reward in your own
heart, Laurence," said Miss Meredith.

No, I have not ! " he exclaimed passionately,
and tossing back his head in impatient denial —
and that's the hardest part of it. My heart
tells me I have done wrong — terribly, fatally
wrong, as you told me. I should never have
listened to my father, who was stung to madness
by the thought that his honour might be
suspected, and to whose wild prayers I listened
like a fool — worse than a fool, for by listening
to them I gave up to him to destroy the only
means I had of making him ultimately happy.
It was selfish, Muriel — utterly and miserably
selfish. There was nothing noble in it, and

this is my just reward. I never knew the
value of money when I gave this up. I could
not bear to see my father's anguish and despair,
and in a weak moment of selfish pity I did him
the cruellest wrong I could. Don't pity me,
Muriel — I am not worthy of it. My selfishness
has made my bed, and my despair must lie
on it."

But you did it for the best."

No, I did not. I cannot honestly say that
I did. I did it without thinking, so I have
the martyr's suffering without the martyr's
crown."

Muriel thought his martyr's crown very
radiant indeed, and perhaps her eyes told him
so, as she turned and glanced at him for a
moment, and then averted her head.

"You judge yourself too harshly," she
murmured.

Muriel," he said, in a low passionate voice,
drawing close to her, and bending his head so
that his breath almost came upon her cheek —
think of all that I have lost. Fortune, hope,
love — almost life itself, for what is life without
love '? If I had known you before — if I had
only met you before I did this — I should have

seen there was a higher duty than to one's
father, — a higher, nobler duty. Do you know
what that duty is? Do you know what that
duty is, Muriel ? "

Her heart beat so quickly she could not
speak, nor indeed did he give her the time
to reply, for he continued at once —

"It is the most sacred duty of all — it is the
duty to the woman one loves, to the woman
one would hope to make one's wife. Am I
never to be pardoned, Muriel, for this one
great mistake ? Can you find it in your heart
to condemn me for ever for this one fault ? Or
will you try to forgive me, and help me to
undo all this harm that in my folly I have
done ? "

Muriel spoke not.

Answer me, my darling ; or if you cannot
answer, give me your hand, and I will ask no
more. I do not ask you to say ' yes ' all at once,
take time to think ; but, for the love of mercy,
do not throw me back into despair by saying
no ' ! I can wait for you, Muriel. I can wait,
and work, and strive to win you, if you will
only give me hope. Hold out your hand to me,
my darling, and I am saved ! "

The little trembling hand grasping the whip
was held out to him. " I will do all I can for
you, Laurence," she said, almost with a sob.
You are the noblest man I ever met."

"God bless you!" he exclaimed, with genuine
exultation. "Of all the good deeds you have
ever done, you have done the best to-day, for
you have saved a soul that worships you," — and
regardless of the astonished groom, he stooped
and kissed the tiny gloved fist. Then, not to
give her time for reflection, and perhaps for
regret, he continued quickly, releasing her
hand — ''I am the happiest man in the world.
God bless you, Muriel ! I can now wait and
work, and with the hope of winning you I
shall be sure to succeed. We must wait, for
I am poor, but "

If you are poor I am rich," broke in Muriel,
turning to him a blushing face, where sorrow
seemed to strive with smiles. " At least, papa
is rich."

I can't take your father's money, Muriel —
I would not stoop to do that. But he is
powerful, and he will aid me with his influence
when he knows that I am trying to
become worthy of your love. You will plead

for me, won't you, my darling ? You will tell
him that I am ready to work night and day to
win you ? "

I shall say nothing to mamma," said Muriel,
who in truth was in deadly fear of her mother.
*' We had better wait until papa comes back."

*you are right, darling; you are always
right. Shall we have to wait long ? "

No ; he is coming back on Saturday."

This was Wednesday. And so they rode on,
he pouring into her eager ear all the glib falsehoods
that long experience in making love had
taught him, and she listening as one in a dream,
hardly realising all that had taken place, or all
that he was saying, but possessed withal with
one soothing dominant feeling that a great
crisis in her existence had come and passed,
and that her whole life and future now lay in
the safe - keeping of one of the most noble-hearted
men on earth. That evening she declined
all her mother's propositions to go into
society on the plea of a headache, and retired
to the nursery early to think over the important
event of the day. Her greatest trouble was that
her lover, just before parting from her, had extracted
a most reluctantly-given promise that

she would, until the return of her father at
least, write nothing to Madge about her engagement.
Had she not given this promise, she
would long ago have covered sheet after sheet
of letter-paper with a detailed recital of the
offer of marriage which had been made to her,
her favourable reception thereof, and general
reflections thereon — and doubtless then, with
pen in hand, she would have seen the exact
situation of affairs more clearly ; but as it was,
she could hardly collect her thoughts and
arrange them in proper sequence, so great,
sudden, and wholly unexpected had been this
change in her future. •

First of all, did she love him ? Yes, and no ;
that is, she hardly knew the full meaning that
the word " love " should convey. She liked him,
thought him handsome, clever, and charming,
and was happy in his society : furthermore,
she thought him noble beyond all men, for
she acknowledged to herself that she had
never hitherto in her short life come across
one capable of such splendid heroism as
that which had ennobled the life of this
man. This feeling of admiration, indeed,
coming upon her so suddenly, and inspired

by one whom she had hitherto looked upon
as being made of quite ordinary clay, almost
quelled any more tender feeling that his sweet
words, grace, and good looks might have engendered.
She could not get over the astounding
fact that Laurence Farquhar was a hero :
that he should love her and have offered her
his hand was another cause of wonder, but as
nothing in magnitude compared to the first.
She would perhaps in her heart have preferred
that he should not have been quite so Olympian
in his godlike attributes, — something made of
more common material, something perhaps more
like Arthur Pendragon. But as this thought
crossed her mind, the blood surged to her cheek
with shame, and she banished it as being almost
an act of treason against the man whose wife,
but a few hours before, she had promised to
become.

That her father would gravely object to the
match she shrewdly foresaw, and her mother,
she felt sure, would be almost more hostile than
her father. But all that Laurence must see
about, she told herself, with no slight feeling
of pleasure and satisfaction that she had now
at least got some one to protect her and battle

for lier — one before whose wishes even the will
of her parents must bend and give way. Laurence
must see about all that. The fact of his
having no money could hardly be a serious
obstacle, for her father, she knew, was rich, and
she had been given to understand that her
grandfather had left her a large fortune at his
death. Then, again, if her father should not
indeed approve of Laurence as a son-in-law at
first, how greatly would his feelings change
when he heard the story of this splendid self-sacrifice
and heroism ! Her father would no
doubt repair the fallen fortunes of Laurence's
poor father ; and if he did not, at all events "She
herself was determined to do so with such
money as might be hers, for she saw in this a
way of stepping up partly to the high nobility
of the man whose wife she was about to become.
She would not, she could not, hope to
rival her husband in self-sacrifice, but she was
fully determined to do all that love and a liberal
expenditure of money could do to heal the
wounds inflicted on old Farquhar by unmerciful
disaster. The thought of this inspirited her
greatly : her father could do so much, merely
by influence and without putting down a penny !

She herself could remember three or four instances
in her short life where her father had
transformed ignoble despair and failure into
happiness and delighted success. If he had
done so for mere friends, how much more would
he be likely to do so for the father of the husband
of his only child. This idea filled her
with rapture ; and in her heroic enthusiasm,
brooding alone in the nursery, she thought
almost more of the father of the man she was
about to marry than of her future husband
himself — a sure proof, if some philosopher had
been there to tell her so, that her heart was not
irretrievably engaged. Yes, it was by taking
up the work where Laurence had been forced
to lay it down — it was by making his father
happy — that she could perhaps in some measure
bridge over the great distance which now separated
her trivial and selfish life from the splendid
and heroic spirit of her husband. In this
exalted frame of mind Miss Meredith went
to bed.

Laurence Farquhar, on his side, had, as the
reader may well surmise, been very carefully
considering the situation in his mind, and consulting
with the wily Graham about the matter.

Now that the first intoxicating excitement incidental
to sudden success was over, he found his
second bottle of Gorton baptising thoughts not
altogether rosy. How would the father, Sir
William, take it '? and how would Madge
take it ?

Meredith is sure to play the devil's delight,"
said Graham grimly, by way of consolation.
^' He's up a tree himself, and is sure to want a
rich, or at least a useful, son-in-law."

Laurence said nothing.

There is really nothing particular against
you, I suppose ? " continued Graham, after a
pause. •

What the devil do you mean ? " growled
Farquhar.

Any skeleton in the closet that happens to
rattle rather too audibly at times ? "

Laurence shook his head.

I thought I heard of some trouble in
Canada," persisted Graham, maliciously.

Laurence frowned. "That was all twaddle,
and has blown over centuries ago.'^

So much the better. But all the same you
must make up your mind to find Meredith very
disagreeable ; so if you should happen to have

VOL. I, o

any enemies — women especially, of course, I
mean — I should advise you to square them
while there is time."

*' There are no women to square."

"Ah," remarked Graham, with a smile ; '' then
you are lucky."

"Ten thousand a-year (as you say it is) is
worth a little trying for," said Laurence.

Graham nodded acquiescence to this self-evident
truism. " It's a pity you can't runaway
with her," he said, after a pause. " I have
always strongly recommended all my young
friends to do that with their sweethearts. It's
like dining without a penny in your pocket.
They can't take the dinner away from you, and
so they generally make the best of a bad bargain.
It's a capita] system for boys like you
to work on. We old ones can't : there is no
run left in our legs."

There is nothing of that kind to be done
here," said Laurence, moodily.

Graham shook his head. " Oh dear, no ! "
he said quietly. " Meredith knows every move
on the board, and he would have you up for
enticing away a girl under age before you could
get to Brussels. No ; if you are to win at

all, it must be entirely through diplomacy and
handling that old scoundrel with great delicacy.
I have no doubt I shall be able to be of great
service to you, and of course you can count
on me."

Thanks. You know Meredith very well,
do you not ? "

Graham smiled. " Very well, indeed ; yes."

Could you give the screw a twist if necessary
? "

Perhaps."

'' Well, if you do, and it comes off all right,
you shall not regret it — that's all that I can
say."

Very well. We must wait until the man
comes back. Now I think I shall go to the
club."

So shall I ; ecarte may do my head good.
Come on."

Little did Laurence Farquhar think, as he
sat in the card-room of the Jockey Club that
night, endeavouring to turn his skill at ecarte
to some account (although, of course, at this
season of the year the club was almost empty),
that a letter was coming up in the mail-train
that very moment from Bordeaux that would

for ever shatter his dreams of marriage with
Miss Meredith, and that the arrival of this fatal
letter would be preceded — in the early morning,
and long before he should be up and about — by
the reception of a hardly less terrible telegram,
which would fall as a thunderbolt upon the
family he was so ambitious to marry into. At
nine o'clock in the morning a telegram was
brought for Lady Meredith, but as her ladyship
was asleep, she was not disturbed. At ten the
post came in, and among other letters her ladyship's
maid noticed one addressed to her mistress
in the well-known handwriting of Sir William,
and bearing the post-mark of Bordeaux upon it.
This fact, of course, later on gave rise to much
speculative discussion among the servants. At
eleven Lady Meredith awoke, rang her bell,
arose, and prepared to take her matutinal tea
and toast, sending for her correspondence, and
of course opening the telegram first. Then one
hideous, piercing, agonising scream rang through
the house, and Lady Meredith fell prone and
insensible upon the floor of her boudoir. Of
course all was in the wildest state of confusion
in a moment — servants running to and fro,
getting in each other's way, and doing no good ;

the women weeping, sobbing, and wringing their
hands, and the men casting up their eyes and
arms in a theatrical appeal to le hon Dieu to
have mercy upon this stricken house, — for of
course the telegram had been read at once, and
it was terrible in its conciseness, merely announcing
as it did that Sir William Meredith
had been found dead in his bed that very morning
at the Hotel de France in Bordeaux.

The only person in this distracted household
who kept her head was the old nurse, Agnes,
who broke the news to Muriel (who followed
her mother's example and fainted), and fehen
busied herself about getting Lady Meredith to
bed, sending for a doctor, and above all putting
things in order and in places of safety, so that
in this tumult and excitement no unnecessary
pillaging might take place. When Muriel recovered
consciousness her first thought was
to go to her mother ; but this Agnes told her
was impossible, the doctor having given the
strictest orders that on no account should Lady
Meredith be disturbed at present. Indeed this
same medical man, who, having seen the widow,
now came up-stairs to see the orphan, found
Miss Meredith in such a state of nervous excitement

that he ordered bed, tranquillity, and
quieting medicines at once. Everything, therefore,
during the first thirty-six hours which
followed the receipt of this fatal news, fell to
old Agnes to do, and most creditably did this
worthy representative of the '' Land o' Cakes "
acquit herself of this most difficult task, answering
innumerable telegrams, and receiving all
sorts and conditions of men — from a chamberlain
of the Empress, who had come on purpose from
Compiegne to offer the condolences of their
Imperial Majesties, to greatly agitated and very
dirty Hebrew gentlemen hailing from the neighbourhood
of the Bourse.

Laurence Farquhar called at his usual hour,
five, having heard nothing of the terrible news,
owing to the very simple fact that he had but just
arisen from his couch in time to breakfast hurriedly
atVoisin's (which at that hour was empty),
and come on to the Rue Royale ; but the weeping
Selwyn, who opened the door, told him of
the fatal catastrophe at once. The blow was
terrible, and Laurence shrank dismayed before
it, for it seemed to him as if by this sudden and
untimely demise of one whose existence was
of such moment to him just then, an angry

Nemesis had suddenly stalked across his path.
He needed time to recover himself, and did not
for the moment even dare face the astute Agnes;
so, after having made tender inquiries about the
ladies, and leaving cards, he retired, and jumping
into the first vacant cab, he drove at once
to the Kue Lafitte to consult with Vincent
Graham. That worthy gentleman he found in
great glee, owing to the fact of his having that
very morning become the happy possessor of
the most rare edition of the * Anti Justine ' of
Rests de la Bretonne, and so he was received
with great cordiality.

*' I exchanged some worthless Reveries, and
an equally worthless Chorion, for this ! " he
exclaimed, holding up the book as Laurence
entered the room, and before his visitor had
had time to say a word, " with that young fool
Vavasor of the Blues. He picked it up in
Amsterdam, and did not know its value, of
course. I have been seeking for it for years.
There are only six copies extant, and I had four
already. I have only one to get now. But
what's the matter '? You look upset."

Laurence told him the news at once.

Bah ! " cried Graham, hugging his literary

enormity in his arms as if it were a cherished
infant. " That is bad news for you. The man
killed himself, of course ! "

I never thought of that, by Jove ! What a
man you are, Graham ! Do you really think
he did 1 "

Why, of course he did. Cela saute aux
yeiix ! What do they say was the matter ? "

The heart ! "

Heart be d — d ! Meredith never had a
heart. Besides, he was supposed to be the very
best man for that sort of thing himself."

Yes, but that wouldn't prevent his dying of
it if he had it."

*' Bosh ! I tell you the man killed himself.
It's as plain as a pikestaff! I shall know all
about it presently. Well, and what are you
going to do now ? "

What do you advise 1 "

Well, you must keep quiet for the moment,
of course, and see what turns up. I fancy you
will find everything has gone to ruin and smash,
and so you are well out of it ! "

The girl's money, too 1 "

Very likely. Valentine knew nothing about
that ; and I thought the other day, when you

told me, that you were very mild to believe all
the blarney the girl played off on you. Then,
again, we were both of us fools as a matter of
fact, and forgot that the girl being a minor, her
father could have played ducks and drakes with
her money without ever asking her consent."

'^ By Jove ! you're right," exclaimed Farquhar,
ruefully, stricken with shame and consternation
at having, in his precipitancy, overlooked so
very obvious a fact.

*but I hardly think Meredith would have
done that, all the same," continued Graham,
reassuringly. ,

"Who can tell?"

*' Who, indeed ? But you must hope for the
best, and, at all events, you haven't gone so far
yet that you can't get out of it if the game
turns out to be not really worth the candle."

No ; of course not."

'' My advice is to stick to your guns for the
present, and see how things turn out. It maybe
all right after all. Keep the passion at fever-heat,
but have the hose ready. You must wait
now, at all events."

I suppose I must."

Of course you must."

I suppose I ought to write a nice letter to
her ? ''

By all means. It can do no harm ; and if
things should happen to turn out all right, of
course it will have been a trump-card to play.
Girls like that never forget sympathy in time of
trouble. Write by all means. You will find
me at the old place to-night, and I may by that
time have some news to give you ; but write at
once."

So Laurence went back at once to his hotel,
dashed off a masterpiece of passionate and tender
sympathy to Miss Meredith, beginning *' My
own darling wife," and ending, " Yours for ever
and ever, till death do us part." Graham had
no particular news to give him that evening
when they met at dinner at the Maison Dor^e,
but reported that the impression was gaining
ground in Paris that Meredith was ruined, and
had died by his own hand. The following day,
at mid-day, a servant in deep mourning brought
the following note to Farquhar's hotel : —

God bless you, my own dear, true, and only
friend, for your dear letter, which is the only
word of comfort or sympathy I have had.

i

Mamma is much worse to-day than she was
yesterday, directly after she heard the dreadful
news, and the doctor says I cannot hope to see
her for a week yet, at least. And you, my darling
! when shall we meet again, my hero, my
own true, noble Laurence ? My heart is broken ;
and I should pray to die myself, only I think
of your blessed love, and then I try to feel resigned.
Do you remember that line you read
to me by that new poet Swinburne only the
other day 1 — * Between two joys a grief grows
unawares.' How little did we think, you and
I, how terribly true these lines would pi;ove !
Yes, as you say, Laurence, I am yours till
death do us part. — Yours for ever and ever,
your own Muriel.

Pes. — I have covered your dear letter with
kisses, and slept with it on my pillow I God
bless you for it, my hero ! "

'* That's hot enough ! " murmured Laurence,
as he refolded this letter and put it carefully
away. " That's about as hot as they make it !
It may prove a most valuable document in time,
if properly used. I must wait now, as Graham

says, and see what turns up. I shall do nothing
further."

On second thoughts, however, he did just
write the following : —

** My darling Wife, — Your letter to me is
more precious than I can tell you ; but I must
not speak of myself, or even of you, at this terrible
moment. We must think of nothing but
your poor mother. Do not say a word to her,
when you do see her, about our engagement.
It would be selfish and ungenerous to intrude
our future happiness on her present grief.
Leave all that to me. I will tell her all when
the right time comes. Till then, do not say a
word to anybody about our engagement, no
matter what your mother may say to you.
Leave it all to me. I shall consider that you
have solemnly promised me to do this until we
meet, and until I absolve you from your promise.
Of course, I shall call several times everyday
to know how you and your dear mother
are, and shall see you both as soon as you will
let me. — Yours till death, Laurence.

'^F.S. — How happy I am to think now of what

you told me once, that your father liked me !
His soul, which is in heaven, will smile upon
our union and bless it I ''

When the doctor had told Muriel that her
mother was even more thoroughly prostrated
on the second day of her bereavement than on
the first, he had merely spoken the truth. On
the morning of the second day Lady Meredith
had had her correspondence brought to her
bedside, and an hour after, having read her
letters — but not, however, until the faithful
Agnes had very carefully put them away and
out of the sight of prying servants — her ladyship
had had a fit, and for an hour or more the
physician in attendance had almost despaired of
saving her life. Later on in the day, however,
she had rallied, and all immediate danger having
now seemingly passed away, Muriel had not
been made acquainted with this new peril which
at one time had been so imminent. The next
few days were, of course, terrible. The body
arrived from Bordeaux, but was not brought to
the house, and the funeral took place with the
greatest privacy and despatch that decency and
proper reverence would admit of, — Agnes, a

kind friend at the British Embassy, and the
Empress's chamberlain superintending all the necessary
details, and being, in fact, almost the only
mourners, save, of course, Laurence Farquhar —
for Madge and her husband could not leave the
bedside of the aged baronet, whose death was
hourly expected. So, accompanied by a detachment
of troops, as befitted his rank as officer of
the Legion of Honour, and followed by barely a
dozen friends and acquaintances, the coffin of
Sir William Meredith was laid beside that of
his beloved son in the cemetery at St Germains.

CHAPTER X.

All letters had, by the express orders of the
doctor, been kept away from Lady Meredith ;
but on the second day after the funeral, as she
seemed in some measure to have recovered her
strength, and appeared, moreover, greatly anxious
to have some tidings from the outer world,
this prohibition was withdrawn, and a very formidable
pile of envelopes and telegrams was
brought and laid before Sir William's widow.
This was on a Monday, and on the following
day, Tuesday, at one o'clock, Agnes informed
Miss Meredith that her ladyship could now see
her, — a summons which Muriel obeyed with a
shrinking heart — for, now that the first paroxysms
of grief had somewhat calmed down, the
awe with which her mother had ever inspired
her returned with renewed vigour. When
she entered the room. Lady Meredith was lying

back in a chaise loiigite near the half-opened
window, and on the table by her side lay a
square English-looking envelope, deeply edged
with black. Muriel was surprised, nay, almost
shocked, to find her mother looking so well :
she had expected to find her greatly changed.
Indeed the reports which had reached her from
Agnes and the doctor had prepared her to find,
in the gay, cold, worldly lady whom she had
known from infancy as her mother, almost a
total wreck. But Lady Meredith, with the exception,
perhaps, of great and unnatural pallor, and
the widow's cap which she wore, looked much
the same as usual, as she lay back robed in the
most becoming black mourning-gown which the
imagination of Worth could fashion.

*' My dear daughter I my own poor Muriel I "
she exclaimed, opening her arms to her daughter.
Then tears and kisses followed, Muriel being
almost more surprised by this tender and affectionate
reception than she was by her mother's
apparent good health. " Don't cry, my darling,"
murmured Lady Meredith soothingly, as she
stroked her daughter fondly, while Muriel gave
vent to a passion of sobs on her mother's bosom.
Don't cry, Muriel ; we must bow to God's

will. Petit pere, who loved us both so much,
is in heaven now. We must think of him now
and his wishes, and not of ourselves."

How strangely like Laurence Farquhar she
spoke, thought poor Muriel, and what a selfish
creature she must be to always need these
reminders to think less of herself!

Oh, I know, mamma, I know," she sobbed,
trying to stop her tears ; " but to die so faraway
like that, without you or me near him —
alone in a hotel ! as poor, poor, poor little Paul
died in the street ! Oh, mamma, mamma, it is
too hard ! Are you and I never to have those
we love near us when they die ? " Then more
tears, more kisses, more comforting, until at
length Muriel lay exhausted by her sorrow,
with her head on her mother's shoulder.

My pretty Muriel," murmured Lady Meredith
— " my dear little daughter ! — all I have left
now ! How kind every one has been to us !
How can we ever forget all that the dear Emperor
and Empress have done for us in our
trouble ! She, she especially wrote me such a
letter when she sent those beautiful flowers ! I
can never, never forget it." And here the recollection
of this Imperial sympathy affected Lady

VOL. I. P

Meredith so greatly that she too fell a-sobbing,
and it was now Muriel's turn to soothe, comfort,
and pet. But at length even this paroxysm
passed by, and the two lay locked together in a
tender embrace, the quiescence of which was
only from time to time interrupted by long-drawn
quivering sighs, and little caressing and
sympathetic pressures. After a long silence
Lady Meredith said, gently —

Gret up, my darling. I have something
important to say to you."

Muriel staggered to her feet.

Sit down, Muriel — here, close to me."

Muriel drew up a chair close to her mother's
side and sat down.

Give me your hand, darling."

Muriel put her hand in that of her mother,
and Lady Meredith began to caress it softly.

Listen to me, Muriel, and try to understand
me. I know you will ; for although you are
little more than a child in years, you have seen
more life than most girls of your age, and you
have, I feel sure, your dear father's commonsense.
So I shall speak to you as if you were
already a woman, Can I, Muriel ? Do you
think you will understand me ? "

I will try to, mamma," said Muriel, raising
her mother's hand and kissing it fondly.

And will you promise to do what I tell you,
and follow my advice, and let me guide you, my
darling ? "

"I will, mamma; of course you know I
will."

Very well, then : listen to me, my daughter.
You must not be frightened at what I am going
to tell you ; for although I have bad news, yet
I have good news too, and both in the sunshine
and the shadow you and I shall be together, if
you will keep your promise and let me guide
you."

Muriel kissed her mother's hand again. ^' Anything
that I can do, mamma, you know I will.
What bad news ? "

'^ Why, Muriel, my darling, you must know
that your poor father's affairs have been going
from bad to worse for the last few years."

Money, do you mean ? " inquired Muriel,
looking sharply into her mother's half-averted
face, and feeling instinctively that some new
and terrible and unforeseen sorrow was about
to come upon her. ^* Do you mean money ? "

'' Yes, I mean money. M. de Mornyy's death

was a terrible blow to your poor father, and
since then everything has been going from bad
to worse. So now, now at his death, poor petit
pere has been hardly able to leave anything to
you and me."

^' Do you mean to say we have no money ? "

Hardly anything, my darling, hardly anything
; and we are over head and ears in
debt."

Here there was a pause — a terrible pause.
The world seemed coming to an end to Muriel.

When did you know this, mamma 1 " she
said at last, in a low stifled voice. '' Have you
known it for long ? "

Lady Meredith hesitated, and then said, with
an evident effort —

No, I have not known it for long ; only
since a few days, in fact. Of course, I knew
your poor father had been losing and losing
money for years past, but he was always in
hopes something would turn up to save him.
I had no idea it was so bad as it is until the
other day."

How did you hear it ? "

Lady Meredith hesitated again. " Your
father wrote to me."

*' When ^ "

"A few days ago'

From Bordeaux — from that dreadful place '? "

Yes."

Only just before — before his death, then ? "

Lady Meredith gently bowed her head in
assent.

Another pause. Then Muriel broke the silence
again. " But I thought I had money
grandpa left me ? "

It was all in American securities : they are
absolutely worthless now. They may revive,
but we can hardly hope it. Poor grandpa ! "
Lady Meredith said in a low voice, averting
once more her face.

And so it has all gone 1 '' continued Muriel.

'all."

*' And we have nothing left to live on 1 "

'nothing."

My God ! my God ! my God ! " almost
screamed the gir], rising and wringing her
hands in passionate despair.

Lady Meredith was astounded beyond measure
at her daughter's vehemence, but not displeased.
She had, then, the true Meredith love
of money, and all that it can bring, in her heart

after all ! She had been deceived in her own
daughter, whom she had almost disliked and
despised for her apparent carelessness about
worldly matters. She was a true Meredith
after all : she knew the value of money. The
thought pleased Lady Meredith, and gave her
courage to proceed.

Sit down, Muriel — sit down, my child, and
listen to me." Muriel, who was striding up
and down the room like one possessed, obeyed
her mother mechanically and resumed her seat,
her trembling hands pulling her little black-bordered
cambric pocket-handkerchief to shreds
in her agitation.

'^ Listen to me," said Lady Meredith earnestly,
laying a soothing hand on her daughter's
knee. ** I have told you the bad news first —
listen to the good."

Muriel stared at her blankly. She did not
understand. " Good news 1 " she echoed.

Yes, good news. Be quiet and listen, and
above all don't forget that you have promised
to obey me and be guided by me."

** I remember."

Papa, as I have just told you, has left us
nothing, — worse than nothing — terrible debts."

Muriel shuddered. " But you can save us — you
can save both me and yourself and your father's
memory''

I can ? How ? "

Lady Meredith smiled, took the English-looking
letter with the black border from the
table and handed it to her daughter.

Bead that," she said, '* and you will see."

Muriel took the letter mechanically ; but
when she recognised the handwriting of Arthur
Pendragon, her heart gave a leap and then
almost stopped beating. The letter, dated from
Camelot Castle only a week before, ran as follows
: —

"My dear Lady Meredith, — You will, I
know, need no words from me to tell you how
deeply and from my heart I sympathise with you
and Miss Muriel in your great and terrible loss.
Both you and Sir William have always been
good friends to me, and the happiest hours of
my life I have spent in the Eue Koyale. It is
not, therefore, with merely a letter of sympathy
that I intrude upon your grief now. I write to
ask you if you will give me your consent to let
me do my best to win your daughter Muriel for

my wife ? I know that you have lived in
France so long that you follow French customs,
and one of these is, I also know, to obtain the
consent of the parents before seeking to obtain
the daughter's love. It is not so with us in
England, of course, as you know ; but I think,
after all, that perhaps your French way is the
best. Had poor Sir William been alive, I think
I could have counted on his approbation : can I
count on yours 1 Of course, even if you do
grant me what I ask, all will depend upon Miss
Muriel herself; but I love her so truly and
with my whole heart, that I almost hope intime
to be able to win her. At all events, if
you will let me try, my future will be in her
hands. She has already my heart : whatever
little else I have to give, I lay at her feet. Take
your own time to answer this. Think over what
I propose, my dear Lady Meredith, and forgive
me for writing to you in such a dark moment
on such a subject, but I am anxious to know
my fate, and my great love has, I fear, made
me selfish. My mother and father both send
their heartfelt sympathies to you and Miss
Muriel, and they tell me to tell you how glad
they will be to welcome you both as members

of our family. — Believe me to remain, my dear
Lady Meredith, ever very truly yours,

Lyonesse."

So it had come at last. This was the first
sensation worthy of the name of thought that
formed itself in the midst of the chaos of emotions
which raged in poor Muriel's mind as she
read the letter. It had come at last ! Arthur
loved her ! And in what simple, unaffected,
manly terms he spoke of his love ! It had come
at last ; but then, when for the third time this
feeling strongly akin to exultation seized her,
the cold, chilling, killing revolution of feeing
set in, heralded by the fatal reflection — it is too
late ! Yes, too late ! She had given her hand
to another, to perhaps a nobler man ; but at all
events she was his, and could listen to no
words of love from others, even were they the
sweetest words her heart could dream of — sweet
even as these which she had just read. Was
she so utterly vile as to regret having of her
own free will given, but the other day, her hand
to one lover, merely because another came sighing
for it to-day ? Was she at heart a jilt ?
Her deadly pallor brightened into a blush at

the degrading thought. No ; she was not so
base as that : this thing could not be. It was
his own fault — Arthur's fault ; he should have
sung his love-song sooner. As it was, it was
impossible.

Well ? " said Lady Meredith, who had been
anxiously, but in vain, endeavouring to read
her daughter's feelings in her face.

Well," echoed poor heart-weary Muriel.

I was right when I said I had good news,
was I not, darling ? "

Muriel remained silent, but began trembling
violently. Her mother leant forward eagerly
and caught her by the arm, a terrible dread
passing like a lightning-flash through her mind.

*' Speak, Muriel, speak ! " she called almost
roughly ; and then leaning forward, she clasped
her daughter in her arms and burst into tears.
My darling, darling girl, we are saved, weare
saved, my own beautiful, fair, dainty darling,
golden-headed little duchess ! "

Duchess ! She a duchess ! And Arthur —
good, simple, honest Arthur — her duke, and
lord, and lover, and master ! Oh God, it was
hard to bear !

'^ Mamma," she said, gently disentangling

herself from her mother's embraces — *^ mamma,
you must not be angry, but this cannot be ! "

Cannot be ? ''

*' I cannot marry Arthur."

Lady Meredith, who had drawn back at her
daughter's first words to scan her face, now
leant suddenly forward — or rather sprang forward
would be more accurate — and caught
Muriel by both arms with such violence as to
cause her pain.

'* You say — you say you can't marry
Arthur ? You can't marry him 1 Do you know
what you say ? You can't marry him ? "

*^ I cannot, mamma ; oh, have pity on me, I
cannot."

You cannot ? You cannot *? Girl, do you
knows what you are saying 1 Why ? Tell me
why ? Speak ! Do you want to drive me
mad '? "

"Oh, mamma, mamma! don't, don't — you
frighten me. I can't tell you why, but I cannot
indeed I cannot."

But you shall / " almost screamed Lady
Meredith, who was now livid with fury. " By
the God above, you shall marry him or tell me
why not ! You shall marry him if he will still

marry you, if I have to tie you hand and foot,
and gag you and give you to him ! "

"Oh, mamma, mamma !" — and Muriel, horror-stricken,
buried her face in her hands to keep
out the hideous vision of her mother's hate and
anger.

"You shall marry him, I tell you," and Lady
Meredith seized the poor girl's hands and
dragged them from her face — '* you shall marry
him if you are even lower than the lowest !
For if you do not, you will have your father's
curse and blood upon you ! "

Mother ! " and Muriel sprang to her feet,
and tried in vain to wrest herself from her
mother's iron grip.

"And I'll tell. you all now — all, all, all — since
you say you will not have him : your father
killed himself, poisoned himself, and all for
you!

** God in heaven, this is not true ! "

I lie, do I ? Well, read this ! " and Lady
Meredith spurned her daughter from her, put
her hand in her bosom, and pulling out a letter,
threw it in Muriel's face. Muriel stooped, picked
the letter up, and was about to open it, when
her mother snatched it from her.

No ! give it to me ; I will read it to you,
and then give it to you, that you can keep it asa
memorial of the curse that hangs over you ! "
and in a hoarse voice, broken up by delirious
passion and sardonic and cruel delight in inflicting
pain, she read the following, although
her hands trembled so, they could hardly hold
the paper : —

Hotel de France, Bordeaux,
''Julys, 186—.

My dearest Laura, — These are the last
lines you will ever receive from me, for when
I have posted this letter I am going to destroy
myself, and the news of my death will reach
you before you get this. I am utterly and irretrievably
ruined. I have not only not a penny
left, but should be arrested if I returned to
Paris for my share in the Vera Cruz railway
scheme. There is absolutely no hope, so I am
going to slip out, and let you and Muriel have
a chance. Now listen to me, and obey me, as
you always have done. I have arranged so that
my death will be attributed to heart disease ;
and once I am gone, as I have this afternoon
destroyed all the most compromising papers.

you will have quite two months free before
any disgrace can come upon you, for the evidence
will have to come out from Mexico.
There is over two thousand pounds of mine
at Rothschild's, and, of course, they will let you
overdraw. If not, see the Emperor alone, tell
him all, and he will help you. This, however,
will only keep you going for a short time, and
the ruin is sure to come at last if you do not
obey what I tell you now. You must get
Muriel married in some way to a man with
money, — no matter who, but he must have
money, for your sake and hers. If she rebels,
show her this letter, and tell her my curse will
be for ever upon her, and the blood which I
now spill be upon her head ! But she will not
rebel. When she knows of my death, and lioiv
I die, and when she knows that if she does
not obey me, she will bring you and herself to
beggary in the streets and starvation, and my
name to everlasting dishonour, she will consent.
I know but little of her, but she cannot be so
bad and hard as that. A very little money
will settle the Vera Cruz people : the Emperor
will do that for me if you tell him all, as you
had perhaps better do. AVhat they want especially

is to disgrace me ; but when I am once
dead, and all my papers destroyed, a very little
money will quiet them. Good night, Laura,
and good-bye. I am off to join Paul. — Your
loving husband, William Meredith."

The strain occasioned by the reading of this
dreadful letter was too much for the already
over-excited nerves of Lady Meredith ; and as
she finished it and threw it from her on to the
floor by Muriel, she burst into a wild fit of
hysterical tears and sobs.

^' My God, my God ! '^ she moaned, '^ it has
come to this. Alone, desolate, ruined, penniless
; a widow, and with disgrace aud perhaps
worse before me ! And my own child, my own
daughter — my only child — will not stretch out
her hand to save me, though her murdered
father calls to her to do so from the grave 1 "
Then throwing herself suddenly on her knees
before Muriel, she caught both her hands in
hers. " Listen to me, Muriel — listen to me.
Have mercy on me, for God's sake ! Forgive,
forget what I have said. I did not mean it —
I did not think it. Have mercy on me, my
child — have mercy on me for your father's

sake ! You alone can save us. You cannot
find it in your heart to let me die of starvation,
or be dragged to prison, when you have
but to put out your hand to grasp a coronet !
And think how noble he is — how good and true
and brave "

A hoarse voice interrupted her sternly.

"Hush, hush! Don't speak of him. Give
me time to think — give me time to think ! "
and with a violent and almost brutal effort
Muriel detached herself from her mother's grasp
and walked towards the window.

Lady Meredith rose slowly, seated herself by
the table, and watched her daughter without a
word. Suddenly Muriel turned, and walking
quietly to where the fatal letter had fallen, she
stooped and picked it up, shuddering as she
did so. Even Lady Meredith was shocked at
the change she saw in her child's face. It was
white, peaked, and drawn, and she had grown
ten years older in appearance during the last
ten minutes.

I will take this," said Muriel, in a low voice,
and staring vacantly before her, "as you say
I may. I will take this and read it over. I
will see what I can do. I will five it back

to you tomorrow, — I will see what I can
do."

My child, my child " began Lady

Meredith.

Hush, mamma ! " interrupted Muriel sternly,
and turning on the woman a look of ineffable
scorn. " Hush ! I am not your child. If I do
anything, it will be for papa's sake, not for
yours. You have called me lower than the
lowest — you, my mother ! "

*' Muriel! My child, I "

"lower than the lowest' you said — those
were your words. God knows I am not ; I amas
pure as any girl living. Hush, mamma ! •/
know it, and that is enough. I care nothing for
what you may think — nothing ; " and this weak,
tender-hearted child threw out her arms with
an impassioned gesture of contempt and scorn
that would have delighted Each el. " I shall
think over this, and see what I can do ; but
it will be all for papa's sake, not yours ! " and
without another word, Muriel walked slowly out
of the room.

VOL. I. Q

CHAPTER XL

When she readied the nursery, Muriel never
thought for a moment of giving vent to tears,
or even of taking any time for reflection. She
sat quietly down and wrote the following, her
hand not even trembling as she traced the
lines : —

^' Dear Laurence, — I must see you at once.
Something terrible has happened. Meet me in
the garden of the Tuileries by the Arbre du 20
Mars punctually at five. — Truly yours,

"Muriel Meredith."

Then she rang.

*' Take this," she said, very quietly, and giving
the letter to the servant, " at once to the Hotel
Wagram, and if Mr Farquhar is in, give it to
him yourself. Tell him there is no answer — but

give it to him yourself. If he is not in, try and
find out where he has gone, and go after him
and give it to him. If they don't know where
he has gone, go to Voisin's ; if he is not there,
go to the Jockey Club ; if he is not there, go to
the Jeu de Paume ; if he is not there, call next
door at the Petit Club, asking at each place if
he has been there, and if they know where he
has gone. If you find him, give it to him yourself;
if not, bring it back to me, — but lose no
time, and do your best."

The servant, astonished beyond measure at
his young mistress's strange change of manner,
took the letter, bowed, and retired. When lie
found herself once more alone, Muriel took her
father's dying letter from her pocket and began
reading it over again carefully from beginning to
end, omitting no detail, and carefully examining
even the envelope and the Bordeaux and Paris
post-marks. Outwardly she evinced no emotion,
save perhaps by a slight shudder when she came
to the words, " Tell her my curse will be for ever
upon her, and the blood which I now spill will
be upon her head I " and by a deep-drawn sigh
when she came to the concluding words, ** I
am off to join Paul." When she had read it

once, she began again at the beginning and
read it all through again, and again a third
time ; then she quietly refolded it and put it
back in her pocket. Hardly had she done so
when the servant returned. He had looked into
Voisin's on his way to the Wagram, and found
Farquhar there. Here was the reply : —

2.30.

*'My own darling, dearest Wife, — What
is this new trouble ? and Why wait till five ?
Your servant tells me you are in now. Come
to me without delay. I shall be waiting for
you where you have appointed. — Yours until
death, Laurence."

Thank you," she said, quietly, to the servant
— " it is all right," and the man departed.

Yes, Laurence was right : she must see him
at once — the sooner the better; and she rose
quietly and began putting on her bonnet. This
trivial act was the first thing which brought
her to think of herself. Hitherto, ever since
she had first read this dreadful letter, she had
thought of nothing in particular save in a vague,
general, half-dazed way of her father — of how

lucky he was to be with Paul ; but now, as she
put on for the first time her mourning bonnet
and looked at herself in the glass, she thought
of herself. How old and ill she looked, to be
sure ! She looked like a widow. But how
strangely calm she was ! She wondered at herself,
and put her hand to her heart ; it beat
regularly. Then she looked at herself in the
glass again and tried to smile ; but a most
horrible grimace that half frightened, half
amused her was the result of this effort, so she
did not try the experiment again. How disagreeable
black gloves were in hot weather, and
how terribly hot that veil would be in the
street ! Then she quietly took up her parasol
and went out to meet her affianced husband.
She had not taken twenty steps in the street
before she stopped short. Her heart was broken,
that must be it. She had heard and read of
people's hearts being broken ; hers must be
broken now, otherwise, she told herself, she
could not possibly be so calm. She felt nothing
— absolutely nothing, save perhaps pleasure
at getting out into the open air ; no other
feeling, — no pleasure at being about to meet the
man she was going to marry, and no fear of

that meeting. She was utterly listless and careless.
As she attempted to cross the Rue Royale,
a servant on horseback, and in the Imperial
livery, nearly ran over her. She drew back,
and watched to see where he was going. He
stopped at their house. Some message from the
kind Empress, probably. How good she was!
Then Muriel crossed over into the gardens, and
went to meet her lover. He was there waiting
for her. She recognised his well-known figure
at once, but this recognition caused her neither
fear nor pleasure. She cared nothing about
anything or anybody ; but she was very thirsty,
and so, as Laurence had not seen her yet, she
went up to an itinerant vendor of limonade
franche whom she had known by sight ever
since her childhood, when she had been in the
habit of walking in the gardens with old Agnes
and little Paul (oh, how long ago ! and was it
not all a dream '?), drank one glass of the dreadful
mixture, found it delightfully cool, drank
another, paid, and walked quietly on. Laurence
now saw her, and came eagerly to meet her.

^' My own darling, what is if? — what is
it % " he asked with unfeigned emotion, taking
her listless hand in his and pressing it tenderly.

How dreadfully hot it is ! This is the
hottest day we have had yet, I think ! "

Laurence looked at her in bewilderment.
He could not see her face, which was hidden
by a veil ; but her voice was so strangely
altered that he hardly recognised it.

"What is it, Muriel — what is it, my darling?
Don't you know that I am here to
protect you ? "

"Thank you, Laurence. You are always
good and kind, but I don't think I want any
protection. I wanted to see you to tell you
some news that mamma only told me just
now. We are quite ruined, Laurence : "we
have not got a penny left, and both mamma
and I will be probably arrested and put in
prison in a few days if the Emperor does not
help us''

Ruined ! Imprisoned ! "

"Yes, read that — poor papa wrote it just
before killing himself ! '' and she gave him the
letter.

Laurence, his face as white as a sheet, took
the letter without a word, walked away from
her a few steps, and sat down to read it. He
had to sit down, for he felt unwell. It never

for a moment entered into his mind that the
poor frail little thing in black he left standing
there needed support or rest. He never thought
at first of taking her in his arms and comforting
her, so completely had this hideous news
overwhelmed him, and thrown him off his
guard. He read the letter, and while he was
doing so he was conscious by some strange
double sight — for his eyes were fixed upon the
paper — that Muriel had walked up to the famous
tree which is always supposed to show, before
all the other trees in Paris, the approach of
spring, by every year putting forth a few buds
on the 20th March, and was standing there
examining it with much interest, as if indeed
she had never seen it before. Before he had
read three lines, Laurence had recovered himself
and taken in the whole situation. Of
course he must get out of the scrape at once —
there could be no question about that — but how ?
Not at this present meeting, of course : he
would have to be, if anything, more tender
than ever now ; but he would write a line that
night from the hotel, and leave Paris at once.
Then he read to the end, put the letter back
into the envelope, rose, and came up to Muriel.

"Oh, my darling ! How dreadful ! How
dreadful ! " and as she quietly advanced her
arm to take back the letter, lie caught her hand
in his and pressed it with passionate tenderness,
" My own poor darling ! " He hardly knew
what to say.

So now I don't know what we shall do,
Laurence," she said, taking back the letter.
"You will have your father and me both to
take care of now, won't you '? "

*' But you have something of your own, you
told me ? "

She had never told him so, but she never
noticed this.

I had," she said, simply. " But they were
American securities, and are worth nothing
now — so mamma says. All is gone. Mamma
says we have not a penny left. What can I
do to make money, Laurence ? I can make
bonnets, perhaps. You, of course, always have
your newspapers : you will have to work harder
than ever now, my poor Laurence, for you will
have your father, and me, and — and — mamma,
of course, now."

What could he say ? He ransacked his brain
in a lightning flash, and saw nothing to do but

murmur, '^ My poor darling," and press her
Land, tenderly. This preternatural absence of
all passion and sympathy hardly surprised her,
she was so calm herself. Everything seemed
so strange !

*' Then I have got something else to tell
you," she said, after a short pause. " Arthur
has written to mamma to ask her consent to
marry me."

"Arthur has!"

"Yes; mamma showed me the letter. He
is a marquis now, you know, and will be a
duke when his father dies. How strange it
seems, doesn't it, Laurence ? Fancy Arthur a
duke ! I wonder if he will let me make
bonnets for his wife ! " And at this thought
Muriel laughed, — one or two notes merely
of strange, harsh gaiety, that were hardly
pleasant to hear. Laurence's heart bounded !
Here was the rock of salvation ! Here was a
splendid and triumphant means of escape ! He
could hardly be too tender and passionate
now. He must " pile on the agony," as he
expressed it to himself He caught her arm
and drew her close to him.

** Muriel," he murmured, — " Muriel, my

poor darling, what did you say to your
mother '? "

Who ? I ? I said nothing ! ''

*' You did not tell her about me — about our
engagement "? "

*^ Why, no, Laurence ; you remember you
made me promise not to." And she looked
up into his face for the first time. What a
strange question to ask her, she thought.

"And what did you say to her about the
offer — about Arthur's offer, I mean ? "

"Oh, I told her, of course, that was impossible."


And what did she say ? " •

Muriel shuddered. Laurence felt her tremble,
and guessed it all, for he knew Lady
Meredith had a temper of her own, and was
not the most refined of women, — hardly one
one might term ad unguent facta.

"Oh, mamma was very much disappointed,
of course. She could not understand it. I
don't care to remember what she said, Laurence.
She was in great trouble."

Poor Lady Meredith ! " The words escaped
him before he thought what he was saying,
and he added hastily, "And my poor darling

Muriel ! Come and sit down, my darling —
come." He led her to the seat he had just
left, and sat down close by her ; then he took
her hand in his and began, " Listen to me,
Muriel. Are you listening ? " She had turned
away her head, but she now looked at him.

Yes, Laurence, I am listening."

*' You remember the story I told you ? "

What story ? "

*' About my father, and my having given up
everything for his sake."

*' Oh yes. Of course I remember that."

Now, will you be guided by me, Muriel ? "
Why, that was how her mother had begun !
How strange !

Yes, Laurence, of course you know I will."

And do exactly as I tell you ? "

*^ Yes." What could be coming ?

"And know that what I tell you is for your
good, and that I love you better than my life ? "

Yes."

"Well, Muriel, my own dear, darling, lost
treasure, you must forget me, — you must only
think of your mother. You must marry
Arthur."

Marry Arthur ! "

Yes, my one, own, first, last, and only love,
you must sacrifice yourself and me for your
mother's sake, as I sacrificed myself for my
father's sake. You must marry Arthur."

Marry Arthur ! " She echoed the words
again, but this time faintly, as one in a swoon.

*^ Yes, Muriel ; I cannot stand in your way.
I cannot let my poor, selfish happiness, my one
only hope of sunshine, stand in your way, and
bring upon you your father's curse ; — think of
that, Muriel, your father's curse ! How could
you and I ever live with that ? You must
forget me — I must go away. Arthur is good
and true, and loves you. You will lear to
love him, — in time you will, — you will forget
me ; but even if you do not, you will be happy,
and even if you are not happy you will make
your mother happy, you will make Arthur
happy, you will be spared at least your father's
curse. We could not live with that, Muriel ;
we could not live with it over us. It would
kill me and kill you — it would turn our kisses

to poison, our children to " But he stopped

appalled, for with a low moan, '' Merciful Grot ! "
Muriel had slipped from him and from the
bench, and lay prone upon the ground insensible.

Ill a moment there was a crowd, but
luckily not a large one, for at that hour and
at that season of the year there were not many
people in the gardens. A few frightened nurses
and children, and soldiers, and sergents de ville,
and vagabonds clustered around, as Laurence
stooped over the prostrate form, raised it, laid
it on the bench, hastily sent for water and a
doctor, and lifting the veil, tried to undo the
crape which nestled around the little, slender,
white, girlish throat.

Mademoiselle had but just lost her father,
and had been overcome by the heat and her
emotions," he hurriedly explained; "let a doctor
be brought at once. He would explain all to
him."

Luckily a doctor was easily found — they
abound in every crowd in Paris — and Laurence
put him au courant de la situation at once,
giving him Muriel's name and address.

*' It is only a fainting-fit," said the disciple of
aesculapius, after a moment. '* But she must
be taken home at once. Luckily she does not
live far ; " and the poor man thought how lucky
he was to have been crossing the gardens justin
time to be of use to so great a lady as the

daughter of Sir William Meredith. Restoratives
were used, and ere long Muriel opened
her eyes, stared around her, and then tried to
raise her head from Laurence's shoulder.

"Where am I '?" she whispered.

With me, darling, never fear ; you have
fainted, that is all' said Laurence, speaking
of course in English.

Fainted ? Why ? I never faint. Where
am I ? Oh, I remember ! " and she sank back
and closed her eyes. ^'' Take me home," she
murmured, in a whisper. '^ Take me home,
Laurence. You must carry me. I can't walk,
and I don't want to die here."

A closed Fiacre had been brought into the
gardens by the gate on the Place de la Concorde,
and was waiting near them. Laurence took
Muriel in his arms as if she were a child and
brought her to the carriage, and placed her
gently in it.

Thank you, Laurence," she murmured, opening
her eyes. " How good you are ! "

'' Hush, my darling, don't speak," he said,
stooping and kissing her little listless hand,
from which an energetic bonne had torn off the
glove, and which now lay bare and motionless.

its delicate moist whiteness stained by the black
dye. '^ I am near you — you need not fear."

Then he and the doctor got into the cab and
drove to the Eue Royale. When they had
arrived at the house of mourning Laurence
got out first, explained matters briefly to the
frightened concierge and sent for Agnes, giving
strict orders that nothing was to be said, but
that Mr Farquhar was waiting for her below,
and must see her at once. The old Scotch-woman
was down-stairs in a few minutes, and
then Laurence told her how he had met Muriel
in the gardens, how she had fainted, overcome
by the heat and while speaking of her father's
death, and how he had brought her home ina
cab.

It is nothing," he said — '' only the commonest
fainting - fit, so you had better not
trouble Lady Meredith."

The old Scotchman looked at Laurence
with scornful distrust and disapproval.

I shall follow my ain counsel about that,"
she said. " If it's nothing but a faint, as you
say, I shall do as Miss Muriel tells me, about
saying anything to her ladyship ; but if my
darling is really bad, you mon be ready to

explain all this — that's all, Mr Farquhar. We
cinna want your advice here. Where is she ?
Let me see her."

But when Agnes reached the cab she found
Muriel so far recovered (thanks to some brandy
which the doctor had had presence of mind
enough to send for from Iota's, while Laurence
was talking with the concierge) that her
worst fears were temporarily allayed.

I fainted, Agnes' explained Miss Muriel.
** It was the heat and all this crape. I don't
know what I should have done but for Laurence.
But don't say anything to mamma
yet. It is nothing. I am all right now. • I
can walk," and to prove the truth of this she
clambered out of the cab and stood trembling
on the pavement, clinging to the doctor and her
old nurse.

"Mademoiselle is very much better now,"
said the doctor, when Muriel had been led to
the lodge of the concierge ; " and after this
second dose of brandy which I am now about
to give her, she will certainly be able to walk
up-stairs."

His prediction was speedily verified, for
hardly had Miss Meredith swallowed a second

VOL. L R

half wine-glassful of this unwonted stimulant
than the colour returned to her cheeks, and she
rose strong and refreshed.

"I am all right now'' she said, looking
around her and trying to smile. *' I feel quite
strong again. Agnes, you must say nothing
to mamma. She has quite enough to trouble
her as it is. But now that I think of it, I
must see her myself. That is, I think I
must ; '' and the poor child, who had been
worn out by the terrible emotions of the past
fortnight, and especially of the past few hours,
pressed her hand to her temples.

It's the brandy you're feeling. Miss — it isn't
real strength. Come up to bed, and leave speaking
to her ladyship till you're better. You'll be
down with fever before you know it."

Agnes was right : the brandy had mounted to
the girl's head, and had given her unwonted,
though fictitious and ephemeral, strength and
courage.

Wait, Agnes," she said, speaking feverishly.
I must speak to Mr Farquhar for a minute."

"Ye cinna want to speak to him enow.
Another time will do. Come to bed."

But the girl would not listen to her : she had

something to say to her lover, and the stimulant
she had absorbed had created a wild craving in
her heart to have it all over and done with, now
and at once and for ever. She remembered
everything perfectly, — how he had told her her
duty was to give him up and marry another.
Could this be true, or was this but a dream
bred of delirium ? Know she must, and at
once.

I must speak to this gentleman for a moments''
she said, speaking in French, seating
herself wearily again, and turning to the doctor.
" If you will all kindly leave us here
together for a few minutes, I will then go upstairs.
Do not go away," she added hastily, as
she saw a look of great disappointment come
across the doctor's face. " I shall want you to
help me up-stairs, and mamma will want to
thank you. But leave now. I wish it."

There was no withstanding the imperative
tone in which this request was made; so the
concierge sighing, the doctor bowing, and Agnes
growling, left her alone with Laurence, and stood
at the street-door.

*' I will gie ye five minutes, not more," said
Aornes.

The moment they were alone in this dingy
little porter's lodge, Laurence leant over her
tenderly. Of course he knew what was coming,
and blessed the brandy that it had inspired the
girl to have the matter settled at once.

*' What is it, my darling ? '^ he inquired, in
his most tender voice.

"Did you tell me just now that it was my
duty to give you up and to marry Arthur, or
did I dream it ? "

** You did not dream it, my darling ; I told
you so. Not only your duty to your father, to
your mother, and to yourself, but to me. Remember
what your father wrote."

I remember. But what will become of
you ? "

Of me ? " And he put on a Byronic air of
sadness, which he did not care to intensify too
much lest it should bring on another outbreak
of emotion. " Oh, I shall resume my old life, I
suppose." And then, seeing her turn away her
head in anguish, he added hastily, '' But you
must not grieve for me, Muriel : 1 shall be
happy ! "

*' Happy ? " she echoed, turning and looking
at him. " How ? f do not understand."

"Yes, happy, if you will let me be your
friend, — see you when I like, be a brother, if I
cannot be nearer and dearer."

Muriel rose, threw her arms around his neck,
and kissed him. " God bless you, Laurence ! "
she exclaimed, in an outburst of wild joy, for
the brandy was now rushing like madness to her
brain. " You are too good for me ! You shall
always be my best and truest friend. Kiss me,
dear brother, kiss me ! we shall never, never say
good-bye ! "

Hush, Muriel ! '^ exclaimed Laurence, in a
low tone ; '' they will hear you. Go to bed
now. You will be ill''

"Think of all that I can do for your father !
think of what Arthur will do ! think "

Hush, my darling ! hush ! Be quiet now, I
beg of you. See, they are coming back ! " and
Agnes stalked in.

Noo come to bed, Miss Muriel. You'll
talk yourself' into a brain-fever ! Whatever is
the matter with the lassie ? "

This last exclamation was drawn forth by the
fact that Muriel, having thrown herself into her
old nurse's arms, was devouring her rugged face
with kisses.

Mademoiselle must go to bed at once," said
the doctor, " or else I will not answer for the
consequences."

Muriel, you must listen to reason," said
Farquhar, gravely. " You must go up-stairs
now. See, all the servants are looking!" And,
in truth, the whole Meredith household was
now out, and crowding around the door of the
concierge s loge. '^ I will go now, but will call
again this evening. Good-bye." And he took
her hand.

Not good-bye ! " she exclaimed.

Not good-bye, then, — a ce soir! " And he
rushed away as from a nest of hornets.

"Agnes, I must see mamma," said Muriel,
when he had gone — "I must see mamma."

Not now, my darling, not now — later on.
Come to bed now."

Muriel repeated her request to the doctor in
French, but that gentleman shook his head.

"Go to bed now, mademoiselle, and then
madame votre mere will perhaps come and see
you. But now you need repose."

Agnes," said Muriel, " if I go to bed now,
will you promise to bring mamma to me when
I ask you ? " Agnes stood aghast. Why, the

girl must have taken leave of her senses. Lady-meredith
had never been to her daughter's bedside
twice in her life. " Mamma will come if
you tell her I want to see her. I know she
will'' said Muriel, reading what was passing in
her nurse's mind ; " will you promise ? "

Yes, yes, — I'll promise to tell her, Miss Muriel
: that's all I can do. Now are you satisfied ?
Come, then, to bed."

And so the girl, leaning on her nurse's arm,
and followed by the doctor and the gaping servants,
slowly ascended the staircase, and was
taken to her room. Lady Meredith had heard
nothing of all this, having taken a strong dose
of chloral directly after her daughter's departure
that morning, and the drug had brought to her
that solace from her agonising thoughts which
she had sought, by plunging her into a profound
sleep, from which she was rudely awakened by
Agnes.

^' What is it ? " she exclaimed, jumping ujd,
and fancying some new horror was about to
befall her. " What do you want ? "

Miss Muriel would like to see your ladyship.
She has been ill."

Muriel ill '? "

Fainted in the street, my lady ! She is
better now, and in bed, but she wants to see
your Ladyship at once."

Lady Meredith pushed back the old Scotch-woman
roughly, and ran rather than walked to
her daughter's room. What last terrible and
final blow was about to come upon her now,
she wondered. Her daughter dying ! Then,
indeed, there was nothing left to her but death !
Heedless of the strange man, the doctor, whom
she found seated in the nursery, and who rose
and bowed profoundly at her approach, she
rushed wildly into her daughter's bedroom.

Muriel ! Muriel ! My child, what is it ?
Are you dying 1 "

Muriel was sitting up in bed, with her arms
extended eagerly to embrace her mother.

Dying I " she cried, as she pressed her
mother to her bosom. ** Oh, no ! I am so
happy ! " Then, lowering her voice, she continued
— " Oh, mamma, forgive me ! I will do
as you wish ! I will marry Arthur ! "

"Thank God!" Never was the Almighty
more earnestly thanked than on this occasion
by Lady Meredith. '' Thank God, my darling I "
Then rapturous kisses. " But you are ill, my

love ! Agnes told me you were ill. Why are
you in bed, and who is that strange man in the
next room 1 "

Muriel laughed, a hysterical nervous laugh.

*' Oh, that's the doctor, mamma ! I fainted
in the Tuileries Garden from the heat. He was
passing, and when I came to, and told him who
I was, he brought me home. He has been so
kind, mamma. You must let him take care of
me. I am not ill. I shall be quite well by
dinner-time."

She said nothing of Laurence ; but then her
mother had never been her confidant, and she
had something more of great importance to say
which would brook of no delay. Lady Meredith
herself was so overjoyed by this unexpected
turn events had taken, that she thought or cared
but little about her daughter's health. Only let
her live to become Lady Lyonesse, and she might
fall down dead in the street for all she cared ;
for, in truth, the stormy interview she had had
that morning with Muriel had eradicated with
violence any slight feeling of affection she might
ever have felt for her daughter.

"But, mamma, I have something more to say."

What is it, my angel ? "

*' You must tell Arthur everything before we
marry."

Of course, my love."

"I mean, not only about our being ruined —
he will not care so much about that — but about
what papa wrote about the disgrace — about
Vera Cruz."

I will, my love, I will. That is all nothing
now — nothing."

** But Arthur may not want to marry the
daughter of a — a "

Hush, my love ! That is all nothing now,
I tell you."

But you must tell him, mamma, nothing
or not ! I shall not marry him until I know
you have told him. I shall ask him myself"

'' I will tell him, I promise you."

Swear, mamma."

** I pledge you my solemn word I will,
Muriel. And now can I write to him tonight
'? "

Oh mamma, mamma, I have always loved
him ! " and the poor child burst into so violent
a passion of tears that the doctor rose, approached
the door, and coughed.

Forty-eight hours later Lord Lyonesse received

a letter from Lady Meredith telling him that
not only he had her full consent to seek her
daughter's hand in marriage, but that moreover
she had herself spoken to her daughter, and
that he was accepted, Muriel having confessed
that she had always loved him. Two days later
Lady Meredith saw the Emperor, laid the situation
before his Majesty, and that most generous
and kind-hearted of princes promised to settle
the Vera Cruz difficulty, so that the daughter
of Mornyy's friend might become an English
duchess. So when Lyonesse arrived. Lady Meredith
had only to touch most lightly on this delicate
subject, and confined herself principally to
urging on her future son-in-law the necessity of
telling Muriel, when first he should see her, that
he knew all about the Vera Cruz trouble, and
that it was nothing, — instructions which the
delighted and love-sick Marquis carefully carried
out. On the morning after the fainting-fit in
the Tuileries Garden, Muriel received the following
letter : —

Hotel Wagram, Tuesday Night.

"My own darling lost Love, — I called
twice this afternoon and evening, and heard

that you were much better, so I have decided
that it is best for both of us not to meet again
just yet. The sacrifice is hard and bitter enough
as it is ; why make it harder for both of us ?
When you are married we shall meet again, and
be, as you yourself said, brother and sister to
one another, and nothing more. We shall both
be strengthened in this terrible sacrifice by the
knowledge that we have both done our duty.
For my part, I have made the ultimate and
supreme offering to you. I have given up life,
love, and almost hope ; but you must solemnly
promise me one thing, my darling, in return for
this. You must never by word or deed let anyone
ever suspect what has passed between us —
not even Arthur. Men are jealous even of the
past, and we should never be able to be brother
and sister if any one knew. This secret must
be sacred between us — the bond which binds
my dear sister and friend to me. You will be
doing no harm in keeping this secret. You
know I would never, even to save my life, ask
you to do harm ; so let it be as I say. It is
not much to ask you in return for my heart and
life, which I have gladly laid before you to
walk over, as Raleigh did his cloak before the

Queen. I will not say good-bye, my darling ;
you said we should never say good-bye. We
shall meet soon. God bless you !

' The past is nothing, and at last
The future has become the past.'

*' Yours for ever, Laurence Farquhar."

The moral of all this may perhaps be best
summed up by a philosophical remark made by
Graham that night at the Maison Dor^e, when
Farquhar had told him of the interview in the
Tuileries Garden, and of the result. " See how
strange life is," said that worthy gentleman.
You owe all this to the brandy, Farquhar."

How is that ? "

Yes, you do. If the brandy had not given
that girl an unusual and unnatural stimulus, she
would never have released you, and you would
have been in the hole still. She would never
have had the courage to accept your sacrifice
(women never like that, — they want to do all the
self-sacrificing themselves always), or at the best
there would have been a row. TintagiFs son
would have heard all about it, and that match,
at all events, would have been impossible."

Perhaps you are right," mused Farquhar.

^' I know I am right ; and so now, merely
because a little girl gets tipsy in a dirty porter's
lodge, the daughter of one of the biggest scoundrels
that ever lived becomes a duchess, and
you occupy the enviable position of being forever
her devoted friend. Que la vie est
drove ! ''

CHAPTER Xir.

When Lyonesse wrote to Lady Meredith that
his father and mother had instructed him to
tell her how glad they would be to receive her
and her daughter into their illustrious family,
he had told no falsehood — in fact, anything approaching
falsehood, or even prevarication, was
utterly abhorrent to Arthur's healthy nature.
It must be borne in mind that Sir William
Meredith had the reputation of having amassed
an immense fortune in the course of his adventurous
career, and although very many might
perhaps have been found who would not
have cared to participate in a fortune so suspiciously
acquired, his Grace the Duke of Tin-tail
was not of this number. The Duke was
fond of money, fond of making it, fond of having
it, fond of spending it. His eldest son
Camelot had, with his full consent, married a

very strange widow lady from Chicago, merely
because she was possessed of £40,000 per annum,
although indignant and jealous mothers
in May fair avowed that, as the Duke was well
known to have £100,000 a-year, and to allow
the Marquis £10,000 a-year — not to speak of
the immense sums made by both father and
son in their divers speculations in the city and
elsewhere — the want of money, which alone
could have accounted for so unequal and most
inexcusable a match, did not exist. The marriage
had not been altogether an unhappy one,
however. Lady Camelot had worn a great
many diamonds, and been on terms of familiarity
with a great many very great people, before
her premature and sudden death prevented her
from attaining the great, splendid, ultimate joy
of becoming an English duchess ; and although
her father-in-law and husband had tried to bully
her at first, and very many of the leaders of
society, both at home and abroad, had scorned
her up to the last, her indomitable pluck and
coolness on the one hand, and the advantages
of her rank and fortune on the other, had erelong
enabled her to enjoy a reasonable share of
both domestic felicity and social success. This

lady had, moreover, done her best, and not without
success, to win posthumous gratitude from
the Duke and Marquis by dying and leaving
no child behind her, so that the bulk of her
property went to swell the ducal stores.

When the noble Marquis had lost his equilibrium
and life on the Swiss mountain, the
Duke's first thought had been how to provide
his only remaining child, our friend Arthur, now
Marquis of Lyonesse, and heir to all the splendour
of the ducal house of Pendragon, with a
consort whose pecuniary advantages might at
least be satisfactory. Hitherto, as indeed we
have already intimated, the Duke had not foimd
his son amenable to reason in the matter of
marrying for money ; but so long as Camelot
had been alive, and looking out anxiously fora
lady fit from a financial point of view to
replace the dear dead Chicago marchioness (as
indeed his lordship always was), this had not
much mattered. Now, however, everything
was wholly altered. Camelot was no more :
even the title and familiar name had, according
to the usages of society, passed into abeyance,
only to be revived in the next Duke's eldest
son ; and Lord Arthur Pendragon, the unim-

VOL. I. s

portant attack had suddenly blossomed into
the Marquis of Lyonesse, one of the most
splendid matrimonial prizes ever hung before
the thirsty lips of Mayfair mothers. Surely,
the Duke thought in his heart, this sudden
and wholly unexpected approach to the 
could not fail to have some effect
in modifying and softening the Spartan sternness
With which Arthur had always hitherto
declined to entertain any proposal to seek
and find, clasp and have in wedlock, a " little
hand and muckle gold." Surely Camelot's
death would bring home forcibly to the mind
of Lyonesse, amid, of course, a host of other
newly incurred responsibilities and obligations,
the one great vital truth that it was incumbent
on him to marry, and not only so, but to marryat
once, and still further and more important
than all, to marry money.

But these very proper and justly founded
hopes entertained by his Grace were rudely
overturned and demolished by the very first
words that Lyonesse uttered when the matter
was put before him. He very quietly and
respectfully, but no less firmly, informed his
father that he had already fully made up his

mind whom he would marry, that his heart was
already engaged, and that although he had
every reason to believe the lady he loved to be
indeed an heiress, that consideration sank into
complete insignificance by the side of the terrible
uncertainty which he felt as to whether his
suit would be accepted. Of course the Duke
and his Manchester-manufactured Duchess both
held up their hands in holy horror when they
heard the name of the young lady who had
won the heart of their only surviving child ;
but the manual exercises of Albus, as chronicled
by Arnold, have inspired more terror in
the hearts of stupid schoolboys than did, this
dissatisfaction of his parents affect the love-sick
Marquis. The end of it all was that the Duke,
after having made inquiries, and found from
hearsay that Sir William Meredith's daughter
must be very rich, no matter how the money
was got, resolved to abide by the wholesome
advice given by his friends in Capet Court to
'* cut losses," or, in other words, make the best
of a bad bargain, and welcome this apothecary's
granddaughter to his ducal bosom. The whole
thing was hurried through in no time — a violent
attack of gout preventing the Duke from

using his usual vigilance ; and thus it was that
Muriel Meredith had become Marchioness of
Lyonesse before his Grace had become aware
of the heartrending fact that his only child had
married a pauper. Great, of course, was the
dismay and anger of the Duke and Duchess,
but it was now too late to do anything, save
make themselves very disagreeable to the young
bride, and most impossibly offensive and insolent
to the bride's mother, — a line of conduct
which, by the way. Lady Meredith so far resented
that she determined to content herself with the
handsome allowance made to her by her son-in-law,
and pitch her tent for evermore in Paris.
Lyonesse of course rebelled, and told his father
and mother in very plain and pregnant Saxon
that as his wife would some day, D. V., be no
less a personage than Duchess of Tintagil, he
wished her treated with the respect due to her
present and future rank ; but that as he saw his
parents had no intention of so treating her, he
should take good care that, at all events, his
darling should be sheltered from their vulgar
impertinence by living far from the shadow of
their ducal frowns. This very terrible decision
having been come to, it was with feelings of

unmixed satisfaction that the young Marquis
accepted the kind offer of Lord Hugo Drury,
uncle and guardian of the baby Marquis of
Harrison, to lend him his pretty place in
Kent, Leavenworth by name, which had in the
eyes of the bewildered Muriel the great and
supreme advantage of being directly next to
Courthope Park, the residence of her beloved
Madge, now Lady Anstruther.

But this reminds us that we have lost sight
of Madge for so long, that it is time once more
to bring her before the notice of our readers.
She had found in Colonel Anstruther all that
she had expected or required — a tender, deVoted
husband, and honest and noble-hearted friend ;
and the opportune though reluctant and vexatiously
dilatory exit of the old baronet from
this vale of tears, followed as it was by the
birth to her of a daughter, christened Laura
after the Colonel's late mother, seemed to her
to be events especially ordained by a beneficent
Providence to, in the first place, give her the
present enjoyment of a handsome fortune, and
then, in the event of the death of her no longer
youthful consort, complete control over the
same for the benefit of her daughter. But it

must not be supposed that this most strange
young lady, who had latent within her nature
many of the coarse failings so often to be found
in the low rank of life in which she had been
born, and which, once innate, no education or
training can ever wholly eradicate, — it must
not, we say, be imagined that Lady Anstruther
forgot, even amidst the harassing cares and
troubles of maternity, the love-dream in which
Madge Tyrrell had indulged, and to ensure the
realisation of which she had accepted the hand
and heart of the one-legged Inkerman hero.
She never ceased thinking of her darling Laurence,
and eagerly looked forward to the day
when, if it so pleased God as to let her survive
her husband, she could lay all she had obtained
by her self-sacrifice at the feet of the only man
she had ever loved. No thought of dishonour
ever entered her mind, nor was she indeed
anxious to hasten that meeting with Laurence,
which nevertheless it made her heart leap with
joy to think could not, now that Muriel and
Arthur were living next to her, be long delayed ;
but, on the other hand, she could not bring
herself to think it a sin to speculate on her
chances of happiness in the likely event of her

finding herself a widow, while still comparatively
young and enjoying complete control of
a very handsome fortune, a considerable portion
of which she could dedicate to the use and
benefit of whosoever might be most dear to her.
Lady Anstruther was indeed (as is often the
case when it is a mariage de raison on one
side) an exemplary wife ; and although she
cared absolutely nothing for her child. Sir
James found, in his enamoured and grateful
heart, plenty of excuses for this strange absence
of maternal affection, and indeed principally
ascribed it to his wife's youth, and to the fact
of her openly acknowledged disappointment at
not having had a son instead of a daughter.
Jim Anstruther's life had been so entirely devoid
of the tender influence of woman's love,
and he had kept himself so pure and undefiled,
that the caresses and sympathy of his attractive
and captivating young wife seemed to him to
lack nothing ; and so for the first eighteen
months of his married life this honest gentleman,
who began his youth and murmured
his first love-song when he had passed fifty,
may be said to have been thoroughly and completely
happy. He knew he could not livelong

— he knew that he had inherited the heart
disease which had killed his dearly beloved
mother, and he had in fact told Madge very
plainly this ; but he dared to hope nevertheless
that his almighty Father, whom he had done
his best in his little way to serve, would perhaps
in His infinite mercy spare him to enjoy some
years of his daughter's early girlhood.

But the time has now come to introduce to
our readers an individual who is destined to
play no unimportant a part in this true story.

When Lydia Evans accepted the very red
hand of the Reverend John Paul Peter Mill-wood,
she knew very thoroughly, from what she
had seen in her own father's vicarage, what we
would be almost tempted to call the dessous les
cartes of a parson's life. She was the type of a
class happily but rarely to be met with, — the
daughter, indeed one of the very numerous
daughters, of a very worldly and very poor man,
who had taken holy orders without any qualification
for the telling of the Good News, and
who had merely become a clergyman in the
vain hope that, his vulgarity hidden by his
frock, he might pray his way into society, become
knighted as it were by kneeling; and at the

same time feeling justly confident that, so long
as he did not quarrel with his bishop, he could at
least during his lifetime provide for his children.
He had then married the daughter of a gloriously
prolific but painfully impecunious ecclesiastic,
and had enthusiastically accepted his father-in-law's
reading of the admonition to increase and
multiply. Now to have the quiver full is one
thing, and doubtless the source of unmixed
satisfaction to the ambitious archer, but to have
stacks of arrows piled in every corner of the
house is quite another thing, and a bewildering
accident which can hardly fail to bring much
vexation to one whose bow wherewith to speed
these missiles to a successful bull's-eye is of but
limited power and fibre. The blessing which
glorified the matrimonial felicity of the wife of
Abraham so late in life imposed itself upon the
notice of the wife of the Reverend Jabez Evans
with the tedious benignancy of the recurring
decimal in the arithmetic so loved by schoolboys,
and daughter after daughter had been
born to her. Now this drawback — and with
the image of the bowman in our mind, the term
drawback is not perhaps inapt — of perpetual,
and what we are almost tempted to call aggressive

maternity, had led to the sad result of the too
numerous children being wholly neglected and
left very much to shift for themselves, being
merely broadly taught that to marry soon, and
above all to marry rich men, comprised in a
handy duodecimo pocket form the whole duty of
impecunious woman.

Lydia Evans had had from infancy this crude
lesson dinned into her ears, and that such teaching
may have warped what little innate good
was latent in her nature may be shrewdly
surmised ; but be this as it may, that she put
the doctrine thus incessantly preached to her
into practice at the very first available opportunity
is beyond all doubt, for she married a
man almost as godless as her father, merely
because he had happened to have been pitch-forked
into a good living. She had been one of
twelve, and it would seem almost as if the goddess
Lucina had thought she had done enough
for that branch of the Evans family, for Lydia,
notwithstanding her frequent appeals to Providence,
remained childless. Having therefore no
particular affairs of her own to attend to, Mrs
Millwood busied herself principally about the
affairs of others ; and here the sacred calling of

her husband stood her in good stead — for charity,
which so proverbially covers such a multitude of
sins, has a large pocket with a button made in
the inner part of her cloak, wherein she may
stow away selfish and impertinent interference.
Mrs Millwood was the worst type of the worst
class of the women we have been describing.
She had been from her infancy so in the
habit of seeing divine mysteries, and those
sweet, tender channels of sympathy which linkman
to his dear Father in heaven, looked upon
merely as means of making a leg of mutton
fill fourteen mouths, that what little soul she
may originally have had very speedily shrivelled
and dried up. She knew all about the bore of
writing sermons — the bad temper and bad language
it gives rise to (not to speak of the frequent
acts of the broadest dishonesty in the
way of plagiarism) ; she knew how far marriages
baptism, and death went in the buying of new
socks and boots, and exactly how much of the
money collected for the heathen, when '' Greenland's
icy mountains " thawed the hearts of her
father's congregation, would find its way into
the paternal exchequer. A rustic bard, doubtless
jealous of Bloomfield's laurels, once very

rudely wrote in chalk on the doors of a church
in Dorsetshire —

The parson enrols
For salvation our souls,
While the missus looks after the blankets and coals."

And SO Lydia, when her exhausted mother had
panted out her life in giving birth to her twelfth,
had cheerfully accepted the responsibility of
looking into what her ferret-like inquisitiveness
prompted her to suspect to be the most delicate
and amusing and scandalous crannies of her
father's parishioners' lives — distributing tracts
and advice in merciful abundance, but conferring
coals (typical of the eternal and ardent
punishment which must await the unrepenting
sinner) and blankets (emblematic of the warm
and comfortable covering provided for the elect)
with rather less generous a hand.

To speak of this creature's spiritual life would
be like writing a chapter on snakes in Iceland,
for the flame had long been quenched, and
naught remained in the lamp but the fragrant
oil ; and even moral purity she had hardly
ever known, for almost her earliest recollection
was of her habit of stealing down and putting
her ear to the study-door where half-a-dozen

raw hobbledehoys, whom her father was coaching
for the universities, were nightly in the
habit of baptising their emancipation from the
sweet influence of their mother's kisses with
terrible oaths and still more terrible anecdotes.

Mrs Millw^ood, when once she had become
fully convinced that she was to be denied the
joys of maternity, turning coldly from her husband
and neglecting parish duties, of which she
had had quite enough in her girlhood at home,
sought solace and balm for her wounded spirit
in looking after the affairs of such Magdalen as
might find it convenient to listen to her exhortations
; and it was while battling in this field
of labour that she had first met poor old Lady
Anstruther, in whom the well trained and eager
eye of Lydia Millwood immediately recognised
a most valuable ally. The guileless and benevolent
old lady, listening with all eagerness, believed
implicitly in the truth of all the tales told
her by her new friend of the splendid successes
which had attended her divers tilting against
those two most dangerous adversaries to purity,
love and alcohol ; and so, before the two months
which succeeded their first meeting were over,
the baronet's wife and the parson's adjunct were

very tightly knitted together in a bond woven
of generous admiration on the one hand and
vulgar duplicity on the other.

Lady Anstruther, who was loath to believe
evil even of those who took no pains to hide
their iniquities, was of course easily deceived
by one so well versed in all the dirty network of
guile as was this spiritual laundress ; and the
result was, that a year after this strange friendship
had been formed, and when it pleased Providence
to call upon the Reverend J. P. P. Mill-wood
to rest from his earthly labours and enjoy
his celestial reward, Lady Anstruther had invited
the unwholesome widow to pay her a
visit at Courthope Park ; and Mrs Millwood once
there, had taken good care to make herself so useful
to the gouty and disagreeable baronet, that
when poor Lady Anstruther died, the parson's
relict took up her permanent abode at Courthope,
and was resident there and a fixture when we
make her acquaintance.

Madge had involuntarily but instinctively
shrunk from this woman — and the aversion indeed,
from the moment of their first meeting, had
been mutual. But young Lady Anstruther could
not find it in her heart at first to speak her mindfully

to her husband (who, of course, shared his
mother's belief in Mrs Millwood) on the subject
of this woman's objectionable and interfering
presence in their home ; and then, during the
period of her ladyship's confinement, and subsequently
in the care of the infant, the woman
had made herself so useful that Madge had
put off the disagreeable task of telling her husband
that the removal of this creature from
their home circle would be necessary to her happiness.
The arrival of Muriel and her husband
at Leavenworth — a small but remarkably pretty
property which adjoined Courthope, and which
Lord Lyonesse had been granted the use qf for
so long as he might choose to occupy it — was a
source of unmixed satisfaction and delight to all
concerned ; for not only, of course, were the two
ladies more than pleased at renewing their tender
intimacy and friendship (especially as they
neither of them had many friends in England,
and their peculiar training in Paris had rather
unfitted them to enjoy in all its aspects English
country life), but a mutual liking and regard
had always existed between the Colonel and the
young nobleman, and they were both heartily
glad that a lucky chance had once more thrown

them together. Indeed, but for the hateful presence
of Mrs Millwood, who was as obnoxious to
Lady Lyonesse as she was to Lady Anstruther,
life at Courthope and Leavenworth during these
first few months would have been one of unclouded
happiness ; and the two households so
constantly intermingled that — with the consent
of Lord Hugo, the owner of Leavenworth — a
private means of communication was made between
the two estates, and a little wicket-gate
constructed, opening from lawn to lawn, so that
the inhabitants of the one place could easily call
upon the inhabitants of the other, without being
forced to make use of the principal entrances,
and passing by the highroad. Lord Lyonesse
was much in town during the day, seeing the
leading Tories at the Carlton, and having long
consultations with. Mr S., the then agent of that
great party ; but he spent a small fortune in
hiring specials to dash back home in time to
dine, and pass the evening with his adored wife,
and by no means allowed the fact of his being
about to stand for the seat in Parliament rendered
vacant by the death of his brother to
interfere with his perfect connubial bliss. Muriel
would spend the day with Madge and her

husband, talking over old times, walking, riding,
driving, or petting the baby ; and in the evening
they would invariably all meet together at
the dinner-table, either at Leavenworth or Court-hope,
and dear old Sir James would do his best
to instil into the mind of the young marquis the
vital importance of making Indian — especially
Indian military — matters a prominent item in
his forthcoming electoral address. Thus the
days passed pleasantly enough, but for the
obsequious and servile presence of Mrs Mill-wood,
which Madge, partly from indolence,
partly out of pity, and partly from a half-superstitious
dread of disturbing the existing state of
tranquil happiness, postponed from day to day
dispensing with.

But Lydia Millwood, although for the most
part ignored in general conversation, and only
consulted in matters pertaining to the nursery,
kept her eyes open and her morbid brain
active, and read the hearts of the Colonel, Arthur,
Madge, and Muriel, as if they had been
open books. She noted in Lady Anstruther
some strong underlying preoccupation which
entirely escaped the notice of the others (even
of Muriel), and mentally ascribed it to regret for

VOL. I. T

some lover left in that metropolis of wickedness,
Paris ; she keenly perceived all the weak points
in the brave armour of the gallant Colonel, and
despised him for so innocently indicating to her
so many vulnerable parts ; she wormed out of
old Agnes, who had accompanied the young
marchioness to her English home, the secret of
Madge's origin and birth, and of the curious
accident which had thrown the waif into the
path of Sir William Meredith ; and finally, by
means of much unctuous religious discourse, she
so found her way to loosen the tongue of the
old Scotchman, that but few incidents of
the Paris life of either Muriel or Lady An-stretcher
remained unpolluted by her malicious
speculations. She felt that she was hated, that
the time of her departure from the pleasant
home she had made for herself at Courthope
"was at hand, but she decided that the Parthian
arrow she should choose wherewith to wound
her benefactor as a memorial of her departure
should be steeped in as fatal a poison as her
malignancy could discover.

Such was the condition of affairs with the
leading characters of our story, when relentless
destiny once more brought Laurence Farquhar

across the path of the lady whose very existence
he had almost begun to forget, but who cherished
for him a passion which had lost nothing
of its ardour by being lighted by the brilliant
flame of imagination which is so often intensified
by memory and absence.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD And SONS.

OF

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS'

PUBLICATIONS.

Edited by WILLIAM KNIGHT, LL.D.,

Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of St Andrews.
In crown 8vo Volumes, with Portraits, price 3s. 6d.

1. Descartes.

2. Butler.

3. Berkeley.

4. Fichte.

5. Kant.

6. Hamilton.

7. Hegel.

8. Leibniz.

9. Vico.

10. Hobbes.

11. Hume.

12. Spinoza.

13. Bacon.

14. Bacon.

Novo ready—
By Professor Mahaffy, Dublin.
By Rev. "W. Lucas Collins, Mea.
By Professor Campbell Fraser, Edinburgh.
By Professor Adamson, Owens College, Manchester.
By Professor Wallace, Oxford.
By Professor Veitch, Glasgow.
By Professor Edward Cairo, Glasgow.
By J. Theodore Mers.
By Professor Flint, Edinburgh.
By Professor Room Robertson, London.
By the Editor.

By the Very Rev. Principal Caird, Glasgow.
Part I.— The Life. By Professor Nichols, Glasgow.
Part II.— Philosophy. By the Same.
Other Vols, in preparation.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Edited by Mrs OLIPHANT.

Dante. By the Editor.

Voltaire. By Lieut-general Sir E. B.

Hamley, K.C.B.
Pascal. By Principal Bullock.
Petrarch. By Henry Reeve, Cab.
Goethe. By A. Hay ward, Q.C.
MoLiERE. By the Editor and F. Carver,

Mea.
Montaigne. By Rev. W. L. Collins, Mea.
Rabelais, By Walter Besant, Mea.
Caldron. By E. J. Hasell.

In crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Contents.

Saint Simon, By Clifton W. Collins, Mea.

Cervantes. By the Editor,

Corneille and Racine. By Henry M.
Trollope.

Madame de S^vioNf . By Miss Thackeray.

La Fontaine, and other French Fabulists.
By Rev. W. Lucas Collins, Mea.

Schiller. By James Sine, M.A,, Author
of ' Lessing : his Life and Writings. '

Tasso. By E. J, Hasell.

Rousseau, By Henry Grey Graham.

Now Complete.

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Edited by the Rev. W. LUCAS COLLINS, M.A.

Complete in 28 Vols, crown Svo, cloth, price 2s. 6d, each. And may also be had in
14 Volumes, strongly and neatly bound, with calf or vellum back, £2> los.

Saturday Review.— "It is difficult to estimate too highly the value of such a series
as this in giving ' English readers ' an insight, exact as far as it goes, into those
olden times which are so remote and yet to many of us so close."

OF

MESSRS BLACKWOOD & SONS'
PUBLICATIONS.

ALISON. History of Europe. By Sir Archibald Alison, Bart.,

D.C.L.

1. From the Commencement of the French Revolution to the

Battle of Waterloo.

Library Edition, 14 vols., with Portraits. Demy 8vo, ;sip, los.
Another Edition, in 20 vols, crown 8vo, £6.
People's Edition, 13 vols, crown 8vo, £1, his.

2. Continuation to the Accession of Louis Napoleon.

Library Edition, 8 vols. 8vo, £6, 7s. 6d.
People's Edition, 8 vols, crown Svo, 34s.

3. Epitome of Alison's History of Europe. Twenty-ninth

Thousand, ys. 6d.

4. Atlas to Alison's History of Europe. By A. Keith Johnston.

Library Edition, demy 4to, £2, 3s.
People's Edition, 31s. 6(1.

Life of John Duke of Marlborough. With some Account

of his Contemporaries, and of the War of the Succession. Third Edition,
2 vols. Svo. Portraits and Maps, sos.

Essays : Historical, Political, and Miscellaneous. 3 vols.

demy 8vo, 45s.

Air. Poetical Works of Thomas Air. Fifth Edition, with

Memoir of the Author by the Rev. Jardine Wallace, and Portrait,
Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

ALLARDYCE. The City of Sunshine. By Alexander Altars

Three vols, post Svo, £t., 5s. 6d.

Memoir of the Honourable George Keith Elphinstone,

K.B., Viscount Keith of Stonehaven, Marischal, Admiral of the Red. Svo,
with Portrait, Illustrations, and Maps, 21s.

Letters from and to Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe. Edited

by Alex. Allardyce, with a Memoir by the Rev. W. K. R. Bedford. 2 vols.
Svo. Illustrated with Etchings and other Engravings. £2, 12s. 6d.

Scotland and Scotsmen in the Eighteenth Century. Edited

from the MSS. of John Ramsay, Esq. of Ochtertyre, by Alex, Allardyce.
2 vols. Svo, 31S. 6d.

ALMOND. Sermons by a Lay Head-master. By Held Hutchinson
Almond, M.A. Oxen. , Head-master of Lorenzo School. Crown 8vo, 58.

ANCIENT CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited by

Rev. W. Lucas Collins, M.A. Complete in 28 vols., cloth, 28. 6d. each ; or in
14 vols., tastefully bound, with calf or vellum back, j£-^, its.
Contents of the Series.
Homer : The Iliad, by the Editor.— Homer : The Odyssey, by the Editor. — Herodotus,
by George C. Wayne, M.A. — Xenophon, by Sir Alexander Grant, Bart. , LL.D.
Euripides, by W. B. Donne — Aristophanes, by the Editor. — Plato, by Clifton W.
Collins, M.A. — Lucian, by the Editor. — aeschylus, by the Right Rev. the Bishop of
Colombo. — Sophocles, by Clifton W. Collins, M.A. — Hesiod and Theognis, by the
Rev. J. Davies, M.A. — Greek Anthology, by Lord Leaves. — Virgil, by the Editor.
Horace, by Sir Theodore Martin, K.C. B. — Juvenal, by Edward Walford, M.A. —
Plautus and Terence, by the Editor. — The Commentaries of C^sar, by Anthony
Trollope. — Tacitus, by W. B. Donne. — Cicero, by the Editor. — Pliny's Letters, by
the Rev. Alfred Church, M.A., and the Rev. W. J. Brodribb, M.A.— LiVY, by the
Editor. — Ovid, by the Rev. A. Church, M.A. — Catullus, Tibullus, and Propertius,
by the Rev. Jas. Davies, M.A. — Demosthenes, by the Rev. "W. J. Brodribb, M.A. —
Aristotle, by Sir Alexander Grant, Bart., LL.D. — Thucydides, by the Editor. —
Lucretius, by W. H. Matlock, M.A. — Pindar, by the Rev. F. D. Morice, M.A.

AYTOUN. Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers, and other Poems. By

W. Edmonstone Aytoun, D.C.L., Professor of Rhetoric and Belles-lettres
in the University of Edinburgh. New Edition, printed from a new type,
and tastefully bound. Cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Another Edition, being the Thirtieth. Cap. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 66

Cheap Edition. Cap. 8vo. Illustrated Cover. Price is.

An Illustrated Edition of the Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers.

From designs by Sir Noel Paton. Small 4to, 21s., in gilt cloth.

Bothwell : a Poem. Third Edition. Cap., 7s. 6d.

Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin. K.C. B. Third Edition. Cap., 6s.

Bon Gautier's Book of Ballads. By the Same. Fourteenth

and Cheaper Edition. With Illustrations by Doyle, Leech, and Crowquill.
Cap. 8vo, 5s.

The Ballads of Scotland. Edited by Professor Aytoun.

Fourth Edition. 2 vols. cap. 8vo, 12s.

Memoir of William E. Aytoun, D.C.L. By Sir Theodore

Martin. K C.B. With Portrait. Post 8vo. 12s.

BACH. On Musical Education and Vocal Culture. By Albert

B. Bach. Fourth Edition. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Principles of Singing. A Practical Guide for Vocalists

and Teachers. With Course of Vocal Exercises. Crown 8vo, 6?.

The Art of Singing. With Musical Exercises for Young

People. Crown Svo, ^s.

BALLADS AND POEMS. By Members of the Glasgow

Ballad Club. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d

BANNATYNE. Handbook of Republican Institutions in the

United States of America. Based upon Federal and State Laws, and other
reliable sources of information. By Dugald J. Bannatyne, Scotch Solicitor,
New York ; Member of the Faculty of Procurators, Glasgow. Cr. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Cellars. The Transvaal War, 1880-81. Edited by Lady Bel-laths.

With a Frontispiece and Map. Svo, 15s.

Gossips with Girls and Maidens, Betrothed and Free.

New Edition. Crown Svo. 58.

BESANT. The Revolt of Man. By Walter Besant, M.A.

Eighth Edition. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

Readings in Rabelais. Crown Svo, 78. 6d.

BEVERIDGE. Culross and Tulliallan ; or Perthshire on Forth. Its

History and Antiquities. With Elucidations of Scottish Life and Character
from the Burgh and Kirk-session Records of that District. By David
Beveridge. 2 vols. Svo, with Illustrations, 42s.

BEVERIDGE. Between the Ochils and the Forth ; or, From

Stirling Bridge to Aberdour. By David Beveridge. Crown 8vo, 6s.

BLACK. Heligoland and the Islands of the North Sea. By

William George Black. Crown 8vo, 4s.

Black, Lays and Legends of Ancient Greece. By John

Stuart Black, Emeritus Professor of Greek in the University of Edinburgh.
Second Edition. Cap. 8vo. 5s.

The Wisdom of Goethe. Cap. 8vo. Cloth, extra gilt, 6s.

Scottish Song : Its Wealth, Wisdom, and Social Significance.
Crown Svo. With Music. 7s. 6d.

A Song of Heroes. Crown Svo. [in the press.

BLACKWOOD'S MAGAZINE, from Commencement in 1817 to

March 1889. Nos. i to 881, forming 144 Volumes.

Index to Blackwood's Magazine. Vols, i to 50. Svo, stales

from Blackwood. Forming Twelve Volumes of

Interesting and Amusing Railway Reading. Price One Shilling each, in Paper
Cover. Sold separately at all Railway Bookstalls.
They may also be had bound in cloth, i8s., and in half calf, richly gilt, sos.
Or 12 volumes in 6, roxburgh, 21s., and half red morocco, stales

from Blackwood. New Series. Complete in Twenty-four
Shilling Parts. Handsomely bound in 12 vols., cloth, sos. Tn leather
back, roxburgh style, 37s. 6d. In half calf, gilt, 52s. 6d. In half morocco, cs.

In course of Publication.

Tales from Blackwood. Third Series. In Parts. Each

price IS.

In course of Publication.

Travel, Adventure, and Sport. From ' Blackwood's Magazine.'
In Parts. Uniform with ' Tales from Blackwood.' Each price is.
Standard Novels. Uniform in size and legibly Printed.

Each Novel complete in one volume
FLORIN SERIES, Illustrated Boards. Or in New Cloth Binding, 2s. 6d
Tom Cringe's Log. By Michael Scott. Pen Owen. By Dean Hook.
The Cruise OF THE Midge. By the Same
Cyril Thornton. By Captain Hamilton,
Annals of the Parish, By John Gait.
The Provost, &c. By John Gait.
Sir Andrew Wylie. By John Gait.
The Entail. By John Gait.
Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt.
Reginald Dalton. By J. G. Lockhart.

Adam Blair. By J. G. Lockhart.

Lady Lee's Widowhood. By General
Sir E. B. Hamley.

Salem Chapel. By Mrs Oliphant.

The Perpetual Curate. By Mrs Oliphant.


Miss Marjoribanks. By Mrs Oliphant.

John : A Love Story. By Mrs Oliphant.

SHILLING SERIES, Illustrated Cover. Or in New Cloth Binding, is. 6d.

The Rector, and The Doctor's Family.

By Mrs Oliphant.
The Life of Manse Watch. By D. M.

Mohr.
Peninsular Scenes and Sketches. By

F. Harden.

Sir Frizzle Pumpkin, Nights at Mess,

&c.
The Subaltern.

Life in the Far West. By G. F. Buxton.
Alterius : A Roman Story. By J. G.

Lockhart.

BLACKMORE. The Maid of Seer. By R. D. Blackmore, Author

of ' Lorna Done,' &c. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.
BLAIR. History of the Catholic Church of Scotland. From the
Introduction of Christianity to the Present Day. By Alphonse Blenheim,
D.D., Canon of Aix-la-chapelle. Translated, with Notes and Additions, by
D. Oswald Hunter Blair, O.S.B., Monk of Fort Augustus. To be completed
in 4 vols. Svo. Vols. I. and II. 25s.

BOSCOBEL tracts. Relating to the Escape of Charles the

Second after the Battle of Worcester, and his subsequent Adventures. Edited
by J. Hughes, Esq., A.M. A New Edition, with additional Notes and Illustrations,
including Communications from the Rev. R. H. Bashan, Author of
the * Ingoldsby Legends.' Svo, with Engravings, i6s.

BROOKE, Life of Sir James, Rajah of Sarawak. From his Personal

Papers and Correspondence. By Spenser St John, H.M.'s Minister-Resident
and Consul-general Peruvian Republic ; formerly Secretary to the Rajah.
With Portrait and a Map. Post 8vo, 12s. 6d.

BROUGHAM. Memoirs of the Life and Times of Henry Lord

Brougham, Written by Himself. 3 vols. 8vo, £,2, 8s. The Volumes are sold
separately, price 163. each.

BROWN. The Forester : A Practical Treatise on the Planting,

Rearing, and General Management of Forest-trees. By James Brown, LL.D.,
Inspector of and Reporter on Woods and Forests. Fifth Edition, revised and
enlarged. Royal 8vo, with Engravings, 36s.

BROWN. The Ethics of George Eliot's Works. By John Crosbie

Brown. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.

BROWN. A Manual of Botany, Anatomical and Physiological.

For the Use of students. By Robert Brown, M. A., Ph.D. Crown 8vo, with
numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d,

BUCHAN. Introductory Text-book of Meteorology. By Alexander
Buchan, M.A., F.R.S.E., Secretary of the Scottish Meteorological
Society', &c. Crown Svo, with 8 Coloured Charts and other Engravings,
pp. 218. 4s. 6d.

BUCHANAN. The Shire Highlands (East Central Africa). By

John Buchanan, Planter at Zomba. Crown 8vo, 58.

Bridge. Domestic Floriculture, Window Gardening, and

Floral Decorations. Being practical directions for the Propagation, Culture,
and Arrangement of Plants and Flowers as Domestic Ornaments. By F. W.
BuRBiDGE. Second Edition. Crown Svo, with numerous Illustrations,
7s. 6d.

Cultivated Plants : Their Propagation and Improvement.

Including Nati-al and Artificial Hybridisation, Raising from Seed, Cuttings,
and Layers, Grafting and Budding, as applied to the Families and Genera in
Cultivation. Crown Svo, with numerous Illustrations, miss. 6d.
BURTON. The History of Scotland : From Agricola's Invasion to
the Extinction of the last Jacobite Insurrection. By John Hill Burton,
D.C.L., Historiographer-Royal for Scotland. New and Enlarged Edition,
8 vols., and Index. Crown Svo, ;^3, 3s.

History of the British Empire during the Reign of Queen

Anne. In 3 vols. Svo. 36s.

The Scot Abroad. Third Edition. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

The Book-Hunter. New Edition. With Portrait. Crown

8vo, 7S. 6d.

BUTE. The Roman Breviary : Reformed by Order of the Holy

CEcumenical Council of Trent; Published by Order of Pope St Pius V.; and
Revised by Clement VIII. and Urban VIII.; together with the Offices since
granted. Translated out of Latin into English by John, Marquess of Bute,
K.T. In 2 vols, crown Svo, cloth boards, edges uncut. £■!, zs.

The Alius of St Columba. With a Prose Paraphrase and

Notes. In paper cover, 2s. 6d.

BUTLER. Pompeii : Descriptive and Picturesque. By W.

Butler. Post Svo, 5s.

BUTT. Miss Molly. By Beatrice May Butt. Cheap Edition, 2s.

Eugene. Crown Svo, 6s. 6d.

Elizabeth, and Other Sketches. Crown Svo, 6s.

CAIRD. Sermons. By John Caird, D.D., Principal of the University
of Glasgow. Sixteenth Thousand. Cap. Svo, 5s.

Religion in Common Life. A Sermon preached in Craigie

Church, October 14, 1855, before Her Majesty the Queen and Prince Albert.
Published by Her Majesty's Command. Cheap Edition, 3d.

CAMPBELL. Sermons Preached before the Queen at BalmoraL

By the Rev. A. A. Campbell, Minister of Craigie. Published by Command
of Her Majesty. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

CAMPBELL. Records of Argyll. Legends, Traditions, and Recollections

of Argyllshire Highlanders, collected chiefly from the Gaelic.
With Notes on the Antiquity of the Dress, Clan Colours or Tartans of the
Highlanders. By Lord Archibald Campbell. Illustrated with Nineteen
full-page Etchings. 4to, printed on hand-made paper, ;^3, 3s.

CANTON. A Lost Epic, and other Poems. By William Canton.

Crown 8vo, 5s.

Capon. Victor Hugo. A Memoir and a Study. By James

Capon, M.A. Post 8vo, los. 6d.

CARRICK. Koumiss ; or, Fermented Mare's Milk : and its Uses

in the Treatment and Cure of Pulmonary Consumption, and other Wasting
Diseases. With an Appendix on the best Methods of Fermenting Cow's Milk.
By George L. Carrick, M.D,, L.R.C.S.E. and L.R.C.P.B., Physician to the
British Embassy, St Petersburg, &c. Crown 8vo, los. 6d.

Calvin. A Treasury of the English and German Languages.

Compiled from the best Authors and Lexicographers in both Languages.
Adapted to the Use of Schools, Students, Travellers, and Men of Business ;
and forming a Companion to all German-English Dictionaries. By Joseph
Calvin, LL.D. & Ph.D., of the University of Gottingen, &c. Crown 8vo,7S,6d.

CAVE-BROWN. Lambeth Palace and its Associations. By J.

Cave-Brown, M.A., Vicar of Dealing, Kent, and for many years Curate of Lambeth
Parish Church. With an Introduction by the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Second Edition, containing an additional Chapter on Medieval Life in the
Old Palaces. 8vo, with Illustrations, 21s.

Charters. Canonicity ; or, Early Testimonies to the Existence

and Use of the Books of the New Testament. Based on Kirchhoffer's *.
' Edited by A. H. Charters, D.D., Professor of Biblical
Criticism in the University of Edinburgh. 8vo, i8s.

Christian. Life of Sir Robert Christian, Bart., M.D., D.C.L.

Oxon., Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by his Sons. In two vols. Svo. Volet. — Autobiography. i6s. Volet.
Memoirs. i6s.

CHURCH SERVICE SOCIETY. A Book of Common Order :

Being Finns of Worship Issued by the Church Service Society. Fifth Edition,
6s.
Houston. Popular Tales and Fictions : their Migrations and

Transformations. By W. A. Houston, Editor of * Arabian Poetry for English
Readers," * The Book of Sindibad,' &c. 2 vols, post Svo, roxburgh binding,
2SS.

COCHRAN. A Handy Text-book of Military Law. Compiled

chiefly to assist Officers preparing for Examination ; also for all Officers of
the Regular and Auxiliary Forces. Specially arranged according to the Syllabus
of Subjects of Examination for Promotion, Queen's Regulations, 1883.
Comprising also a Synopsis of part of the Army Act. By Major F. Cochran,
Hampshire Regiment, Garrison Instructor, North British District. Crown
Svo, 7S. 66

COLQUHOUN. The Moor and the Loch. Containing Minute

Instructions in all Highland Sports, with Wanderings over Crag and Corrie,
Flood and Fell. By John Colquhoun. Seventh Edition. With Illustrations.
Complete in i vol. 8vo, 21s.

COTTERILL. Suggested Reforms in Public Schools. By C. C.

Cotterill, M.A., AssistantMaster at Fetters College, Eden. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

Cranston. The Elegies of Albinus Tibullus. Translated into

English Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. By James Cran-stout,
LL.D., Author of a Translation of ' Catullus.' Crown Svo, 6s. 6d.

The Elegies of Sixtus Propertius. Translated into

English Verse, with Life of the Poet, and Illustrative Notes. Crown Svo,
78. 6d.

CRAWFORD. Saracinesca. By F. Marion Crawford, Author of

Mr Isaacs,' ' Dr Claudius,' ' Zoroaster,' &c. &c. Fourth Ed. Crown 8vo, 6s.

CRAWFORD. The Doctrine of Holy Scripture respecting the

Atonement. By the late Thomas J. Crawford, D.D., Professor of Divinity in
the University of Edinburgh. Fourth Edition. 8vo, 12s.

The Fatherhood of God, Considered in its General and

Special Aspects, and particularly in relation to the Atonement, with a
Review of Recent Speculations on the Subject. Third Edition, Revised and
Enlarged. 8vo, 9s.

The Preaching of the Cross, and other Sermons. 8vo,

7S. 6d.

The Mysteries of Christianity. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

GUSHING. The Blacksmith of Woe. A Novel. By Paul Gushing,

Author of * Misogyny and the Maiden,' ' A Woman with a Secret,' &c. 3 vols,
crown Svo, 25s. 6d.

DAVIES. Norfolk Broads and Rivers ; or. The Waterways, Lagoons,

and Decoys of East Anglia. By G. Christopher Davies, Author of 'The
Swan and her Crew.* Illustrated with Seven full-page Plates. New and
Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Dane. In the Name of the Tzar. A Novel. By J. Belford

Dane. Crown Svo, 6s.

Tribute to Satan. A Novel. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

DE LA War. An Eastern Cruise in the adeline.' By the

Countess De la War. In Illustrated Cover. 2s.

DESCARTES. The Method, Meditations, and Principles of Philosophy
of Descartes. Translated from the Original French and Latin. With a
New Introductory Essay, Historical and Critical, on the Cartesian Philosophy.
By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of
Glasgow. A New Edition, being the Ninth. Price 6s. 6d.

DICKSON. Gleanings from Japan. By W. G. Dickson, Author

of ' Japan : Being a Sketch of its History, Government, and Officers of the
Empire.' In One Volume, with Illustrations. [In the press.

DOBSON. History of the Bassandyne Bible — the First Printed

in Scotland. With Notices of the Early Printers of Edinburgh. By William T.
DoBSON, Author of 'Literary Frivolities,' ' Poetical Ingenuities, ' Royal Characters
of Scott,' &c. Post Svo, with Facsimiles and other Illustrations. 7s. 6d.

DOGS, OUR DOMESTICATED : Their Treatment in reference
to Food, Diseases, Habits, Punishment, Accomplishments. By 'Magenta.'
Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

DU CANE. The Odyssey of Homer, Books I-xii. Translated into

English Verse. By Sir Charles Du Cane, K.C.M.G. Svo, los. 6d.

DUDGEON. History of the Edinburgh or Queen's Regiment

Light Infantry Militia, now 3rd Battalion The Royal Scots ; with an
Account of the Origin and Progress of the Militia, and a Brief Sketch of the
old Royal Scots. By Major R. C. Dudgeon, Adjutant 3rd Battalion The Royal
Scots. Post Svo, with Illustrations, los. 6d.

DUNCAN. Manual of the General Acts of Parliament relating to

the Salmon Fisheries of Scotland from 1828 to 1S82. By J, Barker Duncan.
Crown Svo, 5s.

DUNSMORE. Manual of the Law of Scotland as to the Relations

between Agricultural Tenants and their Landlords, Servants, Merchants, and
Bowers. By W. Dunsmore. Svo, 7s. 6d.

DUPRE. Thoughts on Art, and Autobiographical Memoirs of

Giovanni Dupre. Translated from the Italian by E. M. Peruzzi, with the
permission of the Author. New Edition. With an Introduction by W. W.
Story. Crown Svo, los. 6d.

ELIOT. George Eliot's Life, Related in her Letters and Journals.
Arranged and Edited by her husband, J. W. Cross. With Portrait and other
Illustrations. Third Edition. 3 vols, post Svo, 42s.

ELIOT. Works of George Eliot (Cabinet Edition). Handsomely

printed in a new type, 21 volumes, crown 8vo, price £5, 5s. The Volumes

are also sold separately, price 5s. each, viz. : —

Romola. 2 vols. — Silas Maner, The Lifted Veil, Brother Jacob. 1 vol. —
Adam Bede. 2 vols.— Scenes of Clerical Life. 2 vols.— The Mill on
the Floss. 2 vols. — Felix Holt. 2 vols. — Middleniarch. 3 vols. —
Daniel Deronda. 3 vols. — The Spanish Gypsy. 1 vol. — Jubal, and
other Poems, Old and New. i vol. — Theophrastus Such, i vol. —
Essays, i vol.

George Eliot's Life. (Cabinet Edition.) With Portrait and

other Illustrations. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 15s.

George Eliot's Life. With Portrait and other Illustrations.

New Edition, in one volume. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

- Novels by George Eliot. Cheap Edition. Adam Bede. Illustrated.

3s. 6d., cloth.— The Mill on the Floss. Illustrated.
3s. 6d., cloth. — Scenes of Clerical Life. Illustrated.
3s., cloth. — Silas Marner : The Weaver of Kaveloe. Illustrated.
2s. 6d., cloth. — Felix Holt, the Radical. Illustrated.
3s. 6d., cloth. — Romola. With Vignette. 3s. 6d. , cloth.

- Middlemarch. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

- Daniel Deronda. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

- Essays. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

- Impressions of Theophrastus Such. New Edition. Crown

8vo, ss.

- The Spanish Gypsy. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s.

- The Legend of Jubal, and other Poems, Old and New.

New Edition. Crown 8vo, 5s., cloth.

- Wise, Witty, and Tender Sayings, in Prose and Verse.

Selected from the Works of George Eliot. Eighth Edition. Cap 8vo, 6s.

The George Eliot Birthday Book. Printed on fine paper,

with red border, and handsomely bound in cloth, gilt. Cap. 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d
And in French morocco or Russia, 5s.

ESSAYS ON SOCIAL SUBJECTS. Originally published in
the ' Saturday Review.' A New Edition. First and Second Series. 2 vols,
crown 8vo, 6s. each,

EWALD. The Crown and its Advisers ; or. Queen, Ministers,

Lords, and Commons. By Alexander Charles Ewald,F.S. A. Crown8vo,5S.

FAITHS OF THE WORLD, The. A Concise History of the

Great Religious Systems of the World. By various Authors. Being the St
Giles' Lectures — Second Series. Crown 8vo, 5s.

Farmer. A Tour in Greece in 1880. By Richard Ridley

Farmer. With Twenty-seven full-page Illustrations by Lord Windsor.
Royal 8vo, with a Map, 21s.

Farrier. Philosophical Works of the late James F. Farrier,

Bea. Oxon., Professor of Moral Philosophy and Political Economy, St Andrews.
New Edition. Edited by Sir Alex. Grant, Bart., D.C.L., and Professor
LusHiNGTON. 3 vols, crown 8vo, 34s. 6d.

Institutes of Metaphysic. Third Edition. los. 6d.

Lectures on the Early Greek Philosophy. Third Edition,

los. 6d.

Philosophical Remains, including the Lectures on Early

Greek Philosophy. 2 vols,, 24s.

FLETCHER. Lectures on the Opening Clauses of the Litany,

delivered in St Paul's Church, Edinburgh. By John B. Fletcher, M.A.
Crown 8vo, 4s.

FLINT. The Philosophy of History in Europe. By Robert

Flint, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. Vol. I.
8vo. [New Edition in preparation.

FLINT. Theism. Being the Baird Lecture for 1876. By Robert

Flint, D.D., LL.D., Professor of Divinity, University of Edinburgh. Sixth
Edition, Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Anti-Theistic Theories. Being the Baird Lecture for 1877.

Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, los. 6d.

Agnosticism. Being the Croall Lectures for 1887-

[In the press.

FORBES. Insolence : Experiences of a Naturalist's Wife in the

Eastern Archipelago. By Mrs H. O. Forbes. Post 8vo, with a Map. 8s. 6d.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS. Edited

by Mrs Oliphant. Price 2s. 6d. For List of Volumes published, see page 2.

GALT. Annals of the Parish. By John Galt. Cap. 8vo, 28.

The Provost. Cap. 8vo, 2s.

Sir Andrew Wylie. Cap. 8vo, 28.

The Entail ; or, The Laird of Grippy. Cap. 8vo, 2s.

GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND.

Family Prayers. Authorised by the General Assembly of

the Church of Scotland. A New Edition, crown 8vo, in large type, 4s. 6d.
Another Edition, crown 8vo, 2s.

Prayers for Social and Family Worship. For the Use of

Soldiers, Sailors, Colonists, and Sojourners in India, and other Persons, at
home and abroad, who are deprived of the ordinary services of a Christian
Ministry. Cheap Edition, is. 6d.

The Scottish Hymnal Appendix, i. Longprimer type, is.

2. Nonpareil type, cloth limp, 4d. ; paper cover, 2d.

'—— Scottish Hymnal with Appendix Incorporated. Published
for Use in Churches by Authority of the General Assembly, t. Large
type, cloth, red edges, 2s. 6d. ; French morocco, 4s. 2. Bourgeois type, limp
cloth, is.; French morocco, 2s. 3. Nonpareil type, cloth, red edges, 6d. ;
French morocco, is. 4d. 4. Paper covers, 3d. 5. Sunday - School Edition,
paper covers, id. 6. Children's Hymnal, paper covers, id. No. i, bound
with the Psalms and Paraphrases, French morocco, 7s. 6d. No. 2, bound
with the Psalms and Paraphrases, cloth, 2s. ; French morocco, 3s.

GERARD. Rata: What's in a Name. By E. D. Gerard.

New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Beggar my Neighbour. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

The Waters of Hercules. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

The Land beyond the Forest. Facts, Figures, and

Fancies from Transylvania. By E. Gerard. In Two Volumes. With Maps
and Illustrations. 25s.

GERARD. Stony hurst Latin Grammar. By Rev. John Gerard.

Cap. 8vo, 3s.

GILL. Free Trade : an Inquiry into the Nature of its Operation.

By Richard Gill. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Free Trade under Protection. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

GOETHE'S FAUST. Translated into English Verse by Sir Theodore
Martin, K.C.B. Part I. Second Edition, post 8vo, 6s. Ninth Edition,
cap., 3S. 6d. Part II. Second Edition, revised. Cap. Svo, 6s.

GOETHE. Poems and Ballads of Goethe. Translated by Professor

Aytoun and Sir Theodore Martin, K.C.B. Third Edition, cap. Svo, 6s.

GORDON GUMMING. At Home in Fiji. By C. F. Gordon

Gumming, Author of ' From the Hebrides to the Himalayas. ' Fourth Edition,
post Svo. With Illustrations and Map. 7s. 6d.

A Lady's Cruise in a French Man-of-war. New and

Cheaper Edition. Svo. With Illustrations and Map. 12s. 6d.

GORDON GUMMING. Fire-Fountains. The Kingdom of Hawaii :

Its Volcanoes, and the History of its Missions. By C. P. Gordon Gumming.
With Map and numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. 8vo, 25s.

Granite Crags : The Yo-semite Region of California. Illustrated
with 8 Engravings. New and Cheaper Edition. 8vo, 8s. 6d.

Wanderings in China. New and Cheaper Edition. 8vo,

with Illustrations, los.

GRAHAM. The Life and Work of Seed Aimed Khan, C.S.I.

By Lieut-colonel G. F. I. Graham, B.S.C. 8vo, 14s.

GRANT. Bush-Life in Queensland. By A. C. Grant. New

Edition. Grown 8vo, 6s.

GRIFFITHS. Locked Up. By Major Arthur Griffiths.

Author of ' The Wrong Road,' ' Chronicles of Newgate,' &c. With Illustrations
by G. J. Staniland, Rei. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

HALDANE. Subtropical Cultivations and Climates. A Handy

Book for Planters, Colonists, and Settlers. By R. C. Haldane. PostSvo, 9s.

Hamilton. Wenderholme : A Story of Lancashire and Yorkshire
Life. By Philip Gilbert Hamilton, Author of 'A Painter's Camp.' A
New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

HAMILTON. Lectures on Metaphysics. By Sir William Hamilton,
Bart., Professor of Logic and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh.
Edited by the Rev. H. L. Manse, Bed., LL.D., Dean of St Paul's ; and John
Veitch, M.A., Professor of Logic and Rhetoric, Glasgow. Seventh Edition.
2 vols. 8vo, 24S.

Lectures on Logic. Edited by the Same. Third Edition.

2 vols., 24s.

Discussions on Philosophy and Literature, Education and

University Reform. Third Edition, 8vo, 21s.

Memoir of Sir William Hamilton, Bart., Professor o^ Logic

and Metaphysics in the University of Edinburgh. By Professor Veitch of the
University of Glasgow. 8vo, with Portrait, i8s.

Sir William Hamilton : The Man and his Philosophy.

Two Lectures Delivered before the Edinburgh Philosophical Institution,
January and February 1883. By the Same. Crown 8vo, 2S.

Hamlet. The Operations of War Explained and Illustrated. By

Lieut-general Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, K. C.B., M.P. Fourth Edition,
revised throughout. 4to, with numerous Illustrations, sos.

Thomas Carlyle : An Essay. Second Edition. Crown

8vo. 2S, 6d.

The Story of the Campaign of Sebastopol. Written in the

Camp. With Illustrations drawn in Camp by the Author. 8vo, 21s.

On Outposts. Second Edition. 8vo, 2s.

Wellington's Career ; A Military and Political Summary.

Crown 8vo, 2s.

Lady Lee's Widowhood. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Our Poor Relations. A Philozoic Essay. With Illustrations,

chiefly by Ernest Grist. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
Hamlet. Guilty, or Not Guilty ? A Tale. By Major-general

W. G. Hamley, late of the Royal Engineers. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Traseaden Hall. "When George the Third was King.'

New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Harbor. Definitions and Diagrams in Astronomy and Navigation.
By the Rev. J, B. Harbor. M.A., Assistant Director of Education,
Admiralty, is.

HARRISON. The Scot in Ulster. The Story of the Scottish

Settlement in Ulster. By John Harrison, Author of ' Cure Tunis Colledge.'
Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

HASELL. Bible Partings. By E. J. Hasell. Crown 8vo, 68.

Short Family Prayers. By Miss Hasell. Cloth, is.

HAY. The Works of the Right Rev. Dr George Hay, Bishop of

Edinburgh. Edited under the Supervision of the Right Rev. Bishop Strain.

With Memoir and Portrait of the Author. 5 vols, crown 8vo, bound in extra

cloth, £1, IS. Or, sold separately — viz. :
The Sincere Christian Instructed in the Faith of Christ from the Written Word.
2 vols., 8s.— The Devout Christian Instructed in the Law of Christ from the Written
Word. 2 vols, 8s.— The Pious Christian Instructed in the Nature and Practice of the
Principal Exercises of Piety, i vol., 43.

Heathen. The Horse-Owner's Safeguard. A Handy Medical

Guide for every Man who owns a Horse. By G. S. Heathen, M.R.C.V.S.
Crown Svo, 5s.

The Stock-Owner's Guide. A Handy Medical Treatise for

every Man who owns an Ox or a Cow. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

HEMANS. The Poetical Works of Mrs Hemans. Copyright Editions.—
One Volume, royal 8vo, 5s. — The Same, with Illustrations engraved on
Steel, bound in cloth, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. — Six Volumes in Three, cap., 12s. 6d.
Select Poems of Mrs Hemans. Cap., cloth, gilt edges, 33.

HOME PRAYERS. By Ministers of the Church of Scotland and

Members of the Church Service Society. Second Edition. Cap. Svo, 3s.

HOMER. The Odyssey. Translated into English Verse in the

Spenserian Stanza. By Philip Stanhope Worsley. Third Edition, 2 vols,
cap., 12s.

The Iliad. Translated by P. S. Worsley and Professor

Dodington. 2 vols. Crown 8V0. ils.

Horace. Mary Queen of Scots and Her Accusers. Containing a

Variety of Documents never before published. By John Hosack, .
A New and Enlarged Edition, with a Photograph from the Bust on
the Tomb in Westminster Abbey. 2 vols. 8vo, ;^i, his. 6d.

Mary Stewart. A Brief Statement of the Principal Charges

which have been made against her, together with Answers to the same.
Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

HUTCHINSON. Hints on the Game of Golf. By Horace G.

Hutchinson. Fourth Edition. Cap. Svo, cloth, is. 6d.

IDDESLEIGH. Lectures and Essays. By the late Earl of

Iddesleigh, G.C.B., D.C.L, &c. Svo 16s.

INDEX Geographical : Being a List, alphabetically arranged,

of the Principal Places on the Globe, with the Countries and Subdivisions of
the Countries in which they are situated, and their Latitudes and Longitudes.
Applicable to all Modern Atlases and Maps. Imperial Svo, pp. 676, 21s.

Jameson. Discussions on the Atonement : Is it Vicarious ?

By the Rev. George Jameson, A.M., Bed., D.D., Author of 'Profound Problems
in Philosophy and Theology.' Svo, i6s.

JEAN J AMBON. Our Trip to Sunderland ; or, Grand Excursion
to Bluudertown and Back. By Jean Jambon. With Sixty Illustrations
designed by Charles Doyle, engraved by Daniel. Foi-th Thousand.
Handsomely bound in cloth, gilt edges, 6s. 6d. Cheap Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d.
In boards, 2s. 6d.

JENNINGS. Mr Gladstone : A Study. By Louis J. Jennings,

M.P., Author of ' Republican Government in the United States,' ' The Croaker
Memoirs,' &c. Popular Edition. Crown Svo, is.

Birmingham. Reminiscences of an Attache. By Hubert

E. H. Birmingham. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 5s.

Diane de Breteuille. A Love Story. Crown Svo, 2S. 6d.

JOHNSTON. The Chemistry of Common Life. By Professor

J. F. W. Johnston. New Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By
Arthur Herbert Church, M.A. Oxon. ; Author of 'Food: its Sources,
Constituents, and Uses ; ' ' The Laboratory Guide for Agricultural Students ; '
'Plain Words about Water, ' &c. Illustrated with Maps and 102 Engravings
on Wood. Complete in one volume, crown 8vo, pp. 618, 7s. 6d.

Elements of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. Fourteenth
Edition, Revised, and brought down to date. By Sir Charles A.
Cameron, M.D., F.R.C.S.I., &c. Cap. 8vo, 6s. 6d.

Catechism of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology. An

entirely New Edition, revised and enlarged, by Sir Charles A. Cameron,
M.D., P.R.C.S.I. .&c. Eighty-sixth Thousand, with numerous Illustrations, is.

JOHNSTON. Patrick Hamilton : a Tragedy of the Reformation

in Scotland, 1528. By T. P. Johnston, Crown 8vo, with Two Etchings by
the Author, 5s.

KENNEDY. Sport, Travel, and Adventures in Newfoundland

and the West Indies. By Captain W. R. Kennedy, Ren. With Illustrations
by the Author. Post 8vo, 14s.

KING. The Metamorphoses of Ovid. Translated in English Blank

Verse. By Henry King, M.A., Fellow of Waltham College, Oxford, and of
the Inner Temple, Barrister-at-law. Crown 8vo, los. 66

KINGLAKE. History of the Invasion of the Crimea. By A. W.

KiNGLAKE. Cabinet Edition, revised. Illustrated with Maps and Plans. Complete
in 9 Vols., crown 8vo, at 6s. each. The Volumes respectively contain : —
I. The Origin of the War between the Czar and the Sultan. II. Russia
Met and Invaded. III. The Battle of the Alma. IV. Sebastopol at
Bay. V. The Battle of Balaclava. VI. The Battle of Inkerman.
VII. Winter Troubles. VIII. and IX. From the Morrow of Inkerman
to the Death of Lord Raglan. With an Index to the Complete Work.

History of the Invasion of the Crimea. Demy 8vo. Vol.

VI. Winter Troubles. With a Map, i6s. Vols. VII. and VIII. From the
Morrow of Inkerman to the Death of Lord Raglan. With an Inde* to the
Whole Work. With Maps and Plans. 28s.

Eothen. A New Edition, uniform with the Cabinet Edition

of the ' History of the Invasion of the Crimea,' price 6s.

Knolls. The Elements of Field Artillery. Designed for the

Use of Infantry and Cavalry Officers. By Henry Knolls, Captain Royal
Artillery; Author of 'Prom Sedan to Saarbrttck,' Editor of 'Incidents in the
Sepoy War, ' &c. With Engravings. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

LADY BLUEBEARD. A Novel. By the Author of *Zit and

Noe.' 2 vols, crown 8vo, 17s.

LAING. Select Remains of the Ancient Popular and Romance

Poetry of Scotland. Originally Collected and Edited by David Laing, LL.D.
Re-edited, with Memorial-Introduction, by John Small, M.A. With a Portrait
of Dr Laing. 4to, 25s.

Auvergne. The Rural Economy of England, Scotland, and Ireland.
By Leone de Auvergne. Translated from the French. With Notes
by a Scottish Farmer. 8vo, 12s.

LAWLESS. Hurried : a Study. By the Hon. Emily Lawless,

Author of 'A Chelsea Householder,' 'A Millionaire's Cousin.' Fourth
and cheaper Edition, crown 8vo. 6s.

LEE. A Phantom Lover : a Fantastic Story. By Vernon Lee.

Crown 8vo, is.

LEE. Glimpses in the Twilight. Being various Notes, Records,
and Examples of the Supernatural. By the Rev. George F. Lee, D.C.L.
Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d.

LEES. A Handbook of Sheriff Court Styles. By J. M. Lees,

M.A., LL.B., Advocate, Sheriff-substitute of Lancashire. New Ed., 8vo, 21s.

A Handbook of the Sheriff and Justice of Peace Small

Debt Courts. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

LETTERS FROM THE HIGHLANDS. Reprinted from 'The

Times.' Cap. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

LIGHTFOOT. Studies in Philosophy. By the Rev. J. Lightfoot,

■ M.A.,D.Sc., Vicar of Cross Stone, Todmordeu. Crown 8vo, 48. 6d.

LITTLE. Madagascar: Its History and People. By the Rev.
H. W. Little, some years Missionary in East Madagascar. Post 8vo, los. 6d.

LOCKHART. Doubles and Quits. By Laurence W. M. Lockhart.
With Twelve Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Fair to See : a Novel. Eighth Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

Mine is Thine : a Novel. Eighth Edition. Crown Svo, 6s.

LORIMER, The Institutes of Law : A Treatise of the Principles

of Jurisprudence as determined by Nature. By James Lorimer, Regius
Professor of Public Law and of the Law of Nature and Nations in the University
of Edinburgh. New Edition, revised throughout, and much enlarged.
Svo, iSs.

The Institutes of the Law of Nations. A Treatise of the

Jural Relation of Separate Political Communities. In 2 vols. Svo. Volume I.,
price i6s. Volume II., price dos.

M'COMBIE. Cattle and Cattle-Breeders. By William M'Combie,

Tillyfour. New Edition, enlarged, with Memoir of the Author, By James
Macdonald, of the ' Farming World.' Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

MACRAE. A Handbook of Deer - Stalking. By Alexander

Macrae, late Forester to Lord Henry Bentinck. With Introduction by
Horatio Ross, Esq. Cap. Svo, with two Photographs from Life. 3s. 6d.

M'CRIE. Works of the Rev. Thomas M'Crie, D.D. Uniform Edition.
Four vols, crown Svo, 24s.

Life of John Knox. Containing Illustrations of the History
of the Reformation in Scotland. Crown Svo, 6s. Another Edition, 3s. 6d.

Life of Andrew Melville. Containing Illustrations of the

Ecclesiastical and Literary History of Scotland in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth
Centuries. Crown Svo, 6s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation
in Italy in the Sixteenth Century. Crown Svo, 4s.

History of the Progress and Suppression of the Reformation

in Spain in the Sixteenth Century. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.
Lectures on the Book of Esther. Cap. Svo, 5s.

MACDONALD. A Manual of the Criminal Law (Scotland) Procedure
Act, 1887. By Norman Dora Macdonald. Revised by the Lord
Justice Clerk. Svo, cloth. 10s. 6d.

MACGREGOR. Life and Opinions of Major-general Sir Charles

MacGregor, K.C.B., C.S.I., CLE , Quartermaster-General of India. From
his Letters and Diaries. Edited by Lady MacGregor. With Portraits and
Maps to illustrate Campaigns in which he was engaged. 2 vols. Svo, 35s.

Macintosh. The Book of the Garden. By Charles Macintosh,

formerly Curator of the Royal Gardens of his Majesty the King of the Belgians,
and lately of those of his Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, Keg., at Dalkeith Palace.
Two large vols, royal Svo, embellished with 1350 Engravings. £^, 7s. 6d.

Vol. I. On the Formation of Gardens and Construction of Garden Edifices. 776
pages, and 1073 Engravings, £2, los.

Vol. II. Practical Gardening. 868 pages, and 279 Engravings, £x, 17s. 6d.

MACINTYRE. Hindu Koh : Wanderings and Wild Sports on and

beyond the Himalayas. By Major-general Donald Macintyre, V.C, late
Prince of Wales' Own Goorkhas, F.R.G.S. In One Volume, with numerous
Illustrations. [In the press.

MACKAY. A Manual of Modern Geography ; Mathematical, Physical,
and Political. By the Rev. Alexander Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G.S. nth
Thousand, revised to the present time. Crown Svo, pp. 688. 7s. 6d.

MACKAY. Elements of Modern Geography. By the Rev. Alexander
Mackay, LL.D., F.R.G.S. 53d Thousand, revised to the present time.
Crown 8vo, pp. 300, 3s.

The Intermediate Geography. Intended as an Intermediate
Book between the Author's ' Outlines of Geography ' and ' Elements of
Geography.' Fourteenth Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, pp. 238, 2s.

Outlines of Modern Geography. insist Thousand, revised

to the present time. imo, pp. 118, is.

- First Steps in Geography. 105th Thousand. imo, pp.
56. Sewed, 4d. ; cloth, 6d.

- Elements of Physiography and Physical Geography.
"With Express Reference to the Instructions recently issued by the Science and
Art Department. 30th Thousand, revised. Crown 8vo, is, 6d.

Facts and Dates ; or, the Leading Events in Sacred and

Profane History, and the Principal Facts in the various Physical Sciences.
The Memory being aided throughout by a Simple and Natural Method. For
Schools and Private Reference. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

MACKAY. An Old Scots Brigade. Being the History of Mackay 's

Regiment, now incorporated with the Royal Scots. With an Appendix containing
many Original Documents connected with the History of the Regiment.
By John Mackay (late) of Herriesdale. Crown 8vo, 5s.

MACKAY. The Founders of the American Republic. A History

of Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, and Madison. With a Supplementary
Chapter on the Inherent Causes of the Ultimate Failure of American
Democracy. By Charles Mackay, LL.D. Post 8vo, los. 6d.

MACKELLAR. More Leaves from the Journal of a Life in the

Highlands, from 1862 to 1882. Translated into Gaelic by Mrs Mary Mackel-
LAR. By command of Her Majesty the Queen. Crown 8 vo, with Illustrations,
los. 6d.

Mckenzie. Studies in Roman Law. With Comparative Views

of the Laws of France, England, and Scotland. By Lord Mckenzie,* one of
the Judges of the Court of Session in Scotland. Sixth Edition, Edited by
John Kirkpatrick, Esq., M.A. Cantab.; Dr Fur. Heidelb. ; LL.B. Eden. ;
Advocate. 8vo, 12s.

MAIN. Three Hundred English Sonnets. Chosen and Edited by

David M. Main. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

MAIR. A Digest of Laws and Decisions, Ecclesiastical and Civil,

relating to the Constitution, Practice, and Affairs of the Church of Scotland.
With Notes and Forms of Procedure. By the Rev. William Mair, D.D.,
Minister of the Parish of Carleton. Crown 8vo. With a Supplement, 7s. 9d.

MARMORNE. The Story is told by Adolphus Serve, the

youngest of three Brothers. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

MARSHALL. French Home Life. By Frederic Marshall.

Second Edition. 5s.

Marshal. History of India. From the Earliest Period to the

Close of the India Company's Government ; with an Epitome of Subsequent
Events. By , John Clark Marshal, C.S.I. Abridged from the Author's
larger work. Second Edition, revised. Crown 8vo, with Map, 6s. 6d.

MARTIN. Goethe's Faust. Part I. Translated by Sir Theodore

Martin, K.C.B. Second Ed., crown 8vo, 6s. Ninth Ed., cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Goethe's Faust. Part II. Translated into English Verse.

Second Edition, revised. Cap. 8vo, 6s.

The Works of Horace. Translated into English Verse,

with Life and Notes. 2 vols. New Edition, crown 8vo, 21s.

Poems and Ballads of Heinrich Heine. Done into English
Verse. Second Edition. Printed on papier verge, crown 8vo, 8s.

Catullus. With Life and Notes. Second Ed., post 8vo, 7s. 6d.

Aladdin : A Dramatic Poem. By Adam Oehlenschlae-

qer. Cap. 8vo, 5s.

MARTIN. Corregio : A Tragedy. By Oehlenschlaeger. With

Notes. Cap. 8vo, 3s

King Rene's Daughter : A Danish Lyrical Drama. By

Henrik Heutz. Second Edition, cap., 28. 6d.

MARTIN. On some of Shakespeare's Female Characters. In a

Series of Letters. By Helena Faucit, Lady Martin. Dedicated by permission
to Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen. Third Edition. 8vo, with
Portrait, 7s. 6d.

Matson. Can the Old Faith Live with the New? or the

Problem of Evolution and Revelation. By the Rev. George Matson, D.D.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

The Psalmist and the Scientist ; or, Modern Value of the

Serious Sentiment. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

MAURICE. The Balance of Military Power in Europe. An

Examination of the War Resources of Great Britain and the Continental States.
By Colonel Maurice, R.A., Professor of Military Art and History at the Royal
Staff College. Crown Svo, with a Map. 6s.

MICHEL. A Critical Inquiry into the Scottish Language. With

the view of Illustrating the Rise and Progress of Civilisation in Scotland. By
Francisque-Michel, F.S.A. Lord. and Scot., Correspondant de Institut de
France, &c. In One handsome Quarto Volume, printed on hand-made paper,
and appropriately bound in Roxburgh style. Price cs.

MICHIE. The Larch : Being a Practical Treatise on its Culture

and General Management. By Christopher Y. Michel. Forester, Sullen Hoiise.

Crown Svo, with Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition, enlarged, 5s.

Practical Forestry. Crown Svo, with Illustrations. 6s.

MILNE. The Problem of the Churchless and Poor in our Large

Towns. With special reference to the Home Mission Work of the Church of
Scotland. By the Rev. Root. Milne,M.A., D.D., Archer. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

Into. A Manual of English Prose Literature, Biographical

and Critical : designed mainly to show Characteristics of Style. By W. Into,
M.A., Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Third Edition,
revised. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

Characteristics of English Poets, from Chaucer to Shirley.

New Edition, revised. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

The Crack of Doom. 3 vols, post Svo, 25s. 6d.

MITCHELL. Biographies of Eminent Soldiers of the last Four

Centuries. By Major-general John Mitchell, Author of 'Life of Wallenstein.'
With a Memoir of the Author. Svo, qs.

Mair. Life of Manse Watch, Tailor in Dalkeith. With 8

Illustrations on Steel, by the late George Cruikshank. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d.
Another Edition, cap. Svo, ts. 6d.

Homeric. Defects of Modern Christianity, and other Sermons.

By the Rev. A. W. Moderne, M.A., D.Sc, LL.T)., Professor of Logic and
Metaphysics in King's College, London. Third Edition. Crown Svo. 5s.

■ The Basis of Religion. Being an Examination of Natural

Religion. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

The Origin of Evil, and other Sermons. Fifth Edition,

enlarged. Crown Svo, 5s.

■ Personality. The Beginning and End of Metaphysics, and

a Necessary Assumption in all Positive Philosophy. Third Ed. Cr. Svo, 3s.

Agnosticism. Second Edition, Revised. Crown Svo, 5s.

Preaching and Hearing: : and other Sermons. Second

Edition. Crown Svo, 4s. 6d.

- Belief in God. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 3s.
Inspiration ; and other Sermons. Crown Svo, 5s.

MONTAGUE. Campaigning in South Africa. Reminiscences of

an Officer in 1879. Bv Captain W. E. Montague, 94th Regiment, Author of
Claude Meadowleigh,' &c. Svo, los. 6d.

MONTALEMBERT. Memoir of Count de Montalembert. A

Chapter of Recent French History. By Mrs Oliphant, Author of the ' Life
of Edward Irving,' &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo, ;^i, 4s.

MURDOCH. Manual of the Law of Insolvency and Bankruptcy :

Comprehending a Summary of the Law of Insolvency, Notour Bankruptcy,
Composition - contracts. Trust-deeds, Cession, and Sequestrations; and the
Winding-up of Joint-stock Companies in Scotland ; with Annotations on the
various Insolvency and Bankruptcy Statutes ; and with Forms of Procedure
applicable to these Subjects, By James Murdoch, Member of the Faculty of
Procurators in Glasgow. Fifth Edition, Revised and Enlarged, 8vo, £1, los.

MY TRIVIAL LIFE AND MISFORTUNE : A Gossip with

no Plot in Particular. By A Plain Woman. New Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.
By the Same Author.
POOR NELLIE. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.
NAPIER. The Construction of the Wonderful Canon of Logarithms
(Mirifici Logarithmorum Canons Construction). By John Napier of
Merchiston. Translated for the first time, with Notes, and a Catalogue of
Napier's Works, by William Rae Macdonald. Small 4to, 15s. A few large
fciper copies may he had, printed on Whitman paper, price sos.

Leaves. Songs and Verses, Social and Scientific. By an Old

Contributor to 'Mama.' By the Hon. Lord Leaves. Fifth Ed., cap. Svo, 4s,

The Greek Anthology. Being Vol. XX. of 'Ancient Classics
for English Readers.' Crovm Svo, 2s. 6d.

NICHOLSON. A Manual of Zoology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Zoology. By Henry allen
Nicholson, M.D., D.Sc, F.L.S., F.G.S., Regius Professor of Natural
History in the University of Aberdeen. Seventh Edition, rewritten and
enlarged. Post Svo, pp. 956, with 555 Engravings on Wood, iSs.

Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of Schools. Fourth Edition,
enlarged. Crown Svo, with 188 Engravings on Wood, 7s. 6d.

Introductory Text-book of Zoology, for the Use of .Junior

Classes. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged, with 166 Engravings, 3s.

- Outlines of Natural History, for Beginners ; being Descriptions
of a Progressive Series of Zoological Types. Third Edition, with
Engravings, is. 6d.

- A Manual of Palaeontology, for the Use of Students.

With a General Introduction on the Principles of Palaeontology. Second Edition.
Revised and greatly enlarged. 2 vols. Svo, with 722 Engravings, ^2, 2s.

- The Ancient Life-History of the Earth. An Outline of
the Principles and Leading Facts of Palseontological Science. Crown Svo,
with 276 Engravings, los. 6d.

On the " Tabulate Corals " of the Palaeozoic Period,

with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species. Illustrated with 15
Lithograph Plates and numerous Engravings. Super-royal Svo, 21s.

- Synopsis of the Classification of the Animal Kingdom.
Svo, with 106 Illustrations, 6s.

On the Structure and Affinities of the Genus Monticello

and its Sub-Genera, with Critical Descriptions of Illustrative Species.
Illustrated with numerous Engravings on wood and lithographed Plates.
Super-royal Svo, iSs.

NICHOLSON. Communion with Heaven, and other Sermons.

By the late Maxwell Nicholson, D.D., Minister of St Stephen's, Edinburgh.
Crown Svo, 5s. 6d.

Rest in Jesus. Sixth Edition. Cap. Svo, 4s. 6d.

NICHOLSON. A Treatise on Money, and Essays on Present

Monetary Problems. By Joseph Shield Nicholson, M.A. , D.Sc, Professor
of Commercial and Political Economy and Mercantile Law in the University
of Edinburgh. Svo, los. 6d.

OLIPHANT. Masollam : a Problem of the Period. A Novel.

By Laurence Oliphant. 3 vols, post Svo, 25s. 6d.

Scientific Religion ; or, Higher Possibilities of Life and

Practice through the Operation of Natural Forces. Second Edition, Svo, i6s.

OLIPHANT. Altera Peto. By Laurence Oliphant. New and

Cheaper Etlitiou. Crown 8vo, boards, 2.s. 6d, Illustrated Edition. Crown
8vo, cloth, 6s.

Piccadilly : A Fragment of Contemporary Biography. With

Eight Illustrations by Richard Doyle. Eighth Edition, 4s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
in paper cover, 2s. 6d.

Traits and Travesties; Social and Political. Post8vo,ios.6d.

The Land of Gilead. With Excursions in the Lebanon.

With Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, 218.

- The Land of Khemi. Post 8vo, with Illustrations, los. 6d.

- Haifa : Life in Modern Palestine. 2d Edition. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

- Episodes in a Life of Adventure ; or, Moss from a Rolling

stone. Fourth Edition. Post Svo, 63.

- Fashionable Philosophy, and other Sketches. In paper

cover, IS.

Sympneumata : or. Evolutionary Functions now Active in

Man. Edited by Laurence Oliphant. Post Svo, los. 6d.

OLIPHANT. The Story of Valentine ; and his Brother. By Mrs

Oliphant. 5s., cloth.

Katie Stewart. 2S. 6d.

OSBORN. Narratives of Voyage and Adventure. By Admiral

Shepard Osborn, C.B. 3 vols, crown Svo, 12s.

OSSIAN. The Poems of Ossian in the Original Gaelic. With a

Literal Translation into English, and a Dissertation on the Authenticity of the
Poems. By the Rev. Archibald Clerk. 2 vols, imperial Svo, ;^i, his. 6d.

OSWALD. By Fell and Fjord ; or, Scenes and Studies in Iceland.

By E. J. Oswald. Post Svo, with Illustrations, ys. 6d.

OUTCASTS, The ; or, Certain Passages in the Life of a Clergyman.

2 vols. Post Svo, 17s.

Outran. Lyrics : Legal and Miscellaneous. By the late George

Outran, Esq., Advocate. New Edition, with Explanatory Notes. Edited
by J. H. Stoddart, LL.D. ; and Illustrated by William Ralston and A. S.
Boyd. Cap. Svo, 5s.

PAGE. Introductory Text-book of Geology. By David Page,

LL.D., Professor of Geology in the Durham University of Physical Science,
Newcastle, and Professor Lapworth of Mason Science College, Birmingham.
With Engravings and Glossarial Index. Twelfth Edition. Revised and Enlarged.
3s. 6d.

Advanced Text-book of Geology, Descriptive and Industrial.
With Engravings, and Glossary of Scientific Terms. Sixth Edition, revised
and enlarged, 7s. 6d.

Introductory Text-book of Physical Geography. With

Sketch-Maps and Illustrations. Edited Charles Lapworth, LL.D., F.G.S.,
&c,, Professor of Geology and Mineralogy in the Mason Science College, Birmingham.
12th Edition. 2s. 6d.

Advanced Text-book of Physical Geography. Third

Edition,' Revised and Enlarged by Prof. Lapworth. With Engravings. 5s.

PATON. Spindrift. By Sir J. Noel Paton. Cap., cloth, ss.

Poems by a Painter. Cap., cloth, 5s.

PATON. Body and Soul. A Romance in Transcendental Pathology.
By Frederick Noel Paton. Second Edition. Crown Svo, is.

PATTERSON. Essays in History and Art. By R. Hogarth

Patterson. Svo, 12s.

The New Golden Age, and Influence of the Precious

Metals upon the World. 2 vols. Svo, 31s. 6d.

PAUL. History of the Royal Company of Archers, the Queen's

Body-Guard for Scotland. By James Balfour Paul, Advocate of the Scottish
Bar. Crown 4to, with Portraits and other Illustrations. £,-2, 2s.

Pile. Lawn Tennis as a Game of Skill. With latest revised

Laws as played by the Best Clubs. By Captain S. C. F. Pile, B.S.C. Fourth
Edition, cap. cloth, is. 66

PETTIGREW. The Handy Book of Bees, and their Profitable

Management. By A. Pettigrew. Fourth Edition, Enlarged, with Engravings.
Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

PHILOSOPHICAL CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

Companion Series to Ancient and Foreign Classics for English Readers.
Edited by William Knight, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy, University
of St Andrews. In crown 8vo volumes, with portraits, price 3s. 6d.

[For list of Volumes published, see page 2.

Pollock. The Course of Time : A Poem. By Robert Pollock,

A.M. Small cap. 8vo, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. The Cottage Edition, 32mo, sewed,
8d. The Same, cloth, gilt edges, is. 6d. Another Edition, with Illustrations
by Birket Foster and others, cap., gilt cloth, 3s. 6d., or with edges gilt, 4s.

PORT ROYAL LOGIC. Translated from the French ; with Introduction,
Notes, and Appendix. By Thomas Spencer Barnes, LL.D., Professor
in the University of St Andrews. Tenth Edition, imo, 4s.

POTTS AND Darnel. Aditus Facilities : An easy Latin Construing
Book, with Complete Vocabulary. By A. W. Potts, M.A., LL.D.,

Head-Master of the Fetters College, Edinburgh, and sometime Fellow of St
John's College, Cambridge; and the Rev. C. Darrell, M.A., Head-Master of
Cargilfield Preparatory School, Edinburgh, and late Scholar of Pembroke and
Downing Colleges, Cambridge. Tenth Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Aditus Facilities Graeca. An easy Greek Construing Book,

with Complete Vocabulary. Fourth Edition, cap. 8vo, 3s.

Prince. The Live-Stock of the Farm. By Robert 0. Prince.

Third Edition. Revised and Edited by James Macdonald, of the ' Farming
World,' &c. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND

from 1707 to 1847, with Chronological Table and Index. 3 vols, large 8vo, ;^3, 3s.

PUBLIC GENERAL STATUTES AFFECTING SCOTLAND,

COLLECTION OP. Published Annually with General Index.

RAMSAY. Rough Recollections of Military Service and Society.

By Lieut-Col. Balcarres D. Wardle Ramsay. Two vols, post Svo, 21s.
RAMSAY. Scotland and Scotsmen in the Eighteenth Century.

Edited from the MSS. of John Ramsay, Esq. of Ochtertyre, by Alexander
Allardyce, Author of 'Memoir of Admiral Lord Keith, K.B.,' &c. 2 vols.
Svo, sis. 6d.

RANKIN. A Handbook of the Church of Scotland. By James

Rankin, D.D., Minister of Uphill ; Author of 'Character Studies in the
Old Testament,' &c. An entirely New and much Enlarged Edition. Crown
Svo, with 2 Maps, 7s. 6d.

RANKINE. A Treatise on the Rights and Burdens incident to

the Ownership of Lands and other Heritages in Scotland. By John Rankine
M.A., Advocate, Professor of Scots Law in the University of Edinburgh.
Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. 8vo, 45s.

RECORDS OF THE TERCENTENARY FESTIVAL OF THE

UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH. Celebrated in April 1884. Published
under the Sanction of the Senatus Academics. Large 4to, £2, 12s. 6d.
RICE. Reminiscences of Abraham Lincoln. By Distinguished

Men of his Time. Collected and Edited by Allen Thorndike Rice, Editor
of the 'North American Review.' Large 8vo, with Portraits, 21s.

Simmer. The Early Homes of Prince Albert. By Alfred

Rummer, Author of ' Our Old Country Towns,' &c. Beautifully Illustrated
with Tinted Plates and numerous Engravings on Wood. Svo, los. 6d.

ROBERTSON. Orellana, and other Poems. By J. Logie Robertson,
M.A. Cap. Svo. Printed on hand-made paper. 6s.

The White Angel of the Polly Ann, and other Stories.

A Book of Fables and Fancies. Cap. Svo, 3s. 6d.

Our Holiday Among the Hills. By James and Janet

LoGiE Robertson. Cap. Svo, 3s. 6d.

Roscoe. Rambles with a Fishing-rod. By E. S. Roscoe. Crown

8vo, 4S. 6d.

ROSS. Old Scottish Regimental Colours. By Andrew Ross,

S.S.C, Hon. Secretary Old Scottish Regimental Colours Committee. Dedicated
by Special Permission to Her Majesty the Queen. Folio, handsomely
bound in cloth, ;^2, 128. 6d.

RUSSELL. The Hangs of Bemersyde. A Family History. By

John Russell. Large 8vo, with Illustrations. 21s.
RUSSELL. Fragments from Many Tables. Being the Recollections of

some Wise and Witty Men and Women. By Geo. Russell. Cr. 8vo, 4s. 6d.

RUSSELL. Essays on Sacred Subjects for General Readers. By

the Rev, William Russell, M.A. Bvo, 7s. 6d.

RUSTOW. The War for the Rhine Frontier, 1870 : Its Political

and Military History. By Col. W. Rustow. Translated from the German,
by John Lapland Needham, Lieutenant Rem. Artillery. 3 vols. Bvo, with
Maps and Plans, £1, ns. 6d.

RUTLAND. Notes of an Irish Tour in 1846. By the Duke op

Rutland, G.C.B. (Lord John Manners). New Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

RUTLAND. Gems of German Poetry. Translated by the Duchess

OF Rutland (Lady John Manners). Small quarto, 3s. 6d.

Impressions of Bad-Homburg. Comprising a Short Account
of the Women's Associations of Germany under the Red Cross. Crown
8vo, IS. 6d.

Some Personal Recollections of the Later Years of the Earl

of Beaconsfield, Keg. Sixth Edition, 6d.

Employment of Women in the Public Service. 6d.

Some of the Advantages of Easily Accessible Reading and

Recreation Rooms, and Free Libraries. With Remarks on Starting and
Maintaining Them, Second Edition, crown 8vo, is.

A Sequel to Rich Men's Dwellings, and other Occasional

Papers. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Encouraging Experiences of Reading and Recreation Rooms.

Aims of Guilds, Nottingham Social Guild, Existing Institutions, &c., &c.
Ci-own 8vo, IS.

SCHILLER. Wallenstein. A Dramatic Poem. By Frederick

VON Schiller. Translated by C. G. A. Lockhart. Cap. 8vo, 7s. 6d.

SCOTCH LOCH FISHING. By "Black Palmer." Crown 8vo,

interleaved with blank pages, 4s.

SELLAR. Manual of the Education Acts for Scotland. By

Alexander Craig Sellar, M.P. Eighth Edition. Revised and in great
part rewritten by J. Edward Graham, Bea. Oxon., Advocate. Containing
the Technical Schools Act, 1887, and all Acts bearing on Education in Scotland.
With Rules for the conduct of Elections, with Notes and Cases. 8vo, los. 6d.

SELLER and STEPHENS. Physiology at the Farm ; in Aid of

Rearing and Feeding the Live Stock. By William Seller, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
and Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of ' The Book of the Farm,' &c. Post
8vo, with Engravings, i6s.

SETH. Scottish Philosophy. A Comparison of the Scottish and

German Answers to Hume. Balfour Philosophical Lectures, University of
Edinburgh. By Andrew Seth, M.A., Professor of Logic, Rhetoric, and
Metaphysics in the University of St Andrews. Crown Svo, 5s.

Hegelianism and Personality. Balfour Philosophical Lectures.
Second Series. Crown Svo, 5s.

SETON. A Budget of Anecdotes. Chiefly relating to the Current

Century. Compiled and Arranged by George Seton, Advocate, M.A. Oxon.
Now and Cheaper Edition, cap. Svo. Boards, is. 6d.

SHAD WELL. The Life of Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde. Illustrated

by Extracts from his Diary and Correspondence. By Lieutenants
Shadwell, C.B. 2 vols. Svo. With Portrait, Maps, and Plans. 36s.

Hand. Half a Century; or, Changes in Men and Manners. By

Alex. Innes Hand, Author of 'Against Time,' &c. Second Ed., 8vo, 12s. 6d.

Letters from the West of Ireland. Reprinted from the

'Times.' Crown 8vo, 5s.

SHARPE. Letters from and to Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe.

Edited by Alexander Allardyce, Author of 'Memoir of Admiral Lord
Keith, K.B,,' &c. With a Memoir by the Rev. W. K. R. Bedford. In two
vols. 8vo. Illustrated with Etchings and other Engravings, ^2, 12s. 6d.

SIM. Margaret Sin's Cookery. With an Introduction by L. B.

Walford, Author of 'Mr Smith : A Part of His Life,' &c. Crown 8vo, 5s.

SKELTON. Maitland of Lexington ; and the Scotland of Mary

Stuart. A History. By John Skelton, C.B., LL.D. Author of ' The Essays
of Shirley.' Demy 8vo. 2 vols., 28s.

SMITH. Italian Irrigation : A Report on the Agricultural Canals

of Piedmont and Lombardy, addressed to the Hon. the Directors of the East
India Company ; with an Appendix, containing a Sketch of the Irrigation System
of Northern and Central India. By Lieut-col. R. Baird Smith, F.G.S.,
Bengal Engineers. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, with Atlas, sos.

SMITH. Thorndale ; or, The Conflict of Opinions. By William

Smith, Author of 'A Discourse on Ethics, '&c. New Edition. Cr. 8vo. los. 6d.

Gravenhurst ; or. Thoughts on Good and Evil. Second

Edition, with Memoir of the Author. Crown 8vo, 8s.

SMITH. Greek Testament Lessons for Colleges, Schools, and
Private Students, consisting chiefly of the Sermon on the Mount and the
Parables of our Lord. With Notes and Essays. By the Rev. J. Hunter
Smith, M. A., King Edward's School, Birmingham. Crown Svo, 6s.

SMITH. Writings by the Way. By John Campbell Smith,

M.A., Sheriff-Substitute. Crown 8vo, gs.

SMITH. The Secretary for Scotland. Being a Statement of the

Powers and Duties of the new Scottish Office. With a Short Historical
Introduction and numerous references to important Administrative Documents.
By W. C. Smith, LL.B., Advocate. Svo, 6s.

Softer. A Lady's Ride Across Spanish Honduras. By Maria

Softer. With illustrations. Post Svo, 12s. 6d.

The Fat of the Land. A Novel. 3 vols, post Svo, 25s. 6d.

Morley. The Ethics of Naturalism. Being the Shaw Fellowship

Lectures, 1884. By W. R. Morley, M.A., Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge,
and Examiner in Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh. Crown Svo, 6s.

SPEEDY. Sport in the Highlands and Lowlands of Scotland with

Rod and Gun. By Tom Speedy. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With
inustrationsbyLieut.-Gen.HopeCrealocke,C.B.,C.M.G., and others. Svo, 15s.

Sprout. The Worship and Offices of the Church of Scotland.

By George W. Sprout, D.D., Minister of North Berwick. Crown Svo, 6s.

STARFORTH. Villa Residences and Farm Architecture : A Series
of Designs. By John Starforth, Architect. 102 Engravings. Second Edition,
medium 4to, £2., 17s. 6d.

STATISTICAL ACCOUNT OF SCOTLAND. Complete, with

Index, IS vols. Svo, £\^, impeach
County sold separately, with Title, Index, and Map, neatly bound m cloth,
forming a very valuable Manual to the Landowner, the Tenant, the Manufacturer,
the Naturalist, the Tourist, &c.

In course of publication.

STEPHENS' BOOK OF THE FARM ; detailing the Labours of

the Farmer, Farm-Steward, Ploughman, Shepherd, Hedger. Farm-Labourer,
Field-Worker, and Cattleman. Illustrated with numerous Portraits of Animals
and Engravings of Implements. Fourth Edition. Revised, and in great
part rewritten by James Macdonald, of the ' Farming World,' &c., &c. Assisted
by many ois the leading agricultural authorities of the day. To be completed
in Six Divisional Volumes.

[Divisions I. and II., price los. 6d. each, nov ready.

STEPHENS. The Book of Farm Buildings ; their Arrangement and

Construction. By Henry Stephens, F.R.S.E., Author of 'The Book of the
Farm;' and Robert Scott Burn. Illustrated with 1045 Plates and Engravings.
Large 8vo, uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' &c. £x, ns. 6d.

The Book of Farm Implements and Machines. By J.

Slight and R. Scott-Burn, Engineers. Edited by Henry Stephens. Large
8vo. uniform with ' The Book of the Farm,' £2, 2s.

STEVENSON. British Fungi. (Hymenomycetes.) By Rev. John

Stevenson, Author of ' Mycologia Scotia,' Hon. Sec. Cryptogamic Society of
Scotland. 2 vols, post 8vo, with Illustrations, price 12s. 6d. each.

Vol. I. AgARICUS— BOLBITIUS. Vol. II. Ordinaries— DaCRYMYCES.

STEWART. Advice to Purchasers of Horses. By John Stewart,

Vas., Author of ' Stable Economy.' New Edition. 2s. 6d.

Stable Economy. A Treatise on the Management of

Horses in relation to Stabling, Grooming, Feeding, "Watering, and Working.
By John Stewart, Vas. Seventh Edition, cap. Svo, 6s. 6d.

STORMONTH. Etymological and Pronouncing Dictionary of the

English Language. Including a very Copious Selection of Scientific Terms.
For Use in Schools and Colleges, and as a Book of General Reference. By the
Rev. James Stormonth. The Pronunciation carefully Revised by the Rev.
P. H. Help, M.A. Cantab. Ninth Edition, Revised throughout. Crown
Svo, pp. 800. 7S. 6d.

Dictionary of the English Language, Pronouncing,

Etymological, and Explanatory. Revised by the Rev. P. H. Help. Library
Edition. Imperial Svo, handsomely bound in half morocco, 31s. 6d.

The School Etymological Dictionary and Word-Book.

Combining the advantages of an ordinary pronouncing School Dictionary
and an Etymological Spelling-book. Fourth Edition. Cap. Svo, pp. 254. 2s.

STORY. Nero ; A Historical Play. By W. W. Story, Author of

*Robe di Roma.' Cap. Svo, 6s.

Vallombrosa. Post Svo, 5s.

He and She ; or, A Poet's Portfolio. Cap. 3s. 6d.

Poems. 2 vols, cap., 7s. 6d.

Damietta. A Summer Idol. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

STRICKLAND. Life of Agnes Strickland. By her Sister.

Post Svo, with Portrait engraved on Steel, 12s. 6d.

Surges. John - a - Dreams. A Tale. By Julian Surges.

New Edition, crown Svo, 3s. 6d.

Little Comedies, Old and New. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

SUTHERLAND. Handbook of Hardy Herbaceous and Alpine

Flowers, for general Garden Decoration. Containing Descriptions, in Plain
Language, of upwards of 1000 Species of Ornamental Hardy Perennial and
Alpine Plants, adapted to all classes of Flower-gardens, Clockwork, and
Waters ; along with Concise and Plain Instructions for their Propagation and
Culture. By William Sutherland, Landscape Gardener ; formerly Manager
of the Herbaceous Department at Kew. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

TAYLOR. The Story of My Life. By the late Colonel Meadows

Taylor, Author of 'The Confessions of a Thug,' &c. &c. Edited by his
Daughter. New and cheaper Edition, being the Fourth. Crown Svo, 6s.

THOLUCK. Hours of Christian Devotion. Translated from the

German of A. Tholuck, D. D. , Professor of Theology in the University of Halle.
By the Rev. Robert Menzies, D. D. With a Preface written for this Translation
bv the Author. Second Edition, crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

THOMSON. Handy Book of the Flower-garden : being Practical

Directions for the Propagation, Culture, and Arrangement of Plants in Flower-gardens
all the year round. Embracing all classes of Gardens, from the largest
to the smallest. With Engraved Plans, illustrative of the various systems of
Grouping in Beds and Borders. By David Thomson, Gardener to his Grace
the Duke of Buccleuch, K.T., at Drumlanrig. Fourth and Cheaper Edition,
crown Svo, 5s.

THOMSON. The Handy Book of Fruit-Culture under Glass : being

a series of Elaborate Practical Treatises on the Cultivation, and Forcing of
Pines, Vines, Peaches, Figs, Melons, Strawberries, and Cucumbers. With Engravings
of Hothouses, &c., most suitable for the Cultivation and Forcing of
these Fruits. By David Thomson, Gardener to his Grace the Duke of Buck
K.T., at Drumlanrig. Second Ed. Cr. 8vo, with Engravings, 7s, 6d.

THOMSON. A Practical Treatise on the Cultivation of the Grapevine.
By William Thomson, Tweed Vineyards. Ninth Edition, 8vo, 5s.

THOMSON. Cookery for the Sick and Convalescent. With
Directions for the Preparation of Poultices, Fomentations, &c. By Barbara
Thomson. Cap. 8vo, is. 6d.

THOTH. A Romance. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

By the Same Author.
A Dreamer OF DREAMS. A Modern ; Romance. Crown
8vo, 6s.

TOM Cringe's LOG. A New Edition, with Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 5s. Cheap Edition, 2s.

TRANSACTIONS OF THE HIGHLAND AND Agricultural
SOCIETY OF SCOTLAND. Published annually, price 5s.

Bullock. Rational Theology and Christian Philosophy in England
in the Seventeenth Century. By John Bullock, D.D., Principal of St
Mary's College in the University of St Andrews ; and one of her Majesty's
Chaplains in Ordinary in Scotland. Second Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, i6s.

Modern Theories in Philosophy and Religion. 8vo, 15s.

Luther, and other Leaders of the Reformation. Third

Edition, enlarged. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.
■ Memoir of Principal Bullock, D.D., LL.D. By Mrs

Oliphant, Author of 'Life of Edward Irving.' Third and Cheaper Edition.
8vo, with Portrait. 7s. 6d.

TWO STORIES OF THE SEEN AND THE UNSEEN. ' The

Open Door,' ' Old Lady Mary,' Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. *

Veitch. Institutes of Logic. By John Veitch, LL.D., Professor
of Logic and Rhetoric in the University of Glasgow. Post 8vo, 12s. 6d.

The Feeling for Nature in Scottish Poetry. From the Earliest
Times to the Present Day. 2 vols. cap. Svo, in roxburgh binding. 15s.

Merlin and Other Poems. Cap. Svo.

VIRGIL. The Aeneid of Virgil. Translated in English Blank

Verse byG. K. RiCKARD3,M.A.,and LordRAVENSWORTH. 2 vols. cap. 8vo,ios.

WALFORD. The Novels of L. B. Walford. New and Uniform

Edition. Crown Svo, each 5s. Sold separately.
Mr Smith: A Part of his Life.— Cousins.— Pauline. — Troublesome
Daughters. — Dick Nether. — The Baby's Grandmother. — History
OF A Week.

A Stiff-Necked Generation. 3 vols, post Svo, 25s. 6d.

Four Biographies from ' Blackwood ' : Jane Taylor, Hannah
More, Elizabeth Fry, Mary Somerville. Crown Svo, 5s.

WARREN'S (SAMUEL) WORKS:—

Diary of a Late Physician. Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; boards, 2S.

Ten Thousand A- Year. Cloth, 3s. 6d. ; boards, 2s. 6d.

Now and Then. The Lily and the Bee. Intellectual and Moral
Development of the Present Age. 4s. 6d.

Essays : Critical, Imaginative, and Juridical. 5s.
WARREN. The Five Books of the Psalms. With Marginal

Notes. By Rev. Samuel L. Warren, Rector of Esher, Surrey ; late Fellow,
Dean, and Divinity Lecturer, Waltham College, Oxford. Crown Svo, 5s.

WATSON. Christ's Authority ; and other Sermons. By the late

Archibald Watson, D.D., Minister of the Parish of Dundee, and one of
Her Majesty's Chaplains for Scotland. With Introduction by the Very
Rev. Principal Caird, Glasgow. Crown Svo, 7s. 6d.

WEBSTER. The Angler and the Loop-Rod. By David Webster.

Crown 8vo, with Illustrations, 73. 6d,

WELLINGTON. Wellington Prize Essays on "the System of Field

Manoeuvres best adapted tor enabling our Troops to meet a Continental Army."
Edited by Lieut-General Sir Edward Bruce Hamley, K.C.B, 8vo, 12s. 6d.

WESTMINSTER ASSEMBLY. Minutes of the Westminster Assembly,
while engaged in preparing their Directory for Church Government,
Confession of Faith, and Catechisms (November 1644 to March 1649). Edited
by the Rev. Professor Alex. T. Mitchell, of St Andrews, and the Rev. John
Struthers, LL.D. With a Historical and Critical Introduction by Professor
Mitchell. 8vo, 15s.

WHITE. The Eighteen Christian Centuries. By the Rev. James

White. Seventh Edition, post 8vo, with Index, 6s.

History of France, from the Earliest Times. Sixth Thousand,
post 8vo, with Index, 6s.

WHITE. Archaeological Sketches in Scotland — Kintyre and Knap-dale.
By Colonel T. P. White, Ree., of the Ordnance Survey. With numerous
Illustrations. 2 vols, folio, £4, 4s. Vol. I., Kintyre, sold separately,

£2, 2S.

The Ordnance Survey of the United Kingdom. A Popular

Account. Crown 8vo, 5s.

WILLIAMSON. Poems of Nature and Life. By David R.

Williamson, Minister of Kirkmaiden. Cap. 8vo, 3s.

WILLS AND GREENE. Drawing-room Dramas for Children. By

W. G. Wills and the Hon. Mrs Greene. Crown 8vo, 6s.

WILSON. Works of Professor Wilson. Edited by his Son-in-law,

Professor Farrier. 12 vols, crown 8vo, £2, 8s,

Christopher in his Sporting-Jacket. 2 vols., 8s.

Isle of Palm, City of the Plague, and other Poems. 4s.

Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life, and other Tales. 4s.

Essays, Critical and Imaginative. 4 vols., i6s. ».

The Notes Ambrosial. 4 vols., i6s. fel

Homer and his Translators, and the Greek Drama. Crown

8vo, 4s.

Innate. Annie Weir, and other Poems. By David Innate.

Cap. 8vo, 5s.

Lily Neil. A Poem. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

WORDSWORTH. The Historical Plays of Shakspeare. With

Introductions and Notes. By Charles Wordsworth, D.C.L., Bishop of S

Andrews. 3 vols, post 8vo, each price 7s. 6d.

WORSLEY. Poems and Translations. By Philip Stanhope

WoRSLEY, M.A. Edited by Edward Worsley. Second Edition, enlarged.
Cap. 8vo, 6s.

YATE. England and Russia Face to Face in Asia. A Record of

Travel with the Afghan Boundary Commission. By Captain A. C. Yate,
Bombay Staff Corps, Special Correspondent of the 'Pioneer,' 'Daily Telegraph,'
&c., &c., with the Afghan Boundary Commission. 8vo, with Maps
and Illustrations, 21s.

YATE. Northern Afghanistan ; or, Letters from the Afghan

Boundary Commission. By Major C. E. Yate, C.S.I. , C.M.G. Bombay Staff
Corps, F.R.G.S. 8vo, with Maps. i8s.

YOUNG. A Story of Active Service in Foreign Lands. Compiled

from letters sent home from South Africa, India, and China, 1856-1882. By
Surgeon-general A. Graham Young, Author of ' Crimean Cracks.' Crown 8vo,
Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

YULE. Fortification : for the Use of Officers in the Army, ad

Readers of Military History. By Col. Yule, Bengal Engineers. Svo, with
numerous Illustrations, los. 6d.
3/89.

Plauti Pcenulus.

How strangely in this life good with evil mixes :
God throws the dice, but the devil gets double sixes !

Laurence Farquhar.

A STUDY OF TO-DAY

BY

X. L.

AUTHOR OF 'AUT DIABOLUS AUT NIHIL'

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. 11.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXIX

All Rights reserved

Part I.

THE SOWING OF THE SEED
continued)

CHAPTER XIII.

It is February again — the end of a cold, cheerless,
London February. A year has elapsed
since the morning when Madge Tyrrell received
in the Rue Royale the letter from her young
lover which had induced her to accept the hand
of her elderly adorer, and Lady Anstruther is
up in town with her husband for two days, to
buy some necessary raiment for herself and
infant daughter. Sir James and his wife have
put up at Edward's Hotel, but as his medical
adviser, who lives around the corner in Grosvenor
Street, has advised the Colonel to beware
of the early morning air, and as Madge is, as of

old, active and an early riser, we find Lady
Anstrutlier alone, at a quarter-past ten in the
morning, making her way down Oxford Street
to try on a certain cloak which she had ordered
a fortnight before, and which, as it is a particularly
thick, dark - blue, military - looking
mantle, to be clasped together with quaint old
Brittany clasps, she feels should come into her
possession without delay, to be of some use to
her before the dawn of spring. On reaching
Regent Street by Jay's mourning-shop, Lady
Anstruther was prevented from crossing by a
sight which gave her pleasure, accustomed as
she had been to the splendid military displays
which were so common in Paris in the days
of the Second Empire. It was the 2d Life
Guards coming from the barracks in Albany
Street, and going down to Queen's Guard at
Whitehall to relieve the Blues. Madge stood
on the kerbstone and watched the handsome
warriors, who, with their glittering helmets and
cuirasses, and being for the most part mere beardless
youths, composed a group which looked
more like a beautiful squadron of Amazons thana
company of youthful heroes dauntless in love
and war. First came the avant-gardes, — two

sulky-looking boy giants who turned and stared
at Madge with insolent admiration ; then, at a
considerable interval, the golden-haired trumpeter,
striding his white-grey charger, and closely
followed by the detachment of the regiment,
which at that time Colonel "Fred" Marshall
was rapidly forming into the smartest in her
Majesty's service, the whole stalking slowly by
as the first movement in a symphony of youth,
beauty, courage, and colour.

A crowd of shabby-looking men, women, and
boys had by this time collected around Lady
Anstruther to look at the passing show, and
becoming suddenly aware of this, she was on
the point of walking away, when her attention
was arrested by the figure of a man who suddenly
crossed into the street and stopped the
commanding officer. It was Laurence Farquhar :
she recognised him at once, and her heart gave
one wild leap that suffused her face with crimson
and then suddenly left it as pale as death.
She stood riveted to the spot, her eyes fixed
upon the upturned face of her darling and the
brilliant officer who was leaning down from his
saddle to converse with him. By dint of staring
she recognised the warrior : it was Lord Upp,

familiarly called **Jane,'^ one of the most deservedly
popular officers in the Household Cavalry,
and whom Madge remembered to have met
in Paris two years before. Hardly had Lady
Anstruther come to this conclusion — which necessitated
a considerable amount of exercise of
memory, for the helmet is a deadly enemy to
recognition — than the colloquy was over, and
the two friends, with a hearty laugh, parted, the
officer to proceed with his duty, and the civilian
to find his way back as best he might through
the mud to the sidewalk. Chance willed it
that he came, seeking for some refuge from the
mire, straight up to where Lady Anstruther
stood. She saw him coming, saw that he did
not see her, busy as he was picking his way
from stone to stone, but could not have moved
out of the way of this meeting which she now
felt to be inevitable had her very life depended
upon it, for she felt her feet riveted to the
ground. On he came straight to her, reached
the kerbstone, pushed without raising his head
rudely against her to effect a landing-place,
and then looked up. " I beg your pardon ! "
he began ; then, '' Good God ! Madge ! " he exclaimed.


Hardly had he spoken than she recovered
her outward composure, as if by the effect of an
electric current. ** How d'ye do, Mr Farquhar ?
What an extraordinary meeting ! " she replied,
quite coolly.

** What in the world are you doing here at
this unearthly hour ? " he continued, taking her
outstretched hand and pressing it warmly. " I
thought you were in the wilds of Kent ! "

Who told you that ? "

Arthur. I see him sometimes at the club.
Has he not told ypu he has seen me ? "

They had now partly extricated themselves
from the knot of vagabonds, and he looked
into her face. How remarkably well she was
looking, he thought. How much she had
improved ! Madge coloured slightly under his
eager glance, which she felt rather than saw
as her eyes were fixed on the pavement, and
replied nervously —

Oh yes, he has told me he sees you sometimes''


"Hasn't he told you he asked me down to
stay with him *? "

Madge turned as pale as death. This was
quite news to her : she had indeed only heard

from time to time, in the most casual way.
Arthur remark that he had caught a glimpse
of Laurence in the club, street, or elsewhere.
That any invitation had been given, she did not
know. She felt sure it would come in time — in
fact, she had looked forward in a vague way to
this inevitable visit, and had even spoken lightly
to Muriel about it, but that it was so imminent
as this she had no idea. She now felt almost
frightened at the thought that her dream was
so near its fulfilment, as many schemers shrink
back when they see their long-laid plans at
length begin to quicken into active reality.

No," she replied ; " Arthur never told us
that. When are you coming ? "

'' I am not coming at all just yet," answered
Laurence, who had noticed with joy the sudden
pallor. " I am tied hand and foot till the end
of March."

Strange that a strong feeling of relief should
have coloured the disappointment with which
Madge heard this. She simply nodded her
head, however, as if the matter were of supreme
indifference to her.

We shall see you when you can come, I
hope," she said, simply.

Oh, of course. And now, how are you, and
how is the Colonel '? "

"My husband is very well, thank you."

Your husband ! How odd that sounds.
Why, it seems only the other day that you
were little Miss Madgy, making tea for Arthur
and me in the Eue Koyale, and going to the
opera and all over the place by yourself and
Miss Muriel. Does t it ? "

'* Yes ; and now Muriel is a grande dame —
madame la marquise ; and I "

Well, and what are you ? I forget — a Princess,
or plain Mrs Colonel Jim Anstruther ? "

He spoke in the usual playful way he had
always adopted in his intercourse with her (for
the burst of sentiment contained in the letter
was an afterthought, as we know), but somehow
this lightness now jarred on her, and she replied
rather coldly —

"My father-in-law is dead."

"So you're no less a personage than Lady
Anstruther of Courthope Park — is that it ? "

Madge smiled and nodded. "Just think of
it ! And I haven't even got the Victoria Cross

yet."

What a shame ! "

Which way are you going 1 Can I see you
part of the way ? ''

I am only going a step — just down Oxford
Street."

*then I shall come with you, Lady An-stretcher,
if your ladyship will permit me."
They now crossed the street. '^ You still have
your old liking for soldiers, I see' he remarked
laughingly, when they had safely reached the
other side.

AVhat do you mean ? "

"Why, I caught you gazing at our gallant
Life Guards ; and don't you remember how you
used to sing *Ah! que j'aime les militaires ! '
in the old days in Paris ? "

Madge laughed. " Oh yes ; I remember. I
see what you mean."

How long ago it seems, does it not ? "
said Laurence.

** It's not two years yet, though."

** Only two years ! Why, it seems more like
twenty to me. But then you see you have been

sauntering into Debrett, while I ," and he

hesitated, not knowing whether to say something
sentimental or grotesque.

"Well, and you ? What have you been doing? "

The bufFoon got the upper-hand of the poet.
I ? I have been drearily drifting towards
the Newgate Calendar."

Madge laughed ; this was so like the absurdity
of old times. " But you're still at large,
I see," she said.

Yes, for the moment ; but Tm afraid I'm
terribly * wanted.' "

And so am I — here," replied Madge, stopping
before the door of her mantlemaker.

What is this place ? "

"I am going to try on a cloak."

Can I come in too ? "

Madge hesitated for a moment, and then
said, smiling, ''By all means, if you like.
You'll tell me how you like it. I remember
your taste was good."

I believe I know more about ladies' cloaks
than any other man living, except, perhaps,
Pingat."

The cloak met with his approval, and especially
the artistic clasps ; but he suggested a deep
crimson lining, which rather bold idea Madge
adopted, and then they began to wend their
way back to the hotel where Madge was
staying.

Was not that Lord Upp you were talking
to just now 1 " inquired Madge, as they approached
her destination.

"Yes. Why?"

*' I thought I recognised him. I never
saw him but twice, but I never forget a face."

A good memory is a terrible curse," sighed
Laurence.

Lady Anstruther looked at him with some
scorn. " Indeed ? I am surprised to hear you
say so."

Why ? "

Madge regretted what she had said, and
made no reply.

Why 1 " he repeated ; then, as she still
remained silent, he continued in a low and
passionate voice, " I have forgotten nothing !
Nothing! Would to God I could!"

Here, to Madge's great relief, they reached
the hotel. ** Well, now, I must say good-bye,
Mr Farquhar. I'm afraid I can't ask you in at
this hour, for my husband is not up yet ; " and
she gave him her hand.

"But you mustn't say, * Good-bye, Mr
Farquhar,' " said Laurence. Lady Anstruther's
puzzled look told him his hidden meaning had

not been caught. "You must say, ^A hientdt,
Laurence.' "

Very well, tenez le pour dit,^^ laughed
Madge, trying to withdraw her hand, which
Farquhar still retained.

But say it," persisted Laurence in a low
tone, trying to meet her averted eyes. " Say
it."

She turned and looked at him for one
moment : their eyes met, and the mischief
was all done at once.

^^ A bientdtj Laurence," she murmured, and
then passed quickly into the hotel.

As Laurence Farquhar walked away his brain
was in a whirl, and he felt not only astonished
but angry with himself. Here was the old
fascination as strong upon him again as ever
the mad fancy which he had hoped he had
lost for ever by flying from Paris, and which
indeed had quite passed out of his mind during
the intervening months of separation from
the woman who had inspired it, but which he
now felt return to him with a vigour and acuteness
intensified a hundred-fold. He had not
wished to meet her yet. He had, of course,
never really loved her, but her strange gypsy

beauty had fascinated him, and he knew his
own character well enough to know that forbidden
fruit had for him an attraction which
might, in a moment of great temptation, induce
him to turn a deaf ear to the voice of
common-sense, reason, and, above all, personal
interest ; so, although he greatly wanted to
see Muriel again, and begin weaving his web
around her, he had declined Arthur's invitation
to Leavenworth merely because he
knew that Leavenworth adjoined Courthope,
and that he should meet his two loves together,
and this did not in any way suit his
book just then. Had the ladies been living
even a few miles apart, he would have felt
himself quite equal to playing a successful
game with both at the same time ; but to be
called upon to enact the heart-broken and sighing
lover to two different married women, both
intimate friends, both living, as it were, under
the same roof, before the two husbands, and so
to do it that each lady should separately think
he sighed for her alone, — this indeed was a
difficult task, and one involving too much risk
for him to undertake without wholesome and
due consideration. Madge, indeed, he had not

feared : he had believed his fancy for her had
passed away ; and if not, why, he could indulge
in the pastime of making love to her better
when she was alone with her husband, than
when in constant communion with a lady who
thought him heart-broken for her sake, and on
whose gratitude and sisterly affection he counted
greatly to fill his pockets, and to be generally
useful to him. He knew that the devoted
affection of a woman of the rank, power, and
wealth of the future Duchess of Tintagil was
the greatest trump-card he had ever yet had
dealt out to him by Fortune, and he was firmly
decided in his mind that he would bide Diis
time and play this trump so opportunely,
with such art and such discretion, that it
should be made to win him a prize that
would satisfy even his most ambitious dreams.
He would let nothing interfere with this —
nothing. Madge was a mere whim, a caprice :
Muriel was real business — splendid, glorious
business ; and yet here — the devil take it ! —
here were these two women jumbled up together
in the country. He had counted on the
London season as being the fittest moment
to begin his plan of campaign. He knew

Muriel's true and noble nature well enough
to feel sure that her hero-worship of him
would not be in anywise diminished by this
delay, and he had told himself that when
Lyonesse and his wife came to town — the
Marquis to attend to his parliamentary and
the Marchioness to her social duties — he would
then begin his artful machinations. Madge
he had hardly thought about, save that her
presence so near Muriel was for the momenta
bore ; and this fact had indeed, being a source
of annoyance, almost brought him to look upon
the existence of Lady Anstruther as being an
unpleasant recollection ; and he called himself
a triple idiot ever to have listened to Graham,
and written that silly and compromising letter
to the groom's daughter, who might at any
moment show it to her foster-sister. Such had
been his feelings as regards Madge until that
morning; but now that he had seen her all
was changed, and the animal which Baudelaire
asserts sleeps in the soul of all of us had, at the
sight of Madge Anstruther, given proof of his
existence with a vehemence which resounded
through Farquhar's psychic fabric. What should
he do ? Had he not better go down to Leavenworth

after all ? Was he not clever enough to
play successfully a double game with these two
artless young women 1 — (the husbands, of course,
were not in either case worthy of his consideration).
Could he not make Muriel his banker
and sing his love-song to Madge at one and
the same time ?

The financial matter was indeed of immense
and pressing importance to him just then, and
he happened to have heard from an old friend
of the Tintagils that Muriel had had a very
large sum of ready money placed at her sole
and personal disposal on her marriage, his information
going so far as to have assured him that
Lyonesse had opened a private account for his
wife at Drummond's, whereas he knew the Marquis
himself banked at Child's. Then the sentimental
business seemed, since he had seen Madge,
to be no less pressing. What should he do ? he
asked himself. Just at that moment, as he was
passing into Piccadilly, a straw, and a very disagreeable
straw, turned the balance. A shabby-looking
man, of marked Hebraic type, accosted
him — *^ Mr Laurence Farquhar, I believe ? "
But we need hardly trouble our readers with
any detailed account of the ordinary and invite

II. B

able annoyance wliicli must necessarily sooner
or later come to a man who lives in luxury —
not to say extravagantly — on his wits, and who
elects to regard such mental capacity as Providence
may have endowed him with chiefly as a
means of profiting by the weaknesses of others.
Farquhar had, of course, got into many scrapes,
but now he had got into a very bad one, and
he knew it. He had met a boy, a seemingly
guileless youth, who was within four months of
his one-and-twentieth birthday, on which auspicious
date he would surely come into one
hundred and fifty thousand pounds in sterling
cash. Laurence had made himself thoroughly
well acquainted with this interesting fact ; and
as the boy wanted a thousand pounds ^' to goon
with " (to the devil, we presume), he had
consented to draw a bill at three months for
six thousand, the boy to accept the same, —
Laurence well knowing that it is the acceptor
who in most instances meets with the first
reminder, and in this instance feeling sure
that the very comfortable and present fact of
his netting more than three-quarters of the
plunder would amply compensate him for the
temporary annoyance he might possibly have to

experience in making the lad keep his engagement.
It had not perhaps been an altogether
wise step for him to take, but he had been
hard pressed for ready money at the time, and
sorely tempted both by the generosity and apparent
ingenuousness of the borrower and the
enticing cordiality of the lenders. Now a rude
awakening had come : the interesting juvenile
had fled to New Zealand instead of waiting to
be '' exhausted," as a well-conducted acceptor
should do, the boy's trustees had repudiated the
debt, and so the kingdom of Israel and the
empire of usury had now united their forces to
enforce payment of this unpleasantly large sum
of money from the unhappy drawer.

The shabby Jew who had accosted Farquhar
in Piccadilly was one of the emissaries from
these obnoxious money-lenders, and his message
was simply to inform our friend that unless
some satisfactory steps were taken at once to
liquidate this debt, application would be made
to Mr Farquhar ph^e before legal proceedings
were instituted. Now as Laurence's father had
on the last occasion, when application had been
made to him to pay his son's debts, merely
indulged in strong language, which contained

in a vinous shroud of blasphemy some veiled
threat of assassination, Farquhar was naturally
unwilling to have his sire become acquainted
with this new and most serious financial disaster
which had befallen him ; and so, taking the
Hebrew to a desert place apart, he came, after
much discussion, to an arrangement by which,
under certain abominable conditions, he had the
space of four weeks granted him before this
terrible threat of laying the whole matter before
the gin-invigorated paternal eyes should be put
into execution. When Laurence had at length
thus arranged matters with and shaken off his
unwholesome Hebrew attendant, and had dived
into the Raleigh to see what a mixture of half
a bottle of Irroy and a wine-glassful of Kiimel
would do in the way of taking the bad taste out
of his mouth, he decided that he would extract an
invitation from Arthur Lyonesse that very afternoon
at the Carlton, and proceed to Leavenworth
without delay, trusting to luck and his
own savoir faire to fill his pockets and relieve
his heart at one and the same time. And so it
is that on the afternoon of the third day succeeding
the morning!: on which he had met
Madge in Oxford Street, we find Laurence Farquhar

comfortably installed as Lyonesse's guest
in Kent.

Arthur had always been fond of him, and
had known him all his life ; Muriel looked upon
him, and we know why, as one of the noblest
men on earth ; of Madge he was the secretly
worshipped idol and god ; and the old Colonel
found him vastly amusing, — so that, as Laurence
told himself with a smile, when he had retired
to his room on the first night of his visit, tout
etait pour le mieux dans le meilleur des mondes.
Muriel especially had been heartily glad to
see him, for they had not met since that
memorable summer morning when they .had
parted in the porter's lodge in the Kue Koyale,
Laurence having been absent in Scotland at the
time of his friend's wedding, and, in fact, for
certain reasons of his own, having kept more or
less out of the way ever since. He had written
in a casual way to Arthur a few times, and had
always playfully begged to be remembered to
little Miss Muriel," and had met him occasionally
at the Carlton, so that Lady Lyonesse
thus knew that it was no part of his intention to
assume a heart-broken and despairing attitude,
and this greatly relieved her, — for this poor child

had at first been sadly tormented with a fear
lest she might have blighted an existence and
obtained her present happiness at the price of
Farquhar's endless suffering. So she now looked
forward to a speedy meeting with the noble
creature whose self-sacrifice had brought about
her present joy with feelings of unmixed satisfaction
and delight. There had been no awkwardness
in their first meeting, and if Muriel's
cordiality was a little too demonstrative, it was
easily explained by the words she had so often
used to her husband and to Madge when speaking
of Laurence Farquhar. '^ You have no
idea how good he was to poor mamma and
myself in Paris in the time of our great trouble.
I don't know what we should have done without
him."

As for Madge, she resigned herself to what,
in her selfish sensuality, she told herself was the
inevitable, and in fact was secretly pleased that
by this visit to Leavenworth she should be enabled
to get accustomed to the intoxicating joy
of Laurence's presence, while the companionship
of Muriel, Lord Lyonesse, and her own husband
protected her from immediate danger.

'' Who is that horrible Mrs Millwood '? " Laurence

had asked Muriel in such an audible undertone
on the second day of his arrival, that
the subject of his inquiry had heard, from the
inner room in which she was seated knitting,
every word he said.

Isn't she dreadful ? " replied Lady Lyonesse,
laughing, and little suspecting that the lady in
question was so near. '* She's the widow of a
clergyman who used to help poor old Lady
Anstruther in all sorts of good works, it appears.
The Colonel' — they always called Sir
James the Colonel — 'Thinks the world of her,
and she is certainly very good to the baby ; but
all the rest of us hate her, and Madge shears
every day she will have her dismissed."

But Anstruther must be mad to allow such
a creature to be a fixture in his house."

'' Oh, he thinks she's perfect ; and then his
mother and father were so fond of her that there
is nothing too good for her in his eyes. You
must take care not to say a word against her in
his presence. I did once, and "

'' Well, and what happened ? "

Well, the tears came in the dear old thing's
eyes ; so I kissed him and begged his pardon."

Laurence laughed. " Now you've taught the

Colonel the reward he gets for weeping, I daresay
he would be glad to let you abuse the
woman every day'

Lady Lyonesse shook her pretty little golden
head. *^ Oh no ; the Colonel blushed like a girl
when I kissed him, and seemed to be quite
frightened. '^

What did Madge say ? Did you tell her
you had been kissing her husband '? "

Muriel laughed. *' Oh, Madge didn't mind."
'* She's not jealous, then ? "
Why, of course not. How absurd ! "
And Arthur ; what did he say ? "
It was none of Arthur's business, so I didn't
tell him."

Then I shall certainly tell him, Lady
Lyonesse."

Muriel nodded her head in playful threat at
him. "Do if you dare, and see how I shall
punish you."

I certainly think it is my duty to do so."
If you have only come down here to make
mischief, I shall very soon pack you off to London
again, Mr Farquhar. Madge is quite capable
of taking care of her husband."

'* I don't believe it ; and then I believe

Arthur to be of a very jealous disposition. I
believe you have married a Saxon Othello,
Miss Muriel''

The words were said absolutely at random,
but he saw at once that they had some very
real meaning to Muriel, who changed colour
quickly and looked at him earnestly.

You don't really mean that, Laurence *? "

'' Yes, I do," persisted Farquhar, partly to
tease and partly to see what would come of this
badinage.

Mrs Millwood stopped her knitting, and bent
her head to listen.

*' He was a jealous boy at Eton and a jealous
man at Oxford, and I never heard that the
best cure for jealousy was to marry a pretty
woman."

I'm certain you don't mean what you say,
Laurence."

'* Yes, I do ; so you had better look out. Lady
Desdemona, and not let him catch you kissing
Colonel Cassino, or I shall be forced to supply
him with a good comfortable pillow to smother
you with."

I wish you wouldn't talk such nonsense,
Laurence. You know Arthur is not jealous —

he is not jealous a bit. He may be a little "

and she hesitated.

''A little what? Tell me, and I'll tell you
if you are right. I've known him all my life,
you know."

Will you really tell me if I am right 1 "

*' I promise you I will. I feel certain beforehand
that you will be wrong."

Well, I think Arthur is dreadfully, terribly
proud I "

Laurence laughed. '* What makes you think
that ? "

*' Am I right ? "

'' Tell me first what makes you think so, and
then I will tell you."

Muriel hesitated for a moment, and then
making up her mind that she could not possibly
be doing any harm in making a confidant
of so glorious a hero and so devoted a friend as
Laurence, she continued —

*' Well, I'll tell you what makes me think so ;
but it's a secret, Laurence, so mind you never
breathe a word of it to any one." And she held
up a warning finger.

I swear secrecy ! " exclaimed Laurence, raising
his right arm.

Well, you know " She hesitated again,

and then went on in a lower tone, " You may
have heard that the Duke and Duchess were not
very kind to me at first."

My poor Muriel, I did hear so — the brutes !"

'' Hush ! You mustn't talk like that."

*' I really beg your pardon. I didn't mean
to say that, although I thought it."

Well, Arthur of course was furious, and had
the most terrible row with them. Agnes heard
them, and said Arthur roared like a lion ! "

Imagine poor Arthur roaring like a lion ! "
exclaimed Laurence.

'' But he did ; and when he came to my room
(we were staying at Camelot then, you know,
for the day), he was trembling all over with
passion. I never saw him angry before, and I
never want to see him angry again."

'' Didn't I tell you he was like Othello ? But
he wasn't angry with you, was he ? "

Oh no, of course not; but he was so upset
that he said all sorts of things that he certainly
wouldn't have said if his father and mother had
not angered him so."

'* If he hadn't been roaring like a lion, in fact.
Well, what did he say 1 "

I don't know that I ought to tell you."

Why, my dear child, how absurd ! You
forget that I know Arthur a thousand times
better than you do."

"Well, he said that he didn't care a farthing
for birth and wealth and rank — that he had
enough of all that himself ; and that any woman
he married he drew up to him and ennobled by
marrying her."

That was rather cheek, I think. Don't
you 1 " put in Laurence.

But he said," continued Muriel, *^ that the
one and only thing he could never and would
never forgive or forget was deceit."

What did he mean by that, I wonder ? "

He said that if he ever, at any time or in
any way, found out that I deceived him — told
him a story, he meant — he would "

Kill you ? "

'* No ; but never, never, never forgive me ! "

'' So that if you told him you had ordered
a black bonnet, and it was really a blue one,
there would be another terrible tragedy in highlife
I What would he say if he knew you had
been kissing the Colonel ? I think I had better
ring for that pillow at once ! "

Muriel laughed. " No ; but you have really
no idea how dreadful he was when he said it !
It quite froze the marrow in my bones ! '^

I don't believe you have any marrow in
those little bones, Lady Lyonesse ; but if you
have, Arthur is certainly the last person in the
world who ought to try and freeze it ! "

I wish you wouldn't talk such nonsense,
Laurence. But tell me — am I right ? "

Right 1 How ? I never yet knew a pretty
woman wrong I "

What a tease you are, Laurence ! Am I
right or wrong 1 Answer me."

I really don't understand you'' «

Is Arthur a proud man or not ? "

Lucifer, when he developed into a good
match, couldn't light a candle to him." Here
he saw a well-known black skirt just emerging
from the porridge which hung between the
rooms. *' But why not ask Mrs Millwood ? "
Then striding into the next room — " What do
you say, Mrs Millwood ? is Lord Lyonesse a
proud man or not ? "

Mrs Millwood rose, utterly unabashed, her
pale face never changing colour, her white-grey
eyes peering through the sore lids like a humble

mouse thanking you through a hole made in a
tomato.

*^ I beg your pardon, sir ; I did not catch
your question."

Laurence looked at her for a moment with an
amused scorn, which she felt but did not see,
for her eyes were cast meekly down.

'* Lady Lyonesse was asking me, as an old
friend of her husband, if I did not think him a
proud man. What is your opinion ? "

I should hardly dare venture to give an
opinion, sir : I have had the honour of knowing
his lordship for so short a time."

Oh, of course ! I forgot. Pride is a sin, is
it not, Mrs Millwood ? "

Oh yes, sir ; we all know that."

*' What was the name of that woman in the
Bible who got turned out of the house by her husband
? I don't mean dear old Hagar, of course."

You mean Vashti perhaps, sir ? "

I feel certain you would never guess my
favourite text in Scripture, Mrs Millwood."

Perhaps not, sir. Will you tell it me ? "

'* * Go, and he goeth.' The servant who obeyed
that injunction was held up to commendation,
if I remember rightly ? "

He was simply cited, sir, as an example of
the authority exercised by the centurion."

Lucky chap that centurion I " And then
Laurence walked back to the other room, where
he had left Lady Lyonesse.

^' Mrs Millwood says she thinks Lord Lyonesse
the very quintessence of stubborn and unbending
pride."

This drew out Mrs Millwood, as he intended
it should. She came meekly forward.

I am sure your ladyship will see that Mr
Farquhar is only in jest."

I never jest, Mrs Millwood ; I find life far
too short and serious. We are here to-day aid
gone tomorrow — only in some cases the morrow
of departure never dawns."

Death comes like a thief in the nie^ht ! "

^' But the night must go, whereas sometimes
the thief insists upon staying. Have you ever
inquired, Mrs Millwood, why the whale swallowed
Jonah ? "

No, sir. What an extraordinary question !
To fulfil prophecy, I suppose."

Certainly not ; you are wholly in error. I
defy you to show me the extended forefinger of
any one of the prophets pointing to that sensible

and practical whale. Why did he swallow
Jonah, Mrs Millwood ? "

I am sure I can't say, sir ; " and Mrs Mill-wood
tittered and looked at Lady Lyonesse.

Then 111 tell you. The whale is the most
sensible animal we know. He lives by suction
that is, he takes other people in — do you see ?
He swallowed Jonah simply because he found
the man such an insufferable bore that he could
devise no other means of getting rid of him."
Mrs Millwood did not know whether to be
shocked or not, and Laurence continued, sighing
deeply, before she had quite made up her
mind — " I can't tell you how I sometimes regret
not having been born a whale ! "

'^ Well, you know how to spout, at all events !"
put in Muriel, who had been vastly amused at
this absurd scene.

Perhaps Mrs Millwood would prefer a blubber
! " laughed Laurence, to whom the perplexity
of the divine's relict was the source of immense
satisfaction and enjoyment. "Now, my dear Mrs
Millwood, you must never hesitate to come to me
when you want a knotty point in the Divine
Writ expounded and made clear. I'd back myself
any day : the Apostolic Fathers are not in it."

This had gone too far, and Mrs Millwood had
quite made up her mind that her clerical connection
necessitated her frowning down such
ribaldry.

I am afraid, Mr Farquhar, that your sense
of humour runs away with your reverence for
things sacred," she said, severely, and preparing
to depart.

Perhaps it may," replied Farquhar, with
mock contrition ; '* and I am happy to see it is
about to run away with something else it has
been trying to elope with for the last few minutes.
Don't go, Mrs Millwood ; you are taking
all my humour with you ! " »

I should be very sorry, Mr Farquhar, to
deprive you of a commodity which appears to
be so acceptable to your friends' — and she
blinked in the direction of Lady Lyonesse,
and noiselessly, but not without considerable
majesty, retired.

Laurence, that woman heard every word
we said ! " exclaimed Muriel.

Of course she did. I never noticed she
was listening till too late. But it makes no
difference, of course, only Madge ought to
get rid of her at once. If I am not as

VOL. II, c

blind as a bat, that woman is only here todo
harm."

You\q, made an enemy of her, at all events."
Tant mieux ! The widow of a priest is tome
as obnoxious a creature as the wife of the
Siamese twins ; and then again she is so hideous
that she would frighten any ordinary owl, lodging
in a respectable ivy-mantled tower, out of
at least one week's hooting ! "

This extraordinary flippancy and apparent
light - heartiness of Laurence Farquhar delighted,
while it somewhat surprised, Muriel.
Could this be the man who had sacrificed all
for his father, and who had written to her
that he had laid down his life and heart before
her to walk over, as Raleigh did his cloak
before the Queen \ Surely this light-hearted
and amusing tease, who treated her more like
a younger sister than anything else, must be
made of no ordinary flesh and blood, to be
able to hide his vital and cruel wounds beneath
the motley of a buffoon? Men were
enigmas, Muriel decided, and heroes were probably
more difficult to understand than ordinary
men. The anger and passion of the simple-hearted
and kindly Arthur had surprised her

not a little, and here was a man who, to her
certain knowledge, had been capable of the
most sublime self-sacrifice, hiding his heroism
behind a flippant jest and sneer ! But this
thought, after all, only awakened a passing
wonder in Muriel's mind, and a wonder which
gave way to a feeling of satisfaction and ease,
for she was glad to exchange the merry and
absurd Laurence she had known so well for
the romantic hero and lover into which he had
developed so suddenly, and for so short a space
of time.

When Madge heard of this ridiculous scene
with Mrs Millwood (and she heard of it froth
from Lady Lyonesse and from Laurence, the
latter very frankly offering his advice that the
sooner the woman were dismissed the better),
she instinctively felt that the continued presence
of the clergyman's widow in her house
was a source of danger to her, and that her
instant removal should be effected at any cost.
So that very evening she spoke to her husband
on the subject.

*' What have you to complain of in her
conduct ? " Sir James inquired, when his wife
had, rather hesitatingly, announced her dislike

to Mrs Millwood's presence, in the very general
terms that she thought the latter had better
go away.

"Oh, nothing in particular, dear, and yet
everything."

What you say is hardly reasonable, darling.
Kemember she has every reason to look upon
my home as hers. She has been a good and
faithful friend to us, and see what care she
takes of Laura." Laura was the baby.

Laura can get on very well without her,
James ; and although Mrs Millwood might have
had a right to look upon your home as hers
before you married, surely now all that is
changed."

Sir James reflected for a moment. " Of
course everything is changed," he said, casting
a france of divine fondness at his wife. '' But
I hardly see why, because we are happy, we
should make others unhappy in consequence."

I don't want to make Mrs Millwood unhappy.
I only want her to leave Courthope."
That's the same thing, dear. Courthope has
been for the past five years her home, and she
loves it, she loves our daughter, and I believe
she "

Loves you," interrupted Madge, laughing.

The Colonel blushed. '' I believe she is
strongly attached to both you and me. She
knows, in fact, that we are her best friends."

•' I am certainly not only not her best friend,
but no friend of hers at all. I dislike the
woman immensely, and I tell you so very
frankly, James."

"Why, Madgy ! what is the matter, darling?"

"I look upon her as prying, false, vulgar,
cruel, hypocritical, and mean ! I think her so
utterly vile, that I shudder to see her touch
Laura. I hate, loath, and despise her, and,
what is more, I believe she knows it ; .or if
she doesn't, and you don't send her away, I
shall tell her so."

*^ But, my darling, you can't mean what you
say. Poor Mrs Millwood "

'' I have told you what / think of * poor Mrs
Millwood.' Now I shall say no more. It is
for you to decide between us. If you don't
send her away, and at once, I shall move over
to Leavenworth and stay with Muriel until
this horrible woman has gone ! " and with that
Madge swept from the room, leaving the old
Colonel thunderstruck by her sudden violence.

Of course he saw Mrs Millwood at once, that
very night, and told her, as gently as he could,
that as she had not had change of air for so
long, he thought a fortnight at Brighton would
do her good, and that he would gladly accompany
her on her journey, take the rooms for
her, and make all the necessary arrangements
for her comfort before leaving her. Mrs Mill-wood
very quietly listened until the poor
Colonel had got through this rather rambling
and somewhat incoherent invitation to a seaside
trip, and then thanked him very greatly
for his kindness, and accepted his offer, but at
the same time asked that the journey might be
put off for a day or two, that she might be
satisfied in her mind as to the baby's condition
of health before leaving the precious treasure,
for only that very evening she had noticed
certain symptoms which, accustomed as she
was to infantile disorders, had inspired her
with uneasiness. Of course so very natural a
request had to be granted, and so the illness
of the infant Laura — and the child was taken
really seriously ill — was the untimely cause of
the indefinite postponement of the departure
of Mrs Millwood, much to the regret and

annoyance of all our friends, with the exception,
of course, of Sir James, who looked upon
the staying of this old ally of his mother beneath
his roof as a blessing — a feeling which, naturally
enough, was greatly intensified by the very
patent fact that, but for the care and attention
of Mrs Millwood, the life of his only child
and beloved infant daughter would probably
have been lost.

Mrs Millwood herself was not deceived fora
moment by the suddenly suggested visit to
Brighton. She knew that this really meant a
final and definite departure from Courthope,
and she knew, of course, that it was Lady
Anstruther's influence that had brought this
about, and yet, strangely enough, the knowledge
of this fact did not inspire her with any
particularly ferocious sentiment of animosity
against the young wife of her benefactor.
True, she disliked Madge, but yet, somehow,
she did not envy her; and as envy was the
most potent of all the noisome winds which
filled the black sails, speeding the bark of this
creature's soul so surely to Hades, this dislike
had not as yet been cultivated into hatred.
Then, again, the better, the more important,

the more enviable aspect of Madge's life was,
according to Mrs Millwood, to be found in
the fact of her being a mother ; and yet, sofar,
such maternal joys as a screaming, ailing,
bad-tempered, newly-born infant may reasonably
be expected to inspire had really been
hers and not the mother's, and the child
seemed to herself, and to every one else, to belong
to her far more than to Lady Anstruther.

The person Mrs Milhvood really envied, and
therefore hated, was Lady Lyonesse. Her sharp
though shifting eye had often detected in Madge's
countenance or general attitude some indication
that she was not altogether thoroughly satisfied
and happy ; but concerning the perfect bliss
and absolute satisfaction of Lady Lyonesse there
could be no possible doubt, and this fact alone
was amply sufficient to arouse the turbid venom
in the abnormally vicious bosom of this woman,
whose nature was essentially evil. Madge had,
moreover, always treated her with cold courtesy
as being due to one who had been the cherished
friend of her husband's mother. But Lady
Lyonesse had from the very beginning taken
no pains to hide the most strong aversion with
which Mrs Millwood had ever inspired her ; and

although, of course, she had never been really-rude
to the clergyman's widow, her manner had
been so carelessly contemptuous that Mrs Mill-wood
had promised herself the delight of wounding
the young marchioness with the first arrow
she could find to poison. She now, moreover,
shrewdly suspected that this longed-for weapon
had been found ; for the intimacy which she
had discovered (b37- the conversation she had
overheard) to exist between this remarkably
handsome young rake from London and the
child wife of Lord Lyonesse might, she told
herself, if properly followed up, carefully handled
and used, and artfully seasoned with such
spice as her venomous and prolific imagination,
aided by adventitious circumstances and the
thousand and one accidents that would in all
likelihood take place, make up a dish as deadly
to the happiness of the future duchess as any
ever furnished by Lucrezia to her guests at the
fatal suppers of Ferrara. That between Lady
Lyonesse and Laurence Farquhar a degree of intimacy
existed which was not only, according to
her rather narrow social views, very nearly criminal,
but, moreover, evidently unsuspected by the
young marquis, was to Mrs Millwood, after what

she had overheard, beyond the reach of doubt.
But then again — insomuch as her eavesdropping
had been detected by the guilty parties, who were
thus not only on their guard, but had already
endeavoured to revenge themselves by using
Lady Anstruther's influence to get her removed
from the house — Mrs Millwood no less plainly
saw that her attitude of an avenging Nemesis
would have to be assumed with considerable
caution. One of her first steps was to make
herself thoroughly familiar with the handwriting
of Laurence Farquhar, for she told herself that
doubtless a compromising correspondence would
succeed his departure from Leavenworth ; and
this was not difficult, for Laurence was always
scribbling verses and nonsense, and she indeed
had very carefully treasured some doggerel lines
which she more than suspected related to herself,
and which she knew to be written by
Farquhar —

As the shadow is less than the matter ;
As the whole, not the part, 'tis we seek ;
When we term her a pig, we but flatter —
She's only the squeak ! "

With the handwriting of Lady Lyonesse she
was already well acquainted, and so thus

armed, she decided to bide her time, keep a
careful look-out, and take ruthless advantage
of the very first opportunity that might offer
itself to prove to Laurence that what he thought
fit to call a 'squeak" proceeded from a wild
boar well armed with teeth and tusks to rend
and tear. So entirely was this dreadful woman
possessed of the idea that something very like
a criminal intrigue was being carried on between
Laurence Farquhar and Lady Lyonesse,
that she never thought of exerting her malignant
vigilance in any other direction ; and
although she had on more than one occasion detected
a look of tenderness in Lady Anstruther's
eyes when looking upon the averted face of Mr
Farquhar, and had also seen that gentleman on
two different occasions murmur something in
the ear of the Colonel's wife, she put all this
down to the fact of Madge — base-born as she
knew her to be, thanks to the idle chatter of
old Agnes — being merely the confidant of the
guilty pair, — the go-between, as it were — a role
which she had always been given to understand
was not infrequently undertaken by the
friends of criminal wives in that metropolis of
all iniquity, that modern Gomorrah, Paris.

But notwithstanding that his intrigues had
escaped the detection of Mrs Millwood, Laurence
had been losing no time in preparing to grasp
the forbidden fruit which, he felt, only needed
one touch to fall into his lap ; for it must be
borne in mind by the reader that the conversation
overheard by Mrs Millwood, and which led
on that same evening to her interview with Sir
James Anstruther, and his invitation to try the
air of Brighton — in fact, almost all the events
chronicled in the last few pages — had occurred
on the second day after Farquhar's arrival at
Leavenworth. He had purposely assumed a most
marked flippant and careless attitude towards
Muriel, for many reasons. In the first place,
he knew that that young lady entertained no
warmer feeling for him than strong gratitude and
fervent admiration for his heroism and spirit of
self-sacrifice ; and so he wanted to assure her
from the very beginning that he had once and
for ever abandoned the no longer profitable —
or indeed possible — role of lover for the more
comfortable one of best and dearest friend and
brother, shrewdly foreseeing the fact that when
this light-hearted ness and gaiety should give
place to the despair with which he intended

to make this first appeal to her purse, the
change would be all the more marked and
strongly accentuated, and thus more powerful to
excite sympathy, pity, and, he hoped, productive
of profit. Then, again, he did not exactly
know how much the one girl might possibly
have told the other (for, being an inveterate liar
himself, he of course believed in no promises,
no matter how solemnly pledged) ; and he
wished to show Madge, before beginning to
sing his love-song to her, that, no matter what
she might have heard, he looked upon Muriel
now, at all events, only in the light of a familiar
friend — almost as a child, — well knowing that
general conduct has far more influence on a
mind prone to jealousy as an agent of conviction
and persuasion than mere words, no matter
how eloquently framed or passionately uttered.
In thus deceiving Madge, Farquhar succeeded
admirably. Nor, indeed, was the task a difficult
one, for it never entered her head for a
moment that there had ever at any time existed
between the man she loved and Lady Lyonesse
anything approaching even a flirtation ; and
even if the affectionate praise which Muriel
always lavished on him — much to the amusement

of Arthur, who remembered Eton and
Christ Church days, but of course said nothing,
jealousy being wholly unable to find a berth
in his honest, frank nature — had surprised Lady
Anstruther, the oft-spoken-of kindness of Laurence
to the orphan and to Lady Meredith in
the dark days succeeding the death of Sir
William amply accounted for this warm admiration
; and then, finally, to use a Hibernicism,
the death-blow was given to this nonexistent
suspicion (for in this particular instance
Laurence was careful to follow the advice given
by Ovid to the lover at the circus to wipe the
dust from his mistress's neck, even if there be
no dust — " Si nullus, tamen excuse nullus ") by
the carelessly affectionate and half-patronising
manner adopted by Farquhar in his intercourse
with Lady Lyonesse — a flippant bearing wholly
incompatible with the existence of any sentiment
more tender than mere brotherly affection.

But although everything appeared to him, sofar
as he could see, to be going on very well,
Laurence was forced to confess to himself, after
he had been a week at Leavenworth, that he
had not made any very material progress towards
the singing of his song of love to Lady

Anstruther, although that the singing of it was
necessary to his happiness became more and
more a fixed conviction in his mind as a thousand
trivial everyday accidents impeded the immediate
realisation of his dream, while the almost
constant presence of Madge hourly increased his
ardent passion ; and so, as he had shrewdly made
up his mind not to abuse the hospitality of Lord
Lyonesse by any lengthened stay at one time,
but rather to make his presence an ever-novel
delight by a series of short visits, he decided
that there was no time to be lost, and that he
must create an opportunity for himself if churlish
Chance should withhold his aid. That
Madge knew of his love, and reciprocated it, he
was well aware ; and he had indeed succeeded,
as Mrs Millwood saw, on two or three occasions
to murmur a few words of fondness in her ear.
But this, of course — for he had noted the emotion
with which Lady Anstruther had heard the
whisper — rather made matters worse than better,
and added fresh fuel to the furnace which was
devouring him with an ardour which, in the few
lucid moments left him for reflection, filled him
not only with astonishment and self-contempt,
but even terror.

But this determination of Laurence Farquhar
to precipitate matters was rendered wholly unnecessary,
for the blind god took the management
of this intrigue into his own ^^ glowing
hands," and, by a most mischievously dexterous
arrangement of circumstances, cut through with
one single arrow the obstacles which separated
these two yearning hearts. Lyonesse had been
forced to go to town on political business, as
usual, and Anstruther had accompanied him to
see about a new cork leg ; Mrs Millwood was
engaged attending to the wants of the invalid
infant ; and so the two ladies and Laurence
were left to their own devices. It was after
luncheon, and Lady Anstruther had gone back
to Courthope for a few minutes to inquire about
the baby, promising to return shortly and accompany
Laurence and Muriel on a long walk —
for the day was bright and sparkling, although
bitterly cold. Shortly after the departure of
Madge, Lady Lyonesse had herself been called
away by the unexpected arrival of an emissary
from Worth, who had come over from Paris to
see what orders her ladyship might be pleased
to honour him with ; and so Laurence was left
alone in the library, Muriel laughingly warning

him, as she departed, that he would in all probability
be forced to walk out with Lady An-stretcher
alone, as she fully expected to be busy
the whole afternoon with this most welcome
visitor, who had travelled all the way from the
Eue de la Paix expressly to see her.

For the first half-hour Laurence had amused
himself looking at the books ; but this pastime
becoming at length wearisome, he had seated
himself, and began, as was his wont, scribbling
verses while awaiting, with no slight satisfaction,
the approaching advent of Lady Anstruther,
whom he now told himself he should be able to
have a few words alone with for the first time
si-once his arrival at Leavenworth. Ere long he
had become so absorbed in the labours of composition
that he hardly heard the door open,
and the first intimation he had that he was
no longer alone was by the noise occasioned by
the upsetting of a very dainty table-ouvrage
which Lady Lyonesse had brought with her
from the Rue Roy ale, and which was more unsteady
on its legs than even a member of the
Raleigh after midnight. Looking up hastily,
Laurence saw Lady Anstruther stooping to pick

VOL. II. P

up the fallen piece of furniture, and he rose at
once and approached her, taking the scrap of
paper he had been writing on with him.

What a tiresome thing this stupid table
is ! " exclaimed Madge. " I wish Muriel would
not leave it always so in the way as she does."
Then seeing that she was alone with Farquhar,
she changed colour slightly and inquired,
"Where is she?"

'' She'll be back in a quarter of a second.
She told me to ask you to wait for her here.
Sit down ; I want to ask your opinion of some
verses I have been perpetrating." And so
speaking, he wheeled a large arm-chair up to
Lady Anstruther, and then seeing Madge hesitate,
he added, laughingly, "Do sit down;
you're not afraid of me, are you ? "

Madge coloured, and seated herself stiffly.
Don't be long, Laurence. I have all my furs
on, and you know I care nothing about poetry.
This room is as hot as an oven."

Laurence drew a chair close up by her and
seated himself. " I know you don't care much
about verses, and that's why I want to see exactly
how much of your contempt I can stand
without quarrelling with you." Then he began

to read as follows his eyes leaving the paper
every minute and gazing upon her half averted
face : —

Reading sad Dante with my Lady's face
Bent over me, locked in the sweet embrace
Of sympathy of thought, the autumn day
Tiptoe to twilight stole, — from gold to grey.

I had been reading low, and scarce above
A whisper, that divine part that I love
More than the rest — Francesca's tearful story ;
And now I read, ' Nessun maggiore colore

Che recorders del tempo felice,' — there
My voice gave way. Oh pitiless despair !
Nulla misery ! ' coming as a cry

Heard o'er wind-madden'd seas when strong men die
Swimming in sight of land, — love's tocsin-bell
Echoed with sobs through heaven, — rung in hell ! *

And looking up, I saw my own love's cheek
Hot bathed in tears, and softly did I speak :

Lady, we hand in hand may laugh to meet
All ills save Regret only : at Love's feet

Let us kneel down and pray we be spared this —
To find remembrance change to tears a kiss ;
That ' recorders del tempo felice ' never
May be our fate : Regret alone can sever —
Winged with relentless hours — that bond divine, —
The passion-chain which links my soul to thine !

So kiss me, love, before it be too late ;

Lock all Love's dreams within one kiss's gate ! "

These last two lines he had not written, but
composed even as he uttered them in a tender

murmur, bending low over Madge's two clasped
and gloved hands, which lay on her muff, and
which trembled violently as his lips approached
them. Then he raised his eyes, and saw Lady
Anstruther's brimming over with tears, and
took her in his arms, and poured into her willing
ears the story of his passion. But it is,
we fancy, hardly necessary to linger over this
disagreeable and wholly unedifying part of
our story. What Madge comforted herself by
calling the inevitable had come at last ; and soone
more gallant, noble-hearted man's honour
was rent in tatters by a wanton's hand. To a
man so experienced in all manner of criminal
intrigue as Laurence Farquhar, it was of course
no difficult task to weave such a web as would,
at least for the present, hide the vile treachery
of himself and Lady Anstruther from the inhabitants
of Leavenworth and Courthope ; nor,
indeed, would this have greatly taxed the diplomatic
powers of the rawest tyro in scheming,
for a more innocent and unsuspecting group of
individuals than the one composing these two
households it would be difficult to find — always
excepting, of course, Mrs Millwood^ whose malignant

attention however was, as we have
seen, directed wholly to another quarter.

Laurence left Leavenworth in a few days,
promising to return, of course ; but it was arranged
between himself and Madge that they
should meet in town, and Farquhar found a
friend who gladly lent him, whenever he required
it, his comfortable little bachelors house
in Kensington, where the servants were too
well trained to inquire as to the identity of
the closely-veiled lady who so constantly came
to meet their masters friend.

At one of these clandestine meetings Lady
Anstruther announced a piece of news to Laurence
which filled him with great joy, and
proved to him that his lucky star was indeed in
the ascendant. Muriel was a great heiress after
all. The Duke had written to Lyonesse that
Jould, the great American speculator and
millionaire, was buying up the stock that Mr
Houghton had invested his money in, and
which had been unproductive of any interest
for so long, and that he, the Duke, had had
private advice from Wall Street that if this
waste-paper, which was supposed to have represented

nearly half a million sterling, and which
was owned by Muriel, could be at once placed
in the hands of Jould, a very large sum of
ready money would be handed over by that
gentleman. Muriel had, of course, consented,
and Jould had kept his word like a clever man,
too honest to cheat the wife of the future Duke
of Tintagil, and an immense sum of ready
money had thus been placed to her ladyship's
credit. So Muriel Meredith's little hand was
one clasping muckle gold after all, and the
Duke and Duchess suddenly discovered that
she was the most charming and altogether welcome
daughter-in-law they could possibly in
their most ambitious dreams have desired for
their beloved Arthur. Now, therefore, Laurence
Farquhar told himself, was the very moment,
the opportune moment, in which it was his duty
to his worldly interests to make use once more
of his father's name as a means of exciting the
sympathy of Muriel, and of appealing to her
generosity — only this time the call was to be
made more especially upon her purse than upon
her heart.

This precious father of his had, by the way,
just then been the cause to him of no little

anxiety, and for the following reason. Mr Farquhar,
senior's, habits of alcoholic intemperance
were such as to render his society an offence to
those endowed with delicate nostrils, and so the
aid and assistance of a very poor and very
distant cousin had been called in by the Farquhar
family ; and this individual, who acted
half as companion and half as keeper, had, for
the past year, been living with the father of the
gay and fashionable Laurence in a pretty little
cottage atBognor, — an arrangement which had at
first admirably suited Mr Farquhar, junior, who
had fondly hoped that his sire would have been
contented with the sea - breezes and endless
whisky thus assured him, and have remained
quiescent. But he had been most grievously
mistaken : already on two occasions his father
had, in some wild paroxysm of alcoholic delirium,
broken away from his custodian and found
his way to London to see and upbraid his son,
the first time having been prevented from creating
a public scandal by the wile and diplomacy
of the hall-porter of the Carlton Club, who had
captured him in the hall and inveigled the old
inebriate into a cab, on the pretext that Mr
Laurence Farquhar had but just that moment

left the club for his lodgings, and given strict
injunctions that his father should be told to
follow him there ; and the second time having
been arrested on his very arrival in town at
Victoria Station by a hasty-tempered constable,
who objected to being chastised with an umbrella
for not knowing the time of day. Now a
letter from Bognor acquainted Laurence with
the unwelcome fact that his father had broken
loose again and disappeared, nobody knew
where, and that as many letters had arrived for
the missing gentleman during his absence, the
cousin in Sussex thought a visit from Mr Laurence
would not perhaps be amiss. So Lady
Anstruther's lover had, sorely against his will,
made up his mind to pay a flying visit to Bognor,
look at these letters, and endeavour to
glean some intelligence which might perhaps
give him a clue to his father's whereabouts ; for
he was by no means pleased with the idea that
an unwelcome apparition might any day spring
"up before him in St James's Street or Pall Mall,
habited in unseemly rags, and lighted on its
stumbling way by the reddest of noses that
ever declined to be defeated by fusel oil.
But this parting, even for a few days, had

been as distasteful and painful to Lady An-stretcher
as to her lover, but from a wholly
different cause. Hardly had Madge realised
the fact that she had completely wrecked her
life for the sake of this man, whom she adored
but rather mistrusted, than she became naturally
anxious to bind him to her, so that when the
first heat of passion on his side should have
cooled down, her love, which she instinctively
felt to be made of a more lasting fibre than his,
might have at least a legitimate theatre in which
to exercise itself. From the very first she had
proposed an elopement — an elopement followed
by a divorce, and culminating in a marriage
with the man she loved. To so very uncomfortable
a view of the situation, however, Laurence
had seen and pointed out some very
serious objections — not indeed absolutely throwing
cold water on the scheme, but intimating
that as they were both no richer than they were
two years before, the very material obstacle
which had hindered their coming together in
holy matrimony in the first instance still existed,
so that on the whole they had better rest content
with their present happiness, insomuch as they
were both well aware that, although love may

laugh at locksmiths, the troublesome urchin is
generally inspired with a very proper respect fora
banking account whereon his arrows may be
burnished. Madge had been forced, although,
of course, unwillingly, to give way to this overwhelming
logic, and content herself with the
certainty that for the time being, at least, her
lover adored her, and with the reflection that it
might after all depend a great deal upon her
own wit and heart whether or not he kept his
solemnly pledged promise to fly with her the
very first moment such a hasty exodus from
decent society should become possible. But if
she could not just at present bind her darling
to her by legitimate, legal, and avowable bonds,
Madge was greatly averse to leaving him out of
her sight for long, and this journey down to
Sussex (the purport of which she, of course, was
wholly ignorant of, and which was only generally
described to her as being of the most urgent
business importance) met with her unqualified
disapproval.

This was their first parting : hitherto they had
managed to meet almost every day, either in
town or in the country — for Laurence had so
arranged matters that he could run down to

Leaven worth uninvited, both Muriel and Arthur
being delighted to see him at all times. But
now he was to disappear into the wilds of Sussex
for a few days, and the cold consolation of correspondence
was to take the place of tender
glances, and no less divinely sweet hand-pressures.
Laurence was indeed, at first, very
greatly opposed to affording to his passionate
and jealous darling even this cold consolation
of an occasional letter during the four or ^yq
days he expected to be absent, and pointed out
to Lady Anstruther the very well-known fact
that letter-writing has superseded apple-eating
since the days of Eve as the surest way of getting
married women into trouble. But here he
met with such petulant dissatisfaction that he
abandoned with a kiss his prudent objections,
and contented himself with throwing a sop to
his drowsy common-sense by secretly resolving
to put a strong curb on his epistolary eloquence.


It were well, however, he told himself — nay,
necessary — that he should see Muriel before his
departure for Sussex, and come to some arrangement
about the money he should now require
very shortly, and which he felt sure he could by

a little skilful diplomacy get her to offer him,
thus avoiding the humiliation of asking. The
exact sum he should endeavour to obtain from
her he had not as yet decided in his mind ; but,
of course, it would have to be a large one, for
he hardly liked to run the risk of being compelled
to ask her again at some future date,
when her friendly feelings and sympathy for
him might not be so fervent as they were now,
and when, indeed, owing to investments, solicitors,
and business men generally, it might be
difficult for her to dispose of an important sum
of ready cash without taking somebody into
her confidence. Just now he happened to
know that she could easily do so, and it was
this knowledge indeed which induced this very
practical and business-like scoundrel to decide
to make the attempt at once — not to delay even
a day, and not to wait till his return from
Sussex, by which time that meddling Duke
might have recommended some stupid investments
which would have absorbed the greater
part of the ready money, and thus have rendered
it impossible for Murders generosity to
rise to the height of his, Farquhar's, audacity.
He did not require the money just at once ;

when he came back from Sussex it would be
plenty of time for the actual passing of the
cash from Muriel's hands into his to take place.
What he wanted now was to prepare the
ground — nay more, extract an absolute promise
and then give Muriel such time to make her
arrangements as might be necessary, so that
he could have the money at a moment's notice.
The only difficulty was, how to see her alone,
and away from Madge. At Leavenworth this
would now, under the altered circumstances,
have been almost impossible, for, under some
pretext or other. Lady Anstruther contrived in
the most natural way in the world to be nearly
always in his society. Laurence Farquhar was,
however, not a man to allow such a paltry obstacle
as this to stand in his way for a moment,
and he arranged the matter very greatly to his
satisfaction, in the following manner. The
Duke and Duchess had now opened very wide
their arms to their daughter-in-law, as we have
had occasion already to chronicle ; and so it
had been arranged that Lady Lyonesse should
be presented, and make her deut in London
society with great splendour during the coming
season, and this of course necessitated many journeys

to town. Laurence watched his opportunity,
made an appointment to meet Madge as usual
at the little house in Kensington, and when the
hour of the rendezvous had come — and he
knew she would not only be punctual, but wait
for him — he, feeling sure the coast was now
clear, sallied forth to meet Muriel, having, of
course, already ascertained where he would be
sure to find her. She was to lunch with a
cousin of the Duke, old Lady Astolat, one of
the most amusing women in town, and one
with whom Laurence Farquhar had been intimate
for many years, and so he also dropped
in there to luncheon in the most natural way
in the world, and by artfully directing the conversation
at table, it was not long before an
arrangement had been come to by which he
was to accompany the young Marchioness to
Hunt and Koskells' directly after luncheon, to
give her the aid of his well-known good taste
and general knowledge in the matter of selecting
jewels.

'* You had better make Arthur write to Boucher,"
Farquhar had suggested. '' They make
all jewellery for women with so much better
taste in Paris than here. Everything for

women is so cumbersome and heavy in England."


*' Including the husbands, as a rule ! " put in
wretched old Lady Astolat, whose first iniquities
dated from the days of Attacks'. But
the Duke had recommended Hunt and Kos-tells
(his Grace had probably made an arrangement
for a heavy discount), and so to
Bond Street they went together, Laurence and
Muriel alone, Lady Astolat finding the weather
quite too cold to venture out in quest of
jewels not destined to adorn her own venerable
person.

'' How is it you know so much about jewels ? "
asked Muriel, when they had left the shop after
a very lengthened visit, during which Lady
Lyonesse had been greatly astonished by the
extraordinary knowledge and acumen Laurence
had given proof of.

Farquhar sighed. " Oh, we had splendid
jewels in our family once. My poor mother's
diamonds were famous ! " Then, as Muriel
did not seem to rise to the bait, he added, with
a still more profound sigh — " We had to sell
them all, of course ! "

What a terrible shame ! " exclaimed Lady

Lyonesse. Then she added, in a lower tone,
'' For your father's debts, I suppose ? "

Laurence nodded. " Oh, of course ! " he said.
'' The old story ! "

They had turned up Breton Street, for Lady
Lyonesse had some errand to do in Park Street
before returning to Lady Astolat's, and as the
sun was shining, although the air Alas piercingly
cold, they had sent on the carriage, and
decided to walk. Laurence, of course, had
brought this about on purpose, so that he might
have the time to open his batteries at his
leisure.

'* How is your poor father now ? " inquired
Muriel, after a short pause, and just as they
were reaching Berkeley Square.

Laurence shook his head mournfully. " He's
very ill, poor old boy ; quite broken down ! "
Then artfully pretending to change the subject,
while all the time keeping it in the same channel,
he exclaimed, indicating with his hand the
whole Square in a general and comprehensive
way — " I'm very fond of Berkeley Square.
We used to live here in the old days — when my

poor mother was alive, and before " Then

he stopped.

"Laurence, you won't be offended if I ask
you a question, will you ? " inquired Muriel,
hesitatingly, and with some embarrassment.

It's coming now," thought Laurence.

How could I possibly ever be offended with
you ? What is it 1 Ask me any question you
like."

'^ How is it, then, that with your poor father
so ill, and everything so dreary, you yourself
are always so gay and light-hearted — that is,
generally ? " she added hastily, rather regretting
she had ventured to make so very personal a
remark when she saw an expression of pain
pass across her companion's face. It was,^ in
very deed, not pain, but disappointment. Instead
of having made him the offer of money, ashe
had fully expected she was about to do, she
had merely asked him a rather annoying and
awkward question. It became evident to him
that he must force her hand, for precious time
was passing rapidly by, and the carriage was to
await them in Park Street.

*' I have been, as you say, very gay and lighthearted
lately, and I don't wonder, knowing all
the terrible troubles of my life as you alone do,
that you should be surprised at it, and should

VOL. II. E

ask me the question. The reason is simple
enough. I had cause, or thought I had cause,
until this very morning, to hope that some of

my worst troubles were over ; but now '' and

he paused and shook his head, and then turning
to Muriel, he added, in a tone as of forced gaiety,
and with a sad smile, " I am afraid henceforth
you will have no cause to be surprised at my
gaiety. I am off to the country on purpose to
hide myself, and not to bore people with my
miserable troubles."

"But you told us all — Arthur, Madge, me, all
of us — that you were only going to be absent a
few days."

*' I told them that, for what do they care,
good and kind friends though they are, what
really becomes of me ? If I were to disappear
for ever to-day from the face of the earth, they
would perhaps miss me for a week at most. Of
course they are quite right, and life would be
intolerable if every one were to inquire and pry
and know about and sympathise with everyone
else's troubles. With you it is wholly different,
Muriel ; you have a right to inquire and
to know." Muriel did not quite see how she
possessed such a right, and certainly regretted

having asked a question which seemed to provoke
such painful emotion ; but she had no
time given her to explain, even if she had
intended doing so, for Laurence continued at
once — " As you have the right to inquire and
to know, and you alone in all the world, I will
tell you. One of our oldest and dearest friends
my godfather, in fact — who is very fond of
my poor father, and would do anything for him,
had made arrangements to advance us a large
sum of money, well knowing that he could rely
upon my honour to pay him back by instalments.
This large sum. of money was to go to
the paying off of some debts of honour contracted
without my knowledge by my poor
father, and about the payment of which he has
been terribly pressed lately. My godfather, of
course, would have been perfectly content to
wait, knowing, as I say, that I can easily pay
him back by instalments. He would have
waited when these other men would not ; so
when he promised to do this for my father, no
wonder you saw me light-hearted and gay."

Well, and now ? " inquired Lady Lyonesse,
as this hero of hers paused.

He finds he can't do it ; he really cannot.

He is not trying to get out of it — on the contrary,
he is heart-broken about it ; but he can't
do it, and so there is an end of it. It does not
make much difference to me, for luckily I amas
strong as a bull, and when once I have got
over the breaking of this bad news to my
father "

'but you mustn't, Laurence."

Mustn't what '? "

Mustn't break it to him. It might kill
him ! '^

It may ; but I sometimes think death would
be a merciful release to him. Anyway, of
course I must tell him, and at once."

You must do nothing of the kind, I tell
you'' interrupted Muriel. " You must let
Arthur and me lend your poor father the
money''

Here it was at last ! — not in the form which he
had expected, nor in a form he could possibly
accept ; but still here it had come, and it only
remained for Laurence now to shape, accept,
and benefit by it. He aimed a death-blow at
Arthur's unwelcome presence in the matter at
once — demolished it as follows : —

Arthur and you lend me the money ! Why,

Muriel, you must have taken leave of your
senses ! Apart from the fact that I wouldn't
take it, I know Arthur well enough to know he
wouldn't lend it''

Yes, he would if I asked him to, — my
money. I have a lot now, you know."

I know Arthur better than you do, my dear
Muriel. Gracious God ! I would sooner let these
men seize all my poor father's furniture, and
turn him out of his home a beggar, as they
threaten to do, than take a penny of Arthur's
money. He's the best fellow breathing, and the
best friend I have living, except you ; but he is,
as you said yourself, very proud, and he would
despise me for taking it, even if he lent it."

'' Despise you ! Oh, Laurence, who could
despise you ? I don't think there is another
man in London who would have acted so nobly
to your father and — and — and to me, as you
have done."

'' You think so, dear Muriel, because you area
woman, and women have more tender and
delicate feelings of honour than men. Men are
hard — rightly, justly, and properly so ; and menin
the position of Arthur have so many calls
upon their purse, that they can't afford to assist

beggars. Besides, he comes of a hard family, as
you know."

This last fact Muriel had to acknowledge to
be true. She knew it but too well, and this
thought was followed by the reflection of how
much more noble in mind and heart was this
poor, untitled, penniless young hero now walking
by her side, than the splendid Duke with
his palaces and his garter. Her mind was made
up at once.

'* If you won't take it from Arthur, you must
take it from me, Laurence."

'^ From you, Muriel ! / borrow money from
a woman, and that woman you ! Lady Lyon-esse,
what have I ever done that you should
insult me so 1 "

This last exclamation was thrown ofi" in a
style worthy of Frederick Maitre at his very
best. MurieFs heart was wrung. They had
now turned into desolate Grosvenor Square,
and they were quite alone save for a policeman
or two and a few wandering and empty hansoms.

Listen to me, Laurence. Don't call me Lady
Lyonesse, and don't speak of my insulting you.
You know you are the best friend I have after
Arthur, and that all my present happiness I owe

to you ; " here she put up her hand, for she saw
he was about to interrupt. " Listen to me —
hear me out. I have listened to you long enough ;
you must listen to me now. You 7nust take
this money. Nobody shall know of it, but you
must take it. It has come to me as if dropped

from the clouds, and if — if " here she

hesitated a little, but then with an effort proceeded
with great excitement, for she feared he
would interrupt her before she had had her say
out, — " if you had married me, of course it would
have been yours''

^^ Never ! " exclaimed Laurence. '^ I loved
you for yourself ! I will tell you now what I
never intended to have told you, and that is,
that I more than suspected your poor father's
embarrassments when I asked you to marry me.
Of course I could not foresee the terrible catastrophe
that occurred, but I knew enough to
embolden me, a poor man, to ask you, a dowerless
girl, to be my wife ! Do you think I
should ever have dared to ask the only child of
the rich Sir William Meredith to marry me if
I had not known his riches to have vanished '?
Do you think me so vile as that, Muriel ? Or
even if you do think me so vile, do you think

me such a fool as to have thought a rich and
ambitious man like your father would ever
have consented to your union with a beggar '?
If I am a villain, I am at least not a fool ! "

Here again Frederick Maitre was equalled.
Muriel's eyes filled with tears.

How good you are, Laurence ! " she murmured,
taking her little hand out of her muff
and putting it on his arm. "You are even
more noble than I thought ! So you wanted to
marry me when you thought I hadn't a penny,
and gave me up that I might marry money !
Laurence, I sometimes think you are too noble,
too noble and good for this world ! "

Listen to me, Muriel : we might as well
talk plainly now, once and for all, for we shall
never revert to this subject again. I gave you
up, not that you might marry money, but because
I saw that your heart was not mine —
that you loved Arthur."

'' You saw that '? "

Laurence laughed bitterly. " Love like the
love I had for you has a terribly keen eyesight,
Lady Lyonesse. As it gives itself up entirely,
so it claims all in return, and if anything is
held back, that defalcation is detected at once.

I had suspected at first that you might have
loved Arthur, but when you put out your dear
hand to me that morning in the Bois, I told
myself I had been dreaming, and that even if
you had ever loved him, that love was dead ;
but when you came to me that terrible morning
in the Tuileries, when you told me he had
offered himself, and that you were about to refuse
him because you thought yourself bound
to me, I saw I had deceived myself, and that
your heart was his, and his alone." Here he
stopped, apparently for want of breath, and
Muriel looked at him with something akin to
adoration in her eyes. " Do you think,'*^ he
continued, following up his advantage, " that if
I had not seen this, I would have given you up
you, my sun, my soul, my life, my all — even
if he had been fifty times more noble and fifty
times more rich ? I told you it was your duty
to your mother, but I lied to you, I lied to
you, because I wanted to show your tender
generous heart a way out of a cage into
which it had innocently entered, and which it
was beating its sweet life out to be released
from. I lied to you that you might not be
forced to lie to yourself. What cared I about

the dishonour of the lying "? I, who had never
lied before, lied then, and that is what I meant
when I wrote to you that I laid down my life
before you as a cloak, that you might walk
over and bemire. Duty to your mother !
Faugh I had your love for Arthur not blinded
you, you would have seen through the subterfuge
at once. The clearest proof that you
could give me that your heart was his, was that
you believed, eagerly believed, so transparent
a lie. Why, there is no mother living to
whom the sacrifice of all that makes a daughter's
life holy, and true, and pure, and good, is
due ; and you would have sacrificed all that if
you had given me up, loving me, to marry
Arthur, not loving him. The lie, indeed, was
so transparent as to be hardly a lie. I knew
the nobleness of your heart well enough to know
that you would not fear poverty with a man
you loved, and I knew that with hard work I
could easily earn enough to keep you and your
mother even in luxury. But how could I take
you when your eyes, your voice, nay, even your
words and tears, all told me you loved Arthur ?
The lie I told you was even an insult to you,
but your eyes were so blinded with happy tears

at your release that you never saw the insult.
God help me ! I have told you all now, and
you know me for the base thing I am — a man
who has slain himself with a falsehood I "

'^ Oh Laurence I Laurence ! what can I say
to you ? what can I do for you "? " cried Muriel,
now overwhelmed with the glory of this apocalypse
of love. " You have sacrificed everything
for me, and you will not let me do even the
most paltry thing for you. And yet you say
you loved me ! If you have any of that love
left, if you don't want to embitter all this present
happiness which I owe to you, let me do
this thing for your father. Let me, Laurence,
do — I beg you, I implore you ! "

Do you think I can take money for my
heart's sacrifice ? If you think that of me,
Muriel, we had better never meet again."

I do not think it, Laurence — you know I
do not think it. I think you the best, truest,
noblest man on earth, and that is why I beg
you to stoop down to poor me and let me be
honoured by reaching up to you. You must
do it, Laurence — you must do it ! It is not to
you I give the money : it is to your father.
Think of that, Laurence ! You have nothing

to do with it — nothing. You need never see
it. Tell me where to send it. I have
£20,000 I can do what I like with at once,
now, to-day, this minute. It is mine, all mine,
every penny of it, and to what nobler use can
I put it than this ! Nobody shall know it,
nobody can know it. You shall pay it back
to me, I will take it back from you to whom
I shall not have given it, and I shall glory in
doing so, and in knowing that you have let me
take part, no matter how small a part, in the
glory of your life. If you loved me once, Laurence
— and I know, I feel sure you did — let
me now at least prove that I am worthy of that
love. You cannot refuse me that, Laurence !
You must not refuse me that ! "

"You don't know what you are saying,
Muriel. Your generous heart is leading you
to say words that have no meaning. What
would the world say if I should take this
money from you 1 You yourself, I know, are
too noble to think the worse of me — but the
world ! "

The world ! Why, Laurence, I tell you nobody
could ever know. No human being living
could ever suspect it. And then I shall not

give it to you — I will send it to your father,
and you shall repay me."

''No, Muriel, this is impossible. There are
depths of baseness to which even I cannot
stoop, even for my father's sake. Even to
save his life — and this money would do no more
than save his life — I could not do this thing''

Then I shall tell everything to Arthur ! "
exclaimed Muriel, now excited beyond measure.

You will, Muriel ? Never ! You would
only harm me, and ruin your own happiness."

And what will my happiness be worth tome
hereafter, if you will not let me do this thing
for you — for your father ? Do you think I can
eat, and sleep, and smile, and live, while I
know all that I now know 1 Laurence, I beg
you, I implore you, in your father s name, for
his sake, for my sake, for the sake of the love
you once had for me, do not refuse me, and
wreck for ever all the happiness that you have
blessed me with. See, I do not deny that I
loved Arthur, and that I was glad — more glad
than ever girl was before, I think — when I
thought that it was my duty to obey you
and my mother, and marry him. But you
deceived me, Laurence — dear, noble, glorious

Laurence, you deceived me — you have confessed
you did ! AVliy should you make me
bear the cruel burden of the deceit of which
I was guiltless ? Have pity on me Laurence —
you who are so noble and generous, have pity
on me — and let me enjoy the happiness you
have built up for me with the sacrifice of your
own heart, and do not let your love for me
prove to me a curse ! '*

God forbid it should ever do that, Muriel !"
said Laurence solemnly, his face being really
pale with emotion, for £20,000 was a much
larger sum than he had ever thought of asking
for.

But it will," exclaimed Muriel, " whether
you say God forbid it or not ! Your love forme
will be a curse, and your self-sacrifice and
noble and heroic deceit, — a curse that will embitter
all my life, if you will not listen to me
now, and do what I beg of you." Here she
stopped short, quite overcome by her feelings,
and said solemnly, " Laurence, I will not, I
cannot stand it ! You have no right to refuse
to listen to my prayer, you have no right to
wantonly break up my life and happiness, because
you deceived me and let me break up

yours. If you will not let me do this thing,
I swear I will tell Arthur everything this very
night — everything ; and if, as you say, it will
harm you and ruin me, as I believe it will, it
is your fault, and you will only have yourself
to thank ! Kemember I am. in earnest. I
swear I will do it, and at once. I want your
answer now, before we go a step farther. Will
you promise, or shall I tell Arthur '? I will get
into that cab that is passing and go down to the
Carlton now, if you will not promise ! "

"What do you want me to promise, Muriel V

I want you to promise me, by all that you
hold most sacred, by your love for your father,
by the love you once had for me, to take this
£20,000, and give it back to me when you can."

Laurence paused, looked at her, and seeing
the stern decision of her face, replied, "I cannot
do that, Muriel ; you cannot ask me to

,'^ here Muriel broke away from him, and

walking up to the kerbstone signalled to a cab.
Wait, wait, Muriel — you are mad ! Listen tome."


Promise ! '^ she said, waving once more to
the cabman, who, luckily, did not see her
signal.

You must give me time to think, Muriel ! "

I will not give you a minute to think ;
promise ! "

He hesitated. Muriel again waved to the
cab. This time the man saw her, and came
driving up.

Go away," said Laurence angrily. " The
lady does not want you : she has made a
mistake. Listen to me, Muriel," and he drew
her on. '' This is all I can do "

I want your promise, and nothing else."

*^ I will promise to ask you for this money if
I find I cannot do without it — if I cannot find
it in any other way."

*' That is not enough ! " exclaimed Lady
Lyonesse.

*you must not ask me to promise more,
Muriel. Not more now, or you will drive me
to despair."

What will you promise, then ? "

"That if I find my father really needs it, I
will ask you for it."

Muriel looked at him narrowly. "I cannot
trust you," she said, after a pause — " I cannot
trust you, Laurence. But this is what I will do
I will draw the money out at once and have

it by me. I will wait one fortnight, not a day
longer, and if I have not heard from you then,
if I do not find out for myself that your father
is quite out of all trouble, — and, mind you, I
shall make inquiries, and find out without you
or any one else knowing it, — I shall tell all to
Arthur — everything, and then let come what
may ! Up to fourteen days from to-day the
money shall be in my drawer waiting for you.
After that time it will be too late, and you will
have dragged us all down to ruin. Remember,
Laurence — only fourteen days ! "

Muriel, I will promise ; and more than that,
I will promise to write to you this very week,
or, if not write to you, put something in a
letter to Arthur that you will understand about
my father s matters, so that you need not make
inquiries, which might only harm us all. But
if I do this for you, Muriel — if I promise this,
and thus put the last shred of honour I have
left me under your feet — you must in return
promise me to spare me, and to let this shame
of mine be a secret between us to the grave ! "

*' Do you take me for the vilest woman on
earth, Laurence ? Do you think I would not
sooner die than breathe a word to any one ? If

VOL. II. F

you cannot trust me to keep this secret for your
sake, you can at least trust me to do so for ??i?/
own. Where should I be if it became known ?
You speak of the world, and what the world
would say ! Why, if this became known, the
world would treat me as one polluted beyond
the reach of help."

Laurence was, of course, fully aware of this
most important fact, but was none the less pleased
to see that his victim fully appreciated it also.
"Well," he said, 'let it be so, then. I have
fallen so low, I can hardly fall lower. I shall
know at all events that you will not despise
me."

Here is the carriage," exclaimed Muriel, as
they turned into Park Street; 'you must leave
me now, Laurence. I cannot bear to hear you
talk so. You have made me ill — wretchedly
ill' — and I must drive home at once and alone.
No, I insist upon it " — as Laurence seemed about
to demur — " you must leave me ! Good-bye,
and remember " — and she got into the carriage,
told the footman to return home, and left Laurence
the happiest man in London.

He drove at once to Kensington. He was, of
course, hours late, but he knew Madge would

be waiting for him ; and as he intended running
down to Sussex that very night, he must, of
course, see her. He found Madge, as he had
expected, in a fever of excitement and suspense ;
but as he had never kept her waiting before,
and as he had made up a long tale, which led
her to believe that if he had not accompanied
Lady Lyonesse to the jeweller's, some suspicion
might have been aroused, she finally forgave
him for having kept her waiting, and all the
more readily when he reminded her that he
should be forced to absent himself for a few
days that evening. But she also took advantage
of this coming departure to urge upon her lover
once more the necessity of flight, assuring him
with more impassioned eloquence than ever that
a lengthened continuance of such a life as they
were now leading — a life of hidden guilt — was
quite beyond her powers of endurance, and
telling him amid tears and kisses that if he did
not care enough about her to run away with her
when she was ready to sacrifice everything for
him, she should put a tragic period to their
intrigue by destroying herself. Farquhar hardly
attached much importance to the threats of
suicide, but nevertheless he listened to all Madge

had to say concerning an immediate elopement
with considerable interest, if indeed without
much sympathy, although the certainty which
he now had of being able at a moment's notice
to lay his hand upon so considerable a sum of
ready money as twenty thousand pounds sterling
induced him to view the ultimate necessity
of a flight with Lady Anstruther with more
equanimity than under other circumstances
would have been possible. Of course, nothing
like an elopement should be indulged in so long
as Sir James had the good taste to keep his
eyes closed, or so long as no kind friend undertook
the office of opening them for him ; but in
the event of the worst coming to the worst, he
now told himself with much complacency that
the sojourn of a month or two with Madge, who
really in many ways was one of the most charming
of his many conquests, would not be altogether
unpleasant, and could now be enjoyed
without having their guilty bliss disturbed by
the interference of such wholly unromantic individuals
as duns and process-servers, for whom
surely there should be no place allowed in the
sparrow-drawn car of Venus. On his return
alone from such a trip — should such a trip be

necessary, of course, and when lie had wearied
of her caresses — he could leave her a substantial
present in the way of a cheque, and doubtless
on his return alone to London would find but
little difficulty in inducing his friends to believe
that in this special case the Sabine lady had
run away with the guileless Woman. He knew
that in such cases society is generally so busy
hurling slings and arrows at the peccant female,
that the male delinquent for the most part, and
especially if he be endowed with a little savoir
faire and a considerable amount of ready money,
is apt to escape almost wholly unscathed, and
can afford to bide his time and wait for a purifying
amnesty to be granted to him, when the
vivid interest created by tomorrow's scandal
shall dispel all memory of to-day's as surely as
this nail will drive out that. So Laurence Farquhar
listened with interest and attention to
Lady Anstruther's eagerly elaborated plans for
flight, only interrupting her fervid eloquence
with no less fervid kisses, but all the while
firmly decided to take no rash step without first
consulting Vincent Graham, to whom he had
made up his mind he would drop a line on his
arrival in Sussex. When first he reached Bognor,

however, he found matters so much worse
than he had expected, that during the first day
he could find no time to write to any one.

Among the letters there lying unopened and
addressed to his father he found two from the
Jews, who had thus broken their word, and
were very evidently not disposed to give him
the month's respite from annoyance which he
had counted on, and which they had promised
to extend to him. The letters were very dreadful
letters ; but the most dreadful part of it all
was that they should have come at all, for
Laurence had fondly believed that his father's
address was wholly unknown to the London
world, and he had taken good care that, so far
as in him lay, it should remain a profound
secret to the entire universe. To Mado^e he
had given the address of a friendly tavern-keeper
at Chichester, and where he knew letters addressed
to him would be in safety. No one else
even knew that he was going into Sussex, he
having led Muriel to believe that the parent
for whom he had sacrificed so much resided
in Essex. These Jews had, however, rushed in
where angels had been denied ambulance, and
it mattered little or nothing lioiv they had

got the address, for that they had it the existence
of these obnoxious letters proved beyond a
doubt. Of course he must remove his father
to other quarters the moment he could lay his
hands on him ; but Mr Farquhar, senior, was now
absent — had wandered forth one morning drunk
a few days before, and had not been heard of
since, though the police had been communicated
with. This fact in itself caused Laurence no
uneasiness : his father had thus disappeared
twice before, and had always returned very
ragged and dirty after the lapse of a few days.
He did not know Laurence's new address in
town, and the hall-porter of the Carlton had
got strict orders to say Mr Laurence Farquhar
had just left for Scotland or Paris, should Mr
Farquhar, senior, call ; so that, so far as any
molestation or annoyance from his father in
town was concerned — always, of course, excepting
that which might arise from a chance meeting
in the street — Laurence felt quite at ease.
What annoyed him now was that his father
should have wandered forth just at this untimely
moment, although that he had not been
there to receive the letters from the Jews was
providential after all, for through these vermin

old Farquliar would have learned his son's address
— which, as a matter of fact, was mentioned
in one of the letters — and then he, the
younger man, would have been compelled to
move from his chambers, whereas it was so
much more simple and convenient for all parties
concerned that the older gentleman should
change his quarters, the whisky being about
equally good, or the reverse, in all the public-houses
in England. There was nothing, however,
to do now but to wait. He dared not
leave lest the Jews should arrive and he not
be there to receive them ; and so on the second
day after his arrival he had schooled himself
into a philosophical frame of mind, which permitted
of his writing letters. He had already
received one (addressed, as we have said, to a
neighbouring town) from Madge, and this he
replied to, of course, at once, writing in a
guarded style and saying but little, but at
the same time almost of a necessity, but
perhaps without his knowledge, breathing a
certain amount of sentiment into his words,
which might easily have been evilly interpreted
by an ill-intentioned reader. It would indeed
require the ingenuity of a ijctit Ache of the

time of Louis XV. to write to an impassioned
mistress a letter which would in some degree
satisfy her, and at the same time not offend a
devoted husband, and, although clever enough
in some ways, Laurence Farquhar was far from
being of the high excellence in the art of love
reached by the companions and disciples of the
Abbe Dunois. So the first letter he wrote was
in itself compromising, according to our peculiar
and insular views ; and it was compromising
although Laurence, while writing it, had ever
had the fact before his mind that it would be
worse than folly to let his pen trace a word the
husband could not read : it was compromising
more, perhaps, in what it led up to, and then
left unsaid, than in what was actually written.
But that it was the letter of a lover to his
mistress, any one, save of course the traditionally
blind husband, would have detected at a glance.
On his return to Bognor from Chichester,
where he had taken care to post his letter to
Madge himself, he ordered lunch at the Norfolk
Hotel, for he hardly cared to trust to the
cuisine, which might do well enough for his
father, at the Cottage ; and while waiting for
it to be served, he wrote a few lines to Vincent

Graham, addressing the letter to the Eue Lafitte.
In this letter also he was guarded, and told his
story, and asked the advice he required, as if it
were for a third party, well knowing that the
old villain whom he was writing to would easily
read between the lines. The letter was, of course,
grossly cynical ; but as no names were mentioned,
and as Laurence appeared to be telling
the story of one of his friends, he felt convinced
he ran no danger, even if Graham should leave
the letter about, which was not likely. As he
was writing on paper bearing the name and
address of the Norfolk Hotel, he took care,
however, to run his pen lightly through this,
and at the close of the letter put — " I am
only staying here for a few days, so don't
answer me here. On leaving here I am going
to pass a few days with the Lyonesses at
Leavenworth, but you know the address of
my diggings in town, and so had better
address me there, for your reply will, I am
afraid, hardly be fit for publication. By the
way, burn this when you have read it." When
he had written and posted this precious document,
and lunched, he strolled back to the
Cottage, in hopes that some news might have

arrived there of his father's whereabouts, but
there was no news.

Life at Bognor was now becoming an intolerable
bore ; for of course the society of his
wretched cousin, whom he paid to act as keeper
of his father, and who earned his pittance so
badly, was most offensive to him, and he knew
nobody in the neighbourhood, having, indeed,
chosen that spot as being a capital place in
which to hide away from the eyes of all friends
and acquaintances the alcoholic eccentricities of
his sire. What was to be done ? He dared not
go yet, with the visit of these Jews perhaps
imminent, and yet to stay was to him torture.
When — oh, when I — would his father wander
back, and allow himself to be stupefied into
consenting to an immediate change of quarters 1
The following morning he found at Chichester
a very angry epistle awaiting him from Madge,
who certainly did not mince her words, and
whose letters would, in their passionate simplicity,
have delighted the heart of Jean Jacques.
She had not heard from him, and she was angry.
She reproached him with loving her no longer,
and concluded her effusion by a torrent of verbal
caresses, begging him to write at once. This

he did, — he had nothing else to do. He was
bored to death. He loved this woman so far as
it was possible for his selfish nature to understand
that emotion ; and he, moreover, felt that
the reproaches he thus met with from his mistress
were wholly unmerited. So this second
letter was, by its very nature and essence, infinitely
more compromising than the first. Then
came another dreary afternoon, and more tedious
and anxious hours of waiting for his father.
The following morning brought him another
letter from Madge, this time full of nothing but
sweet and caressing words, but containing, ina
dainty postscript, a tender reproach that his
letter had been cold. Thus stimulated by his
love, and spurred on by ennui, Laurence forgot
still further his prudence, and wrote a really
passionate letter, in which he poured forth his
heart, and spoke of how he longed and looked
forward to clasping her once more in his arms.
Hardly had he posted this letter, which was
short, and written in a moment of sudden and
great tenderness, than he regretted it; but it
was now too late, and he could only trust to
Providence to safely convey it to the hands for
which it was intended, — he at the same time

mentally resolving, with many oaths, that nothing
would induce him so to commit himself in
future, let Madge be pleased or displeased. In
fact, he almost decided not to write at all again,
for it was hardly possible that his father should
not be found and brought back ere long, even
if he did not come back of his own sweet will,
as was generally the case. So the following
morning, when he received another letter from
Lady Anstruther, he contented himself with,
after reading and kissing it, destroying it, and
leaving it without an answer, well knowing
that such amantium ice as this seeming neglect
might give rise to would, when he returned
and explained his reasons, lead to a most delightful
redintegratio amoris.

Things were now, however, beginning to assume
a rather serious aspect. He had now been
a week at Bognor — one week out of the precious
fortnight which was all that Muriel would accord
him, and which he had at first called to
himself, with a smile, his " Sussex fortnight,"
but the rapidly approaching termination of
which he now looked upon almost with terror.
He knew Lady Lyonesse well enough to know
that she would be true to her word, and tell all

to her husband the moment the fourteen days
stipulated on should have expired ; and it was,
of course, quite out of the question that any
number of dunning Hebrews and drunken*
fathers should be allowed not only to bring the
thunderbolt of a scandal upon his head, but at
the same time deprive him of the coveted twenty
thousand pounds. He decided to wait another
three days, then leave Bognor, run down to
Leavenworth, get his money and come back,
trusting to his cousin (to whom he would make
a handsome present) to wire to him to an address
he could give in the event of his father or
the Jews putting in an appearance during his
short absence. But the letter which he received
from Madge on the following morning brought
him, in a negative way, most terrible news, and
induced him to considerably modify his plans.
From what Lady Anstruther wrote, it was evident
that the passionate epistle he had penned
two days before had miscarried or been intercepted
; for not only she made no mention of
it, but reproached him bitterly for his silence.
What was to be done 1 He must leave Bognor,
of course, at once, but only go to London, and
not proceed to Leavenworth just yet ; for although

it was easy to see from Madge's letter
that nothing in the way of a catastrophe had
taken place so far, yet with such a raging and
devouring lion as that lost letter in his path, he
hardly dared to venture into the neighbourhood
where the monster might be lurking and awaiting
his coming to pounce upon and devour
him. His mind was made up at once. He wrote
a few cold words to Madge, beginning, ** Dear
Lady Anstruther," and saying that he should
be in town on the morrow, and be glad to hear
from her about all his friends in Kent, and
desiring most particularly to know what the
Colonel thought of the volume of Kingsley's
sermons which he had lent him just before
leaving. Of course he knew Madge would
understand this and come to him. He then
packed, gave his cousin a ten-pound note, and
extracting from him a promise to forward all
letters, and make him acquainted by telegram
if anything should occur during his three days'
absence, he proceeded to London. The following
morning he was at the little house at Kensington
by eleven ; and the hours passed waiting
for Lady Anstruther, who did not arrive until
one, were to him filled with all the agony of

suspense. Madge saw at a glance that something
terrible had occurred, and the moment
they were left alone, and before removing
her thick veil, she came up to him and exclaimed,
" What is it, Laurence ? What is
the matter '? "

*' Hush, my darling I don't talk so loud. Calm
yourself, my sweet one ; you are trembling allover."
Then he caressed and fondled her, for
she was in truth trembling like a child, and his
own emotion was considerable, for he saw his
twenty thousand pounds in jeopardy. *' It maybe
nothing, after all."

** But what is it?"

One of our letters must have been lost, or
mislaid, or stolen."

Good God ! one of mine to you ? "

"No; one of mine to you." And then he,
holding her in his arms — for she seemed ready
to fall — told her all.

I never got it — never ! That woman must
have stolen it ! "

'' Mrs Millwood 1 "

Yes. I must tell you that I half thought
your first letter had been tampered with, and I
intended writing and telling you so ; but then I

thought it must be my imagination — that it
couldn't be — that such things only take place
on the stage."

^'But why didn't you write to me all the
same, and tell me your suspicions ? "

She threw her arms around his neck and
kissed him. " I thought it would frighten you,
my own darling, and that you wouldn't write
to me again."

*' My sweet one ! " he exclaimed, amid fond
kisses ; for now that all the mischief was done,
he was far too clever to upbraid his mistress.
But tell me, darling, how could this woman
have got at the letters ? " »

^* Very easily. She is down first in the
morning ; and, of course, she can do as she
likes with the letters, and the servants would
think nothing, for she is looked upon by them
as one of the family. Oh, how I hate her !
Why didn't the Colonel send her away when
I begged him to 1 Miserable fool ! he has brought
the thunderbolt upon his own head. They
have done the best for me, after all. He can
keep his child and his Mrs Millwood ! I shall
never go back. I am yours, my darling — yours,
yours, yours for ever and ever, as I always was !

VOL. II. G

I shall never leave your dear arms, my darling,
now — never ! "

Laurence thought of the twenty thousand
pounds, and shuddered ; but he covered Madge
with caresses, and made her nestle her head
upon his shoulder on the sofa ere he proceeded :
Hush, my sweetest ; — hush, and listen tome.
You are right ; you are mine now and forever,
and nothing can part us now. But we
must not do anything rashly, or they will
separate us."

How can they '? What can ever part us
now ? "

Listen to me, my own darling Madgy. Was
everything all right when you left this morning''



"Yes."

The Colonel seemed to suspect nothing ? "

No ; he was in very good spirits, and more
annoy ingle affectionate than ever. I had great
trouble in running away. His kisses burnt me
when I thought of yours."

Did that woman follow you, do you
think?"

No ; she could not. The child was ill
again. I saw her sitting in her dressing-gown

by the cradle in the nursery just before I
left."

Did she know you were coming to town ? "

'^ No ; nobody knew. The Colonel thinks
nothing of my coming up to town without asking
him ; and then this morning he left before I
did, and so even he does not know I have left*'

'' When did he go ? "

He drove over to spend the day at Moliere,
Lord George Dandin's place. He will not be
back till late, for they are going to preside over
some absurd charity meeting."

That's all right ; but this woman may have
had you followed ? " •

'' No ; she knew nothing."

How can you tell ? "

She must think you are still in Sussex if
she knows anything."

<* Why '? My letter of this morning would
tell her as much as it told you."

Yes ; but that she never saw. I met the
postman, and took it myself."

Thank God ! " exclaimed Laurence fervently,
now beginning to see his way somewhat
clearer.

Why ? What difference can that make, as

I am not going back to that hateful place —
as I am never going to leave you now, my
darling '? "

Listen to me, sweetest ; and if you love me,
do as I say."

If I love you ! " Then more kisses.

^' My darling, you can't love half so much
as I love you ! " he said, with tender passion ;
and you must be sure that doing what I am
going to tell you is the best way of making
certain that nothing can ever part us."

^'What is it?"

"We may be making a mountain out of a
molehill. This letter may, after all, only have
been lost in the post, or miscarried ; such things
take place every day."

I feel certain that woman has stolen it."

But / don't at all. If she had, she would
have shown it at once to the Colonel. Why
should she wait ? "

Madge had, in her eagerness to precipitate
matters and fly to the arms of her lover, never
thought of this before ; but now she was reluctantly
compelled to admit that there was truth
in what Laurence said.

"No," continued Laurence, recognising by her

silence that he was gaming ground. '* That
woman never stole the letter, or she would have
used it long ago. She would have had it four
days now, and why should she wait ? Would
the Colonel ever forgive her for having waited ? "

Here he scored another point ; for it was
obvious that, to retain the respect of Sir James,
if the letter were to be shown to him at all, it
ought to have been shown to him at once.

The letter has been lost," continued Laurence,
— '' that's the long and short of it — simply
lost, and we are tormenting ourselves about
nothing."

** But it will be found if the people at Xhe
post-office say it is addressed to me ; the crash
is only postponed, not averted."

But when the crash, as you call it, comes,
my darling, you and I will be far away."

I am here now, and I shall never, never
leave you any more."

Listen to me, Madgy, dearest : 1 have no
money to-day, and shall have none till the day
after tomorrow."

What do we want of money ? We have
enough to fly away with, leave England, and
then the rest can be sent on after us I "

"Yes, and give them all a clue by which to
trace us I No, Madge ; if I listened to you,
and to my heart and love, I should fly with
you now, this very minute : but tomorrow the
detectives would be on our track, and we should
be traced before the week is out'

What do I care 1 They can't take me away
from you."

Yes, they can ; the Colonel could have us
both arrested I "

"Good God!"

Whereas, if you will listen to me, and do as
I tell you, the day after tomorrow we can fly,
and nobody can stop us."

How ? Tell me what to do."

"Go back to Courthope to-day" (Madge
shuddered), "and get back there as early as
you can. The Colonel will not have returned,
and as you have not been followed, you will
find everything as you left it."

"Win"

To-morrow morning, find out for a certainty
whether my letters to you are tampered with or
not."

How can I do that ? "

I will show you in a minute. Find out, I

say, if they are tampered with or not. If they
are not, we can wait a few days."

Why should we wait 1 "

Because I can then get together a very large
sum, and leave England for ever with you, leaving
no trace behind us."

What heaven that would be ! "

'but if you find the letters have been tampered
with, come to me here the day after tomorrow,
at the same hour. I shall then have
made such preparations as I can, have got at
least a certain sum of money, and we can leave
for Liverpool at once, and be steaming away to
New York before the poor Colonel will have
had time to gather his scattered wits. Do you
see now, my darling 1 "

I hear what you say, but I do not see why
we cannot leave now."

"I told you, — because of this money that I
must get in. We cannot go to New York
without money, and if I leave any trace behind
me we shall be followed. It is only a
few hours to wait, and then we shall be safe,
and never to be parted again I "

'you swear that, Laurence, darling, don't
you ? Never to be parted again ? "

I swear it, my own darling, never, never
again ! " Then more kisses. " Will you listen
to me, my darling ? Will you be guided by
me ? '' murmured Laurence in her ear.

My love, and lord, and life ! tell me to
kill myself for you, and I would do it ! "

** But I don't ask you to do that, dearest.
I only ask you to wait till the day after tomorrow,
or till the end of the week at latest."

Oh, do not say till the end of the week !
How can I live till then ? "

*' Well, be it so then, darling," assented
Laurence, who, above all things, and at any
cost, wanted to get rid of her now. '* Only
wait till the day after tomorrow. And now
I will show you how you can find out, without
fail, whether these letters are tampered
with or not, and find it out without the thief
suspecting she is being watched and detected."

"Show me how."

Laurence rose and went to the writing-table,
closely followed by Lady Anstruther.

*' First of all," he said, " I am going to write
to you again." Then he wrote a short unimportant
note, asking Lady Anstruther about
the health of the child, about the Colonel,

about Muriel and Arthur, and concluding in
grim humour by sending his compliments to
Mrs Millwood. This letter he signed as usual,
and very plainly addressed to Lady Anstruther.
Madge looked at him with surprise.

*' Well," she said, when she saw him very
quietly fold this letter and then pause.

"Well," he said, with an amused smile,
*^ this very harmless letter is going to show
us very plainly where the other one has gone."

'' How 1 I don't see how."

Laurence said nothing, but began tugging at
his chestnut curls.

What are you doing 1 " exclaimed Lady
Anstruther, beginning to suspect that Farquhar's
indomitable diablerie was getting the
better of him, even at this dangerous crisis in
their lives, and that all this was but a joke.

Laurence did not answer her at once, but
very gravely selected one of the finest and
curliest hairs from the dozen or so he had
pulled from his head, and held it up to Madge.

'' Do you see this hair ? " he said, with mock
gravity.

Of course I do."

*' Well, this hair is the polar star which is to

direct the compass which is to guide our future
destiny."

What do you mean, Laurence ? "

"See, I lay it gently within this letter — so."

*' AVell ? "

'' And then I fold the letter — so."

"WcUr'

You saw me put it in '? "

Yes."

*' Let us see if it is there still," and he carefully
opened the sheet of paper, which he had
only folded once. The hair was there, hardly
perceptible save to an eye that sought it and
expected to find it, but there it lay curled
lightly on the sheet — curled so lightly that the
merest breath would blow it away. *^ Yes, it
is there still, you see. Now I fold it up carefully
again and put it in the envelope."

^' Well ? "

'^ AVell, the first person who opens that letter
will find that hair there if they open it with
great care, and look for it ; but if it is opened
by one who does not expect to find it, and
opened in haste, it will spring from the paper
and be lost — jump away quite unperceived.
Do you see now ? "

I begin to see."

'* So that if Mrs Millwood opens this letter
not knowing about this tell-tale hair, it will
spring away. Even if she should perceive it,
she will not notice it : who sends one hair in a
letter ? She will read the letter, and, not caring
to keep such rubbish, will close the letter again,
and you will get it. When you do, open it with
care. If the hair is there, the post has got our
other letter ; if the hair is not there, Mrs Mill-wood
tampers with the letters, and has stolen
the one we have lost."

That is a good idea ! " said Madge.

'* It is a capital idea, and so simple ! " exclaimed
Laurence. '' And to make assurance
doubly sure, we will send another letter, and in
that letter put another hair."

'' What for ? "

I will fold a blank sheet of paper, and put
another hair in it, and address the envelope here
before you in a feigned hand to the Colonel.
Make it a point to be up and meet the postman
in the morning, as you did this morning. Only
open this one addressed to him (see, I will put
a mark in the corner of the envelope by which
you may recognise it), and let the others, mine

to you among the number, follow the usual
course. In this letter, addressed to the Colonel,
you will surely find the hair, for you will surely
be the first to open it ; in the other addressed
to you, wait and see."

What a splendid idea, Laurence ! Why,
you are quite a magician."

'' Love sharpens one's wits, my own darling,
that is all. And now you should lose no time
in returning. Here are the two letters carefully
closed, and a hair within each. I shall
post them myself, and tomorrow we shall see
what we shall see." Then with more kissing,
much remonstrance, a little weeping followed by
still more embracing, the guilty couple parted —
Lady Anstruther to return at once to Courthope,
and Laurence to call and see if any telegram
had come for him from Bognor — (none had come),
and then to repair to his chambers and carefully
consider the situation in all its bearings.
Something, of course, must be done at once, —
some decisive step taken, and that not later
than the end of the current week, which had
still five days' life left in it, and that step must
in all probability be flight with Madge. It was
a bore, but it must be done, although it was

a pity Graham had not taken the trouble to
answer his letter ; for his great experience and
sagacity might have indicated some other solution
of the difficulty less troublesome than an
elopement. It was strange Graham had not
answered, for he was a good correspondent, and
especially delighted in giving wicked advice ;
but he had not answered (although, of course,
he still might do so before the end of the week),
and so for the moment his assistance could not
be counted on.

That flight with Madge was now necessary,
Laurence himself fully decided in his mind.
He did not for a moment believe his letter had
been lost in the post, and felt sure Mrs Mill-wood
had stolen it. The little episode of the
hair he had merely made use of to make assurance
doubly sure, and to gain time by exciting
the curiosity of Lady Anstruther. But for the
hair trick, he told himself, she probably never
would have consented to return to Courthope,
and then his twenty thousand pounds would
have been imperilled ; for Muriel, of course,
would be the first after the Colonel to hear of
the flight of Lady Anstruther, and Mrs Mill-wood
would, of course, bring forth the stolen

letter. By this hair trick he had at least gained
time, and tomorrow afternoon he would go
down to Leavenworth, see Muriel, get his money,
and come up without going to Courthope, and
await Madge in Kensington at one o'clock on
the morrow ; or, better still, if he found all going
well, and could get a word alone with Madge,
and she told him (but he felt sure she would
not do so) that the hair had been found, and
thus the letter not been tampered with, he would
endeavour to persuade her to postpone the elopement,
and he would run down to Sussex again.
He would not seek to see her — he would not
venture into Courthope ; but if she should (as
she very likely might) happen to stroll into
Leavenworth, he would learn all from her, and
make any excuse he liked to explain his presence
at Lady Lyonesse's house. To sum up, he
decided that if he saw Lady Anstruther by accident,
as ifc were, at Leavenworth, and she told
him the hair had been found, he would endeavour
to gain still more time ; if the hair had not
been found, they would have to meet in Kensington
on the morrow, and even then Laurence
would plead for a little more time ; but if she
would not listen to reason, he would have to fly

with her— but at least then he would have his
twenty thousand pounds in his pocket. His
father and the Jews would, of course, in that
case have to go to the devil. If the hair had
been found, and proof thus given that the letter
at Courthope had not been tampered with, why,
he might possibly get out of running away with
Lady Anstruther altogether, slip over to Paris
by himself, and let her take care of her own
affairs. He would be comfortable with his
money, and the wicked letter might not after
all reach the Colonel through the post, and thus
a scandal would be avoided ; for he knew that
Madge would be too deeply wounded in her
pride and love, should he desert her, to tell the
tale to any one — always provided, of course, the
secret was still in her keeping. She would probably
attempt suicide, or some folly of that sort.
It would be a pity, but she probably would not
succeed in destroying herself (people so rarely
do the First time, vide Clive !), and in the course
of time she would forget him and blossom into
a buxom matron. All this would be possible if
the hair was found : if it was riot found, their
guilty secret would be in the hands of Mrs
Millwood, and so he might as well fly with

Madge, and have some enjoyment out of the
fearful scandal which would be sure to break
out sooner or later. It all depended on this
pretty little chestnut curl of his ; his fate hung
on a hair literally, he told himself with a smile.
The great thing now was to get the money at
once. He would go down to Leavenworth on
the morrow without fail. He could not, under
the circumstances, write ; he must go, ask for,
and get the twenty thousand pounds himself.
Having come to this conclusion, he lit a cigar
and strolled down to the Carlton to hear the
news. He met Vernon Macdonald on the steps —
he of whom it is said that he is the best dressed
man in London.

*' What cloud have you dropped from, Vernon
? " asked Farquhar.

'paris."

And where are you going ? "

'' Scotland."

'' Lucky beggar ! What's the news in
Paris ? "

None."

'' How are they getting on at the Jockey?"

'* About the same."

'' Any good gambling ? "

'' Not much. Nobody has any money."

*^ How are the women 1 "

^' About the same''

Nothing new ? "

''No ; nobody has any money, I tell you."

Who did you see there ? "

The same lot as usual."

What men 1 "

"The same."

'' What did old Graham have to say '? "

'' Graham ! Why, he's dead ! "

Dead ! "

*' Acres ago — a week ago."

'* Good God ! " What had become of his
letter, Laurence wondered.

'why do you say 'Good God"? Did you
like the man? Hadn't you heard of it?"

Not a word. I was very fond of the poor
old boy."

I hated the man myself."

Why ? "

He was such a wicked, dirty old satyr, and
that horrible pipe of his used to make me ill."

What did he die of ? "

I don't know. He was found dead at the
club."

VOL, II, H

Found dead at the club ! What club '? "
*' The Jockey. He was found seated in the
Camp de Chains, dead, with a beastly book on
his lap."

What book 1 "

Beccatelli's ' Hermaphroditus.' "
*' Just like him. Poor old chap ! "
I hated the man. Ta, ta, I'm off," and the
great Vernon Macdonald strode away, flourishing
his monstrous African palm in the air like
a drum-major.

So Vincent Graham was no more ! He had
met his death peacefully, reclining in a comfortable
arm-chair in the famous oval room on
the corner of the Kue Scribe and the Boulevard
des Capucines, after a delicious dinner given in
his honour in the grand seize of the Cafe Anglais
by four of the most beautiful and charmingly
wicked women in Paris. Liigete Veneris Cupid-neque!
His exit from the world had been
pleasant and characteristic. He had passed
from the Caf Anglais to the Jockey Club, and
from thence to the Plutonian shore, without
any of the annoyance of a sick-bed and vague
terrors. With a rare and exquisite edition of
Panormita in his hand, he had gone to join the

Marquis de Sade, Testis de la Bretonne, Ausonius,
Aretino, Leland, Petronius, Mirabeau, La
Popeliniere, Louvet de Couvray, Casanova, and
other victims of the Circe wand ; and let us
hope that, with Aspasia on one side of him and
Phryne on the other, he is dining for ever in
the Elysian fields with Brilliant Savarin and
Grind de la Reyniere.

CHAPTER XIV.

The following morning Lady Anstrutlier was
up and about many hours earlier than was her
wont ; but this abnormal activity was plausibly
accounted for by the fact that Sir James had an
appointment to meet an eminent surgeon about
his cork leg very early in London ; and so, ashe
was afterwards to preside at a meeting in
the East End, accompanied by his friend and
coadjutor in good works, Lord George Dandin,
and would not, therefore, be back at Courthope
until late that evening, it was but natural that
his devoted young wife should rise betimes to
speed her lord with a parting kiss. So thought
the servants ; and as Mrs Millwood was unaware
of Madge's early rising, being for ever
busy in the nursery, the fact passed unnoticed
by all save Sir James, who reproached himself

bitterly for being the cause of so much inconvenience
to his beloved wife.

Lady Anstruther had been successful in her
plan to waylay the postman : she had walked
down the highroad to meet him, had met him,
had looked over his letters, chosen the one addressed
to Sir James which she required, and
given him back the rest, which included two for
her besides the one in Laurence's well-known
hand, and told him to go on to the lodge with
them as usual. She did it all so naturally that
the man, a stupid old countryman, thought
nothing of it, especially as her ladyship was
graciously pleased to inquire after the welfare
of his son in the militia. So the old man walked
on with his letters, and Madge passed on with
hers (the one addressed to Sir James only, of
course), and the moment she found herself alone
she carefully opened it. Yes, there was the
hair, the beautiful little chestnut curl from the
head she loved so well, lying just as her lover
had placed it. She then closed the letter and
opened it carelessly, but at the same time watching
eagerly to see if she could remark the disappearance
of the token. But no ; even as she
opened the letter the hair would seem to have

slipped or sprung away, and nothing of it was
left. So far, then, the experiment had succeeded.
She would wait now, give Mrs Millwood plenty
of time, and not taking advantage of the fact of
being up so much earlier than was her habit,
only open her correspondence at the usual time,
so as not, by disturbing the habitual order of
things, to imperil perhaps the ultimate success
of the simple but clever test. She had purposely
determined not to return to the house yet, and
so perhaps cause the fact of her not opening her
letters on their arrival to be noticed by the servants,
but rather, by staying away, to leave the
coast quite clear for Mrs Millwood to tamper
with the letters at her ease. With this aim in
view she had pleaded a headache, brought on
by this unusually early rising, and had told the
Colonel she would walk up the road for the sake
of the air, and meet him as he drove past on his
way to the railway station, and say good-bye.
The poor old Colonel came driving by very
shortly, and the tender parting took place, the
disabled hero kissing his young wife fondly —
little did he think he was embracing her for the
last time I — and telling her to be sure to spend
the evening with Muriel, or to invite Muriel to

Courthope, so that the time should not hang
heavy on her hands till his return. Then he
embraced her tenderly and drove on — never to
look upon her face again I

It was, however, even yet too early to return
to the house, Madge told herself. She would
give Mrs Millwood plenty of time, and return,
moreover, by the broad carriage-drive, so that
her approach could be seen for ten minutes
before she should reach the house ; for, indeed,
it would be in the very highest degree unsatisfactory
if Mrs Millwood should, out of fear of
the sudden arrival of her mistress, refrain, on
this morning of all mornings, from tampering
with the letters. Ten o'clock was striking by
the stable clock when Lady Anstruther returned
home, and, passing into her boudoir, found her
letters lying waiting for her on her dressing-table
as usual, the one from Laurence lying on
the top — put there, should it have been tampered
with, in insolent defiance. Outwardly, the
letter looked intact ; but then, as Laurence
always used very thick paper and envelopes,
his letters, unless sealed of course, would be of
all letters the easiest to tamper with. With the
greatest possible care and delicacy of touch,

Madge opened the letter-No hair ! Then this
letter had, beyond all possible doubt, been
opened and read, and opened and read by the
same person who stole that missing letter — that
letter which she remembered Laurence had told
her yesterday was more than compromising —
opened and read, of course, by Mrs Millwood,
that woman whom she had always instinctively
hated, and who now, by a vulgar theft, held her
her name, her honour, almost her very life —
in her power ! And as this thought came to her
mind — the thought that she, Madge Anstruther,
could no longer shape her destiny for herself,
but that it was at the mercy of this vile servant,
who could, when it so pleased her, hold her upto
public shame and opprobrium before consigning
her to unfathomable depths of ruin, — as this
horrible thought, exaggerated by her over-excited
and morbid imagination, became by degrees
fully grasped by her, and appreciated in
all its far-reaching consequences, the feelings of
Lady Anstruther underwent a curious change,
which it would perhaps take a subtle psychologist
like Dumas Fils to thoroughly explain.
How much she was leaving, after all, by flying
to the arms of her lover ! What a terribly real

sacrifice she was making for what might, after
all, prove between her lips but an ashen Dead
Sea apple ! Such words as honour, position,
respect, which had so far in her young life possessed
but little real meaning in her ears, now
seemed to assume, as they became impossibilities
for her to retain and keep, an aspect of
terrible importance. She had read in French
novels of women who had left all for their
lovers, and having been abandoned by them,
had been forced to seek shelter in the shrine of
Our Lady of Darkness — " she'' as De Quince
tells us, " who sits by the beds of suicides."
Would such a lot be hers ? Was this man, for
whom she was ready to sacrifice all, worthy of
this sacrifice ? and was not the easy, pleasant
life at Courthope, sunned through and through
by the gentle adoration of the poor old Colonel,
better perhaps than the feverish and excited
existence which was the best she could
hope for when dishonour should have severed
her from all her past associates and familiar
habits of life ? The common French proverb
occurred to her. Was the game worth the candle ?
Pleasant though the game might be, was not
this caudle she was so deliberately about to

burn to the socket perhaps the only light her
life would ever know ?

Had no fraud been detected, had the hair
been found in the letter, it is probable that such
thoughts would never have crossed Lady An-stretcher's
mind, and that she would without a
regret have left husband, home, and all, and fled
to her lover's arms. But now that she saw the
peril standing in hideous nakedness before her ;
now that she felt sure that her guilty secret was
a secret no more ; now that she, looking back,
saw a gleam that warned her she had burnt her
ships, and that return was no longer possible, —
she half relented : not from any increase of love
of home or husband, or diminution in her passion
for her lover, but out of a wayward spirit of
opposition and mutiny, and a rebellious repugnance
to having that ruin thrust upon her which
she might otherwise have voluntarily run to
embrace. Was it indeed too late ? Who could
tell ? This absurd test of the hair was not, after
all, conclusive ; the letter s outward aspect betokened
no tampering, and it was just within
the reach of possibilities that this experiment
was not so serious as they had thought. Was
she, the penniless waif, the daughter of a groom

who had risen to be the adored wife of Sir
James Anstruther, to be thrust back into the
mire from which she had sprung by the menial
hands of one so vile as Mrs Millwood ? No.
She would have a fight for it, or at least she
would not fly until she had made certain beyond
the reach of all doubt that fighting was no
longer possible.

This trivial test was not enough. She must
have more before she should finally throw down
her cards and leave the table — more, but how ?
Ah, yes ! there was one way ; and as the thought
flashed into her mind, her teeth set and her face
was hardly agreeable to look upon. This woman
should leave the house at once — not tomorrow
or that evening, but at once. Whether she had
or had not tampered with the letter, she should
be expelled forthwith, and without the delay of
a moment. When the Colonel should come
back that evening, his mother's friend should begone.
Let him say or think what he might, that
woman should leave the house if she. Lady
Anstruther, had to tell the grooms to eject herby
force ; and this violent step having been at
once decided on, what mattered it what might
precede this expulsion. As this woman was to

be at once thrown from the lodge gates as a
thing unclean, she, Lady Anstruther, would at
least have the satisfaction of knowing all before
she cast her away. She would herself search
this woman's things — see if in her drawers or
boxes there existed any trace of her larceny. If
perchance the stolen letter were there, she would,
of course, possess herself of it, and laugh her
enemy to scorn ; but if not there, she would
spurn her from her just the same, and then take
time to consider what steps to take herself.

Wild with fury. Lady Anstruther rushed to
the widow's room, not caring indeed whether
she found her there or not ; but chance favoured
her, and the room was vacant. Distinctively
Madge rushed up to a little writing-case which
lay on a side-table, partly covered by copies of
The Rock,' and a few tracts, and seizing tried
to open it : it was locked. Now quite beside
herself with rage, and the fiery coarse blood of
her plebeian ancestors boiling in her veins, she
tore the leather case asunder, and the first thing
that fell to the ground was the envelope of the
stolen letter addressed to her very plainly, and
bearing the Chichester post-mark. There could
be no doubt now ; she was lost, irretrievably

lost, and her perdition was the doing of this
woman ! Oh, if she could only find the letter I
In mad and feverish haste and passion she
strewed everything over the floor, opened every
drawer, every closet, tore open the pocket of
every dress — nothing ! She had found the
stolen envelope, but the letter — the damning
letter — was missing ! She was lost, lost, lost !
Just then a startled exclamation reached her
ear — " My lady ! " and turning, she saw Mrs
Millwood in the doorway, as pale as a sheet.
With one spring Madge was at her, at her
throat, shaking her as a dog shakes a rat.

^^ Thief, thief, thief!" she hissed. 'liar,
coward, thief ! you shall pay for this if I have
to take your life ! You shall pay for this ! — you
shall pay for this ! " and she shook and shook
the woman with murderous vigour.

*' Help ! help ! " screamed Mrs Millwood, who
was really and with just cause afraid for her
life.

These cries brought Madge to her senses, and
hurling the woman from her, she stood panting
with rage, and eyeing her with unutterable scorn
and hatred. The servants now came rushing
up, and Lady Anstruther lost not a moment,

but, turning to the butler, she said, pointing to
Mrs Millwood, who lay up against the wall,
bruised, shaken, and torn —

Walker, this woman is a thief. I have
caught her in the very act of robbing me, and I
have been chastising her. You must take her
from the house at once, now, without delay,"
and stooping down, she picked up a bonnet and
cloak from the floor, and threw them in the
woman's face. *' Go ! " she said, pointing to the
door ; '^ go at once, without a word — go ! Walker,
do you and some of the servants take this
woman — by force, if she will not go gently —
and put her outside the lodge gates at once. I
shall communicate with the police when Sir
James returns this evening. Walker, I look to
you to see this done at once. If she resists,
call the grooms."

'*No need of that, my lady," snarled Mrs
Millwood, who had hastily put on her bonnet
and cloak. " I am going. I would not stay in
this house another minute. We shall see what
Sir James says of all this. Never fear, my lady ;
he shall know all."

'^ Go ! " cried Madge, stamping her foot.
Walker, take this woman by the neck, and

throw her out at once — at once, do you
hear?"

'' Don't dare to lay a finger on me, Walker,"
exclaimed Mrs Millwood ; " I am going ! " and
with a low bow to Lady Anstruther she stalked
out of the room into the crowd of servants, who,
speechless with amazement and fright, silently
made room for her as she passed.

Walker, follow her to the gates, and see her
well off the premises. If she lingers a moment,
use force."

Walker bowed and followed the retreating
form of Mrs Millwood, but he had no trouble,
for hardly had that lady left the house than she
ran at full speed up the carriage-drive, through
the lodge gates, and on to the highroad, and
indeed did not stop running (for he and other
servants stood watching her) until she had
turned the corner leading to the neifi^hbourinsf
town. When Walker and the others returned,
they found Lady Anstruther muffled up in her
furs with her bonnet on, and a small bas in her
hand, standing at the hall door.

Has she gone. Walker ? " she inquired.

Yes, my lady."

I want the brougham to take me to the

station at once. I must see Sir James about
this without delay," and turning she passed
into the library, and closed the door.

Yes, she must go, and at once. That was
plain. There was not a moment to be lost, for
this woman or any one else might telegraph to
Sir James, and then perhaps flight would be
impossible. She had collected all the money
she could, and all her jewels, and was flying to
her lover, without even a thought for her child,
husband, or friends. The die was cast. She
would fly while flight was still possible, and
not wait for the terrible explosion which was
imminent, and which might render flight impossible.
When stepping into the carriage she
said —

'^ I shall return with Sir James. In the
meantime, if that woman should be seen in the
neighbourhood, or should dare return to the
house, have her arrested. I shall call at Scotland
Yard with Sir James."

Walker bowed, and the carriage rolled away.

Laurence Farquhar had passed a most disagreeable
evenings : he had lost at ecarte at
the Marlborough, and had lain awake all night
worrying himself about everything — about the

Jews, about this prolonged absence of his
father, about the crisis which he knew to be so
rapidly approaching in his intrigue with Lady
Anstruther ; but above all, strange to say,
about the fate of the letter he had addressed
to Vincent Graham, and which, as we have
already said, was full of very cynical details,
and which thus formed, though disguised
in the shape of a narrative told of a third
party, a wholly compromising document for the
person who had signed it. Farquhar knew
that Graham lived isolated and alone, that
he was not known to have any relatives, and
that probably none of his casual friends would
have authority to deal with his papers, so that
if this letter had arrived after his death, doubtless
the French postal authorities would, as is
their wont, return it to the sender. But here
Laurence recollected that he had given no
address in the letter, expecting, and in fact
telling, Graham to write to him " at the old
diggings," so that the only clue the French postoffice
would have would be the Norfolk Hotel,
Bognor, — a superscription which, although he
had drawn his pen through it, yet remained
very visible. Without any doubt, then, this

VOL. II. 1

horrible letter would be returned to him at that
address (for he had, of course, signed it in full),
so that the best thing for him to do would be
to write to the landlord of that hostelry to
keep any letters that might come for him from
France. Having come to this conclusion at
five in the morning, his mind felt relieved : he
would write or wire the first thing on rising,
and so deciding, he turned on his pillow and
fell into a feverish sleep, which lasted until
twelve. Hardly had he emerged from his
bath than his valet announced to him that
a lady wished to see him at once, giving
him at the same time a scrap of paper on
which had been scrawled in the well-known
handwriting of Madge, " Must see you at
once.— M."

What the deuce could be up now 1 he
thought : were his troubles never to end ? and
hurrying into his dressing suit, he went into
the sitting-room where Lady Anstruther was
awaiting him. But it would not only be unedifying,
but wholly unnecessary, to chronicle
in detail what passed between Madge and her
lover on this occasion. Suffice it to say that
she told him everything, and that he saw

at once that a most annoying and awkward
Nemesis had overtaken him ; and that, as flight
with Lady Anstruther was now an absolute
necessity, from which there could be no possible
shrinking, it behoved him to waste not a
moment in getting this twenty thousand pounds
from Lady Lyonesse, without which, of course,
the most hideous ruin in every way would immediately
come upon him. He clearly saw
there was not a moment to lose. He had not
counted on this sudden fit of passion on the
part of Madge, which had so precipitated matters
that their flight could no longer be postponed
for days, nor even hours. He must get the
money, and fly at once — that evening at latest.
Was it too late already to get the money ?
That was the question. If Muriel and Mrs Mill-wood,
or Muriel and Sir James, had met already,
it was too late ; and as this fearful thought
passed through his mind, Laurence almost hated
Lady Anstruther, who, by her idle and vain fit
of temper, had imperilled a sum of money which
was to him of such vital and paramount importance.
It was now one o'clock — he could do
all he had to do and be back by six ; and then if
he had the money they would fly. If not *?

and as this dreadful alternative suggested itself
to him, he shuddered. He could form no plans
in the event of such a terrible catastrophe
coming upon him. He would be ruined and
have to fly ; but, he told himself with a diabolical
sneer, in that case — if his mistress had
been the cause of this overwhelming calamity —
he would fly alone, and leave her to expiate her
sins in the river or on the streets, whichever
she preferred. For himself, he would wash
his hands of her : she would have been his
ruin, and she would have to pay a very
heavy price for her moment of mad folly.
In the meantime he must put a stop at once
to the terrible suspense which was killing
him.

Telling Madge that, as they would be leaving
by the evening train for Liverpool, he had many
preparations to make, and that she must wait
for him in his rooms, and not think of stirring
out till he returned, he ordered luncheon to be
served for her ; and with many tears on her
part, and innumerable fervent and comforting
caresses from him, they parted, Laurence promising
to be back by five at latest, and giving
strict orders to his well trained valet to admit

nobody on any pretext whatsoever, but to busy
himself in making the necessary preparations
for a departure that very evening. Once in
the street, Laurence began to look at the matter
with greater calmness. He must rid himself of
this suspense at once. He had, of course, no time
to post a letter, and yet at the same time he
did not venture to risk a meeting with Muriel
under the circumstances without informing her
beforehand of his approach, and getting some
sort of answer from her to warn him how he
should be received. He would write her a note,
ask her to meet him somewhere, intimating to
her, of course in guarded terms, to bring the
money with her, and tell her to reply to his
letter. He would have this brought to her,
and wait about in the neighbourhood for an
answer. If it were favourable, well and good :
if not (provided, of course, the letter reached her
safely — and he should omit no precaution to
ensure its safe delivery), he felt sure that at least
Muriel would lay no trap for him or betray him
in any way, and that a scornful message that
there was no answer would be the worst that
could befall him. So he went to the Raleigh,
ordered a stiff brandy-and-soda, and a plain

sheet of note-paper and envelope, and wrote the
following : — ■

'thursday, Feb. 11, 18G— .

My dearest Muriel, — Your affection forme
I cannot doubt, any more than you can my
love for you. I have given you many proofs
of this love before, as you know but too well,
but now I give you the greatest of all ; and you
who know me so well, and have studied my
heart, will know that I am writing these lines
with my heart's blood. If what you offered todo
the other day, and insisted with such a
dreadful threat upon doing, can be done at
once, and without any possible delay, well and
good. I will be waiting for you under that
arose lime-tree — the last to the left — in the
long walk at the back of Courthope Park, at
five punctually. Nobody knows I am in the
neighbourhood, and of course nobody must
know. Everything has gone wrong with me,
and I only accept this sacrifice, which your
love insists upon making for me, because I feel
sure that you, who know all, will not think too
badly of me for doing so ; but it must be done
to-night or not at all. Give answer to bearer,
and trust all to me, as I trust all to you. I am

now putting more than my life in your power.
God grant that we may neither of us live to
repent it. — Yours, and only yours, till death,

Laurence."

When he had finished this letter Farquhar
read it through carefully, and smiled as he put
it under envelope. It was a masterpiece of
villainy : it was plain and to the point, and
yet so artfully shrouded in tender and affectionate
verbiage, and so full of dark and mysterious
allusions, as to be, if anything, more
compromising to the receiver than to the
sender. Such a letter as that no married
woman would dare show to her husband,
Laurence told himself with a smile, and
especially such a woman as Muriel to such a
husband as Lord Lyonesse ; so in that quarter,
at least, he was safe. If it was too late, — if
Muriel before receiving it had come to know
anything, — she would destroy it, seeing all his
villainy at a glance, and that game would be
over. If she had heard nothing, she would come
with the money — of that he felt still more sure.
Jumping into a cab, he was lucky enough to
catch at Charing Cross an express which slips

a carriage at X , the nearest town to Leavenworth,
and ere long had despatched, cheered
with a liberal present, a very discreet ostler
from the principal hostelry of that town with
his missive, giving strict orders that it should
be given to her ladyship in person, a reply
waited for, and the letter brought back to him
in the event of her ladyship not being there to
receive it. Arthur he knew to be in town on
political business, and so out of the way for the
moment. In about an hour the lad returned
with the answer. He had found her ladyship,
by a lucky accident, quite alone by the lake in
front of the house, and so had been able to
give her the letter without having been forced
to speak to any of the servants. Her ladyship
had read the letter, told him to wait for an
answer, gone into the house and brought him
back the answer herself, so that nobody could
possibly know anything about the matter.
Laurence gave the lad another sovereign, and
then read the following : —

Thursday.

"Dear Laurence, — I can't tell you how
glad I was to get your letter. I have had
this money for your father by me for ever so

long, and will bring it to you without fail this
evening, at the place and time appointed by
you. Of course nobody shall ever know anything
about this, unless some day you give me
leave to tell dear Arthur. I will not do it without
your consent, but I hate having secrets from
him. He is more fond of you than you think,
and would have given your father the money
himself, I know, if you would only have let
me ask him. But it's all well that ends welland
I do pray that this paltry sum may be of
some use to your father. If you want more
you must let me know, and you shall have it
at once. Nobody shall ever know about it ; ,and
if I gave you every penny I had, I should still
be your debtor, for I owe to you my present
happiness with my dear husband. You were
right, as you always are, when you told me
that I loved Arthur from the first. I did,
although at first I did not know it, and I love
him more and more every day. When you
asked me to marry you, you took me so by surprise,
and I was so lonely, that I said *yes' before
I realised what I was saying ; but, Laurence, it
was better that you should have given me back
my promise, and let me marry the only man I

ever have and ever can love. God bless you for it !
I write you all this because I should never dare
tell it to you, and I write it to you now because
I want you to feel that this wretched money can
never repay you for all you have done for mein
letting me marry my darling, by giving me
back my promise which I had so thoughtlessly
given you. Forgive me, Laurence. Kemember
I was but a child. I never did and never could
love any one but Arthur, so you and I would
not have been happy together, even if you had
not given me back my word. He is my own
dear, true love, and by letting me take back
my promise to you, and marry him whom I
adore, and now, by letting me show my gratitude
by helping your poor father with this
miserable money, you have made me for ever
your debtor. — Your sincere and affectionate
friend, Muriel Lyonesse."

"Pais. — Nobody can see us meet to-night.
Dear Arthur is in town, and there has been
a row at Courthope. T don't know what it's
about, but your friend Mrs Millwood has been
turned out by Madge, and the dear old Colonel
and Mado;e are in town, and will not be back

till late. So we can have our little mysterious
meeting quite unperceived, and nobody shall bethe
wiser, unless you give me leave to tell
Arthur, as I wish you would do. You must
not be angry when I tell you how much I
love him, for I can assure you he is more fond
of you than you think. If you would only let
me tell him about your father's troubles, I
know he would gladly help you, and then you
and I could be openly brother and sister to one
another, as we have promised to be. It is keeping
all this a secret from Arthur that worries
me so."

When Laurence had finished reading this
letter he drew a long sigh of relief, put it
back into its envelope, and placing it carefully
in his pocket, lighted a large cigar. So
the money was all right — so far so good. Muriel
evidently knew nothing as yet, and in three-quarters
of an hour — for it was just a quarter
past four, and it was rapidly becoming sufficiently
dark for him to venture out in the
neighbourhood of Leavenworth without fear
of recognition — the £20,000 would doubtless
be in his possession. The thought of this

much - coveted sum being at length within
his grasp so exhilarated his spirits, that he
noted with considerable amusement the artless
disregard for his feelings as a lover
displayed by Muriel in the letter he had
just read. The naive simplicity with which
she plainly told a man who was supposed to
be dying of love for her that she adored her
husband, was, he told himself with a smile,
quite the most absurd thing he had ever heard
of in his life. Here was this beautiful young
wife consenting to meet by stealth a man who
was supposed to be dying of love for her, and
to bring him a large sum of money, and yet
in the same letter in which she consents to
the clandestine meeting, and in reply to the
passionate appeal appointing it, quietly writing
and assuring her sighing but impecunious swain
that she adores her lord and master ! It was a
stronger situation than any ever conceived by
Scribe; and if handled by a man like Dumas
Jils^ neatly elaborated into three acts, and played
by Delaporte and Barton per, would bring
crowds to the Gymnase. With this pleasant
view of the matter in his mind, Laurence
Farquhar drew on his heavy greatcoat, muffled

himself up, and sallied forth to the meeting
with his charming little financial agent.

He would have to run away with Madge, of
course ; that, he told himself, was beyond all
doubt a necessity, for she was waiting for him
in his lodgings in London, and had, by her impetuosity,
burned her ships, so that retreat was
impossible. Yes, he would run away with her ;
Anstruther would die or get a divorce; and
then, in a year or eighteen months at latest, he
would be able to return from his pleasant holiday
in the States, leaving, of course. Lady An-stretcher
somewhere en route, and enjoy alone
what might remain of the money thus fallen to
him from the clouds. His father, the Jews, and
all the rest, would have to go to the devil. The
elopement would, of course, be a great shock to
Muriel, and she would probably never forgive
him ; but she would not be likely to tell all she
knew to her husband, and he knew Arthur well
enough to know that he could not for a very
lengthened period harbour feelings of any violent
animosity against the friend of his youth and
boyhood.

But leaving Laurence Farquhar comforting
himself with these philosophical reflections ashe

strolled leisurely towards the trysting-place
(which he knew he could reach from a wicket
at the back without passing through the 
of either of the adjoining estates),
we must turn our attention to the other actors
in this little story. The receipt of Farquhar's
letter had given great pleasure to Lady Lyon-esse.
The fortnight had almost elapsed, and
she feared she might be bound to keep her promise
and tell all to her husband if she did not
hear from Laurence, or if he did not come and
take the little bundle of crisp bank-notes which
she had had in her keeping for him ever since
the day after their memorable walk from Hunt
and Roskells' together. This letter from him,
though reaching her in a mysterious manner
which she could not account for, had, as it were,
broken the spell of anxiety and despondency
which had for the last few days been oppressing
her. To tell her husband, without the consent
of Laurence, all that he had confided to her, was
repugnant to her ; and yet, if he in his mercy
had not come for this money, or had not proved
to her that it was no longer needed, she would
have felt constrained to keep her solemn vow,
and confide this delicate secret to Arthur, that

he might save Laurence's poor father from utter
ruin, and perhaps death. Now, at least, he was
coming to take the money, so that part of this
most disagreeable matter was over; and she
relied upon her eloquence, and Laurence's affection
for her, to induce him to listen to her entreaty
to put, with his own lips, the whole state
of his affairs before Lord Lyonesse.

Muriel had, as we know, been brought up in
the most careless way in the most frivolous
capital in Europe, and her moral education had
been wholly neglected by her parents ; but she
possessed, nevertheless, a very strong intuitive
power of discriminating between right and
wrong, and she had learnt from many novels, if
from no higher and purer source, that it is not
only highly improper but dangerous to happiness
for a wife to keep an important secret
from her husband, while sharing it with a man
who has every claim to be looked upon as a lover.
She must endeavour to persuade Laurence to
himself tell everything to Arthur ; for now that
he was going to obey her wishes and take the
money, she felt herself, of course, doubly bound
to secrecy, and she would rather imperil her life
and happiness than open her lips unless Laurence

should give her permission to do so. This
permission, however, she would endeavour to
obtain from him, or at least a promise that he
himself would let Arthur help him. Then, she
told herself, she would be happy, but not till
then, although the mere taking of this money
from her was in itself a blessing and a relief,
and showed that Laurence was still capable of
making great sacrifices to meet her wishes.
Surely, therefore, she would succeed eventually
in persuading him to ease her of this burden of
keeping so serious a secret from her husband.
She must get Laurence to tell Lord Lyonesse
of their previous engagement, of how he had
made her promise secrecy about it, of the money,
of his father's troubles — everything, in fact —
and then, but not till then, would she be happy ;
and she resolved to do all in her power to persuade
Laurence to make a clean breast of it at
once, so that there might be no more secrets
between her husband and herself.

Firmly decided on this, she set forth to meet
the heroic Laurence, making all her preparations
with such discretion that none of the numerous
servants suspected their mistress was about to
absent herself. Slipping out from the back of

the house to escape detection, and with the
precious little bundle of bank - notes tightly-grasped
within her muff, Lady Lyonesse made
her way across the lawn, opened the wicket-gate,
and passed into the lawn of Courthope.
The very fact of doing so diverted her mind for
the moment from her own affairs, and brought
her to think of her friends and neighbours.
Had they returned yet from town, she wondered
? She had plenty of time still before
meeting Laurence, so she would inquire. She
would merely inquire of a servant now, and if
they had returned, call in on her way back.
She was then close to the back of the house,
and as she approached, the large French windows
which opened from a morning-room directly onto
the lawn were opened, and a servant stepped
out to put up the shutters for the night. At
the sight of Lady Lyonesse he stepped aside,
naturally supposing, from her direct advance,
that her ladyship was going to pay one of those
innumerable sudden and wholly informal visits
which were habitual between the two ladies.
As it was bitterly cold, Lady Lyonesse stepped
into the room to ask her question. No, neither
Sir James nor her ladyship had returned yet,

VOL. II. K

but they were expected home to dinner. While
the man was speaking, Lady Lyonesse had
espied the heavy military cloak with the Brittany
clasps which Madge had gone to have
fitted on, the morning of her first meeting with
Laurence Farquhar in London, lying on a chair
in the corner, and picking it up, throwing it
around her, clasping it, and pulling up the
hood with the famous red lining, she prepared
to depart again.

Tell her ladyship I should like her to call
in after dinner if she can ; but if she is too
tired, to let me know, and I will come here. I
want to see her."

Very well, my lady ; " and then Lady Lyon-esse,
this time more sheltered from the bitter
cold than when she had ventured from Leavenworth
in such haste a few minutes before, made
her way direct to the Long Walk, where she
was to meet Laurence Farquhar.

In the meantime, Mrs Millwood had not been
idle, as can be readily imagined ; but as soon as
she was able to collect her scattered thoughts,
made her way to the telegraph office in the

town of X , and wired to Sir James. She

did not think he would go to his club, and did

not know the address of his doctor ; so as she
wanted him to be sure to receive it at the very
latest that afternoon, she addressed it to the
place in the East End where the charitable
meeting was to be held, and where, as he was to
preside, Sir James could not fail to be in the
course of the day : —

Return at once. Question of life or death.
Will wait for you at station. Wire me what
train you will come by. Address me Telegraph
Office, X . Lydia Millwood."

Having expedited this telegram, and made
arrangements to have the reply kept for her,
Mrs Millwood began to consider what she should
do with her time, for she knew the charitable
meeting did not assemble till four, so that even
if Sir James took a special, as he surely would,

he could not be down at X for many hours

yet, for it was now only half-past twelve.

Luckily, and by the merest accident, she had
that fatal letter about her. She had been reading
it over that very morning, and when summoned
suddenly to the nursery, had put it in
her pocket and locked up the envelope in the

writing-case. She now drew out this letter, for
she had wandered into a lonely lane, and read
it over for the hundredth time carefully. If
damning letter were ever written by an ardent
lover to a guilty wife, this letter was one of the
most damning. There were proofs of guilt in
every line of it; and then, to crown all, the
husband was held up to ridicule, and the whole
signed " with thousands of kisses on those darling
lips. — Yours for ever, Laurence." Sir
James was a fool. Mrs Millwood was perfectly
well aware of that fact ; but fool as he
was, this letter must open his eyes. And yet
who ever would have suspected it ? The first
letter which she had intercepted and read had
come upon Mrs Millwood like a thunderbolt, for
her morbid imagination had led her so firmly to
believe that Farquhar was the lover of Lady
Lyonesse, whom she hated, as we have seen,
that she had never for a moment thought her
mistress could be entangled in an intrigue with
the same man. There was nothing very much
in this first letter, but still Mrs Millwood saw
plainly it was but a thinly disguised love-letter,
and at all events such an epistle as no husband
would care to have his wife receive. Then she

had read others, and the guilt having become
apparent, she had boldly decided to purloin one
the most terrible and damning of all — and
thus hold Lady Anstruther absolutely bound
hand and foot, and in her power. This, as we
know, she had done, and she now was quietly
waiting for her vengeance, which she knew
would come to her as soon as electricity and
steam could bring it.

She did not hate Madge : even after the
terrible way in which she had been treated by
Lady Anstruther that morning, she did not hate
her. The poor woman was too utterly and hopelessly
lost and in her power for her to hate her.
She was already in the gutter, as it were, and
had already gone to swell the ranks of the
fallen women, pity for which class Mrs Mill-wood
had ever found so profitable a speculation
that she almost found it possible to pity this
last addition to the world of vice. Her hatred
she reserved for Lady Lyonesse. She despised
the low-born and dissolute Madge whom she
was now about to turn out into the streets, but
she envied and hated the rich, powerful, and
dainty young marchioness, who seemed now to
be so far beyond the reach of her malice that

she almost despaired of being able to reach upto
her to harm her. When she thought Farquhar
was the lover of Muriel, Mrs Millwood
was happy. She only had to bide her time, she
told herself, and the day would come when she
would make that little golden head bow down
in shame before her, and plead for a pity, compassion,
and mercy which most surely would
not be vouchsafed to her. But when she discovered
the dishonour was Lady Anstruther's,
and not Muriel's, Mrs Millwood was most bitterly
disappointed, and not only disappointed,
but vexed, — vexed because she now no longer
saw any way of harming Lady Lyonesse, and
vexed because she saw it would be incumbent
on her very shortly to deal a death-blow to poor
old Sir James, and to break up and destroy forever
a household which had been a home to
her, and which, under ordinary circumstances,
would always have been a source of pecuniary
profit to her even if she had been forced to
abandon it. It may be, moreover, that some
pity for the innocent and ailing baby found its
way to Mrs Millwood's cardiac apparatus ; but
it is certain that she felt very doubtful whether
this scandal she was about to bring about would

not for ever close not only the door of Court-hope,
but the purse of Sir James against her.
If the adulterous wife had only been Lady
Lyonesse, how delightfully different it all would
have been ! She could then have humbled and
degraded one whom she hated, and not only
have done herself no harm, but have doubtless
reaped a splendid and golden harvest ; for the
future Duke of Tintagil would most likely have
been willing to pay a very large sum of money
to become the possessor of so very valuable a
piece of prose as an ardent love-letter addressed
to a lady who might become his duchess !

Everything had gone wrong, but it could not
be helped ; and it was obviously useless to cry
over spilt milk, especially when the milk happened
to belong to others, while she herself had
been the voluntary spiller thereof. So well-meaning
and philosophical Mrs Millwood made up
her mind to make the best of a bad bargain,
and to do her duty with that sublime indifference
to consequences which should distinguish
all Christians. So she roamed about the country
all day long absorbed in thought, and discussing
within herself many plans for the future,
never thinking for a moment of eating anything,

or of calling upon her numerous acquaintances
in the neighbourhood, but every hour
looking in at the telegraph office to see if a
reply had come for her. At length she was
rewarded, and the following message was late
in the afternoon put into her hand : —

'' Will arrive at X at 4.30.

'' Anstruther."

Punctually at that time a special train came
dashing into the station, and Mrs Millwood saw
the pale wan face of the poor Colonel anxiously
looking out of the carriage window. Dear old
Jim Anstruther was not, however, a Christian
gentleman, and had not been a distinguished
officer, for nothing ; and as a reverent feeling of
resignation to God's will, no matter how hard
that divine will might for the moment seem,
had prevented him from inquiring by wire the
exact nature of the terrible catastrophe which
he felt to be imminent, so did his old habits of
military discipline and self-control prevent him
from exhibiting any impetuous eagerness at the
railway station, when on looking out he saw the
messenger of evil tidings waiting for him there,

an eagerness which might perhaps do harm, and
which by no possibility could do good, all things,
good and evil alike, being, as he well knew, in
the hands of the Father of all mercy.

*' The baby is quite well," Mrs Millwood had
indeed whispered to him, as, aided by his stick,
he alighted from the railway carriage ; and these
words, while at first bringing a divine relief
.to many vague terrors, — for he had, of course,
thought it must be through his beloved little
daughter that the blow would come to him, —
had, their first healing mission having been
accomplished, opened to his startled imagination
a long bewildering vista of all possible
horrors.

'* Is Madge ill 1 " he asked in a whisper.

No, — her ladyship is quite well," replied
Mrs Millwood ; and the sneer on her malignant,
pallid, unveiled face cut the Colonel to the heart
as a red-hot knife.

*' Wait till we get outside' he said, in a low
but imperative tone, as he saw the woman was
about to speak. *' Tell me nothing till we get
outside." Then, when they had passed out, he
looked around him astonished. " Where is the
carriage ? " he asked.

There is no carriage I " burst out Mrs Mill-wood,
able to contain herself no longer, and
thrusting the letter into his hand. " Oh, Sir
James, I have been turned out of the house by
her ladyship ! "

Turned out of the house ! '' he echoed.

Yes, turned out like a thief, and called a
thief before all the servants, because 1 found
this letter, — this dreadful letter ! Read it. Oh,
my God, it is too awful ! " and Mrs Millwood
put her pocket-handkerchief to her face.

The Colonel glanced at the letter, and then
put it in his pocket.

Hush'' he said, " I will hear nothing here.
We must go to the inn. I don't feel well. You
can tell me there." So in silence these two —
the ignoble and vile assassin and the noble
victim — walked over to the hotel which Laurence
Farquhar had only left five minutes before.
When they reached the door of the hostelry Sir
James paused. " I want to read this letter
alone, Mrs Millwood," he said gently. ** Will
you wait for me in the coffee-room ? " Then ashe
for the first time remarked the abnormal
pallor of her countenance, his natural kindness
of heart spoke, and he exclaimed, " Why, you

look very ill yourself. Sit down and have a
glass of wine. I shall not be many minutes."

** I have eaten nothing all day," whimpered
the woman. " I couldn't ! A piece of bread
would have choked me ! "

But a glass of wine will not choke you,"
replied the Colonel ; and then, turning to the
landlord, he said, '* Show this lady into the
coffee-room and give her a glass of port, and
tell a waiter to show me to a private sitting-room."


Mine host, astonished beyond measure at
this sudden advent of members of the Court-hope
household, bowed and led Mrs Millwood
away, a waiter showing Sir James to an upper
chamber.

"What is the matter, Mrs Millwood?"
whispered the landlord, when they had reached
the seclusion of the empty coffee-room. " Sir
James looks very ill."

Nothing is the matter," replied Mrs Mill-wood,
coldly. " Sir James is not well, that is
all. Pray, bring the port at once."

During the man's absence, however, the
thought struck her that some rumours of what
had taken place at Courthope that morning

might have reached the ears of the hotel-keeper,
and she decided on his return to ascertain
adroitly if such had been the case. Her first
remark elicited more information than she had
expected.

You don't-appear to have many visitors here
just now, Mr King wood," she said pleasantly, as
she sipped her port.

*' No, madam ; business is very slack just now.
We only have people just looking in for a few
minutes, like Sir James and yourself this evening,
and Mr Farquhar."

Mr Farquhar ! Mr Laurence Farquhar, do
you mean 1 "

Yes, the same. The handsome, pleasant-spoken
young gentleman as wot stays so often
with his lordship at Leavenworth Lodge. He's
been here all the afternoon, and only just left as
Sir James and yourself came in."

Oh, indeed," exclaimed Mrs Millwood; '^ well,
that is news indeed ! We all thought he was
abroad. Was he coming from Leavenworth or
going there, do you know?"

*' Oh, he came from town. He stayed here
for about two hours, and has only just this
minute left."

Well, the ladies will be pleased to see him,
to be sure ! He went on to Leavenworth, I
suppose 1 "

Well, he didn't say, and Fm sure I can't
tell where he was a-going to, for I watched him,
and saw him go up towards like going to
Leavenworth, and then he turned down the
lane that leads to the Long Walk."

The Long Walk at the back of Courthope,
you mean ? "

'' Yes, madam."

Oh, then he's going to pay us a visit first,
I suppose, and coming on his lordship as a
surprise later on ; that's it ! "

Very likely, madam. He seemed very gay
and in good spirits, as if the trip abroad had
done him a world of good."

Here the tall figure of the Colonel loomed in
the doorway. His face was terrible to look
upon — ashen pale, with circlets as of coagulated
blood around the eyes.

Are you ready, Mrs Millwood ? " he asked
quietly. " Shall we go ? " Then turning to the
landlord, he said, " I want the fly got ready at
once to take us to Courthope. My carriage has
not come."

But Mrs Millwood beckoned to the retiring
landlord to stay, and putting a sixpence into
his hand for the port, said — *' I'm sure we
don't need the fly to-night, Sir James : we can
easily walk. The landlord has just been telling
me Mr Laurence Farquhar has just left here,
and "

Laurence Farquhar! '' ejaculated the Colonel,
turning, if possible, still more pale. " Just left
here ! "

Not been gone five minutes, sir," put in the
landlord.

*' I knew you would be surprised," continued
Mrs Millwood, rising, approaching the Colonel,
looking him straight in the face, and speaking
with much meaning. " I told the landlord we
all thought he was abroad, but it appears he has
gone to Courthope by the Long Walk, so that
if we walk we may overtake him. We don't
want the fly, do we "? " The Colonel looked at
her blankly. " It's a short cut by the Long
Walk, so we don't want the fly, do we ? " persisted
Mrs Millwood.

** No," gasped the Colonel in a hoarse whisper.

'* So you needn't trouble, Mr Kingwood;
thank you kindly. I'm certain this nice frosty

air will do Sir James much more good than a
stuffy fly. Come, sir ; we had better be starting
if we want to overtake Mr Farquhar." And
so they departed, the Colonel limping on as ina
dream, preceded by Mrs Millwood, to whom
the port wine and the prospect of a rapidly
approaching catastrophe had lent unwonted
vigour. The landlord stared after them in
astonishment.

** Well, I'm bio wed ! " he ejaculated, as the
tall aristocratic figure of the Colonel, piloted by
the eager little woman in black, limped away
in the darkness of the night. " Here is a go !
What's up now, I wonder ? " and he returned to
tell his " missus " all about it in the bar parlour.

"You read the letter, sir ? " said Mrs Millwood,
when they had got beyond the reach of ears.

"Yes."

'* Put your trust in God, Sir James. Think
of what your sainted mother would say, if she
were here ! "

Poor mother ! God in His mercy spared
her this."

Yes, sir ; the hand of Providence is visible
through it all. This would have killed her
ladyship ! "

Has this man gone to meet my wife ? "
broke in Sir James, fiercely.

''Of course he has ; wait and see. We shall
find them in the Long Walk, if I am not
mistaken."

Good God ! " cried the Colonel, in sudden
agony, stopping short and putting his hand to
his head. "That it should come to this ! "

God's will be done," murmured Mrs Mill-wood.
" And it is wonderful that the Almighty
in His wisdom should have chosen so poor and
weak and vile an instrument as me to do His
blessed will. But come on, sir ; we must not
wait — we shall be too late. We shall only find
a desolate house and a crying infant if we wait.
They will have run away."

The Colonel darted a look of such sudden anger
at Mrs Millwood, that she quailed. Recovering
himself, however, at once, by a mighty effort
he pushed forward, walking as quickly as his
cork leg would permit, and still guided and preceded
by the woman. They now proceeded
some distance in silence — in fact, the quick
pace at which they were going rendered it
difficult for the Colonel to speak. Just as
they were on the point of turning into the

Long Walk, Sir James whispered, breathing
heavily —

'' How did you get this letter ? "

I had seen others, — her ladyship had left
two others about, and I read the first by mistake.
It was not so bad as the one you have ;
but it frightened me, and I kept my eyes
open."

'' Why did you not tell me at once "? "

I was frightened. I hardly dared believe
it, and I wanted to make sure before I said a
word. The letter that you have I deliberately
stole."

Stole ! "

Yes, Sir James — deliberately stole. I preferred
risking the felon's dock to seeing you
and that blessed little innocent infant brought
to shame."

Poor little Laura ! " murmured the Colonel,
always thinking of others — " poor little Laura!"

I stole that letter," continued Mrs Mill-wood,
" and I trust almighty God will forgive
me. I locked it up in my desk, and intended
showing it to you when you were well enough
to bear it — for you have been so poorly lately.
But this morning, I don't know how it came

VOL. II. L

about — but this morning " Here she suddenly
broke off and grasped the Colonel's arm.
See ! " she hissed, — " there, to the right.
There they are. We are not too late, God be
praised ! "

Yes, there they were, — there could be no
doubt about that. Sir James, stooping down,
could see them plainly. He recognised at once
his wife's well-known cloak, with the curious
clasps that gleamed now even in the night, —
that strange cloak that he had never liked to
see her in, because it was so eccentric and so
different from cloaks worn by other ladies, and
because (as he had told her once laughingly)
it reminded him of the terrible nights of long
ago spent in the trenches in the Crimea — terrible
nights indeed, but not half so terrible as this.
Yes, there they were. There was the woman
whom he had loved and cherished ; there was
the woman who bore his name, and the name
and title that his dear mother had borne in her
time, and made holy in his ears ; there was the
mother of his only child, his poor little Laura,
standing with her paramour, — and although his
wife's face was so turned from him that he
could not see it, he could recognise the features

of that paramour very distinctly, and Laurence
Farquliar's handsome face as plainly as he had
ever seen it at a dinner-table. They were intime
indeed — they, the avengers. But only
just in time ; for, even as Sir James gazed at
this guilty couple, Laurence Farquhar suddenly
enfolded the cloaked figure in one rapturous
embrace, and then releasing the lady, who
seemed struggling to be free, he stooped, kissed
her hand, and they parted — the lady quickly
disappearing in the darkness, and Farquhar
advancing towards where Sir James and Mrs
Millwood stood. Before the widow could prevent
him, Sir James had started forward ; .and
half running, aided by his stick, and half limping,
he came across the path of Laurence, and
confronted him.

"You villain !'' he cried. "You base, dastardly
villain ! " and he struck him with his
clenched fist straight in the face. Laurence
reeled, but quickly recovering himself, dealt
the Colonel a terrible blow on the head
with his heavy walking-stick, and Anstruther
fell without a groan as one dead — the blood
pouring from a hideous wound in his forehead,
while a piercing shriek from Mrs Mill-wood

broke the stillness of the winter evening.
Startled by the scream, still half stunned by
the Colonel's blow, but recognising the pale
and horror-distorted countenance of Mrs Mill-wood,
Laurence glared at her for a moment,
and then, with a loud imprecation, turned and
fled — his receding figure being quickly lost in
the encircling gloom.

Chapter XY.

When Lady Lyonesse left Laurence Farquliar
after having given him the money she had promised
him, she was wholly dissatisfied with the
result of their clandestine interview, and told
herself that nothing should ever induce her to
degrade herself again by granting another. . In
the first place, Laurence had most positively forbidden
her to say a word to her husband ; had
reminded her of her solemn oath not to breathe
a word, either of their previous engagements
or of this money transaction, to any living
soul; and, at the same time, had stoutly refused
to say a word himself to Lord Lyonesse
about his private affairs and those of his father.
All this was bad enough, and of course most
unsatisfactory ; but it was not the worst. Taking
advantage of her lonely and most compromising
position, and apparently unmindful of

the fact that she was jeopardising her reputation
to be of service to him by meeting him
thus by stealth, this man, whom she had
thought so noble a hero, had actually endeavoured
to make love to her — had poured a torrent
of passionate words into her startled ear, —
words which she felt it to be baseness on his
part to his friend, her husband, to utter, and
a shame and disgrace for her to hear ; and,
finally, had crowned this outrageous conduct
by embracing her ! Her idol had fallen from
its pedestal, her god from his shrine. This man
was no hero after all, who could so forget his
manhood as to assault and insult a lady, and
that lady one whom he had ever pretended to
hold in the highest reverence, and for whom
he had professed so pure and self-sacrificing a
love. Was he mad, or drunk ? she asked
herself Surely this man she had just left,
and from whom she was flying as from an
enemy, could not be her good, noble, heroic,
self-sacrificing friend, Laurence Farquhar ? He
had been the same as ever when first they had
met ; and the change only came, and came
suddenly, when she had given him the banknotes,
which he had carefully counted before

putting in his pocket. Then, and not till then,
did the unpleasant transformation take place —
a transformation so offensive to her, that she
almost doubted whether she ought to receive
the man again before exacting some apology
or explanation of his outrageous conduct from
him.

So terribly upset was Muriel by what had
taken place, that in her hasty return to Leavenworth
she forgot to choose her path, and found
herself suddenly in the little lane which partly
divided the estates, and far from either of the
two houses. Hardly had she discovered her
mistake, and just as she was turning to walk
to the little wicket-gate lower down, and in the
Courthope lawn, which opened into the lawn of
Leavenworth, when a man came quickly down
the lane — springing suddenly out of the darkness,
as it were — and accosted her.

Could you tell me my way to Leavenworth
? '' he inquired.

Muriel shrank back white with terror. Had
she not just left that man — fled from him, as
it were ? and yet here was the same voice speak
her.

Mr Farquhar," she said coldly, and averting

her face — '' by insulting me, by following me,
you only leave one course open to me, — never
to be friendly with you again."

*' Who are you ? what the devil are you
talking about ? and how do you know my
name ? " inquired the same voice, in accents of
unfeigned surprise, the owner of it leaning forward
and trying to peer under Muriel's closely
drawn hood.

Quivering with anger, Lady Lyonesse raised
her eyes haughtily ; but, to her amazement,
they fell upon the countenance of a man of
about sixty-five, with grey hair, a closely-cut
grey moustache, and a very red nose, who was
gazing at her with a bewildered stare, which
betokened an astonishment quite equal to her
own.

I beg your pardon," she stammered. " I
mistook you for somebody else."

*' But you knew my name all right enough.
You got that right, anyhow."

'^ What name ? "

"You said 'Mr Farquhar.' That's my
name."

Lady Lyonesse saw it all clearly at once.
This was Laurence's father, who, doubtless being

anxious about the money, had followed his son
down to Leavenworth. *' You are Mr Laurence
Farquhar's father, then ? " she asked.

I have that misfortune, yes — damn him ! "
rejoined the red-nosed stranger. *sand who
are you 'i " he inquired insolently.

I think you forget yourself, Mr Farquhar,"
replied Muriel, in her most icy tone ; for to be
insulted by the father after having been insulted
by the son, and just as she had been, at
great peril to herself, rescuing both of them
from ruin, was rather too bad. " I am Lady
Lyonesse. You have heard of me from your
son, I daresay."

^* Don't call him my son, the villain — although,
damn him ! he is my son. So you are Lady
Lyonesse, are you ? I'm glad to have the
honour of meeting you, for I have comedown
here on purpose."

"Laurence has been here," began Muriel,
greatly frightened, as she saw the man was
drunk, "and "

'' Been here, has he ? " interrupted Mr Farquhar,
senior, roughly. "And what for, may
I ask ? For no good, I'll be bound ! "

It was evident, then, that the father knew

nothing of the pecuniary advance his son was
so kindly negotiating for him. What, then,
could have brought this dreadful old gentleman
down to Leavenworth ?

"You did not know he was coming down
here, then "? " she asked, timidly.

Yes, and no. I knew he was coming down
here to stay with some people at a place called
Leavenworth, and that is why I have comedown
to warn them against him. I had no
idea he was down here now."

He is not down here now," murmured
Muriel, greatly troubled. "" He has gone back
to London — back to see you."

To see me f Bah ! What nonsense. Why,
he has ruined me, and hates the sight of me
almost as much as I hate the sight of him ! "

This was really too dreadful.

1 don't see how you can speak so of your
son, Mr Farquhar ; he always speaks so highly
and affectionately of you."

He does, does he ? Well, then, he has
some vile, hidden motive in it, for he hates
me like poison, and I return the compliment.
He has ruined me, I tell you, ruined me, ashe
ruins all with whom he comes in contact.

I have come down here to unmask him, and I
will. A bigger villain than my only child
Laurence never yet escaped hanging ! "

'' Mr Farquhar, you must not talk so to me.
If you have anything to say, you must say it
to my husband."

And who is your husband '? "

Lord Lyonesse. We live at Leavenworth.
He is an old friend of your son, and you must
have heard of him."

Mr Farquhar shook his head. The title of
Lyonesse had not been used for half a century,
and the old toper never read the newspapers.
I never heard of him. Laurence never had
but one friend who stuck up for him, and
Laurence always called him a fool. His name
was Pendragon ! "

"Ah ! " exclaimed Muriel ; then moving away
slowly, she said — " You had better see my
husband."

** Wait ! " cried the old man, as he saw her
walking away. " Just tell me something before
I see your husband''

Muriel stopped : she knew it was wrong, but
she could not help it — she stopped. A sickening
dread of some unknown horror was creeping

over her, and she felt she would be better
able to bear the blow out here in the night than
in the house. '' Well ? " she said.

*snow you mustn't be offended, but I want
to know if this man, this villain, this son of
mine, has been making love to you ? "

"Sir?"

"Don't be offended, I tell you," exclaimed
old Farquhar, putting out his hand as if to
prevent her from leaving. " Answer me, has
he?"

Muriel stood still, trembling like a leaf, and
too indignant to be able to utter one word of
disgust.

"Very well, never mind," continued old
Farquhar, after the pause of a second. "I
see he has. Now I will tell you why I ask.
I have a letter here" — and he took a letter
from his pocket — " written by this villain to
some friend of his in Paris. It was returned
by the French post, and I got it. In it he
speaks in the vilest and foulest way of some
lady he is about to ruin, or has ruined, and is
about to run away with, I don't remember
which, and in the same letter he writes that
he is going down to stay with some people

named Lyonesse at a place called Leavenworth.
That's what brought me down here.
Now I'm a gentleman, Lady Lyonesse, although
you may not think so, and I can't
stand quietly by and see a lady treated as this
scoundrel is treating this lady. I'm more thana
match for Master Laurence when I'm sober,
as 1 am now. It's only when I'm drunk that
he can do what he likes with me, and that's
why he keeps a man by me to ply me with
liquor. Now I tell you what I'll do. You
tell me to see your husband. I think I had
better not see him just yet. Later on will do.
You are the lady spoken of in this letter — I
know you are — and you know Laurence's handwriting.
Ill just leave you the letter and my
address. Read it : if you're the lady mentioned,
you may yet have time to save yourself
If not, you can return me the letter, and at all
events you will have seen what a precious
villain your friend is, so I shall have had my
revenge. So I think I had better not see your
husband just yet, don't you ? Will you take
the letter ? " and he held the letter out to her.

Muriel, so violently agitated that she swayed
to and fro, stretched out her hand and took the

letter. It was a terrible thing to do, but how
could she resist it ? and then, again, it was all
done in a minute, and the letter was in her
hand before she had quite realised what she
had done.

Very well, it's far better so," exclaimed
old Farquhar. '^ My address is Armature
Farquhar, Ivy leaf Cottage, Bognor. Tell Laurence,
with my compliments, what I have done,
and if you want any further particulars of his
villainy, drop me a line. Damn him ! he's
ruined me, and I'll ruin him. Good evening.
Lady Lyonesse," and the old man bowed
politely, and, with as much alacrity as a
tendency to stagger would admit of, quickly
turned up the lane, and passed into the
shadows of the night.

For one moment Muriel stood rooted to the
spot, looking after him, and grasping the letter
he had just given her with a feverish fierceness
that crushed it. Then, as the old man
passed out of her sight, she pulled the hood
still more closely about her face, and thrusting
the letter into her bosom, she flew rather than
ran in the direction of the wicket gate, and did
not stop until she was close under the lights

gleaming from the windows of Leavenworth.
Then she pulled herself together, and taking out
the key of the conservatory, which she had, with
laudable prudence and forethought, provided
herself with, she passed into the house unperceived.
When she had reached the morning-room
into which the conservatory gave access,
and which she luckily found empty, although a
bright fire was blazing on the hearth and a
reading-lamp burning on the table, she quickly
divested herself of her hat, gloves, furs, and
cloak, and throwing them on a sofa, rang the
bell. Had his lordship returned yet ? she inquired.
No, his lordship had not yet returned.
Then her ladyship proceeded to her dressing-room,
telling her maid to bring up the outer
garments she had left below. Locking herself
in her room, she drew forth the letter the old
man had just given her, and read it through
from beginning to end, much with the same
nervous calmness with which she had read that
terrible letter from her father but a few months
ago — read it through, and as she read it, and
noted the cruel cynicism, and shuddered at the
erotic witticisms it contained, the whole and
utter baseness of this man whom she had

thought a hero lay bare before her, and her
very heart sank with horror and disgust. She
had but just got to the signature when a violent
knocking at the door interrupted her, and her
maid called out —

*' Oh, please, my lady ! please, my lady ! " ina
loud and agitated voice.

^^ What is it ? " inquired Lady Lyonesse, hastily
replacing Farquhar's letter in her pocket
and unlocking the door.

The maid was as white as a sheet, and trembling
all over. ^' Please, my lady, they've sent
for your ladyship from Courthope to come over
at once. Sir James is dying ! "

'^ Dying I"

Yes, my lady ; he met with an accident,
and Walker says he is dying, and begs to see
your ladyship at once."

"Good God!" ejaculated Muriel, and then
added hastily, " Say I am coming at once ! "
and seizing a shawl which lay on the sofa, and
not even waiting to put on her hat, Muriel flew
down-stairs and out of the house even before
the maid could give the message.

At Courthope she found everything in wild
confusion. Sir James had met with an accident

been attacked by a tramp — and was lying
up-stairs in his bedroom dying. Lady An-stretcher
had not returned home yet, and a
groom had been sent for the doctor, but the
doctor had not yet come. While the under-butler
was hurriedly explaining all this to the
frightened Muriel, Mrs Millwood came forward.

'^ I should like to speak to your ladyship fora
moment in the library, please," she said
quietly, but with the air of a person who expects
what she asks to be granted.

Lady Lyonesse followed her into the library,
and Mrs Millwood closed the door.

Lady Anstruther has left her husband and
eloped with her paramour!" she announced
abruptly.

"Madge! Left her husband!" and Muriel
sank on the sofa wholly overcome.

Lady Anstruther has run away with Mr
Laurence Farquhar, your ladyship's friend."

Mrs Millwood could not for the life of her
refrain from this sarcasm, but it passed unnoticed.
So this was the truth of it after all !
Madge, her tenderly loved sister and friend,
had plotted with that unnameable villain to
rob her, Muriel, and by robbing her to com-vol.

II. M

promise her, and the object of this robbing
was to dishonour and kill the sweet, gentle,
courtly, noble-minded, tender-hearted Colonel !
Was ever villainy like this 1 It could not be I
It could not be ! God could not have created
such monsters of iniquity ! Then the full
meaning of the horrible letter she had just
read flashed into her mind.

"Are you sure of this, Mrs Millwood?" she
asked faintly.

Mrs Millwood stared at her for a moment
with silent contempt.

Sir James will best be able to enlighten
you on that point, and he wishes to see your
ladyship at once. I only wanted to prepare
you. Sir James, you know, is dying."

*' What is this accident ? " asked Muriel,
rising and preparing to go to her poor old
friend.

Sir James will explain it to your ladyships
Then Mrs Millwood added significantly : " He
ordered me to tell the servants that he was
attacked by a tramp ; so I have done so. Is
your ladyship ready to see him now ? He is
impatient, and he may not last long."

Mrs Millwood spoke as coldly as if she were

remarking it was a fine evening. Muriel
followed her up-stairs without a word.

Here is Lady Lyonesse, Sir James' Muriel
heard Mrs Millwood, who had preceded her
into the dying man's room, remark, and then
she heard the familiar gentle voice of the
Colonel murmur " Thank God ! " and she
passed in, and Mrs Millwood, noiselessly
withdrawing, closed the door behind her. It
was terrible for the widow to leave this woman
whom she hated alone with her dying master,
but her orders had been very clear on this
point, and she dared not even remonstrate.
When Muriel approached the bed and saw, the
Colonel's white, haggard face, and his wistful
tender eyes fixed on her from under a wet
towel deluged with blood that was wrapped
around his head, and from underneath which,
on one side, protruded a few poor little wisps
of iron-grey hair, they also stained with blood,
her heart almost broke with loving pity, and
sinking on her knees by the bedside, she burst
into a paroxysm of tears.

'* Don't cry, Muriel," he said gently, putting
his gaunt sinewy hand tenderly and caressingly
on her little golden head. "Don't cry, my

child I Kemember it is God's will. I think I
can call you Muriel without doing harm. I
don't think Arthur would mind. You are such
a mere child, my dear ; I am old enough to be
your grandfather ; and then I knew your poor
father so well. Your poor father ! I was very
fond of him, my child, and would never believe
what his enemies said of him. He was a clever
man — and so he had enemies, of course. I have
never been clever, so every one has always been
kind to me. Your poor father was very, very
kind to me many years ago, when I thought I
was dying, in Paris ; when I thought God was
calling me home, as I know He is calling me
now ! " Here he paused, and Muriel's sobs
alone broke the stillness of the room. After
a short pause he continued :

When your poor father died, I wrote and
told your mother I must take care of you. It
was my duty to take care of my poor friend's
child, and would be my delight. I could not
get to you, for my father was dying then, but
I wrote that ; but then you see, my child, God
ordained it otherwise, and in His infinite love
and wisdom raised up for you a stronger
support and comforter than I could ever have

been. He gave you Arthur ! Dear Arthur !
Mind you are always good to him, Muriel.
Never let any one or anything ever come
between you and your husband ; mind that,
my child. They whom God has joined together
let no man put asunder ! " Here he
paused again, sighing heavily, and then proceeded
:

'' But I did not disturb you, Muriel, to
speak of myself. You can't have thought me
so selfish as that. I wanted to see you before
I died, to speak to you about little Laura."
Muriel took the Colonel's hand and kissed it,
covering it with her scalding tears. " When
I am dead the poor little baby will be alone
in the world. Will you take care of her,
Muriel, for my sake, as I would have taken
care of you for your father's sake V She
could not answer, and only squeezed his hand.
*^ Thank God ! I knew you would. If you
and Arthur take care of her, I know she will
be happy. See how good and merciful God
is to let me die before she has learnt to love
me ! She will not feel my loss now, God bless
her ! Train her up to be a good and Christian
woman, Muriel, and then, and then only, will

she be happy. Train her carefully, Muriel,
women have so many temptations ! I have
seen such dreadful things, Muriel — such dreadful
things ; but my dear mother saw even
worse I I have seen poor girls, almost children,
little ones such as those Jesus called to Him,
dying in vice — and worst of all, not recognising
that it was vice and sin ! Poor children !
Poor women ! All the tenderness of their
sweet hearts turned to gall by man's wickedness
I Not even knowing that they were
sinning, Muriel, — just think of it I Not even
knowing that they were sinning ! And yet,
see the miracle of God's love ! They shall
be washed as pure as snow ! The blessed St
John saw them, they who had passed through
great tribulation — he saw them, Muriel, my
child, close to the throne of God, and singing
praises to the Lamb I Think of it I Dear St
John saw them with his eyes, and lived to
write and tell us all this blessed news, to the
end that we might have hope also ! " Here
another pause ensued. Then he continued
again, garrulous because he was old, and because
he was talking to one whom he looked
upon as a dear friend, and because dying men

are garrulous just before the great silence comes
upon them :

So train her up with care, Muriel, just as
if she were one of your own children. Poor
little Laura ! Perhaps God, in His love and
wisdom, will not let her grow up to be a woman
and know a woman's temptations and troubles.
Perhaps, as He is now letting me go to Him
and to my mother, so He will let her come
soon to Him and to me, her poor earthly father.
For she has no mother now, Muriel ! Poor
little Laura has no mother now ! ^' and his voice
broke into a sob.

Muriel ! " he said, after a pause, and in a
more serious and less dreamy voice, " Muriel."

"Yes."

Never let Laura see her mother — never let
her see her or approach her, but never let her
hear any evil spoken of her. Will you promise
me that ? "

I will promise."

'* Never let Laura know the truth about her
mother, but never let one come near the other.
I have your promise, have I not ? "

'' You have."

But it's different with you, Muriel ; it's

different with you. You are a woman, and a
good woman, and you have a good husband to
comfort and support you. Do you look her
out if you can, Muriel, and try and find her,
and tell her I forgive her, and try to bring
her back from sin and shame. Oh, if you had
only seen the dreadful things that I have seen,
you would pity her, and try and bring her back
to peace and purity 1 I forgive her, Muriel, — tell
her that ; from my heart I forgive her, as I hope
to be forgiven. Seek her out, and tell her that.
Remember she was your playmate, almost your
sister; and then she is so young. Think of
that, Muriel, — she is so young. Seek her out,
Muriel, my child, and save her from herself.
Her shame cannot contaminate you, but Jesus
will love you all the more if you try to save
poor Madgy." Here his voice broke down
again.

And then you must promise me one more
thing, Muriel," he said, after a pause.

'' I will."

'you must take care of poor Mrs Millwood,
and let her take care of little Laura. You must
promise me that. I have provided for her in
my will, so that she will not need money ; but

she loves the child, so that I cannot have them
put asunder. Will you promise me that,
Muriel ? "

'' I will."

And then I owe Mrs Millwood so much for
all her kindness to me and to my mother. And
then all this terrible trouble I should never have
known of but for her. It was her duty to tell
me of my shame and my dishonour, and she has
always done her duty."

'* What do you mean ? " asked Muriel, raising
her tear-stained face from her hands, and looking
at the dying man with anxiety. " Do you
only know all this from Mrs Millwood ? Have
you condemned Madge unheard simply because
Mrs Millwood has accused her ? "

"No, Muriel, my child. I have not been
so unjust as that. No accusation was made, no
accusation was needed. The facts spoke for
themselves. But it is only right that you should
know all, although it is a pity that such things
should come to your innocent ears. But as you
have promised to take care of little Laura, to be
as her mother, it is only fair to her and to yourself
— and — and to me, — for I don't want you to
judge me harshly when I'm dead, — that you

should know all. Read that; Mrs Millwood
found that, and gave it to me, as was her duty.
That is all ; " and taking Laurence's letter to
his wife from under the pillow, he gave it to
Muriel. She read it through, it striking her as
she did so that there seemed to be no end to the
villainies written in that but too well-known
hand, and then giving it back to the Colonel,
covered her face again with her hands, and
buried it in the coverlet by his arm. No, there
could be no possible doubt now. No stronger
proof of guilt could possibly be needed ; names
and all were plainly written there, and that one
letter alone would in itself have been quite
enough to justify and ensure a divorce. What
monsters of iniquity they were, — this man whom
she had looked upon as a hero, and this woman
whom she had loved as a sister ! What monsters
! Surely such crime as this, such heartless,
wanton, malignant villainy, was almost
beyond the reach even of Divine mercy !

So you see poor Mrs Millwood only did
her duty, and I thank her for it. That letter
is enough. When I read that, I knew the
worst. And then after that I saw them together.
Oh God, have mercy on her ! I saw

that man put his arms around her and embrace
her ! '^

*' You said him ! " exclaimed Muriel, raising
her head.

Yes, to-night — just before they fled together.
I saw them as plainly as I see you now.
It was he who gave me this blow. You must
not say a word of it to any one but Arthur.
I wish it kept a secret. It was my fault, I
struck him first. I am sorry now. Think if
I had taken his life and he had gone to his
account unprepared and with all his sins upon
his head ! Thank God, I have been spared that
crime ! It is not this blow that is killing me.
I have had harder blows than this. But they
broke my heart first, Muriel. My heart was
broken, and I was dying before he struck me."
Here he paused.

"You say you saw them both together tonight
'? Where 1 " inquired Muriel, a vague
feeling of terror creeping over her.

In the Long Walk I saw them plainly. I
saw him take her in his arms and kiss her.
Forgive me, Muriel, for telling you such things,
but I ought to tell you all."

You say you saw them plainly ? "

*' As plainly as I see you now. Her face was
turned from me, but I recognised her."

*' How ? Tell me how I " gasped Muriel,
seizing his arm.

'' By her cloak, by that strange cloak."

My God ! my God ! my God ! " moaned
Muriel, burying her face in her hands, and now
quite overcome by this new and terrible complication.
So she, too, must be sacrificed to the
villainous treachery of this guilty couple. She
had not suffered enough yet ; she must be sacrificed,
and poor innocent Arthur must be sacrificed.
Their happiness, too, must be buried
beneath the hideous ruin which these criminal
hands had pulled down upon so many guiltless
heads I All her life and future, and all Arthur's
life and future, must go to swell the list of shame
and horror which had been drawn up that night.
Oh, it was too dreadful, too horrible, too hard !
If the shame could only come to her alone, she
could perhaps bear it, — but to Arthur, to dear,
tender, proud, noble-hearted Arthur ! That was
too hard, and at the thought of the sacrifice
which she felt it her duty to make, her sobs
broke out afresh.

^' Don't cry, my child, don't cry," murmured

the poor old Colonel, putting once more his
hand tenderly upon her golden head. Just then
a light tap was heard at the door, and Mrs Mill-wood's
voice announced that the doctor had
arrived. Of course he had to be admitted at
once, and Muriel promising to return when the
medical examination was over, walked up and
down the corridor outside the bedroom door,
half thankful that the respite of a few minutes
had been granted her, and half ashamed that
she had allowed even one moment to pass without
telling the dying man the truth. Oh that
Arthur would come ! That she might only hold
him in her arms once again, and feel him kiss
her fondly, before she should be forced to speak
and put for ever those fond kisses from her !
When Arthur knew the truth, the whole truth,
that he would repudiate her, or at least never
forgive her, she never doubted for a moment,
any more than she doubted that she was called
upon to speak ; but if he would only come now
before she had spoken, she might once more,
and for the last time, feel his arms around her !
Even as her heart expressed this prayer, she
heard her husband's voice, and his step mounting
the staircase, and as these sounds reached

her ears lier eagerness to see him died away
suddenly, giving place to a wild terror lest he
should perchance read her shameful secret in
her face, and scorn her before she could throw
herself on her knees and tell him all. Before
she had time, however, to think further, Arthur
had seen her, sprang to her, and folded her in
his arms.

*^ My own darling ! " he murmured, raining
kisses on her tear-stained, upturned face, that
lay nestling on his shoulder. " How terrible
this is ! Is he really dying ? "

"Yes," whispered Muriel; then she added ina
still lower whisper, and twining her arms still
more closely around him, " Arthur, think if it
had been me ! "

'' You dying ? Oh, my darling ! how can
you think such a thing 1 "

'' No, not dying — that's not what I mean — but
me in the place of Madge."

Don't say such things, Muriel," he exclaimed
sternly. '* Never mention that woman's name
again. A woman capable of such vileness should
be killed like a dog ! "

Killed ! "

No, killing is too good for her ! She should

be branded on the forehead and pilloried in the
public market-place with her lover."

You could never forgive her ? "

Forgive her I You speak of forgiving her,
with that splendid, noble man she has murdered
dying in the next room ! "

He has forgiven her ! He told me so."

*'He is a saint, and is going to heaven.
Forgive her ! If ever she comes in our path
again, I will denounce her, expose her, publish
her shame, her cruelty, her treachery ! To deceive
her husband, and such a husband ! ''

*^ That is the greatest crime a woman can be
guilty of, I suppose," murmured Muriel, her
heart turning cold with dread.

The very greatest ! "

"And one that never can be forgiven,
Arthur ^ " she urged. " Can it never be forgiven
{

'never in this world. With God all things
are possible. But hush, here comes the doctor's

He left Muriel and went up to ask what hope
there was. There was no hope : the Colonel
might last the night, but that was doubtful.
There was nothing to be done. The blow on
the forehead was not much in itself, but the

shock produced by it and other emotions had
done the deadly work, aided by the heart disease
which the old warrior had inherited from his
mother, and from which he had been suffering
for years, — and so there was no hope. He had
ordered him, had just administered to him in
fact — for, from what the groom had told him, he
had foreseen the necessity of so doing, and had
come from his surgery provided with what was
necessary — a calming medicine. That was all
that there was to be done. When the effect of
that first draught had passed away, if he were
still alive, which was doubtful, he was to have
another, and before the effect of that second
draught had passed away he would surely be
dead. He was not to be left alone.

Just then Mrs Millwood came up and said Sir
James had heard his lordship had arrived, and
desired to see him ; so Lyonesse and his wife
went in, and the doctor took his departure.

'^ Arthur's said the dying man, " how good
you are to come 1 Your wife has been with me,
and I have told her all I had to say. She will
tell you. I don't feel strong enough to repeat
it now. She has promised to take care of little
Laura. Will you let her ? "

Let her ! " Arthur's emotion would not let
him say more, and he could only press the
Colonel's hand and murmur, "Dear Anstruther!
dear Anstruther ! "

And to take care of Mrs Millwood, and not
to separate her from the child."

All that you want and that Muriel has promised
shall be done. Before Grot I swear it ! "

Thank you ! God bless you both ! "

Would you not like to see a clergyman,
sir 1 " inquired Mrs Millwood. '' I have sent
for Mr Slocum, and he is waiting below in the
library."

Now the Reverend Theodore Slocum, the new

rector of X , was a graduate of Pembroke

College, Oxford, who had distinguished himself
by putting the stone for three consecutive years
for his university, and had been ordained, pipe,
flannels and all, but a few short months before,
so that his powers as a spiritual athlete had not
as yet had time to dim the glories recorded in
Bell's Life,' and Calvary was still miles behind
Lille Bridge. The presence of this raw
beefy youth, who owed his preferment entirely
to family influence, by the bedside of a dying
man, — the interference of this very beery india

II. N

vidual, who was the very type of the grosser
and more animal side of humanity, in the flight
of a soul to its Maker, — would be about as inappropriate
and unedifying as would the society
of a prize bull in a closet stored with priceless
Sevres ; and the approach of death had so refined
the naturally and innately refined sensibility of
the Colonel, that he shrank from the intrusion
of this putter of stones, as the eyelids instinctively
close before a threatened attack upon
the pupil.

*' Thank you, Mrs Millwood," he said feebly.
You are always thoughtful and kind, but I
won't see Mr Slocum. Tell him how sorry I am
that he should have disturbed himself for me,
but tell him that I feel myself to be so near
God now, that no one, not even one of His ministers,
should, I think, come between us. Ask
him to pray for me, that is all."

When Mrs Millwood had left the room to deliver
this most unexpected and unsatisfactory
message, Lyonesse leant over the bed and said
soothingly, '^ Are you in pain, Anstruther ? "

No, dear Arthur. No pain, only very, very
drowsy."

That is the effect of the medicine."

Yes, I shall sleep, I think. But you must
go away now. We must say good-bye, dear
friends, and you must go to bed. Poor little
Muriel must be worn out."

Muriel raised his hand and kissed it, but the
sleeping-draught was already beginning to have
such an effect upon him that he was hardly
conscious of her caress, and only stared at her.

I am not going away," she whispered to
him. "I shall not leave you, my dear old friend.
Listen to me," and her voice sank still lower,
and she caught her breath — " listen to me before
you go, I "

'hush! " interrupted Arthur, laying his hand
tenderly on his wife's shoulder — " hush, do not
disturb him. See, he is asleep. We shall stay
here, Mrs Millwood," said his lordship, turning
to that lady, who had just entered. 'muriel
and I are going to watch by him through the
night."

That is not necessary, my lord ; I am here."

I must not leave him," cried Muriel, wringing
her hands ; " I cannot leave him ! When he
wakes, I must speak to him, Arthur ! I must,
Arthur, — indeed I must ! "

Mrs Millwood looked at her with cold curiosity.

'' I am afraid Sir James will only awake
in Paradise ! " she said, dryly.

"You shall stay here, my darling, and so shall
I," said Lord Lyonesse, kissing his wife fondly ;
and so shawls and a pillow were brought, and
Muriel was constrained to lie down upon the
sofa, while Arthur, seating himself in an armchair
by the bedside, opened the Colonel's
well-worn Bible, and Mrs Millwood retired to
the adjoining room, leaving the door ajar.

The sofa on which Muriel lay happened to be
so placed that without moving her head she
could see both the face of her husband and that
of the dying man — the only two beings whom
she loved and honoured, and both of whom,
she told herself, would surely that very night,
and before the angel of Death should have come
with his gift of peace for one of them, despise
her, if not spurn her, from them. She must
do this dreadful thing ; she must make this sacrifice,
not only of herself but of her husband :
she must make this confession, which, while
it could in no wise benefit the really guilty,
would indeed bring ruin on the innocent: she
must tell the Colonel and her husband that
it was not Madge but herself whom Laurence

had met and embraced that night in the Long
Walk ; and although she could of course prove
her innocence of any guilt (or rather, in her artlessness,
she fondly fancied she could easily do
so), the fact of the deceit remained — of a secret
of so delicate and important a nature having
been kept by her from her husband, and not
only so, but shared by her with one whose conduct
had proved him to be unworthy of associating
with any honourable man or decent
woman. All through that long and terrible
winter night Muriel lay in this chamber, so
shortly to be visited by the Great Friend, thinking
over the terrible task she had before her —
Mrs Millwood creeping in from time to time in
the earlier part of the night to look at the sleeping
Colonel, and then stealing back to her room
with a despairing sigh, and Arthur nodding over
the open Bible, and at last, fairly overcome by
fatigue, resting back his head and sleeping as
peacefully and soundly as in the old days at
Eton. Muriel looking at him saw, by the light
of the moderator lamp, the face of her sleeping
husband very plainly; and as she gazed upon
the beloved features, she told herself that it was
the face of a stern man, of one who, being good

and true himself, could hardly bring himself to
forgive want of goodness and truth in one he
had honoured with his love. And yet it must
be done. Her own pride, she thought, she
had put aside, and only thought of him and
what he would say when he knew. She could
perhaps bear without dying the shame of being
forced to confess to him her deceit, and of how
she had listened to and believed in the soft and
loving words of this basest of mankind, whose
innocent victim, whom he had robbed and
slaughtered, lay dying there. She could perhaps
stand that, if only she could hope that he
would some day, — not at once, but at some
future time, — perhaps forgive her, and take her
once more to his bosom. But would he '? He
was not a clever man — Muriel knew that — nora
very sensitive man : would he see that, by the
terrible and voluntarily inflicted punishment of
this shameful confession, she was perhaps in
part expiating the great fault and sin which had
necessitated it ? Was there any hope of his
taking such a lenient view of the matter ? As
Muriel looked upon the handsome, clear-cut,
regular features to which sleep had given a look
of hard determination, her heart sank within

her, and she told herself she could hope but for
little mercy there. He had himself told her buta
few short hours before, that to deceive her husband
was the greatest crime a woman could be
guilty of, and one that could never be forgiven.
He had said that himself — one that only God
could forgive. No, there was no hope in that
quarter. Then she looked at the Colonel. He too
was asleep, but his were not the dull and sullen
slumbers of youth fatigued by healthy exercise,
but the prelude to the Eternal Sleep ; and his
face, softened by the approach of death and the
departure of all human sorrows, had, as it were,
already the gleams of Paradise about it, and the
lips under the long, iron-grey, soldier-like moustache
were parted as if smiling in recognition of
some angel friend — perhaps his mother, Muriel
thought — who had stooped from heaven to carry
him home, and far away from sorrow, in tender
and exulting arms. To which of these two
men now sleeping, but on whose faces slumber
sat so differently, should she tell her story
first ? To the Colonel, she decided : her first
duty was to the dying, to the outraged husband.
His time was short, and if he could get any
crumb of comfort or consolation from the knowledge

that, although the baseness of his wife
was beyond the reach of doubt, she was at least
guiltless of one unimportant note in the symphony
of guilt, that comfort and that consolation
should be his as soon as he awoke. She
would tell him first, and then tell Arthur later.

When she had come to this decision, she felt
calmer, and her thoughts returned to herself
and to a consideration of the particular nature
of what she had to do. She knew that she
was really guiltless — that she had been drawn
into this web of deceit and crime by kindness
of heart, a belief in the honour of this villain,
and a praiseworthy and natural regard for the
sanctity of her pledged word. She had gone
to this rendezvous merely to do good, and to
aid a man whom she thought noble-hearted, ina
noble work ; the secrecy had been forced upon
her, and she had done her best to escape from
the degradation it imposed upon her : this she
felt sure she could make the Colonel at least
believe. With Arthur it was a different thing ;
but as she had decided to tell the Colonel first,
his forgiveness and his sympathy, both of which
she thought she could count upon, would give
her strength to make the supreme sacrifice and

tell her husband, and, by so telling him, wreck
her life for ever in the tempest of his scorn.
Yes, she would certainly tell the Colonel first ;
and as she reiterated this resolve in her mind,
there stole therein an insidious whisper which
thrilled her heart with hope. Suppose, when
the Colonel knew all, he should tell her it was
not necessary — in that she was innocent herself
and the victim of others — to ruin her happiness
and Arthur's by telling her husband ! Suppose
the Colonel should take this view, would she not
be justified in accepting such a view, and being
guided by an opinion given by one whom she
knew to be the very embodiment of chivalrous
honour ? Yes, if he whose life had been one of
long and cheerful submission to duty, and who
was now passing away from them so fearlessly
and with a smile upon his lips, should tell her
that her duty did not compel her to ruin her
life and happiness by telling Arthur, she would
abide by his decision.

Whether or not the devil laughed when Muriel
came to this comfortable decision, we cannot
say, but it is probable that he did ; and at
all events, the immediate effect of this changed
aspect of affairs was to make her selfish, and to

awaken within her, as a silent harp suddenly
touched by passionate fingers, all the impulses
of self-preservation, all her youthful joy in life
which had lain voiceless for a time, stunned as
it were by the weight and shock of the blow
that had so suddenly come upon her. That it
was her duty to tell the Colonel, was clear ; but
was it not probable, nay almost certain, that he
would advise her not to tell Arthur ? Why,
indeed, wreck his life and hers by this confession,
which could not in any way, so far as
Madge was concerned, make matters better ?
That Madge was guilty was plain, — there could
be no possible doubt about that — that letter
which the Colonel had proved her guilt ; and,
moreover, Laurence's letter to Graham, now that
she, Muriel, could read between the lines of it,
proved her guilt still more plainly. What good
then, after all, would come of telling Arthur
about the way she, Muriel, his wife, had had her
more noble instincts imposed upon and betrayed,
and thus been led into committing the offence
of deceit which he, Arthur, said he could
never pardon ? What good could come of this
sacrifice ? None ; only harm, and the harm
thus done would have to be inflicted upon the

innocent ! If by telling Arthur, or by telling
every one in Christendom, that she had been
engaged to marry Laurence Farquhar, that she
had met him by stealth and by appointment to
give him money to save his father from ruin,
and that he had with sudden brutality caught
her in his arms and embraced her, — if by publishing
these shameful facts to the wide world
she could have lightened by one hair's weight
the burden of guilt which lay upon Madge
Anstruther, she would, she told herself, gladly
have made the sacrifice and abided by the consequences.
But the guilt of Madge was beyond
all doubt, as it was beyond all remedy. The
letter proved that, and her absence all night
from her husband's house — for it was now past
three in the morning — proved that she herself
had elected to be a castaway. Why then should
she, from some quixotic idea of duty, drag her
husband's name in the mire, and estrange forever
his heart from hers ? Did God, could God
require such a meaningless sacrifice '? Would
not the confessing of her error to this dying
man be sufficient to wash her clean from such
stains as might have come upon her by innocently
consorting with the guilty 1 Did duty

require more ? Surely it could not ; but at all
events she would abide by the decision of the
man who had been the most wronged of all — of
the man who had the most to forgive, of the man
whose sense of duty was notorious, of the man
whose judgment of things human was being
purified and illuminated by his approach to
things divine !

The clock struck four, and then went on ticking,
but to the excited imagination of Muriel it
now seemed to speak and say, " Wait, wait,
wait ! " Yes, it plainly said that — " Wait, wait,
wait ! " She would wait ; it was best that she
should wait ; she had no right to ruthlessly
rouse either of these two men to listen to a
recital of her mad folly. She would wait. Then
she looked at the Colonel again. How placid,
calm, and sweet was the worn, furrowed face of
this dying soldier ! and how it contrasted with
the stern, hard face of this sleeping youth, who
had never known a care, and who, if she spared
him, and did not destroy his happiness by
her confession, would wake refreshed and invigorated
for a renewed enjoyment of life, and
take her to his arms, and by his love enable her
to undo any harm that she might involuntarily

have been guilty of I Surely her duty lay in
remaining quiescent, — after having told the
Colonel, of course !

But then again, suppose the Colonel should
never awake, suppose he should die in his sleep,
and never be able to listen to her confession,
what should she do then 1 This was a terrible
thought, and as it crossed her mind Muriel
rose noiselessly and stole to the bedside of
the dying man. Should she wake him 1 He
was now alive, only sleeping ; there was time
yet. Should she wake him '? " Wait, wait,
wait'' advised the clock. Then Muriel thought
of her old childish terror of death, and of how
Agnes used to frighten her in the far-off 'days
in the Eue Koyale, and of all her nightmares
about brimstone lakes and endless torments.
This was the first death she had ever seen,
and it was lovely and divine, far beyond the
power of human words to describe. Should
she disturb this tranquil repose, which was
doubtless preparing and invigorating with
sweet thoughts and dreams the soul for its
approaching flight into eternity 1 — should she
disturb this melting of the night of care
into the sweet dawn of heavenly rest, by a

recital of her trivial errors 1 No : she would
obey what was being incessantly dinned into
her ears by the clock, — she would wait. But
suppose he should never wake, what then ?
Then, she decided, in that case she would be
no longer responsible. She would leave the
whole matter in God's hands. If the Colonel
awoke, she would tell him everything and
abide by his decision ; if he should not awake,
she would say nothing to her husband — she
had suffered enough already, she would not
open her lips. It was in God's hands now —
let Him in His almighty wisdom decide.

Just at this moment the Colonel woke, and
opened his gentle trustful eyes, and Muriel,
thrilled with horror, drew back appalled at
having the divine decision made so plainly
and abruptly apparent to her. But the
Colonel, although he looked at her, did not
recognise her, and wearily closed his eyes
again. Muriel, drawing close up to the bedside
and steeling her heart, whispered —

Colonel Anstruther ! dear, good, kind
friend, my father's friend ! listen to me —
listen to me ! I have something I must tell

you ! "

The Coroners lips moved, and she bowed
her head ; but his thoughts were not with
her, nor had his ears heard her voice, — he was
merely murmuring the general thanksgiving,
as one who, releasing and giving back that
which has been intrusted to him, thanks the
giver.

Almighty God," — the words came in a low
and almost inaudible whisper, interrupted every
now and then by a deep-drawn breath, — "Father
of all mercies, we. Thine unworthy servants, do
give Thee most humble and hearty thanks
for all Thy goodness and loving-kindness tous
and to all men." Here came a long pause,
as if the Colonels departing soul were wafting
to bring up to God's throne the thanks of
some heart destined to linger longer here
than his. " We bless Thee for our creation,
preservation, and all the blessings of this life,"
here the voice died away again, but rose ina
second, invigorated by the health - giving
splendour of the coming words, and a smile
came over his face as the Inkerman man at
the close of battle thanked the Commander-inches,
— 'but above all, for Thine inestimable
love in the redemption of the world by our

Lord Jesus Christ ; for the means of grace,
and for the hope of glory — the hope of glory,"
repeated the dying soldier in a whisper ; and
then after a long pause proceeded, a terrible
change coming over his face, and his words
becoming muffled and indistinct and hardly
audible: "And we beseech — beseech Thee —
to give us — a due — sense — of — of — all — Thy
mercies — that — that — our hearts — may — may
may be," and here the smile became deeper
and sweeter, and the voice, dying away in a
sigh and murmuring " unfeignedly thankful ! "
was hushed for ever. It was all over. Muriel,
who had never seen death before, saw and
recognised it now, and with a low cry sank
in a swoon upon the floor.

CHAPTEK XVI.

When Muriel recovered her senses she found
herself lying on a couch in the room adjoining
the chamber of death — the room in which Mrs
Millwood had passed the night. Arthur and
her maid were near her, the only other people
in the room : her husband bending tenderly
over her and murmuring in his well-known
and well-beloved voice, '^ Muriel ! Muriel I my
darling ! my darling ! speak to me ! speak tome
! " and every now and then kissing her on
the forehead, or lifting one of her listless hands
to his lips ; the maid kneeling by her side and
feebly endeavouring, with trembling hands and
much whimpering, to apply restoratives.

She's coming round, my lord ! she's coming
to ! See ! see ! she's opening her eyes ! Oh,
my lady ! my lady ! do speak ! "

Then Muriel wearily opened her eyes.

VOL. II.

Where am I ? " she inquired in a whisper.
But her husband's dear face, his eyes humid
with tears, his arms wound tenderly around
her, his kisses on her face and hands, and his
fervently uttered " Thank God ! " when he
saw her recovering consciousness, all plainly
told her that she was at least in a place of
safety, and she closed her eyes again. What
had happened ? Had she been ill ? AYho was
dead ? Somebody was dead — but who ? She
could not remember. It was not Arthur, at
all events. Thank God for that ! And without
opening her eyes, she put one arm tenderly
around her husband's neck and pressed his
head to her bosom.

What is it, Arthur '? " she murmured.
Have I been ill 1 "

"You fainted, my darling — that is all. It
was my fault — all my fault ! I ought never
to have let you stay by our poor friend all
night I It was my fault, my darling ! Can
you forgive me, Muriel — will you forgive
me?"

The words " our poor friend " brought it all
back to her at once — all the horror of the past
few hours : the meeting with that villain in

the Long Walk ; his contaminating embrace ;
the meeting afterwards with that terrible old
man, and the awful letter he gave her; then
the summons to the deathbed ; the dreadful
discovery of Madge's treachery ; and then,
oh then, the pitiful wan face of the dying
man in the dimly lighted room, and the little
wisp of grey hair peering from under the bloodstained
towel ; and the dreadful revelation that
came from those dying lips, words that only
she and the Angel of Death could have heard ;
and then her cowardice, and her terror, and the
long vigil, and the faces of the two sleeping
men, and what the clock seemed to advise, and
her determination to leave it all in God's hands
to decide ; and then the Colonel's waking, and
his dying words of humble gratitude and praise
as he gave back to his Father and Friend the life
that had been intrusted to him ; and then the
strange change that stole over the soldier's face,
and the awful way in which God had answered
her appeal to Him to show her what to do.

He's dead, isn't he ? " she murmured, opening
her eyes again and looking at her husband.
Lyonesse bowed assent. " What time is it ? "
continued Muriel.

^' Half-past six."

And she hasn't come home yet ? "

Arthur's face darkened. '' No."

Muriel burst into a hysterical passion of tears,
and clasping her husband around the neck with
both arms, cried out as one in pain, ^' Oh,
Arthur, take me home ! take me home ! I
can't stay in this house ! Take me home ! "
So Lord Lyonesse covered his wife with shawls
and wraps, and taking her in his arms — for she
was too weak to walk — carried her to Leavenworth.
The doctor, who had been sent for
again in hot haste, arrived just as Arthur had
carefully and tenderly deposited his precious
burden on the sofa in the library, preparatory
to carrying it up-stairs ; and so the medical
examination took place there.

There is absolutely nothing the matter with
her ladyship save nervous exhaustion — the result,
doubtless, of the sad events of this past
night. Perfect repose is all that is required
at present." Such was the wise and weighty
verdict of the local medico ; and so ere long
Muriel, to her infinite relief, found herself
alone in her bedroom, strict orders being
given that she should not on any account be

disturbed until the doctor called in two hours*
time again.

When her maid had finally retired after innumerable
returns to rectify some imaginary
negligence, and when Muriel felt sure her
movements could not be observed, she stole
from her bed, went into her boudoir, where
the tell-tale cloak which the poor dead Colonel
had recognised was lying folded on the sofa,
took it up, trembling as she did so, pausing
at every distant sound, and looking furtively
over her shoulder as if fearing to be discovered
committing an act of guilt, and putting it in
the bottom drawer of an armoire in which she
kept her private papers, her jewels, and her laces,
and which no one but herself was ever allowed to
open, she locked it safely up, taking the key back
with her to bed and putting it under her pillow.
Then the poor child gave a sigh of relief, but
as she did so there came to her heart, as the
stab of a dagger, the horrible and humiliating
consciousness that she had now wilfully taken
the first step in the path of deceit which she
must hereafter for ever tread if her meeting
that night with Laurence Farquhar was to be
kept a secret from her husband. The horror

of detection which she had felt when she
slipped from her bed, where her husband
doubtless thought she was calmly reposing, the
hideous stain which must come upon every
pure soul when soiled by stooping to subterfuge,
must now henceforth be hers for evermore,
she told herself. The fact of having kept secret
from Arthur other matters concerning Laurence
Farquhar had seemed almost as a crime to her
before, but it now sank into insignificance in
comparison with this line of deceit which she
was at present wilfully tracing out for herself.

Then she had been pledged to silence, and
she had consented not to open her lips, believing
that if she spoke she would not only injure one
who was noble and heroic, but, moreover, render
abortive and of non-effect any attempt she might
make to come to the aid of this hero in the full
accomplishment of his deeds of filial heroism.
Now she knew that all that was a dream ; that
her hero was viler than the vilest ; that he was
a liar, a thief, a debauchee, a seducer, and something
very like a murderer — a man so vile, that
to have had any secret dealings, no matter how
trivial, with him, contaminated, — that, she knew,
was the way Arthur would think : and yet here

she was, wilfully and of her own accord, bound
now by no promise, compelled by no agreement,
linking herself for ever, by the mere hiding of
that cloak, with this most base of men ; and not
only so, but moreover joining herself with him,
as it were, in something very like a conspiracy
against her husband ! Had she not better, after
all, tell everything to Arthur "? Even suppose
he could not find it in his heart to forgive her,
would not open disgrace, and the immediate
wreck of her whole life, be preferable to this
intolerable and humiliating weight of anguish
which she was now voluntarily preparing for
herself to bear ?

Here sophistry came to her aid. True, she
might have a right, nay, it might almost be her
bounden duty, to risk her happiness as an atonement
for her folly ; but had she any right to
imperil, or rather certainly destroy — for such her
fevered imagination told her would be the result
of any confession on her part — the entire happiness
and future of the innocent Arthur ? He at
least had done no harm, and yet he would bethe
first to suffer. She could in some measure
judge of the wound his pride would receive
when he should learn that his wife had been the

affianced wife of Laurence Farquhar, had listened
to words of love from him and had replied
to such words with tenderness, had met him by
stealth, had given him money, had been embraced
by him, and that all this had been kept
from him, the loving and trusting husband, the
good friend and old schoolfellow of this man
whose conduct had proved him to be the basest
of mankind, — she could, we say, imagine in
some degree the fatal shock such revelations
would be sure to inflict upon her husband's pride,
when she remembered the terrible wound given
to her own when she first became acquainted
with the villainy of this man whose kisses she
had received upon her lips, whose words of love
she had listened to and believed in, whose villainy,
so far as the deceit went, she had partly
shared ! Arthur would never forgive her, — of
that she was certain. And had not Providence,
by the sudden death of the Colonel, pointed out
to her that she might remain silent ? That if
the Colonel had only lived to hear her, she surely
would have told him all, and abided by his decision
as to the necessity of telling Arthur, she
felt assured. But death had come and made
even such partial self-sacrifice and atonement

impossible. What was she to do 1 Then all
the old arguments formerly used came back to
her mind, gaining fresh force and power by the
mere fact of their recurrence — the humiliation
that her name should be coupled with that of
such a man, and coupled in such a way ; her
knowledge that her silence could now do no possible
harm to Madge, whose guilt was beyond
all question ; her certainty that by speaking
she would not only be wrecking her own happiness
but that of Arthur ; — all this came back
to her again and nearly drove her mad; and
the final conclusion she arrived at was the
same as before, — she would wait. But then
the thought suddenly came to her mind. Could
she wait ? Did nobody else know ? Did Mrs
Millwood or any of the servants suspect the truth
about the wearer of that tell-tale cloak ? If she
did not tell all to her husband herself, was it in
the power of anybody else to tell him ?

These speculations as to what danger she
might run by keeping silent, withdrew her mind
from the consideration of the real point at issue,
namely, whether it was her duty, as a wife and
as a woman of honour, to speak or hold her
tongue ; and as she gradually lost sight of this,

the only really important question, it, wholly
without her knowledge, assumed the attitude of
an established fact that she should not speak
a presumption adopted in the first instance
merely as a basis for speculation as to possible
danger, but by imperceptible degrees being received
as an established factor in all speculations
connected with the events of the past
night. If she did speak, of course nothing
could await her but ruin. Let her consider what
might happen if she held her peace. The only
persons who knew anything about the meeting
of that cloaked lady with Laurence Farquhar
in the Long Walk were, first of all, the two
guilty parties themselves, and then the Colonel
and Mrs Millwood ; for the fact of the footman
at Courthope having seen her put on the cloak,
and her own maid having seen her return
with it on, was of course of not the slightest
importance so long as the guilty meeting was
ignored by all save the two principal actors and
the two witnesses ; and she, moreover, remembered
that a plausible story of Sir James having
been attacked by a tramp had been told to all
the domestics. So in that quarter there could
be no danger, — no immediate danger, at least.

Should she decide to say nothing, she would
probably find it advisable to destroy the cloak
in time, or at all events keep it hidden ; but
the fact of its being in her possession, and having
been worn by her on that evening, would
only be significant and damning in the eyes of
those who could connect the wearer of that
cloak with the meeting in the wood ; and there
were only three such persons living — herself,
Farquhar, and Mrs Millwood. On the silence
of Farquhar she felt sure she could count as certainly
as on that of the dead man ; but Mrs
Millwood, how much did she know ? Surely nothing
! Of Madge's guilt Mrs Millwood was, of
course, fully cognisant, for she had herself purloined
the damning letter, and, in fact, brought
about the catastrophe ; but then, again, she had
seen the meeting in the wood ! Had her eyes,
keener than those of the poor Colonel, perchance
recognised the wearer of the cloak ? Probably
not, or else she would have spoken, and she had
evidently said nothing ; for Sir James had died
fully convinced that it was his wife he had seen
Farquhar take in his arms in the Long Walk.
She, Muriel, had been closely veiled, so closely
veiled that even Arthur could not have recognised

her. Was it therefore likely, or even
possible, that this woman should have recognised
her ? Surely not. She would, however,
sound her without delay ; and if she found any,
even the most remote, reason to think that Mrs
Millwood suspected the truth, she, Muriel, would
tell all to her husband at once ; for the idea of
being in the power of that ^voman could not,
of course, be tolerated for a moment. So, asa
matter of fact, it resolved itself to this, that
if Mrs Millwood knew nothing and suspected
nothing, she, Muriel, would wait ; but if Mrs
Millwood had the faintest suspicion of the truth,
Arthur should know all without the delay of a
minute.

All these terrible speculations acted so on the
already overstrung nerves of Lady Lyonesse that
when the doctor called again he found her ladyship
seriously ill — so ill, indeed, that a leading
physician in London was telegraphed for, brain
fever being feared. For two weeks Muriel lay
in great danger, never delirious, indeed for the
greater part of the time speechless, but with
vitality sunk to so low an ebb that, according to
the London man, nothing but her extreme youth
and his great skill brought her safely through

the danger. During all this time she was hardly
ever wholly unconscious ; in fact, the absence of
sleep was one of the greatest enemies the learned
man from London had to combat ; and never
for one moment during all those terrible hours
that formed that hideous fortnight did the question
stop pulsating in her fevered brain — " Does
Mrs Millwood suspect ? Can Mrs Millwood suspect
1 " It was no longer — *^ Shall I tell ? Shall
I not tell 1 " That was a thing of the past.
God, by His Angel of Death, had answered
that ; and by this same angel He might, in His
almighty wisdom, be about to close her lips forever
; for Muriel heard all the doctor said, knew
her danger thoroughly, and had finally decided
that if she were to die she would carry her secret
with her to the tomb, and not sully her husband's
memory of his dead wife with even the
holy tears of forgiveness. But if she should
recover and live, then she would see what chance
of happiness there might be in store for her —
that chance being altogether dependent on the
answer to that one question, '' Does Mrs Mill-wood
suspect ? Can Mrs Millwood at anytime
suspect ? " During the acute period of her
illness this one conjecture and speculation never

left the mind of Lady Lyonesse ; but when the
crisis was over, the terrible insomnia overcome,
and her youth, in one long refreshing slumber,
began to trim its gentle lamp again, her first
thought on awaking from this sleep was a
strange wild yearning for the presence and love
of her husband.

Arthur ! " she whispered, speaking for the
first time in five days — " Arthur ! "

Hush, my lady, hush ! " murmured a soft,
soothing voice, and, opening her weary eyes,
Lady Lyonesse beheld Mrs Millwood bending
over her. Muriel shuddered, and turned her
face on the pillow.

Why are you here ^ '' she asked, her voice
so low and weak as to be scarcely audible.

I have been nursing your ladyship."

All the time 1 ''

All the time, my lady. Your ladyship has
been very ill, but the danger is all past now.
His lordship will be here in a minute. You
mustn't speak, my lady. The doctor said you
mustn't speak a word."

So this woman had been by her all the time.
Strange that she had never recognised her voice
through all those dreadful hours when that

question, which this woman could alone for ever
put at rest, had been torturing her ! She had
been with her all the time 1 Surely such devotion
was more than kindness. She must have
been deceived by the forbidding exterior of the
woman, and she must be good, after all ! So
much the better. Then another thought struck
her, and she groaned.

"What is it, my lady?" inquired Mrs Mill-wood
anxiously. ^' Is your ladyship in pain ? "

No," whispered Muriel. Then gently, feebly,
and with great difficulty, she stole her wasted
little hand under the pillow. Yes, the key was
there. Thank God for that ! The key was
there. The great joy which the assurance of
this fact brought to her acted as a reviving cordial,
and she opened her eyes again. " Where
is my husband ? "

Hush, my lady ! His lordship will be herein
a minute. He sat up all night, and it was
only when your ladyship had been asleep for
three hours, and when the doctor told him all
danger for the moment was past, that his
lordship consented to take a few minutes' rest.
He is lying down."

Don't disturb him," murmured Muriel ; "I

shall get well now. Don't disturb him." Then,
after a pause, *' Thank you, Mrs Millwood, for
your goodness to me. God bless you ! "

Hush, my lady, hush ! "

Three days later, when she was well enough
to hear the news, Muriel met with the first great
joy of her life — a joy so intense and overpowering
as to carry, as a torrent, all before it.
She was told that ere very many months were
over she might hope to become a mother ! All
her fears, and doubts, and hesitations melted
away and vanished as if by magic when this
happy possibility was announced to her. If
she had at first doubted whether it could be
her duty to take a step that would ruin the
happiness of her husband, she could at least
not doubt now that it could be no part of
her duty to bring shame and sorrow upon her
unborn child. No, she had already paid dear
enough, suffered enough for her folly ; and if
future punishments were awaiting her, she would
bow her head to the chastening rod, but she
would at least bear that punishment alone :
as she alone had been the sinner, so would
she not willingly allow the innocent to share
the suffering which such sinning might entail.

The probability of ber becoming a mother
changed so thoroughly in Muriel's mind the
whole aspect of affairs, that far from hesitating
whether she should not make a full confession
to her husband, she now found herself fervently
thanking God that in a moment of quixotic
enthusiasm she had not been led into taking
a step which could only have benefited her, the
culprit, alone by easing her conscience, while
it would surely have brought irreparable suffering
on the innocent — on those she held most
dear !

As for Mrs Millwood, she evidently knew
nothing, or she would certainly not have been
so devoted during that tedious and dangerous
illness, sitting up with her night after night — as
Muriel learnt from her husband the woman had
been doing, — and by her untiring attention and
delicate nursing, proving a far more valuable ally
to the doctor than poor, old, infirm, half-blind
Agnes ever could have been.

Had this clergyman's widow, whose rigid and
severe and unforgiving view of even trifling
weaknesses Muriel knew and despised, suspected
that the poor, frail, dying girl, who was, as it
were, only rescued from the grave by the first

VOL. II. p

awakening of maternity within her, was the
woman who had been clasped in Farquhar's
arms that night, she would very surely never
have consented to watch one moment by the
bedside of one so guilty. When she grew
stronger, she would finally satisfy herself, Muriel
thought, once and for ever on this all-important
point, by discussing the events of that terrible
evening with Mrs Millwood ; but for the time
being what she already knew and learnt and
saw, proved to her that her guilty secret was
unsuspected by the widow. Another reflection
indeed strengthened this conviction in her mind,
Mrs Millwood knew before his death that the
Colonel had decided to leave his infant daughter
to the care of Lady Lyonesse. Had she even
suspected anything, would not this rigid Puritan
have thought it her duty to warn the dying
man of the terrible peril he was exposing his
only child's eternal salvation to by intrusting
her moral training to such unworthy and impure
hands '? No ; Muriel told herself every day
during the first part of her convalescence, and
every hour of every day, it was impossible that
Mrs Millwood could know or suspect anything.
The guilt of Madge was so flagrant and glaring,

and had brought about such overwhelming ruin,
that the trivial and petty delinquencies of her
friend Muriel had evidently escaped unnoticed.
So day by day as Lady Lyonesse gained in
strength and health, she came to take a more
cheerful view of her own cowardice, and to find
it easier to banish remorse for the deceit she
was practising on her husband by invoking
dreams of the love she would lavish on the
child she was about to bear him. Providence
had very plainly, on two occasions, pointed out
to her that the sacrifice of a confession of her
folly was not required : first, by the death of the
Colonel before she could speak, and now by the
approaching birth of her child. It would, she
told herself, be criminal madness on her part
to ignore the full meaning of these two direct
intimations of the divine will. She would carry
her secret with her to the grave.

Such was the result of the morbid reasoning,
entangled in the most trivial sophistry, which
the fevered brain of this mere child — who dared
not seek advice on the subject from any one, and
who only had herself to rely on — finally produced,
— a curious patchwork of base cowardice
and selfishness, woven in a spirit of self-sacrifice

and a noble desire that others should not suffer
for her folly ; and so, like Lancelot —

Her honour rooted in dishonour stood,
And faith unfaithful made her falsely true."

Had she but half suspected the real facts of
the case, Muriel would have come to a very
different decision, and have spared herself and
others much unnecessary anguish ; for Mrs Mill-wood
knew all, and the impure imagination of
the woman, stimulated by her dislike for Lady
Lyonesse, led her to maliciously extend the limits
of the possible to a terrible conclusion, which, in
an unblessed mind, could not have been arrived
at with any due regard for the pi^ohahle. It
had from the very first struck the widow as
more than odd that Madge should have lingered
about in the neighbourhood of Courthope to
meet her lover — for she had learnt from the servants
that Lady Anstruther had left early that
fatal morning for London, ostensibly to meet Sir
James ; and then, in the second place, extraordinary
that the guilty pair should have parted,
Madge flying as she had done from the embrace
of her lover, and yet not returning home to brazen
the matter out as she might have hoped to have
done, not knowing that the meeting in the wood

had been witnessed by her outraged husband
and herself. But strange, and more than strange,
as all this seemed to Mrs Millwood, she could
not doubt the evidence of her own eyesight.
She had not only read over many times the
terrible letter which she had stolen, and which
(having taken it from under the Colonel's pillow
directly after his death) she now carefully treasured,
but, moreover, she had plainly recognised
Lady Anstruther in Farquhar's arms in the Long
Walk by her cloak, which tell-tale garment, to
make assurance doubly sure, Mrs Millwood had
carefully searched for on her return with the
wounded Colonel to Courthope, and had, of course,
failed to find. The evidence being so overwhelmingly
strong, the woman was driven to
seek in malicious speculations some explanation
for what seemed to be at first sight almost incomprehensible,
and she had thus arrived at the
conclusion that Lady Anstruther had probably
lingered about in the neighbourhood of her home
under the shelter of her friend Muriel — for that
Lady Lyonesse, with all her apparent innocence,
was a party to the intrigue, and had aided and
abetted her friend in her guilt, Mrs Millwood
never for a moment doubted — very possibly, to

obtain the money necessary for flight, or, having
missed the Colonel in London, perchance in
the vain hope that, backed up by Lady Lyonesse,
she might persuade her husband to forgive her.
It was not impossible that it was with the
intention of thus returning home and playing
upon the feelings of her doting and guileless
husband (for how could she be sure that he
had already the terrible letter in his possession ?
and still less, how could she suspect that her
guilty rendezvous in the wood had been witnessed
V) — it was, so Mrs Millwood told herself,
not unlikely that it was with the intention of
returning home and playing this desperate game
that Madge had parted from her lover in the
wood. Then had come at once the meeting
between the two men, the blow, the scream, and
the flight of Laurence. The whole thing had
not taken more than five minutes, and Farquhar
would have had ample time to overtake his
paramour and warn her that it was too late to
return. That was probably what had taken
place : that, at all events, was the only way
Mrs Millwood could explain the matter ; but
even this explanation was so unsatisfactory,
that she kept her eyes open and let no noticeable

fact, no matter how trivial, escape her
vigilance.

Thus it was that on the second night of the
serious illness of Lady Lyonesse, which followed
the flight of Madge and the death of the Colonel,
Mrs Millwood, who watched by the bedside of
the dying woman as a spy, not as a friend, had,
on smoothing the pillow while Lady Lyonesse
lay stupefied from the effect of a strong dose of
morphia, noticed the key. That this key, so
carefully hidden, played some important part in
the mystery she had determined to unravel, Mrs
Millwood suspected at once ; but for a long time
so troubled and light were the brief moments
of semi-unconsciousness which even the strongest
narcotics produced on Muriel, that Mrs Mill-wood
for many days and many nights had to
postpone possessing herself of this clue and following
it up. The hours, however, thus passed
in waiting were not lost, and a careful inspection
of the apartment very soon showed the
widow that, as only one piece of furniture was
locked, the armoire, it was more than probable
the key, so carefully hidden away under the
pillow of the dying woman, was the one belonging
to that piece of furniture. Of this indeed

there could be but little doubt ; so the night on
which convalescence, in the shape of a deep
slumber, had set in, Mrs Millwood, unable to
resist the promptings of her curiosity any longer,
had risked all — had stealthily removed the key
from its hiding-place, had opened the armoire,
and had found the cloak ! This wholly unexpected
sight (for she had only hoped to find
letters) so nearly overcame the worthy lady,
that in her astonishment she would most surely,
by the gasp and heavy groan in which she gave
utterance to her emotion, have betrayed her
treachery had not the chains of that first deep
sleep held Muriel tightly bound. As it was, Mrs
Millwood by a miracle escaped, and so, after
having carefully examined the cloak, she put
it back in the drawer, locked it up as before,
restored the key to its hiding-place under the
pillow of the sleeping woman, and then sat down
to think the matter out.

It was worse, then, far worse than she had
thought, and her first suspicions that Farquhar
was the lover of Lady Lyonesse were, after all,
well founded. A malignant satisfaction warmed
the woman's heart when she thought of this :
she had not been deceived, then, after all ! But

things were worse, far worse than she could
have imagined possible : what decent-minded
woman could indeed ever have divined such
depths of baseness ! Surely no Englishwoman.
Such depravity could only be conceived by those
abandoned people whose immoral teachings and
dissolute examples had brought about this
masterpiece of sin — the French ! Here were
two young women, both friends, almost sisters
in fact, both happily married to two most noble-hearted
men, and yet both deliberately carrying
on an adulterous intrigue with the same man,
and at the same time, and at their own firesides.
The one, the least guilty, Mrs Millwood told herself,
flying from her home at last with her paramour,
whose hands were still wet with the blood
of her murdered husband, on the very same
night that her friend had been enfolded in this
same paramour's embrace ; the other, the most
vile, the most abandoned of the two women,
electing to remain with the husband she had
outraged, either because she had not found flight
possible, or because she was loath to give up all
the advantages of her rank and wealth, and to
accept her righteous punishment by openly proclaiming
herself an outcast ! Could any vileness

ever perpetrated in the most noisome slums of
London equal this in blackness ? The guilt of
the two women was beyond the reach of doubt :
she had read a criminal letter addressed by
Farquhar to one of them. Nay, she possessed
it, and had it at that very moment in her
pocket ; while the other she had with her own
eyes seen meet this same Farquhar, and submit
to his passionate embrace ! Both these women
were base, base beyond any dream of baseness,
but the sin of the one, Muriel, was far more
black than that of her sister in guilt, — for this
last had at least now entered into her well-merited
punishment. Whereas the other, the
most guilty — this fair, dainty, future duchess —
was not only to escape scot-free, but be crowned
with all life's most precious blessings.

This woman baser than the other ? Why, the
other was almost pure in comparison ! She had
thrown all hope of happiness or respectability to
the winds ; she had had the courage to fly from
the home she had wrecked ; she at least had
had the decency to refrain from further polluting
her innocent child, poor little Laura, with her
presence : but this woman, this fair-faced, childlike
young marchioness, had had the audacity

to kneel by the deathbed of the man her paramour
had murdered, had accepted from him the
sacred trust of bringing up the child of the
woman whose dishonour she had shared (for the
Colonel had whispered this to Mrs Millwood,
had told her all he had asked Muriel, and all
Muriel had promised when the doctor left him,
and before Lord Lioness and his wife had been
summoned back to the death chamber), had
gone through the farce of simulating despair,
when doubtless her anguish was merely caused
by the humiliating discovery that in the intrigue
that had been carried on her half-sister
had been preferred to her, and now
finally was not only not to be punished, but
was to continue to enjoy her happiness and
splendour, the one to be enhanced by the approaching
birth of her own child, and the
guardianship of little Laura, and the other to
find its ultimate expression when the adored
wife should assume the strawberry-leaves of a
duchess I As this thought came into the mind
of Mrs Millwood, her face paled with anger,
she clenched her hands until the nails entered
the flesh, and rising quietly, she stole up to
the bed and looked down upon the sleeping

woman. If thoughts of hatred could kill,
poor Muriel would never have left that couch
alive. No ! Mrs Millwood swore to herself,
as there was a God in heaven, this injustice
should not be ! She would make it the business
of her life to expose this infamy, and to bring a
well-merited punishment on to the head of the
most guilty. That she should eventually succeed
in what henceforth must be the great aim
of her life, the punishment of this great sinner,
she had but little doubt ; but she told herself
that the task would not be an easy one, and that
it might be years before she could unsheathe the
avenging sword. It was, of course, in her
power to at once steal this cloak, show it to
Lord Lyonesse, and denounce his wife's guilt ;
but then that would merely result, not in any
disgrace to Lady Lyonesse, but in her, the informant's,
expulsion from the house where it
was necessary for her to live, not only to weave
her web more tightly and fatally around her
victim, but also to protect Laura from the
contaminating influence of this woman. The
reason of this was obvious : Lord Lyonesse
had heard nothing about any cloak, could not
in any way connect this garment belonging

to Lady Anstruther with the terrible events
of that night, and of course Muriel herself
would deny all. No ; Mrs Millwood recognised
that she had no proof, nothing even approaching
proof, to lay before the outraged husband.
Only two persons now living could be
of service to her in bringing about the punishment
she should dedicate her life to bring about,
and these two people were Laurence Farquhar and
the unhappy Madge ! She must find out these
two people, but until she should have found them
out she must be content to wait and bide her
time ; nay, not only wait, but use every endeavour
to make herself agreeable and indispensable
to the woman whose destruction was now
to be the one sole aim and object of her existence,
so that she might all the more surely encompass
that destruction.

Having come to this conclusion, the worthy
widow knelt down by the bedside of her sleeping
victim and prayed earnestly for strength ;
that the God of all justice might arm her with
patience, and bestow upon her the power of dissembling
her feelings, that she might not betray
herself during the long weary months, and
even years, she might have to wait before she

could cry '' havock 1 and let loose the dogs of war."
And in her appeal to God this woman was fervent
: she believed (how could she fail to believe
?) in the guilt of the woman by whose
bedside she was kneeling ; and if this woman had
been as guilty as Mrs Millwood thought, and if
with this guilt upon her soul she had accepted
the sacred trust confided to her by the dying
Colonel, she would surely have been deserving
of the most severe punishment ever awarded to
heartless wantonness, deception, selfishness, and
crime. But fervent as her prayer was, into it
this woman poured all the gall of her nature ;
and it was not the sweet incense wafted from the
censer swung in adoration, filled with the frankincense
of love, pity, and compassion — the myrrh
of peaceful and grateful trust in the Almighty
wisdom — but the noisome steam rising from
the witch's caldron, studied with the garbage
of envy, hatred, malice, and all uncharitableness,
that sought to find its way heavenward as Mrs
Millwood knelt by the bedside of the young
marchioness, whom she dared not murder, but
whose living death she had, God willing, determined
to encompass.

The one, the guilty one, and the foul, Muriel,

possessed in lavish abundance all that she, the
guiltless and the pure, Lydia Millwood, had
longed and prayed for so in vain ! Beauty,
love, rank, power, health, wealth; and now she
was to be crowned with that most glorious
crown of all joy, sanctified by the Holy Mystery
that brings woman in the flesh nearer to God
than man can ever hope to be, in that the
humble handmaiden is consecrated by a feeble
imitation of the Creative Power of the Almighty
she was about to become a mother ! How
often in her joyless youth, her ugliness, her
poverty, her weakness, she, Mrs Millwood, the
deserving, had prayed that this supreme token
of God's love might visit her — but in vain ;
and now this vilest of vile women was to be
so sanctified 1 Even death had shrunk back
dismayed when the glory of maternity had
touched his intended victim, and the doctor had
only a few hours before assured them that this
woman was to live. But even should she die
she would be more than lucky, for she would die
surrounded by love and honour, and, above all
things, escape the just reward of her iniquities !
But she must not die : Mrs Millwood prayed
that her victim, who lay there calmly sleeping

before her as a child, might not die. She, the
avenger, would school herself to be patient
and wait — nay, she would endeavour to be
even kind : so that it might eventually be
granted her to be able to stab her victim to the
heart, she could almost, perhaps, find it possible
to spend years in preparing the way for the
knife with caresses and tender attentions. But
if it should be so, if this long waiting and
patience and loving-kindness should be required
of her, God grant that her vengeance at the last
might be terrible and complete !

It was at this juncture that Muriel awoke —
awoke, as we have seen, and called on God to
bless Mrs Millwood for her kindness !

CHAPTER XVII.

As soon as she had sufficiently recovered her
strength for the doctor to allow her to indulge
in conversation for any length of time, Lady
Lyonesse spoke to Mrs Millwood of the subject
nearest her heart — of Madge, and of the events
of that terrible night ; and this she did, chiefly
because she remembered the sacred promise she
had given the dying Colonel to seek, find, and
reclaim his lost wife, but also partly because,
although shrinking from the subject, she hoped
that by discussing the catastrophe with the only
one person whose possibly too accurate knowledge
of the true facts of the case would be fatal
to her happiness, she might discover whether or
not the woman suspected anything.

Mrs Millwood/' she began hesitatingly, one
afternoon when the doctor had allowed her for
the first time to be moved from her bed to the
sofa.

VOL. II. Q

Yes, my lady."

Are we quite alone 1 "

*eyes, my lady."

Come closer to me, Mrs Millwood. Sit down
there by me. Give me your hand. I want to
speak to you about something very serious — very,
very serious." Here Muriel hid her face in one
hand. Now had come the terrible moment —
now, if this woman suspected anything, she
would know the worst at once. Muriel dared
not look at her ; she dared not read her death-warrant
in the vulgar, hard face of this woman.
But Mrs Millwood said nothing, and Muriel, too
great a coward to look the executioner in the
face, had still enough courage left — the courage
of despair — to be able to motion the impending
axe to descend upon her neck, and continued,
the words coming slowly and in a husky under-breath
: "I want to speak to you about that
dreadful night."

Then Muriel fully expected that the woman
would withdraw her hand, which she, Muriel,
held tightly clasped. But no : she felt Mrs
Millwood's cold hard hand give a nervous
twitch, but that was all ; it still remained clasped
in hers. Little did poor Muriel imagine the

terrible tempest of passionate fear which these
simple words of hers had awakened in the heart
of the woman whose hand she clung to as a
drowning man clings to a spar in lonely mid-ocean
!

'* Is she going to take the dagger from my
hand and stab herself ? " thought Mrs Millwood.
Have I been deceived in her, and is she really
repentant, and is she by voluntary confession to
cleverly play the last trump - card that might
possibly after all win her the game 1 " The very
thought of such a possible shattering of all her
dreams of righteous vengeance made Mrs Mill-wood
positively turn faint with dread.

*' Yes, my lady."

Then came a pause — a terrible silence. The
anxiety of both women was intense and dreadful,
but proceeding of course from very different
causes. Then Muriel mustered up her courage
again, as the cold hand still remained within her
tiny grasp, and said in a whisper —

I promised Sir James to try and find his
wife."

*' Why, my lady ? What can one so pure and
good as your ladyship have to do with such a
woman as Lady Anstruther must have become ?"

This was said tentatively, but the truth was
that the widow could bear the suspense no
longer. If Lady Lyonesse was thinking of
confessing her guilt, these words would wring
from her her confession, at once putting as they
did the worthiness of the one and the unworthiness
of the other in such brutal contrast. And
if she should confess, Mrs Millwood had already
made up her mind what to do. Lady Lyonesse
could only be about to confess to her in order to
seek advice, or because she suspected her guilty
secret was known ; and in that case she would
of course pretend horror and surprise at the confession,
but most strongly advise her, for the
sake of her unborn child, to say nothing to anybody.
She could not let Lady Lyonesse speak ;
Madge and Laurence must be seen first, damning
evidence must be collected, and then she,
the avenger, must hurl the thunderbolt. She,
and she alone, must be the one to tell Lord
Lyonesse that his wife was the most abandoned
of women, and before she could tell him this she
must have it in her power to osier proofs of the
hideous facts she advanced.

But these words had, in one way, a directly
opposite effect upon Muriel to the one Mrs

Millwood had expected. They closed her lips,
it is true, but they closed them with joy, not
terror. They proved to Muriel that this
woman knew nothing, suspected nothing. Of
course not ! How could she have been
recognised that night, so closely muffled and
hidden as she was ? She was mad ever to
have feared such an impossibility, — it was a
nightmare born of approaching fever, bred of
over - excitement. Greatly emboldened and
cheered by this reflection, Muriel ventured to
remove her hand from her face and look up,
but Mrs Millwood had averted her face. The
horror of the impending sword had left the
marchioness, but was still hanging over the
widow.

She was my sister and I loved her, Mrs
Millwood, and I love her still. I can't help
it. Because she has gone astray and been
deceived, is no reason why I, who am happy,
far more happy than I deserve, should turn
against her. When can she need me more
than when she is in trouble '? If women do
not defend one another in such dreadful
trials, who will ? and who has Madge but
me ? No matter how low she may have

fallen, she cannot hurt me, Mrs Millwood ;
remember I have Arthur, and her child, and
and — and — my child'' faltered Muriel, ''to
protect me I "

Here Mrs Millwood did at length withdraw
her hand, and covering her face, ejaculated a
fervent and heartfelt 'thank God!" This
woman, this mere child, was even baser than
she had thought I Confess ? She would not
confess until her guilt was blazoned and
proved to the world, and even then, even in
the gutter, she would lie. Thank God for
that! "Vengeance is mine!" saith the Lord,
and Mrs Millwood herself, husband, and family,
had for many years been amply paid to believe
themselves for ever on the side of the
Almighty.

But," continued Muriel, greatly affected,
and laying a little caressing hand on the
woman's arm, "you mustn't thank God for
that. You are so good yourself that you
think every one's motives are good. It is not
from any Christian or religious feeling, as you
think, that I say what I do. It is merely
because I have loved her for so long that I
can't stop loving her now when she needs my

love SO much, although I know how terribly
wicked she has been ! " Here she burst into
tears, and sobbed out, " Oh, Mrs Millwood,
how could she have left the dear, dear
Colonel, and poor, little, helpless Laura, her
own child ? "

Here the widow looked at her, but Muriel's
tears kept her from recognising all the disgust
and hatred that that look betrayed. It
suddenly occurred to Mrs Millwood that she
would endeavour to gauge how deeply and
basely a hypocrite this woman was, — so she
said, mastering her emotion with great
difficulty —

I said ' thank God ! ' my lady, because 1
thought how safe little Laura is from all
harm and evil influences in your care — and
mine ! ^'

"Yes," sobbed Muriel; "the Colonel begged
me, made me promise to seek out Madge, but
made me solemnly promise never, never, never
to let her meet or see her child ! We will
bring her up together, little Laura, won't we,
Mrs Millwood, you and I, to be a pure, noble,
good woman, and then, when she is old enough
to understand, when she is married herself, we

will tell her, and she will forgive her mother
as her father forgave her? She shall be as
my own child, — I will watch over her with
you night and day, won't we, Mrs Millwood?
And she shall never know the temptations
which have wrecked her poor mother's life ! "

If any sealing was needed to the death-warrant
of Muriel's happiness registered in
Mrs Millwood's heart, these words more than
supplied the deficiency. Overpowering disgust
and contempt, amounting almost to horror,
kept Mrs Millwood spell-bound. How dared
this abandoned wretch use such words, snatched
as she had been from the very jaws of death,
and with that tell-tale damning proof of guilt,
the cloak, lying almost before her very eyes ?
But here Muriel, who had exhausted her sobs
in speaking, put out another little caressing
hand and laid it on the arm of the avenger.

But as I promised to take care of the
child, so did I promise to seek for the
mother, and we have not a moment to lose.
I cannot go yet, for I am too weak, but I
am strong enough now to do without your
aid for a time, dear Mrs Millwood; poor old
Agnes can take care of me for a time. Do

you go, Mrs Millwood, do you go after Madge!
I can't tell you where to go, for poor Madge
had no friends or relations ; but you know
London well, and they must have gone to
London, don't you think so 1 They must
have gone to London, and," here her voice
sank for a moment, but she recovered herself
at once, " and I can tell you where he — he —
Mr Farquhar — lived, and he must know where
poor Madgy is ! "

The indignation of the widow almost overpowered
her, but she restrained herself; then
the thought flashed across her mind that here
was this abandoned wretch actually begging .her
to do what she wished most earnestly to do —
find out the only two persons who could aid
her in her mission of righteous vengeance ; here
was the victim actually sharpening and handing
over to her the sacrificial knife !

'* Your ladyship knows all Mr Farquhar 's
haunts, I suppose. He was a great friend of
yours, my lady, I believe ! ''

This was said in so harsh a tone that Muriel,
half frightened, answered with feverish vehemence
— " No ! That is, I thought him so once — I
never suspected his baseness ! Believe me, Mrs

Millwood, I never thought him such a villain ! I
thought him very, very noble once, and the discovery
of how bad he really is has not been the
lightest part to bear of all this terrible trouble I "
Here Mrs Millwood could contain herself no
longer, but rose and walked to the fire. " I
hate him now," continued Muriel

"Had your ladyship any reason to suspect
this ? " inquired the widow, looking into the
jure.

"I thought at first in Paris that Madge loved
him, and I told her so — told her in a girlish
silly way, as between sisters, you know, but
she denied it ; I never suspected that he loved
her, never for a moment. It came on me as a
thunderbolt. I had every reason to believe
that he loved some one else." Here she paused,
half afraid lest she might have said too much
to this stern woman, whose very back, turned
to her as it was, seemed to frown. " But I
knew him very well," she continued, after
a slight pause, '*I can give you his address
in London. Go there, dear Mrs Millwood, find
out all about him. Madgy must be with him,
or if not with him, as I hope to God she is
not, he must know where she can be found.

Let me know where she is, and when I am well
enough to stir, I will go to her, no matter
where she is — no matter if she is with him !
Do it all quietly ; let nobody, neither Madgy
nor Laurence — Mr Farquhar — know anything
that is, that you come from me, or they will fly,
they will run away in shame — I know they will,
and then we shall lose them for ever. Let
me know where she is, and I will go to her
if I have to drag myself from my dying bed.
I will go to poor Madgy ! I cannot bring her
here ; I can't ask you to bring her here because
of her child, but I will go to her if it costs
me my life ! "

This was quite the last drop in the already
overrunning cup of Mrs Millwood's disgust
and indignation. Here was this jealous and
abandoned wench actually asking her to bring
her back her paramour, for the request could
of course mean nothing else. She turned and
faced Lady Lyonesse and said, in a cold contemptuous
tone, for great passion always cooled
into toad-like venom in this unhealthy and
morbid nature —

I can't go, my lady''

*' Why ? " exclaimed Muriel, endeavouring,

but in vain, to raise her head from the pillow in
her astonishment.

I don't like the mission, my lady."

'' Why ? "

I have moved among fallen women all
my life, — it has been my blessed privilege so
to do, — among the most fallen and the most
degraded, and have, through God's grace, been
enabled, aided by the sainted mother of the
blessed Colonel, to reclaim and bring back to
a better life some of the most degraded. But,"
here Mrs Millwood stopped ; she felt full to
overflowing of a disgust and indignation which
must find vent, but it suddenly struck her
torpid senses that she might now, if she did
not restrain for the time being her feelings,
lose the very clue which she was seeking — the
means of discovering the whereabouts of Lady
Anstruther and Farquhar.

Well 1 " said Muriel, as the woman paused.

I have never met any so shameless, degraded,
and vile as Lady Anstruther — save one ! " She
could not help this explosion — for the very life of
her she could not help it I But hardly had the
words left her lips than she regretted having
uttered them, and she quickly added — "Then,

again, Lady Anstruther does not like me ; she
knows I have been the means of bringing her
guilt to light. She would not listen to me''

I don't ask you to see her' cried Muriel.
In fact, I beg of you not to. Only let me
know where she is ! She must be with him ;
you know yourself she must be with him. Let
me know where they are, and I will come upon
them unawares ! No matter how ill I am, I
will drag myself to them the moment I know
where they are. I can do what I like with
him. I do not fear him. I can bring back
Madge, I know I can ! " Then she sank back
exhausted on the pillow, so faint that she was
hardly conscious of the long pause that elapsed
before the next words came from the lips of
Mrs Millwood, who had now left the fireplace,
and was bending eagerly over the sofa where
Muriel lay.

'^ If I do this thing, my lady, if I consent to
undertake this mission, from which my very
soul revolts, will your ladyship promise me one
thing ? "

*' What ? " murmured Lady Lyonesse.

^' The child Laura was left to you and to me.
You will have your own child soon. Will your

ladyship]) leave little Laura almost entirely to
rae?"

The mention of her own child thrilled Muriel
with joy.

I want to bring them both up together,"
she murmured.

As children, mere babies, yes, perhaps ; but
Laura is older than your child will be, and your
child will be born to higher rank and fortune !
Your child will be born in honour, whereas her
child's cradle is shrouded in dishonour ! Will
you promise me, my lady, that when little
Laura shall have ceased to be a child you will
resign her solely to my care ? Your splendour
can only unfit her for her station."

I don't see that," murmured poor Muriel,
who had, indeed, so far seen but little splendour.

But I do," continued Mrs Millwood, in
harsh, cruel tones. " If Lady Anstruther had
not been taken from the humble station in
which she was born, she would never have
risen so high to fall so low. She would at
least never have had it in her power to bring
to disgrace and death a man like Sir James
Anstruther."

Where could this woman have learnt these

facts ? wondered Muriel, vaguely; but that they
were facts, and that there was much truth in
what Mrs Millwood said, Muriel could not deny ;
for if her father had not taken the groom's
daughter to his house, and brought her up as
his own child, certainly Colonel Anstruther
never would have married her, this disgrace
would never have come upon his name, and
he himself might now have been alive.

I cannot promise you quite all you ask
me, Mrs Millwood," said Muriel, after a pause ;
'for if before her marriage I should resign
Laura solely to your care, I should not be
keeping my promise to her father ; but I will
promise to be guided in all things concerning
Laura, and at all times, by your views.
Sir James and his mother thought so much of
you, that you must be good ! " Here Muriel
almost waxed affectionate, for her delight at the
discovery that she was not in any way in the
woman's power, for the moment almost made
her love her. " You have been so good to me,
too," she continued, taking Mrs Millwood's
hand in both of hers, and pressing it tenderly,
that you must be good. Oh, forgive me, Mrs
Millwood, if I was ever rude to you ! I was

thoughtless, and misunderstood you. I thought
you hard — I thought you almost bad 1 But you
will forgive me, won't you ? You are a Christian,
and you must forgive me. Say you forgive
me ! "

*' Of course I forgive you, my lady," replied
Mrs Millwood, shrinking from Muriel's caresses.
But do not let us speak of that. Will you
promise, then, to be guided by my views in all
matters connected with the welfare of Miss Laura
Anstruther ? "

I will."

And to take no steps whatsoever concerning
the child without consulting me ? "

''I win."

'' Will you swear that ? "

"Yes."

And never to try to separate me from the
child should your old dislike to me return ? "

I promised that to the Colonel."

Will you promise it again to me 1 "

I will."

Then I will go, my lady," and, stooping
down, Mrs Judas took one of Muriel's hands
and kissed it.

But the search was fruitless. The only addresses

Muriel knew were the clubs in London
and in Paris, — Pratt's, the Marlborough, and the
Carlton in the one town : the Jockey and the
Petit Club in the other. To Paris she wrote
herself, to a milliner in whose discretion she
had confidence, and all inquiries were made,
but with no result. Nobody in Paris had heard
of Mr Farquhar for months. In London, Mrs
Millwood at first met with no greater success,
for Laurence had, as we know, taken great care
to keep his private address a secret, because of
his father and his creditors. At last, however,
her quick imagination hit upon a plan. She
inserted a few lines in a daily paper to the
effect that if Mr Laurence Farquhar of the
Carlton, Pratt's, and the Marlborough Clubs,
would send his address to a certain place, he
would hear of something to his advantage. This
brought an abusive letter from the father in
Sussex, whither Mrs Millwood repaired, and
there, from the old reprobate, heard all her
worst thoughts concerning Muriel fully confirmed
by the narrative of the meeting that
night. For old Farquhar told her all, first
about the vile letter he had intercepted, then
of his visit to Kent, and meeting with Lady

VOL. II. R

Lyonesse that night, who herself proclaimed her
name and station, and by accepting the dreadful
letter, tacitly admitted that it must concern
her. Of his son's whereabouts the old man
knew nothing, but he gave Mrs Millwood the
address of the Jews, and from these worthies
she ascertained that the man she was in search
of had fled to America, whether alone or not
they did not know. With this information Mrs
Millwood returned to Leavenworth. She said
nothing of her trip to Sussex, or of her advertisement
in the paper, knowing that Muriel
never read the papers, and that even if his lordship
should have seen it he would certainly not
mention a matter which did not concern him to
his wife, and bring forward once more a name
which, by tacit agreement, it had been understood
was not to be mentioned in his presence.
So the darkness of night fell over the disappearance
of the guilty couple, and both Lady
Lyonesse and Mrs Millwood had to content
themselves with waiting until the revolving
wheel of life should once more bring one or
both of these persons, whose presence they so
eagerly longed for, within their reach.

In due course of time Muriel's child was

born, — a son, Lord Geraint, — and great were
the rejoicing, the joys and cares of maternity
by degrees banishing from Lady Lyonesse's
mind evil forebodings and what might remain
of qualms of conscience ; and Mrs Millwood
settling down to a life of great comfort and
luxury, and at times almost regretting that it
would one day be her duty to destroy by her
avenging sword so many creature-comforts, the
value of which the curate's relict fully appreciated.
The boy. Lord Geraint, was delicate
and weak, but little Laura Anstruther grew in
strength and beauty every year. So time passed
on, and year followed year, bringing no tidings
of the fugitives. Lord Lyonesse had just succeeded
in making a name for himself in the
Lower House, when he was called up higher
by the death of his father, Muriel becoming
Duchess of Tintagil, and her puny little son the
Marquess of Camelot, — Mrs Millwood, of course,
greatly benefiting by the change, which brought
to her some share in all the splendid luxury
which enshrines the lives of our great nobles.
And so much for the sowing of the seed ; now
let us turn and look upon the reaping of the
harvest.

THE REAPING OF THE HARVEST

What in the world is prettier than a pretty
woman, Jack "? " inquired little Lord Carshalton,
addressing Lancelot Pendragon, and
looking as he spoke towards a group composed
of two beautiful little children and our old
friend Muriel, Duchess of Tintagil, who was
busily engaged discoursing with the Poet
Laureate.

^' Oh, a great many things ! " replied Jack,
probably so called because he had been
christened Lancelot. " Vivo pretty women,
for example ! " and he glanced at the tall
graceful figure of a young girl who advanced
towards the Duchess, chatting as she walked
with the wife of the Danish minister.

Carshalton laughed. " Well, you're right !
Miss Anstruther certainly is pretty. Not
quite my style, though ; rather too quiet.
Not enough go in her ! "

What in the world do you mean ? "

'* Not lively enough. Sentimental, I should
think, and all that sort of thing ; but then I
know her but very slightly. Your cousin, the
Duchess, is the woman for me. Beautiful and
good-natured, and as clever as they make
them. I believe she has got more fellows out
of bad scrapes, by giving them good advice,
than any other woman in London ! She seems
to understand men so thoroughly. I suppose
that comes of her French training. Most of
the pretty married women in London seem
afraid of becoming really a man's pal ! "

That's because you are so brutal here,"
replied Pendragon. "You have no idea how
to treat a woman properly. If she's pretty,
you want to kiss her ; if she's ugly, you ignore
her, or else marry her, which is often worse.
How can a decent woman make a friend of a
man when she is afraid of such barbarities ? "

Carshalton laughed. He was used — as indeed
all London was — to the eccentricities
of his friend, not one of the least marked of
which was his constant fault - finding with
his own country, — a weakness, of course, in
which he only indulged when he knew his

company, and felt sure his remarks would not
be misunderstood, or taken au pied de la
lettre. '

No wonder," he continued, " a woman like
my cousin became popular in London. She is
teaching the men manners ; the men like the
lessons so prettily given, and their wives feel
grateful to Duchess Rare for taming their
wild steeds."

We treat women better in England than
they are treated in any other country in the
world ! " stoutly asserted little Lord Carshalton,
who had only left school to join the Grenadiers
five years before, and who knew as little about
women as he did about warfare.

'* You don't know what you're talking about,
Cuckoo," replied Pendragon. 'you know as
much about women as Tintagil does, and it is
always a marvel to me how Arthur ever had
the good luck to fall in love with such a
woman as his wife. Men like you are so
clumsy in the handling of women that you
extinguish them altogether."

*' What do you mean ? "
I mean that you give them no exercise-yard,
no place to flap their wings in between

the insipid sigh of the lover and the tranquil
snore of the husband."

'^ I don't understand you."

'' Of course not. You make love to a girl,
and kiss her, and talk to her about the stars
and roses "

'' No, I don't ! "

Well, you ought to, then. It's a part of
your business to do so. Then the poor thing
says *yes,' and then you marry her, and she
never hears anything more about the stars
and roses, although, depend upon it, my dear
fellow, she fully expects the one to shine and
the other to bloom, and she has a right to expect
it ! "

Those are some of your absurd and false
foreign notions."

'*Tliey are neither absurd, nor foreign, nor
false. Master Cuckoo. They are true, and the
result of experience and observation. Every
woman is born a poet, and longs to soar upward
I Men like you are quite ready to spout
like parrots, catch phrases from men like that "
indicating the Laureate — "while you are
making love to the unfortunate girls you are
trying to entrap into matrimony ; but when

once you have captured the skylarks, you quite
forget all their aspirations, and expect them to
be perfectly content to cluck about the farmyard."


'^ What would you have them do ? Play the
devil, as they do abroad, I suppose ? "

*' Not at all ! Believe me, between the amour
Platonic, the dewdrop-andros period, and
the amour plat du jour tongue, the night-cap
and snoring period, there exists a delightful
Elysium, in which men and women with brains
and heart can meet with perfect safety, and
exchange thoughts and aspirations, and try their
wings, — the woman shielded from all harm by
the sacred weakness of her womanhood, and
the respect with which it ought and must inspire
the man with whom she may condescend
to try and fly, and the man ennobled and invigorated
by the mere effort to leave the
ground."

And where is this Elysium *? " asked the
young Guardsman.

'' Our present state of civilisation," continued
Pendragon, ignoring his companion's question,
does not allow this free intercourse to take
place, except under the auspices of a married

woman ; but if that married woman be a clever
woman and a woman of the world, like my
cousin, she will be able without much difficulty
to arrange such a meeting-place where these men
and women can associate freely together and
enjoy each other's society. The Duchess has
recognised that women in London were tired
of being merely mothers and walking fashion-plates,
and that the attention of the men might
advantageously be called to something higher than
horse-flesh and sport ; so she has simply done in
London what is done every day abroad, — she has
formed a salon."

What Lancelot Pendragon said about his
cousin was true. Muriel had succeeded in that
by no means easy task of forming a salon in
London ; and that it was no easy task, may be
inferred from the fact that since her Grace's
terrible death no one has succeeded in a like
undertaking, although many endeavours have
been made. Of course the mere facts of her
beauty, wealth, wit, and rank would have
sufficed to make Pendragon House one of the
most popular social resorts in London ; but the
young Duchess — the Duchess May, as she was
familiarly called by her friends, for the wealth

(in reality by no means considerable) which she
had brought to her husband so suddenly, when
all England had been led to believe that she
was dowerless, had been greatly exaggerated by
rumour, and long tales were seriously told of
how Jould, the American millionaire, had been
forced to part with half his fortune to the young
English Duchess — was not satisfied with this.
She did not wish her house to become a vast
museum and curiosity-shop of notabilities, as
were the saloons of Tyburn House, presided over
by her friend the beautiful Duchess of Hounslow ;
nor a political centre, as was Cambridge House
in the old days. She sought to create, and, did
create, in our gloomy metropolis, greatly aided
doubtless by her early training in Paris, a salon
in the highest sense of the term. — a salon such as
exists now no longer in Paris, but such a pleasant
and familiar place of meeting of all that is the
very best, as Princess Lori Schwartzenberg did
formerly, and Mme. de Metternich and Mme.
de Clam-Gallas do to-day, preside over in Vienna,
and Princess Betsy Bariatinsky and Mme.
Douro do in Petersburg.

But it was not at one of her Grace's famous
Wednesdays, nor at one of those delightful five

o'clock causeries intimes which used to take
place every afternoon during the season in
the Duchess's private apartments in Pendragon
House, that the conversation with which this
chapter opens took place. It was at a garden-party
given at Holygraile House, the Duke's
place on the Thames, near Richmond, one of
his Grace's four country residences, and the
smallest, though not the least beautiful. Of
course every one was there ; almost every
member of our Royal Family, with the exception
of its illustrious head ; prominent members of
most of the foreign Royal houses; the diplomatic
body au grand complet, — in a word,
the dessus du longer,

Lancelot Pendragon, who has just been so
generously administering doses of social philosophy
to the inoffensive little Guardsman, is first
cousin to our old friend Arthur, and heir-presumptive
to the dukedom, for the sickly little
Marquis of Camelot had died before attaining
his eighth birthday, and no other child had been
born to Muriel and Arthur. Lancelot Pendragon,
the only son of a younger son, for he was the
only child of the late Lord Bedevere Pendragon,

brother to the late and uncle to the present
Duke of Tintagil, — had been in diplomacy ever
since he left Merton College, Oxford, five-and-twenty
years before we introduce him to our
readers, and had lived so long out of England
as to have become thoroughly foreign in his
tastes. He hated all field sports, even going
so far as to pity foxes, and declaring that the
report of a gun gave him a headache ; and although
he had had many chances offered him
of standing for Parliament, he had always declined
to avail himself of them, alleging that ashe
was wholly ignorant of all political matters,
save foreign affairs, he could better serve the
interests of the empire by writing despatches
abroad than by going into the lobby at St
Stephen's. He had spent years at the dirtiest
of our Embassies — the one at Constantinople —
and had acquired during his long residence
by the Bosphorus much of the nonchalance
and apparent laziness of the unspeakable Turk,
and not a few bad habits, among others one
of going to sleep in the most provoking way
at the oddest of times, and another of never
standing, or even sitting, when he could lie

clown. Then he had passed years at Petersburg,
and so of course found every other
place in the world intolerably cold (the Duke
of Wessex, indeed, even going so far as to
positively assert that he saw him one hot July
day standing on the steps of the Travellers'
wrapped in furs !), and had acquired from the
Muscovites another bad habit — that of saying
grotesquely cynical things which he really did
not mean, but which he merely gave utterance
to in order to float a paradox.

He was a clever man, a useful man, and, withall
his irony, a warm-hearted man. He and
Muriel had been fast friends from the very beginning,
and, it is hardly necessary to add, he
and Mrs Millwood — with whom of course he was
brought in constant contact, as he made his
cousin's home his own when in England — had
been enemies from their very first meeting. He
had read the woman at a glance, and had told
Muriel all that he had read ; but her Grace had
made him acquainted with the circumstances
of the case, and he had been forced to admit
that until Miss Laura Anstruther should choose
to take unto herself a husband, the presence of
the obnoxious woman in the ducal household

must be tolerated. Laura once married, everything
of course would be changed, and the
Duchess — who had herself learnt to know the
real character of Mrs Millwood during the last
seventeen years she had been forced to have
her living with her — would then be free to
act as she might think fit as regards extending
further hospitality to the curate's relict. Her
Grace's mind on this point had been made up
long ago. The very day which should see
Laura married should, the Duchess told herself,
and told her cousin Lancelot — or rather Jack, as
every one called him — also witness her final parting
with Mrs Millwood. She would then have
very faithfully kept the double promise she had
given to the dying Colonel, — the one that she
would be as a mother to his child, and the other
that she would not separate the child from the
clergyman's widow, — although the keeping of
that promise, so far as it concerned Mrs Mill-wood,
had been to the Duchess during these long
years a daily, almost an hourly, source of discomfort
and severe trial. The woman had been
well provided for by the Colonel ; and besides,
there could of course be no question of money
here — she should have all the money she might

VOL. II. s

want, and be free to live where and how she
pleased ; but Muriel Tintagil was fully decided
on one point, and that was that the very day
on which Laura Anstruther should change her
name, Mrs Millwood should be constrained to
change her quarters. The situation had indeed,
almost from the very beginning, or at all
events from immediately after the birth of Lord
Geraint, and as soon as Muriel had recovered
her equanimity and had had time to consider
recent events and future possibilities with calmness,
been unpleasant and galling — possibly to
both Mrs Millwood and the Duchess, but most
certainly to the latter.

Although at first Mrs Millwood had gone rather
out of her way to please Muriel and make a good
impression, she had by this very effort failed in her
object ; for she had, by thus attracting Muriel's
attention, invited inspection, instead of allowing
herself to be simply accepted without question
or examination as an existing fact, as she would
otherwise have been. Of course the result of
the inspection was unfavourable to the widow,
for Muriel was a shrewd and clever woman,
although indeed it needed no special shrewdness
or cleverness to read the character of the parson's

relict ; for although simple - minded old Lady
Anstruther and her no less simple-minded son
had both been deceived — the Colonel, as we
know, would never believe evil of anybody —
they were both extraordinary individuals, so
extraordinary indeed, at least the mother, as to
have been looked upon as more than eccentric.
No ordinary man or woman of common-sense,
some little perspicuity, and an unblessed judgment,
could possibly have subjected the character
of Mrs Millwood, as unconsciously revealed by
the woman herself, to the most superficial and
trivial scrutiny without unhesitatingly coming
to the conclusion that the very essence and
nature of the said character was evil. Muriel
being shrewd and clever, and moreover having
a strong motive — the welfare of little Laura —
for making her examination with care, not only
saw at once the evil nature and essence of this
character, but was able to analyse the quality
of this evil, and to speculate as to its possible
influence upon others.

At first she was greatly alarmed by what she
saw, but on reflection the comforting thought
came to her that the peril was not imminent ;
that during the infancy of Laura at least there

could be no danger of the evil nature of the
woman warping the plastic nature of the child.
When Laura should be old enough to be susceptible
to such harmful influences, she, Muriel,
had decided that she would remove the child
out of the reach of the contagion. To do so,
she would of course be compelled to break her
word — her word twice most solemnly pledged, —
once to the dying father, and later on to Mrs
Millwood herself ; but then Muriel who was an
adept in sophistry as we know, and whose moral
training in Paris had not been of the very
soundest, fully believed in the theory of the end
justifying the means. The Colonel had been deceived
in the woman when he had asked Muriel
not to separate her from his child : for the very
child's sake she would now break her word
pledged to the dying father, break it in deed to
keep it in spirit, feeling sure that if the Colonel
could know her reasons for so doing, he would
be satisfied that she was acting for the best.
As for the promise given to the woman herself,
that came of course under the same heading, —
that of a pledge extracted under false pretences,
and so naturally must go overboard with the
other.

Muriel did not, of course, imagine the woman
to be so base as to be capable of doing harm to
the child wantonly and knowingly ; for not only
did she give Mrs Millwood credit for loving little
Laura, but, moreover, she believed her to be
possessed of some theory of ethics which, false
as it surely was, could hardly countenance the
wanton slaughter of innocence. She feared the
great evil which would surely be wrought by
stupidity, not in any way the harm which might
proceed from malice : what she was determined
to do was to save Laura from being subjected
to the moral, not the immoral, teachings of
Mrs Millwood ; from being inoculated — though
of course the operation would be performed
in perfect good faith — with false and harmful
ideas which would surely turn for her the
sweetness of life into gall. That Mrs Millwood
would be loath to harm the child — nay, that on
the contrary she would seek to protect and
cherish her — Muriel felt sure ; and here, indeed,
lay the very, the only danger, — for such protection
and cherishing, Muriel told herself, would
be like the shelter afforded by the upas-tree, the
shadow of which is said to shed death to those
who seek refuge beneath its branches. Little

by little, however, as time stole on, it by degrees
dawned upon the mind of the Duchess that
she might not, after all, perhaps be forced in anyway
to break her word ; that the child might
perhaps be taking the whole difficulty into her
own little hands to disentangle, and by her daily
increasing love for her, Muriel, be instinctively
shielding herself from the influence of Mrs
Millwood ; — be building up, as it were, with the
perfect love she felt for Muriel, and the absolute
confidence and trust she reposed in all she said
and did, a wall behind which she could shelter
herself from any poisoned arrow that might be
sped from the friendly and well - intentioned
perhaps, but surely death-scattering bow of the
widow.

That later on, when she had reached years of
comparative discretion, little Laura should have
given more of her love to the beautiful, tender,
forgiving, indulgent Muriel, than to the stern,
hard, cold, just, and unlovely Mrs Millwood, is
but natural, — the one overwhelming her with
caresses and presents, the other for ever chilling
her with rebukes and punishments, — but that,
from the very beginning, from infancy, Laura
should have instinctively turned away from the

one and sought refuge in the arms of the other,
is odd enough. It was not that little Laura
showed, even at any time, any aversion to Mrs
Millwood — she simply ignored her; she would
listen to what she had to say with great respect
and perfect composure, but she would never
dream of obeying any order or following any
advice that might be contained in the words
uttered until it had been ratified and approved
of by Muriel — by " Aunty May," as Laura called
the Duchess. Now, although the immediate
effect of this strange bias in the child's mind
was not altogether pleasant to the mortified and
deeply wounded feelings of the widow, the indirect
result of it was very beneficial to her
worldly interests and welfare ; for when the
Duchess came to plainly see that she, Muriel,
alone, wholly, fully, and entirely possessed the
child's heart and affection — that little Laura
would listen to no other voice and submit to no
other guidance than hers, — she gladly recognised
the fact that she could keep her promise to the
dead without danger to the living ; or in other
words, that she could leave Laura in the society
of Mrs Millwood with perfect safety until the
hymeneal torch should be lighted.

Thus it is that we find Mrs Millwood still a
member of the Duchess of TintagiFs household,
and still in attendance on Miss Laura
Anstruther, seventeen years after we had the
pleasure of parting with her in the last chapter.
But this period of seventeen years had been one
of great trial certainly to the Duchess, probably
to Mrs Millwood, and perhaps to Miss Laura.
How indeed could it, under the circumstances,
possibly have been otherwise? On the one
hand Mrs Millwood, who was, although dull, no
fool, recognised very plainly ere long (although
Muriel's politeness and attention never for a
moment during these long years diminished)
that her paltry and vulgar hypocrisy and
black-heartiness were detected and despised
by the Duchess, and that she was only allowed
to remain under the ducal roof-tree because a
solemn promise had been given to her that she
should so remain ; while on the other hand she
saw, no less plainly, that Laura, her charge,
cared nothing for her, and that the trite, harsh
commonplaces she had tried to drum into the
ears of this child as being maxims by which she
should regulate her life, had been all completely,
for ever, and at once obliterated by the more

amiable teachings of the Duchess. But this did
not surprise, nor did it even shock, Mrs Mill-wood
: Laura was, she had decided long ago —
ever since, in fact, the child had first turned her
baby-back on the frowning countenance of the
widow and opened her arms to the tender caresses
of the Duchess — born to evil (from such a
mother what good could come ?) ; and being thus
a child of evil, what more natural than that she
should listen with pleasure to and cheerfully
obey the teachings of one who, trained and
nurtured in that capital of corruption, Paris,
had indeed been the associate in wickedness
of this very child's mother ?

Laura was bad : the good blood on the father's
side could not counteract the poisonous influence
of the coarse sang de falefreniev which came
from the mother; and the child being bad, of
course instinctively, naturally, and willingly
placed herself under the guidance of that most
depraved of women, the Duchess, — for we must
beg the reader, in all justice to this very sorry
piece of humanity, to remember that Mrs Mill-wood's
unfavourable estimate of the Duchess's
character was founded on what she considered
damning and undeniable facts. She had had

absolute and positive proof — proof than which
no more conclusive has brought many a strongman
trembling before the hangman on the
drop. She had with her own eyes seen the
woman in that cloak embraced by her paramour
; she had found the cloak hidden by
that woman; she had heard from Farquhar
the elder, whose testimony must surely have
been unblessed, that this same woman, announcing
herself boldly as being Lady Lyon-esse,
had on that same night received from him,
as having reference to herself, a letter in which
Farquhar the younger wrote of an adulterous
intrigue in minute detail, and in terms so
utterly foul as to have even shocked the father
of the writer ! What greater proof could be
needed 1 No : that the Duchess was vile was a
fact, a fact beyond the reach of doubt ; that
she would by her pernicious influence greatly
harm the already evil nature of Laura was
more than likely ; but as the child would seem
wholly to have surrendered her heart and trust
and devotion to this woman, there remained
nothing to be done but to await such time as
she, Mrs Millwood, the avenger, could unmask
the villainy of the woman before the whole

world, and thus destroy for ever her baneful
influence.

In the meantime Mrs Millwood could certainly
find no fault in the Duchess's treatment of her.
Her Grace had carefully kept her pledged word in
every particular, and no step as regards Laura's
training or education had been taken without
the sanction of the clergyman's widow. It was
not Muriel's fault if the child loved her more
than she^did the sombre lady who always looked
upon duty and unpleasantness as being synonymous
terms — even Mrs Millwood admitted this
and so far as personal courtesy and consideration
were concerned, the Duchess's conduct
towards the widow had been throughout perfect.
So pleasant indeed were the places in which her
lines had been cast, that Mrs Millwood would in
all probability, almost unconsciously perhaps,
but by degrees surely, have abandoned her
mission of avenging angel, — as pleasant day
followed pleasant day, and as one year filled
full of luxurious ease was chased out by another
no less replete with all the splendid luxury that
wealth, power, and rank can command, — had it
not been that she very plainly, and from the
very beginning, saw that an abrupt conclusion,

an absolute ending, must come to all this very
present and real, but unhappily transient joy,
the day on which Laura Anstruther should
marry. That Laura would some day marry, was
of course — her beauty and her wealth taken
into consideration — an inevitable evil ; and that
Laura once married, she, Mrs Millwood, would
no longer be able to luxuriate beneath the perfumed
shadow shed by the ducal strawberry-leaves,
was a no less painful and patent fact.
Laura Anstruther once married, Mrs Millwood
saw very plainly that she would not only lose
what little hold she possessed over the girl, but
would also be forced to discontinue her pleasant
and luxurious habits of life — unless indeed Laura
should marry a man who would be weak enough
to allow his wife's governess to accompany her
to his home and make it her own. That the
ducal mansion, and all that that meant, would
no longer be her resting-place the day after
Laura was married, Mrs Millwood knew full
well ; so her only hope of being able to continue,
in even a mitigated form, the life of self-complacent
indolence, luxury, and ease to which
Muriel's kindness had accustomed her, lay in
the off-chance of Laura marrying a man who

would allow his wife's companion to accompany
her and share such good things as it
might be in his power to bestow. Such a man,
such a model husband, she of course need not
absolutely have despaired of finding, so long as
Laura's affections were disengaged ; but during
the month preceding the garden-party at which
we introduce Jack Pendragon to our readers, a
vague and terrible dread had come upon Mrs
Millwood, a fear that not only Laura might no
longer be heart-whole, but that, worse than all,
she might have bestowed her affection on the
one man who above all others was the most
detestable in the eyes of Mrs Millwood — on the
cynical diplomatist, the sarcastic man of the
world, the careless jester, the godless voluptuary,
the heir and future Duke ! That such a match,
from a worldly point of view, would be a
splendid one for Laura, Mrs Millwood was of
course forced to admit, and that it would meet
with the warm support of the Duchess she
shrewdly suspected.

If, therefore, her fears were well founded, — if
Laura had learned to love Jack Pendragon, and
if he returned her affection, — nothing could possibly
prevent a marriage which would most

certainly put a period to the splendid comforts
enjoyed by the widow, save the unsheathing of
the avenging sword. If she could by discovering
Lady Anstruther or Laurence Farquhar, and
by enlisting their co-operation, provide herself
with the completion of necessary proofs of the
Duchess's guilt, she would hold the key of the
situation, — for then not only she could, or rather
thought she could, compel Muriel to withhold her
consent to the marriage ; but if the worst came
to the worst, she could tell all to the Duke, lay
her proofs before his Grace, produce her witnesses,
and create such a scandal as would
render the marriage impossible. Such an extreme
step was not one that she would willingly
take, of course, for it would in all probability as
effectually deprive her for ever of her present
splendid luxury as any marriage of Laura could
do ; but if the worst should come to the worst,
if she had only this choice between two evils
offered to her, she would most assuredly choose
that one by which, like Samson, she could include
the ruin of her enemies with her own. It
was indeed unlikely that the Duke would regard
with approval the union of his cousin and heir
with the daughter of one who had so disgraced

herself as had Lady Anstruther. Laura herself
had found her way to his Grace's heart, and was
indeed his pet ; but the Duke held very lofty
and decided views regarding the honour and
splendour of his house and name, and he could
hardly be expected to look with unqualified
approval upon the marriage of his successor to
the ducal honours with the granddaughter of
a groom and the child of a wanton. But the
Duchess could talk him over : the husband was,
in this ducal household, led and governed in all
things by his wife ; and if the Duchess should
approve of this match, Mrs Millwood knew full
well that eventually the Duke would not find it
possible to withhold his consent. It therefore
behoved her — so Mrs Millwood plainly told
herself — first of all, by a little skilful diplomacy,
to ascertain if her fears concerning the condition
of Laura's heart were well founded ; and
secondly, by discussing the matter very frankly
with the Duchess, to discover if this most undesirable
union were within the limits of the
possible. Then she would know what to do.

She could of course do nothing without
proofs, and she could only obtain the necessary
proofs by either meeting with Farquhar

or Lady Anstruther, and by inducing either or
both of them to come forward and expose the
villainy of the Duchess ; but when once she
should have succeeded in obtaining this cooperation,
Mrs Millwood knew she would be
strong. There was no time to be lost, however,
for if Jack Pen dragon should propose, be accepted,
and a consent be extracted from the
Duke, it would indeed be difficult to undo all
the mischief already done ; whereas, by dealing
with the matter in time, by a little diplomacy
she might perhaps avert the evil — destroy it, as
it were, in its infancy, and before it should have
had time to assume formidable proportions. Of
one thing, however, there could be no doubt :
she must at once ascertain exactly how the land
lay, — whether this fatal marriage was within the
limits of the probable or not, — so that she might
have time to prepare her batteries, and have
within call one at least of the two persons whose
co-operation was so essential to render the work
of righteous chastisement terrible and complete.
That she could communicate with Laurence
Farquhar without any particular trouble she
had but little doubt, for Mrs Millwood had not
been altogether idle during these past seventeen

years, and having kept in constant touch with
the Jewish gentlemen who had such good
reason to complain of Mr Farquhar, she had
learnt from them that Laurence had, on his
return from America, taken up his abode at
that shelter for the impecunious and morally
dilapidated known as Boulogne-sur-mer. That
was now some few years back, and whether he
still resided there or not she did not know : she
had not indeed cared to prosecute her inquiries
further, for, to tell the truth, not only was she
very naturally loath to precipitate her expulsion
from such very comfortable quarters, by bringing
about a catastrophe before so extreme a
step should have become absolutely necessary,
but, moreover, she was desperately afraid of
Farquhar ; and had she seen any possibility of
obtaining a clue to Madge without consulting
him, she would gladly have left him undisturbed.
She knew she could not trust him ; and
although, of course, his co-operation would — if
he chose to give it frankly and honestly — be
of infinitely greater value than that of Lady
Anstruther, she knew he was a liar and a
villain, and one who would lie in the way that
would seem to him to be the most advantageous

VOL. 11. T

to his own interests, quite irrespective of hers.
Should she go to this man openly and lay her
plan before him, he would not hesitate, she
knew full well, to promise his aid, and then betray
her to the Duchess if he found it suited
his book to do so, so that thus she would be
running the risk of losing both her splendid
home and her cherished vengeance at one and
the same time. In her dealings with so utterly
unscrupulous a man as Laurence Farquhar, she
would have to be very cautious. It were well
that she should know where she could put her
hand on the man, should his co-operation become
absolutely indispensable — (and, of course,
she had taken good care not to let the Duchess
suspect she knew aught of Farquhar's whereabouts
; and indeed nothing connected with the
events of that fatal night had been mentioned
between the two women for years) ; but if she
could only stumble across Lady Anstruther
without troubling Mr Farquhar, how much
better and safer it would be I Madge, low,
fallen, and degraded as she must be, suddenly
brought before the Duke and accusing the
Duchess of having been her rival in guilt,
would bring about a punishment much more

terrible than any that could be encompassed
by a statement, no matter how thoroughly substantiated
by positive proof, made by a man so
utterly unworthy of credence and consideration,
so completely without the pale of society, as Laurence
Farquhar. If anything would induce the
Duchess to confess her guilt, Mrs Millwood told
herself, it would be the fact of the accusation
made against her being brought by her foster-sister,
by the mother of the girl Laura, whom
she loved so well. If Madge could be brought
to come and accuse her, the Duchess might perhaps
confess : she was passionate and impulsive,
her love for Laura was great, and it might be
that if this child's mother came and threatened
to denounce her, the Duchess might give way,
forget her pride, and speak ; but if Laurence
Farquhar should come with a similar accusation,
who could foresee what the result might be?
If her vengeance could no longer be retarded
owing to this possible marriage between Laura
and the detested Jack being an imminent evil,
then Mrs Millwood would indeed need the cooperation
of Lady Anstruther, and of reaching
her she knew no way save by using Farquhar.
If, however, her fears as regards the possibility

of this marriage were groundless, well and good,
she would gladly postpone her own expulsion,
which would so inevitably follow the falling of
the avenging sword ; but if this marriage were
quite on the tapis, as she feared it was, then she
would ascertain from the Jews without delay if
Laurence Farquhar were still at Boulogne, and
prepare her batteries.

Having thus given to our readers in broad
outline the present situation of affairs, let us
return to Mr Lancelot Pendragon and Lord
Carshalton.

u

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

Printed BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD A^TD SONS.

I' ■"•:i' ■vi!;T;i^'t:^;;fc!!l

.^:\W\:'''-''''''^'^'^^

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 045833990

OF THE
U N I Verity
Of ILLINOIS

^.3

Plauti P(ENUlus.

How strangely iu this life good with evil mixes :
God throws the dice, but the devil gets double sixes ! "

Laurence Farquhar.

LITTLE HMD AND lUOKLE GOLD

A STUDY OF TO-DAY

BY

X. L.

AUTHOR OF 'AUT DIABOLUS AUT NIHIL'

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Il

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXIX

All Rights reserved

THE EEAPIJSTG OF THE HARVEST

(Continued?)

Chapter 11.

'* Well, you come back, Jack, my dear boy,
after all that roundabout gallop, to just what I
said at first. Your cousin's charm and power
come a great deal from her French training.
She is so utterly unlike anything we have here,
that even if she were not so devilish pretty and
clever, she would make her mark in London by
sheer originality. Just look at her now ! How
different she is from any other woman in the
place I "

It was indeed a pretty picture to which the
young Guardsman drew Jack Pendragon's attention.
The Laureate had now retired, and
the Duchess, with one hand resting lovingly on

the shoulder of Miss Anstruther, was standing
talking to a Royal Highness, the exalted personage
evidently, as was his wont, trying to draw
out Muriel's well-known wit by some graceful
badinage. The contrast between the two
women was very striking as they stood now in
the July sunlight side by side : the one, the
Duchess, whose lithe, graceful figure added
poetry to the exquisite conception of Worth,
in which it was unsheathed, with her clever,
beautiful, but strangely foreign face, its delicate,
refined, and high-bred features, lighted at
times with flashes of mischievous intelligence,
but for the most part kept demure by the listless
sadness of the sweet blue eyes — so blue that
they looked almost gaudy, shining under the
wayward golden curls that caressed her low
forehead, irresistibly reminding one of the
fair women of the Valois time, — of one of
those divinely dainty ladies who might have
been seen flirting with the bilboquet-playing
mignons in the galleries of the Louvre, or of
Amboise, of Marie de Chateauneuf, of Jeanne de
Pieces, or of Marie de Clever ; while the other,
the frail and clinging, though tall and graceful
Laura, with her earnest, thoughtful gaze, her

frank, brown, honest eyes, her gentle and coy,
though trusting manner, being the very type of
the sweet English maiden, — one who, if she
lacked the sparkle, verve, and brilliancy to
make her the queen of a ball-room, possessed
that purer and more precious gift, that sweet
treasure of womanly tenderness, that would
make her a goddess by the fireside of home.

Where are you off to '? '' inquired Carshalton,
as Jack, having languidly examined this
charming group through his eye-glass (which,
by the way, never left his eye, as he was as
blind as a bat), quietly stepped out of the
window of the morning-room, in which they
had been standing, on to the lawn.

'^ Whenever distance lends enchantment to
the view, my dear cuckoo," he answered satirically,
** she invariably takes care to exact a
very heavy rate of interest, which, being a poor
man, I do not care to pay ! "

*' But the Prince is with her now ! " exclaimed
the young Guardsman.

Jack made no reply to this very unnecessary
remark, and continued to direct his steps very
leisurely to where his lovely cousin stood. It
happened as he had expected it would — when

the Royal Highness caught sight of Jack, he
motioned him with a careless gesture of the
hand to approach.

You are just in time, Jack, to help your
cousin out of a difficulty."

Indeed, sir ? "

*' I was asking her if she believed her cousin.
Lady Astolat, was quite so wicked when she
was young as she would have us all believe
now."

Your Koyal Highness gave me no time to
answer," put in Muriel.

But you hesitated, Duchess, and you know
that the woman who hesitates is lost ! "

Et celle qui n'hesite pas, Monseigneur ?
Allons done ! " laughed Muriel, breaking into
French, but then resuming, she said in English,
with a little air of demure mockery, " If your
Royal Highness had given her time to defend
my cousin, I should have said that, judging
from Lady Astolat's present amiability, she can
hardly have any unkindness in the past to reproach
herself with."

The Prince smiled ; this delicate sarcasm was
exactly to his taste.

I believe in your very heart you are a

cynic, Duchess," he said. " Isn't she, Miss
Anstruther ? " But before Laura could reply
the Prince exclaimed, " What a hideous dog ! "
and instinctively raised his cane in defence asa
most forbidding-looking mongrel ran up to
him barking, and stood snarling, glaring, and
showing his teeth just out of reach of chastisement.
Even the respect due to the manifest
anxiety evinced by his Royal Highness could
not keep Laura from laughing.

Oh, aunty ! Look at Flo ! Where can she
have come from ? " Then turning to the Prince,
she added reassuringly, ^' She won't bite, sir.
Flo ! Flo 1 Flo ! Come here ! "

The Duchess frowned impatiently. " I wish
Mrs Millwood would really try to keep that
horrible dog in her own rooms ! " exclaimed
her Grace.

*^ Who is Mrs Millwood ? " inquired the inquisitive
Prince.

One whom to know is to love," replied
Muriel saucily, having recovered her good
humour. '' She is the lady who has had
the privilege of superintending Miss Laura's
education ! "

"Ah, then I envy her!" said the Prince,

with a good-natured smile. '* But I can't say
I admire her taste in dogs ! "

By this time the fact of the cur barking at
his Royal Highness had attracted some attention,
and Laura remarking this ventured to
say—

If you will allow me, sir, I will bring Flo
back to her mistress. She will follow me ! "

But she will bite you ; I know a great deal
about dogs, and I can assure you that cur is
dangerous."

Laura laughed and shook her head.

She won't bite me, sir ! "

Here the dog began snapping and snarling
assail. The Prince looked at Jack.

Suppose you take the brute away, Pendragon,"
he said.

Flo would not go with him, sir," broke in
Laura. '' Would she, Aunty May ? She only
obeys me and her mistress."

Here another terrible tempest of barking,
snarling, and jumping broke out as Flo caught
the Prince's eye fixed on her with great disgust.

"Flo! Flo! Flo!" called Laura, stooping
down and trying to entice the brute to her.

His Royal Highness could stand this absurd

situation no longer. '* Come, Duchess," he
said ; ^' this is intolerable ! I do wish, Pendragon,
you would kill that dog; " and so saying,
and bestowing a sweet smile on Laura, his
Koyal Highness turned away with his hostess,
leaving Jack, Laura, and the mongrel to settle
the difficulty as best they might between them.

When the Prince had passed out of the range
of her vision, Flo recovered her equanimity sofar
as to stop snarling, and fix a bloodshot eye
on Laura, who was murmuring in coaxing tones
all sorts of sweet invitations to the brute.

Don't touch that dog. Miss Laura ! " cried
Jack, as Laura stretched forward and tried to
catch the morsel in her arms. '^ For heaven's
sake, don't touch it ! "

There was such an agony of prayer in the
tone in which these words were uttered, that
Laura blushed as she looked up.

Why not ? There is no danger. Flo would
not bite me. I have had her lots of times in
my arms."

Then don't ever do so again. The Prince
was right ; this dog is dangerous. Come here,
sir ; come here, you brute ! "

*' She will never come if you speak to her in

that way' laughed Laura. " Come, my darling
I Come, Floss dear ; come, my pretty
puppy I Come and have some sugar I " Then
by degrees the dog seemed to calm down ; and
as Jack and Laura backed away facing the
brute, much to the amusement of the bystanders,
Flo followed them.

*rit's all right now," said Laura; "she will
follow us now. Come, let us take her back to
her mistress''

So they walked slowly back to the house,
Laura stopping every minute to address some
coaxing words of encouragement to the sullen
and reluctant cur. When they had reached
the house Jack stood still, and looking earnestly
into Laura's face, said gravely, and in a tone
of such tenderness as she had never heard before
proceed from his lips —

'^ Laura, I want you to promise me one
thing."

He had often called her Laura before, just
as she often called him Cousin Jack. Why
therefore did the sound of her Christian name
from his lips now cause her heart to beat so
wildly and the blood to surge up to her cheeks ?

*well," she said, averting her face that he

might not see her tell-tale blushes, "what
is it -? "

Promise me most faithfully on your honour
never to touch that dog again."

But why ? Flo is not dangerous, I tell

you."

I know better. I am too fond of dogs not
to know them thoroughly. They are almost all
of them (and especially curs, for I care nothing
for thorough-bred dogs) a thousand times better
than human beings — more true, more noble,
more intelligent, more self-sacrificing, — in every
way our superiors ; but there are exceptions,
and this brute is one of them. This dog is

as bad as " he was going to say "as her

mistress," but he remembered he was speaking
to Mrs Millwood's pupil, and held his tongue intime.


Poor little Flo ! I know you are wrong,"
said Laura.

I know I am right. That dog is bad, cruel,
and vicious. I have not been the devoted slave
of dogs all my life not to know their characters
well. I have already twice told Mrs Millwood
I should have this brute of hers destroyed. He
is a very devil among dogs. Promise me never

to go near him or attempt to touch him again.
Will you promise me ? '' Laura did not answer.
*' Will you promise me, Laura ? " repeated Jack
in still more tender tones. " I have never asked
you a favour before ; will you grant me this ?
Do, Laura, do, I beg of you — for my sake if not
for your own. Say yes."

*' Well, if you wish it ; yes — I will promise,"
murmured Laura, greatly troubled.

She could have refused him nothing at that
moment, asked for in that tone of tender entreaty,
so entirely different from his usual careless
cynicism — nothing. If he had asked her for
her heart, which was indeed already his, she
could not have refused to tell him he was but
asking for his own, that she had loved him unconsciously
for years — ever since his first kindnesses
to her as a child, but lately with all the
strength of her pure girl-heart, as the truth had
by degrees dawned upon her that his trivial
irony and careless cynicism were all put on,
and merely served to hide from the appreciation
of the vulgar one of the noblest hearts that ever
beat in the bosom of a gallant gentleman. But
hardly had she promised than the fear came
upon her that she had given way too soon, that

this ready compliance with his wishes might
have betrayed her secret; so she added with
affected flippancy —

But why after all should you ask me a
favour, and why should you expect me to grant
it?"

"Because, Laura, because " and he took her

hand tenderly in his and looked her in the eyes.

'* How can you ask me ? Because " It

was coming now, she thought, it was coming
now ! Her heart gave one wild leap, and then
she turned as cold as stone. The joy was so
great as to be almost pain. *' Because," he murmured
for a third time, then paused, and suddenly
letting go her hand and turning his back
on her, he said in his usual careless voice — *^ I
say, I wish you would pound my back — up
there to the right — that's a good child. That
brute has given me a flea ! " Then Laura turned
and fled indoors, followed by the cur.

Just in time ! " murmured Pendragon the
cynic. " Just in time ! In another moment I
should have made a fool of myself ! If that girl
had refused me I believe I'd have blown out
my brains. Festina lente. I must speak to May
first."

Now, although Jack Pendragon had the reputation
of being one of the laziest men in a profession
which would seem to be specially prolific
of laziness, this indolence, like his cynicism,
was all assumed, and, as a matter of fact, he
was one of the most active, practical, and hardworking
men that ever adorned our Foreign
Office. He preferred sitting down to standing,
and lying down to sitting down, and he abhorred
dancing and riding and walking, but he
would think nothing of writing for forty-eight
hours at a stretch, with no other nourishment
or stimulant to assist him than sundry cups of
black coffee, served in Turkish fashion, and innumerable
cigarettes. His manner of striking
the iron while it was hot was not one, perhaps,
that would commend itself to an industrious
blacksmith, for it was his wont to lie down
and think over the matter in hand, and then,
when he had thoroughly discussed it in his
mind, and not till then, he would strike — the
iron in most cases having gained rather than
lost in caloric by this temporary cunctation.
So it was now, at this great crisis of his life,
when the whole happiness of his future depended
on one little monosyllable from the lips of a

mere child, he strolled into a little morning-room,
situated in a distant wing of the house
and far from the mob of guests, and curling
himself up on the sofa, lighted a cigarette and
began to think the matter over. He was glad
he had not gone too far just now — that he had
checked himself in time; and not only glad
for his own sake, but more especially glad for
Laura's sake. That the girl was very fond of
him he knew, and it might be that, had he so
abruptly confessed his love for her and asked
her to be his wife, she would have accepted him
without quite knowing the terrible responsibilities
incurred by such a contract. After all,
she was but a mere child, and pity and vanity,
and a natural reluctance to inflict pain, might
perchance have prompted her to utter the
yes " which he, as a man of honour, could
only accept as final if it came from her very
heart. The Duchess would know all, for the
child kept no secret from her. He would ask
his cousin, tell her plainly all, and be guided by
what she might say. That the Duchess herself
would approve of the match he felt certain, but
he also knew that Muriel would not sacrifice
her darling Laura's happiness to any ambitious

plans for her worldly welfare which she might
have formed, and would frankly tell him if she
thought, from what she might have gathered
from the sweet girl's confidence, he could hope
to win her heart. If her Grace's report should
be favourable, he would propose without delay
that very day, or, at the latest, on the morrow.
If, on the other hand, it should be unfavourable,
he would leave England at once.

Then there was another matter he wanted to
discuss with the Duchess. Although all the
world knew that Lady Anstruther had fled
from her husband's house with a lover while
Laura was a mere infant, and although the
Duchess had told him more about the matter,
when discussing with him the necessity of
keeping Mrs Millwood in the house, than was
known to the outer world, still there were one
or two points on which he felt he had a right to
be enlightened before offering his hand to Laura.
Had this flight of Lady Anstruther been her one
and only crime, or had her former conduct been
reprehensible, and was this elopement but the
climax to a life of wantonness ? Then, again,
what were the particulars of the scandal ? How
had Sir James discovered the intrigue? And

finally, was Lady Anstrutlier still alive or not ?
All these things he would like to know, and he
felt sure his cousin could and would gladly give
him much information on these points. On
one thing he was fully decided, and that was,
that no matter how vile Lady Anstruther might
have been, and no matter if she were still airing
her infamy even in London, even at his very
gates, he would not allow the baseness of the
mother to warp his love for the child ; and if the
Duchess told him he stood any chance of winning
the prize, he would lay his heart at Laura's
feet without delay.

Having come to this conclusion, Jack rose,
lighted a ninth cigarette, and left the room,
intending once more to mingle with the crowd
and amuse himself watching the peculiarities of
his fellow-men. As he passed through a little
room known as the '^ Mary Stuart Room," from
the fact of many things which had belonged to
the ill-fated Queen of Scots being collected together
there, he espied, sitting in an arm-chair by
the window, her back turned to him, and reading,
Mrs Millwood ; and he paused, wondering
whether it would be worth while to speak to
the woman once more about her dog, or whether

VOL. III. B

it might not be better merely to tell Arthur what
he thought, and have the brute destroyed without
any further parley. While he stood there hesitating,
he heard the widow heave a deep sigh.
This turned the balance. He could no longer
resist the temptation of teasing his enemy, and
of endeavouring to ascertain what diabolic combination
could have caused this ^' windy suspiration
of forced breath." He asked his
question point-blank, knowing, like a wily diplomatist,
that the falsehood with which she
would probably envelop her reply, if she did
not care to have her thoughts read, would at
once afford him the very surest means of finding
out the truth.

What are you sighing for, dear Mrs Mill-wood
? " he asked, in a soft sympathetic voice.

The widow started and let her open book fall
upon her lap. " Oh, how you startled me, Mr
Pendragon ! I never heard you come in."

*' Why are you sighing ? " he repeated, advancing
towards her.

She looked at him, and then closing her eyes
wearily, said in an affected tone, " I was thinking
what a great loss the world of thought has
sustained in the death of Carlyle."

Jack's face at once assumed an air of great
sadness. " Ah, yes," he said, " it has indeed
been a terrible blow to us all. But then, all
our greatest men are dying now — Dickens,
Buller, Carlyle, Darwin, and " — here he put
his hand to his forehead with affectation — " I
can assure you, Mrs Millwood, I feel far from
well myself." The woman glared at him. This
flippancy annoyed and galled her more than an
open insult could have done, for through it all
she felt the intolerable weight of the man's
scorn. " What are you reading there, Mrs Mill-wood
1 " he continued, pointing to the book on
her lap. '' Not Zola, I hope 1 " *

'' Poor dear Emerson's Essay on the Over
Soul," she whispered, sighing.

Oh, indeed ! " exclaimed the cruel cynic.
** I thought that could only be properly understood
by the tardy inebriate who succeeds in
letting himself in by the Second Keyhole."

*' Can you ever be serious, I wonder ? " inquired
the curate's relict, finding it quite useless
to air any more affectations before this ruthless
satirist.

Try me."

*•' I will. I have something particular to say

to you. Something about Laura — about Miss
Anstruther, I mean."

"All!" Jack's face became serious, and
drawing up a sofa to where Mrs Millwood sat, he
lay down on it. " I am all attentions' he said.

Mrs Millwood rose at once. This habit of
lying down was most offensive to her ; and,
moreover, she was angered, for she had noticed
the gravity which had stolen over Pen dragon's
face at the mention of Laura's name, and feared
lest her worst suspicions might be about to be
confirmed.

"You don't object to smoking, I believe?"
Jack inquired, languidly lighting a cigarette
without waiting for her reply. " I can always
listen better with a cigarette in my mouth."

** If her Grace thinks right to let you smoke
in every room of the house, it is no part of my
business to find fault, Mr Pendragon."

You are quite right, Mrs Millwood," assented
Jack. " You always are right."

After a pause, the widow began again — "I
want to speak to you about Miss Anstruther."

Jack nodded. "So you said just now. A
very charming subject," he remarked, dryly.

Then Mrs Millwood paused again. '* I thought

you were going back to St Petersburg, Mr Pendragon
? " she began, abruptly.

Jack shook his head. " Not for months yet.
But why ? What can my going to St Petersburg
have to do with Miss Anstruther ? "

'^ You are a man of the world, Mr Pendragon,
and I am not going to beat about the bush with

you "

But there is advantage even in beating
about the bush sometimes, Mrs Millwood," interrupted
Jack. " Just think, if Moses had
never beaten about that famous bush, what
would have become of the poor Jews ? ''

"Listen to me, Mr Pendragon, and do try
and be serious for a few minutes. I am going
to tell you the truth."

Indeed 1 " interrupted Jack again. " Then
I'm all attention. I always thought Disraeli
was right when he said it is only the unexpected
that takes place."

Mrs Millwood bit her lip, but continued — " I
ask you as a man of the world, and — and, I may
add, I hope, a man of honour and a man of
heart."

Jack bowed. *' I thought you were going to
add, ' the flesh and the devil' "

Has it never struck you that your society
was hardly suitable for a young, pure, innocent,
and guileless child like Miss Anstruther ? "

Jack looked at her with unfeigned surprise.
Was the woman demented, or only a fool ?

"Do you ask the question seriously, Mrs
Millwood r'

I do."

'' Then I must try and answer you seriously,
I suppose. Never."

Do you mean to tell me, Mr Pendragon,
that you can possibly think that a man like
yourself — a cynic, one who has taken pleasure
in observing only the failings of his fellow-beings
— one who has wasted his youth without
ever thinking of his Creator "

*' Pardon me, Mrs Millwood," interrupted Jack,
holding up a deprecating hand, '* there you are
wrong. I was, as a matter of fact, constantly
forced to remember my creator in the days of
my youth, for I got into great money troubles
at Oxford, and my father was the only person I
could look to to pay my debts."

'* One," continued Mrs Millwood, getting
more and more angry, '* who habitually scoffs
and laughs at all sacred subjects, — do you think

that such a man is a fit companion for a pure
and innocent girl who knows nothing of the
world, and who, through her very ignorance of
evil, may easily be beguiled and flattered by the
insidious whispers of the first worldling that
comes across her path ? "

** Worldling I " murmured Jack. " Am I indeed
a worldling ? How strange ! I never
heard the word before. It sounds like some
horrid kind of game, — a sort of capercailzie I
should think."

"If you were a man of honour and of
heart "

*' But you said just now I was."

"As I hoped you were — you would not thus
take advantage of her innocence. You would
pity her weakness."

Weakness ! Why, Laura looks as strong asa
young gladiator ! "

He called her " Laura " on purpose to infuriate
the widow, and precipitate the climax
which he saw approaching.

Woman is always the weaker vessel ! "
ejaculated Mrs Millwood.

Ah, come now, Mrs Millwood ! Be fair.
They were called weaker vessels in the olden

time, when men were probably built on the
pattern of the Great Eastern."

It is, I see, useless to continue this conversation
any longer, Mr Pendragon. You promised
to be serious, and you have not been able
to keep even that trivial promise."

Believe me, I am serious, Mrs Millwood, but
I don't quite see what you are driving at. You
seem to think my society is not quite the best
for Laura. Am I right ? " Mrs Millwood
looked at him with scorn, but would not trust
herself to speak. " And so, I suppose, you think
I ought to give her less of it. Am I right *? "
Still silence. Then it struck Jack that it might
be amusing to see how far a fool the woman
really was, so he said : " Very well, then. See
what great and noble sacrifices even a * worldling
' is capable of. I will follow your advice
your unspoken, but no less precious advice.
You said just now that you thought I was
going back to Petersburg. Now, I am afraid
the wish was father to the thought. Forgive
me for using so bold a metaphor before an unprotected
female. I should indeed be sorry to
cause blushes to mantle in your cheek, although
no sweeter robin o;-room could a blush wish for.

The thought was not a natural one, and the
wish was legitimate, so that this offspring of
your desire may fairly be said to have been
born in wedlock. I shall take my leave of you
all tomorrow ! "

'^ You will leave Holygraile to - morrow ? "
stammered the widow, hardly daring to believe
her ears, and fearing lest some trap
were being laid for her by this dreadful man,
who was so constantly interlarding all he said
with double entendres that she never felt at ease
with him.

*not only Holygraile, but England, Mrs
Millwood. I may not go back to Petersburg
; but I don't suppose you insist upon
that."

^^ Do you really mean this ? "

*' I do. Only one thing can prevent my
leaving England tomorrow, and leaving for
many months, and perhaps years."

And what is that thing, may I ask ?"

'you may do anything you like with me, my
dear Mrs Millwood ; I can refuse you nothing !
The one and only thing that would prevent my
leaving tomorrow evening would be an absolute
order from her Grace not to do so. Unless

the Duchess most positively commands me to
remain here, I am off tomorrow."

What trap, what pitfall, could be hidden here ?
Mrs Millwood wondered. Had this man and
the Duchess come to an understanding already ?
She must see the Duchess at once and ascertain :
anything was better than this uncertainty.

So, if I understand you, Mr Pendragon, unless
her Grace positively forbids you to do so,
you will leave England for a lengthened period
tomorrow evening ? "

Parfaitementy

"And it is the Duchess alone who will decide
this ? "

What do you mean ? ''

You will not leave the decision in the hands
of any one else, I mean. You are not going to
consult another person V^

Pendragon smiled. The woman was even a
greater fool than he had imagined.

No ; nobody but the Duchess. I shall tell
her I am going, and if she does not order me to
stay, I shall go ! Is that plain enough ?"

Will you promise me this ? "

'' I don't see why I should, but I will."

Now Mrs Millwood felt reassured. She knew

she could trust to the man's honour. She would
herself see the Duchess early in the morning,
and use all means in her power to restrain her
Grace from ordering this dreadful man to stay.
And now, Mrs Millwood, as I have done all
that you have asked me, will you, in your turn,
do me a favour 1 "

'' Yes, you."

What favour can I grant you, Mr Pendragon
'? "

Oh, merely a trivial one. When I leave
England tomorrow night, I should not like to
go away for so long a time without some remembrance
of you, and of all the friends I leave
behind ; I want you to give me such a remembrance,
such a keepsake, such a souvenir."

I don't understand you, Mr Pendragon."

*' Well, I will cut my story as short as the
keepsake's tail. I want you to let me carry
away with me — to the wilds of Russia, to the
burning sands of Egypt, to no matter what
foreign clime I may wend my weary way to —
your dear little dog ! I want you to give me
that blessed Flo !"

Mr Pendragon, you are jesting ! You only

told me yesterday you wanted to kill the poor
thing ! "

Ah, yes, but that was yesterday ! I was
cruel yesterday ! But the thought of this approaching
separation from all I hold most dear
it may be for years, and it may be for ever —
has softened my heart, and I long for the society
of Flo ! I have set my heart on having that
little treasure ! Not a precious hair of her precious
head, or still more precious tail, shall be
harmed by me ! I will tend her as a child !
She shall be as my daughter ! She shall never
leave me ; and when I look at her, and hear
her sweet voice, and see her sweet teeth, I shall
think of you, and "

«« Mr Pendragon, forgive me if I leave you !
Good morning ! " and the widow swept out of
the room.

*^ Go, lovely rose ! " murmured Jack, as he
watched her departing form, and then shaking
himself like a sleepy dog, he arose greatly elated
and refreshed.

He was not vain, but even a less vain and
duller man than he must have plainly seen that
if the widow was so anxious he should see less
of Laura, it was because she had reason to fear

his society was not wholly indifFerent to the
girl. Could it be that Laura loved him, and
not only loved him, but loved him so that the
fact had become apparent to her constant companion,
Mrs Millwood, dull as the woman was, to
whom, as he knew very well, Laura never voluntarily
confided anything '? If Mrs Millwood,
dull and stupid, and left out in the cold as she
was, had discovered this, how much more would
the clever Duchess, the girl's chosen confidant
and friend, be able to tell him ! The thought
made his heart beat quick with joy. He would
not delay an hour ; he would lay the whole
matter before the Duchess that very evening.

CHAPTER III.

It was not, however, till long past midnight
that Jack could manage to obtain a tete-cl-tete
with his cousin. The fatigue of the day had
induced her to indulge in the unwonted luxury
of a nap, and then a quiet dinner, served in her
own private apartments, with nobody but Laura
present, preparatory to going to a ball at the
Austrian Embassy (a ball which she would not
have missed for anything, for was she not going
to dance the *' cotillion " with Tressilian ?) ; so
when she told Jack she would send for him
when she came home, he felt quite safe in not
ordering his brougham to be waiting for him at
the Travellers' before half-past eleven to take
him back into the country. But he was only
just in time, however, and had hardly exchanged
his society war - paint for a strange raiment
wrought in black and gold, for the building of

which he had sent the stuff from the East to
his tailor in Clifford Street, when MurieFs
French maid knocked at his door and announced
that " Madame la Duchesse prie M. Pendragon
de vouloir bien passer chez elle prendre une
tasse de the."

Jack found the Duchess robed in the most
exquisite of white lace dressing-gowns, making
tea, her curly golden hair falling around her
neck and shoulders, making her look like Dance
entangled in Zeus's kisses.

What have you done with Arthur ? " inquired
Pendragon.

Oh, he is staying in town to-night. He's
dreadfully busy just now, you know, and
thinks it's a waste of time running to and fro.
So as we are all supposed to be going up to
town the day after tomorrow, he made up
his mind to stay at Pendragon House till we
come."

"You don't object to smoking, of course,
May?"

No. What an absurd question ! I shall
have a cigarette myself by-and-by. You never
drink tea, do you ? "

'never."

Very well, then, lie down there on the sofa,
and tell me what you've got to say' Jack
obeyed her Grace's commands, lighted a cigarette,
and curled himself up on the sofa. Before
he had had time to speak, however, the Duchess
came up to him, tea-cup in hand. '* Jack," she
said mysteriously, " can you keep a secret ? "

^'No."

Then I must tell you. Do you know there
is a good chance of their offering Arthur the
vacant Garter?"

'' Never ! AVhich one ? Old Blenheim's ? "

Oh no, — Warbeck must get that ; he or the
Duke of Hounslow, — but Fits vacuity's."

Who told you that yarn ? "

'' Tressilian. He knows everything, you know.
He was down all yesterday morning at Windsor,
and he said the Queen spoke to him herself
about it."

Yes ; but she can't do as she likes, you
know."

Oh yes, she can, very often, — more often
than you think, especially about Garters, and

with a man like S . She adores Arthur,

and I think she really likes me. Sapristi,
shouldn't I be glad if Arthur got it ! "

What difference can it possibly make to
you, May 1 "

'' What ? The Garter '? Why, a lot of difference,
my dear boy. All my enemies (and grace
d Dieu fen ai pas mal !) would explode with
wrath and envy. I should try and get Arthur
to let me wear it myself, as Lady Castlereagh
did."

'* What would they say at Windsor then ? "

Muriel laughed. " What indeed ! But what
would they say at Windsor now if they saw
us smoking and chatting together at this hour ?
Now, give me a cigarette " — he gave her one —
and a light." As she stooped over her recumbent
cousin to get a light she noticed the
unwonted gravity of his face. " What is it,
Jacky \ " she inquired. " Is there anything
troubling you ? "

Yes, and no. Go there and sit down, that's
a good girl, and listen to me." Then the
Duchess sat down, and he told her all — that is
to say, he was going to tell her all ; but he had
only just begun by saying — " Now, May, I must
begin by telling you, first of all, what you probably
will be greatly surprised and perhaps
shocked to hear, and that is, that I am stupidly

VOL. HI.

and madly in love with Laura," when the
Duchess sprang from her chair and came upto
him again.

'' What ! " she exclaimed.

*' For heaven's sake, don't make such a row,
May ! Your women will think you've gone
mad ! "

Never mind my women. What did you
say ? "

I merely said I was in love with Laura
Anstruther.^'

Then the Duchess, before he knew it, stooped
and kissed him on the forehead, and breaking
into a merry laugh, began clapping her hands
like a child.

Bravo ! bravo ! you dear old Jack ! " Then
suddenly imitating the pompous manner of the
then Privy Seal, she said, taking Jack's hand,
*' Give me your hand, my lord, give me your
hand. You're no fool, I assure you. Her Majesty
will be sure to listen to me, sir — sure to
listen to me, when I point out your deserts ! "

Jack had to laugh, the imitation was so
perfect.

** That Garter must have gone to your head.
May ; you're quite cracked to-night."

So you have the audacity, the cheek, the
cool impertinence to come to me at three
o'clock in the morning and tell me you love
little Miss Laura ! And you expect me to tell
you, I suppose, that she loves you, and always
has loved you, and betrays it to me, the darling,
every day, and every hour of the day, and
in everything she does and says, so that you
have become a perfect bore, an intolerable
nuisance to me ! Is that what you want me
to say *? " And she took his hand again and
squeezed it, half laughing and half crying in
her joy.

Oh, May ! what are you saying ? " cried
Jack, pulling himself up on the sofa.

Tm saying that if it were not so late, I'd
go to her room and wake her up, and tell her
that she's the happiest girl in the world ! "

*' May ! May ! you can't mean it ! She can't
love me. I am not half good enough for her."

Of course you're not ; but what difference
does that make ? She loves you, and you love
her, and take my word for it, you shall get
married just as soon as you can both of you
get some decent clothes made to wear. Oh,
Jack ! — lazy, disreputable, surly, smoky, cynical,

old Turkish Jack ! — what a trump you are, after
all ! You can kiss me if you like."

Then when they both got a little more calm,
the Duchess told Jack all, — how from the very
beginning she had longed for this, but how she
had hardly dared hope that her dream would be
fulfilled. " You are always so absurd, and lazy
and paradoxical and queer, you know, and then
Laura is so timid and gentle and retiring."

But then little by little the Duchess had seen
the love awaking in Laura's heart, — '* blossom
by blossom the spring begins," — or at least
thought she saw it ; and then the suspicion by
sweet degrees grew into a certainty, as Laura
got to speak more and more frequently and
admiringly about Jack to her Grace, and in
her artless, innocent way, unconsciously revealed
the precious secret that lay quivering
in the sweet recess of her heart like the purest
sun-shot dewdrop in the bosom of a lily. But
then, no sooner had the Duchess discovered that
so far as Laura's heart was concerned there
would be no obstacle to the union she so greatly
desired, than she began to fear lest Jack could
never be brought to love as a wife this child
whom he had known from infancy.

And I never of my own accord should have
spoken to you about it, Jack," said the Duchess
earnestly — " never. I would not have put the
idea into your head for the world. If your
own heart had not of its own accord opened
to this sweetest and dearest of girls, I never
would have been party to making up the match.
Laura is too precious, too good, to become the
wife of a man who can only give her esteem, or
at the best but half his heart. She is one to
be taken and caressed, and kissed, and fondled,
and protected, and worshipped from the first
moment she condescends to put her dainty
little hand into your clumsy paw, until the
last moment of all, when, dying, you shall
say a rivederci to one another ! " And here
Muriel broke down and wept, so great washer
joy.

This sort of babble went on for hours, and it
was not until the morning sun was streaming
through the closely-drawn satin curtains that
Pendragon found it possible to approach more
disagreeable subjects. He managed it at last
in this way —

*' Now as you think there is a chance of my
being accepted by Laura when I offer myself to

her tomorrow, I must ask for one last favour,
Duchess."

Granted beforehand. What is it ? "

Order me to stay in England, or rather,
positively forbid me to leave Holygraile until
I shall have learnt my fate."

Muriel, accustomed to her cousin's whims, replied
at once with mock severity — ^' I, Duchess
of Tintagil, positively forbid you, Lancelot Pendragon,
C.B., to leave Holygraile, or even to put
your nose outside the door, until further orders.
Is that right ? "

Quite right. Now my half-awakened conscience
can repose again."

But what was all this for '? " asked the
Duchess.

Jack, instead of replying to his cousin's very
natural question, said, " Now there's another
advantage that you have overlooked, May. If
Laura accepts me, I rid you of Mrs Millwood."

At the mention of this woman's name a cloud
came over Muriel's face, and she rose, walked to
the window, and pulling back the curtains, let
the sunlight come streaming in.

Yes, of course. See what a splendid morning
it is, Jack ! Luckily my maid is a Frenchwoman,

and was three years with the Princesse
de Bougival, or she would be awfully scandalised
at your staying here so long."

You'll get rid of Mrs Millwood, of course, at
once."

Of course — at once."

"And now I want to ask you, May," he continued,
" about something very disagreeable —
about Laura's mother."

Muriel shuddered. " Why speak of such horrible
things this lovely morning ? " she said.

Only this once, May : I will never allude to
the subject again. What kind of woman was
Lady Anstruther ? "

What kind of woman *? One of the dearest
and best women that ever lived, until that villain
came across her path. She was like my
sister : we were brought up together, you
know."

Yes. It was Laurence Farquhar she ran
away with, was it not, — that awful scoundrel
who was suspected of cheating at cards, and
who used to live on Arthur 1 "

Yes."

It was a sudden infatuation, I suppose ? "

** What do you mean ? "

*' It was not a long and horrible intrigue, I
mean. He seduced her, and she ran away with
him — that was about the long and short of it, I
suppose ? "

''I believe so. But how can I tell? Why
ask me such horrid things ? She ran away with
him, that's all I know; but I loved her before, and
I have forgiven and love her now, and I only hope
before I die I may clasp her in my arms again
and tell her so." Then, staring out of the window,
she murmured as if to herself, " Madgy,
darling ! " assuming the little baby - voice in
which, in the old days, she used to speak to her
foster-sister; then she began humming from
*lucretia" —

Qui che fai ? "
Che tu teen veda ! Ferme aspect ! E tu che fai ? "
Che tu sombre la contract ! Ferme attend ! "

and turning from the window, burst into tears,
sobbing, " Oh, Jack ! Jack ! One can't, one
really can't, forget all one loved when one was a
girl!"

Pendragon, deeply moved, rose and came to
his cousin.

** Forgive me, May — forgive me for recalling
such sad things to your memory. Forgive me."

But Muriel looked up bravely through her
tears, and stifling her sobs, exclaimed — "No,
Jack, you are right, and I am a fool. You have
a right to know all now, and I will tell you all
I can ; only never let us revert to the subject
again. Madge, Lady Anstruther, Laura's mother,
was pure, and good, and true until she
met that villain Farquhar. He ruined her.
He was staying with us in Kent, next the '
place, and there he ruined her. Mrs
Millwood — yes, Mrs Millwood — stole a letter —
a dreadful letter — this man had written to
Madge, to Lady Anstruther, and showed it to
Sir James. And then " here she paused.*

Well, and then ? "

Then Farquhar killed Sir James ! "

Killed him ! "

Yes, killed him ! "

I thought he was killed by a tramp."

That was the report that Sir James himself
had circulated before he died, but it was false.
Farquhar killed him Sir James told me so
himself on his deathbed, and Mrs Millwood
knows it too."

Good God ! How dreadful ! How did he
kill him ? " Muriel shuddered, but made no

answer. " How did he kill him, May 1 " Muriel
shuddered again. '' How did he kill him '? " repeated
Jack, after a pause.

*' They met, and he killed him," murmured
the Duchess.

^' Where and how did they meet *? " asked
Jack.

They met near the house, near Court-hope,
where the Anstruthers were living
then."

Did Sir James find his wife with him ? "

Silence, then slowly — *' I believe so. There
was no doubt of her guilt, at all events. Sir
James showed me the letter Farquhar had
written to his wife."

But did he see them together ? "

Why do you torture me so ? " burst out
Muriel, turning around suddenly and looking at
him, her face lighted with anger. " I tell you
she was guilty, that she fled with her lover, and
that I have forgiven her." Here she pulled back
the curtain still further with great violence, and
clasping her hands, casting up her head, and
looking at the uprising sun, she said, as if unconscious
of the presence of Pendragon, "
God ! Thou knowest I have forgiven her, as I

hope to be forgiven ! Thou knowest all, merciful
God I"

Pendragon stood speechless for a moment,
quite bewildered by this sudden and wholly
unexpected burst of emotion. He knew, of
course, how naturally impulsive and excitable
the Duchess was, and he told himself that her
nerves had doubtless been rather severely taxed
by the fatigue of the last few hours; but at
the same time, that some mystery — some
painful secret connected with the elopement of
Lady Anstruther — lurked unrevealed, he also
instinctively felt ; but in the presence of his
cousin's emotion, he abandoned all idea of pursuing
the matter further for the time being, and
indeed the beauty of the picture before him
drove almost all from his mind, save a sentiment
of wonder, mingled with awe and admiration.

As Muriel stood there by the window, her
blue eyes filled with tears, looking up beseechingly
to heaven, her fair face, of the perfect oval
of the Pallas of Velletri, framed round with the
golden hair which the morning sun uprising
woke to living gold, her quivering lips parted,
one hand placed upon her bosom as if beseeching
pardon, and one grasping the curtain as if

in self-defence, she looked like a picture of a
child-martyr pleading for pity from some ruthless
executioner, while through the half-opened
gates and from the inner circus might have
been coming to her ears the roaring of the thousands,
" Christian ad leones ! "

If you have forgiven her, May, she knows
it now," he murmured gently, not knowing
exactly what to say.

But his words had a very different effect
upon the Duchess than the one he had anticipated.
She turned on him suddenly, almost
fiercely —

What do you mean ? Is she dead ? You
don't mean she is dead, Jack ? "

I know nothing about it. May. I have no
idea whether your poor friend is alive or dead —
I '*

Oh, she is alive," exclaimed the Duchess, as
if reassured. " She must be alive, and I shall
ask you, Jack, when once you are married and
settled, to help me to find her out. Of course
Laura must know nothing about it, but I must
find her, and you must help me. I promised
her husband on his deathbed to find her and
tell her he forgave her. I have tried, and — and

and — that woman, Mrs Millwood, has tried,
or says she has, but so far we have been unsuccessful.
I have not wanted to trouble Arthur
about it, of course, so my hands have been
rather tied ; but once you are married you will
help me, won't you, Jack ? You will help me
to find Laura's mother ^ "

I will, May — I promise you I will."

The Duchess had now almost entirely recovered
her composure ; then she said suddenly,
after a slight pause, almost as if speaking to herself,
*' Mrs Millwood will of course very much
object to this marriage."

*' That woman is a fool I " broke in Pendragon.
Judging from the folly she talks, it must have
been with the jawbone of one of her ancestors
that Samson did the trick I " But Muriel was
not listening to him.

She will oppose it as she would oppose any
marriage that would bring her stay in such comfortable
quarters to a close."

Let her oppose it ! " sneered Jack. '' She
is powerless. I believe her to be even incapable
of defeating the ends of justice, and we all
know how lamentably weak those extremities
are ! " But this folly failed to amuse Muriel,

who seemed immersed in thought; so after a
pause Pendragon returned to the graver subject.
How much does Laura know of all this ? " he
inquired gently.

Of all what ? "

"About her mother ? ''

Nothing, or next to nothing," replied the
Duchess, in a low hard voice. " Of course it
was my duty to keep all that I could of such a
dreadful tragedy from the child. She knows
that her father and mother did not agree — did
not live together ; but that her mother ran away
from her home with a lover, and that that lover
killed her father, — that, of course, she does not
know. You see, she has never felt the want of
a mother's love : she has been as my own child
to me."

Does she think her mother is still alive ? "

I can't say, but I fancy not. I have never
spoken to her about it since she was a mere
baby." Here the Duchess's voice softened.
'• When she was about six years old, — it was the
night poor little Camelot died," here the tears
began to flow, — '' she stole into the room and
found me kneeling by my dead boy's bedside,
and she put her arms around my neck and

whispered, * Aunty May, don't cry ! If you
have got no little boy, I have got no mamma !
Poor Sammy is dead, and poor mamma is dead.
Let me be your little girl. Aunty May ! ' Oh !
can you wonder. Jack, that since then I have
loved her as my own child, — almost more, perhaps,
than my own child, — as a support, a comforter
sent to me from heaven ? "

God bless you. May ! God bless you both ! "
murmured the Cynic, with tears both in his
voice and in his eyes.

CHAPTER IV.

It was late the following day — very late —
before Mrs Millwood could succeed in being
admitted to the presence of the Duchess. She
had, indeed, sent word directly after breakfast
that she wished to see her Grace ; but the reply
brought was that her Grace had gone to bed
very tired, and had given orders not to be disturbed
until she should give further instructions.
So Mrs Millwood had to wait, but she
waited with perfect equanimity and patience.
The task she had set herself to perform had
indeed been rendered comparatively easy by
the promise Jack Pendragon had given her
the day before in the Mary Stuart Room, — a
promise she knew she could rely upon. It
was surely not much to ask the Duchess not to
order her cousin to remain in England, but tolet
him follow his own fancy and go abroad.

Mrs Millwood decided that she would not press
matters. She knew the nervous, impulsive,
and passionate nature of the Duchess, and she
feared lest pressure might be dangerous, and
lead to her dismissal. Indeed pressure was
hardly necessary now. She would merely point
out to her Grace that Laura was still very
young and inexperienced, and that in a year
or two, when Pendragon should have returned
from his diplomatic labours once again, it would
be ample time then to consider the possibility of
a union between Miss Anstruther and the heir
to the Dukedom of Tintagil. The Duchess had
always treated her with the greatest courtesy
on all occasions, and with most marked and
especial consideration in all matters connected
with Laura's welfare, so that she could hardly
refuse to grant her so simple a request as to
refrain from positively commanding her cousin
to remain in England. So Mrs Millwood
sipped her tea with great composure alone at
the breakfast - table at Holygraile, only regretting
that it had been announced to her
that Mr Pendragon would breakfast in his own
room, and that a message had been brought back
to her that Miss Anstruther had a sick headache,

VOL. TTL D

and did not wish to be disturbed. Had she
been aware of the fact that Jack had written
to Laura begging her to meet him that morning
in the boathouse by the river-side alone and
without the knowledge of anybody, adding that
it was the special wish of the Duchess that she
should answer this invitation in the affirmative,
it is probable that the widow would not
perhaps have found life so altogether worth
the living as she was doing, when at length
the groom of the chambers formally announced
to her that her Grace was ready to receive her.
Flo, the obnoxious and universally detested cur,
had, owing to nobody being about save the
servants, been allowed to wander after his
mistress at his own sweet will that morning;
and so when Mrs Millwood rose to obey
with alacrity the message sent her by the
Duchess, she did not notice that the dog
followed her, cowering beneath her dress, and
looking strangely ill and dejected, as if still
smarting under the very evident disapproval
shown him by a Royal Highness the day
before.

"I hope. your Grace is quite recovered from
the fatigue of yesterday," began Mrs Millwood

sweetly, when she had been ushered into the
Duchess's apartment.

"Good morning, Mrs Millwood/' replied
Muriel, who was lying back in a chaise longue
by the open window, looking pale and tired.

Yes, thank you, I Ah ! you have brought

Flo with you ! " she broke off.

The Duchess, like Pendragon, was passionately
fond of dogs, but entertained a very
particular dislike to this special cur. Mrs
Millwood looked down, and there, in very deed,
was Flo, shuddering and cowering with downcast
head, looking strangely ill.

Oh ! I beg your pardon " began Sirs

Millwood ; but the Duchess, whose compassion
had been aroused by the miserable appearance
of the brute, interrupted her —

What is the matter with the poor thing,
Mrs Millwood ? She looks very ill."

She has been poorly for the last day or two.
She won't eat anything."

How wretchedly ill she looks ! It's the
great heat, I suppose."

"That is why I keep the poor darling
close by me ! " stammered the widow, glad
to be able to avail herself of this shadow of

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

an excuse for having brought the dog with
her.

Let me try her with some milk ! " exclaimed
Muriel, her pity immediately awakened
to activity at the sight of suffering. Then she
leant forward to the table, poured out a saucerful
of milk, and stooping down, put it before
Flo ; but this interesting quadruped only growled,
glared at the milk, and retreated behind her
mistress.

I had better take her away ! " suggested
Mrs Millwood.

Oh no ! as the poor thing is here, let her
stay. She may change her mind and take her
milk by-and-by. Let her stay. Pray be seated,
Mrs Millwood. You wished to see me, I
believe ? You must forgive me, but I am so
late this morning that I am afraid I can
spare you but very little time. After all the
fatigue of the day, I had to go to that ball, you
know, last night, and I feel quite worn out."

Mrs Millwood smiled sweetly, and then bowing,
seated herself with much majesty. Then
a slight pause ensued, and it suddenly struck
the Duchess that something in the woman's
manner seemed to betoken that a matter of

considerable moment was about to be discussed.
She herself had no intention of saying a word
to Mrs Millwood about Miss Anstruther until
Jack should have reported the result of his
interview with Laura ; for although that this
result would be in every way successful was
hardly open to doubt, she felt she would be
hardly justified in mentioning her cousin's
secret to any one until he had been formally
accepted. And then again, this morning poor
little Muriel felt particularly nervous and depressed,
owing to the fatigue engendered by the
dissipations of the previous day and night. So
she clasped her hands in her lap and waited for
Mrs Millwood to begin. She had not long to
wait.

I will not detain your Grace many minutes,
for I have but little to say ; and, of course, I
should not have ventured to disturb your Grace
at all, were it not that I have something to say
about Laura, — about the welfare of that dear
child, who has been left to us both as a sacred
legacy !

The Duchess bowed. She was well accustomed
to these opening remarks. Mrs Millwood
had been in the habit of making use of exactly

the same formula during the past sixteen years, on
every occasion when matters concerning Laura
were about to be discussed between them.

*' I am all attention, Mrs Millwood," said her
Grace.

The dear child," began the widow, "is now
seventeen years old."

Seventeen years and four months," corrected
the Duchess.

Your Grace is right. Seventeen years and
four months. How quickly time flies, to be
sure ! " and the widow sighed. Then, after a
pause, she began again : " It is a trying age,
and especially for a girl, — an age at which a
plastic nature is very liable to receive impressions
which may influence it for good or for
evil for ever after." The Duchess bowed, and
half wondered whether Mrs Millwood might not
have some French relatives of the name of la
Palisse. " Such being the case, I feel assured
your Grace will agree with me that it is of
primary importance that the influences to which
this plastic nature is subjected should be good
and healthy."

The Duchess smiled and nodded. ^' Why, of
course, Mrs Millwood — cela va sans dire''

'* Now, thanks to your Grace's tender care
and devotion — and perhaps, I may add, to my
humble endeavours also — our cherished Laura
has so far escaped, or at least nearly escaped, all
evil influences."

^' Entirely escaped, I hope, Mrs Millwood,"
put in Muriel.

That I dare hardly hope," murmured the
widow.

'^ Why, what do you mean '? " exclaimed
Muriel, half alarmed and half amused. " What
has happened to Laura ? "

Nothing ! Thank God, nothing — that is,
nothing of any consequence as yet ; and T amin
hopes that, with the co-operation of your
Grace, the evil, if evil there be (which God
forbid !) may be averted."

*' Do speak out, Mrs Millwood ! you quite
frighten me. Do speak out plainly. What is
it?"

"Well, not to take up too much of your
Grace's valuable time, I will say at once what I
have to say ; but I must beg of your Grace, beforehand,
to exonerate me from any suspicion of
wishing to criticise the conduct or character of
any member of your Grace's family."

Do speak out, Mrs Millwood. Of course I
know you don't want to say anything disagreeable
— you never do ; but if it must be said, it
must, so do let me hear it at once. Of course
you may count on my forgiveness beforehand, if
forgiveness is necessary, which I feel assured it
will not be. I have, unfortunately, but little
time to spare this morning, as I told you
already; and besides, I feel ill and nervous.
What is it '? "

** Well, I feel convinced your Grace will agree
with me that the society of Mr Lancelot Pendragon
is in every way most unsuitable for a
girl of the tender age of Laura."

*' Oh ! " exclaimed Muriel, taking a long
breath. She felt that the tug of war was coming,
and she began to suspect that she might
not be able perhaps, in all fairness and honour,
to await the formal acceptation of Jack's hand by
Laura (which, of course, she knew to be inevitable)
to acquaint this woman, whom she had
pledged her word to consult in all matters
concerning the girl's welfare and future, with
the very important step about to be taken.

*' Far be it from me," continued the widow,
to cast any aspersions on the character of Mr

Pendragon, who is, 1 have no doubt, in every
way a most honourable and estimable gentleman
! But he is what is called a man of the
world, a cynic, — one who has seen much of the
worst side of humanity, and who has had — if I
may so express myself — much of the freshness
of life rubbed off in his intercourse with his fellowmen.
I hope your Grace does not think
my judgment too severe ? "

Yes, and no," replied Muriel, thoughtfully.
The cynicism of my cousin is all assumed, and
to my certain knowledge no warmer hearted
and more honourable man lives ; but then, on
the other hand, he certainly no longer enjoys
the first freshness of youth, and has doubtless
had many of his early illusions destroyed. But
this, to my mind, Avould not — most certainly
would not — militate against his making a good
husband ; and the girl is to be envied, I think,
who may have the good luck to win his heart."

"Good luck !" echoed Mrs Millwood.

'* Yes, I said good luck — most certainly good
luck ! He is, as I have said, a man of the
highest sense of honour, and of the most
warm and generous heart. He has distinguished
himself in his profession, which is of

the noblest ; and his prospects are even more
brilliant, for he is, as you know, the Duke's
heir. Surely the future Duke of Tintagil is
a husband no girl need be ashamed of ! "

I am more than sorry to hear your Grace
express such an opinion. Of course the social
position, abilities, and worldly prospects of Mr
Pendragon are beyond all question ; but there
are higher, spiritual, and I may say heavenly
considerations, to be taken into account here ;
and for reasons which I have already indicated
to your Grace, — although doubtless Mr Pendragon
would be a most desirable match fora
woman of the world — for a lady of the same
rank and birth as himself — for one who has
had the same experience of life, — he is hardly
the husband one would wish a young, innocent,
and unsophisticated girl to choose."

I am afraid I can't agree with you, Mrs
Millwood," said the Duchess, with the slightest
shadow of severity in her voice. She had now
plainly seen what the woman was driving at,
and had made up her mind to tell her very
plainly the exact state of affairs.

I am very, very sorry ! " said the widow.
Your Grace and I have hitherto always been

of one accord as regards the welfare of this

cherished child, and -^

'that is' interrupted the Duchess, with a
touch of hauteur " that I have always cheerfully
and readily consented to any plans you
have been good enough to lay before me for
the child's education and training. In the
question of her final establishment, — of her
marriage, — it is quite another matter. In all
questions of education I have bowed to your
greater experience — for you told me, if I
remember rightly, you had been for years a
governess, and had had the training of many
children confided to you. In matters of
worldly interest you must forgive me, Mrs
Millwood, if I suggest that I am as competent
a judge of what is best for Laura as yourself ! "

Far better, I have no doubt I '' exclaimed
Mrs Millwood, holding up her hands; "your
Grace's knowledge and experience of the
world is, of course, far superior to mine !
Beyond being a humble worker in the vineyard
of the Lord, and of having done my
little best to rescue erring souls from eternal
perdition, my knowledge of the world is, I am
happy to say, but very limited. Still, we

have here, as I said before, a matter which
is Dot only of worldly but also of spiritual
importance to consider. A child of the age
of Laura will be greatly influenced by the
man on whom she sets her affections, and
her eternal welfare is thus, if I may dare say
so, at stake. Now, as I am quite ready to
bow to your Grace's superior wisdom in all
things worldly, so would I ask your Grace
to credit me with some knowledge of the
way of dealing with things spiritual." The
Duchess bowed — this time very coldly : this
way of talking was most offensive to her,
but it was after all but a small part of that
gigantic offence to all good taste known to
her as Lydia Millwood. "In a word, and
not to take up too much of your Grace's
valuable time, I will confess that I have
noticed for the past few months, or perhaps
I should say have thought I noticed, a
growing intimacy between our cherished Laura
and Mr Pendragon, of which, as a Christian,
and as one who has the young orphan's interests
at heart, I could not approve. Now,
as your Grace will admit, I am nothing if
not frank ! " For the life of her the Duchess

could not repress a smile at this — a smile which
did not escape the lynx eyes of Mrs Millwood,
and which cut her like a knife. Nothing if
not frank ! Of what absolute nothingness then
must this woman be composed, thought Muriel !
** As I am nothing if not frank," repeated the
widow, with some slight asperity, *' I very
boldly spoke to Mr Pendragon about the matter
yesterday."

'* Ah ! " exclaimed Muriel, now really interested.
" You spoke to him ? And what did
you say *? "

I told him what I have just told your Grace
that I had noticed a growing intimacy Tdc-
tween him and Miss Laura, and that I could not
approve of such an intimacy."

'' Well, what did he say ^ "

He quite agreed with me."

Agreed with you ? " Here Muriel could not
restrain her laughter. She pictured to herself
the interview that must have taken place, and
her keen sense of the ludicrous was thus so
suddenly assailed that she broke out laughing
quite involuntarily. " I beg your pardon, Mrs
Millwood !" she exclaimed, noticing the look of
great contempt and displeasure that came into

the face of the widow. " But I am afraid my
poor cousin is really a dreadful tease and
humbug ! "

Mrs Millwood bowed stiffly. " I have myself
carefully refrained from using disrespectful
or disparaging terms of Mr Pendragon, but your
Grace's superior knowledge of the world " — this
with a great sneer — '^ is hardly likely to be at
fault in this particular ! "

^^AVell," said Muriel. "So Mr Pendragon
agreed with you that his society was not suited
to Laura '? "

He did."

"Well, what then?"

I appealed to him as a man of honour, if
under the circumstances he did not think it was
his duty to spare the poor child such temptations
to follow an evil example as his presence

could not fail to offer, and " Here she

hesitated.

In other words, you asked Mr Pendragon to
go away, Mrs Millwood : was that it ? "

Your Grace's knowledge of the world is
never at fault. In my enthusiastic care for our
cherished Laura's welfare, I so far forgot myself
as to presume to ask Mr Pendragon if he did not

think it would be on the whole more generous
and noble on his part to absent himself for the
time being."

And what did he say then ? "

He consented to do so."

What ! Consented to go away ?

V

** Yes. He quite coincided with all I said, and
acted throughout with that courtesy and high
sense of honour which distinguishes all members
of your Grace's family ! " Muriel bowed. '* He
said — he in fact pledged me his word that he
would go at once — to-day."

He said he would go to-day ? He pledged
you his word that he would go to-day ? Are
you quite certain you are not mistaken, Mrs
Millwood ? "

Quite certain. Mr Pendragon very solemnly
pledged me his word of honour that he would
not only leave Holygraile, but England to-day,
not only for a few weeks, but even for months,
and perhaps years, unless "

Ah ! here comes the unless. Let me hear
the unless, Mrs Millwood. One must never
trust these diplomatists ! Talk of women's
postscripts and serpents' tails ! They are nothing
in comparison to Foreign Office promises

very frankly given, and then pinned down by
an * unless.' ''

Mrs Millwood smiled rather bitterly. *' Your
Grace's worldly wisdom has once more the
advantage of me ! Mr Pendragon solemnly
promised to leave Holygraile to-day, unless
your Grace should positively forbid him todo
so ! "

Here Muriel suddenly remembered the formal
command Jack had extracted from her a few
hours before, and again she was forced to bite
her lip to restrain her laughter. Jack was
really impayahle, and he had gone almost too
far in thus trifling with what, after all, might
possibly be a most admirable and commendable
solicitude on Mrs Millwood's part for her pupil's
welfare. It was plainly her duty to tell the
widow the whole truth, and at once. Jack had
by his own folly rendered any further reticence
impossible.

*' Well ?" said Muriel, collecting her thoughts,
and trying to decide which would be the easiest
and softest way of breaking the unpalatable
truth to the widow.

Well," echoed Mrs Millwood, '^ that is all.
Your Grace was from the very beginning kind

enough to promise me to allow my views to
have weight in all that might concern the
welfare of our sacred and cherished legacy of
this child who was intrusted to me — to us, I
should perhaps say — by her dying father, and
I gladly and thankfully acknowledge that the
promise thus given by your Grace has been
very faithfully and carefully kept. Now, I
cannot approve of this intimacy between Laura
and Mr Pendragon. He, indeed, like a man
of honour, sees the danger himself, and has
promised me to leave at once, unless your
Grace positively orders him not to do so. I
have sought this audience of your Grace this
morning to beg that such an order may not
be given 1 "

Here Muriel's natural impetuosity and frankness
overmastered as usual her shrewdness and
discretion.

Unfortunately I have given it already, Mrs
Millwood," she said, smiling, and looking the
woman straight in the eyes.

What !'' exclaimed the widow. She could
not believe her ears ; there must be some mistake.
But before she could collect her scattered
senses the Duchess resumed, speaking very

VOL. III. E

calmly, coolly, and deliberately, but with considerable
emphasis and unwonted precision —

Listen to me, Mrs Millwood. You say you
have for the past few months noticed a growing
intimacy between Laura and Mr Pendragon,
and have been shocked to see it. Now, I for
the past year and more have remarked between
these two same individuals a growing love, and
have been delighted. Wait!" she exclaimed,
holding up her hand, as she saw the widow,
who had grown deadly pale, about to speak.
*' Pray hear what I have to say. I have noticed,
I say, this growing love between Laura and my
cousin, my husband's heir, and been delighted
to see it. I may even say more. I have from
the very first done all in my power, by bringing
them and leaving them together, to foster this
love, which, I feel quite sure, will be a blessing
and a happiness to both. That they should
marry has been, and is, the wish of my heart.
So far as Laura was concerned, I very soon saw
that my wishes would be realised, — that she
loved Jack — Mr Pendragon, my cousin : about
him — you know how queer he is, Mrs Millwood
I will frankly confess to you I had my doubts
until this morning,"

'' Until this morning !" echoed Mrs Millwood,
trying, but in vain, to speak with composure.

Here, indeed, was the very worst that even
her morbid imagination could have conceived
come upon her at one fell, unexpected blow 1
Here was the end of all her splendid luxury ;
here her banishment from the ducal Elysium
into outer darkness ! And all this had been
brought about, not by accident or circumstance,
but had actually been prepared and arranged
by the woman whom she hated the most in
all the world — by the Duchess, whom she knew
to be the vilest of her sex ! Oh, why had she
thus wasted her time ? Why had she not foreseen
that unless she took active steps at once,
these long-sighted worldly people would be too
many for her in the game she was playing at,
and the winning of which was to her of such
vital importance ? Why had she not long ago
provided herself with damning proof of this
woman's guilt, that she might have exposed
her to her husband, or else have dictated her
own terms to her at once — no matter what
terrible price Laurence Farquhar or Lady An-stretcher
might have exacted for lending her
their aid, and no matter what peril she might

have incurred in seeking and obtaining such
dangerous but necessary co-operation "? anything
o[ would have been better than this ! Here
was her home being taken from her — for when
Laura should marry this hated man, she knew
she herself would be cut adrift ; was she to lose
her re venose also ? Never ! never ! never ! she
swore to herself — never ! It was not by accident
that this love between Laura and Jack
Pendragon had sprung up, — it was the work
of the Duchess ; and she, this abandoned
woman, had actually had the audacity to declare
it to be so, and to one who held it in
her power, or hoped she could hold it in her
power, to blazon her shame throughout the
length and breadth of the land, and hound her
to absolute and never-ending desolation and
despair ! These thoughts passed as a flash of
lightning through Mrs Millwood's mind, searing
and burning such stray fragments of good
as may have loitered therein, and destroying
with furnace-breath the few buds of benevolence
which the seventeen years of the Duchess's
kindness might perhaps have been encouraging
to unfold.

"Yes, until this morning — or last night, if

you like. I saw Mr Pendragon when I came
back from town. I had a long talk with him ;
and he, as a matter of fact, never left my room
till nearly five this morning."

Mrs Millwood shuddered. All the hatred and
disgust which had been lying more or less dormant
in the widow's bosom during the past few
years, rocked to sleep as it were by the Duchess's
kindness, and the life of ease which that
kindness had enabled her to lead, now awoke
and sprang to life, becoming in one moment
more intense and terrible by reason of this
very quiescence which had refreshed and invigorated
them, and now stung to feverish
activity by the knowledge that they could
at length express themselves with impunity
as the last die was about to be cast and
there was nothing more left to lose. The
widow did not grind her teeth — that indeed
might have been for many reasons inconvenient
— but she did the equivalent; she allowed
the tears to mount to her eyes, ever a sure sign
in a woman of her temperament that the redwing
of murder is exciting the lachrymal glands.
She could not trust herself to speak, and waited
for the Duchess to proceed.

Muriel had paused, and was looking at her.
The face the young Duchess was looking at was
indeed one not difficult to read ; and even a far
less clever woman could easily have recognised
therein, very plainly and unmistakably betrayed
through a most flimsy and transparent
shadow of hypocrisy, most of the wicked
thoughts which came to twitch the nostrils,
curl the lips, and lower the eyelids. But what
Muriel did see almost appalled her. She read
the woman as an open book, and very plainly
saw that this was not merely a disagreeable, or
even a tempestuous, discussion she was entering
into with the owner of that face, but some horrible
conflict, the precise nature of which she,
the Duchess, could not for the moment exactly
appreciate, but which, beyond all doubt, would
be a conflict in which no quarter could be given
or expected. The hatred and venom in the
woman's face were indeed expressed with such
grotesque simplicity and naivete, that when the
first shock of horror which the suddenly blanched
and twitching countenance of Mrs Millwood had
caused her passed away, Muriel experienced
merely a sense of eager curiosity to ascertain at
once and exactly what degree of poison could be

lurking in this hideous cup. So, throwing herself
back on her couch and curling her lip with
scorn, Muriel proceeded, her voice becoming
hard and metallic and severe —

It might, indeed, have been six before Jack
left me. We have those improper habits abroad,
you know. We turn night into day, and delight
in all kinds of nameless horrors. Well, Jack —
I mean Mr Pendragon — told me he loved Laura,
and asked me whether, in the event of his offering
her his hand, such a step would meet with
my approval. That is another one of our bad
foreign habits, you know — consulting the parents
first. But here I almost think Mr Pendragon
should be held blameless by you, Mrs Millwood,
for he hardly contented himself with asking my
consent to his offering his hand to Miss An-stretcher.
His object in coming to me was rather
to ascertain from me — his best friend, and her
best friend — her very best friend, Mrs Mill-wood
'' (this was said with intentional emphasis
and severity), — "if I thought his suit would
be favourably received." Here again, with intentional
cruelty, Muriel paused. She wanted
to force the woman to speak ; she wanted some
sound, if only a hiss, to come from those thin,

white, open lips. But she waited in vain. Mrs
Millwood simply twisted her pocket-handkerchief
into a ball in her hand, and said nothing.

'^ Well," Muriel at last resumed, " I told him,
of course, what I thought and what I knew. I
told him that Laura loved him, had loved him
for a long time, and that he had only to ask her
and she would fall into his arms."

You told him that ! '' At last the widow
spoke, but in what a voice ! It was that of a
cobra expostulation with a reluctant rabbit.

'* Yes, I told him all that. I told him, as I
say, that he would be sure to be accepted if he
offered himself to Laura. I told him that such
a match would meet with my approval, with that
of the Duke, and doubtless with yours."

This last was, of course, not true, but as it
added venom to the wound now being inflicted,
Muriel could not resist the temptation.

"You told him that!"

And then I urged on him the importance of
not delaying, and as he fell in with my views, I
arranged matters so that he and Laura should
meet in the boathouse by the river this morning
at — what time is it ? Ah, yes, one o'clock !
They must be together now ! Then he asked

me to forbid him to leave Holygraile, and I
did so forbid him, positively forbid him. That is
all the harm I did this early morning, Mrs Mill-wood,
while you were doubtless sound asleep,
and I am very sorry if my conduct does not
meet with your entire approval. Don't you find
this room oppressively warm ? "

This last was said in a spirit of wanton irony,
for the room was rather cool than otherwise, but
Mrs Millwood's face had suddenly turned from
a deadly pallor to a deep crimson. It had
come at last then — the end of all ! She was to
be cut off at once from all the splendid luxury
of her life, from the importance that her position
as guardian to the beautiful protegee of the
Duchess of Tintagil gave her. She was to be
thrown back into her old sordid way of living, —
back into the old monotonous life of doling out
coals and blankets to the poor, and preaching
unpalatable truths to the dying; and all this
had been done and prepared without her knowledge
— had been done so secretly, that she had
had no time to sharpen her avenging sword, so
that now her expulsion would probably take
place before she could have time to unsheathe it I
The thought drove her mad.

And SO this is your way of keeping your
promise to me ! " she sobbed out rather than
spoke, her fury quite making her forget all
decorum. She cared not indeed what she said.
Nothing now could possibly make matters worse
than they were.

Muriel turned her head and looked at the
woman. She felt the danger-flag was about to
be hoisted, and her valiant little heart beat high,
eager for the fray. Her Grace had also, in one
lightning-flash of recollection, embraced all that
had been ostensive in this woman's conduct
during the past years, and she felt that she
could hardly bear it any longer. Insolence, at
all events, could not and should not be tolerated.

What do you mean, Mrs Millwood ? " she
inquired coldly. '* I am afraid you forget to
whom you are speaking."

With a mighty, an almost superhuman effort,
the widow restrained herself. " And so this
match meets with your Grace's approval ? " The
Duchess did not condescend to answer. "Am
I to understand that '? " she repeated. Still no
answer. " I am at least entitled to a reply.
Her murdered father left her to me on his
deathbed."

You are entitled to more than a reply,"
said Muriel slowly. " Here is what I have to
say. You are to understand two things, Mrs
Millwood, and it will be well, if you intend
continuing to honour me any further with your
society, that you should bear them both well in
mind. The first is, that I will in no matter
whatsoever tolerate the impertinent interference
of any one ; and the second is, that this match
has not only my most unqualified approval, but
that it is, and has been for years past, the wish
of my heart."

Mrs Millwood could contain herself no longer ;
so leaning forward in her chair and looking the
Duchess straight in the eyes, she said, *that
man Mr Pendragon must leave the house at
once and for ever. Do you hear me ? At
once and for ever ! "

Indeed ! And why 1 I can assure you,
Mrs Millwood, that 'that man,' as you have
the impertinence to call my cousin, will not
leave until it shall suit his convenience and
mine that he should do so. If his presence is
objectionable to you, you are your own mistress,
you know."

'' So I am to be turned out like a dog, after

all my years of devotion, am I ? Doses your
Grace remember that Sir James left his daughter
to me ? "

1 do, and I take this opportunity of telling
you, Mrs Millwood, that had it not been so, I
should certainly not have asked you to make
so prolonged a stay in my house. Sir James
left his child to your care until she should
marry, as he might have left her to the care
of any servant in whom he thought he might
put trust. To me he left the child, that I
might rear her as my daughter and be as a
mother to her. There is a very considerable
difference in the nature of the two trusts, Mrs
Millwood."

You are mad ! " exclaimed Mrs Millwood,
now fairly exasperated. *' Don't force me to
utter words I would sooner leave unsaid, and
which will perhaps embitter your whole afterlife
to have heard ! "

The Duchess looked at her with infinite
scorn.

"You forget yourself again, Mrs Millwood.
Forgive me if I leave you ! " And she rose
slowly, Mrs Millwood rising at the same time,
the two women standing facing each other, and

the dog cowering and snarling beneath her irate
mistress's dress.

Do you think," said Mrs Millwood slowly
and deliberately, " that that dying father would
have left his child to your care if he had known
all that you and I know ? "

'' What do you mean 1 "

Do you think that the world — the world
about which your Grace knows so much — would
approve of the custody and care of a child being
given to a lady who with the seducer of the
mother of this child, and with the murderer of
the father, held secret meetings 1 "

Secret meetings ! " echoed Muriel. She had
dimly foreseen this coming for the past few
moments, but when it did come the shock was
terrible, both to her pride and to her heart.

I saw your Grace that night. I was with
Sir James, and saw you in the Long Walk with
Mr Farquhar. I saw Lady Anstruther's cloak
on you, and I found it afterwards where you
had hidden it away in your drawer ! I had
never intended to speak of this, — I have kept
silent all these years ; but now for the child's
sake, for the salvation of Laura's eternal soul,
I speak ! "

So it was only this after all I Nothing but
the old silly story of the cloak — so old a story
now, and so absolutely absurd ! Why, as a
matter of fact, should she not have worn Madge's
cloak and met Mr Farquhar ? He had been
an old friend of hers and of her mother ; and
now, after this lapse of years, she could tell her
husband the whole truth if it should come that
she were forced to do so. She had, in the innocence
of her heart, tried to help a villain out
of imaginary difficulties ; but she had not known
the man to be a villain, or the difficulties to be
imaginary, until too late. There was, however,
very evidently something here that called for a
final exhaustive inquiry, and so her Grace sat
down, and motioning Mrs Millwood to be seated
also, said very quietly —

You interest me, Mrs Millwood. Pray sit
down." Muriel's natural shrewdness was now"
well awakened, and peppered to extreme vivacity
by the exigencies of the occasion, while the
great knowledge of the world and the experience
of life which had come to her during the
past seventeen years showed her very plainly
that she was mistress of the situation. "Tell
me exactly in what way you think you can

force me to meet your views against my will.
I have no doubt you are right. You are a
clever woman in your way, and you can at all
events hardly be so stupid as to have made the
mistake of quarrelling with me without some
ground for imagining that you have the might
at least, if not the right, on your side. In
either case, I shall be glad to hear what you
have to say."

This sudden change of policy had, of course,
the very effect upon the widow which Muriel
had foreseen it would have. She was quite nonplussed.
Not daring to be frank, and yet half
fearful lest if she were not frank, and should
not show how deeply dyed were her arrows in
poison, the Duchess would, with the great scorn
born of outraged dignity and pride, reliance on
sympathy and support, and confidence in the
power of wealth, popularity, and rank, reject
and repudiate her altogether.

'^ I have said all I have to say," she remarked
sullenly, when she had reseated herself.

*' Now, let us plainly understand each other,"
said the Duchess ; ^' for this is probable, and
most certainly, so far as I am concerned, the
last opportunity we shall have of speaking together

; for you can easily understand that, after
what has passed between us, your further stay
under my roof must be quite impossible." Mrs
Millwood bowed her head. " You want me,"
resumed the Duchess, ^' if I understand you
rightly, to meet your views in a matter where
they happen to be distinctly opposed to my
own, and you threaten me — for I can use no
other term — that in the event of my not doing
so you will use some information which you
think harmful to me, and which you fancy you
possess. Am I right '? " The widow replied
not. ** And that information," continued the
Duchess, "is, so far as I can gather, the fact
that on the night of Sir James Anstruther's
death — murder, as you rightly call it — I happened
to be wearing Lady Anstruther's rather
eccentric cloak, and met Mr Farquhar in the
Long Walk. That is it, is it not '? " Still
silence. " Now, my dear Mrs Millwood, it is
first of all my duty to myself to disabuse you of
an erroneous impression, and even, cheaply as I
prize your good opinion, to endeavour to raise
myself in your estimation, if not by proving to
you that you are in error, at least by calling
upon you to admire the great wit I shall be

forced to employ in trying to deceive you. You
appear to think that the fact of my having met
Mr Farquhar that night was a crime, and that
it is a fact I am ashamed of? Here you are
partly right ; so far right, in fact, that I will
even condescend to explain to you how far you
are wrong, merely for the sake of exercising my
good-nature, and at the same time not allowing
your playful spirit of satire to remain unemployed.
You tell me you saw me, dressed in
Lady Anstruther's cloak, meet Mr Farquhar in
the Long Walk on the night she fled with him ?
Here you are quite right ; you did. And why
not ? He was an old friend of mine and * of
my mother. We met, not by accident but by
appointment ; but at that time — and here I
know you must believe me — I had no idea of
the trouble he was about to bring, or rather had
already brought, to my friend's home. I thought
him an honourable man and a devoted friend.
You imagine, however, that I can be frightened
into believing you have it in your power to put
this simple fact in a light that can do me harm.
Here you are wrong, quite wrong, I assure you.
I have said nothing to any one about this meeting
— not even to the Duke, my husband, I

VOL, III, F

frankly confess (but you can tell him when you
like) ; because, in the first place, I was naturally
shocked and horrified to find a man I thought
a gentleman and a friend a consummate scoundrel
; in the second place, because I was very
ill after the events of that night, as you will
remember, and then came the birth of Lord
Camelot ; and in the third place, because I had
pledged my word to Mr Farquhar not to mention
this meeting to any one. Because I discovered
him to be vile and dishonourable, was
that a reason why I should become so myself?
I had pledged him my word, remember. Even
you will say no, I think, Mrs Millwood." This
*' even you " was given with ringing emphasis.
You happened to have been spying on us ; and
now, after this lapse of years, tell me so, and
I am good-natured enough to explain. That is
all. Wait," she said, as she saw the widow
about to speak. " Listen — I have not done yet.
You think that, owing to the fact of your having
seen me meet Mr Farquhar that night, and my
not having mentioned it, you can do me harm.
Here you are wrong again. How can you?
How can you hurt me by telling so improbable
a tale, which, though true and innocent, I have

only to deny ? AVhat proof have you ? Of
course, as a matter of fact, I should not condescend
to deny so trivial a circumstance ; but
suppose I should stoop so low, where would you
be? Believe me, my dear Mrs Millwood, all
this is folly. My meeting with Mr Farquhar
was purely a business meeting. You happen to
have seen it, and I have not thought fit to
mention it, — that is all. Believe me, you have
already played your part in this tragedy. You
purloined, stole — forgive me the word — Mr
Farquhar's letter to Lady Anstruther, and
showed it to Sir James. That is quite enough
mischief for one woman to have done in her
lifetime. But even this treachery has its good
side ; for if you had not had proof in your own
hand of Lady Anstruther's guilt, you might

almost have thought But I am mad !

Now, pray leave me, Mrs Millwood. I feel you
must see it is quite useless to continue this
interview any longer, and I have only to assure
you that my carriage will be at your disposal to
take you to London whenever you may think
fit to order it. His Grace is in town, at Pendragon
House. Go and see him, and tell him
what you have had the audacity to tell me.

but I warn you that you must not expect from
him the leniency I have shown you." And the
Duchess put out her hand to a titre bell on
the table.

"One word more, please," gasped Mrs Mill-wood,
rising again, the cur behind her back
rising too — " you did not quite finish what you
were going to say just now."

The Duchess looked at her coldly. " Did I
not ? I forget. At all events, I have said quite
enough to exhaust my patience, and I daresay
yours."

You said — you said — ' if I had not seen that
letter, I mio^ht almost have thought ' ''

*' I really must ask you to leave me, Mrs Mill-wood,"
interrupted the Duchess, again putting
out her hand to the titre; but before she
reached it the widow had seized it and thrown
it to the ground. Muriel rose, superb in
majestic anger, quivering like a racehorse.
Mrs Millwood ! " she exclaimed.

"No, no," hissed the woman, "you shan't
cast me off like this ! I have not told you all.
I not only saw you that night clasped in the
arms of the man who had already ruined the
mother, and who was about to murder the father

of the child you now intend to ruin, and who was
committed to your care on that deathbed, but I
have seen the father of the murderer, and he has
told me how he met you that same night, how he
gave you a vile letter concerning you, and how
you admitted to him that his son was your
lover ! "

My lover ! '^ In all the horror that this
tempest of passion had brought upon her,
Muriel only seemed to see this one chief horror
— the word lover as applied to Laurence
Farquhar concerning her. This was indeed a
new and terrible revelation. " My lover ! " she
repeated, staring stupidly at the woman. " Did
you say that man was my lover?" Her tone
was so terrible that Mrs Millwood quailed.
Woman 1 " continued Muriel — " vile and base
as I know you to be, can you be so vile and base
as to have been living in my house all these
years, eating my bread, seeing me caress that
innocent child, and yet have been believing all
the time that the man who ruined her mother
and killed her father was my lover 1 Speak !
Can you be so base as to imagine a thing so
vile ? Speak, and don't stand cringing before
me like a hound ! Speak, for by the heaven

above, nothing shall save you ! You leave the
house to-day, this moment, and for ever ! "

Mrs Millwood, who had drawn back abashed
on hearing this final and terrible sentence
pronounced against her, regained some of her
venom.

If you think you can spurn me from your
door like a dog, you are mistaken. I have
followed your hypocrisy step by step, and year
by year. You have lied not only to the living,
but to the dead. You have stolen the child's
innocent love, after having lied to her dying
father ! Do you think she would have loved
you if she had known you had been in the arms
of her mother's seducer, and of her father's
murderer, the very night she became an orphan,
and was intrusted to your innocent keeping ?
Think you guilty. Duchess of Tintagil ? Think
you 1 No ! Can I doubt my eyes and ears %
I know you to be guilty ! I saw you in
that man's arms ! I heard what his father
had to say ! That brat you called Lord Camelot
was this man's son, and this cousin whom
you would have this defenceless orphan marry
is your paramour ! " Muriel, quite forgetting
herself, raised her fan, and took two strides

towards the woman ; but just at that moment
Flo, startled by this sudden movement of the
advancing Duchess, sprang forward and bit her
in the arm. " Merciful God ! " screamed Mrs
Millwood, springing forward and trying to catch
the cur, who immediately retreated under the
sofa.

The bite was a mere nothing, hardly a wound
at all, but this sudden onslaught from so unexpected
a quarter brought the Duchess to her
senses."

"That brute of yours has bitten me," she
exclaimed, putting her handkerchief to the
wound. " He is as venomous, but rather
more dangerous, than his mistress. I shall
have him killed at once. Now, listen to me.
You must leave the house to-day, now, this
very moment, without the delay of a minute.
I forbid you to hold any communication whatsoever
with Miss Anstruther, — do you hear me ?
I forbid you, and I shall see that I am obeyed.
Go to his Grace if you dare — go ! I tell you
go I " And Muriel, with a most imperial gesture,
pointed to the door.

But Mrs Millwood had so exhausted herself
in her fit of passion, and, moreover, was so

terrified by the canine episode and what it
might lead to, that her courage left her, and
she could hardly speak.

If ^' she began.

'* Go!" exclaimed Muriel — "speak to the Duke,
I tell you, but leave me. Go at once ! " and she
stamped her foot. So Mrs Millwood slunk out,
the cur, cowering behind her dress, following his
mistress.

When the widow had left the room, Muriel sat
down to think, and her first feeling was one
of intense relief. She had had a struggle, a
terrible struggle, but she was at length free, —
free, and for ever, from this woman, and the
last link which connected her with that dreadful
night, which had robbed her of her foster-sister
but given her Laura in return, was for ever
severed so far as Mrs Millwood was concerned.
So, during all those years, this woman had
known about that meeting with Farquhar !
How long ago it all seemed, and how very
trivial the danger now appeared which she
had looked upon with such terror then ! Let
the woman go to Arthur and tell him what
she liked. She, Muriel, would deny all ! There
was no evidence but the venomous lie of a discharged

servant. Should the vile falsehood of
such a creature wreck her, the Duchesses, life ?
Never ! She had her husband's happiness and
her own to keep, and their social position and
their influence to preserve intact. She had
done no wrong that had engendered evil. She
had deceived her husband — true ; but after all,
what a paltry deceit it was, and in the eyes
of God she must surely have atoned for it
long ago, by the care and love she had lavished
on Laura I No, if Mrs Millwood should have
the audacity to go to the Duke, she, the Duchess,
would deny all the woman said ! But the
woman would not go, of that Muriel felt confident.
She had no proof to bring to his
Grace, and she would hardly dare to come before
him with such a tale, unsupported by any evidence,
and knowing beforehand it would be
denied. All, therefore, had ended for the best.
There would probably come a whining letter
of apology in a day or two, and that would
be the end of it. Laura would, without doubt,
be not ill pleased to be rid of the society of
one whom she had never liked (any story could,
of course, be told to explain the woman's sudden
departure ; and indeed Mrs Millwood was in the

habit of coming and going as she pleased, and
without in any way announcing her movements
beforehand to anybody), while, as for the Duke
and Lancelot, they would both be delighted
to have seen the last of a lady whom they
both cordially detested. But to think that
this woman could have had the audacity to
say what she had said ! That she, Muriel
Tintagil, had been Farquhar's mistress, — had
shared his caresses with Lady Anstruther ; — the
very thought was nauseating ! It was, of course,
but the result of an outburst of blind, vulgar
passion. The woman could think of nothing
more horrible to say, so she had said that.
That she really could have thought such a
thing possible, was of course out of the question.
But the horrible fact remained that she had
expressed this thought, and the very recollection
of this seemed to pollute the Duchess as it passed
through her mind. Just then the door opened.

Can I come in?"

Oh, Laura ! Laura ! " And the Duchess
opened her arms as Miss Anstruther ran in,
followed by Jack. No need to ask questions
here : the girl's happy, blushing face, as she hid
it in Muriel's bosom, told quite enough, — even

if the broad, stupid grin on Jack's countenance
were not sufficiently eloquent.

Oh, aunty, I am so happy ! "

My own darling ! Never so happy as you
deserve."

And to think you knew it all along, Aunty
May ! "

Knew what, my darling ? "

Ask Jack. He says you told him last
night."

Oh, Jack, Jack, you will never succeed in
diplomacy if you tell tales ! " exclaimed the
Duchess, half laughing and half crying, and
holding her precious treasure closely clasped
in her arms.

What's the matter with your arm. May ? "
exclaimed Pendragon. *that horrible dog
hasn't bitten you, I hope."

The Duchess glanced at the wounded place.
It was indeed not a wound, hardly a scratch — a
mere nothing ! At all events, she would say
nothing to disturb this present happiness. So
she shook her head.

I must have struck it on the table."

Let me kiss it and make it well," exclaimed
Laura.

But the Duchess pushed her back almost
rudely, and then taking her in her arms again
and covering her face with kisses, murmured,
No, no, my darling. Those sweet lips of
yours were never meant to heal wounds ; although,"
she added, laughing and looking up
archly at Pendragon, ^' poor Jack there looks as
if he hardly agreed with me."

Chapter V.

In the present complex condition of society,
living, as we are told we do, at high pressure,
it is natural enough that there should be some
place reserved for the failures — some shed, as it
were, into which the dilapidated and useless
machinery may be shunted. Such a place' is
Boulogne-sur-mer. It resembles in some respects
the Garden of Proserpine —

There go the loves that wither,

The old loves with wearier wings ;

And all dead years draw thither,
And all disastrous things ;

Dead dreams of days forsaken,

Blind buds that snows have shaken,

Wild leaves that winds have taken,
Ked strays of ruined springs."

Perhaps more men and women find their way
to Boulogne because of '^ disastrous things " in
general than from any other cause, although
loves that wither," and the old amours whose

pinions lack that juvenile elasticity which mayhap
erst was theirs, are to be found here in most
bewildering profusion, while *' dead dreams,"
'wild leaves," and "red strays" are not altogether
absent from the amusing mosaic of
Boulogne life.

No one can have lived long in London society
without having remarked from time to time the
sudden and mysterious disappearance of some
face which he was formerly in the habit of
seeing everywhere. '' What in the world can
have become of So-and-so ? " Well, if '' So-and-so
" be homme, femme, ou prStre, provided there
be a shadow of naughtiness lying over the
sudden exit, the chances are, information of
'' So-and-so " may be had at Boulogne. If you
must run away with another man's wife, or if
those troublesome divorce court people insist
upon transforming into a mountain of inconvenience
what at the best was but a molehill
of pleasure, why, the best place for you to go
with the stooped to folly, and the most convenient,
is Boulogne. Such people as have
entered into the blessed state of matrimony
with a firm determination to mitigate the severity
of the marriage vow with an occasional

application of the wholesome stage directions
laid down in ' Hamlet ' — *' Shuffle and change
rapiers," — will find Boulogne a most excellent
salle cVescrime, There is very little hypocrisy
there, indeed, before a man has got to that state
when residence at Boulogne is congenial to him :
he will have left so much of his gay plumage
behind him, that whether he be recognised as
formerly a peacock, or be mistaken for the
more humble jpintade, will be a matter of but
secondary consideration to him ; and when a
man has got to that stage when he cares not
what people think of himself, why should he
stoop to subterfuge in order to hide the nakedness
of another ?

There are indeed very many reasons why
Boulogne should have been chosen by the
dilapidated native of these Isles as the most
suitable place wherein to rest his head, but the
most prominent, of course, among these many is
to be found in the fact of its propinquity to
England, or perhaps we ought to say London.
It is something to be in sight of England after
all, — it seems more real to them, when dreaming
of the departed grandeur, to think it all took
place " over there"; and then again, the character

of the town lias been so modified by its English
inhabitants, that this little retreat enjoys many
immunities from galling and irksome social
usages. It is obviously absurd to serve a writ
on a man residing at Boulogne, so a knock on
the door has not the same meaning to the ears
of the insolvent as elsewhere ; and as exile
presupposes a better state of affairs formerly,
a resident at Boulogne may dispense with any
dress save that which is absolutely necessary to
avoid shocking the tough susceptibilities of the
natives. Then again, it is of immense advantage
to a man who knows that writs, summonses,
bankruptcy notices, and suchlike autumnal
leaves, lie clustering around the Folkestone pier
'^ over there' but who also knows that the same
are null, void, and of non-effect on the Lord's
day, to be within a day's march of the metropolis
which was, ten to one, the scene of his former
glories, and almost equally certainly the only
place where he will stand any chance of borrowing
the classical 'sterner" apparently so necessary
to the comfort of gentlemen who forget to
pay their bills.

There is something, if not pathetic, at least
interesting, and most assuredly amusing, in the

aspect of the fallen Englishman in his foreign
home. The Frenchman, when ruin has overtaken
him, bows his head and accepts the new
condition of things, assimilating himself to his
new surroundings ; but it is not so with our
countrymen. They cling, with what would
seem almost like the tenacity of despair, to
anything and everything that may impress the
casual observer with the impression that they
were not always thus. He who in days gone by
was so well known in the Subscription Rooms,
still endeavours, and with some success, to keep
up the jaunty sporting air and easy carriage so
well known at the Limmer's of old days, although
now, alas ! his bets must begin and end in paper.
The dilapidated Plunger loses not the heavy
cavalry moodiness which made him the darling
of garrison balls, and is full of mess-room anecdotes
as he sips the dreadful vini ordinaire
included in his "pension at a third-class table
dJhdte. The darling of the Guards, the pet of
the prettiest women in town, could never be
mistaken for anything but a gentleman (although
the chances are he can lay but little real claim
now to that elastic title), as he strolls on the
ramparts mournfully chewing the cud of bitter

VOL. III. G

reflection. As they have brought with them,
from their various social circles, their outward
distinguishing marks, tricks, and manners, so
have the mighty fallen who reside at Boulogne
jealously guarded the antipathies, sympathies,
and prejudices of their various sets.

Let no one imagine that the bond of a common
misfortune and sorrow binds them together
in sweet sympathetic intercourse. The one who
knew every exclusive salon in London comme sa
poclie in the past times, will hardly associate with
him who would in his brightest days have been
delighted to come all the way from Yorkshire
to enjoy the mammoth splendour of the Caledonian
ball ; nor will the latter in his turn
familiarly fraternise with one who, but for that
disastrous adventure with the Haymarket constables
which brought down the thunder of
paternal wrath, have still been happily " walking"
Guy's instead of teaching dirty French
boys English at five francs a-day. It is not
that they hope for a social rehabilitation, — it
is unlikely perhaps that any Englishman who
settles aft Boulogne ever really has any reason
to hope that the sun which once warmed his
golden curls will ever shine on him again, — but

it is something to wrap around one the cloak
of old recollections and associations, and, despising
the vulgar herd, turn one's face to the wall
like the heroes of old. It has, however, been
alleged that no man may fall so low but that
he will have his ancient, his lieutenant, his
follower, his toady — and the dictum of Lord
Beaconsfield holds good at Boulogne. Not only
does distance lend enchantment to the view,
but the atmosphere of Boulogne is one so
eminently stimulating to the imagination, that
the splendid feats of the decades, as related by
themselves to their wondering friends, are conceived
in a spirit that would make Jack Falstaff
honestly ashamed of his moderation.

Perhaps indeed in no part of her Majesty's
dominions do the members of the peerage do
their duty in lending their names to embellish
false and vapid anecdotes so well as in Boulogne.
The affairs of the Koyal Family are here discussed
with a saltness and a naive disregard
for consistency and truth that have a charm
of their own ; while distinguished members of
London society would hear such portions of
their private matters discussed at the Boulogne
Casino as must make all the skeletons in all

the closets rattle audibly — whether with laughter
or terror, we dare not say. Far be it from us
to think of impugning the high morality of the
English inhabitant of Boulogne ; but we may,
we hope without fear of contradiction, assume
that many men and women in London would
be surprised to find how many of their most
intimate friends reside in a town, the existence
of which they themselves only know as a place
where sea-sickness gives place to official impertinence.


Let it not be supposed that in Boulogne
exiled existence is conducted on economical
principles. There is to be found in great ]profusion
the man who, being born with nothing,
has lived for many years handsomely thereupon,
though by so doing he may have been compelled
to adopt the glorious method which
never fails to pay 'sin the long-rtm" — the
method of carpe diem — and chance the hotel
bill. But it must not for one moment be supposed
that mine host at Boulogne is unmindful
of the sound advice given to Chester by the
dying Marmion — and indeed the traditional
glories of Balaclava pale before the sum-total
of some of the bills suggestively laid, in a spirit

of the most exquisite irony, on the dressing-tables
of some of the defeated ones who have
pitched their moving tents in this amusing little
seaport town ; but, as we know in warfare, a
brilliant charge is not unfrequently followed by
a hasty retreat, so in the civil conflict which forever
rages in Boulogne between the impecunious
consumer and the unreasonably discontented
provider, although the former is invariably
routed and flies, the victor, alas ! but too
often suffers the greater loss !

Now, another advantage which this town possesses
in the eyes of the impecunious is, that it
is on the highroad to Paris, and indeed to most
other places on the Continent ; so that, with the
exception of such surly and ill-mannered cubs
as elect to branch off" to Ostend, and thus escape,
most of the men and women known in the
golden days must sooner or later — if the dilapidated
heroes remain unswerving and punctual
in their devoted attention to the hours of arrival
and departure of the steam-packets — swim once
more within their ken ; and stout Cortez never
felt half the delight on the lonely peak of
Darien as that experienced by the fallen giant,
now living in a state of armed neutrality in dirty

lodgings, when he happens to stumble across —
** by the merest accident, don't ye know " —
some old comrade whom in former days he despised
and voted a cad, but who is now radiant
and happy, and who has still enough good-breeding
left in him not to refuse a few
paltry sovereigns, "till we meet in Paris," to
the ruined ex-Guardsman, who has nothing to
look forward to but long monotonous days of
endless complaining, bickering, and economising.
The man who in times past paid twenty
guineas a-quarter for gardenias, now wonders
whether the young fellow he has just seen staggering
off the landing-plank, weak, helpless, and
sick from the stormy passage may not be induced
to prolong his stay for a few hours, that
the never-failing luck at pool may be utilised
as a means of silencing the clamorous washerwoman.
All dreams, regrets, and souvenirs,
indeed, come thronging to Boulogne with the
tidal packet ; and sometimes these dreams are
realised. The sea-sick youth, enchanted with
his new acquaintance, whose recollections of past
splendour are once more called upon as a source
of pecuniary benefit, remains not only long
enough to pay the washerwoman, but too long

to do anything but return a poorer if not a
wiser man to his fatherland. Sometimes the
fallen giant meets with a friend who is not only
willing to bury the tomahawk fashioned out of
many an old severe wigging, but to offer him a
dinner which brings back delicious reminiscences
of old days ; but it is rarely thus. The men
whose lot it is to live at Boulogne — and we
believe the men who eventually find their way
there are predestined to such a fate — are, as a
rule, men whose hold upon society has been so
slight and so falsely obtained, that they have
but few friends whose reOTet for their misfortunes
would go the length of inducing them to
risk missing the Paris train.

To this charming haven of refuge — inferior, at
least from a moral point of view, to the capital
of the nether world as regards its pavement —
Laurence Farquhar had found his way, when his
banker had assured him *' the latest strife was
o'er, and all was done with," and before he
could induce himself to slumber in the spirit
and the brain ; " but the Laurence Farquhar we
now present to our readers is a very different
individual from the good-looking pet of society
we last met, — the man who, without rhyme or

reason, and notwithstanding all his faults and
vices — nay, perhaps rather because of these very
faults and vices — had been chosen out and petted
by the inhabitants of Olympus, but who had,
just as their countenance had become of the
most vital importance to him, been suddenly
dropped by these same gods with an equally
lamentable want of logic. Had he remained in
London, it is probable, indeed, that still many
years would have elapsed before men would have
got tired of losing their money, and women their
hearts, to him ; but peculiar circumstances, the
nature of which we know, had forced him to
commit the one and terrible offence, which can
only be pardoned to a fool — that of absenting
himself. Les absents ont toujours tort, say the
French, who have brought the study of human
follies to the level of a fine art, and who dissect
our many weaknesses with such exquisite dexterity
and neatness, that we are even enabled
at times to detect therein the threads which
connected them with our scanty virtues ; and
Laurence, having been compelled to join the
ranks of les absents, avait tort, and in his absence
his enemies had found encouragement to throw
stones, while his friends had lacked the presence

of the victim's ready wit to enable them to
flatter themselves they were acting with generosity
in protecting him. His male friends wondered,
explained, and then condemned ; those
of gentler sex sneered, wept, and then smiled ;
but husband, and wife, and brother, and sister,
both joined hands together at last in forgetting
him.

Now when a man like Farquhar, one who
only lives by the sparkle of his daily presence,
is forgotten, the veil of that oblivion is as a
shroud. It is not the thin rag of forgetfulness
which is thrown with Christian carelessness
over a fault forgiven, and which the bestower
secretly, and in his heart of hearts generally
reserves the right of removing at the first
intimation of a repetition of the offence ;
but it is a heavy blanket woven of selfishness,
tightly sewn down by indolence. From
behind such a curtain no man of the type of
Farquhar can hope to emerge save as an apparition,
as a spectre — a not unpleasant one, perhaps,
if he comes bringing money and success ;
one absolutely to be abhorred if he returns without
either, but in all cases a spectre ; probably
the bore on the windy platform, but certainly

not the sable, silvered warrior who smote the
studded Polack on the ice. The tide in the
affairs of men, of which somebody worthy of
credence speaks, is all very well, and but few of
ITS indeed would feel any reluctance to remaining
for a brief space on the beach in order to
shake hands with the successful swimmer who
has taken it at the flood ; but life is far too short
to expect us to stand shivering and waiting for
the return of those whose only hope is that the
back current may bring them to our arms again.
This patent and painful fact Laurence Farquhar
had now had very plainly brought before him
ere he had been eighteen months absent from
England. His departure had caused no particular
scandal, nor had his name (so far as the
general public was concerned) been unduly mixed
up with that of Lady Anstruther, although many
ladies imagined, and most men related, all kinds
of enormities concerning his flight ; but Vernon
Macdonald, who had been during the first two
years in constant correspondence with him, had,
in his stupid letters, been more eloquent than
any offspring born of Lord Chesterfield or Madame
de Seine could have hoped to be.

As a social thermometer Macdonald was indeed

invaluable. Like Farquhar, he had been born
nobody ; but, unlike Farquhar, he had never recognised
that fact. He Alas indeed so taken up
with himself and his own individuality, that he
never looked beyond the sacred precincts of his
own person, and so by necessity had become
receptive, like a pillar-box ; for to have any
dealings with him at all, you had to go to him,
put something into him, or take something out
of him, he the while remaining perfectly well
pleased with himself, and caring not a jot how
the intelligence which he received and delivered
got jumbled together or mislaid. He was rich,
just enough of a fool to imagine he was not one,
but that every other man he met was ; and,
above all things, an individual who had contrived
so odd a way of being disagreeable as to
be generally credited with a good heart. Thus,
for instance, he would tell Lord Haddington (if
asked, but not otherwise, for he was a pillar-box
and not an active gossip) at five some terrible
secret which his lordship's son and heir, Edward,
had revealed to him that same day at three,
thereby imperilling all the worldly prospects of
this confiding youth ; but when taxed with this
indiscretion — as he, Macdonald, never of course

could be wrong — he easily found a plausible explanation
in ascribing his lamentable candour to
a natural carelessness of disposition, honlwmiey
and good nature. '' Never tell me a secret, my
dear fellow," he would say, — ^' you know I can t
keep it. I'm not, thank God, a mischief-maker,
and I'd do anything to oblige a man ; but I
can't take the trouble to keep secrets." The
result, of course, was that he soon became the
receptacle of all the scandal in London, which
he would not retail to you spontaneously, but
would readily pour out before you if you chose
to call for the letters. He had probably done
more harm and made less enemies by this simple
interpretation of the advice to be all things to
all men than any other unlocked man in St
James's Street, and had sent so many people to
the divorce court, and dined With them on their
leaving it, and sent them back again, and eventually
dined with them again (he himself never
having run the risk of being an outraged husband
or a co-respondent), that the Queen's Proctor
ought in all justice to have shared with him the
emoluments of his office. The mischief he did
was so generously and indiscriminately distributed
to all, that you had hardly time to think

of revenging yourself for the wound he had inflicted
on you before you were forced to forgive
him for the same, in grateful recognition of the
amusement he immediately caused you by dealing
a still more deadly blow to some one else.
He was not withal a bad-hearted man, but he
was a man so self-contained as to be a world
within himself and to himself He was always
at home, — never out : it was always Vernon
Macdonald. Whether your son might be about
to become bankrupt, or your wife to leave your
house, was of no importance to him, even if you
were his dearest friend (indeed every one was
his dearest friend) ; but you must not for one
moment think of picking a quarrel with him
if you find that, when asked by your bitterest
enemy, he has spoken of the bankruptcy and
of the flight. He was asked and he answered.
You may ask him something else, and he will
answer you. Que voulez-vous f

"Don't tell me a secret, my dear fellow.
You know I can't keep it." In a word, it
was the game of hilhoqiiet played in an artless
fashion, — the cup being always Vernon
Macdonald, and the ball any sphere that might
happen to roll into the hollow.

Farquhar, of course, knew all this well, and
had made Macdonald his correspondent (giving
him his exact address, which he carefully kept
from others), on purpose that he might be able
to feel exactly the pulse of society at home during
his absence ; and by the letters he had received
from Macdonald, he had seen — (although
the man had never plainly told him so, but had
only naively recounted anecdotes, concerning
himself of course, but which had nevertheless
shed some light on less interesting subjects :

thus, for instance — " I met the Duke of

yesterday, and he's asked me to stay with him
for the races. ' What's become of that brute
Farquhar ? ' he asked. What in the world
have you ever done to him ? ") — Laurence, we
say, had by these letters of Macdonald seen,
before eighteen months had passed, since his
departure from Euston Station with Madge en
route for Liverpool, that if he had any desire
to remain a social factor in London, it behoved
him to return to our foggy capital with all speed ;
but this he could not do, for the following reason
(and for another closely connected with it,
which we will speak of presently), that at that
time he had just become engaged to be married

to an heiress, — and the certainty of half a million
of dollars, even in Cincinnati, was of more
immediate importance to him than the uncertainty
of five thousand pounds evolved from
the intricacies of ecarte at the St James's Club
in Piccadilly.

The Madge Anstruther episode in his life had
been one of the very shortest duration. He had
told her nothing of his having met Sir James
and having struck him, until they had been
many days at sea ; but then he told her (for he
knew not what news might be awaiting them in
New York, and he was naturally desirous of telling
his own story first) that he had gone to
Leavenworth to get some money Lord Lyonesse
owed him, and that while there, in the Long
Walk, he had been set upon by Mrs Millwood
and Sir James, and had felled the latter to the
ground. To Farquhar's absolute surprise and
great horror and disgust. Lady Anstruther had
greeted this cynically announced intelligence
with a terrible outburst of repentance, shame,
and remorse, in the agony of her passion letting
escape from her heart and lips certain truths which
it was wholly unpleasant for her lover to hear —
and this took place before the guilty couple had

been more than a week together. The anguish
of Madge's mind was of course increased tenfold
when, on arriving at New York, the news reached
them of the death of the Colonel ; and but that
Laurence had successfully persuaded her, while
on board ship, to overcome her better feelings,
by putting before her the absolute impossibility
of undoing the harm already done, she would
have returned to England at once. All this
sort of thing did not, of course, in anywise suit
Laurence Farquhar : instead of an amusing and
devoted mistress, he found a heart-broken and
disconsolate widow; and so it became more easy
to him than he had at first expected to leave
her at home, with her tiresome and absurd regrets,
and seek solace in some one of the many
pleasant Fifth Avenue clubs, in all of which he
was already well known and liked. Farquhar,
indeed, knew the Empire City very well, having
been there already on three different occasions ;
and although the peculiar circumstances under
which this trip was made prevented him in a
great measure from mixing in general society,
still he easily found plenty of boon companions
of both sexes, whose society vas more agreeable
to him than that of the disconsolate woman who

greeted him every night with tears on his return
to the Brevoort House.

But a life of meaningless and senseless dissipation,
even for a few weeks, was intolerable
to a man of the mental activity of Laurence
Farquhar ; so he very naturally, though by degrees,
fell back into his old vice of gambling,
but this time gambling with a recklessness which
he never would have allowed to overcome him
in London. He lost and won, and lost and won,
and at last lost everything. He had then been
just two months in America, and of course had
kept all knowledge of his private affairs from
Madge, — not from any sentiment of mercy and
kindness, but merely because he told himself
that his pecuniary vicissitudes could not concern
a woman who after all was but his mistress.
The ups and downs of his luck were both alike
unknown to her ; but, by a most unlucky coincidence,
the very morning succeeding the night
on which he had been completely ruined at the
gaming-table. Lady Anstruther gently suggested
that, as Sir James had now been dead eight weeks,
she would like Laurence to take steps at once
for their relations to be legalised by marriage.
The scene that ensued was terrible, and we will

VOL. III. H

not even attempt to describe it. Farquhar told
his victim very plainly the state of affairs,
quietly adding that of course for the present he
had not the most remote idea of marrying her,
as, if he did not win that coming night with the
last thousand dollars remaining to him, he
should be irretrievably ruined, and in that event
the only chance left him of ultimate resurrection
would lie in the possibility of his marrying an
heiress. At the same time, however, he cynically
pointed out to her that, as she had a good voice
and had greatly liked the idea of going on the
stage in her infancy, she could hardly do better
than seek an engagement, without delay, at someone
of the American theatres.

At the close of this tempestuous scene Lady
Anstruther fainted, and Farquhar, ringing for
the maid, left her. On his return to the
hotel early the following morning, after having
won a considerable sum of money at the
Union Club, and in his heart — which was
amiably inclined by reason of champagne and
successful fraud — intending to patch up matters
for the time being, he found his mistress flown,
and nothing awaiting him but the following
line : —

May God in His mercy forgive you. Goodbye
for ever. — M. A.''

Farquhar's remark on reading this terrible
note was characteristic. '•' Good God ! " he murmured,
lighting a fresh cigar. " Why, she feels
like a thoroughbred ! Who'd have thought
she was a groom's daughter '? "

Laurence Farquhar, we must remind the
reader, was nobody by birth himself ; but then
it is a notorious and delicious fact that the
costermonger's donkey thinks more of the pedigree
of Ormond than does the Derby wiiuier
himself Then came more gambling and more
success, and when he had thus netted a large
sum, he began to make inquiries about Lady
Anstruther, but as he could ascertain nothing
he gave it up ; and so, with a melancholy shake
of the head, he wrote an impassioned Ode to
Despair, which was published in a Boston
periodical, and went back to baccarat.

Just as luck at cards was deserting him
again, he made the acquaintance in the most
casual way of the only son of one of the
wealthiest men in Cincinnati, and when they
had been only acquainted a few weeks, not

only accepted an invitation to dine with the
boy at the Brunswick, but that night, after
dinner, consented to accompany the youth to
the West, and spend a week or two at his
father's house. There he met the only daughter
— a beautiful girl, reputed to have as many
hundreds of thousands of dollars as she had
charms ; and if but half of that report were
true, Laurence felt that he could afford to
laugh at Vernon Macdonald's silly tales about
what was said about him in the far-distant
Pall Mall. Farquhar had indeed, from the
very beginning, told himself that he could
not possibly hope to re-enter society in London,
save in the event of his returning with
his past misdemeanours partly veiled beneath
the golden shadow thrown by great wealth, —
et encore ! Could he really hope, under any
circumstances, to retrieve the position in society
at home which he had lost ? He had
been seen with Lady Lyonesse ; he had killed
Sir James Anstruther ; and he had run away
with the wife of the man he had killed. Of
course he knew from experience, and from what
Macdonald wrote, that matters would remain
quiescent so long as he, the culprit, continued

absent ; but he felt sure that his apparition in
St James's Street (unless, indeed, he came
hidden from most harm behind mammoth
money-bags) would be the signal for a terrible
and universal capitation, in which comedy
he would have, perforce, thrust upon him the
unsatisfactory role of St Stephen.

Of course, much that is known to our readers
was ignored by Farquhar at this period in his
history. He had taken no notice of the cloak
Muriel was wearing the night she met him, —
he had, in fact, other things of far greater
importance, as we know, to occupy his minds —
and even if he had noticed it, he had paid no
heed to it. That Sir James and Mrs Millwood
both should have been deceived, and taken Lady
Lyonesse for Lady Anstruther, never for one
moment occurred to his mind. That horrible
woman had stolen his letter and given it to
the husband, and she and the outraged Colonel
had both watched together and seen him meet
Lady Lyonesse. That was as plain as day ;
and what was still plainer was that Muriel,
to get out of so terrible a scrape, must of
course have confessed why she met him, and
told all the story of the money transaction.

What was most lamentably plainer than all,
was that a man like Arthur would certainly
never tolerate in society the presence of a man
who had acted as he, Laurence Farquhar, could
be proved by this overwhelming and damning
evidence of Muriel to have acted. His dearest
friend, his only real friend, had thus become
his most inveterate enemy ; and important as
was the friendship of Lord Lyonesse, how very
terrible must be the power of enmity of the
man who had just become the Duke of Tintagil!
This was a terrible thought to Farquhar, and
he cursed Madge from the bottom of his heart
when he passed in review in his mind all that
she had cost him. That Muriel (on whose word
of honour under ordinary circumstances he knew
of course he could have counted) must have
spoken at least to her husband, and told all,
was beyond the reach of doubt. She had been
seen with him by two persons, and to have
explained her meeting with him (and especially
as they must have seen him embrace her at
parting), she, in very self-defence, would have
been forced to break her word, and tell all to
her husband. So that Arthur at least knew all
about the previous engagement, the money

transaction, and all the lies that he, Farquhar,
had told to Muriel, was beyond doubt. Then,
again, to make bad matters worse, all this had
come together at such a terrible moment. Arthur
Lyonesse must have been told that his dearest
friend, and a man he had befriended through
thick and through thin, and in every way, had
been engaged to his wife without his knowledge,
had borrowed money from her under grotesquely
false pretences, and had held her in his arms
and kissed her (and he could imagine how Mrs
Millwood, if not Muriel, must have told the
tale !), in the very same breath that he learned

•

this same dear friend had eloped with his wife's
foster-sister, after having felled the husband to
the ground and killed him. No ; fool as Arthur
was, he could not, and most certainly would not,
overlook this combination of iniquities. It was
impossible that he should do so. Laurence knew
the man too well to be otherwise than perfectly
sure that with these facts in his mind Arthur
Pendragon, whether Lord Lyonesse or Duke of
Tintagil, would render all social recognition in
England quite impossible for such a culprit.
His only chance was to return covered with
gold, defy Arthur, and brazen the matter out.

Otherwise, lie might as well hang himself as go
within a hundred yards of Pratt's.

Farquhar was not a fool, and in most matters
he was a sanguine man, but here he was forced
to recognise that his death-warrant had been
signed. Indeed so certain was he of the horror
and disgust which must have filled Arthur's
mind when he learnt the truth (whether from
his wife, from Sir James, or from that vile
servant), that for weeks after his arrival in
America he expected every day to see announced
in the newspapers the separation of Lord and
Lady Lyonesse. How could he possibly have
forgiven her such deception 1 It was not like
Arthur so to forgive the one crime terrible and
unpardonable in his eyes — deceit, Farquhar
thought to himself, remembering the old days
at Vitals at Eton. Then came at length the
announcement in the papers of the birth of
Lord Geraint, and that explained matters somewhat
to Laurence. Muriel had, of course, made
a clean breast of it to her husband, and sworn
she was innocent. Very likely old Anstruther
(old fool) had interceded for her before he died ;
and then the approaching birth of a child had
doubtless induced Arthur not to take any extreme

and final step that would create scandal.
In some way or other, at all events so far as he
could judge, Muriel had saved her social position
; but that fact did not in any way ameliorate
the terrible position he was placed in towards
Arthur. On the contrary, he knew the narrow
nature of Arthur Pendragon, and he felt sure
that even if he had been induced to forgive
his wife, he would never forgive his friend, who
had betrayed his friendship and forced him to
descend from the pinnacle of his pride to extend
forgiveness to the lady who bore his name.
So Muriel's safety, far from auguring well for
Laurence, told him that a price was put upon
his head, so far as society in London was
concerned (not taking into consideration the
more than probable fact that Madge, of whom
he could ore no tidiness, had returned brokenhearted
and disconsolate to her friends, and
told terrible tales about him), unless indeed
he could hide his delinquencies beneath countless
dollars ; so he sent in his resignation to
three of his London clubs (this, by the way,
chiefly owing to one or two good - natured
anecdotes contained in divers letters from Macdonald)
one week, and offered his hand and

heart to the Cincinnati heiress the next. He
was accepted.

Now if Farquhar had retained a single atom
of good in his nature, it would have shown itself
at this crisis in his life ; for by his marriage with
the American lady he at once obtained not only
much better than he deserved, but much more
than he had dared to hope for, the fortune being
far greater than he had at first expected, and
the lady herself one of the most charming and
lovable of wives ; — if, therefore, there had been
any good lurking in his vitiated nature, it would
now have revealed itself, warmed to life and
activity by the generosity of his father-in-law,
and the sweet embraces of his pretty wife ; but
the man, bad from his birth, had become so
steeped in iniquity before he met his transatlantic
bride, that his nature had been petrified,
as it were, by vice past all hope of redemption.
The kisses, when their novelty had passed
away, he looked upon as a bore ; the magnificent
generosity of the millionaire pork-packer
he considered as merely the natural and just
tribute paid by an inferior to one who had condescended
to stoop to his low level. Under
these circumstances, of course, not only domestic

happiness but even ordinary tranquillity became
impossible, and before twelve months of his.
married life had elapsed, Farquhar had succeeded
in breaking his wife's heart, and utterly disgusting
his father-in-law. He had not returned to
England directly after his marriage, because
some business matters connected with his wife's
great fortune had required his attention in the
States ; and this delay was fatal, for with the
vast sums of which he suddenly found he had the
handling he began to speculate — the old spirit
of the gambler reviving within him — and thus
as day by day he hoped by some splendid and
audacious coup to extricate himself from all his
business entanglements, and secure a personal
fortune which would enable him, whenever he
should think proper to do so, to cut himself
quite adrift from his American relations, he, on
the contrary, became more and more involved
in commercial affairs, which needed all his personal
care and great shrewdness to prevent from
resulting not in profit but in loss.

Then had come the domestic broils, entailing
the breaking of the wife's heart, and the disgust
of the long-suffering father-in-law ; and then
(for there was still plenty of money left) he

would in all probability have returned to England,
had not just at this juncture the terrible
tidings reached him that his father (with whom
he had held no communication, direct or indirect,
since he left London) had been making
some very dreadful revelations concerning certain
gambling transactions which he could only
have become acquainted with by banding himself
with his son's enemies, with the result that
his name had been removed from the books of
the only club to which he still belonged in
London. Then Vernon Macdonald abruptly
ceased writing to him or answering his letters,
and Farquhar knew that the very worst must
have befallen him in the high places at home.
The immediate result of this very disagreeable
catastrophe was, that Farquhar treated his wife
with still greater brutality than before, and
plunged more wildly than ever into gigantic
and hazardous financial speculations. Then
his wife died — almost literally killed by him,
for he had locked her out of the house all one
niorht in a snowstorm — and his father-in-law
cursed him and cast him away.

Over what passed during the next few years

we will draw a veil : they were passed roaming
from town to town and from State to State,
indulging in every kind of wild dissipation
" draw-poker' euckre, baccarat, and ecarte
leading the way, and Bourbon whisky lighting
his path to destruction. Twice he found himself
within the walls of a prison, and once, ina
wild Western town, where his skill at cards
had rather exasperated the guileless inhabitants,
he narrowly escaped having applied to him the
drastic theory of justice enunciated by Judge
Lynch. But at length one day when in New
Orleans, after having made a considerable sun; of
money in a fraudulent speculation, he pulled himself
together — having still enough shrewdness left
to know that the life he was leading could not
last long — and investing his ill-gotten gains ina
life annuity, so that, when the paralysis with
which he was threatened should have rendered
his success at the gambling - table no longer
possible, he might at least not starve, he set
sail for Havre, and took up his residence at
Boulogne-sur-mer.

The life led by Mr Farquhar in this strange
refuge for those whose motto must be ^^Fuimiis^^

we have already indicated in broad outline in
the general remarks with which this chapter
opens ; and it only remains for us to chronicle
that Laurence Farquhar differed only from the
other decades resident in Boulogne by his strange
reluctance to associate with his fellow-countrymen,
and his rooted antipathy to going anywhere
near the tidal packet. Of course he met
in this shed for the shunted many men whom
he had known formerly in the golden days, and
who had fallen as low, and in some cases even
lower than himself; but he avoided these companions
in misfortune, and even insulted them,
and so by degrees he was left to himself to
indulge in his partiality for such French society
as Boulogne affords, and in which, owing to his
anecdotes of the Jockey Club, and that remnant
of les grandes manures with which he could
reinvest himself at times, he was well received.
He played cards with and borrowed money
from the fathers, husbands, and sons, and made
love to and borrowed money from the mothers,
wives, and daughters, just as he had been in
the habit of doing all his life, and with the
same inevitable result to which he was so well

accustomed — namely, that Boulogne by degrees
became, just as all the other towns in which he
had put in practice this weird social theory had
in time become, what in slang parlance would
be termed '^ too hot for him."

CHAPTER VT.

Such was the critical condition in the affairs of
Laurence Farquhar when we again present that
gentleman to our readers, sauntering down one
of the side-streets near the quis on a sultry
July evening, a week after the expulsion of
Mrs Millwood from the Duchess's household.
The reflections which were forcing themselves
on the notice of Mr Farquhar were not of a
wholly pleasant complexion, and he was indeed
engaged in revolving in his mind how to extricate
himself from divers scrapes, which would
seem, at first sight, to clearly indicate that a
speedy removal of his household gods from
Boulogne-surer had become a matter of
urgent importance. So deeply, indeed, was he
engaged in chewing, at one and the same time,
the cud of bitter reflection and the stump of
a cheap cigar, that he did not notice the crowds

of frightened street children who ran by him,
yelling and screaming, their faces blanched
with terror. Suddenly, however, a man, who
came running in the opposite direction from
that in which Farquhar was going, called out
kindly as he passed — "Take care, monsieur,
there's a mad dog chased by the police coming
up that way'' but just at that moment one,
two, three, four pistol-shots were heard following
each other in quick succession, and a cry of
exultation arose from the adjoining street — " It
est mort I U est mort ! " The man stopped, and
Laurence stopped also.

They have killed him !" exclaimed the man,
evidently greatly relieved, and wiping the perspiration
from his forehead. '* Grace d Dieu,
they have killed him !"

There was indeed no doubt that the enemy,
no matter who or what he was, had ceased at
length to be a cause of fear, for a perfect babel
of voices, raised in joy and triumphant exultation,
now reached their ears. Laurence hesitated
for a moment, and then cautiously stole
down the street and looked around the corner.
There was evidently no danger now ; the crowd
was no longer advancing, but clustering around

VOL. III. I

something in the middle of the road, while the
presence of two or three sergents de ville,
waving drawn swords and speaking in reassuring
and encouraging tones to the assembled
multitude, proved to Laurence, who knew
France well, that danger, if danger there had
been, must have now ceased to exist ; for otherwise,
most assuredly, these gallant officers
would have, at a discreet distance, been pursuing,
and not, as they might now be described
as doing, facing the foe. Pushing his way
into the crowd, Laurence saw a dog lying dead
on the ground, riddled with pistol-shots, and
half cut to pieces with the swords of the valiant
policemen. One of these worthies now stooped
over the carcass and endeavoured to read the
name on the collar.

*' Mistress Meelvoode !" he called out. " This
dog belongs to an English lady. Here is her
name — Mistress Meelvoode!" Then looking
around, he bawled out in an imperative voice,
*' Mistress Meelvoode ! — is she present ? "

"Let me see I" exclaimed Farquhar, pushing
his way through the crowd. " I am an Englishman,
I can help you perhaps."

The sergent de ville unfastened the collar

from around the dead dog's neck and handed
it to Laurence. Then he read, — *' Flo, belonging
to Mrs Millwood, Pendragon House, Grosvenor
Square'

*does monsieur know the owner of the
dog?" inquired the policeman, who knew
Farquhar well by sight.

No," replied Laurence, " I never heard of
her ; was the dog mad ? "

'^ Was he mad ! Je le crois hen ! Voyez
pluto! See the foam on his mouth even
now ! "

Sure enough about the half-opened jaws were
still traces of slimy foam, and Farquhar, who
had never seen a mad dog before in his life,
felt convinced that he saw one now.

Where did the brute come from ? " he inquired
; but here one of the innumerable porters,
who attend the arrival and departure of the
English packet touting for jobs, put in his
evidence.

He came with a lady in black who arrived
by the boat from Folkestone just now. He
strayed away from her while she was attending
to her luggage, which she would not let me
carry ; but I kept my eye on him, for I thought

he looked queer, and then, when I saw him
begin to turn round and round, foam at the
mouth, and then start off running up the street,
I knew he must be mad, and gave the alarm."

'' Should you recognise the lady again ? " inquired
the sergent de ville, who had taken out
a note-book, and was making copious notes.

^* Certainly I should ! Je le crois hen ! I
offered to carry her hand-bag for her, and she
o-ave me a look as if she would like to kill me !
She was as ugly as her dog ! Elle avait Vair
merchants comme la gale ! "

This was such an admirable description of his
old acquaintance, that Farquhar had to smile.
'was she alone ? " he inquired.
Yes, monsieur, quite alone."
*' You must come with me," said the policeman
to the porter, putting up his note-book.
I must draw up a process-verbal, and I shall
need your evidence. We will go first to the
railway station. The Paris train may not have
gone yet, and you may be able to identify this
lady. Here ! " he called out to two of his coadjutors,
who were amusing themselves running
their swords through and through the dog's
body. " Carry that dog to the police-station.

We shall be there in a few minutes. En
avant ! " And so the porter and the sergent de
ville, followed by two other policemen, carrying
with great solemnity and gravity all that remained
of the obnoxious Flo, and surrounded
by an excited and screaming mob, slowly moved
from the scene.

Laurence Farquhar standing there watched
the departing crowd, his mind suddenly flooded
with strange memories. " Mrs Millwood ! " he
murmured to himself. " Just the right place
for her name to be — on the collar of a mad
dog ! " But what a host of recollections did
that once hated and despised name awaken !
Madge, and Muriel, and Arthur ; Courthope
and Leavenworth ; youth, success, flattery,
amusement ; cordial smiles of welcome greeting
him in every room which he might care to
illuminate with his flippant wit and buoyant
spirits, from the salons in Belgravia to the
studios in Hampstead ; absurd evenings at
Pratt's, and delightful mornings in Leicestershire
or on the Scotch moors. How long
ago it all seemed, and how pleasant it all
was ! and how good-looking, and fascinating,
and dauntless, and for ever triumphant was

he in those days ; and how absurd life was,
that all those joyous recollections should
have been brought back to him by the mere
name of a vulgar governess engraved on the
collar of a dead dog ! And then further
back still — Eton and Oxford, and his first
successes in life — always playing the devil, and
always getting out of his scrapes because he was
so gay, clever, good-looking, well dressed, and
audacious ; and as those thoughts came into his
mind, he took his half-chewed penny cigar from
his mouth with his left hand, which trembled
from the abuse of alcohol, and looked down on
his shabby clothes and right arm carried in a
sling and paralysed. Extreme pity for himself,
the only person he had ever really loved, made
him sentimental, and it is likely that if a beggar
had asked him for alms at that moment, he
would have emptied his slender purse into his
hand. " The pity of it, ago ! '' he murmured.
The pity of it ! " But just then his own
name reached his ears, breathed in a low,
half-hesitating, half-questioning tone of voice :
Mr Laurence Farquhar ! " and turning quickly
he saw Mrs Millwood standing before
him.

Good God ! " he exclaimed ; " what the devil
are you doing here ? "

Then the woman held out her hand ; she was
so overjoyed at having found him that her
sallow, vicious, hard face beamed with delight.

It is a long time since we have met, Mr
Farquhar," she said, when Laurence had just
touched her hand with his, " but I have come
all the way from England on purpose to see

you."

To see me ? What the deuce do you mean ?
Don't try and play any of your infernal tricks
on me, my woman, or I will have you locked
up. Remember we are not in England ! "

Mrs Millwood did not answer him, but stood
looking at him, taking the whole man in from
head to foot, not an eloquent detail escaping
her eager eye. She saw utter misery, rendered
the more pitiful and apparent by the jaunty and
would-be fashionable cut of the shabby clothes ;
she saw the wan, haggard face, marked, scarred,
and burned with every vice, and ravaged with
alcoholic excesses ; she saw the shifting, watery
blue eyes, shaded by the shabby hat which hid
some of the sparse chestnut curls, now becoming
grey and looking dirty ; she saw the attenuated

and trembling right hand, soiled and uncared
for ; she saw the poor, helpless, dead limb lying
in the sling, — and when she saw these things the
widow's heart, hard and cold as Calvin's grave,
was not touched with pity but thrilled with
joy, for she recognised very clearly at once
that she had at last found what she had been
puzzling her imagination and taxing her brain
during all these years to discover, and the
apparent absence of which had kept her from
taking any active step as an avenging angel
up till now — namely, the incentive to offer
Farquhar to act in concert with her against
Muriel, his former mistress. She had found
it at last — money, simply money, nothing
more !

Believe me, I have not come as an enemy
but as a friend," she said.

*' Accompanied by a mad dog," he put in with
a sneer.

Oh, my poor dear Flo ! " exclaimed Mrs
Millwood, clasping her hands. " She isn't mad !
What do you know about her ? I have lost
her."

'' I only know that a brute with your name
on its collar has just been shot before me herein

the street where I stand not ten minutes ago.
See, there's the blood ! "

Oh, my poor darling ! " exclaimed the widow,
taking out a black-bordered pocket-handkerchief.
" What villains ! what brutes ! To kill
my own sweet pet ! I shall complain to the
consul, I shall "

"You'd better keep quiet and get out of
Boulogne as quick as you cans' interrupted
Laurence roughly. " That's my advice. The
dog was as mad as a March hare. Some porter
has given a full description of you — a lifelike
description — and the police are after you, and
if they catch you, mark my words, you won't
get out of jail for a month ! "

''Jaiir^

*' Yes, jail. What the devil do you mean by
going about with mad dogs ? Your name's on
the collar, and there's a fellow who swears he
can identify you. The police have only just
gone around the corner to the railway station
to look for you, so the sooner you make yourself
scarce the better for yourself."

*' Oh, what am I to do ? what am I to do ? "
sobbed Mrs Millwood, wringing her hands.

Whatever you do, don't make a row herein

the street," replied Laurence, amused by the
woman's helpless misery, and mystified by what
she had said about having come over to see
him. Then he touched her on the shoulder —
Follow me. We'll have a stroll on the ramparts
; they'll never think of looking for you
there just yet, and when you've told me what
you've got to say, I daresay the coast will be
clear, and you can sneak back by yourself." So
Laurence, striding on ahead, led the way up to
the ramparts, followed by the widow, who was
so bewildered by recent events that she never
thought of the horrible impropriety she was
about to commit, in taking a nocturnal ramble
alone with so abandoned a debauchee as Laurence
Farquhar. When they had got to the
beginning of the walk by the parapet, Farquhar
turned and said, " How the devil did you
happen to come up that street where you
met me ? "

I was talking to those horrid custom-house
men about my boxes, and when I turned and
looked my poor dog was gone. My sweet Flo !
I asked a man who understood English, and he
told me he had seen the dog, chased by two or
three men only at first and then by a crowd.

run up the street, so I came after them to claim
my darling pet."

Laurence smiled grimly. " It's lucky," he
said, " that you evidently must have made a
mistake in your street, or otherwise you would
have met the corpse of your darling pet, and
the mob that followed it, and by this time you
would have been under lock and key."

*' Under lock and key, indeed ! I should
have appealed to the consul."

** No consul on earth could have got you
out."

I should have written to the * Times ' ! '4
Damn the ' Times ' ! Who cares about the
Times ' at Boulogne ? No : you've had a
lucky escape, Mrs Millwood. Providence has
saved you and brought you to my sheltering
bosom. Now, what have you got to say to me,
Mrs Millwood ? Don't be long about it, for I
am in a hurry. How are they all at home *? "
Who do you mean 1 "
Your master and your mistress."
I don't understand you, Mr Farquhar."
They were now walking slowly on the ramparts
side by side.

Laurence laughed. " Well, the Duke and

Duchess of Tintagil, if you like that better ;
your protectors, your friends, your "

They are no longer my friends or protectors,
Mr Farquhar."

''Ah, so they've kicked you out, have they?
Quite right too ! "

"Sir!"

I beg your pardon, Mrs Millwood ; really I
beg your pardon. Living abroad, one forgets
all the civility due to ladies of your rank ! "

Mrs Millwood bit her lip. This man was as
horrible as ever ; not so bad though, she thought,
as Mr Pendragon, for the easy sarcasm of the
latter was bred of supreme scorn, whereas this
was but the insolence of a shabby and desperate
buffoon.

I have left the Duke and Duchess of Tin-tail,"
she said coldly, after a pause. " And I
have also left my charge. Miss Anstruther."

Miss Anstruther ? Who the deuce is she ? "

"Miss Anstruther is the only child of the
late Sir James Anstruther and of his wife."

What ! that little baby 1 Miss Anstruther
already ! Lord, how time flies ! Well, and how
is the dear child getting on ? Is she pretty 1
Does she look like her mother ? "

*' I am astonished, Mr Farquhar, that you
should dare speak of her mother to me."

"Are you indeed, Mrs Millwood? How
very odd ! And why, may I ask ? "

What have you done with the unhappy
woman you ruined, Mr Farquhar ? "

Which one ? Mention chapter and verse,
please, Mrs Millwood ; and also be kind enough
to tell me if you are alluding to my Epistle to
the Parisians, or to my encyclical letter to the
love-sick ladies of Albion ? "

Mr Farquhar, have you no fear of a future
life ? "

It was a beautiful night, and as the widow
asked this question, the moon emerged from a
passing cloud and flooded all around them with
light. Farquhar glanced up at the moon, his
retentive and well-stored memory bringing to
his lips a score of pretty things to say ; then
he looked at the face of the woman beside
him, shrugged his shoulders, and threw away
the stump of his cigar.

*' The future life I Ah, yes," he replied. " The
Settling-day after the Derby-of-life week ! I
often think of it. But we haven't clambered
up here to talk about that, have we ? "

No, sir. I came to ask you what you have
done with Lady Anstruther, — your victim ! "

Lady Anstruther ! My victim ! What I
have done with her? What in the world do
you mean, woman ? " Could it be possible, after
all, that Madge had not found her way back and
told of his iniquities ?

Where is the poor misguided woman whom
you tempted from her home, and who has not
been heard of since ? "

Not heard of since ! That sounded reassuring.


Before I answer you a question which I do
not understand, Mrs Millwood, you must allow
me to ask you one which you will understand.
When did you leave Pendragon House ? "

'^ A week ago yesterday."

"And how long have you been living with
the Tintagils ? I had no idea you were with
them at all till I saw your address on that
brute's collar. '^

I have been living with them, Mr Farquhar,
ever since the night you ran away with Lady
Anstruther, after having killed her husband ! "

As she said this she turned and confronted
him in the moonlight.

Laurence laughed. " It's a pity you never
went on the French stage, Mrs Millwood.
You'd have made your fortune at the Palais
Koyal, now poor Thierret is dead."

What have you done with that woman, Mr
Farquhar ? "

What woman, Thierret ? "

Lady Anstruther — your victim ! "

^ Is a bride so fair ?

Is a maid so meek ?
With uncliapleted hair,
With unfilled cheek,
Mrs Millwood^ the pure among women, whose name is as blessing
to speak,' " —

quoted Laurence, looking at the woman with an
insolent smile.

** Mr Farquhar, you make a great mistake in
trifling with me so — a terrible mistake. I hold
it in my power to be perhaps of great service
to you."

Trifling with you ! I am not trifling with
you. You are trifling with me, on the contrary,
and absorbing my valuable time in this
delightful tete-tete, when I ought to be at
the Casino. Now, you must tell me what you
have to say to me at once. I will give you five
minutes. After that, I warn you I shall think

you are in love with me, and shall call you by
your Christian name if you will tell me what
it is."

I want to know where Lady Anstruther is."

First of all, How should I know ? and
secondly, Why do you want to know ? and
thirdly. Why should I tell you if I do know ? "

'^ I will answer you, Mr Farquhar, as you
have asked me. You ought to know, because
you ran away with her ; I want to know, because
I can be of service to her ; and you ought
to tell me, because by telling me you can be of
service to yourself."

"How?"

Mr Farquhar, I will be frank with you.
You are, I daresay, extravagant, and sometimes
glad to have extra money to spend.
Now, I am ready to pay for what I want to
know."

Laurence scowled so at her that the woman
shrank back afraid. This was a degradation he
had not expected or foreseen. In a moment,
however, he had mastered his anger, and said
coolly, '* Ah, that's it, is it '? You want to
know Lady Anstruther's present address ? "

"I do."

And you are ready to pay me for giving it
to you ? "

I am."

How much 1 "

'' Two hundred pounds ! "

Laurence laughed. " What wonderful women
clergymen's wives are, to be sure ! I was speaking
just now of a Celestial Settling-day. Following
out the sporting metaphor, I should be
inclined to call clergymen spiritual welshers ! "

It's not enough perhaps ? "

Certainly not : such valuable information
is paid by the word."

I will give you three hundred pounds.
That is all I can afford."

Not half enough, my good woman. The
address is a long one, and, as I told you, I
must charge by the word''

*' Then I must say good - bye to you, Mr
Farquhar'' and the widow turned to go.

*' Wait ! " exclaimed Farquhar. " We may
come to terms after all."

Mrs Millwood was quite prepared for this, for
she plainly saw that a man dressed and looking
like Laurence Farquhar would not let the chance
of three hundred pounds slip through his fingers.

VOL. m, K

*' Well '? " she said, stopping.
Suppose I take the three hundred pounds
and give you the information you require, I

must make one stipulation."

J.

What is it '? "

I shall want to know why you want to
know it''

** And suppose I decline to give you my
reasons ? "

Then I am afraid I shall be forced to decline
to give you the information you require."

Again Mrs Millwood turned to go, but as
this time Farquhar made no attempt to retain
her, she returned after taking a few steps, of her
own accord.

Why do you. want to know my reasons ? "
she asked. '^ I have told you already I am
only desirous of being of service to Lady An-stretcher."


*' Very true ; but then you women have such
odd ways of being of service to one another.
You might, for instance, think you were being
of service to her by causing her to depart from
this vale of tears by mixing for her a strychnine
cocktail I "

'' I want to tell her something which she

ought to know — something that she ought to
avenge ; something that, if she is low and dispirited,
will give her courage, and hope, and
life ; something which, if she is proud and prosperous,
will give her at least the power of lowering
one still more proud and prosperous than
she can be."

It's really wonderful how you women
understand each other ! So you feel certain,
my Christian friend, that supposing Lady An-stretcher
to be proud and prosperous, as you
term it, she will still feel pleasure in lowering
one still more proud and prosperous — by
which you mean the Duchess of Tintagil, I
suppose ? "

'a do!"

Capital I " exclaimed Laurence, and then
laughed to himself '^ And we have the cheek
to call them the weaker sex ! " Then after a
pause he resumed — " You haven't got the money
the three hundred pounds I mean — about you
now, I suppose ? "

Not with me now at this moment, of course
not, but I can have it at once."

When ? To-morrow ? "

"Yes, tomorrow."

Well, then, I tell you what we had better
do. Meet me here tomorrow morning at twelve,
and bring the money with you. You needn't be
afraid I I can hardly attack and rob you on
the ramparts of Boulogne at mid-day in July I
Bring the money with you, and think over what
I have said. If tomorrow, when we meet, you
give me the money — not a cheque, I like gold
and Bank of England notes, please — and tell
me why you want the address, I will give it
to you. Not otherwise. As you very justly
said just now, I ought to know it, and I do
know it."

The tone of voice in which Farquhar said
these last words was so false and trivial, that it
came to Mrs Millwood as a flash of lightning,
what a fool she was ! How could she be certain
that this man now knew Lady Anstruther's
address, or, even if he did know it, would give
it to her correctly ? He would get the money
from her, give her some address, extract the
secret of her vengeance from her, and then
laugh her to scorn when she came to tell him
the address was of no value ! No ; this man
required two things before he would consent to
impart such information as he might or might

not possess. One was money, and the other
was her reason for seeking this information. Of
these two requirements, the first, the pecuniary
one, she certainly would not satisfy until she
had become quite certain that the address given
her was the right address (for, of course, she
could not trust this man), — until, indeed, she
should have seen Lady Anstruther, or at least
have become quite certain that the lady she was
in search of was to be found at the address so
dearly paid for. Now as for the other requirement
: was it quite impossible for her to grant
it? was it not rather, on the contrary, quite easy
for her to grant it ?

But then, on the other hand, would this man
be satisfied with her merely granting the second
requirement, and giving him some guarantee
that at the proper moment she would meet the
first — be so satisfied, in fact, that he would impart
his information without having his terms
accepted in full 1 Surely he would ! He must
be far too clever a man of the world not to
understand that he could not be trusted, and
that to give him £300 on the off-chance of his
speaking the truth would indeed be egregious
folly ! But could she tell him why she wanted

to know 'i Why not, after all ? What had she
to lose more ? This was her last chance, and
she had had the good luck to find the man in
such terrible poverty that even her slender purse
could tempt him. She herself had lost all — her
home, her influence, her splendid luxury ! She
would not, of course, lose her money wittingly ;
but should she lose all she had left, and that
which she really prized the most dearly, her
vengeance, and this for a mere quibble of words
and shadow of sentiment, when Providence
had in such an unexpected and unhoped-for
way placed this most invaluable and necessary
weapon, Laurence Farquhar, in her hands, bound
hand and foot by the relentless chains of poverty
? No ; this was her last chance : she would
tell him all — that is, as much as he would probably
care to know. When she had come to
this decision, she looked up and saw Farquhar
staring at her in the moonlight, and she was
struck and horrified by the lean misery and
keen wolf-like look in his face, which the moonbeams
accentuated and intensified. As she
raised her eyes he turned his head aside, seeing
in her glance that she read more than he cared
for her to recognise.

During the last few minutes his mind had
been no less active than that of the widow, and
he had carefully examined the salient points of
the situation. Three hundred pounds would of
course be a godsend to him, if the woman were
fool enough to give it ! But he could not
trust her. She might even stop the notes !
How could he arrange that she should give
him the amount in gold, or at least so give it
to him that she could not recall it ? As for
her reasons for wishing to know an address
which, as a matter of fact, of course he could
not give her, he cared not a fig for them ! Indeed
they were self-evident and vulgar enough.
She had been sent about her business by the
Duchess, and like many a discharged servant,
she imagined herself to possess some secret
with which she could punish her former mistress.
There was nothing very romantic and
extraordinary in all this ; it was merely the
vulgar spite of a discharged servant, nothing
more 1 Why Mrs Millwood should especially
wish to know the address of Lady Anstruther
he did not care to inquire, and all the more ashe
knew it was not in his power really to give
it to her, — and most especially because, as a

matter of fact, he was so heartily sick and
tired, and in some measure afraid, of all and
everything connected with the name of Pendragon
and Anstruther, that if he only got
three hundred golden sovereigns in his pockets,
he told himself, they might all put their heads
together and blow up Windsor Castle for all he
cared.

"You say you know Lady Anstruther's
present address \ " began Mrs Millwood.

Of course I do'

'sand you want me to give you £300 forgiving
it to me ? "

You offered the money to me — I never
asked you for it."

Very well. Just as you like. You shall
have it. Then, again, you want to know why
I want this address % "

Of course I do, — that is "

"You shall. It is quite useless to put this
matter off till tomorrow, Mr Farquhar ; let us
discuss it thoroughly to-night. I have not got
the money by me now, of course, to-night, as I
told you, but even if I had, I should not give
it to you ! "

*' That's frank, at all events ! "

Of course not. How can I be certain sou
will give me the true address ? "

Here she looked Farquhar straight in the
eyes, but he was prepared for this blow, and
being good at the game of brag and poker,
stood her searching gaze with splendid shrewdness,
his face betokening merely horror, surprise,
and disgust that his word should be
doubted.

"Very well, then. You shall have the address,
that's all ! " he said angrily.

'* Wait a minute. I will meet you half-way,"
exclaimed Mrs Millwood, reassured by what she
fancied she had read in the man's face. "I
cannot and will not give you the £300 until
I know that Lady Anstruther lives where you
may tell me she does ; but I will have the
money in my pocket, and will give it to you
the very moment you can prove to me that she
is where you say."

^' That's not good enough ! " growled Farquhar.


'' Wait a minute. That's all I can and will
do about the money part of this matter. I
don't want to rob you ; I only want to protect
myself. If you can only indicate to me someway

by which we can both be protected in this
matter, I shall be only too happy to accept it.
Now, as for the other stipulation you made "

I care nothing for the other ; I want the
money," broke in Farquhar.

The money you shall have when you have
shown me your good faith," continued the
widow calmly ; " but to show you my good
faith I will meet at once your other requirements.
I will tell you why I want this address."
Here she paused.

Well ? " muttered Farquhar quite mechanically,
and not caring a rush light what the
woman might be about to say.

^' I want to see Lady Anstruther to tell her
that her dear friend, her foster-sister, the high
and mighty Duchess of Tintagil, who met you
that night in the Long Walk at Leavenworth,
has let every one, even her poor deluded husband,
think that it was she, Lady Anstruther,
whom you met."

What folly you're talking, Mrs Millwood !
Why, you and that old idiot saw us plainly !
Your word, of course, would not be taken for
much, but I suppose Sir James was not quite
such a fool as to keep his mouth closed. At all

events, you have no doubt done already all the
harm you can do, and I don't see what Lady
Anstruther has to do with it."

I tell you," exclaimed Mrs Millwood eagerly,
leaning forward and catching him by the
arm, *' that this woman, this Duchess, has told
nobody that it was she who met you that night
nobody ! I tell you that Sir James never
saw the woman's face, and as she wore that
absurd cloak belonging to his wife, he thought
it was his wife he saw in your arms, and he
died with that belief in his heart ; and that
this woman, this Duchess, let him die with^that
belief."

Wait ! " exclaimed Farquhar, his voice
hoarse with excitement, for his keen intelligence
had suddenly indicated to him that here might
be a gold-mine compared to the wealth of which
Mrs Millwood's poor little £300 would indeed
be insignificant. " I don't think I quite understand
you. Do you mean to tell me that
Muriel — the Duchess of Tintagil, I mean — has
not told her husband that she and I met that
night in the Long Walk ? "

Certainly she has not. I swear she has
not ! Why should she confess her shame 1

She herself acknowledged to me she had not
told her husband, and dared me to."

Dared you to 1 "

'' Yes, dared me to, the abandoned woman !
There were only two witnesses. Sir James and
I, — he is dead, and I cannot expect the Duke
to believe me if she denies it all, as she swore
she would. What proof have I ? as she herself
insolently asked me. The cloak belonging
to Lady Anstruther, which she wore that night,
and which made poor Sir James think it was
his wife we saw with you, and which I found
hidden in this woman's drawer afterwards, she
has of course destroyed. I have only my word,
and what is that worth against hers in the eyes
of her husband '? "

Farquhar indulged in a long low whistle. It
was just possible, he saw, that Fate might again,
as she so often had been already, be about to be
kind to him. The game of his life might not
yet be quite played out. A cunning plan was
at once concocted in his active brain ; he could
not trust this woman, of course, but he could
question her — and a long and evil experience of
life had taught him how to interpret the falsehood
of the tongue into the truth of the heart.

Did Muriel — the Duchess I mean, of course,"
he said hurriedly — " know anything about that
letter you took — the letter you showed the
Colonel, the letter that brought about all the
trouble 1 "

Mrs Millwood looked up at him in wonder.
What could that possibly have to do with the
matter ?

No," she said ; " not that I know of."

She lied wilfully to see what this arch-liar
could be driving at. Farquhar lighted another
cigar, and as he had only one hand to do it with,
this simple operation gave him some time to
think. If what this woman told him was true
if the Duchess had told nothing to her husband
about that meeting (which would, of course,
imply that she had kept silent about that damning
money transaction) — then he was in the
glorious position of sharing a guilty secret, quite
unknown to her husband, with the wealthiest
and most powerful Duchess in England. Then,
again, if she had never seen the letter, there was
no proof in her eyes that he had ever run away
with Madge. The Colonel thought so because
of the letter he had read and the cloak he had
seen. But if Muriel knew nothing about the

letter, she certainly knew all about the cloak
and who wore it. This, then, accounted for
what had always seemed so inexplicable to him
that Arthur should have forgiven his wife
such gross deceit. What this woman told him
explained all. If Muriel had really been taken
for Lady Anstruther, and said nothing, of course
Arthur could suspect nothing. That, then, was
why he had not divorced her. Farquhar was
desperate ; but even if he had not been desperate,
he would have been sorely tempted to take a
hand at such a splendid game as this, in which
he was sure to win, holding, as he did, all the
trumps. As it was, of course he did not hesitate
for a moment. If Lady Lyon esse had given him
£20,000 for mere friendship's sake, the Duchess
of Tintagil must be made, and of course easily
could be made, to give him double that amount
at least when he should show her that he held
her happiness and welfare in his hand as a tiling
to play with.

"Tell me all you know, — tell me the whole
story from beginning to end," he said to the
widow, " if you want me to help you. I don't
care so much about the money now, but tell
me all."

So Mrs Millwood told him all in detail from
beginning to end, omitting merely the episode
of his father's visit, which indeed had nothing todo
with the matter under discussion ; but before
she had got half through he felt she was speaking
the truth, and his thoughts wandered away
from what she was saying to dwell on his plans
and to gloat over his splendid prospects. Arthur
knew nothing ; and if Muriel had kept all from
him, it was of course because she felt he would
repudiate her if he knew all, — that was clear.
Two other facts also became very patent and
evident to Laurence as the widow proceeded
with her narrative — two very precious facts :
one that the Duchess adored this child Laura,
and the other that Mrs Millwood (although evidently
knowing nothing about the money transaction)
was firmly convinced Muriel had been
his mistress. The first fact was but of minor
importance for the moment, although he told
himself, with a grin, he could perhaps make it
of use if hard pressed ; but the second — oh, the
glorious second ! Although for the moment he
would use it but negatively, — that is to say, he
would not disabuse the widow as to the nature
of his relations with Muriel — for by letting her

think he had been the Duchess's lover he kept
this woman's animosity against the Duchess at
fever-heat — which might be useful, and could
certainly do no harm, — still, that Mrs Millwood
should have upbraided the Duchess with having
been his mistress (and Farquhar was far too
clever a man not to recognise truth, even when
it came ringing out from lips accustomed to
falsehood ; and this woman's account of her final
discussion with the Duchess was given to him
verhathn, and the sentences were, as Emerson
says of Montaigne's, vascular — they bled), and
that the Duchess should have only met this
terrible accusation with the petty bravado of
What proof ? " seemed to prove to Farquhar,
far more convincingly than Mrs Millwood's asseveration,
that her Grace had no knowledge
of the terrible and tell-tale letter this woman
had purloined. What a fool he had been,
to be sure, to keep away all these years,
and not have come back and investigated
matters, and got all this money in hand long
ago ! Fool to have thought Sir James had
struck him, even after having recognised Muriel
in his arms, merely because he had had the purloined
letter ! He saw it all plainly now. The

Colonel, of course, had struck him, because not
only he had read that letter, but because he
thought he had just seen his own wife embraced
by her paramour before his very eyes ! He had
before him now, he told himself — at his feet,
waiting for him to pick up when he liked —
what was to him, in his dilapidated latter days,
a splendid fortune, — fifty at least, if not a hundred
thousand pounds I As for playing fast
and loose with this horrible woman, who was
talking to him, for the paltry £300, he would
not think of it. He could well afford to sacrifice
this sprat, now that he felt his harpoon well
in a whale. He had no real address to give ;
this wretched woman would not part with her
money until he could prove to her that he had,
so he would throw up his cards in this paltry
game, and concentrate all his energies to the
winning of the great stake. Having come to
this philosophical conclusion, he said quietly,
when Mrs Millwood had finished her long
tale —

"But what has Lady Anstruther to do withall
this ? How can she help you ? I don't

see."

Help me ! When I tell her that her foster-vol.

TII. L

sister — that this Duchess has covered her with
a shame that ought to have been her own — has
brought up her child to despise her — will she not
then come forward *? If she is poor, will she not
make this rich woman pay for her infamy ? If
she is rich, will she not seek to regain her child's
affection, and at least wipe from her name the
mire that this abandoned woman has allowed
to remain upon it ? I remember Lady Antrum
well — her ardent spirit, her impetuosity !
When she hears what I have to tell her, she will
bring this Duchess to shame, if not for the sake
of her own honour, at least for the sake of her
child, whom this abandoned woman is about to
ruin ! "

''No, she will not," remarked Farquhar,
quietly. " I can assure you Lady Anstruther
will do no such thing ! "

Something in his tone frightened Mrs Mill-wood,
and she looked up.

'why?"

Because she is dead ! "

Dead I Lady Anstruther dead ! "

The voice went up to the starlit heavens asa
wail.

Yes, dead," resumed Farquhar, now quite

at his ease and in his element, as he was
telling a falsehood. " I promised you her address,
and I will give it to you without money
and without price, as your friends say in the
Bible. I would not rob you, my dear Mrs Mill-wood.
Her address is the eighteenth grave on
the right, in the fourth avenue to the left, as
you enter Greenwood Cemetery, New York. She
died in my arms : her end was most edifying ;
she spoke a great deal about God and about
you ; in fact, she touched on most disagreeable
subjects during her last moments, and her untimely
cutting off — doctors, funeral, headstone,
and all — cost me over two thousand dollars. I
remember that fact very well ; for when I had
dried my tears, I had to play a very stiff game
of draw-poker — do you know the game? — to
win the sum necessary to meet the expenses ! "
Mrs Millwood looked at the man, her face livid
with hatred. She knew he was lying, and she
felt that she had been duped and led into a
trap. Farquhar met her glance, and smiled
pleasantly. " Listen to me, my dear woman :
you think you have been fooled, and so you
have, but you might really have fallen into
worse hands than mine, for I at least will put

you out of your misery at once. You have come
to me knowing I am hard up, and have tempted
me with money to lend myself to a most diabolical
conspiracy ; in other words, you want
me, for the paltry sum of £300, to aid you in
bringing disgrace upon an old friend of mine —
the Duchess of Tintagil. But you see I have
been one too many for you. Now I won't
expose and disgrace you, as I might do, and
for two reasons : one is, because I look upon
you as a harmless lunatic ; and the other is,
because you may possibly, though not probably,
be useful to me. So I promise you to say
nothing for the present ; and as a reward for
my silence, all I require is your address, where
you can be found wheii needed ; and then,
secondly, your promise — which you will agree
with me is not worth much — that you take no
step whatsoever in this matter, or breathe a word
to anybody, until you have my permission and
sanction to do so."

Why should I promise ? Why should I
have any dealings with you, you villain ? "

Don't call me names, Mathilda ; your name
is Mathilda, is it not ? It ought to be. I'll
satisfy your curiosity. I tell you why you ought

to promise me, — simply because if you don't,
rU have you arrested at once as being the owner
of that mad dog, and Til write to the Duke
and Duchess to-night and denounce you ! " Mrs
Millwood stood still, absolutely petrified by the
man's cool and audacious villainy. " Whereas,"
he continued, smiling, " whereas, if you do as I
tell you — and mind, I don't ask, I command —
you may very possibly hear of something to
your advantage before long."

These last words, pronounced in a tone of
very intentional significance, awakened a vague
hope in the desponding bosom of the widow.
All she longed for, after all, was her vengeance !
What cared she who brought it about, whether
Madge or this man ? Only let the Duchess of
Tintagil be brought to shame, and she, Lydia
Millwood, would have done her duty, have
accomplished her mission and be happy !

'' What do you mean ? " she inquired eagerly.
You are not going to let the matter rest
then 1 "

Laurence smiled. " My dear Mathilda, did
you never hear that a tiger who has once tasted
blood longs for it again ? You say I have
basked in the smiles of Lady Lyonesse : can

you wonder that I am desirous of a tete-tete
with the Duchess of Tintagil ? "

As Farquhar said these words, he and the
woman looked each other straight in the eyes,
and the glance that passed between them was
so full of terrible significance, that the very
summer winds paused breathless before such
villainy.

** I will promise'' said the widow, after a
pause. " A letter addressed to me to the Inebriates'
Home, Charles Street, St James's, will
always find me."

Thank you, that is quite enough ; and now
good night, Mathilda ! Mind you keep that
£300 safe — it may be useful. You shall hear
from me in a few days. God bless you ! " and
turning on his heel, Farquhar walked swiftly
away.

CHAPTER VII.

Of all the horrible things which the widow had
said to her in her passion, only one rankled in
the Duchess's mind and disturbed her. Directly
after the stormy interview her Grace had chiefly
smarted under the insulting accusation that
Laurence Farquhar had been her lover, but this
on reflection passed away — the charge was indeed
too grotesquely absurd to be worthy of any
notice ; and but one out of the many poisoned
arrows discharged at her by the widow had
found its way to Muriel's heart and really
wounded her. Mrs Millwood had said that
she, Muriel, had stolen this beloved child's affections,
and her Grace was forced to acknowledge
to herself that the charge was not wholly groundless.
It was a horrible thing to have thought,
and a horrible thing to have said ; but there was
a terrible leaven of truth in it after all. She

might perhaps to some extent have been justified
in adopting — nay, even forced by circumstances
to adopt — the course she had followed.
Laura had been left suddenly motherless ; the
Colonel had died before she had had time to tell
him what she had intended telling him, and
it had been, of course, impossible to make so
shameful a confession to the young girl ; but
still the fact remained that not only the father
might never have confided his daughter to her
care if he had known all, but, moreover, that
even the child herself might never have given
to her the whole wealth of her affection had she
known all the true facts of what took place on
that fatal night.

This terrible thought quite superseded in
Muriel's mind now the burning and shameful
reproach which had been stinging her conscience
during the first years — namely, that she had
practised deceit upon her husband. Her Grace
had reasoned with herself on this point over andover
again ; and as her experience of life and of
the ways of the world had year by year become
more and more extended, she had brought herself
finally, though by degrees, to a belief that
on the whole she had acted for the best. She

had deceived Arthur, true ; but it was a very
paltry act of deceit after all, and she had committed
it for his happiness. She had done
nothing very wrong in meeting Farquhar ; but
as her husband's views were narrow and peculiar,
she had not told her husband of this meeting,
that was all ! She had not done her duty, perhaps,
but she had committed no great sin so far
as Arthur was concerned. She had, moreover, by
her devoted love, and by the power of her beauty,
wit, and tact, greatly enhanced the splendour of
his position, and made him what he never would
have been but for her, with all his wealth and
rank, — distinctly an individual — not a mere
duke, but Somebody. This fact Muriel knew,
her husband fully recognised himself ; and thus,
so far as he was concerned, the Duchess's conscience
by degrees became tranquil. To Jack
Pendragon she owed, of course, no confession,
the past did not in any way concern him, or
rather, to speak more correctly, he already knew
all that it was necessary for him to know about
it. He knew that the mother of the girl he was
about to marry had dishonoured herself by flying
from her home with a lover, — more he need
not know at present. Later on, when he had by

his co-operation enabled her to find Madge, she
might or might not tell him all. For the
moment he had no claim on her further confidence.
With the child, but especially with
the mother of the child, it was very different, —
there she had a very distinct duty to perform, a
confession to make ; but she felt that she could
not speak to the daughter on such a subject
until she should be married, and that even then
it might be her duty to speak to the mother —
to confess to Madge, to consult with her first.
That was indeed the first step to take : so Muriel
reasoned with herself. She must see and tell all
to Madge ; until then, she felt she could not
move.

Now, during the last fortnight the Duchess
had become so strangely nervous and depressed
ever since, in fact, her last interview with the
widow — that the least thing worried and annoyed
her ; and this thought, that she must see
her foster-sister and tell her all, seemed to have
assumed a most morbid importance in her mind.
I must see Madge, I must see Madge, I must
see Madge ! '' she kept dinning into her ears all
the time ; and these words came to her at all
hours, in all places, — while dining with the

Sovereign at Osborne ; while chatting with the
Heir Apparent at Goodwood ; while mystifying
and flattering the Prime Minister in her own
drawing-room, — " I must see Madge, I must see
Madge, I must see Madge ! " She had promised
the dying Colonel that she would do so : she
had at first, through Mrs Millwood, endeavoured
to keep her promise, but had failed ; and then
the thousand and one new attractions of life
which had come so suddenly and in quick succession
upon this child-duchess, had induced her
to postpone from day to day, from week to
week, from month to month, and then, alas !
from year to year, the taking of further steps
to enable her to fulfil her promise. Now, however,
Muriel felt that all was changed. Laura
was going to leave her, and she was to be alone.
She would have nothing hereafter but her social
and political ambition for her husband to give
joy and zest to her life, and so she must now go
resolutely to work to find Madge.

Then, again, during the last few days Muriel
felt that she had grown strangely old. As she
was in point of years by far the youngest English
duchess when first she assumed the ,
so was she the most youthful in

appearance and in heart. She had indeed been
rightly styled the Duchess May, being, as she
was, the very personification of vernal freshness.
Now it was all different. She was a woman —
one whose name was known, popular, and respected
in every capital in Europe, and whose
sayings and doings were events of considerable
social and political importance. She was no
longer the Duchess May, she told herself with
a sad smile, but the Duchess August. All the
strength and power of her beauty, wit, and rank
she had used for the furtherance of her husband's
interests, and she had in all her endeavours
thoroughly succeeded. Arthur had the
Garter now and a seat in the Cabinet, — he
could not hope for more; and indeed Muriel
told herself very plainly that more could not
be obtained for him from the Fountain of
Honour. He was not clever, and withal
strangely narrow-minded and rather lazy ; so
as a Gartered Duke and Cabinet Minister he
must rest content until such time as the cards
should be redistributed, and clever, original,
hard-working Jack, with darling Laura as his
duchess, should reign in their stead.

So now was the time, now that she had fully

brought about and realised all her ambitious
dreams for her husband — now was the time to
think of herself and of her peace of mind, or, in
other words, to dedicate her time and money to
the discovery of her foster-sister. If she could
only live long enough to clasp Madge once more
in her arms, no matter how low she might have
fallen, and to tell her all — her cowardly conduct
in not confessing about that meeting, and then
to assure her of the happiness of Laura, and of
her, Muriel's, undiminished love and boundless
pity for her, — if she could only live long enough
for this, the Duchess told herself, her task in
life would have been completed ; the story told,
and she could afford to fold her hands and rest
from her labours. And latterly this idea of an
impending conclusion to her worldly affairs had
taken a strange hold on the mind of our little
friend Muriel ; and she, who had never thought
of death as being other than some great calamity
that might indeed befall other people, but that
could hardly have anything to do personally
with her, — young, strong, and full of life as
she was, — had, during the fortnight succeeding
the departure of the widow from ,
begun by degrees to believe that she,

even she, might be called upon ere long to
say good-bye.

She had only seen death twice, — when the
Colonel and when her only child Camelot had
laid down their cares ; but then these two
deathbeds — so wholly different one from another
in all detail, but so terribly similar in
the solemn conclusion — had, far from bringing
the idea of death home to her, rather, on the
contrary, made it to her mind as a thing in
which she could surely have no part. Even her
own boy, her cherished darling, had not seemed
the same — he was not Camelot — just ere the
great pallor came, and when the eyes ceased
to look into hers with love and confidence.
Something had come between her child and
herself even before he was dead : her Camelot
had been the darling who had put his little
fevered hand on her cheek and told her of the
pain he suffered — not the frenzied thing which
with dilated eyes had battled with the air,
heedless of her sobs and kisses. That she herself
could ever undergo so terrible a change had
never seemed to Muriel, in those days, a possibility.
Of course she knew she must die some
day ; but she, with her identity so real to her —

her youth, her strength, her strong likes and
dishes — could not conceive that any such total
and complete change could come upon her for
very many years. She had read numberless
novels, and was highly imaginative, so that
she could easily conceive utter ruin overtaking
herself and Arthur, — beggary, dismay, despair
almost ; even Arthur might die and leave her
alone, in rags, in a garret, — but she could not
conceive herself being transformed suddenly
from the living sentient Muriel Tintagil into
something so wholly different as a cold dumb
object of horror. But during the last few days
not only the possibility of such a change, but
by degrees the probability of such a change
being perhaps not far distant, had come upon
her : first of all, during those long hours of
sleeplessness at night, which in themselves were
new to her, for she had all her life slept like a
child — and then in the course of the day and at
all times in the day. It was not that she was
ill, but rather that she was not well ; and then
again, she told herself, these sad thoughts doubtless
came with advancing years, and in her case
might perhaps have been precipitated by the
approaching departure of Laura from her home.

When Laura should have left her, the Duchess
told herself, she would have nothing but society
to fall back upon, and she had had so much of
society all her life — nothing but society and
artificiality, in fact, from the very beginning of
her life in the Eue Royal e until now. Women
were to her all diamonds and laces, and men all
uniforms, white ties, and pretty speeches. It
was only in the nursery, in the old days with
Madge — the Lucrezia Borgia days^and then
with her own child, and last of all with Laura,
that she had felt the warm, encouraging, sympathetic
pulse-beat of humanity ; for although
she loved her husband dearly, Arthur was cold
in the appreciation of this wayward little Bohemian
girl, who had indeed only taken her
seat in the Arctic regions of Sublime Power and
Propriety by the merest accident, and who shone
therein like an aurora borealis. Arthur was
cold, but she loved him all the more because of
his very coldness. If he had condescended to
her low level of sentimentality, he would have
perhaps lost value in her eyes, in that she would
then have been able to examine him at her
leisure, and beneath the microscope of her
shrewdness he would certainly have lost by a

too close inspection. As it was, she looked upon
him as being something superior ; and although
from time to time the horrible thought would
come across her that she was perhaps using
a telescope to examine, not a planet, but an
ordinary household candle, such misgivings she
would always hastily put aside as being base
and unjust.

But be this as it may, it was only with
Madge, her dead boy, and Laura, that Muriel
had felt her whole heart expand, and every
sweet blossom of tender human sympathy open,
bloom, and give its fragrance ; and it was doubtless
owing to the knowledge that her darling
daughter was about to leave her, that her spirits
had suddenly undergone so strange a change,
and that a very keen appreciation of mortality
and of advancing years had come upon her in
one stride and taken the place of her gay carelessness
and youth. She had not only lost her
appetite and her spirits, but had even become
irritable ; and the constant thought that it washer
duty to find Madge without delay, harassed
her mind day and night, and made her long
for the moment when, the honeymoon over,
she could insist upon Jack taking immediate

VOL. Ill, . M

steps to discover the whereabouts of her lost
sister.

So uneasy and morbid and queer had she
become, that even Arthur at length remarked
it, and suggested that, after the Goodwood
week, it might do her good to go abroad — a
suggestion which Muriel eagerly approved of ;
and so it was that the newspapers which a
few days before had announced — '^ We have
authority to state that a marriage is arranged,
and will shortly take place, between Mr Lancelot
Pendragon, C.B., late her Majesty's Minister
Resident at Tibet, and Miss Laura Anstruther,
only daughter of the late Sir James Anstruther,
Bart," published in the early days of August
the following paragraph : " Her Grace the
Duchess of Tintagil, accompanied by Lady
Astolat, Miss Anstruther, and a numerous suite,
left Dover last night to take up their residence
at the Villa Giulia, Deauville, Calvados, for the
race week. His Grace, who is detained in England
by political business of great importance,
will join the party later on."

This last paragraph appeared in the newspapers
one week after the scene on the ramparts
of Boulogne-sur-mer, described in our last

chapter, and was read both by the widow in her
dingy lodgings in Bloomsbury, and by Laurence
Farquhar at the Boulogne Casino, but the effect
of the intelligence conveyed therein was very
different on the two readers. Mrs Millwood
(who had during the seven days which had
elapsed from her parting with Farquhar turned
the whole matter over in her mind, and finally
decided that if she was to strike at all, she must
strike at once and alone, and that the co-operation
of Laurence, on which as a matter of fact
she knew she could not count, would be rather
harmful than otherwise) sat down at once .and
wrote a long statement of facts to the Duke of
Tintagil, telling his Grace everything she knew
or could imagine, omitting no detail, concluding
by saying that Laurence Farquhar not only had
been the Duchess's lover, but that her Grace
herself would not dare deny it, and that
Farquhar, who lived at Boulogne, could prove
it, and signing her name and giving her address
in full. Laurence, on the other hand,
when he had read the paragraph, called for
another glass of absinthe gomme and the timetable,
and spent the next hour in making plans
and endeavouring to discover in what way he

could the most cheaply get from Boulogne to
Deauville.

Two days after this, the Duchess received
from the Duke a long letter full of affection
and politics (for he took no steps without consulting
his wife), of which the following is the
postscript: 'that horrible woman Mrs Mill-wood
has written me the most gross letter,
which I will show you when I come over ; and
by the same post, oddly enough, I got a letter
from the police authorities at Boulogne, making
inquiries about her. It appears that horrible
dog of hers went mad there the other day
and was shot. The woman's name was on the
collar and our address, so the police wrote tome.
What had I better do ? How thankful
we ought to be that that brute never bit any
of us while he was with us ! I hear, by the
way, that hydrophobia is greatly on the increase.
I shall be able to get over to you in a
few days, but can't say exactly when. G. is
Of i vine: us trouble again, as you see, with his
absurd speeches, and poor S. says he can't
ore on without me for the moment."

When the Duchess had read this letter, so
full of terrible significance to her, she fainted ;

but as she was alone in her own room in the
early morning, and she was yet in bed, she
came to her senses without any one knowing
of her swoon. On recovering her consciousness
she immediately looked at her arm ; there was
nothing there — that is, only the merest scar ;
then she rang for her maid, wrote two letters,
and had them posted at once. One was to a
friend in Paris, and one to a friend in London,
instructing them to have sent to her at once,
and without the delay of an hour, all books
bearing on the subject of hydrophobia which
could possibly be obtained, alleging as an explanation
that one of her friends had been bitten
by a suspected dog. When she had despatched
these two letters, which she took care to write
to friends in whose prudence and discretion she
had confidence, Muriel gave strict orders that
she should not be disturbed until she rang, rose,
put on her dressing-gown, and walking to the
window, examined her arm again. In the first
instance there had hardly been any wound,
merely an abrasion, a scratch, and in a day
or two that had passed away ; but now it
seemed to her, on closer inspection, as if the
scar or scratch had not improved — nay, rather,

on the contrary, had gone back to the condition
it was in a few hours after it had been
inflicted. Strange that, after having nearly
disappeared, it should show itself again ! She
had said nothing to anybody about the bite,
because, in the first place, she felt sure it could
be nothing ; and in the second, because the
mind of everybody happened to be so exercised
just then about these new ideas of Pasteur,
that every bite of every dog was supposed
to be certain death. She had even taken great
trouble to keep the scar from the sight of everyone,
lest she should be questioned as to its
cause, and had worn for this purpose, over
the wounded place (the left wrist), a broad
flexible gold bracelet, which, having been sent
to her from Chiselhurst by the widow of
Caesar, was known to her and to her friends
as "la jarretiere de Tlmperatrice." Muriel
pressed the scar with her fingers until it became
white, and then watched the blood return
with a rush. Could this wound have anything
to do with the sharp, shooting, rheumatic pains
which she had felt for the first time in her life
during the last few days, with this lassitude,
these headaches, this nausea, this irritability ?

How did hydrophobia begin ? She longed to
know, and she would know the moment her
friends could send her the books. But how
could she wait till then ? She must wait,
however, and she must not only wait, but
she must say nothing to anybody about it ;
for the harm, if harm there was, must now
surely be beyond all help, and it was needless
to alarm those who loved her, if they
could not save her. But was it yet too
late ? She knew nothing of hydrophobia, but
she had read that cauterisation was of great
avail ; so she, without a moment's hesitation,
lighted a spirit-lamp which her maid used for
the curling-tongs, and put a large pair of scissors
over it to heat.

While waiting, a thousand thoughts passed
through her mind, but not one of the excruciating
pain she was about to inflict upon herself.
That she had been bitten by a dog which had
died shortly afterwards mad, she knew ; that she
had felt strangely unwell since she had been
bitten she also knew ; and that many people,
although not all perhaps, bitten by mad dogs
died of hydrophobia, she also knew ; but of the
disease itself, except indeed that it was almost

always, if not quite always, fatal, she knew
nothing. Stay I yes. The very name recalled
to her one of the most terrible symptoms —
horror of water ! Had she any horror of water ?
If so, she had it ! The idea of applying this
crucial test, which would in one instant tell her
the whole truth, came so suddenly to her mind,
and was so horrible, that she turned deathly
pale and trembled like a leaf. Yes, she was
afraid she did fear water ! It might only be
imagination, but still, now she thought of it, she
remembered, or fancied she remembered, that
she had experienced some repugnance to getting
into her bath only the night before. She shut
her eyes ; her lips did not move in prayer, nor
did her thoughts take quite a prayerful form,
but she shut her eyes and asked God if she
must die now, and if she must die this dreadful
death, and if in His mercy He would not let
her leave her friends for ever in some less terrible
fashion. She was not afraid of going
where her dear little brother Paul, and her
own darling Camelot, had gone before, and
where, perhaps, they were waiting for her ; but
she did not want to leave Arthur and Laura,
and all whom she loved, with foam on her lips.

delirium in her brain, barking like a dog, till
death should come in the form of suffocation.
Oh that God might spare her that ! At all
events, she would know the worst at once. So
she opened her eyes and walked straight to the
washing-stand. So terribly were her nerves
overstrung by the agony of the last few minutes,
that, as she stretched out her hand to the
pitcher, she felt a thrill of horror, which was
really purely imaginary. Then in a moment,
her commonsense and her courage reasserting
themselves, she seized the pitcher, and shutting
her eyes, deluged herself with the water, wetting
herself from head to foot. A gasp, a gasp natural
from the sudden shock, but nothing more !
No ; she was saved ! She opened her eyes.
She emptied one of the water-bottles into the
basin, watching the liquid eagerly as she poured
it out, and wondering if she felt any shrinking,
any repugnance. But no, none. She was cold
and shivering — that was all. She felt no horror.
Then she plunged her face into the basin,
and lapped up the water like a dog. Thank
God ! Thank God ! No horror. She was
saved ! Then, with her face still deep down in
the, water in the basin, she breathed a prayer of

thanksgiving to God, — only one cry of gratitude,
but as eloquent as any well - rounded
periods murmured by a mitred bishop.

Muriel had now recovered her calmness, and
remembered what she had prepared for herself
to do. She went to the dressing-table and felt
the scissors — even the handle was so hot she
could hardly touch it ; so taking a pocket-handkerchief
to keep her hand from being burnt, she
grasped the scissors firmly, and without flinching
cut and burned and lacerated the scar on her
wrist until she fell back on the sofa half insensible
with pain. But this prostration lasted but
for a moment. She rose again and looked at
her arm ; it was a horrible sight to behold, and
yet she must keep the whole matter secret — she
could not, and would not, even trust a local
doctor. So she covered the wound with cold-cream
and powder, bound it up in a pocket-handkerchief,
poured out for herself some eau de
pelisse and mixing it with water, drank it with
renewed delight at finding she felt no horror in
so doing. Then greatly refreshed, and even
joyous, she took off' her wet clothes, dried her
body, put on dry things, jumped into bed, and
ranof for her maid.

I have burnt myself terribly, Celestina' she
said, " tampering with that spirit - lamp, but
luckily it is nothing."

** Why, Madame la Duchesse is quite pale ! "

It is nothing, I tell you, Celestine ; but pray
tell Lady Astolat and Miss Anstrather that I
shan't get up till late to-day, and send Eusebe
over to Trouville to the Maison Turque to Mme.
de Bragan to ask about her son, and to tell her
about my accident, and that I can't come over
to her as I had intended doing this afternoon.
Lady Astolat and Miss Anstruther will, however,
go no doubt. Go at once, Celestine; no, wait —
send Miss Anstruther to me. Tell her nothing
about my not feeling well or having burnt myself.
Simply tell her I want to see her, and
then send off Eusebe."

Celestine bowed and retired. Her mistress
seemed so composed although deathly pale, that
there could hardly be much the matter. In a
few minutes came a knock at the door.

Come in, my darling," called out Muriel,
hiding her wounded arm beneath the bed-clothes,
and in another second Laura s arms were around
her neck.

'' Oh, Aunty, are you ill '? What makes you

look SO pale ? " Miss Anstruther exclaimed as
soon as she could recover breath from the kisses
given and received. " Are you ill ? "

"No, my darling, I am quite well — better
than I have been for some days past — but I have
burnt my arm terribly."

Burnt your arm ! "

*'Yes^ with that horrid spirit-lamp. It's
nothing, but it's very painful."

Let me see it."

"No — I have bandaged it up myself. Its
nothing, Laura, nothing — otherwise I should, of
course, have at once sent for the doctor. Only
I don't think I shall get up this morning. It has
made me feel quite faint. The pain was terrible !"

** Dear Aunty ! " Then more kisses.

"Sit down, Laura — there, close to me, on the
bed," said Muriel ; " I want to talk to you."

You're not going to scold me ? "

Did I ever scold you in my life, Laura ? "
Then more kisses.

^'I thought," murmured Laura, 'you might
not like my being so much with Jack. Lady
Astolat says it is not right, but I told her I
didn't care so long as you didn't mind."

The Duchess had to smile. The idea of Lady

Astolat, whose iniquities were classical before
William lY. ascended the throne, daring to casta
stone, was delightful !

Leave Lady Astolat to me," she murmured
carelessly. "No, my darling, you are not too
much with Jack. It was that he might be with
you as much as possible that I asked him to
follow us here. We hadn't room to put him up
in this little house, but he is not far off, is he ? "
As a matter of fact Mr Lancelot Pendragon was
lodging at the Hotel du Casino (the same from
which the Empress Eugene escaped to England),
a stone's-throw from the Duchess's villa. ** You
can never be too much with Jack, my darling
Laura, for he must be all in all to you, as he is
going to be your lucky husband ! "

Oh, lucky ! " exclaimed Laura, with a blush
and a pout.

'eyes, lucky, very lucky ! And so I tell* you
he must be all in all to you, as I know you are
all in all to him."

Oh, Aunty ! "

'' Yes, Laura, you are. Those sweet brown
eyes of yours have tamed and civilised the old
growler I " Laura laughed and kissed Muriel
again. " But it's not quite of that I wanted to

speak," continued the Duchess. *' I wanted to
ask you to consent to something."

Consent to something ? "

Yes. I want you to let me tell Jack that
instead of being married two months hence at
Camelot, I want you to be married much
sooner."

Sooner ? "

Yes, much sooner — almost at once."

Oh. Aunty, don't say that ! "

Yes, my darling, I do say it. Listen to me :
you can trust me, can't you, Laura 1 " Then, as
the girl answered with a kiss, Muriel shuddered.
Would the girl trust her thus if she knew
all?

What is it, Aunty ? Have I hurt your
arm (

Yes — you leant on it. Never mind. Now,
as you can trust to me, so must you follow my
advice. You must let me tell Jack he can
marry you as soon as he likes."

Oh no. Aunty ! Don't say that ! "

Yes, you must let me say it. Believe me, I
have my reasons."

So with much more petting and blushing and
kissing, these two beautiful creatures at length

came to an understanding, and it was decided
that Jack could claim his bride in three
weeks' time. When all this had been arranged,
a short pause ensued, and then Muriel
said —

'^ Laura, my darling, do you remember years
ago the night when as a little baby you stole
into the room and found me kneeling by my
poor dead boy ? "

'' Oh, Aunty ! "

'' And put your dear arms around my neck
and whispered in my ear that if I had no little
boy you had no mother '? " Laura had hidden
her face on the Duchess's neck and was kissing
and crying. " Well, Laura, God bless you ! you
have been my own darling ever since that night,
haven't you ? " Only a squeeze and a sob byway
of reply. " And I have, with God's aid,
done all I could to make your life happy and
pure and good." Here another series of squeezes
and sobs. " And now at last you have got a
good, noble, splendid husband, and you can
easily afford now to go away and leave poor
Aunty May ! "

Never, never, never ! What can you mean.
Aunty ? If I thought Jack was going to take

me away from yon, I should never speak to him
again — never ! "

Oh yes, you would. Remember you will
swear at God's altar to cleave to him, to be his
for ever — for richer for poorer, for better for
worse. Think of that, Laura ! Aunty May has
no place there ! "

Yes she has — she has my heart, — at least
she had it before Jack had it ! "

*' Ah, yes ; before, perhaps, but not now ! No,
Jack must be your beacon-light now, your all in
all. But you must promise me one thing, Laura :
you must promise to try and love me a little
always — no matter what people may say or do ;
you must promise to forgive me for having had
all this love of your heart until Jack came and
took it away."

Forgive you '? "

Yes, forgive me ; for, Laura, I must tell you a
secret — a secret, mind you, that you and Jack
and I will talk over when you are married, but
that nobody else must know."

^' Yes."

You have been my own darling daughter,
and I have done my best, all my heart could do,
to be your mother during all these years. But,

Laura, I don't know that I have been right in
thus taking to myself all the treasure of your
love, for — for — for — your own mother, your real
mother, may be alive ! "

'* My mother alive ! " cried Laura, raising her
head from the Duchess's neck.

Muriel met the child's eyes and looked into
them half frightened, for she was afraid of what
she might perchance read there. But no ; nothing
— nothing but wonder : no dawn of love,
or hope, or anger, — only wonder.

Laura, Laura ! " cried Muriel, the tears
streaming down her face, *^ your mother, your
poor mother, was as my sister, and I loved her
with all my heart. She was good and brave and
true, until she was deceived by a villain. She
ran away from your father, and he left you tome
; but she did not know what she was doing :
she was deceived, entrapped, entangled, and when
a woman, no matter how good and true and noble
she may be in herself, and as your mother was, —
when she listens to a villain, and flies with him,
leaving her husband and child, it is a sin God
punishes very cruelly, and men never forgive ! "

Laura, white as a sheet, was sitting up on
the bed looking at the Duchess.

VOL. III. ' N

But your father forgave her, Laura ; on his
deathbed, when he gave you to me he forgave
her, and he begged me to search and hunt for
her throughout the world, and find her and tell
her he forgave her. I promised him. I have
tried. I haven't found her yet, but I am going
to try again. I shall find her this time. I feel
certain of it. I shall find her now. Jack knows
all about it, and has promised to help me. He
forgives her, your father forgave her, I forgive
her and love her still ; oh, how dearly I loved
her, Laura ! Can you forgive her ? "

Here the child burst into a passion of tears.
*' Oh, poor mamma ! poor mamma ! What
have I to forgive ? "

'' Can you forgive her for having given up
your dear sweet heart to me *? Can you forgive
me for taking your mother's place when she left
it vacant ? I did not rob her of it, Laura ; remember,
I did not steal your love — you were
left motherless, and your father gave you tome
! But she did not know what she was
doing ; she did not know what she was leaving,
what she was losing I She was mad, I tell you,
Laura — but until this villain came across her
path she was the truest and most noble of

women ; and I love her now, now that she needs
nay love more even than in the old days when
she did not need it and when she had all my
heart ! You can't understand all this now,
Laura, but you will later — when you are
married — when you and Jack and I can talk
it all over between us ; but what I want you
to promise is to try and forgive me for having
taken your mother's place, and, above all, to
forgive your mother, and to pray for her, and
when you meet her, if you ever do, even if she
is a long way off — a long, long way off, Laura,
like the Prodigal Son our dear Lord spoke ♦of
to promise that you will run to her, and fall
upon her neck, and kiss her ! "

CHAPTEK VIII.

The season at Trouville-Deauville (we bracket
the names together, for the two towns really
form but one centre of attraction, and are
merely separated by a short bridge) was reaching
its apogee when the Duchess of Tintagil
arrived and took possession at Deauville of the
Villa Giulia. It must not be supposed for a
moment that Trouville and Deauville resemble
each other in any particular, geographical or
social. Whereas Deauville is a barren sandbank,
Trouville is a laughing garden of verdure ; and
perhaps no two places, equally small, equally
popular, and to a like degree contiguous, offer
so many striking points of dissimilarity as
Deauville does to Trouville. The little bridge,
short though it may be, is the long step separating
the salon of the duchesse from the boudoir of
the cocotte ; and although it may be true enough

that the duchesse to be found at Deauville
is not always one whose claims to nobility
would be received with much attention in the
Faubourg St Germain, the strawberry-leaves, or
rather, as we are speaking of France, thefeuilles
de pe7'sil, being for the most part of Napoleonic
growth, nevertheless the nobility, such as it isis
there, and may on no account be mistaken
for the comparative bourgeoisie of Trouville.

Although it is indeed rare that a woman of
the great social importance of our Duchess may
take up her abode, even for a brief period, at
Deauville, still, when the Grand Prix is over,
and before la grande vie de chateau has begun,
Deauville attracts much that is best in Paris
society. Ces Messieurs du Jockey, as members
of the club in the Kue Scribe are quaintly
termed by French journalists, seek the reviving
breezes blowing over sandy Deauville, and,
accompanied by their belongings, occupy many
of the pretty villas on the beach ; and resembling
in many respects the old life at Biarritz
during the Second Empire, the daily routine
of life at Deauville is pleasant enough for a
week or two ; and there certainly is no lack of
pretty and clever women there, for Deauville

(founded by Mornyy) is the hotbed of Imperialism,
and no matter of what offence the late
regime may have been guilty, no one can
surely accuse it of having failed to encourage
feminine wit and beauty.

In the old days, and before the hopes of the
Imperial party underwent that terrible change
occasioned by the death of the Prince Imperial,
there used to be a slight soiqj^on of plotting and
conspiracy in the air of Deauville which was far
from unpleasant, and indeed there still lingers a
slight fragrance of this same spirit of intrigue
in the winds blowing over this sandy bank.
Letters — formerly, in the days of le petit
Prince, from Chiselhurst or Arenenberg, but
now, alas ! from Prince Victor, and dated
Bruxelles — are passed stealthily from hand to
hand, while beautiful lips close to your ear beg
your advice from behind a fan, and the short
walk from Casino to Villa is not unfrequently
devoted to the ventilating of most treasonable
speculation ; but then, who is not willing to
become a conspirator in return for a moonlight
walk alone with a beautiful and clever woman ?
It is hardly necessary to say that the few shabby
adherents of the Bourbon family who find their

way to Deauville gravely disapprove of all this ;
but then, we selfish and rude islanders, who areas
a rule careless of any political feeling in any
country save our own, are apt to find that party
the most pleasant and attractive abroad which
can boast of the greatest number of pretty and
attractive women among its supporters ; and
then, again, although certainly not so stately,
who can deny that the violet has more perfume
than the lily ?

The marked tendency to be tres Anglais in
dress at Deauville proclaims at once the sporting
proclivities of the inhabitants in the early
part of August, and indeed the Deauville races
are the equivalent to our Goodwood. Le petit
Marquis may be seen in the morning arrayed
in a coat of such gorgeous and varied colours
as would appal even the Oxford undergraduate,
well accustomed though he may be to the
splendid eccentricities of the High Street tailors,
a coat which would appear to have been built
according to the direction, ^' Put pockets everywhere,
and where there is no room for a pocket
put a button." With such a raiment, and with
breeches and gaiters (if there is any chance of
seeing a horse during the day), and a queer curly

brimmed hat bearing the name, so often taken
in vain, of Lock ('^ while wonderment guesses " if
it ever saw St James's Street), the golden youth
of Deauville sallies forth ready for most things,
and decided upon attempting many. Of course
at Deauville is to be found a certain number of
classes — English, American, Spanish, Italian,
Russian, and even German ; but members of this
class do not affect Deauville so much as Trouville,
for although the society of the former place may
hardly be called in any way difficult of access,
still the atmosphere of Trouville is more congenial
to the social Israelites. The pretty
actress who looks upon her histrionic efforts,
such as they are, merely as a frame for her
beauty, is to be found here in great profusion,
and the curious covering furnished by the
astute seigneurs to such beings as shrink from
the publicity necessitated by a carleton de lain
hides from the vulgar gaze the puny limbs of
many a Monsieur Alphonse. If we recollect the
younger Dumas's celebrated metaphor in the
Demimonde,' Trouville may be said broadly
to be one large panier de species.

If the air of Deauville has a faint soupf07i of
conspiracy, the air of Trouville, on the other

hand, is full of intrigue, and intrigue of every
colour, — love intrigue, political intrigue, matrimonial
intrigue, artistic intrigue, every religious
intrigue. The naughty wife of the Agent de
Change here meets her beloved Agenor, while
her husband — an immense straw hat on his
head, canvas shoes on his feet, clad in a loose
alpaca coat, which never could be brought to
button, so decided is his embonpoint, loose
flowing gaudy tie, and wide, white nautical
trousers — promenades the jetty under a large
sun-umbrella, discussing financial matters with a
fellow-worker in the golden fields. Fat, happy,
comfortable mothers, their heads supported on
either side by those peculiar sausage-shaped curls
only to be seen nowadays in France, or in Cruik-
shank's drawings, bring to Trouville their stock
of human wares, in the shape of sons and
daughters, and endeavour to dispose of them
in the matrimonial market. If the article in
question be a male, night after night he maybe
seen at the Casino, habited in extreme
evening dress, with a giles en coeur, and his
hair becomingly brought over his forehead indelicate
bandeaux russes, casting tender glances
of love at the bevy of young girls who, wrapped

in virginal white muslin, wait patiently in the
corner for partners. Ce cher Albert is quite
willing to take any jeune ^^e^^sonne that
*' maman " may think fit to choose for him,
and " maman " is on the look-out. Not unfrequently,
however, does the too susceptible
Albert fall a victim to the wiles and blandishments
of some members of the Old Guard —
qtd se rend toujours metis ne meurt jamais.
The stereotyped smile of the ingenue stands
no chance when pitted against the delicate
graceful archness which brought the house
down nightly last season at the Folies dramatists
; nor can the awkward waltzing learnt
at the convent boarding-school be compared to
that delicious abandon the old well-seasoned
habitude of Abode's knows so well how to
assume in dancing. When things have come to
this pass it were well for "maman" to interfere
before it be too late, and Albert on his way
to Paradise by way of Ville d'Avray.

Muriel had come to Deauville this season
for many reasons. In the first place, she, in
her uneasy, strange, morbid condition, would
have consented to go to any place recommended
by her husband as a change; in the

second, she was fond of Deauville, having
known the place from her infancy, and the
Villa Giulia being all that her mother. Lady
Meredith, could leave her out of the wreck
of Sir William's fortune when she died in
Paris, three years after the accession of Muriel
to the ducal dignity ; and in the third, because
just across the bridge if you went in a carriage,
or just across the ferry if you went on foot, —
at Trouville at all events, — resided, during two
months every year, one of the Duchess of
TintagiFs most intimate friends, the lady the
best suited to banish morbid melancholy from
the mind — the universally and deservedly
popular Princesse de Bragan. The residence
of Madame de Bragan, the Maison Turque, was
aided and fortified by the adjoining villas
of her friends, the ever-charming transatlantic
Vicomtesse, Madame de Journal, and the
Duchesse de la Frissonnerie — the centre and
focus of all that was amusing, refined, and
worth associating with on the Calvados coast.
Rich, clever, an excellent friend, and an exemplary
sister, Madame de Bragan had been a
cherished intimate of Muriel ever since the
old Empire days, and our dainty English

Duchess delighted in the free gaiety and untrammelled
disdain for public opinion which
characterised most of the sayings and doings
of Madame la Princesse.

But this season the Maison Turque — so
called from the fact of its being fitted up in
oriental fashion, a queer little house, rather
over-furnished, the rooms resembling morea
series of comfortable bedrooms than anything
else — which as a rule at this time
of year was illuminated with wit, beauty,
and gaiety, was strangely dull, and for the
simple reason that the second son of Madame
la Princesse had been stricken with typhoid
fever soon after his arrival, and was only just
convalescent after a short but dangerous illness
when Muriel took up her abode at the Villa
Giulia. The attack had been of short duration
but of terrible severity, and the leading medical
men from Paris, who had been summoned to
innumerable consultations, had one and all
at last agreed on one point at least, — that the
boy owed his recovery not so much to their
skill and learning as to the devoted care and
nursing of a Soeur de I'Esperance whom
Madame de Bragan had provided herself with

the moment she heard her child was in danger.
But although the lad was now convalescent,
his illness had quite broken up the season
for Madame la Princesse. The Grand Duke
Porphyries of Scythia (a weak, rickety young
debauchee, who seemed only to be kept together
by the binding of the Almanach de
Gotha), on whose Imperial presence and guileless
stupidity Madame de Bragan had relied
to attract and amuse her entourage, had fled
from the Maison Turque, where he was a guest,
at the first intimation of sickness beings in his
immediate vicinity ; and so Marie de Trajan
had been forced to forego many contemplated
festivities, and content herself with merely the
visits of intimate friends, a little gossip at ^yq
o'clock tea, and the inviting of a few chosen
comrades to cosy dinners.

The advent of Muriel Madame de Bragan had
hailed with great delight, for not only was she
sincerely and warmly attached to her, but she
felt that the presence of the young English
Duchess at her reunions would, as Muriel was
an old friend, not be in bad taste under the
circumstances, and at the same time provide
her entertainments with the attractive charm

of novelty, of which the hasty flight of the
Grand Duke had so suddenly deprived them.
It was this knowledge that her friend counted a
great deal upon her support in her social tournaments,
that induced Muriel to reverse the
decision she had come to, after having read
that terrible letter from her husband, and determine
to attend, as she had promised to do, a
five o'clock tea-gathering, to be held that afternoon
at the Maison Turque, a decision which she
had the more readily come to when she heard that
Lady Astolat, owing to a twinge of gout, bluntly
refused to leave the house, and saw that Laura
looked forward to a long tete-tete with her
lover. She did not care to disappoint her friend
by having the Villa Giulia wholly unrepresented
at this drinking of tea ; and then again, she told
herself that until these books should arrive from
London and Paris, she had far better banish
from her thoughts, or at least endeavour to do
so by seeking congenial society, the dread subject
which was for ever uppermost in her mind.
So with her wounded arm, which now caused
her little or no pain, well bound up, Muriel got
into her carriage and drove over to Trouville
long before the appointed hour. Madame la

Princesse was out, but had left word that she had
only gone out to see the bathing, and was to be
found on the planches if any one called. So
Muriel, after having received a most satisfactory
report of the condition of the young invalid, was
about to turn away and proceed to the beach to
join her friend, when a sudden thought struck
her.

*that Soeur de Temperance who took such
good care of M. Henri has not gone yet, has
she ? "

No, Madame la Duchesse," replied the footman.
'* There she is," he added, as a dark
figure in the dress of a Sister of Mercy passed
slowly at the back.

Muriel stepped into the hall. *' Pardon, ma
Soeur," she said, " but Madame la Princesse has
told me of your devoted care of M. Henri, and
of how all the doctors admit that it was your
nursing and not their skill that saved him.
How I envy you, being able to do so much
good ! " At the sound of the Duchess's voice,
the Sister had glanced at her quickly from under
her veil, then turning her head aside, had put
out her hand to the wall as if to steady herself.
"They tell me M. Henri is very much better,"

continued the Duchess, who had not noticed
this rather odd conduct of Sister St John of
God, for such was her name. The veiled lady-bowed.
" So you will be leaving soon to take
care of other sufferers, I suppose." Again the
Sister bowed with averted and downcast head.
Muriel took out her purse, and taking a thou-lanfranc
note, said in a low tone, ^*Ma Soeur
take this for the poor." The Sister took it.
And," continued the Duchess, lowering her
voice still more, "do not go just yet. Your
kind care may be needed, terribly needed here
ere long. Do not go until you hear from me.
Stay out the week at least, — it is only three
more days ; will you promise ? " The Sister
bowed again. " And," added Muriel, now
almost in a whisper, " pray for me, my Sister ;
pray for me. T am not of your religion, but
I need your prayers. Will you ? "

Oui, Madame," came in a low whisper from
under the veil.

'* Merci, ma Soeur 1 " exclaimed Muriel ;
merci ! " and with a low bow her Grace
turned and left the house to join her friend.

Not one of the least amusing hours of the
day at Trouville is that devoted to bathing.

At Deauville the entrain is not of that kind
which induces people to disport themselves
half-naked before an admiring multitude; butin
the mixed and more than mixed society of
Trouville there is no reserve, and the bathing is
certainly one of the sights of the place. It is
a notorious fact that Frenchmen, as a rule,
recent par les james, or in other words, are
not quite so well furnished as regards what
American ladies can only be induced to call
their " nether limbs " as other male bipeds. If
there happens to be no decided tendency to
bow " or to " knock," there is a general paucity
of flesh and bone, forming a most painful spectacle
to the lover of the human form divine.
This fact may, now that we think of it, account
in a great measure for the remarkable modesty
of Frenchmen, for on no account will one of
our Gallic cousins let you see him " out of his
shell." Should he have adopted the English
custom of taking a cold bath every morning
(a custom considered in France to have some
remote connection with le Turf), and should
you, his most intimate friend, have a message of
the greatest importance to give him just at that
trying moment, the chances are a hundred to
VOL, III,

one that in reply to your discreet knock you will
see a little head peer round the gingerly opened
door, and hear a voice, shrunken to a piping
treble by reason of the cold water, begging a
thousand pardons, and alleging as an excuse
for this apparent rudeness in not admitting you,
that he is presque nu.

There are indeed exceptions, and such exceptions
never allow themselves to pass unnoticed
on a beach like that of Trouville. He who feels
he runs no risk of laying himself open to a cruel
epigram like that of Montrose, who coolly asked
a thin friend in small-clothes whether he had
trois parties ou trois epees, is so proud of the
fact that he takes no pains to hide the cause
of his satisfaction. Eschewing with contempt
the dress assumed for sea-bathing by his less
blessed brethren — a curious melange of a baby's
bib and a Roman toga — he steps majestically
out of his cahane, shutting the door with a slam
which calls attention, attired (if we may use
that comprehensive word) in the simple cale^wi de
lain, than which no covering is more scanty,
and walks leisurely to the foaming billows with
the supreme tranquillity of a man who knows
SUV quoi se tenir. Every opera-glass is bracketed

on him, and if he be a jeune homme d
marie the chances are he will succeed in his
matrimonial projects.

It is not so with the others.

Little things like spiders are seen draped in
white sheets hurrying from different canaries,
and meeting the waves gladly as a covering for
their shame. Sometimes they are caught screaming
and kicking in the arms of some sturdy
haigneiir, who relentlessly gives Alphonse a
good dipping ; but for the most part, they find
their way to a little rope which has been placed
there for their especial benefit (few Frenchmen
can swim), and catching hold of this, after having
carefully wetted their little bald heads, they
jump up and down, calling out to each other in
their manly exultation. The return home is
rather trying. Whereas he of the sturdy thews
walks back leisurely, glorying in his strength,
and wringing the brine from his locks like
Ulysses, the little spiders have to hurry back as
best they may, painfully conscious that a wet
sheet does not hide what is lacking. Such is
the irony of fate, however, that it is in the
ranks of the spiders that most of the jeunes
hommes d marier are to be found. Helps !

Muriel found her friend without any difficulty
; indeed, she had not walked fifty yards
before she came upon the hataillon de la Princess
marching to meet her, headed by Madame
de Bragan herself, accompanied by the Marquis
de Parte, and followed by a score of pretty
women and clever men. When all these
beautiful creatures (we allude, of course, to
the ladies) had embraced our dear Duchess,
and she had glibly recounted her little falsehood
about her wounded arm, they all returned
to the Maison Turque, and tea, witty
scandal, and graceful satire were poured forth
in profusion.

I saw your wonderful Soeur de Temperance
to-day for the first time, Marie' said the
Duchess.

'^ Ah, indeed! Where?"

*' In the hall just now, when I called for you.
What is her name ? "

Soeur St Jean de Dieu. She is indeed a
perfect saint. Do you know, Mu-mu, I am
quite sure she is a lady and a foreigner; for
although she speaks French perfectly, there is
at times an accent."

"Have you ever asked her about herself?'^
inquired Muriel.

Oh no. They are forbidden, you know, to
speak of their past lives ; so, of course, I have
asked her nothing. But that she is a lady — a
grande dame — and not French, I am certain.
At all events, she is a saint."

That night very late, in fact just as Madame
la Princesse was preparing to retire for the night,
a tap came at her bedroom door.

Entrez ! " boldly called out the Princesse,
who feared nothing in this world, and but few
things in the next. ♦

It is I, Madame la Princesse," said the Sister
of Hope, gently opening the door.

What is it ? Is Henri worse ? "

'' No, Madame la Princesse. He is sound
asleep. He gets better every hour."

"Thank God !" ejaculated Marie de Bragan,
who had far more heart than she cared to allow
her friends to give her credit for. " Sit down,
ma chere bonne Soeur." And the Princesse rose,
took the Sister of Hope in her arms, and kissed
her fondly.

I will not disturb Madame la Princesse

long. It is very late. I only want to ask
Madame one question."

'' Well ? "

*' I met a friend of Madame la Princesse this
afternoon — an English lady."

Oh yes — the Duchess of Tintagil ! She
told me."

Is there any one ill in her house ? "

'' No, not that I know of. Why '? "

Because she asked me not to leave until I
heard from her. She said my care might be
needed — indeed, she said terribly needed — erelong."


How very strange ! "

"Is it not, Madame ? I naturally thought
somebody must be ill."

*' Of course ; but there is nobody ill that I
know of in her house, except, perhaps, herself."


Is she ill ? " inquired the Sister eagerly.

*' Oh no — not ill. But she has been very
queer lately — not like herself — always complaining,
a thing she never did before ; and then this
morning she burnt her hand."

Burnt her hand !"

Yes ; but a mere nothing, she tells me. No ;

it can't be that. How very odd ! What could
she have meant 1 It may be one of the servants :
she is so kind-hearted that the illness of her
femme de chambre affects her almost as much as
if her own daughter were ill."

Ah ! she has a daughter then ? "

She is not her daughter really, only an
adopted daughter, but I often tell my friend I
think she loves her even more than if she were
really her own flesh and blood."

"Ah!"

'' Yes," continued the Princesse, taking off herrings
and throwing them on the dressing-table.
'' My friend is very original — tres originate.
She has adopted the daughter of a young friend
of hers, a Miss Anstruther, and has devoted her
life to her."

Ah ! "

Yes ; it is quite a romance. The Duchess of
Tintagil and this girl's mother were brought up
together, and were like sisters. I never saw
Lady Anstruther — her name was Lady An-stretcher
— but once, for she hardly ever went out
into society in Paris. She was a foundling, an
enfant trouve or something of that kind, I
think, that my friend's father, Sir William

Meredith, picked u-p somewhere and brought
home and adopted. He was a most extraordinary
man, — you must have heard of him. He
was a great doctor for the heart''

Soeur St Jean de Dieu bowed. 'eyes," she
said, " I have heard of him."

"Well, he picked up this girl — she was a
groom's daughter, they say — and adopted her ;
and my friend his daughter, the Duchess of
Tintagil — she was Miss Meredith then — loved
her like a sister, and when she lost her, used
to write me the most heartrending letters. So
you see I know my friend takes trifles to heart,
and I have no doubt some one of her servants
is ill now, and that is why she wants you to
stay."

'' Did Madame la Duchesse lose her friend,
then ? "

Yes ; she didn't die, but she ran away from
her husband. Sir William Meredith married
her very well, — to a rich English baronet, a
friend of his ; and this stupid creature ran away
with one of the most charming men in London.
Nobody regretted her (except my poor friend
the Duchess, and, as I told you, it nearly broke
her heart), for nobody knew her, but everybody

regretted him. II etait si amusant ! Tres joli
jargon, et de Esprit — il en avait, ma bonne
Soeur, jusqu'aux bouts des ongles."

"And this lady's daughter "

She has been adopted by my friend the
Duchess of Tintagil, who simply adores her,
and has dedicated her life to her, and has now-got
her engaged to be married to her husband's
heir — the man who will be Duke of Tintagil,
I mean, — a most charming man, one of the best
matches in England. My friend the Duchess
did it all, of course, and it's a splendid thing for
the girl ; but then I must admit she deserves it,
for Miss Anstruther is the most charming girl,
and ma chere petite Duchesse has shown good
taste."

Do they love one another ? "

^'Who?"

'' This young lady and the gentleman she is
going to marry."

They adore each other ! It's really absurd
to see them together. He is a splendid fellow,
and she is one of the nicest girls I ever met.
My friend indeed has brought her up with such
care that any man might be proud of having
such a woman for a wife. Let us only hope

she will remain so, and not follow her mother s
example."

'tamen!" murmured the Sister. "And
now," she added, *' I will not disturb Madame
la Princesse any longer. I only wanted to
know this. Good night."

'' Good night, ma bonne Sa3ur ; bonne nuit,
et dormez bien. Do not worry yourself about
my friend. It can only be a servant. Bonne
nuit."

CHAPTER IX.

The sunlight, which was doubtless made to
cheer, warm, and nourish, and give us direct
indications of God's goodness, must almost
shrink from falling upon some objects to which
its beams are directed ; but above all things, far
surpassing in horror deeds of violence, surely
when it illuminates that most hideous of all
spectacles, solitary desolation, despair, and
anguish, — a soul consuming itself, —-it must
wish it had only been commissioned to tell its
story of love to the leaves, the grasses, and the
flowers.

For long hours Muriel was engaged reading
the books sent to her about hydrophobia, and
by an odd coincidence it so chanced that these
books had reached her on a day when she happened
to be quite alone, — Lady Astolat, Laura,
and Jack having gone to Rouen to spend the

day and pass the night ; her Grace, anxious to
know the worst, and impatient to see what the
post would bring her, having pleaded general
lassitude, and thus remained at home. Early
in the afternoon the parcel of books arrived,
and the moment it came the Duchess gave
strict orders to the servants that she was not
at home to any one, and taking the books,
locked herself in her bedroom, and tore open
the parcel with feverish avidity. There were
eleven books in all, all treating of the terrible
disease to which poor Muriel feared she was
about to fall victim ; and although very many
of the scientific and medical terms the Duchess
could not understand, the horror which came
upon her as a pall before she had read twenty
pages of the first treatise, was rather intensified
than otherwise by this occasional obscurity.
The main features and symptoms of the disease
were indeed very lucidly and clearly put forth,
described in that easy popular style which
many French scientific authors have adopted,
and the book was full of horrible details,
crowded with numerous instances of this terrible
disease, and profusely illustrated with
ghastly woodcuts. From beginning to end

it was a symphony of horror, and the picturesque
style of the author brought out into bold
relief every minute detail, — omitting nothing.
It would have been terrible reading to any one,
terrible to one who had never been wounded in
any way even by a healthy animal ; but to
Muriel, with that hideously significant wound
on the left wrist, it was indeed a symphony of
horror, and her blood curdled, and she aged
years by minutes as she waded deeper and
deeper into this dread and noisome darkness
which must be her atmosphere for ever more,
and as the certainty came upon her that .erelong
— perhaps in a few minutes — some one of
these hideous symptoms would manifest itself
in her, and she would enter into that last, that
appalling period which, beginning with the
strait - waistcoat and ice - cap, ends with the
winding-sheet and shroud.

She read of the first symptoms, and plainly
recognised many of them, having manifested
them herself, — the prickly sensation near the
wound, the rheumatic pains, the insomnia, the
nausea, the depression : she had felt all this,
and she told herself she must be already far
advanced on the first stage of her terrible

journey — the period of incubation. Then she
went on to other symptoms which were as yet
unknown to her — the quick strange intonation
of voice, the sighing and sobbing, the general
prostration, and finally the horror of water, —
in other words, the period of recrudescence.
She rose, poured out a glass of water and drank
it. No ; nothing yet ! Then she read of the
violent symptoms — the spasms of suffocation,
the hypersesthesia, the delirium, the constant
spitting of the viscid mucus from the mouth,
the chewing and champing, the foaming, the
violent paroxysms of madness and fury, — and
then of the end — the suffocation, the sudden
departure just before the very last of the horror
of water, and then the final hideous fit, the convulsion,
the end. Book after book she opened,
but they all told the same story.

Alas there no hope anywhere, no gleam of
anything that might be interpreted as looking
like hope by her fervid imagination stung to
abnormal activity by her intense love of life ?
No ; absolutely nothing ! Through all this she
would have to pass before she could be at rest,
and leaving all she loved behind her, go on her
way alone ; for she learnt by all the books that

the cauterisation, to have been of any, even
remote avail, ought to have been performed
shortly after the inoculation of the poison had
taken place, and she had paid no attention to
her wound until nearly three weeks after she
had been bitten by a dog which had been destroyed
as being mad ! Was there really no
remote chance of her escaping ? No ; for she
read — *' What can I say of the treatment in
hydrophobia, or in rabies ? There is no well-authenticated
case on record that I am aware
of in which a hydrophobia person has recovered.
As it has been, so it is still, larpoq
tarsi OdvaTos — the physician that cures is death.
There can be no ground, therefore, for the recommendation
of any especial drug or form of
medicine, or even for any general plan of treatment,
after the peculiar symptoms of the disease
have set in." Could the gates of mercy be more
thoroughly locked, barred, and bolted against
her, than by these words which came from the
pen of a great authority ? Nothing, surely, could
possibly be plainer and more to the point than
these dreadful words. There was no cure but
death after the peculiar symptoms should have
set in, which in her case had already set in.

About how long then had she yet to live ? or
rather, how long a time could she hope to have
still left her before the terrible beginning of the
end might be expected ? Here she read — " An
analysis of sixty authentic observations has
shown that the shortest period is fifteen days,
the longest from seven to nine months, and that
the average period is from four to seven weeks."
She had been bitten now nearly three weeks
ago ; so if her case were an ordinary one, she
might hope to have perhaps one clear week
before her yet, but hardly more. She was of a
highly nervous temperament, and she read that
such persons were particularly susceptible to
the action of this special virus. One week,
therefore, not more, — but then even one week,
one space of seven days, was too much ! She
only wanted to see Arthur, and he might arrive
from England by Havre at any moment, and
would at the very latest be with her on the
morrow, for he had so telegraphed to her.
She wanted to see him, tell him all she had
to tell him, and say good-bye to him before
she became a poisonous, convulsed monster,
foaming at the mouth, and barking like a
dog in her suffocation ! She could not hope

ever to see Madge again — she would not, of
course, have time for that ; but she would, of
course, tell Arthur all, and he would have to
promise her to seek out Lady Anstruther and
take care of her. The happiness of Laura was
well assured, thank God for that ! A week,
therefore, was far too long to wait ; the moment
Arthur should come and she should have spoken
to him, and said good-bye to him and to Laura,
she would like the fatal and final symptoms to
manifest themselves at once. As she had to
pass through this hell, the sooner she set out on
her terrible journey the better.

Was there then no possible hope — not of life
of course, but of escaping this awful prelude to
death ? Here her eyes lighted on the following
lines in a little pamphlet on hydrophobia which
she had hitherto ignored : " It has been alleged
that at some place on the military frontier of
Austria, the dread of hydrophobia is so great
that people suffering, or supposed even to be
about to suffer, are shot by their neighbours,
while those who have been bitten commit
suicide." Muriel's heart bounded with joy as
she read these dreadful lines. Here was deliverance.
Suicide ! Why had she never

VOL. III. P

thought of it before '? Here, thanks be to a
merciful God, was safety and peace ! She would
say nothing to anybody ; she would frighten
nobody. She would wind up her worldly
affairs, say good-bye to those whom she loved,
and destroy herself before she should become
an object of horror to all. She would, of course,
do nothing rashly ; she would wait until she
felt the slightest horror of water — what these
medical men called the hydrophobia spasm —
and then she would be ready. She had a pistol,
a mere toy, but one which, if carefully applied
to her temple and discharged, would do all she
required, and most certainly be her best friend
in saving her from the lingering and loathsome
horrors which were so surely and inevitably to
come upon her if she were not prepared to forestall,
to cheat, as it were, these messengers from
hell.

Poor Muriel had had no religious training —
save, indeed, so far as the horrible teachings
concerning God's vengeance and relentless
animosity taught her by old Agnes may be
called religious training — but she had within
her an innate and natural sense of duty and
morality, and a deep love and reverence for

her Maker, and before she finally decided on
self-destruction she asked herself very plainly
and boldly if God would, if God could, be
angry with her for taking her life when once
she should have become possessed of an absolute
certain proof — such as a sudden spasm at
the sight of water would furnish her with — that
her death by this terrible malady was inevitable.
Would He then, could He, be very angry with
her if she — poor, weak, timorous woman as she
was — sought to avoid becoming an object of
horror, loathing, and terror to her friends just
as she was parting with them for ever ? It was
not the pain she feared — she could stand any
amount of physical pain, — it was not that, it
was the horror she would be sure to inspire.
In one of the books she had just glanced
through, written by one of the leading medical
authorities, she had come across such passages
as the following : '^ In the matter of cure,
surgery is, I fear, as impotent as physic."
Then again — " Mr Abernethy was of opinion
that when once the poison has been imbibed
into the system, nothing ever had done any
good, and nothing probably ever would. . . .
He used to add that as bleeding had been much

extolled, had he hydrophobia he would allow a
surgeon to bleed him to death. Like Seneca,
he would be willing to have his veins opened ;
though his disease might not permit him to indulge
at the same time, like Seneca, in the
luxury of a warm bath." Further on the
author said — " And with respect to the established
disease, I think that if I were the unhappy
subject of it, I should wish to be put
into a warm air-bath and be thoroughly sweated,
and to take opiates — not so much in the hope
of recovering as with a view to the euthanasia."
These remarks seemed to the fevered imagination
of Muriel to hint at suicide. Would therefore
God, in His infinite mercy and wisdom and pity
and love, be angry with her if, under the circumstances,
she should take her life — provided of
course she waited until some absolute proof
should come to her that she was doomed ina
few hours to die this dreadful death, which
all these medical men unanimously and with
strangely unprofessional frankness admitted their
inability to cure ? It might be, but she would
risk it. She preferred running the risk of an
eternity of suffering in the next world, to facing
the certainty of experiencing all the horror

which she knew must, without any doubt, be
awaiting her in this.

So Muriel arose, got her little pistol, which
she had brought with her on purpose, knowing
how fond Madame de Bragan was of practising
in the tir au pistolet, carefully loaded it, kissed
it, and put it tenderly in her pocket. What a
dear little trusty friend it was after all, this toy
weapon I She blessed it — from the bottom of
her heart she blessed it. For the moment she
could think of no other equally expeditious and
certain way of destroying herself, and she was
now fully decided upon taking her life when
the very first hydrophobia spasm should pronounce
itself. Poison it would take time and
trouble to get, and time and trouble to take.
With this little pistol everything was so easy!
She would run away from any one she might
happen to be with when the spasm seized her,
and when alone destroy herself. She deplored
the scandal and pain she would, by so acting,
bring to others, but she had no choice left now.
She found herself face to face with death in its
most terrible form, and she had to think of herself
being on the eve of beginning this lonely
journey. All she wanted was to have time to

kiss her friends good-bye, and get through withall
the horrible physical part of it as soon as
possible. Arthur would be with her perhaps
that evening, or at the latest the next day, and
Laura would be back from Rouen also by that
time, so it was likely that she would be able to
see them and kiss them once again. Then suddenly
the dreadful thought struck her that they
might be too late ! She might almost at any moment
now be forced to take her life ! How could
she tell how near the demon of delirium might
be to her ? Here she poured out and drank another
glass of water. Nothing yet ! — certainly
nothing yet ! She was unused to drinking
water, and moreover this water had been standing
in the hot August sun, and was particularly
unpleasant in consequence ; but there was no
horror in the very natural and slight repugnance
she felt in swallowing this liquid — nothing like
the horror she knew would, must come ere long,
and which even now, without in any way really
experiencing it, she felt, or perhaps only thought
she felt, she was beginning to understand. She
must therefore provide against accidents ; she
had seen in these books that the hydrophobia
spasm comes on suddenly, and she might be

forced to destroy herself before she could have
an opportunity of clasping her loved ones in her
arms again. She must write and explain all, incase
they should return and find her a lifeless
corpse. So she sat down with the greatest
coolness and composure and wrote a long letter
to Arthur, telling him everything that the reader
knows, begging him to seek, find, and take care
of Madge ; telling him to keep everything from
Laura and not to let the child know more than
might be necessary concerning the cause of her
death ; and then calling upon God to bless her
husband, she signed and sealed and addressed
the letter, and put it carefully into the same
pocket where her dear little friend and deliverer
was already nestling.

Now she was prepared, or thought herself
prepared, for all emergencies. It was now lethe
hour the Princesse would be chatting at
the tea-table. She would walk over to Trou-ville
; she would not drive, for she felt the
need of the exercise, and she could not go by
the beach and the ferry, for she did not want
to lay herself open by the sight and sound of
the sea to perhaps precipitating the advent of
the hydrophobia spasm which, she felt sure, minute

by minute was approaching. So she decided
upon walking over to Trouville by the
bridge to see her friend, and perhaps see the
Sister of Hope. She would, of course, say nothing
to the Princesse, but she might perhaps
whisper some words explaining her terrible
situation in the ears of the lady whose chosen
mission it was to alleviate suffering, for she felt
wildly anxious to unburden herself of her dreadful
secret to some one. So Muriel hurriedly
dressed herself and left the Villa Giulia on her
way to the bridge leading to Trouville. She
had not proceeded far, however — had not even
got near the railway station — when she suddenly
became conscious of being followed, or
at least of footsteps coming hurriedly after
her, and then a familiar voice struck her
ear.

Muriel, can I speak to you ? "

The Duchess caught her breath ; could this
thing be, or were her senses playing tricks with
her already ? Then turning, she found herself
face to face with Laurence Farquhar, and recoiled
with horror.

You 1 " she gasped.

Yes, I, Duchess," he said sadly, in the musical

voice she knew so well. " You are surprised
to see me, I suppose."

Then they looked at each other, these two
who had not met for so long a time, and although
they were both clever, and looked at each other
very keenly, there was much that escaped their
mutual scrutiny. Let us see what they saw and
what they did not see.

Muriel's eyes fell upon a wreck, — the face and
figure of a man broken by disease, poverty, vice,
and premature old age. He had put on his best
clothes to make this trip to Trouville, but it is
unlikely that her Grace the Duchess of Tintagil
had ever been familiarly addressed by so shabby
and broken-down an individual in the whole
course of her perfumed existence ; for even this
man's father, on that memorable night, had
looked more like a gentleman than this haggard,
paralysed ruffian, whose curly brimmed hat,
jauntily cocked over one ear, was worn grey and
stained with dirt, and whose light - coloured,
sporting-looking check suit bore traces of the
spilling of wine, and of long and constant use.
The father had looked like a drunkard, a shabby
drunkard, but nothing more ; and, moreover, even
Muriel, inexperienced as she was then in the

ways of the world, had found no great difficulty
in recognising in the father many indications
that he had not always been in his then dilapidated
condition. But in the man who now
stood before her, Muriel, shrewd as she was,
could see no trace of a better former state
of existence. Farquhar's beauty, which in his
youth was indeed great, had always been rather
of what we would term the rowdy type, and
from a pretty boy he had grown up to be a
pretty man. Curly, and laughing, and witty,
and devil-may-care : not exactly effeminate, but
certainly not manly in the best sense of the
term. He had always himself said that if he
had been born a woman, he would have been
a demi-montaigne ; and there was perhaps something
of the courtesan in the man's beauty, and
manner, and general bearing. But this peculiarity
had in his youth, in his golden days, not
been offensive — it had rather, on the contrary,
lent a piquant charm to the graceful dandy ; but
now this touch of readiness — this little rift
within the lute of Farquhar's otherwise perfect
refinement — this little pitted speck of careless
profligacy in the garnered fruit of his good
breeding — had so widened and intensified during

the past few years, spent in the basest debauchery,
that it had for ever silenced the music of his
nature, at least to all ears critical of harmony.
From the good-looking, fashionable roue, he had
hardened and crystallised into the type of the
vicious cards harper, the blacken, the billiard-marker,
the sporting tout : the careless swagger
had worn down into hard audacity ; the piquant
laughing wickedness had fermented and turned
to harsh, cruel villainy ; his bloodshot famished
eyes were the eyes that would look murder to a
defenceless woman in a lonely lane ; his trembling,
nervous, emaciated hands were such as
one could easily imagine finding at one's watch-chain
in a crowd, or cocking a pistol behind a
hedge on a dark night.

Much of this Muriel saw, but much of it —
the more terribly significant signs — escaped the
Duchess altogether. That he was worn out,
broken down, paralysed, very poor, probably
desperate, and perhaps dying, she recognised at
once, and this was terrible enough ; but what
shocked her perhaps still more than all this was
the look of vulgarity which this man now had —
of that peculiar form of bold vulgarity which
it seemed to the Duchess as almost impossible

a man who had ever been a gentleman could
ever fall to. And yet this man had been her
husbands cherished friend, and he had been her
hero at one time, and her affianced husband ! Was
it really possible ? Could brandy, and gambling,
and the consorting with the most abandoned so
completely change a man as this, or were not
the germs of this most repulsive malady more
likely latent in the creature from the very
beginning ?

Such was, in broad outline, what Muriel saw
and failed to see ; let us now turn to what
Laurence Farquhar saw, and what he failed to
recognise.

He saw one of the most attractive and
fascinating women of her day, in the full
splendour of her youth and beauty, perfectly
dressed, and apparently the most to be envied
Duchess of her age in Europe. He knew of
the great social and political power she had
acquired, and this particular form of success
happened to be exactly the one which he the
most highly appreciated and greatly envied.
He had been ambitious in the old days, and in
his dreams he had seen the day when he should
have formed a salon of great political and social

importance, and where, perhaps, by the mere
flirtation with an Archduchess, he might change
the destinies of an empire. And this woman,
this graceful, dainty, exquisitely-dressed young
peeress, standing before him in the sunlight of
this August afternoon, possessed and enjoyed all
this power and splendour for which his soul had
for ever so hungrily longed ; and so far as the
glory and the power were concerned, Farquhar
knew full well she had won them by her tact
and ability, and only owed the merest elements
of her good fortune to the accident of her husband's
rank ; or, in other words, that although
Arthur had placed upon her sweet golden head
the ducal coronet, Muriel herself had furnished
the sparkle of the diamonds which adorned it.
Yet this same woman had been at one time his
affianced wife, he had held her in his arms, he
had pressed his lips to hers, — and now he was
penniless, an outcast, a paralysed beggar, who
had sunk so low that certainly not one of this
dainty dame's lowest servants would own him
as a friend !

So much Laurence Farquhar saw, but what he
did not see we know, — that this beautiful,
powerful, beneficent creature, whom he envied

almost to hatred, and which the soft summer
wind seemed to play about caressingly, lifting
a curl here and stirring a ribbon there, as if
knowing and regretting that soon she would be
no longer there to kiss, — that this noble-hearted
woman, seemingly so full of life and health, was
not one to be envied, nay, one rather to be
pitied to the most extremest limits of pity, in
that she knew herself to be poisoned, marked
out to die at almost any moment, but surely
very shortly, the most hideous death, and had
even now, lying hidden and secreted about her
dainty person, which it was a rapture for the
eye to look upon, a common instrument of
death that might, God willing, enable her to
escape quickly, without exciting terror, disgust,
and abhorrence.

The result of this mutual inspection expressed
itself characteristically in both. Farquhar
ground his teeth and smothered a " God
damn her ! " Muriel's eyes filled with tears, and
she murmured to herself, " God help him ! "

No'' she said, answering his half question,
I am not surprised to see you ! You startled
me, that's all. But I am very glad to see you,"
and she held out her hand.

The shadow of her approaching death must
have completely altered and demoralised the
nature of the woman for her to have done this,
and in the quick introspection, the rapid self-examination
which her lonely and strange childhood
(lonely though in the midst of gaiety —
strange though encompassed by all the ordinary
circumstances of wealth and ease) had brought
to her as a habit. She recognised at once, even
before her outstretched hand had touched that
of Laurence Farquhar, the terrible fact that she
never would so have greeted this man had not
her entire being undergone a change within the
last few hours. And the wonder and question,
Why do I do it ? " brought the answer, " Because
you want to run away from yourself;
because you, who so cherished and guarded
yourself, feel that some terrible Other Thing is
coming between you and your own dear personality,
and that that Other Thing is "

Laurence Farquhar, greatly surprised, but
showing no astonishment, stooped and kissed
the Duchess's hand with much of the old grace,
but with just the one shade of what ought not
to have been in his manner, which (and that
alone) made Muriel withdraw her hand hurriedly,

and almost rudely. Then she asked him a
strange question —

You know most things — I remember that
very well," — and she smiled on this shabby
scoundrel as if she were flattering a Prime
Minister, — " tell me, what is the exact meaning
of hyperaesthesia ? I think I know about what
it means, but tell me exactly."

** Extreme sensitiveness, — morbid and extraordinary
sensibility' answered Laurence, greatly
surprised. " But why do you ask ? "

Thanks — I thought so ! But it's a strange
word, and I thought perhaps it might mean
something more horrible 1 "

Then she paused abruptly, awkwardly, like
a schoolgirl on the point of saying something
absurd. She was, she felt, no more the same
woman she had been that very morning before
reading those terrible books, than this haggard
ruffian was the same curly-haired, wicked,
laughing dandy of years ago. The change was
as great, nay, perhaps even greater, although of
course not so apparent.

So you thought I should turn up again
some day ? " said Laurence, greatly relieved
and delighted to find this first meeting, which

his shattered nerves had dreaded, beginning so
well.

Muriel was so absorbed in her agonising introspection,
her thoughts were so concentrated
on herself, that she started when she heard
these words, but they brought her to her senses,
and to a realisation of the situation. Her face
became cold and scornful.

What have you to say to me ? " she asked
haughtily, her entire manner changing.

Laurence noticed the change, and saw at
once that his only chance of being able to
prolong the interview, even for a few minutes,
lay in his playing his trump-card without delay.
The value of this trump-card he had very
carefully considered, and he fancied it to be of
exceeding great value. When he had fled from
England he had left many powerful, wealthy, and
influential friends behind him, — from Exalted
Personages very near the throne, to Semitic
sorcerers, who could either, by elevating their
wands on the Stock Exchanges of Europe,
point you to the promised land of much percent,
or by throwing them down, transform
them into writhing serpents, their jaws yawning
with writs, their tails rattling with bank-vol.

Ill, Q

ruptcy notices ; but Farquhar bad known the
world be lived in too well to apply in moments
of distress either to friends born in
the purple or to those whose claim to social
recognition was to be read, not so much in
their faces and manners as on their cheques ;
and then, again, in all fairness it must be
admitted that, in the finest spirit of a gentleman
highwayman, it bad always been repugnant to
bis feelings to ask when be could take.

But the matter be bad now to deal with was
no ordinary question of asking, nor indeed of
taking. He found himself, by the most extraordinary
coincidence — be a beggar and an outcast
— to be the sharer with one of the most rich
and influential uncrowned beads in Europe of a
secret ; and the mere fact of this secret still,
after this lapse of years, remaining a secret,
proved to bim very plainly the great importance
the fact of this secrecy possessed in the eyes of
bis partner in dissimulation. This partner in
secrecy, moreover, this rich and influential
partner, wbo must entirely rely upon bis discretion
to allow this seemingly bigbly - prized
secret to remain a secret, was a woman — a lady
- — and not only so, but a lady whom lie fondly

fancied had once cared for him, — one, at all
events, who was as generous and kind as she
was rich and influential ; one indeed who had
given him very sterling proof of her generosity
and concern for his welfare. This was of course
all years ago now, but nothing that he was aware
of had taken place since then to materially alter
her feelings towards him — rather the contrary
was perhaps the fact. He was supposed to
have run away with her foster-sister. True ;
but he could easily disabuse her mind of that
error, and had concocted for that purpose in
his inventive brain what he flattered himself. to
be a most plausible and pathetic tale. This
reproach having been once removed, what remained
against him ? Nothing ! And what
for him? Much! — the keeping of the secret,
at least, even if the old kindness and generosity
should have been chilled in her heart by her
power, splendour, experience of life, and the
shadow of the strawberry-leaves. She had in
the old days given him — her hero, the lover who
had sacrificed his own happiness for hers — nay,
had rather forced upon him, a very large sum of
money for his father ; was it likely that she
would now refuse some assistance (and Farquhar

told himself he would take what he could get)
to this same hero and lover, now that he so
greatly needed it for himself, — now that he held
it in his power to disclose a secret which he
knew she did not care to have divulged, — now
that he came to her with a lie upon his lips,
which could hardly fail to appeal to her heart
and pocket much more strongly than the recital
of the imaginary woes of his father could have
done ? No : all the trumps were in his hands,
he told himself, and he had only to play them
with tact and dexterity to win a very precious
stake. Farquhar was, as we know, an admirable
actor, and this was the only one of the
many brilliant gifts which he had possessed in
his youth which his tempestuous life of the last
seventeen years had rather improved than otherwise.
He knew his strength, and had often
recently, with a bitter smile, told himself that
if it were not for this paralysed limb he might
easily, in his dilapidated latter days, make a
name and a fortune for himself on the stage.
Now as he leant forward and told his lie to
Muriel, none but the veriest cynic could have
doubted the man's sincerity, for his pale cheek
became still paler, and his bloodshot eyes

lighted with the pathetic eloquence of one
about to sacrifice himself in his appeal that
mercy should be extended to another.

I have not intruded myself on you, Duchess,
for my own sake," he said. '^ I think you will
at least do me the justice to believe that. I
have wrecked my life by my own folly, and I
scorn pity or help from anybody. I have come
to you — and you who know me so well can
imagine what it costs my pride to come to you
at all, dying and in rags as I am — not for myself
but for another, and that I, who have done
so much harm in my life, may at least be able
to leave it with the knowledge that I, who alone
can set a great wrong right, have done my best
before my death to set it right. I have come
all the way from America to see you and bring
you a message."

A message ! — from Madge do you mean ? "
exclaimed Muriel, becoming deathly pale. Laurence
bowed his head in assent.

The Duchess was terribly agitated. Her first
thought on seeing the man, when she had recovered
from the shock of the surprise, was, of
course, that he might give her tidings of her
lost sister ; but then, at the same time, she had

remembered how consummate a villain and how
clever a liar this man was, and she had in her
worldly wisdom decided to wait and hear what
he had to say for himself first, before seeking
from him any information and thus playing
into his hands. Now, however, he had himself
opened the ball, and with an earnestness of
manner, and a strange and almost ferocious
abruptness, which — as was of course the intention
of Laurence — took Muriel entirely off her
guard, and made her accept at once as true
words which, if they had been spoken with less
art, she would probably have regarded as being
merely worthy of consideration in so far as
they might in their falseness have indicated to
her shrewdness in what direction she might
really hope to find the truth. Just at that
moment a very smart victoria passed, stopped,
and a lady's voice called out —

'' Duchesse ! Duchesse ! " and Muriel turning
recognised Madame de Troilus.

Wait," said the Duchess in a low tone to
Farquhar, and then she went up to the carriage
of Madame la Baronne.

How pale you are, ma chere ! " exclaimed
Madame de Troilus. " Are you ill I "

''Oh no ! " exclaimed Muriel, shaking her
head. "It's the heat, I suppose. Are you
going to Marie's ? '*'

*' Yes ; and you '? "

I shall be there later on."

Come now. Drive over there with me."

"I can't. I must take a walk first. You
shall drive me back if you will."

Volo7itiers.'' Then leaning forward, the
portly Baroness said in a whisper to Muriel,
If it is not indiscreet, ma cJwre, who is that
dreadful man you are talking to ? "

I'll tell you later on," laughed Muriel. " For
the moment it is a State secret."

'' Oh, a State secret ! " exclaimed Madame la
Baronne, shrugging her shoulders. *' Bah !
Then I care nothing about it. So you won't
come with me now, mignonne Decrement
non f "

Not now. I shall be there, though, very
shortly. Tell Marie I am coming." Then an
affectionate little wave of the hand, and the
carriage of Madame la Baronne rolled away.

It was evident to Muriel as she walked back
to where she had left Farquhar standing, that
she could not possibly continue her interview

with him on the roadside, where at any moment
they might be interrupted ; so without paying
any attention to his question, " Wasn't that
Madame de Troilus ? " she said to him very
coldly, and as if addressing a servant, " Follow
me. There is nobody at home. We shall be
quite alone'' and walked back to the Villa
Giulia, Farquhar following like a whipped
cur.

The gate at the back opening into the
garden was never locked in the daytime, but
to get into the house from that side the Duchess
would have to ring, whereas by passing to the
front of the house she could get in through the
conservatory without ringing; but that would
necessitate her seeing the sea, and, for reasons
of her own, her Grace wished to avoid that
ordeal ; so she went to the back-door and rang,
but in the minute or two which elapsed before
the lazy footman answered the bell, the Duchess
turned and asked the scowling, skulking ruffian
who accompanied her the most extraordinary
question —

Will you have anything to drink ? " she
said, her lips twitching curiously. Laurence
could hardly believe his ears ; but before he

had had time to reply the door was opened,
and they passed into the villa.

*' M. le Due has not arrived yet ? " inquired
her Grace.

'' No, Madame la Duchesse."

'^ Bring me some tea, and some brandy and
soda-water and ice, into the salon at once,
Eusebe. Remember I am not at home to
anybody. Say I am busy, and do not wish
to be disturbed." The servant bowed, and the
Duchess passed on into the salon, followed by
Farquhar.

*' I wish you would close the windows, Laurence,"
said her Grace when they had got into
the room, and addressing him for the first time
by his Christian name, which had been so familiar
to her lips in the old days. The Duchess did this
of course quite involuntarily ; indeed she was
hardly thinking of the man at all, her whole
mind being absorbed in the wonder, which was
rapidly developing into fright, as to whether or
not she would experience any horror at the sight
of the liquids which were about to be brought ;
but at the sound of his Christian name coming
from her lips Farquhar felt a thrill of joy. If
she called him Laurence, it was hardly possible

that when he had told the pitiful tale he had
concocted in his mind this rich woman, who
had been formerly so generous, could refuse an
old friend, and more than friend, who had so
many and well - founded and very present
claims on her benevolence, a few paltry thousand
pounds.

Why, it's oppressively warm. Duchess," he
said, smiling, and walking to the window.

Shut the window, I tell you," exclaimed
Muriel, in a sudden burst of irritation. " I
don't want to hear the noise of the sea ! "

Laurence obeyed her Grace's orders, greatly
surprised at her unnatural manner ; and then
for the first time it struck him that her whole
conduct and bearing was extraordinary, and had
been so from the very beginning. Knowing of
old her excitable nature, he had expected that
this first meeting with the Duchess would bean
unpleasant and perhaps a stormy one.
There would, he had told himself, doubtless
be much agitation, no little vituperation, and
certainly many tears ; but there had, as a
matter of fact, been none of all this. He
had startled her at first, and then she had
turned pale at the mention of Madge's name.

that was all. Her general tone and bearing
bad been coldly careless, not to say contemptuous,
wholly unlike anything he could remember
of her manner before ; and then she
had asked him that curious question about
hyperaesthesia, had invited him to drink with
her, had called him Laurence, and had suddenly
flown into a passion because he had hesitated
to close the window on a sultry August afternoon.
How very strange 1

Are you ill. Duchess '? " he inquired, looking
at her in astonishment.

Muriel had taken off her hat and cloak,, and
was fumbling in her pocket in an excited and
mysterious way. She was feeling for the pistol,
which had got entangled in her pocket-handkerchief.
She took out her pocket-handkerchief
and threw it on the table, and also her purse.
She must have nothing to prevent her from
being able to seize and use the pistol the very
instant it should become necessary for her to do
so. Then she clasped her hands, and began
walking up and down the room, not looking at
her companion.

*' Yes, very ill," she answered. '* But don't
speak to me until the man has brought the

tea, — not a word, not a word, not a word till
then ! "

She spoke hurriedly and impatiently, as one
anxious to avoid being interrupted in some
painful but all-important mental labour ; and
she walked up and down, up and down the room
like a caged tigress, stopping every now and
then and sighing heavily. Laurence Farquhar
stood by the window and watched her. How
very, very strange ! he thought. What could
this extraordinary conduct mean ? Had she,
perchance, quarrelled with her husband ; washer
domestic life not so happy and tranquil
after all as the world at large supposed it to
be ; or did this woman take morphia ? There
was evidently some mystery here, he felt, and
he determined to do his best to unravel it, so
that he might use it to his advantage.

*^ How long that man is bringing the tea ! "
exclaimed Muriel, stopping suddenly and stamping
her foot with pettish irritability. "Ah,
here he is ! " and as the man opened the door the
Duchess sprang rather than walked to him, and
seizing the teapot, poured some of the liquid into
a cup while the tray was still in the footman's
hands, and took it and drank it with great

eagerness, without waiting to put in milk or
sugar. Both Laurence and the servant looked
at her with amazement. Muriel burst into a
fit of boisterous laughter and put the cup back.

I was so terribly thirsty ! " she exclaimed in
English to Farquhar ; then to the man in French,
'* Open the soda-water at once, Eusebe — Monsieur
meurt de soif."

The astonished footman put the tray on the
table and proceeded to open one of the soda-water
bottles, her Grace almost crouching by
him the while, and eyeing the bottle with intense
anxiety. The cork was a large one, and-the
man had to pull and pull, but at length — pop —
out it came, and some of the water gushed out
over the man's hands.

Oh r' exclaimed Muriel recoiling, but then
suddenly leaning forward, she took the tumbler
herself and drank it. *' You must open another
bottle for Monsieur," she exclaimed, and then
putting the glass back on the tray, she began
walking up and down the room again. When
the man had succeeded in opening another bottle,
her Grace stopped in her strange promenade and
said, " Now leave us, Eusebe, and don't forget
what I told you about admitting nobody."

'• Bien, Madame la Duchesse," said the man,
and he retired to tell his fellow-servants of his
mistress's strange conduct.

When he had gone, Muriel turned to Farquhar
and said, '* Now tell me what you've got to
say. Don't mind me — I must walk up and
down — I feel nervous — but don't mind me. I
am listening to you." Farquhar hesitated. Ashe
did not speak for a moment, the Duchess
proceeded, walking up and down all the time —
You said you came to bring me a message
from Madge. Where is she ? "

'' In America."

'' In America ! " echoed Muriel, stopping fora
moment in her walk. Then resuming it again,
she added carelessly, " 1 am sorry for that ! I

should have liked to have seen her before "

and she paused.

Before what ? " inquired Laurence.

Nothing," replied the Duchess brusquely,
almost rudely. '' Go on, — what have you got
to say ? I am listening."

Poor Madge has suffered a great deal," he
began ; but the Duchess interrupted him.

We all have. We've all suffered a great
deal — thanks to you ! "

Thanks to me 1 "

"Yes, thanks to your heartless, scoundrelly
treachery ! "

*' Duchess ! "

'what have you got to say? Tell me at
once. You're not afraid of me, are you 1 I
can't eat you ! "

There was a coarse, flippant, careless rudeness
in the tone in which she said these words, that
struck Farquhar with amazement. Was the
woman going mad ? he wondered.

You misjudge me, Duchess' he said, gravely.
" But I do not wonder at it, for appearances
are all against me. But I have come hereto
discharge a sacred duty, and I will do it,
careless of your insults ; and when I have
told you what I have to say, I will pass out
of your life for ever, and return to my misery
to die."

"Well, well, well," broke in her Grace impatiently,
" what is it '? " Then she stopped,
took up a fan from the table, half opened it as
if to fan herself, then changed her mind and
closed it, but, keeping it in one hand, she began
pettishly tapping the other with it as she resumed
her strange perambulation up and down

the room, every now and then stopping and sighing,
and then beginning her walk again.

*^ I have come to explain the truth about what
took place that terrible night when I, like a
madman, induced Lady Anstruther to sacrifice
all that a woman holds most dear — home, reputation,
honour — for you I "

For me ! " echoed her Grace, stopping ; and
then bursting out laughing, she opened the fan
again, half began to fan herself, then closed it
abruptly, and threw it far from her on to the
floor at the farther end of the room. '' Come,
come, my man," she said ironically, " you must
remember I was never a fool. You are a clever
liar, I know, but you can hardly expect me to
listen to such folly as that ! "

It is not folly. It's the truth, Duchess, the
terrible truth 1 I don't seek to exonerate myself.
I have been guilty throughout, and the
most guilty, but she at least is guiltless, and it
is to prove her innocence to you that I have
come here now." Here he paused.

Go on," said her Grace coldly, walking up
and down as before.

You remember," he began, " that I told you
years ago, in Paris, I thought Madge loved me ? "

"I perfectly remember that you had the
cynical audacity to tell me so.'^

Well, it was true. She loved me so, that
she listened to my prayer when I appealed to
her for you 1"

"What do you mean, Mr Farquhar" burst
out the Duchess furiously, stopping short and
glaring at the man with withering contempt
and scorn. "Do you know whom you are
addressing? Let me have no more of this
insolence, or I shall have you thrown out into
the street by my servants. You are poor, starving,
I daresay, and I am ready to help you with
money, but I will not allow you to couple my
name with that of the woman you have ruined
and degraded !"

You shall not have me thrown out into the
street by your servants. Duchess — and I scorn
your money, starving as I am — but you shall
hear me. That woman, that hag, that governess,
grossly insulted Lady Anstruther that
morning, and she went up to London to meet
her husband and complain of the woman's
insolence ; but she failed to find Sir James
in London, and returned to Courthope. She
had just arrived at the station, when I, fresh

VOL. III. R

from meeting you in the wood, met her and
told her all. I told her that her husband
suspected her, and that I, appalled at such a
false suspicion, and goaded to madness by his
insults, had struck him. I told her that if she
returned at once she would disgrace the real
culprit, to whom she owed so much, and who
had been taken for her."

"How taken for her?" interrupted the
Duchess.

By the cloak you wore," he replied. " An-stretcher
thought it was his wife, and I could
not undeceive him."

The Duchess smiled. " Go on/^ she said ;
you amuse me."

I pleaded, and pleaded, and pleaded. I was
half beside myself with terror at the idea of the
dishonour you had exposed yourself to through
your kindness to me. I used all the eloquence
in my power. I reminded Madge of all she
owed you and yours, and of your love for her.
I appealed then to her love for me. I told her
I knew she loved me, and dared her to deny it ;
and then I lied to her. I told her I loved her.
I did it to save you ! I kept your honour
intact. Duchess. I sacrificed everything for

that — my own feelings, her good name and
happiness, all. I told her the truth. I told
her this had been no lovers' meeting, but that
you had come to help my father. I made to
her the degrading confession about the money,
all to save you ! She weakly listened to me,
and by so doing signed her death-warrant. I
knew that if the truth were suddenly known
about our meeting and the money, it would ruin
you in Arthur's eyes ; so I wantonly sacrificed,
not only myself, but this poor trusting woman,
for your sake ! I begged her to wait, promising
to go down the following day and make it all
right with Arthur, for there was really nothing
guilty to conceal. She, half frightened, listened
to my pleading, and to save you, and out of
love for you, and out of love for me, did wait.
I brought her back to London, took a room for
her at the Grosvenor Hotel, and left her, promising
to see her in the morning. Then came the
news of the Colonels death : her heart failed her,
and I, who had, for your sake, induced this
woman to sacrifice everything, decided to make
her the only reparation in my power — to dedicate
my life to her. Then it was I urged her
to fly with me, and she consented. 1 married

her, and have worked for her until my health
gave way, but when I became paralysed the
worst came. Her health had long been failing,
and when this terrible blow came upon me and
I could work no longer, she suggested that I
should apply to you, but I refused ! I would
take no more money from you ! That which
you forced upon me for my poor father brought
a curse with it, for if I had not met you that
night, Madge might now have been a happy
mother with her daughter by her side, instead
of being a lonely and desolate woman, dying in
the slums of New York as she is."

And why have you come now, pray ? "
asked the Duchess coolly.

Farquhar was greatly taken aback ; he could
not make the woman out. This was so entirely
unlike anything he had expected. Violent
abuse he could combat with and vanquish, but
there was in her Grace's tone and manner a
cold and supreme contempt which filled him
with a dread lest, perchance, he might be about
to lose this his last stake in life.

'' I came," he said slowly, *^ because she is
dying, and because, when she heard her daughter
— whom she deserted, mind you, because I

lied to her, and I lied to her to save you — was
about to be married to your cousin. ' Go,
Laurence she said — ' go back to England at
once, and see Muriel, and tell her the whole
truth. She will believe you when you bring
her this message from my deathbed. Tell her
all, and tell her not to let my child think I ama
guilty and bad woman. Tell Muriel that I
have sacrificed all for her, and that all I ask in
return is that she may not let my child despise
her mother.' These were her very words."
Here he paused. The Duchess was standing
opposite to him, looking at him steadfastly. with
a strange expression in her eyes, an expression
he did not like ; so he faltered and turned his
head aside. " I have delivered my message
now, Duchess. You need not send for your
servants to expel me. I am going," and he
took up his hat slowly. " Good-bye ! "

No ; wait, Mr Farquhar," said the Duchess ina
low clear tone. ^' I have not done with you
yet, and I shall not ring for my servants to
expel you until I have done with you. You
poor miserable villain ! You were always of
course a villain, but now you have become a
fool besides. I had thought you had merely

come here to beg, but I find you have come to
blackmail I Very well : you shall get all that
you deserve. Believe me, you shall remember
this visit all the rest of your miserable existence
! You thought to make me believe this
pitiful story ; you thought I was the fool you
had to deal with seventeen years ago ! Let me
undeceive you. I read with my own eyes the
letter you wrote to Lady Anstruther, and which
that woman stole : the Colonel gave it to me on
his deathbed, and I read it ! And then that
night I met your father ! " Laurence started.
He plainly saw the game was now all up. What
a fool he had been to get into such a wasp's nest !
Yes, your father, — and he told me all; how
from your very childhood you had been a cheat
and a villain, and had ruined him, and how all
that you told me about him to rob me of that
money were lies ! He cursed you — your own
father cursed you 1 — and he showed me a letter
you had written to that horrible man Graham
in Paris, in which you speak of me and of Lady
Anstruther in terms which it is sickening to
remember. That letter I have, and that letter
I shall use 1 "

Use ! " echoed Farquhar aghast.

Yes, use ! Do you think I am going to let
you off scot-free now that I have it in my power
to punish you for your villainy ? " Then Muriel
threw up her hands in the air. " You miserable
scoundrel !" she exclaimed, '' you have done that
which no tears can wash away, no repentance
efface or atone for. You have broken a woman's
heart ! I know nothing of what you have done
with my darling. You may have killed her, but
I know you have broken her heart ! You, you,
you," cried her Grace, getting more and more
excited. " A mere man, and such a man ! to
think you can reach up to that citadel of all
that is best, and holiest, and purest — a true
woman's heart, where your mother's love warmed
you to life at first, and where should shine, and
would shine if you tried to find it, the beacon-light
that would for ever comfort you in your
hours of trouble ! And this palace, full of love
and sympathy direct from God's heart, and into
which such monsters as you should never dare
to crawl, you have laid waste and made desolate !
Oh ! it is for us to say, thinking of men like you
and we do say it, mark you, in our infinite
and sublime pity — ' Father forgive them, for
they know not what they do ! ' " Here her

breath failed her and she paused, trembling
with excitement, and her fingers working as
if they were longing to get at his throat.

Laurence stared at her, not only crushed by
this sudden overthrow of all his hopes and
schemes, but appalled at what he saw. It was
a sudden and terrible revelation. This was not
mere anger and contempt. It was something
supernatural, or rather something that partook
of the nature of the frenzy of insanity. Could
this be Muriel Meredith standing before him,
this woman whose face was convulsed with
passion, this woman with dilated pupils and
working mouth, whose fingers twitched in so
murderous a fashion ? Could this demon risen
from hell be the dainty, laughing, gold en -
haired darling he had known in the old
days 1 Could it indeed be the imperial and
graceful woman he had met in the street
but a few minutes ago ? What had happened
? What horrible change had come
over her so suddenly ? Farquhar was not
exactly a coward — that is, physically — and he
had been many times in great danger, but now
alone before this beautiful woman, suddenly
transformed into a tigress, his heart failed him.

and he felt afraid. He simply stood staring
at her and blinking, appalled and fascinated.
The Duchess leant both hands on the table
and looked at him, or rather glared at him,
opening her mouth every minute as if to speak,
and then closing it again without uttering any
sound save something that sounded like a suppressed
sob. Suddenly, to Farquhar's horror,
Muriel turned her face, and stretching her head
far forward, spat upon the floor, recoiling as she
did so as a serpent might recoil after having
bitten its victim. Farquhar's nerves, shattered
by debauchery, could stand this hideous sight
no longer. This woman was either mad already,
or going mad. At all events he had no further
business there, and the sooner he got away the
better.

^' You are ill. Duchess," he said, in a trembling
voice ; "I will go and tell the servants to send
for a doctor."

You shan't leave the room," cried the Duchess,
turning on him like a tigress, '' but in the hands
of the police, and with manacles on your wrists !
I shall keep you here, if I have to kill you, until
the police come. You think to threaten me by
telling Arthur that I met you that night to give

you money, because you lied to me by telling
me your father was on the verge of ruin ! Tell
Arthur ! Why, you poor wretch, Arthur is my
husband, my God, my friend ! Tell him ? Why,
you dare not even meet him ! One look from
his dear eyes would wither you. Tell him !
Why, he shall know all the moment he returns,
whether I am alive or dead ! I have arranged
for that. For I am dying, Farquhar, dying — do
you hear ? But I shall take my dear husband's
love with me to the grave, and you cannot rob
me of it ! "

*' Muriel ! " exclaimed a well-known voice,
and the Duchess turning, saw her husband step
out of the conservatory.

Arthur, Arthur, Arthur ! " and with a wild
shriek, as of a tortured child suddenly rushing
to the outstretched arms of its mother, Muriel
sprang into the outstretched arms of her husband,
and bursting into a torrent of tears, clung
around him, moaning, " I thank Thee, merciful
God ! Just in time ! Dear God ! Just in time !
Merciful Jesus ! Just in time, dear old Arthur !
Just in time 1 " and she clung around him as a
drowning man clings to a raft. Terrible as this
sudden advent of the Duke was, Laurence felt

relieved. He had at least now some tangible
and real danger to combat. He was at least no
longer alone with madness and murder.

*'I have heard all, Muriel," said Tintagil,
stooping and kissing his wife fondly. " I came
in by the conservatory to take you by surprise,
and then I heard this man's voice, and then I
thought of that horrible letter which I had
received from that woman, and of which I
never believed a word, my own darling, believe
me, never a word ; but I heard this man's
voice, and I listened. Will you forgive me,
Muriel, my darling, I listened, and I heard all.
You are safe now, my own darling wife, safe in
my arms. I will ring and have the police sent
for at once."

"Arthur, hear me," began Farquhar; but
Muriel interrupted him before he could proceed
further.

No, Arthur," she said, lifting her fair head
from his shoulder to be kissed, " no ; now that I
have you, it is enough. I must thank God for
His mercy 1 ' Vengeance is mine, saith the
Lord.' " Then she wrested herself from the
arms of her astonished husband, and walked upto
Farquhar.

'^ You can go, Laurence," she said ; then, before
proceeding further, she turned her head and
spat on the floor in the same repulsive manner
as before, craning forward her head, and then
quickly withdrawing it as if she were ejecting
some poison that burnt her lips. ^' You can go,
for you are the only one who knows where
Madge is, and I want you to take her a message
from me. Tell her that when I put on that
cloak of hers that night I meant no harm. Tell
her I only went out to meet you to give you
money to help your father. Tell her that it
was only when I read that letter you had written
to her, and knew that you were her lover, and
had gone away with her, that, like a poor
silly, timid child as I was then, I hesitated for
Arthur's sake — I hesitated for Arthur's sake tolet
any one know I had met you, or given you
the money at all. Tell her that her husband
forgave her, and blest her on his deathbed, and
told me to tell her so. Tell her I have given all
my heart to her child, and have brought her upto
be good and noble and pure, and that she is
going to marry one who will make her happy,
and who is worthy of her great goodness ; and
what can I say more ? You must go and tell

her that at once. Then tell her that I love her
with all my heart, and that I don't think I have
ever done her any harm in word, or deed, or
thought. Tell her I bless her, and ask her to
pray for me''

'' Muriel ! " exclaimed the Duke, advancing,
terrified by his wife's strange manner and
strange words. She turned her face to him and
smiled sweetly — a very mournful, touching smile
and then, holding up a deprecating finger —

'' Wait, Arthur 1 " she said'' wait ! " Then
turning to Laurence again, she said, " And I forgive
you too, Laurence. I daresay you had* no
idea of all the harm you were doing. Shake
hands ! " and the Duchess advanced and extended
her hand, which Farquhar took as one
in a dream.

A second transformation had taken place :
this terrible woman of a moment ago had
become, as it were by the beneficent and holy
influence of her husband's kisses, the gentle,
tender, dainty Muriel he knew so well of old !

And you will need some money, Laurence,"
continued her Grace. '* I will give you what I
have now by me ; but you must write to Arthur,
and he will send you more for my sake ! "

Thus speaking, the Duchess turned and approached
the table to get the purse she had
placed thereon when she had emptied her
pockets ; but as she drew near to it she began to
shudder, to shake so that her whole frame was
convulsed, and the Duke and Laurence saw her
staring with the pupils of her eyes dilated with
horror, her face suddenly suffused with a violent
flush as of one suffocating — at what ? — at the
half-empty glass of soda-water which Laurence
had left on the table ! Before either of the
men had had time to interfere, she had made
one convulsive bound to the glass, seized it,
looked at it, screamed with horror and terror,
thrown it to the ground, and recoiled, fumbling
in her pocket. Arthur sprang to her ; the report
of a pistol was heard, but the Duke was just intime
to strike the weapon which she had placed
to her temple from her hand, but the bullet
passed close to the cheek, and blood began
trickling from the wound.

Muriel ! Muriel ! Are you mad ?" cried the
Duke, holding her in his arms ; but the woman,
now quite out of her senses, struggled with
him.

What are you doing ? what are you doing ? "

she sobbed, catching her breath as if suffocating,
and in her violent attempts to breathe emitting
a noise like the barking of a dog. " Let me
kill myself ! For the love of God, let me kill
myself ! What are you doing 1 Oh, Arthur,
have mercy on me ! IVe got it ! I've got it !
IVe got it ! " Then, slipping down through her
husband's arms, she knelt and clasped him
around the knees, weeping piteously and wailing
like a child. " Oh, Arthur, have mercy on me,
and let me die ! I never meant you to know,
but that woman's dog, that mad dog, bit me,
and I've got hydrophobia. Let me die ! * If
you love me, let me die ! Kill me, Arthur, kill
me ! " Then she sprang to her feet, but the
Duke caught her. She tried to wrest herself
from his grasp, but in vain ; he held her tight.
She glared at him. " You monster ! " she hissed.
You monster, to let me die like this ! I hate
you ! " Then she opened her mouth and snarled
at him. " Let me go ! " she screamed in a
strident voice. ^'Let me go, or I shall bite you,
and then we shall both die foaming at the
mouth and mad together ! " Thus speaking,
with one violent wrench she escaped from the
arms of her horrified husband, and rushed to

the door; but Laurence had already rung the
bell violently, and the poor woman found herself
confronted by Eusebe, with all the servants
of the household behind him, frightened by
the report of the pistol and the ringing. The
Duchess started back, and Arthur caught her
from behind around the waist and held her tight.

Send for a doctor at once — at once ! do you
hear ? " he called. " Courtney ! '^ — this on seeing
the face of one of his English coachmen, a man
devoted to his Grace's family, and who had
indeed been born on the ducal estate — *' Courtney,
come in, and close the door'' The man
obeyed at once, merely turning to say in a
menacing tone to his fellow-servants, " Mind
you have a doctor here in five minutes."

Muriel had now grown somewhat calmer —
had thrown her head back on her husband's
arm, and was beating her bosom with her two
clenched fists, moaning the while, but struggling
comparatively little.

'* Courtney," said the Duke, " her Grace is
very ill. You must stay with me until the
doctor comes ; I may need you. You are not
afraid, are you ? "

Arthur's face at this moment was almost

more terrible to look upon than that of his
wife, being the very picture of one to whom
suddenly had been unveiled such horrors as
only the Third Lady of Sorrow — " Our Lady
of Darkness " — can reveal. The man, a sturdy
Cornishman, glanced at his master, and any
fear he might originally have entertained for
his own safety vanished at the sight of the
unutterable anguish he read in that face.

Afraid ? No ! " he said, the tears mounting
to his honest eyes ; " I am only too proud your
Grace should have thought of me." But here
Muriel interposed, leaning forward, held by her
husband's arms, and between almost every word
spitting and recoiling in the same terrible way
already described.

A doctor is no good, Arthur — no good now.
It's too late. Send for the Soeur de Temperance
at the Maison Turque. She has promised to
come. I saw her, and I saw Marie, yesterday.
Do send for her, Arthur ! Do send for her !
For the love of God, send for her ! "

The Duke was about to order Courtney to
send one of the servants at once, when Farquhar
stepped forward. *^If you will trust me, Arthur,
I will go," he said, timidly.

VOL. III. S

The Duke turned with a frown upon his
face, but it died away when he saw the wretch,
whose personal appearance he had hardly noticed
before that afternoon, so absorbed had his attention
been since his sudden advent from the conservatory
with the extraordinary events which
had taken place in such quick succession, culminating
in this hideous tragedy which he felt
to be the end of all. What a wreck was here !
Arthur's heart was stirred with pity, and the
glance which he cast upon his old school friend
of bygone days, full as it was of tender pity
and compassion, seemed still more eloquent in
reassuring pathos to Farquhar, who had noticed
the gleam of anger and scorn which had at first
illuminated it.

'ego at once then, Farquhar, and bring the
woman back with you. Do not lose a minute,
for the love of God ! "

And Laurence Farquhar, seizing his hat,
darted from the room on his first mission of
mercy. He tore to the ferry with some of the
agility which he had shown in the old days at
Eton, when Arthur had only just beaten him by
a neck in the mile race. The boat was just
moving off, but Laurence sprang on board, and

in a minute was on the Trouville side. Then
he ran as fast as his legs could carry him, quite
regardless of what the loungers on the beach
might think, up the planches to the Maison
Turque, which he had known so well in the old
days, and rang the bell violently — ringing, ringing,
ringing, in fact, until a frightened footman
came. Never waiting to make inquiries for the
mistress of the house, Farquhar pushed his way
in, and exclaimed, his voice still hoarse with
horror — " Where is the Soeur de I'Esperance who
was here ? The Duchess of Tintagil is dying

and wants " but before he could finish ^vhat

he was saying, he heard a stifled cry, a figure
in black glided up to him, and he saw beneath
the veil of the Soeur de I'Esperance the upturned
face of one he had never thought to see again.

^' Madge ! " he gasped, staggering back like a
drunken man. But the Sister paid no attention
to his emotion. She merely caught him by the
arm to keep him from falling, and almost shook
him as she exclaimed — " What did you say 'i
The Duchess dying 1 "

Yes'' gasped Farquhar, " dying — of — hydrophobia
! She may only have a few minutes
to live, and asks for you."

The Sister let go his arm, and clasping her
hands, bent her head in prayer. But only for a
second. " Come," she said ; " I am ready."

Madame de Bragan's carriage was at the door
to take her to a dinner-party, and the Sister and
Farquhar had seated themselves in it and began
galloping towards Deauville just as Madame la
Princesse, greatly frightened, rushed from her
dressings-room and was told the dreadful news.

How long that drive seemed to take, and
what a strange drive it was I The lover and
his mistress, the victim and her social and moral
assassin, the woman who had given all the first
freshness of her love and soul to this man until
she had been brought by bitter misery to dedicate
the remnant of it to God — and the man who
had trampled this precious offering under foot, —
now sitting, speechless, side by side, dashing at
full gallop through the dirty streets of a fashionable
fishing village, to be in time to see the last
of one who had been so good and true and
devoted a friend to them both, but who had
now already entered into one of the most hideous
ante-chambers of Death ! And they spoke not,
this lover and his mistress : Laurence was bewildered,
dazed, frightened, by what had taken

place within the last few hours, and which
seemed to indicate to him that some terrible
Nemesis had suddenly mingled in his affairs ;
and the Sister was absorbed in prayer.

Only once did Farquhar timidly venture to
break the silence.

Madge," he whispered, " do you — can you
forgive me ? "

'* Hush ! " said the shadow by his side. " I
have nothing to forgive ! My name is Sister
Saint John of God ! "

CHAPTER X.

When they arrived at the Villa Giulia, the
Sister passed in swiftly and alone, Farquhar
contenting himself with what the footman told
him, — that the doctor had come, that Madame
la Duchesse was somewhat easier, having been
put under the effect of chloroform ; and so,
promising himself that he would return on the
morrow early, although he knew that the disease
which had seized Muriel was one whose hideous
record of slaughter was not illuminated by a
single instance of recovery, Laurence made his
way to the first wine-shop, and absorbed two
glasses of absinthe but slightly diluted with
water, in quick succession, and then ordering
a small bottle to be filled with this powerful
stimulant, he paid, slipped the bottle into his
pocket, and passed out into the summer night.
His nerves had been terribly unstrung by the

experiences of the last few hours, and he knew
full well that his only hope of sleep that night
lay in his saturating his brain with absinthe,
although the last medical man he had consulted
about his paralysis had told him most solemnly
that such indulgence would be suicidal.

He walked to the beach, and passed in front
of the Villa Giulia, and looked up at the lights
which gleamed in every window of the house,
and then he turned and looked across the waste
of sand to the sea. The tide was far out, but
the full August moon shone brightly, and
showed him, far away, the glistening waters,
which seemed to dance in the silvery light,
while in the stillness of the night his ear
caught the distant murmuring of the waves.
Nature in all her moods had always appealed
strongly to Farquhar's hypersensitive nature ;
and to-night, as the absinthe mounted to his
brain, while the moonlight bathed him in silver
glory, and the soft kisses of the distant sea
upon the sand stole into his ear, and he looked
at the lights gleaming in the windows of the
house where so terrible a parting of the spirit
from the body was about to take place, his
heart thrilled, and the poet within him awoke,

and took down his harp and played. He was
a well-read man, and thoroughly acquainted
with five different languages, and with most
that was worth reading in them, — and, moreover,
a man passionately fond of music, and who
could understand the best that music has to
tell, — so that now his memory was assailed with
an innumerable host of brilliant, profound, and
pathetic ideas concerning life, death, the moon,
the waters, and the night. Cohort followed
cohort, coming on in serried ranks, and then
wheeling gave place to another advancing
legion. He sprang from Plato to Goethe, and
then Leopardi ambling by, he vaulted on his
back and galloped off to Dante, Sophocles,
Schiller, De Musset, Shakspeare, Swinburne,
Keats, and Walt Whitman ; and while this
moonlit tumult was taking place in his mind,
the ambient air, thrilled through and through
with the nervous and morbid ecstasy of Chopin,
was now and then hushed to an awful and
reverent silence by the simple majesty of some
grand consolation of Beethoven, or sobbed in
sympathy with Gounod's tears.

In this ecstasy Farquhar walked slowly back
to Trouville by the bridge, stopping at the very

place where he had that afternoon met Muriel,
and deluging Tennyson and Shelley with absinthe
as he thought of all the terrible events
that had taken place since that meeting. These
frequent pulls at his little bottle had indeed
nearly emptied it ; so when he had crossed the
bridge and got to Trouville, he went into another
wine-shop, had it replenished, and then carefully
avoiding the planches j which were crowded
with gaily dressed and merry people, he walked
far out into the sands, and then turning, strolled
up to the Riches Noires, stopping a few minutes
in front of the Maison Turque, where Victor
Hugo and Horace met him for a moment, and
then sauntering up, found his way to the Black
Rocks. The tide was still far out ; and so, going
to one of the farthest rocks, Farquhar seated
himself upon it, and taking another consoling
draught of absinthe, he began anew to revolve
within his mind the enigma of life. The night
was warm, even hot ; so in a few moments,
ceding to a Byronic impulse, he threw himself
flat on his back upon the rock and looked upto
the moon and stars above.

Laurence Farquhar was a man of a highly
strung nervous organisation and of fine sensuality,

— a man of considerable intellectual ability,
but one who, either by nature or by habit bred
of indolence, had ever been purely receptive ;
and this receptivity, nourished by a retentive
memory, and aided and abetted by his quick
appreciation of what was striking and clever,
had made of his plastic nature a mosaic, wholly
unoriginal, and for the most part bad, but in
which, perhaps, a keen and experienced eye
might have detected here and there a stone of
merit. He had all his life liked what was
clever, brilliant, to the point, searching and
comprehensive — good or bad ; but this liking
had done his moral nature (evil as it doubtless
originally was) much harm, for it is, as we all
know, infinitely more easy to be eloquent when
in Opposition than when seated on the Ministerial
side of the House of Life. He might
have honoured Christianity with more sentimental
attention if it had been presented to
his mental palate in an appetising and highly
seasoned form ; but he had, as a matter of fact,
given rein to his natural tendency to sympathise
with the goats rather than with the sheep, because
the first-named quadruped is possessed

of horns, a beard, audacity, and a power and
will to butt — whereas, all that can recommend
the chosen animal is a meek submission to the
shearing scissors, the possession of wool which
is destined to be enjoyed by others, and an
inability to defend itself. He would readily
have listened to, have remembered — nay, in
his superficial way, have perhaps believed in,
and most assuredly have at least repeated — clever
things in defence of duty, virtue, and God, but
his reading had never, save in rare instances, led
him to such ; whereas, on the other hand, the
storehouse of his memory was sparkling with
wicked and pungent sarcasms against the existing
state of things, — shafts which the sublime
composure of nature receives with such perfect
equanimity, replying to our witticisms with the
sunlight every morning, and the roses every
June. So, lying on this lonely rock on the
sea-shore, the waves approaching gradually but
surely — whispering, murmuring, caressing, toying,
retreating, hesitating, but coming nearer
every moment, — this pitiful wreck of what
might have been so fair and perfect, looking the
pure and peaceful August moon in the face,

murmured to himself the terribly eloquent platitudes
of poor De Musset —

Je ne crois pas, 6 Christ, t\ ta parole sainte,

Je suis venir trop tard dans un monde trop vieux.
D'un siecle sans espoir wait un siecle sans crainte :

Les comets du notre ont peuple les cieux.
Maintenant le hasard promise au sein des ombres

De leurs illusions les mondes reveilles :
Esprit des temps passes, errant sur leurs decombres

Jette au goufFre eternal tes anges miles !
Les clous de Golgotha te soutiennent a peine,

Sous ton divin tombeau le sol s'est derobe,
Ta gloire est morte, 6 Christ, et sur nos croix debere

Ton cadavre celeste en poussiere est tombe ! "

How long did this poor woman have to live,
he wondered ? Perhaps her earthly troubles
were already over, and her soul was even at
this very moment being received into the
bosom of God — even now as he lay there upon
that lonely rock looking up to the stars and
moon, and striving to unravel by means of
absinthe, and what he could recollect of the
thoughts of great men, the riddle of existence.
Farquhar remembered his Coleridge, and told
himself that if it were all over with Muriel she
was to be envied. What remained for him ?
Nothing I It may be that the Angel of Death,
hovering so close to this lonely outcast lying in
drunken ecstasy on the rock — this self-defaced

image of God, who had always been so pitiless
to others, and ever so full of compassion for
himself, — it may be, we say, that in this almost
supreme moment the veil was partly lifted, that
the Angel of Death unfolded, as he spread his
sombre wings, an abnormally luminous vista of
introspection, the far-searching light of which
sprang, perchance, from the fact that it shone
for the last time, as the convulsive flicker of the
dying taper, or the apparent renewal of strength
which so often immediately precedes dissolution.
But be this as it may, the fact remains that
Laurence Farquhar, lying on that rock 'that
night, the August moon bathing his pallid
careworn face in its hallowing rays, saw his
past life in truer colours and recognised his
errors, with a greater regard for the justice
due to others than he had ever done before.
He did not repent — for there was no spot on
his vice-blistered heart on which the balm of
repentance could fall ; but he plainly saw not
only the whole failure of it all, but the utter
and absolute uselessness of his attempting to
continue the struggle. Here he fumbled in his
pocket with his only sound hand, pulled out the
absinthe-bottle and took another drink, this time

a longer draught than usual. Then he corked
the bottle, put it down by his side, and lay back
again on the rock, reclining on his arm, gazing
at the moon and listening to the murmur of the
advancing waves. No ; there was nothing left
for him to do in life, and perhaps it would be
better for him to get out of it as swiftly, quietly,
painlessly, and cleanly as he could, instead
of awaiting the tedium of protracted illness, and
all the horrors which must cluster around a
dying man's bed in a hospital — a bed to which
he knew full well he could hope for no friend to
come to bid him farewell.

Fortune, who had at one time been so kind,
had now evidently deserted him, else why had
death intervened to take from him in so sudden
and hideous a fashion the only being upon whose
kindness he could rely 'i It was his destiny, he
told himself, prompted by the absinthe — his destiny,
as much as the mad dog's fangs, that was
dragging that poor, innocent, lovable, and loved
woman through the most terror-damp and hors
purlieus of hell, before she should
be able to find refuse in extinction. It was
he, and not the dog, that had killed her, the
absinthe whispered ; and so now he had the

bleeding, smoking carcass of murder thrown
in to add to the foul garbage-mound of vice,
debauchery, treachery, and villainy which alone
stood as a token of his having been born of
woman ! What use was there of battling
against Fate ?

dXX' d ixoLpihia Tts SvvaarL<s oetvd*
Owt av iv oX/Sos ovT Après, 6v Trvpyo?, ove dXc'KTVTTOt
KeXatvat votes cK^vyotei/."

Arthur might, in fact probably would, be good
to him and give him money ; but what then ?
Were not his only happy moments those when
he was half delirious with drink, or, in other
words, when he was courting death and embracing
the Pale Horseman on the lips and
brows ? No ; no money could save him now :
his time had come ! Why seek to struggle
further with the inexorable gods ?
Then the question —

*' Tts ovv AvayKr]<s iaTLV 6iaKO(TTpo<f>os ; "

And then, ah ! then, the terrible answer, —

The words came ringing through the absinthe
to his diseased brain. Had he not better, then,
lie here and sleep, and let the gentle summer

waves come and wreathe him, and bear him
away without pain and without noise to the
island valley of Million ? And how heroic it
would be I He alone would know of his heroism,
but it would be a dignified and graceful departure,
worthy of those glorious Greeks with whose
literature and modes of thought he had ever been
so enamoured since the old days at Vidal's, when
arthur Pendragon had in his stupid, clumsy,
Sixth-form-boy way, endeavoured to show him
some of the beauties of a chorus in the Antigone
I Here the tears began to trickle down
Farquhar's cheeks, — *' Tears from the depth of
some divine despair' he told himself, quite forgetting
the half-empty and wholly responsible
absinthe-bottle lying by his side. The whole
thing was a mystery —

Geburt unci Grab,
Ein ewiges Meer,
Ein wechselnd Ween,
Ein gliihencl Leben''

But he was not a coward like Master Hamlet :
he would chance the dreams that might come,
after a life the realities of which had become so
painful to him. He would not rebel — that
would be idle, — Prometheus had tried it and

failed ; but so far as this life was concerned, he
would no longer stay to be the victim of

God's intolerable scorn
Not to be born."

He would let the sea come there and claim him :
he would go out like Barks and FalstafF, with
the tide. He had seen in that glance from
Arthur's eye that he at least had forgiven him ;
about Madge he cared nothing, — she had her
God — let her cling to Him ! He would go outwith
Muriel. She had been his affianced bride
once — oh, how long ago ! — his soul would rush
after hers now, or if hers was still struggling
with the convulsed and hideous flesh, his spirit
would hover near her bedside and wait — and he
knew he should not have to wait long — until
hers should be released, and then they two together,
hand in hand, would pass " to where beyond
these voices there is peace." Then he took
another pull at the absinthe-bottle, but this time
he experienced some difficulty in moving. All
the better ! He was getting drunk ! So in a
spirit of sheer bravado he drained the bottle and
threw it from him into the approaching sea.
Then he fell back again, resting upon his arm,
and in a moment had sunk into a drunken

VOL. III. T

slumber. And as he slept the tide came in, the
sea approaching nearer and nearer every moment,
sparkling and scintillating with death ; but
the gentle waves retreated even as they advanced,
as if the outraged and insulted moon
which looked down in such soft glorious pity on
this blasphemous sleeping drunkard had said,
Wait, wait ; not yet ! Give him a little more
time ! He may become reconciled to us after
all ! Give him time ! Let him awake from his
drunken slumber, and then, perchance, when the
body has been refreshed with sleep, his weary
spirit too may awake, and remember, and understand
! "

Suddenly Farquhar awoke, roused by the
sensation of being surrounded by water, and ina
moment he had realised the situation. The
sea had almost covered the rock, and there was
water on every side of him, and each wave came
gently half over his body, stopping and retreating
just below his waist. His heroic dreams of
self-destruction fled at once, and he only remembered
with joy that he could easily swim
with one arm, and especially in this warm
August sea, and with the tide in his favour !
Besides, he could only be a few yards from the

shore, and could most probably wade to the
beach, or, if the worst came to the worst, call
for assistance. He tried to rise, but could not ;
he tried to raise his left arm, but could not !
Then the full horrible truth burst in upon him,
and he tried to call for help, but could not !
The mental excitement of the last few hours, the
absinthe, the exposure, and the water, had done
their deadly work, and his body was completely
paralysed, save the brain !

While he had been sleeping over his premeditated
heroic exit, God had stepped in and taken
the matter into His own hands, and pinned him
to the rock, for the languid, lazy summer sea —
now no longer lingering, hesitating, and caressing,
but grown cruel, pitiless, and ravenous — to
bring, when she should find time to spare a
wave to do so paltry a deed, this ignominious
villain to her silent secret chamber. Even
the moon seemed to mock him now as he
looked up, and the silvery rays played about
him through the rapidly ascending water as a
cat plays with a mouse, sneering — " Not yet !
Not yet ! But before long ! And then when allis
over, I will shine upon the spot you will have
left, with no abatement in the softness and sweetness

of my light. I will shine upon that spot,
but none of my beams shall tell where the waves
have covered you ! " With an almost superhuman
effort Farquhar rolled over on to his
stomach and looked to land. He was indeed
very near the shore, nearer than he had thought,
and he could plainly see the lights along the
beach, and even see the crowd of loungers strolling
and looking at the coming tide. Oh ! if
he could but only raise his head ! He tried, but
he could not, and just then a gentle warm wavelet
came washing over him, and stirred his curls.
And so death took him, silently, relentlessly,
surely — while he lay staring at life and pleasure,
and within a stone's-throw of certain succour !

Sister St Jean de Dieu was at once ushered
into the salon which had been the theatre of
the terrible scene described in our last chapter,
and was told by the footman that he would immediately
acquaint M. le Due with the fact of her
arrival ; and so in a few minutes poor Tintagil
came — broken, trembling, crushed — aged thirty
years in one hour.

My dear Sister," he said in French, advancing
and holding out his hand, " I can never

thank you enough for having come at once. My

poor wife " but before he could proceed

further, the Sister had seized him by the arm,
and lifting up an agonised face to his, exclaimed
—

Not dead, Arthur 1 Oh ! don't tell me my
prayers have not been answered, and that I have
come too late ! " The Duke stared at the woman,
but he could not speak. " Yes, it is I, Arthur,"
said the Sister, lowering her head.

"I thank Thee, God, for Thy infinite
mercy ! " sobbed poor Arthur, now fairly broken
down, and raising his eyes streaming with tears
to heaven. Then, controlling his feelings, but
with the tears still rolling down his cheeks, he
stooped, took one of the Sister's hands in his and
kissed it with courtly reverence. ^* No ; she is
not dead — not yet ! Thank you for coming.
Lady Anstruther. God bless you 1 "

Is it really hydrophobia ? " inquired the
Sister.

'* Yes''

And is there no hope ? "

'* There is no hope. I have wired to Paris,
and sent a special train to bring down two
physicians at once, and I have also wired to

London for two specialists; but there is no hope.
There has never been a well-authenticated instance
of cure, you know ; and the doctor here —
who is with her now — says that owing to her
nervous temperament this is a most violent
case." Then the Sister clasped her hands and
bowed her head in prayer, but Arthur could seethe
tears fall one by one on the cross she wore
upon her breast.

*sis she suffering much pain?" inquired
Sister St John of God, after a pause.

Perhaps not when the spasms do not seize
her," answered poor Arthur, shaking like a girl,
and looking like a man standing upon the drop
with the hangman just about to pull the white
cap over his face, thus muffling him to take the
rope-length's journey which will jerk him from
man's justice to God's mercy. " But she suffers
terribly. We tried to get her to bed just now,
but the draught caused by putting the sheets
over her brought on a convulsion which almost
killed her. Then the doctor tried to administer
chloroform, but it almost asphyxiated her, and
had to be discontinued before she could be completely
got under."

'let me go to her," said the Sister softly.

and without a word the Duke led her to the
chamber of death.

When the door was opened the sight that
met their gaze was horrible in the extreme.
There stood the doctor and his assistant — grave,
serious gentlemen, habited in black and wearing
white ties — while before them, dressed in a 
satin dressing-gown, but with bare
feet, her golden hair streaming down her back,
stood Muriel, if indeed her attitude could be
termed standing. She was leaning backwards,
supported by her two feet and one hand on the
carpet, like a clown in a circus, and arching forward
her breast, which she beat violently* with
the hand which remained disengaged. At the
sight of her husband and the Sister she smiled.

Ma bonne Soeur ! " she gasped, not changing
her attitude, and continuing to beat her breast,
*' I — knew — you — would — come ! " Then came
hurried inspirations and sobbing, precisely resembling
those which occur when one wades
gradually into cold water.

The Duke walked up to the medical men.
^' Gentlemen," he said, in a voice husky and
hoarse with emotion, " will you be kind enough
to step outside with me for a moment 1 "

Poor Arthur wanted the first meeting between
the two sisters — the last joy it was in his power
to give Muriel in this life — to be unobserved and
private as a holy and sacred thing. The doctors
bowed and followed the Duke out into the hall,
his Grace closing the door behind them, and
leaving Madge and Muriel alone together. The
Duchess had paid no attention to all this. She
had only shuddered and moaned at the slight
draught caused by the opening and shutting of
the door, and never ceased beating her bosom,
arching out her breast, and sobbing.

There's such a tightness here ! " she gasped.

The Sister of Hope with open arms tottered
rather than walked towards her and knelt down
by her side. " Muriel ! Muriel ! my darling! it
is I!"

The poor half-crazed Duchess, sprawling like
a clown on the floor, turned her head and looked
at her, then closed her eyes for a second, then
opened them again, and looked at her as if
doubting whether she were delirious or in her
senses ; then as the Sister took the poor convulsed
body in her arms, and, her eyes streaming
with tears, stooped over the dying woman to
kiss her, Muriel was seized with a convulsive

fit of suffocation and fell back prone upon
the floor.

Muriel ! Muriel ! my darling ! "

But poor Muriel only writhed and sobbed,
and in her efforts to breathe uttered that
terribly significant sound which is peculiar to
hydrophobia, and which the ignorant have taken
to be the imitation of the barking of a dog.
The Sister raised her in her arms, weeping and
sobbing out words of consolation and love as
she did so ; but this seemed to agitate the
sufferer still more, and Muriel, clasping her in
her arms, closed her eyes to avoid seeing the
Sister's tearful face, and craning forward her
head, leant her chin on the Sister's shoulder, so
that they could not see one another's faces as
they spoke.

*' So — so ! " she gasped, " I — I — I — can't see
your — tears," and here a convulsive shudder
shook her frame. "They — they — drive me
mad ! "

Here a slight fit of suffocation came on, the
Sister of Hope holding her tenderly in her arms,
and petting and soothing her with caresses, but
never uttering a word — and Muriel on her knees
before her, stiffly craning her neck over her

companion's shoulder, so that they might not
speak face to face. Ashen the worst of the
paroxysm of suffocation had passed away,
Muriel's hands, which she had held tightly
clasped around her friend's neck, relaxed and
loosened, and she in her turn began smoothing
and caressing her long-lost darling's back.

You mustn't — be frightened, Madge ! " she
whispered, gasping. '* And you — will stay —
with me — won't you — to — the end ? " The
tightening of the embrace which encircled her,
and the kisses on her shoulder, answered the
poor Duchess with sufficient eloquence. *' Dear
Madgy ! " murmured Muriel, now becoming
rather more calm, entirely abandoning herself
to her friend's embrace, and passing her poor
little twitching hands caressingly down the
coarse cloth of the Sister's dress. " I knew I
should see you before I died ! I may die any
minute, you know, now — any minute ; and I had
something to tell you. Your breath on my face,
and your — your — your tears," — here again came
a slight convulsive shudder, quickly mastered, —
drove me mad, Madgy darling ; but we can
talk like this, for so I do not see your tears or
feel your breath. I wanted to tell you before I

die that Laura, your daughter, is good and
pure and noble, and is going to marry a noble
and good man whom she loves. She will be
happy, thank God ! I have done my best for
her, Madgy darling — my very best for her. Remember
what I tell you now, no matter what
you may hear or know. She has been to me as
my own daughter, and now, thank God ! as I
am leaving her, she will be happy." Here the
Duchess stopped suddenly and struggled to her
feet, the Sister rising with her and holding her
in her arms, averting her face the while. When
they were once standing the Duchess became
more calm, and resting her chin on her friend's
shoulder again, resumed. " Your husband, the
poor Colonel, forgave and blessed you, Madge,
on his deathbed, and told me to tell you. I
have done it now. Thank God, I have lived todo
it ! " Here more sobbing and moaning and
barking. Then the Duchess, becoming calmer
once more, kissed her friend's shoulder, and
began caressing her friend's back appealingly.
*now, Madgy," she murmured coaxingly, "will
you do one thing for me if I ask you 1 Will
you promise me to do one thing ? I know
you love me as I love you. I have done all

I can for Laura, and I am dying. Will you
promise ? "

I will."

Then, Madgy," — and she brought her lips
close to where she knew the Sister's ear was
only hidden from her by the hornet of the order,
and kissed the place as she spoke, — " don't be
frightened ! I am dying ; you know that — you
see that ; dying — and nobody can save me.
But I don't want to die in this way. Will you
bring me something that will put a stop to this
a knife, a pistol, poison, — anything? You
promised — remember you promised ! Don't hate
me for asking you, but for the love of Jesus let
me have it ! "

Kemember," whispered the poor groom's
daughter, the disgraced outcast, now become
a Sister of Hope, who had come through great
tribulation, and was trying in her feeble way
to wash her robes and make them white, —
remember," she whispered, clasping in her
arms one who but a few hours ago had
been the most powerful and to be envied
of young peeresses in Europe, *^ what He
suffered, Muriel darling — He who died for
us 1 What can our suffering be to His, who

embraced in the agony in the Garden all the
suffering and trouble that can ever come to us
in this world ? He did not weep for Himself,
Muriel — think of that ! Why should God weep
for Himself? He wept for us, for He saw all
that it would be necessary and in order for us
to suffer, and how little we could stand it if
He were not by our side to comfort us. It
is all in order, my darling, all in order ! Think
of Jesus, my darling, and say with Him, 'Thy
will, not mine, be done ! ' and then think of
His blessed promise, ' To him that overcome
will I grant to sit with Me in My throne even
as I also overcame, and am set down with
My Father in His throne \' It is all in order,
Muriel, my own darling, all in order, — and we
rise to Him by our sufferings, which He has
known and suffered for us."

All in order ! all in order ! " echoed the
poor Duchess in a moan and between her
terrible sobs, beating time to the words on
her friend's back, and staring blankly at the
wall over her friend's shoulder. But just then
her glaring eyes caught the glittering reflection
of a looking-glass, and a terrible convulsion ensued
— so terrible, indeed, that the Sister, finding

it impossible to hold her in her arms,
screamed for help.

We will not, however, harrow the feelings
of our readers any further by entering into a
detailed description of the innumerable horrible
incidents which occurred before the end came
and this sweet soul was permitted to fly home.
We will give no elaborate account of how that
very night, and at her own request, a strait-waistcoat
had to be put upon her : we will
say nothing of the spinal ice-bag and the iced-water
cap which, after wearing a few hours, she
tore ofi* in an agony of delirium : we will passover
in silence the agonies which transformed
this dainty Duchess, while the spasms lasted,
into something more revolting than the mind of
man can conceive. The convulsions had been
at first frequent and violent — every two minutes,
and then every fifteen minutes ; but they grew
less frequent by degrees, although their violence
rather intensified. The great men came from
Paris and London, and everything was tried, —
chloroform, chloral, musk, morphia, nitrate of
amyl, curara, everything, — but all in vain.
Then on the second evening came two hours
of calm, and in the gentle whispered conversation

which passed between the dying
woman and the Sister of Hope, who never
left her for a moment, the Duchess told her
simple little story about the mistake about
the cloak, begged for and received absolution
for her cowardice, — and in her turn Muriel
learnt all that had occurred during the last
seventeen years in her foster - sister s life :
heard the true story of the sin ; of the flight
to New York ; of the deception ; of how
Madge had left her lover when she found he
did not intend marrying her ; heard how she
had taught French in a school in America fora
few months, and then, when the Franco-prussian
war broke out, had come to Paris,
served as a sick-nurse in the ambulances, and
then joined the Roman Catholic Church and
became a Sister of Hope. The telling of these
simple facts took but a short time; and although
Sister St John of God was guilty of disobedience
in thus speaking of her past life, she
gladly took the sin upon her soul, when she
saw how the narrating of her vicissitudes
withdrew for the time being the attention of
the poor dying woman from her present suffering,
and the rapidly approaching catastrophe.

Laura, Lady Astolat, and Jack, who had
returned on the day following the outbreak of
her Grace's terrible malady, were not allowed
to see the sufferer, although Laura pleaded
piteously to do so. The doctors had pointed
out the terrible shock the child would experience
at such a meeting. Muriel had been
consulted on this point, and although, if her
poor heart still retained on its lacerated surface
any spot to which a fresh agony could
find its way, she herself wantonly inflicted the
wound when she denied the door of her death-chamber
to her darling ; yet she did so deny it,
and Miss Anstruther was told that her Grace
could only see her just before she died, and
even then only if the doctors would allow it.
The attention of the Sister of Hope, who had
never left the Duchess since her arrival at the
Villa, and who slept and had the little she could
eat in the boudoir adjacent to the room in
which her friend lay dying, only stealing out
into the hall and closing the bedroom door to
drink when Muriel was asleep, — the attention,
we say, of Lady Anstruther was so wholly
absorbed in the terrible tragedy being enacted
before her, and in the contemplation of its

spiritual aspect, that she had hardly thought of
her daughter save in prayer ; while Muriel, on
the other hand, had been either delirious or
stupefied by anaesthetics, except for the few
hours alluded to above, during which the foster-sisters
had told each other the story of all that
had taken place since they had parted seventeen
long years ago, so that no conversation concerning
Laura Anstruther took place between
the dying Duchess and her nurse (nor indeed
was the young girl's name even mentioned
between them save for these few words already
recorded ; for the message of denial sent by the
Duchess to her adopted daughter had been
taken by the broken-hearted Arthur, who came
to the bedside of his wife whenever the doctors
would allow him to do so) until the afternoon
of the third day succeeding the first outbreak
of the disease. Then the Duchess, who had
been quiet for the last hour, having experienced
great relief from the ice-cap which had been
replaced, murmured — "Madge!" and in an
instant her tender nurse was leaning over her.
'' Have you seen Laura V asked the Duchess ina
whisper.
'nol"

VOL. Ill, 17

"How strange!" murmured Muriel. 'sand
she your own child !"

"No I" said the Sister, bending down and
kissing the dying woman on her wan cheek ;
for during the last few hours Muriel could not
only tolerate, but sought for such embraces.
No, my darling, she is no longer my child,
she is yours. I deserted her when she needed
my care the most, and you took my place. You
are her mother in the eyes of our Father in
heaven. I have passed out of her life, and must
not now come in to overshadow it."

'' So you don't mean to tell her, or let Arthur

tell her, or let me tell her, if — if " and her

voice broke — " if they let me see her before
I die?"

No, my darling. I shall have no more love
to give in this world when you have passed
away. You are my sister, you are all my past.
God will forgive me for clinging to you, but I
have no right, now that I have dedicated myself
to His service, to seek to find again ties which
may make me think more of earth than of
heaven, — ties which I myself wantonly broke
when they were sacred."

But she is your own child, Madge !"

We are all the children of God, my darling ;
and Laura does not need my care now even
if I could give it to her, and, as you know,
I cannot."

The Duchess closed her eyes for a moment,
and then a smile of ineffable sweetness stole
over her face, and opening them again she said,
with a look of great and pathetic tenderness —
'you are making this great sacrifice for me,
Madge, that Laura may love me and look upon
me as her mother to the last !"

*' Oh, my sister ! " cried the poor heart-broken
woman, kneeling down by the bedside and laying
one of her hands upon Muriel's shoulder.
As your father took care of me when I was a
child and desolate, so have you taken care of my
child when I abandoned her and left her desolate
I She is yours, and all her love is yours —
I have no part in it ! I have thought over this ;
I have prayed to God to show me His will, and
He has told me that my child is yours, and only
yours, and by something even more holy and
more sacred than the ties of blood ! When you
and she and I meet in heaven, Muriel, if I can
ever reach to you, you shall tell her all — but not
before, my darling, not before ! "

That evening the doctor told Arthur that, asher
Grace was much more calm, and as a fatal
catastrophe was in all probability very imminent,
if Miss Anstruther wanted to see and say goodbye
to the Duchess, she had better do so at once ;
but at the same time he strictly ordered that the
interview should be of but very short duration,
and that Laura should not give way to her feelings,
for the Duchess's frame was so debilitated
that any excitement might bring on a fresh
spasm, and that each spasm meant a terrible
leap towards death. Arthur told Laura this,
made her promise, and then went to his wife's
room and told her.

Very well," murmured Muriel. " Thank
God, they will let me see my darling at last !
Tell her to come quickly." The Duke hesitated
and turned towards the Sister of Hope. " What
is it ? " whispered Muriel.

Shall you stay, or will you come outwith
me ? " asked Arthur, addressing the
Sister.

The poor woman hesitated : then she bowed
her head and said — *' I will stay. I cannot
leave Muriel even for a minute."

The Duke took her hand in his and pressed it,

and then without another word went to tell
Laura she could come.

Are you sure you can bear it, Madge '? "
murmured the Duchess. " She loves me so very
much ! "

"Hush, my darling sister — she is yours."
Then a slight pause and a faltering footstep was
heard nearing the door.

"Badges'' whispered the Duchess, " pull the
bed-clothes well over me to hide this dreadful
thing. I must not frighten my darling now
when I see her for the last time !"

Not for the last time, Muriel, not foe the
last time," murmured the Sister, as she pulled
up the sheet so as to hide the strait waistcoat.

In another moment Laura was in the room
and kneeling by the bed with her hand locked
in that of her dying friend.

Auntie May ! " she gasped, trying to keep
her promise to be calm, and greatly aided in her
endeavours by the terror with which the dreadful
change in the Duchess's appearance inspired
her.

*' Laura, my darling ! " The Sister of Hope
turned away. ** So at last they've let you come
to say good-bye ! You mustn't cry, Laura, you

mustn't cry. Remember you have Jack. I
shall be happier when I am dead and this is allover.
Be good, my darling, as you have always
been, and love Jack, and be good to him, and
true to him, and cling to him. And try to
comfort poor Uncle Arthur when I am gone.
You will miss me and mourn for me, bless you,
but you have Jack, whereas poor Uncle Arthur
will have nobody ! " Laura stared at this strange
face looking at her from the pillow, and which
she hardly recognised as that of her first, best,
and truest friend. Muriel noticed this look of
terror, and it smote her to the heart. " Do I
frighten you, Laura ? " she whispered.

*' Frighten me ! You ? All that I have in
the world ! " cried the girl, whose quick perception
had at once divined what was passing in
the dying woman's mind.

Not all that you have in the world, Laura."

'* Yes, all that I have in the world ! What is
Jack to me beside you ? — you who have been
my own darling mother, to me who had no
mother. You who "

Hush, Laura, hush."

But the girl, who had now risen from her
knees and was bending over the dying woman,

was not to be stopped, and covering MurieFs
face with kisses, she exclaimed, her eyes perfectly
dry, the tears thereof perhaps already
exhausted through much weeping, or it may be
beaten back and parched by the feverish excitement
of the moment — " My own darling Aunty
May, my more than mother, my all in all, my
life, my own dear, darling, only friend I You
made me promise, if ever I should meet my
mother, to run to her and fall upon her neck
and kiss her — but how can I ? For when I lose
you, oh Aunty ! when I lose you, my own dearest,
truest mother, I shall have to run to heaven to
fall upon your neck and kiss you ! "

Laura ! Laura ! "

But here the Duke, who had been waiting
outside, came in. " Laura," he whispered,
remember your promise," — and he held out
his arm to support her, for as she rose from
the bed the girl almost fell.

Laura," whispered the Duchess, " kiss me
good-bye." Laura stooped, and their lips met
in one long sacred kiss, such a kiss as can only
pass between mother and child — such a kiss as
cannot be repeated save by God's own lips in
Paradise. Then, as if she suddenly felt she

were guilty of robbery, Muriel murmured — "Kiss
the good Sister there, Laura ; she has been so
good to me' Laura turned and advanced with
outstretched arms towards the dark-veiled form
of Sister St John of God, but as she did so the
Sister retreated, and a low voice came from
beneath the veil and said in French —

No, my daughter, no' But Laura took
her in her arms and kissed her.

** Oh, let me have the last, Laura I Let me
have the last ! " came in a despairing wail from
the bed, and the child, flying from the Sister's
arms, clasped Muriel for the last time in one
long embrace.

The Duchess died that night, and the end
was peaceful. At nine it was discovered she
had no pulse, and the waistcoat was removed.
She sat up and used some water brought to
wash her hands without any spasm of horror or
any apparent distress. Soon after she sank
back exhausted into the arms of the Sister
of Hope, and expired.

Such is the story of poor Muriel Tintagil, and
thus were the little hands which clasped muckle
gold folded across the breast in which her true

heart beat no more ; and as one of the most
beautiful among the very many beautiful poems
for which the world is indebted to the genius of
Elizabeth Barrett Browning has not only given
us the title of this story, but also furnished the
nickname by which our dear dead Duchess was
known and loved, so the closing verse of the
rhyme comes to our mind as we lay down the
pen —

Oh, the little birds sang east, and the little birds sang west,
Toll slowly.
And I smiled to think God's greatness flowed around our
■ incompleteness, —

Round our restlessness, His rest."

THE END.

PRINTED lii WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

liiiiiiiii

•"'',j:vii;i'i:>'<;|

^0<;:>^,:"'^^;::^i:l:^;i-')>^';':•J,■^;'l;^j;♦!$'!••F^

litlllillill

0112 045834006
