OF Thou
N Diversity
or ILLINOIS

F57SP

y.l ^

\

\

VOL. I.

% Romance

BY

PERCY FITZGERALD

AUTHOR OK " BELLA DONNA," " NEVKK rX)RUOTTEN.

See how the merry puppets dance !
You think it's all their little will ;
But though they frisk, and though they prance,
They are but merry puppets still."

IN THREE VOLUMES.— NOh. I

LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL

Limited



\ All Right reserved

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

X
CO

<



to

CHAPTER I.

Park

MR, BENBOW's THOUGHTS IN Winchester CHURCH . 1

V3

(g CHAPTER VI.

the WEDDING









Chapter VII.

I'ACIK

THE FALL OF SPENCER BENBOW . . . 77

CHAPTER VIII.

REHABILITATED . . . . 88

Chapter 1.
Dorchester .

CHAPTER II.

ENTER MR. GEORGE CONWAY

CHAPTER III.

DIPCHESTER THEATRE .

CHAPTER IV.

BEHIND THE SCENES

CHAPTER V.

THE BOUQUET

9U









CHAPTER VI.

IN mi. IJliNT.OW's STUDY . ■•• ■•• ^'^^^

VU

CHAPTER VII.

A LOVER

PAGE



CHAPTER VIII.

lA'DIA EFFINGHAM THE ACTRESS



LOVE

CHAPTER IX.



RIVALS

CHAPTER X.



ACCEPTED !

CHAPTER XL



REJECTED

CHAPTER XII.



DISAPPOINTED

CHAPTER XIII.



A HEROINE

CHAPTER XIV.



CHAPTER XV.

THE BEGINNING OF THE VENDETTA

2G3

CHAPTER XVI.

PAGE

YACHTSMEN ARRIVING . . . . 277

CHAPTER XVII.

THE LUNCH . . . . . 291

CHAPTER XVIII.

A HOLIDAY . . . . 3Qg

PROLOGUE.
Chapter I.

MR. BENBOW's THOUGHTS IN DIPCHESTER CHURCH.

As a ray of the morning's sunlight fell aslant
on the family pew one brilliant Sunday morning
in Winchester church, it lit up the face — a
rather notable one — of Mr. Spencer Pelham
Benbow, the chief personage in the parish. That
sunlight seemed of a complimentary sort, and
imparted a genial air of festival to the service
going on in the old church. For beside him sat,
as was well known to every member of the
congregation, an unassuming-looking gentleman,
of Bank-director-like aspect ; and next him an

VOL. I. B

elegantly-dressed, cold-looking lady, his daughter.
Behind, in the roomy pew, which was like the
cabin of a brig, and had a stove, were " supernumeraries"
— those undistinguished rank and
file of visitors to a country house. The service
seemed to be conducted with extra reverence and
devotion, and every face in the congregation was
periodically turned to the pew with an Unusual
awe. Tt was well known that these unobtrusive
strangers were no other than the Duke of Banff
and his daughter, the Lady Eosa, now
on a visit at Benbow Towers. " A real live
Duke," said the simple rustics to each other :
such a visitation was not remembered within
the memory of man.

It might be speculated, in what place would
the ancestral trophies and associations of a
family, their friends, neighbours, and general
position, be best and most conveniently brought
together ? Not at the Heralds' College, nor in
the Muniment Room, or even in the family 
: but perhaps in the village church,
of a Sunday — so old, and whitened, with its

bottle-green diamond panes all bent and wavy.
There, with a whispering sexton or pew opener
at his ear, the careless stranger, dropping in fora
few moments, would have the living figures
themselves before him, as well as the records
of the dead upon the walls ; the neighbours
grouped round, and the whole parish in force.

It is thus that one would best know Mr. Ben-bow
of Benbow Towers. There he is, sitting in
his pew, thinking of his illustrious companion the
Duke, and of his daughter the Lady Eosa, rather
than of the words of the monotonous preacher.

Winchester church, in which his busy mind
muses and travels away swiftly to London — to
ministers' cabinets, to the future, to the past — is
too familiar to disturb him now. Yet it is often
that an accident will settle the thoughts on an
object that has been before the eyes, and never
seriously noticed before. Over his head was
a " fine mural tablet," with a sad, bewailing
inscription, to the memory of one Edmund
Spencer Benbow, Esq., who must have died a
saint, from the glowing terms of his inscription

B 2

the present Mr. Benbow's father. Near him
a sculptured urn, and unanimated bust, with
a broken sword and helmet. Underneath an
inscription, also of the most extravagantly-complimentary
sort, to " Colonel Edward Benbow,"
son of the above, and the other's eldest son, to
whom had succeeded the present Mr. Benbow,
the present incumbent of the pew. But there
was a yet more magnificent tomb, with mosaics
and carvings :

<Sarrei) to the JEemcrg

OF

EDWD. HENGIST BENBOW,

ONLY SON AND HEIR
OF

colonel edward bes-bow.

HE MET HIS DEATH BY DROWNING

IN BENBOW LOCH,

AT THE EARLY AGE OF TEN Years.

Ehcu erects etflebilis.

In the congregation there were plenty who
knew the history of the Benbows well, and
which a glance at the little boy's tomb often
recalled. There was the good-natured-looking

Major Hallam, and his " soncy " plump wife — he
was adjutant of the district militia; and the excellent
Mrs. Winter — wife of Dr. Winter, a worthy
clergyman — and mother of that before-named
Mrs. Hallam. She often told the story somewhat
garrulously. The incidents occurred exactly
at the time of Captain Hallam's marriage
with her daughter, this leading naturally enough
to it. She always added at the close : " So you
see what a wonderful man Spencer Benbow is,
to have lived down so muche

Jt would now be easy to see what led Mr.
Benbow's thoughts, as he sat in his family pe\^,
to ' the monument of the little boy. That dead
boy, but for the drowning, would no doubt have
been sitting where he, Mr. Benbow, sat. He
would have found himself that day in some
dismal suburban church in London, with his
wife and children, thinking of the expenses for
the coming week.

But while the wheezing oro^an thrums the
psalm, and the preacher preaches his best, and
the long service trails on, we shall also look

back a few years, and call up those old images.
It will not take long, and it will then be seen
how he came to be seated — and unexpectedly —
in the Benbow pew, and entertaining a Duke
and his daughter on that memorable Sunday.

THE BENBOW BROTHERS.

The Benbows were not an old family, though
they had, of course, pedigree, arms, &c., exactly
as though they had been old. The truth was,
Mr. Benbow's grandfather had been in trade, had
made a vast fortune, and had purchased BenboAv
Towers, " taking over " all its entire stock, traditions,
pictures, and housekeeper's stories, and thus
kept up the continuity of " the thing." In a
couple of generations everything settled down,
and, as the Americans would put it, you can
run the old family business " as effectively as
though you had been there for centuries.

Nearly thirty years before, Mr. Benbow's
father was living in great state and power — for
he was regularly member of Parliament, almost

as of right, — and exercised a haughty dominion
in the district.

The eldest son was the Colonel Edward of the
monument ; while the second brother was the
present Spencer Pelham. He was a youth wise
beyond his years, thoughtful, full of generous impulses
— checked, however, by a certain good sense
and prudence which made him look a little coldly
on the worldly schemes of his parents. For this,
or some other strange reason, the latter disliked
their son. He was treated from his infancy
with a cold harshness and severity. The eldest
was plain in face and person, awkward and
retiring in his ways and habits. He did not get
on with strangers, while his brother had a ready
art of making his way in the world, and forming
acquaintances and making friends.

This was the old, natural Spencer Benbow,
altogether different from the Spencer Benbow
we see on this Sunday morning seated in the
church. And he would doubtless have remained
as he was in those early times, — amiable,
thoughtful concerning others, eager to advance

his family rather than himself — but for a
strange, fatal incident, which, like a Fate, overtook
him without any fault of his own, and
which he could not vanquish.

In this fashion both grew up. When it came

to be determined what course in life each was

to take, the eldest was put into the Guards,

equipped with abundance of cash, and every

advantage that could set him off, while his

father resolved to use every means to arrange

some grand and influential " match " for him —

odd word, by the way, which may have been

adopted from the phraseology of an horse-dealer,

who looks out for a fellow to the handsome

animal that is to draw his client's carriage. Nor

was it creditable to the paternal feelings that

this eagerness to settle his eldest in life, was in

part prompted by a wish to hinder all possible

chances of his second son succeeding to the

estates. For this youth, for his thoughtfulness

and calm deliberative characteristics, he had,

strange to say, conceived a sort of dislike. One

reason may have been that he felt, that with

this stock of good sense, the son was likely to
prove altogether independent of him, and had
already indeed shown, on most occasions, that
he was rio;ht when his father had been wronor.
This led to a distrust and suspicion, and above
all, to a curious forecast and instinct, that one
day the " Town attorney," as he sometimes called
him, might after all succeed to his estates. This
was being perpetually whispered to him, so the
next stage was a suspicion that his second son
had the same idea in his head, and was calmly
waiting till his time. In the aged this unreasonable
suspicion takes little to grow into
a something positive and certain : it is akin to
the idea that your heir is impatient to succeed,
and is interfering before he is entitled to do so.

Old Mr. Benbow's "right-hand man," as it
is called, had been for many years one James
Gordon — a smooth, clever man, devoted to the
family and its interest, having been brought upon
the estate. He was agent, administrator,
and general director ; and lived with his wife and
young family in a house near the castle, specially

built for him by his patron. He too shared his
employer s dislike or distrust of the second son,
and not without reason, owing to a rash and
foolish excess of zeal on the part of the latter.
One winter, when Mr. Benbow was complaining
of the falling off in some sales, or profits, his son,
who was in the room, said abruptly :

I think, father, you should know something
that I have discovered by a mere accident."

Now for something clever," said his father
sarcastically ; " what it is to have a wise son !
Well, out with it ! "

It's my duty, father, to tell you I hav
found that Gordon speculates, and has lost a
good deal lately."

"Well?" said his father coldly; *what is
that to you ? "

** Oh, nothing ; save for what it is to you."

And what is it to me, pray ? "

*' That is according as you look at it. I make
no charge, but cannot shut my eyes to it."

Make no charge ! " said Mr. Benbow. *^ That's
a sneaking way in which to take away an old

servant's character. I shall tell him of this
caluDiDy.''

Mr. Gordon was accordingly told, and instantly
beo;o'ed that his accounts mio-ht be investigated.
They were found correct to a shilling. Young
Benbow, however, refused to apologize, and this
injured Mr. Gordon. But he said generously that
he knew Mr. Benbow 's strange conduct had been
dictated by the best of motives.

Nor was this young fellow, not long after, however,
without his chapter of romance. Hard-by
the Benbows there lived Dr. Winter and his
family. Their house was in the green lanes of
a warm and sheltered green country just outside
Winchester; it stood alone, as if it were in a
vast demesne of its own, and yet it was only
surrounded by a small meadow or two. The
road that led to it was a by-road. The house
was old and yet new — burly and portly, full and
contented, like an old-fashioned, well-to-do gentleman,
wJio yet went with the times, and wore
as much of the modern dress as would fit him.
The red of the bricks was ripe and genial. As

gig or coach drove by on the high road, the
driver or passengers got a peep of crimson that
warmed and comforted them. The windows
were bright, and set off with fresh clean paint,
and over the old roof rose a little cupola, fresh
and trim, though about as antique as an old
cocked-hat. Between the road and the house
was a tiny lawn, with cheerful beds of scarlet
geraniums flowering in huge hillocks, and a bit
of balustrade that gave a hint of terrace. Such
was Arbour-hill — as seen from the top of the
passing coach, pronounced " an uncommon snug
place" by the outsides, and where Dr. Winter,
who farmed in a "jolly" way, and Mrs. Winter,
and Miss Lucy Winter, the jewel of the jewel-case,
lived all the year round.

Inside, it was a miracle of comfort and brightness,
airy to a degree, with the old-fashioned
rooms, and the quaint twist of the stairs, but
with none of that old-fashionedness which brings
dampness and strange unseen burrows and decay,
and drifts up to a sensitive visitor sudden and
unpleasant gales. And there were also alterations

and additions, and the rather straitened diningroom
had been expanded into a handsome modern
room. It was the most comfortable and compact
of places. They said to Winter, " How
did you light on this place ? Where did you
hear of it ? What would you take for the plant
and good will now, lock, stock, and barrel ? "
At which proposal Lucy Winter cried out in
piteous protest, " Oh, papa ! "

With the exception of a little girl only five
or six years old, this Lucy Winter was the only
child, a gay, handsome, impetuous girl of seventeen,
all flash and impulse. Some one calls her
from the hall as she is heard carolling above, and
down she 'swings" the little twisted stair, with
a sort of spring, " hand-overland," as though
she were a sailor coming down to the deck. It
is a picture to see her as she stands with a little
tinge of colour in her cheeks, pushing back her
tossed hair, of which she had abundance of a
fine honest auburn, perhaps a little rough too ;
and with a delightful smile of happy interrogation,
says, " What is it, papa ? "

This young girl had soon attracted the second
son, and it was well known in the parish that
the grave, thoughtful second son was deeply in
love with Lucy Winter. He was not very
demonstrative, but he appeared to have made it
one of the settled purposes of his life that when
he had made a fortune, and opened that great
oyster, the world, he would return and claim her.
Lucy herself seemed to accept this arrangement,
as she really liked and " esteemed " — dangerous
uncertain word in love's vocabulary — her admirer.
All her family thought it an '' excellent thing "
for her to be allied to so good and sensible and
amiable a youth. But who would have given
that " Blue Book of a man," as some one styled
him, credit for having quite a tender corner in
his heart ! But this, it must be recollected, was
the young Spencer Benbow of the old early days,
not the Benbow of the church of the Sunday
morning, who was without heart or love, or
romance of any kind.

Mr. Benbow looked scornfully on this attachment,
and said it was exactly what he would

have expected. His second son would never
raise the family. A beggar he would be, and
another besforar he had found, and there would
be more beo^orars to follow. He " washed his

OO

hands of the whole business " — a favourite hypocritical
form by which the selfish convey that
they had hitherto been soiling their fingers in
the cause of the person thus renounced. It was
noted that this sincere, honourable, manly attachment
had a remarkable influence on our second
son, who became more thoughtful and gracious.
It should be mentioned, however, that he had
never told his love," though there had been
no " preying on himself" in the shape of concealment,
nothing that could suggest the " worm
i'the bud."

Suddenly there appeared in the neighbourhood
a certain Captain Hallam. A pleasant, ofl'-hand,
agreeable soldier, without cleverness or brilliancy
but with a full stock of good-nature and good-humour,
best and most " workable " of all the
virtues. When we say that this officer, grown
stouter and more good-humoured-looking, was

seated in the church that morning, beside
Lucy Winter, the train of intervening incidents
may be guessed. This was the first dislocation
in the character of Spencer Benbow. He had
will and power sufficient to force his life to
be as before, as one will force a key to turn
in the obstinate wards of a lock, but at the
cost of violent ben dings and wrenching.

No one knew or guessed how much that
effort cost him. But he appeared to accept it
all cheerfully. As for Lucy, she had given her
affections for the first time, and in such a case
neither logic nor pity nor feeling is thought
of.

The younger son by this time saw that he
could expect little or nothing from his family,
whose prejudices seem to grow with years, and
determined, as it is called, to go and shift for
himself There was a certain dignity in this
resolution, and he hailed with pleasure the
day when he would be enabled to set forth
on his course independently, and earn his own
living. He felt he had a taste for " business,"

VOL. I.

and " affairs," and resolved to go into the city
and make money for himself.

"Aye, exactly'* growled his father; *just
the proper thing for you to do. Go — stick a
quill behind your ear'*

Young Benbow parted with his family in
perfect good humour, and went up to Town to
seek his fortune. In a couple of years his
steady character and sagacity stood in good
stead. In a surprising way he made friends
rather he made himself useful to the friends
he made, was helped by them because he was
likely to help them, and very soon was known
to be on the road to making a fortune. Old
Mr. Benbow only growled more and more as
this good news travelled to him.

Low quill-driver 1 " he would exclaim ; "I
knew he'd disgrace the family."

Meanwhile Colonel Edward had been serving
with his regiment, and was now ordered
to Dublin. His father was now growing a
little impatient, and eager that he should settle
in life. Every " great house " his son was

asked to, suggested the fair and noble daughter
of the house ; and in every letter from Mr.
Benbow it was insisted that he should make
haste in his selection. His son, however, took
it easily enough, assuming there was no hurry
He was supposed to be enjoying himself in
Dublin — dancing at the Viceregal balls, and
other entertainments of that gay capital.

Ah, Ned will do well, and raise the family,"
his father would say, reading out one of his
letters, " even though they would persuade me
that all the sense has gone to the quill-driver."


There was a young dame of high degree
whom his son had carelessly mentioned in one
of his letters, and on this he began to build
a new structure, pressing his son in every letter,
and asking him " how the business was getting
forward?" " Recollect," he would say, 'that
our family has found you money ; you must
find blood and rank."

Accordingly the Colonel went on his visits
to the great houses, and was received favourably

C 2

by the various Lady Mary and Lady Gildas
and their families.

Suddenly, one memorable Monday morning,
when the Benbow post-bag had been opened,
and its contents were distributed round the
breakfast-table to the guests, Mr. Benbow said
good-humouredly :

Ah, the scoundrel Edward — he has written
at last."

'why, what's this— ?"

No one knew until a day later, for the paper
dropped out of his grasp, and he himself fell to
the floor in a fit. There was consternation and
hurry, flying for doctors on horseback and in
carriages. However, soon the dreadful news became
known that Colonel Edward was married,
and had made a *' low, foolish, improvident
marriage," and had nearly killed his father.
There was talk of disinheriting, cutting ofl" the
entail ; for his father, who gradually recovered,
full of rage and fury, was determined to slake
his thirst for vengeance, and his first step was
to send for " the quill-driver " from Town.

There are abundance of painful situations ;
but none perhaps so acute as that when an act
being done in defiance of all consequences, with
a sort of proud heroism, the moment arrives
when the 'hill must be paid'' There has been
a faint hope that the menaces are not wholly in
earnest : that finally some mode of propitiation
or release will be found. But when the awful
truth is disclosed that your " ships are really
burnt," and that all through the rest of life the
penalty must be suffered, it is to be suspected
that in nearly every case the first is, a fatal
unsealing of the eyes, and the despairing reflection,
that what was purchased at so costly a
price — was not worth the money. At least
there are but few natures so heroical as to stand
the shock.

The one that felt this improvident step the
most was Spencer Benbow, who, strange to say,
wrote a letter of sympathy to his father, saying,
he felt deeply for the disappointment of what he
knew had been his life's hope, and that he did
not think his brother could have played so selfish

a part; at the same time he begged of his father,
now that the mischief was done and incurable,
to make the best of it and not visit it too
heavily on Edward.

Before, however, the proper steps could betaken,
or indeed before the second brother could
arrive, either to dissuade or mollify his father,
Mr. Benbow was seized with a second fit and
expired. And thus Colonel Edward Benbow,
after this very narrow escape, succeeded and
became Lord of the Benbows. His brother, not
in the least disappointed, was eager to congratulate
him. But to his astonishment the Colonel
refused to see him. He was of curiously morbid
and sensitive nature, inclined to see intended
offence in the most harmless incidents. He had
found his brother's letter among his father's
papers, and naturally assumed that much more
had passed, and that he had been his enemy
throughout. Not honos after news arrived that
the new Mrs. Benbow had died — for she had
been of a frail constitution.

At last undisputed Lord and owner, he did

not set himself out to look for any enjoyment
in his new possessions. The place was for him
accursed, and associated with two painful memories.
So it was shut up, and he lived abroad,
solitary and gloomy : though there was many
a fair and gentle girl and dame who found him
and his distress particularly interesting, and
would have tried their little all to comfort him
sometimes. Once or twice in the year he returned
to look after his property, but he never
would stay at *the Big House."

LUCY WINTER.

At this stage a little incident of a minor sort
began to flutter the parish — and this was the
marriage of Captain Hallam with the fair Lucy,
whom we have seen in the church on the Ducal
Sunday morning.

For all this going on, as it were, while Mr.
Spencer is listening abstractly to the wheezy
organ, or glancing wearily to the mural tablets.

The marriage had been talked of for some
years in the district, but had come about in a
quiet imperceptible way. The Captain Hallam,
who was to be married, had been quartered in
Ditch ester, the house where the marriage was
to be. He had gone on foreign service, was
quartered again there, and came pretty frequently,

first, to get rid of ennui — afterwards,
from a very natural interest, as those who saw
the young girl, the precious stone of that house,
could testify.

The officer was a manly, honest officer, fairly
well-looking, with lively tastes and accomplishments,
had good connections, and was tolerably
well off in the world. All the good people of •
the place were sincerely glad '* that the Winters
had got him ; " while those who were not such
good Christians talked with a little depreciation
of picking up a man '^ in a marching regiment,"
with only "his pay to keep himself upon."

A marriage in a country district is a great,
even a tremendous, event, and the two figures
become as interesting as actors upon the stage of
a theatre. The gossip tongues run riot. It is
like promotion to a ministerial office. Those
who are looking forward to a similar advancement
for their children feel something akin to
envy.

When the passengers on the up-coach, going
by about eight o'clock, saw the little " box "

blazing cheerfully away like a bright lantern,
to them it looked more than ever "snug," the
very essence of snugness and warmth. If they
could have drawn up the yellow blinds and
peeped in, they would have seen two pictures
of warmth, colour, happiness, and comfort. One
was in the dining-room, with its sea-green walls,
and where Mr. Trail, the grey-haired curate, and
Doctor Legge, the village doctor — who, it was
said, knew more of the moon and stars than of
physic — and Captain Hallam, and a chosen friend
and brother officer, Hillier, who was to be his
best man," and the host, were sitting round
the fire taking claret.

The ladies had just gone, had crossed the hall,
and were drawing in to their fire, which makes
up the other picture of warmth and comfort.
Mrs. Trail and her daughter, a darling friend of
Lucy's, were staying in the house. They were
all drawing in closer to the fire, to continue a
subject more confidentially, which had been just
touched on as they left the dining-room. The
subject was Colonel Benbow.

** Oh, mamma' said Lucy, " he is certain to
come, he arrived at the Towers yesterday. He
promised."

I am sure he will, dear," said her mamma,
and for a reason that I know."

"But what an interesting character," said
Mrs. Trail. "The world is not so bad as my
dear Trail preaches, when there are men with
such deep feeling as that."

"The strangest thing," said Mrs. Winter,
was their estrangement. And there can be no
doubt that Spencer had spoken bitterly of his
brother's behaviour to his father. And Colonel
Edward always believed that but for him they
would have been reconciled. When his wife
died, this became a morbid, bitter dislike, which
really preyed on him. But all this is an old
story now, and took place some eight years ago.
My dear, I could not describe it. I assure you
it haunted me like a nightmare for months
after. It was really terrible, his rage and grief
mixed together. At times I thought his reason
would go, or glad gone. Men cadi love their wives,

you see. When lie lost her his grief was terrible.
Since then he has wandered about the world
with his son. The old grief and fury have
given way, and gradually, I think, a love the
most overpowering for this child — a love that is
increasing every day and every hour — is softening
him ; and the most wonderful proof of his
being softened is his coming here."

And the boy ? " asked the vicar's wife.

A darling !^'' said Lucy, running to the table.
Look here ! " And she brought over her
photograph album.

In a moment they were all admiring a little
fellow in a Scotch dress, leaning, his hand in his
pocket, with a smile of composure — the smile of
a " boy of the world " — against a very low table.
He had a charming air of gracious composure.
The ladies agreed he was indeed a darling.

Now, mamma, tell Mrs. Trail what we have
settled."

Oh yes," said Mrs. Winter. " Spencer, who
really never did anything in the matter, and yet
was sorry, and has tried again and again to see

his brother, is to be here tomorrow. He is of a
cold temper though. Do you see now ? "

*' Ah, yes' said the vicar's wife. " But still,
if he is in the same mood "

But Lucy has a plan."

Leave it to me,'^ said Lucy, pacing round
and round the room in delight. " I have my
plan, and it shall succeed. Hush ! " She held
up her finger. Was it the gentlemen coming
in ? Yes, their voices were in the hall. But
Lucy heard another sound. In country houses,
ears are as trained as the ears of Indian hunters,
and can hear a sound of wheels on gravel even
at the lodge gate.

Mrs. Winter started up. *' It is Colonel
Benbow ! " The gentlemen came in, in delightful
spirits. But Mr. Winter and his wife went
out into the hall.

THE SON.

Through the open door, in the dark night
outside, a chaise was waiting. In a moment
those round the bright fire in the drawing-room
heard the sound of shuffling and pattering feet.
In a few minutes more the door was opened
gently, and Mrs. Winters voice was heard.
Will you come in here, Colonel Benbow ? "

A tall gentleman, with a sunburnt face and
large brown moustache, and the softest of blue
eyes, advanced through the doorway, and then
drew back irresolutely. He held his son by the
hand, who was in a dark little Scotch dress, and
who looked round on all the company with a
pleasant smile of greeting.

I am afraid," began Colonel Benbow, " that
after our journey "

But he was interrupted, for, with cheeks
glowing and eyes flashing, Lucy came from the
other end of the room straight to him, and said :

How are you, Colonel Edward ? I am
Lucy ! "

He half started back, and seemed to shade his
eyes from the lamp.

Ah, yes. I am glad to see you, dear," he
said, taking her hand affectionately, " and am
delighted to hear about all this. But I am
ashamed coming in this way — a dusty wayworn
traveller'

Every one remarked what a soft voice he had,
and a gentle address, while to ladies he had a
sort of reverential courtesy with a faint bloom of
old fashion " on it, but which was not the less
welcome.

Mrs. Winter eagerly said these were only
neighbours, and these " neighbours " with delicacy
drew away, and sat in different parts of
the room. But the father's eye wandered over
to his son, who, having already introduced himself,
was the centre of a group of ladies. He

was sitting on one of the low chairs, ^' nursing "
one of his little stockinged feet, and talking
away about their journey with great volubility.
He was telling them of his travels, and how he
was not in the least tired. He had very delicate
little features, a little nose, a pretty mouth, a
fair skin, and his father's soft eyes.

I was not in the least sick in the packet," he
said, still nursing his little leg. " I never ayn —
neither I nor papa. There was a French child,
though. You should have seen him ! " And the
little fellow laughed and crowed over the abasement
of the hereditary enemies of his country.
Party here to-night ? Papa doesn't like parties,"
he went on, ^' nor do I. Do you play
games here ? scan play."

They were charmed with him ; he prattled on
with such composure. The captain had introduced
himself, not with that mock respect and
burlesque "humbugging" with which young
men "draw out" children, and whom they use
merely to show themselves off.

How d'ye do ? " said the boy graciously.

I am very glad to have the pleasure of knowing
you. Would you tell me, please," and he
hesitated a little, " who the lady is, over there,
that you were talking' with ? "

The captain laughed. ^' Oh, that is the
prettiest, finest young lady in the world. At
least think so."

Not in the world," said the boy, shaking his
head gravely. " Because you have not seen all
the young ladies in the world. But still — oh
yes, she is very pretty'

Then why are you so curious about all this,
Master Benbow ? I declare I am beginning to
be a little jealous."

Ah," said the boy, quickly, " you are going
to marry her V ^

** Yes, you have guessed it," said the captain.
Am I not a happy fellow ? "

*' Indeed I think so," said the boy, swinging
one leg, and in the same wistful sincere way.
'' She is very nice — much nicer than the French
ladies."

Lucy came running over.

VOL. I. . D

Here she is herself," said the captain, gaily ;
and then added, in a half whisper, " I won't tell
her what you said — about her not being the
finest and prettiest young lady in the world."

'^ I didn't mean that's said the boy, colouring,
and stepping back with a little defiance ; " you
know I would not say so."

Lucy was down on her knees, holding his
hands and looking into his face. " What is it
that you don't mean, dear ? " she asked. '* Tell
me — we are to be the greatest friends."

He shook his head. " No, no."

What ! You refuse me ? "

*' No ; but you know," he said, hesitating, and
still swinging on one foot — " you know you are
to marry him and there won't be time."

But we shall meet afterwards," she said, still
on her knees, and holding his hands, " and you
must promise to come and stay with me."

And with him ? " asked the boy with a
knowing look in his eye. " He will be the
husband — and if he does not choose "

Rut I do choose, and always will choose — it

you will do us the honour, that is. Recollect,
it is an engagement ; you come very soon ; I
choose. Besides, whatever Lucy chooses I
choose."

The boy took the hand that was held out
to him, and shook it.

"The only thing," he said confidently, "is
papa. He is very particular about my going
anywhere by myself — that is, he does not wish
that I should go anywhere without Jim. And
/ don't wish. When you come to know papa,
you will like him very much. We go everywhere
together. We have travelled an immense
deal together, papa, and I, and Andy."

And who is Andy, dear % " said Lucy, still
on the carpet ; " tell me''

Bless me ! " said the little fellow. " Don't
you know Andy ? He is our servant — our own
servant" — in a confidential tone — "He came with
poor dear mamma from Leland (I never saw
mamma that I can remember), and papa and I
have agreed that we are never to part with Andy.
Papa talks a great deal to him, but he does not

D 2

like my talking much to him, as papa says I
might learn to speak like Andy, who has a
strong brogue. But papa says that should make
no difference in his character, because he is the
most faithful and trustworthy man that ever
lived. And I assure you I feel it a good deal,
not talking to Andy, because I know he is good.
And papa means, when Andy gets old and lame,
to pension him off; and, when I am grown up,
I shall pension him too; for I like Andy, and
should wish to be kind to him ; and when you
come to know him, you will like him too."

They listened to these little assurances with
great pleasure, the little man was so earnest
and assured. Captain Hallam looked across to
Lucy with delight.

'^ Give me a kiss, you darling ! " she said. " I
like you as if I had known you from a
child."

The little man put forward his' cheek with
great dignity.

And I like you," he said ; " and when he
said you were the fairest young lady in the

world, I did not mean to deny it — indeed no. I
should not be so unpolite — no, indeed."

Give me another kiss, you pet ! " said Lucy,
in great delight.

Now was heard a gentle voice calling, from
the side of the room : " Now, now, take care
you are not talking too much, and tiring our
friends."

He walked over himself. The little man went
to meet him, and took his larger hand.

Yes, papa. Come and talk — do. Oh ! " —
to the little circle — " he can talk, papa can ;
you'll be (5?(?e-lighted."

They all smiled.

This little fellow and I," said Colonel Edward,
in his gentle, half-apologetic voice, "have been
great companions. We have travelled and seen
a great many things together — have we not,
little man ? "

Yes, papa," said the little man, looking up
at him ; " and we are to see the world regularly
when I get bigger — he has promised me — and I
am never to go to school."

Can you sing or play ? " said Lucy.

No, no," said the Colonel, a little hastily;
^' he will only tire you."

Just as papa pleases," said the little man,
with a bow. " Some people like my singing ;
others, as papa says, get tired."

Nonsense ! " cried the captain, eagerly. " Do
sins for us : we shall take it as a o-reat favour."

'' Do, dear," said Lucy.

JFoidd you like it, really ? " asked the little
man.

'^ Indeed we all would, and I particularly."

Well, papa : may I ? "

As these ladies are so kind," said the Colonel,
looking round doubtfully ; and he walked slowly
back towards the fire, and sat down by his
cousin. /

Without the least shyness, the little man
looked round on all the company, and began
a French chanson — Cadet Russel — with a
burden :

Ah, 9a ! iii ! vraiment !
Cadet Counsel a trois enfant,"

and which he sang with the greatest seriousness.
There was great applause when he had finished.

Oh, I can sing other things," he said, " in
quite a different style. There was one song
which Andy taught me ! but," he added, with
sudden earnestness, " that was long before papa
wished that I should not speak so inucli to him —
it was indeed — though papa might not like it on
that account. But, oh ! it is such a very funny
Irish song ; and if you heard Andy sing it "

Lucy had run over to the fireside with the
request. She was whispering the Colonel.

*' You won't refuse me ? Let the dear boy
sing. He is getting quite at home with us all.
Do let him — Andy's song — do ! "

The Colonel, smiling, half grave, made a protest.
"For shame, little man," he said; "he
picks up all these low songs ; though, indeed,"
he added, correcting himself, " he never sings
them without consulting papa. Well, yes, this
once more, as these ladies and gentlemen are so
kind as to call for it."

Holding Lucy's hand, with his knee on the

sofa, and a steady serious look into the faces of
all the company, he struck into " Mulligan's
Wedding' in which his little clear pipe, trying
to struggle conscientiously with the Irish patois
and brogue, and his perfect and earnest seriousness,
had the most curious effect :

Dere was feasting' and fighting',
De neighbours delighting',
And singing' and prating'
And lots of the latin'
At Mulligan's wedding'.
Whack soldi diddle fuller !
Whack fol di di do ! "

They were delighted with this little performance.
The doctor enjoyed it. ''A capital song,
sir, and well sung. Thank you, sir."

The little man replied, with a bow, " I am
so glad you liked it."

I dare say, sir, you have plenty more on your
list," said the doctor, '* and would favour us."

No, no," the Colonel interposed ; " that will
do very well. In fact, it is time to be thinking
of bed. What do you say, little man ? "

Whatever you please, papa." Then to Lucy :

"Did you like 'Mullions Wedding ? ' " Then
he began to laugh with a hearty child's laugh.
*so funny, you know — a wedding here; and
then, Mulligan's. Ha ! ha ! Isn't it, now % "

Getting late," said the doctor. " I must go
and look after my stars. This will be a great
night for observations. I shall search and
search until I read something good there for
Miss Lucy."

And do you really do all this ? " said the
captain.

'' I have a regular observatory, a fine glass, a
meridian no less, and go regularly to work. Do
you ever see the * Southern Counties' Times ' ?
No, I should say not," added the doctor, laughing
; " the circulation is limited, and the matter
very local. Well, there is an astronomical
letter there every week from the present
speaker."

I should like to see it very much," said the
captain ; "I once had a little taste that way
myself."

Put on something warm and come," said the

doctor. " It's only across the lake, and my
boatman is waiting."

The little man had been listening with distended
eyes. He put up his mouth to Lucy :
Whisper," he said ; " make them take me.
Oh, dor'

The doctor heard him. *' And why not ? " he
said. " We would not keep him long, and Captain
Hallam could bring him back, though it is
rather late."

The little man crowed with delight, and
clapped his hands. " Let us go at once !
Come ! " And he began to pull at the doctor's
arm.

The father, who was at the other end of the
room, heard something of this, and came over.
'' At this hour ? Not to be thought of, my dear
child ! Folly ! 1 can't allow it. Go to bed."

Utter blankness and misery came into the
boy's face, and he hung down his head.

My dear child," said his father, lifting him
till the child's face was on a level with his own,
why, you would catch cold in your chest, and

take ill, and die ; and then what would become
of poor old papa ? To-morrow we will drive
over to this gentleman's."

The boy gave a deep sigh of disappointment,
but of resignation. He looked back wistfully
towards the doctor, who embodied such exquisite
and ravishing charms — instruments that turned,
and screwed, and went up and down ; an inexhaustible
source of entertainment. But he
turned to his father.

Papa, I should not like to take cold, and
die, and leave you. So please to ring for Andy
to come and take me to bed."

At that moment the door opened, and a short
figure of a man, with a curious quaint head,
stood looking in. He peered round, and then,
without the least concern or consciousness of
any one's presence, called out, with a nod,

'' Master Ned, it's time now. Come, Sur 1 "

Go," said his father. " There's Andy come
for you. Wish all these ladies and gentlemen
good night."

This ceremony the little man achieved with

courtly form, going round and putting out his
hand, and in the ladies' instance, putting up
his cheek for the kiss which he seemed to know
would be inevitable. The father's turn came
last, and he lifted him up to give him a warm
embrace, and looked after him with rapt fondness.
Taking Andy's hand, the little man
walked away.

Then the clergyman and his wife and the rest
took their leave for the night. The captain
and the doctor came into the hall muffled in
great-coats. It was a fine clear night, and they
could see the stars without the aid of the
doctor's telescope. The lake was at the back
of the house, and the doctor's own boat was
waiting — " My cab," he always called it.

But the Colonel and Mrs. Winter sat long
in the drawing-room after all the rest had gone,
talking, we may suppose, over some passages in
life, long gone by. The French clock on the
chimney-piece struck twelve, and half-past
twelve, and one. Lucy had not yet gone to
her bed room, but fluttered nervously about the

hall and passages and now ghostly dining-room.
For she knew very well what troubled pictures
were raised in the drawing-room. Suddenly the
door opened, and he came out with a candle ;
as he saw her, he suddenly started back, but
recovered in a moment.

Oh ! " he said, " how strange, how wonderfully
strange ! For the moment I thought — no
matter now — you ought to be asleep, my dear
child."

"I was waiting, dear Cousin Edward, to say
good-night to you."

THE EVE OF THE MARRIAGE.

The next morning, the faithful Irish Andy
came familiarly into the breakfast-room, with
the most perfect composure, and told the company
that "the master" was not "himself at
all," and that he, Andy, had thought it better
to keep him in bed. He had now come for a
sup " of weak tea, and such-like. " Indeed,"
Andy went on, entering on a narrative, as he
himself took up the teapot, '*!' don't know
what's coming over him lately, the creature. I
don't like the way he's in at all now ; there's the
truth, and no lie. His christ's always wrong —
always, always — and I'm not pleased at all with
the way he's in. And he'll see no doctors, and
he has the old thing always on his mind."

They were a little alarmed at this description,
which was indeed true ; for as any one might
have read from the Colonel's face, he was always
ill, and at the moment of his arrival brought
with him a heavy cold and cough which he
did not care to tend or try to cure beyond the
*' little sup of tea' which Andy had brought up.
Yet by the middle of the day he had forced himself,
as he always did, to get up and go about,
and said he was perfectly well.

That day was an almost feverish day. It was
the day before the marriage, and a hundred
things " turned up " and presented themselves
after lying back expressly, as it were, and which
had to be done, and done hurriedly.

Yet neither mother nor daughter was " put
out " by this flutter, nor was there need to mark
them " dangerous '' as is common with too many
persons on such occasions. The mother and
daughter sat together and talked, sometimes
of the great event that was drawing near, but in
truth a o^ood deal more of the guest who had
arrived last night. He was gone out, and from

the windows they had see him holding his
"little man's" hand as they both walked off
together round the lake on the promised expedition
to the doctor's observatory.

That day passed by too quickly. But towards
evening: all had been done that was to be
done. They had been down to the church — a
charming little village church — rather new, its
tower and spire being tiled over with warm
genial tiling, made out of the clay of the place.
The genteel people of the place were for the best
Welsh slates, but the vicar and his architect felt
that there was fitness in this local covering.
The village people had worked very hard and
decorated the inside very prettily. The Colonel
was nearly all the day away at the doctor's
house, looking at the instruments, in which his
boy found such a fascination. They came home
towards four, and as they walked up the avenue,
the boy's hand still in his, and he in a sort of
reverie, they saw a chaise at the door with a
portmanteau on it. This awakened him, and he
stopped a moment. '' More company," he was

thinking ; " this was not the place for me to
come to''

In the hall he met Lucy in all her impetuosity
and flutter. She started when she saw
him.

*' Come with me, Colonel Edward," she said,
hastily taking his arm. " Won't you ? I want
to show you something."

My dear child," said he, fondly, " do not ask
me. I cannot go through more of this. Seeing
new faces always makes me miserable. I am a
wretched oddity, but you know "

It is not that, dear cousin," she said, in
great excitement. " There's no new face.
Come to my room. I want — Yes," she added,
suddenly, " to show you all my stores. Come,
do."

But, Ned," he said, absently, " we must
find Andy somewhere. Where is he ? "

Andy was found, and the Colonel went with
her. She was strangely excited, and as she
showed all her presents, seemed to be doing this
as an excuse for approaching some subject,

VOL. I.

talking very rapidly all the time. He looked
and admired in a sort of abstracted way.

Colonel Edward seemed to be awaking: gradually.
" But what is this ? and / have contributed
nothing ! Goodness, what a being I
am I I think of nothing. I don't know how
to do anything like other people. You must
let me make up for all this stupidity. Tell me
quickly what you would like."

*' Mr. Benbow," she said, colouring, *' how
kind you are ! "

*' But you must tell me,",^ he said, more
earnestly ; *^ I don't understand these things. I
am quite helpless — a bracelet, a necklace — you
must tell me, and fix on something."

In her eyes was twinkling a sense of some
eager and secret plan.

There is a present you could give me, dearest
cousin, which would make me — and make us all
so supremely happy ; but I know that you could
not give it to me, and that I have no right to
ask it of you."

What is it ? " he asked, eagerly. " I am so

glad to hear this. Let it be as big as you like.
Don't be afraid."

If I thought you cared for me enough," she
said, hanging down her head sadly. " But I
have no right to expect that, and you would
think me forward, and "

But what can you mean, my dear child ! " he
said, wondering, and with a troubled air. *' You
know that I like you, and it would make me, oh !
so happy, to be allowed to make you happier
even in that trifling way ; for since I have come
into this house, I seem to have come into a kind
of peace that I have not known before, for from
your eyes the old light seems to come, and I
seem to be in a presence that I have long
missed. And you think I could refuse you, when
I seem to hear that voice, and to see those
features ? "

With an impetuous motion she put her arm in
his, and, with glowing cheeks and flashing eye,
began to pour out an eager whispering — a perfect
tide. Before she had done, he had drawn himself
away with a start — drawn himself further and

E 2

further away. He set himself free, and covered
his face with his hands.

This is not right. Impossible ! I did not
expect this from you ! '^

Forgive me, you make me wretched. But
you asked me to name the present I liked — you
know you did, and I told you you would be
angry ; " and she glided down before him on to
her knees.

He had walked away a little, then turned
hastily, and saw her kneeling before him.
'^ Dear child, you know not what you ask me.
How can I — how dare I do it ? He hates me
and hates my boy." He was growing more and
more agitated every moment. " You do not
know the whole. You cannot understand.
Anything but that — no ! no ! no ! "

She rose slowly, and turned away impetuously.

*^ This was to be a happy day for me," she
said, tossing her head. ** They all told me so.
Where is your promise now ? Do you suppose /
care for presents, and bracelets, and such things ?
You have made me feel a mortification that no

one else has done — no one else ! Every one else
has been good to me."

She walked away flushed and indignant. He
stood a moment irresolute, then in a faint voice
called her.

Lucy, come back. I did not mean to be
unkind. But if you were to know how I have
suffered — what I suffer. But it may have been
all Avrong, and I promise you now I will try in
future to think less uncharitably of one who has
so deeply injured — not me, but "

Ah ! " said she, running to him. " But that
is not enough — that is a very trifling marriage
present for me,* Try % You must give me more
than that. Should you see him or meet him, you
will promise me to write — to speak — to forgive —
to hear him — tell him that you have misjudged
him a little — that he has done nothing to "

Never ! I can never do that'' he said,
passionately. Then, suddenly checking himself,
Well, if it pleases you, I do promise. It will
not be for long, and there is folly in all this.
Some day — if he writes — I may "

This is a promise," she said, panting with
eagerness ; "a solemn one, mind ; for I shall
be away, and you weill not see me again for long,
and I have nothing to trust to but your honour
and promise."

Then you have it."

The first time you see him ? "

Yes."

In a second she had flown away from him, and
with a cry of delight called out :

Spencer ! Spencer ! "

Spencer Benbow came hurrying from some
room, then stopped irresolutely. Under the
lamps stood the Colonel half turned away, and
as his brother drew near, with his hand half
raised. In a moment the eager girl had seized
that gentle hand in both hers, and drawn it
softly towards another that was half extended.

You promised, you know," she whispered.
It was no use resisting, and the Colonel turned a
look upon his brother, which the other understood
in a moment.

It was all over — the enmity of years was gone.

i

*' Poor Spencer," he said, " I have done him
sad injustice. Will you say it to him again ?
You recollect what I said to you and to Lucy —
that he hated me and my boy. It was a shocking
slander. I thought so, but I had no reason
to think so. I must atone for all this," he
added, wearily. " Give my love and affection
to the pretty bride, and tell her I am only
nursing myself for the morning."

This scene, reposing as it seemed, basking as
it were in a softened mellow light, was often to
be looked back to ; that gay drawing-room, full
of beaming and happy faces. They had little
games, that almost verged on romping, at least
where the ** little man " was concerned, who
was screaming and crowing with delight, hiding
behind cushions and sofas, and burying his little
face in ladies' skirts. He told his day's adventures
again and again, and spoke with rapture
of those ivonderfid instruments, the screwing
and mechanical arrangements of which had penetrated
him with delight and admiration. He
had never seen such a world of apparatus, and

the doctor this very night, taking him by the
shoulders, had sworn he should go over tomorrow
and assist at certain unscrewings and oiling
which were to take place. He sang them various
songs, and, on a general demand, stood up in the
middle and again gave " Mulligan's Weddings'
with entire approbation. It was noticed that,
whenever he mentioned the name of that Irish
bridegroom, his little eye wandered roguishly to
the captain, who affected to be overcome with
bashfulness at such public notice. Occasionally
he assumed a grave face of responsibility, and
stole away to have a private interview with his
papa, coming back with a little air of decent
solemnity, saying, "I do not like the way papa
is in." But he soon freshened up into gaiety
again, until eleven o'clock came, and with it
Andy's curious face appeared at the door, with
his unconcerned, " Now, Master Neddy, it's time
for you ; come along'*

THE WEDDING.

Here was now the morning of the wedding,
as sunny a morning as ^' though it were bespoke,
Glory be to God," to use Andy's remarkable
blessing. How bright the day was, and how
bright and gay looked the deep red and green
of the little place. Inside there was flutter, bui
delightful flutter — kissing, smiles, tears, and
kissing again.

The Colonel is down betimes, but every one
notices his face, and sees at once that he should
be in his room. There is a great change in his
looks within these two days, but he said he was
well. But Andy, who had a sort of festive air
himself, was heard to say, " he hoped it would
all be right tomorrow next days — a misgiving

which was to be realized presently. Yet, with
a generous foresight, the Colonel had not lost
time ; and on the night before a messenger had
been sent ujd to Town, with a letter to the chief
jeweller, and who returned betimes with a superb
casket. As Lucy came to him, about eleven, in
her bridal dress, all lace and white silk and
white flowers, he put this into her hand. *' This,"
he said, *^ is but a poor token of what I feel to
you, and for what you did last night. It is a

miserable present, but I have no time, and no
judgment."

*' It is superb," said she, taking out the jewels,
which were magnificent, " and I am so happy ! "

Captain Hallam was come for her. The
carriages were waiting.

The little church was charming. The flowers
seemed to have bloomed from the night before.
They clustered over the pillars. The villagers
filled the aisles. The young girls looked wistfully
on, thinking, as every young girl does, of
another picture where they would be the chief
figure. Of all the pageants in life's many

pageants and shows, this, perhaps, is the most
interesting. The greatest churl among the
spectators feels that this is not a mere scene
in a play. Long after, when the last act has
nearly begun, the performer looks back to that
morDinof, and sees herself through a soft cloud
on that morning, and thinks herself another
being. Oh, how young ! how pretty ! how
fresh ! And how bright and fairy-like everything
all round. It seems only as far off as last
year, and she turns (by instinct) to look into
that glass over the chimney-piece !

Mr. Winter was the celebrant of the office,
and was " assisted " by a good-humoured clergyman,
the Rev. John Hall am, brother, as we may
suppose, to the captain. The friends drew inclose
as the clergymen began their combined
labours. Even at that moment the quick eyes
of Lucy, darting about, saw that the Colonel was
not there, though the little bright face of his
son was to be seen, studying, with an absorbing
interest, some mechanical arrangements on the
stair of the pulpit. Andy, too, could be seen

afiir off, towards " lookin' in " at the business
with a dry, serious, and inquiring look. He had
just "run down from the master."

It was done now. The combined efforts of
the two clergymen had succeeded, and Lucy and
her lover. Captain and Mrs. Hallam were walking
away in a sort of reverential bearing. There
was signing in the vestry, congratulations, kisses
so fervent, whispered " darlings ! " '^ my pets ! "
Then a coming out and taking off hats, and
driving; away. Then there was the house again.
Arbour Hill ; and Lucy, bounding from the
carriage, fluttered straight to the Colonel's room.

He was on the sofa, and languid and pale.
After he had wished her all blessings and happiness,
" My dear child, my dear Lucy Hallam " —
he said this very tenderly — " when it came to
the last moment, then I found I had not
strength, though I tried very hard. My little
man will be here, I suppose, presently.'^ \

Then they all came home with a sort of
dropping fire. Our doctor, who had hoped to
be there, was kept away by professional duty,

which came most awkwardly. Then the breakfast
set in.

That, too, was of a very cheerful and festive
pattern. Such things in the country have a
tone of their own quite unique. That, too, is
a picture to be looked back on in those coming
days when we shall be looking into the drawing-room
mirror, waiting for our married son and
his children to come to dinner on, say, a Christmas.
The affectionate voices, the fervent wishes,
the genuine speeches, so different from other
speeches over wine — these come back like the
chime of the Christmas bells we have heard
overnight. *

There was a health or two, and a speech,
kindly but hurried ; for time was pressing, and
a train was to be watched for. Spencer Benbow
did this duty in a pleasant buoyant fashion,
which kept away the faint clouds of gloom that
were seen gathering. He told grandly of the
bride's virtues, of the love they all bore to her,
of her smile that lit up that house and delighted
all who came within its charm — her cheerful

spirit, which made all happy. There was the
loss — but there was gain for another, who had
secured a prize. Then there was another, who
was not with them at that moment, but whose
heart was with them, and who had tried to be
of their company. He knew him ; and never
so well, as within a day or two, knew what
were his virtues and his affection. However,
it was not too late then.

During this speech the servants had gathered
at the door, and were listening. Round the
table were handkerchiefs very busy. The " little
man " had listened with an air of deep attention,
*^ taking it all in : " he was very happy, too, and
had been supplied with wedding-cake under
tolerably small restraint. Yet he was a little
gentleman, and had trained himself not to indulge
in excesses which he found but too common
among his contemporaries. When Spencer
had finished speaking of the Colonel, the little
man softly stole from the room — not, as some
unfairly suspected, because of the richness of
the cake, but to pay a visit to his father. In a

very few moments he came back, with a strange
look of mystery and importance on his little
face, got beside Lucy and her husband, and
whispered eagerly :

Papa is so much obliged for your kind
reception of his name — those were his words —
and wishes he was here himself to thank you
all."

Why not tell these ladies and gentlemen,
my boy ? " said the captain. " Would you be
afraid ? "

Afraid ! why, papa gave the message."

In a moment there was a silence, and with
his face modestly bent upon the tablecloth, the
little man repeated the same words, and gave
them his papa's message.

*papa is so much obliged for your kind
reception of his name — those were his words — •
and wishes he was here himself to thank you
all."

Ah, listen to the darling ! " was said among
the maids at the door ; " listen to him now."

*' Sure he's wiser," said Andy, almost contemptuously

at their surprise, "than a grown
Christian ! "

But the hour had now come. There was a
general rising up — a rushing away for some last
preparation — and more tears and embracing.
The carriage was there, and they were all out
on the steps. There is the last embracing and
last good wishes ; and Lucy, in sober travelling
dress, yet magnificent, stoops down and lifts her
veil to kiss the little man, who has put up his
face. Now they drive away, and the "' old
shoe," searched for and found with difficulty,
flies into the air after them. A cluster of faces,
half sorrowful, half pleased, looked long after
them.

then came the lull — the sudden prostration
which sets in after all such excitement. That
day becomes of a sudden purposeless — a day
for weary and vacant wandering, when no one
can settle himself to anything. It was felt, too,
that the light of that house had gone out, and
that there was a change.

The Colonel, however, was not mending, and

they were beginning to be in serious concern
about his state. And about four o'clock his
brother said he would go over to the doctor's
house, not two miles away round by the lake,
and see if he had returned. The doctor knew of
some greater doctor whom he had to meet not
far away that very day, and who might be
readily secured also. It was determined not to
say a word of this little plot to the patient, who
would raise difficulties, and protest he was
Sfettinfi^ well.

The little man soon heard of this proposal,
and saw in it at once a plan for advancing his
own little interest and pleasure.

Oh, then, I can go too," he said, " and see all
the telescopes again. I ^2,% promised, you know."

The very thing," said Spencer ; " we shall
make an expedition together. But mind, now,
not a word to papa. We are going for a great
doctor, and if he hears it he will not see one,
and perhaps he will never get well."

"Never get well," repeated the little man,
anxiously.

VOL. I.

I mean," said the other, "if he does not seethe
doctor. None of us can be well unless we
see doctors."

He had still some mismvinc^s. *but," said
he, wisely, 'rit is all for papa's good ; and I cwi
dtjing to see those telescopes again. Whisper ;
I'll not tell papa a word."

Andy appeared suddenly. " Where are you

taking him to, Mister Spencer ? Have you
spoke with the master about it ? "

Oh, all right, Andy, and quite right of you.
But I'll make it all square. We are going fora
doctor, and not a word is to be said to My
you understand."

Andy shook his head.

Master Neddy, you'd better go in and
tell the master yourself. That's the reasonable
way."

Now, Andy," said the young man, seriously,
"you mustn't interfere here; we want to get a
doctor. You don't understand these things.
And you know very well how hardest is to get
my brother to take care of himself."

"Oh, so be it; so be it," said Andy, coolly.
Only," he added, muttering, " wait until tomorrow
next day."

So we can, Andy, and till the day after too,"
said the young man, laughing.

The little man laughed too. " Oh, Andy,"
he said, " how funny. But / think, Andy, you
don't quite understand."

The young man went to his room to get a
coat and write a letter for the post. The little
man was wrapped up in his coat, and ready for
the road in a moment. He waited a little impatiently
in the hall a few moments, and then
went out through the garden round by the back
of the house. Spencer Benbow had a longer
letter to write than he fancied, and took a
longer time over it, and then came out hastily.
He found the little fellow gone.

'the impatient little rascal," he said. "He
is busy with some tricks in the garden." But
he vas not in the garden. Then he hurried
across the field, and was greatly relieved by
hearing; the voice of the little man collins to

F 2

him cheerfully in a sort of chirrup of delight.
He was playing *' hide and go seek ; " was up ina
tree.

By one of those curious coincidences which are
almost unaccountable, the Colonel, almost as
soon as they had gone, thought of his little son
and rang his bell for Andy. The little secret
about the doctor was now sure to come out.

** Sorra o' me knows where he is, Colonel. He

said he was to go with the brother over to the

doctor man."

Gone with Spencer ! " repeated the Colonel,
starting up suddenly. " How dare you trust

him out of your sight ? Did I not depend on

you i

Sorra a one o' me could help it," said Andy.
Sure I thought Mister Spencer was now next
to yourself."

*' To be sure, to be sure," said his master,
colouring and letting himself fall back on the
sofa. ^' You did quite right, Andy. The poor
child can't be shut up altogether. But when
will they be back, Andy ? "

Oh, be reasonable yourself now," said the
other, coolly ; *' you know they are only gone

now."

Oh, to be sure. But mind, Andy, the
moment they come in send him to me."

Meanwhile Spencer had gone hastily towards
the lake, from whence the voice seemed to come.

*' What folly of me," he said, " to let him go.
Troublesome child ! "

In a moment he caught sight of the " troublesome
child," standing in a little punt which was
drawn up close to the shore. He was in a
tumult of delight, and clapping his hands eagerly,
from sheer spirits.

I found this," he cried. " Only think 1 We
must go in this ; it will be much shorter."

The bank overhung the river, and was very
steep.

Take care ; do take care ! " cried his uncle, in
an agony of terror. " How did you get there ?
Stay where you are till I come down."

** But we must go in the boat, mustn't we ? "
said the little fellow, standing in the bows with

one of the small oars in his hands. " We will
brings the doctor over in it to papa, and lose no
time."

*' What folly of me ! " said Spencer to himself,
hurrying down the little side-path which wound
down to the water. The water was concealed
from it by some furze-bushes. He long after
recollected that picture of the june little fellow
standing at the bow of the boat, flourishing
the light oar. Long after, also, he recollected
the wild start he got when he reached the
edge and saw that the boat seemed to be empty,
and was moving slowly away from the shore.
He could not reach it ; he was quite helpless,
and the little boy had not strength to manage it.

He must be hiding at the bottom of the

o

boat ! " he said, for so he thought he was.

He called out to him frantically, " Come back.
Give up nonsense, pray, dear child, for your
father s sake. We shall not be able to get the
boat back without all sorts of trouble."

He paused, but there was no answer.

He called again. The boat was gliding

further away ; and then a sudden chill struck
to his heart. He was near fainting with the
bare idea. He climbed up the bank, not by
the path, struggling up with his hands and
feet, and then he saw that the boat was empty,
with a solemn emptiness that made his heart
shrink. The sight of his eyes seemed to leave
him. Down below him the water was black,
and dark, and deep, and weedy ; and though
he could not swim, his impulse was to fling
himself down, cast himself in at all risks, and,
if he could not save, hide himself from the world
for ever. But a happier glimpse of reason came
to him, and gasping, and staggering, he climbed
up the bank yet higher on to the road, and
shouting, made for the house.

There was now a figure actually coming down
towards him, sent, as it seemed, by Heaven.
"Oh, Andy, Andy!" he shrieked. He could
do no more, and pointed back. The faithful
retainer understood enough (he had been
"rare'' on the Donegal coast). He was past
Spencer in a second, and in another was at the

waters-edge. A little cap was floating there,
aud told him the story and the spot. The boat
was drifting; far out, and seemed a figure of
all chance and hope drifting away also. With
a " Holy Mother !" on his lips, Andy had gone
in head-foremost among the weeds. He had
once made one in a life-boat crew on that
Donegal coast. He was sure to succeed in what
he had tried, and he dived, and searched, and
explored, and at last came upon the little helpless
figure, bound up tightly in a mass of cruel
weeds. Andy had now hard work to set him
free. But he did so at last. But one so
young and tender as the child was, and now
so many minutes under the water — there he
was now, on the bank, limp, saturated, and
his soft hair covering his face ; and as for
life

Andy had him in his arms in a moment.

Not knowing what he was doing, Spencer
put out his hands to help ; but Andy shook him
off with a fierce " Stand back ! "

What shall I do ? " said the other, wildly.

THE WEDDING. 73

Will he live ? Have I killed him ? Tell me.

Tell me something to do."

Andy was struggling up the bank with supernatural
strength.

*' There, run, run round for the doctor for
the bare life, if you do care for Ms life at
all."

In the kitchen, before the great fire, was a
strange and terrified group round their insensible
figure. No one knew what to do — hot water
and hot things were the only resource until the
doctor, whom God sent quickly, should arrive.
But up-stairs the quick ear of the father had
heard the rustling and rushing, and the half
cry and half whisper. A yet quicker instinct
made him associate this disorder with something
connected with his child. Weak as he was, he
had risen and come out into the hall. He
heard the quick voices — the confusion below —
and rather staggered than walked to the top
of the stairs. At the same moment, he met
Mrs. Winter ; her pale face and despair told
him everything.

*' Where is he ? " he said, in a trembling voice.
What is all this ? "

Oh, come, come ! " said she, bursting into
tears. "You must prepare yourself — the poor,
poor darling — the boat "

He could not answer her, but stood looking
at her with a fixed stony air, swaying from
side to side as if about to fall.

*' No, no ; you must not — not that way ! "
And she caught him in her arms, and tried
to stop him. But he put her aside, almost
roughly, and went down.

The wretched brother was the first that met
him, who shrunk away as though he wished
the earth to cover him. Then the miserable
father put aside the group that was humanely
striving to hide what was lying there from him,
and fell forward on the floor beside the helpless
body of his " little man."

But the faithful Andy had great " sense," ashe
called it, and good practical skill for the
common emergencies on that Donegal coast.
*' Many and many's the time " a poor fisherman

had been carried ashore in that poor way, and
they had got him round. And here now, ashe
was working himself, and making them all
work, rubbing, fomenting, and warming, the
sounds of wheels came most gratefully to their
ears, and made Andy break out into a hearty
Glory be to God for all his mercies ! " In
another moment a doctor was stamping down
the stairs, swiftly as if on life or death ; and
Glory be to God," as Andy would again say,
another doctor was following. What they had
come for, though, there was no one up-stairs to
tell them, and no messenger could have reached
them.

But the unhappy father, removed from that
place up-stairs, had come to himself. His grief
had taken a new shape — of vengeance. " I
knew it ! God's justice may overtake him.
The villain plotted it. God punish him for it !
He came here for it. And you brought us to
this wretched house for the same thing. But I
shall live to be revenged. I told you so. The
vile black villain ! He murdered my poor wife.

and now comes to destroy my poor, poor child.
Let him come and kill me— now— no, but he
shan't ; I shall live, live to destroy him, if only
for that. Where is he ? where is he '? Let me
find him ! "

THE FALL OF SPENCER BENBOW.

One of the characters in this little rural
piece was that worthy Doctor Legge, who had
now arrived, a curious compound of jollity
and mechanical science. He was ingenious in
manufacturing telescopes and other astronomical
instruments, the discoveries which these enabled
him to make he was fond of exhibiting to his
young friends. He declared he was for " spying
out the nakedness of the land." Notwithstanding
his " observations," and his jollity, the practice
of the pleasant doctor did not sensibly increase.
He had a family to maintain, and on the shutting
up of the " big house," after Mr. Benbow's death,
had seriously thought of emigrating or going
away to New Zealand. When lie was offered

the post of surgeon to one of the vast ocean
steamers, he accepted it with eagerness and
alacrity, on the ground that " it would give
him time to look about him."

The day of his departure was at hand, and
indeed he only waited for the wedding. His
present, on this auspicious occasion to the bride,
was a handsome opera-glass.

When it became known in the parish that the
doctor was leaving, there was much concern.
But, as he pleaded, '^ a man can't support a family
on surgical and optical instruments exclusively."
He thought himself lucky enough to be able to
remain for Lucy's wedding, though, as he said,
he was running it far too close for comfort or
safety, and that evening was to set off by the
evening express. His farewell to his family was
warm and touching ; but our doctor said he would
soon be home again, and with them all in ten
months. On this night of departure, as there
was an hour to spare, he went up to his " observatory,"
so he called it, to have a farewell look
at his instruments, and get his large telescope

into position for ** one last look." He seemed
to take farewell of them as he would of his dogs
and other favourites. He busied himself putting
away these precious objects carefully, for fear the
children should damage them.

While he was thus enraged there entered to him
of a sudden Mr. Gordon, who was still in office.

This is a day of festivity," he said bitterly.
What jollity and merry-making I] Yet they
did not think fit to ask me. But my enemy
was there."

** My dear friend," said the other, " I haven't
a moment to speak to you — only half-an-hour to
catch this train, so don't interrupt me."

Happy man," said the other, " going to seek
your fortune."

Pretty fortune," said the other impatiently ;
a ship's surgeon ; but don't talk to me now.
Amuse yourself ; look through that telescope ;
only don't worry me now."

The other did as he was bidden to do. And
in a mechanical sort of way put his eye to the
telescope.

Ah," he said, " the old place. There it lies
where I spent so many happy hours. There
are the gardens — how neglected they are now !
I dare not enter there — they would turn me
out like any tramp."

Cheer up, old man," said the doctor, still
bustling about ; ^' there are good days in store
for you yet."

*' And there is the lake — on which I used to
row so carelessly, when I thought there were no
real cares in life. What a change for me ! "

Well, you have your nice wife — and your
pretty little girl, and "

Good gracious ! " he cried, '' why there's that
boy ! "

What boy ^ " said the doctor.

Yes ! he's getting into the punt, and by
himself. He'll be upset ! What folly ! "

"You don't mean to tell me the Colonel's
little fellow ? They ought to look after him
better than that."

"Ah, there's some one coming down now."

Ah ! I knew they'd look after him," said the

doctor, impatiently. "Why, it's Edward, the
brother — he's calling him back from the bank,
and waving; his hands. And now he's running
down through the trees to the edge. Good
heavens ! the child's tumbled over the side —
he'll be drowned. Help ! help ! "

The doctor called to his companion, as if both
were close to the scene. Such was the deception
produced by looking through so powerful a

glass.

Oh, I forgot," he said in despair, '^ we area
mile and more away. We can do nothing."

Wait ! wait ! " said the other, who had now
his eye to the glass, " some one has now plunged
in — and he's got hold of the boy. There ! he's
safe."

You don't say so," said the doctor, eagerly,
and turning back from the door which he had
reached. " Well, this is exciting ! "

And he's swimming with him — and — he's
got to the shore now — and the other is helping
him out."

Who's helping him out ? "

VOL. I. G

Gordon turned away, and in a low voice said,
'' Why, that Spencer ! "

ril be wanted badly now," said the doctor.
*' I'd better run up as fast as I can ! Oh, but I
forgot ! I can't lose the train — as my ship — never
mind, you'll run as fast as ever you can, and
fetch my deputy — now mind — don't lose a second,
for time's vital. Now to say good-bye to all
below." And the good doctor, who was before
all a man of business, dismissed sentiment asa
thing he was not concerned with at that crisis,
and after his adieus rushed off to catch the nio^ht
express, which he accordingly did.

Nothing would do. Everything was tried.
• The faithful Andy even put his lips to the
luckless child's, and by inhalations tried his best
to restore him. But gradually, after a fiiint
flicker, life flickered out, and the luckless Colonel
stood there bereft of his treasure and his darling.

JF/iere, then, is that murderer ?^'' were his
first words. " Let me see Lin."

His brother, blanched with terror and grief,
had in vain been telling to others all that had-occurred.

The boy had escaped from him,
had got into the boat of himself, and despairing
of him he had shouted ; plenty of people must
have heard him. He had gone to his rescue.

There was a curious air of incredulity. It
was very awkward, and facts appeared strongly
against him. His brother in all his despair
found composure enough to denounce him thus
publicly.

Look at him ! There he stands ! " he said ;
*the murderer of my child. Was it not his
interest ? Who threatened me when he found
that I had been left my own lawful inheritance
? Whose interest was it ? Before Heaven
I say there stands one that did it — the
Murderer."

Standing among those to whom this was
addressed — and he had come up in the hurry of
excitement — was Mr. Gordon. To him the
unfortunate younger brother appealed in his
despair.

You know me well ; you do not think I
could do this ; say one word, — clear me ! "

O 2

The other paused, and then turned away
silently.

The results of that catastrophe were most
serious for all concerned. Colonel Edward went
out on the world, crushed out of all life and
hope. For Spencer — no pariah could have
envied his condition. The denunciations of his
brother had been taken up by the whole district
and repeated. He was met with averted ej'es,
and with scorn shunned ; no one addressed him
word or letter. Then, after a time, general indignation
broke out loudly. The matter should
be taken up publicly, and an official investigation
follow. It was intolerable. As well mio-ht an
infected person be allowed to go about with
impunity.

Spencer Benbow's bearing under this treatment
was calm and courageous, and, as they
considered it, " worthy of a better cause." But
it was only defiance at best — the insolence of
guilt. He calmly told his story to the few that
would listen ; and many recalled the memorable
day when the grand jury and magistrates

being assembled for the assizes, a leading county
gentleman made a speech to his brethren, and
said he thought it exceedingly bad taste and
questionable policy, in one who lay under so
grave a suspicion, to associate with the gentlemen
of the place ; he should at least wait until
he had cleared his character. He would beg of
him to retire, and not come among them anymore.
The face of Mr. Benbow grew pale.
In a low tone he could only protest his innocence.
He had no evidence ; how could he
find it ? He made a fervid and almost earnest
appeal to them against the treatment which he
had received, and was receiving. Nothing, however,
would do. He was pressed to go away,
as nothing he could do would restore him.

During the course of this treatment a strange
change seemed to be wrought in him. The iron,
in his phrase, had eaten into his soul. The
struggle against the injustice, as he conceived
it, was leaving many a line upon his face ;
where could be traced a bitter hostility. All his
old openness and cheerfulness seemed to give

place to a cold, larch, and even desperate manner.
It was indeed no wonder. He was a ruined
man for life ; no one can fight successfully
against public judgment once it has condemned.
What were Benbow Towers and all his estates to
him ? The awful rumour pursued wherever he
went. First came the looks askant of those with
whom he worked in London ; then the awful
summons to the parlour where his chiefs sat in
council.

'ewe cannot avail ourselves of your services
any longer, Mr. Benbow," said they ; " indeed,
were we inclined to do so it were impossible,
for your companions refuse to work with you.
These rumours may be untrue, and we devoutly
trust you will one day clear yourself, but under
the circumstances it is undesirable you should

remain."

Thus was he classed !

The same fate pursued him everywhere. The
dreadful story was in the papers, and furnished
a subject for a novel. There was no hope for
him and no outlet, unless indeed he would

change his name, as he was advised, and go and
hide in America.

This he disdained to do. He would wait for
his vindication — one day it might come.

No one would associate with him now. This
treatment, however valiant and courageous might
be his resistance, he was powerless to resist ; and
crushed by the neglect and open dislike of the
district and shunned like some pariah, he
quitted the place. He could never enjoy them.
His story — duly magnified — followed him
wherever he went, and there was clearly nothing
left for him but to hide his head in a foreign
country. •

This was a terrible thing for one so ambitious
and one just starting in life, full of hopes and
aspirations. He had tried every resource to
extricate himself, but there was no hope of that.
There were no resources that ingenuity could
supply, so he saw that he must only submit or
wait.

EEHABILTTATED.

A YEAR had passed away since the death of the
little boy, where there was great joy caused by
the sudden return home of the excellent doctor
after his voyage. The annual Winchester Ball
was being given on the night he arrived ; and
the doctor, always ready for anything where fun
or spirit was concerned, set off at once, to show
himself to his friends and pick up all the news,
from where he left off," as he said.

It was at the supper-table, when after all the
greetings were over he gaily questioned his
friends.

Benbow gone away, and under a cloud ; and
why ? "

There were significant looks and headshakings.

and it was not for some moments that the reason
was explained to him. He started.

Good heavens ! " he exclaimed. " Don't you
know ? He wasn't near the boy. Why, I saw
it all. I know all about it ; and there's Gordon,
he saw it too, and knows all about it ! "

A large group had now gathered round him,
in utter astonishment, and eager to listen. He
went on : expressions of astonishment broke
out !

We were looking through the telescope, and
I was standing beside him packing as hard as I
could. I was as close to the whole business as
if it was going on in the street below there,. or
under the window. The figures and faces were
as clear and bright as yours there. But where's
Gordon ? Ask him. Send for him ; he saw the
most."

The doctor was a shrewd, sensible man — and
saw the necessity of acting with caution.

Don't let this get about," he said suddenly.
Good heavens ! what cruel injustice ! But we
must clear Benbow in the fullest and most

satisfactory way. I must see him first. It's
quite clear. It's revenge for something."

In a week's time the assizes were to be held
at Winchester. There was '' a heavy calendar,"
and an unusual attendance of country gentlemen.
When they were assembled in the grand jury
room, rumour reached them that Mr. Benbow
was in the town, and was coming up to see them.
There was indignation loudly expressed at this.
But the doctor interposing, bid them wait, and
they would hear something that would surprise
them. He then withdrew and presently entered.
Everybody was expectant. Suddenly entered
Mr. Benbow. He was stern and resolute.

My brother is dead," he said. " The news
reached me a few days since."

This was an unexpected piece of news. Still
it was strange and rather undignified in the heir
to present himself in this hasty, eager way.

I know," he went on in the same tone, " I
know your opinion of me. You think I am all
but a murderer — or that but a faint line separates
what I have done, or am supposed to have

done, from murder. You also hold this view, I
presume?" he added, abruptly turning to Gordon.

The other turned away his eyes in a guilty
fashion.

What ! you hesitate ? " said Benbow, suddenly,
and with less of his old severity ; *' then
say out plainly that you do believe me innocent,
that you knew me innocent — me, your old friend.
Come ! •"

There was something so earnest, so pleading
in this appeal that it struck all with a strange
sense as of something dramatic being at hand.
They waited ; Mr. Gordon faltered, looked at
Mr. Benbow, then round at the rows of expectant
faces. What could he do ? How could he
retreat without disgrace ? He said :

"No, no ; 1 must think with the rest — at least
I know nothing to make me "

Know nothing ! " said Mr. Benbow, in a
loud voice. " Sure ? — ascertain % " He paused.
*' Then is Dr. Legge here ? "

The doctor entered suddenly. It may be
conceived what a scene followed this apparition.

The doctor told his story. The wretched man
fell on his knees, and made an agitated confession.
Nothing could be more clear or convincing,
and from that instant Mr. Benbow was
restored to his old good repute.

A few weeks later, Spencer Benbow was
known to have returned to his castle. It was
noted that his hair had whitened. That was a
remarkable scene when the gentlemen of the
district — grand jurors, &c. — assembled at the
Town-hall and declared their deep regret that
any reports should have gone about affecting the
character of Mr. Benbow ; and declaring that
they had the completest confidence in his honour.
He was invited to receive an address to this
effect, and be restored to his position ; and he did
accordingly repair to the room in which they
were assembled. But they hardly reckoned on
the reception which this well-meant amende was
to receive.

** This," he said, " I suppose, is your atonement
to me for your cruel injustice ; for your
destruction of me and of my house by these

slanders ! You are sorry for it, are you ? Can
you repair the wrong ? — mend what has been
broken ? I can do all that myself. I ask
nothing from you — neither your sympathies, nor
your apologies, nor your regrets. I warned, you,
recollect, that you were destroying me ; but you
did not heed. You would not know me any
longer, you said. What if I do not hioio yofi ? "

These burning words, taken down in shorthand
by eager reporters, invited specially to
record something agreeable, were spread over the
county, and, it must be said, were generally
considered spirited and well deserved. No one
was more completely rehabilitated. Mr. Benbow
acted in the future as he had spoken, and very
truly cut the county people. " I banish you,"
he seemed to say with Coriolanus, " from that
hour." The county had the disagreeable duty of
looking on while Mr. Benbow slowly built up the
fortunes of his house. The people of the place
were not his people. They saw others come in
their place, invited from great houses. Everything
he touched seemed to prosper. He had

hosts of wealthy and titled friends to supply the
place of those who had rejected him — and whom
he rejected now.

One, and one only, was exempted from this
contemptuous indifference — viz. the man whose
silence had all but proved his ruin — and from
that hour a sort of blight seemed to have fallen
on him. Mr. Benbow spoke to him plainly.

'* Your act was diabolical and malignant, for
I've never injured you. I might as well compromise
a felony as pass it by. Punishment must,
and shall, overtake you. You know not what I
suffered during those wretched months — so prepare.
Vengeance shall come upon you and a
terrible chastisement." His voice trembled as he
spoke to him. "Go : you know you cannot remain
here. The office you enjoyed so long is taken from
you. But that is not all. I shall hunt you doivn.
Wherever you go, this story shall go with you."

I have a family," he pleaded ; " my poor girl
her mother — for their sakes be merciful."

No," said the other. " At least you shall
suffer some of the agonies you made me suffer."

Mr. Gordon, shunned, pointed at, and having
lost all he had in the world, had to go out on
the wide sea of the world, to seek the fortune
which he was not to find. He was soon forgotten.
Indeed in two or three years, when
Mr. Benbow was travelling on the Continent
with his new wife, this wretched, broken man,
almost in rags, found his way back, and came
to beg half-crowns from the doctor and other
good friends. At last he found his way back
to Winchester, and then Mr, Benbow relented,
and e:ot him into an alms-house. There he
soon died, having left, it was said, an only
daughter, who had ran away long ago. While
Mr. Benbow's history was borne in mind, and
had all the attraction' of a romance.

Soon it was heard that a high and important
marriage had been contracted — important in
wealth, rank, and connection. Mr. Benbow had
married Lady Anne Burden, daughter of an
important Earl. He had an only son, who was
now a youth of nearly twenty. Spencer Benbow
was a great personage indeed, but known as a

cold, hard, pitiless being, bent on the one aim
of advancing himself and his family. He was
never known to do anything kind or gracious,
though he gave charity abundantly after an
official system.

And now, while all these events have been
related, and we have been stretching back our
gaze into the past, Mr. Benbow has still been
in his pew — his mind, it may be, wandering
away also — skimming lightly over those grave
events that were so portentous for him. It
was like the Eastern who put his head for an
instant into the tub of water, and then saw
backwards through a whole life. There was
the little boy's tablet, seen so very often. But
it was only at the close of the service, and as
the organ was breaking out in jubilation, that he
noticed a new blueish marble slab on the wall,
low down, near the ground. It was strange he
had never remarked it, and through his glasses
he read the past name "James Gordon." He
started — forgot his august companions — and
even as they defiled out hastily whispered

the beadle, "Who put up that tombstone?
Quick."

*' A lady, sir, a daughter of the unfortunate
Mr. (gordon."

Mr. Benbow muttered :

"It should not have been put in such a
place."

Then he turned to his Duke, and attended
him to his carriage.

END OF Prologue.

VOL. I.

DIPCHESTER.

The Benbow family, as we have seen, were
settled close to Winchester, and, as it were, kept
that antique little town fresh and sweet. When
their great coach trundled in state through the
long street which was the spine of the place,
or their more quiet brougham, which had th
significant dignity of a nobleman in plain black
evening dress, the general pulse was much
stirred — it was like a king, or, rather, grand
duke, visiting his subjects.

Yet they were merely a private family, and
not very rich ; but there was an idea that they
had immense influence, though intricate connections,
which branched out like veins in the
human body, and the blood which all flowed

H 2

from the great centre Benbow heart. Dukes,
marquises, prime ministers, were supposed to
consider any wish or any request of the head
of the Benbow family with respect and acquiescence.
There were lords — old, as well as some
newly run from the heraldic mould — planted
about the district ; some more wealthy even ;
but they were felt not to have power, and Dip-chester
did not abase itself before them.

The town itself, to the antiquary, was charming
and inviting : to the bagman, or to the
soldier mind, only a poor sort of a place : geographically,
very many miles behind the disagreeable
district of " Godspeed." There was
no railway, no amusement to speak of, and but
little business : all these flourished at the greater
manufacturing town, some eight or ten miles
away. Its one street wound, like a snake, in
pleasant bends, lined with low houses, some of
them overhanging the path, and of the genuine
framed pattern. The old Queen Anne's brick —
close, smooth, firm, and bright — asserted itself
everywhere with a bold independence, flourished

in an honest glowing health, like the cheeks
of a fresh country girl, and seemed to betoken
a fresh stirring circulation inside.

The old Town-hall, with a stone-be wigged
Koyal George in front, its pediment beams of
a dark varnished oak, mixed with the cheerful
red ground, seemed as gay and as well burnished
as a Dutch house. The old inn, " The Swan,"
was of the snug roadside pattern, with its
wooden banner hung outside. It had its parlour,
with sloped sides, like a ship's cabin ; its
snug bar, low rooms, and alarmingly funereal
beds, which nodded and trembled as the guest
clambered in, and made him think uncomfortably
he was under a catafalque, and laid out
for the night.

But, in its own estimation, Winchester was
raised to the dignity of a perfect metropolis
by one feature ; though in other points, the
inhabitants were accustomed to think and speak
poorly of themselves, with a sort of sad depreciation,
owning their unhappy geographical position,
*eat the back of Godspeed," with a Keep-like

humility. This was the little theatre — or rather,
the Theatre Koyal, Winchester — which in such
a place, acrimonious in its religion and so contracted
in size, was a phenomenon. It, indeed,
owed its existence to an accident : in fact, to
an hilarious and enthusiastic subscription by the
gentlemen, years ago, who wished to "play"
themselves, and who had run up the little
temple. It was quaint enough in its way,
standing in a little bye-quarter, looking into
a patch of green common, and having "theatre"
more legibly written on its face, by its style
and bearing, than it is on such places now. For
it had a sort of jocund, irregular look about it,
and its wood-covered roof; while up to each
of its three doors arose a small ship-cabin staircase,
with a little shed or porch over all three,
which went up and down with the steps. There
were strange smells haunting the place, defying
control, most insubordinate on the grand nights
or, the one grand night — of the year. This
dreadful enemy would rise slowly from the pit
about the middle of the performance ; but, with

a gallant self-respect which deserved all praise,
was privately endured with a smiling consciousness,
and wholly ignored by the boxes. What
kept the little house was the tradition that
Mr. Kemble had performed there one night.
He was passing by on his way to " a gentleman's
seat" — so Mr. Haggerston, the lessee, would tell
the story — and was waylaid by an old comedian
and friend — then manager — Gubbins ; and in a
noble and gracious way consented to give " The
Stranger."

And talk of generosity, charity, and doing
the handsome thing," said Mr. Haggerston, relating
the incident in his box-office as a sort
of bonus to the ticket-taker, "where will you
find 'em, except in the Profession ? A manlike
that — that had kings and h emperors at his
feet — that had but to say, ' Give me a hundred,'
two hundred,' aye, ^ eve hundred pounds, and
I'll play for you, but not till then' — to think
of his coming in, like you or I, in a simple,
unhorsetentatious way, with no more pride in
him than the commonest supernoomery ! He

stood, sir, where you are standing at this very
moment, and held a conversation with Dumbarton,
the previous box book-keeper ! "

Pretty walks lead into Winchester ; and of
a fine morning, whether going or coming, we
meet along the high road the great waggon and
its four horses, the cheerful tramps, and, most
frequently, the travelling artists, who carry portions
of a divided show, the husband half, the
wife the rest — artists without a theatre, and
thrown more upon their own resources than any
other members of the profession.

Not very far away from the little town we
arrive at the gate of Benbow Towers — the
temple in which the great " Boss " of the
district is enthroned, and where he enjoys his
worship. This Spencer Benbow, Esq., was great
among the little hirelings of the place ; but
the feeling was as of strange, untitled influence
among the mysterious dukes and marquises
before alluded to — this simple commoner, who
seemed to be as great as they, and even more
remarkable for his want of title ; as the black

coat of Castlereagh made him more distingue
among the blaze of decorations about him.
What a wonderful match that was which he
contrived for his eldest daughter, nothing less
than the Marquis of Tilbury's eldest son ! For
his second, he found Lord Robert Purulent ; but
for his own and only son, Charles Benbow, it was
known that he was planning, building, digging,
burrowing, and lying awake hundreds of nights,
to construct an alliance of the most splendid
sort, to which end he had selected a political
Duke's daughter — Lady Rosa Fulke, one of
three — and which alliance would be the crowning
of the edifice. All to this end, also, would
Benbow Towers, at fitful intervals, change from
a dignified and morose bearing — a kind of
grand, Manfred-like solitariness — into a gay and
splendid activity, glittering and sparkling with
lights, and teeming with life.

This almost pantomimic change would take
place in a night. It would be found, of a
sudden, that the great mansion was full of
noble company — seen dimly and afar off by

the common herd. Sometimes it was a duke,
sometimes a political chief, or great general,
but always persons in whom power as well as
rank were joined. A smooth, reverend man
would be seen in the garden, in black felt wide-awake,
gaily chatting with Miss Lydia Benbow
that was his Grace of Canterbury, come for
change of air for a few weeks. A jovial, burly
gentleman would turn into the avenue on one
of Mr. Benbow's horses — that was the Riofht
Hon. James Hoxter, Secretary for some *' Affairs"
or other, now exactly like a plain country squire,
which he was. Haughty and insipid dames,
beautiful girls, gallant youths, all seemed to
come and pass through Benbow House, as if it
were a duane, or customs, where all were to
contribute dues to the glory and advancement
of Pelham Benbow, Esq.

These gatherings, as I have said, took weeks
of painful gestation, and, though they cost vast
sums, had each some aim or end intended, which
more than repaid. If there was expense, there
was calculation and certainty of return for that

expense. The man's — or gentleman's — whole
life had been a series of such measured calculations.
So had he begun, so had he planned his
own rise, his own marriage with the Lady Mary
(she had been Lady Mary Tower) ; so had he got
into Parliament ; so had he laboriously effected
those joining or friendship with the great, which
he made as fast and firm as if diamond cement
had been used ; so had he obtained Benbow
Towers ; so had he " got on " his family not from
any affection, but from finding in them qualities
which were useful to him ; so had he married
his daughters ; and so was he now planning his
last grand scheme, the marriage of his . son
Charles with the political duke's daughter.

At this time, when the present little melodrama
begins, Benbow Towers, like its servants,
was in a blaze of gala livery, and, full of
company, seemed to glitter in its windows and
gardens like a piece of silver cloth. The Duke
and his desired daughter. Lady Rosa, were therewith
many celestial political magnates, all chosen
with the greatest nicety, the most delicate

anticipated care, the most tender laying of trains
the length of each fusee being: calculated with
a mathematical exactness, so that the motives
and baits should be touched at the precise
moment, and all should " go off " together.

The present house-filling was, as it were, the
loading of a piece of artillery, which, at the
proper time, was to be laid and discharged, with
a certainty of hitting what it was aimed at.
There we see him now, sitting in his study, a
general in a campaign at head-quarters, or a Von
Moltke in a cabinet, laying out on paper all the
operations. The rest of the family were carrying
out these plans, unconsciously, and the pleasant
entertainments of a country house were going
forward — most of them there thinking they were
asked but for their own merits, and to enjoy
themselves.

This was his portrait — at least, what could be
seen of him, from his desk upwards, where he
was swimming, as it were, on the surface of
paper billows, and waves of pamphlets. A long,
flat face, white and hard, which mental exercise

had dried up and "taken down' much as
training affects the body. His eyes were faint
and washy, instead of bold, bright, glistening
orbits ; his hair was a sort of spare yellow
covering. He was thin, worn wiry, always
exquisitely clean as to shaving, and which
seemed done by machinery; and as smooth and
level in all his surfaces and edges as though he
had been neatly cast in a mould. He spoke with
a quiet precision in his voice, but quite distinctly,
though a little husky. A microscope could not
detect a speck on his clothes — his rather spare
frock coat and light grey trousers — which always
seemed of the same age, and, as his valet found,
never could be got to grow old.

All this planning as time went on, grew into
his nature. He cared little for the plan after
all : it was the planning that was so fascinating.
Such was this Machiavel of Benbow, as seen
planning his great cast for the duke's daughter.
The House for himself, the Duke's daughter for
his son ! — these were the levers with which he
would prize open a peerage for himself, another

seat for his son, then a fresh step up the baronial
ladder. In short, the perspective of advancement
he looked down was" endless.

There was time before him. He was not yet
forty-five. He all but doubled his life by rising
at six, and going to bed at twelve or one ; thus
having eighteen or nineteen hours in his day,
where most other men had but twelve or
fourteen. He had indomitable energy, tact,
and a quiet but irresistible force in all his
actions.

He has just got away from the Duke for a
short time — that magnate having despatches to
write — when a knock is heard at the door, and a
fair, tall, open-looking youth of eighteen stands
in the door. There is a girlish air about him,
from the pink and delicate colour of his skin ;
and there is a faint straw-coloured moustache,
like a bit of floss silk.

I cannot speak to you now, Charles," said
the father in his low, measured tones — it was as
if he were reading from a book. " But why are
you not with Lady Rosa ? "

We are going out to ride in a moment ; hut
I came to tell you, father, that Haggerston has
come up about his * bespeak,' as he calls it. He
says he has got a wonderful actress — "

Pray don't detain me with these childish
things. Is your mind ever going to rise to the
serious business of life ? I cannot see the man ;
give him a subscription."

But, my dear father, Lady Eosa is quite
eager about it ; she says she is dying to see
a country town theatre. And Mr. Hoxter is
talking to the Duke now about it."

Mr. Benbow laid down his pen. ^

Oh, I must see about this at once, I fancy.
Send Haggerston to me in a quarter of an
hour. I shall speak to the Duke."

Mr. Haggerston, manager of the Theatre
Royal, was a burly man, in a tail-coat, which,
with his stoutness, gave him the look, as one of
the gentlemen said, of a river buoy. His cheeks
were flushed, and he had a cool, blunt, and
familiar manner, that no doubt came from
frequently addressing audiences. He was now

in the library, with a party of gentlemen sitting
round, and who were glad of something to amuse
them ; for it had been snowing hard all the
morning, and there could be no hunting. There
was the Rio^ht Hon. Mr. Hoxter, chairman of the
committee, as it were — an impression to which
the solemn oak and the almost parliamentary
furniture of the room contributed. Other
members present : Mr. Joseph Benbow, the host's
cousin ; Colonel Hanly, *^ scion of a noble
house ; " a young and clever barrister who wrote
those smart and interesting letters in the * Times'
on clergy matters, signed '' Loaves and Fishes,"
but whose real name was Addiscombe ; Lord
Alwyn Fox, and others.

You have quite roused our curiosity, Mr.
Hao[gerston," exclaimed the chairman. " Tell us
some more about this wonderful paragon of
yours. Effingham, you say ? — not a bad choice
of a name to beo^in with."

Mark my words, sir, when she gets to
London, she'll draw the whole town. Before
long, I know, we'll have the agents down here,

trying her with ten and fifteen pound a week. I
know that sort of game pretty well by this time.
I saw her at a little twopenny-halfpenny theatre
on the circuit, and snapped her up at once."

Well, you did the same as the agents, you
see, ha, ha ! " said Lord AJwyn Fox.

Who is she, do you know % " asked Colonel
Hanly.

I take her to he, gents," said Mr. Haggerston,
speaking in a low, mysterious voice and looking
round in a guilty manner, "something, 'highly
tip-top, as has slipped .away from a noble family
of the 'aristocracy, sir. She has an air — a presence
worth at the least five guineas and a half a
week."

*' And what piece have you chosen for us, Mr
Haggerston ? "

An evergreen ! — a piece, sir, that will keep
the boards as long as the taste for Billy shakespeare
reigns ; there's a British pit to pay their
money at the pigeon-holes. I allude to the
Lady ' — the ' Lady,' sir, of the immortal Lytton
Bulwer, Bart."

VOL. I.

Ah, you mean * The Lady of Lyons,' " said
Lord Alwyn. " Dear sweet Pauline — what a
lovable creature — so womanly. She was thrown
away upon Claude, quite."

A noble play, sir. Never knew it not to
draw money. I suppose it is acted somewhere
in the British dominions, every night. The sun
never sets on that piece, sir."

Here entered Charles.

My father wishes to see Mr. Haggerston in
his study ; " and the manager hurried out.

He could not be free or familiar in that cold
presence, but remained awkward and silent
before the dry, cold potentate.

'' I have consulted with his Grace, and the
other gentlemen and ladies who are stopping
here, and it seems they all desire to see whatever
entertainment you have to offer. I must ask
you to do the thing as handsomely as it can be
done with your resources. Reserve a number of
the very best places."

'* I understand perfectly, Mr. Benbow, sir.
Leave it all to me. I'll make it a kind of state

visit, sir — pink and white calico, take down
partitions between the boxes — "

I beg — now really I heg^,'' said his ruler,
austerely, " there will be nothing so exaggerated
or ridiculous. Everything proper, but nothing
beyond. No — er — gilt chairs or, anything of
that kind. Now, do understand me, or .someone
shall go down and see that these instructions
are carried out."

Depend upon me, Mr. Benbow. Everything
shall be in the nicest taste — and my eternal
gratitude, sir "

Thank you. Never mind that, for you owe
me none. There, that will do, Mr. Haf^^gcrston."

I I

ENTER MR. GEORGE CONWAY.

On the second day after the assembling of
the guests at the Benbows, when the distinguished
forces were about forming in order of
battle for going down to dinner, there entered
two new arrivals. These were Lord Formation
and his son Mr. Conway.

The coming of these personages had been
a matter of doubt ; for the uncertainty was
almost in proportion to their importance, and a
look almost of happiness was to be noted on
the lined features of the host. For Lord
Formanton was a person in his eyes of exceeding
weight and influence, with connections in
the Ministry, and who had shown a particular
liking; for Mr. Benbow ; while his son and heir

was one of those promising finished young men,
of whom great things are prophesied, and for
whom everything in the world was to run
smoothly. The good fairy who looked after
him had indeed provided him — as such guardians
do their favoured wards — with all her treasures
of good health, good looks, good tastes, good
accomplishments and manners. There are many
young men of greater fortune and higher
positions, from whom society expects but little ;
while there are a few less favoured, whom
society follows with interest, having settled that
they shall rise in the world and do pleasant
things. This may be for some sympathetic
attractions, felt even by those who do not see
or come in contact with the person in question.
In short, he is interesting.

Lord Formanton, the father of Mr. Conway
the interesting, was a nobleman of great wealth,
a busy lord, with a fine park and estate — a
noble seat, Formanton. The rental was large,
and that curious, incomprehensible heir, whom
mammas could not make out, had been asked

to this house and that, importuned to this castle
and that ; if he had made a point of it he might
have had files of young ladies of good birth
and condition drawn up for his inspection ; a
lane of rank and beauty down which he might
walk and choose. But nothing could be made
of the creature, though with unwearied perseverance
they tried him with everything. He
gave them credit for cleverness, owning that
with a surprising instinct they had divined some
of his tastes. Nothing could be made of him.
He went about in an undecided fashion, half
dissatisfied, half seeking for that philosopher's
stone of the ideal soul above all the dross and
imperfection of this world, which, if really found,
would, by the fatal blight of familiarity and
restlessness, in a short time be found unsatisfactory.


In every circle is to be found this being,
who indeed, as it were, drives " a good trade "
in the business, the good-looking " misunderstood
one," who meets now and again one that
can understand him a little, who is always in

the end turning out a deception. Thus he has
to pass on to another. In his early stages such
a young man was Mr. Conway, but he gradually
worked himself free of such affectation,
though it took a long, long time. When urged
to go into politics, the same nicety and hesitation
pursued him. No party was up to his
ideal : '' the representation of a vast number
of fellow-creatures seemed an awful trusty from
which a man might shrink." At least he must
try and fit himself for the solemn duty ; and
so the time, and worse, the opportunity, passed
by. Thus with the many advantageous alliances
that were proposed to him. That, too, was an
awful trust, alas ! not to be laid down, as could
be the parliamentary one. But what distinguished
him from others, and saved him from
the category of "fop," 'ridiculous stuck-up
fellow," was, that all this was conscientious and
genuine. It would have worn off like bad
plating but for a calamity that really was to
colour his whole life.

The present Lord Formanton was twice

married, as will be seen by turning to the
Golden Book. His first wife, Mr. Conway's
mother, was one of the most charming of
women : sweet and amiable, charitable and good,
as it were savouring the whole household with
a delicate fragrance of simplicity, which is known
and but to be described as " goodness." She
was very young when married, and when Mr.
George Conway was a youth, really looked like
his sister. Her husband, a good-natured, rather
foolish little peer, always fussy, but credulous,
was busy with a hundred little trifles in the
day, which, through the magnifier of a dull
simplicity which never left his eye a moment,
were enlarged to vast proportions.

They made a very happy trio. There was
a softness and sweetness about her which washer
special charm. The young worldling, her
son, became natural, soft, gentle, and loving,
when with her. Being with her, he thought
education, teaching, and reading were all in her
gentle face. She cared as much for him.

Conway had a friend a good deal older than

himself, for whom he had a sort of romantic
admiration, and with whom he exchanged a
good deal of his epicureanism and scepticism,
and whom he would force his friends to admire
rapturously. " I know no type of chivalry like
him," he would say ; " he is the noblest, most
unselfish fellow in the world : gentle as a woman,
brave as a lion. He was the first who really
said, ' Go, poor liy,' which that snivelling Sterne
only imagined his Toby saying." This person
was a tall, slightly stooped man, a little grizzled,
with a soft voice and eye. His gentle mother,
Mr. Conway insisted, should appreciate and
admire this hero, and she would have obliged
him in a far more difficult thing than that. But
why dwell on that marvel of stupid blindness,
when all the town was looking on and smiling,
and shaking its head ? It duly prophesied, and
saw its prophecy fulfilled. Lord Formanton and
his son had gone away for a short voyage ina
yacht which the most chivalrous of men had
insisted upon lending ; and Each ester had been
conjured and implored, as he was a chivalrous

mail, to look after the dear mother whom they
were to leave behind for a week only. The type
of chivalry wrung his friend's hand, and with
a certain reluctance, as though he were making
a sacrifice, promised solemnly to do what was
asked. Then came the nine days' wonder, the
inquiries, the mystery, the telegraphing, and the
I saw it all along." When husband and son
came rushing home, they found their house
empty, their hearth desolate. The death of the
erring wife soon followed.

In Mr. George Conway this blow caused a
surprising change. He could not at first believe
it. It was more likely that words had failed
of their meaning, and men gone mad. Nature,
life, religion, must have turned upside-down,
if such a terrible belying of fair promise and
innocence was allowed. When the truth at
last came home to him, it quite changed him,
and he had done with chivalry for ever.
Further, though he scorned revenge, he secretly
longed for an opportunity when he could strike
some blow, take some step which should commit

him, as it were, and show himself at least how
he despised his former chivalry. In his manner
and behaviour there was little changed : he
affected to be all politeness and graciousness,
but he was in a wary ambuscade, ready to
welcome the first opportunity. That done, he
felt that his soul would be more at rest.
It was in this temper that he found himself
at the Benbows, and in the humour also, that
if he found any girl likely to fancy him he
would enjoy tempting her to give him her heart,
and would then depart with as little mark on
his own as his yacht would leave on the waters
behind her.

The peer was crushed and overwhelmed.
Friends said, *' he was utterly broken." He
moped, took no interest in life, was out of gear,
and then, to the surprise of no one, married
again. His son made no protest, knowing that
his father was *^ weak," as it is called, and scarcely
responsible, as another would be. He saw, too,
that his father " wanted some one to take care
of him." But this new wife proved to be a lady

of almost frantic extravagance. The castle was
refitted and refurnished. She was lavish in balls
and entertainments, jewels and dresses ; and the
Formanton estate, already heavily encumbered,
soon began to creak and groan, as it were, like
the great dinner-table at one of their banquets,
under mortgages and even bills of sale. According
to the vulgar phrase, the Formations were
^' going it," almost galloping it indeed.

To complete the odd permutations through
which Mr. Conway had passed, he had been
married. This was known to very few, the
truth being that he had lived in that state of
life but a few months. He had been married
when very young, being not more than one-and-twenty
at the time. About this there was a
certain romance. His father at the time was
only a cousin to the reigning house of Formation,
and had no reasonable chance of succession
such a one, at least, as neither dowager nor
money lender of position would for an instant
consent to discount. The son of this gentleman,
and with but slight chance of advancement in

the world, Mr. George Conway would have to
fight his way through the world. This he was
quite prepared to do, and had the abilities
certainly to ensure success. An early romantic
attachment to a beautiful young creature might
lighten the wearisomeness of the road ; but it
did not make it smoother when, after many
alienation and difficulties, it was known that
the handsome, penniless young fellow had
married.

However, as we have said, the material consequences
of the step were of little moment, for
the pretty young creature, frail and delicate, did
not linger very long in this world. A few years,
the direct line of Formanton became extinct, as
the two sons died within a few months of each
other, and Mr. George Conway's father became
heir to the titles and estates.

One of Mr. Benbow's reasons for desiring to
see much of this young man, was the hope of
stimulating his son by his example. He cordially
admired his easy deface manners and indifference,
which he held were of more force as an

invitation, and as a lever in securing what you
wanted, than any laboured exertion to the same
end. But, alas ! as he reflected, ^' this sort of
thing" conies by instinct and nature ; when
assumed, though precisely the same to all appearance,
it somehow fails. The casual spectator
sees it is counterfeit. If a naturally weak man
assumes commanding tones, and requires place
to be given to him, the spell will not work in
his hands.

Another reason for Mr. Benbow's asking; the
Formations, father and son, was, that they were
neighbours of his "errand Duke," or ^^ ires lies"
as some of the fashionable ladies declared it,
Formanton and Banff Castle lying close together,
the Duke and his Lordship holding the same
faith in politics. Both places were at " St.
Arthur's-on-Sea," a rising watering-place, created
and developed by his Grace, and which, one day
or other, would repay the pains and expense
bestowed on rearing. Mr. Conway had thus
opportunity for indulging in the luxurious taste
of yachting and yacht-racing, his boat being

familiar at the various regattas ; while the Duke
aud his daughters moved about with a stately
swanlike dignity in their four hundred ton steam
vessel, * The Outline.'

This arrival was an additional agreement for
his Grace. He had often thought, how suitable
would have been an alliance between his Lady
Eosa and the young heir of Formanton, their
places and estates lying so conveniently together.
And he had done all compatible with dignity
and propriety to *' bring it about," as it is called.
The cold Lady Eosa, in her heart of hearts, was
more than kindled by the attractions of Mr.
Conway. Not one of her proposed suitors had
seemed to her so acceptable, and to have so
many gifts that she admired. His many-sided
and uncertain character attracted her and piqued
her. There owns nothing of the platitude that
she found in the other young men proposed to
her. Unfortunately she had long seen that Mr.
Conway was wholly indifferent to her. Perhaps
he found in her that very platitude which she
objected to, and that she was but another casting

from the invariable young lady mould. It
must not be thought that there was anything
of match-making, or the trying to secure a parti
in these wishes, or the steps taken for their
fulfilment. The noble father simply desired to
see his daughter established in life, in a suitable
station, where she would be happy. Failing Mr.
Conway, the Duke's eyes had rested on young
Mr. Ben bow, a worthy prosaic young fellow, who
would make his daughter happy, and would find
her a home when he had gone to repose in the
vault with preceding dukes. With a sigh, Lady
Eosa felt that this must be the course taken,
though secretly she hoped that some strange
turn might bring about what she wished.

The procession to the state dinner filed down
in this order : Mr. Benbow and Lady Eosa ;
Lord Formanton and the wife of a local baronet ;
Mr. Conway and the local baronet's daughter ;
■ vous: Mr. Benbow with the clergyman's ; the
rest, Delphi guests, according to their degree ;
and the Duke and a Dowager Peeress. It
was all very grand. The state liveries, state

plate, and state lights and flowers. They swept
down. The menials stood to arms as the procession
entered those soft realms of delight — all
gleaming with gold and silver, and light, and
flowers. A handsome dinner thus laid out under
the best conditions in a noble mansion ; the
table lined with beauty, rank, and wit ; the table
itself supporting all that is choice in precious
metals, food and drink ; even in its wines stretching
far back to some remote " laying down," and
thus keeping up the associations of ancestry : all
this combines to make an ensemble that, like the
opera, becomes one of the genuine shows of this
earth. The Duke of Banff'shire was indeed a
haughty noble. He was a stately man — surprisingly
young, and who, by extravagant pains
and diligence, kept himself young, where another
would have looked aged and dilapidated. His
hair was full, brown and curly, his cheeks covered
with a delicate bloom, and he had a haughty and
kingly walk.

Young Mr. Benbow, though " cast " with
another dame, was still placed beside the person

VOL. I. K

destined for him. Mr. Conway was opposite.
How agreeable he was ! How he contrived, without
effort, to deliver himself of reflections and
remarks which always interested ! He told stories
of himself and his yacht — and somehow there was
no air of selfish personality in these disquisitions.
Every one was amused or took interest. Mr.
Benbow would glance uneasily at his son as he
saw that he was eclipsed, and that the Lady
Rosa was neglecting her companion for her vis-civis.
The young fellow was good-humoured ; and
seeing that he was not " making way," was
entertaining, as best he could, the clergyman's
daughter — and — quite happy.

By the way," said Mr. Conway, looking
round him, " St. Arthur's regatta is coming
on, and will be very gay. We expect all
the great yachts. Of course you'll be there,
Benbow ? "

I hope so," said he, " though the pretty little
place is getting spoiled — invaded by the holiday
crowds — betting men and riff-raff."

'* Ah ! that betting, it taints everything ; now

it lias come to rowing and yachting. Even the
pretty Henley is thus disfigured."

Now they are all at the work before them —
Mr. Ben bow in the centre of the table, so cleanly
cast and impassive as to seem above the necessity
of eating, and beyond the infirmity of getting
flushed or talkative. There is a clatter of gay
tongues, and every one is talking of the pleasant
party to the theatre tomorrow night. It was
pronounced a delightful opportunity, as it was
seldom now that one could see a play murdered
in the right raw, old-fashioned way. Acting was
now levelled up into a sort of stupid, unentertaining
mediocrity. The worst actor could
contrive, by imitation, a tame, insipid performance,
which would neither shock nor please.
There was an honest energy in the old, ille
undulated efforts. Claude Melmotte, however, it
was agreed, " promised sport," he being played
by Mr. Hulkes — the name being " a guarantee."

Yes," said Mr. Conway, " Hulkes will mouth
it and rave it terribly. I shall certainly wait to
see Hulkes in ' the immortal Bulwer Lytton's '

E 2

play. The manager was very droll ; I think he
fancied there was a row of footlights between
him and ns."

'' You won't laugh at the Lady of Lyons," said
Colonel Hanly, " if she can act as well as she
looks."

Oh, you saw her, then. For shame, Hanly !
how sly too ! "

I'll tell you how it was. I was buying a pair
of gloves in a shop when she came in with her
maid. I know the theatrical seal and hall-mark,
stamped on them, or as sheep are stamped.
You are the Prima Donna,' I said."

*' Come, I say, that was free and easy ! "

*' Not to her, of course. Charming as an off-the
-stage face — a calm, innocent, round face,
with an extraordinary fascination. I should
have no objection to play Claude, instead of the
ranting, roaring Hulkes."

Young Charley Benbow, heir and hope of the
house, had been placed close to the Lady Eosa
Fulke. It was as though his father had marked
out the path to the possession of that lady by

stages — so many to be cleared each day. That
very dinner was an opportunity, and so much
amount of work was to be covered. To say the
truth, the lady herself seemed conscious of these
elaborate opportunities, and welcomed them with
a calm tolerance — a cite far a sard air — as though
submitting to the decrees of fate and of her noble
father.

Her admirer, however, caught this description
of the charming Lady of Lyons from afar, and
he looked over to hear more. His curiosity was
stimulated.

I heard her speak, too," went on the Colonel
" a beautiful clear voice — and she had all the
shorten at her feet. I saw her name — ' Miss
Lydia Effingham ' — of course a sham one''

«« Very likely a runaway clergyman's daughter,"
said Mr. Conway. " They make up a sort of
peculiar class. Whenever you hear anything
adventurous, a clergyman's daughter is there.
Novelists, actresses, governesses, superior young
ladies in Jay's, or Sw^au and Edgar's, all are
generally clergymen's daughters."

In short, this subject was pleasantly debated
and speculated over during that night. Anything
to look forward to in a country house is
always welcome, and this going in state to the
little theatre was already counted on as something
very piquant.

The young man, who had not as yet gone to
the university, and might, as one of his friends
said, have passed for a fair girl if dressed up in
woman's clothes, was still eager and interested in
this theatrical programme. Through his father's
desire that he should learn the world rather than
books, he had been brought up chiefly at home,
with governesses first, then tutors, and finishing
with the discipline of a public school. From his
infancy almost he had been perpetually brought
down when the great magnates were in the
house, so that he should grow familiar with them.
In this schooling he had seen little of the world
after all ; for his father considered that theatres
and shows of that sort were so many hindrances
to getting on. But still the youth, Charles
Pelham Benbow, was unsophisticated, rather shy,

and timid, and had not even learned the ABC
of the world's scholar — namely, not to blush.

Nay, his father, who considered that effects
in his diplomacy followed causes with accuracy
and certainty, gave him his lesson in portions,
as it were, guaranteeing the result — taking care
also to examine him closely afterwards. The
youth was astonished himself at the wonderful
fashion in which his father penetrated things.

The cold lady he was destined for was quite
indifferent as to his partiality or attentions. Her
noble father, who had so often dealt with his
tenants as chattels about election time, was noV
about to follow the same course with her. That
was all. She had gone through her curriculum
which had been a failure. Her glass told her
she could not afford to waste time in beo;inninoj
again, and she wisely preferred to retire with
dignity.

After dinner came one of the state evenings at
Benbow House. Spacious rooms, opening into
each other ; abundant, profuse wax lights ; company
sitting, standing, scattered ; loud and

boisterous talk from a group on the rug ; his
Grace sitting as on a throne, one leg out, the
other under his chair, his Thistle ribbon across
his chest, while two ladies sat one on each side.
He was the wonder of every one : his florid
Rubens-like face and beard, his '* young man's "
head of hair, divided in the middle, his good
eyes, erect carriage. Yet he had grown-up sons
and daughters, and was a grandfather many
times over.

Presently he rose and went over to join his
starched and bleached host, who still looked, and
always would look, as if cast in snowy papier
moche, so clean and sharp were his lines ; and far
ofi", in the small card-room, there was presently
seen a trio — the Duke, the father, and the son,
talking ; the latter modestly looking down, while
the two parents spoke as if to encourage
him.

Charles has promised to come back with us*'
said the Duke, " and must stay six weeks or two
months. I mean you must first fix your headquarters
with us, and come and go as you like. I

shall come and go myself sans ceremonie ; but
her Grace and Eosa will always be there."

Had Mr. Benbow's soul been cased in any
other material but papier moche, a flush of
pleasure and delight would have found its way
to his face ; for this was one of the little explosions
for which his elaborate mine was laid.

The invitation was accepted instantly and
joyfully.

"We shall make a political man of him' went
on the Duke ; " I shall do a little of his training
myself. The Duchess and Eosa are both politicians
enraged. Nothing like being a thorough
party-mans even when you are not a man."

Lady Eosa is looking for her fan, Charles,"
said his father. " See there ! go and help
her."

When the young man had flown — " I like
your son," said the Duke, *' and shall like him
much more. I don't ask you myself to Banff
Castle this time ; you will come later, of course
at your own convenience. As I told you,
I shall not be there ; but young men do not care

if there is only a lady to do the honours. Rosa
and he get on very well."

No one admires Lady Rosa Fulke and her
accomplishments more," said Mr. Benbovv, as if
he were making a legal statement.

"Yes, I hope they will get on well together''

Precious words these for Mr. Benbow — to be
eaten, drunk of, dreamed of — words long looked
for, thirsted for, and, to him, more than equivalent
to — " I have thought it well over, and have
decided to accept Charles as my son-in-law."

That night there was the usual 'ballad song —
the pianoforte piece from the clergyman's daughter.
The Lady Rosa went to ^*the instrument"
also — (" Why is that called ^ the instrument,' "
said Mr. Conway, *' any more than the poker or
tongs, or the pier-table ? ") — and literally ambled,
in a very humble way over the keys, some little
thing which she had been taught by Pesca, the
nobility's own pianist, but who was instructing
the royal children. Then Mr. Charles, the candidate,
stood by her side as an escort. It was a
very indifferent performance, but redeemed by

the calm, aristocratic repose of the player, who
made even her wrong notes with an air of self-possession.


Mr. Conway appeared to appreciate and like
Lady Rosa, and praised her singing with cordiality.
Had he really liked her, she thought,
one of his character would have been more
restrained and chary of his praise.

I am glad it pleases you," she said. " I
know you are difficile!'

That was the thought that was in my mind
about you, Lady Eosa," he said, laughing,
about another matter. That poor young
Benbow. He really means his praises, and
speaks out of the fulness of his heart. I do
not — often, that is — though I do wish it."

These refinements of yours are hard to
follow," she said.

All my fault," he answered.

*' You are a puzzling character, it must be
confessed."

Yes, yes ; indeed I am. I often wonder
how I shall end."

Oh, I suppose prosperously," said she,
lightly. '' Everything is sure to turn out well
with you. If things are not inclined of themselves
to do, people will make them."

He drew his chair close to hers and sat down.
They often had these friendly confidential
*' talks " at Banff.

No, no," he said seriously ; " I have no such
idea. People talk of fate, which is of course
absurd, meaning by fate a power compelling you
to take a course. But I believe there is a fate
in ourselves — in our own capricious moods and
tenses — which entangle us in strange ways and
places. I have always an idea that I may bring
distress and suffering to others if not to myself ;
how or wherefore I know not."

Lady Rosa answered him gravely :

I should think that is not at all unlikely.
Indeed it has often occurred to me''

If it has," he said, now interested, " there must
be a reason. Tell me, and you will oblige me.
Tell me frankly what you think of my character."

I ! " said she, haughtily. " What ! flatter

you in that way. No, no. Excuse me. Go to
the phrenologists for that."

Here arrives Mr. Benbow, with his son. He
had been watching uneasily from afar.

Charles is dying for another song," he said.

** Yes, indeed," said the latter, *' if Lady Eosa
would be so kind."

And she was ; for she went over to '' the
instrument," and performed again.

But now it was growing late. The party
began to break up, as did also, strangely, the
young-looking Duke, as the late hours drew on.
Then trays and glasses were brought in ; powdered
menials flitting about, and a general uprising
and flutter as the personage left the room,
attended devoutly by the master of the house.

In the august chamber they had some talk
about " the party," and on wishing good-night
his Grace said :

We must make a good party man of your
son Charles. We'll try and do that when we
have him at Banff*. I assure you we all like him
very much."

Winchester THEATRE.

At Winchester the Theatre Royal was a very
modest house of entertainment, and perhaps
deserved the term of contempt which some of
the profession were fond of applying to it — viz.
its being " a wretched band-box of a thing." It
had a pleasant, old-fashioned air. The boxes or
galleries had fallen rather out of shape ; the pit
was little bigger than a goodly-sized cockpit ;
and there was a genuine old green curtain, of the
true coarse tone, which has so long ago gone out.
But in full force there was the true bouquet or
flavour of rank gas, or sawdust, drifting down
little tunnels of passages, all ablaze with flaring
lights — a bouquet which is enjoyed most in
purely country theatres ; which, could their old

walls speak, whether now turned into Dissenters'
chapels or corn stores, could tell of more real
enjoyment and heartier laughter than ever rose
through the stately " auditorium " of a London
house.

A little crowd was round the doors. A
meagre awning sloped down over the little cabin-stairs
of the chief entrance, and some tar was
blazing in bowls at each side. There was a
glimpse through the narrow door of some striped
red calico, and at times a glimpse of the interior
of the house itself; for one all but passed from
the street into the boxes.

Here at last was the sound of wheels, and here
were three carriages of company from Benbow
dashing up — their lamps like dragons' eyes, their
footmen in long cloaks, and panels gleaming like
armour. Out came Mr. Haggerston, bursting
from behind the pink and white calico— as he
had burst often before, on false alarms — and
received the august party at the foot of the little
cabin-stairs. Down they were set — the stately
Duke and his host, both — ribbons across, clouds

of tulle and flowers on ducal daughter ; while
the cheerful young men of the party bounded
out of the small brougham that brought up the
tail of the procession, not caring about being
squeezed. The little steps — much decayed —
creaked under the ducal feet, while Mr. Palmerston,
in full dress, led the way round the
squeezed little passage to the extemporised
private box next the stage — striped calico attending
them all the way ; and there a gaunt
servant in a faded stage livery, who had brought
in more ** dummy " letters than he had ever
done real ones, crouched against the wall. The
little interior was crowded. Every eye in that
first curve — which held about six boxes — was
turned to the distinguished party, and the five
musicians in the little pen called the orchestra
struck up a complimentary tune. It was really
a grand night" for the theatre, such as it had
never known before, and was fondly looked back
to by the manager and his company ; for what
with extra lighting, and cleaning, and calico, the
little house had never looked so festive.

The august — almost royal — party were late,
and had kept the audience waiting. So bills
were at once placed before them, when the party,
with many smiles, saw that their own names had
been made " to draw " as well as the players'.
It was all " under the distinguished patronage
of his Grace the Duke of Banffshire ; Spencer
Pelham Benbow, Esq., of Benbow Castle ;
Charles Benbow, Esq. ; and the Right Hon. J.
Hoxter." They also read that Pauline, in the
cast of the " immortal Bulwer Lytton," was to be
played by Miss Lydia Effingham, and Claude by
Mr. Hulkes, of the Theatres Royal, Plymouth
and Dorking. But where was the agreeable
Conway ? Alas ! " Loaves and Wishes " had a
headache, and could not go. Mr. Conway,
indifferent to the play and to Lady Rosa, declared
he would stay. But the ladies were so
disappointed that he agreed to go.

The august visitors found great entertainment
in looking round the house, and in identifying
the curious figures that were clustered there.
Stalls had been laid out in even the pit, which

VOL. I. L

only left three or four rows of seats for the
regular clients ; but the people to whom they
were sacrificed had their punishment in strained
necks, twisted round all the nio^ht lonsr to the
left, to observe the movements of the august
party. There was no tendency to laugh at any
rusticity in these honest folk of the district, as
vulgar in great people as the vulgarity they are
amused at ; but young Charles Benbow, seated
by the Lady Rosa — carrying out his special duty
gave the names of the figures seated round,
and little sketches. That night might have been
a favourable opportunity for completing his
father's darling scheme ; but that cautious diplomatist
thought the aristocratic pear not yet ripe,
and had carefully warned his son not to precipitate
matters. It had been better had he let
events take their own course : all then had been
well for him, and this little narrative not been
written.

The youth, in truth, flattered by a consideration
which was new to him, was eager ; and in that
light, and the excitement of the evening, invested

her with charms which were not her own. She,
too, was pleased with his natural and boyish
homage, and smiled a natural smile as he gave
the names and recounted little histories of the
neighbours about them. Thus, in the private
box opposite, that florid-faced, coarse-looking
young man, with diamond studs, was young
Hunter, who' had not long come in for the great
cotton mills — a vulgar-minded upstart — who was
sitting there with two " flappers," run in the
same mould, beside him. His creed in life was
to get everything by paying, and by paying the
largest price. That large party in the centre
was the Muggeridge family, leading people of the
town : he, the rich local solicitor ; she, a great,
oval-shaped, crimson ^g^ — flaming in face, and
flowers, and opera-cloak — surrounded with a
family of coloured Easter eggs. Then there was
the doctor's family ; the clergyman's daughters
who, on this occasion, waived the severe
principles of their profession, and came to seethe
rare spectacle of a duke in the theatre. But
hush ! now the curtain had gone up, and '' the

L 2

immortal Bulwer Lytton" and his play set
iu.

The young and too presumptuous Claude — the
*' Gee-gardener's son," as he was called through
the piece, and he could not fairly complain, as he
so spake of himself — was discovered to be rather
elderly, his bare throat displayed in a boyish
fashion, which only exhibited a disagreeable,
crude redness, and the cordage of muscles. This
gentleman's rapturous juvenility and amorousness
were diverting enough, and a smile came
on the ducal features as he bade his mother
embrace her boy."

But all was expectation as the scene opened
where the new Pauline was expected to come on.
Faces were turned eagerly to the stage ; and a
charming, distinguished-looking girl, with bright
eyes, and dressed with as much taste and propriety
as if she were going to a ball, came on
modestly and slowly. A torrent of applause
welcomed her. It was renewed as she made a
curtsey — half indifferent, half gracious, and
wholly unsteady. Her face beamed with a bright

intelligence ; and the contrast of her own pure
self with the tawdry dresses, the smirched faces
of those about, and even the dirty and rickety
background, made her look like a princess visiting
a hovel.

The Duke said to his neighbour, " Quite a
lady ! — you can know one when we see her."

The Lady Rosa's pale face bore a smile of
disdain and hostility, while Mr. Hoxter and the
gentlemen applauded boisterously. But the
young Benbow kept his eyes fixed on her, as on
some vision — his cheeks glowing, his pulses
fluttering. He had never seen or even dreamed
of anything so lovely or entrancing as she
appeared to him.

The play went on ; the Gee-gardener s son, now
all velvet and spangles, striding about and
mouthing round the beautiful heroine, seeming
like her groom — and a dirty one too — dressed up
in finery ; and General (Haggerston) Damas
delivered his military jokes with a strange inattention
to his companions, always keeping his
face twisted round to the right, and addressing

his speeches entirely to the Duke — the Duke of
the audience. When the attractive Pauline
spoke, what a tingling music rang through the
house ! how ears were drooped to catch every
sound ! In the scene where our groom " Gee-gardener"
had brought her to a home, which
corresponded to the one Mr. Hulkes personally
was more familiar with, what passionate upbraiding,
what charming gestures, as she covered her
face with her veil and sank down and wept !
Then her cry of anguish, as Mr. Hulkes rushed
away to the wars, made Mr. Hoxter turn round
to the Duke, and say, seriously, " This is very
fine, really very fine " — much as he would turn
round in another House and praise a new
speaker. Young Benbow, as the act finished,
put his hands forward over the box and applauded
noisily ; while even the Lady Eosa had
a faint flush on her cheeks, and said, " She
reminded her a little of Magdalene Drove." One
only of the party was uninterested — Mr. Benbow
whose quick, bright eye roved from face to
face of his party, and, noticing his son's enthusiasm,

he moved quietly down into the seat
behind him.

Nothing so wonderful, Lady Eosa," he said ;
and Charles has seen little or no acting '' — and
at the same moment gave him a firm and quiet
pressure with his finger.

Now there is a roar of applause, demanding
the favourite ; while Mr. Hulkes, scowling and
in ill-humour, comes out by himself; and, when
he has disappeared, Mr. Haggerston, in person,
and in the full uniform of General Damas (which
suo^orests the idea that British officers were
serving with the French armies), leads in the
charming actress. She is now very different —
sweeps across with a chilling hauteur — a kind
of unresponsive indifference — as if she cared
nothing for them or their tributes.

A hurried dialogue passed in the " royal '*
box.

We should throw her a bouquet," said Mr.
Hoxter.

The General Officer on the stage — who had
never taken his eyes off the distinguished party,

in a fixed and stony gaze — guessed what was
passing, and lingered ; while the eager Charles,
standing up, frantically applauded.

She gave a gracious curtsey in acknowledgment,
and disappeared ; whilst the youth remained
standing — his hands on the front of
the box, he himself in a sort of enraptured
abstraction.

How" splendid ! How magnificent ! " he said
at last. " Wasn't it ? I never saw anything to
approach it."

He then got up suddenly and left the box.
His father looked round hastily as the door
closed ; but he was too late. There was a
general chorus of approbation in that circle,
and Mr. Hoxter declared loudly she ought to
be " in town."

BEHIND THE SCENES.

The young man, once out in the corridor,
fanned his excited face with his handkerchief;
then, with hesitation, tapped at a side-door
which led on to the stage. He asked for Mr.
Haggerston, and found that gentleman still in
the full regimentals of a General of Division —
which seemed all tri-colour sash, boots, and
breeches — and giving impetuous orders to his
dependants, as if he were indeed upon the field
of battle.

There's a triumph ! There's genius ! Mr.
Benbow. That went home to my lord Duke's
soul. I saw it. I know it did.'

They were all delighted, Haggerston. By
the way, I was going to ask you, would

you mind — " and he dropped this voice and
whispered.

To be sure. Perfect Lady, you know. Rather
touchy, in fact, about these sort of things though
But I'll speak to her."

Mr. Haggerston presently returned, and led
the way to a little crib known as the dressing-room.


Pauline rose up to receive them ; while a
grave lady, older by ten years than she was,
looked on with suspicion. Mr. Haggerston then
performed an introduction after the manner he
knew best.

Here you are, Miss Effingham, young Mr.
Benbow is dying to know you. Regular swell,"
he half whispered.

The lady started at the name.

The youth, now that he was close beside her,
saw that she had a natural, everyday loveliness,
far beyond what he had seen in her on the
stage. He felt the very blood rushing to his
heart and cheeks.

"I was so enchanted," he faltered, ''so interested,

that I could not take my eyes away a
moment.' '

I remarked you," she said, smiling at this
natural confusion. " You were in that box to
the right. Your steady interested look made me
play better."

'' Oh, it makes me so proud to hear that, Miss
Effingham. I forgot the theatre, and where I
was, and who I was with."

Who was that lady next you — so cold and
indifferent to my poor exertions ? Only for you
I should have been quite paralyzed by her."

"The Duke's daughter. Lady Rosa Fulke.
She has seen so many plays, you will understand.
Miss Effingham — "

Yes. They all know the * Lady of Lyons '
by heart. You have seen it a thousand times."

No, indeed ; never before. But if you, Miss
Effingham, act it a thousand times here, I shall
go every night. How long will you stay ? "

"A fortnight. Of course, contingent — " and
she smiled. '' The doors of these country
theatres sometimes shut so very abruptly. But

you are really pleased with me ? What can I
do here ? I might as well act in a drawing-room.
I want room, space, air — the vast stage,
like a great field ; and, far away, the dim, lofty
not sea, but cloud, of faces rising up. Oh, if
I had that chance, Mr. Benbow, you would see
something very different from what you see
to-night."

Oh, I have seen acting," the young man
said, eagerly ; " but could not see anything finer
than yours ! "

There was one face besides yours that I
noted," she said. " It was the only one of the
rest that seemed to follow and sympathize."

Oh, I know" said the young man, eagerly.
*rit's just what I would expect. That was
Conway."

*' I shall remember his name," she said, reflectively,
"with yours. He is your friend too,
I am certain."

He is ; he is," said Charles, enthusiastically ;
and you will like him when you know him."

Mr. Haggerston struck in — " Miss Effingham

literally brought the house down. I kept my
eye on his Grace when I was joking you in the
garden scene, and every point seemed to go
home to him, you know. I assure you, you were
tip-top; and — do me justice, Miss Effingham
I led well up to you."

She seemed to shrink away from these compliments.


I was not thinking of any person — of dukes
or any one else ; and, to tell you the truth, I am
more pleased with the simple praise this gentleman
has bestowed on me, than with any of the
compliments which I suppose will be sent to me
after this is over."
A tap at the door.

This conversation might, under other conditions,
have seemed a very strange and odd
one — Mr. Haggerston — wearing his false moustache
and beard — so palpably stuck on — his
coarse stage uniform, sash, &c. But Charles
was in a sort of dream, and even delirium —
his eyes fixed on the features of the beautiful
actress.

The knock at the door was repeated impatiently.


General Damas leisurely went and " threw it
open," as he would call it.

The coarse young manufacturer stood therein
the glory of his chains, rings, &c., and bowing
and smirking.

"Beg pardon, Haggerston," he said; "just
want you to do a bit of the polite. Introduce
me to the charming and fascinating young lady
who has been obliging us all to-night."

Mr. Haggerston did what was desired, with
intense enthusiasm.

Delighted, my dear sir. Mr. Hunter, Miss —
a true patron of the drama, and of everything
that belongs to it."

Oh come, I say. Hag — put in discriminating.
You never get a five shillings out of
me when you have any of your common lot
of people coming round. But I declare, when
you secure such an attraction — such as Miss.
Heffingam — '*

The haughty look, mingled with contempt,

which he received, checked this flow of compliment.
She then turned to Charles.

'* There, you hear the invariable sort of praise
I always receive. You would be surprised at
the number of times I have heard it."

*' I say, Hag," went on the other, not in the
least abashed, "you'll have to raise the pay
and allowances ; and don't you spare him, Miss
Efiingham — he's rolling in money."

"Mr. Haggerston's arrangements and mine
have been already settled," she said, quite
gravely. *'I have no wish to change them."

Oh, that was only my fun, you know," said
the objectionable young manufacturer, "and
only what I would do if I were Haggerston. I
wish I was. I think a cool hundred a week
would be the least Td offer you."

The young man had been listening impatiently.
He had the slight acquaintance with
the manufacturer which every one in or about
a country town has to form and keep up. He
could not restrain himself any longer; but said,
with flushing cheeks :

No one is thinking of these commercial
views. Miss Effingham does not care about
them."

It is rather hard," she added, *' considering
all that is before me in the next acts. This
gentleman takes away all the poetry of my
art from me."

Oh, well," said Mr. Hunter, much put out,
** that is what you all look to, you know, in the
profession."

'' Yes," said Charles, " by one sort — the people
who make it a trade."

''Oh, I 'ate those chaffering, peddling fellows
that come to me sometimes," said Mr. Palmerston,
heartily endorsing this sentiment. "No
one has an idea the way we managers are
victimised ; we are literally poorer than the
fellow there that I employ to sweep my stage.
We never get a real good bargain ; for, if they
make ever so little of a success, then they turn
greedy — greedy ; want two pounds a week more
may be, this very night before the drop is
down, on just some twopenny-halfpenny calls

which I here vow to you I get up myself.
I assure you, the meanness, the dirt — the absolute
dirt, sir — that's in the profession, you
wouldn't believe ! Bless my soul, but you can't
stay talking here, and keep his Grace waiting.
Now then. Miss Effingham, when you're ready I
am."

"Let me offer you my arm, Miss Effingham,'^
said young Mr. Benbow, " and bring you to the
wing."

Mr. Hunter was abashed and angry. He
could buy and sell young Benbow, and, for that
matter — as he said to his friend later in the
boxes — any strolling actress like that. He was
dreadfully put out.

I'll give her a lesson yet, and that cock-sparrow
too. But she is infernal, handsome ! "
And under his elaborately-worked shirt-front,
his swinging gold chains, and glossy suit, he
was mortified. Deeply touched with her charms,
he told his admiring friend and flapper — quite
after the nature of his kind — that " she was a
tip-top splendid girl."

VOL. I. M

'* And you made the running," said a flapper.
Don't tell me — she was making e3^es at you
all the time of the play ! "

Clumsy as this sort of compliment is, most
men can understand it ; and, though his rebuff
was rankling in his mind, he gave way to the
pleasant delusion that some such gratifying
success as had been described had actually taken
place.

THE BOUQUET.

As young Mr. Benbow led the actress through
the dark places by the edge of the scenes,
peopled with what seemed unclean spectres, the
pride and fluttering of his heart was indescribable.
He felt that he was, as it were, leading
some rich and rare Queen, far greater than any
of the Deschappelles family ; and he found himself
standing; with her, a sudden and dazzling
glare pouring in upon him. Then some one came
and whispered her ; and in a moment he found
himself alone — heard the sudden burst of
applause, as it were, at a distance — and knew
that the enchanting Pauline was again entangled
in that passionate love adventure, of which,
alas ! — and a thousand times alas ! — he was not

M 2

the hero. That dreadful, dirty, scrubby, degraded
Hulkes, to dare, even by the necessities
of stage action, to assume the character of even
a sham lover !

In the o;lare of this coarse stage lio^ht he was
standing, his eyes fixed on her who now absorbed
his whole soul ; but he never thought that he
was in full view of the box where the august
party were sitting. When, for a moment or
two, he had withdrawn his gaze from the divine
creature who was so gallantly cleaving to the
absent " Gee-gardener's son " — then winning his
grade under the French flag — he became conscious
that he had been in full view of the
distinguished persons in the box ; and thought,
with some confusion, of his father, who might have
seen him leading the charming actress to the wing.

He hurried round at once to take his place in
the box, and stole as softly as he could into his
own place.

We saw you," said the Duke's daughter
frigidly ; " you seem to have acquaintances
behind the scenes."

"Not at all," he said, hurriedly. "It was
only that Haggerston, who would introduce

me.

Introduce you ! " she repeated, scornfully ;
and is that done behind the scenes ? "

Without looking back, he felt — and felt most
uncomfortably — that his father's eyes were on
him, piercing into his very skull. He made a
feint at exaggerated devotion and eager attention
; but all the time the entrancing Pauline's
history was going on ; and here was that odious
Hulkes, returned from the wars, hiding his ill-grasped
cheeks — as every Claude invariably does
or tries to do — behind that enormous Colonel's
plume of white feathers. There had been a sweet
constancy about her, a gentle womanly tenderness
indescribable ; filial to her parents — Mr
J. S. Webb and Mrs. Charles Walter — and
enduring the hearty jesting of that old officer.
General HaofSferston Damas : and now she was
flying into the arms of Hulkes with a woman's
passionate enthusiasm.

Charles could not think of any Duke's daughter

then. As the applause broke out, he forgot all
his father's splendid plans, and, turning eagerly
to his companions, said :

And look, look, she only appears to embrace
him. How cleverly done ! She is a true lady,
and does not allow that fellow's dirty fingers to
touch her dress even. Haggerston assures me
that a real nice actress will not allow such a
thing. There is ' lady ' stamped upon her in
everything she does."

The Lady Rosa turned in her seat to look at
him, with a stare of astonishment.

'' Plow can I know anything of these people
and their ways ! You talk of ladies — I believe
no lady could bring herself to go on a stage
like that ! "

There, it was over — the curtain down, and
the audience calling for that divine creature.
Mr. Hunter was " roaring for her," and clapping,
standing up in his box, young Mr. Benbow
noticed, as she was coming out, led by Mr.
Haggerston.

Again an uprising — a cheering.

Mr. Hoxter said again, '* I declare we ought to
throw her a bouquet. If Covent-garden were
near, she would deserve a guinea one."

Charles again forgot all that was about him,
and the duty before him. He heard these
words. " Oh, yes," he said, eagerly, " we must
throw her one. It will be too late, if weare
not quick." He stooped down, scarcely
knowing what he was doing. *' Would you
eternally oblige me — let me take yours
now, and tomorrow the finest that Covent-garden
— "

By all means ; it was you who gave it tome,
so you have the right — " •

Only a second more, and the divine apparition
would have disappeared. Some one was holding
aside the old green baize *drag." He could not
have checked himself if it was to save himself
from death.

Oh, thank you, thank you," he said ; and,
seizing the bouquet, threw it.

It landed at her feet. Mr. Haggerston
bounded at it, and took it up in the laboriously

gallant way which is de rigueur on these
occasions. It was presented to her, and she
curtseyed, as Mr. Hoxter owned, " like a lady.
Certainly a clergyman's daughter — commonest
thing in the world."

The Duke laughed — he was mentally shortsighted
— and said, " See, Eosa has made him
throw her bouquet."

It was over. The august party were not
going to wait for the masterpiece, even though
the funny man — the leading comique of the
theatre — was going to give his Jeremy Diddler —
his great part. August parties never wait for
masterpieces — as, indeed, Mr. Haggerston good-naturedly
prophesied to his comique. As they
all rose — every eye in the theatre on them —
some of the local fashionables felt it would be
provincial and unbecoming to remain, and so
they began to rise also ; and the unhappy
comique had to play his great part to a very
thin audience indeed, chiefly aloft.

Mr. Haggerston was in attendance, having
made a frantic toilet to be in time ; the stage

servant was in waiting, and unrolling an old
bit of stage-carpeting; there was the plunging
of horses and drawing-up of carriages. Then
they drove away ; and the great bespeak performance,
long talked of in the theatre, was
over.

IN MR. BENBOW's STUDY.

After the distinguished party had reached
home, and retired for the night, Mr. Benbow
said quietly to his son, *' Come to my study,
Charles, before you go to bed ; " and then went
himself to hold communion with his papers, as
was his wont.

Those were strange, troubled vigils of his :
like some necromancer, he called up spirits,
and peopled the air about him with spectres
bearing coronets, and heard mysterious cries
of " Lord ! " and " Viscount ! " " Premier ! "
"M.P. !" and "Minister!" It was like the
dark cellars below the great electric telegraph
stations, where are the great troughs and
batteries, and from whence the fluid leaps away
to all the ends of the earth.

The young man, a little uneasy at this
appointment, kept his young men friends upas
long as he could — where he received that
most unwelcome " chaffing " on his visit behind
the scenes — then went and knocked at his
father's door.

That worn, restless face looked up from a vast
embankment of papers, and from overflowing
drawers.

*' Come in, Charles," he said ; " take a chair.
Have you shut the outside door ? "

The son, much confused, did so. He knew
that this was a fatal symptom of something
serious. When he had returned to his place,
the father sat back in his chair, and, putting
his fingers together so as to make his arms and
hands seem like a pair of compasses, began
quietly :

You are a fool, I fear ! "

The son. hung down his head.

Do you hear me ? Are you a fool, or are
you sensible ? Or are you resolved to take a
course of your own ? "

He paused.

See, I must have an answer to these two
questions, and a plain one. If you feel that
you are so imbecile as to be unequal to taking
your part in a scheme which I am arranging
for your good, say so distinctly, and save me
much weary trouble. I ask you again, do you
feel yourself a fool ? "

*' No, no, father ; I hope not'*

Then give some sensible explanation of your
behaviour to-night. Take your time."

I assure you, my dear father — "

His father's eyes were fixed on him, with
a patient and hard air. He was really waiting
an explanation.

"It was only — that is — I just went behind
the scenes — as any young man would do."

*^ You are a fool," said his father, with strong
emphasis. "I see it — a great one."

Oh, I hope not."

Then you must not attempt to do anything
for yourself. You have nearly destroyed my
whole plan. Do you not know the cost, the

labour, the anxiety of years — yes, sir, of years —
that I have been at, to bring matters to this
stage ? and you go on like a child with a drum
and a cart. Now, I have sent for you to give
you a plain warning. These are my plans, not
yours. If you oppose them in any way, I
shall do with you as I have done with every one
in or outside of my family — who has dared
not to co-operate with me. I have turned them
out, cast them aside, and got others. And III
do it to you. I can get a substitute for you
any day. You know that I do what I say,
and have done what I said. Look at this
bundle of letters I came on to-night —-vise
begging mercy, daughter begging — be himself:
all of no use. Go, now ; that's all. Do your
best tomorrow to repair your bungling of tonight,
or else Good night. Go ! "

The youth withdrew, much relieved. But
when he got to his room, the walls seemed
to open and float away to each side, disclosing
the scene of Paradise — the soft clouds which
encompassed that one divine figure — the sweet

smile — the bright and glorious face, whose
glauce lit up his very soul. Her enchanting
tones still rang in his ears like music. Her
passionate gestures, her loving manner, her
devotion — when she rushed to the arms of the
gardener's son. But that he could not bear to
think of To be profaned by the touch of a
Hulkes ! Oh, that he could have been the
Claude — what fire, what passion he would throw
into it ! Let his father talk of striving for
peerage and political position for which he was
struggling — those miserable dry husks — what
were they to that prize ? As he pursued this
dream, watching that vision, listening to that
divine music, his father's stiff figure and cold
face passed away ; and he gave himself up to
a delicious rapture, and feasted again and again
on those Paradisaical visions.

His father, after some measured walking
round the room, came back to his interrupted
work. " How dare he ? " he said to himself,
as he sat down. "The idiot, the booby — with
his low music-hall fancies. Why, I don't know

that he has not ruined everything as it is. No ;
but I cannot have mistaken him. His tutors,
all — I see it myself — they agreed that he was
a steady, plodding lad. He must be," added the
father, aloud, with a sort of agony ; *' it wants
little more to the end. Another day only. I
paved the whole road for him : he has but to
walk straight forward, and lean on me. Oh, he
must 1 "

He turned to his papers again.
*show curious my coming on these to-night."
And he struck the small bundle with the open
palm of his hand.

'* Ah, you, sir, tried the same game with me
years ago ; and I crushed you, just as I might
stand with my whole weight on some beetle.
Yes," he added, turning over one letter, " this
was his wife's appeal — a despairing one, I
recollect."

He then read it half aloud :
* For God's sake, Mr. Benbow, have pity onus,
and let not his ruin be on your soul. After
all, it was but a moment's folly or sin ; and you

ruined him first. He was weak, guilty, cruel ;
but has he not atoned for it ? Have we not all
suffered terrible privation ? I tell you we are
starving. I conjure you, leave us in peace, and
do not so pitilessly hinder us from living, or
drive us out like pariahs from every place where
we settle down. Surely, sir, you know that
men of the first rank, in all their bitterness of
hate, have never brought this animosity into
their private dealings. Oh, as you will be
judged hereafter, forget — forgive ! Think of
him — think of me — of my poor, beautiful,
tender girl 1 Don't hunt me down.' "
He paused, then said scornfully :
"His principles! Mine are those of justice
and no mercy. Every creature driven to the
wall, as it is called — the wretch who is to be
hanged tomorrow — is penitent enough : ' They
will never do it again! Of course not. But
they would. And here is your letter, sir : ' You
are too noble, and too generous, and have been
too successful in your career, to think of revenging
yourself on one so humble as I am. We

have been enemies, and I have done my best — I
own it. You will respect me the more for
owning it. Further, you will respect me still
more when I tell you that I would have died
rather than submit to the humiliation of asking
you for anything ; but I am not stoical enough
to see my poor girl suffer. Now you have an
opportunity of being victorious over me, and of
using your victory generously. For the sake of
Heaven — in a lower degree, for the sake of pity
and humanity — not for me, for I shall not long
survive this part of the disgrace — spare us ! or
you will feel bitter remorse. More — our ruin
will rise up one day in another shape against
you, mark me ! We know it is revenge.' ''

He looked at it for a long time, steadily, then
laid it down.

It would not — could not be," he said, slowly.
"As well stop the wheels of a Juggernaut.
Mine had to go over him ; and it was well I did
what I did."

He seized the bundle of letters, tied them
hastily, and flinging them into a drawer —

VOL. I. N

"heaping others over them — closed it with a crash.
Then the sect was gone from his mind; but
he remained — his head on his hands, his eyes
fixed on a spot of carpet near the door.

If this boy of mine should fail me in anyway
! But not one of them can be depended on.
No one is like myself. All — all helpless, more
or less. The fool."

Then he remembered that there were letters —
meshes of various spiders' webs — to be written —
half-a-dozen and more — to go by the morning's
post. These he wrote. It was three by the
Benbow clock when he had done, and walked
into a little room off his own, where there was
a small brass bedstead, and then tried to sleep.

Such was Mr. Benbow, who, every one said,
was a very ambitious man. So he was.

With the morning, the master of the house
was up and abroad betimes — indeed, with the
gardener, giving him some most minute directions.

Just as the guests were coming in to breakfast,
he called his son to him again, and spoke to him
calmly

Recollect I shall see and hear novi, everywhere,
and at any time," he said, " though you
may not think it."

When Lady Rosa came in, the young man
walked up to her, and, with the true blush of
the ingenuous puer, bent before her with a splendid
bouquet, and said :

I hope you will accept this, Lady Rosa, in
place of the one I robbed you of last night. It
was a sudden impulse, and I was carried away
by the play."

His father came up softly. Her father smiled.
Mr. Benbow's arm went round the shoulders of
his son.

Charles has been to few theatres. Why,
when I was his age I could hardly keep still in
my place when I saw the ' Castle Spectre.'
AVhat is like Hassan's dream, after all ? I could
say it now. I recollect I was quite dazzled by a
plain Miss Smith."

The daughter lashed.

I envy you, if you have not seen plays. I
confess I am tired of them. When he is with us

N 2

in town, he shall be taken to a regular course,
and disenchanted."

Mr. Benbow, the father, struck in again,
adroitly.

His sympathies were so excited. And it is
an exciting story. He was talking of it to nie
for an hour in the study. He felt so for that
poor Pauline, separated from her lover."

Then Mr. Benbow turned to the Duke, to talk
of the distinguished author.

What a very remarkable man he is — something
of Sheridan about him. Dramatist, poet,
novelist, orator, diplomatist, and minister ! "

Sheridan wrote no novels," said the Duke,
much pleased at the opportunity for correction,
which Mr. Benbow mio^ht have left for him
purposely.

"No; no more he did," he said, in surprise.
That gives a superiority to Lytton."

And I am not aware that Sheridan wrote
any parliamentary satirical poem — say of the
character of ' St. Stephen's.' "

No ; he certainly did not. You are quite

light, Duke. Oh, the modern writer is certainly
the most versatile."

Some such little weapons as these were always
ready in the Benbow armoury, much as some
careful lady would carry about a " housewife ^'
in her pocket. These and much more were part
of the laborious machinery he was working, to
try and repair the damage of last night. And
when, about lunch-time, the Duke, addressing
Charles, said good-humouredly, " I suppose the
attractions of the stage will not keep you away
from us," his father considered that all had been
restored .

He called Charles aside, and bade him go but
and ride, and never leave the side of Lady Rosa
for his life.

There, you goose ! I have repaired the
mischief done by your folly of last night, and
forgive you ; but mind take care it never happens
again. I say, attend to me. Take care that
nothing like it happens again." This with a
fierce look.

A LOVER.

The young Charles, thoroughly scared, put on
a laborious devotion to the lady allotted to him.
But he was carrying about a leaden heart. All
about him seemed dark, and laid in dull, gloomy
colours ; but, as he would look out afar — beyond
to where was the soft light, the white clouds,
the plaintive music, the bright angelic face,
he felt his heart aching and sinking, a sense of
despair and blankness coming over him, and he
loathed the part he was playing. He longed to
fling away all restraint, hurry out of the place,
rush to the stable, and ride off headlong to the
little town — to the theatre, where the play would
soon be beginning, and the divine Pauline having
her affections a second time won by the odious
Hulkes.

But he must do something to quiet his soul —
the aofitatirio: flutter in his breast. Action of
any kind in such cases is an advance forward,
and may bring something to disturb the wearing
monotony of expectancy. He would write something
— something complimentary. It would be
next to sight or speech. It seemed like an
inspiration, and he wrote :

"Dear Miss Effingham,

That delightful ' last night '
is still before me. Your enchanting tones
are still in my ears. / never saw or heard
anything to approach what I saw and heard last
night ! I never shall forget it. It seems like a
sweet dream. Here they are still talking of it.
All the judges say there was nothing ever
like it. You seemed the real Pauline ; and, oh !
I think that odious Hulkes was very happy in
being allowed to imitate even one who was
allowed to adore you. If you would let me call
upon you, and tell you all I think, and how
delighted I was, it will be a great happiness to,
yours always,

Charles Pelham Benbow."

He felt much better and more at ease when he
sent this off by a secret hand — an uncouth stableboy,
who was his serf. Now he had something
to look forward to — her answer. But none
was to come as yet.

His father watched him the whole day.

In a sort of fevered flutter — half distressing,
half delightful — the young man endured this
espionage. Once more he thought of rushing
to the stable, leaping on hiss horse, and galloping
off furiously into Winchester. His blood was ina
fever ; he could not rest calmly in one spot ;
and his enforced squireship of the aristocratic
young lady was hateful to him. There was an
over-acting, an over eagerness in playing his
part, which he made almost passionate in his
attention and devotion.

His plan at the beginning of the day, and
to which he always looked forward with a sort
of painful yearning, had been to absent himself
for two or three hours, and see his charmer.
But, with that ever vigilant police, it became
impossible. There was the morning, then lunch.

then the ride ; and his father, looking warily
to the grand object he then had on hand, posted
him duly, as a sergeant would sentries. And
so that wretched dragging day went by until
the dinner came round — the old regular state
form — a time of agony for him ; for he knew
that the curtain was up, and the enchanting
Pauline again showing her love for the sham
prince, and passing through those cruel trials.

Still, with this weight at his heart, he
acquitted himself respectably ; and his father
gravely commended him, made a sort of formal
apology for his words of last night, and now
said that he had a great deal of sense. •

^^ My dear boy," he said, with some warmth,
"wait — only wait until you see what I shall
do for you. We shall be the greatest family
in England yet. You don't know — it can't
enter into your head to conceive — all that I
have planned — all the engines working at this
moment. They little dream what schemes are
in this head. You shall be a marquis when
I am gone. Not that I care for a bare title ;

hut POWER is the thing. Power, Charles — power
is only got by connection. This Duke is a
stupid man, but see what power he has : simply
by the force of accumulated connection. Once
let us weld on our family to his,, and his
connections are mine ! It wants a clever man
to put it all to use. I am that man. And
now, my dear boy, as you have shown sense,
I shall speak plainly to you. The sole and only
difficulty in the way is the girl herself. She
requires delicate management. Her father even
can scarcely control her. She is cold and
obstructive, and should she see the least backwardness
or indifference in you, it would be
terrible ! Terrible for us both.'-

There was a strange tone in the way he
used this word, as if the thought was terrible
to him.

It was the longest of nights. These words
of his father had made some impression, and
he saw there was truth in them. So, with a sort
of spasmodic exertion, he really " made up leeway,"
as it is called, and strove to mend his

fault of the night before ; and thus was laying
up fresh troubles and anguish for himself.

When the ladies were gone, there were the
men in the smoking-room, the noisy chatter ;
and the Duke himself, who was in a chatty
humour, attached himself to Charles.

*' Yes, we shall have you at Banff. We
leave this the day after tomorrow, and I have
just settled with your father you must come
with us."

Go with you ! " The young man gave a
start. 'snow?"

*sit will be no inconvenience, I assure you.
I should like to have you with us, and Lady
Eosa will like it too. And you must stay a
long time. I can give you capital deer-stalking
and shooting."

It is so kind of you," the young man
murmured ; " but I know it will put you out.
Besides, I have preparations — "

The Duke laughed.

A young man — preparations ! Oh, very
good. Not ball-dresses, wreaths, or flowers ?

All ! no ; we can understand young ladies, and
their great black boxes, which take days to
get ready. No scruples, my dear fellow. We
shall be a little in the rough, and I shall expect
no ceremony."

At last, at about two o'clock, he had got rid
of them, and got away to his own room, where
he could be alone and think. Joy, rapture !
On the table there was a tiny note, directed ina
lady's hand. He flung himself on it, opened,
and read —

"Dear Mr. Benbow,

Your letter made me happy.
Such testimonials are always welcome, and encourage.
I should be very glad to see you
any time you would like to call, and should
be glad to hear you tell me those things. Yes,
you pity me with Mr. Hulkes. I knew you
would. But this is one of the incidents of
the profession. If we had no more than that
to suffer ! But I am getting accustomed toit
all. But have you thought of this ? — your
family can hardly approve of you so honouring
a mere actress. Certainly not your father.
Believe me, it is better to look on from the

boxes, and think of me only as Pauline. That
distance lends such enchantment. Yes, come
and see me, and admire me if you will — on
the stage, and in my stage finery. Yours is
not the only letter of praise I have received.
I have two before me now, and set them side
by side : one is that of a gentleman, the other
that of a vulgarian. This last, another of our
trials. — Always yours,

"" Lydia Effingham."

This threw him into an ecstasy. It was the
most piquant, charming letter — nothing low,
everything not only ladylike — (a poor compliment,
after all, for " ladylike " stands for a dead
level, conventional thing) — but it was womanly,
heroic, noble, and like Pauline. And how full
of a proper reserve ! How charming that ! He
knew the dastardly rascal that was troubling
her — the low, vulgar scoundrel that was thrusting
his attentions on her, and with the lowest
motives.

That gave him a sacred trust ; he was bound
to shield and protect her — a dear, interesting,
divine creature, who had no protector. It was

enoiitrh bliss for that nio;lit. Within the four
corners of the page he could see a small, glittering
view of the play — that blissful night :
the look of the writings brought the whole scene
before hiui. He could kiss its delicate characters
several times over ; he could lay it tenderly on
his dressing-table — on a sort of throne of honour.

He had the sweetest sleep and the most
delightful dreams. In short, he was " a boy
in love," which means the * Arabian Nights'
Stories,' with all the treasures of enchantment,
jewels, gold, silver, and beauty, laid open.

On the next day he must see her ; he would
brave all that dukes, fathers, or high-born girls
would do to prevent him. He forgot all the
difficulties in the way, the " persecution " that
was likely to arise, and slept rapturously.

Lydia EFFINGHAM THE ACTRESS.

■%

In the morning, what he thought persecution
began. His father called him into the study —
where, ind-need, now actual meetings of the
Vehmgericht seemed to be held.

*' Well, you are going to the Duke. You will
return engaged. I tell you so. But wail a
day or so. See here, Charles," Mr. Benbow said,
taking out his cheque-book, " we must spare no
money on this expedition of yours. Take your
man with you. I shall write to Pitt in London
to send you down two of his best hunters — Lady
Rosa admires good horsemanship. In fact, draw
on me for what you like, and fill these two
cheques for whatever is necessary. It is false
economy, sparing anything on the last coiipr

But they are not going tomorrow, sir," he
pleaded ; " we could get them to remain longer
such a short visit."

*'I wish we could," said the other, abstractedly.
^' For somehow I fear you won't do much
away from me. The Duke has business. But
try yourself with her. Then it would only make
the difference of a day or two."

*' But must I go now, sir ? Is it not too
sudden 'i I have nothing ready. I don't see
how it's to be done."

'' But, my dear boy, you — a young fellow —
don't want preparation — "

Encouraged by the good-natured tone, Charles
came up to his father.

You won't ask me to go — al all at present.
You are always so kind. I shall make a botch
of it, I know, and — "

Sir ! "

There was a pause. The young man shrank
away.

The father observed the effect, then said,
quickly :

You must go, sir. Send into the town
and get what you want ; and see, don't forget
my warning of last night. And see, again :
let me hear that all is settled finally within
the three days. Go, sir.'^

Under this menace there was still a gleam
of comfort, which Mr. Benbow did not know he
was imparting — the expedition into Winchester.
There was a chance there, an age, a reprieve ;
though the execution might come tomorrow
morning — execution, alas ! from which there was
no escaping.

So, after the usual spell of duty at lunch,
and talking and attendance, he eagerly told
Lady Rosa he must go and get some " things "
to be ready to set out with them in the
morning, but would be back by dinner.

He had all but reassured that young lady,
and this eagerness for departure helped to fortify
the impression. She looked rather fondly on his
handsome face.

He ran to his room to decorate himself, then

VOL. L o

rushed to the stable for his horse, aud in a
moment was galloping into Winchester.

Winchester has its half-dozen show-houses
of the old framed-house pattern, which hang
over the pathway, with shops below, and little
cottage-like windows. McMcCallum the draper's
was one of these, and over McMcCallum's the new-actress
had lodgings. In such a place there
is always repugnance to such a calling, attended
with something like a holy horror. But Mr.
McMcCallum had neat millinery young ladies —
nice and pretty ; and these soon made a party
in favour of the beautiful lady up-stairs ; who
had none of the forward ways of the profession,
but was interesting, polite, and ladylike, and
asked up the Fanes and Fanny to look at her
dress when she was going out to do Pauline.
McMcCallum, though a stern Scot, could not resist
this popular feeling, and soon came round to
her, and also to the steady respectable sheepdog
who guarded her (Miss Grant), and who
had teeth to bite, and who would bite a Scotchman
too, if necessary. And very soon Mr.

McMcCallum, wife, family, and children, were seen
in the boxes applauding with delight — which
was not wonderful, considering that the admission
tickets were " orders."

When Charles rode up to the door of the
draper's shop and asked for Miss Effingham,
great interest was exhibited among the young
ladies of that house — to whom, indeed, he was
known, having often purchased gloves, &c.,
there, by which patronage he conferred much
honour. Miss Effingham was out ; but one of
the young ladies, who admired the gallant youth
secretly, told him that the actress had gone
for a walk across the fields, and had taken "her
part " with her. The direction was described
to him, and, after some hesitation, he set out
and followed.

About Winchester were all sorts of pleasant
lanes and turnings — short cuts with stiles — that
ran past plantations, and were really inviting.
He was fond of the country ; but on this day
it seemed to him more inviting than ever it did
in fact, was it not her empire and dominion ?

O 2

He had left his horse at the inn and wandered
on, with a secret conviction — it seemed inspiration
— that he would overtake her. Very soon
he did : at least he saw a lady coming along
swiftly, and attended, it would seem, by a
gentleman — an apparition that made his cheeks
flush, and the blood rush back to his heart.
Who could this man be ? He stopped to watch,
and then noticed that she was in front, walking
very fast, and that there was some sort of
dramatic action going on. Impelled by a sort
of fate, he hurried to meet her. Then she
cried, tremulously, *' Oh, Mr. Benbow, I am
so glad — you will protect me ! "

He saw it was Mr. Hunter, the manufacturer
who was much discomposed at his arrival.

Protect you," said the young man ; " who
has dared — has this fellow — "

Oh, come, I say, none of that," said Mr.
Hunter. " There's no harm — what's all this
fuss ? It's all very fine ! There are lots of
actresses who come here, and are only too glad
to get any notice."

*' You had better go away," said Charles ;
*' you are not desired here ; and for the future,
too, if anything of this sort is repeated, you'll
bring about something very unpleasant."

Oh ! what will you do, Mr. Benbow ? " said
the other, in a fury. " Do you threaten me ?
I'm as good as you. Who are you, I'd like to
know, that give directions to me ? "

Never mind that," said the young man. " I
only warn you ; and, as I stand here, if you dare
to annoy this young lady again with this persecution,
you shall have a sound thrashing J
There."

Never did Miss Effingham seem so lovely to
him. She was excited ; and there was a charming
Hush in her cheeks from the excitement. He
was " her preserver " — that new character the
action of which, though lasting but a few
moments, is equal to an attachment of years.

What are you threatening me for ? " said
Mr. Hunter, in an insolent way. " What are
you talking about thrashing, and that sort of
thing ? Miss Effingham didn't ask you to be her

policeman and bully, did she ? How dare you
talk of thrashing, and that sort of thing, to me ? "

You had better give over all this, and go
your own way, and let us go ours."

I shan't. Who are you, and your lot, and
your Books, up there ? You're all gentlemen I
suppose. We've put up with too much — far too
much of all your airs — from you and your set up
there. I can tell you they're all sick of it about
here, and it won't be stood much longer. There
are better men about who could buy and sell
every one of you and them."

No doubt," said the other. " That is quite
another question. But I tell you distinctly,
your buying and selling notions won't do in this
case. So, for the future, take warning."

I intreat you, Mr. Benbow," she said, in the
sweetest tones, " to let the matter be. This
person, I am sure, will not trouble me anymore."


He had better not," said the young man,
excitedly.

Do you suppose I'll put up with this ? " said

j\Ir. Hunter, quite furious at this counteract.
The road is open to me, and I'll walk on it ;
and T shan't go away at your bidding, nor at
any one else's. This lady don't want you either.
What damned work it is ! "

And, putting his arms akimbo, he planted
himself on the other side of Miss Effing;ham.

In a moment he was on his back in a convenient
ditch. The young man was a skilful
boxer. They were walking on ; and, before Mr.
Hunter could struggle out, the pair had reached
the high road.

Charles was now indeed her protector and
champion. How happy — how triumphant, the
feeling ! There was a tie to unite them. He
was quite agitated at the thought. She was
grateful, profusely grateful. It was such a happy
walk home. He trod upon air all the time,
walking side by side with his enchantress.

How fortunate I am'* he said, over andover
again. *' This is the luckiest day ! How
fortunate that I came on to-day instead of
yesterday. Something really impelled me. It

looks like a providence that I should have been
sent to save you from that fellow."

Indeed, I want a protector. If you only
knew the persecution I have to endure from
him. He tries to get into the house. He
pursues me at the theatre. I cannot endure
it.

*' It will be different now," he said, eagerly.
*' I shall take care he never troubles you anymore,
and if he does "

He stopped. He suddenly recollected that
he could not remain, and must go tomorrow.

Oh, but what shall I do ! What am I saying
and promising ? " he exclaimed. " I have to
go from this. You must be left here unprotected.
Oh, it cannot be — it must not be ! "

He then told her how his father required him
to go on this visit. Forced him, in fact. He
had done everything in his power. He would
give the world to stay. She listened eagerly.

It cannot be helped," she said ; *' I must
only bear my lot — the actress's lot. AYe have
no privilege, no protection, once we exhibit ourselves

on the public stage. That takes us out of
the rank of ladies. Yet I was born and brought
up a lady ! No ; I must only bear my lot like
the rest. This man will, of course, continue his
persecution — nay, will revenge himself on me
for what you have made him suffer. But I
must bear it."

They were now at her house. The young
man was in a strange state of doubt and distress.
He knew not what to do for this noble young
creature, brought to such distress. And a lady,
too ! How delighted he was to hear that
news. He could fling it in the teeth of
those who slandered her. For her he cosily
be well content — and proud, too — to brave
them all.

So your father wishes you to go," she said,
as they entered. " Has he any special reason
for this expedient ? "

Oh, of course he has some plans — some
miserable plans that I am to carry out — a
wretched mercenary marriage : to sell myself,
in short, to buy rank and influence."

"And why should you not do this?" she
said, calmly. " It is a prudent thing, and what
we are all taught to do by our parents."

Pauline would not say that," he said,
bitterly ; " but that is only in a play, of course.
You do not care one way or the other. I suppose
you have so much indulged in these
imitative emotions that you have grown tired
of all sentiment."

They were now up-stairs in the little modest
apartments over McMcCallum's. There he found
seated the elderly lady who seemed to be
eternally knitting — Miss Grant, her aunt — and
who, it was known, always attended her like a
mother. It was a very happy evening for him.
Tea was poured out for him by those enchanted
fingers ; and, gradually, she gave him scraps
and hints of her history — how she had been, as
it were, forced on to the stage ; her father had
died and left them all in distress ; and then she
had felt it her duty to turn her talents to some
profit. Thank God, she had helped them a
great deal ; her poor talents had brought in

something — at least, more than the miserable
alms a governess receives.

Going on the stage ! Mr. Benbow," she went
on, like an inspired Corunna ; " I know what is
thought of that. What eyelids are raised !
What shoulders shrugged ! It is a noble profession,
if you have genius and brilliancy, and
feel that you can move the crowd. Oh ! what I
pine for is the great audience, the grand theatre,
the thousand and one faces all turned towards
the amphitheatre of intelligence, converging, like
rays, to you as the centre ; the playing upon that
vast and noble instrument ; the extracting of
the faintest and most delicate tones, up to a
crash loud as that of an organ ; the making
them thrill and flutter ; then the turning them
wild and delirious all at once, as if you were
touching keys — what is there on earth approaching
this ? From a child this dream has always
been before me. And London 1 London ! Shall
it ever be realized ? "

He looked at her with admiration. She
seemed inspired.

Whatever I can do — " he said, eagerly.
We have friends — influential friends — in town
that is," he added, hesitating, " my father
has."

Ah, I know," she said, gently. " I understand
all that. He wishes you to get on — is
ambitious. Even if he knew that at this
moment you were wasting your time with a
poor actress, instead of waiting on the great
lady who despises me, who feels more contempt
for me than she would for her maid — yet I am a
lady, too, as I would prove to you ; and my
poor murdered father was a gentleman."

He started.

Murdered."

'' Not with knife or poison. There are other
ways of murdering just as villainous. Never
mind. Well, you are going on this visit, and
you will know other actresses, and be as
rapturous over them."

'' No, never," he said. '' I am not a child
that they can send to school and order about.
No, T must wait now ; for that fellow would say

I fled from him. You must have some one to
protect you, and it would be my glory to do so.
Yes, I shall remain."

'' What ! and bring you into a quarrel with
your father ! Never ! At least, not for me. I
shall never see you again if you do. No one
shall suffer for me."

You cannot hinder it. Where you are, Miss
Effingham, I shall be."

Then you will drive me out of this place.
I shall bring no one into trouble. I have
enough trouble of my own on my head. No,
you must go. Why should you stay ? "

Because I love — I adore you ! " *

LOVE.

The companion had left the room a little time
before. She was not to hear this passionate
declaration.

The actress started ; then an expression of
exquisite and tender sympathy — so it seemed
to the adorer — came into her face ; a sort of
pity.

What is this ? what do you mean, my only
poor boy ? Do you know what you are saying,
or going to do ? "

^* I am prepared for anything," he said. *' I
would face them all — face the world 1 "

Marry an actress ! You ! They would
think you would disgrace them."

'* Marry a lady — a peerless lady — fit to place
beside queens ! I shall not rise till you consents

*' It would be the most cruel folly in the world,
did I do so. You do not know — you cannot seethe
difficulties. It is hopeless. You would only
be sorry for it later."

Never — never I I am yours — yours always,
till death. If you do not consent, I shall go
back, and before them all renounce all their
plans publicly — then my father will turn me
out of doors, and I shall be ruined : be ruined
without you ! "

She paused, and thought a moment. A
curious look of triumph came into her eyes.
It disturbed him.

I am thinking," she said, in answer to his
look, *' what a glorious compliment this love of
yours is to me. It is worth the applause of that
great house which is my dream. It is the first
gleam of sunshine I have had for years. I
am proud of it. Indeed I am. After all, why
should I punish you, or make you wretched ?
There is a fate in these things ; and — let me

confess this much to you — I do like you. Stay !
But — but — this is all too hurried. I must make
conditions."

He was in a rapture — in a tumult of gratitude.
But she stopped him.

*' Listen, and sit down calmly beside me while
I speak. Think of me, if you like, as Pauline,
and of yourself as Claude."

As your Claude."

Hush ! This is only the second time you
have seen me. Now, you must wait, and promise
me to wait patiently. Indeed, I am serious
in this — I must protect you. And, if you are
advised by me, and are patient, 1 may promise
that, after a time — "

He would agree to anything, if only she
promised.

*' You must stay here."

That is fixed as fate. Only help me to doit.
I am so inexperienced, and my father knows
so much more. Your surpassing cleverness will
show me how."

*' There is only one way that I see. Go to

the Duke ; tell him you have had a quarrel with
this man ; and that, as a gentleman, he will see
how strange it would look your flying away. It
seems a subterfuge ; but I think of your interest."
What an inspiration ! how clever ! It seemed
ever brilliant. It would have been years before
he could have thought of it.

It will not be much gain," she went on ;
but still it will give you three or four days,
since that is what you desire. Meantime, you
will think all this over. Both of us shall think
it over, and you will have time to repent of
what you have said to me."

Oh, but you will promise now. I rely on it
it is the only thing that will keep me up.
You will not go back of your word ? ''

"I never go back of anything," she said.
But you must wait : indeed, yes ! I know
more of the world than you — even the stage
world has taught me something. We learn
something from plays ; for those who wrote
them knew the world very well. This is all too
sudden — far too sudden, my dear Mr. Charles ;

VOL. I.

and, for my own sake as well as yours, I make
conditions. How could I tell that I could like
you ? "

Oh I Miss Effingham," he exclaimed, in
despair, "do you wish to crush me altogether
? "

We have only seen each other twice, recollect
that. You would despise me if I were won in a
moment — brought to your wrist by a single
invitation, as if I was a hawk. Hawk, yes I I
know who would call me that. No ; I should
like to learn to like you, and to teach you to like
me. Violent and sudden affection never lasts.
At the same time, I own that I like you ; and
will not deny that it is nearly certain that I
shall come to love you."

What more could he desire ? It was eminently
complimentary. He was being dealt with as a
man.

Now," she went on, " let us talk of something
else. Will you come and see Mrs. Haller
tomorrow night ? No ; I had forgotten — you are
ordered away."

^ " Yes," he said, pettishly. " Oh, but I ain to
stay now."

*' No, you must not — I cannot allow it.
Recollect now you take orders from me. You
envied the Claude of the other night — that
terrible Hulkes ; well, do you know who is to be
my Stranger ? — Mr. Haggerston ! "

The young man almost groaned. *' Awful ! "
he cried.

And I am expected to play, to do grand
things with such people. It is enough to chill
all the poetry, the animation, the dramatic feeling
in my heart of hearts. That vulgarian will
vulgarize me. Oh, that I had some one of gentle
blood, some one of refinement — then you would
see me act, indeed."

I should not like to see that," he cried,
eagerly ; " and yet I suppose it will come to it
one of these days. Up in London there are
such noble, handsome actors ; yet I could not
wish to see you with them, unless — Oh, I wish
I could play with you ! "

I do, indeed, wish you could ; and you

P 2

could do it, even this very night. Proficiency,
even without training, would make itself felt.
If you acted as you did to-day, as you have
always acted during the time I have known you
not very long — you might win a reputation."

I would give the world," he said, " to have
that privilege. If you would teach me — let me
sit at your feet — "

What are we talking of? " she said, smiling.
Bringing young Mr. Benbow on the stage —
that would be, news ! We are indeed planning
out a new life."

When young Mr. Benbow returned home, he
found the Duke in the library, reading the
Times.' In a few minutes, a sudden idea
occurred to him ; he had taken that august
person into confidence. The young man's love
had given him, of a sudden, tact, earnestness,
and a sort of winning persuasiveness. He related
his adventure with Hunter. The great
man listened with interest.

A young girl of this place — and who is
she?"

Charles adroitly turned this inquiry aside by
loud denunciation of the vulgarity, the coarseness
of " that Hunter ; " in which the other
agreed.

"Oh, certainly, I see it," he said; "if you
left with us, at once, it would be said that
you showed the white feather. Oh, no ; that
would not do at all. Not that I think the
low rascal will take any notice — he has had
enough."

But my father, Duke," said the 3^oung man,
growing more artful with his success, " he must
not know ; and yet how are we to account for
my not setting off with you ? There is the
difficulty."

"Leave that to me," said the other; "it will
only make a difference of a day or two, and
we shall spare you for that time."

In a short time Mr. Benbow came in. The
great man took him aside. The Benbow forehead
grew wrinkled and disturbed. "What did
this mean ?

We won't have him for a day or two yet,"

said the Duke ; *' we may have to stop in town,
and he can then follow us on. I have settled
it all with Rosa."

'* Ah, yes ! " said Mr. Benbow, eagerly, as if
that arrangement were after his own heart ;
nothing could be better ; we can send him to
you then."

But grave suspicion and troubles began to fill
his soul. This idiotic boy had been at some
of his tricks. He must see to it at once.

The young man was in overpowering spirits.
He was flying about "on air." He was so
happy. He had succeeded ; and she — so wonderful,
clever, brilliant — had directed him. It
was like an inspiration. But his father had him
by the arm.

"I want you. Charles, what is the meaning
of this ? "

I thought, sir, the Duke told you."

Where were you after lunch ? "

Out riding, sir."

"By yourself?"

"Yes, sir. I went into Winchester to buy

tongs for the journey, as you agreed I was todo,
sir. Really, I don't understand — I do all
you tell me to do — "

Again this was her inspiration. She was
teaching him, he felt, many things.

His father thought a moment. Then said,
No doubt ; I dare say you may be right. But
I hope, Charles, you will bear my words in
mm.^, for your own sake

It was now about five o'clock. The sound
of wheels was heard outside, and a servant came
to say that Dr. Fearon, the Winchester doctor,
whose visits were very frequent when there was
company at the Castle — liking to make connection,
under the mask of professional attendance
was come. Mr. Benbow was impatient when
he heard that the Doctor wished to see him.

What does the man want ? Tell him there
is nobody sick in the house."

The servant was going with this communication,
when he was called back.

I suppose I must see him, or he will take
offence."

Young Mr. Charles had hurried away to his
duties, and was very empresse in attention to
the fair object who was laid out for him. He
could afford to be so. For he had now coined
a sort of fiction for himself that she was deputy,
or in the place of the other. It was to her, the
absent one, he seemed to be paying all these
attentions. He was full of spirits and vivacity,
and seemed to be really making way with that
cold, haughty dame. Love was furnishing him
out with spirit, energy, wit, or goodwill, which
makes up for much that is wanting. Nothing
could be better than the way everything was
going off. There is a Providence that shapes
our ends — " when we are all in love."

As he was dressing for dinner, the door was
opened suddenly, and his father rushed in, pale,
his face contorted with anger.

*' What is this ? " he said at once. " How
dare you attempt to tell me falsehoods ! I have
heard the whole thing. It is over the place,
this low adventure. How dare you attempt to
deceive me with these falsehoods ? "

Falsehoods, father — that is a very strong
word." She was giving him courage.

"Yes, falsehoods. I see your low contemptible
game ; and it has shocked me and
made me ashamed. I tell you this solemnly, sir,
on this spot — you shall pack off tomorrow, and
with them ! "

'* Father, you mistake the whole thing. The
Duke knows all. How could I help meeting
Mr. Hunter, or avoid interfering ? "

*' Knows all ! Another falsehood."

** Yes, all : I told him everything. I saw
Miss Effingham coming across the fields, and
this man pursuing her — persecuting her with his
low attentions ; and I did what any gentleman
would have done — what you must have done
yourself, father— gone up and protected her, and
thrashed the fellow. The Duke says I would be
showing the white feather and disgracing us all
if I went off in the morning."

This was such a new strain for his son — the
argument was so well put, and so forcible and
reasonable in its tone— that the father was

pleased in spite of himself. Love, wonderful
love ! — rhetorician as well !

I don't care. It's most unlucky and unfortunate.
I can only give you my old caution,
Charles," he said. " Make what pretexts and
ingenious excuses you like — indulge yourself in
what fancies you please ! but this matter must
go on. Now, come down to dinner."

Rivals.

The Ditch ester doctor was kept for dinner,
according to the form in that case made and
provided. It was an honour, and he was delighted
that it had been paid to him. In the
course of that banquet, however, he thought he
could best recommend himself by bringing round
the conversation, in a complimentary way, to
the " fracas " — so he styled it — which had taken
place that morning.

And, indeed," he said, " we are all glad of
it down there ; for that Hunter wanted taking
down a bit — always bragging of this thing and
the other, and of his money — of which he is
close enough."

The Duke was listening. " And this young
lady, Dr. Fearon," he asked, " who was she ? "

Oh, the actress, my lord Duke, Miss Lydia
Effingham — a fine handsome woman, that's turning
half the young fellows' heads in the place.
We can't blame Mr. Charles, after all."

Indeed ! " said the Duke, with some astonishment,
looking over at Charles. " You did not
tell me that."

His companion turned to him with scorn.

This is like a dramatic surprise out of one of
their plays. We shall begin to understand it
all by and by."

*' It was merely an accident," said the young
man, confused. "I was passing through the
fields, and came upon the scene at the very
moment. I could have made no appointment —
you must see that."

I really cannot say," replied the young lady
haughtily ; " and I did not think so ; qui s excuse
you know. I don't understand this sort of
thiner."

Women have much instinct in these matters,
and that moment Lady Rosa was convinced of
what she had before suspected, even so early

as the incident of the bouquet, that her young
admirer was false, was playing a part, and fascinated
by this actress. She turned from him
haughtily, and answered him in a cold dry
fashion for the rest of dinner. This Mr. Benbow
saw with something like anguish. It was a
miserable dinner for him, and all the fine baked
meats and juices were so much chewed ashes in
his mouth. He too had his mistrust that the
plan would somehow or another fail.

When the ladies went up, the doctor, feeling
that it was a point upon which he was very
strong, brought the subject back again.

I don't think Hunter will take any notice.
I hear he says Mr. Charles is too young, and that
he would make himself ridiculous. But I must
say, my lord Duke, the actress is worth it in
every way — the finest woman you ever saw in
the whole course of your life."

I have seen her — we have all seen her," said
the great man, with dignity. " But I can hardly
join in all that high commendation. Is she
drawing in your town ? "

** Oh, Haggerston is making money out of her ;
the place is half full every night."

Half full ! that can hardly pay," said one of
the gentlemen.

Lord bless you, sir, yes ; it keeps all going,
you know, when there's about twenty people
scattered about the house. At least, there's little
loss; but benefits and bespeaks bring it up.
She's to have one."

"show long," asked Mr. Benbow, abruptly,
does this engagement go on ? "

*' Oh, as long as it pays, Mr. Benbow, Mr.
Haggerston told me : and he means to work her
out SO long as there's a sixpence in her." The
doctor was a very awkward gentleman, as it has
been seen.

She's coming out in Mrs. Haller tomorrow
night, with Haggerston as the Stranger," cried
the young man, forgetful of everything in his
eagerness. " She will play it superbly. You
know the story, Duke. I can see her pathetic
face now as the poor woman deserted by her
husband. We might all go again. It would be

well worth it. Only fancy ! It seems like a
sacrilege to have to play with a ruffian of that
sort ! Why, it will be a burlesque, and chill
every feeling of poetry and sentiment in her.
How can she be expected to throw herself into
the part, with a coarse fellow of that kind before
her ? How can — "

No more wine, Duke ? " said his father,
abruptly ; '' then we may join the ladies."

Strange to say there was no interview that
night between father and son.

ACCEPTED !

The next morning the august ducal party
went away, in solemn state. Great benefactions
were distributed, almost regal in their magnificence
; and the exact figure was known in Dip-chester
before the day was over. Mr. Benbow
was calm, and appeared satisfied.

You must wait at home, Charles," he said,
"in case that fellow should come out here to
look after you. You are clever enough to deal
with him, whatever purpose he may have in
view. Fighting, of course, is laughable ; especially
with a fellow of that sort. If he is insolent,
give him another thrashing and kick him out.
In fact, if I were to advise, I would try and
bring it to that. No man, by whatever bluster,

could get over a double beating. I am driving
to the agent's house, to look over the books."

This was delightful : this absence was certain
for three or four hours. He could seize the
opportunity ; but then, something whispered to
him, like Sir Lucius, '* Your honour, your
honour ! " He was a gentleman, and certainly
not inclined to sacrifice the credit of his family.
Better still, should he not wait until evening ?
when he must see the divine Haller or die — i. e.
be miserable.

He waited in, therefore, all the morning ; but
Mr. Hunter never came. He was, then, going
to take no notice. Young Benbow was a mere
boy, and beneath his contempt. He was not
going to get into a quarrel about a mere strolling
actress. And so the nine hours' wonder dropped
there. But it was a long, weary, dragging
time.

This he was not entitled to assume was the
real reason. Mr. Benbow had actually driven
to his factory and called on him, and after an
interview, which was of a good-humoured sort,

VOL. I.

from the loud laughter that came from the
room, retired, having made all up in a light
way.

"He is a foolish boy," said Mr. Benbow,
and should not attempt to interfere with you
and your actress, whom you think of as a man
of the world should."

A regular schemer, Mr. Benbow," said the
manufacturer.

Exactly what I set her down for," said Mr.
Benbow.

It was settled that Mr. Hunter should come
and dine shortly, and Mr. Benbow left him
much gratified by the visit.

In the afternoon Mr. Benbow senior returned
his face smooth, his air calm and cheerful,
though the agent's books, &c., had not been very
satisfactory. Money would have to be got in
the market to defray the heavy cost of the recent
entertainment. It was screwing and pinching,
and fresh encumbrances ; and it was wonderful
he was not anxious. But it was so much money
on zero. That figure would surely turn up : he

had covered it again and again. Only wait : it
was coming now.

Towards night, Mr. Benbow — who, when alone,
often ate his meal standing — partook of a frugal
repast. After he had snatched a few scraps he
withdrew into his own study, where, with his
arms out, he plunged into the angry billows of
papers and business. It seemed a little curious
that he should exercise no jealous watch over
his son, who was not a little surprised at this
indifference, and who, leaving word that he was
gone out for a stroll," set off with exultation,
and in full dress for Winchester.

As he got to the town, the sight of the
coarsely-done posters with — " Renewed Triumph !
Great Success I First Night of ' Guilty Love
and Christian Forgiveness ; or, the Stranger ' " —
country managers are fond of thus intensifying
the titles of too familiar plays — made his heart
flutter. A great band of red letters, looking like
a belt of gore, told the world that Mrs. Haller
was to be sustained by the " unique " actress,
Miss Lydia Effingham ; while Mr. Haggerston,

Q 2

for this night only, would give his great impersonation
of the Stranger. He hurried on,
fearful of being late ; reached the little, old-fashioned
house, which, though lit up, to his
wonder and indignation, had a sort of illuminated
desertion.

He entered. It was a very thin house indeed.

Five or six people in the boxes, a dozen or soin
the pit, and what seemed scattered vignettes
all through the galleries. A kind of solemn,
cavernous declamation was travelling through
the house ; and Charles saw a stout gentleman,
in a high-collared green frock coat, with cape
and brass buttons and hunting-boots, sitting
down on a long box covered with green cloth,
and indulging in his sorrows. Mr. Haggerston
seemed to address his remarks with equal impartiality
to different persons in the house, and
took note of Mr. Charles Benbow as he entered.
The latter paid him the courtesy of sitting down
for a few seconds and listening ; and, looking
round the house, saw that Mr. Hunter was also
present, in a box close to the stage. Charles

presently rose, full of impatience to be with her
whom he so passionately loved, and who, from
Mr. Haggerston's remarks, was not to appear
for some time. He went round and tapped at
the door in the box-lobby, which led on to the
stage. It was opened by a villager, the same
who wore Mr. Haggerston's' state livery on that
famous occasion of a 'command nio-ht."

All right'' said Mr. Charles, with a smile,
and advanced ; but the door was kept nearly
closed.

*' Can't come in, sir. No one admitted behind
the scenes."

'^ Rubbish ! " said } Charles, angrily. " You
know me — there, let me pass."

Can't indeed, sir ; I'm very sorry — against
the rule."

I'll complain of you to Mr. Haggerston, and
get you punished for your impertinence. Go
and tell him that I am here."

It's 'is own borders," said the villager,
heedlessly, or from agitation, multiplying his //s.

His orders ! nonsense ! Here — " and the

usual convincing syllogism in the shape of half-a-crown
was laid down.

Indeed, sir' said the man, in a low voice,
answering the call, ** he said particular I wasn't
to let you pass. But he is off now, and* you can
speak to him yourself, sir."

What's this ? " said the Stranger, roughly ;
"who is this trying to force their way behind
my scenes ? "

Mr. Haggerston, is this impertinence
directed by you ? What is over you to-night ? "

The manager, in his green coat and boots,
stood in the doorway.

Young sir," he said, " I can't have it, and it
can't be. The regulations of my theatre must
be enforced. That is to say — ah, how d'ye do,
Mr. Hunter ? "

That gentleman was behind, listening with an
enojamuo^ smile.

I wanted to speak to you, Haggerston," he
said.

*^ Certainly, Mr. Hunter, if you have business
with me ; but I can't turn my ' 'hind scenes '

into a lounge for all the idle young men of the
place."

'' Let me pass at once," said Mr. Benbow ;
turn me out if you dare. I wish to speak to
Miss Effingham. Lay your hand on me, one
of you ! I gave this gentleman a lesson
yesterday."

There was something in his manner, as well
as in this reminder, which had its effect. He
pushed by them both, and was beside the lovely
Mrs. Haller in a moment, pouring out his
complaint.

The man is mad," he said. '' What can bethe
meaning of this insolence ? I suppose he
wants to take part with that low Hunter."

I can explain it," she said, more simply.
It is directed against me. Your father was with
him to-day r

*' I see. The venal wretch has been bought.
Never mind, we can despise him."

'' He has been strange in his behaviour to me
also, and — "

'' What ! has he dared — "

Mr. Haf][<:]:erston was now before them.

'snow see here. This won't do at all, Mr.
Benbow. I don't, of course, want to make confusion
' 'hind scenes ' " — a favourite word of his —
'*by turning you out; but, understand, I won't
have it again. And you, too, Miss Effingham ;
I trust 7/0 uil conform to the regulations, and not
be encouraging all the young men of the place
to come here. The engagement is not so profitable
to me as to entitle you to take such
liberties."

"You fellow, don't dare to speak to this lady
in that style, or I'll give you a lesson — "

Take care, you, sir," said Mr. Haggerston,
clapping his hand on his stage sword. '*No
bullying to me, sir. Raise your hand to me,
and I'll have in the police."

*' Hush," said Miss Effingham, " I see what
all this means, and will simplify the matter
immensely. I know the whole reason of your
behaviour to me and to this gentleman, and can
save you a great deal of trouble. You wish to
end my engagement."

I don't say that, ma'am. It has turned outmost
unremunerafcive to me, but — "

Then we shall end it. When you please.
Now — on the spot. Give out after the play
that it is the last night of the engagement."

'' Oh, that will hardly settle it," he said ; '* I
ought to have some indemnity for what I have
lost by it. But you are too hasty, Miss Offing
I don't mean to go quite so far as that."
There's your ben. yet, and my ben. Oh no, I
won't be taken so short as that."

But I do. He is afraid," she said, with a
smile, to her lover, *that those who set Him
on in this matter may not be so liberal in their
intentions as to cover all loss in the affair."

Leave all that to me," said the young man,
eagerly. '*I am witness. I heard him agree toit
— indeed, he proposed it."

Mr. Haggerston was furious. But the audience
were growing impatient, and the Stranger
and Mrs. Haller had to go on. Charles went
into the boxes, and looked on, enraptured. He
thought she never played so magnificently, and

that she was playing to him. Perhaps she was.
It was all only too short, and he was grieved
when the play was done.

He walked home with her — her friend keeping
close to them. He told her that this now
brought matters to a crisis, and he was not
sorry for it. "It is I," he said, "who am the
cause of this. Not only honour, but simple
justice, require that I should stand by you.
There is no compliment in the matter. I am
yours for ever and ever. AVe must look the
thing in the face : difficulties are gradually
encompassing us ; and this night settles our
destiny. You must decide — oh, you must !
You are thrown on the world. It is idle
opposing me ; for I shall follow you wherever
you go, even if I ruin myself with my father.
Better now make me some promise — agree that
you will be mine ; and then I shall agree to
obey you in everything, and be guided by you
in everything."

She paused, and thought a moment.

I have wished to save you from this, but it

is not my doing. Your father has hurried on
whatever is to happen now. You must at
least consent to a few days' interval. Recollect
this is the third time you have seen me, and
you want me to be yours for eternity, I must
think — ponder it over, before a decision. You
would despise me yourself if I took any important
step without deliberation. In the
morning I shall tell you."

No, no, no ! I may be going in the morning,
and I must know now."

She shook her head.

Come here, then, before you go, and then
you will learn my final determination. You
will grant me this little delay, will you not ?
It is for your good — all for your good. Indeed
it is. I like you too well to let you ruin yourself;
and, if we must yield to the inevitable,
let it be borne without mischief if we can."

'* I care not what may happen so that I shall
win you ! "

Ah, you little know — you have not been
tried yet. Once let your father really exert

himself in this matter, and you will find yourself
weak before him. You know you will.
You cannot deny it. He is not alive yet to
the danger ; but, if he were to set himself
seriously to crush you — you without means,
money, power — w^iat could you do then % "

Her foolish boy looked a little scared at this
picture.

Crush me ! But he would not. He likes
me. When he sees my heart is set on this
matter, I know — I am sure — he will give way."

*' What ! and allow you to marry an actress
instead of a duke's daughter ! Ah, you know
it will be hard to resist him. Never mind ; we
shall see in time. You shall know it all from
me in the morning."

REJECTED.

But in the morning the young man had to
set off, equipped, money in his purse, and more
promises for the future.

His father was very kind, and he was touched
by the kindness ; so much so that he felt not a
little ashamed of his selfishness.

I have been a little harsh and peremptory
to you of late," he said, ^' but I have been sadly
worried. It is hard to find a favourite scheme
not going well. This little jienc/iant of yours is
well enough for amusement ; but business is
business. I must tell you, you have, so far,
behaved in a rather unmanly and ungentlemanly
way to Lady Rosa. Her rank and the Duke's

should have protected her from being played fast
and loose with in this way."

'* I did not mean it, indeed," said the young
man, rather shocked at this new view.

Well, you must really make up for it — I
insist on it — and do away with the impression.
It is a mortifying position for a young person of
such rank, especially, to hear you openly puffing
a common peripatetic creature — at thirty
shillings a week. However, to leave it to your
good sense and honour, at least, remove the bad
impression."

After all," he thought, " there was no hurry.
It might never come to anything." Meanwhile
he could be rapturously happy for the time ;
never looking forwards or backwards ; giving
himself up to the exquisite dream ; and reckless
of the consequences. He was driven in a dogcart
; and, when he got to Winchester, he
stopped at the inn, and walked away to see her
who was now his all.

As he walked through the town he passed by
a flaming orange poster, which was headed by

the words which to him had the look of a
talisman — the chime of the most exquisite music
'* Theatre Royal, Winchester ; " and, feeling
his very heart stirred, he stopped to read. He
was filled with fury and amazement as he read —

THEATRE ROYAL, DIPCHESTER.

Mr. Haggerston, while returning thanks to
his patrons for their ever generous support, and
while wishing to merit future favours by an
unflagging zeal, begs to inform them that, as
Miss Lydia Effingham, with whom a costly
engagement had been effected, has chosen, in
an abrupt and unwarrantable way, to terminate
her engagement, he has been compelled to
secure, at a moment's notice and enormous
expense, other talent ; and has succeeded in
catering for his friends the services of that
eminent tragedies,

Mrs. hector Mangrove,

Who will make her first appearance in

THE MURDERER'S DAUGHTER.

Anne Median (the murderer's daughter) Mes. Hector Mangrove.
John Median (the murderer) Mr. Haggerston.

He was furious at this scandalous libel. The
bill was still damp, and he indignantly tore
it down and trampled it under foot to the
astonishment of some Pedestrians. He then
hurried away to the draper's shop. The young
lady at the shop who so admired him came to'
meet him.

Oh, she is gone, sir ! "

Gone ! Where ? When ? What does this
mean f

'' I don't know, I'm sure, sir. She left this
note for you."

And one was handed to him, which he tore
open and read :

Thinking of your interest more than my
own, I have thought it best to save you from a
storm and a persecution which it would be cruel
to ask you to face. I own to you that this is
my reason, and this alone. You have not seen
the world ; you know not your own strength or
weakness. The whole would end disastrously
for us both. Should I be induced to invest all
my love, my affections, in one whom I do like
and admire, I might find myself deserted ; and
there, where ' I have garnered up my heart,' as

they say in one of the plays, I would find a
snare and unsubstantial support — not being able
to trust myself or to trust you. Do not be
angry. I have resolved to fly and hide myself.
You will not find me, so do not try. I would
not entail misery on you for the world. You
would be persecuted to death. As I told you
before, if you are constant, and, after a lapse of
time, feel that you cannot live without me, perhaps
— but it is right that you should know this,
and I give it by way of warning : it will be
better for you to have nothing to do with me.
My life has another purpose than to be devoted
to all that is loving or affectionate. To that
purpose 1 am hound to sacrifice everything — nays to
turn everything ; and, if that purpose required it,
I should have to sacrifice one I loved. Accept
these words of warning, indeed extorted from
me They will make you hate me ; but that
would be better than your ruin. Do not try and
find me. You will, of course, if you try ; for by
love I know all difficulties are overcome. But I
had rather that you should forget me.

"Lydia Effingham.

Think of this, too. What do you know of
me — ^or who I may be ? Whether this be my
real name or no ? Think of all these things, and

VOL. I, R

see how hopeless the matter becomes, and how
much better it is that it should end here forever."


He read this with a despair and wonder mixed.
The arguments in it, as might be expected, had
not the least effect on his mind — the appeal it
contained not the least whisht. It is strange
how, with some minds, always a different conclusion
is drawn to that which is intended.

The milliner's girl read in his agitated face the
whole story, and understood it as well as if it
had been told to her.

It was not very difficult for the distracted
youth to discover her track. It seemed to him
that he was a miracle ^of cleverness when he
bethought him of asking at the railway what
special ticket she had taken. The clerk, one of
histrionic tastes, was able to tell him. It was
a through ticket for one of the great manufacturing
towns. It would take her the whole day
to get there. Something could be done by
telegraphing.

His father knew an important person in that

place ; and to the son of this gentleman he
telegraphed, begging him to watch the motions
of a person who would arrive by that train.

All thought of the Duke and the Duke's
daughter ; all thought of his father's brilliant
plans and hopes — those anxious dreams which
the son well knew, at that very moment, were
wearing away the father's brain, and very heart
all were forgotten in this infatuation ; and, ina
few minutes, he was seated in a train that took
another direction to the one which was to have
brought him to the palace of enchantment, of
dazzling hopes, of wealth, of power, " and
happiness.

R 2

DISAPPOINTED.

Mr. Ben bow, when his son had left him. had
a light heart and a smoother brow. He became
complaisant. The visit, he had settled, should
last a fortnight ; but the great potentate had
made a significant speech, as he shook hands
with his host :

It, indeed, rests with himself how long he
shall stay with us."

Not that Mr. Benbow was wholly reassured.
His confidence in the sense of his son had been
greatly shaken. He was, indeed, a little scared.
For the young fellow had never been put to such
a test before : had always seemed a sort of humdrum,
average, guidable disposition, which, if it
could not lead, could at least be led ; now he
was changed.

All this was alarming. Still, so far he had
made all sure ; and all would go well. He went
into Winchester at his leisure, and contrived
to meet Mr. Haggerston. That manager was
exuberantly obsequious.

I think we managed well, sir — dissolved the
engagement at a heavy sacrifice to me ; a very
heavy sacrifice ; but we have saved your son
from the siren "

I hear you had a succession of bad houses,"
the other said, coolly. ^' I am sorry to learn it ;
but shall not forget what you have done, Mr.
Haggerston."

Yes, sir, we drove her out of the town —
regularly routed her."

What, has she gone ? "

And Mr. Benbow started. He thought there
was some indistinct symptom of danger in both
going on a journey at the same time. Could
there be any relation between these two movements
?

Still, she was gone. She was out of his path
a poor strolling actress, obliged to earn her

bit and sup " — nothing more or less than a
scheming adventuress.

He knew boys well. The dazzling attractions
of the Duke's " palace ; " the charming girls ; the
attentions, and even flattery, which his son
would meet with from some ; above all, the
Duke's daughter tendered for his acceptance ; the
state, the magnificence of Banff Castle — all this
he knew quite well. He himself had been lovesick
once in his boyhood, when he had been
passionately attached — he was ashamed as he
thought of it — to a curate's daughter. Ah ! the
pang ! A curate's daughter ! A prudent father,
bless him for it, had behaved with stern cruelty
torn him from her savagely. It had been the
blessing of his life. Where would he have been
at that moment only for that ?

Altogether he was content, and went home
happy. En attendant, he busied himself with
minor plots and schemes, which filled up his
mind.

Thus two days went by, and a third day and
a fourth ; when he began to wonder that he had

not received an account of the progress made.
But he knew his son well. The lad had no
business habits ; answered letters fitfully ; and
scarcely ever volunteered them. Two days more
had passed ; then an entire week.

This silence actually gave him hope. Everything
had been settled, and would burst on him
with all the suddenness of completion. But then
another week began to glide by ; and, finally, on
one mornings he received a letter with the Duke's
name outside, in the corner. It contained the
following astounding news :

Dear Benbow,

We have been expecting your son everyday.
I suppose we need not expect him further.
His room has been waiting; for him all this time.
Still, it is strange that neither he nor you should
have written. Pray let us have a line to explain
this singular delay, and believe me, yours
sincerely,

Banffshire."

M\ Benbow tottered — in fact, was nearer a
stiote than ever he was in the whole course of

his life. All he could gasp out was, " The
scoundrel — the low, hypocritical scoundrel ! —
where is here ? where is he ? " No one coukl
answer him this. He could utter no other
question, for his voice was failing him ; but he
was answered by another letter, which he saw
lying on the table before him, and on which he
pounced. He tore it open. It ran :

"My dear Father,

You will be surprised to hear that I
have not been at the Duke's after all ; but I
must tell you that important reasons may prevent
me going to him — reasons which I know
your good sense, kindness, and generosity will
approve. I think it would be idle to enter on
them now" ; more idle to present myself at Banff
at all. I have thought the matter deeply over;
and, after calm deliberation, have come to the
resolution that it would be dishonourable to
introduce myself into a house, or try and win
the affections of a young lady to whom I could
offer none in return. I scorn to do so ; ad I
beg you will not ask me. j

*' Under these circumstances I have not been
able to summon courage to go on with my

journey ; and submit to your better judgment if
it would not be more for our advantage to think
no more of the plan. Waiting your commands,
I am, my dear father, your affectionate son."

He fell back speechless ; crushed with disappointment
— despair, rather — and rage. But his
character had always been of the sort that rises
with an emergency. In a moment he was coolly
considering what was the next rigorous step he
should take.

This fool, this child — infant, rather — who
should be treated as such. Never mind ; he
who had never been baffled by strong men-»-men
of intellect and genius, — should not be opposed
by a poor creature of that sort. Before an hour
was out he had determined on his plans ; and
before the expiration of two hours he was on his
road to that far-off manufacturing town from
which his son had written.

A HEROINE.

Leaving Mr. Benbow in his trouble we will
shift the scene to the Ducal district at St.
Arthur's-on-the-Sea, where much festivity was
about to set in.

St. Arthur's-on the-Sea was a bathing town
combined with a packet station : and a harbour
that, to any one looking from the inland hills,
seemed like a loop of delicate ribbon floating on
the water. It was a granite district, and the
abundance of plaster, fronting over villas as
though they where bride-cakes, made the place
glitter and shine in the glare of the sun, like an
Italian bay.

It was also a yachting station, and two clubs,
the Royal St. Arthur's, and the Royal Burgee,

frowned and scowled at each other from opposite
sides of the jetty. The St. Arthur's was select,
and, though founded on a broad platform, by-and-bye
began to black-ball various local persons
as " low " and " not the sort of person." But
the famous rejection of Mr. Littleton, the
solicitor, whom every one knew, and whom
many of the "fine" party — men, for instance,
like Foljambe and Knox, ruthless " bearers " —
were willing to admit, brought matters to a
crisis. Then it was determined to found the
Royal Burgee.

Once every year a regatta was given by both
clubs, conjointly — an act, however, in which
there was no amity or cordiality. It was
imposed by sheer necessity, as neither could have
separately borne the cost of entertaining. They
gave plates and prizes together ; but somehow
the St. Arthur's contrived to bear off any honour
or profit that was to be got out of the strangers
"of rank, much as a lady of condition will ignore
the client to whose party she has undertaken to
ask guests. The distinguished strangers always

chose the St. Arthur, when offered honorary
membership. They were " put up " to the
matter almost before they touched shore by the
Reverend Doctor Bailey, who was for '' keeping
the club pure, sir," and threw out, in a careless
parenthesis, that " the other place " was " a kind
of poor thing, you know," mostly " brokers and
the shopkeepers," well-conducted and respectable,
and all that ; but scarcely the sort of thing.
"And it is gratifying for me," continued the
doctor, a very enormous clergyman, six feet two
in height, and portly and weighty without
absolute corpulence, " to see persons of that
class, banding themselves together for rational
relaxation. If they want their club, why
shouldn't they have it ? and Heaven speed their
work ; and I am told it is exceedingly wells
but it is scarcely the place, you see.
You are a man of the world, Sir John."

The Reverend Doctor Bailey, thus mentioned,
was the recently appointed vicar of this important
and fast-rising watering-place. In appearance,
he was a very remarkable-looking man of

great height ; he had a vast broad chest ; a
flourishing umbrella ; a broad-brimmed hat, and
an unhealthy florid face ; lips that were made for
sauces and wines ; with a high stiff wall of a
white tie, which came up at the side of his neck,
and seemed bent on cutting off his ears. The
hat lay very far back, and the Reverend Doctor
Bailey, stalking along, his head back, his "snub"
nose to the clouds, was as well-known an object
as the spire of the church he served. That
church, with a wise forethought, he had accepted
when the place was a poor one. With a true
instinct as to its future, he had asked his patron,
Lord Frogmore, for the living, and it had been
worked up into a most profitable '* berth." He
was a good preacher, or had the reputation of
being one, which did as well ; and during the
season the doctor contributed much to its
success by his genteel sermons, in which there
was none of that vulgar conventicle language,
which he called mere " low poking the fire," and
which he said fretted unnecessarily the nice and
good people who came to hear him. " Not that

I would compromise the truth," he said, " one
hair's-breadths I shall do my sacred work
always faithfully and to the best of my power :
but the roaring vulgarity of such fellows as that
Buckley, who has the little Bethel yonder, does
no good."

There was a parsonage next the church, a very
small apostolic mansion. Long ago it had been
given over to the curate at a rent, while the
doctor gave his dinner-parties up at the Beeches,
a handsome gentleman's seat which he had
purchased. There he lived with Mrs. Bailey,
whose little shrunk figure no one was familiar
with, with his daughter Jessica and his son Tom
a young fellow in the army, often spoken of as
'the captain." These children had unhappily
been born when Doctor Bailey was " a mere
working curate," and had not yet established his
connection ; he often regretted that one had not
been christened Constantia, after " dear Lady
Frogmore," and the other St. John, a family
name of the same house. Nay, turning his
regrets still further back, the doctor would bewail

his excessive haste in the matter of marriage,
when he might have chosen something far more
suitable ; " the truth being that Mrs. Bailey's
origin would not bear heraldic tracing, nor was
she even fortified with useful connection. But,
with a venial exaggeration, if not untruth, the
doctor devised conversational pedigrees, spoke of
Mrs. Bailey's " family," and very largely of " the
Bakers of Blackmore."

Thus much for allusion to the doctor, who
was, as it were, viceroy of the place, and was
really allowed to take on himself all representative
duties. He was, indeed, described 9,8 an
"overbearing, choleric, insolent fellow," by one
of the radicals of the town, and, " a clerical
bully," who, at home, roared at his family,
though he was a little afraid of his daughter. A
selfish schemer, with no more religion about him
than was confined strictly to his Sunday platitudes.
Then, it was owned, he shone, working
his arms vigorously, and having a tremendous
pair of lungs. Thus much for the doctor's
house. But there is a family, whose heiress

daughter is a heroine of this little piece, who
must be noticed before the figures themselves
enter from the wing.

Panton Park lay well back in the country,
and the owner, Sir Charles Panton, a true squire
and hunting man, boasted that the sea could not
be seen from his top windows. Yet it was not
more than a mile and a half from the bathing
town, down in a rich bowl of grass and planting.
There, in a great stone palace which the late
owner had built fifty years before, literally not
knowing what else to do with his money, lived
Sir Charles and daughter. She was heiress —
magic title of honour, that has made many
hearts thrill more than the loveliest faces on
this earth. More conjuring has been done with
that spell than with any other, which brings
with it beauty, grace, wit, honour, virtue, and
accomplishment. And Miss Laura Panton was
an heiress combining the blessings of fifteen
thousand a year, with "savings," a park and
mansion, with a town house in Brook-street, and,
what was not the least of all in the eyes of

matrons with young candidates, a father, grey,
rather stricken in years, though wiry. Such
rare attractions soon became well known, and
indeed it was said that St. Arthur's-on-the-Sea
owed as much to them as to its other natural
advantages of fine air and bathing. But she was
delicate ; had a weak fragile chest, and, though
small and refined-looking, with a well-bred
haughty air, seemed bloodless, and was said once
to have broken a blood-vessel in her throat.
Hence she and her father had to pass each
winter at one of those hiding-places where poor
invalids run timorously from Boreas and Eur us.
The gossips also said she was flighty and
fanciful ; gay, too gay, and, for all her delicacy,
passionately fond of the world and its delights.

Sir Charles had been originally a Mr. Wright,
a plain unassuming gentleman of very moderate
means. He had sent his only child to a
finishing " school, where also the parson's
daughter, Miss Bailey, had been placed by her
father, not from any paternal anxiety to give her
the best, that is, the most costly, education

VOL. I.

possible, but because it might lead to acquaintances,
" nice connection, you know," for himself.
How simple, having thus laid a foundation, to
proceed in this way, with an engaging smile :
'' Not Mr. Dash wood, surely ? Might I ask, anyway
connected with a charming young lady that
was at Dampier House with my little girl ?
Wonderful ! My dear sir, I am the clergyman
here, &c." It was while this delicate Miss
Wright, whose health was so precarious, was
here, that the two girls first met.

The truth was, the school had accepted Jessica
at a reduced premium, for a mere trifle : in fact,
the doctor valuing his position and possible
recommendations at the difference. Their view
was that he would surely do them mischief, and
injure the school, if they refused his terms.
And it is certain the doctor would have steadily
shrugged his shoulders, and wished and cooled
the establishment into ruin. '* A very poor sort
of place, sir ; all sorts of paw-paw people. A
lucky escape of sending my girl there ! " But
the lady directors, true to the instincts of their

kind "took it out" of the unhappy little
hostage thus confided to them, and they had
instinct to see that from that indifferent father
would come no protest. She was kept there for
six years, going through the whole " curriculum'
such as it was, and going through a course of
steady mortification, bitter drudgery, with that
hot iron of dependency which the Misses Proud-foot
forced steadily, day by day, and hour by
hour, to enter into her child's soul. The vicar's
daughter could not be treated with open disrespect
; but it was known to every one that the
pale, and worn, and studious child was • '^ on
charity," more or less. So pale and thoughtful
she was now, having been slowly changed from
the gay, romping, rosy-cheeked "little thing"
which she had been when she arrived.

When the new girl, just come, " Wright," was
known to be the daughter of a gentleman of
slender means, the Misses Proudfoot had some
reluctance about accepting her, owing to a
possible uncertainty about the premiums. From
parents of this undesirable sort the moneys had

S 2

to be dug out, must be, as it were, crushed and
broken up from quartz masses, collected in
grains, after long delays, excuses, appeals, &c.
But the references were genteel. She was a
curious girl — delicate, peevish, fretful, full of
humours, ready to complain of her companions,
and to turn away from the excellent fare provided
for them. She took as many airs as a
bishop's niece whom they once instructed, and
whom the bishop, an " honourable and reverend,"
came to see in full apron. They hardly knew
how to deal with her, for she seemed dangerous
and vindictive, and could injure the school.

She had one friend among the girls, who
clung to her with a romantic friendship and
adoration. This was the parson's daughter, who,
from the moment of her arrival, had become her
jackal and defender, her admirer and worshipper.
It was inconceivable, the services she rendered,
the devotion she paid. She was more useful
than an Eton fag, because her service was voluntary.
She shielded her from punishment
when the other could not shield herself; she

followed lier with loving eyes, like a faithful
dog ; and when " Wright " (for the young ladies
spoke of each other in this gentlemanly way)
was sick, stole off to watch her, in defiance of
the rules of the establishment. The determined
breach of these laws brought a tart letter to the
doctor, who came off in an angry fluster, blowing
and puffing, and began to revile his child for
her scandalous ingratitude for the blessings of a
good education. " I am told you are going
after low mean creatures, sticking to them with
a disgusting familiarity, separating yourself from
the nice young ladies of the establishment. Do
you suppose, girl, I can pay for you here, stinting
myself in common luxuries, all for you to follow
your grovelling whims and these vulgar tastes ?
There are plenty of nice, well-connected girls in
the house whose friendship would be useful, and
useful to me too ; and you choose to go puddling
in the gutter, making dirt pies I Faugh ! It's
disgusting." The reproof had no effect, and the
father even remarked, from the first, a cold insensible
look in the eyes of his child, fruits of

the excellent training he had been passing her
through.

The young girl recovered, "joined her companions,"
more pettish and helpless than before,
and was received with affectionate rapture by
her faithful frenchwoman. What was the secret
of this singular devotion ? Possibly there was
none. It was her humour, or there was in the
fretful eyes of the other girl a faint expression
of suffering which drew her pity irresistibly.
Sometimes a look of this sort has strong and
permanent fascination. The other showed
neither gratitude nor love ; but Jessica was quite
content.

THE BEGINNING OF THE VENDETTA.

Suddenly, one fine morning, there was a
flutter £ind bustle at Dampier House, and it was
known that strangers had arrived : a gentleman,
a carriage, and four posters. Miss ProudfooJ;, in
agitation, had come herself to fetch Wright from
the play-ground, calling her " darling'' There
was a sweetness and obsequiousness in her
manner that was bewildering to the boarders.
Come, darling, your dear father is longing to
see you ! " And she gave her — unaccustomed
luxury ! — a glass of wine in the " study." For
with school-boys and school-girls wine is the
symbol of unutterable glory and even apotheosis.
The chaise and four had spread the news ; all
was wonder and speculation. Miss Vintner,

the genteelest, and therefore the haughtiest,
girl in the school, who thought the other girls
mere " scum," whose sister had married a baronet,
was awed and even curious. Our affectionate
little jackal was in a tumult of delight. Cinderella's
carriage and four could not have given
much more joy. It betokened something good
for her friend and idol.

In the parlour — chamber of horror or of joy,
where severe or doting parents sat alternately —
she was caught in the arms of her dear father.
He was come to tell some great news. Their
old cousin Panton had died, that rich, cross old
man, and had left them a great fortune, and the
beautiful castle by the river, which she could
see from Miss Proudfoot's. They were now
rolling in wealth, he and his little girl. At this
the delicate girl slid off, and tossed back her
head ; a curious look of exultation and pride
came into her eyes. But they must both lose
their dear old name, the name their mamma
bore, and take another, which was quite as good,
however.

"What matter," she said. "Who would
ware ? but was she to be an heiress ? "

"Yes."

And to have it all one day ? "

The new Sir Charles was disturbed at this
question, and looked at her thoughtfully.

"Oh yes," he said with a smile, " after me, of

course."

It was explained to her that the doctors found
the air of St. Arthur's so good for her chest,
she must remain a little longer under Miss
Proudfoot's kind care. (How gladly would that
lady, had she been permitted, have engraved
that high testimonial on her programme : "In
testimony of the healthy and salubrious air of
her establishment, she is permitted proudly to
refer to her distinguished pupil," &c.)

She drew back pettishly at this scheme, but
it was shown to her that her stay was to be
under quite altered conditions. She was to have
a room to herself, no lessons, wine every day,
doctors every week, to walk in the garden by
herself or with any young friend whom she

preferred to keep her company. She reflected :
these bribes were not to be resisted. Miss Proud-foot
had in the kindest manner given permission.
It was not mentioned then that Miss Proudfoot
had in the kindest manner also agreed to accept
double the usual payment, in return for these
privileges. She called it being a " parlour
boarder."

In future that name of Panton made the
whole glory of that white plastered house, with
grounds " at the back overlooking the sea.
This was a kind of melodious bell, of gold or
other precious metal, on which the Principal
rang with never - flagging vigour triple and
quintuple bob majors on the subject of their
former illustrious pupil. They were privileged,
in their programmes, to refer to Miss Panton of
Panton Castle, who had received instruction in
the establishment. Reference was also permitted
to Sir Charles Panton of Panton. On Tuesdays
and Saturdays the pupils were accorded the kind
permission to take recreation in the grounds of
Panton Castle. To the parents and guardians

who had audience, the Misses Proudfoot, with
most ingenious powers of apropos, contrived
continually to draw in Sir Charles Panton and
his daughter, met every doubt and objection
with the same august names, and illustrated
the progress of the studies, by scenes from the
happy era when Miss Panton pursued her studies
there ; and a favourite tableau, as it were, often
brought forward for the visitor, was one in which
was grouped their illustrious pupil and that
other young lady.

The change in Laura from this hour was
scarcely conceivable. The new wealth of a
sudden made her healthy, animated, and also
inexpressibly arrogant. She rose into a sort of
queenship, taking indescribable airs, which, alas
for the sycophancy which repeats itself even at
this small end of the worldly telescope, was
accepted and endured by the school and its
heads. But the worst feature was this : it was
noted that she rather '' dropped " her old friend
and worshipper. This conspicuous ingratitude
even surprised these other worldlings, for they had

been saying to each other, " That now Wright
(or Panton) wouki settle half her money upon
Bailey." For a long time the clergyman's
daughter herself could not see this strange
conduct, marked as it was, and unmistakable
even when she ran up to her idol at first,
scarcely able to contain her delight, and was
repulsed pettishly. For this and for many more
instances of ungracious behaviour she could find
excuses. It was so natural now that Laura
should have much to think of; how could
she think of her in this turn of fortune ! Any
over looking was almost proper. When Miss
Panton was seen "walking" with a new
friend, suddenly elected to intimacy, no other
than the young lady whose sister had married
the baronet, she was not staggered. The public
understood it perfectly : the new heiress was
growing " fine ; " but her young worshipper
alone could not believe it, and would not. She
would sooner disbelieve her senses or suppose
that two and two made three, than accept the
possibility of such an ungrateful change. She

returned again and again, the other grew more
and more arrogant ; and from her new "nice "
friend she was inseparable.

One day when they were engrossed in talk,
and the future heiress was explaining what state
they would have at Panton, how many horses
she would keep. See. (her favourite theme),
Jessica approached humbly.

Well, what is it ? " the other said, peevishly.
*' / don't tant you. You are always persecuting
me.

Each of these nine words was a stab, each
went deeper, until at last she could have ^ given
a scream. Some date a whole change in their
system, their life itself, from a fit of sickness,
from some shock ; and it was so with her. She
retired almost reeling. What she could not see
before she was forced to see now, as though
some one were thrusting the flame of a candle
close to her eyes. From that moment she shrank
from Laura quite scared ; though she was still
open to explanation of some kind. But the gap
or chasm opened finally when the time came

for the heiress to go away home, when she heard
some of the pupils talking over every incident
of the departure as though it were that of a
royal personage. Her father, Sir Charles, had
given her leave to choose a friend "whom she
liked " from among the girls, to take home with
lier to amuse her during the vacation. This
news produced the most tremendous excitement :
some even said that Miss Proudfoot herself
nourished faint hopes of being the selected
companion, having performed prodigies in the
way of obsequious adoration of her pupil, fawning
on her, and plying her with praises of herself
and of her " dear good father." The young girl,
quite overset with her sudden turn of prosperity,
did not care to restrain herself from any extravagance,
and behaved with an amusing wantonness
of arrogance, holding out hopes to some, but
all the while pledged to her dear friend the
baronet's sister-in-law. To others she made
promises, but the faithful worshipping Jessica
she passed over. When the morning came, and
the carriage was waiting at the door, and the

whole house was obsequiously gathered to see
her go forth with her chosen companion, the
baronet's sister-in-law, there was prodigious embracing
all round ; the clergyman's daughter
standing at a distance, with a strange look upon
her face, a kind of bewildered stare. It at last
came to her turn, and with a sort of constraint
Laura turned to bestow her parting accolade.
But, to Miss Proudfoot's horror, Jessica, cold,
stiff, and with a steady stare in her eyes, drew
back.

No," she said ; " I cannot. I could not
touch you — not for the whole world."

As you please," said the other, coolly, and,
getting into the carriage, drove away in her
glory, the principals and scholars being inexpressibly
shocked at this conduct. But from that
hour all noticed a most singular change in the
parson's daughter, who advanced at one stride
half way on her path to womanhood. That
discovery made her cold and hard, as she was
before impulsive and affectionate ; calculating
and distrustful, a most " disagreeable creature,"

it was pronounced, but far more able to hold
her own and. get on in the world.

In the carriage which was taking Laura away
that happy day there sat a young man of thirty,
with very dark eyes, a forbidding, uninviting
expression, which some would have called " a
scowl." People would have passed him by without
sympathy ; but any one who came in
contact with him in any trifling contention,
say about a seat, went from him flushed and
put out, and saying, " That ill-conditioned
fellow ! " This gentleman, a friend of her
father's, was Mr. Dudley, a distant cousin, who
came very often to the school to see his relation.
It was known even to the girls that she did
not relish these visits — " He was so dark and
ugly," she said to her friends — and that every
time he brought her presents she always seemed
merely to endure him. Some of the girls,
however, thought him 'deeply piratical" and
interesting, and also that he could smile sweetly.

But when she had thus left the school, and
was established in all her splendour, as Miss

Panton, of Panton Castle, her proceedings became
of profound interest to the neighbourhood. As
the schoolgirl became a " young lady' it seemed
to be her humour to exhibit that strange fitfulness
and uncertainty of humour which wealth
and indulgence had now made her character.
It was seen also that Dudley was always about
the place, either staying at the castle, or in
the town, where he would appear in a small
yacht at unexpected seasons. For him her
father had a curious pity or partiality, and
was ever saying, " Let us have that poor fellow
Dudley here. He's your terrier dog, your
worshipper." At which she would protest fretfully
that she hated and loathed him, and would
almost cry if the plan were persisted in. And
yet, as a curious trait in her character, when
her father at first would yield to her, thinking
was gratifying her, there would come another
turn, and she would be fretful again at being
taken at her word. To both he was very useful,
almost necessary, because he was eager and
willing. People wondered at this unmeaning

VOL. I. T

alternation in so " ordinary " a girl, a girl,
too, who had none of the redeeming virtues of
spoiled or ill-regulated minds, namely, a wild
and generous impulsiveness which hurries them
into what is right. She, indeed, had more of
the qualities which belong to the meaner
animals ; the uncertainty and spitefulness, in
small matters, of the monkey. But there did
at times come in her face a strange expression
of desertion, of questing and seeking for help,
which set every string in Dudley's heart a
jangling.

He was half indignant with himself for this
unmeaning partiality, and at first struggled to
free himself ; but, like a true spoiled child, when
she saw he had nearly succeeded, she exerted
her powers, and made him her slave again. It
was about that era, when she had left school
some three or four years, that she took a freak —
for it was no more — of exhibiting this power ina
most singular way. She had with her, on a
visit, that baronet's sister-in-law, who had gone
away from school with her, and whom she had

treated in her favourite fitful way. This girl,
it occurred to her one day, should marry Dudley.
She set her heart on it ; it was a new whim,
and it should be done, just as she should have
that horse or dress from her father, though it
cost a thousand pounds. And to this task she
set herself so petulantly and so desperately that
Dudley saw he must gratify her, or else incur
her bitter dislike. He was well off, the baronet's
sister-in-law was not, and was eager to be
married. To the surprise of his friends, to that
of Sir Charles, and to the overflowing triumph
of Miss Panton, this extraordinary marriage
was actually brought about ; though almost at
once the new wife found that she had not
her husband's heart, and, being impetuous and
passionate, they separated within a few months,
and Dudley came himself to tell Laura Panton
the news.

I hope you are satisfied with your handiwork,"
he said bitterly. " You can do no more,
now — at least to us ! "

She laughed lightly, and from that time —

T 2

about four years before this story begins —
treated him with more gentleness and toleration.
She seemed to consider him promoted to a
responsible station, and herself privileged to
consult him and make him useful. He seemed
to be quite happy in this mastiff-like office, and
came and went as he chose ; and any new guest
at Panton often wondered at the dark, moody
and scowling man, whose eyes glared so, and
who spoke so little, save when he, the guest,
touched on hers and the scowling man became
eloquent. 'eyes, look at her speaking face.
There is a whole world behind it. They think
here, because she will be so rich, and all that,
that she has no other title. I know her welland
tell you there is a strange charm about this
girl which would attract if she had not a
farthing. Look, look at her now ; see, as she
turns her face to the lamp ! I cannot tell you
the effect on me." The guest cannot see it,
but thinks privately this is a very strange wild
'creature of a man.

YACHTSMEN ARRIVING.

Dr. Bailey was walking home by himself full
of a sort of unusual excitement. The shops in
the little new town were lighting up, lazy bands
of sailors in the trim, dandy, yachting-dress,
and with golden names of nymphs and goddesses
on their hats, were strolling, lounging through
the place, gathering at the Royal Yacht Tavern,
and other sailors' houses, or were grouped in
crowds in the centre of the street. Lights were
twinkling "every where, and converging to points
at the end of long avenues. There was a hum
and chatter of voices abroad, and yet with a
general atmosphere of calm and rest, such as
comes at the close of a day that has been busy
and sultry. For this was a quiet June evening.

and a June Saturday evening ; and it was also

all but the eve of the St. Arthur's-on-the-Sea

Eegatta, which was to commence on the Monday

morning. The tiny harbour was already crowded

with little black dashes surmounted with spiders

work. The yachts, which had come stealing

in during the daytime, had now folded up their

white wings for the night. Far off little white

splashes could be made out on the purple-grey

clouds of the horizon, fast becoming black, which

were other yachts posting up, as it were, to reach

an hotel, and get to bed comfortably. Down at

the jetty's edge were other groups of seafaring

men, sitting on benches or turned over boats ;

whilst the most eloquent proclaimed the merits

of " our craft," and boasted how the ' Diver ' could

beat the ' Mary Tanner ' any day — names which

figured in the yachting list as * La Diva ' and the

Mariana.'

In accordance with the delightful vagabondage
of yachting life, the St. Arthur's Eegatta, at this
time in its infancy, and " good-naturedly encouraged,"
had drawn many noble strangers, noble

creatures, the beauties of yacht creation, elegant
symmetrical beings, to contend with each other ;
but, as with the beauty of the ball-room, no
matter how fine the lines of her neck and figure,
no matter what the Lapthornian milliner may
have done for her, this year's belle is certain to
give place to the new one of next year.

Sometimes, indeed, the existing queen will
not give way without a petulant and spiteful
struggle, disdaining to be vanquished by a mere
chit of a thing just out. And once, perhaps, it
is positively a pleasure to see an almost veteran
stager like the ' Alarm ' hold her own for season
after season ; lead off every ball triumphantly,
and draw away all admirers from generations of
younger rivals.

Down below could be seen indistinctly the
huge 'Mornaa,' a boat of surprising reputation,
and whose vast mainsail it took twenty men
to get in. It was thought greedy on her part
to come to snatch up the St. Arthur's prizes,
and as nine o'clock came that nio^ht it was
thought they were saved from her. But a little

white speck began presently to enlarge and grow
larger again, with such speed that the angry
yachting men found themselves stamping fretfully,
and saying, " that's her," or something like
her. In a few minutes she was rolling in among
them, her great sail like a vast cloud, which ina
few moments more seemed to dissipate like a
vapour, sending consternation and disgust among
the yachtsmen on shore.

But well in the centre of the little haven reposed
a handsome schooner, which lay haughtily,
sullenly, and in the place of honour. She inspired
respect, and belonged to the peerage of
the craft. For from her bows floated the white
flag, which translated, means R. Y. S., and over
her bulwarks were seen little white dots, the
clean and snowy uniform of her crew. She was
known to be the 'Almandine,' one hundred and
seventy, and belonging to Lord Formanton,
though she had not the noble owner on board.
His son, however, the Honourable George Conway,
was there with a very distinguished nautical
party. His Royal Highness the Prince of Saxe-groningen,

with Baron Bachmann, Lieutenant
Bruce, and others. It was from this august craft
that Doctor Bailey was returning on this fine
Jane evening. He had gone on board to pay
his respects, just as Her Majesty's consul goes
on board at some foreign port. The German
prince, indeed, from his imposing presence and
manner, at first took him for some such public
officer; but the doctor soon opened his proposals.
He came, he said, to give them a cordial
welcome to their regatta, and they would try to
make everything as agreeable as possible during
their stay. Two years ago, Count Leland, of
the Paris club, looked in on them, and was
delighted. He (Doctor Bailey) did everything
for him. Now tomorrow was Sunday — a dull
day. Would they so far honour him by coming
to take a bit of lunch with him and Mrs. Bailey
si The Beeches ? They could walk about the
grounds afterwards. Count Balance had done
so. Then, by the way, there was to be an appeal
made by his unworthy lips for a meritorious
charity — The Disabled Yachtsmen's Fund. Ina

place like this a little religion was no harm ;
but, of course, administered with discretion. No
one had more experience among seamen than
he had, but there was an art in insinuating the
Word among them. He hoped Lord Formanton
was in good health.

The Honourable George Conway and the
German prince listened to these proposals. The
truth was the foreigners rather shrank from the
dull Sunday, and their pleasant wandering ways
made a sudden introduction and acquaintance often
minutes' ago quite familiar. They accepted
the doctor's invitation as a matter of course,
and promised to attend both lunch and sermon.
The doctor strode home very happy and complacent,
planning his lunch, looking at it fixedly,
as though it were " laid " before him, up in the
welkin. He stamped and creaked into his hall,
letting the door slam behind him, then turning
angrily as though some one else had done it.
The contrast between his deferentially persuasive
manner on board, and his loud, rough words of
command in his own hall, was really startling.

*' Here, come down — come here, quick ! " A
pale, fluttering, elderly little woman appeared
before him, old-fashioned and pinched. She
knew her inferior caste. 'shark, woman!" he
said, 'rand see to this ; and get those sluts below
to do their work. They're coming to lunch,
prince and all. So, see there's no bungling this
time. Now, go along, and don't stand staring
at me ! "

Then this good doctor sat down to his desk
to get ready for his sermon, which, indeed, was
not difficult. He always had a few by him in
stock on various models. There was what might
be called the Al mack's pattern — refined, oily,
sweet-scented doctrine, that trickled over the
edges of the pulpit, and flowed gently in the
direction of the select pews. There was a good
common-day pattern of the curate sort, which
did well enough for the Sundays, at the dead
level of the season, before Lady A. or Lord
D. arrived. For these were 'gala sermons."
Finally, there were the " crowd sermons," when
the place was very full, and quantity, if not

quality, was present. On this night he took
down a sermon preached one lucky Sunday when
a royal duke had found himself there, and which
"a little touching" could make just the thing
for a German prince. Having got through this
work he ordered his two women to write all out
'* legibly," and " see that they did so before going
to bed." He went to his own, and slept there,
whalelike in look, and making awful and cow-like
sounds. He had an implied consciousness
that he was sleeping a just man's sleep.

The harbour of St. Arthur's looked very brighton
that Sunday morning. The yachts — pretty
creatures, like pretty creatures on shore — had all
their finery on ; gay caps and ribbons, and
snowy petticoats. The rival clubs flourished
scarlet bunting at each other, as though offering
a challenge. Tiny boats were rowing backward
and forward; and from the 'Almandine' a barge,
manned by six white-shifted rowers, was pulling
in state for the stairs — alas ! it was seen from
the Royal Burgee, for the stairs of the Royal
St. Arthur s. His Royal Highness the Prince of

Saxe - Groningen, with the Honourable George
Conway, ascended and walked to the church.
At the door they were met by the vicar himself,
who led them up the aisle, and shut them
securely, and with a snap, into the large box
of honour at the top. How happy would he
have been, could he have thus treated all his
friends of condition — above all, that wandering
cabinet minister, who had been there for one
day, and whom he might have never released
till a promise of a bishopric had been extorted !
It was crowded indeed : '^ hundreds had to be
turned from the doors," as a gentleman of theatrical
tastes said to his friend. All the leading
people were present ; and on a line with
the august strangers were the baronet and
his daughter, the heiress. The prince obtained
much attention, far more than did the dull
curate ; and was observed to look round gaily
and with curiosity, attending very little to his
devotions : a fair sandy youth, perfectly self-possessed.
But his companion excited more admiration.
Even the devout noted how handsome

and " thorough-bred " was the Honourable George
Conway. This much may be said, that he was
known among his friends as a rock of good
sense," thrush it was a little uncertain as to
where he would finally fix that rock for good.

The doctor's heavy tread seemed to make the
church quiver, and his gown, &c., clattered and
flapped like the mainsail when going about.
Indeed, it occurred to one of the Jack Tars
that he was " carrying on " with too much canvas
; and the pulpit creaked and strained as
^*that ere heavy gai"" was hoisted up. Then
the doctor gave out his text, and made his Royal
Highness of Saxe-Groningen start with his loud
round tones. There was nothing passionate in his
appeal, and nothing threatening or 'bullying like
that ranter Buckley." It was a pleasant, kindly
invitation to 'give, give" — the doctor pronounced
it "gee-ifs" — out of all that we could spare.
We were not called on to abridge a single superfluity
; on those in the higher stations pressed
many claims and calls which seemed to those
below luxuries. No ; let us all give what we

could spare. Again, the doctor drew an effective
nautical picture. . " As in that contest, my
brethren, which tomorrow will thrill every heart
and kindle every eye, the proud skiff goes forth
in all her beauty, drooping before the breeze,
every sail set ; suddenly comes on a storm — weare
taken aback — we fly to the ropes, the hawsers
but it is too late. The squall is down on
them — in a second the whole is a po-or helpless
wreck ! " All the nautical men remarked confusion
in this nautical description, and pointed
out the mistake, and the mate of the * Adamantine'
was heard to say, as he came out, that
'that ere must have been a clumsy crew, mate''
while a second, with some vehemence, " that that
ere skipper had best stick to his own business,
seeing as how he didn't know a rope from a
hawser ! " while a third, affecting to see an allusion
to the ' Mornaa,' said, '' It was unfair for a
parson to be prejudicing the race. But she'd
beat in spite of all the black gentry that ever
rode in a pulpit."

On coming out the doctor received compliments

from the distinguished party. At the
same moment a tall goods-looking man, in a
yachting stout, came up. He had a hard face,
and was bald. He seemed as though he had
lived a great deal," and was greeted by the
young man.

Hallo, Dudley, what you coming to church ? "
he said good-humouredly — ^' Prince, let me
introduce Colonel Dudley."

The doctor was beside them already, an improvised
equerry. The crowd of fashion lingered
reluctantly, and the doctor's open carriage was
waiting.

The Prince and Mr. Conway are coming upto
lunch," said the doctor, in a voice that could
be heard beyond the church. '^ If you will come,
Colonel Dudley "

The other was looking back to the church
door, expecting some one to come out ; then,
without answering, broke away, as it were, and
went to join the baronet and his daughter.

The doctor " blew " a little, and got red. " A
man of no manners, as you know, Mr. Conway,"

lie said. '' Lives altogether a vagabond

life."

Oh I see," said Mr. Conway, with interest ;
'^ those must be the people he is always talking
about."

You see how it is, Mr. Conway," said the
doctor. *' A true Formanton, sir. Yes, a vulgar
longing after the heiress. Will you get in.
Prince ? "

But, your daughter and family ? " said the
Prince, politely.

"Oh, pooh !" said the doctor, as if to the
servants ; " they've got home someway, never
fear."

The three gentlemen got in, and the carriage
drove away to The Beeches. The doctor talked
all the time, and described — for he knew the
country as well as a " lecturer " does his panorama.
Sometimes Mr. Conway questioned him,
and seemed to reflect on what he said.

'' Curious," he said, after a pause, " Dudley's
turning up here. We last saw him on the
Nile."

VOL. I. U

Dear, dear ! " said the doctor, bursting with
enthusiasm. " There are wheels, you see, dozens
of 'em within each other. That's his cousin, our
heiress, the future baroness, as my son calls
her."

*• But he's married," said Conway, gravely :
it seems strange, does it not ? "

My dear sir, there's no being up to men of
that sort. He quite hangs about Panton — a
cousin, you know. And she, the wife, was such
a strange, ill-regulated, dreadful person."

Here we are ! " said the doctor several times,
almost at each sweep of the avenue. *' Here weare,"
is always accepted by the person to whom
it is addressed with a sort of surprise and
gratitude, though he is already in possession
of the information. At the hall door, the doctor
said " Here we are," for the last time, and got
out.

THE LUNCH.

Dr. Bailey led this two guests in, and as lie
did so, a young girl came to meet them. " This
is my daughter Jessica," said the doctor, scarcely
With the importance that he would have said
** This is our front drawing-room."

It occurred to Mr. Conway, and to the German
Prince, what a " strange girl this was," what a
quickness and spirit in the motion of her eye
and head, what a character there was. She
seemed to challenge them, inquire what was in
their thoughts, to colour as she read those
thoughts. She was about one-and-twenty, and
was a girl that could make her own way.

** An invasion ! " said the Prince, in good
English ; " an invasion. Miss Bailey."

U 2

'•'Not at all," she said. 'papa asked you,
and we are so glad."

Smart, thought Conway, or she thinks herself
so. A pity. He would give her another
chance.

Sunday is so dull in harbour," he began, and
paused.

A really smart girl, he thought, could not let
this chance go, but must reply, " And Mr. Conway
only comes to us to avoid the dull harbour."
But instead, her eyes dropped suddenly, and she
said :

It was very kind of you, indeed." Mr.
Conway was a remarkably interesting man, and
had a legion of lady admirers.

Oh, come in and sit down," said the doctor,
impatiently. " Go, child, and hurry your mother ;
these gentlemen are hungry, and don't keep us
waiting. Come in here, Prince, you shall taste
my cognac : finest in the three kingdoms." It
will be seen that the Reverend Doctor Bailey
was something of an under-bred man. With
him it was all " his " and " my " ; a red, swollen

pampered " my '^ ; " my house, my furniture, my
servants, my women," &c. All these elements
were to his service, honour, and glory.

The Prince said, perhaps a little maliciously :
Will you not allow us the pleasure of presenting
our homage to Mrs. Bailey ? "

Oh, to be sure, to be sure," said the doctor ;
^^ she will be here presently. These servants
of ours, I can tell you. Prince "

She your servant ? " said Mr. Conway. " Oh,
I see now," he added, correcting himself.

''Ah, here is lunch ! " said the doctor, as the
folding door was thrown open. " Por once Mrs.
Bailey has not been an hour late." The doctor
began to stride. But the Prince stopped to offer
his arm to Miss Jessica. " You are coming into
lunch, are you not ? This is not surely after
dinner, when the gentlemen drink alone ? "

The girl hesitated.

God bless me," said her father, " you are
always getting up some fuss ! Don't let us
stand upon the order of our going. Prince.
Come in."

But the latter, with, great ceremoniousness,
offered his arm, with a low foreign bend and
bow, to the young lady. The doctor began to
blow and walked behind, raising his hands
impatiently.

The lady of the house stole down after they
were seated. And the ceremonious Prince had
risen and was bowing, and offering his chair.
The doctor 'blew," and 'shewed" again, and
remained with his soup-ladle poised. He conveyed
the idea that he would have liked to have
used it, say on the side of a human head divine,
and for quite another purpose than for helping
soup.

She scarcely spoke, but Mr. Conway noticed
that her daughter determined, as of set purpose,
that she should be noticed and have her
place.

'' I hope we shall see a great deal of you," said
the doctor, lubricating his lips with rich gravy.
Here — help the Prince ! Now you must, you
really must come often : you know the way
here''

Conway, who was a perfect gentleman, seemed
to take a pleasure in bringing forward Mrs.
Bailey.

But what can you say to such an arrangement
? Two boisterous sailors bursting in, and
taking possession of the house ! No, indeed, we
must think of you."

What folly ! " said the doctor ; '' don't mind
them. What have they to do with it ? Come
when you like ! "

What have they to do with it ? " repeated
Conway, with assumed astonishment. " Surely,
Doctor Bailey, ladies have to do with all that is
worth anything in this world. I am afraid (and
you must not think me rude for telling you so)
your own unaided attraction would not go far."

This, though said with the air of a joke, was
more in earnest than in joke, and the doctor
began to blow and phew a good deal, as his
habit was when there was something he did not
quite understand.

And we find Dudley here," said Mr. Conway.
*' I have hardly got over that surprise yet."

An ill-conditioned man, Mr. Conway, very
much so ; he is not the sort of thing, you know ;
and really, when you consider my position, I
ought scarcely to tolerate a man situated ashe
is."

Oh ! you have told us that," said Conway,
very coldly. *' We are in possession of the
scandal. You know Miss Panton, our heiress
here '? " he said, turning abruptly to Jessica.
Every one adores her."

Instantly he saw a bit of dramatic action in
her face ; two or three shades of opposite feelings
seemed to drift across it, much as they had sen
cloud shadows gliding across their mainsail.

Yes, I do know her," she answered steadily ;
'^ but I do not adore her ; and I don't think
that everybody does, and " — this after slow pausing
— " she is much too rich."

I saw her at the church to-day, and she
seemed behind the rail of a cash-office."

Jessica was first going to say something, then
something else ; then seemed to check herself,
and said a third thing eagerly and fervently.

I do not like her, and I cannot, though I
have tried. Perhaps the reason is that she does
not like me."

What folly you talk, child ! " said her father,
roughly. " I assure you, Mr. Conway, she is
charming : all that estate for miles — you can see
it from the top window of this house — is hers.
Beautiful house, and all entailed on herself,
family jewels, savings. Oh, I assure you she is
very charming. Jessica talks without thinking. '^

There was some scorn in Mr. Conway's face,
and Miss Jessica, who was as quickly intelligent
as she was quickly sensitive, saw it there.* It
made her move impatiently in her chair.

What ! an estate for miles, savings, family
jewels ! " repeated Mr. Conway, quietly, and
without any appearance of sarcasm. " She must
be beautiful ! "

A really fine woman ! '' said the doctor,
pleased. " Oh, there's no doubt about the
money."

*' It's wonderful ! " continued Mr. Conway, as
if ruminating ; " and I have a conviction she

must be good and pious and charitable, and have
every virtue. Am I right ? "

You are, indeed, Mr. Conway — a true man
of judgment, I see."

"You are making fun of us, Mr. Conway, ''
said Miss Jessica, in so excited a tone that the
German Prince, working at his food with vigour,
looked up with surprise. ^' You are trying to
draw us out, rustic people — you who have
travelled about and seen the world. Oh ! it is
great sport — you who have "

'^ Jessica ! " her fathered thundered, his fork
in the air.

See, he can't deny it. He has too much
truth. No," she added, her eyes questioning
him, '' you will not ! " He was a little confused.
She is beautiful because she has money ; she is
good for the same reason. Papa was entrapped
into saying it."

*' Oh, come, come, now, do stop," said the
clergyman, very hotly and roughly ; '' there is
always something of this sort. You mustn't begetting
into this kind of business, putting out

our little lunch in this way. It's really too
much. I won't have it in my house. Really,
you ought to beg Mr. Conway's pardon."

Jessica stood up, and repeated slowly, " Beg
Mr. Conway's pardon ! " She then gave a
scornful look all round, and walked towards
the door.

The Prince had jumped up to open it. ^' The
ladies leaving us already ? " he said, with a
foreigner's tact. 'these cruel English customs
of yours ! "

Mr. Conway rose, too, but said nothing.

Doctor Bailey was quite 'put out " ; his* lips
inflated and collapsed again. " I don't know
what you will think of us ? " he said ; " she is
self-willed, you know, and really I must have her

taught control and "

♦

"We must not spoil this good wine with
any scolding of Miss Bailey," said the other.
"For my part, I admire nature and spirit.
Apropos of the heiress, though we own to being
curious — every one is about the sights and
shows, lions and lionesses of a district "

Most natural, most natural," obsequiously
said the doctor.

** The contrast between her and your daughter
I can quite imagine. I know nothing more
intolerable than the perpetual challenge of
wealth, a sort of concrete arrogance, the buying
your way, as it were, buying the pas, too, every
moment. I know it would grate on me, and
fret me to death."

The doctor did not follow this refining at all.
The idea of money " grating " or '' fretting " to
death ! At that moment he formed the conclusion
that the Honourable Mr. Conway was
*' a poor creature full of young ladies' talk."
I don't know about that," he said, '^ but I wish
my son Tom had her."

Then the gentlemen talked of the baronet
himself, .who had left his card at the yacht,
and again came back the curious relation of
Colonel Dudley.

'' I have known that sort of shepherd's dog
attendance," said Conway, " before now. A man
is unhappy in his own home, and he finds a

soothing feeling in the company of some congenial
face. He asks no more ; to breathe the
same air is enough. He would not care if it
went on so for years. I dare say he travels
about with them as one of the retinue. It
tranquillises him."

"Precisely, but a great drawback to her
advancement, you know. He scowls at every
man that comes up."

And if one had a son," said Conway, smiling,
most unpleasant. But one should never mind
his scowls."

Doctor Bailey was presently showing his
visitors the "grounds" and gardens. "My
hothouse," " my greenhouse," " my gardens," his
general stately ^' my," which was really the point
of what he was exhibiting. This was for the
German Prince, who resigned himself with the
sad dreamy politeness of his country. Conway
went to the drawing-room.

Jessica, in a pale green striped dress, was
walking up and down with stately pacing. She
seemed to be talking haughtily to some invisible

companion ; not to her mother, who was in the
more congenial " housekeeper's-room," the locality
where she would have asked any one to *' Come
live with me and be my love."

There are some characters " drifting " about
this world, sometimes being " kicked about,'^
which are mere fragments, each with the serried
outline of a fracture. By some rare chance,
both come together one day, and fit to a nicety
in one piece. Had these two, Conway and
Jessica, thus joined unexpectedly, and did both
know it ?

"You were angry with me," he said, deferentially,
" and I have come to beg pardon. I
did two things which fretted you ; I wanted
respect to your father, and praised up that rich
woman who is as distasteful to me as she is to you."

Jessica smiled and put out her hand. *^ Indeed
I am not angry, and I am not ashamed of
myself. My father says I disgrace him everywhere,
and that I am pettish."

You must let me see you, then, under better
auspices," said Conway, gravely. " Otherwise I

may run the risk of taking away an unfavourable
impression."

Indeed ! " said Jessica, scornful again. '' And
that is your gracious pleasure. Then I tell you
candidly, Mr. Conway, I am not sorry, and
I do not think it good taste to sneer at a
gentleman at his own table, and before others.
Now ! "

Conway coloured, and was angry. He had
quite mistaken this young lady.

^* You are too severe for me," he said, " and
really beat me to the ground."

She made no answer, and swept out just as
the doctor and the German entered. The doctor
blew and shewed, and muttered, " Oh, unbearable
! such behaviour ! " but the young lady
did not return. Before the two gentlemen
drove away it was arranged that the doctor and
his family should come and see the ' Almandine,'
and take the opportunity of there being fireworks
on the following nights, when a little
supper could be '' knocked up."

*' Oh, I shall come, certainly," the doctor said,

eagerly. " So glace to know you are better.
We have all heard of his Lordship, your good
father, and I will take the liberty of asking you
to mention that you have seen me, the Vicar of
St. Arthur's. He will recollect a little correspondence
we had two years ago. A finer,
nobler character does not exist in this broad
England of ours."

Conway seemed to convey surprise at this
large statement. '^ My father is a most excellent
man," he said, in his quiet way ; "I shall give
him your message." ♦

Do, do, my dear Mr. Conway," the doctor
went on, as though he were preaching. " He
will know me. I wanted him to take the chair
for us down here for The Disabled Yachtsmen.
He was busy, I suppose, so we got Lord Rufus
Cocker. Good-bye —-yooo^-bye."

Wine at lunch was like kindling the furnace
fires for the doctor, so all the cranks and
machinery were working, the steam blowing off,
and all the oils oozing out.

We shall write formally to the ladies," said

Conway, '' and you can tell them. In the
mean time "

*' Oh, she never goes," the doctor said, waving
off his wife, " that sort of thing don't suit her.
And, as for Jessica — if you wish '^

Oh, but my good sir," said Conway, decisively,
"this must be understood. The rule
of the Yacht is to admit no single gentlemen
on these gala occasions. I assure you she is
inflexible in that."

This seemed like bantering, but there was a
blunt and malicious decision about Conway's
manner that told the doctor that the YJicht
mig-ht not be "at home " for him if he came
without his wife.

VOL. r.

A HOLIDAY.

Monday morning. A bright, fresh day with
a distant stiff breeze, which every now and again
caused a dark purple frown to pass over the sea
very far away. The old sailors said this meant
nothing, that " afore noon " it would be all right,
with a "good sailing breeze." The harbour
seemed to have half the air of a nautical flower-show
— so many sails were fluttering in a sort of
negligee toilette, A few more of these elegant
ladies had dropped in during the night, and for
the first race it was known that at least ten
would start. Of course the shabby, greedy
^ Mornaa ' was among them. " Scandalous,"
many a mariner, his hands deep in his pockets,
muttered. Little boats shot about the harbour

:zigzag, like gad-flies, and the Royal St. Arthur's
and the Royal Burgee in full uniform,
and stuck over with innumerable flags, affected a
sort of harmony for that day only.

A gunboat from one of the great ports was
hovering undecidedly outside the harbour ; the
lieutenant was being pulled ashore ; but even
that "publishing fellow" went straight for the
stairs of the Royal St. Arthur's. The terraces of
both class were covered with gentlemen in short
jackets and caps, and using glasses, with quite a
quarter-deck air. The start was early : about
nine o'clock. From the commodore's yacht
came the gun, and the row of racers were
round " in a second, and gliding away out of
the harbour. The selfish cutter took her time,
and rather " lounged " out. She had on her
racing suit, and when she got up her " balloon "
sails, seemed to swell like the snowy feathers of
a huge swan. There was the local crack boat,
known indifferently to the sailors as the ' ,'
sometimes as the ' Knee-toby,' but which
in Hunt's List was the ' Niobe,' 35 ; W. C.

X 2

Jephson, owner. This gentleman could hardly
contain his disgust as he looked at the intruder,
who was aristocratic E. Yes., while he was only R.
St. A.Y.C. There she was, a smart coquettish,
thoroughbred thing, shooting out of the harbour
before all the rest ; but, " of course," there was
the huge hulking ' Mornaa ' rolling carelessly on
behind, and getting up another tremendous sail,
though in the most leisurely manner. The rest
went on their way in straggling order — here,
there, and everywhere, leaning over, awry, stiffly
upright, or flying along half arching over, like
graceful skaters. The course was one of many
miles ; in a short time the graceful craft were
afar off, no more than a few yellowish specks
dotted about, and the spectators on shore had
done with them for nearly the whole day.

The ' Almandine,' like some fastidious guardsman,
seemed to think the affair " a bore," and
disdained to take the trouble of racing at all.
She lay in the centre of the harbour, tranquilly,
as if reposing on a sort of watery sofa, full
of charming languor. Found her circulated

innumerable gay pleasure-boats, all parasols and
bright ribbons. Towards two o'clock, the
terraces of the Royal St. Arthur's and of the
Royal Burgee became crowded, and the band
of the Sixth (Prince Regent's Own), one circle
of legs and jackets, with caps at about the
sloping angle of a roof, played "selections"
under the direction of Herr Hoffman. They
had been brought by special train. The Royal
St. Arthur's were giving a dejeuner a lafourchette,
in the boat-house, at four o'clock. The commodore
and vice-commodore of the Royal Burgee
were, almost perforce, invited ; and the members
of the Royal Burgee, though they hated it* still
spoke with pride of the invitation, and told each
other at the house *That the commodore and
vice ditto were over at St. Arthur's."

As the day wore on, the excitement increased,
and the crowds gathered more thickly on the
pier. Special trains began to arrive from
neighbouring manufacturing towns. On the
jetty and pier were the usual "Fair" supernumeraries
; fellows shooting for nuts, the

roulette, the carts of spruce and ginger-beer.
These familiars take the race-course and the
regatta on their circuit indifferently. The
Cheap Jacks lectured. But suddenly amongst
the motley group appeared an open carriage, with
a very large gentleman in a large hat — a bright
2:irl beside him — who was calling; out, in a loud
voice, '^ Don't stop the way, please, stand aside
we are in a hurry ! " No wonder Doctor
Bailey was eager, for he could actually hear the
voice of 'That low Buckley" close by, who was
in the midst of a ring on a granite stone, asking
a large crowd whether '* their timbers were
secure and well caulked ; whether their ropes
were taut, and were they ready to mount the
ship's side, up the glorious gangway of faith,
and step on the quarter-deck of the resurrection
1 "

Seeing faces turning away from him at the
sound of carriage wheels, Mr. Buckley went on.
'ris t/iat the way to put out on the sea of
righteousness, in purple and fine linen, and,"
with a slight confusion of metaphor, " rolling

in one's carriage ? Is it by going down to riot,
and drink, and eat, and be filled, and make
merry, like the swine, that the God-fearing
mariner fits himself for his work ? " &c.

Thus did the low Buckley make the doctor
serve as a text and homily. What did the
latter care ? There he was, getting down at the
door of the Royal St. Arthur's, and striding
in with his daughter on his arm. " Keep back
these people, policeman," he said. '^ There's
really no getting into one's own house. Sir
he has come, I suppose ? eh, Bowles ? Seen
the Prince about ? "

Thus he passed in, pushing his way* with
many a '^ Let me pass, please ! People should
move on, and not crowd in the doors." Miss
Jessica's lips were contracted, and to other
people she looked as overbearing as her father.
Out on the terrace, they came among the gay
company where the Prince Regent's own were
drumming and clattering the eternal ' Trovatore,'
with infinite noise.

In a moment Mr. Conway was beside them,

and was seized, swallowed up in the vast greeting
of the tremendous doctor, who was himself
family, daughter, wife, all, and spoke for all.
With a quiet inattention, Mr. Conway put him
aside and welcomed Jessica. She was all interest,
all excitement. She had been looking out for
him eagerly, as he saw. The doctor became of
a sudden submerged in business, calling out,
looking for some one.

'' Where's Coleman '? Send him here, do ! Has
Sir Charles come ? Here, ma'am, be good enough,
do. Don't crowd about the passage ; people
can't get in or out," &c.

He was now in the boat-house, looking after
the dejeuner; now out of the boat-house, looking
after the great people, and all the while, not
unnaturally, in a very great heat.

I am so glad to meet you," said Jessica.
'' What you thought of me I do not know. But
there are people who try and ' draw out ' my
father, as they call it, and I thought "

You thought I could be so ill-bred, so
ungentlemanly ? " said Conway, colouring.

I did' said she, fearlessly. " I tell the truth
always, though you may despise me, and make
yourself my enemy for ever."

Well, you are independent, like myself. I
should have made the same answer, I suspect.
And I like you the better for telling me this.
Look here ; who comes by ? You will tell me
all the notables."

It was the doctor, and a short, spare, wiry,
grey gentleman, in a white coat and blue tie,
and with a tall young lady on his arm. She was
dressed to perfection, and a certain good taste
about her made her face handsome. It was
Laura the heiress, and though the majority
there were above everything man, yet the presence
of so much wealth unconsciously fluttered
them all, and numbers of necks and heads were
twisted and craned " to get a good view." People
even reverently made way and drew back with
an awe they were ashamed of, but could not
resist. If all were saints, money must force this
homage. The doctor was their grand chamberlain.
"See here, Sir Charles. That's the

Almandine,' Lord Formanton's, you know, fine
vessel. I had the son and his friend, the Prince
of Saxe-Groningen, to lunch with me. Most
gentlemanly fellow. Ah ! by the way. Sir
Charles, here he is. Conway, allow me. Sir
Charles Panton — Miss Panton."

Conway, perfect gentleman as he was, could
give a rebuke, or be insolent even, with his face.
He conveyed by his cold bow that he had not
desired this introduction, and conveyed it to all
parties concerned.

I hope Doctor Bailey," he said, turning to
Jessica, '' will not ask me to make any more
acquaintances. I make it a point to be disagreeable,
and a Miss Mammon I never can stand''

I am delighted," said Jessica, enthusiastically.
My father thinks them the greatest people in
the world, and is always asking them, or wishing
to be asked by them. You saw how she looked
at me. She is empress over this part of the
country. But I am not under her, and disdain
her rule, and would die before I would submit to
her. And she knows it."

How you and I shall agree ! " said Conway.
"It is refreshing to hear such independence. I
am independent, too, of all the world, except of a
certain good but rather ambitious person, whose
name is Formanton."

Oh, your father ? " said she.

Yes. My [poor mother, last and only one
of all my friends, left me to him. I am his
while he lives, as much as a serf used to be
in Russia. But for this I should have done
something. As it is, I have been leading an
actor's life, instead of doing something useful
Now I have grown old, and the best part of
life is gone. But I have made a promise,
and must stick to it. ' Stick to it ! '* Is
not that a refined speech ? Even in English,
where I used to be rather ' nice.' You seethe
decay ? "

It must have been time for the dejeuner, for
Doctor Bailey was bustling people about, and
giving loud orders, causing angry faces to be
turned round as he stood on dresses and roughly
pushed past ladies. He was always hot and

16 PUPPETS.

angry when lie stood on a lady's dress, or dragged
it from her waist.

Bach things ! A man can't walk. I really
must ask you, ma'am, to stand out of the way.
No one can get by."

Rude bear ! " " Savage ! " were the whispered
rejoinders. There was another lady of
rank present, whom the doctor himself had
described as ''a broken-down honourable," whom
he was obliged to " take in," and he gave out
orders right and left to others, dragging this
partner about, and clutching at young men.
Here, you — get somebody and take 'em in."
Then his eye fell on Miss Panton, and he seized
Mr. Conway and eagerly "hauled" him to her
side. As for his own daughter, what did it
matter what became of her ? Conway, now that
fate was inexorable, offered himself for duty with
perfect complacency. But he could see the
unconcealed dissatisfaction, the open colour, of
the lady he was thus obliged to leave. This sort
of character, clear as crystal, which disdained to
conceal, was really new to him, and quite inviting.

With his new companion he was quite a
different person. He became the conventional
gentleman of parties and amusements, asked with
apparent interest as to her balls and parties, and
talked in the usual personal way of his own
movements. One thing she saw clearly, he was
not in the least impressed by her acknowledged
sovereignty.

I see you know those Baileys," she said,
pettishly. " Very pushing people, are they not ? "
He had never met so fretted a voice.

I like Jter^' said Mr. Conway, with an
affected warmth. ^*She is charmingly natural,
and full of honesty. But to be pitied with that
intrusive father, who should have been chamberlain
at a little German court, not an English
clergyman."

I know little of them," said she, haughtily.
'^ Of course we exchange visits, and that sort of
thing, but I do not wish to go beyond it."

*' So I have heard," said Conway, smiling.
They have told me already that Miss Panton
is queen of this country for miles round. They

speak with distending eyes, and gaping mouths,
of her vast wealth, and gold, and jewels. I am
sure it must amuse you. But these poor people
can't help it, you know. It is their nature."

And these people I suppose have been telling
you all this ? That is their nature also, I
suppose ? ''

These people ? " repeated Mr. Conway, wishing
''to take her down" a little. "Oh, Dr.
Bailey and Miss Bailey. I see, I am getting on
the thin ice. You know, a stranger, such as I
may call myself, for I have been away for six
or seven years, cannot be, nor is he expected to
be, posted up in the little vendettas of a place
like this."

The pettish look she gave him, gave him
pleasure afterwards to think of.

*' / a vendetta with them ! I repeat they are
outside our circle. It is barely an acquaintance.
You might as well say I have a vendetta with
that sailor there."

No doubt," said he, gravely ; " and my stay
in this place has been only a day or so long. But

as a mere fact of general experience your illustration
does not hold. In plays, you know, the
wicked lord often takes a horrid and unmeaning
dislike to his virtuous tenant in a red waistcoat."


All this while two sullen eyes had been benton
them from the opposite side of the room,
and he thus heard a voice beside him, " Red
waistcoats and virtuous tenants ! Do you hear
this, Conway ? Let me warn you," he added to
her, "he has got well furnished with all the
refinements and metaphysics. I know him ;
and with these little smart things he makes
himself interesting. I know you of old, my
dear friend."

"No you do not," said the other, coolly.
That is much too highly coloured an account
of our acquaintance. Pardon me if I am wrong,
but you know very little about me, Dudley.
Now, Miss Panton, come into this place. I am
sure you must be tired, and perhaps hungry."

There was a vast clatter of plates, knives and
forks, and champagne explosion. The natives

of the district were not generally accustomed to
such rich and gratuitous entertainments. They
flung themselves on the banquet with something
like ravenousness. It was hard to hear a
neighbour's voice through it ail.

END OP VOL I.

3 0112 045838619

u

«»><>ui

^

»

VOL. II.

% Romance

BY

PERCY FITZGERALD

AUTHOR OV " BELLA DONNA," " NEVER FORGOTTEN.

See how the merry puppets dance !
Tou think'it's all their little will ;
But though they frisk, and though they prance,
They are but merry puppets still,"

IN THREE VOLUMES. ~\ 01 II.

LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL
Limited



[All Rights reserved']

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

LOVE IN HER EYES SITS PLAYING" . . 1

CHAPTER II.

AT THE YACHT CLUB DANCE . . . 9

Chapter III.
MR. conway's autobiography . . . 24

CHAPTER IV.

MR. CONWAY'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY — CONTINUED . 48

CHAPTER V.

MR, CONWAY'S. AUTOBIOGRAPHY — CONCLUDED . 74

CHAPTER VI.

THE RIVALS . . . . . 104

CHAPTER VII.

Park

A VISIT . . . . . 116

CHAPTER VIII.

THE BRIDGE . . . . . 121

CHAPTER IX.

A DINNER AT THE CASTLE . . . 135

CHAPTER X. -^ -

IN THE Drawing-room . . . 148

CHAPTER XI.

FOOD FOR THE GOSSIPS . . ••• 160

CHAPTER XII.

WAVERING . . . . ■ 169

CHAPTER XIII.

A TEMPTING OFFER . " . . ••• 175

CHAPTER XIV.

MR. BENBOW WORKS . . . . 184

CHAPTER XV.

PAGE

LADY ROSA . . . . . 203

CHAPTER XVI.

AN INTERVIEW . . . . 219

CHAPTER XVII.

FATHER AND SON . . . . 226

CHAPTER XVIII.

WEAVING WEBS . . . . 232

CHAPTER XIX. «

NEWS OF LYDIA . . . . 242

CHAPTER XX.

"a MARRIAGE HAS BEEN ARRANGED" . . 251

CHAPTER XXI.

FIRST GLIMPSE OF THE SWORD . . . 263

CHAPTER XXII.

THE MARRIAGE DAY . . . . 272

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE CANKER .

CHAPTER XXIV.

SCENE AT CALAIS

CHAPTER XXV.

RETURN

Park







ERRATUM.
Page 37, line 9 from foot, for Eden read Conway.

CHAPTER I.

'love in her eyes sits playing'

The dejeuner was nearly over, and the toasts
were being given ; the splendid and courteous
commodore, who had done so much so splendidly
for his club ; our splendid queen ; splendid
noble prince ; our distinguished and splendid
guests, even our rival Burgee commodore, who,
if not splendid, yet viewed athwart the sparkling
bubbles of morning champagne, was decent and
worthy, and meant well. The Burgee responded
with almost grovelling gratitude, and he shots
never, till laid in the cold earth, " forget their

VOL. II. B

kindness of that day." Then raging of cannon
outside ; rather flushed faces stream out to seethe
yachts dropping in.

Oh, of course the shabby, greedy * Mornaa,*
monster of snowy white, comes rolling in first,
triumphant and contemptuous, the rest a
quarter, half an hour, hours behind ! Well
into the harbour sails the vast yacht, stooping
over, her dress ballooning out, the water falling
away from before her in ridges of snowy foam.
She comes on and on, growing larger every
second, until it is thought she will be in on
the shore, when bang goes the cannon from
the flagship. She has won, and she whisks
round contemptuously. The very magnificence
of the demeanour of the unpopular craft extorts
a cheer.

After that, the evening closes in slowly,
dropping its mantle gently over all, making the
white grey and the sea leaden, and then dark.
Lights begin to sparkle ; the distant music
sounds like a faint hum. The two club-houses
light up like blazing lanterns, and the populace

stand in crowds, gazing at the fine company
within, who are having their dance. Then,
darkness being well set in, it was time to
expect the fireworks. The whole surface of the
harbour was covered with crawling boats, and
resounded with the chatter and laughter of
exuberant voices. Lights flitted from end to
end of every yacht ; and now and again a
*' blue light" flashed, showing rows of faces
illuminated in that strangely pale light.

From the steps of the club-house was putting
ofi' the ' Almandine's ' barge, and Mr. Conway
had helped down Miss Jessica into the after
portion. The gossips of the little place had
noted how " that cunning girl was laying herself
out for that good catch," as they called Mr.
Conway. By that light not much could be
seen of the beauties, comforts, and luxuries of the
'Almandine.' To the terrestrial visitor nothing
seems so complete and tempting as a well-appointed
yacht ; and the fascination is very
much that of a baby house, with its complete
kitchens, bedrooms, &c., for a little girl. Harbour

B 2

visitants do not guess how odious it would
seem on, say, the second day after going to sea,
when a gale is "on " and the waves high.
Doctor Bailey was critical, and spoke as if in
mariner's orders all his life. '^ Exceedingly
nice and well appointed ; nothing could be in
better taste. You are a true Eormanton, my dear
Mr. Conway."

As the fireworks now began to whiz and roar,
the rockets bent, as it were, on blasting the
very welkin, while the distant Catherine wheels
whirled and blazed, and showered cascades of
sparks, lighting up thousands of spectral figures
lining the pier, Mr. Conway was talking with
much interest to Miss Jessica. The two were
leaning over the rail, and he told her a great deal
that interested her. A strange girl, he thought.
Such pastime there are plenty of selfish people
to delight in, who would be autobiographical,
end on," for days. In fact, our human nature
prefers talking of itself to talking of any one
else. This amusement is generally mere vanity
and selfishness. But there are autobiographies

we like to listen to, because they are natural
and unselfish, and extorted, as it were, because
we have a sympathy to extend to them.

After all this egotism," he said at the end,
when the fiery letters, '' Welcome to the Royal
St. Arthur's " were burning out, and after some
erratic squibbing and pyrotechnical spluttering,
all was darkness and silence, " after all this
egotism, what can it be to you whether this be
my turn of mind 1 Whether I be or be not cold
or calculating, or when once deceived, never let
myself be deceived again ? Whether if I su
petted anything in, say, a person who was my
wife, I would disdain to question, to ask for
explanation, but work the thing out for myself,
independent of all, as if I were alone
in the world ? I say, what is this to anyone
? But there you have my creed, such as
it is."

I understand you now," she said, " perfectly ;
and may I confess, too, that such a character is
new to me."

"You really do? — this standing alone, as it

were, this having one's oivn for everything —
opinion, counsel, judgment — no appeal : a blind
unswerving confidence in oneself, not as a safe
guide by any means, but one more suited to me
than any other could be ? There is a picture of
self-sufficiency for you ! "

And you despise women, of course, above
all ! " she said warmly, though he could not see
her cheeks kindling.

** I shall conceal nothing from you," he went
on, " that is, if you care to listen to me."

'' Care to listen ! " and she stamped her foot,
I should tell you so if I did not. I like to
listen, though I know I shall not like what you
tell me. But the vapid fools my father brings
to the house, and who talk in their insipid way
of women — girls whose one thought is worth
their whole nature — you on't tell me that you
think with them ? "

"There, here is the truth. What the only
being in the world that ever loved me left to meas
her treasure and jewel-box. I am an old
man now, as the world goes, old and odd, and

during those years it is inconceivable the
pictures of female character that have passed
before me. Not before me, but before Lord
Formanton's son and heir. The history of
adulation and abasement that I could give
would be almost incredible. I am ashamed
of myself, about them, when I think of it.
Miss Bailey is almost the first I have met who
disdains such behaviour, or, perhaps," he added,
laughing, " does not think me worth the
trouble."

Here broke in the rude voice of the doctor.

I think it is time that we ask you for the
boat, Mr. Conway. This has been all very
pleasant. And we shall certainly come by daylight
and see your nice vessel."

The doctor got down into the boat with
difficulty and grumbling.

*' Such an inconvenient sort of arrangement."
He felt cold about his large neck, and took his
daughter's cloak as a sort of muffler, in which he
looked very grotesque.

In her own room Jessica sat long, before

going to bed, ruminating softly, and smiling
to herself, and finally walking up and down,
and talking to herself, with a sort of exultation
and forecasting of the future.

"I see it," she said, "I see it coming. He
shall love me — nay, does love me ! I know it,
plainly and truly, as if it were a revelation, that
he came into this world for me ; that I shall fill
up for him that blank, desolate corner in his
existence which for years has been before his
weary eyes. Yes, all this was foreordained. Ashe
told me his story — and, oh ! how he told it —
could I not see my own place, and could have
cried out, ' I should have been there ! ' He
begins to see it, too. It is what I have been
waiting for, and what he has been waiting for !
And he will ask me, I know, to be his. It is
coming, so surely as tomorrow is coming."

In came her maid, and Jessica almost smiled
at her own excitement. So that eventful day
ended.

AT THE YACHT CLUB DANCE.

The dejeuner was succeeded by a dance. As
these are rare enough festivities in the country,
and at little seaports they are ever welcome,
and whether it be day or night, the young of
both sexes are passionately eager to avail themselves
of the opportunity. On this occasion the
best room of the club had been " given uj) to
Terpsichore," as the local draper described it ; the
old members grumbling sadly. That the music
was good is evidenced by the fact that every one
was telling every one, that it was " Skipper's
Band " brought down especially. Who has not
heard of Skipper's Band ?

Skipper's Quadrille Band is widely known
wherever the human leg moves to music.

Skipper's Looks attest this fact, as also the
amazing; and india - rubber - like character of
Skipper's Band. Expand it or contract it,
divide or multiply it ; send it down to the race
ball in its full strength of five-and-twenty ; let
it out to the Brixton villa, as a violin and piano,
it is still Skipper's Band. Skipper and Washington
properly ; but it was felt — Wal sing ton
handsomely concurring — that the business would
suffer were the crispness of the older title,
Skipper's Band," interfered with. It may be
mentioned that there is no Skipper. Washington
is the name — leader, first or second violin,
pianist, double bass, as occasion may require ;
for an organization like Skipper's demands this
ready adaptability, this being prepared at a
second's warning to turn one's hand to anything.
Balls, of course, can be provided for with reasonable
certainty ; but the " small and early dances,"
the little '"' hops," and " carpet " things, are as
distracting as the half-dozen fires to which the
Brigade may be suddenly summoned. To keep,
therefore, distinct specialists would be merely

spelling bankruptcy and ruination, and the only
way is to secure " general utility musicians," as
they say at the theatres, who can turn their
hand or fingers to everything. Extraordinary
combinations used to be asked for — a clarion
and a violoncello, a flute and a violin, as it was
believed, under a mistaken notion of economy.

The pianist of Skippers Band is an Italian,
with long black hair, which he keeps in a savage
state, and very wild eyes. He is an amazing
creature altogether ; his name is Spongini, and
his favourite idiosyncrasy, besides his undoubted
musical one, is the wholesale avoidance of three
things : soap, shaving, and such linen as usually
edges off human apparel. A galop of his performance,
about two in the morning, is something
demoniac. He played with fury, and, as
some one remarked, makes the keys yell. Ashe
plays his black eyes roll round the room with
a ferocious scowl, as though he regarded the
dancers as his born enemies, but was forced to
work for them as their slave. His lean yellow
fingers rise in the air with all kinds of antics.

Between the dances he indulges in wild voluntaries,
snatches of valses and other music made
up into a weird-like concatenation, such as the
late Paganini might have indulged in. Late in
the night, or in the morning rather — when the
bottle which the delighted hostess has injudiciously
ordered to be placed between his feet, close
to the pedal, begins to get low, and the effects
proportionately visible — his eyes grow wild, his
fingers more furious, and his galops more headlong.
Sometimes towards four in the morning,
he plays standing up, in a reckless, jovial style,
and muttering snatches of Italian.

The cornet, too, is a player of mark ; very tall,
with dark moustaches, and makes a point of
holding his instrument full towards the public,
in a severe, challenging st3de. He is haughty,
and plays as if he was paying a compliment.
It is a treat to hear him die away altogether in
pathetic agonies in a piece like the ' Waltz of
Love,' and get slower and slower, until he expires
quite tenderly at the close ; and he is
really exciting when he sounds the alarm in the

inspiriting 'Hunting Horn Galop sending everyone
'cross country like good uns. He, too, will
occasionally stand up when it comes to between
three and four o'clock in the morning, a time
when the sobriety of discipline is relaxed, and
at such times indulges in voluntaries and
flourishes of the most wildly impromptu character.
He, too, does not disdain the bottle and
glass between his feet, to which indeed he has
frequent recourse.

The Club Ball was sustained with unabated
spirit to Skipper's stirring music. It was looked
back upon long after with an exquisite sense of
enjoyment by those especially to whom it had
been the one Terpsichorean meal of the year. But
the delights of the night were crowned by the
spirited performance of the cofiUio7i, conducted
in person by a past master of the art, and who
had been thoughtful enough to order all the toys,
decorations, &c., subject of course to the condition
that he was to direct and control.

Ask any professional what he thinks of that
inhuman, selfish, and unprofitable dance. For

this there is a deep-seated feeling of abhorrence.
When this wretched fandango sets in, about two
in the morning, all know what is in store — a
good two hours' spell, without an interval, of
that miserable and almost idiotic tomfoolery,
compared with which the antics of the dancing
dervishes always seem highly rational. That
gathering of stage properties — the wreaths, flags
above all, the ridiculous self-importance of the
gentleman who " leads the cotillion," and gives
more orders than a prime minister, is really the
most imbecile exhibition. Most delightful of allis
the anxiety, the wise folly, or foolish wisdom,
on the face of the leader of the game. When
things are going right he is forecasting what is
to come, consulting hurriedly with the hostess,
who has been told that she must leave all to
him, or let the thing go to wreck. There is a
kind of serious concentration in his manner,
which suggests some great captain, who is called
in at a crisis, and who engages " to save the
country," provided he gets carte blanche, and
must be strictly obeyed. Some of these commanders

lie in bed the next day, exhausted, not
by the bodily labour, but by the mental strain.
To see him thinking a moment, then seizing on
some one and leading him up, putting back someone
else sternly, then hurriedly whispering, then
rushing away and emerging with a stick with
ribbons, or some other nursery toy, carrying it
as proudly as though it were a mace, or, above
all, to note the sheepish helplessness, not unmixed
with pride, of the others — this more
than consoles us for our weary two hours'
fiddling. These cotillion walls never think
of stopping ; it is only when the thing wears
itself out, and the jaded dowagers begin to groan
as the daylight breaks in, that the thing begins
to halt and droop. Otherwise Captain Baby man
has more scarves and flags up-stairs not yet
used, and is rather pettish at being interrupted.

But as certain conditions are requisite to seethe
Abbey of Melrose " aright," so, to see
Skipper's Band under the most favourable
auspices, it is necessary that you should attend
the country or opulent suburban villa. There

it is in its full strength and glory. Then
Skipper gets what he delights in, and what he
is never weary of invoking, " a cart blench."
When the owner of the opulent villa begins to
question or make inquiries as to the conditions
of the arrangement. Skipper, knowing his man,
invariably quenches discussion in a lofty way by
saying, " Leave all to me, and only give me
cart blench, and I will take care that you
needn't mind having the Prince of Wales himself
here." This loyal allusion, and the cart
blench, generally overcome all scruples.

At the luxurious villa the arrangements are
usually in the al fresco style — lanterns ** glinting
" through the trees — (a young lady used
this very expression) — Skipper is commonly at
such entertainments, almost sitting on his fiddle,
disposed in a little ante-room off the drawing-room,
the piano being drawn across the door,
Spongini thundering away in the centre, whilst
all fiddle and tootle behind, forming a graceful
and pyramidal arrangement, of which Skipper
himself is apex. Skipper usually 'leads'' on

these great occasions, violin in hand ; but this
is little more than a phrase of courtesy, for,
curious to say, he is but an indifferent musician,
and it is more his manner, and connection with
the wealthy aristocracy, that lends Skipper's
Band its prestige. Skipper always furnishes
the '■ engagement cards," programmes, &c.,
models of graceful treatment, decorated with
coloured cupids attired to suit the tropics, and
perfumed by the ubiquitous Rimmel, with more
prominence given to the name of Skipper, and
of Skipper's Band, than even to the cupids.
They generally run somewhat in this way :

Programme.

Skipper's Band.

•

1. Quadrille, " May onaise " Skipper.

2. Valse, " Hamadryad " Scoff.

3. Polka Mazurka, '^ Swim-swum" . Skipper.

4. Lancers, " Feel - Mahmoud," composed

for H.R.H. the Ranee-johanna's
garden party . . . Skipper.

5. Valse, " Lumps of Delight " . . Spongini.

&c. &c.

VOL. II. c

SKIPPER'S BAND.

The music of the above may be had of Messrs. Dong and
Minim.

Nor is this all. Before every dance there is
hoisted on the piano a sort of cardboard banner
of large size, on which is displayed the name
of the dance, but in even more conspicuous
letters, the collective title of the performers,
thus :

False, " Languishing Eyes."
SKIPPER'S BAND.

In this ingenious way the name of Skipper's
Band becomes, as it were, indelibly imprinted
on the dancer's mind ; and when a helpless
hostess consults her friends on the ball she i.^
going to give (as only helpless hostesses do),
they always say, " Oh, of course you will have
Skipper ! " The pure aristocracy would not
tolerate this ingenious mode of making the
music prominent ; but Skipper looks chiefly for
opulent clients, and plays always, as he says,
for City legs," the proprietors of which can
best discharge his rather heavy bill :

To attendance with Skipper's Band — £ s. d.

twelve musicians 2510

Two hundred scented fancy programmes 10 10

To hire of cabs 110

To Mr. Skipper's personal attendance . 3

To one dozen enlarged card programmes 10

40 11

But far more than this is the professional
visit down to the county race, or opening of
town-hall ball, to which Skipper's Band repairs
five-and-twenty strong. It is then, something to
see Skipper standing in the centre of the gallery,
with the privates of his regiment behind him,
leading away ferociously like Sir Michael Costa,
making believe that he is accountable for those
crescents, fortes, and piano, and that '' light
and. shade," for which the local newspaper so
praises " Skipper's Band." On these occasions
we come out with " the brass," " side drums,"
and triangles, instruments of noise, which we
dare not introduce into the metropolis, and which
indeed would not be desired or paid for, there.
Of course the dancing is kept up till six in the
morning, but still we are prepared to use or to



lose the whole night, so it makes little difference.
How they do cut out the work, while the Band
brays, and drums, and fiddles, above the crowd
below — an imposing sight — tumbling and rushing
round with a noble ardour ! After supper,
when the hunting gentry have drank a good
deal, it is like steeple-chasing, and Skipper, as he
says (with a confusion of metaphor though),
takes off the break and lets the musical mainsheet
go with a run. Then spurs are put into
violins, and all take the " Eun-a-Muck " galop
violently cross country. Then is the time, if
you want to see us in our glory, to observe the
performances of Skipper's Band.

As Conway and his companion talked together
in a dreamy and romantic fashion, there was
appealing to them from within a soft pathetic
wail — muffled and distant— overborne now and
again by the patter of the dancers' feet, and the
rustle of whirling dresses. It was the Waltz —
the last waltz — that was winding out. This
recurrence irresistibly attracted, and at last
forced them to listen.

The beautiful melodious melody then in favour
very sad and pathetic, as if expressing lament
for all happiness gone and never to return — was
pealing oat. It seemed not to begin formally,
not yet to have an end — it might be long drawn
out in its linked sweetness for all the successive
hours. For this is the special property of some
fascinating measure — it dies away, but returns
again and again, ever welcome from the brief
absence. We know that it is at hand, for
what has intervened begins to las: or floor • it
halts, grows undecided, and then the sad refrain
is with us again.

Conway and his companion listened silently
to this pathetic inspiration, then in high fashion
' Lost Joys ' it was called — which rose and
fell, and wailed out its sad note a while. The
reckless dancers whirled and whirled round in
tumultuous eddies. It had crone on now for more
than a quarter of an hour.

Listen ! " said Conway to Jessica, ^' it comes
back again — ' Lost Joys,' indeed. I don't know
how it is, but on me some favourite waltz has all

the effect of a poem or a play. It seems, indeed,
of a high and even celestial interest. I used
to be fond of flying round with the rest ; but
listening is as o-reat an entertainment. It
seems something like the feeling of dreaming.
When the cruel crash breaks in after the sad
strain, it has something ferocious, like the interruption
of a 'witches' Sabbaths T could look on
and listen for hours ; but of course the sense
is inseparable from the motion, the lights, the
flowers, the beautiful dresses. If I were a poet,
it would inspire me."

Jessica said nothing, but looked on and
listened.

When I speak of myself — and I do a great
deal, I know well," he went on—" I am certain
I am only speaking of what others feel — and this
is often the best apology for egotism. But a
valse seems ever to reflect, to bring back, strange
impalpable thoughts and feelings of past life,
much as perfumes are said to do. Often, as I
listen I hear the soft voice, now gone, and
never to be heard again, and feel the touch of

the vanished hand, the scene all lights up again,
the figures and faces flit past. Listen ! even
now, as that recurrent strain, ' Lost Joys,' steals
in again — "

He paused, and Jessica found a strange fascination
in listening.

It is odd that several, strange, dramatic incidents
in my own life have been performed to
such music ; but unnaturally, you will say. A
ball — for the young and beautiful, with its soft
lights, flowers, and glitter, has something celestial.
To those more experienced it seems at
least like an epitome of the world ; everybody is
hurrying or flying by ; every one is concerned
with himself ; cares are forgotten, pleasure rules.
Ah, yes," he added, with a sigh ; " what a background
! romantic enough for such incidents."

Then he began his story.

MR. Conway's autobiography.

I SUPPOSE the hour must have been well-nigh
two o'clock in the morning, as the ball rages
on, and I leant listlessly and rather unsympathetically
against one of the snow-white pillars
of the great hall at Charlemagne Abbey. It
was all bathed in light, which seemed like a
white and brilliant mist : all tulle, flowers,
jewels ; while airy figures, twirling and whirling,
fly past. The floor has grown like ice from the
polishing of three or four hundred pairs of feet,
and is, indeed, " smooth as Satan," a waiter
remarked. At this hour of the morning the
eyes grow a little weary ; and one who looks
on abstractedly, as I was doing, finds a not
unpleasing dimness stealing over them, the

• successive rows of dancers as they fly by
seeming to take the shape of whirling rings,
while the orchestra, aloft in the gallery, stimulates
the many twinkling feet. Late, or early, as it
is, the music is unflagging, will be unflagging
until the end — until the moment it shall please
the rapacious dancers to grow exhausted.

Yet I was weary, having beaten time with
my eyelids until time has beaten me, and find
the hours dragging on heavily enough. Indeed,
these shows were not ** in my line," as the phrase
goes ; and it was only the pressing instances
of my old friend, " poor, dear, good Lady
Charlemagne," as elusive friends styled her,
that forced me to this merry-making. Her
handsome daughter, Edith Charlemagne, was
to be married to the young Clovis, Lord St.
Giles's eldest son ; and the happy pair had been
dancing together the whole night, to the admiration
of the room. She was rather flushed with
the exercise and responsibilities of the ball ; for
she had never stopped save for such refreshment
as she found in his company in some sequestered

nook, which had to be administered often enough.
They were very young — he boyish, she girlish —
and were enjoying themselves ; and there was
entertainment enough in the spectacle for such
sober persons as I was — far too sober as I, no
doubt, appeared to Miss Edith, who had had
her '' baptism of fire "that year; in short, had
been " brought out."

Yet there were days — not very long before,
too — when I enjoyed this Dervish dance as much
as any of those now whirling round. But, with
something like a weight of lead laid on your
chest, it is difficult to import the proper airiness
and poetry of motion. But here was my friend
Lady Charlemagne beside me, glad and happy.

I am so proud to have you here," she said ;
^' and it was very good of you to come down ;
for I know it was an effort. Is not Edith looking
well to-night ? I suppose one of these days she
will be, as I am to-night, watching her handsome
daughter, and thinking how cruel it is to have
to give her up."

So it went on the rather monotonous round

now quadrille, now lancers, now waltz and
headlong galop, wild Balaclava charges ; the
more sober dances were gradually becoming
extinct, to the annoyance of what might be
called the Quakers and Methodists of the ballroom,
who, with their discreet measures, were
coolly put aside in defiance of all law and agreement.
At that time of night, to be " wading "
patiently through steps and slow measures was
unendurable ; and, accordingly, here were the
greedy waltzers and gaolers devouring dance
after dance ; while the aggrieved quadrilles,
partners on arm, looked on, rueful and indignant.
And now I see the leader of the same bending
down in earnest talk with a sort of deputation,
who had waited on him, and now came back
with alacrity and rejoicing, ready for fresh
exertion.

Hark ! What was it that kindled for me a
sudden interest in the proceedings ? that made
the nerves thrill and the pulse quicken ? Where
had I heard it ? How it rose, and fell, and

swelled, and died away; growing tender, pleading,
and pathetic ; now turning into a tierce
clash and whirl, as though impelled by despair
and driven by furies ; then becoming soothed
into piteous entreaty, and winding out in a
dying fall. It was, in short, one of those divine
waltzes, as they may be called. Where, when,
had I heard it ? There are a few of these
strains that seem part of your life, like a poem.
It may have happened that one of those tender,
complaining measures has been the accompaniment
to some important act. It is then no
long-er mere vulgar music. Some, such as the
newer German waltzes, touch strange mysterious
themes, reaching beyond this earth. The time
of night or morning, when it winds out, the
lights whirling round in rings, the bewildering
motion, the floating sylphs, the nebulous tulle,
the flowers, the jewels, all join to make up
the scene of wild festivity, and it would be
enough, one might think. But the artful
enchanter then suddenly dissolves into a sad
and pathetic strain, for, merry as the dance is,

a merry tune would not be in keeping ; alternated
with the crash of cymbals, and, desperate protest
as it were, appeal for mercy or reckless defiance,
to be succeeded even by grotesque and reckless
antic, all, however, to revert to the pleading
of the original strains, led by the sad and
winding horn ! Such was the " last waltz " of
this night, which thrilled me, yet seemed to
thrill the leader himself far more, who led, as
some one near me said, now " like a demon,"
and now like a suppliant begging for mercy.
What was it ? Where had I heard it ? It was
charged brimful of as^itatinp^ memories. Someone
near me said flippantly, " Oh, that's the
new waltz, — pretty, isn't it ? " And, looking
down on the card, I read —

*walter," Lost Joys.

Where had I heard it ? For it was music that
seemed to belong to other spheres far away,
and to time quite distant. There it went again,
returning to the original sad song — a complaining
horn, full of grief and pathos, which invited

such dancers as were standing: or sitting down
to turn hurriedly, seize their partners, and once
more rush into the revolving crowd ! It was
slow, and yet seemed fast as the many twinkling
feet of the dancers. The leader, mournfully
sympathetic, beat time in a dreamy way, as
though he were himself travelling: back into the
past, searching up some tender memories. Then
he turns briskly, and calls on his men, dashing
into a frantic strophe, with crashing of cymbals
and grasshopper tripping of violins ; dancers
growing frantic with their exertions, and all
hurrying round like bacchantes ; the strain
presently to relax and flag a little, as though
growing tired — to halt and jerk — then, after a
pause, the sad horn winds out the original
lament in the old pathetic fashion. For how
loner would it o^o on ? He knew well its
charm, and was unorrudo^ins^ in his allowance —
would probably go over and over it again, so
long as there were feet able to twirl. T know
I could have listened till past the dawn !

Suddenly there was a rustle of a dress, and

there came tripping up to me, to rouse me
out of this melodious dream, not the stately
Edith with her eternal question, but a figure
one that I knew well, and that I had not
seen for long. How I started ! It was like an
apparition. •

"What I" I cried. '' Yoic here? When did
you arrive ? How did you come ? What does
it all mean ? "

She laughed, and said, in her musical voice,
It's a mystery. We are only just come. I
was at another ball ; and hush ! " she adde,
stolen away from bogie mamma 1 "

Such a merry laugh as she gave on that.

But I heard that you were down at Nottingham,
buried in the country. Well, it is a
surprise."

Glancing at my own reflected face that was
beside me, it was curious to see how bright and
eager it had become. But the apparition itself
was sufficient to account for any change.

Now, conceive one of the most dainty, piquant
little figures, with the most delicate and refined

outline, an oval face, bright, animated, and
questioning, with a small, exquisitely-shaped
head. The fashion in which this head was seton
the neck would have delighted a sculptor ;
and with its every turn came a series of beautiful
curves and hollows. Such was Belle Cottinc^rham

o

" Blue-Bell," as her friends spoke of her, from
her fancy for ribbons of that colour, which were
always in her hair or fluttering from the back
of her neck, like a navy pennant — gay, animated
little soul, surely intended to live in the bright
light of the sun or in the soft yellow sheen
of the ball-room. She was her mother's only
daughter, and was supposed to have been spoiled
and humoured, but, in reality, was not, as I well
know. Lady Louisa Nottingham, a busy woman
of fashion, and of enjoyment, was too much
engrossed in her parties and in contriving a
brilliant match for her son, to take the trouble
of performing any such process on her child —
a chartered truant, who went on visits from
house to house, where she was ever welcome.
People wondered that this manoeuvring lady did

not set more store by her airy, elegant daughter ;
or did not, as it is said on the turf, " declare
to win" with such a high-bred little Arabian.
Neither did Miss Blue-Bell herself take much
thought about the matter. She had none of
the mercantile views of her sisterhood, though
she had a fine fortune, and might look for an
alliance as fine. She only thought of her little
gaieties, of the smiles and kindnesses that were
sure to meet her everywhere, of whatever " fun "
was going ; for she was a graceful little tomboy
in her way, and always found herself rather stiff
and cramped among the fine folk when set up
6)1 evidence. Accordingly, there was a number
of good, honest country folk — somewhat old-fashioned,
perhaps, and in old-fashioned country
houses — who loved and made much of this
bright little soul. Among them she found a
great deal of old-fashioned but hearty laughter,
with traditional jests which were repeated faithfully
on each recurring visit, and became thus
jokes " in amber," and which the little heroine
grew to think must equal those of the best wits

VOL. II.

of the day. These turned chiefly on the admiration
of an elderly bachelor or two for herself —
one Jack Hamilton, who sometimes blushed when
rallied on the subject ; and this conquest, it must
be said, gave her more genuine pleasure than
the serious devotion of more suitable admirers.

And, on the same principles, her intimates and
chums " were among certain mature though
faithful spinsters, whom the fresh and tender
little creature allowed to cement themselves to
her on terms of impassioned friendship. Indeed,
she had a long and rather troublesome clientele
of obscure personages, who perhaps found their
interest in being thus attached to her, and who
must have been inconvenient at times, but which
she was too considerate to shake off. But in
her soul was the true spirit of romance. She
invested these homely people, because they loved
her, with the most pre-eminent merit ; and she
always repeated, with the greatest delight and
reverence, the little family incidents which she
so enjoyed when at their houses. Never, in
short, was there so natural, so piquant a little

being, one so genuinely loyal and good-natured.
She had certain stately and dignified ways of
her own ; was proud of her race and family ;
and would " sail " up the stairs to an evening
party with an air that was almost haughty.

Now, how did I become acquainted with all
this — I, a very grave being, that seemed to have
been born and cradled in a library, who was
at the Bar, wore horse-hair and a gown, and
scribbled ", abundantly for the press ? To such,
girls might have seemed but a frivolous interruption,
and certainly a distraction. I was
pushing on to a fixed goal, sternly, and not
looking to the right or to the left, but steadily
forward. To one with such views the indulgence
of " feelings " becomes a luxury — such as keeping
a horse or a yacht — which only rich men can
afford. Yet these fine stoical resolutions are
but of little avail as working tools, and often
snap in two like a badly-tempered chisel. Butin
this faith, such as it was, did I go my way.

Once on a time, and at one Christmas, I had
been bidden down to a great house to make

D 2

one of their guests — those "supernumeraries'
which defile across the boards at such places
where pageants of company-visits are mounted.
It was with reluctance that I went, for it was a
withdrawal from the beloved tomes and the
ever diligent pen which travelled backward and
forward like a pedestrian walking his number
of miles in a number of hours ; but there were
influential personages to be there, and there was
something to be gained. So I was persuaded
to go, rather wearily, and determined to stay
no longer than should be strictly necessary.

It was a bright sunny day when I arrived at
the Warrington's great castle. It was deserted.
The family and all the guests were out, bestowed
in various forms of junketing, shooting, riding,
driving, or strolling. The halls were solitary.
I wandered into the front drawing-room and sat
down, to wait for the return of somebody, taking
up a book. Nearly an hour went by, when I
was startled by the sound of voices. This was
alternated with the clearest and most silvery,
yet, at the same time, the softest laugh. It

came nearer and yet nearer. Not that of our
hostess, surely, nor of her dragoon-like daughters.
Suddenly there entered abruptly, or, rather,
flashed in, that bright apparition which I have
so lately described ; only now her cheeks were
glowing, her hair tossed, and a fluttering little
excitement quickened every nerve and motion.
Blue ribbons streamed gaily from her pretty
neck and head, as usual. Behind her was a tall,
cold-looking being, with very black hair and a
very white, sharp-edged nose, sharp enough todo
duty as a ^' cheese-cutter."

She started when she saw me ; then laughed,
as if it was a good joke.

Oh ! I know. You're Mr. Edea-, that they
were expecting."

What I said, or what followed generally, does
not matter ; but she was not shy or put out.
And I recollect that her companion, who was
one Colonel Labouchere, walked over to the
window and kept apart, as if contraries, as the
French say, at finding any one in the room, or
disdaining to notice a stranger.

After a quarter of an hour had gone by, I
confess to being unusually pleased with the
apparition ; in fact, there was something so
brilliant in the tones and colours and motions
of this little fissure that I felt not the least wish
to get back to the heavy book. Then came the
irruption of the chorus — those *^ Delphi guests "
whom the welcome luncheon tocsin had drawn
from all quarters ; or rather, that " noisy
clapper " within, which Mr. Justice Greedy spoke
of long ago, in the play, and which is far more
accurate in giving the time.

I was strangely drawn to her from the first
hour, though there was something very singular
in her mode of treating me. She seemed to
have taken a sort of dislike to me, or, at least,
to have "an imperfect sympathy," as Elia says,
for me ; and this she showed by contemptuous
tossing of her pretty head. This might have
been set down to the promptings of the tall
gentleman with the sharp nose, who assumed a
sort of proprietorship or protectorship in her,
and who — it may have been from a true instinct

had at once set me down as a future obstacle
or trouble in his way. I could see that she
was flattered by this preference and direction,
though in a little awe of the great man. But he
used, when he was 'put out" at something, to
speak to her rather austerely and with reproof —
as, " You shouldn't really do that ; it's not quite
correct." " But I'm not correct," she answered,
with the soft, " roguish " eyes dancing merrily.
I never was, and never will be. I'll disgrace
my family yet, I know''

Oh ! you really oughtn't to talk in that
way," he would say, severely ; " it's very
foolish."

She saw that I had heard all this, and, with
a droll maliciousness, turned it on me.

Look ! there is correctness personified," she
said.

I confess to being annoyed that I should have
been the one that she should have thus depreciated,
and it mortified me ; and I owned to
myself that I was beginning to have a sort of
interest — shall I so call if? — in her natural

waywardness. It seemed to me rather a hard
fate, as there were some there who were quite indifferent
to her, and who, I knew, thought her a
frivolous little creature. And yet, at times, she
abounded in civilities. No doubt this was a
foolish sensitiveness : but still the indifference
was shown in so marked a way. The general
public were good enough to appreciate me, as T
had seen a good deal and had something to
tell, having known remarkable people, &c. But,
so soon as I began to rehearse my experiences,
there was one of the company that became
distraite began to whisper to her neighbours, or
criticise the pictures in a photograph-book.
And yet, all the time, I must own that she was
perfectly good-natured to me, as she was to
every one ; but there was this secret air of
superiority that was inexpressibly mortifying.

Her assiduous aide-de-camp and monitor.
Colonel Labouchere, was, I learned, a very important
personage — heir to Lord St. Denis, a
distinguished soldier, and wealthy. Though of
this cold and rather sardonic temperament, I

Could see that he had marked down the pretty
Blue Bell for himself, but her floating and want
of discipline jarred on him again and again, and
made the sharp-edged nose quiver and shrink
as from an east wind. I could see that it was
with difficulty he could sustain himself on these
occasions, and that he would have been glad to
have entered at once on a lecture. However,
she was submissive ; and, when he told, or asked,
or rather required, her to do something, obeyed
him.

Among the varied company were various
girls, and a number of young men ; with some
wise and mature "jackdaws," as they might be
called, elderly bachelors, who said good things.
But having: long since bade adieu to flirtations
and hopes of success with the fair, jokes and
good wine and dinners were their joys now.
With these Miss Blue Bell was quite at home,
and with old Coke Robin (whose name lent
itself to an obvious jest) in particular, a determined
old joker. And thus there was nothing

but laughter, deva persiflage, and burlesque going
on all day and night. I fancied at times that
my grave ways may have furnished amusement ;
but the little lady tittered on every occasion.
We had games of nights, at which she insisted
on my being made the victim, to be ** put out
of the room," &;c. At last I grew vexed with
myself, and made myself a little remonstrance
in these terms : — '' You are, comparatively speaking,
a goose, or, at least, preparing to develop
into a fine Christian specimen. So be wise intime.
Life is too short." And so very sensibly
I would dismiss the pretty but wayward Blue
Bell from mv thoughts — it cost me a wrench —
and became as rational as ever. In short, it was
plain that there was to be but one little queen
recognized in that house, to whom all must bow,
or at least recognize no other.

Now, having come to a resolution to think
no more of her, I was, besides, rather ashamed
of my original weakness. For now I was able
to assure myself that this was a very trifling
description of object for one like me to have

set my mind on ; and that a philosophical personage
ought to have approved of an article of
a more solid character. Henceforth all her
ways " and devices were viewed in this light,
and I became armed so strong in mine honesty
that I came at last without affectation not to
notice what she was doing. But her proceedings
with the Colonel could certainly be called
extravagant, almost outrageous, so that some of
our prim ladies uttered, with eyes thrown,
one of the " damnatory clauses " of their creed —
Upon my word ! " While I — well, I could at
least congratulate myself on the Spartan resolution
carried out so successfully, and which had
saved me from being distressed by her caprices.
My time, too, had run out ; and on the morrow
I was to go back to grim, bald chambers in
Lincoln's-inn. I often determined never to goon
visits on account of this unpleasant feeling
of the return, which had the effect as though
a van had come and carted away all the furniture
of the modest rooms, they seemed so stripped
and bare.

And one day, when there was an expedition
to Se some ruins, she and her companion
returned when dinner had begun. It happened
that there was a vacant place next to mine,
which the truant had to take. She was not
displeased at the position, I could see : she would
have an opportunity, as she fancied, of amusing
herself with the somewhat " priggish " man to
whom she had such a dislike.

She looked at me with a piquant defiance, as
much as to say —

Now, you see, I am independent ! What have
you to say to this last proceeding of mine, or dare
even to look reprovingly at me at your peril ! "

Instead, I asked her, naturally, about our
expedition, and, with a very innocent air of
curiosity, said I wondered how she could be so
long over her toilet.

I was with Colonel Labouchere," she said.
We stayed behind the rest of the party ; and
alone, too."

Were you ? " I said, smiling. " Happy
Labouchere 1 "

Now you are begin king to sneer," she
said.

Indeed, I am not," I said. " Instead, I
should be congratulatory ; should I not ? Alas !
that I should not see the denouement. I am
going back to my den tomorrow."

She was silent for a few moments ; then began
to speak in her grave way.

What do you mean by the denouement ? ^'

I explained.

I mean that you have a great admirer in
the Colonel ; and he seems to have — well — a
great friend in you."

So, that's your view. Well, as you are
going, we must make up our quarrels ; but you
will forgive me for saying something ? "

'' Making up, and then going to utter one
of your wicked little speeches ! Out with it."

Well," and she fell into a state of smiling
hesitation. " You know, every one says you are
so clever and far-seeing, and all that. Well, I
know I am a foolish girl ; but I don't think you
are quite so far-seeing as they say, or know

human nature very well. But that's only my
opinion."

And she looked at me with a curious side-glance,
and her soft eyelids drooped ; and she
was perfectly right, though I did not see it then.
For the rest of dinner she laid aside all her little
tricks and devices, talking with great earnestness,
so that 1 saw her in quite a new character.
Then I noted that reserve of delicate tenderness
that in her gentle soul betrayed a sensitive



quivering of the upper lip, which now and then
played like a pulse. Then, sitting beside her as
I was, I noted the flowing lines of her form,
the ear, and how" elegant the little head was
set on its support. We grew quite friendly and
interested (I suppose), and at last I said :

** What a pity we had not this little talk
earlier ; I am sure we have had false ideas of
each other."

I know you have had of me," she answered
quickly ; " but my view of you is not changed."

Still, she was very charming. But all this
time the sharp-nosed Colonel was staring at us,

bis cold and rather cruel eyes being scarcely ever
turned from our quarter. '' Ab ! little coquette,"
I thought ; " that is your game, is it — using meas
a stimulant ? ''

That night the two intellectual young ladies
claimed a promise I bad made to show them
some poem or passage (I seemed to myself bigbly
priggisb as I did so), and we were busily engaged
in its discussion, when the little lady swept by
in ber most scornful manner. After that ber
behaviour with the Colonel became outrageous.

As I said, '* Good-night and good-bye ! " sbe
repeated the words in ber prettily scoffing way ;
then added :

'you are not angry with me for remarking
that you are not so acute as your friends say ?
I mean, it is only I wbo think so."

'every good of you to tell me," I said. " I
must only try and improve myself."

Tbe next morning, towards the cold blue
dawn, I was driven away from the castle to
catch ^n early train.

MR. CONWAY 'S AUTOBIOGRAPHY — CONTINUED.

An interval of two or three years followed,
during which we met occasionally at parties, or
the pretty head bent eagerly to me out of a
carriage window as it flew past. These rare
visions set me pondering, and, as it were, faintly
blew the embers of the old fire, and the walls ^
of the cell appeared more bare and dreary for
some time after. Once or twice, by chance, on
entering a room at a dinner party, my first
greeting was from the same bright face, bowing
and bending so eagerly, and with the most
expressive animation. Then we had occasional
confidential talks, and I noticed when I mentioned
the dark Colonel she laughed with pleasure,
as though she liked to hear me speak of the
matter.

*' He is certainly very devoted. You think
it is what is called ' a case don't you ? "

Well," I answered, *' or something that
ought to be one. The materials are there."

"You are such a sagacious person — you should
know."

In this way we met and met again. And,
indeed, I began to own to myself, as I sat at
my long studies in the chambers, that there was
in her a greater and more serious purpose than
I had ever imagined. She might seem volatile ;
but high spirits, or rather high spirit, and
tenderness, lent the charm of earnestness to all
she did. Bright smiles and a sweet honhommie
are often thus unfairly interpreted, and inferiority
.finds a compensation in supposing a frivolous
nature behind. And so I found myself thinking,
and thinking again, of this interesting being.
But, from all I heard and all I saw, it was plain
that she was to be sacrificed to that Colonel.
The Moloch of fashion, which only regards what
it calls a suitable alliance, had declared that it
was a highly desirable thing. Lady Louisa was

VOL. II. E

a priestess, and practised the haute devotion of
that culte. I was sorry, strange to say, to have
discovered that the little heroine was of a more
solid character than I had supposed. But there
were years of what might be called " stone-breaking"
before me — the actual making of the
road I was to travel, and that road led an
altogether different way. Bixi. Had I not said
it ? Such flowers were for those that could
afford to walk in gardens of their own. So
I wisely put all such thoughts aside. Such is
the use of training and having oneself '* in
hand," as it is called.

The next autumn I was on a tour in Germany,
and, passing by Frankfort, put up at the old
E<5mischer Hof, in that quaint town. Looking
from the window, I saw a party of English lady
and gentlemen sightseers stroll by ; and, one of
the gentlemen looking up, I started at recognizing
the razor-like nose and cold cod-eyes of
Colonel Labouchere. He was describing, in his
pedantic way, such objects as they passed, though

every one could see and describe for themselves
what was pointed out. This vision caused me
more excitement than was becoming a philosopher
; but I said to myself it was simple curiosity,
of course. Of course they had come in from
that Hotel de Europe, Homburg. At this time
it was in its highest vogue, overflowing withall
that was brilliant and conspicuous in this
world almost — the Devices, in fact, of the Epicurean
public. Why not, from curiosity, spare a
day to see this Capua ? There would be something
Boeotian instead of philosophical in passing
by such a place when so near. I laughed as I
found these dishonest pleadings drifting through
my mind. '' No," I said to myself, '' let us be
honest and fair, and know what we are doing.
I wish to see if some agreeable people, that I
like, are there."

This I said haughtily, as if quitting some
pettifogging objector who thought he " had me "
there.

So I went out to see Homburg. It was
evening, about seven o'clock ; and there were the

E 2

delightful groves and Bosquets, the sounds of
music coming through the trees, and the crowds
seated in groups, with the great Temple of Play
at the background. I had scarcely found myself
in the midst of this gay scene when my eyes fell
upon her. There she was, with her hat and
flowers more bright and brilliant than ever. She
gave a start, and seemed to be glad ; the
business-like Lady Louisa — the strongest contrast
to her daughter — welcoming me with cordiality,
and giving her reason with the frankest candour —

So glad you have come ! We wanted someone
that would be useful to us ; and I know
you are a good creature."

The nose of the Colonel quivered and grew
even sharper with a sort of disgust.

It was impossible not to be captivated with her,
and so I stayed on from day to day. The little
heroine was in the greatest spirits ; the mercurial
air, the vigorous blasts that came from
the great Faunus invigorated her pulses, and
her eyes danced, full of vivacity and harmless
malice. She was organizing all manner of

schemes and projects for " fun" and amusement.
But I now saw plainly, with rather heavy heart,
that matters were rapidly hurrying to a crisis,
and that the assiduous Colonel was destined
to gain his prize. The great match which the
busy mother had been striving to compass fora
son had been just brought about ; indeed,
it had been for this end that the visit to
Homburg had been planned. The blow had
been struck, the nail driven home ; and, now
that the work was done, there would be an
eagerness to get home and clinch the nuptial bolt
at St. George's, Hanover-square.

This brother was a mere boy, very like Blue
Bell herself, and she seemed to doat on him.
It was plain that she did not like the affair,
which she looked on as a sacrifice ; for the
future bride was a fashionable, hollow-hearted girl.
Indeed, little Blue Bell was almost vehement
in her hostility. She knew there was no love
in the business, and the pretty boy had confided
to her his distaste at beings thus drao^2;ed to the
altar. The mother, who affected a sort of rough

good-humour, and never allowed herself to be
put out when carrying on her plans, would say
to me, " Now, like a good fellow, take away Blue
Bell. You are her friend. She thinks an awful
deal of your sense. Oh, she does so look upto
you ! But, you know, I look only to the
interest of my children ; and poor little Algerian,
who doesn't now know what is good for him,
will bless me one of these days." I could not
resist lending myself to this transparent " dodge,"
as it may be called, though I knew what it was
expected I should do in return. And, after a
weak and pitiful struggle with my pride, I would
pusillanimously end in doing what was suggested.

She was, indeed, the frankest of women.

^' Now, there's my child. Blue Bell, there, Mr.
Conway," she would say to me, confidentially.
You see what she is — what a lovely creature !
She ought to get the first match in England.
But I don't want that. I must, have her rich,
with plenty of luxuries ; for she's a little toy
herself — a kind of ornament that should be put
in. a cushioned velvet case. No struggling or

battle of life. That sort of nonsense would do
for her. She's not made for it. Mr. Conway, you
understand me. For I know a man of your
great sense and judgment will see how the thing
is. So, as for her marrying a poor man or a
man of moderate means, as they call it," she
added, with strong disgust, "a fellow that can
just give her home, and meals, and clothes, and
a beggarly carriage now and then, it's simply
out of the question, and I won't have it."

This is important news," I could not help
saying, " and ought to be spread about far and

near."

Oh, now you are laughing at me ! For
shame ! You, a clever man, to be amusing
yourself at my expense ! I tell you, though,
she likes you. I can see that. There. She's
passing the window now. Go out quick and
join her. Make him jealous. I tell you to doit.
You have my leave. Ha ! ha ! "

There she was, indeed. I could not resist
the bidding of this curious lady, and, after a
moment's hesitation, I went out.

Oh, those walks ! How I recall them now,
eight long years ago. She loved flowers, and
that was the ready excuse. I found out gardens
where such things were to be bought. To my
surprise, I was rather faithless to my duty,
though I put forward some feeble pleas in behalf
of marriages of convenience. It never struck
me how curious it was that the lady should take
such trouble in a matter that was all settled ;
for the lad was helpless in her hands, and the
whole was as complete as though the parson had
spoken the words. Surprising that I did not see
what she was at ; for was I not a person of such
sound sense and judgment ?

My judgment and restraint ! Where were
they now ? Time enough, I thought, to pick
them up again when I got back to the bleak
chambers. Meanwhile, it seemed all a dream,
and this delusive feeling took away the sense
of responsibility. I saw that she listened to all
I said. Some infatuation led me on into putting
hypothetical cases as to Colonel Labouchere and
other admirers, while I would correct any hasty

admission by some careless and indifferent speech,
that made the soft eyes look at me with wonder.
Yet at times I almost thought that she had some
interest in me ; and some of her speeches made
me wonder not a little, and brought me to the
verge of saying something rash. I noticed that
her habitual volatile manner had given place to
a soft shyness, a tender drooping of her eyes
that was inexpressibly attractive. She did not
attempt any of her little smart replies. There
was one day that I noticed this look specially.
I had said something marked about the mortification
of being refused, and that if ever I came
to be in the situation of liking a person, I would
almost prefer the mortification of losing her to
that of running such a risk —

She looked at me with that shy look : the
soft eyes were turned away, and, in a low, calm
voice, she said — I can hear her now —

But such a person would be very stupid
not to know beforehand if he were really liked."

Now, for a person of such sense and judgment,
I own to have been very nearly tempted into

saying something — well, of a responsive kind.
But, instead, there was a dull and awkward
silence, and then the stupid, stupid speech :

"Well, it would not be worth the risk, sO'
I would leave it so."

You, then," she said, a little vehemently,
** I suppose, would like the lady to propose to
you I

She was naturally a little indignant. But I
in my dulness did not yet understand. Still it
made me wonder and speculate not a little.

When we returned on that day we found
mamma a little excited, yet in high good
humour.

Here's a bit of news, my pet," she said.
The Colonel has gone off ! He was here only
half an hour ago in such a fume, and as bitter
as gentian-root. He said you were a regular
flirt, and that it was scarcely proper for you
to be going out in this way by yourself."

Blue Bell looked highly delighted at all this ;
her bright eyes danced about, brimming over
with mischief and laughter.

Well, now," continued the mamma significantly,
" we must begin to pack up too. There's
nothing more to be done. I have settled my
dear boy in life ; and this is very idling. And
of course you (to me) go back to your books like
a sensible man, as you are. Isn't it a shame
for her to make the poor Colonel suffer as she
does ? But he has got the hook in his mouth
still."

Do you think so, mamma ? " said she, delighted.


*' Not a doubt of it. He'll make his proposal
within a week. He's a very good man. 'Pon
my word, I like to see such constancy," she
added, plaintively. '' And, do you know," she
went on, '^ you ought to be very much obliged
to your friend, for the aid he gave. I am, I
know. We owe it all to him."

How ? " I said, astonished.

Oh, yes," she went on ; " you know you
promised me you would make him jealous, eh ?
And very well you did it. Of course, I encouraged
you. But I must say you did not

want much encouragement. You did it right
well."

And she absolutely gave a sort of humorous
glance at me in the enjoyment of her
stratagem.

With all my good sense, I was so taken back
and dumb foundered that I could not answer a
word. Besides, I felt guilty enough ; for had I
not for ends of my own accepted, or seemed to
accept, this rule ? But that face ! The glowing
indignation ! The fair, transparent skin colouring
with indignant red ; the delicately-cut upper
lip quivering and fluttering, as though the nerves
were unstrung ; and the glance of deep reproach
in her soft eyes — these haunted me for long, as
they haunt me now.

" See there ! She's angry with you," said the
mother, delighted. " Come, my child ; he meant
it all for your interest ; indeed he did."

But, you know perfectly well. Lady Louisa,
that I never " — . But 1 had to stop.

No ; of course you didn't."

Blue Bell, after this revelation of treachery,

had turned from me, and quitted the room, as
stately as a little queen.

Her mother laughed outright. " She's very-angry
with you. However, you must make it
up with her before you go. Between you and
me, Blue Bell is a dreadful little flirt. She lives
on it ; it's her food. I can't tell you how many
sensible men, like yourself, she's treated in this
way. But, now recollect, I warned you. Well,
well ; now we must go and pack."

That night was to be a very dismal one. I
felt thoroughly ashamed and humiliated, and full
of silent grief, when I thought of the quivering
lip, and that delicate sensitiveness which had
been so wounded. The next morning I made
my way to the large mansion where they lived.
The little fairy figure was in the stone balcony,
watering her flowers.

'^ May I come up ? " I said.

She tried to frown, to look a little indignant ;
but, at last, she broke into a gentle smile.
What can you want ? But how cruel it was

of you ! " she said, when I entered. '^ Such a
plot ! And I thought you were my friend."

** So I was ! So I am ! " I said, eagerly.
*^ But you couldn't suppose that I acted in that
way J

But you did ! You were very treacherous,
all the same. Heaven defend me from cold,
sensible people, after this ! "

But," I said, " you won't believe me if I tell
you that I did not behave, or mean to behave,
as your mother says I did. I was so glad to
get the opportunity of being with you ; and you
know — what a power you have."

A flash — was it of pleasure 1 — came into her
cheeks. Then she shook her head.

No, no ; that won't do now. It has given
me a lesson, though. You have made me feel
very sore here, I see what you are ; and they
were right in warning me against you. You
were all this time watching me, I suppose, topick
up things to put in your books. But you
might have chosen some one else. I wish you
had. There. Mamma is coming ; so say no
more about it, please."

And mamma did come from the inner room,
with the twinkle in her eye, as though she had
anticipated and enjoyed the whole. She had a
letter in her hand.

Just what I said," she began. " The poor
Colonel writes from Brussels in a wretched state.
You have made the man miserable. Blue Bell,
my pet, that little head of yours has a deal to
answer for ! "

I could see that the mobile lines of the pretty
face could not remain fixed, but instinctively
relapsed into a smile at the thought of this
homage to her powers of mischief.

"But, now, I can't let you stop here," continued
her mother. " We have all too much todo.
So, my dear Sir, you won't mind my
turning you out into the street, or sending you
back to your books. But how clever you are !
Didn't I say it. Blue Bell, only last night ?
You'll be one of the great men of the day, and
I'll be coming to ask you for a place."

There was nothing for it now but to go. So I
took my leave with such dignity as I could

command. Blue Bell said good-bye with a
haughty toss of her head. But when I had
gone a step or two she came to the door and
said suddenly :

Well, perhaps I was too cross. Good-hee !
There ! Shall we not see you in town ? "

The mamma had discreetly withdrawn. For
there was nothing this curious personage enjoyed
so much as havens a honos and indiscriminate
train of admirers for her Blue Bell, at which she
might hint obscurely to her friends. No matter
of what kind or degree they might be, it was
all " fish " for her. '^ Ah," she would say, " there
was that poor man. My little Blue Bell did for
him ! Dying of love — had to quit the country
and go to Algiers."

I was at first inexpressibly mortified at the
part I had been made to play in this little drama,
having been jones, as the French say, on all
sides. So I chose to believe, though T had really
only joked myself. But after a while, when
suffering dreary imprisonment during the long,
long day in the German railway carriage, a sense

of desolation began to take possession of me. I
painted myself in the blackest and most guilty
colours — as the most heartless of beings, while
the image of the little wounded glance kept
rising before me. Then came the speculation,
infinitely flattering, certainly — what if, in my
stupidity, I had flung away a chance, a hope,
which I might have profited by ? All those little
hints in the garden might be interpreted as
pointing to one thing. What folly ! However,
it was at an end now, and should be at
an end ! There was a resolution, fixed, final,
and determined. I should go back to the
loved books — never again to be drawn away
from them.

A month went by ; and there arose a feeling
of curiosity that was almost overpowering. It
surely might be gratified without prejudice to
the " fixed, final, and determined " resolution.
But, no. I had lost my confidence in tiny *' iron
purpose," as I once used to style it, and wholesale
sacrifice was the only cure. I should be a total

VOL. II.

abstainer, and would run no risk of being a mere
occasional drinker.

One day word was brought me that my old
friend Lady Charlemagne was below in her
carriage waiting to see me. I went down at
once.

*' I want you to come to my ball," she said.
*' I am bringing out my daughter Maud. All
the clever people are coming."

*then I have no business there," I said,
impatiently ; for I was sick of the word.

No ; you must come. There are people I
want you to meet. Krudener, the German actor
and you can talk German so well ! "

*' Oh, if you want me to be useftd, that's
another matter."

And I have a number of pretty people
coming — a brilliant girl or two, and some
others."

*' Very well," I said, " I shall certainly come
and — talk German."

Thus did fate entangle me once more ; for I

need not say that theory of " total abstinence "
broke down on the instant, and became contemptible
when applied to actual experience. I
went. It was always impossible to refuse Lady
Charlemagne when she made a point of a thing,
and she " made a point " of everything that she
wanted to be done.

It was a most dazzling affair ; and I was led
to the German performer, and made to carry on
this most embarrassing shape of colloquial intercourse
— viz., conversation with a foreigner of
whom you know nothing, and whom you have
never seen before. We did pretty well, for he
began at once on his " art '^ and its '' subjectivity,"
which, he said, was 'the key to the
acting of our Shakspeare." We English never
could or would understand it. We were too
objective. There was Schlegel, for instance, &c.

It was a very brilliant ball, and Miss Maud
was being exhibited with great effect. The room
was decorated magnificently, and I heard everyone
talking of the music, which was certainly

F 2

enchanting. I looked on and saw the clever
people' pass by. The night wore on. It came
to midnight — supper-time — one o'clock. I would
go away. But here were some late arrivals from

another ball, and

"What did I see afar off? The bright, eager
face, shifting and flashing with eagerness as it
turned from side to side in perpetual animation.
So all attention wandered from the great
Schlegel, and from the gruff tones of the actor,
until at last, with a short " I beg your pardon ! "
I left him plante in the middle of a sentence.
Not, however, to approach, or to repeat the old
blunder — no ; I had some wisdom left — but to
pass by with a short and smiling greeting, enpassant,
as it were, hurrying on to meet some
friends, who were of a visionary kind, as the
reader will understand, and whom I was eager
to join. Close by, was the razor-nosed Colonel.
So the sagacity of the mamma, who was there in
person, had not been at fault, and the offended
truant had returned.

Little Blue Bell was talking with an extraordinary
excitement and vivacity that night.
She was eagerly hurrying to and fro on the arms
of various partners. She passed me with a
smiling and eager greeting, and an air of invitation,
as much as to say, " Let us make it up ! "
But I was not to be, in vulgar parlance, '* sold
again."

You here," I said ; " this is a surprise ! "
Then she was gone.

I was just thinking it was time to be thinking
of going away, when I was attracted by
some excited dancer near me saying to his
partner :

*' Yes ; they are going to play the old waltz.
It's perfectly divine. You never heard anything
so melancholy, and it makes you feel so in spite
of you. They are going to begin now."

What is the name of it — do you know ? "

*' The * Lost Joys ' — a German one."

I was wondering' what sort of a measure could
deserve such high praise, when the soft voice

was beside me. She quitted the arm of lier
partner and bowed him off (he rushed to secure
another for the ravishing waltz), and said to me :

Oh ! I want you to help me. Bo give me
some advice."

She was quite scared. In astonishment, I
waited to hear.

He is going to propose to me to-night. He
is speaking to mamma now. What shall I do ?
I have no one to help me."

But he is an excellent match, is he not ?
And surely you like him."

I hate him ! " with much energy. " It will
kill me. I shall die. He is odious in every
way. What am I to do ? "

But they will not force you to do what you
don't like ? "

They will. I have no strength to resist
them. Mamma says it is for my good, and she
does what she likes. Oh, tell me what to do —
something — anything ! "

All this time the waltz was playing, rising

and falling with a sort of ravishing measure that
thrilled the very soul. I was listening to it as
well as to her ; for, like that soft music on the
stage which accompanies the speech of an actor
in a melodrama, I could see that the strain was
in keeping with all she was saying. It had a
strange effect ; for I said desperately :

I know one resource — that is, if there was
any one you really cared for "

Again the old shy, drooping look in her
eyes !

The " dying fall " of the waltz here swelled
again. It spoke for me, and seemed to suggest
the very words. I spoke them ; and the next
moment I knew by the delicately quivering lip
and the bright smile that that most faithful,
affectionate little heart was mine. The crash of
the " tutti," the cymbals pealed out, and the
impetuous dancers swept by us in a tempestuous
whirl.

The musical tempest of that scene, however,
was as nothing to what followed when the work

of that nio^lit became known. The mamma
threatened with something like ferocity. Had
it been the old days of duelling, I should have
had to encounter Colonel Labouchere on the
field. As it was, the hurricane of vituperation
and menaces that broke over the head of the
hapless Blue Bell was enough to have bent her
to the ground or swept her away. But she was
the most true, gallant, constant, faithful little
soul that could be conceived. She never faltered
or drew back for an instant. She had now cast
her lot, and would have faced a row of rifles in
defence of the cause she had adopted. There
was nothing to be done then, as her mother well
knew", but submit.

Well, it's a bad business, but it can't be
helped. Only I tell you this. You are taking
her from where she would have every comfort
and luxury. She can t do without these ; you
can't give them, and never will. If she suffers
from this, on your head be it ! "

These were ominous parting words, and they

struck rather a chill to my heart, for there was
a certain probability about the prophecy. However,
there was the Blue Bell herself, so bright
and gay, she seemed about to be a living refutation
of the grim prophecy. Still it was with
this maternal benediction that we commenced
the new life.

MR. Conway's autobiography — concluded.

Never was there such a brilliant debutante in
that line. She was like a bird, chirruping all
day long. She brought vast sepulchral-looking
boxes, with all her property therein contained ;
and these were hauled over to Paris, where we
displayed ourselves on the Boulevards, and
other public places ; she, gleaming in the sultry
summer's sun, arrayed in gauzes, and her delicate
charms exciting the admiration of every Frenchman.
Then we repaired to that little green oasis
Baden, whence we finally returned to embark
in the troubles of housekeeping and house furnishing.
Then bes^an that life of strus^orle which
I often look back to ruefully, for we started with
some pretence ; and the burden became heavy

on the ^' bread winner." However, it was all
very delightful, and the little Blue Bell was
charming — ever ready with her bright eyes, at
least with her smile, when the laugh was not
forthcoming ; and we had junketings and expeditions
of all kinds.

But by-and-by — that is, after a month or two
the old nature of the tenant of the chambers
asserted itself. Schemes of advancement, ambitious
views, began to open. There was " a
spur " now, and there were chances of advancement,
and gradually these prospects, becoming
more and more tempting, entailed hard work
and labour from morning till night. Thus,
gradually, only little hurried snatches of companionship
took the place of what had been
nearly the whole day's entertainment. I was
almost always " busy," or engrossed. There
were now debts to be paid and money to be
made to pay them. To these obligations the
little lady, in her affectionate exuberance, had
herself contributed, often presenting herself in
some costly dress by way of *' a surprise " — which

it was in a different sense — when she would
stand before me in delight, asking, '' Well, do
you like me ? Are you pleased with me ? " Who
could be otherwise with her, even with such
inconvenient conditions, for she had the most
wonderful art of unconscious coaxing. But still,
all the same, we sank deep in Madame Outdone's
and her fellow-conspirators' books.

However, I toiled on. Then came a prospect
of getting into a "fat " place ; to secure which
fresh labours and fresh absorption were necessary.
Time became far too precious to be spent
at home in the drawing-room in pleasant prattle,
and so I was out and abroad one half of the day,
and for the other buried in the study, and by no
means to be interrupted. Blue Bell, after some
pouting and tears, came at last ruefully to
accept these new conditions. She had but few
resources in herself, save to look pretty, to be
loving, cheerful, or give a smile, which she had
ever ready, and on every occasion to be produced
at an instant's notice. I say she had nothing
left but to remain in her room, look over her

*' things," then grow weary, and then wait
patiently until the day was over and dinner-time
came, when her holiday began. With that clear
and delicate complexion and finely-cut outlines,
she was delicate and had to watch for suitable
days and seasons to go out. But she maintained
she was really strong. Sometimes she made
piteous protest. " I see so little of you, always
shut up with your books. I am sure I might as
well not be married at all." But though this
gave me a twinge, it always seemed to me that
life was long and labour short ; and when the
last was accomplished and the end gained, we
should be able to revert to the old days and old
happiness. Everything was going so well, that
the goal was not so far off as might be supposed.

One day when I returned home the little lady
came bounding down, her face beaming with
delight.

Do you know who has been here ? " she
cried. *' Only just guess ! You won't guess.
My old friend, and your old enemy, the wicked
Colonel."

That was the name I always had for him.

I suppose I did not look gratified ; but this
only pleased her. He had been most kind and
friendly, and expressed the greatest interest in
myself ; and, in short

He was so nice, and 1 pitied him so, that I
thought, dickey ! it would not harm to ask him
to die here to-day."

This I did not approve at all. I did not like
the man — did not wish to see him ; and, considering
what had occurred, thought it most
undesirable that he should come to our house.
However, she was delighted with the idea, and.
in such spirits that I made no further objection,
and the Colonel came.

It was rather awkward, our meeting ; but, of
course, more for him than for me. The sharp
nose was sharper than ever, and was curled upas
he entered ; but he tried to be agreeable, and
had a good store of anecdotes. And thus our
little dinner passed off pretty well ; but I registered
a declaration that this pleasant intercourse
should cease with the occasion. He thus proved,

during the dinner, a much more rational being
than I had supposed, being gentlemanly and
having laid aside that propensity for " lecturing "
which I had before noticed in him. However, I
was as dry as I could possibly be to him, at some
sacrifice of what was due to an invited guest ;
and under this trial, too, he behaved with a
moderation and forbearance that, I fear, made
his host appear to disadvantage. Little Blue
Bell, at times, must have blushed for me ; but
had she not herself brought it on him ? And
I wished to give serious warning of the folly,
and at the same time uselessness, of going
against what the lord of the house had decreed.
So, when he was gone, on her beginning,
Poor fellow ! didn't you pity him ? " I proceeded
gravely to show the indiscreetness of
the proceeding.

Now," she said, " you are going to be cross
and to scold me. I am sure, with the solitary
life I lead, it must be a relief for me to see somebody.
I never see you. I want some one to
talk to. If I could only see you," &c.

Well, then," I said, "only wait a little. As
soon as we are clear of all our little difficulties,
and have got into port, I promise you shall
then see too much of me. Only have a little
patience."

Really and truly ? " she said, her face lighting
up.

Really and truly."

"Then, that's all I want," she said, with a
strange fervour. " Just to see you — to look at

you ! "

And in this declaration she was perfectly
genuine. And such assurances were always
accepted complacently, and with an amiable
gratification, as being no more than was due to
one of the lords of creation. The lines,

O woman ! in our hours of ease,
Uncertain, coy, and hard to please,

and the rest, scarcely applied to her ; for she
was never " uncertain," and one smile was enough
to chase away any little waywardness and make
her happy for the day.

It was impossible to give an idea of her pretty

ways, which were quite unstudied. I see her
now, as she drives from the door in a hansom
cab, giving a parting salute to the person she
loved in the window, kissing hands with both
hands : an almost Eastern fashion, and done
with her whole heart. I see her, too, down in
her kitchen, with the cook's apron on, and her
little arms all floured, busy, a la Marie Wilton at
the Prince of Wales's, making a pudding, in a
little nervous flutter, her little musical laugh
ringing out at every accident of the process.
So, too, when she would go forth to shop,
having a penchant for certain obscure but busy
streets, where the worst goods were sold, but
which she conceived to be incomparable bargains.

About three weeks went by, and one evening
again I found her in a high state of excitement.

Now," she said, " I have something to tell
you. I know you think that I am stupid, and
can manage nothing ; but I think to-day you will
say I have done what you call a little stroke of
business for you."

What is it ? Let us hear."

VOL, II. G

*^ Yau know Lord Crimson's interest, that you
were so anxious about. I've secured it for you."

*' No ! " I exclaimed in delight.

Yes. He was here to-day, and he has promised
to go down specially to settle it. He's
his cousin, you know."

Who ? "

Colonel Labouchere, of course."

What ! After all that I said to you ! It's
quite clear that you don't care the least for my
wishes."

And, being really mortified and humiliated, I
proceeded to get very angry, and with much
heat declared that she was a perfect child, a
simpleton, without any sense ; I ought to employa
nurse to look after her — with other sarcastic
remarks, which cut more deeply into her gentle
heart than I had the least idea of.

And I did all this for you, and this is my
return," she said, deeply wounded. " I believe
that he really liked me, and that you never did ;
and that mamma was right after all. You only
care for your books," &c.

But I was not to be moved, and a letter was
written to the Colonel coldly declining this
valuable assistance, which, I believed, too, was
not of the value that he supposed.

From the date of this declaration I frankly
confess to feeling a sense of some little uneasiness.
I disdained to own to myself that I could feel
anything that seemed like jealousy. Grim and
hideous word ! Still, there had been a sort of
resentful defiance in the tone in which the little
woman had declared that " she would not . be
treated like a child." I did not understand her
character, which was of this sort ; but she could
be '' led " to do anything — would follow to a
word, a smile, a kiss — but when attempted to be
^' driven " became impracticable. She was too
high-spirited to answer whip and spur.

But now other matters intervened to drive
this idea from my thoughts. We were '' getting
on " in the world. Our expenses increased ; for
the point had come when saving becomes a
worse and almost fatal extravagance. I grew

G 2

more and more absorbed ; during the day, and
until far into the evening, could do little more
than give a hurried nod and smile to the little
woman. Soon it came to be that the walk must
be given up — that which she most prized of all
our enjoyments, and looked forward to during
the whole day. At one time, indeed, in a newborn
fit of method, she had purchased a diary,
and with a new pen, and in her neatest writing,
had made an entry, " Had a most delightful
walk with liimr And this was the only record
she had made in the volume. But with these
engrossing occupations every hour was precious ;
so the walks — even the Sunday one — had to be
cut ofi*. To this she gradually resigned herself.
She was not strong, and could not pace vigorously
to call on female friends and have good
gossips with them ; and the day was not yet
come for our keeping a carriage. So she sat
patiently within doors, reading, and being
amused by such things as ' The Family Monitor '
and other periodicals of the kind. I never
thought of those long solitary hours — or rather

had scarcely time to do so. But I promised
myself, as I often promised her, that, once we
worked free of our little entanglements, and the
desired " place '^ had been secured, then we
should really begin to live and enjoy life. Neither
was it so far off now. Promises, at first airy,
and unsubstantial, had gradually been narrowed
down to definite consistency and point : the
little debts were melting away. It only wanted
one of those long and strong pulls to get clear.
It was now July, and, by an almost accurate
calculation, I estimated that if the long and
strong pull were continued, by the month of
December we should be free and happy. How
she delighted in the anticipation, smiling and
chirruping with pleasure !

And after that I shall really and truly " — a
favourite phrase of hers, and she had a little
*' taste " of a lisp, which made it sound " really
and twooly " — " and after that I shall have you
all to myself ? "

Beyond fail. I bind myself honourably."
Ah ! you know very well " — she would goon

— '^ that one little look from you is all that I
ever ask ! "

The great feature in our lives was "the
PLACE." We talked of the place, fancied ourselves
in the enjoyment of its emoluments, spent
the same buying new bonnets, seal skins, and
even thought of keeping a small yacht on it.
By this it will be seen that we were of rather a
hopeful turn, and shared the sanguine nature of
the lady with the basket of eggs. A great man
had promised faithfully that if the opportunity
came he would ^' put in a word " for us ; and he
was such a great man that this word was better
than another's bond. When or where this
word " was to be put in was a little indistinct ;
still, there was the promise. The present actual
incumbent of the place was what is called
shake," so we would probably not have long
to wait.

We were journeying on thus steadily to the
wished-for point when little Blue Bell, who was
sadly incautious, and had but a frail chest,
caught a slight cold, which led to a cough and

to the visit of Sir Rufus Parker, the physician of
fashion, who produced a dry smile on his crab-apple
face, and, with his creaking voice and
robin-redbreast head, gave pleasant warning that
we must take care, and not overdo it. No
going to parties, or low dresses, for the present ! "
such speeches, with the pleasure of the attendance
of the swinging carriage with the red or
yellow wheels, amounting to the whole remedy
and treatment these august practitioners can
furnish. These formalities went on for sometime,
and little Blue Bell would dress in her cap
and invalid jacket for his visit, and was delighted
with the charming man who came to see her.
She appeared to grow better, and the great man
was satisfied with the progress made, and said
again, a la Robin Redbreast, that 'ewe must take
care, and not play tricks with ourselves. No
decollete business for the present." I was, of
course, bamboozled, and inspired with due confidence
; and so we settled that our pretty pet
was growing better, and must get well. For
had not Sir Rufus said so ?

Again I became engrossed with my books, and
*' THE PLACE " was drawing nearer and yet
nearer. Once we passed December, hey for universal
holiday and junketing, and the " repose
with dignity ! " The little lady was down-stairs,
looking worn and tired ; but the soft eyes were
as bright and loving and slyly roguish as ever.
Perhaps I fancied, indeed, that she was a little
inclined to make too much of these things. But
she was in great spirits. She had obtained a
promise that we should make a brief little excursion
in the summer, were it only for a fortnight,
to the country. A year or two before, I had
lighted on a little rural abode — only a few miles
from London — a kind of Tudor cottage, kept by
some homely folk, and nothing very magnificent
in accommodation, but whose small windows up
in the gable were overgrown with honeysuckles
and green flowering plants. The two brief weeks
spent here was the enchanting spot in her
memory, and she was never weary of recurring
to those happy, rustic days. Well, we should
go there once more; 'rand there," she says, " I

shall have you all to myself." The anticipations
were boundless. So, setting off one morning to
engage it, I found, to my dismay, that the
homely folk had gone, that the house had been
half-pulled down, enlarged, rebuilt, and was
now an opulent citizen's villa. I recall her little
face so blank at this cruel news, which seemed
to destroy, as it were, the old association itself.
She did not care to go anywhere else, and so we
remained where we were, and I was ready to
accept her ready excuse that " it would do
later."

About this time a great lady gave a ball, to
which it was difficult to secure an invitation,
and for which an influential friend, who took an
affectionate interest in Blue Bell and her ways,
sent us an invitation. I considered it so mucha
matter of course that she would not go that
I made no remark on the subject, beyond saying
that it was very good-natured of the lady. It
was, besides, a long way off. At the moment,
indeed. Blue Bell herself had not an idea of such
a thing, and looked wistfully at the card.

What fun it would be," she said ; " and how
I should like to be there ! " But that was out of
the question.

again, the press of business was growing very
strong and absorbing, and the " friends at court "
were more and more encouraging as to prospects.
So, of course, I worked on with enthusiasm, and,
as it were, " put off" my sweet pet and all her
ways to the happy time that was coming — when,
in shorter and more prosaic phrase, I should be
able to attend to her.

With the same view and the same hope, she
bore her gloomy detention in the little room
above, the long weary days going by tediously.
It was now the end of October, and the fogs of
November were at hand, so there were days
when she was not to be allowed out ; yet she
bore it all cheerfully, and was always ready with
her greeting: smile.

It was one evening towards the close of the
week when I was hurrying home from business
to take up other business waiting for me, when
in the shadow I saw the figure of a gentleman

come out of our house, and, after stopping a
hansom cab, get in and drive away. This gave
me time to approach, and then I made him out
distinctly. It was the intrusive Colonel. There
was not much in such an apparition ; but still it
gave me the renewal of uncomfortable feelings ;
for Blue Bell had grown a little lazy in seeing
people, and found the trouble of going down to
talk to visitors too much. The consigne latterly
had been, *' Not at home ! " However, I came
to a gallant resolution. I must not be " cross,"
or " worry " her. So I would try and look indifferent,
or even pleased, if I could, then she
would tell me all that passed. She had been an
invalid, and was not strong.

Down she came to dinner, for which she
always dressed as though there were two or
three guests to arrive — the little coquettish cap
and the tiny frill, out of which her delicate neck
emerged with a curve like that of the stalk of
a graceful flower, and of which she consumed
some hundreds of yards in the year ; for she
knew the effect on the one she loved, and for

whom were all these pains taken. Down she
came, I say, and in a little flutter. But not one
word did she say of the visitor ! This seemed
strange. However, true to my resolution, I
made no remark. But when I went to the
study, it furnished food for unpleasant thought.
I at last supplied myself with an explanation.
She knew that " I would be making a fuss ; that
I would not understand, &c. So it was better
to say nothing about it." This was hardly satisfactory,
but it was the best that could be offered.
Three or four days later an idea struck me,
when I was out " on business," but of which I
may have been a little ashamed — viz., to return
home at an unexpected time ; that is, towards
the middle of the day. As I let myself in I saw
there was a letter in the letter-box, which I
found was directed to her, and had a good-sized
L " on the envelope. This made me start.
For a moment the temptation came on me to — ;
but I forbore. No ; I would not make it too
serious, but would wait aud see how things
would turn out, and even hatch, if you will.

That evening again not an allusion to the
letter ; but the little lady was rather gloomy and
put out' and she spoke very little. As I
turned these things over, determined all the
while not to be suspicious, some warnings of her
mother came back on me. " Don't think of
locking her up or doing the grim rowdy, for
Blue Bell won't stand it. She's too high-spirited
for that. If you try it, mark my words, she'll
give you the slip." I had laughed at this notion
of the old matron, but it now seemed to me, of
a sudden, to have a strange sense of probability.

When I saw her again she was full of eagerness
and excitement.

It's very dull," she said, " being shut up
here. I wish I had some little amusement.
You know it's very hard."

'what would you like?" I said. 'have
you no visitors ? "

Oh, I should like to go out to parties.
Every one is going to this ball."

That," I said, " you may put out of your
head. It would be sheer insanity. Mind ! " I

added, with assumed sternness, " I am determined
on that, for your own sake. Why do you
want to go 1 "

Oh, I want to go. I like to go. I have a

reason."

I thought of this for long afterwards. Why
should she wish to go, and take this sudden
fancy of being at the ball ? Some way, I associated
it indistinctly with that here noir of a
Colonel, whose image I perpetually conjured upas
throwing out artful hints which would quite
suit her impulsive character, making her think,
perhaps, that she was aggrieved and neglected.
Why I associated such devices with him I
know not ; for, as I have said, he had impressed
me favourably, and seemed to have
accepted his defeat in a plain and straightforward
way.

All this, however, led to a certain reserve on
my side, which seemed to wound that gentle
little heart, as though she could not understand
what grounds there were for this change
in me.

"Don't be cross to me. Now you are not
going to be cross to me'' But I remained, if
not " cross," at least grim and moody.

Suddenly there came news as to *' the place .'^
One morning, as my eye fell on the black list in
the Times, I saw in it the name of my patron,
my sheet-anchor, the fountain whence was to
flow the long-hoped-for, long-expected honour.
At this cruel disappointment, which destroyed
the artful labour of years as a gale sweeps away
in a night so many hundred feet of a pier that
has taken months to make, I almost sank into
despair. Little Blue Bell was at hand, and took
it in her light, airy way.

'* How unfortunate ! " she said ; " but it may
not be as bad as you think. You are certainly
unlucky."

This little speech made me lose patience.

You care very little," I said, bitterly. " You
have no anxiety or responsibility. You don't
feel these things, for you have not to face the
difficulties."

I saw the tears come into her soft eyes. I

never could resist these tears. She only
repeated :

It may not be as bad as you think. And
now, dont be cross," in her most pleading tone.
Ever was she thus tender and gentle. So I
dismissed the Colonel from my thoughts.

But it was a sore thing thus to have to begin
again — to lay a new train — spread fresh nets.
As I said to her, rather bitterly, all our dream of
repose was now at an end, and that I foresaw
clearly I was to be a drudge all my life. The
sense of disappointment was too much for me,
and it was long before I rallied. In this desponding
state I sometimes forsook " my Sweet,"
though now I used to call her ''my Bitter," and
used to go and dine at the club, more to have an
opportunity of brooding over my ill-luck than
for seeking sustenance. Perhaps I thought that
the little woman treated the matter too much
with a " light heart," and was not made to be
troubled with the buffets of fortune.

On one night, in this low state, I thus repaired
to the club, remained there a little late, conning

over the disheartening question, How was I, as
it were, to begin life again ? and, arriving at no
solution, proceeded home moodily. It was about
eleven o'clock, and I went up, according to time-honoured
and never-infringed-upon custom, to
see my little woman and have a few moments'
talk. The maid was a little embarrassed.

Please, sir, the mistress has gone to the
ball."

'gone to the ball ! "

I could only repeat her phrase. I was struck
as of a heap ; for in her the act signified far
more than in another, and was even portentous.
I felt a sort of chill at my heart. There was a
mad folly joined to the disobedience ; for there
was a bitter, cutting east wind abroad, a single
stab of which was enough to bring death to a
delicate chest.

It was really a stunning blow — the defiance
from one whose whole raison d'etre was love and
dependence, and complete self-abnegation for
that love. The worst was, that behind I could
see the shadow of that ill-omened figure, the

VOL. II. H

Colonel. Yet I was not angry, but I deplored
the cruel wrecking of what I had so foolishly
fancied would stand for ever — namely, that
sweet and tender devotion. Then the sardonic
speech of her mother recurred to me :

Mind my warning. Blue Bell must be led,
not driven ; or, one of these days, she'll play you
a trick."

And here was one of these days, and here was
the trick played.

I sat up late that night, and heard one and
two strike, until at last nervous shadows of even
some worse catastrophe began to darken my
disordered imagination. Then the carriage
stopped at the door. I was preparing a silent
and reproachful reception, a stern *' Not a word
on the subject to-night, we'll talk of this in the
morning."

When, on the door being opened, the east
wind whistled in through the hall, and with it
entered and stood before me a brilliant little
vision of beauty, glittering with jewels, and
diamonds sparkling on her snowy neck, and

flowers setting off her hair. The bright creature
stood smiling and " corrupting " at the door,
conscious of the effect ; and, in a tumult of
delight at the result, made her old speech, looking
down at her neck, smiling and laughing :

Do you like me ? Are you pleased loitJi me ? "

Before I could reply she poured out all these
speeches — " Am I a foolish little thing ? Do I
want ballast, as you say ? Am I a child that
will never get through the world ? Answer me
all that first, before I tell you a single thing."

I sighed, and smiled as I sighed :

It's no use being angry. Ah ! but why did
you go against my wishes, in that way ? '*

I told you that I had a reason for going.
Oh, such a reason. Wait until you hear it."

I don't care about it now. But I will
forgive you all, especially for your looking so
pretty."

Her face lit up with uncontrolled delight.

You think that % You're not joking ? You
think that I look well — you are proud of me ? "

'' It's no use denying it," I said, still sighing.

H 2

You will always be a little plague, but I love
you all the same, because I believe you love me.
Only tell me this : but that couldn't have been
he wasn't there — that man ? "

To be sure he was. T wouldn't have gone
if he hadn't been there."

Here I grew a little angry.

If I thought that "

Ah," she said, with an inexpressible abandon.
But I can't carry it on longer. We've got it
the place ; and I went to get it ! And it's all
been a regular plot, at which I have been working
for a long time. But the place is yours ;
and now, darling — darling, we're to be happy at
last, really and truly ? "

It was, as she said. Since the day of the
disappointment she had been planning and
planning, and had taken her old friend into
confidence. He was well acquainted with the
successor of the Lord that had died so inopportunely,
and introduced Blue Bell to him. She
used her little stock of captivating arts so successfully
that on the night of the ball she succeeded

in obtaining the promise. The only
drawback was that the good-natured Labouchere
-^not so black as I had painted him — was going
away to the East, perhaps never to return. The
place was mine — ours !

But at what a terrible cost. I close my eyes
and turn away. Oh, faithful, constant, gallant,
true-hearted, loving little soul I Her breath of
life, I do believe, was the breath that I drew.
But the cutting east wind of that night finished
the work that had begun imperceptibly Long
before. I dare not dwell on these closing scenes.
Save that I will not shut out the vision of the
sweet little figure, propped up with pillows, her
favourite dainty little cap and blue ribbons, and
blue lace carefully put on to the last, and all forme
! One little whisper of hers was more touching
than anything that has ever found its way
into a novel. To my saying that I had worried
and hurried her gentle little soul sadly, but
that a look was enough to bring her to me, no
matter how cross I had been, she said softly, but

fervently, " / could not help it, I teas so fond of
your

Sweet, gallant, loyal, tender little soul ! True
to the death ! So she faded out of this cruel life,
leaving[ a cold, aching blank behind her.

The Waltz was still rising and falling in that
old entrancing and ravishing measure. The
whirling dancers were indefatigable,

You are not listening to me," said Lady
Charlemagne. '* You have not heard one word
I have been saying. Now, now," she added with
a warning voice, " you promised me, recollect !
You must turn away your thoughts from the
past, and try and forget. It's three years
aQ:o.

It was that waltz," I said, with a. rather
faltering voice. " It brought it all back. It
was played one night, when "

I know. We won't think of it any more.
They say the associations of pathetic music are
stronger than anything else. There ! give me

your arm, and well go down to supper. Good
gracious ! it's broad daylight ! "

And we quitted the room slowly, pursued by
that wild strain, with its dying fall of the ^ Lost
Joys ' Waltz. — It seemed the Requiem of little
Blue Bell !

THE RIVALS.

Mr. Conway soon learned a great deal about
the two young heroines of St. Arthur's. He
heard their whole history, from the school
upwards, but in the shape of two different
stories. On one side he 'heard : She saved her
life at that place, watching her, following her,
like a dog, worshipping her, " doing " every
lesson for her. The heiress, when she got
rich, threw her slave over in the shabbiest,
meanest way. There was a good deal of
jealousy, too, at the bottom ; for Miss Jessica
always came in Miss Panton's way, and was
most admired. From the aristocrats of the
place he heard : That parson's daughter was
a forward, self-sufficient girl, always pushing

herself to the front, preaching radical stuflp about
the poor being as good as the rich. When her
friend got rich, she determined to take possession
of her, to stick to her like a burr ; which
plan the good sense of Miss Panton saw through,
and with very proper spirit resented. The
parson's daughter had never forgotten this
rebuff, and ever since had been trying to
revenge herself.

He knew perfectly how to translate this stuff.
The true version of the Panton party should
be something of this sort : " Spoiled child,
growing into a spoiled woman, with quick
passions and humours. Much pride, which
made her fancy she detected a wish to make
the most of small obligations, the feeling of
being; inferior in sense and intellect, though so
much superior in wealth." For the ugly portrait
of Jessica he substituted the following; : " A
high-spirited girl, cast upon a desert island.
A vile wind-bag of a father, everybody about
her, below her in wit and acuteness ; full of trust
and affection, and having foolishly thought she

had found some pearl of price in a very ordinary-nature,
had set her whole heart on embellishing
and beautifying the same. Bitter disappointment
at the fall, and shattering, of what was
only a plaster image — a protest against the
unfair and haughty advantage so inferior a mind
could take of her." Mr. Conway was quite
satisfied with this analysis, which he flattered
himself was superior to the rude judgment of
"the rustics." So interesting indeed did he find
the process of observation, that though there
was a general flutter among the yachts now that
the racing was over, he thought he would remain
a day or two " longer — that india-rubber period
which, in the hands of the purposeless, can
stretch from hours to months.

Panton Castle was exceedingly valuable to
the neighbourhood, either as a show place for
the rustics and tourists, or for the gossips as
something to talk about. The house, pictures,
gardens, &c., were nothing remarkable ; and the
tourists, generally, ought to have come away
with a sense of disappointment. Yet, when a

number are led about in a herd, and bidden
to admire this and that, it is surprising how
every one is more or less impressed. The housekeeper,
Mrs. Silvertop, had a contemptuous
severity of manner to the sight-seers, conveying
that she was constrained by duty and orders
from authority to let them have a glimpse of
all these line things. She had invented well-sounding
names, not known to the family, for
the various parts of the house ; and Sir Charles
himself was one day infinitely amused at overhearing
that he had a '* grand corridor '' with
a " State Dining 'All," a " Grand Steckess," with
other magnificent titles. The visitors always
took the most extraordinary interests in objects
of family use, and seemed to regard a *' bit of
work " carelessly left on a table, with something
of a fetish-like awe and mystery. The show-woman,
without the least conscious knowledge
of human nature, stimulated public interest by
perpetually saying, " Please don't touch the
family's things." " Be so good as not to take
up anything."

Devoid of these foolish pretensions, it was
a handsome house, and a handsome place. The
demesne was really noble, and stretched away,
a vast level of rich land, with heavy old trees
spread thickly over it, nodding drowsily in
the breeze. At the end of the lawn they grew
into a fringe, behind which could be seen the
river Pain, a broad and strong stream, which
did useful hard labour, further down, in its
working clothes, as it were, and became rough,
and even savage ; but passing by here was quite
an elegant and well-bred stream, fit for a gentleman's
residence. A hairs-breadth, the turn of
a card, a feather's weight, are all hackneyed illustrations
of the power of some slight incident
to disturb the course of events in human life ;
and the peculiar situation of this river Pain,
in relation to Panton Castle, and the method
of crossing it, was to have a mysterious effect on
two families.

As just described, it was a noble river, full
and brimming over, with a strong current, and
high banks. To pull across it would require a

stout pair of yeomen's arms. The land on both
sides of the river belonged to the Pan tons ; but
by a sort of indulgence a light and elegant cambridge
had been thrown across the river, and the
rustics were allowed to cross to the opposite
bank, which was laid out in a sort of pleasure-ground,
with rockeries and shrubberies and
windsor walks. It was all Sir Charles's land ;
and the Jack Cades of the district were always
imputing to him designs of enclosure, and
of robbing the people of their rights — if he
could. •

The walks were indeed charming, cut half way
up the bank, and through the rich plantation
that ran along it. and were affected by many,
not so much for recreation as in the hope of
glimpses of what " the family " were doing. In
old times, before the new bridge was built, that
broad river barrier cut them off utterly, opposed
itself sternly ; and they had to walk a full
quarter of a mile down to the old bridge, where
again they were checked by the great gateway
of Panton Castle, its towers and archway —

handsome and ivy-grown ; a strong wall sweeping
straight down to the very bank, going down
thence into the very water and pitilessly cutting
off all approach.

When the little girls of the town were told
the conventional stories of Beautiful Princesses
living in palaces of gold and diamonds, their
thoughts flew away to Panton Castle, where the
enormously wealthy heiress was reigning : or to
the glittering carriage with the bright plunging
steeds, in which she reclined, as if on a sofa.
The station-master had stories of the countless
chests and packages of all sizes and weights
which were coming down every day from
London ; each supposed to contain some shape
of " whim," and not cared for when it arrived.
Her rooms, Mrs. Silvertop reported, were filled
with treasures — " wardrobes " of silks, and satins,
and laces ; and her dresses a " strewn' the very
floor."

Yet for all this luxury her life was only less
dull than that of the poorest of the girls about
her. The air of the place was not too rude

for her tender chest ; it was a sort of sheltered
Torquay, and her residence there became almost
enforced. She found no pleasure in the common
excitements. Balls and plays she was forbidden ;
she did not care at all for work or for music, and
for reading only a little. She and her father
sat together nearly every evening in the great
drawing-room alone, with their costly furniture.
The only resource was the recurring dinner
party, the dull legitimate comedy with the same
actors over and over again. There was a curious
languor of intellect about her, and yet her eyes
were full of light and quickness, roved to the
right and to the left ; there was a blush, quick to
her cheeks, an animation in her voice. She did
not want for hasty passions, and when excitement
came, could be more excited than her
fellows. Yet there was an irregular charm
about her, an almost Indian fitfulness.

Dudley, often the object of her humour,
protested against, yet grown indispensable, had
just come in. He always went out like a
chiifonnier, with a basket on his back to collect

news. " A picnic of two hundred over the
grounds, this morning, the gardener says."
And not a leaf touched," said her father,
coming in after Dudley.

'« Very kind of them," cried his daughter.

I fear, dearest, we must keep up the Laura
Bridge after all. These honest people are
establishing fresh claims on us every day. And
I hear they are going to present you with a
silver bowl, or something in the shape of a
bridge. I just got a hint of it."

This quite turned her thoughts. She was
full of eagerness and curiosity, and clapped her
hands with delight.

Dear, goodie papa, do find out for me. I
want to see it quick. I am dying to know."

I'll make it out to-day for you," said
Dudley.

Do you know, I fear, dear, it would look
ungracious to pull the bridge down after so
generous an intention. You would not like to
be unpopular, dear ? "

No, no ; if they are such nice people, poor

creatures, why should we keep them out ? I
don't like to see them all scattered about on
nice gardens, and pouring over my bridge like
ants ; but "

Good child, you have quite delighted me !
It was making me wretched. You know, as
landowners, we must be considerate to the lower
class, even at inconvenience to ourselves. Tell
me, dear. I am sending up to town, would you
like the decorator down % As you didn't like
your new boudoir, we shall have the man here
again. By the way, dear, we are having this
dinner party. Bailey and daughter "

*' Yes : site said she'd come. I'm so glades

That little sparring excites you," said
Dudley. " By the way, Conway told me he
was coming up here."

"As gentlemanly a man as ever I met. We
must ask him to dinner. So well informed, and
clever, and good-looking too. There, chick, I
wish you'd throw your handkerchief at him. I
know his father well : good blood — fine old
family, though extravagant."

VOL. II. I

I think him a coxcomb, and would not walk
on the same side of the street with him."

There's not much chance. He lives in
the aesthetic country ; and those Baileys have
seized on him body and soul. He is always
up there, and selfish ' Old Bailey ' has half sunk
a dozen boats going out to drink sherry onboard
the yacht Your scheming Miss Jessica
has the whole sum set down in figures in an
account-book, and she will regularly ' tot it up '
until he is caught."

Jessica win Idm I Lord Formanton's son !
It is a folly, and impossible," said the heiress,
excitedly.

I am sure it is," said Dudley. " Yet she
is very deep and clever, and if she once sets
her mind on a thing, I declare it is quite on
the cards. He made some speech to me about
her being so dramatic ; and I know the yacht
has not had orders for sailing. She is not the
first parson's daughter that has drawn a peer
out of the river."

Miss Panton listened with kindling eyes.

She ! she 1 How dare you even think of such
a thing ? I will not have it — she shall be
exposed. She thinks that will put her on a
Jevei with me. I tell you, papa, and Dudley, it
must not be, and you must see and prevent it ! "

She looked over angrily at Dudley ; she was
now walking up and down the room in a high
state of excitement, her lips working as if
speaking, her eyes darting from one side to the
other. Her father soothed her. Dudley, looking
out of the window, said slowly :

** Well ! here, now, is Conway himself coming
up the avenue."

I 2

A VISIT.

Conway had ridden out, and was now entering,
calm, composed, and handsome. The young
heiress looked up, and advanced to meet him
with a sudden eagerness of welcome. Dudley
smiled as he saw this change. Conway had on
his best man-of-the-world suit, let off his various
conversational fireworks, determining, as his
habit was, to make a good effect, and leave
behind him a delightful impression of regret.
The eyes of the heiress were fastened on him
all the time.

He had been tempted out there by the piquant
accounts he had been hearing of the vendetta
between the two girls. He purposely began
to speak of the clergyman and his family.

His daughter is a very remarkable person,
with such a thoughtful and original mind. She
should be in a larger field."

The heiress moved impatiently.

Yes, Jessica talks like a book, or sometimes
like a man, they say."
** You are old friends, I am told," said Conway,
*' so you can appreciate her better."

There were thirty girls at the school," the
heiress said, impatiently, " when I was there.
They are not all old friends, I presume. I have
never seen them since. Yet the people here
always insist on making us bosom friends, that
cannot be parted a moment. I am really getting
tired of it."

Conway laughed.

"May I speak the truth? Well, I heard
something quite the reverse, almost as I sailed
into harbour, that there were two young ladies
here, each at the head of a party, captains of
opposing armies, whose little contests gave the
only animation to the place."

The poor low gossips here talk of anything,

and invent anything : we all despise them, and
papa would not stay here but for my health.
As for Jessica, or Miss Bailey, I know little or
nothing about her. She is truly of the same
class."

Clergymen and their families are usually
allowed a sort of brevet rank," said Conway,
smiling. " Or if there be any defect in the
father, there is great indulgence to the daughter."

The spoiled rich girl looked at him uneasily.

^' Oh, she has quite brought you round to her
party. That is always her way, artfully trying
to make friends with every one. I never was
taught those little devices. Or I suppose, the
art is born with you."

This seemed like a complaint, and the tone
of her voice troubled Conway.

Perhaps," he said, " the game is not worth
the candle, and perhaps Miss Panton has the
art all this time, though not conscious of it.
She has been kind enough to give me a chance
already, and I came out to say how happy I
should be to avail myself of it''

The emotions of the heiress were as fitful as
they were vehement. She smiled, laughed, at
this compliment, an insipid and third-hand one
out of Conway's stock, and said abruptly : ''J
am so glad. Yes, we shall be great friends, I
am not strong-minded in the least " (there was
no need, Conway thought, for her to make that
declaration) ; " but I should be sorry to do so.
Dudley says there is something repulsive in
behoof strong-minded and able to talk."

As Conway looked out at the hothouses and
choice beds of flowers, he wondered at seeing
groups of rustics scattered about, who appeared
to be looking at the flowers with much the
same title that he had. At last he said :

Oh, I see ! these are the people Miss Bailey
spoke of."

She spoke of ! And what did she
speak 1 "

Well, I forget exactly, except that they had
some right to smell the flowers God gave us,
and enjoy your grounds. Sir Charles is wonderfully
indulgent."

It is all on sufferance, I can assure you.
But papa is laughed at for admitting them."

Miss Jessica would not laugh at him, I
assure you. She shows a most just concession
to popular rights, and thinks it no compliment :
it should be universal over the country."

** Does she — does she ? So do all who are
without land. We are absurdly indulgent. The
place swarms on show days with this canaille.
It is intolerable. '' And she stamped her foot
impatiently.

Still you have a great advantage here," said
Conway, *' in this barrier of a river — and such a
noble river ! Nature, true aristocrat, meant it
no doubt to keep off the canaille

Lunch was then announced, and the guest
presently departed, much interested in this
strange, wayward girl

THE BRIDGE.

The fashionable Mr. Conway was 'much
absorbed in this little first act which was working
itself out so pleasantly. '' Give me a bit of
character," he would say. "It is not to 'be
bought by rank or wealth — it is the salt of life ;
it is idle to look for it in real plays." Yet herein
this provincial nook, he had lighted on a
combination that promised to be of absorbing
interest. Letters came to him of the usual
pattern ; invitations from mammas ; short notes,
like telegrams, from men, as " Dear Con., bring
your boat round this way. We will put you up
for a week ; " programmes of new races ; but he
determined to linger on and study these two

fresh "bits of nature." Even the place itself
was amusing, its ways and commotions entertained
him ; he liked asking questions. He saw
how the eyes of the parishioners rested on those
two girl-figures, watching them with eagerness.
He picked up the whole history of the great
bazaar question, where the heiress wished to have
the entire direction according to her whim, and
decreed that only genteel persons, of the rank of
ladies, should hold tables, a proposal firmly and
excitedly opposed by the clergyman's daughter.
She would not have the holy cause of charity
disfigured by such distinctions ; it must be
thrown open to all the good shopkeepers, to the
race of Higgins's or Smiths, whose honest contributions
did not deserve such a slight. But what
was she against the heiress, who, thus opposed,
became like a passionate, froward child, that
would cry all night if its toy were refused ? At
the price of a magnificent contribution, the obsequious
committee yielded to her. It was
wonderful with what scorn and anger Jessica
stigmatized this unholy defacing of the cause of

benevolence. But no one was more scandalized
or "put out" than her father. This girl would
be the death of him. The transaction was
welcome to the people of the place, who did not
ranee themselves on different sides, but were
almost all against the parson's daughter, including
even those whose cause she had taken up.
In the shops, everywhere, Conway heard little
stray sketches of those two important persons
whose images filled up the minds of the town.
A very few said. How generous, how charitable,
how disinterested and gallant was the parson's
daughter, and how she stood up to battle against
unmeaning whims and humours. Mr. Conway
read ofi' the true solution — all women are rivals
to each other.

But he had just arrived on the eve of another
battle — the Battle of the Bridge.

Before the building of the light bridge already
mentioned, the people of the district, on Sunday
and holiday evenings, often clustered at the edge
of the bank opposite to the Castle Gardens,
gazing curiously at the gay and charming beds

of flowers, the pretty walks, the rare shrubs,
which a skilful Scotch gardener, hired at a vast
price by the horticultural Sir Charles, had taken
pains to make the pride and show of the district.
Here were rare plants which had come from afar,
here '* a labyrinth" so complicated and tangled
as to be the wonder and delight of the few
children, who had been allowed to lose their way
in it. Sir Charles, good-natured always, seeing
the rows of excluded spectators, had often wished
to give them greater enjoyment, and unrestricted
admission to his grounds. Having been poor
himself, he would say, he knew how welcome
were these cheap benefits. Once, when his
daughter was in a pettish fit of impatience, at
having to go round to the great gate, when she
was in a hurry to get home, he said artfully that
a new bridge across would be a great convenience.
She caught at the idea with enthusiasm,
and became almost restless until she had made
her father get plans from an eminent architect.
It was begun at once, and was pushed
forward to gratify another fancy of hers

that it should be completed and opened by
her birthday. Thus it was christened Laura
Bridge.

Ifc seemed to be unlucky from the beginning.
A scaffolding gave way during its construction,
and a workman's son was drowned in sight of
the drawing-room windows. By a strange arid
fitful change, quite characteristic of her nature,
she seemed, when her whim was gratified, to
become indifferent, scarcely ever to use it, and at
last to dislike it. Her father felt he never could
understand her. «

It was a pretty object, springing across airily,
and seeming to be made of thin wire. It was
a model of lightness combined with strength,
taking the shape of an airy bow with towers,
transparent as bird-cages, at each end. In gilt
letters over each entrance was the name " Laura
Bridge," a christening done in honour of the
daughter of the house. *' Laura Bridge, Laura
Bridge," read Conway, aloud and contemptuously,
" even this is twisted into homage to the
vanity of wealth. This spoiled creature thinks

the whole world is for her. I should like to
have the schooling: of her."

The good-natured baronet had even built the
natives a little pavilion where they could have
their pleasure parties and junketings. Visitors
to the castle, as they looked from the windows
and strolled through the gardens, saw these
honest folks, the sailors and their lasses, the
shopkeepers and others, scattered about on the
grass, enjoying themselves after their fashion
with the usual rustic gambolling. This sight
made Miss Panton more fretful on each occasion.
She disliked the idea of community, or sharing,
which it suggested. And she often impatiently
asked her father to forbid them to come, or take
away the bridge altogether. The guest heard
many a discussion at the breakfast or dinner
table, which he himself had innocently started
by his question, 'who are all those people in
the grounds ? "

There, papa," Miss Laura would exclaim.
'' There is the result of your bridge. You should
build them houses. They begin to think that

our lands belong to them. Do get rid of this
bridge, and let us have our place to ourselves
like other people." Another unjust speech
caused deep indignation. *' That they were not
going to collect all the beggars of the country in
their garden." And by the curious process by
which events make themselves known even without
the agency of persons, it became reported
that Miss Panton intended to abolish the bridge,
and to shut herself up in her own fortress, excluding
the canaille for ever. Then it was that
Jessica's deep and burning protest was heard
all over the place. There was true oppression,
depriving the poor and the labouring of their
innocent recreation ! Such behaviour was cruel,
scandalous, barbarous. Talk of the feudal times,
of the serfs indeed. But she did not believe it
still, she could not.

This spoken in the open places, at the market
cross, as it were, flew to the heiress's ears, and
at once determined her, that the bridge should
go down. The low, mean, pitiful herd should
not disgrace their grounds any more. It was a

matter of favour, as they should find. She was
not going to be put down by them, or by anyone.


Her father looked at her with wonder.

Tltey put you down, the poor rustics ; why,
what can that mean ? Oh, I see." And he
smiled, for he had often been amused at this
wayward enmity, and had deplored the inconsistency
and want of sense it led to.

A favourite stroll with Conway was that
pleasant walk out of the town, up to the river.
He began at last to regard that bridge as a
temporary link between the two women's natures,
as something with a more mysterious significance
in it than was involved in its elegant iron foliage
and arabesques ; and in his own mind he gave
it another name, the name which this narrative
signifies : — viz. The Bridge of Sio-hs.

One evening he had wandered to Laura Bridge,
and found Miss Panton moodily regarding it and
the few natives passing across it. She began to
speak at once, with excitement.

"" Surely, no one ever heard of such a thing — ■

a gentleman's place to be swarming over with
the mobs of a town. It should have been pulled
down long ago, as I tell my father."

The fashion now is," said Conway, " to
encourage the poor people's parks, and that sort
of thing ; keeps them from troubling us in other
ways. But is it all settled ? "

Yes ; I have got papa to agree at last, and
next week the men are to take it down."

What ! Have you thought," he said, " of
the dissatisfaction anything like stopping up a
right of way, a watercourse, a pump even is
sure to cause ? There will be plenty to set them
on and work them up."

I know that," she said excitedly. " Who do
you mean is the leader — I don't mean in the
streets, after the radical way, but that leads the
gossips in the drawing-rooms and lodging-houses
of St. Arthur's ? "

*' Well, I might guess."

Yes, Mr. Conway, a particular friend of
mine, and who wishes to be one of yours,
too."

VOL. II. K

Does she ? " said he, smiling. " I must seem
ungrateful''

You will seem what is only right, then," she
went on, warmly. " Of course, we know her,
and she comes to dine tomorrow. We carry on
that farce, but it is owing to our two fathers.
Now tell me, Mr. Conway, what you see in her,
as they call it ; for you like her, I am told."

I," said Conway, wishing to add some more
scenes to the drama. " 1 only look on at a
distance from the deck of my yacht, as it were.
But she seems to have a strange and curious
nature, out of the common, but capable of
generous acts."

She stamped her foot. " The bridge shall go
down, into the water, even if there should bea
riot in the place. You don't knows her — you
can t.

'' Of course not," said he, smiling.

She hates me, and do you knows why ?
Because I am rich, richer than she is, or ever will
be. It began at school, when we were made
rich. She tried to crawl and fawn on me, but it

sickened me, and I wouldn't have it, and then
she turned against me, and has been so ever
since — of course, in a polite way."

Conway wondered at the discrepancy of the
two versions, but he knew enough of the world
to see that both could be sincere and genuine.

But we shall meet tomorrow at dinner like
ladies. You shall see at least she will carry that
farce out. I don't profess to be an actress. She
can come to eat with us."

I think," said he, coldly, " you will find
there is some reason for this. She is compelled
by her father."

"You are quite turning her champion," said
she, looking at him excitedly.

I believe she is sincere and true in whatever
she takes up. But of course I am quite outside
the politics, as we may call them, of this little
place. But now. Miss Panton, it seems hard,
does it not, for these poor rustics ? "

Oh yes ! you are quite on her side ! "

Such a pretty bridge, too — an ornament to
your place and to the district."

K 2

> " I don't care," she said, " every bit of it shall
be pulled to pieces next week. I shall look on
at the operation, and I shall invite my friends to
come. My dear old school-fellow, I shall take
care to have her. I am told she swears by you
all about the town ; says, I suppose, that you area
type of chivalry. Of course, in a place like
this, where the walls have ears and tongues, it is
very probable that these praises will come to your
ears. But," she added, with a curious, questioning
look, " what do you think of her ? You
must know us all by this time, pretty well.
She, of course, being a parson's daughter, had
great opportunities of picking up from the
curates that pedantic sort of thing that makes a
show. Of course you think me wretchedly
ignorant ? "

*' I attempt to pronounce on you ! " he said.
*' But Miss Jessica champions me % That should
prejudice me."

A worried fretful look came into the heiress's
face. *' Yes," she repeated mechanically, "weare
going to pull down the bridge. Within a

week, the man tells us, there will not be a
vestige of it." And she left him abruptly.

As he followed her light figure, that seemed
to float across the bridge named after her, a very
different feeling rose in his mind to what she
imagined was there. She was sure she had left
some deep and romantic image of herself, and
was not discomfited to think that she had
shown a certain jealousy, as of a rival. This
nice epicure in such matters was, alas ! pondering
over the agreeable discovery made to him.
He was delighted to think that he had conquered
the parson's daughter, that nature so proud and
independent, and that would not bend to anyone.
He was intensely flattered by this conquest.
And for the first time it occurred to him
suddenly, what if he, once for all, cast anchor
there, laid up his little metaphorical vessel, and
settled down, as it is called, in a new life, with a
new mind beside his ! Was he not weary of
wandering ? Was not here something that he
mio^ht search the fashionable world over andover,
and never find — something that would adda

power and lustre to his rank, and great
fortune, such as could not be drawn from the
files of poor-souled colourless creatures of his
own order, who had been submitted to his
choice. Lord Blank, now so powerful in the
Upper House, had made just such an alliance ;
so had the Marquis of Blank. Thus strengthened,
had those eminent peers forced their way
to the lead. Wealth he did not want. It
seemed to him a pretty scheme, and he would
wait and watch, and see how it would be
worked out.

A DINNER AT THE CASTLE.

Within a day or two, the scouts of the little
town, walking as if by accident past the gate of
the castle, saw the dining procession sweeping
up the avenue. Some, by special favour of Mrs.
Silvertop, were more advantageously posted.
The various figures were identified. Doctor
Bailey, sitting up in his open carriage, his
daughter beside him. (Mrs. Bailey of course
was not there, the doctor having disposed of the
matter thus : " Pooh ! what an exhibition ^oiul
make of yourself up there 1 No. Stay at
home ! ") The fascinating Conway, with his
fine reflective dark eyes, excited a just admiration
; while, lastly, in a poor sort of fly, came
the Rev. Mr. and Mrs. Mason. " Only my

curate and his wife," said the Rector, contemptuously.


The handsome drawing-room of the castle
ran along the ground floor, while a file of
long tall windows, seven or eight in number,
were all lit up, making a sort of vast lantern.
Mr. Conway was deeply interested to see the
two girls greeting each other with the common
forms of social politeness, the courtesies of
fencers before attack. Only a nice observer,
such as he was, would have noticed a change in
their manner to each other, brought about of
late by some new cause. Miss Panton's hostility
had always been more a pettish peevish dislike,
conveying the idea of some one that was crossed
in a whim. Jessica seemed a-* calm contempt,
supported by a basis of duty. But this new
element had the effect of an almost chemical
chancre in these bodies. Both became intensified :
one taking the shape of a jealous and bitter
anger, the other that of scorn as bitter, with the
sense of an immense superiority. And on this
evening this change seemed to have suddenly

taken place, and the new combination, by the
infusion of the Conway charm, was to work itself
into a strong development.

Conway was in spirits, for strange plans were
floating in his head. He could not shut out the
image of the parson's daughter. He had an
instinct that the night might prove momentous
for his fate. Just before he started, he met
Dudley in his usual moody humour. This
seemed to have grown on him lately, and
Conway never liking this ^' ill-conditioned "
manner of men, who were always certain sto
bring more trouble than pleasure with them, had
determined to keep him at a distance.

'' You are going out to this place," said
Dudley. " You go very often there ? "

** Yes ; they are very hospitable, and most
kind to a stranger."

•' No doubt. But 111 tell you what surprises
me, Conway. That you, who are what is
called an aesthetic man, should endure a place
where there are no aesthetics. We all know you
have too high a soul for vulgar money."

I am proud of your good opinion," said the
other, laughter.

Now that man Bailey's daughter is exactly
in your line. They all say she is madly in love
with you too. In fact, you are rather compromising
her."

My dear Dudley, you and I are not the
people to discuss such subjects. I would not
dare to speak to you on such matters''

Oh, it's merely a friendly caution, that's all.
Everything is known and gossiped over in this
place, even to the pairs of gloves you buy, or the
linen you send to the wash. You would not
like to be set down as a fortune-hunter, Conway,
as the ill-natured do. We'll all be watching you
to-night. Don't look so wicked at me."

On that he walked away, leaving Conway half
indignant, half amused. '' I understand this
poor moody hypochondriac's meaning," he
thought. "Very, very clumsily done, Master
Dudley."

The dinner was on the usual grand Pannonia
scale, many powdered heads nodding over the

guests, Mrs. Silvertop later giving details to
select friends, not without contempt for those
who could show interest in such things, but
which was overpowered by a pride and complacency
in her office. She had before officiated
at some great nobleman's house, and when the
name of any famous peer was mentioned, it was
always with a " many's the time I've 'anded 1dm
a cup of tea at Highborn 'Ouse," an attention
probable enough, but based more on conjecture
than on recollection.

The Panton plate was all out, the columns
and pediments with which the table was covered
making it seem like a fashionable graveyard,
rather over-crowded with silver monuments,
new and not ancestral ; while the dining-table,
fringed with its two rows of happy feasting men
and women, had the usual festive and magnificent
effects produced by gold and silver, soft lights
and flowers. The pleasant chatter of voices rose
above the clink of silver and steel upon china.
Doctor Bailey's was heard loudest and noisiest
of all.

Quite proper, Sir Charles. Of course you
have the right. Monstrous ! What a man gives
he can take away."

All looked at Jessica.

Surely not, papa, if it be only what you
ought to give. I know what you are speaking of
the people's bridge."

Oh, that is only some of those childish
refinements you are so fond of — -I can't go into
them. Sir Charles can't do what he pleases with
his own bridge, as he can with his own horse :
sell, lend, give, or take away. Absurd ! " It
became a regular little discussion for the table.

'' I declare," said Sir Charles, good-humoured.
" 1 would sooner have an election on my
hands. The two young ladies battle the thing
out like candidates, and I must say both have
a great deal to say worth listening to. Miss
Bailey really champions the people's rights with
great spirit."

Jessica, colouring, spoke out. " Some think
this a trifle, whilst I take it up with an
enthusiasm that may seem foolish. I know

what concerns the lower classes — canaille they
are called — their amusements, sorrows, seems
Quixotic in these times. Besides," she added,
smiling, " who introduced my clients here at this
inappropriate place ? It was not I who did so."

But you take up the cause of these
people in everything," said the heiress, excitedly.
Your sympathy is with them in all their ways
and manners. Why should you not be on their
side in this ? "

Jessica, naturally of a retiring disposition,
became like so many of her sex when the crisis
demanded, bold, and brave, and aggressive.
Then it is an open question % Now we can
deal with it as quite public. Well, I am on the
side of the poor and their cheap pleasures."

That wee should give them money and charities
is all of course for each conscience, as the
doctor will tell us at church next Sunday," said
Sir Charles. " I declare, Doctor Bailey, the
next time we have ' exhausted funds ' of any
sort, we shall pass you over."

"Yes," said the heiress, pertly, "Miss Bailey

would give us a sermon. And I can see Mr.
Conway thinks so too. He is much amused,
I see."

Conway was listening with some entertainment
to this little skirmish.

Ah, yes, let us hear Conway," said her
father ; *' he is a judge of these things, and I will
be guided by his authority."

'' Surely," said Jessica, scornfully, *' there is no
need of authority or of 'judicial decision in such
a matter. These little poor privileges of walking
on grass, and looking at and smelling flowers, of
breathing fresh air, and sitting on a bank and
looking at the bright river winding by — surely
none of us would take credit for making such
presents as these. We need appeal to no one to
tell us that''

Conway's arbitration being thus disparaged,
though indirectly, it was necessary he should say
something. This he did, with ever so little of a
wounded tone.

"But still these common blessings involve
somehow the rights of property.; Perhaps

we miofht share our houses also as well as our
grounds. Shelter in the drawing-room would
cost nothing ! The smooth green carpet, the
looking at oneself in the mirrors, is a cheap
blessing also."

Ah ! That's the way to put it, as Mr.
Conway does," the doctor said obstreperously.
'' Jessica, child, leave political economy and that
sort of thing alone. It's not in keeping, you
know — I say, not at all. What have you to do
with the poor, and that sort of thing ? "

Her answer was a look at Conway, one of
surprise and full of scorn. " When we have
gone up-stairs, and Mr. Conway is discussing
this with the gentlemen, that will not be his
argument, I know. Or if he were in the House
of Commons he would not urge such sophistical

reasoning."

*then you must explain why he does it
here," said Sir Charles, laughing.

She means it as a compliment to us papa,"
said the heiress, with a certain spite which the
presence of her guests did not restrain.

A rough and impatient voice broke in. " This
is too good. After all, low does this concern
any one but the real owners ? I tell you what
I would do, Sir Charles. Fix a day, invite all
these bumpkin who dare to presume on your
indulgence, and in their presence set men to
work to pull the whole thing to pieces. When
the last rod was flung into the river, I would
turn round and say, 'There, get away, you
ragamuffins — let me catch one of you trespassing
and I'll set the dogs at you.' Forsooth, a young
lady can't have her flowers without having all
the roughs going to steal them too."

O o o

Hallo ! Dudley, this is strong language."

"That is the only strength about it," said
Jessica, with a quivering lip. " Such doctrines
make the real barrier between rich and poor."

"Oh, we know Dudley is a violent partisan of
Laura's, and it distorts his views."

Ah, that explains it," said Conway, contemptuously
; " but in presence of one who reads
the common heart, like Miss Bailey, what can one
do ? I hold no opinions at all. I give them up.

You must not let them touch the bridge, Sir
Charles ; rather build them a dozen new ones."

Again the look Jessica gave him, translated,
seemed to say, " How poor, how unworthy of
you !

For the rest of that 'estate" meal, he found
himself looking over at her with a strange
attraction, and even trouble. A surprising girl,
he thought. The pleasant dinner, with all its
courses, rolled on like a stately procession.
Then the ladies rose, suffering that polite writ
of ejectment which our civilization exacts. The
gentlemen going through a well-acted farce of
resignation at the stern edict they themselves
enforce, resumed their drinking, that " circulation
of the blood " discovered by some benefactor,
we know not whom.

In that council the great bridge question came
up in a different shape. "You know," said the
host, confidentially, " one is awkwardly placed
with the People ; but still it is my girl's whim.
She has taken it into her head. But otherwise I
go with your daughter, doctor. I'd have given

VOL. II. L

anything if she had opened out on you, Conway ;
for when she takes a thing up with spirit, you
would find it hard to hold your own against her.
She astonishes me sometimes."

The doctor did not seem to enjoy these compliments.
*' Oh, she talks too much. I tell her
she had better leave these things to the men.
It's quite absurd. You have a perfect right to
keep your grounds to yourself. A pretty state
of things if every one was to be overrun by the
scum of the town."

There was present a bluff, good-natured doctor
named Hobson, clever in his profession, who was
half friend of the family, half a sort of watchful
medical guardian over the health of the young
heiress. He was always "running down" once
or twice in the week to pay them a visit, and
the fiction was carried out that it was to see
his old friend Sir Charles. Looking at Dr.
Bailey with some distrust, he said : '^ Scum, Dr.
Bailey ? — the honest mechanics we see in the
Sounds behaving; like ladies and gentlemen ? "

Relatively, sir, of course," said the doctor,

blowing hard. " My meaning is very intelligible.
And you see my friend Conway quite
agrees with me." This was a favourite shape of
the doctor's logic.

"Pardon me," said Conway, impatiently.
'' We were not discussing the matter seriously.
I must own that I was only trying to provoke
Miss Jessica into an argument that we might
admire her cleverness and spirit. It is absurd
making the thing too serious."

L 2

IN THE Drawing-room.

The gentlemen now came up. advancing on
the ladies in the usual disorderly open skirmishing,
as it were, creeping from bush to bush and
chair to chair.

Mr. Conway went over to Jessica. " You set
me down finely at dinner, and before all the
public, too. Was it not cruel, heartless ? "

A look of pain came into her face. " You
always appear to like taking this bantering tone
with me. It seems a little unkind. It is
certainly contemptuous. You either dislike or
despise me."

There was something, he thought, strangely
attractive in this girl — something he had not
met before, and was new to him, " man of the

world " as he was. He became natural and
genuine at once. " One has to put on a speech
and manner for company like a dress suit.
Shall I own it ? You saw what were my real
thoughts. They were with you in all you said ;
and I cannot tell you how I admire your
spirit. I am, indeed, with you ; 'rand if you
impose, as penance, that I should make public
retractation

Her face lit up, and filled with a sort of
glowing enthusiasm. She had half put out her
hand ; then drew it back, blushing. This bit of
nature gave that experienced judge, the Hon.
George Conway, more delight than anything of
human nature he had met in the whole course of
his travels. ^' 1 knew you would be on the side
of what was generous — the side of honour and
charity. I know of course what would be said
of my taking up this little cause, that it is from
jealousy of Miss Pan ton. You may think so ;
but I trust not." This she said wistfully. He
answered eagerly :

"I believe no such thing. I seem to have

known Miss Jessica Bailey for years, and have
seen enough of her to admire nearly everything
she does."

Jessica's cheek flushed with pleasure. '' What,
you say this to me — not as a compliment, a
formula ? "

I scorn such things, or keep them for such
as are worth nothing. I tell you this frankly,
Miss Bailey ; I never dreamed of meeting any
like you. You have changed a view I held
about women. Indeed, I almost blush to think
why I came here. You would think very low of
me were I to tell you. I thought of 'amusing
myself,' as it is called, of enjoying a ' flirtation,'
to use that odious word. There was something
in you that attracted me at first, but you will
never forgive me after this unless "

Forgive ! There seemed to be nothing unforgiving
in those eyes of delight and enjoyment.
Only tell me that you think higher and more
worthily of me, now that you know me better.
It would delight me to hear that from you''

I could not tell you here what I think," said

Conway, in a low voice. This was one of those
moments when even the most trained and
watchful " man of the world " is thrown off his
guard. He hardly knew what he was going to
say, when a voice sounded beside them and
made both almost start.

She spoke pettishly and bitterly. " I suppose
attacking me. You must not mind her, Mr.
Conway. Every one in this place knows what
she thinks of me. She is the radical of this
place. But you sided with me to-day, and I
knew you would." And she looked triumphantly
at Jessica.

The latter smiled and turned to Conway with
a curious look that seemed to say, " Now is the
time to give a proof of repentance." He felt he
must get on his sackcloth, even to save his
credit.

I behaved deceitfully," he said. " It was
only a sham fight. I wished to hear how Miss
Bailey would argue her case."

Oh, you side with her, then. You throw me
over ? "

He laughed. *' Really this is such a strange
atmosphere of St. Arthur's, I can't understand it.
The visitor finds himself called on to choose his
side. Two charming young ladies head each
a different party, and not about dresses or
politics, but about an iron bridge."

Only about principle, the principle that
divides rich and poor, strong and weak, and
which is being fought out all over the world.
William Tell would not bow to a cap on a pole.
Yet the cap, pole, and bow together stood for
subjection or freedom."

"Jessica is wonderful at history and Man all's
Questions. She got the prizes at school," said
the young hostess spitefully.

I never like to think of my school-days'*
said Jessica, looking at her steadily. " But
you will mind Mr. Conway more than me,
and he will tell you that this is an inconsiderate
and an imprudent step, possibly a cruel
one."

Yes," said Conway, gravely, " I twas a little
hasty. I would let the poor souls bring their

sandwiches and beer a little longer. It is very
inconvenient to become unpopular."

Then 111 never speak to you again," the
heiress said ; "and before a week is over, papa's
workmen will have taken it away. She — Jessica
Miss Bailey, has been telling her philosophy
to you. But wait until you hear my story."

Then she turned and walked away abruptly.
Jessica looked after her with triumph. "That
was noble on your part," she said, " and indeed
I appreciate it ! Other men would not have had
the courage. I admire you. Now we are
friends indeed ! There are creatures in this
place who abase themselves before wealth, and
meanly put the foot that walks upon vast landed
estates upon their heads. There's a fine flourish,"
she added, laughing.

He was more and more attracted by her
curious character. He drew closer to her. *^ I
disdain praise . which is not deserved. What
would you say if I was as bad as the local
character you have so graphically described ?
What would you say if I was one of those who

had come here to lift that foot upon my head ?
What would you say to a man who came here
like some careless speculator, too lazy to be
eager, but willing, if something turned up, topick
it up ? Some would call it ' fortune-hunter.'
"

Never," said Jessica, warmly. " As well
convince me that a crimson curtain is yellow !
No ; but I will tell you something out of my
wisdom. You find some attraction in that rich
girl beside her riches."

Conway started : " Miss Jessica Bailey is not
turning fortune-teller. Here is my unworthy
palm."

'* I know that light way of putting serious
things aside is thought fashionable ; yet, I would
be a fortune-teller so far, and say she cannot
understand you. She has lived all for herself."

I seem to have known you long ; I know
not why. It seems to me as though I had been
seeking some one, and I know not how, but in
this room I seem to have found at last what I
seek. It may be but a tone of mind — a humour.

You will let me ask you, consult you. You will
answer me ? "

Now the colour flushed into her face, now it
ebbed away. Then it came again. All this was
the garden of a new and exquisite Paradise
thrown open to her. Now she looked around,
then at him quickly, smiling, and scarcely knowing
what she did. " Oh, you mean this," she
murmured. '* Oh, unjust I was ! How unkind
of me, and how good of you."

But that answer to my question," he said,
reflectively. *^Ah, I wonder what that will

ber

Eagerly she answered : " Ah, you cannot
doubt it."

There was no shyness, no restraint. The,
delight and enthusiasm of her hitherto restrained
nature broke through all barriers.

Yes," he went on, "I may at last find at
St. Arthur's what I have so long sought. You
know what that is ; and, yet, how can I tell ?
Who knows what issue there may be to all this ?
And I may have to raise the anchor and sail

away sullenly and listlessly as I came. I have
met so many checks, so many chills."

'* It shall not come from me — no, never ! "
she said, almost aloud, then stopped in the
utmost confusion.

The company were rising to go away. Doctor
Bailey came up to " drag away " his daughter,
and in a very ill humour indeed. With the
rumour of Lord Formanton coming, it was
necessary that he should, as it were, " prime "
Mr. Conway, prepare the ground, &c. ; and here
was the witless girl, interfering with her childish
talk, " taking up " the time and wasting a golden
opportunity. " Come away, come away, child ;
don't keep me all night," was the rude challenge
that wakened up the pair.

As the guests dropped slowly away, the two
girls said " good night." There was a mingled
air of nervous distrust, uncertainty, and dislike
in Miss Panton's look, as it were, putting the
question, " What have you done or arranged this
night ? " a question that was answered by the
other's air of elation and perfect happiness.

When all had departed, there were left the
hostess and her cousin Dudley, she lying back
on the sofa, with a worn and dissatisfied look.
Her spaniel — for such he was — approached her
deferentially. " You are worried," he said,
about something. Tell me what you wish
done''

'* Nothing that you can do. You saw
that girl's air of triumph as she went off,
all because she took possession of Conway,
my admirer — she and her scheming
father."

He is not worthy a thought," he said, in a
low voice. "A mere roving Philander."

Who ? " she said, starting up : " Conway ?
What can you know of him ? Oh, you know
well that is false."

*' He is not worthy of a single thought of
yours, at all events."

'' Why % "

Because he has let himself be regularly taken
in, as they call it. That parson's daughter, so
simple as she affects to be "

"Tell me what you mean," she said, now
standing up, " and don't excite me''

There is nothing to be excited about,
indeed," he said, hurriedly. " More to laugh at.
Who would care what became of a man that
would choose in that way ? "

'* And he has. What, that girl entrapped him
too, and in this house ! Oh, insolent ! How
intolerable, and how cruel. But one can laugh at
it, as you say."

*' It is true. I heard it myself ; and he only
waits to see his father. But he would not hear
of such a thing."

It was hatred andes malignancy," went on the
young girl, walking up and down. " She came
to this house on purpose. It was to insult me.
I, that couldS^buy and sell her a thousand times.
But wait — wait little, Dudley. She has not
stolen her booty yet."

No," said Dudley, excitedly. '' I can
manage him for you*at any moment."

That is you all over," she said, scornfully.
You think everything is to be done by violence,

blows, and thrashing. Oh, but: to deal with
her. How am I to hinder her ? With all my
money, too, and estates, a wretched parson's girl
can do as she pleases, and scoff at me."

"Well, only wait," repeated Dudley — "wait a
little, then we shall see."

FOOD FOR THE GOSSIPS.

He left her sitting there, looking into the fire,
beating her hands impatiently. " Only wait."
How easily that speech is made. Yet, it is the
lever that moves everything — the earth itself.
Time, in short, says, " I will help you. Give
me your arm." But we turn impatient from that
hobbling old dotard : with our hearts in a whirl,
boiling and feasting, we must rush on, or sink
down and die — at least, we think so. Waiting
has the air of indifference — indifference suggests
power and other store of resources — which air
piques the bystander and makes 1dm impatient.

As they were getting their hats and coats in
the hall, a hoarse voice said to Conway : " 1
want to go back with yon, Conway — I have
something to say to you."

With all my heart," [said the other ; " I'll
give you a seat." Conway had his own 'strap,"
and drove himself. Dudley, who had made the
offer, sat beside him and did not speak for sometime.
Between the two men there had been
some coolness, more instinctive than grounded
on any real offence ; for Conway was " bored "
by his glowering looks and his growling
manners, and general discontent.

Look here, Conway," he said, at last ; *' I
was watching you to-night, and I've made up
my mind to speak plainly to you." •

** But I have made up my mind not to listen
to plain speaking. It is always disagreeable."

*' Oh, you are ready and free enough with
a speech any day, I admit that. But I tell
you what, I see your double game, and one at
least you mustn't play, and I won't have it."

This is really plain speaking. Well 1 "

"I won't, I can't, have it. Don't I see, don't
we all see, how you are hanging between those
two girls ? You are so tickled because you
think you have made an impression on both ;

VOL. II. M

you can't make up your mind to come forward
and say what you mean, or leave this place like
an honest man."

This is a very strange way of speaking tome,
Dudley," said Conway, haughtily. " What
should my affairs be to you, whether I ought
to go or stay ? I should be the last person in
the world to think of directing your movements."

No man has done that yet. But see here.
You know I am rough, but what I say roughly
is only what other men mean, but can say more
smoothly. Leave that girl, do. It is an unfair
advantage. She has been brought up here, in
these backwoods, like a child, like a girl in the
fairy tales ; and if she have her whim, even
for a time, it must be gratified ; you know
that, as well as I do, and it is not fair to take
advantage of it."

We had better stop this," said Conway,
our acquaintance is slight "

*' But not mine with her. I am as much to
her as her brother, or her father. I tell you
again it is not fair, it's shabby. They all know

here what your design is, and what you and
your people would be glad to carry out. /
know it, and hear more things at a distance
than you suspect. I say it is shabby, as I saw
you doing to-night, playing off those two girls
against each other, so as to get both profit and
amusement out of the business.

Conway almost drew up his horse, and stopped
the trap. " This is a very strange tone, Dudley,"
he said, " and I must beg you will not troupe
me with any advice or concern in my affairs.
I do not allow it even from members of my own
family."

I am glad you take this tone, because now
I can speak plainly as to what I will not allow
as to her. Oh, don't think that I don't know
a great deal of these dandy tricks, carrying on
with that Bailey's daughter, affecting to be on
her side, and her superior wisdom — I suppose
laughing at that poor girl's little fancies — and
then passing over to her. Her fortune would
come in very usefully to repair the walls of
Formanton. Wait, you must listen. Here is

M 2

the town, so you may as well. I don't want
to be offensive, but to speak out plainly, and
I warn you in time, I will "^wt have her sacrificed,
and I tell you in time, you shall not
do it."

I suppose being in a man's carriage is like
beings under one's roof, and there is a certain
duty of hospitality involved. Still I am very
glad you have taken up this tone, as it will
clear the ground considerably. I may speak
as plainly as you have done to me."

Precisely what I should like."

Well, then, I must tell you that the very
fact of your giving such warnings, orders, or
whatever you may call them, would be enough,
actually enough, to make me continue as I was,
persevere in exactly the same course. As a
man of the world you surely must see this."

You refuse, then ? Take care ! "

Give me some reason, then ! What is your
office of protector to this young lady ? Why
should you interfere where she and her father
do not ? You surely give me credit for more

sense than to suppose I could pay any attention
to such threats ? Explain it to me'

*'I can explain nothing, except that she is
too innocent and holy a creature to be made
either a mere player in a game, whether another
woman is to be the winner, or to be flung away,
a sacrifice on the altar of a mercenary marriage.
Yes, Conway, out of the world as I am, I have
friends who are well informed, who let me know
the rumours and the stories."

Humours — stories ! This is intolerable ! I
request you will not interfere with me anymore.
That answer is final. I have noticed
your manner all through — your looks and interference,
both to-night and on other occasions.
I have spoken reasonably with you, and asked
for some justification. You decline to give it.
Well, then, I decline to take any notice of your
demand."

They were now down by the club-house door,
all lit up, and Conway pulled up sharply. " I
suppose you will get down here," he said ;
"and I think it will be for the best that we

should not come back to this subject. I give
and take always. I shall not venture to interfere
with you, but you must not with me."

The door of the club was open, and two or
three gentlemen were standing in the blaze of
light smoking. Conway jumped down, and
walked round by the side of the club to the
little pier where the boats landed. Dudley had
got down more quickly, and standing at the
top of the steps barred the way.

"That will not do, Conway. You must not
go to-night before you promise me. Or, better
still, go on board now, weigh anchor, sail away,
and help your family in some other fashion."

Conway laughed loudly. " I am not mad
yet," he said. " This amuses me."

How dare you laugh at me ? " said the other,
furiously, and advancing on him. " What do
you mean ? Don't think you shall insult me,
though you can girls. What if I don't let you
pass this night ? "

Conway began to think he was mad, but his
behaviour was logical enough.

*' This all passes the limits of forbearance.
I have my men below at the boat, and in one
second I shall call them. I warn you, change
your behaviour — for the last time. Stand out
of my way, please. Here, Benson, get this
gentleman to leave the way clear."

A large hand griped Dudley's arm and thrust
him back from the steps. In an instant he had
shaken himself clear.

'* You dare set your fellows on me ! Take
that ! "

And in a second he was flinging himself on
Conway. But the latter was prepared. Always
active, he sprang back, and catching Dudley by
the collar, deliberately flung him back. The
stones were slippery, there was no railing, and
the unlucky Dudley went over into the shallow
water.

The club gentlemen came running up at the
splash, windows were thrown open — the boat
was only a yard ofl", and he was had out in a
twinkling.

My Goodness ! " cried Doctor Bailey, always

judicious, " keep 'them apart, or there will be
bloodshed. Fetch him out, bring a rope, someone
— the man will be drowned ! "

All this while " the man " was out of the
water, standing up, shaking himself, and trying
to clear the spray from his eyes.

Where is he ? " he said, rather wildly : " let
me see him ! " But Benson, the mate, had him
by the arm.

That won't do, master."

I did not mean that," said Conway, in a
loud voice. " And I wish all who have seen
the matter to understand that it was quite an
accident."

With that he walked down the steps into
his boat, and was pulled away to his yacht.

WAVERING.

On the next morning the town had really
something to talk about. The encounter between
the two gentlemen seemed to go round to every
house like the post, and before twelve o'clock
was known to every one in the place. Wildest
speculation was afloat as to what was to — what
must in decency — happen next. Conway was
not at all displeased at an adventure which had
turned out so fortunately, and made him into
a temporary hero, though he was uncertain as
to what would be the next step. Above all,
his eyes wandered back to that delightful night
to those two unique girls — each of whom had
her charm, and each of whom seemed to draw
him away with a special attraction of her own.

He would have liked this present dreamy
indecision to endure for weeks, and even
months.

It was now about one o'clock. He saw a
boat coming out towards his yacht, and his mate
came to tell him that it was " the chap has
had attacked his honour last nights'* Seeming:
to wait instructions as to how they were to deal
with the aggressor, Conway restrained them
pettishly, for he foresaw that there was to bean
attempt " to get up the burlesque of a duel,"
&c. Dudley came on board, asked him to go
down to the cabin, and there closing the door,
put out his hand with a sort of gloomy, enforced
air, which did not escape the other. " I am
sorry for last night," he said, '* I should not
have interfered with you. It was wrong to you
and to her."

Conway received the amende cordially. " I
am glad you have done this," he said. ^' Besides,
it was an accident. It would not do either to
have her name mixed up in a quarrel."

That is just the reason," said the other. " I

tell you so frankly. She had heard of it by
this morning, and sent for me. You will guess
the rest. You may congratulate yourself on
such interest. Not a hair of your head is to
be touched. I shall interfere no more."

A thrill was at Conway's heart. " Whatever
be the motive exciting you, Dudley, we shall
say no more about the matter."

She is not well, and must have her way.
There ! Have I said or done enough ? " He
then went down into his boat and was rowed
away.

But there was another surprise for Conway
during that day. As he was preparing his
"shore toilette," a little troubled about that
illness out at Panton, a letter was brought to
him, which, as he read, literally made his ears
tingle.

We have heard of the fracas of last night,
and all the gossips are busy with the cause.
I wish to be the first to offer congratulations
to you in your new character of champion.
What you will think of me for writing to you

in tins fashion I know not, nor, indeed, care
not. A poor clergyman's daughter, I have no
right to reprove or admonish one who is a mere
stranger, but who has had the glorious amusement
of taking me in. I own to you, you
succeeded in that. Shame on you ! for I cannot
write any longer with the conventional formalities.
You may well be proud of what you
have done. You have had your amusement,
which is a most honourable one. But I write
now to tell you, without formal quarrel, but
not without indignation, that I decline to bethe
favoured object of what is sport to you,
and what, you would not care, may prove death
to me. I mistook you, and never dreamed you
could play so double a game. I do not blame
your change of conduct or of views ; but I
must tell you plainly — and my character is
disfigured by something like bluntness — that an
interval of an hour to make such a change
seemed needlessly cruel and unfeeling. As I am
speaking candidly, and have some regard for
your true interest, I may tell you that that
partiality and attention, which you flatter yourself
is owing to your own attraction, is in a
great measure owing to me ; that is, to a special
dislike and jealousy with which I have been

visited for several years now. It was enough
that you were seen to show some regard forme,
to excite what you might reasonably take
for a partiality for yourself. It is because I
have this interest in you that I would not
have you deceived — though I know to what
ungenerous motives I risk having this interference
set down. In my short life I have never
cared for appearances, as, indeed, they will all
tell you in this place. That you may succeed,
too, in the venture you have undertaken in
pursuit of the tempting bait of fortune and estate
is quite possible. For I believe her to be
capable of indulging her humour to this extent.
However, I feel that I have done my duty in
giving this warning, and ask no thanks ; only
that we may continue on the footing of a
cold acquaintance, without tempting me to
reveal, for your entertainment, what you might
call the sacred metaphysics of the heart.

Jessica."

Conway was confounded by this epistle. He
seemed, as the expression runs, struck of a heap.
Afterwards came mortification, then something
like anger. " This is free and easy indeed, and

most engaging candour ! " Then he thought
how strangely blinded she could be by this
mad dislike and jealousy. It was appalling.
But I disdain to set her redit. Not a single
word shall I speak. It is always the way. I
am to be disappointed always, and judge
people better than they are'' Mr. Conway had
a favourite metaphor about people " showing the
cloven foot," applying the phrase even to slight
misapprehension, some shape of this malformation
always presenting itself. He was deeply
hurt. It was something of a shock too, as there
was a boldness, and, it seemed to him, even a
want of delicacy, in the tone of that letter, so
startlingly brusque and forward. The Honourable
Mr. Conway was not accustomed to such
plain speaking.

In this frame of mind he went ashore, and
there heard a piece of news which was still
more unfortunate in driving him from his
Jessica.

A TEMPTING OFFER.

Some people had remarked a sort of restless
excitement about the young heiress during
the course of that festive night, notably the
friendly doctor. There was a flush in ber
cheeks, a restlessness in her eyes, which caused
her watchful father some anxiety. Her health
was always as sensitive as a delicate thermometer,
and everything round her left some mark.
Walking reflectively along, and in a very curious
frame of mind, quite uncertain what his next
step should be, Conway met the local doctor
striding on, flushed with importance, as though
in the exclusive possession of news. " Such a
dreadful thing, my dear fellow ! That poor
girl, who was entertaining us last night — such

a nice dinner, and so well done in every way —
best taste, good style, and all that "

*^ But what has happened ? " said Conway,
impatiently.

"She has been seized. Sent for at six this
morning — hardly time to dress oneself — a vessel
gone — dreadful ! "

On another occasion Conway would have
smiled at these confused hints, and might have
been justified in thinking that the doctor was
alluding to some voyage. But he knew that the
allusion was to the delicate throat and lungs of
the young girl. When he was alone he could
not but think of the strange last look of disappointment
and uneasiness she gave over at
where he was sitting with Jessica. And almost
at once he associated this illness in some way
with himself. This, not from vanity, but from a
sort of instinct.

Then, as a matter of course, a feeling of compassion
rose in him for this poor wayward,
spoiled girl, whose impulses seemed to him
most dramatic and interesting. She was truly

natural, and that look would come back upon
him.

By noon the news had spread through the
place, that the heiress had been taken ill. The
local doctor was the conduit pipe of this intelligence,
making of his journeys as much splash
and scamper as they could possibly bear. He
returned with mysterious look, but with an
almost suppressed delight, and announced it was
a very serious matter indeed. Later, the great
Leviathan of a London physician telegraphed for
had arrived duly, with Its stock of fussiness,
looking very grave, consenting, as a sort of personal
favour, to stop over the night. Mrs.
Silvertop was in vast demand, waited on by
visitors," waylaid in the town, and forced in to
drink tea, while the local doctor, exceedingly
deferential in presence of the London doctor,
talked to his own friends of himself and that
dignitary in a partnership fashion, as " we."

Conway hurried out to the castle to inquire,
and the owner came down to him with deep
trouble on his face.

VOL. II. N

You were the one I was wishing for," he said.
'' You find us in a wretched way here. My poor
child ! I don't know what we are to do. My
only child too. I cannot lose her ! "

But is there really danger ? " asked Conway.
'' This is terrible 1 "

They have done all they could, that is,
patched her up for the present ; but they say
they cannot answer for the future. The truth is,
my poor darling has something exciting on her
mind — something her heart is set upon ; and
though I would give my own life to gratify her,
still, in this I know not how to do so. If it was
mere money, a matter of thousands — but there
are things which, all our money cannot procure
for her."

Conway looked mystified, yet he had a dim
suspicion as to what was the meaning of all
this.

"And yet," the father went on, 'would it not
be like murder to let a mere matter of delicacy
stand between me and the life of my child ? I
cannot let her waste and fret herself out of life

rather than hang back from speaking plainly —
and, above all, to you

To me ? " said Conway.

Yes, to you. I know you will have indulgence
for my situation. The truth is," and
the baronet's eyes were fixed steadily on the
ground, while he spoke very slowly and hesitatingly,
'* my girl — likes — you, and she has an
idea that you like, or might like, her, but for the
interference of certain other people. She has
always been indulged," pleaded the baronet.
*' She has hitherto only had to ask for anything
to have it. Even this business of that bridge,
the men are to begin at once. I give that up to
her, though it will ruin me with the people ; for
I wished to be a member for this place one
day. Mr. Conway, you must not think we are
degrading ourselves. So I merely tell you,
you are the physician, and can apply the
remedy I "

Conway, almost flushed with pleasure at finding
himself in this position — always a flattering
one for a man when the conventional attitude, of

N 2

the parties is thus reversed. The other saw his
hesitation.

She knows nothing, poor child, as I live and
stand here— no ! You believe me to be a man
of honour, Mr. Conway ; and I tell you I would
shrink from this step. I only want to save her
life. Ask Sir Duncan Dennis, up-stairs. He
will tell you it hangs upon a thread. Be
generous, or at least indulgent. Take time, and
don't give an answer now, but think it over."

What was Mr. Conway to say or do ? He
was inclined to reject such a proposal promptly,
and with the usual noble Roman air. Suitable
words rose to his lips.

"You do me a very great honour, Miss
Panton and you. I understand all perfectly,
and can think you have only done what an
affectionate father would do. I see nothing
strange or decyradinsf — nothing; but what is
natural, and a very handsome tribute to myself,
and I promise you I shall carefully consider the
whole."

He went his way. As he got to the river he

saw workmen standing about the bridge ; poles
and ropes, and other materiel for scaffolding,
were on the ground. He knew what this was
for, and his face turned backwards to the window
of the castle, where the sick girl was lying. He
spoke to the men, and they told him the removal
was not to have begun until next week, but that
the master had sent sudden orders to have it
begun at once. The pretty bridge, light and
airy, and a real ornament to the place, was to be
rudely pulled to pieces, as though it were a
bird-cage in some bold child's hands. It woijd
leave rude rents and gaps behind it in the bank,
even though the ground on both sides would be
trimmed up and smoothed. To such things the
surrounding objects grow accustomed : they seem
to miss them when they are gone. He stood
and looked in a sort of reverie, now cfazinof at
the condemned bridge, then glancing at the
window, where she lay in such an extremity,
and yet to whose wild whim this costly homage
was being paid, at a moment when she might
seem hurrying away beyond such trifles. There

was something in this persistent determination
to carry out this girlish vendetta to the end that
he could not but be interested in, and even
secretly admire.

As he passed on, the strange proposal that he
had to think over came back on him. There
wa, indeed, something piquant in the situation ;
something, too, in the notion that here was an
opportunity for a sacrifice that would be actually
noble. More noble still the sacrifice of his own
inclinations, which were with Jessica still, in
spite of her brusque behaviour, and although he
was formally severed from her by her own act ;
and, unless he was utterly astray in his judgment
of her, she herself would be the one to urge him
to such a sacrifice. Here, indeed, was he being
plunged into the true drama — something of
action, with play of character. But, above all,
he thought, with triumph, what a refutation was
here of Jessica's unworthy imputation. This
looked like an efibrt of petty spite forsooth ; it
was the most genuine tribute he had met within
all his life. He longed that she should know

it, and confess, with humiliation, what a base
estimate she had formed of human nature.

Still what was he to do ? Even if there was
something of sacrifice required, he was tempted
to make it. To save the life of a natural genuine
girl who loved him was not so 'terrible a holocaust
after all ; it would be a noble and unselfish
act, and something to have lived for. There
was a genuineness in this homage to himself
which it would be a crime for him to pass over
and leave unnoticed. His heart turned to Jessica,
but her brusque, bold letter barred the way like
a great gate.

MR, BENBOW WORKS.

While this romantic episode was in progress
at St. Arthur's, we must turn and look at Mr.
Benbow's proceedings, whom we have left, disappointment
and despair preying on his heart,
on the point of setting off to seek the fatal
actress.

Must do something ; something must be
done," he said, " and that swiftly."

At the railway station he purchased a copy
of the well-known theatrical newspaper, ' The
Era,' which perhaps illustrates the characters of
the stage world more effectually than anything
else — the members of that community here displaying
their vanities, claims, jealousies, panegyrics,
and with the most curious naivete. Yet

here is no real vanity in this assertion of one's
own merits ; here is but what is done on the
stage itself; and if the actor does not trumpet
himself, no one else will do so for him. In these
columns Mr. Benbow learned Mr. Ha2fs:erston s
address, in whom he determined to confide.

"This woman," he said to himself, as he satin
the train, " must go down, or we must."

Mr. Haggerston was " on tour," as it is called,
and Mr. Benbow read with a sort of amusement
the description of his show, as it is called :

"MR. Palmerston •

OF THE

THEATRE ROYAL, DIPCHESTER,

NOW ON TOUR WITH

POISON.

"The last London novelty, pronounced the
noblest and most instructive drama of modern
days.

"The Chemist's Shop — the startling interior
of the Clock Tower — the STORES~the stao^e
representing the most perfect reproduction of the

interior of the Army and Navy Stores — the
Omnibus Crash — Collision between two real
omnibuses, one of the most vividly startling
scenes ever presented on a stage. At Huddersfield
two nights ; at Leeds three," &c. &c.

A grim reflection that occurred to the reader
was something like a wish that his enemy, ashe
deemed her, might have been one of the
victims of the omnibus crash. He read, looked
for lier name, and soon found it. She also was
"on tour." But managers were invited ''to
apply for dates" at once. Other performers
"on tour" announced that there were no dates
vacant six weeks or two months "in advance,"
and Mr. Benbow fancied that this did not look
like prospering.

He sent in his card to Mr. Haggerston,
and was received cordially by that gentleman.


Such a bonner — Mr. Benbow. You must
see our Omnibus Crash. We are doing good
business, really good business, honour bright,
sir — " which seemed to convey to Mr. Benbow

that " doing good business," without 'really," was
but a conventional form applied to cover failure.

^* I am glad to hear it' said Mr. Benbow ;
and though I can't stay for it, you must let
me encourage your business as far as I can."

Noble ; you are noble, sir'' said Mr. Hag-person,
taking what was given to him.

"Now, tell me," said Mr. Benbow, "about
this lady ; anything, everything you know ; I
have a reason." And he pointed to the papers.

Mr. Haggerston put on a mysterious look.

It's bust," said he, " all bust. I wouldn't
touch her ; no, not if she came at super's salary.
Frost everywhere."

Frost," repeated Mr. Benbow, " surely not ? "

No, sir. All M. T., you understand. I don't
pity Blades, who runs her. He'll be out of it
at once. His fingers are burnt sore. Bless
you, I wouldn't have her in my show."

I see," said Mr. Benbow. " That is quite
sufficient. I am much obliged. Good-bye."

He set off again. As he drove through the
murky street, with its thick atmosphere of

smoke, he could not help noticing the flaming
posters on the wall. Anything of a theatrical
nature was odious to his eyes ; but here was
actually that hated name again :

'' Miss Lydia Effingham for three nights

more."

And actually in that play of the *' immortal
Bulwer Lytton " — " The Lady of Lyons." Here
was, as he anticipated, the key to the whole.
Never mind. He was glad to have all the
elements thus brought together. He would the
more quickly dispose of them.

Mr. Benbow went straight to the theatre,
and asked to see Miss Effingham. Received
in the hostile tone which is invariably assumed
by the stage Cerberus, he was told she was at
that moment on the stage. The theatre of the
manufacturing town was far more ambitious
than the little one at Winchester — a new, spacious,
handsome building.

Can she' be getting on," thought Mr. Ben-bow,
with bitterness. He then asked for her
address, which, according to stage practice,

was again met by a gruff plea of utter
ignorance. No appeals of his could wring out
the secret : the watch-dog, in his little kennel
at the stage-door, being surly and reticent, with
a mastiff-like fidelity rarely found outside the
profession. Much put out by this opposition
to his wishes, he determined to wait, and took
up his position in a shop opposite.
p. In a short time, with a sore heart and burning
cheeks, he saw his son come forth in attendance
on the actress !

What degradation ! what misery ! what low,
mean walking in mud and filth all this was 1
It made him ill ; but he felt that action was
necessary, and he followed them cautiously at
a distance.

He saw them enter into a decent house, and
then endured a still longer watch of more than
an hour ; when his son came forth, with a face
lit up with a sort of fatuous enjoyment, and
glorified with the light of happiness. He felt
utterly humiliated at this spectacle, and inclined
to go out and meet him — this low, craven,

grovelling fellow, that would disgrace his name
if he could. But he must temporize. Instead,
he went over to the house, and asked to see
Miss Effingham ; sending up his name. In a
moment he was before her.

It was wonderful to .see the meeting of these
two persons — the dislike, rage, and contempt
that came into Mr. Benbow's face as he saw
this detestable obstacle to all his most darling
plans standing before him ; while a strange and
no less vindictive look was in hers.

"We have met before," she said, "but at a
greater distance. Pray what do you want with
me, Mr. Benbow ? "

Let us have no subterfuges, or any stage
business ! " he said, coldly. " You understand
perfectly what has brought me here. / want my
son. I am content to put it on a business-like
footing. You have obtained an influence over
him, and I want to set him free."

Quite like Vermont in a certain opera," she
said. " Not much of a compliment to me."

It is you yourself who have paid the compliment,

whatever it be. I know nothing of
Sermons or operas. I wish to have my son
back, and to know how it can be arranged''

*^ Yes ; buy him and sacrifice him to some
ambitious ends, just as you have done all through
your life — driven your Juggernaut car at full
gallop over everything that was human, gentle,
affectionate ! But I do not sell sons, nor will
I in this case. Yours has been a blood-stained
course, Mr. Benbow. Now you wish for another
victim."

I did not come to discuss such things.* I
must request you will confine yourself to the
matter in hand. I should like to put all this
on a business footing. I do not, you see, dispute
your powers of fascination — your great charms."
This he said ironically. '^ I admit your dangerous
graces, and am prepared to come to terms.
You are an actress — a ^ lady on the stage.' It
is a hard life, as I am told ; and you might
be saved a great deal of its toils — "

^'But, as we are speaking of terms — and, as
I suppose, what you mean is to 'buy me off' —

I am entitled to know what your object is.
Perhaps you are not aware that I am a gentleman's
daughter, though Effingham is not my
real name ? "

'' I thought so," he said. " I believe it to
be the custom of your profession."

My father was a gentleman, but had the
misfortune to offend a great man — a pitiless,
cruel, heartless great man, who, in revenge,
ruined, then killed him. That is an old story
now, and, I believe, is repeating itself everyday.
You, Mr. Benbow, might also have found
some one in your way whom it became necessary
to crush. There are some persons who will take
no hint, decline all your offers, and who must
be crushed. Suppose I am one of those who
refuse to be bought off, who will not take your
offers, and who decline to be crushed. Perhaps
who knows but that I may have the power
of crushing you ? "

This is all Greek to me," he said, " or
some of your stage high-sounding phrases.
Well," he replied calmly, "suppose you do

proceed with your plans : what will be the
result ? I cast off my son without a halfpenny
without a farthing. As there is a heaven
over us, I will do this — I swear it ! I shall
find some other heir for my estate. He shall
be to me as though he were in his coffin. Ask
my friends if I have ever gone back of what
I have said. You will then have the ruin of
that poor, stupid lad on you."

She seemed to reflect over this.

I have not sought him'' she said, " he has
pursued me. I left that place, as they will
tell you, without leaving the slightest clue
behind me. I am not a stock or a stone — I
cannot be insensible to such affection. But still
I should not like to ruin the poor boy : it
would be an ill return for his devotion. What
can I do ? "

A sort 'of elation came into his breast. All
these creatures belonged to the same vile, mercenary
herd. After all, he was a true diplomatist,
who knew human nature so well ! He
had the key in his pocket. Was it not Walpole

VOL. II. O

who said, ** Every man had his price " ? But
to every woman there was the little key.

Then Mr. Benbow became eloquent and
friendly. They talked the matter over for
nearly an hour. She appeared more and
more to come into his views. At last he
said :

"Your family, you tell me, are in America;
why should not you try'your great talents before
an American audience ? I know little or nothing
about the stage, as you may well imagine — it
is all foreign to me. But I know people of
vast influence who can command these matters ;
and I could guarantee you every chance, and
the most splendid opening. Our minister thereat
this moment is my intimate. I can reach
one of the great entrepreneurs who will do
anything for me. Agree to this, and you will
have made a sacrifice, but you will have saved
a whole family. Nay, you will have saved me.
For I own to you this business would disgrace
me — break my heart. Do ! "

A curious look of triumph came into her eyes.

Well ; I am sure you would never have
resisted such an appeal from any one — say from
some wretched, broken-down creature who had
offended you, and was pleading for mercy,
would you ? But it must be managed delicately.
Wait until tomorrow morning. Leave it to me.
I shall settle it in secret."

She paused a moment.

You gave me your word, though. Would
you object to put it under your hand — I mean
wdiat you promised ? "

There was an eagerness to comply with everything
that he proposed in this woman that ought
to have excited the suspicions of so trained a
worldling.

Anything you wish," she said. " I will
carry out my engagement loyally, never fear."

I mean," said he, " will you faithfully give
all effect to what you have promised — conveying
to him that you have quite given him up, — that
you even like another ; or some proof as
strong ? "

*' I have no objection," she answered.



But I see you distrust me still," she resumed,
*'so let us come to facts. This Duke and his
daughter, there is your cynosure, is it not ?
There you * have garnered up your heart,' as we
say in our jargon. AVell ; what if I send your
son there — if you find him there tomorrow ? ''

In delight, Mr. Benbow seized her hand.

"Ah, that is really coming to business."

Then I swear it to you," she went on.
He shall be there at the feet of the lady you
have chosen."

And you ? " he said anxiously.

*^ Choose your vessel ; the time of sailing ;
come yourself and see me on board."

And might I ask, why are you so complaisant
? " he said, suspiciously.

Oh, for reasons of my own, which you may
one day discover. It is enough for you that
I am ready to do what you wish. Only understand
this — it is no compliment. You must
not dare, in any light way — talking with your
friends or with him — ever to hint that you have
sent me away. It would be false — you know

it would. I am ready to go tomorrow — next
week, if you wish — and I shall not let him
know. That will be enough for you, and must
be enough. Again I tell you, I will loyally and
honourably carry out all that I have engaged
to do. That must be enough, and you will see
that I shall not fail you. There — I shall say

no more."

'^ It is sufficient," said Mr. Benbow, " and I
am more than content. I shall go up to London
at once, and shall all but guarantee you a
splendid American engagement — if money or
influence can do it. You will stay away for
some years."

I promise — I swear it, if you like."

She said this so eagerly, that Mr. Benbow
started and said — " This is really incomprehensible.
Why should you be so willing to forward
my wishes ? "

You are eager that I should be an exile,"
she said. " Speak frankly, and have no concealment.
You would be glad if I never returned
if you heard the news of my death ? ''

I am ambitious," he said slowly, " and I
have plans. I wish to advance my family.
You must see that an alliance with you would
not be an advantage in a worldly sense."

'^ A temptation to me to frustrate them," she
said, smiling.

I know as you do," he went on, '' the effect
of absence in the case of young boys of his
age—

*'Boy!'' and she laughed; 'rand yet you do
not call me a girl ? "

Well, youths of his age change their object
of passion rapidly — and — "

And my short absence you mean to put to
profit. Once the sea is between him and rae,
you will begin to labour, to work heaven and
earth, as they say, to settle him in life. Then I
may return as speedily as I please."

'put yourself in my place," he said ; " it is
only natural."

But were I to say to you ' put yourself
in 7?i?/ place ? ' But you could not ; you could
not guess how you would feel then. How

astounded, how dumb foundered you would be,
could you see into this brain. What if I give
you a year, since you are so eager ? "

'' A year I " he cried in delight. " I agree.
Oh, I will never forget it to you. It is more
than enough."

'* Don't be too sure," she said, smiling.
"You may not have reason, in any case, to be
grateful."

Transported with joy and gratitude at the
success of his attempt, Mr. Benbow agreed to
everything. Who knew the world so well ashe
did ? Who so well knew the lower class
of women, with their invariable story of being
a gentleman's daughter ? He then went to his
hotel, and sent a note to his son, telling him
to come up and dine.

Banff Castle was a vast, fortress-like pile,
with drawbridge, kc, and supported in the most
complete and magnificent style. The present
Duke had, indeed, " no money," was enormously
embarrassed, yet still had always plenty of
money. At periodical intervals came some vast

operation, through his agents — much as Messrs.
Oppenheim appear for his Highness the Khedive.
He was never pressed — was far too magnificent
to suffer pressure : it passed by him like the
idle wind. He was, indeed, as his admirers said,
*'a princely man:" handsome, young — though
grandfather many times over — and called by his
Christian name in his family. Nearly all his
daughters and sons had made splendid alliances ;
and there remained but one or two of each class,
who were plain enough, as far as concerned the
daughters ; and deficient, as regards the sons.

Exactly as the actress had predicted, young
Mr. Benbow found himself at the castle — where
his excuses were received with good-natured
toleration. On his arrival, he was a little bewildered
by the state of the place. The Banff
had that precious liquor, or ichor, Royal blood —
a mere drop or two, certainly — dribbling through
their veins ; and they displayed scarlet and gold
liveries. There were all kinds of officials, under
strange and half-sovereign names. The Duke
himself moved in a sort of regal state, with an

officer of the household marching before him —
of course, cot on all occasions — but whenever he
wished to appear in state. The buffet of plate
was a structure of enormous height and solidity,
and might have adorned the palace at Pekin.
At dinner he sat on a dais, with his duchess.
But all this was done in an unobtrusive way, as
though it was incident to his birth and office, and
rather a duty for him to endure.

In the castle was staying a crowd of notables :
a junior Royal Prince and his lady, with
another Duke ; lords in profusion ; ofiiliial
beauties of rank ; a minister or two ; in short, it
was a galaxy ; and when the procession to the
banqueting-hall was formed on the first evening
when the young man took his place — he felt
quite " lowly " almost, as the stars and ribbons
flashed around him. He had not a vulgar mind :
but it was impossible to resist the overwhelming
character of the exhibition. He was amused and
delighted, and flattered by the good-nature of
the Duke and his family ; who accepted his
excuses and were specially attentive to him.

Lady Rosa was gracious, and even partial ; and
after dinner, the Royal personage, who liked
billiards, played a game at pool, in which young
Mr. Charles took part — selected for the honour
by the host.

After all was he not a " mere boy " ? — impressionable
— illogical — and" without that sense of
consistency which his elders think so necessary,
even to preserve their private credit at their own
hearts. He looked to the present. He did not
dwell on the image of his actress — persistently at
least. It was obscured for a time. His eyes
were quite dazzled with the social gold and silver
presented to them — his senses, it would seem,
confused by the incense which a dignified retainer
had gone round with, after swinging up and down
the table. Faith, constancy, fidelity, are plants
that find it hard to thrive in such an atmosphere
: their petals shrink up ; it is stifling for
them.

LADY ROSA.

Of Lady Rosa we must speak at a little
length, for her character was a remarkable one.
She was her father s favourite daughter, appeared
to be haughty, — " stuck up " was the word
oftener applied — but within her heart was a
vein of romance and even heroism that was
unusual in a young lady of her station. She
seemed to think that she was debarred by her
position from much that was natural and genuine
in the world, as she was ever being offered
flatteries and incense. This acted on her disposition,
and made her cold and indifferent.
But she was thoughtful and accomplished, and
the few that knew her well liked her.

All this time the admirer, if he might be so

styled, had caused her mixed emotions. She
liked, or was rather pleased, with the young
man from the first ; and being a good daughter,
was glad to forward a plan on which her father
had set his heart. Still, it was hardly such an
alliance as she might have looked for, and accordingly
she felt she was, as it were, heroically
condescending, and making, as it were, a sacrifice,
for which the steady life-long devotion of
the man she had chosen should be her due
reward.

It may be, therefore, imagined what was her
surprise, when she found that their attitudes had
been reversed, and that young Mr. Benbow was
coquetting undecidedly, making difficulties, and
unable to make up his mind. On this discovery
wounded pride, even mortification, anger, were
the mingled feelings with which she noted his
extraordinary behaviour ; and but for her father
she would have at once settled the matter by
dismissing: her suitor. There are few situations
indeed more awkward or, perhaps, irritating,
than that of a person who, being with some

difficulty brought to grant a concession, and
which is graciously done, finds that the recipient
is hesitating to accept.

Lady Rosa determined, at least, that she
would maintain her dignity, and show no further
sign of satisfaction in his advances, " leaving the
onus " on him, and making him for the future
owe any progress he made entirely to his own
exertions.

She now treated him equally like the other
guests — with a good-humoured indifference.
There was no more of that quiet preference;
conveyed by some secret instinct, to show that
he was privileged above the rest. He was slowly
and surely "let down."

Among the guests was a certain young Alger-non
Turnour, son of Lord Turnour, very lively
and clever, and full of that pleasant unobtrusive
honliommie^ which often makes a young fellow
without much or any talent so welcome in society.
This gentleman was now devoted to Lady Rosa,
and showed his admiration in a thousand direct and
straightforward ways, that contrasted curiously

with the uncertain mood of young Mr. Benbow.
The latter soon noticed a new air of confidence
between them, of most alarming and jealousy-rousing
symptoms. There was a general air
existing of indifference to him. He had been
offered his chance, and put it aside, or could not
make up his mind. Here was another, of better
degree, eager and willing.

This young Algerian Turnour was universally
popular, possibly because he thought little of
himself, was unaffected, and said in an easy
natural way anything that occurred to him. He
had the unfailing charm of good humour, so
welcome in a country house, or indeed in any
house. He was, moreover, well off, having been
adopted as her heir by a maiden aunt of large
fortune, whom his engaging qualities had quite
won over. This is certainly the most flattering
return for natural gifts that can be received, and
those who receive it may be fairly proud of such
a compliment.

Such a rival was, therefore, dangerous. The
young fellow was, moreover, quite captivated by

the stately charms of Lady Rosa, who accepted
his attentions with a good-natured toleration.
Very soon the gentlemen of the company had
pronounced, in the smoking-room, that if Benbow
*' didn't look out he'd soon be out of the running."
The candidate was at first surprised,
then annoyed, then piqued into asserting his
position. This appeal to vanity is often more
effective than the so-called gentle passion itself,
and the trained matchmaker knows well, and
studies the maxim in the " Beggars' Opera "
touching this infallible mode of keeping man
*' on." He accordingly redoubled his attentions,
and very soon, to his own surprise, found himself
performing as the lover.

There was, however, quite a sort of surprise
and pleasure in the society, when one evening
it was known that Mr. Conway had joined the
party ; and had come to stay a few days. He
had thought to himself that he would try what
a little change and agreeable society would do —
as he was growing worried and harassed by the
events going on at St. Arthur's. The change

that appeared in Lady Rosa was remarkable.
She swam down to the banquet in her richest
attire — with her jewels on, and looking, it was
admitted, '' really handsome," always a dubious
compliment, as implying that the effect is as
deceptive as it is rare. It was to be at once
seen that here was the favoured suitor of all, in
spite of the pleasant Algerian — and Mr. Benbow,
now eager, now dallying, and in a most curious
state of doubt and trepidation.

Mr. Conway fell into his place with the ease
and agreeability of a practised man of the world.
He had read off at once how matters stood —
and at Winchester had followed the youth's
passion for the actress, with some sympathy
and some amusement.

The old story," he said to himself. " I left
him all a fire ; now the flames seem to have burnt
out." Then he thought, here was some likeness
in the youth's case to his own, and this reflection
did not quite please him.

The day before Mr. Conway's coming, the
Duke announced at dinner :

I am glad to tell you Miss Panton is coming
to us ; she will be a great addition "

There was a little mild excitement on this
announcement — for the gossip of St. Arthur's
was duly known at the castle.

Is the faithful Dudley to come too ? " someone
asked.

Well, no," said the Duke, smiling ; " Mr.
Dudley's terrier-like devotions, it seems to me,
are carried rather too far. It bores others ; not
but that Miss Panton merits — '^

She is a very strange person," said Lady
Rosa, ^' too excitable for me altogether. I should
not care to have my champion — if I had such
a thing — thrown into the water for me."

Is she to marry this Mr. Conway ? "

*• Conway marry, no, no," said the Duke ;
not her certainly. He will never make up
his mind till the time is past. By the way, he
said he would stay for a day or two."

"What fun that will be," said young Mr.
Turnour ; and everybody agreed it would be
*' fun " watching them. " Conway, I hear,"

VOL. II. p

went on the young man, " is really in love with
the parson's daughter — a clever girl, if you
like

blush for his taste then'' said the Duke ;
Miss Panton is quite out of the common —
there are very few indeed like her."

No wonder people said occasionally that his
Grace was so inclined to Miss Panton, that he
might one day come to offering her his coronet.

This heralded, or the sensation of this visit was,
the arrival of the heiress of Panton — who had
come in all her splendour, with an array of
boxes, and dresses, and jewels, with which to
deck out her frail and interesting figure. The
Duke always admired Miss Panton and her
splendours^and that curiously fitful or excited
spirit which was indeed one of her attractions.
His Grace was gallant as indeed became a beau
of other days. Miss Panton, indeed, apart from
her quality of heiress and her recent escape from
death, was certain to attract sympathy.

But between her and Lady Rosa there was none.
'^ She was one of papa's favourites," she said.

*' Of coarse he asks whom he pleases here."
The two ladies, indeed, made no show of cordiality,
which was' charitably set down to a certain
alarm on the part of Lady Eosa as to her
father's fate.

In Laura Panton was a curious air of impulse,
or wildness it might seem, which, after all, was a
charm. She was full of courage, feared no one,
and when she felt acutely, showed it both by
speech and look. This contrast between her
valiant air and bearing, and her delicate frame,
excited interest. People almost laughed at her
open eagerness to bring over Mr. Conway to her
interest, and her vexation almost as unrestrained
when she found she made little progress.

The disdainful Lady Eosa looked on half
contemptuously. The most stoical of men is
flattered by such open preference, when he
knows it to be genuine, and which overrides
even the conventional restraints of society.

People smiled as they saw this little comedy
going on, with a pleasant background of country-house
amusement and entertainment.

P 2

In this way Mr. Conway, thus flattered and
favoured, played his part. Young Bcnbow, too,
not very penetrating in his moral vision, remained
on thinking very much, by way of romance, of
his absent actress, but at the same time exhibiting
his devotion to the lady of the house.

By this time Lady Eosa began to see that
her " favoured guest " was indifferent, and
determined not to condescend to any further
manifestation of her feeling. Perhaps she
thought that a show of indifference might
stimulate. And thus, young Mr. Benbow received
a certain amount of encouragement in his
aspirations. Yet the image of his Pauline rose
before him in his dreams, with the garish light
of the stage, ever fascinatingly playing on it —
her winnings voice and witching movements —
causing a strangle thrill. His eves were ever
turned to that too entrancing night, which he
cherished as a trinket in his heart of hearts, to
be taken out of its case and gazed at. Yet,
with all this keen sense, he now begun to
think it should not go beyond romance.

Inconsistently enough, Mr. Benbow felt that
he was making little way with this capricious
dame. Every one now was very kind and
indulgent to young Mr. Benbow — gave him
many openings, but he could not avail himself
of them. And he fancied in his rather morbid,
excited state — what was a little mortifying to
his vanity — there was no eagerness on the part
of his hosts ; and, in fact, they seemed to have
given him up in favour of the new-comer. But
this was mere well-bred indifference.

More days — and very pleasant ones — went "by.
One evening, at dinner, a gentleman told some
news about a great friend, known to all the
company — one Bob Lester, who was in the Life
Guards.

He has crowned his whole career. What do
you think he has done ? Married a girl off the
boards ! "

There was a smile of contemptuous pity.

*' Just what I would have imagined," said a
lady of title. *' The finish I always prophesied
for him."

*' I only think," said another, " of poor Lady
Mary, his mother. It will break her heart, poor
woman. Such a disgrace for the family. Your
father may have known him, Mr. Benbow 1 I
assure you, I always said he would make some
such disreputable finale''

But there have been some actresses married
into great families," said Mr. Conway.

Yes, but none the less disgraceful. Not a
word can be said for it, even in these levelling
days. These families — we all know whom you
mean — have lived it down. But imagine the
misery caused by the introduction of such
creatures, with their paint and their gewgaws !
Oh, it is not to be thought of. Poor dear Lady
Mary ! One is tempted to write her a letter of
condolence, as if for a death."

I don't agree with you at all," said Mr.
Conway, coldly.

*nor I," said Lady Eosa, warmly.

The chorus of endorsement that greeted this
sentiment made a deep impression on the young
Mr. Benbow, and made him thoughtful. There

was no reasoning on the matter. It was taken
to be one of the self-evident truths, like the sun
in the heavens. And, indeed, it did seem self-evident
to him now, for the first time ; though
he was ready to defend .his thesis boldly and
eagerly. Still it required arguments — a new state
of thing's to him.

It Was, indeed, a pleasant time, and the days
rolled away. One night there was a ball, and
the young lady looked more charming, and was
more veracious, than she had been for lonsf.
Charles danced with her once or twice, and late
in the night came to ask for another dance.
Just as he was leading her away, his rival came
up eagerly, and claimed a prior engagement.
He seemed inclined to settle it as a matter of
course, with an implied tone in his voice — " You
are not in any case going to prefer this fellow tome
— this boy." But, to his indignation, the
lady went away with Mr. Benbow.

^^ I am afraid," the latter was saying, with a
sort of half-triumph, " there was some justice on
his side''

She smiled. " There is no question of it. I
have behaved very badly and very unjustly."

^'What, you iveix engaged to him ! "

Yes, since you ask me."

And you prefer to dance with me *? " he said,
brusquely — and stupidly, it would appear to
some. But it told on this occasion .more than
the most artfully contrived speech.

She smiled. ^' Supposing for a moment that
I did, am I to tell you so ? "

*' If I thought that," said the young man,
excitedly — " if I was sure — if I only knew — "

He forgot everything before — and all that was
to come. To-morrow he would speak, and learn
his fate.

Alas ! he did not know that Mr. Conway
had preceded him by a few minutes, before Lady
Eosa had tried to charm him by some invitation
of this kind. It had been received with an
indifferent smile.

I was going to the smoking-room," he said,
"where 1 shall no doubt take with me your
impose, floating gracefully round and round.

That will console me. Take pity, moreover, on
that poor adorer of yours."

Lady Eosa gave him one of her scornful looks.

** You are quite disinterested and philanthropical,"
she said.

When Mr. Benbow, in a sort of flutter, went to
his room that night, on his table he found a
letter waiting, in a handwriting that he knew,
that brought him to his senses. It ran :

Come to me at once ; I am leaving this
country for ever tomorrow evening, when the
packet sails. I charge you, by the vows 'you
have sworn to me, to leave that Capua where you
now are ; break through all attempts made to
detain you, and meet me here, at the hotel.
Come quickly. Yours for ever,

'' Lydia."

He was quite ashamed to think of himself ashe
read this document — the sort of impatience
with which he got through it. It came at such
an awkward time. But the image was before him
began to take the old glory. Somehow he was
put out. The notion of sacrifice was arising.

and he went to bed in rather an ill-humour.
He must leave in the morning betimes, before
any one was up ; but he would be back by the
evening, in time for dinner. The thought of
losing the beautiful Lydia disturbed him. What
was she going away for ? She need not do it.
He would see her and arrange all that. Going
to America ? Wherefore ? Could she not have
got an engagement in England ? An engagement
! But an actress ! The word jarred on
him.

Leaving; for ever ! That impose of the beautiful
creature rose before him — her impassioned
tones — the entrancing: Pauline. He was indignant
with himself, and reproaching himself for
his ^' baseness," passed a troubled, tossing night.

AN INTERVIEW.

The train darted away along the line, taking
away young Mr. Benbow far from the theatrical
scenes at the great ducal palace. As he looked
back, he saw visions of the nio:ht before — a
series of pictures, as they appeared to him, painted
in the most vivid colours, and which he seemed
to be looking back to wistfully, through a cold,
dull, chilly medium — like the gray dawn which
was before him now. He was a little impatient
and put out at this interruption to his enchantment
— unconsciously, at least, for he did not
put the idea in words. So he journeyed on
through the day, low-spirited, very lugubrious ;
until, about noon, he began to draw near to
that eternal yellow fog — Manchester — which

seemed to him as if he was entering some thick
miasma, over a marsh. There is nothing more
dispiriting than such an entrance. The train
seems to run for miles, at full speed, through
dim and spectral lines of factories and chimneys,
all reeking with yellowish-green fog. The whole
had a Plutonic air.

He was set down at an hotel, and was
shown up to Pauline's room. There he found
her — pale, sad, but more beautiful than ever,
and with that strange look of tender sympathy
on her face, which was her great charm, more
developed. It won back the capricious youth
at once. The glories of the mansion he had
left behind became dim : he was in a new realm
all of a sudden. He was her slave ao^ain !

I have sent for you," she said. ** I told
you that I am going away. You may never seeme
again. But, first, you must tell me— do you
hold to what you have said, — and even sworn
that you are mine for ever ? It was you who
came to make that declaration to me voluntarily'*

And do I wish to withdraw from it ? You

must not leave thus — it is childish ! You must
stay — stay with me."

And if I did, would you be with me ? You
have not been won over — bought over — by these
people — intimidated by your father ? "

** Never — never!" he said, fervently. '* T am
yours always — bound to you for ever. I tell
you, you must not go. I cannot endure it.
I cannot live without you."

*' Then let me put you to this test," she said
quickly. '^ I go from here to-day. If I go, I
shall never see you again. I have determined
to cast my lot in that great continent where
there is a true field for talent and genius ; where
my ambition can be gratified ; where I shall
rise to fame, and win glory and wealth and
power. That is what I want — power for certain
dear ends of my life. There is but one thing
that would link me to this continent — one thing
alone that would make me turn my eyes to the
east. That is you ! "

Oh ! tell me about this ! " he cried passionately.
" What would you have me do ? I

cannot lose you. Do you wish me to go with
you i

No ; I would not sacrifice you. But I must
not be sacrificed either ; it would not be fair.
If I 2:0, takinfif with me an ever-lengthening
chain of affliction — fond longings, miserable looking
back, fretful disquietudes, weary waiting —
and then learn that you — like all men — have
forgotten me, have been bought into this Duke's
family, what would then be left for me ? Betrayed
— abandoned ! No ; all must finish between
us, or — give me some pledge ! "

'* Anything in the world ! My name —
hand."

*' Mind, I do not ask you to take this step ;
bat I offer you the alternative. Let all be at
end, or let all begin. I knew you would consent
— that it would be idle to reason with you ;
for you are bound to me for ever — as you
declared to me yourself. But still I do not
hold you to this. I would rather you would
shake yourself free of me."

There was something so romantic in all this,

and she looked so noble, generous, and beautiful,
that the old rush of feeling came back upon
him ; he saw her as she was in Pauline — ever
fascinating.

I could not give you up for the whole
world ! I will go with you to the New World,
and leave all behind."

"Then I never see you again after this
moment," she said. " I cannot leave thus. I
have sworn it. I shall not have your ruin on
my soul. No ; but I will agree to all else."

The ship did not go until the next morning ;
so there was a long, enchanting evening. The
old glories — the old lights — filled his eyes,
dazzling them. She was the Circe — enchantress.
He was intoxicated by the draughts held to
his lips.

The strangest part was, that he felt no pang
at parting; that, too, seemed in due course.
The ship was to sail at one o'clock ; and it was
now twelve. The actress's eyes wore a strange
expression of excitement and exultation. She
spoke strangely to him, as he thought.

If your father was only here ! What would
he say 1 I think it would set him mad with
fury and disappointment."

Heaven forbid ! " said the young man.
"And he must not know it. It would kill
him, I believe — and God forgive me ! "

They were now at the packet. About them
was the bustle and fuss of departure — luggage,
passengers. Yet she talked calmly — in a
strangely reflective tone.

He is ambitious, and would sacrifice you
and your happiness to his plans. Depend upon
it, in his life and career there have been those
whom he has had no scruple of killing in this
way, with shock and execution, because they
happened to cross his path. No, no ; I have
no scruples about that. Depend upon it, there
is compensation in all these things. Punishment,
though delayed, comes at last."

He listened wondering and shocked.

Punishment ! " he exclaimed. " Punishment
! For what 1 "

'' Yes," she said, almost fiercely, " punishment

or justice — if that is a better word. But
see — good heavens ! — look ! "

They were on the deck of the tender. The
sailors were beginning to clear the vessel.

See — your father ! He is suspicious — afraid
that I will not keep to my bargain. But he
is too late, is he not ? "

Charles looked round, and then saw his father
standing on the pier, watching them ! It was
like an apparition. For the moment, he seemed
to himself a sort of malefactor escaping — that
here was the detective, ready to seize him-sone
who knew his whole story. After the strange
dream of the morning — for dream it must be
this delusion seemed to seize on him, and
most naturally. And he stood there aghast
and trembling.

VOL. II.

FATHER AND SON.

But his father was smiling: and nodding at
them, as if in approval. In a moment he was
on board, standing next them.

I hope you will have a fine voyage, Miss
Effingham. All my good wishes go with you."

She looked at him with a strange expression
of unconcealed dislike, which struck her companion
with a feeling of dismay. Indeed, she
seemed latterly to be changing into some new
figure and new character. She seemed to be
repelling him more than drawing him to her.
It was like one of those enchantresses who used
to bewitch men first, then reveal themselves as
witches, even fishy and scaly. Her look at Mr.
Benbow was defiant — full of hatred and malice.

*^A genuine wish," she said. *^ Forgive me if
I am unpolite enough to say I believe your wish
to be, that this steamer were never heard of again
took fire, or were sunk. At this moment let us
have no subterfuge — nothing of my profession,
which is acting. You know well why I go."

Mr. Benbow was so taken back, he knew not
what to answer, diplomatist as he was. The
young Benbow remained looking at her.

'listen," she went on, 'your wishes may be
carried out. Far off, over there, there are so
many chances against me. Death seems to work
against us with double force when we are at a
distance, or driven from our own country. You
think you have saved him. Well, perhaps you
have. Perhaps you have not. Time alone can
tell."

Mr. Benbow knew all that time could tell,
and could do, pretty well, and answered, with
a smile :

You will have a great many things to think
of now. You will be taken into a whirl of
ambition and absorbing: things. I shall look

Q 2

out eagerly through all the papers for news of
the rising actress. We may reckon confidently
on some ecbatana success ; and then, perhaps,
you will thank me, who has been the humble
instrument. Perhaps you will hot thank me.
We old people are wiser, and see farther. You
will both be laughing at all this one day."

Again, it was something highly dramatic to
see this complacent ignorance of events in the
presence of those two actors, who knew so much :
this veteran schemer thinking that he had the
key of the position in his hand — nay, that he
was on the walls, triumphant, conquering — and
that he had them both at his mercy.

It was time to go. All those who were not
passengers must leave for shore. " Now, then ! "
was the cry. He could be generous, and went
his way, leaving them to exchange a last
farewell.

I don't expect that you will see me again.
I have a presentiment of it. Never mind, you
have behaved nobly — generously too. It would
have been best for us both that you never heard

of me again ; for I am not, as I told yon before,
the angel that your romance makes me out.
Nothing of the kind. If you only knew — I am
the vilest wretch — only an instrument all the
time, drawn on by fate to carry out inexorable
decrees. Good-bye. Think of me not. Try
and forgive me, and think it is not I, but something
more powerful, that brings all this about."

"Now, then!" rano^ out ao^ain. and he had
to rush ashore. Indeed, he did not feel that he
would wish to go with her. Some strange feeling
seemed to hold him back. He was confused
dazed. He seemed like one who had fallen
down a precipice, and lay stunned and bleeding
at the bottom. He watched the tender mo vino-slowly
off, and her figure on the deck, until it
was out of sight.

His father drew a sigh of relief as it disappeared.
Now all was 'plain sailing." He
should strike while the iron was hot. Before
two months the wedding shall have taken place.
He was very kind and indulgent to his son,
sympathizing with him heartily.

My dear boy, I do feel for you. It is hard
very hard. Once, at your age, I thought my
heart would have broken under such a thing.
But indulge your grief as much as you like — for
she is a fine creature, and has behaved nobly
can make every allowance. Try and distract
your mind. I don't like to be sardonic — but, I
give you my solemn word of honour, my belief
is that that lady will have forgotten the whole
thing in six months. She is a professional
recollect. Everything falls into that. However,
I don't want to say a word against her ; and I
do not like you the worse, my dear boy, for you
showing this real feeling'*

That night, the first time for months, Mr.*
Benbow slept tranquilly and even sweetly. A
load was taken off his heart. There was a sense
of triumph and satisfaction too, at the happy
result of his skill and diplomacy.

'' I knew," he said to himself, " that I should
worst that woman. Persons of her class cannot
resist the sordid impulses of their nature. It
is all a matter of price, and I paid high. Now

she has gone her way. the ground is clear and
open, and this foolish impulsive boy will run as
eagerly after some other charmer."

There was much sagacity in this forecast.
He knew well that nothing was so untrue — at
least, in most instances — as that "Absence
makes the heart grow fonder." Absence did a
hundred other things : it removed excitement ;
it brought forgetfulness ; it dimmed or blurred
images ; it gave an occupied space for a new
tenant, more difficult to dislodge, because an
intruder. The Atlantic was wide, and lay between.
Before him lay some months' previous
interval, which he yet looked forward to without
any anxiety. And so, Mr. Benbow slept a
delightful sleep, the first time for many months,
as we have said, on the night the actress sailed.

WEAVING WEBS.

Thus saved from a catastrophe, and infinitely
relieved, Mr. Benbow had now leisure to think
of himself and of his plans. These were all
of a vast ambitious character, and curiously
interwoven with schemes built one upon each
other. These were connected with that champagne
of life — to wit, politics. His friendship
with the Duke was to furnish the marriage
with the Duke's Lady Rosa : the marriage with
Lady Rosa was to lead to a seat in the House
of Parliament : the seat in Parliament 'to the
Under-Secretary's chair : the Under-Secretary's
chair — to — well, that had not been so clearly
mapped out ; but there were misty outlines of
ribbons and coronets. At this moment, his

ardour, clamped by the late troubles, was rekindled
anew, and he was now ready to press forward. Was
this the old pitiless, selfish energy, ready to sacrifice
all persons and all things to his darling aim ?
The marriage he looked on as assured : he
had not an instant's anxiety on the matter.
The Duke and Lady Eosa were there ready :
he was ready, and he, foolish boy, should be
ready, and would be ready at the fitting moment.
The seat in Parliament was indeed at the top
of a steep flight, but he could climb them.
There was an old man in possession — a *bad
life " — and there the Duke had some influence.
So, also, had the Right Honourable Hoxter, the
Duke's friend, and who managed a great deal
for the party, and he had spoken of the Under-secretaryship.
As for the ribbon or coronet,
that was almost easier ; and so much inspired,
Mr. Benbow set to work, keeping all these plates
spinning together, now giving one a twist, now
the other, as the " manipulator " at a circus
does. Nothing seems so strong as this passion
for success in elderly life. And this may be

accounted for in our times, by the hurried pressure,
the vast and complex crowd of things that
have now accumulated, leaving scarcely a moment's
leisure — to say nothing of the competition
from the vast crowds. Formerly, it was fashionable
for the old politician to affect to be weary,
and sighing for retirement and quiet. " Solve
senescentem " used to be the cry : now the
steed sometimes beans his work in his old aoje.
This, however, is the day of ^' grand old men!*

This inspirited Mr. Benbow, who set himself
to his task with feverish energy. His first
aim was, of course, to bring about the disentanglement
of his son. He knew the youth's
rather fitful and uncertain nature ; and, as a
beginning, had shrewdly determined that he
would not in the least press him ; nay, would
rather discourage him. Thus, whenever a visit
to Banff" was spoken of, Mr. Benbow would say :

'^ You need not come, Charles. But I must
go myself to look. My prospects need it."

Why not, sir ? " the young man would reply.
'* It is a very enjoyable house."

"It is indeed," said his father, with a sigh,
*' and I am sure Mr. Conway finds it so. He
is growing in favour there every day."

Do you mean with Lady Rosa ? " asked the
young man, smiling. " I doubt it."

*' There is no doubt about it from my letters.
But there's an end of it now, so let us say
no more on the subject. And I have given
them to understand it is."

Was not that rather hasty, or needless ? "
said the young man, colouring. " There is no
need to make proclamation of these things"*

My dear boy, that's all too late. You must
stand and give place to more willing folk. You
can't expect beautiful, high-born and high-bred
girls to be throwing themselves at your head.
Mr. Conway has cut you out."

But isn't it a little hard that 1 should
be cut off from such a pleasant house and
pleasant company, because of Mr. George
Conway ? "

'' I can't help it," said his father, " and to tell
you the truth, you are not asked this time."

There was a curious tranquillity about the
young fellow which all the time puzzled his
father. He bore his love's absence so tranquilly,
and with a sort of assured confidence. He was
in his old spirits again. His father fancied that
often these chains of the grandes passions
became rather a strain and a burden, and there
is a relief after the first trouble of parting.

The truth was, for the first few weeks Charles
was supremely comfortable, and every mail
brought him a welcome letter from the fascinating
actress — his Lydia. But it was strange,
certainly, how he dwelt on that phrase of his
father's — ^' Conway has cut you out." " Conceited
fellow ! " he would say to himself, '' always
harping on that one subject himself. Why, if I
had chosen I could have — " but here he checked
himself.

A month or two passed away, then another
month. Mr. Benbow's plans were maturing and
prospering. That strange good-fortune which
attended always when things seemed to go,
appeared to make amends for the check, by

making even this go well with more than
abundance. Thus he was suddenly startled in
the midst of all his schemes by an announcement
in the obituary columns :

On the 16th, at Banff Castle, her Grace the
Duchess of Banffshire, aged sixty-one."

The paper almost fell from his hands — from
the shock ? No ; but from the cruel, most
awkward interruption to his plans at so critical
a moment. Here was a clear retard of at least
a year.

But out of this came good. In his first grief
his Grace, who really felt the loss of his companion,
needed some one with a knowledge of
the world — not a man of business — to come to
his aid in "fending off" the weary irksome
duties that his state required. This he ventured
to offer, and was gratefully accepted by the
disconsolate Duke. It came so admirably well-timed
— it was a real service, as Mr, Benbow
knew. Nothing could fit in better. He never
relaxed a moment on that little foundation he
built ; and presently his Grace was writing to say :

"My dear Benbow,

I cannot say what service you have
been to me. I shall never forget it. Could you
manage to come again to Banff? There is a
rather delicate matter for which, under my
bereavement, I am wholly unfitted."

Could he come ? Of course he could. He
was there for a fortnight, getting ready the
ground — consoling the bereaved husband — sow-ins:
the seed. In six months it was found that
the bereavement was not such a serious drawback
to Mr. Benbow's plans, after all.

Eight months had gone by — ten months — a
year. Surly Time had healed the poignant
sorrow. He could see a few people now at the
Castle — it would distract their sorrows. And,
after all, did he not owe something to his children
.to the Lady Rosa, for instance ? Accordingly,
he was persuaded : a few people — just a few — to
keep up his spirits. It was a duty. It was
incumbent on him to make an exertion.

A few, then, were asked. Among others, the
Earl of Gillingham — a political star; and his

daughter — a tall, elegant, gracious creature.
The bereaved Duke left all to his friend Benbow,
whose kindness under the bereavement he should
never forget. Lady Frances Lantern was
charming ; her figure — where was her real
strength — exquisite, with a quiet and refined
air, if aristocratic. The diplomatic Mr. Benbow,
with a wonderful instinct, took this matter in
hand. He put it all on duty — duty to the
country — to the estate — to the family — to the
Duke himself. And presently the world was
astonished to learn that a rapid and strictly
private marriage had taken place between the
young and conventionally beautiful daughter of
the Earl of Gillingham and the Duke. This
Earl was political — had two sons in Parliament ;
and thus the interest was admirably fortified.

You and your son Charles," said the bridegroom,
departing for Paris, " must be here on
our return. My dear Benbow, I am your friend
always."

In the mean time, the eyes of the latter
gentleman had always been turned towards the

great continent of the West. American papers

from New York and the leading towns were

regularly sent to him, and friends of his

wondered to see this new-born interest in the

affairs of that country ; for he had been always

specially narrow-minded, thinking only of home

politics, and of the little microcosm of Whigs

and Tories, and office, and " getting on."

Once, by the merest accident, his eye fell

upon a paragraph in which it was stated that the

new London actress, with whom Mr. Calhoun

Spot had contracted an engagement, was lying

seriously ill, and not expected to recover ; under

which circumstances, Mr. Calhoun Spot had

contracted another engagement with the fascines
o

acting Brunette, &c. How his heart fluttered at
this ! And he passed it over to his son to read,
with a compassionate '' My poor Charles ! I
knew it would end in this way."

But, in truth, he had been rather puzzled by
the demeanour of that young man. He had
settled into a sort of melancholy, which his
father was yet acute enough to see was not the

longing of love, or the yearnings of a love-sick
boy separated from his flame. It was a dull
despondence ; a restless sort of depression that
knew not what to turn to. Neither did he seem
to take interest in that far-off continent. He
even asked to be allowed to go to Paris for a
month ; to which his father cheerfully consented.

Vil. II.

R

NEWS OF LYDIA.

It was thus that the most intimate and dear
relations became established between Mr. Benbow
and his noble friends. It was now too that " old
McBeth," as he was called, who had sat for
thirty years for the little borough nearest to
Banff Castle, announced that he intended retiring,
and the Duke declared that his friend Benbow
should have the seat. There was one little
stipulation, however ; and said his Grace gaily
to his friend :

The only thing is, it has always been the
custom that the borough is held by a connection
of the family. Old McBeth was a second cousin."

And the Duke smiled pleasantly. Mr. Ben-bow's
heart leaped with joy.

But how wonderfully tidings were ordered
under his now lucky star ! One morning there
arrived an American paper with a paragraph
scored with blue crosses. His eyes kindled ashe
read, and were turned up to Heaven in a sort
of imitation of grateful homage to Providence for
all the blessings it was showering on him*'

Send Mr. Charles," he said, with a voice that
almost trembled.

Charles always dreaded these formal and
official invitations, as they were only sent in
that form when there was a communication of
some serious character to be made.

When he entered he found Mr. Benbow
defended, as it were, behind an embrasure —
looking out through high port-holes of papers,
and books, and inkstands. His father s face had
a very grave and serious air, tinged with
sadness, dashed by importance ; though those
better acquainted with that impenetrable countenance
might have detected, also, a lurking
expression of contentment.

My dear boy," he said, kindly and tenderly,

R 2

"yon must prepare yourself for a trial. I can
feel for you — indeed I can ; and it is hard, where
I know you have centred your affections. But
we must all submit to these things."

The young man's face had turned very pale.

What have you to tell me, father ? " he
asked.

The answer was the putting the American
newspaper into his hand, Mr. Benbow pointing
to the paragraph.

Charles had an instinct of what was coming,
and read the following :

Mr. Edge Baycomhe, the go-ahead manager,
who runs the best Thespian temple in Cincinnati,
has lately found out the truth of the proverb about
the lip and the slip. He had engaged the European
actress tho had been setting things ablaze down
East, and she was to prove a ^ musters and help him
to chair up a dangerous opposition. But it is now
discovered that the unhappy histrionic was among
the victims in the late river steamer accident, and
her remains were identified among those saved after
the blowing-up of the ill-fated President Jefferson."

That accounts for it all, Charles," said his

father, after a silence. " 1 was wondering all
this time that we never heard a word of her.
Poor ill-fated girl ! What a wretched end !
Somehow, there is always to be something
dramatic associated with the lives of these poor
creatures ! "

The young man said not a word. He
remained gazing at the fatal paragraph : then
folded it up, and retired with it to his room.

All that morning he shut himself up, and kept
looking at it fixedly. The iron of self-reproach
had entered into his soul. Gone ! — dead ! what
bitter self-reproach. And, of late, what had he
been ? He dared not conceal it from himself :
after all his protestations, all his love, his sworn
devotion — it had pressed on him like a nightmare
— he had turned his eyes away from the
lovely, fascinating Pauline — that angel of delight
whom he had sought, whom he had pursued,
whom he had forced into this connection. He
had thought all honor that this attachment had
been a fatal one — that he had regretted it, and
shrunk from it. He blushed for himself. The

old tenderness all came back, and lie gave way
to a prolonged and bitter grief. No matter ;
now lie should do everything to cherish her
memory. He should keep iltat alive as long ashe
lived.

Several days went by, and he remained sunk
in depression, mooning about. His father was
very kind and indulgent to him, taking no
notice. A weary month went by. His son came,
and said to him.

'' Father, you know I loved her more than
any one in the wide world. I am wretched — full
of despair — and I must find some comfort."

How, Charles ! " said his father, uneasily.

*' Let me at least show my love and devotion
now that it is too late to do anything else — by
setting up some memorial — "

By all means, Charles. It is a very nice
and proper thought, and I honour you for it. I
shall write to town this very day."

"That is not what I mean," the son said,
eagerly. " I mean — to go out there and see — "

** Go out there and see ! " his father said,

starting up. "Are you mad? Go out to
America ! '^

I owe it to her memory," said the young
man, fervently. " It is a sacred duty."

The father lost all patience. " This is more of
your folly. You are incurable, and determined
to make yourself ridiculous. You will end in
ruining us, or are turning idiotic."

I did behave like an idiot," said the young
man, fiercely, " to that angel I I deserted her.
I outfit to have ozone with her — never to have
separated from her — to have gone with her all
the world over. It was my duty."

Your duty ! " repeated his father, aghast.
But, after a moment's pause, his old prudence
came back to him. His face cleared, and a
soothing expression took the place of the other.

Well, my dear boy, if it must be done, it
must. I'll turn it over."

Mr. Benbow came later to his son.

It has not been my ways" he said, gravely,
*' to oppose you in your plans. I think you will
do the justice to say that, of late, I have let you

take your own course pretty freely, and without
obstruction. Something, I think, is owing tome
— I mean to my convenience — the poor
bread-winner of the family. Don't you think
so, Charles ? "

You have been most kind and indulgent,
sir," the young man said, eagerly. " I have nota
word to say against that. But in this matter it
becomes a sacred duty — "

Well, I agree with you," said his father.
If you are so attached to her — loere^ I mean —
if it was such a serious passion, I cannot blame
you. Indeed, it is only what could be required
from a man of honour. But I say you should
consult my convenience — that is all I ask. You
shall go to America. But you can wait for three
weeks or a month ? "

*' Certainly, father. You are too good and
generous. If you new how I loved — if you
knew how my whole soul was bound up in
her—"

"That is what I do know. I see now you
were seriously attached to her. But you must

not give way — you must show yourself a man.
Of course I own that I could not have approved
of your marriage with an actress."

But she was a lady, father — a born lady. I
could prove it'*

" Oh, of course — I don't doubt it. And certainly
she showed she was a lady by the way she
behaved. And I should never have forced your
inclinations — never ! If you had made up your
mind to the matter, it would have been idle
to have opposed you. But you should have
gratified me in some other way, should you
not?"

*' Anything, dear father. It comforts me to
hear you speak in this way."

However, go if you like. But, I insist there
shall be some delay, arid that you fall in with
my arrangements first."

And what are they, father ? I shall do anything
that does not interfere with that sacred
duty."

'you must come with me for a few days to
the Duke's. You owe the family some amende,

as you havoc treated them in a very cavalier
fashion."

With all my heart," said the son. '' I have
no objection, now

The father went to his room much disturbed,
What does the boy mean ? — he is incurable.
Never mind, though — once in that house, he
shall not leave it free ! Then he may go to
America if he likes."

tL.

Within a week came the invitation, and father
and son started for Banff Castle.

*'a marriage has been arranged."

It was a different scene from the last festival
of state. Its gaudy splendour and regal magnificence
had given place to a calm sombreness,
not the less oppressive. The Duke was in deep
black ; bearing his sorrows manfully, but forced
to commune with the world. His daughter,
distraite and more indifferent, had acquired,
through that heavy shock, a gentle, subdued
manner, which really made her interesting. Sadness,
or recent sadness, always brings with it, or
leaves behind, a species of beauty — or, at least,
arouses a sort of interest. And the young man,
seeing her utter indifference to him and to all
the world, and to all matrimonial plans, saw her
sunder infinitely greater advantage. They both

had endured the bitterness of sorrow. She had
lost a mother : he had lost a wife. Both had
been bereaved. He honored to interchange the
story of their griefs ; and he could see and feel
that she knew the outline of his grief, and felt
the interest in it that all women do in such
things. There was nobody there but the host,
his family, and the two guests. It was infinitely
flatter ino; therefore.

It was very pleasant, too. Very soon, as she
walked about the garden, the young Lady Rosa
approached the subject on which he longed to
talk, and approached it with a kindly sympathy.

That nio^ht at the little theatre," she said —
that poor actress — I spoke unkindly of her.
But it is hard she should have met such an
untimely fate in a foreign country. I am quite
repentant now, and did her injustice. I own it."

I knew you were generous," said the young
man, *' ardent and noble. I quite understand
you ; and it is what I would have expected."

*' It is not," she said, very naturally, ** until
these things come home to ourselves that we

understand the full force of such a blow. I shall
never judge any one harshly again."

There was such a change, such a tenderness
and feeling, in her manner, that Charles looked
at her astonished. He had judged her unkindly,
and there were sins of that sort on his own head.
He found an inexpressibly soothing effect in her
company, a kind of pleasure and sympathy,
which he had never known before.

We need not linger on this curious process —
or passage, rather — which has been repeated over
and over again, through all the annals of human
character. It is a very old story ; and lady
readers particularly can furnish, by instinct, the
chapters that are to conclude it. What this
new-found sympathy produced can be imagined :
a sort of rest and pleasure, which presently began
to stretch over the thing itself to the person.
And after three or four days, when business took
off Mr. Benbow, it was arranged that young Mr.
Charles should wait for some time longer — not to
prepare for his American voyage, of which he
had made no mention whatever. Why should

he, he thought ; there was surely time enough
when the day fixed drew near.

We know that pleasant little history — or, it
may be, an invented apologue — of the disconsolate
widow and her husband's equestrian
monument ; and which, exaggerated as it is,
holds a sort of compendium of all the little weak
points of human nature — of course, disguised : how
the memorial was to be as magnificent as money
could make it ; and how, with every month or
two, it became gradually dwindled, shorn of this
and that ornament, until at length it shrank into
a plain and inexpensive slab. Thus it is, very
often, with a grief that is unduly extravagant, or
bestowed on an unfitted object.

The living object began gradually to take the
place of the one that was gone for ever. He
bean to see a number of new, hitherto undiscovered,
beauties in the young lady's character.
This tenderness and interest had the most prodigious
effect on him. He felt the older image
fading out gradually — even though he was indignant
as it did so. Who can blame him ? We

might be severe on a man of forty ; but a boy-lias
no logic, no consistency.

He fixed the day after tomorrow to go away.
The day after tomorrow arrived, and the Duke
said to him :

Why do you go away, Charles ? There is
no necessity. I assure you, we like having you
here, and would like you to stay. Of course, if
you have business — "

Lady Rosa said to him, " I really wish that
you could stay. It cheers up papa."

Of course he remained. It ^^2^^ flattering, thus
being pressed. Is not flattery the great lever by
which all the large weights of the world are
lifted ? It is not self-interest, nor pride, nor love
of money, nor love of self, so much as flattery.
It does all the work.

That day arrived the Baronet, rival, and
enemy of the young Charles, looking at him with
fierce eyes, as who should say, *^ What business
have you here — a creature like you — a mere
schoolboy % " Could he leave under such conditions
— leave the ground to an insolent man of

the world, who presumed on his being older and
knowing more ? Indeed, he would do nothing
of the kind. It would look like cowardice. So
pride intervened here, and kept him just yet
another — " day after tomorrow." In short, it
was very much as at a pantomime, where there
are thick veils after veils of gauze let down
between us and the gorgeous realms of delight.
Veil after veil was descending slowly between
our hero and the memory of the idol of his heart,
as she had been. The salve which he had laid
to his soul was, " there was no hurry." Those
tender offices to her memory could be paid later.

We need not linger over this passage. The
Baronet stayed on. So did he. The latter
grew more and more ardent ; and at last, one
evening, when she was sitting beside Mr. Charles,
very agitated and downcast, he grew sympathetic,
and pressed for confidence.

You are ill. Lady Rosa," he said, " or in low
spirits. Tell me — consult me."

And after much hesitation, and delay, and
pressing — a very delightful occupation for the

one who presses — lie was brought to confess she
was unhappy. She would have to make a
decision next morning. Her father wished her
to go away. He did not like this sort of thing. He
wished her to make up her mind — and — and —
there was one who could not be put off longer —
she must give him a final answer — yes or no.
She had done all she could to stave it off.

But why — what advice could he give ? asked
the young man, in a perfect flutter. Such advice
would naturally be suspected, as self-interested.
If she liked this person — this overbearing
Baronet

It was easy to see what this beginning would
end in. It was like a weight toppling over the
edge of a hill, and which must then go rolling
down. So did our hero, forgetting everything,
go rushing down that hill — straight into a
proposal.

He hardly knew how he did it. He was
accepted ; and the wicked Baronet retired, routed
and mortified, from the place.

A brilliant prospect opened before him. It

VOL. II.

was a great and glorious match. A Duke's
daughter ! How people would talk and wonder !
He began to feel the pride and glory of the
thing. And poor Lydia — the actress ! Well,
that would never have done ! He trembled ashe
thought of the rash, headlong step he had
taken — the effects of which might have endured
for his whole life long. Poor Lydia ! Still, it
was all for the best, and he had been providentially
delivered from the consequences of his own
wild folly.

The young man was wild with triumph and
excitement. Now, indeed, he saw the splendour
and glory of the match. It came on him quite
with a burst." A Duke's son-in-law ! To be
attain in the dirtiest ranks — livings " in state," as it
were — for the rest of his life ! It was wonderful.
And then entered a feeling of vanity at his own
powers and gifts having brought about such a
consummation. He must be very clever, he felt ;
and was really under the delusion that it was his
own talents, attractions, and what not, that had
arranged the whole affair.

With what pride did he ask the Duke for a
carriage, to drive into the next town, to go to
the telegraph office ; and with what greater pride
did he hear that potentate's gracious and most
affectionate reply.

^' My dear Charles, we have done with these
forms now. You are my son, and you must
order and call for what you like, without consulting
me ! "

He drove in, and wrote the following telegram
:

"My dear Father,

What you wished has been done. All
has been settled. And they are very kind. 'She
is an angel ! "

Alas, for the poor actress, now lying in the
far-off country. Yet still he felt no reproach.

Had she been alive, and I was merely
pledged to her, that would have been different.
I should have been bound in honour. But now,
I can do more. I am not bound to a monastic
vow of celibacy."

The next day arrived Mr. Benbow, who res

2

civet his son calmly and in a friendly way
before company. But when they were alone, he
went towards him, put his arms about him, and
strained him to his breast.

"You are a noble, generous, gallant fellow,"
he said, " and I am proud of you. I cannot tell
you, too, how I admire your talents and abilities,
for you have done all this yourself. You have
shown abilities and tact worthy of a man double
your years. For there were enormous difficulties
in the case ; and, though you lost ground at
first, still you more than made it up. And
though this is a small matter, and not of so
much importance — only concerning poor me —
you have made your father's heart infinitely
happy — more happy than I have felt for years.
This was all that was wanting to give us a firm
foundation. Now I shall be able to move the
empire almost. Yes, absurd as it would sound,
I may yet be able to do that even. No one
knows what is in this head. The next step shall
be to have you in Parliament— the next, a peerage
— the next, office for myself. Now, my dear

boy, ask what you like, do what you like. Wait
only, and you shall see the noble settlement I
shall make on you. Would you have the Castle
to live in ? Say so. I shall contrive another,
and give it up to you cheerfully. Only show
me some way by which you would like me to
exhibit my gratitude and sense of what you have
done for me." •

The young man was bewildered by these
dazzling pictures. He was supremely happy.
He began, too, to discover fresh charms in the
young lady who had " undertaken " him ; and
who, though not beautiful, had the attraction of
good-humour and gentility to recommend her.
It was, indeed, a most entrancing time for him.
He seemed to be in a dream. The next day
arrived, and one of the most sumptuous ornaments
that were ever devised, and worthy of a
Duke's daughter.

The news of that alliance, spread about,
caused the greatest excitement. It was a fresh
homage to Mr. Benbow's wonderful powers.
People threw up their hands — " Well, that

Benbow befits anything ! He is the most persevering
plotter. He can do anything he lays his
mind to. Now, he has been burrowing and
scheming at that marriage for years, and at last
he has brought it about. A wonderfully clever
and persevering man, after all, and deserved to
succeed. Presently there would be no enduring
him, and he would take the command of the
Duke himself."

The due regulation ceremonies went forward
the millinery, selection of bridesmaids, solicitor
business, all advancing with a solemn and dignified
march to the grand portals of marriage.

The day was fixed. The presents were
exhibited. The great semi-French Mantling,
who was charged with the outfitting, was working
on steadily to the end ; and a few ladies were
admitted to have a view of the noble and costly
robes," placed round the room, like figures
at a waxwork. Everybody was in admiration.
Invitations had gone forth, and Banff" Castle was
getting ready for a more magnificent gathering of
guests than it had ever yet seen within its walls.

'first glimpse of the sword.

A GREAT dinner was given in the large
baronial hall. It was the evening before the
marriage. The house was full to overflowing.
Long, long tables, crowded on both sides withall
the gentility in the county — and, indeed, in
the country. The Duke wore his stars and
ribands — around his leg, across his chest —
and sat on his throne, and looked quite king-like.
Mr. Hoxter had found his way there, as
well as others who had figured in that first
party with which this little history opened.
Some of the more diplomatic gentry wondered
exceedingly why the Duke was so eager for
this alliance ; but it was explained — in the
smoking-room — that Benbow was henceforward

to find brains for the firm." Whatever was
the reason, there were good motives ; as the
Duke, though slow and rather heavy, was
long-headed " enough when his family interest
was concerned.

It was a great festival ; and the young man
seemed to himself to be walking in a dream.
Such attention was paid to him — such glory
seemed to encircle his head, nmbus-like. It was
as though he had performed some public achievement
of great value, by which he had laid the
public under a compliment. Indeed, men on
the eve of marriage often assume this complacent
air, and bear themselves as though they had
done service — won a peerage, or carried a
fortress. The lights played upon Charles. He
was supremely happy. But his was not a tithe
of the happiness of his father. It certainly was
if the thought ever occurred to him to weio^h
and balance such things — the happiest night of
his life. The eve, too, of such a day ! Never
had success been more sweet. Never had he
been so affectionate to his dear son.

*' My own Charles ! If you only knew what
1 feel ! I own myself inferior to you in everything.
I cannot say how I admire ycu. You
have made a gallant struggle, and shown yourself
a true man beyond your years. God bless
you for it I You have made me a happy man
to-nio^ht."

The son, that night in his room, thinking
over so many things, was not disturbed by
any dreams of the past. He wondered how
strangely to his advantage everything had
turned out. What a dreadful complication it
might have proved. That rash folly — for such
it was — what a terrible struggle it might have
involved him in with his father — and, indeed,
the world ! Starvation would, perhaps, have
been the worst evil. Poor Lydia ! Vows —
devotion — promises — the solemn undertaking
on the departure of the ship — where were
these now ?

At last, here was the morning ! — bright, gay,
sunny ! Magnificent carriages were hurrying

up. The whole place was in a flutter. It
seemed to glitter all over with white roses and
decorations. The sunlight poured in upon the
scene, bathing the grand Castle in floods of
gorgeous light. The whole country for miles
about was thrown into a flutter of excitement
at the marriage — the Ducal marriage. The
bride looked really handsome, and had colour
and brilliancy. Mr. Benbow himself, instead of
beings a machine — a mechanical sort of engine
for that day only was human, soft, metallic
allowed his blood to flow and circulate, like
that of other men. This was the grandest coup
of his life. Though the lady had " no money "
but this was not asked for — he estimated her
fortune as equal, in money value, to some thirty
thousand pounds.

For years he had not felt so happy — so full
of kindliness and soft goodwill to all men ; and
a casual clergyman applicant for a subscription
to the Orphans' Home was amazed at receiving
the next day a sum of fifty pounds.

It wanted but an hour to the ceremony, and

the Lord Bishop of St. Arthur's, the Hon. and
Eev. Charles Bridles, Dad. — who was to be
"assisted," propped round about like a falling
tree, by three other clergymen — was to do that
sacred office. That dignitary was just getting
ready to robe, the bridesmaids — a whole battalion
of "Lady Charlottes" and 'hon. Evan" — were
being equipped and marshalled — when the father
and son withdrew together into the study for a
few last words. First, Mr. Benbow — his arm
affectionately round his son — laid down on the
table a sum of two hundred pounds in circular
notes, and placed on the top of them a cheque
for one thousand.

That will carry you over a couple of months'
tour. Write to me, my dear boy, if you want
more. Spare nothing. Do all magnificently.
Everything depends on first impressions. Ah,
I am so grieved, now that it has come to the
point, to lose you ! No matter, we shall all be
very happy now. And, my dear, dear boy, the
only thing that consoles me, and should console
you, is, that you would have been very wretched

otherwise. You could not have endured a life
of privation. Your fine spirit would have soon
awakened to the change in your position. I
know you better than you know yourself, my
dearest Charles ; and, believe me, it has been all
for the best."

'* I begin to think so, father, and I am sure
of it. And you will do me this justice, dear
father — I behaved all through like a man of
honour, like a gentleman."

Nobly, my dear boy — nobly ! I own that,
and always did. Even when displeased with
you, I admitted that I was secretly proud of
you.

A curious look came into the young man's
face — half of pride, half of shame.

At this moment, dear father, I should have
no concealments from you — now that you will
give me your blessing. It would be a reproach
to myself if I did not tell you all. As I am
leaving you now, to begin a new life, it is only
rio-ht that I should have nothings concealed from
the dear father who has been so good to me."

At this moment entered the Duke, hurriedly.

*' Now, my dear Charles, we are getting ready.
The Bishop is robing, and the bridesmaids are
dressed, and going off to the chapel. Everybody
has come."

With a sort of relief the young man said :

I am quite ready. Let us go, father."

"Just one moment, Duke. We shall follow
in a second. Tell me, Charles, what do you
mean by concealment ? "

Well, it is no matter now, so I may as well
tell you," the young man said, hurriedly, and
putting on his gloves. " That poor saint Lydia,
before she went away — that time you followed
us—"

Yes," said his father, uneasily — " Well, she
went away, and — she died."

'* Exactly. But I never told you before ; I
thought it no use — it would only worry you !
But— but— "

But what ? What is coming ? Speak out,
will you ! " said his father, roughly.

Well — I was — married to her ! "

Married to her ! " almost shrieked his father,
falling back some steps. " Married ! What d'ye
mean ? You didn't dare to do that ! "

Alarmed, the son looked at him strangely.

It is all over now," he faltered. " It was
foolish, I know."

'' ruin— ruin ! Good God ! "

Entered now the Duke.

They are ready. The Bishop is in the
chapel. Why, what's the matter, joenbow ?
My dear friend, it isn't like a mother and
daughter — you mustn't take it to heart!"

Mr. Benbow almost gasped — " I'll follow you
in a moment. Leave me alone for a short
time — for two minutes — and then I shall know
what to do. Listen to me, for heaven's sake.
This can't go on ; at least not to-day."

What ! " said the astonished nobleman. " Do
you mean the marriage ? "

"Yes, yes. He aren't — we dare — not."

In heaven's name, Mr. Benbow, speak out."

My dear Duke," said the young man, " my
poor father is agitated by something I have

told him. He has been worried and harassed of
late, and magnifies things."

Indeed, yes," said Mr. Benbow, looking
furtively round. " I hardly know what I am
saying or doing."

My poor friend," said the Duke, soothingly,
I have noticed it — nerves — nerves."

Stay here, if you like, or if you think it will
be too much for you, till we return from the
church."

Mr. Benbow started. " Oh, it can't be, it
can't be ; or at least, not to-day — put it off ! "

My dear father," said the son in a low voice,
collect yourself; do not speak in this wild way.
You know what I told you is all ended — it was
foolish — and — but — "

Yes, yes ; quite right."

The Duke was too excited to import any
meaning into the words. He took the young
man's arm, and led him away — to be married !

THE MARRIAGE DAY.

Imagine that man — that diplomatist, plotter,
schemer, what not — in such a situation ! Only
conceive the agitated council held within himself
during those few most precious — he had but a
few — seconds within which to make up his mind.
It was as though an executioner was standing
over him with a drawn sword at his neck, calling
on him to decide within a few minutes. Heavens !
What loss he to do ? Every second was hurrying
him to destruction, whatever way he looked at
it. There he was, on the edge of a precipice —
with difficulty balanced ! The slightest movement
either way, and he tottered over.
Oh, heavens ! what was he to do ? Oh, there
would be no hesitation, he thought, as he

staggered to his feet. It was a question of
crime. Even now he might be too late. He
rushed to the door. He met one of the j^oung
men, gay and brilliant, decked out in favours
and lightest festive dress. It gave him a chill.
The young man started back as he saw him.

Good heavens ! Mr. Benbow, you are ill !
Come, sir, you must not take this to heart. It
is the best thing that has happened to Charles
in all his life. They are all at the altar''

*' Still in good time," he said, desperately, and
hurried along.

Here was the chapel — a little private and
domestic one, established in the Castle — just off
the great hall. A small archway opened into
it, and through this was seen the view of the
brilliant little interior, crammed and crowded
with rank and gentility. There stood the Duke,
starred and gartered, the bishop and clergy, the
ladies with white snowy bonnets and white laces,
military friends in uniform — the bride herself,
looking distinguished if not handsome. There
was the bridegroom, happy and excited. There

VOL. II. T

was the great hall outside crowded with neighbours
and retainers, all struc^ojlingr to feet a view
through the arch ; and here was Mr. Benbow —
unhappy father ! — tottering along, rushing almost
to forbid this ceremony. Yet, what could he
do ? How in face of all these ? — Oh ! the
shame, the disgrace, the misery. Suddenly,
just as he entered the hall, came an inspiration,
a spar to catch at, and he clutched it. It came
back on him that he read in the American papers
first that she was ill. Who knows now what
miorht have turned out ? She mi^rht be dead at
that moment. God grant it ! And then how
foolish, how profitless, his protest and interference.
Oh, what a plank ! He lifted himself
on it. He dared not speak in any case. He
would do as he had so often done before, let
chance — that wonderful aide de-caw p — come to
help him.

So it began. The Lord Bishop impressively
read, and was duly " assisted " by his supporters ;
the village girls chanted ; and the bride and
bridegroom answered to the solemn questions

put to them. In short, they were married.
And it was now " Mr. Charles and Lady Eosa
Benbow : " so an old gentleman said to the
unhappy father — who, every one remarked, " felt
it so much."

"Yes, I suppose so," answered Mr. Benbow,
vacantly. "To be sure they are," he added,
heartily.

There they were going through the tedious
and elaborate forms — signing, witnessing, &c.
Every one was smiling and chatting, and everyone
smiled and chattered as they did on no
former occasion. People came up to the bride,
their faces composed to a simper such as they
kept for no other occasion.

But still Mr. Benbow looked on vacantly, his
eyes glancing from one face to the other.
Every one was remarking him. Where was his
diplomacy — his planning ? On such an occasion
the day ought to have been a most precious one,
worth thousands in the way of laying foundation-stones
for acquaintanceship and connection with
the great: on which "courses" he would have

T 2

reared great towers and castles, which nothing
could have blown down. Tliore were wonderful
persons there — valuable to a degree ; yet there
he was, idle and in a stupor. Some said it was
ludicrous, a man like Benbow affection the disconsolate
father ; though the more charitable
set him down as ill — which, indeed, he said later
that he was, and went to his room. He was
glad of that relief. The faces about him pressed
on him, and prevented his thinking. Oh ! he
longed to think — to strive and realize the immeasurable
horror of the situation. The change,
too — the frightful change — from only that morning.
The dashing him down headlong, till he
had become a poor, miserable, bruised wretch,
far below even the poorest private individual in
all that company, and whom he despised as not
having the wits and arts to get on in life. He
was a criminal — or, if not, his family was on the
verge of disgrace, of being in the papers ; of
being talked about, pointed at. He could not
endure it.

Still, the other thought came back on him.

After all, something desperate might be done in
so desperate a case. Something must be done.
After all there was hope left, and chance. Withall
his cleverness, surely, he could do with such
a case as this.

As he thought, and thought, and thought
with a painful intensity, he began to see the
desperate necessity of doing something. And he
began to see, also, that there was some faint
prospect of success. Oh, but still, what a
change ! What a difference from the morning ;
with what different arms could he work and
fight ! Alas ! he could then attack— assail .the
whole world ; now he must be miserably on the
defensive.

'won't you come down?" said Mr. George
Conway who had been sent to look for him.
*' They are all at the breakfast. Even if you
are unwell, the Duke says, it will look so strange
if you are away during the speeches and all
that''

''Ah, to be sure," said Mr. Benbow, rousing
himself. "Of course. I have not been at all

well all the day. I am going now. What a
brilliant morning we have had of it — quite a
red-letter day."

And he took the arm of the young man.
But, as he quitted the room, there swung and
waved over his head, suspended by a fine hair,
that fatal Sword of Damocles — sharp Damascene,
fine-edged. From that day forth it was
always to attend him — always to swing, peneus
over his head. Always were his eyes
to be glancing up at it uneasily ; for the hair
was very fine, and, by the friction, was certain
to wear itself away. Some have familiars ; some
have a Mephistopheles ; but there can be conceived
no more terrible lot than to have to
go through life with such a glittering weapon
suspended over their heads.

THE CANKER.

Here was the grand banqueting-room — the
long table lined with bright feces and figures —
that specially sunshiny, bright air settling overall
which peculiarly belongs to a wedding day.
Thus, a sort of even feigned hilarity is de rigi^eur
people, even of a gloomy sort, must act
festivity. There was a general chatter, and
unbounded happiness. Then came the speeches.
The Duke, in a regular oration ; the Marquis
St. Upas, Right Hon. Mr. Hoxter, the Lord
Bishop, and the young Mr. George Conway returning
thanks in a sprightly way for the ladies.
There was the usual routine — the cuttings the
cake ; the breaking up ; the bride going away
to dress ; the entering the carriage, drawn up

at the door. All this time Mr. Benbow could
not shake off his gloom. He kej^t his head
down, in a shrinking fashion, as though that
'fatal Sword was going to fall on him at any
moment and cleave his skulk

Every one was still remarking how strange it
was that a man " like Benbow " — a true worldling
— should show such really genuine affection
such regret at the loss of his son.

Now they were all in the hall ; now the stairs
were crowded and the steps outside. " The
happy pair" were coming down. Young Lord
Countries and Mr. Hoxter were furnished with
a supply of old shoes, with which they kept in
ambuscade till the fitting; moment. Out they
came. Mr. Charles and Lady Rosa Benbow,
resplendent and bright, with the world before
them. Charles, with his head full of the new
and dazzling schemes his father had opened out
before him, came and wrung his hand :

"Good and kind father, T shall never forget
all that T owe to you. I now see your wisdom ;
how you have contrived everything for the best."

Don't, don't ! " said Mr. Benbow, in an agony
almost. " Leave it so. God bless you. You
owe nothing to me, indeed. But you have
done no harm, and should not be held accountable
for any of my work."

This sounded very strange to the young man.
It seemed stranger to the new Lady Eosa
Benbow, from whom her father-in-law turned
away his eyes. As she came up to him, he saw
the Sword, high in the air, glittering and shining
over his head. He shrank away from it.

Then the door had shut with a bang; the
servant had jumped up behind ; the postilions
had plunged forward ; the gravel was scattered ;
the chariot danced and swung ; and away they
were whirled into the world — that new world —
which had opened for both.

Look here," said the Duke gaily, as soon
as they were out of sight, *' here is a wedding
present for you. See ; a telegram from McBeth,
saying he has accepted the Chiltern Hundreds.
So now you can get ready as soon as you
like, and I shall be glad, my dear Benbow, to

see you with the two magic letters after your

name."

That little play was over : the scene-shifters
came to clear away. The stage would, of course,
be wanting for other parties. But this was the
grand result of Mr. Benbow's scheming — the
suspension of a Sword of Damocles over his own
head.

Now that he was done with the pressure of
the actual paraphernalia, and the actors, it was
something. He could breathe more freely, and
could think without distraction. JFhat was he
to do? That was the first question. Action
of some sort would have to be taken. Things
could nob remain as they were ; nor could he
endure the torture of passively and patiently
expecting what was to happen, and how the
blow was to fall. The first thing was to know
what must happen — to have information, to know
the facts — was she alive ? And she was, of this
he was certain : if there was no other reason but
the devilish contrariety of things, which always
makes the probabilities be certainly in favour of

what is fatal and dangerous, rather than what
is favourable. Yes ; she was alive !

Then, on that basis, what was to be the next
step ? Treat with her ? No. She might never
hear it. He could keep it out of the papers.
But still, she had announced that within a year
she would return. There was a vindictiveness
about her that seemed inexplicable, and which
he could not deal with on pecuniary terms. She
Vv^as beyond a bribe. There coidd be no buying
her over. Then some plan of operation must
be laid out — something to get information.

So the fatal day, which revolutionized this
whole life, came to a close. His great plan had
succeeded ; but after what a fashion !

In due time the marriage was talked of — becoming
not a nine days' wonder, as it is called,
but the wonder of a few hours, if wonder it
were. The happy pair — happy always de rigueur,
much as a military member of the House of
Commons is always "gallant" — went off to a
noble castle belonging to the Earl St. Arthur's
for the honeymoon, where they were to " sojourn "

for a week, then repair to the Continent for an
extended " tour. The great gathering at Banff
was broken up ; the noble guests all departed
for their homes, and the bridesmaids wore their
lockets. The various friends commented on the
alliance after different fashions ; some wondering
what on earth the Duke had in his head — some
deep plan, no doubt ; others thinking it a distinguished
alliance, yet not seeing their way
at all to its significance. The Duke himself
would presently begin to discount it ; and was
supposed, within a very short time, to have
received some advantages.

SCENE AT CALAIS.

Me,. Conway had taken part in the wedding
festivities at Banff, and had been among those
who most warmly congratulated the bridegroom.
The latter had long since seen that he had no
rival in the heir of Formanton, whose rather
uncertain affections were diverted, as we have
seen, in other directions. In truth, the Lady
Eosa was not after his ideal, and though his
father would have been glad of the match, and.
the Duke also, the hero's affections were not to
be strained in any given direction.

He was, in truth, in a very uncertain, perplexed
mood. Was this Mr. Conway, who was
of such interest to so many, literally no more
than what is known as a male flirt ? This might

seem a rather harsh designation, but he had been
so petted and ministered to, and had been in the
habit of inhaling such an amount of incense,
issuing from female censers, that it must have
been a very stern and stoical mind that could
remain unsettled and true to a single purpose.
In his case appeared to be reversed the usual
social relation, for he was, as it were, besieged
by suitors, and his "hand was sought." Yet,
with this slight imperfection, his was a true
heart, and turned ceaselessly to Jessica the
clergyman's daughter, though the image of her
brilliant rival, the more impulsive Laura, often
interposed.

In moods like this — and he was now somewhat
low-spirited — Mr. Conway, who lived a great deal
by himself, used often, on some sudden impulse,
to set off by night, and taking the night train,
cross the seas and put up at some quaint old
town on the French coast. This, without the
formal preparation, or looking forward to a
regular journey. There is always a curious and
refreshing sense in thus finding oneself, at dead

of night, after only a few hours' travel, in a
strange and foreign town ; and at home at eight,
he was by midnight entering the port of Calais.

It is a calm summer evening, close on midnight,
and the traveller in the packet finds the
fierce, blinding glare of the light directed full on
him, as the little vessel rushes past the wickerwork
pier-head. The cordage of the fishing-boats
interposes a network, but beyond rises the
clustered town confined within its walls. The
towers rise ; the old carillons chime out ; the
railway station with its one eye, the clock that
never sleeps, opens its jaws with a cheerful
bright light like an inn fire ; dark figures in
cowls, soldiers, sailors, and curiously-shaped
tumbrils for the baggage are ranged on shore.
Now touching land we see the great arched gate,
ditch, and drawbridge. We go ashore — there is
an hour to wait ; so, passing over the bridge into
the town unchallenged, we find a narrow street
with yellow houses — the white shutters, the
handsome porches, the first glance at which
affects one so curiously and reveals France.

This leads to the Place of Arms, in the centre,
whence all streets radiate. What more picturesque
scene ! the moon above, the irregular
houses straggling round the quaint old town-hall
with its elegant tower and rather wheezing; but
most musical chimes, never pall — its neighbour
the black, solemn watch-tower rising rude and
abrupt, seven centuries old, whence there was
kept strict look-out for the English. Hard by
is the spire of the heavy cathedral, built by the
English — think of that ! — when they held the
place. To stand in the centre and survey all
this leaves a sensation of the picturesque and of
poetry. Down one of these side streets is a tall
building, with its long rows of windows and
shutters, and closed door — Quillacq's, now Dessein's
— once a favourite house, ' The Silver
Lion,' mentioned in the old memoirs, visited by
Hogarth, and where, even twenty years ago,
there used to be a crowd of guests. Now with
difficulty the gate-keeper is roused, and in the
morning a couple of guests exhaust the list.
Every one hurries on to Paris. To many the

name of the place brings disagreeable recollections
— " I was there for a day : thought I never
should get out of it." On the other hand, it hasa
curious stagnant interest for the antiquary or
even the average reader. For it is a strange
feeling thinking that this was once an English
town, that it was held proudly for many a year
by the English as they have held Gibraltar.

With the bright morning comes the revealing
of the whole place under conditions different
from those shadowy and mysterious ones of the
midnight before. Here is the open Place, so

silent then, now busily astir, and the fishermen

•

in their always picturesque dress, for it is Sunday
morning. We admire, again, the elegant
tower of the town-hall, and are never weary of
its chimes. Ten minutes takes you round the
town ; its yellow, smirched, foul but not unpicturesque
ditches and drawbridges, with the port
gay and busy beyond. On nothing does the
Englishman look with such pleasure as on the
old sea-gate and drawbridge which Hogarth
sketched, and which makes one of his most effect-vol.

II. u

ive prints. The gate is almost exactly as it
was in his time, except that the arms of England
in the top corner of the gate have been removed,
though the mark of the erasure is plainly visible.
The painter has brought the Place itself, seen
through the archway, much nearer than it is in
reality, as there is a street between. He put up
at that " Old Silver Lion' in the Rue Neuve,
then kept by Grandsire.

Nothing is more curious than this effect of
an old * town thus cribbed, cabined, and confined
within walls, gates, and ditches. The effect of
going out and entering is ever novel and rococo.

As we wander through the little quiet side
streets which seem to lead back to the central
Place of Arms, we find more evidence of the
spirit o± change and improvement, but, alas, of
necessary destruction. In one of the streets
known, or that used to be known, as the Rue
Royale was a charming interesting old yellow
building, with a large courtyard in front, dusty
and weed-grown, but with a luxuriant garden,
birds, old-fashioned too, and "running wild."

Everything about it was in a state of mild,
sleepy abandonment, though not of decay. This
down to a late period was the Museum of the
town, offering the invariable spear heads, shells,
stuffed animals, old engravings, car of a balloon,
&c. ; but previously it had been the famous old
Dessein's Hotel, associated with Laurence Sterne,
the Duchess of Kingston, Brummell, and many
more famous or notorious personages.

The very air of the place was especially inviting,
so rural and pretty was it, so like some old,
disused French chateau. You wandered through
the old rooms, and thought of Sterne and iiis
satin breeches and the chaises with travellers on
the Grand Tour who came dashing up to the
door. But during M. Jules Ferry's last administration,
when the rage for " Communal schools "
set in, this tempting site was seized upon, the
interesting old place levelled, and a factory-like
red-brick pile has rapidly risen in its place.
It was impossible not to feel a pang at this
discovery, and Calais without Dessein's has
lost its charm. Madame Dessein, a grandsire

U 2

or nearly related descendant of U Grand Dessein,
still directs at Quillacq's — a pleasing old
lady.

Such is the old town, and such the impressions
it had often produced on Conway. He
was wandering listlessly, under the tranquil
moonlight, across the Place, making for the soidisant
Dessein's Hotel, when he saw one of the
mysterious-looking " tumbrils " wheeling on in
front of him the luggage of a muffled-up lady,
who was following behind. The Paris train had
just come in. Others were making for the boat ;
she was going to stay for the night.

The hall of the old hostelry was lit up. The
host was waiting up. In the light he saw the
face, which he seemed to recognize.

She started, and said, "Mr. Conway." It was
Lydia Effingham, the actress.

The salle-danger was open, and a sort of
expectant meal was laid out for such guests as
were hungry. Conway now recalled the nighf^at
the Winchester theatre, and the youthful adoration
of his friend, who he supposed had forgotten

it, as he himself had forgotten it up to that
moment. Presently he was seated beside herat
the table, for she seemed eager to speak
with him.

How strange our meeting in this way ! '' she
said. "Yet I have had your face before me
often since, as I saw it in the little Winchester
theatre ! All that night I distinguished it perfectly
from the others, for it sympathized and
understood."

"You judged me rightly. I too have often
thought of that night, and the interesting
episode that followed."

"I thought you had gone for ever to America,"
he said.

I went but for a year," she said, " by
agreement."

And I suppose," he said, " have long since
forgotten my poor friend. You have been
dazzling other admirers since."

More likely he has forgotten me," she said,
"but I know nothing of what has happened
since."

Conway felt for the actress, who, perhaps,
still nourished hopes, as was natural, of the
alliance. He thought it best to tell her in as
light and careless a fashion as possible what
had happened.

Men were deceivers ever ; your old lover
is married."

To his surprise a gleam of something like
joy came into her eyes.

He is married then ? There is no mistake ;
you are sure ? "

** I have just come from the wedding. I saw
the ceremony myself. But you don't ask the
lady's name."

"It is immaterial," she said, " enough that
he is married. And his father, — his excellent
father ? "

Happy as a schoolboy — going into parliament
; after that will be a minister — one of these
days, that is — "

One of these days," she repeated absently.
"That is often a long way off: — oftener *one
of those days ' never arrives."

And you are come, I suppose, to follow your
profession ? ''

No," she said, abruptly, " you would hardly
guess. I have come back to play executioner,
to punish a crime, to bring a murderer to
justice."

Conway started, and looking at her strange
manner and kindling eyes, began to think she
was excited, and was, or had been, out of her
mind.

Yes ; the man that murdered my father — "

By this time they were alone in the large,
white room of the old hotel. A couple .of
feeble candles illuminated the table, while a
sleepy waiter looked in now and then from afar
off, wishing the travellers would have done.

"There are different modes of murder," she
went on. " If I have a heart complaint, when a
sudden start or sudden excitement may be fatal,
and some one who hates me purposely gives mea
start, or some excitement, that person murders
me, does he not ? If it is vital that a particular
medicine be given at every hour, and that is

purposely neglected — that is murder also ? If a
man pursues the man he hates, cuts him off
from every mode of employment, gets him dismissed
when he has found a place — in a word, prevents
his getting food and shelter, and the victim
then dies of want, I ask you, is not that as mucha
murder as if a knife had been used and a
throat cut \ What do you say ? "

"If there were any machinery for bringing
such to justice, I would say such villainy was
more diabolical and heartless than an ordinary
murder. But such a one deserves the punishment
of a murderer."

*'I knew you would think so — well, as the
law fails me, I must take the place of the law."

That is revenge, which is wicked as murder.
You will not think of that, I hope ? "

I must. I dare not avoid the task. I have
waited long, hoping against hope ; waiting till
this person be delivered into my hands. Since
I entered this, I have learned that he is now
in my power, and that I may strike when I
please. And do you wait and watch, if you

care to do so, and you will see the blow descend.


What ! " said Conway starting up. " You
could not think of doing an injury to this young
fellow because he forgot his boyish passions.
No. I would believe — I would not suffer that."

No, no," she said earnestly. '' I think of
him as myself. Nay, I would pity him if he
suffered. Believe me, I speak the truth. No ;
it is another that shall be struck down, and you
shall see it ? "

These are enigmas to me," said Conway,
gravely. " I can only protest, and entreat you
to reflect. But I am not your conscience keeper.
But it grows late. Good-night."

The weary waiter was now come in for the
fourth or fifth time. The hotel was at rest —
indeed, the whole of the little town. The
moonlight was visiting the old Place in its lio^ht,
and tipping the bust of La Balafre, who had
won back the place from the English. The only
sound was the moaning of the escaping steam
from some newly-arrived packet. But the eye

of the railway clock glared out sleepless and
strained.

Next morning the lady went her way, and
embarked for Dover. Mr. Conway went on to
Amiens.

RETURN.

Mr. Benbow was now at home again in his
lone castle, with that new, fatal companion in
his study. The Sword had travelled with him
from Banff ; had appeared in the railway carriage,
swinging and dangling over his head — a miniature
Sword, suited to the height of that chamber
and to which his eyes glanced with nervousness
and terror. It was a full carriage, and the
talk rambled about gaily, and even spasmodically,
touching on matters carelessly, but which made
him start and wince and glare wildly. This was
torment ; and its peculiar shape was, that every
subject indifferently seemed to stir the Sword,
and make it sway perilously.

But the desperate question that pressed upon

him now was, What was the next step to betaken
in the affair ? As we have seen, he knew
not where to begin.

His first step was to send to a news agent in
town to collect him as many American newspapers
as possible. This agent did what he
could, but, as a matter of course, the collected
newspapers would amount to very little ; and it
would be impossible to get together the strange
gathering of newspapers which came out in
Massachusetts and Connecticut — thousands, perhaps
— and find what he hoped — or, rather, what
he did not hope — to find.

It was evident that nothing could be got in
this direction to set his mind at rest. He must
endure still the agonizing prostration of suspense.
He had an agent — a useful, practical, machine-minded
man, who, without much intelligence,
would carry out any scheme he was put to, much
as a mill would grind anything put into it.
This man — one Fawkes, half clerk, half workingman
— she determined to send away at once to
America to hunt up this matter ; and he believed.

if she were to be found, this agent would discover
her. He was to be diligent, quick, sure,
and certain ; and, above all, to telegraph at
once.

He started, and Mr. Benbow felt a sort of
relief. Something at least was doing, or going
to be done. People still were wondering at the
change in his looks — the curious, restless manner
the unsatisfied bearing which had come over
him, in place of the exultation which had been
so naturally expected on this dazzling coup.

But even within a few days he got a fresh
blow, for he read in the great paper of the day —
"Thunderer," "Giant," "Leading Journal' or
whatever the obsequiousness of the age delights
in styling it — the whole flourish, setting out the
marriage in all its glory. He had spoken carelessly
with the Duke about this, saying he
thought it was an idle ceremony — make an
undue splash and flourish. But the Duke was
coldly firm — looked upon it as a sort of official
act. He had then undertaken it himself, determining
to forget it. But he now saw it flaming

ill large type as a " Marriage in High Life," with
list of company ; and received the next day a
rather reproving letter from the Duke, saying
that he had seen to the matter himself.

Now she would know all ! The '' Thunderer,"
"Jupiter," &c., made its way, of course, to the
States, and would be read there. It was only
a question of time.

A week dragged on ; and in a few days after
the arrival of the ship at New York he received
a telegram. How his fingers trembled as he
opened it !

Seen a great theatrical agent ; says she is
not in the States now. There is a Lydia
Elphmstone at Chicago, who might be the same ;
shall go and see."

In a few days came another telegram : —

Lost the track ; she has left Chicago."

The agent remained nearly a month longer,
and did all that he could ; then telegraphed to
say that he could do no more, and should he
return ? Some said in the vessel she was dead —

some that she had sunk, and " gone to the bad."
Heaven grant it were so ! So he returned.

Days and weeks went by. As with a death,
Mr. Benbow began to get over this sorrow. He
was slowly, slowly and cautiously, lifting his
head, as a man concealed in a ditch, whom the
soldiers were looking for, would do. He was
beginning to breathe a little more freely. Perhaps
she was dead. She was certain to be dead
decayed or " gone to the bad." It was time
now to begin discounting the advantages : that
would not interfere with the discovery, if it
must come. But she was gone. She must have
seen the news.

Yet the Sword waved on slowly over his
head — at dinners or visits — as he rode or travelled
; but he now began to think the horsehair
must be a very stout one, and would, at
least, last his time.

The borough place was now vacant. Mr.
Benbow, glad of the diversion, eager for something
to take up his thoughts — flung himself
into the task ; intrigued, schemed, burrowed

underground, performed prodigies, and at last
emerged — as one of his enemies said — chimney-sweep
like, after a successful sooty ascent — much
besmeared and blackened, but triumphant.

This victory relieved him ; but on the day of
glory, as he stood on the hustings, the Sword,
as it swung slowly, caught the rays of the sun :
by its glitter made him look up, and disturbed
his speech.

Still, it was a distraction ; it took off his
thoughts.

Mr. Charles and Lady Rosa Benbow were now
living in town — people of mark. " She was
the Duke of Banffshire's daughter, you know "
well off, fashionable, and seeing plenty of
people. Another borough was soon to be
vacant, and young Mr. Benbow was spoken of
as certain to get in. Wonderful Duke ! As
some one said, he would have a whole battalion
of members of his own. Mr. Benbow was being
gradually drawn back into his old excitement —
the old worldliness. He, indeed, felt a bitter
contempt for the creature that could dare

attempt to disturb him. But still, spite of all
protest, the Sword swung to and fro over his
head !

Nearly a year had rolled by. Well, now he
might smile at his old terrors. These had been
something of the " old woman " order. He was
rather ashamed that he should have been diverted
from serious matters of business by imagining
troubles of this sort. Now there was the seat
vacant, for which Charles was to be put forward ;
but it was a great county — scene for a fearful
struggle — a campaign of months.

This was precisely what suited the tender
of Mr. Benbow ; and he flung himself into the
business with a terrific ardour. All that money,
strength, trouble, labour could do, he did. He
spared himself in nothing. For weeks that pale,
spare figure was seen drudging laboriously in that
arduous work — soothing, intriguing, threatening,
spending, declaiming — in short, going
through all the heavy routine which had made
him — Benbow — what he was. And though the
Sword flashed in the air, over his head, he had

VOL. II.

110 time, and was too excited to look much
upward ; it began to grow dim and spectral,
and gave him very little concern now. The
struggle was terrific : it was fought inch by
inch. But, finally, young Mr. Charles Benbow
was declared " duly elected ; " and certainly
owed this honour — as it was universally agreed
to the labours of that veteran, painstaking
politician, Mr, Benbow, senior.

Wonderful Duke ! So dull, and heavy, and
bucolic ; " yet still with a certain heavy power.
There he is now — the centre of a band of
members of Parliament — captain, and a really
important person for his party.

But more important still, he, Benbow, was
beginning to make an impression in political
circles. He had spoken one remarkable speech.
It excited attention, and one of the papers — a
ministerial one — declared that " he was of the
wood out of which Secretaries were carved."
This stray allusion kindled his old enthusiasm.
The fires of ambition glowed once more in his
breast. He would not be disturbed by this bogie

any longer. It was childish — ridiculous. The
woman was dead — should be dead. But how
strange a coincidence, that which had been
merely announced in the papers — a bit of
romance, composed and paid for — should have
been supported by facts, brought about as if
to order 1 But the world is full of such accidents.
Oddly enough there came into his head
that instance on the stage in a play which he
had once seen the facetious Matthews perform.
The Game of Speculation, where the speculator,
to beguile his creditors, gives out that a former
debtor of his, was come home full of money.
When to his amazement the man actually Ita
returned with money, he thinks it a trick put
on him. This, though he was not a play-goer,
lingered in his memory.

Worn out, harassed, exhausted by his labours,
Mr. Benbow had resolved to " stay quietly " for
that night at the small borough town where
the polling had taken place, instead of rushing
up to town by the night train, as everybody
concerned in the business — with true electoral

X 2

gratitude — had done. Indeed, nothing is so
characteristic as the electoral gratitude — the
uneasiness, the unconcealed longing to be free
of the place the moment the struggle is over.
It is almost indecent ; and whereas before, every
elector individually is " friend," and " dearest
friend's when he is no more than part of that
abstraction, a crowd — now, we are eager to turn
the dearest and most useful friend as fast as
possible into the abstraction of a crowd. This
contrast between the period before and after the
election is highly curious. Before, we are thus
all in the flesh, as it were, determined to make
it all brotherly love and affection ; afterwards,
aesthetic, and only able to see public motives.

However, here was a lull. There was a calm
in the air. He sat by himself in a private room
in the Ked Lion, thoughtful, distrait. For a
reaction was coming on him, now that what had
so excited him was over. Now his thoughts
began to wander back over the course of those
two dreadful years, when that terrible secret had
hung over his head — that secret which had

turned him from being an innocent gentleman
and man of the world into what was constructively
a criminal. *' No ; " he said to himself,
impatiently; "that was a child's view; an old
woman's view. As he often said, suppose he
had interfered to stop the marriage, and brought
about all that terrible and shocking scandal —
brought disgrace on a noble family, and ruined
himself for ever — and, after all, it had turned
out that this low creature had sunk into some
miserable abyss and died — what a situation that
would have been ! what a miserable, ridiculous,
childish situation ! No ; all had been for the

best. He would exert his powers of mind,
and set the whole thing at a distance from

him."

As he thought and reasoned in this fashion, he
felt his old buoyancy coming back — his old turn
for planning and building ; and was presently,
trowel in hand, laying courses of " Spanish
masonry" for those castles which he was determined
to build up to a vast height.

Ah 1 they shall find," he said aloud,

that all this is only the commencement.
They don't know me yet, or what I can do ! "

As he spoke, the waiter of the Red Lion came
ill obsequiously with a letter. Mr. Below
looked at it impatiently.

Even at my dinner these hirelings cannot
leave me alone. They are impatient for their
wages."

He opened it. There was no letter enclosed :
simply a yellow card.

Solicit my custom," he thought. '' I must
pay them in every shape."

It was not a tradesman's card. He read —

Create llogal, P^ibtrkljam.

BOX TICKET.
No. 15. JAMES Collar.

The very name of a theatre always gave him a
chill. This present made him start.
What do they mean ? "

Then he remembered. It was only a little
attention. Most natural that they should pay it
to him, the most public man in the place during
these last few weeks.

'' They always pay these compliments to
others in the profession, and look on me as an
actor, too."

So he tossed it aside, and began to read the
London papers just brought in.

The ticket lay on the table before him, and
his eyes wandered to it occasionally. It seemed
like a little stereoscopic slide on which he could
make out innumerable pictures of theatrical life.
He would turn his eyes away. The waiter came
in presently.

Are you going, sir, please ? " he said, hesitatingly,
and looked wistfully at the yellow ticket.
Great night to-night, sir — a benefit."

"Take it by all means," said Mr. Benbow ;
you like going to the play."

Oh, sir, thank you. I go whenever I can,
but it comes so expensive. To-night I want so
to hear ' The Lyons Lady,' sir." .

This name made him start. It was very
strange, all these chords being thus touched one
after the other.

'* ' The Lady of Lyons,' are they acting that ? "

Oh lord, yes, sir — for this night only. Fm
told they've got a splendid Yd^^ling, sir."

There, take it and go," he said, impatiently.

It was very odd. He felt a curious uneasiness
and restlessness ; and, though he took
up his paper, he could not read. He rang the
bell.

'' Here, bring me the bill of the play. Don't
be afraid, I am not going to take back the
ticket from you."

But there was no bill in the house. He grew
more and more restless. His way was never
to sit down under any uncertainty, but to resolve
it at once.

He got his hat and walked out. The town
was in a bibulous calm — the electors spending
a good deal of their "hard-earned money" at
the public-houses. He asked the way to the
theatre, and found himself presently in front

of the building, a new and pretentious one.
Boards were hung on the railings. Yes ; it was
the "immortal Lytton's" — all managers give it
that description as of course — famous and ever-attractive
play. As usual, it was drawing money
here, and the house was full. With a strange

nervousness he read, and was vastly relieved
when he saw :

Engagement for one night only of the far-famed
tragedies, Miss L. Everingham, who will
sustain the rule of Pauline.

Neb. — The immortal author is stated to
have remarked that this tender and womanly
impersonation alone came nearest to his ideal ! "

This made him smile.

"I have been as great a charlatan. I have
spoken as much rubbish within the last few
days ! "

But still he was uneasy. This curious "L."
The coincidence was odd. As he had got so far
he might go a little farther. He took a ticket
and went in.

VOL. II. Y

He was beginning to be very familiar with
the play and its situation. Here was the gardener's
son again — elderly, broad at the throat
hoarsely proclaiming his love to his mother.
The amount of filial affection in plays was
wonderful, thought Mr. Benbow. The house
was crowded. Some young men were in front
of him, and talking eagerly.

I saw her before she went away"' said one ;
I am sure it's the same. They say she went to
America. She ought to be coming on now."

A film was before Mr. Benbow's eyes. He
could not have spoken a word to save his life.
He was gazing stupidly on the stage. Suddenly,
a roar of applause. Through the film a white,
stately figure just made out. He dared not
look till he got courage. It was like giving
the signal for the guillotine knife to descend.

There ! she had spoken. He knew the voice !

END OF VOL. II.

■^

^

3 0112 0458



w

r^^mmac

\

Wffmm.

OF Thou
N Diversity
or ILLINOIS

F575^

V.3 ^

VOL. III.

% romana

BY

PERCY FITZGERALD

AUTHOR OF "BELLA DONNA," "NEVER FORGOTTEN.

See how the merry puppets dance !
You think it's all their little will ;
But though they frisk, and though they prance,
They are but merry puppets still."

JN THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. III.

LONDON : CHAPMAN AND HALL

Limited


[All Rights reserved

CLAY AND TAYLOR, PEXNTEES.

discontents

OF VOL. III.

DUEL

CHAPTER I.

TERMS

CHAPTER II.



AT BANFF

CHAPTER III.



TORTURE

CHAPTER IV.



TRACKING

CHAPTER V.



CHECKED

CHAPTER VI.



CHAPTER VII.

PAGE

AN INTERVIEW . . . . 69

CHAPTER VIII.

SURPRISED . . . . . 76

CHAPTER IX.

A RAY OF HOPE . . . . 81

CHAPTER X.
MR. Conway's reverse . . . 97

CHAPTER XI.
attack and repulse . . . . 108

CHAPTER XII.

A PLOT . . . . . 115

CHAPTER XIII.

A SOLEMN PLEDGE . . . . 121

CHAPTER XIV.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER . . . 128

CHAPTER XV.

A FATAL MEETING . . . 135

CHAPTER XVI.

Page

VICTORY AND DEATH . . . . 142

CHAPTER XVII.

OVER THE GRAVE . . . . 155

CHAPTER XVIII.

A MENACE . . . . . 162

CHAPTER XIX.

THE NEW MONUMENT . . . . 173

CHAPTER XX.

THE NET . . . . .r. 185

CHAPTER XXI.

HEMMED IN . . . . . 201

CHAPTER XXII.

THE SWORD . . . . 216

CHAPTER XXIII.

MISS EVERINGHAM . . . . 222

CHAPTER XXIV.

HOW THE SECRET WAS KEPT . . . 234

CHAPTER XXV.

Image

MR. Conway's choice . . . . 248

CHAPTER XXVI.

A CLOUD . . . . . 267

CHAPTER XXVII.
Facies descensus" . . . . 270

CHAPTER XXVIII.

BREAKING DOWN . . . .,, 279

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE LAST . . . . . 306

Chanter I.

DUEL.

He thought he would have fallen to the
ground. There, it was all over at last ! It was
idle struggling further. It was a wicked, devilish,
well-ordered plan, delayed purposely to that
moment. There was a spell in her eyes — her
voice. His first idea had been to rise and
leave the theatre in anger and despair. But
he dared not : she seemed to see him — to hold
him enchained — to speak all her enchanting
speeches at him.

Looking at her, as he did, almost with fury,
he could not but own the splendour of her

VOL. III. B

charms, which had *' ripened," as the phrase
goes, during her absence. She had attained a
certain elec^aDce and elite — had brought back a
refinement and confidence of manner which,
with those who travel, has very much the effect
of drilling on a recruit. Her voice had grown
fuller and more melodious. There was a greater
decision in her manner ; and local critics thought
that there was a want of tenderness in her acting,
and in her fashion of making and of receiving
love. Some even noticed a hardness and a
dictatorial strain of command towards the unhappy
gee-gardener's son. And even one or
two remarked that she kept her eyes directed
very much towards one part of the house.

This showed their discrimination more than
many other parts of their criticism, and was
more supported by fact.

Just before the last act, Mr. Benbow heard
the box-door open behind him with the traditional
click, and one of the officials of the
house placed a card in his hand, on which was
written in pencil :

Please to come round to the stage-door at
the end of the piece. I wish to speak to you."

Yes; this was quite a new strain — like an
order. " I wish to speak to you." What could
he do but obey ? And when the returned
Melmotte had been restored to her affections
behind the general officer's plume of feathers,
and all had been made straight and made happy,
and the curtain had fallen, Mr. Benbow — still
under a sort of fascination — went round to the
back of the stage. What was he to say to Iter
what to do ? The situation was, indeed,
desperate. He could make no struggle, but
must ask for the best terms he could. But, after
all, what terms could he offer ? How could
there be " terms '' in such a case at all ? Still,
the only course open to him was to take the
common precautions, and be on the defensive.
This he did by a sort of instinct.

There she was — sitting enthroned in her
dressing-room.

A long time since we have met, Mr.

B 2

Benbow. I suppose the most disagreeable person
you could ever have hoped to meet."
You sent for me, Miss Effingham ? "
Ah, there was more than that," she said,
smiling. " You can't get rid of it in that light
way. I was watching you during the play.
Never was man more wretched or put out. You
think I am come here to disturb your son's
new-found happiness — to take him from his
lawful wife. You are afraid the old fancy will
revive — eh ? "

He looked at her steadily. It was some relief,
after all, that she did not know that he knew
all.

** Now," she went on quickly, " we must settle
on some course of action. Your son has married
her without notice to me."

There was an account of your death in one
of the papers," he said eagerly.

Yes ; put in by some one who had interest in
doing so. I understood all that. Now, I know
that you are in a miserable state as to what will
happen. You don't know how I have been

treated — what promises were made to me — all I
have suffered and put up with. Where is your
son ? '*

She could not think he knew anything. The
only chance, then, was to follow up that line.

** Listen," he said; "let us talk business.
You see this is all most unfortunate. And
since he has treated you badly, will you meet
me candidly and fairly, and say what it is that
you wish to be done in the way of reparation ?
Anything you wish, only name it, and I shall
exert myself."

Money, you mean, I suppose ? No — I do
not want money. ]Yow, I am not to be bought
off. You mistake my character utterly."

I never meant such a thing," he said, hastily.
"But you see yourself what the situation is.
He is married to this lady — "

'^ Married to that lady ! " she repeated. " Very
well ; we assume that."

*she is married to her. It is very cruel, I
admit, to you — to whom I know he had given
his affections. But still the question is, what

are we to do in this miserable case ? Is it not
clearly best to do what we can — make the best
of the worst ? Surely, you'd are a woman of the
world, and must see this. Why could you not
stay away, it will do you no good coming here ? '

** I kept to our bargain. I remained away the
year. Now, listen to me, Mr. Benbow, Just a
few words. I wish to astonish the town — to
win name and fame. Why should I not, as well
as you, Mr. Benbow ? That is what I am determined
on ; and it entails my going from place to
place — from town to town — always towards
London. I am resolved that all England shall
hear of Lydia Efl&ngham."

Oh ! not by that name I " he cried, in an
agony. " He would see you — meet you — learn
everything."

*' Why not ? What relation is there between
us that I should skulk in concealment ? Bather,
why should I do any favour to you, Mr.
Benbow ? Will you explain that to me as a sort
of basis ? Then we shall understand each other
better."

He went on excitedly, " Why did you come
back ? Keep away. Go away. How much, do
you want ? Name any sum."

Her only answer was — " Why ? "

He huno^ down his head — he could answer
nothing. She looked at him with an unconcealed
triumph.

Listen ! " she said. " The chief dream of my
life has been that I and mine should come back
to our own sphere. We wish to be what we
were long before — ladies again. It is my right,
and my talents shall give me back my place.
Now, Mr. Benbow, you seem uneasy lest I
should disturb this new-found happiness of your
son. I can do it, as you know — wreck it all, in
one second, by raising my finger. Come, I will
strike a bargain with you."

You will % " he said, eagerly. " Oh how good
how generous ! "

"Yes. I shall forbear, and shall engage to
forbear, if you, on your side, engage to do all
you can to bring me forward. Lend me all your
influence to place me in the best circles — to have

me, in short, received as a lady. No feints — no
half measures or pretences — excuses to them ;
but an honest, genuine, bond fide bringing
forward of the actress. If you agree to this,
your son shall not see or hear of me for a long,
long time. Refuse, and I shall act as I may be
advised."

Mr. Benbow gazed at her with a silent, wild
expression.

"What do you mean ? Do you require that I
should give you introduction — Oh no, no, no !
That is impossible — it would be fatal."

Nothing of the kind," she said, scornfully.
*' I shall speak intelligibly, as you wish it. In
fact, it is best for us all to do so. Well, what I
demand and claim is this. No patronage — no
gracious condescending : ' This is a young person
of great merit,' by which you only add to your
own complacency. I want nothing of that sort
no compliment — nothing but real, substantial
identification of yourself — wholly and heartily —
with my interests. I have friends. They must
be brought forward too — heartily, and with

genuineness. Agree to this, and your son may
never hear of me, and his new-born happiness
be never disturbed by me. Of course, I cannot
control events, nor him ; and if he thrusts
himself upon me, I cannot help it. It is no
fault of mine. On his own head be it. Will
you enter into this arrangement solemnly and
seriously ? If not — well, things can go on as
they are."

How can I do this ? " he said.

You shall understand. Yes — to take me into
your house for a few days — not that I want to
be there, but for the prestige of the thing ; to
get me to other houses — the Duke's, for instance,
who is to have a great gathering shortly."

I can do nothing of the kind. This is
unreasonable. You ask too much."

Very well. Do as you please. But recollect
the next movement must come from you."

'' Why should jow force a thing of this sort on
me ? Oh, you have some grudge, some hatred or
malice ? "

'* Think it over till tomorrow morning. But

I am determined on that ultimatum. You must
take the actress up as a lady ; make her one of
your friends — the friend of your friend. Above
all, you must see me at your Duke's treated with
honour and distinction, like the first lady among
them all'

But Charles will be there," he said, despairingly,
" and his wife. How can they meet you ?
It would be too painful."

Then let them not meet me. But all that
is your concern, not mine. Make up your mind
by the morning. If you do not get me to the
Duke's — wel perhaps I will ^o there unasked J'

She arose, and departed ; he turned away,
and took the road to his hotel. There was no
mistaking all this. It seemed to him there was
some net drawing round him.

TERMS.

Mr. Benbow returned home, and remained up
far into the night, thinking deeply what he was
to do. He began to suspect there was more in
all this than the mere request she had insisted
on. Such was the idea that took hold of his
mind. Did she mean to make it a lever for
harassing him with what aim Heaven only
could tell ? Surely this in revenge was too
devilish. But why to him ? He had not
done it : it was his son who had betrayed and
given her up.

He passed a miserable, distracted time. At
the end, according to his usual way, the whole
seemed much less serious. She would not dare
to carry out that demand of hers in earnest.

He would give lier an introduction or two — just
as one would patronize a respectable singer or
actress — and then leave the rest to time.

With the morning he was to return to town.
The Sword waved all night over him, even in
his dreams. At ten o'clock, when he was
ordering his fly, she entered the room.

I have come for my answer," she said.

"To be sure," he said, with an eager and
affected cordiality. " With all my heart. I
shall be delighted. I have written you a letter
to Lady Mantower, and I shall speak to the
Duke ; and — "

She gave him a look of contempt.

Childish ! You are determined not to understand.
It is like trifling, and if you dare to trifle
with me — " and she turned to leave the room.

*' My dear Miss Bellingham, you do not
understand."

''Everingham — please to understand, that is
my name now. And as for 'dear' — if you but
knew — "

'' I will do anything," he said humbly.

Very well, then ; as I must speak plainly,
you must sit down there and write. Begin
now :

My dear Duke,

There is a young lady in whom I
am deeply interested. You once saw her act
at a little theatre when you were staying with
me. I find that she is of good birth, and is a
perfect lady. And I am going to make what
you may think a strange request — namely,
that— "

Mr. Benbow threw down the pen.

Oh, I cannot. I dare not ask him. These
things are not to be done. The Duke is not a
man that I could venture to treat in that
fashion."

That is all for you. Use your diplomacy.
Invent some subterfuge. Write what you will ;
but done it must be. It is for you to find the
way. Exert yourself as if it were a daring
scheme that you were longing to carry out.
Write the letter — I would advise you — as
strongly as you can. Take as long as you
please. I can wait."

On this lie again left him. Again he was
alone with the situation, and saw how desperate
it all was. There was no use resisting ; no
feints or pretences would do.

I must go through with it," he said. " She
will drive me to do what she wishes — the cold,
pitiless, cruel creature."

He went back to the theatre, and asked to see
her.

I am doing," he said, " what you desire.
Writing would be absurd. With such a man
as he is, I could have no power to make him
take so unusual a course — one so opposed to his
views. It is so extravagant," said Mr. Benbow,
having at least the satisfaction of making a
mortifying speech — " so out of the usual course
for a man of his rank to receive a person that
he has never seen, except on the stage, into his
house as a guest, that I could only manage it by
some extraordinary exertion. I must see him
myself, force it on him. His pride, I know,
will go against the idea; but it shall be
done."

She smiled.

"Well, you may compensate yourself with
that poor exhibition of malice. But you cannot
guess what an indemnity I shall yet obtain.
However, I am content. Do what you propose
to do. Settle it all, and as speedily as you can.
I shall be a few days longer, and I shall confidently
expect to learn that all has been
arranged."

Desperate — beside himself with fury, and
even despair — Mr. Benbow went his way. Heat
once " took the train " that went in the direction
of Banff, and presented himself to the nobleman,
who was not a little surprised to see him.
The Duke was, indeed, going to hold one of
those splendid Durbar which he fancied, withall
their incidents, so ministered to his greatness.
He had sent out a sort of ukase to other dukes,
marquises, lords, and great parliamentary commoners,
bidding them assemble under his enormous
tent, and receive and do him homage. He
took a pleasure in these vast receptions ; and
yet the wonder still was, how they were accomplished.

It was known that he was "heavily
encumbered," as the phrase runs. Yet here he
was, living: as if he had a hundred thousand
a-year. Tradesmen wait obsequiously ; he is
disdainfully contemptuous of the mean shifts
necessary to get money or " pay bills." It
would last his time, he supposed.

Following up his resolution, Mr. Benbow put
all his strength into carrying out the mission he
had undertaken.

She is a perfect lady," he said, " born and
bred. Nothing at all of the stage about her.
She just wants connection — select readings at
some nobleman's house, and all that."

"My dear Benbow," said the Duke, stiffly,
"what are you talking of ? With the Princess
coming, and all that. Surely, you must see it
is impossible."

When I tell you," said Mr. Benbow, with a
hollow smile, " it is one of my deep-laid schemes
a strange ramification — the meaning of which
you would never even guess ; when I leg it as a
favour and tell you that an immense deal of my

interest depends upon it, I am sure you won't
make any difficulty."

*' Oh ! but I do, Benbow. You see it would
be a blemish on all the proceedings. An
actress ! Good gracious ! Why, some of our
fine ladies would ally the house."

But she is not an actress, in the commonsense
of the word. She is a lady. Nowadays
there is a peculiar class — in a sort of debatable
ground — quite different from the scum and rank
and file of the profession. There are some of
this class that the Queen takes up and ha at
the Palace. It gives a prestige to the party — "

I don't understand it at all," said the Make,
coldly. " I am sure you can't be serious,
Benbow — you must see it yourself — in pressing
such a thing."

I do not, Duke," said Mr. Benbow. He
was always equal to such a crisis. " I don't
think I am asking much. I could have made
many difficulties, much greater, when you asked
me for a matter of much more importance.
Pray be considerate."

VOL. III. C

The Duke began to waver.

Well, you know best' he said ; *' it will
lead to endless difficulties. There's Eosa, who is
as proud as a Spaniard, will no more suffer it —
why, she will sting her out of this place. Cold
as she looks, Rosa will never tolerate that sort of
think."

Very likely Rosa will not be here," said Mr.
Benbow. " I am sorry to be pressing, Duke ;
but let me make a point of this. You can
make a point of something else with me another
time."

Rather put out, the Duke consented, and Mr.
Benbow departed with a formal invitation for
Miss L. Everingham — the Duke presently complaining
that he did not know what was coming
over Benbow, who was forcing all sorts of
strange people on him. A woman off the stage,
forsooth ! But it was the last time he would
agree to such a thing, that was certain.

But a greater difficulty was before the unhappy
Mr. Benbow. His son and Lady Rosa
were, of course, to be chief ornaments in the

ceremonial. The whole pageant was for them,
and how it was to be prevented he knew not.

He fashioned out some lame pretence, and
then sought his son, who now lived in a London
house, in all the state of powder, carriages, horses,
servants. Father and son had not met since
the election. The son was overflowing with
gratitude.

My dear father, you did so much for me. I
shall never forget it ! And we now are going to
the Duke's. I shall tell him so. He shall
do anything — he must do anything — that j'ou
want."

*' My dear son," said the father, in a timorous,
hesitating way — such a contrast to his old dictator
style — " I have just come to you about that very
thing. You are not obliged to gq to Banff — for
this time, at least, are you ? "

"Oh, but we are to be hero and heroine ! "

'* Because," said Mr. Benbow, slowly, " I want
you — not to be there ! You know I am always
plotting and scheming, with my little mines and
counter-mines ; and I have something on hand

C 2

now, on account of which I want your absence.
Do — do, my dear boy," he added, with a feverish
earnestness, *' oblige me in this — me, your poor
old hard-worked father, who have had such a
drudgery of life — nothing to soothe me or keep
me up ! It may seem unreasonable — a sort of
whim — and absurd ; but I know you will gratify
me in even a little whim of mine which seems
absurd, childish, and unmeaning. Could you
not stay away ? "

My dear father, this is very strange ! I
don t understand, or see how it can be done.
Why, even if I did, Rosa would not hear of it.
It is for her. She has ordered her dresses : she
expects to meet people."

But she must not come," said his father,
excitedly. "Think me queer, odd, if you like
unaccountable. I know I am. I have gone
through a great deal, and I dare say it has
unsettled me. But this is for you as well as for
myself. I have a scheme that I want to carry
out, and for which your absence is necessary.
Oblige me. Consent to this, my dear, dear boy

the only favour 1 ever asked you — your poor
old father, who has worked and slaved so hard !
Don't refuse me this little request. Here is
money — take it, for a trip to Paris."

Well," said the son, after a pause — " father,
I can't refuse you anything. But, I tell you, the
difficulty is Eosa. How are we to manage her ?
What plan have you ? "

Oh, my dear boy, that must be for you altogether.
I dare not appear in it. Take it all on
yourself. Find out what will do with her — you
know her better than I do. Say that you cannot
go, or are unwell."

My dear father, all this strikes me as very
odd ! Give me some reason — some rational
explanation — before I can behave in this singular
way."

I can't — I can't ! One day I may explain it.
But, before Heaven 1 it is all for you, as well as
for myself. I am growing wretched about all
these things."

Well, I agree. It will bring about some
strange scenes, for Rosa will not put up with any

treatment. I don't know how to begin with
her ; but, as you insist on it, I'll do my best. I
can do no more."

Mr. Benbow was full of gratitude.

You are a dear, good son," he said ; ^' and
I will make it up to you, never fear. And it is
all for your own good, too."

He felt somewhat relieved, though still anxious.
He was concerned about Lady Rosa. There was
a cold, impenetrable manner about her which
made him distrustful. She was a woman of the
world, "to the end of her nails" — selfish, he was
sure. She did not like him either. However,
his son would do his best, he knew that. Had
not he done his best — slaved and worked for
him. ?

As he was waiting, the Lady Rosa was
announced, and entered haughtily. He saw in
her face that she came to bring him to account.

I cannot understand all this," she began ;
and I must tell you plainly, it cannot be —
unless, at least, you favour us with some rational
explanation. You know yourself, as a man of

the world, it is absurd, and cannot be. And
I must really ask you not to be using your
influence with him for these sort of whims."

He has promised to do so," said Mr. Benbow,
desperately, " and he will keep to his promise.
I am a man of schemes, and am not going back
if I undertake it. You may set me down, Rosa,
as having some crafty plan in my head — "

That will hardly do, Mr. Benbow. There is
more in this than you fancy we imagine. There
is some one you are afraid that we should meet."

All at once it flashed on Mr. Benbow — his
frenzied head had not been able to think of it
before. It was an inspiration worthy of his best
and brilliant days.

You are very clever, my dear Rosa. You
ladies beat us in wit and penetration. You have
guessed my secret, and I throw myself on your
indulgence. There is some one I should not wish
either of you to meet ; some one you would not
wish him to meet. Shall I tell you a secret ?
That actress, who was so much in love with him,
and for whom, it must be owned, he had a

sort of tendresse — a boyish one — she is to be
there."

Lady Rosa started.

'' Oh, indeed ! "

Yes ; but I don't want him to know it.
You will blame me when I tell you that I got her
invited there."

You did, Mr. Benbow ! "

*' Yes, I did. There is something which I am
not obliged to unfold. She wishes to rise in her
profession — to make connections and citrons —
and uses me for the purpose. I promised her
long ago I would do this for her. Can you guess
the reason. Lady Rosa ? It was part of our
bargain when I had to save Charles from her
fascinations. Young men are so foolish, so infatuated
! and if they meet again — ah, you seethe
danger. There is no reasoning with them.
1 did not attempt reasoning. I went and bought
off the enemy."

Mr. Benbow felt that all this was very clever,
and that he was quite getting back his mastery
over events.

Lady Eosa smiled contemptuously. She was
too proud to appear to feel aoy emotion or
apprehension. But the effect had been produced.

"Your son, I feel sure, is not likely to pay
me such a bad compliment. But I have no wish
to meet such a person in our house ; or if I do
go, it will be only from duty. Well, as you
make such a very great point of it, Mr. Benbow,
and as it is the first request you have made tome,
I shall see that he does not go."

This was beyond his hopes. After all, he
might still baffle this odious enemy. Everything
was turning out well. His old cunning
was serving him still. Though he stood on a
precipice — and the idea made him gasp — he had
stood there a long time, and it might end in
thrusting some one else over it:

Oh, how he loathed — hated her ! How he
shrank from the very notion of dwelling on her
of thinking of her name even — of the theatre
which held her ! Had he lived in the days of
the unscrupulous princes who at one time ruled
in Italy, when the most successful man was he

who got his enemy's throat cut as quickly and as
promptly as possible, it is to be feared — say, that
Mr. Benbow, in his desperation, would have
found it difficult to resist the seduction of this
rough and ready process. Not that Mr. Beobow
was not an honourable and scrupulous man —
that would have sat on the bench with magistrates,
and been gravely severe on the boy who
had stolen turnips, and have firmly and severely
warned him against the dangers and immorality
of the course he was pursuing. But, in truth, if
the cynical observer of mankind could but have
suitable opportunity of experimenting on mankind,
and find out the suitable bait for every
man, each according to his weak places and
tastes — provided always there was the seal of
secresy, and an eternal strict privacy guaranteed
under these conditions, there would be some
wonderful revelations — the most terrific backsliding
in the case of the greatest purists. Take
a man that was next in succession to some great
office ; his party going out — not likely to come
in again for years ; the holder of the office aged

and decayed, and likely to be succeeded by some
good life " — and this probable successor overwhelmed
with debts and difficulties. If some
Familiar of Darkness could be imagined as saying
to the latter that one simple action — say the
mere turning of a handle — would ensure, without
risk of discovery, the destruction of that opponent,
and were this invitation renewed again
and ao^ain — su2:o:ested, insinuated — no transfer —
nothing but turning of a handle — it is to be
feared that the most stoical, the most virtuous
in the community, would in time fail and" hall.
At all events, here was the arrangement made
and agreed to ; and Mr. Benbow departed with a
lighter heart than he had borne for a long time.

AT BANFF.

The festival at Banff Castle was to be more
than usually extravagant. The Duke had some
secret and diplomatic aims, no doubt. He had
all manner of august and stately ladies, of rank
and influence, assembled ; awful matrons, faded
but still of great power. Through their veins
seemed to percolate, not blood, but a sort of thin
liquor, not unlike old port when it has been kept
to a vast age — which these ladies had been also.
Everything was in state — everything en grande.
A great ball was to be given in honour of the
tremendous influence which had latterly visited
the family.

There was the Marchioness of Centre ; the —
but why not quote the fashionable journal which
records the fasti of the great ? —

The Duke and Duchess of Banffshire are
entertaining a distinguished circle at Banff.
Among the company are Lord and Lady
Mountain, Lord Oban, Lady Ellen Fervor,
the Count Dembrowski, Sir Robert Hush,
General Baker, G.C.B., Lord Dunbrownie, Hon.
Mr. Perkins, and Mr. Benbow. We understand
that the noble Duke intends celebrating the late
auspicious incidents in his family with a ball to
the surrounding district."

Mr. Benbow arrived by himself — a sort of
stranger — and found nearly the whole party
assembled. He entered with a sigh of relief;
for, as he looked round, he found no sign of his
son or of his daughter-in-law.

That day there was a large party. The Duke,
before going in to dinner, spoke to him, asking
him what was the meaning of the non-appearance
of Charles and his wife. Mr. Benbow could give
no explanation. Perhaps they would arrive intime
for dinner.

What a splendid banquet that was — all the

family plate piled up in a sort of mountainous
buffet ! The Duke enthroned as usual. But
just as they sat down the jingle of the hall-bell
was heard; and presently, after much expectation,
a servant appeared, ushering in a lady.
Well miorht Mr. Benbovv's heart sink as he

O J

thought of the handsome actress — dressed ina
ladylike way, with perfect self-possession —
advancing to take her place among that brilliant
company. Now, indeed, his miserable trial was
about to begin. Now, indeed, might all his
nerves quiver, and the Sword wave slowly over
his head. Yes ; here was that daring, pitiless
actress, holding, cutting her bright way into the
select ranks, and sitting down there bent on that
one ruthless purpose of injuring, destroying him.
He was sure, certain of it. He seemed to look down
the table timorously, and saw her self-possession,
he felt a chill at his heart — a presentiment
that this woman would walk on her course
pitilessly, and carry out some undefined purpose,
notwithstanding all his honest carrying out his
part of the agreement. He could see she would

be at home with her neighbours — not in the
least confused — a perfect lady in manner and
bearing. Well, that was some comfort ; and
things might, after all, turn out well.

Many faces — female faces — turned towards
the end of the table where the new arrival had
seated herself. There was something showy,
and a sort of theatrical glitter about her, which
even a lady cannot altogether conceal ; for the
stage leaves its mark on everything.

The host was put out, and explained to his
neighbours that this " was a lady whom he
asked — a person of good birth and position,
and who had been ' on the stage ; ' and his
friend Benbow was "most pressing to have something
done for her. So he had asked her here,
and she would give them a ' reading,' or something
of the kind."

Meanwhile the lady herself was quite composed
— calmly at home. There were gentlemen
near her, always Samaritans to those outcasts of
the other sex. All these soon found out what
a clever, interesting creature this was ; so self-possessed

and ladylike, so full of wit almost.
One young lord who was next her was quite
enchanted with her gifts — her sweet, low voice,
and winning manners. There was Lord Reginald,
a most agreeable youth himself, high in
favour with the surrounding ladies, who devoted
himself now to the lady beside him. This
created a prejudice ; and very soon were heard
depreciating questions, and very soon all about
her was known, and the remark made, '^ How
curious of the Duke ! "

But the trial — the test — was to come, when
the ladies went upstairs and left the gentlemen.
What was to become of her then ? She knew
no one ; but, as the ladies rose, the Duke, a
nobleman and gentleman, met her at the door —
and said cordially :

So glad to see you here. Miss Everingham."

Mrs. Everingham," she said, smiling. " I
am a married lady."

Oh, indeed ! " he said.

"You know that on the stage we are allowed
all sorts of privileges as to names and addresses."

He then stopped one of his greater lady
guests, and introduced the actress kindly ; not
wishing her to make her way, solitary and
friendless, into the drawing-room prairies. " I
know I can rely on you," he said.

They were all assembled in the drawing-room,
that band of pitiless ladies — as they seemed to
her — and whose looks she flung back with interest.
She had no shyness, showed not the least
discomfort, or that she was not at her ease ;
and seemed not in the least to require the aid
of her lady protector. Yet to fight a battle, of
that kind, with whatever gifts, is almost impossible.
The tacit league is made. Had she been
humble and grateful for patronage, they would
have welcomed her gladly. But she held her
own, talked calmly, and firmly gave her opinion ;
and when some statement was made, quite inaccurate,
she coldly set the speaker right. At
last the gentlemen appeared at the door — dropping
in in skirmishing order — half shy, half
simpering — according to the invariable pattern
in such case made and provided. Then came her

VOL. III.

turn ; then all her brilliancy seemed to lighten
up, and in a few minutes there was a group.
Now this gentleman, now that, desired to be
presented. And she grew witty and gay and
brilliant, and they were reporting to each other
in different parts of the room what piquant,
pleasant things she said. Now she was to have
her allies who would stand % her. The ladies
were all deserted, or partially so — left to the
attentions of feebler men, who eagerly seized
on the opportunity not to be obtained before.
She was so "successful," that the Duke himself
began to think that the asking her had not
been such a bad idea, and might add to the
attractions of the/e/e.

One of the gentlemen presently discovered
that she sang, and went to apprize his host, and
get him to put due pressure on.

'' It will not be worth making a fuss about, if
I should wish to decline it ; so with all my
heart ! " and she went over to the piano.

The wondering ladies " sniffed " disdainfully
at her " coolness," and were amazed at hearing

a tender, delicious voice — full, rich, sonorous,
and full of feeling — issue from her crimson lips.
It was some little pathetic story vocalized, and
she would have delighted the composer had he
been present. She hardly took the trouble to
accompany herself in the ordinary way. Her
fingers seemed to touch the keys mechanically —
very much as the feet walk ; but her voice told
the history with a sort of deep tragedy which
affected all.

When it was over, [the host came up, and
thanked her warmly for the pleasure she had
given them. The young lord who had been
so attracted by her was enthusiastic, and went
about praising her perfections, exciting even the
well-tried patience of the dowagers. Finally,
the evening finished after the usual fashion at
country-houses, and all went solemnly to bed.

D 2

TORTURE.

Mr. BenboW had been keeping his lonely
vigils, his eyes bent in that far-off direction ;
and, though the Sword was still swinging slowly
over his head, in punkah fashion, he did not
take much heed of it. That was about nine
o'clock. But gradually, as the night wore, there
came also that terrible magnify] ng-glass of the
small hours, which enlarges everything to almost
appalling proportions. Then he began to see
much as he would insects in a drop of water
awful shadows, as of coming dangers ; the
overwhelming precipice on whose edge he stood ;
the excessive peril from " that woman," who
was, as it were, standing over a barrel of gunpowder,
a torch in her hand. How could he

feel easy for a second while she was there ?
Some accident might fire the train. How could
he count on his son keeping to his promise ?
If the Duke should be taken ill suddenly, and
his daughter be sent for ; or if that daughter
should change her mind, indignant at losing her
pleasure, and, wishing to assert herself, set off
with her husband for Banff, the whole would be
disclosed — blown up with a terrific crash ! The
idea made him tremble, and a perspiration broke
out on his face. This suspense was to go on
for a week or ten days, so he could not ensure
it all that time. His nights would be one long-protracted
nightmare. This ever - approaching
disgrace — in short, that swinging Sword — it
would be better far to have the hair cut and
let the weapon fall, and end it for ever. It was
folly — stupidity of the rankest sort — ever to
have let them out of his sight.

With morning he had started ofi" on his road.
As he travelled along, he debated this point ina
thousand ways : whether he should go to his
son's, or take the bolder course of going to the

Duke's, placing himself there behind the ramparts,
as it were — a bold, open defence. The
former course would expose him to suspicion ;
and, as was characteristic of him through life,
he chose the bold game.

He sent a telegram to the Make on before
him, and found himself at the station of the
place that evening. The Duke's carriage was
waiting ; and he asked the servant who was
staying there ? — was his son coming % To his
relief he found that he was not there, and was
not expected. He was almost sorry that he had
gone there now ; and his heart sank within
him, as he thought of the woman, whom he
must now meet, and to whom he must act a
part as histrionic as any she had ever played
on the official boards.

When he came up after dinner, and all
were gathered in the drawing-room, a lady was
singing, and the rich notes came floating to him
as he ascended the stairs. But he was not
prepared for what he saw as he entered the
brilliant rooms. Half the company gathered

round the piano, the rest hUshed in stillness,
while the actress sang. Her melodious voice
thrilled even him ; it was one of her plaintive
ballads, a touching story ; and her eyes, as he
entered, wandered over to him and recognized
him. But he saw, with mystification and misgiving
for the result of any future conflict, that
the apparition made no difference — did not cause
even a little start. All were so absorbed that
no notice was taken of him, and the host put up
his hand in a warning way to beg for quietness.

then she had finished. He saw that ^ she
was quite one of the household, and had established
herself triumphantly. How strange this
was, he felt ; and it seemed to weigh on him —
a judgment, or some shape of retribution — that
she should thus hold a position, unconsciously
to all, so nearly approaching to what she was
entitled.

Now she came forward to greet him : now,
with the softness and most gracious unconsciousness
— perfect actress that she was — that there
was any secret between them.

I am glad you have come," said the host —
shaken yourself free of your papers and books';
and you were still more lucky in coming in just
as Mrs. Everingham was singing that charming
song. It looks as though site was the attraction."


Mrs. Everingham ? " faltered Mr. Benbow.

*did you not know' she said, looking at
him, " I am married now — since I saw you ?
Oh," she said coldly, " Mr. Benbow knew
well that I was to be here : we had several
confidential talks over the matter. He once
came behind the scenes to see me."

Halloa, Benbow ! this is nice work ! "

Mr. Benbow coloured, not at this " rallying "
him, as it is called, but at the bold, hostile tone
of this allusion. It almost frightened him, this
air of superiority, which boded badly for her
bearing in future.

Mrs. Everingham likes a little joke — she is
welcome to have it at my expense."

No one knows better than Mr. Benbow that
it was no joking matter that brought him there.

He knows what his attitude was to me, and
what he came to ask of me."

Ah, this is all very sly. For shame,
Benbow ! And was this recently, Mrs. Evenings
? "

Since his son's marriage."

Mr. Benbow knew not what to say. This
cold, vindictive woman's eye was upon him, and
seemed as if it would accept no conventional
compromise. Yet he faltered out:

I am sure it would be no harm for me todo
what all the world is coins: — admire — briupr
one's homage to the feet of Miss, or Mrs.,
Everingham."

She looked at him with unconcealed scorn,
drawing herself up ever so haughtily. Contempt,
joined with an air of mastery, was in her face.
• " I will not let you carry it off in that way,"
she said. "My character is too precious to me
to have it endangered by these little fictions. I
don't want to have the honour of such an adorer.
Come, there must be an open confession made.
Was it business, or the ridiculous pretence

that you describe, that brought you to seeme
? "

"You sent for me," said Mr. Benbow, trembling
with anger. He had fallen into the trap.

Ah, I had forgotten," she said, acting admirably
; " you are perfectly right ; and, indeed,
it is only owing to myself that this matter should
be set right, which has fallen into such a curious
complication. We must have it all explained
from the beginning."

Hear, hear ! " said some of the gentlemen.

Some of the fine ladies looked on curiously,
with their glasses up to their eyes, and whispering
— " What a strange proceeding — what does
it all mean ? "

All eyes were bent on him.

Come," said she, " explain it. Accept my
proposal. 1 am quite content it should be
known. Shall I begin ? Better interpose now ;
because once I go so far as even to begin to
mention the business, and you were to stop me,
then the rest would be guessed in a second. Ah,
you know that, Mr. Benbow ! Pray take care."

But by this time his old sense and tact had
returned, the face and manner had recovered its
old training.

I yield," he cried out, " and own it all. The
thing speaks for itself, indeed. What would an
old fellow like me have to do with genius and
beauty. It was a little business of the most
prosaic and practical nature, almost mercantile,
that brouojlit me to Mrs. Everino^ham. There,
that is the truth. I deserved to be exposed,
impostor that I am."

He stole a look at her, as if to ask her was
this sufficient amende. She looked at him contemptuously
and turned. She was satisfied.
Every one was vastly amused at this little exhibition.
Gentlemen saying to each other in the
smoking-room, '' How queer it was ! " and that
there was " something odd in the way those two
went on ! "

But there was there a certain cousin of the
Duke's — a political woman, as they called her,
but very different from the ladies who are proud
to arrogate to themselves that title — who had

real sense ; her advice and assistance were valuable.
Her name was Sheldon — a cold, " bluish
gray " lady, who was said to be the Duke's brains-carrier.
She had looked on thoughtfully at the
little skirmish. She said nothing then ; but
when her eye rested on Mr. Benbow, he felt
uncomfortable.

After the company had gone to bed that night,
the Duke and Mrs. Sheldon talked together a few
moments over the events of the day.

"Now, Duke," she said, *ewe are alone, tell
me your policy."

About what ? " he asked.

'•' About that actress. It is very curious and
mysterious. When first she came I thought hera
common, ordinary creature, that only wanted
an opportunity to improve her chances in life
by coming here ; but, do you know, since this
evening I have quite changed my opinion."

Oh, she is quite a superior person," the Duke
said, with a great air of wisdom ; "I saw that
from the first."

I am sure you did ; but it is this superiority

that puzzles me — rather, I am quite certain about
it. You saw that scene with Mr. Benbow 1 She
has some hold over him depend upon it."
Who ? Mrs. Everingham ? "
Yes. That woman ! There is no other
meaning in his behaviour. He knows more of
her than he will admit."

What, Benbow ! Ah, very good ! That is
good. My dear cousin, I know Benbow ever so
many years ; he hadn't time for such acquaintances.
Shall I tell you what I believe it to be,
and what it will turn out to be ? When we were
staying with him he took half the theatre for her
benefit ; and he is so forgetful of things that are
not business, that it is more than likely that he
quite forgot to settle with her. That, in the
profession, is considered terrible."

My dear cousin, you are wiser than I am ;
but, still, I shall watch for myself."

By the way, Conway is coming over tomorrow.
I will see what he thinks. He is a
rock of sense, you know."
Ah ! a capital idea."

But the wretched Mr. Benbow went to bed
with a terrible weight at his heart. He saw too
plainly that this woman had come there, as it
were, for the purpose of torturing him. There
was some mystery about it all which he could
not follow — something beyond all those mysteries
which he had hitherto brought to the test
of reason, and happily and successfully solved.
Why should she display this animosity and fury
against him ? The mere opposition to her claims
was only what she might have expected, or any
other person in her class. She was too intelligent
and clever to take such an unreasonable
offence.

Mr. Benbow was right in his presentiment
that this was only the beginning.

TRACKING.

Next morning, at breakfast, every one was
delighted to see Mr. Conway enter full of spirits.
He was ever popular, and considered a great
addition to the company, or to any company.
As he took his place at the table, and looked
up and down, and exchanged greetings, his eyes
fell upon the actress. He gave a genuine start.

'' What ! Miss "

What, you know Mrs. Everingham ? Ah,
I recollect, you were at that 'Lady of Lyons'"

Mr. Conway and I have met since," said
she. " He will remember the dreary old room
of Calais ? "

Yes ; and our midnight conversation," said
he gravely.

Mr. Benbow was listening, his heart fluttering.

What did all this mean ? — that woman drawing
all these people to her? The cords were being
drawn fast about him: it would at last end in
his ruin.

Among the most puzzled, however, was Mr.
I Conway. The unexpected presence of the actress
at such a house was a riddle that he could not
unravel. But, above all, was he struck by the
singular manner of Mr. Benbow, and those wild
furtive looks he was ever directing in the direction
of the actress. He noted, too, the " cowed "
manner in which he bore himself to her.

Is it not strange ? I know you think so,"
said a voice beside him.

It was that strong-minded Mrs. Sheldon — who
would have made an excellent police minister's
wife.

"It is singular, certainly, " said Conway, who
would not affect to misunderstand her. " He
must be unwell. Perhaps these recent political
struggles have strained his brain a little."

Hardly. But have you noticed his manner
to her F He is in terror of her."

It looks like it. But may it not be that he
feels he treated her harshly in that matter of his
son '

Not at all. We must find it out, my dear
Mr. Conway. You are so clever, I say ; you
would not be long in doing so."

*^ I am a poor detective," said Conway smiling.

The oddest thing is," continued Mrs. Sheldon
mysteriously, " that we have found out that he
kept his son and Lady Eosa from coming here."

Did he ? " said Conway, really surprised.
*' That was very odd. What does the Duke
think of it all ? "

That's the thing. He is full, and wants to
speak to you about it."

*^ I'll speak to his Grace at once," said Conway
gaily, "for I am full of curiosity. I've an idea
too that he might like "

And Mr. Conway went off at once to the
host's, whom he found in his study.

To certain shrewd minds the simple indication
• — an odd glance, or speech — is often sufficient
to supply a theory and conviction of the theory's

VOL. III.

truth. This, because it is utterly inconsistent

with the established character of the person.

This singular demeanour of Mr. Benbow could
only be explained by one solution.

There the Sword was, swinging slowly to and
fro over his head, at which he glanced upwards
uneasily, though no one else in the room could
see it but he himself. The truth was, the Duke,
a handsome showy man, who in his day had been
de "oar amours, as Ransome would say, considered
himself still very *^ dangerous." Somehow he
had never shone so perfectly, nor had his remarks
seemed to '' tell " so successfully, as since she had
arrived. She was, indeed, a most interesting
character — which very often, when translated,
appears to mean a character that is interested in
i/ou. Mr. Benbow, engaged with a talkative
lady next him, only caught snatches of the following
conversation :

I remember so well that night — and I was
so nervous — and, shall I confess it, I was hoping
to have heard some little compliment of yours.
But it never came. I saw in your face that you

had seen so much in your life, it could not be
expected that you should be delighted with a
poor country-town creature."

Not at all. I was greatly struck, indeed,
Mrs. Everinsfham : and I remember distinctly
the remark made was, ' There was a lady ! ' Not
considered very high praise, I dare say, on the
boards ; but to my ideas the very highest."

"Ah, had I but known that, or been told it
at the time, even in a whisper, how happy it
would have made me. I would have given the
world that you should have knoiDn that I %oas
a lady born and bred, and brought up to bea
lady."

So I heard," said he, " and on other authority
besides yours. I tell you frankly, Mrs. Evenings
that is one of the reasons we did ourselves
the honour to ask you here. My son-in-law
proved it to me. He was your first admirer,
you know."

'* Then why is not Lady Eosa, his wife, here ?
They all seemed to have expected her."

Well, it is odd ; and in fact we gave the

E^2

party chiefly for them. They sent us some very
odd sort of excuse, which I confess to not
understandings. However, she is now her own
mistress, as far as I am concerned ; and they
are quite at liberty to act according to their
own judgment. Perhaps she feared to trust
him again with you. So Benbow thinks."

'indeed!"

'* I know the reason," she said in a low voice,
"though I don't know whether I ouo^ht to tell
you."

You know the reason ! "

People up and down the table noticed the
strange air of confidence between the two, and
wondered.

"■ Yes, for reasons of his own, he does not wish
your daughter and me to meet."

'' How absurd, how ridiculous ! But can you
be sure of this, Mrs. Everingham ? "

By-and-by I shall prove it to you."

How % "

By simply asking him — jutting it to him.
I know now that he must have put some kind

of pressure on them. Look* she added, growing
more and more excited, 'sat his strange manner
since he has been here — the change in him from
his old coolness and calmness."

*' It is very odd, certainly," the Duke said,
profoundly bewildered, and suddenly bethinking
him of Mrs. Sheldon's remarks last night.
Most singular indeed ! He is changed — in a
wonderful way, too. He was always so cold
and impenetrable, so resolute in carrying out
his plans. But what object," he asked in
wonder, " could he have ? Surely he could
not venture on such a proceeding as to keep
my own daughter from coming to my house ? "

Hush ! " she said, " we shall talk of this
again after breakfast."

Mr. Benbow was looking meaningly towards
them. He could not hear ; but the look she
gave him seemed to say, " It is going on ; all
in good time. The net is closing about you."

The Duke was a weak man, who, though he
would have resented excessively the notion that
he was proud, was sensitive — almost arrogant —

as to any " freedoms," as lie termed them, taken
with him or his position. That a man like
Benbow should attempt to interfere with the
arrangements of his household, the plans he had
made in reference to his hospitalities, or the
people he meant to entertain there — it was insufferable
— impertinent ! It explained what was
otherwise quite unaccountable — what he had
wondered at — the sudden self-excuse of his
daughter and her husband, from whom he had
been too haughty to ask any reason, but had
merely said they might do just as they pleased.
Presently, Mr. Benbow, who had come up to
him with some speech or remark, felt his host's
eyes glowing on him, and received a very short
answer. He then heard him say :

*come, Mrs. Everingham, I want you to
favour me with your opinion of the new greenhouse."


Ao-ain she looked back at Mr. Benbow, as
though saying, " This is about you."

At lunch, when the whole party was assembled,
the Duke announced carelessly, *ewe are

fixed on having the dance here the day after
tomorrow. I don't see why we should vary
from our original intentions."

"Very spirited of you indeed, Duke," said
one of the guests.

It shall he a family gathering," went on
the Duke; "and I have just telegraphed to
my daughter and her husband to come at

once'

The guilty start that Mr. Benbow gave !
Where was his training for years past — all his
practice ? It must be that accursed Sword which
had shattered all his nerves.

*' Telegraphed for them I " he repeated almost
involuntarily.

Yes," said Mr. Conway, *^ the Duke is like
the Czar towards his family. He does not ask
much from them ; but when he issues a ukase
to them, they must obey."

Yes, I must have Rosa here," he said, much
pleased with this happy description of his power,
"and they will be here tomorrow. Yes, I shall
have my daughter and you will have your son,

Mr. Benbow. So we shall both be paternally
happy. This ball is given in honour of Eosa,
and it is only fitting that she should be present."

His son and Rosa to meet her there ! It was
desperate. Something must be done, and done
at once. No matter what suspicion, what degradation,
they must all be saved from that
ruin ! How he got through that meal he knew
not ; but when he next seemed to collect himself,
he found himself on the road, hurrying onto
the next town — not the railway-station of the
place, for that would have excited suspicion.
What Traces, what fearful strides he took ! This
Mr. Benbow — lately so powerful — so able to
control events, now skulking along, like some
criminal, as he indeed was. For what was han^:-
ino; over his head beside that fatal Sword I
Punishment, trial, disgrace — certain disgrace
and ruin ! Ruin for every one !

When he reached the telegraph office, he wrote
out a telegram. How was he to put it — what
excuse ? How was he to urge, to argue, in those
constrained limits ? Let him put it ever so

earnestly and fiercely, would they mind him ?
No matter, it must be tried. So lie wrote :

You must not come here. For my sake, for
Heaven's sake, stay where you are ! There are
reasons for it, which I will tell you later. Have
confidence, in me — trust me. You know me.
But it would be ruin ! ''

He wrote several copies of this message on
the forms — now saying too much, and that too
strongly ; now too little — and tearing them up
fiercely and trampling them on the ground. Heat
last, satisfied himself; and sent away perhaps
the most incoherent and wildest message that
had been received at the office for years.

CHAPTER VI.

/

CHECKED.

Mil. Benbow was returning home from the
telegraph office, hurrying wildly along the road ;
and with the terrible feeling; at his heart that
this was only a staving-ofF, as it were ; and
that his difficulties were all closing in about
him, and that extrication seemed hopeless — must
be hopeless. He seemed to have lost that boldness
which had been so useful to him in former
days, and which brought him so successfully
through many a difficulty. He thought wildly
and desperately again and again : What was to
be done % what loss to come of it ? Suppose he
went away on the morrow — saw his son— told,
or hinted even, all to him. It must be done —
some step must be taken. Or, again, suppose

he tried this woman in another way — humbled
himself before her — threw himself on her mercy.
As this thought crossed him he heard the sound
of wheels, and saw a Victoria approaching, with
two ladies in it — one driving. Just as they
passed him, he recognized them. It was the
actress and a friend ; and they were going in
the direction of the town he was leaving behind.
It was strange their meeting him ; and he looked
confused, as he knew how they must speculate
what brought him in that direction. The actress
bowed to him and passed on. ^ ^ ,

Mr. Conway, it was noticed, had been out all
the morning — had gone out shortly after Mr.
Benbow.

At dinner that day there was a great party
an in^gathering of neighbours from all parts
round — one of those solemnities the Duke almost
revelled in, and which seemed a sort of coronation
or enthronement. All the pundits and
magnates were assembled ; and at the banquet
the actress sat resplendent, in a dress of exquisite
taste, with some friends, and looking marvellously

handsome. There was great curiosity
about her — she was so dazzling in her magnificence
and brilliancy. It was noticed, too, that
his Grace the Duke was exhibiting a little of
his old weakness : beings in one of those harmless
fits of admiration for some particular princess,
whom he exalted above all women, and thought
perfection, for a month ; and that month, perhaps,
only once in a few years. It was all
very harmless indeed, and only made the
Duchess smile.

Some fate had again placed Mr. Benbow
opposite his enemy. He was forced to sit
"under the glare, as it were, of her face ; and
it hurt his eyes and his very soul. In those
eyes he read something malicious, something
malevolent a petty. What was over him ? He
was in a fury with himself. He had lost all his
old vigour and masterly powers of defence and
attack. At last it came.

We met Mr. Benbow to-day on the road too,
and walking."

Walking ! Benbow walk ! Incredible 1 "

said the Duke. " He must have had some
deep and secret plot of State in his head."

"Plot," said Mr. Benbow, coldly, but with
whitening lips — " I have no plot or plots. A
little private matter took me there."

"And a little private matter took nw also,"
said the actress. " Was not that curious, my
lord Duke ? There must be some sympathy
between Mr. Benbow and I. And, a still more
curious thing, it took me to the same place''

To the same place ! " he faltered.

"All for Mr. Benbow's good. Shall I tell
the little history of my adventures of to-day ?
It seemed almost providential for your interest,
Mr. Benbow."

The latter forced his thin lips into a smile.

"These secrets should be between you and
me, Mrs. Everingham. We shall appoint a
private time for it ; and you and I, and no
one else — "

Oh, not at all," she said, gaily. " I am
not going to have myself compromised in that
way. What would you say, my lord Duke ?

The simple truth is, I had to go to the telegraph
office in reference, alas ! to one of my professional
engagements. Yes, Mr. Benbow. And, ah !
you had been there before me."

He gazed upon her in a sort of stupefaction.

Over his head swung the Sword slowly to
and fro ! \

"See how guilty he looks!" she went on;
one would think it was a murder, or some
Lady Audley's Secret ' — some frightful bigamy
we were talking of. Well, I wrote out my
telegram, and was in a sort of abstraction,
thinking how I should compress forty into
twenty words — we actresses, you know, must
look after these trifles — when I saw on the
ground at my feet — what do you think ? — your
familiar name, Mr. Benbow ! "

My name ! How strange ! "

Yes, your name ; only you were bisected —a
'Ben' on one piece of paper, a 'bow' on the
other. I was at once attracted. You could not
blame me, or think me too inquisitive. I saw
other words in the same writing, lying at my

feet. I thought they were private papers. I
did not want others to read them ; so I gathered
them "up, and brought them home with me."

'^ You did ! " cried Mr. Ben bow, starting up.
You dared to read a private telegram ! "

*^ Dared, sir!"

Really, Benbow," said the Duke, 'you are
going on very oddly. This is all so incoherent ! "

Dared ! yes, dared to spy on me — to read
what is considered private all over the world !
It is scandalous, disgraceful, unladylike ! Yes,
ladylike ! "

Hush, Benbow ! you are mad ! "

Oh, my lord, you don't understand this !
This is the gratification of some wicked hatred
this lady has conceived against me. But I'll
not endure it longer ; it's going far beyond what
is legitimate."

Pray defend me against these attacks —
which I don't deserve, surely."

My dear Benbow, you are excited — something
is on your nerves — remember — "

I will not remember ! " said the unhappy

man, Lis hands clutching his hair. 'this is
all part of a system — you cannot understand ita
conspiracy to injure me, to ruin me ! I
know it ! I have seen it for a long time ! "

People sitting about him were amazed at this
strange wildness. People farther off, catching
only a stray word and noting his singular and
eccentric behaviour, speculated upon what it
could mean.

My dear Benbow, don't let us talk any more
about it. You are excited to-night."

Oh, no ! " said the lady, shaking her head,
"he is not, indeed. It is quite rational, all
that Mr. Benbow says. But what have I done ?
I did not know it was any harm to pick up a
few fragments. I put them together for you ;
and — here they are. But it is no use, Mr. Ben-bow
— it won't do telling him not to come. Why
interfere with his Grace's plans and wishes ? "

My wishes ! " said the Duke. " Mr. Benbow
surely does not do that. You surely could not
have taken such a step — telegraphed to your
son telling him not to come here ! "

The host was deeply displeased, and showed
it. When the ladies had gone up, he said to
Mr. Benbow, in a low voice :

Benbow, I think that you owe me some
explanation of all this ; I must really ask you
for it. You have gone on very strangely since
you have been here."

You must not mind me," said the other.
*' I have had a great deal on my mind lately. I
am indeed wretched. You don't know what is
impending over me."

I don't profess to understand these things ;
but it really seems to many here, from the
strange, incoherent way in which you behave,
that Mrs. Everingham has some secret of yours,
by which she contrives to hold you in her
power."

Again the wretched Mr. Benbow started and
shrank away. More of the net seemed to be
winding about his limbs. What was he to do ?
What could he answer, except falter out some
staggering excuse ?

The Duke really began to think that he

VOL. III.

himself had been intended by nature for a
statesman, he was so clever at " reading men's
minds."

'' In truth, I don't know how to speak to
you ; but I think I am entitled to ask for
explanation as to why you should try and
interfere with my plans and wishes."

Where were Mr. Benbow's wits ? Where his
diplomatic readiness at fabricating an excuse ?
Nothing would come to his tongue ; he could
invent nothing ; he could only say :

'* What ! would you trust me rather than her ?
and if she has some motive, some secret hatred
to me, and — "

His host stared at him in wonder.

Benbow, I think you should keep yourself
quiet, and not agitate yourself. You have been
over-working yourself. You ought to take care."

The other caught at the suggestion eagerly.

Yes, that is it, I do believe. I have had so
many things to take my thoughts lately. My
head gets confused among them all. But by-and-by
I shall be all right again."

The Duke said nothing more on the subject
then. Just as coffee came in, the evening letters
were brought in with it.

Ah ! '' he said, " one from Rosa."

They went upstairs, Mr. Benbow again
much troubled ; when the Duke strode over to
him.

It seems," he said, *' you have put some
pressure on your son and on my daughter to
prevent them coming here — to their father's
house. Of course, I can't interfere with your
plans about him ; but it seems ungracious and
uncalled for, and I certainly must protest against
any interference between me and my own
daughter. Just read that letter."

Mr. Benbow read : —

What are we to do ? Mr. B. has again telegraphed
to his son that we are not to come to
your house. This he has done in the most
solemn and appealing manner. But I cannot
accept the notion of having our movements
controlled in this fashion. Charles has scruples
about it at present, but these cannot affect me.

F 2

I shall be with you tomorrow, and we shall
clear up all this business."

The paper all but dropped from Mr. Benbow's
fingers. All he could murmur was :

Quite right and fitting ; nothing could be
more suitable."

His host turned away impatiently ; and so
that evening closed in. In his own room Mr.
Benbow felt like some wretched gaol-bird in
his cell, now at last under sentence of death —
the days hurrying away, and drawing him
nearer and nearer to an ignominious end. Yet
this woman's coming was but the first stao^e : it
would end in his son's arrival as sure as destiny ;
and that would inevitably cause the fall of the
guillotine's knife.

AN INTERVIEW.

As he was pacing his room, in a perfect agony
of mind, he heard a tap at the door, which
actually made him start. He opened it hurriedly,
and saw, standing before him, the tall figure of
Mrs. Everingham.

Can you spare a few moments ? " she said.
'let us walk out here in the corridor — or
suppose we go down to that little morning
room. I know that you wish to speak with
me — or, at least, consult me in the present
emergency."

His first impulse was to motion her away
with both his hands, and cry out :

I don't want you here, miserable, cursed
woman ! Keep out of my sight

\ ?'

But his prudence came to his aid, and forbade
such [a frantic and fatal exhibition. He only
answered calmly, " With all my heart, Mrs.
Effingham," and followed her to the room she
had named.

He had the air of a criminal leaving his cell
and following the executioner, so lofty and
commanding was her bearing and manner, as
she swept on in front.

The room was in rather a private part of the
house, at the end of a long gallery. She closed
the door, and advancing to a round table, stood
majestically on one side of it, so that it was
between him and her. He saw that she was
surveying him with an exultant air of triumph ,
and, in a tumult of passion and fury, he broke
forth :

Are you a woman or a demon, that you are
going on in this way ? There is something
demoniacal in all this ! I see it in your cruel,
devilish eye. What does it mean ? What have
I done to you ? "

She shook her head.

All in good time. But these are strong
words to a lady."

I don't care — I don't care ! " repeated the
unhappy man. '' You know something, or you
want to persuade me that you do."

*' A farce ! " she said, with contempt. " None
of this acting to me. I am no child. You
understand the situation ; and you know that I
know the reason of this guilty behaviour of
yours. If you wish, let us drop these little
amiable fictions which we have been acting to
one another. Say so. It is for you to make
the choice. Then everything will be far more
intelligible, and much simpler for me."

Speak out, then, in the devil's name ! " he
answered, wildly. '' Assemble the whole household
at breakfast tomorrow. Stand up and
make them a speech. But if you do I will end
it for you, and for myself, that moment ; and
it will be all the better. There are always
plenty of knives on the table, and I could not
resist the temptation. I could not answer for
myself in such a humour."

This is very incoherent ; but don't challenge
me to anything, or that devil whom you may
seem to fancy is within me may tempt me to
meet you in the same spirit. So take care,
Mr. Benbow ! "

I won't ! I am beginning to sicken of this
life. I insist on knowing this — and you shall
not leave this spot uijitil you tell me what it is
you intend to do : Have you finished with your
fiendish persecution, or do you mean to go on ?
Say so, here on this spot — you wicked, malicious,
hateful creature ! "

*' What if I make no answer ? if I tell you
that it is my purpose to let things go on as
they are — hold everything in suspense ; not to
raise a finger, but let matters themselves settle
the issue ? What if I choose that course — out
of a mere humour — what would you do then ?
As for your melodramatic threat of the carving-knife
— well, I have a good mind to tell all out
publicly at breakfast tomorrow."

Again, I ask," he repeated, frantically,
what is all this for ? How have I injured you ?

Surely you cannot be so dull, so rustic, as to
bear me this ferocious enmity because I strove
to prevent you marrying my son. You are too
intelligent for that. Say what it is you want.
What amount — "

Do not revolt me utterly, or make me lose
all patience, and let the sharp, heavy Sword fall
on your head before its time."

He started at this metaphor. It had often
occurred to him, and it seemed very strange
that it should be in her mind also. Did not
all this look like some horrible closing in about
him — this drawing him backwards into the cut
de sac, whence there was no escape ?

He was silent.

"No," she went on — 'all in good time.
Never fear — you shall know all at the proper
moment. Trust me for that. You shall own
that it is a reasonable explanation. Have no
fear on those grounds."

He almost abased himself before her.

*' Have you no pity ? Are you a woman ?
What would you have me do ? Say it, and

spare us — spare me — all this disgrace and

ruin."

See how he asks me ! '' she said, '' in that
commanding, dictatorial tone, as if he were still
master and would order me. Just think of
this, Mr. Benbow : if ever, in your past life,
some victim of yours, on whom your vengeance
was descending, had implored your mercy, would
yoic have tolerated his begging it in that lofty
manner ? Just think ! "

The unhappy man did not understand what
she meant, but accepted it in another meaning.

If that is what you desire, most willingly,"
he said, " I implore you ; say what you wish.
How shall I ask you, or entreat ? If you wish
it, on my knees."

^' I wish nothing," she said with a curious
look of expectancy in her eyes. " Why should
I ? It is your concern, is it not ? "

He mistook this for a sign of relenting. He
was not so powerless after all ! And he actually
sank upon his knees, and grovelled at her feet.
It was a tableau almost theatrical — the cruel,

haughty, bitter, truculent woman standing over
her enemy, now at her feet ! She seemed to
feast on the sight — on his imploring face upturned
to hers. For some seconds he remained
in that humiliating position, and his eyes were
so intently fixed on her that he forgot all about
him. He heard and saw nothing. Even when
she raised her hand and pointed to him as he
knelt there, her face turned to the door, he did
not look round.

Surprised.

Suddenly, a voice behind him cried out, in
wonder and displeasure :

Mr. Benbow ! "

It was the Duke and Conway.

This is most extraordinary, most unwarranted,
Mr. Benbow. In this house," he said,
angrily. '' It surely cannot be so ridiculous a
thing ? "

Mr. Benbow, now risen, covered his face with
his hands.

'' What do you say, Mrs. Everingham ?
Surely some explanation must be given."

"There it is, you see," she answered, carelessly
; "it speaks for itself. I am not called onto
explain so evident a matter : make him do it."

I cannot believe it, for he has shown more
dislike of you than admiration. I had no wish
to spy on you or disturb you ; but I go round
my house sometimes at this hour, and I saw the
light at the end of the passage."

"I can say nothing," faltered Mr. Benbow.
*' Some miserable fate is pursuing my steps —
crossing me in everything. Indeed it was not
what you thought ! There was but one thing
that could make me humble myself to this
woman as you have seen. She forced me. She
has all the hatred of a demon in her heart ; and
I tell you now, before her, that I am sick — weary
of all this. If she does hold a secret — a family
secret — over me in terrorem let her tell it now,
before you, and end all. Ah I see, she colours ;
she does not like it ! Her demoniacal plan
was to have this hanging over my head, like a
sword, as she calls it — the ' Sword of Damocles.'
She would like to have gone on torturing meat
her pleasure — day by day, hour by hour —
keeping the slow fire burning. But I have
foiled her in this."

She did look discomfited ; but soon recovered
herself. In fact, resumed in quite a changed
tone :

Mr. Benbow really magnifies things too
much. His mind seems a little upset by agitation.
What he chooses to call a family secret — "

** No, no ! " interrupted Mr. Benbow, wildly.
*' That is the truth, l^on't listen to her. What
I have told you is the truth. In her malignity
she ferreted this out ; and I say again, let her
tell it boldly, and end all."

The Duke, much displeased, then said, *you
don't seem to see, Mr. Benbow, that if there is
any family secret — the disclosure of which seems
to cause you such terror — it should not have
been concealed when you were about to ally
your family to mine. It must be a very serious,
if not a disgracing, businesses

Neither said a word.

The Duke went on :

'when I see a man on his knees begging
mercy, I may assume that there is something
discreditable that he is afraid of having revealed.

Yes, Mr. Benbow, this matter is assuming quite
another complexion. I now have a right to
know this secret. And I call on Mrs. Everinoj-
ham to comply with your request, which you
have made so despairingly and fearlessly, and
say out boldly what all this is about."

She paused ; then said calmly, ^' I am ready —
quite ready."

*' For God's sake, no, no, no — a thousand
times, no !• You will not destroy me — betray us
all by such a thing ! Oh ! what shall I do ?
what am I to do ? How can I make this clear ? "

See here, Mr. Benbow," said his host,
calmly ; "it is evident this matter cannot stop
here. It has gone too far. It is now nearly
one o'clock ; so take this night to think it over,
and see what you had best do. But, I tell you
plainly, in the morning I must have an explanation.
This is evidently some discreditable
secret which ought to have been, in honour,
communicated to me. If all is not disclosed, I
shall be under the necessity of putting the
matter into the hands of a detective, who will

discover all for me. Ours is too old and
honourable a family to have anything secret
whispered about it. So now you have fair
warning. I will ask you both to meet me herein
the morning before breakfast, and shall expect
your reply. Good night ! "

A EAY OF HOPE.

The Duke having left the room, Mr. Benbow
was rushing away exclaiming, '' Miserable woman,
this is what you have contrived ! I could kill
you ! " but she called to him in an imperious
tone to return, and said :

Well, what do you mean to do ? What story
will you invent for him ? The matter cannot
rest here."

Leave me. Don't torture me any more.
You have done all this on purpose."

Perhaps I have," she answered.

The host had taken his way full of wonder
and anger from that extraordinary scene. We
have seen what his nature was — one that was

VOL. III. G

sensitive in the highest degree to its own dignity,
and that could be easily worked on. The sort
of exhibition he had just witnessed seemed to
him utterly abnormal — a violation of all that
had hitherto fallen within his experience. He
hardly knew how to look at it, or to begin
looking at it. In this doubt and trouble, he
bethought him of Mr. Sheldon, and sent to ask
her to come and speak to him.

She came, and he told her the whole scene he
had just witnessed. It was so odd, so singular !
And what did she think of it ?

This lady had hoped to ally the Duke's daughter
to her own son, and therefore always regarded
the Benbow alliance with dislike.

"I always told you, Duke," she said, "that
one can never be sure of these people who have
made themselves."

But he was of good family. I took care to
make that out."

"I don't know," she said; "but my poor
husband, when he commanded the regiment,
always used to say, ' Beware the ranker ! ' I

agree with you : there is something discreditable
or disgraceful concealed here."

Good heavens ! You think so ! Our noble
house, without a stain on it for generations !
What am I, what are we, to do ? "

Oh, it must be cleared up. They must
explain — that is only owing to you, as head of
the family. The first thing in the morning I
would require distinctly a complete explanation
from both parties. As for that actress woman,
I know that you are partial to her, so I suppose
we must not say anything against her. But the
stage — the stage ! " and she shook her head.

It was he who forced her in upon me. I
never heard of such a things. The whole thins
is coming back upon me. I see how it is at
last ! "

Yes," she said, " you are quite right. You
have found the solution. It is some low and
disreputable business ; and that man has chosen
to insult us and you by making this house the
scene for carrying on a low intrigue of that kind,
and with a creature of that sort ! Cousin, you

G 2

have hit on the true solution. Xo matter about
his age, and the pretence of being given up to
business. Very often, these elderly men are
mere wicked hypocrites."

** You are right," said he, after a pause. " I
shall know what to do now. It is a very gross
insult, and it has only served me ricrht. I shall
take a very decided course in the matter. Goodnight."


With the morning, Mr. Benbow was up betimes.
Indeed, he had scarcely been to bed —
had certainly not slept at all. What miserable
plans had all but '' boiled" in his seething head !
Where were his wits — his readiness — his fertility
of device, which had raised him to greatness ?
He could think of nothing. As he looked in the
glass, he saw a pale, ghastly face, with, as it
seemed to him. Death written there. He wished,
indeed, that gaunt severer of Gordian knots were
come

But, instead, there came a knock at the door,
and his host entered.

I do not think it necessary," he said, quietly,
to require the appointment which we made last
night to be kept. I think it below my dignity
to have any dealings of the kind. I want no
explanation, for I know the truth now."

Mr. Benbow started back, and part of his
white face turned even whiter than the rest.

I think," went on the Duke, colouring, " it
was a very uncalled-for proceeding. I have not
deserved such treatment. I don't accept your
story of last night. To choose my house as a
scene for carrying on such an affair ! "

At last, something of his old intelligence came
darting back into Mr. Benbow's head. Here was
salvation — rescue — for a time at least !

"An affair!" he repeated. "You could
hardly suppose — "

Make no excuses, I beg," went on the other.
But you must have expected, after last night,
what I have now determined on. You and that
lady must leave at once, and choose some other
place as the scene of such things. It is really
humiliating in one of your age ! And to descend

to what I must call the mean shift of keeping
your son from my house, for fear he should
interfere with this ridiculous infatuation ! "

Better and better. Never did Mr. Benbow
act so well. He did not care about the degradation
— the humiliation. It was safety — fora
time even.

What can I say ? " he faltered. " No one is
secure against these things. She has been very
unkind to me. Laugh at me, if you will — ■
despise me ! But what can 1 do ? Pity me ! "

*' What a confession ! It humiliates me to
listen ! But stay. What did you mean by saying
that she hated you ? — that she had a secret, and
had you completely in her power ? "

"So she has," he answered, excitedly. 'that
was the truth. But you know to what shifts
a person in my state of mind may be reduced.
As you said the other day, I am not quite myself.
I have overdone it. Consider what my life has
been — how everything has been overstrained and
overtaxed with me. You must have indulgence,
and I knows you weill."

The Duke relented. There was something so
piteous in this appeal — so imploring ; something,
too, so flattering to his superiority, that he
suddenly changed his tone.

*^ It may be so, but really I know not what
to believe. There are such strange things going
on about us ! I don't wish you to go ; but I
must insist on that lady withdrawing."

No, no, you will not do that — that will
destroy me more — goad her to fury " — Mr.
Benbow was about to say. But he saw it
would be a further certain reason for expelling
her.

Here was a reprieve ! After all, everything
was not telling so terribly against him. She
leaving the house — they not coming ! There
would be no meeting, then.

No," said Mr. Benbow, with dignity ; " do
not let me stay either. I must go to some seaside
place at once, and try to recover myself.
My nerves seem all gone. I get no sleep at
night. I am utterly unstrung."

The host looked at him with compassion.

I think you are right. I would do something;
of the kind."

Only oblige me in this," said Mr. Benbow.
'don't send her away. You know not how
vindictive and furious such a mortification will
make her — not to you ; she can do nothing to
you. But I shall be the victim."

Impossible. She should never have been
admitted here."

When the actress came down, Mr. Benbow
met her in the corridor.

Her eyes flashed.

What is all this ? New plotting ? "

"Nothing — as I live — as I hope to escape
disgrace in this life — "

"And punishment in the next," she added.

No ; the Duke will tell you himself."

She smiled. It was like a fisherman holding
his rod, and letting the fish swing.

"There is no hurry, you know. We can let
the Sword swing on."

He could not endure to stay longer, to face

those prying, inquiring faces that, by a sort of
instinct, would get at the truth that there was
something curious going on. He had lost all his
old strong nerve, which would have helped him
to face a crisis of this sort. Above all, he
shrank from meetings her before them : that
pitiless eye resting on him ; that cruel soul
amusing itself by torturing him in public —
revelling; in his agonies.

He had made up his mind to leave privately,
and at once ; and was putting up his things
hurriedly, when he heard the sound of wheels.
Presently, a lady's trunk was carried down, and
placed on the top ; and then the lady herself
followed. It was Mrs. Everingham. He heard
the door shut, and the carriage drive away. At
all events, here was a lucky reprieve. Charles
and his wife might come, and welcome, for she
would be gone.

He drew a deep sigh of relief. He stretched
out his arms, and rubbed his eyes. A new
reprieve. After all, there was hope. He was
not quite abandoned. But then came the

question, where was she gone ? Possibly to the
scene of danger.

He was not long in doubt, for a letter was
brought in to him. He knew the hand at once.
It was very short, and ran :

Among other obligations, I now owe you the
one of being expelled from this house — an act
done politely and graciously ; but, at the same
time, impossible to understand in any other
sense. It has brought you a reprieve, no doubt ;
and, chance having so favoured you, you naturally
look forward to complete escape. I shall
not take the trouble to dispel your delusion.
Perhaps I am weary of the business. Perhaps I
have other things to engross me. Perhaps I
want money, and must make it. You are welcome
to all these speculations. For the present,
I go back to my profession."

He wiped his dam) forehead, and again
sighed a long, deep sigh. She had not purpose,
after all : was not like him, who was not easily
daunted by a repulse. W as there ever anything
so providential as that failing to come of his son

and dauof liter ? Without those actors, she could
not play out her game. If she dared to say
such a thing unsupported, who would credit her
• — her, a mere low, scheming actress — an adventuress
? At all events, here was space —
breathing time ; and with a bright, airy face,
and his old spirits all assumed, he presented
himself at breakfast.

The Duke at once saw the change, and was
relieved. Never was Mr. Benbow pronounced
so agreeable. He suffered himself to be " rallied,"
as the phrase goes, on his partiality for
the departed actress, and the power her charms
had over him.

'* But you see what spirits I am in," he said,
*' now that she is gone. I bear up wonderfully."

The host looked on and listened. Now that
Mr. Benbow was his old self — the powerful
mind that triumphed over every obstacle — he
began to lose sight of his old suspicions, and
was ashamed of the little scene of last night.
But for Mrs. Everino^ham he had no such compunction.
He had begun to think her a '' dangerous

woman ; " and now that she was gone,
the ladies all beo^an to enlarge, in their own
artful way, on her merits and demerits — on the
latter in preference. Every one was so indulgent,
so kind. It had been agreed amono^ them
all that Mr. Benbow's brain had been a little
overtaxed of late. At another time, too, Mr.
Benbow's pride might shave made him resent the
speeches made to him by his host, whose hospitality
he would have quickly renounced, and
at once. But he dared not go yet — leave the
ground unprotected and open for the return of
his son and daughter, or of that adventuress.
So he must wait — wait on and watch — for two
or three days more.

The usual routine succeeded ; Mr. Benbow
exerting himself, in some minor matters, to help
the Duke, and forward his interests.

Now there arrived news from his son. He
was ill, and he and Lady Eosa had left
London. By medical advice, they had taken a
house in the country. The town doctor had
pronounced that the invalid must be taken great

care of, but would presently be restored to
health.

The house was one of those mansions described
as " desirable," in the odd dialect of agents and
auctioneers ; though why a house and offices
should have that term applied to them more
than any other object for which a heavy price is
paid seems incomprehensible. No one speaks of
a desirable carriage, or horse, or yacht — save,
indeed, it be offered at a price below its value.
It was one of those semi-old houses in which,
like Sir J. Cutler's stocking, it was hard to distinguish
the ancient portion from the modern ;
with a garden and gateway, and some thick,
shady old trees about it — giant, solemn, gloomy
sentries, who had been on the watch for a
century at least. It was called Lime Tree
House.

All this was written down to Banff by Lady
Eosa, while Mr. Benbow was there, and he
listened complacently ; for all these were so
many guarantees for their being at a distance.
As for the actress, she would be lost in the

provinces — for the present, at least. By-and-by
he would find out a way of dealing with her.
The party at Banff then began to drop away —
fining down, as it were. It was presently felt,
without official announcement, that it was to
end ; and Mr. Benbow was the last guest that
departed.

He at last got away and his torture was over
for the present. He repaired at once to his own
home, and there — very much like a man who,
under pressure of some terrible danger, say,
in search for a person concealed, acts a smiling,
careless part — all his gay manner left him, and
his old despondency returned. Again came the
old question, " What was to be done ? " Something
must be done. Such another escape as he
had just had would be next to ruin. After
much deliberation he determined on one course,
which seemed hopeless and even desperate. If
she were so vindictive, and with a woman's
vindictiveness, it did not seem likely that she
would sacrifice any darling plan of revenge for
money. But still, human nature was such it

could rarely hold out against a bribe, if the
amount was sufficient. He must try that ; and,
after some deliberation, wrote to her. He had
discovered her address without much difficulty,
through the theatrical paper.

But here again a new terror, and a new horror
what he read there alarmed him. She was
now engaged at the greatest and most important
theatre outside London ; and there was a sort of
flourish about the celebration of her efforts
which made his heart flutter. All this was like
the spreading ripples after a stone has been
thrown into the water : by-and-by the farthest
ripple might reach to London ; and, indeed, it
had reached in one sense. For here, in a cheap
evening paper, in its *^ dust-bin " corner, headed
Gossip from the Clubs " — which it possibly
was, only the channel seemed to be the head-waiter
or steward — was a statement referring to
her, which set out that a western manager had
been lucky enough to stumble against a ^' theatrical
nuorcret," and was the 'chartered" of a
new actress with exquisite charms of person and

histrionic powers. This, his instinct told him,
referred to Mrs. Everingham. Oh, desperation !
He must do something. He would lose no
time ; and he wrote to her.

The purport of his letter was this : it was
complimentary, owning that her genius was
superior, that she had mastered him, and that
he was ready to treat unconditionally. Let her
name her terms. He would go to the utmost
extent he could afford ; and if an annuity of
fifteen hundred or two thousand could secure
her permanent absence from this country, he
would cheerfully, and at a terrible sacrifice to
himself, make it up.

Why not ? — it was a cheap price, surely, to
save two great families from the awful scandal,
from a felonious charge, from his own guilt.

MR. Conway's reverse.

Mr. Conway when he left Banff — he used to
come and go as he pleased, having always a
sort of general invitation — could hardly dismiss
from his mind the melodramatic scenes he had



witnessed. He did not dream that he himself
was now on the eve of events almost as exciting
and personal to himself.

A worried, nervous-looking gentleman was
asking at the railway station where he should
find Mr. Conway. A tall and burly clergyman
strode round suddenly, and took him into custody.
" Why, it's Lord Formanton ! I saw
your name on your portmanteau, my Lord. I
am Doctor Bailey, Vicar, of this place. Know
your son most intimately ; dined with me the
other day.

VOL. III. H

To such violent courtesies one could only
submit. And in a few moments Doctor Bailey
was seen walking down the main street with
the strange gentleman on his arm. His Lordship
was resigned or absent, having serious things to
think of, and his brows contracted with vexation
or worry.

"You must crime up and have lunch at my
little place ; carriage is actually waiting about
here. I will take no excuse ; it's laid, you know,
and ready "

I can't indeed — much obliged," said his Lordship,
shortly : " out of the question. Just show
me where the yacht lies, if you would be so
good."

The ' Almandine ' lay out in the middle ; but
the Doctor took a fussy and complicated way
of doing what was very simple.

Where's Dan, the club boatman ? Someone
look for him. Just wait here while I go
and find the secretary. It is right we should
see him. He knows all about this."

"But that must be the yacht," said the

other. " I am sure of it." A sailor standing
hy hailed her in the usual way ; a boat was
seen coming off, thus simplifying all the Doctor's
arrangements.

As father and son exchanged greetings, Doctor
Bailey stood a short way off, with an unostentatious
abstention, as though not wishing to
intrude on such sacred feelings. (" It was very
nice," he said, later, telling the story, "very
nice. That fine young man, and the nobleman,
as-unassuming a creature as you or I." This
might have been true as regards " You," but
it would be hard to rival the arrogance of " I.")
After a moment or two, he joined them with
an air of persuasion, as who should say, " Where
shall we go to now ? "

Conway felt a sort of half-guilty feeling n
the presence of Jessica's father. Lord Formanton
said to him in a wearied way :

*' Get rid of this person. We don't want him.
I have so much to say to you."

We are going on board. Doctor Bailey."

Then let us have the club boat ; we are

H 2

entitled to it. Where's Dan, the club boatman
? "

I hope to see you later' said Conway,
shortly. " My father and I have some important
matters to talk '] of. Good - bye ! " The
Doctor was thus repulsed.

Where can I speak to you, George ? In
that cabin every word is heard."

I can put you on board." And Conway
took the oars, and Doctor Bailey on the club
steps, pointing them out with his stick, was
much confounded by the erratic proceedings of
the little boat.

*' What is the matter, father ? " said the son,
rowing quickly out to sea. "I can guess it ;
but tell me the details."

*' It is no use going into them. I am bewildered
myself. I did not know what was
going on. We are ruined," he added abruptly.

"What," said Conway, stopping, "in so short
a time ! It seems incredible ! A fine estate
shrivelled to nothing in this manner."

You know Bolton 1 — a hard-headed, honest

fellow, that speaks plainly. He says a fortnight,
at the outside, is all we can hope to keep afloat
for. Then there will be something disgraceful,
unless — unless — we can be helped. Some one
wrote from here. The whole place was talking
of it, the letter said. For God's sake, do what
you can for us, and save the family. Put aside
that other girl."

What other girl ? " said Conway.
Oh, that was said also ; there was some low
girl here that was in the way, and had some
pledge from you."

False ! A low vulgar story*!
knew it. At any rate, we must put by
romance and that sort of thing ; for we are on
a precipice, George, and you must sacrifice something
to save the family."

My life," said Conway, "has hitherto been
a good deal of sacrifice, so I may as well goon

"

Mr. Conway was cautious enough, even to
his father, and said nothing of the proposal he
had already received. There was no reason why

he should not win all the honours of self-sacrifice
by resignation. The father was still a little
disturbed about 'the other girl," and asked
doubtfully who she was. His son took a pleasure
in enlarging on her praises, perhaps to indemnify
himself. Was he not now to be sold into captivity
by a combination of dealers, as it were ?
One of the finest natures ; the quickest and
most natural you ever heard of. No one could
dream that such could be found in a place like
this. Yet must I treat her in this way ? "

'' What ! that fellow's daughter ? Oh, I daresay
she is well used to this. These places are
like garrison towns. My dear George, think —
a man of your abilities and prospects ! "

"Fine prospects, indeed, that have caused me
to be led into the market. Look at that, father,
and see how just you have been to that noble
girl ! "

He showed him the letter he had received
that morning. His father read it with disquietude.


But in Heaven's name, don't let me hear

that you are irrevocably pledged. You always
said," he added, appealingly, " you were to
consult me."

Yes," said Conway, hesitating ; " but I was
sure you would not press me "

"You where always truthful and straightforward,
George, and would not act on empty
pretences. That I know. You would not pretend
to consult me, having all the while made
up your mind to act independently of me."

When father and son boarded the yacht, one
of the sailors, just arrived from shore, put into
Conway's hand some letters brought from the
club. By a sort of reaction in this rather uncertain
mind, the transaction had beo^un to have
a very ugly air, something in the nature of
trafficking or sale. This was not surely what
he was to live for ; and of a sudden it flashed
upon him that it was scarcely honourable, or
gentlemanly, or 'lordly," to pay his father's
debts by a marriage. It seemed akin to slave-market
principles. No one had been so bitter,
so scathing, in his branding of those mothers

who draojfijed their daughters to the bazaars and
sale-rooms of fashionable life, and sold them to
the best bidders. Here was he doing the same
with his own precious person.

*this is very serious," he said, warmly ; "and
I should have time to consider. It sounds
shabby and mean to take this poor girl's fortune
to benefit ourselves."

*' There is no time, George. That is the worst
of it. Thinking it over will not make the matter
better or worse, clearer or more obscure. But,
I say, it is time for you to put away all
this hair-splitting and metaphysics. I have no
patience with it. I tell you, there's not an
hour to lose. Act like other men of sense, and
men of the world. What have you got there ? "

Conway was reading one of his letters, which
he had torn open. It was from Jessica. Never
did events seem so to compete, as it were, for
the guidance of this petted gentleman.

"Dear Mr. Conway,

*' One of my wretched bursts
of temper made me write as I did so lately.

I have, indeed, no title to speak to you as I
have done. Be generous, and forgive. Oh,
what mean, unworthy motives you must impute
to me ! I could sink for shame and confusion.
And yet I meant well ; indeed I did. It was
of your interest I was thinking, not of my own.
Now I must bear the penalty. And do what I
can, you must think that mean pitiful jealousy
of her was at the bottom of all. I know I have
forfeited your esteem and respect for ever, and
that nothing will restore it for me. But I accept
that as the penalty.

** I may speak plainly now ; for, from what
you said on that night, I seemed to gather that I
had won some liking from you — that you understood
me, felt with me, and liked me. This
remains to me to think of, whatever be your
fate : and when you are united to her, whom
my ungoverned honour made me think unworthy
of you, I shall be more than content,
if you would forget what I wrote to you this
morning. *' Jessica."

There," said Conway, passionately, " there
is what you call on me to destroy in this
wicked holocaust. I must have time — a day
or two — before I give you my answer. I am

not a stock or stone. If we are to follow the
cold-blooded schemes of the world, we must
devise means as cold-blooded."

His father looked at him with a fretted "put-out
" air. " Oh, I see how it will be," he said.
Everybody is selfish, and only thinks of their
own advancement. You are caught by this low
girl."

*' Low ! " said his son. " Does that read like
what is low ? But you are hasty, father. I
must have a little time, if only a few hours, to
find some way out of all this. I cannot be too
cold and heartless."

Take as long as you please, my dear boy,"
cried his father, much relieved ; " that is, until
evening. Most natural you should wish to do
the thing in a gentlemanly way. I know you
will manage it without hurting feelings, or anything
of that sort. After all, girls now-a-days
don't break their hearts, and look on all this
very much as business."

He was put on shore. It will be seen, he
was a rather selfish nobleman. Nothing could

have turned out better, he thought. This would
hurry his son into a most advantageous marriage,
which would be the saving of his family. He
would have been going on for years " pottering
about," and playing the romantic with half a
dozen girls, until his season had passed by.
Suddenly he stopped, and became uneasy. There
was something in the sketch of that parson's
daughter he did not like. They seemed of the
coarse low sort, who fasten on tightly, give
trouble, and decline to be shaken off. If he
could see her, or the Doctor ! He got into a
fly, and drove out.

I

ATTACK AND REPULSE.

A CUNNING and clever idea, as lie thought it,
had crossed his mind. There was an ao:ed and
infirm incumbent of a family living on his
estate, and the living was what is called a fat
one. It must be worth double what the Vicar
of St. Arthur's enjoyed. This would surely
make all ** safe ; " for he was still troubled by
the idea of this girl. She was the dangers
There was no end to the schemes of low, clever
women, brought up and trained in the predatory
habits of places like this, where men came and
went, and where all plans were carried out
swiftly and shortly. They were not sure if the
Doctor was in. His Lordship was shown into
the drawing-room, where he waited, filling up

the time with that curiosity and speculation
mankind gives itself up to when left waiting ina
strange room, and expecting strange people.
Thus engaged, he heard a step and a rustle, and
a lady, not the Doctor, stood before him.

She was so natural she could not help colouring,
knowing that this was her admirer's father.
But the next moment came an instinct as to the
object of this visit ; and a feminine defiance rose
into her pale face.

My father," she said, " is unfortunately out :
we can send for him."

*not at all," said the guest, hastily, for
another idea had taken the place of the first.
You are Miss Bailey, I may suppose ? My
son was speaking of you this morning ; " and
he fixed his eyes upon her.

Jessica felt, somehow, that this was going to
take a sort of judicial tone, which she could not
at all accept with the consciousness that she
was, so to speak, innocent. The other, looking
at her narrowly, saw that she was very dangerous
indeed — handsome, interesting, with a

bold, fearless character that might be more thana
match for him, and certainly for " the foolish
fellow she hoped to entrap."

I am very sorry," he went on, " that he ever
came here. George has the way, so common
with young men, of what is called amusing
himself. These yachting men are like the Jack
Tars in the navy, and have a love in every
port."

Jessica drew herself up haughtily. " What
their ways may be," she said firmly, " have
nothing to do with me. Mr. Conway, I fancy,
would hardly accept that character."

An audacious girl, thought his Lordship.

You cannot know him so well as I do," he
said, smiling. "I have heard something of his
proceedings, at this place even. It was time, I
thought, that the old father should appear upon
the scene. You see. Miss Bailey, he is a young
man of good position — heir to my estates and
title, with first-rate prospects."

With a scornful lip Jessica repeated the words
First-rate prospects ! Indeed ? "

His Lordship was taken back. A most bold
and daring girl. " Well, eventually, eventually.
In short, he is entitled to look for a first-rate
match and connection ; and really, Miss Bailey,
to speak plainly "

'^ You have been speaking plainly, my Lord,
have you not ? " she said, interrupting him ina
sort of passionate manner. " Why is this
addressed to me ? What have I done ? 1
scorn deception of every kind, and will not
affect ignorance of the object that has brought
Lord Formanton here. Is this the meaning of
it, that I interfere with these prospects and the
necessity of your son's making an advantageous
marriage ? In fairness, I may ask, is this what
you are coming to ? "

*' No, no — dear no," said the other, rather
alarmed. "God forbid! But young men are
so impulsive, and I was so afraid my son had
gone further than "

Gone further ! " said she, her face flushing
up, and her eyes flashing. " Now I understand.
Then ask him for the whole story, and he is

honourable enough to tell. He will suppress
nothing as to my behaviour. Ask him for the
two letters I wrote to him that he received this
morning. Oh ! what have I done to be exposed
to this ! "

He was much alarmed at the sensation-scene
into which he had been drawn. He was a
clumsy negotiator : possibly, as some of his
friends said, because he had been attache at a
foreign court. " Oh, I didn't mean to say it
was your fault ! "

My fault ! " she repeated. " You are determined
to heap mortifications on me. But I
am not one of those who disdain to clear themselves
through mistaken delicacy. There must
be justice done me in this matter. You seem
to think of me as — I blush to say it — as some
unworthy schemer with designs, as it is called ;
one who was to be frightened or bought off."

His Lordship started at this last charge, which
was very near the truth. "I give you my
solemn word of honour," he said, not pointing
this solemn affirmation at any statement, "that

is, I never meant But what can a man do ?

He hears all sorts of strange rumours about his

5)

son.

This will not do, my Lord," said she,
proudly. " You owe me an amende ; and I
must appeal to Mr. Conway solemnly in this
matter."

*' To be sure. I promise it," said the peer,
joyfully. "Nothing could be more handsome
or fairer."

I am sure," went on Jessica, " one of your
rank and honour will not be content with that
conventional amende. Your own heart will tell
you that an acknowledgment, as formal as the
charge you came here to make, is owing to me."

I shall make it a point," said the nobleman,
eagerly, " you may depend on it. You see, it
is a delicate matter on both sides, and hard
to approach. You must be indulgent. Miss
Bailey, in the case of a father ; for, I assure
you, in George's case we cannot afford — it
would be fatal — to make a mistake. I am
really sorry to have hurt your feelings ; but

VOL. III.

the family depends, to a great measure, on
George. Here is this fine estate of Panton
Castle, and all that — a nice girl "

You put them in the proper order," said
she.

Them ! Well, you know I am a business
man ; and no man, peer or peasant, is ashamed
to want money or advancement. He is my own
son, and I look to his real interest."

With those views, then, you had better
speak to my father, whom I see coming in now.
But, before that, I ask you, finally, do you
understand my position in this matter ? "

Certainly — certainly ; depend on me."

A PLOT.

A FLUSTER, a tramping, a creaking, and blowing
: the Doctor was beating in. " My dear
Lord, you here ! This is my daughter. Did you
offer any wine or lunch ? No. Such a thing !
You should have sent for me."

Miss Bailey and I have got on very well."

You needn't stay here." Jessica was already
going. '* She has a curious, brusque manner,
my Lord. I don't know how she has picked it
up — and, I hope, was not giving any of her
new-fangled theories about the bridge ? "

'* What bridge ? Dear no. I misunderstood
her a little. But I wish to speak to you. Doctor.
Suppose we go out into the garden ? "

To be sure. I know that my daughter has

I 2

been at her aesthetics, and all that. Such folly !
I assure you, my Lord, I do my best to prevent
her troubling people with such nonsense. There
is a charming family over here — of course you
know them — Sir Charles Pan ton, and all that ;
and, really, the outrageous manner in which she
battles with that poor young lady — ! "

Indeed," said Lord Formanton, on whom
fresh lights were breaking every moment. *' Oh,
that explains a great deal. Your daughter is a
very clever young lady ; but you are a man of
the world, Doctor Bailey. And now I just want
to put the matter before you in a business-like
way."

The amount of eager assent, hearty endorsement,
and cordial promise that came from the
Doctor, as they walked round and round many
times, was wonderful. Delicacy, as the peer
soon saw, would be thrown away on such an
occasion.

Oh, I saw it, and, T can assure you, discountenanced
the business. But, my Lord, she is
beyond my control. What you say would be

just the thing, suitable ia every way. I should
be delighted to see it, and so would every one
here. So nice, so suitable in every way," added
the Doctor, plaintively.

The whole thing is so embarrassing," said his
Lordship, " and your daughter spoke so plainly ;
but you, as a man of the world, see the thing."

This shape of compliment is jam for many
a powder, to more besides Doctor Bailey. The
phrases — " You and I are men of the world,"
Between men of the world like you and me,"
have carried many a doubtful proposal.

The delighted Doctor answered, "To be sure,
to be sure ! You know, my Lord, they say here
that your son has only to ask and to have.
Miss Panton has shown her preference in the
most marked manner."

You don't tell me that ! " cried the peer.
That is good news, indeed. Tell me what you
know about that."

This strange disloyal Doctor took the guest's
arm, and poured into his ear all the whispers and
gossips of the parish ; and the grateful nobleman

then proceeded to open those little tempting
prospects he had been meditating a^ he came
along. The Doctor was transported as his alliance
was thus made sure of. " You may rely on
me," he said, taking the peer's hands between
both his ; " rely on me. I am shocked to think
you should bave bad any anxiety coming from
our house. But til take care of the rest now."

No sooner was he alone than the Doctor
tramped through his hall, calling, "Here,
Jessica ! Come, send her down, some one.
What is the girl at ? Is there no one to
attend ? "

She came down, the traces of tears in her
eyes, but resolved and cold.

Now, see here, girl," said the Doctor, he
never cared about the servants hearing. *' This
is a nice kettle-of- fish you have brought us into.
Nice thing it is for me, a minister of the place,
and all that, to have the highest nobles in the
land coming to complain of the scheming and
the trepanning of their sons by designing girls !
Faugh ! A pretty business your political

economy and rubbish have brought us into. I'm
ashamed of you."

'* Father, I do not wish to talk of this. There
has been enough said, and enough degradation
for, me !"

For me, you mean ! Am I out of it ?
Indecent so it is ! Scampering after a young
man of that sort, heir to one of the finest
properties in the kingdom "

** Father, I can't, I wont listen to this. Stop ;
it is cruel — barbarous ! "

'' But I won't stop. A fine, gentlemanly
young fellow like that, whom I ask to * my
dinner-table ; and a foolish countrified girl must
go baiting her traps "

Oh, father ! " Jessica had sunk down, half
on the floor, half buried on the sofa, overcome,
not so much by this gross and unseemly attack
as by the sudden apparition of a figure in the
doorway.

The Doctor was only put out for a moment,
though he saw Conway standing in mute astonishment.
" Oh, I have been speaking plainly,"

he said. " Mr. Conway, your good father and I
have come to a perfect understanding on this
matter. And he acquits me perfectly."

Pray don't' said Conway raising up Jessica.
"Will you do me the favour of letting me say a
few words to your daughter in private ? "

To be sure. Nothing can be fairer. No,
no. I have ah^^ays been above-board — sands
puri' so he pronounced it, " and reproach. And
1 can assure you "

You said you would leave me a few
moments % "

This was like taking the Doctor by the
shoulders and putting him out. "To be sure,"
he said: "and you must have a glass of wine,
and "

For Heaven's sake, leave me," said Conway,
violently. And then Doctor Bailey retired to
consult his Clergy List as to the value of
livings, &c.

A SOLEMN PLEDGE.

At that spectacle of the humbled, prostrate
Jessica, Conway felt something pierce his heart.
Something like shame at his own theatrical
refining, his trifling and elegant manipulations
of women's hearts, came back to him. He saw
in a second how such pastime had turned 'into
this ruin and devastation before him. Jessica
looked up, and was the first to speak. " You
see how it has all ended. Yet if I could have
helped it you would not have seen me in this
way. But I cannot bear up against all this
mortification — this degradation. My father,
your father — if you only knew what has been
heaped upon me ! I could die this moment.
You do not come to tell me that I have had
schemes and "

'* God forbid, Jessica ! My humiliation has
been nearly as great, but more deserved. As [
live, I have no part in this. You will believe
me. You saw my father ? "

Yes ; he came to treat with the manoeuvring
girl of the country — to show her ^ the thing
could not be,' to ( speak as a man of the world
and of sense, to make all sure — interpose between
the bold designing country-girl and the
hope of his family. Oh, that I should have
lived to come to this ! I, who tried to behave
honourably, that strove to sacrifice myself."

No one is responsible but me," said Conway,
eagerly. " The wrong must be repaired. It is
gross, scandalous, and cruel ! I can do it still.
Let those who brought ruin on our estates bear
the brunt of it. I am not called on to sell

myself in the market. And yet Oh, what

have I done ! for I have done it, Jessica. How
mean, base, and contemptible you will think
me ! "

Jessica drew herself up. " First understand
me," she said. " I was ready to love you, and

do love you. After the degrading charges made
against me, that is over ! I may tell you fearlessly
I love you, George Conway, because I can
never belong to you. You know how they
laughed at my firm downright way of speaking.
Well, you may depend on it in this case. I
have lost you for ever — for ever I am lost to
you. But let me know all. They wish you to
marry her."

'eyes," said Conway. "And I have just
come from her, and done the meanest, most
degrading "

I can understand. And my enemy, too !
This might seem a stab ! but no, she lias had to
buy you. It is of a piece with all the rest. The
soul that lives on money and lands, can get
nothing but with money : even love it must buy.
I grieve that you should be her victim."

I shall be no victim," said he, passionately,
*' if T can but get free. But, no, no," he added,
covering his face with his hands, " my own dull,
selfish heartlessness was wound in a net about
me. For indeed, Jessica, all the time I loved.

and said I 7mcst love you. Under all that
strange misunderstanding I felt myself drawn
to your noble, independent, gallant nature. I
longed to fight the battle beside you. But a few
more days, and in spite of all our little differences,
I must have been drawn to you for ever :
I feel it — I know it. But a miserable combination
of circumstances have driven me into
this. Her father — my father — our family on
the verge of ruin and disgrace — I cannot, alas !
say that your letters helped to this misery ; for I
saw beneath them, and admired you the more."

Her face brightened. " Well, this is something
to hear ; this is something to sacrifice. I
shall be a heroine after all. After what you
have said the blow is nothing. Oh, I do not
care to conceal it now. I do grudge this
triumph to her. I have said it before, so I may
repeat it now when all is over. I grudge you to
her ; for I know that this is but part of that
never-dying dislike of me. Now she has succeeded,
indeed, and humbled me, but not in the
way she imagines. I think of you. When

yesterday I saw that bridge in ruins all for the
one persistent purpose, it seemed to me to be a
presage of a greater ruin to come. I cannot
forgive her. No ! Never ! She has robbed you,
and robbed me ; cast both our hearts together
into that stream, just as her workmen may have
flung pieces of her bridge. But, oh ! let me
know this — as something to take with me — that
had all this not happened, you might have felt
towards me as one that you had sought for and
found ; that you could have loved and cherished,
and taught, and made like to yourself. You may
know this now that all is at an end, and thai we
never go back on what has happened. In the
long, dark night of my life this will be a little
lamp, always kept burning."

"You noble girl," cried Conway, scarcely
knowing what he was about to say. " Why did
1 not learn all this before ? Your true, faithful
nature and my own foolish heart were between ;
and I say to you solemnly, were anything
to break this off — anything to happen which
should set us both free and looking towards

each other — I would swear to rush back to
your feet."

He was gone. Jessica looked after him long
and wildly. " This is the comfort he leaves meas
he thinks ! It is but planting another dagger
in my heart. Oh ! " she added, passionately,
that I may be taught not to forgive her, but
to hate her with a growing hate for this work
of hers ! "

She remained long in that state. Her father
then strode in. " Where is he ? " he said. " I
told them to show him into my study. Mr.
Dudley, I mean."

He was not here," she said, coldly.

Oh ! Come. No tragic. Show some
sense. Make the best of all this. It is to be
made up to me. Lord Formanton is a man of
honour."

Thus Dr. Bailey.

The scorn in Jessica's face ! *' I see ! It is
all becoming clearer every moment. You are
to be paid for this."

No insolence to me, ma'am. I have done

my duty. Where's Mr. Dudley ? He went in
through the greenhouse."

"He is not here, and I do not want to see
him." She then left the room. Mr. Dudley could
not be found, to the great ill-humour of the
Doctor. But Mr. Dudley was a very impatient
man, and very likely, having got into the greenhouse
and heard voices in the drawing-room, he
was not to be kept waiting, and so went away
in disgust.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

During these days, the various Grundy s of
the seaport were kept in a fever of excitement
by the various dramatic events : the sudden
illness of the Queen of Panton, her no less
mysterious recovery ; the open defiance — the
throwing down the gauntlet — that removal of
the bridge, which had actually been sold, and
was lying there on the banks in pieces, waiting
removal. There was much angry feeling about
this injudicious step, more than perhaps its value
deserved, and it was felt that Sir Charles had
hopelessly forfeited all chance of sitting for
the borough. More interested still were they in
the struggle between the two girls, now it
would seem approaching a crisis ; and, best of

all, wild and delightful rumours were afloat that
the battle was for the fascinating Conway, who,
it was believed, had offered for the heiress, but
was fiercely claimed by that bold and fearless
parson's daughter. They had made out a complete
theory. It was for this Lord Formanton
had come down specially, and it was for this
that Doctor Bailey was seen posting about,
taking; strides of extra length.

Miserable days of flurry and agitation followed
for one of the actresses in that scene, the hapless
Jessica, who found all her boasted training and
resolution melting down in the hot fires of
agitation and excitement. Leaden weights
seemed to be hung round her heart ; she listened
early for reports and news, but could hear little.
It was said, indeed, that the yacht was at last
going away. The sailors were making their
purchases and getting in stores. A dinner of a
farewell nature — the news as usual coming vit
Silvertop — was preparing at the castle, at which
it was believed something certain would transpire
as to what was making the public mind

VOL. III. K

so feverish. Lord Formanton had remained a
few days, and was actually a guest at the castle,
that cunning nobleman wishing, no doubt, to
keep watch and ward against one whose designs he
still feared, and who might attempt a surprise.
Long after, he often described her as " one of
the most dangerous girls he ever met." They
all saw little of the hero, who seemed to keep
on board his vessel. To Jessica this suspense
was growing intolerable. She longed for him
to be gone, to be married, to be doing something,
to be writing. She felt the life she herself led
was growing unendurable ; something of action,
even the life of a governess, was preferable.
Her father and his coarse violence, or violent
coarseness, was too much.

It was the morning of that departure, the morning,
too, of what was to be for her a very remarkable
day. She sat at the gloomy breakfast
table, silent as usual, while her father opened
his letters. He did not at all relish her new
manner, as it brought a sort of inconvenience.
He read one with great eagerness.

Conway off this evening. Hallo ! I must
see him at once. Very odd his father has not
answered me. He had better not forget his
obligations to me. Do you know anything of
this ? " he added, bluntly. " No ; of course you
don't. What's over you, girl ? Have you lost
your tongue ? I^'y® want to make out a
grievance against me, because I did my duty
as a clergyman ? I didn't want to have My
house turned into a mantrap. I didn't want to
have snares and gins set here."

She rose up. *' I can't bear this, father," she
said, passionately. " It must end here. It will
kill me if it goes on. That you have no
affection, no heart for me, I have seen long
ago. But you must spare me, in common
humanity. Above all, do not speak of that —
what I suppose are the wages for which you
sold me and my happiness. I suppose they are
not forthcoming. It is a just judgment."

His large hand stopped as it was carrying a
bit of toast to his lips ; his great eyes stared at
her.

K 2

Oh, what treachery unexampled to sell your
own daughter's chance of happiness ! " She
went on, "I always knew my duty to you,
and performed it. I put up with unkindness,
selfishness, and coarse rudeness before strangers ;
what you did in private I did not heed,
because I was a daughter and you my father,
and a clergyman besides. If it were told, say
from a pulpit, that one in the land could enter
into a bargain, and deliberately arrange for his
own child's disappointment and misery, it would
be disbelieved. They would say it might do
for a novel."

For once Doctor Bailey, a little taken back
at this view, attempted to justify himself hotly.
I made no bargain. Don't talk to me ! Are
you in the right mind ? I am entitled to my
promotion : no one more so. Heaven knows.
Haven't I slaved, and for you and the ungrateful
pack in this house, long enough ? And
so you thought you were sure of the man,
Lord Formanton's son ? You have the assurance
"

And you deny it in addition. For shame,
fathers

Don't speak to me, ma'am ! How dare you
be insolent, or bring nne to account ! I, that
am filling your idle mouths from the sweat of
my brow "

"Exactly," she said, coldly. "That is what
I have been thinking over these few days. I
cannot stay here longer. It is chilling my very
heart. I find neither warmth nor sunshine, nor
anything that helps me to live. If I stay on in
this atmosphere I shall be changed into something
unnatural. I cannot stand it. I mu go
out of this, or I shall die, body and soul''

What insolence ! I to be talked to in this
manner ! Then go. Pack out as soon as you
like. You had better think twice about it, though,
I tell you this, ma'am : you shan't stay here, in
my house, until you come and apologize humbly
to me for your insolence. Nice things I have to
put up with."

"I do apologize to you, father," she said,
calmly, " if I have offended; but I must leave

this house. I shall get duller, and my reason
will go, if I stay. We were all made for kindness,
and a kind word, at least, once in the
year ; while from you, I cannot call to mind
when I have ever received a gracious or a
tolerant word. Heaven forgive you, father,
and make you gentler and more human."

Ife was about to throw open the flood-gates,
and let the torrent of his wrath come bursting
out, carrying stones and all sorts of coarse
matter with it, when they were interrupted by
a visitor. It was Dudley, with an almost
malignant air of satisfaction on his face. He
looked at her curiously, and with her old
instinct she disdained to fly, but kept her
ground.

A FATAL MEETING.

He was full of news. First, the perfect
recovery of Miss Panton, who was now bright,
sparkling, full of spirits, and happy.

*ewe all know the physician' he added,
significantly, " and I am glad of it now, though
I was opposed to it before. I own I thought he
was a trifler and philander, but now we all see
he was in earnest."

"A most proper match," said the Doctor
eagerly. " I had Lord Formanton here in this
room. Perfect nobleman'

"We won't see the future bridegroom at
dinner to-day, though. Conway has got a
telegram from home, and the yacht, they say,
will sail this very evening." She did not start

at this news, as Dudley seemed to expect, though
it made her blood run swiftly. '' They are going
away," he went on, " soon, and I suppose will all
meet in London."

Most proper — most proper," said the Doctor.
St. George's, Hanover Square : the right thing,
of course."

then I have a piece of news that will not
please Miss Bailey. That unlucky bridge is
down at last, and actually sold into the next
county. So ends the great bridge question, and
when we look back on all the warmth and
excitement, how absurd it seems ! — all about an
iron bridge. So I said to Miss Panton this
morning, but she pointed to the pieces, and said :
Another victory for me ! ' "

"Let her take care," said Jessica; "acts of
oppression like this cry aloud for judgment,
which is sure to come."

What, pulling down an old bridge ? " said
Dudley.

Is the girl mad or a fool ? " said the Doctor,
roughly.

"Oh!" said Dudley, slowly, 'miss Bailey
has reason, good reason, for all this heat. If she
were candid enough she would own it."

'but I warn her," said Jessica ; " and as you
are her friend and champion, I ask you to warn
her. I wish her no ill, as I stand here, though
this and other steps have been taken to injure
me. Take care she be not reckoned with intime,
for all her wealth."

Dudley's face was contorted with rage.
Threats to that angel I Threaten her because
she has been successful in getting wealth and
honour, and the liking and love of friends *? "•

You judge these things according to your
nature," said Jessica, calmly, and rising to go
away. " I utter no threats, though I understand
the insinuation. Let her reckon with her own
conscience for all her treatment of me, beginning
so long ago. Only I again warn her, she whose
life is so precarious, these things are not allowed
to go on without punishment."

That is noble, and generous ! " said Dudley,
bitterly. " We understand you now. Miss Bailey.

But the Almighty does not give us all strong
chests, sound working hearts, and iron blood-vessels.
I wish and pray He did, or that He
would take them from some, and give them to
the more precious."

She did not answer him, but left the room.
A version of that scene was over the town before
evening ; how Miss Bailey had publicly defied
her rival through Mr. Dudley, and warned her
that she would be publicly punished for it.
Before evening, too, that defiance had reached
that very rival.

Jessica was left to think upon the strange
news. So Conway was going away, and the
familiar image of the pretty yacht, to which the
place had grown so accustomed, would be seen
no more. Well, indeed, might the Doctor utter
his unmeant self-benediction. " God bless me ! "

This, indeed, would be a relief ; it would bring
a term, an end to the act, as it were. Once he
was gone, something would be over ; it was like
the criminal longing for the day of execution.
She herself could not go till he had gone ; then

lie would go, rush out on the work. She dared
not think that he would come to say good-beeves
if he did, she felt she could not see him ;
but still for him not to make the attempt seemed
almost too stoical. But the miserable day wore
on and he never came. About three a sailor
arrived with a letter.

I am summoned away suddenly. All has
been arranged at Pan ton ; and I shall go through
it all, as you would expect me to do, with honour
and loyalty. We must not look back — at least

I dare not Yet remember how solemnly

I am bound to you, and you to me. From that
there can be no escape. Much may happen
between ; one of the thousand and one chances

of the world may turn up I have told

her bluntly — and I should have loathed myself
if I had not — how I had been forced so suddenly
into this match. She only thinks me the more
noble for the confession. Yet still be patient.
I have a strange instinct that something must
interpose between me and this unworthy, this
sinful holocaust. I have been weak, foolish,
and culpable ; but do not deserve such a fate.
Neither have you deserved it. I owe you the

amende of a life ; and as this cannot be paid,
I shall find some other way. Only wait and
hope ; wait and hope, at least, until this day two
months hence. This is the last letter I may write
to you. Dearest, injured Jessica, good-bye."

Often and often she read these words over as
the day wore on, and evening approached, and
theT)octor in full tenue, drove away to his dinner
at the castle. At her window, removed from that
blustering influence, she could see the little port
below, and a strange fascination made her fasten
her eyes upon the yacht lying peacefully there,
ill-fated barque, that had brought her such misery
and yet such happiness. Even as she watched
she saw signs that foreshadowed departure — sails
half drooped, ready to spring into position at
a word, boats passing to and fro, and rowing
round. He was going, sailing away, having
accomplished his double work. He had conquered
both, and slte^ that other, had conquered
her. As she watched, the idea sent a chill to
her very heart. As long as that elegant craft
reposed there — the first thing she saw in the

morning — though all was ended, it still was a
symbol, a sign that he was there still. But after
this day, that vacant space and lonely harbour !
She was, indeed, anxious that she herself was
gone, gone out on the world. She had long
made her little plan. She had some money in
her own right, and there was a good aunt, or
elderly cousin — it matters not much which —
who was kind and sympathetic, though she was
dull and old-fashioned enough, with whom she
could live.

She watched until she felt herself oppressed
with fluttering anxiety, and then a strange* feeling
took possession of her to go out, breathe the
air, and wander up some private way, and look
at that house which held her rival. The suspense
was intolerable. Most probably he was up there,
exchanging some last good-bye. Bitter, and
even despairing, thoughts came on her, of how
short-lived, after all, are the most intense dramatic
feelings ; sure to give way, in a short time, before
the prose workings of life.

VICTORY AND DEATH.

It was a quiet evening, very still, and the sun,
setting, was leaving great fiery welts and streaks
across the sky. The vignettes and stragglers of
the gaunt firs sprawled their arms against this
brilliant background in a very animating fashion.
The town was deserted, there being a little fair
going on outside St. Arthur's.

Jessica wandered off nearly a mile away to the
hill-side, across the river, where lay the castle
peeping through the thick planting, the throne,
as it were, upon which her cruel and victorious
enemy sat. All the country round, the trees, the
falling valleys, and gentle hills, the very spot on
which she stood, was Laura's ; even that noble
river, Heaven's free gift to man, she had tried to

grasp that, and it was actually hers ; the fishing,
the banks, all that was worth having ; only the
bare fiction of a legal theory gave the public the
use of the water. This thought made her lip
curl. " A poor insignificant child, no soul, no
wit, or intellect, to be thus endowed ; and for a
whim, no more, pursue vindictively one who washer
superior in everything ! " It was hard, too,
she was thinking, as she sat down on a rustic
bench, how these blows came, as it were, in a
series. Who could help being stunned ? Here
she was on the eve of leaving her home, and of
going out on the world, having lost beside what
might have been her life and happiness. There
might have been some [interval, surely, something
to break the stroke, but such is the cruel
dispensation of this life.

Afar ofi" she saw the long windows of the
castle all ablaze with soft light, across which
shadows flitted occasionally. It must have been
one of the ** state banquets," in which Mrs.
Silvertop revelled, got up to celebrate the grand
conquest " of the daughter of the house, and

defeat of the aspiring parson's daughter. " Yes,"
she said, bitterly, " they will have sent round
word to the regular toadies and jackals of the
parish, who will sing in chorus down the table,
so suitable, so nice, so charming.' " It was a
bitter cruel defeat and mortification. But wealth
in this world must always win. If she had been
tricky, or tried finesse, how easily she could have
worsted that poor, contemptible, spoiled child 1
She had been too scrupulous, and had wrecked
her whole life. The other was to be happy,
while she. was to be an outcast. She should be
punished — punishment here would be only justice.
And it was no harm to pray that it may overtake
her for the many wrongs she had done to
her.

She walked straight to the bank and found all
gone, even the stone piers cleared away, the
walks filled up ; then turned away hastily. It
seemed the emblem of a victory, victory after
a long and weary struggle, in which she had
carried ofi* so much of the spoil. The sight filled
her with grief and anger.

Some minutes passed, when, looking towards
the sea, she could make out the mainsail flashing
up the mast, and the foresail spreading — signs
to her that the sailing was at hand. He was onboard,
and her heart sank; with this she felt the
dear dream was to end, the lights to go out, and
she to begin to bear about within her a chilled
heart. She turned her eyes away, almost hoping
that when next she looked it might be gone.
They rested, then, on the castle, where the other
sat in triumph.

She was standing sheltered behind a clump
of trees, and was so absorbed that she did 'not
hear a light step and rustle. Looking round,
she started at seeing a face eagerly looking out
and watching the yacht, utterly unconscious
that any one was near. This apparition almost
stopped the current of her blood. Yet surely
this was too hard, too much of a triumph !

Miss Panton was only a few feet away from
her, and never stirred. The excitement, and her
love, made her look almost beautiful. She was
in her dinner dress, a light opera cloak, wrapped

VOL. III.

about her, with flowers in her hair. There was
something strange about this apparition among
the trees and real flowers, and any looker-on
miorht have fancied that now the Bridge of
Sighs was gone, she must have fluttered in some
ghostly way across that river.

The eager face was lit up with joy and excitement.
She seemed to strain upwards so as to
make herself conspicuous to the craft, now so
lazily lifting its wings. Next she was waving
a handkerchief, and Jessica started as she heard
her say aloud and with delight :

He sees me ! My own darling ! "

So she watched, and so did the other watch,
until the vessel had glided slowly out to sea.
Then Laura turned and gave a start of surprise
that seemed like one of terror, as she saw Jessica
standing before her. There was a silence.

** What have you come here for ? " she said,
at last. "Was it to see that'' And she
pointed. " Well, there he sails away ! All
your watching will never bring him back to
you."

Her cheek was pale, her chest panting,
and her excitement seemed to grow as she
spoke.

I did you no harm," answered Jessica,
slowly, and with a curious bitterness and disdain,
" and never meant to do so. You seem
to exult that you have striven to separate, to
hrihe from me the only one that I liked, and
that liked me ! "

The other did not answer for a moment.

"Well, there he sails," said Miss Panton,
bound to me for ever, to return in three
weeks to fulfil his engagement. It seems
sudden, does it not? but he has told me fairly
and nobly that he will strive hard to love and
worship me as I deserve. This is the end of
your hatred and your plots against me ! "

Yes ; you are entitled to some exertion on
his side," the other answered, her father's colour
rushing to her cheeks. " All this place, those
lands, and estates, and that fine castle entitles
you to that, of right. He told me he would
carry out his contract honourably. But with

L 2

all your lands and castles, I tell you, you have
purchased him cheaply ! "

Flashes of scarlet came into that pale face,
and seemed to flow over her throat. Her lips
trembled with nervous anger. ** You dare to
speak to me in this way — you and your scheming
father, whose plots we have detected and
seen through ! And from whom he escaped.
Thank Heaven ! his eyes were opened, and by
me ! I own it. So you persuade yourself that
he is forced into this — has sold himself. I wish
I had ten times as much to give him." She
was growing more and more excited.

Now Jessica lost all restraint. " But did he
tell you why he was forced into this step — to
give the one he loved up ? That it was a sacrifice
to save his father and family. You know it,
and cannot deny it. It is your money that will
set the family all straight."

The other was turning as pale as she had been
crimson before.

And after that there is more. What if he
had offered to make a solemn oath — which we

would fulfil if the opportunity came *? But
which," she added with scorn, " at this instant I
release him from. If ever he was free again, and
came to me on his knees with that amende, I
would not accept it."

"What is this— what oath? What do
you mean ? How dare you ! " said the other,
faintly.

Jessica turned away with triumph. " I have
made her feel at last," she thought. *' He loves
me, not youV^ she resumed aloud. "You have
forced me to say more than I intended. Go,
and let us never meet, or see each other more."

She received no answer save a faint cry, and
looking round saw Miss Panton sinking on a
bench, her hand to her side, her handkerchief to
her mouth. *' Run, and quickly ! Help — to
the — house ! " she gasped faintly. The handkerchief
fell from her mouth as she spoke, and
Jessica saw with horror there was a streak of
blood upon it. " Quick," said the other more
faintly. " Cross ! cross over. Oh, 1 shall die !
—die here ! The boat ! "

Terror-stricken, and scarcely knowing what
she did, she turned and rushed toward the
river bank, as if to cross by the old familiar
bridge. This was but an instinct ; and she
recollected with a pang that there could be no
means of Q-ettinor across. What was she todo
? Ah, the bridge was gone ! There was the
castle, the merry diners, the Doctor himself
among them, appearing only a few hundred
yards or so away — in reality more than a mile
off. In a sort of agony of despair she tossed
her arms wildly to attract the attention of someone
at the windows, and then as wildly started
off like a deer along the banks of the river.
She was so bewildered and horror-stricken, that
she had no space to reflect, or think of a plan.
The shortest way was the little path along the
bank under the trees. She seemed pursued by
all the furies of indecision and desperation ; for
she could only think of that fatal stain on the
handkerchief, and that the unhappy girl must
die before aid could come — then hurry on, angry
with herself for losing precious moments.

With an indefinable terror over her, and
ready to sink with agony and fatigue, she at
last reached the high road, where the broad
three-arch county bridge crossed the river, and
on the other side of which was the great gateway
of Panton Castle. She was so exhausted,
she had to stop and lean for rest upon the
parapet. The sun had already set ; there were
but a few red embers in the west. Desperately
struggling to regain strength for fresh exertion,
two minutes more would bring her to the lodge,
when, looking up the river, she saw a boat
coming out from the bank on the side she* had
left. She rubbed her eyes. A man rowing,
and a white figure lying in the stern. Thank
Heaven ! It was like a miracle. Some one,
no doubt, passing by on the other side, had
caught a glimpse of the hapless girl. A few
strokes brought them across, and the man was
seen to take out the white figure, and carry it
up the bank like a child.

With this relief, the half-guilty feeling that
had oppressed her seemed to pass away and

the sense of old wrongs to return. She remembered,
then, that this was a sort of habitual
attack to which the girl was subject. Was it
not a terrible judgment on that unworthy and
unchristian triumph and exultation ?

It was now the grey time of the evening :
everything was inexpressibly calm. Calm herself
now, after the long suspense, the doubt
as to what she should do to learn news worked
itself up at last to be almost unendurable. She
wished at times to set forth up to the castle,
and ask what the end was ; but an undefined
terror, a shadow that took only an indistinct
shape, seemed to be cast in her way. As she
thought and thought, stray scraps of darkness
seemed to gather and gather — recollections of
what she had said and done — and take more
alarming and firmer shape. She thought she
had best wait her father's return. An hour of
agony went by. She heard carriage wheels,
and rushed out on the top of the stairs. There
came no accustomed stamping or vociferating,
but his voice was low and tremulous. " This is

r

an awful thing to happen ! " Then she knew
that sentence of death had gone, and that her
enemy of the old school days would trouble her
and the world no more.

That coarse, selfish soul of the Doctor s had
received a real, overwhelming shock, and he
sat there in his chair talking almost incoherently.
Where are we ? What does it mean ? Oh,
Jessica, I saw the poor, poor thing brought in,
and laid down, and the— the blood pouring out.
It was he — he did it. Oh, how cruel ! "

He ! Who, who ? " said Jessica, frantically.

'* Conway. She left us after dinner to niake
signals to his vessel. Her poor tender soul was
wrapped up in him. The agitation was too
much for her. She might have lain there nearly
half an hour — and no one with her. Her foot
caught in the grass, and her forehead all cut
with the fall. Heavens, what a life it is ! "

Lain there half an hour. Why did not Jessica
say then how she had flown for aid, but a strange
indecision sealed her lips. He could not understand
; and then, full of grief and pity for the

miserable girl, she felt she had done no wrong,
and disdained to expose herself to the talk of the
miserable gossips of the place, and to the unscrupulous
enmity of Dudley, when there was no
necessity.

Well, indeed, might Conway have named that
fata] bridge the Bridge of Sighs. It seemed like
Nemesis. The yacht, bending to the breeze, as
if in an impetuous gallop, sped on her course,
her owner thinking wearily of his new and
splendid bondage, and little thinking that he
was now free.

OVER THE Leave.

The dismal event, it may be imagined, furnished
some substantial grist for little mills
supplied by the chiffonniers who went about St.
Arthur's, picking up and sorting the old bones
and rags of gossip. The poor of the place,
always grumbling, for once owned that Providence
had dealt impartially with the rich as well as
themselves, and drew a better lesson to that
effect than they had ever done from the teachings
of the Reverend Dr. Bailey.

That clergy Tian, as it was a vast occasion to
which he wished to rise, put himself to the
trouble of writing a mortuary sermon, '* brand
new," for the occasion, in which he seemed to
grow so juicy about the eyes, and scorbutic in

his cheeks, that he looked an undertaker in a
surplice. In that crowded church he addressed
hostile and expostulatory questions to the great
King of Terror and to the graves he digs, as
if to his own maid-servant, and dwelt sonorously
on the station Laura would have adorned. Her
noble and spreading lands, her " pageantry of
palaces " —-where were they all now ? Her grieving
father, who was present, utterly prostrated
and broken with the shock, was too much absorbed
in his mind to see anything that was
exaggerated in the statement, that 'she" — Dr.
Bailey — "knew her young heart, every corner
of it," and that in the course of his professional
*' spiritual ministrations,'^ his guidance of that
matchless young creature had made him as
familiar with her mind as he was with his
own. But what was he to say to those she
had left behind ? Nothing, nothing, nothing !
which, with a strange contradiction, reached to
nearly a quarter of an hour's expatiation, pointed
at the bereaved father.

The funeral was indeed magnificent, a monument

of grief and costliness, Messrs. Hodman,
the well-known entrepreneurs of such shows in
town, exerting themselves to their best. All
the foolish ostentation in which Death revels,
when the rich are concerned, was nobly displayed.
Mr. Hodman, who attended in person,
was heard to say, *' that he had not got to bed
for two nights." Sir Charles was indeed the
class of mourner for whom it was worth while
making an exertion. " None of your peddling,
estimate ' sort of fellers' said Mr. Hodman,
who will call you into their front parlour, and,
with the poor remains lying cold up-stairs, will
go on a 'angling with you."

On this morning there was a surprise for the
sailors of the port, who found that the ' Adamantine,'
so long familiar to their eyes, had stolen
back like some spectral ship. The actors in the
drama rubbed their eyes, as they looked from
their windows and saw the apparition, and
appeared to find some mysterious connection
between that yacht and the young and glittering
craft, all snowy sails and gay fluttering flags,

which had glided away out on the vast ocean
of eternity, and which wouhl never return into
that port. No such transcendental associations
occurred to the Doctor, who merely said : *' God
bless me ! that boat back again ! But quite
proper. Nice good feeling and attention on the
young man's part. Brought his yacht here, all
the way, for the funeral ! " Then the dismal
ceremonial beo^an. There was one figure that
attracted the crowds that thronged the pews and
galleries of the church — a thin, worn, hao^o^ard,
wild-eyed creature, whose strange and almost
ghastly air was rendered even more remarkable
by his exaggerated black dress. Some of the
young girls of the place, who had taken the
deepest interest in the whole affair, turned away
from him in terror — from eyes whose glances
every now and again seemed to dart from side
to side, as if seeking something, to settle at last
on a retired corner of the gallery, where they
seemed to probe, and even stab, fiercely, until,
at last, other faces were attracted, and looked in
the same direction. There was seen a pale face.

a figure bent low on its knees, and lips moving
in prayer. At lunch and dinner that day, the
association of gossips wondered and wondered
again why Jessica Bailey had deserted her family,
and sought that obscure corner. A solution was
soon hit upon, by an elderly gentleman paying
a visit. " It was shocking," he said, " to see
such vindictiveness even in presence of the
dead. To think that Bailey's daughter would
not be seen in her public place at the funeral
of one she disliked, but skulked away in a
corner ! " This was the charitable construction
put on the matter, which those beside her,
who saw her hands clasped convulsively, and
her lips moving in prayer, might have found
quite inconsistent. Her eyes followed the dark
figures moving below, and the black-draped bier,
whereon the poor lost heiress of Panton lay —
and by what agency ? The long combat that
had begun at school was ended there ; and a
voice, she could not be deaf to, was always in
her ear, whispering hoarsely, not only that the
victory was hers, but that she had won it by

her own act. She saw the procession trail out
to the graveyard, and could not bring Herself to
rise up and follow it. Then the Doctor want
through his service ; and in a new vault the
young creature of such hopes, and life, and
brightness, was put to rest.

The Doctor had done his part, in an extra
impressive way, which he kept for person of
importance, consigning dust to its companion
dust, on average occasions, with a vigorous and
business-like air. The sweet and almost tearful
resignation he could assume on occasions of bereavement
in high life, would have secured him
an advantageous engagement in quite another
profession.

When all was over, and the crowd had dispersed,
the Doctor with "the bereaved father"
(as he persisted in styling him for many weeks
to come) went into the church, and where a longtime
walking round it, and looking at various
portions of it. They were selecting a suitable
spot for a most gorgeous marble monument, the
finest that the genius of Knolls, RA. could

devise. His having already thus decorated the
remains of a royal personage was in itself a
guarantee with the Doctor for the artistic
character of the performance.

After all, we may not find fault with those
post-mortem tributes, which, with their inscriptions
and flourishes, of image and panegyric,
have been so often sneered at, for they at least
soothe the torn and pierced hearts of those who
have been left behind; who by planning, and
erecting, and contemplating such things, divert
what would have been an agonizing inaction,
until Time steps in, and soothingly brings
resignation.

VOL. HI. M

A MENACE.

"While they were thus engaged, Jessica was
hovering afar off, drawn by some strange attraction,
to wait and see the end. She heard
them fix on a spot, the Doctor lecturing on its
advantages ; the chief of which seemed to be
that it could be seen from all parts of the
church. "We cannot do too much in this sad
bereavement, and I am confident Mr. Knolls
will do his best."

When they were, at last, gone, and the baronet
seemed now to be led away, an old broken man,
on his friend's arm, she stole into the church, upto
the space that had been selected ; through the
window she could see the stone slab of the new
vault, and turned away her head. There would

come a Sunday, shortly perhaps, when the memorial
would face her, as she sat in her usual
seat ; the pure snowy marble canopy, sheltering
the sleeping figure, whose hands would be joined
on its breast ; below there would be the inscription,
age, date, sorrowing father, extravagant
praise, " best of children," beloved by all who
knew them. Jessica had shrunk from that picture
of the sleeping image, to be always before her as
she prayed on a Sunday ; but that imaginary
inscription came to her as a wholesome corrective,
and made her cold and stern again.
It was a judgment," she said, as she turned
away. '' I have nothing to do with it. It does
not lie with me ! " Suddenly she found the
worn face of Dudley was looking at her.

Who said it lay with you ? With your
hatred to her, that was never changed. Are
you here to gloat over her grave ? "

She drew herself up, and met his look of
dislike. " Over that grave I shall not dispute
with you. You know what my nature is, and
that it is not one likely to exult over the fallen.

M 2

Further, I can tell you I was thinking, with
bitter regret, over our old disputes, and that I
might have judged her harshly."

*^ Might have ! Is that your only amende ?
Take care that you have not the same equity
meted out to you ; that people may not accuse
you, and at last let you off with a ' might have
judged harshly You amaze me — accustomed
as I am to strange things in this world — to think
that you can have all this coolness and hardness.
The poor, poor girl ! " he added, with despair
in his tones. " Oh, what a mysterious end !
They take it all as a matter of course, and accept
the physician's twaddle. Yet I believe she was
harassed and excited by those who had an interest
in exciting her. Never fear, they shall
all account for it— every one of them. If I were
a Corsican, I might take their way — don't be
alarmed, Miss Bailey. But I may tell you
this — and you know yourself it is the truth — if
we were to cast up all her troubles and annoyances,
you would be found to be the one who
fretted and harassed her most persistently."

She faltered. " I am innocent ; it was she
who made my life wretched, and who harassed

me.

'' That is false ; you must not say that, standing
so near to where she rests. I do not want
to threaten you ; but there is a retribution for
these things. It will overtake you — never fear.
Nay, it has begun its work already. What has
drawn you here to-day but remorse ? I might
swear this too, there was more between you and
her than the world shall ever know."

Jessica involuntarily started.

"Yes," he went on, 'sand I shall have something
to live for, if only to search and hunt
up all that concerns her. I go away now fora
time. I must school myself in wild places,
to be alone with my miserable heart. If something
comes to end all, it will be welcome ; if
not, I shall return to see what atonement has
been made. There is one outrage on her memory
which must not be. Now, let there be no mistake.
I give you this warning as from her. It
would make her turn in her grave — rise from it !

So, beware ! You understand me. Should he
or you dare, there will be a penalty exacted, to
which the most refined torture you could dream
of will be as nothing ! "

Jessica was so confounded at the strange tone
with which this was spoken, so overwhelmed too
with the events of the day, she could make no
reply. A secret chill at her heart seemed to
hint to her that something like retribution or
punishment was to come on her, of which this
man might be the agent. His love and grief
were so intense, it was certain to give him an
almost supernatural power, the very eagerness
and concentration of his purpose on this one
point giving him an irresistible strength. No
wonder she shrank from that spectral figure,
which seemed to glide away among the church
pillars as if into thin air. No wonder that from
that fatal day a sort of cloud seemed to settle
down upon her — a sense of some coming blow to
be expected sooner or later. With this presentiment
to attend her, she turned towards her
home. Home, indeed ! She longed even for

the world. She could not shut out those fierce,
ever-menacing, and avenging eyes, and all she
could do was to repeat to herself, " I am
innocent as regards her. I can ask my
conscience again and again, and it tells me I
have done nothing."

Though she had made an almost ascetic
resolve that such a day of humiliation should
not be profaned by thought of anything selfish,
anything that was near or dear to her, she
could not shut out a speculation, which,' turn
away her eyes as she would, made her heart
flutter. •

Conway ! What would he do, now his own
strange presentiment had been fulfilled, that
something would interpose between him and
that engagement, and that their hearts were to
come together ? She almost flung the idea from
her with a sort of shame ; but still it came back
to her. What would Conway do now ? Would
not that sudden and ghastly end turn all his
sympathies to what he had lost, and perhaps
make him shrink from one who was to profit

so speedily by the ruin of another ? She felt if
he was to come before her at any moment, she
could not look at him with shrinking eyes,
which he would think were asking him, was he
ready now to fulfil his bond ? This idea seemed
to devour her. Her impulse was to Write him,
and say he must not, for the world, even so
much as dream of the plan they had settled ; it
must be buried with what had been buried that
day. Then she thought, and rightly, that this
seemed like a reminder.

It was to be resolved for her in a moment.
She was at her window, her eyes fixed on the
far-off yacht. Suddenly she saw its faint lines
quivering and shaking ; the little flakes of
snowy white began to grow and spread like
wings, then flutter in the breeze. He was going,
leaving, and without a word. Thank God for
it ! It was for the best, the proper and right
course. Yet now, indeed, the cruel sense of
blank desertion came upon her, for it was
evident that he, indeed, took that view, and
thought that so ghastly a catastrophe altered all

arrangements between them. It was harsh,
almost cruel, to her.

But he had thought of her, for here was a
letter from him.

I would have asked to see you to-day, but
your own heart will help you to the reason.
On such a day as this I cannot bear to think of
anything but what concerns the dead, and her
terribly mysterious end. There is a guilty
feeling at my heart that I had something to do
with it, so strangely have my idle words come to
pass. Still, as I am going away now, I trust
speak plainly.

With time all this will have passed away, and
we can look back, not to these last few wretched
days, but to what was so solemnly engaged
between us. That no sensitiveness on your side
can dissolve, and that I shall call on you to
fulfil.

I now go to face debts, dangers, and difficulties,
to find some extrication, if there be any.
Not before a year shall you hear of me. Bear

your present trials for that short space of time,
at least, and then we shall both be able to
approach the matter calmly and logically. We
have neither of us deserved any blame. During
that time think of me."

Never," thought Jessica. " Life is all over
for me ; that poor girl has vanquished me after
all. No, I dare not ; her image would always
be between us, and that dreadful last scene."
Far better that she alone should see it. Did he
know of it, he must always insensibly associate
her with the grimness of that terrible end.
Gradually he would learn how their last words
had been words of anger and defiance. She
preferred that he should always think of her as
she was, than run any risk of his being changed
to her. It would be for the best to end it all at
once.

Yet when she came to write she wanted heart
The old question recurred, what had she done,,
why should she offer her whole life and happiness
as an expiatory offering to one who would have

spared her nothing? He was gone, and she
might put off the letter until tomorrow. Then
another day went by, and another. In fact, she
had not heart to take such a step. She could
wait.

Then began a weary time for her, one of
suspense and anxiety. Gradually the gossips
came to have done with this all but inexhaustible
subject, having discounted it in every conceivable
way. The place was shut up. Sir Charles
was gone away, never to return, and it was

known that the handsome castle would soon be

«
offered for sale. A stone cross had been put upon

the spot where the heiress had met her death,

whither many a walk was taken on Sunday

evenings, and where, to inquiring little children,

the story was told in all mystery.

Weeks, months passed by, and she heard

nothing of Conway. Facts and rumours came

down of what was doing as respects the estate,,

the breaking up of the establishment, the great

sale, the proceedings in Chancery, in fact, all the

usual incidents of clearing decks, throwing

overboard, cutting away masts, wliicli attend
such wrecks, and which often will not save the
ship. It was certain, however, that the most
vigorous and resolute measures were being taken,
and there was evidence of some decided and
thorough spirit being at work.

THE NEW MONUMENT.

Some months went by, a time more than
sufficient to save or to destroy. Still there came
no tidings. Then the Doctor heard that the
family had gone abroad, and he told the news,
with a fitting contempt, that " they were broke
horse and foot," but had contrived to save
something out of the fire. This charge may
have been owing to the Doctor's constitutional
contempt for poverty in general, and reverses in
particular, but was more specially connected
with accurate news he had received of the
flourishing health of the incumbent whose living
had been promised to him, and who had
returned from the Homburg waters with a fresh
stock of vitality.

As the space between that scene on the river
gradually widened, and newer associations of

regret and tenderness for the victim were quite
softening away all ugly memories, Jessica felt
every hour an increasing certainty that this was
the solution. Conway must naturally turn his
eyes away from that spot, where he had found
such pain and trouble, and even a little bit of
tragedy. He would be glad to have done with
it, and his vague and generous promise need not
stand in the way.

Meanwhile, Knolls, R.A.,had been diligently
at work, and had completed a memorial which
was much admired in town. The Doctor had
volunteered a Latin inscription, which he had
forced with much importunity on the father with
many a " Leave it to me, Sir Charles. I'll find
something classical." In the club, and in many
a house in the town, he was for ever pulling out
his bit of paper, with the " rough draft," of this
inscription, and grew testy and even insolent,
when anything like an emendation was suggested.
It ran something after this fashion :

HIC • DEPOSITUM " EST '

OMNE • QUOD • Suppress *

Mortal •

Laurus

• Panton * Baronets '
Filii • DILECTISSIMiE *

And expatiated a good deal on her being

endowed with abundant wealth, and great

tracts of land, and having left her weeping

father and loving friends to sorrow inconsolable."

In short, to do the Doctor justice, it was a very

reproduction of the correct mortuary inscriptions.

In due time great cases came down by train

along with workmen, and the memorial was set

in the church. Knolls, R.A., had done his

best — which did not travel beyond a limited

area. The result was a Gothic marble canopy,

with abundance of urns, torches, &c. They

had been at work for three or four days, and

on the Saturday were trying hard to get all

finished by the Sunday. About seven o'clock

o'clock it was ready ; the men had gathered up
their tools and gone away ; a gas-lamp or two
was still glaring, and by-and-by they would
come and sweep away the dust and fragments.
The light played in curious coloured shadows on
the low-lying marble figure, which was destined
to repose tranquilly there during many an untold
Sunday service, while gentler or louder voices
would come and succeed the Doctor's ; while
new and ever succeeding eyes would wander
over and speculate as to the story to whom this
gigantic Laurie seemed to belong. There, too,
was the clergyman's pew almost on a level — so
near that a woman's eyes in that pew could peer
into that cold marble face.

Such a reflection actually occurred to a veiled
and muffled fixture, standing; in front of the
monument, and gazing at the sleeping figure
with a strange and sad interest. There was her
old enemy lying prostrate before her in chill
stone, with something like a reproach on her
face. Knolls, R.A., had at least made a good
likeness.

She saw even in that dim light the same
perverse look about the lips, closed with a
certain obstinacy. But the idea of having to
sit there, Sunday after Sunday, with that face
gazing at her, and taking, by force of her own
imagination, expressions of reproach, anger, or
superiority, was, she felt, more than she could
endure. " Not that ! " she said, half aloud.
Is there nothing to save me from that ? Yet
if she were to arise now from that cold bed I
would not shrink nor fly ; for I am innocent
in all that took place about her. Even now, as
she lies there, she has her victory, and I do not
grudge it to her ; but it falls hardly on me.
She might raise her head from that cold pillow,
and give her old smile of triumph to see me
thus deserted. Yet I cannot bring myself to
blame him. I should have known that this
must have come to pass, that he has been
forced again into the auction room to extricate
his family. Yet it would be more like retribution
if she had still power to keep him from me
now as she had in her life."

VOL. III. N

She turned hastily ; for she heard a sound of
steps slowly approaching, and did not wish to
be surprised. In a moment she heard a voice,
the music of which she well knew. She left
the church. She gave a cry of surprise and joy.

Jessica ! " said Conway. " It seems no
chance that has made us meet here this night.
The same thought drew you here as well as
me, and takes away my last foolish scruple.
We can both approach to pay this poor homage
to her memory ; and you know we dared not
do it unless our hearts were pure. Ah, Jessica !
now at last I can shut out that dismal day ;
now we can look to the future, and think of
being happy."

And you have returned to me," said Jessica.
I never dreamed of this. I Lad given up all
hope of seeing you again."

We have hope now for the future, and
plenty," he said, eagerly. " All will be well.
The clouds have all passed away. I could have
returned here long since, but hesitated, thinking
that you, like myself, had some weak scruple,

and that that poor girl's end might be supposed
to have changed everything. Yet, though I
hardly dare say it, it seems I was saved from a
terrible fate — from a shipwrecked life, from the
degradation of having married for money, and
from the misery which must have followed.
But now all is clear at last, and I have come
back to save you. You shall at last begin a
happy life with me. We shall never look back !
Hush ! who is this ? "

A figure went slowly advancing into the
church, and the two hastily drew aside into the
shadow. The figure still advanced until close upto
the monument, clasped its hands, and, bending
passionately over the marble figure, gazed
with an unspeakable tenderness into the face.
Then bent down slowly and kissed the marble
cheek. Turning round suddenly at some sound
of footsteps the light fell on his face, and his
fierce eyes were directed into the dark shadow
where they stood.

What ! " cried Dudley. " You have chosen
this place and this night for your unholy meet

2

iii ! Does SHE dare — of all creatures in tie
world ! "

Hush ! " said Conway, indignantly. " This
is no place "

'* Come away, then, out of it," he said, frantically.
'* I will not have this sacred spot profaned
by your meeting."

They were now outside the church. '' See,
Dudley," said Conway, gently, " I can make any
allowance in your case ; but this seems going too
far."

"I see the game," said Dudley, looking from
one to the other ; " she is out of the way now, a
decent time has elapsed, and you pick her out,
the unrelenting enemy — almost her murderess ! "

Conway felt Jessica's arm trembling on his,
and she herself was nearly falling. "This is
intolerable," he said. " And you must be mad
to speak so."

'* Take care,^Conway," said the other solemnly.
*' I give you this solemn caution. Take care
what step you take ; if you profane the dead
in that way, I tell you you little dream of the

curse that will attend you through life. And
you," he said, turning to Jessica, " if you have
sense or wisdom, and value your peace of mind
for the rest of your life, you will pause before
you engage in this sacrilege. I am no prophet,
but a man that has kept my word in everything
yet. What I have said should come to pass
has come to pass. For his sake, if not for your
own, take care."

Come, no more of this," said Conway.
** You have forgotten that other lesson I once
gave you, I can see."

That style of speech will not affect me. I
have a duty to-night, and it will not turn me
from it."

His eyes, even in that darkness, were so wild
and fierce, that he seemed under the influence of
some frenzy. Jessica felt she could not endure
this trial much longer, and whispering Conway,
'' Let me go, he frightens me," fled away out
of the church.

This is generous and manly on your side,
Dudley," said Conway, " and only that I myself

must hang my head in that presence, and
cannot justify myself, I would be very angry.
I am sorry to see you cannot control yourself."

Yet it was a hard fate, Conway. One so
young, and with such fair prospects ! "

The other said warmly, " It seems cruel.
And yet if it had been otherwise, she might
never have been happy."

With 2/ou ? " said Dudley, looking at him
fixedly. '' Why not ? "

But I have repented it bitterly. No one
can know the remorse I have suffered. And
after all, from what the doctor said, this cruel
end of hers might have come at any moment
from any excitement. Nay, should properly
have come before."

But how can you tell ? " said the other : '^ how
can you be sure, that this excitement that caused
her death had not something to do with you or
yours ? What if she had found out this wicked
deception of yours ? You called it so yourself.
Or if some one had charitably told her of it.
There is no knowing."

'^ Impossible," said the other. ** I had left her
but a few minutes, and was signalling to her
from the yacht. The doctor explained it simply.
She had stumbled against the root of a tree, and
the start and shock "

Of course, we know that. I am only speculating.
Doctors can explain everything. But
were I her father, or were I her acknowledged
lover, I mean a genuine lover, I should not be
satisfied. I should not go mooning ridiculously
about, questioning and speculating. When I
had found out all, which might also mean that
there was nothing to be found out, I should* rest.
Now you mean to marry that clergyman's
daughter. There is no use disguising it, Conway.
Duty came first ; then love. You are entitled
to follow your inclinations. I don't want to pry
into your secrets."

You have guessed rightly," said the other.
If you knew the whole story, you would say it
is but a poor reparation for all she has borne
forme, and from the world."

"Not a word of her," said Dudley, furiously.

No glorification of her. I know her true
character. You can marry whom you please,
and welcome. Though I would warn you as a
friend, in this case take care. She is marked,
and has a reckoning to pay us yet — a heavy
one."

'^ I see there is no reasoning with you," said
Conway. " I am going home ; good-night."

I am not going home, and shall wait here."

Any one lingering in that church would have
seen Dudley's face lit up with a sort of ghastly
delight.

Then approaching the marble monument he
bent over it again, and said to it, '^ Now, lost
angel, there will be a sacrifice at your tomb,
as good as any ever offered at any shrine ! And
before long I shall bring to you an offering
of their joint misery and wrecked happiness,
that will help to make you sleep calmly in your
grave."

THE NET.

Mr. Benbow waited long in expectation of
receiving an answer to his letter. Then one
came. He seized it, and with trembling hands
tore open the envelope. As his eyes glanced
over the contents of the note, an expression of
relief overspread his countenance. He read :

I must take time. I will consider your
proposal. *' L. E."

I knew it ! " he called out, in triumph.
** Every woman, as well as every man, has her
price. After all, she is a low, common, earthy
creature ; and I gave her credit for more purpose
than that. Money is the touchstone after all."

There now came back on him the old puzzle :

What was the secret of her animosity ? But
this helped to explain it : it was a low attempt
to extort money. This solution — and it wo2ild
be the solution, as sure as the sun would rise —
took away all necessity for his being uneasy
about his son and daughter. He completely
changed his plans. Instead of going up to
London to be near them, he would let things
take their course. Once she was out of the
country, all would go well. He would have,
at least, breathing time ; and, in a year or two,
would have some elaborate and effective plan
arranged, which would effectively check all her
schemes. He had worked through many a
difficulty before now, and emerged triumphantly
even in cases more desperate than this.

In which mood he went about his usual
business. That night he slept a more refreshing
sleep — such as criminals might for whom
news of a reprieve had arrived — though he
trembled to think how near he was to destruction.


Lady Rosa and her husband were now fairly

established in their house ; and young Mr.
Benbow, M.P., was just recovered. Her acquaintances
and friends had often pronounced
that lady " very odd " and determined in " her
ways." But one curious thought seemed to
hold her mind — some slight or degradation that
she had received from his father. She waited
patiently until he was quite restored to health,
then one morning spoke to him after a fashion
that quite astonished every one who had assumed
that she was the conventional " walking lady "
of the fashionable drama. Often, as Mr. Charles
Benbow lay sick, he wondered to hear her walking
up and down in some adjoining room, talking
to herself; and, also, was surprised at her frown
and steady look. While he was thus indisposed,
friends came to call ; and among others, Mr.
Pelly, a young Q.C. — a quick, thoughtful, ready
fellow, " one of the rising men of the day " —
that is to say, one of those who never actually
rise. For the men who rise are never spoken
of as " rising." Mr. Pelly was an agreeable
compound of law and gallantry. In an ingenious

way he contrived to accommodate a very respectable
practice to an unceasing adoration of those
whose names, like the great family of tea-pots,
pumps, jugs, &c., have, in vulgar phrase, handler
to their names. Neither had he that semi-mouldy
apparel to which the profession is so
partial ; but he dressed in a gay and quite
fashionable style. Neither business, nor term,
nor circuit, nor any of the excuses which so
reasonably interfere with appointments in the
case of a professional man, seemed to have any
effect in interfering with his visits and parties.
He was a man of abundant leisure, as it appeared
; and, when Lady Rosa and her husband
were known to have taken a house in town, Mr.
Pelly, Q.C., who knew her family, was the first
to call — about two o'clock, when every one knew
the Court of Chancery was sitting.

He had a very close and confidential look ;
and almost at once was struck by the thoughtful,
disturbed air about Lady Rosa. He thought,
probably, he would have liked to have had her
in his witness-box to interrogate her. But he

would have done it very politely. Besides,
here she was in the drawing-room, sitting before
him, where he could do so skilfully enough, and
without trouble.

Mr. Pelly had been in a vast number of what
are called " sensational " or dramatic cases —
which, in truth, mean a great deal of histrionic
effort for the counsel, judges, and witnesses
engaged, but little satisfaction to the litigants.
Nothing entails such genuine interest as
dramas of this description. There is more
general publicity attends such advocacy, and
the incidents of such advocacy, than any
amount of speechifying in the House of
Commons.

Mr. Pelly was a ladies' man, too, and was
fond of paying visits to the Lady Mary and
Lady Eosas of society. With them — elegantly
dressed, curled, and oiled, and white-vested —
he would sit, take his tea, and tell them the
general news. And now this shrewd counsellor
came to call on Lady Eosa Benbow. He found
her at home, but very absent and distraite.

But, when he came to a certain subject, she
became attentive.

By the way, have you seen Mr. Benbow of
late ? I met a man who was at the Duke's with
him, and he said Benbow went on in the
strangest way. People there thought he was a
little touched. Then there was an actress
there—"

*• Yes ; that woman — she should never have
been let into the house. I don't know what
was over my father. Though he almost went
on his knees to get her asked."

You don't say so ! How very mysterious ! "

I could not tell half the strange things in

o o

connection. But we shall have them all cleared
up — I am determined on that — the moment
Charles is able to get out. Another part of the
proceeding was their keeping us away after we
had agreed to «:o. But I would have o-one
down myself, only for Charles."

It might make a romance. Depend upon
it, it is some secret — some old questionable bit
of work, done fifty years ago — and which this

woman has knowledge of. It often happens in
successful families. They talk of that familiar
skeleton in the cupboard ; but that is hardly
the description. No prudent people would keep
such a thing ; they would have the old bones
thrown out, or got rid of in some way. No ; it
is more that Sword of Damocles swinging away
over a man's head, even at the great State
dinners — as the waiters call them — when he
dines out."

It was amazing how this idea of the Sword
always rose in every one's mind in distant connection
with the unhappy hero of this narrative.
Indeed, in his face seemed to be written the
whole story of that Sword and its fatal motion.
Or was it that its shadow seemed to be slowly
and fitfully cast across it every now and again —
some uneasy and nervous twitch which betrayed
his inward thoughts ?

"It is very odd," went on the barrister, "the
number of men, of even distinguished families,
who have some such secret involved. It comes
out before us in the profession. I have rather

a fancy for getting on the track of such cases.
The attorneys know my taste, and often come
to me.

Lady Eosa started.

You might help me in this, Mr. Pelly. Tell
me what you think of it — how to go about and
discover the truth, which I would give the world
to do. If you only knew how it is worrying me
and worrying him, who thinks all is much worse
than it appears to be. He thinks of his family.
And really, Mr. Pelly, I get nervous when the
strange disclosures in families you speak of
occur to me. What would you say was the
solution ? "

I could not tell," he said, " without the
facts being regularly briefed to me. But you
can do that, Lady Rosa ; and it will be the first
time I have been instructed by so agreeable an
attorney."

When she had told him all, he thought for a
little while, then said :

The way to begin, as it seems to me, would
be to find out about that woman — the actress :

meet her, speak with her, and she will probably
let out some clue."

But where ? — how ? " she answered.

"Oh, if that is all, I can manage that ; nay, I
dare say could contrive to bring her to London,
if not to you. You will see it does not require
much detective genius ; for I know Toboggin
and Lay, and the actors, and am graciously taken
behind the scenes. They have agents in all
directions. And who is she ? what is her
name ? "

Everingham. But I don't wish this to, be
known — to Charles particularly ; or, indeed, that
an actress is to be mentioned at all. I should
not like his father to be degraded in his eyes."

Lady readers may guess the reason of this
caution. She recalled the old tendresse — or what
seemed a tendresse — and thought that prudence
might now leave that old folly untouched.

Yes," he went on, as he rose to go, " there
lies the secret, depend upon it. You recollect
the old police question, ' Who is she ? ' But I
shall make all the inquiries necessary, and in a

VOL. III. o

day or two shall come to report progress to
you?'

So saying, the agreeable barrister, who thus
combined practice of two sorts, took his leave.
Lady Rosa remained looking scornfully in the
glass.

It all comes," she said to herself, " from this
alliance, which my father would bring about —
money and rank ! I love Charles ; but I always
suspected that father of his. No man gets to
wealth and power from a low station without
some mean and tortuous actions. No matter.
He may do what he pleases about himself, but
he shall not drag us down. We have nothing todo
with him. And if he dares to bring disgrace
on us, on his own — his own head let it be."

Mr. Pelly, Q.C., had not over-stated his
theatrical interest. He often found his way
behind the scenes, and knew those managers
intimately ; had them to dinner, and was
friendly with the captains and lieutenants. Heat
once repaired to Toboggin, found him at
home, and opened his business.

To be sure," said that artist, " I have heard
of her. She is certain to be in town here before
long. Some of the 'Promoters,' as I call them,
are after her already. I mean those fellows who
take a theatre as a speculation. But Froggatt
will tell you all about her."

Now, who is Froggatt ? "

Oh, Froggatt is an agent ; scours all England
for * talent ; ' hires all the players right and
left. Very clever fellow, Froggatt."

Mr. Pelly went straight to Mr. Froggatt, who,
to his surprise, addressed him by his name.

I remember you perfectly, sir. I was cross-examined
by you in the case of the English
Garrick v. Murray, the manager. You got a
verdict for Garrick, but he has never done anything
since, except in the quart-pot direction.
I always said there never was anything in him."

Except what he got out of the quart-pot,"
said Mr. Pelly, smiling.

He then sat down and opened his case.

** How curious," said the agent. " My dear
sir, why I have that very matter in hand now.

O 2

Wallace, the manager of the Pantheon, is anxious
to bring her to town ; and I went down to see
her. A splendid creature — certain to draw —
great stage gifts."

Oh, you saw her act ? "

No, I can't say that I did. But she will fill.
Fine face and fixture over the foot-lights ! But
very hard to deal with : takes airs rather ; wants
people to go on their knees to her. However,
all in good time— all in our own time. But
what can I do for you, Mr. Pelly, in that direction
? You don't want to eno-acre her ? Not
turning manager, like so many gentlemen now ? "

No ; it is quite an unprofessional business
altogether, I assure you. I merely want her
address for some friends."

Well, she will be in town in a few days, and
I shall send it to you then."

Mr. Pelly departed and went to court.

The " few days " went bv, and he received a
despatch from the agent, telling him it was in
Craven Street, Strand.

AVith some curiosity, he repaired there ; for he

was rather anxious to see this heroine who was
causing so much trouble in a noble family. Fie
had some difficulty in obtaining entrance ; and,
when he saw her, started at the fine fiofare and
classical face of the actress. She was standing
up, and surveyed him ^vith an inquiring eve,
which, on the stage, seemed to signify, " What
means this intrusion, sir ? "

Mr. Pelly felt a little diffidence in explaining ;
but he was a man of readiness and of many
resources ; and he at once leaped to the conclusion
that to merely touch on the subject of
those she might dislike would be sufficient for an
introduction. So he said :

I am acquainted with Mr. Charles Benbow
and Lady Eosa."

Her face changed at once to an expression of

eagerness.

*then they have sent you to me. What is
your name ? who are you ? "
He told her.

Then she asked, " Of what profession ? "
And he had to reply to that also.

Oh ! I begin to see," she said, smiling.
Well, go on. Begin. What did they tell you
to arrange ? "

Mr. Pelly thought his best course was to
surrender.

'' You are right," he said, " I must own it. I
am a friend of all the parties concerned ; and I
must tell you that these strange proceedings
down at Banff have been the cause of gossip
and stories, which, as you know, in the case of
families, is never desirable. I can assure you
there are most unpleasant things said about Mr.
Benbow, really so disagreeable, and even painful,
I should not like to repeat them. And now I
would put it to you whether this is agreeable to
all the parties concerned."

Oh," she said quickly, *' so he sent you here.
He has many agents, it seems."

On the word of a gentleman, no. T assure
you I do not know him, nor have I heard from
him ; but T feel for him, and all that. I believe
he has suffered."

Her eyes were straining eagerly.

*' Oh, he has suffered, has he ? "

*' He is so changed, his friends say they hardly
know him. In fact, they seem to think that he
is a little wild, or mad. But why should this
please you ? — unless some great injury had been
done to you, and then, of course," he added,
cautiously.

I have not said so — or, at least, should not
say so to a gentleman who is a mere stranger tome
; especially to one who has come to investigate
— to make out all he can about me and from
me, to please his lady friends."

Oh, I assure you — " *

Oh, you will not deny it, I am certain ; you
are too much of a gentleman. But I cannot tell
you anything. I may not. Still, you are a
barrister ; and, I am sure, are quick-witted
enough to guess. There is no frightful mystery
about it. Suppose that I know something, and
have a hold over Mr. Benbow. I neither deny
nor admit it. But there is nothing wonderful in
such a thing. You are welcome to go back and
tell that much to those who sent you. Further,

they may know this : that this is but the beginning
; more is to come by-and-by, which will
surprise you, and the world, and — least of all —
Mr. Benbow.

Mr. Pelly rose to go.

My intentions were good in coming here,
that I can assure you. I always think of that
French proverb about washing linen. I am sure
you will forgive me if 1 advise you to be cautious.
It is much better to be quiet, and arrange these
things."

It might be impossible to arrange this.
Good morning."

HEMMED IN.

We had left Mr. Benbow in his castle, somewhat
cheered as he saw that the clouds were
breaking, and prepared to exert himself calmly
to prevent these terrible dangers overtaking him.
As soon as he had arranged his more pressing
affairs, he felt he must go straight to town, and
see his son and daughter. His son had been ill,
so paternal anxiety might be a very justifiable
excuse. He started, found out their house ;
and, shown into the drawing-room, was presently
confronted by the cold gaze of his daughter-in-law,
Lady Rosa. It was the first time they had
met for a long time, and he felt not a little
nervous. Her stern face, as she stood before
him, disquieted him not a little.

I am glad you have come," she said. " It is
high time that all these strange proceedings,
which are getting to be the talk of the world,
should be explained. Sit down, and tell me
calmly all from the beginning. You must see
yourself, as a man of the world, that things
cannot stay as they are. They must be explained
; or, if explanation is refused, there must
be investigation."

Mr. Benbow lauojlied.

My dear Rosa, don't humiliate me more than
you can help. I would forget all that is past if
I could ; but I have explained the whole to the
Duke already. It would be painful to me to go
over it again. Have indulgence for this wild
folly, which, I can tell you, is at an end, and
shall never recur again."

I don't understand," she said coldly.
Again I ask for an explanation why you tried
to prevent our coming to my father's house."

'•' Don't — don't, please ! I am ashamed. It
was but a temporary weakness. And my son,
too — what would he think of his father ? "

Oh, he shall not know, that I engage. He
knows nothing at this moment."

Good. That was too good."

Mr. Benbow's shrewd eyes twinkled. This
was a relief and at the same time a hold over her.
She was as afraid as he was lest her husband
should come in contact with the charms of this
siren, and revive the old attachment under far
more dangerous conditions.

If you must know," he said, " then you both
must know. I would prefer having you for a
confidant, though my son might judge me less
harshly. But you, my dear Lady Rosa, with
your penetration and tact, you can see how this
is. It was a temporary infatuation, and it only
required a little strength of mind to overcome it.
It will all end now ; for, thank Heaven, the
temptation will be removed. The broad Atlantic
will be between me and it."

He looked at her steadily, to see the effect.
She looked back at him as steadily. She felt
she was not a match for him.

"This explanation," she said slowly, "does

not quite fit with the impressions of others.
There are some who say that your behaviour was
more that of a man with some terrible family
secret, which he was afraid of having disclosed."

Who says so ? Who dares to say so ? " he
said, furiously. *' I have had too much of this,
Lady Eosa — first from your father, now from
you. Suspicious looks — doubts — called on to
account, to explain ! I'll have no more. I'm
weary of it. End out for yourself this terrible
family secret, if you wish it — if you can I I
have trailed myself in the dust before you —
exposed a weakness unbecoming my age and
character — and you want more ! I'll not give
it ! There ! Find it out for yourself ! "

She looked at him, with surprise. This
warmth, it seemed to him, quite staggered her,
and made her ashamed of such suspicions. She
seemed convinced by his earnestness, and remained
silent.

Again Mr. Benbow had played well. His old
cunning had returned. He rose up.

*snow," he said, " let me see Charles. I

understand quite. He must know nothing, of
course."

Mr. Benbow then went in ; saw his son, who
was still a little weak ; talked to him, and made
him accept his views, whatever they were.
Finally, he departed triumphant, and happier
than he had felt for a long time. Difficulties
were disappearing. The Sword had become
almost imperceptible.

When he had reached home, there was a
grand dinner, to which he was repairing at a
neighbouring lord's, and where he was made
exceeding much of — flattered, courted, listened
to deferentially, consulted. Then he came home,
and there found a letter waiting for him, the
handwriting of which he well knew. It seemed
to awaken and startle him — her handwriting 1
Its contents startled him still more :

No. A thousand times, no ! I decline your
offers. I have received an engagement at a
great London theatre. The chance I have long
been waiting for has arrived at last. The world
shall now hear of me, and I shall take care that

all London rings with my name. Under other
circumstances I might have complied with your
wishes, or accepted your offer. But this makes
it impossible. So I give you timely warning.
This day week I come before the public in my
old character of Pauline.

Lydia Effingham."

For a long time he sat staring at the paper, as
if it were a death-warrant. Gradually his face
sank — sank slowly. In a few moments, the
whole confidence and elation which had lately
played in his face had gradually disappeared,
and had given place to a look that seemed one
of hopeless agony and despair. It was no use
resisting — no use struggling to repair losses.
Any barriers he set up were swept away like
something set up to check a torrent. It was allover,
and he had best submit. He should never
make the slightest exertion more to stay the
march of destiny. As he thought, there was the
flash over his head — in his eyes — and the
terrible Sword waving furiously ! Let it fall

upon his head — better and more welcome now
than later !

With the next day, however, he was in town
again, drawn there by the morbid restlessness
which brought back Sides to London, The
whole day he went about the streets ; and shopkeepers,
policemen, lawyers, noticed the wild,
incoherent man, now posting along, now lingering
vacantly, now glaring furiously ; and looked
after him as he passed them, wondering. At
every one of those boards he stopped and
studied. He devoured all the notices in the
papers, but could find nothing. ^

At last he entered one of those half music
shops where boxes for operas and theatres are
let ; and the owner, obsequiously bending and
offering his service, was not a little taken back
by the manner and the almost fierceness of the
wild-looking gentleman who sought his assistance.

I want to find out a new actress," he said,
who is to appear next week at some of these
theatres. I have hunted all day ; but I mit
find her."

What was the lady's name ? "

Mr. Benbow almost glared at him suspiciously.
There was no need to tell that. Surely he must
know of such an event as a new and beautiful
actress coming forward !

Well," said the agent, " that is now so
common. There are three or four at this
moment coming forward ; in fact, if we trust the
papers or the managers, every new actress is
beaut iful.'*

Well, there is one ; and it is your business
to know."

Stay," said an assistant in the shop, to his
principal ; " there was some announcement at
the foot of Fowler's bill."

And, going out, he brought in one of the
boards which recline languidly at the doors of
such places, and on which was set out the
programme of the Koyal Duchess Theatre, on
which were the usual self-commendations : —
'' Glorious unabated success ! Fiftieth night of
On the Boards,' pronounced by the united
London press to be the grandest triumph of

realism ever yet attempted at any theatre ! A
real four-in-hand driven across the stage ! '*

The assistant was reading through all this
with a secret unction, glad of the excuse, when he
was interrupted impatiently by Mr. Benbow :

Miss Everingham, the Cleopatra-actress, will
make her first appearance in a play specially
suited to her attractions and gifts, entitled ' The
Lady of Lyons.' "

Everingham ! There it was again ! This
was not the old name so terrible to him ; yet
a strange and infallible instinct seemed to proclaim
to him that under this disguise there
was other menace. Still, though, it was a
shelter, a protection. He might again escape.
Who knew her in that great city ? Who knew
of that obscure playhouse ? He was somewhat
relieved ; but, still, what was he to do ? Go to
her ? Never ! He would not humble himself
before her any more. No ; he should leave her
to work out the black villainy ; he could not
trust himself near her, lest he should be tempted

VOL. III. p

to crush or stamp upon her, as he would upon
some noxious beetle. But, then, there was one
politic course before him — to keep jealous watch
over his son, and interpose when danger came.
The engagement, he discovered, was to last buta
fortnight ; if he could tide over that ! A plan,
indeed, occurred to him : that he might seek
the manager, and artfully put before him
arguments that would make him dismiss her.
But he had had a lesson already as to the
danger of that.

He went to his son's, and found him much
recovered, and sitting up in the drawing-room ;
and, with a smiling, airy way, greeted him.
He was so enchanted to see him recovering.
He was coming to stay in town for a week or
so, and would they put him up ? He might
help him, too. Charles was a good and
affectionate son, after all ; and this austerity of
his wife was a little chilling to him ; so he
welcomed this proposal with true ardour.

Lady Rosa, when she entered and was told of
it, looked at him searchingly, as who should say

"What plot, or ' game is this, now?" But
she made no objection. It would be hard,
indeed, to discover any signs of such in Mr.
Benbow's manner or bearing, for nothing could
be more free, or less constrained, than his present
temper. He seemed determined to remove all
impression of his previous strange conduct ; and
he almost succeeded, even with her.

All this time, however, as he walked through
the London streets, that Sword was waving away
furiously over his head ; nay, to him it seemed
to be swinging in his very heart — flying backwards
and forwards, cutting and slashing him as
it flew. He had found out the obscure theatre,
which was not so wholly obscure as he hoped ; '
and he hovered about its dark, cavern-looking:
stage-door, drawn by an irresistible fascination.
To his family he was out " on business ; " but
that was nearly the whole business that detained
him. It was a strange spectacle to see — as some
of the grimy supers did — that peering, wild-looking
gentleman hovering about the place ;
affecting to be passing by accident, " hanging

P 2

about ; " ' and, at last, standing in a shop which
commanded a view of it, and from whose door
peered out that anxious face again.

While he stayed with his son, the days
dragging by wearily, that old feeling which had
grown up between them — and especially between
him and Lady Rosa — was passing away gradually.
They were beginning to be persuaded that
it was " only a little overstraining of the mind ; "
and, indeed, this view was confirmed by the
great fashionable doctor, who dined a great deal
among political and literary men, and knew well
the peculiar shapes of " break-down " to which
they where subject. But, as even the best
motives have a certain earthy sediment, there
might have been something; else which had to do
with this complacent condonation on the part of
his family. And this was what Mr. Benbow
told his son, that he was now working for him
and that one darling scheme remained to be
worked out. Father and son were sitting
together, and the former spoke very tenderly and
sorrowfully.

I feel quite worn out," he said. " As you
know, all my life has been one weary struggle.
Even machinery gets worn out, and now I find
every day I more and more want spring. It is
time for me, I am sure."

"My dear father, why do you talk in this
desponding way ? You have many years before

you."

Ah ! last year. Yes. But it has all
gone since then. Since then I seem to have
lost everything — hope, enjoyment of the world,
everything. However, if I can but live to get
what has been promised to me, and what is
my right — that is, to get it for you — I shall be
content."

A peerage ! " said Charles.

You think it a dream. No ; it will
take some little time still ; but it shall be
done. And now, my dearest boy — for whom I
have worked and slaved all my life — in return
for all this, you could not think ill of me ;
you could not suppose — as was hinted tome
some time ago — that I would have done

anything from base motives ; and if there be any
act of mine that should look a little doubtful,
you will set it down to the best motives — and to
that best of motives, your happiness. Even men
like prime ministers — the most leading persons of
the State — who have had a career, even these
must have passages they would not quite like
to look back to, but would rather forget."

To be sure, father. I quite understand
that. Even in this election of mine, there were
things I said — and, possibly, did too — which I
am not very proud of."

*^ Exactly !" said the father, eagerly. "And
where there are enemies — bitter, unscrupulous
enemies — such as I have had ; people that have
laid themselves out during their whole life to
harass and hunt a man — it is no wonder if hebe
strange in manner or odd. But never mind.
Now, dear Charles, I have my whole thought on
this one point, and you shall live and die a
peer ; and I shall make you a promise about
it : that you shall wear the coronet soon. /
have too much weight as it is on this foreheads

He said this so piteously that his son was
quite touched ; but these brilliant prospects
dazzled him, as, perhaps, the father intended
they should.

THE Sword.

In this state of mind, Mr. Benbow underwent
slow torture. It was no wonder that his
hair appeared to be growing whiter, and that
a worn and haggard expression seemed to be
permanently settled on his face. It was a sort
of look, half piteous, half of pain, that glanced
about eagerly and quickly, from one to another
face, with eager inquiry. And thus the day
bore him on, nearer and yet nearer, which was
to bring the first appearance of his enemy on
the scene.

What schemes came into his head as he paced
about all that day, thinking it would never pass
by ! Was she not his enemy — his cruel, deadly
enemy — to be treated as one would treat a dog

or wild beast, who should be shot down or killed
in some fashion ? With these ideas, for the
moment, it occurred to him that this first appearance
was to him all-important ; that if it
was successful it would be sheer ruin ; for his
son and his wife were young people, and would
presently hear the details of any remarkable and
brilliant " hit."

Some demon — so he called it a few minutes
later — whispered to him that it was mere self-preservation
to try and hinder this issue ; and
that if he could procure a band of men to
go up and crowd the theatre, and make shire
that she did not succeed — but no ! We are not
accountable for the thoughts that merely suggest
themselves, provided they are not entertained
as guests. And Mr. Benbow, with all his difficulties
and miserable, harassing position, remained
a gentleman to the end. And from this
notion he turned away.

That night his son and daughter were giving
a dinner party. But Mr. Benbow said he could
not be present. He had another engagement.

This seemed a little strange ; but they made
no remark. As the guests arrived, he took his
way towards the theatre — a large building — one
of those profitless, speculative new houses, built
as a man with money might open a shop — for
the sake of diverting profit from its neighbours,
but without any thought of its being called forby
the demand. It was a large temple of the
drama; and the manager, Mr. Hurdle, had
engaged this provincial actress very much ashe
would take up a dice-box and throw.

Mr. Benbow entered the large house, and,
after a little hesitation, chose the darkness of
the second tier, in which he shrank away concealed
; then stole a look round the house.
Strange to say, it seemed full, very full. That
hasty glance made him tremble. Full ! how
was this ? They had told him that the theatre
was a languishing one ; that it was likely to
be closed very soon — in a few days. But he
did not count on the ^ magic of two spells, invaluable
to any dramatic necromancer who
would conjure with them — a beautiful woman

and a romantic play. He hadn't seen in the
shop windows the artful bait of a glowing
portrait — a beseeching face, fine hair all let
down — beautifully coloured, before which many
eager faces had clustered. Neither had he read,
in some of the cheaper papers, various puffs
preliminary, which had pointed to this shape
of attraction. And there, too, was the admirable,
ever-drawing piece of the " immortal Bulwer
Lytton," as the country manager called him,
still to exert its attraction, and gather the
honest, simple, eager natures in from the highways
and byways.

With what strange feelings did he again
prepare to follow the history of that piece, now
growing quite familiar to him ! Somehow he
seemed to think that it was to be associated
ever with his destiny. He seemed to himself
to be in a dream, and yet to be following its
incidents with amazing interest. Yes ; there
was Pauline, splendid, more dazzling than ever ;
and her very presence bringing down a tumultuous
roar of applause and greeting ! It seemed

to him the wild jangle of a number of funeral
bells, gone mad and pulled by demons at his very
ear. Such was the strange imaoje his disordered
fancy supplied for the sound of a crowd clapping
and shouting.

She looked superb indeed 1 Her voice was
like a silver bell; there was poetry in every
movement and attitude. To him, far off as he
was, the genius that was in her made her look
like some picture.

So the play began and went on ; the gardener's
son, played now by a different sort of person
the whole was romantic and absorbing. At
the end of the first act there was enthusiasm ;
and, according to the usual formula of approbation,
she was called before the curtain. Then
came the next acts. Never was there such grace
and tenderness, such love ! Mr. Benbow felt his
lips curl, his teeth grinding, as he said :

Consummate hypocrite ! How she shams
these emotions ! "

Yet he could not resist the spell. And once,
when she was led out, found himself joining in

the applause. At last it came to an end. The
applause and enjoyment were so unmistakable
and genuine, that he read in a dim, dusky crowd
below, as though it were a Babylonian wall,
the mystic letters, "Mene, tekel, Upharsin,"
which he translated "Success and furore!'^
Yes ; this was just what would take — the beautiful
face and lovable acting — the vulgar would
rush to see.

Alas ! here was the end coming once more.
He went home he knew not how, and went
up stairs. The party had not broken up ; and
half mechanically, he turned into his son's
drawing-room. Some of the guests started when
they saw this wild-eyed man, who then looked
round on them fiercely, recovered himself, and,
turning abruptly, quitted the room.

MISS EVERINGHAM.

With the morning, he came down betimes,
and seized on the newspapers, which had just
come in. Almost at once his eye lighted on
large letters — a long critique — and the words,
"Miss Everingham," "Miss Everingham," often
repeated, seemed to dance up and down before
his eyes, bewildering him, as though some one
was waving a dark lantern. Yes ; there was
the leading journal, the leading critic, whose
sentence could make or destroy ; not mere conventional
praise, but long, minute, and elaborate
commendation. A "new power added to the
stage;" "exquisite grace — womanly tenderness
refinement — a perfect heroine ! " and so on,
through a column nearly of excellent writing.

Never had this critic spoken in this partial strain
without telling effect. It will tell now, indeed.
He took up the next paper : raptures again,
of the conventional sort — tenderness — exquisite
grace — new power added to the stage. He
looked at a third paper : it was the same The
penny papers were almost delirious in their
praises ; and showered complimentary epithets,
as a boxer would strike out wildly. It was too
plain. Her success was to be one of the sensations
of the day — something to be talked of
all over London, and become a nine days'
wonder. He understood perfectly how this
would furnish subject for small talk ; how the
fashionable people, at their dinners and balls,
would talk and simper, and ask each, other had
they been to see the new actress ? He knew
the regular procedure ; and how far these fade,
empty creatures would welcome with delight
something to fill up their vacuous thoughts, and
would crowd to see.

It was to fall out precisely as he anticipated.
Before two days had passed by, the graver and

more solid organs that appear every week had
taken the subject up, under the title of " The
New Actress ; " with a grave and elaborate criticism
of all points and merits — " the exquisite
beauty of her face." But it was within a few
days more, when young Mr. Benbow had a few
fashionable friends to dinner, that the fatal
discovery came about. All through the meal
the Sword swung slowly over his head ; and
among the guests was Mr. Conway, who had just
run up *' to town," and had been secured by his
old friend, whose style of agreeable conversation
was incessant putting of questions, on whom
he pitched with an almost certainty as the
vehicle which was to bring mischief to him.
This was a Mr. Easy.

*' But," said this gentleman, during dessert, and
very suddenly, 'have you seen the wonder —
the new actress — the most lovely creature in the
world ? Lord Lufton says she is the most
striking woman in London."

Into Mr. Benbow's face, talking to his neighbour
on some indifferent subject, came a nervous,
anxious expression.

Who is she ? Where does she act ? "

Lydia Ev^eringham ; and she plays in ' The
Lady of Lyons.' "

The father saw the colour desert his son's face
He became ghastly pale, and started.

Are you sure ? " he cried. " Is that the
name — quite ? Oh ! it can't be."

Oh, it is, I assure you ! " said a young guest,
quite business-like in his fashionable information.

*' And I must tell you it is quite the thing to
go and see her. Lord Mantower and Lady
Long, of Eaton, were at the box-office begging
for stalls yesterday, and could not get them.
She won't stay long at that theatre, I can tell.
Destine or Dabster will be trying to get her."

The young man was greatly excited.

It is so strange," he said.

But a look from his father settled on him — a
sort of half warning, half-imploring look.

Well, then," said the guest, " why not go
and see for ourselves ? I tell you what — would
you care to make up a party ? If you would I
think I could manage the places."

VOL. III.

'' Yes," said the other, still confused. " What
would you say, Eosa ? "

She had her eyes on Mr, Benbow steadily and
searchingly fixed.

I should like it of all things ! " she answered.
"We know a stood deal about her. We must
go, certainly."

mr. Benbow afterwards thought of the ghastly
smile that must have been on his face as he
appeared to enter heartily into the proposal.

"To be sure ! let us g^o. I should like it of
all things. A fine-looking actress on the boards
has always an attraction for even old fellows. I
am not ashamed to own it."

'' Oh, yes, you will come too ; we will make
quite a large party."

The only thing is," said Mr. Benbow, in
the same forced enjoyment, " I must admire
Lady Eosa's courage in trusting him near such
dangers. There was a little history, which, I
dare say, she suspects ; and there was a certain
lady on the state who save me not a little
trouble — eh, Charles ? "

The young man looked with a strangely
confounded air. Surely this was the effrontery
of desperation. Yet, it was so well and effectively
done that it had the most perfect effect.

I know I can get a box," said the friend.
*' There is Pelly, who knows the manager, and
all managers ; we can depend on him. Let us
say tomorrow night. That will suit you, Mr.
Benbow ? "

The other smiled, but not so successful a smile
as some of his other smiles. That superhuman
endurance was gradually weakening.

Oh, you know Mr. Pelly, then ? Oh, then,
let us go ; and you can all come back to supper
here. We can depend on you for the box."

Very well, then ; that's all settled," said
Mr. Benbow ; " and we shall have a regular
expedition."

Mr. Conway, taking leave, gaily said, " You
know I have important affairs of my own waiting
for me in the country."

To his astonishment, Mr. Benbow said bitterly :
*' Take care they do not turn out as wretchedly

Q 2

as you have managed this for me. I owe you
all this."

As he got to his room that night he repeated
the words :

Yes, all is now settled. All for the best ! "
He caught sight of his face in the glass over
the chimney-piece, and almost started at its
ghastly aspect.

Yes, it will be for the best. I could not
endure this strain any longer. Let this infernal
Sword, which loss forged in Hades ^ come down
on my head and end all."

At this moment he heard a tap at the door,
and his son entered.

The son started as he saw him.
My God, father ! are you ill ? But I wanted
to see you, to ask you — good heavens, father !
could there be any terrible mistake about this
actress ? The Christian name and surname so
like, and the same play."

All the muscles in the father's face were
quivering ; his lips were trembling, as he tried
to force them to take the shape of a smile.

*^ I am ill," he said. *^ Charles, I think I have
overdone it ; though, indeed, I have been doing
that all through my life."

But this actress ? "

Nonsense. She has only taken another
name. Has heard of the success of the other,
and wished to trade on it."

Oh ! father, this won't do. I have some
horrid instinct that this has something to do
with her. Oh, if it should — if her death — My
God ! we may be on the brink of a precipice.
I must go off to the theatre at once, and see if
it be the same."

Mr. Benbow again shook from head to foot ;
but his ghastly smile came back to his face.

*' My dear boy, don't be foolish. Think of
Eosa, who is not likely to be pleased at such
proceedings. I assure you, you ought to be
cautious in this matter. Take my advice, leave
it till tomorrow night. It will be time enough
then. If you are not well enough to go — "

Oh, I faust go. If I were dying I must go.
I cannot endure the suspense."

To be sure," said his father ; *' and we shall
make a very pleasant party. Good night."

The son thought that the father was gay
that night ; but the miserable man had a more
miserable night before him.

"It is now at an end," he said to himself.
"I am quite weary of all this. They are all
determined to force the end on me. Let it
come ! I am ready."

The whole of that night he spent in writing
or in arranging some papers that he had with
him. It was, indeed, high time that it all
ended. Who shall say that this poor baited
soul had not had enough of trial and suffering,
beyond his strength ? It was, indeed, growing
unendurable. He was sick at heart, and weary.
The cold, sickly, grey light came stealing in,
and found him shivering and still at work.
Then he lay down, and, with staring eyes, lay
there till it was time to come down. And this
was the successful Mr. Benbow !

There was a whole day's wretched acting
before him. Again his son came to him, in a

shrinking, timorous fashion. He, too, had had
a wretched night.

I have this terrible presentiment, father," he
said, *rover me. This day will drag through,
till I see her to-nio[ht."

It is all a delusion, my dear boy, I tell you
again. I knew at the time — and investigated
the matter — that she was dead. For Heaven's
sake don't let such a bogie trouble you as this.
Wait till to-night, and by tomorrow you will find
the matter will be settled. I engage that. So
promise me that you will not trouble yourself
about it until to-night. Then you will be convinced."


The day wore slowly on. Mr. Benbow, it
was noted later, was singularly busy, hurrying
about : now with his solicitor ; now writing
diligently. His face, as he appeared on the
stairs for a moment, passing and re-passing,
struck both his son and daughter as something
almost weird-like, and filled her with a sort of
pity. So that she went up to him, took his
hands kindly, and said :

*' You must be ill, dear father, and must
take care of yourself. I am afraid you are
sadly harassed with something. Why not confide
in him— in us ? "

He looked at her with an indescribable
anguish.

If ever," he said, " you were to come to
think that I had done you any injury, at a
time when I might not have the opportunity
of justifying myself, I ask you now, beforehand,
not to believe that I intended it. In my life
I have done many things, and been olio-ed todo
many things, which may have hurt others ;
but in your case, as I live, I am innocent ! I
had no intention, no matter what may be the
appearance. No, as I live or die ! "

My dear sir, what are you saying ? I never
dreamed of such a thing. What can you mean ?
Put all such things far away from you."

**Ah, one of these days strange things wide
said of me ; as, indeed, there will be of everyone.
But you will be indulgent, I know."

This was about four o'clock in the day. Their

dinner was to be early — at six ; after which they
were to go and see the play. It was served
punctually at the hour, when there had arrived
the Duke, Mr. Pelly, Q.C., and some other
gentlemen. But Mr. Benbow had not come
in. They waited a few minutes ; then went to
dinner. His son was a little nervous and expectant
as the night drew on. His father was
so odd and curious of late — so unpunctual, too
that they were not much surprised. It was
a very pleasant party.

HOW THE SECRET WAS KEPT.

Mr. Benbow went out, down to the riverside,
close to Westminster Bridge, and remained
a long time leaning with his elbows on the
parapet, looking down in the water. '' That's
he thought, " would resolve much " — a simple,
everyday solution. As he looked up into the
bright sky — the great arch that was over London
he felt that the glittering Sword seemed to
catch the light, and he turned his eyes downwards
again into the running water.

Up and down crossed each of the little
steamers, darting past, like little minnows ina
brook ; and, down the stairs slowly, he goton
board one of these '^ penny boats," and was
borne away down the river.

He got out at the Temple Pier. In one of
the old cellar-like courts of that place he knew
a poor and lonely barrister — a relation of his,
whom he rarely, and in desperate emergency,
had assisted. This poor legal bat, or owl — who
in the world outside was such a bird, flapping
about with comfort in the darkness about his
roost — was called Gates ; and to him the great
Mr. Benbow now came to pay a visit.

This poor mule-eyed drudge lifted his eyes in
wonder as his kinsman entered, and made almost
as thonah he would otovcI before him.

I want advice on a law matter," said Mr.
Benbow, coming to the point ; " and, you know
my way, I give fees myself without wasting
money on an attorney. There."

And he put money down on the table.

I shall come and consult you in the morning
; meanwhile, will you let me have the loan
of these rooms for a few hours ? Suppose you
go and dine in the City ; dine well and heartily.
There."

He put some more money down on the table.

Do that, and I shall not ask to see the bill.
Now, will you go ? "

The lawyer did not wait, but hurried out,
leaving his patron in those bare, blighted rooms
two chairs, a shattered old desk, and a ragged
range of books.

Mr. Benbow was left alone. He heard the
clock down at Westminster pealing out six
o'clock. Another hour and a half and his son
would be at the theatre ; the lamps lighted.
In two hours the figure of that woman would
be revealed upon the stage ; the footlights
blazing on her face. His son's would have
rested on hers; and then — a cry; and that
killing infamy and disgrace be all revealed !

What a disgrace ! Unutterable villainy !
Police — newspapers — all the world talking of
it at breakfast next day ! And that poor, good
family — that poor girl so betrayed ! He was
hurrying — he, the respectable Mr. Benbow,
friend of Cabinet Ministers, candidate for peerage,
the successful man — to this vile exposure,
now, at almost, only an hour and a half off !

Well, there was an end coming ; that, at
least, was welcome. By morning it would be
over. Still, there was something to be done
yet. And, going to the rickety window, all
grimed with dirt, he looked out anxiously.

Was she coming ? It was now growing dark.
Lights began to glimmer in the windows round
the courts — all, also, so grimy and dark that
they looked like a number of old horn lanterns ;
and round about him were weak eyes, wasting
mould and tallow candles, yellow papers enough
to make a great pile in the yard ; but, among all
the living spirits at work around him, there
was not one, he knew, waiting for such a
sentence as he was, or with such a terrible
Sword — the thread half worn through — suspended
over his head.

Hush ! here was a muffled figure of a woman
in the centre of the court, looking up to the sky !
How would she find his grim cell ?

So he hurried down, went out to join her,
and brought her up-stairs. As she entered, she
threw off her cloak, and he saw she was dressed

for her part — as superb and dazzling a Pauline •
as ever walked the stare.

I can only stay a quarter of an hour. You
know what is before me to-night ; but I did not
like to refuse such an earnest request."

"Yes," he said, *just as the gaolers, governor,
&c., of a prison are humanely indulgent to a
prisoner on the day of his execution. It is
idle, I suppose, to appeal to you any more ? "

'* Perfectly," she said. "The hour has come
at last, and the woman, too ! Thank God, I
have lived for this ! "

That impious profanity is of a piece with
the rest. Take care He does not still interpose.
Charles may not come, after all."

*'No fear of that. He must be dull, indeed, if
he have not a suspicion. At eight o'clock that
suspicion will be resolved. Fancy that tableau !
The noble family — the high-bred girl — the great
Mr. Benbow, who had villainously planned this
bigamy ! Forgery, poisoning, embezzlement —
these are everyday things, even with persons of
your station. But this — this is real disgrace !

Thank Heaven ! I had the patience to wait —
to wait patiently for all this. There were fearful
odds against me. What was I likely to do with
a great potentate like you ? But, waiting, it
all camel's

Demon of a woman, what does this mean ?
What have I done to you ? Tell me now at
the end ; for, I own it, you have levelled me
indeed — destroyed me ! Give me this satisfaction."


I want to give you nothing in that way ;
and if I were to tell you, it would not be, yoii
may be sure, for your satisfaction. You deserve
nothing from either Heaven or earth, from God
or man. If you dare to speak of me as a
demon, you ! " — and here her eyes flashed fire —
But I am only a minister of justice, of
retribution ! "

Of justice," he faltered.

Yes, of justice ! Are your worldly wits so
dull that you consider that all I have planned,
and all I have done to you, is meaningless — a
whim, a mere purposeless humour of mine ? "

He looked at her with a fresh terror, and at
the same time, with a new intelligence.

Call me demon ! Call me rather the Angel
of Vengeance ! Ask me for mercy ! Is it possible
that you can complacently suppose that
all through your long, unscrupulous life — carrying
out your own selfish ends imperiously — you
have left no traces of injustice, of cruelty, of
pitiless and merciless want of forgiveness ?
Think of that wretched man ! Was there ever
at any time one as proud as yourself, though
poorer — doing only his duty — with many depending
on him ; but who had the misfortune
to stand in your way, and who dared to say
honestly he would not stand out of it ? Was
there one who, when you had crushed him,
humbled himself in the dust for the sake of his
wife and children, actually imploring mercy,
which was refused? '^

What, what ! Gordon, the agent," he gasped.

The same ! "

"And you — his — daughter ? "

Yes. He died. You killed him. There are

no human courts and juries that can reach such
offences, or such murderers. I have done so,
and your time has come ! "

Oh I I understand it now," he said, slowly
drawing his hands away from his face. *' It is
just ; it is right. I have no protest to make.
Not another word shall I say."

One sign of mercy, of grace — if I could have
found such — and I would have spared you —
would spare you now. I have his very letter
to you — the copy — here. I never parted from
it an instant. I kept it and your answer
together ; and many a time, as I was moving
on slowly to this last act of justice, I read both
over, and was stimulated at once."

She read aloud. " Hers first : —

* For God's sake, Mr. Benbow, have pity
on us, and let not his ruin be on your soul.
After all, it was one single lapse. He thought
it was a duty, as I know well : and so may I
be reckoned with on the last day if I am not
speaking the truth. Oh, as you will be judged
hereafter forget — forgive ! Think of him — think

VOL. III. R

of me — of our poor, beautiful, tender girl ! Do
not hunt us down ! '

Now for his : —

' You are too noble and too generous, and
have been too successful, to think of revenging
yourself on one so humble as I am. We have
been enemies, and I have done my best — I own
it — to hinder your designs. You will respect
me the more for owning it. You will respect
me still more when I tell you that I would
have died rather than submit to the humiliation
of asking you for anything ; but I am not
stoical enough to see my poor wife and child
suffer. For the sake of God, in a lower degree
for the sake of pity and humanity — not for me ;
for I shall not long survive this part of the
disgrace — spare us, or you will suffer and
bitterly repent it ! ' "

She read the rest very slowly.

' More ! Our ruin will rise up one day in
au other shape. Mark me ! We know whose is
revenge ; it is not yours ! ' "

Without a word, he merely bowed his head,
made no protest, and said :

** It is just ; it is true. Let it fall."

*' It shall fall, and in half-an-hour."

Just a moment," he said, hurriedly, '' and I
will go with you. So you are his child. It
is only right that you should be the Nemesis.
Bear with me a moment ; wait here a second."

And he passed hurriedly into the next
room.

She waited a few moments, then called out :

Come back ! come back ! "

Then he came out. There was a great
chancre in his face.

Your spirit of revenge — or justice, rather,"
he said, " does not go beyond me. My humiliation
or punishment ought to be enough. You
should have mercy on my son and his innocent
wife."

'' Yes," she answered, fiercely, " it shall
begin and end with you, never fear ! But
you must come with me — you must be on the
spot. I must see your face when the discovery
is made."

A curious look came in the face she spoke

R 2

of. She noticed, too, that he was trembling
and swaying to and fro.

No," he almost gasped, " these are things
that your animosity cannot reach to, powerful
as it is. You won't degrade me so far. I am
spared that, thank Heaven."

How do you mean ? " she cried, uneasily.

No ; you cannot triumph over the laws of
immortality. It is ended here. You can do no

more."

He fell back into a chair, and shrank up literally
in a sort of convulsion.

Take me to the theatre and see the disclosure
! " he cried. " No, you cannot do that.
I shall be far beyond your power, and that of all
enemies, by that time. It is ending — ending
fast for me. And I am glad, for I am weary."

Good heavens ! what have you done ? " she
cried, turning pale. " Not — ? "

He feebly lifted a small bottle.

"What have I done? This is your work.
For you all the credit. I disdain to ask any
favour ; but at such a moment pride and revenge

might he forgotten. Spare him — spare her !
They are innocent. They have done you no
wrong. He loved you, and would have loved
you. He defied and offended me for your sake.
That is some claim at least to your forbearance
at this time. I beg — I implore."

She gazed at that miserable figure — crouching,
contracted — now slipping down to the very
ground before her. Those eyes, which had so
long pierced through the fogs of intrigue to
the pinnacles of success, were fast glazing.
Hers were wild and troubled.

I did not expect this, nor, as I live, did I
wish it. This is your own act : the retribution
brought on you by the older crime. It cannot
be laid to my account. You have atoned for
your crime. God forgive you, as I do ! Nay,
I will say this, would to Heaven I had not
lived to see this ! But with this cruel issue,
which I cannot avert, it ends. Go in peace,
unhappy man ; you have made atonement.
No one living shall ever know our secret : even
though I must lose all my hopes and prospects

of life, they shall not see me to-night at the
theatre."

Through the film over those dying eyes, he
saw the tall figure fade away.

The barristers round pored over their briefs.
The tallow candle flared and *' guttered " all the
night long, until midnight, when the last half-inch
sunk down in the socket and gave up the
ghost. When the old specimen of humanity came
back at midnight, he started back with a cry.
# * *

At the Theatre Royal the average crowded and
brilliant house was assembled. The waited ten
minutes ; then a quarter of an hour ; then half
an hour. Then the manager came out ; and,
in the conventional speech, apologized. Miss
Everingham had dressed for the play ; but a note
just received informed them that she had thrown
up her engagement, and would never appear
again. For such outrageously capricious conduct
there was no excuse. He threw himself
on their indulgence, and was entirely in their
hands.

There was great excitement in the " theatrical
circles " when this extraordinary step became
known. But Miss Everino^ham, or Effioorham,
was never heard of in England assail. She had
left a handsome sum in the manager's hands byway
of indemnity, so no search was attempted
for her.

For the newspapers there was abundant grist
in the terrible catastrophe that occurred at the
Temple. But every one knew that Mr. Benbow
had latterly a great deal on his mind — had
latterly been very odd and " queer." Suicide
often followed on that state of mind. It was
only to be expected. Lady Rosa had her own
suspicions as to the matter ; and that it arose
from some miserable passion for a low and
wretched actress. It was a degrading thing fora
man of his sense and years. However, death
condoned many things !

MR. Conway's choice.

Having thus followed the fortunes of the
Benbow family to the close, we shall turn back
and pursue to the end, those of that rather
uncertain being, Mr. Conway.

After that scene at the dinner in London,
the words of the excited Mr. Benbow — the
last he was ever to hear him utter — often rang
in his ears. They sounded like an imprecation.
As it was, his own career had been marked by
a tragedy, and he had a gloomy forecast, as he
thought of the loved and lost Laura Pan ton,
that more suffering might yet come of that
episode. Perhaps he felt self-reproach as he
thought of his " dangling " and old flirtations,
which had so long been sport to him, but pain

to them, and that some sort of penalty might
yet overtake him.

In due course of time the marriage-day came
round. The Doctor, in loud protest, objected
to the abatement of all the splendour of a
marriage ceremony down at St. 
when he proclaimed that " my daughter
was going to marry a very clever, high-bred
young fellow, Conway, Lord Formanton's son."
They had to proceed to London, and then the
ceremony was to take place in the wilderness
of an old City church. The noble father and
mother of the clever Conway '^ set their faces "
against this alliance. Human natures are never
iD disposed thus to magnify a matter they
slightly disapprove of into a serious outrage,
and so Lady Formanton told her fine friends at
those fine parties she was now beginning to resume
that " she knew literally nothing about the
matter," and that she had no scruple in saying
publicly that she and Lord Formanton quite
disapproved of the matter. This was yet another
reason for making the matter quite private.

As the day drew near the little shadows and
phantoms which had disturbed the lovers began
to clear off. Their approaching happiness, like
some sharp stimulant, banished all these dreary
recollections and doubts ; made them seem
indeed foolish. They came even to that frame
of mind which made them consider it a duty to
put such idle disturbers far away, as the truly
just man will turn away from very plausible
scruples.

As they walked about the great metropolis,
and the Doctor stalking in front attracted
attention as he affected to be a regular resident,
and defeated his aims by loud proclamations and
descriptions of very familiar objects, Conway
said to her, " Now, indeed, I feel that a new life
is to beo-in with us both. I shall have that rest
which I have so long sought, and which is so
necessary if there is any scheme to be carried
out. There is time for such a future, dearest
Jessica. Together we shall surprise the world."

She looked at him fondly. Even for her the
mere chase was a new life after the prison

discipline at her father's — that all but convict
life, where the Doctor had literally held little
more communication with her than a jailor would
with his prisoners.

Only the day before the marriage, Conway
and his future wife were walking about in this
supreme stage of tranquil happiness — he hiding
out plans, and expatiating on that new and
future life of theirs which she delighted to hear
of. " Ah, here," he said at last, "1 am so
rejoiced that this last day of the old life has
arrived, and that the curtain comes down hereto
shut out the past. To-day is the last day
that I shall turn my face backwards and look at
it. I shall think of that poor girl now for the
last time, and for the last time of that act I was
about to do — the only one in my life which 1
may indeed blush for. And yet even on that
last day of her life I felt scruples, and I do think
I might have gone to her, finding the struggle
intolerable, and have withdrawn. I have
searched my heart, and I solemnly declare I
would have done this. And yet she loved me ;

and even when that stroke overtook her she was
thinking of me ! "

The colour came to Jessica's cheek. " Loved
you ! " she said, warmly. " I do not believe it.
You must not think that. At least part of it
came, I fear, from a dislike of me. And as lor
her last thoughts "

Yes ! " he said, interested. " Tell me about
that ; tell me all about her and yourself, as I
have told you about myself. Just for this last
day, and we have done with the subject for ever.
You saw her then ? "

Would it not be better to tell him all now, and
leave no secret on her soul ? And yet how could
she explain that mysterious concealment ?

When she now recalled, almost with alarm,
that she had told no one of having been with
Miss Pan ton when she was seized with that
illness, she felt she could not tell it without
embarrassment then ; at least she must think it
over. He saw her hesitation, and said smiling :

*' I understand. I am not to know all secrets.

see

The voice of the Doctor, stentorian and
blustering, came in with an intrusive blast, and
that opportunity passed away. Never, never, of
all the many times when that obstreperous
clergyman had interfered had he been so fatally
mal apropos.

Here was the morning. The old church was
so lonely, so vast, so white, and sepulchral ;
there might have been a dozen ceremonies going
on without interfering with each other. It
might have done duty as a vast ecclesiastical
barn, for laying up holy grain, and would have
been more useful in that capacity than in the
one for which it had been constructed. It might
have been the Hall of Lost Footsteps over andover
again, and it seemed to be furnished with
many fixtures — cupboards and groaning presses,
shelves, with a huge packing-case or two lying
about, which resolved themselves into galleries,
pews, pulpit, and reading-desk.

Here, upon this bright marriage morning,
came a small party, as it were, crawling over the
pavement of that huge white store like a few

mice in a granary. There was no show of
bridesmaids, no filling up of the regular stock
parts. The Doctor, ruffling in his canonicals like
some gigantic cock, came out, and began the rite.
His voice echoed sonorously down that vast
solitude, and made the decrepit old pew-opener
look back and wonder at the needless and unaccustomed
noise. She looked round again as she
saw Dudley standing at the doorway, and
looking in. No one else saw him, or turned
round ; but as the ceremony came to an end he
entered, and advanced nearer and nearer, and as
the party went into the vestry he followed
them in.

The new Mrs. Conway started as she saw that
dark, stern face, not at all coloured with the
conventional glow of congratulation. Conway,
always tranquil, never surprised, received him
with a good-natured nod. Already for him the
heavy folds of a curtain had dropped over the
past. He would never raise even the corner
to peep behind. There were the usual formal
duties to be done, and while he was away for a

few moments Dudley drew near to her and
said :

Ah, poor, poor Laura ! Who thinks of her
now ?

She turned away from him ; the malignancy
of that reminder, so it seemed to her, at such a
moment needed no notice.

She almost prophesied this to me'' he went
on, as it were, to himself, " during those last few
moments when I was carrying her to the bank."

Jessica started. " Carrying her to the bank !
What, sou were there ? " ^

Yes. Oh that I had come up a few moments
sooner ! l^hat would have saved her. She said
her enemy would not cross in the boat, but went
round the long way, so that she might die before
help came. Her enemy ! Whom could she
mean ? "

"Her enemy!" she faltered. "Oh, good
Heaven ! "'

Here was the happy bridegroom, the routine
business done ; here the " noble father " out of
his robes.

I am offering my congratulations," said
Dudley, looking at her intently, *' and congratulate
you too, Conway. A new life is beginning
for you."

Yes," said he pleased ; *' such as I have
never known yet. I have waited for it a longtime.
You look tired and fatigued. No wonder.
Come, dearest. Remember," he whispered, " the
curtain is down — that is to be the background."

Unconscious of Dudley, they departed for the
great hotel where they were staying. Dudley
looked after them long. "This gives life an
interest," he said to himself. *' I may leave all
now to work itself out for a year and more."

A CLOUD.

Two years have passed by since these events,
and Mr. Conway and his wife have begun the
happiest of lives. Both are so changed — for the
better, their friends say — that they seem to have
become different people. The family difficulties
had been got into something like arrangement.
He enjoyed a small allowance from his father,
devoted himself to work, chiefly political writing,
and was already spoken of as likely to be a
promising man, " that would make his mark."
How sweet life was to her now — the sun, the
flowers, the cities, and pictures ; things of quite
a different order now. For they travelled a good
deal, and saw the wonders of the world. If it
would only last. Yes ; it must last.

VOL. III. s

They were coming home after a Welsh tour,
and were stopping on the road at a little town
called Brookside, with an old-fashioned landlady,
who, if you were ill, " would nurse you like a
mother." There were charming gardens, with
a room that opened out on them, excellent
living, and a whole treasury of delightful walks,
up hill and down dale, with a very famous
fishing stream within a mile. Here a new
and delightful time set in. The weather was
delicious ; the grass never was so green and
luxuriant ; all the choice morsels of a pastoral
district, whose meat, and milk, and butter are
not madly whirled away every morning, were
spread out before them. The landlady, too, grew
into a friend, liking her two guests, pleasant, and
caring for them in every way. Every one has a
little experience of this sort, and looks back with
a sort of comfort and satisfaction to some such
cot, where everything has gone happily, where
the flowers have smelt sweetly, and whence he
has been loath to depart. Thus a most delightful
fortnight passed by. Jessica again found that

she had not half exhausted the joys which her
new life had promised her. More and yet more
were opening out before her. On the last night
of their stay — they were forced to return home
she said to him :

Oh, if this life could go on always ! Shall
I confess something to you ! That one subject
always seemed to cast a shadow. It was no
wonder t at we shrink from it. Now, dearest, I
am grown so confident and hopeful and happy,
that I should not be afraid to look back."

You have a brave heart, Jessica, which I
knew was in you. I would wager my life that
if I had the whole history and details of your
struggle with that poor girl, from the beginning
to the last day of her life, it would be all to
your honour. And for her, I will say, if she
had had time she would have done you justice
also."

A sort of tremor passed over Jessica, but she
said nothing. That indeed was the only shadow,
and she again thought it might have been wiser
to have told him of the last scene.

S 2

Next day they were travelling home. A
great mail of letters had reached them at the
little town, full of good news, of hope and encouragement.
One spoke of an opening for the
House of Commons. Another said that as the
Ministry was certain to change, an influential
friend would come in with the new one, who was
determined that his friend Conway should hold
some sort of office. This was all delightful.

They got on to Chester, Adhere they were to
stop for the night, and walked through its quaint
old streets, new to both. They had come back
to their hotel, and were standing on the railway
platform, watching the various expresses come
up, when Jessica whispered him :

See that man's face looking: out of the carriage
! Is it not like Colonel Dudley ? "

'* Like ! " said Conway, laughing. " It is
Dudley himself."

Under a fur cap was seen Dudley's face, ina
sort of abstraction, much more worn than
when they had last parted with him. Beside
him were gun-cases, hunting-saddles, &c. He

seemed to be going on up to London. She saw
him speaking to Conway at the carriage-door,
then rise hastily, gather up all his packages, and
step down with great eagerness on the platform.
With a sort of undefined trepidation she said to
Conway, *' He is not going to stay ? ''

He says he will stay for the night," her
husband answered. " He says he is tired. Poor
soul ! he is as low and dismal as ever, and I
suppose is glad to meet some one he knows "

Then we need not see him," she said,
eagerly ; "it will do us no good. Some £ate
seems always dragging us back to that time ! "

Dudley now came up. He looked at Jessica
with a strange glance. *' Is it not wonderful how
people meet ? There were about a million
chances against our coming together at this
time, and at this place. And yet I was thinking
of you both only this morning. Let me
come up to you this evening, if Mrs. Conway
will give me leave. I find myself the worst
company in the world."

Then you must not be too critical with us,

who are the best company in the world for each
other."

Dudley looked from one to the other with
piercing greedy eyes. Then his face broke into
a confident smile.

Ah, I see. Yours is to be an everlasting
honeymoon ! "

In the evening he came up to their sitting-room.
He told them how he had been in Ireland,
shooting, hunting, " trying to get an Irish
horse or an Irish fence to break my neck. But
they wouldn't do it. That old nightmare is still
on me ; in fact, it grows heavier every day. I
cannot shut out that place. I never see a
bridge but it recalls that bridge. I was on the
banks of one the other day, and so like the spot,
that I forgot, and, turning to the bog trotter with
me, said, ' it was a scandal and a shame to have
no bridge. Human life might be lost while they
were stupidly sending round miles.' The animal
stared, as you may suppose."

"Well I think he might," said Conway, glancing
at the distressed face of Jessica. " 1 think

it is high time now, for the sake of your own
peace of mind, to give over brooding on these
things. It can do you no good."

And may do others harm ? Well, you are
right ; I know you are. But I will tell you
this : it may lead to something yet. Perhaps
has led. Do you know what is bringing me
home ? Something about this very matter. I
have never dropped it."

Conway shrugged his shoulders. " I still
think it folly, but you always took your own
course."

"Why," continued the other, ''if I were a
detective, or like that American fellow, Poe, I
could work backwards from that dreadful day,
until I landed somewhere. But I am not, and
have worked backwards in my poor head till
my brains are addled. Some people would say
I am mad, on that subject at least. I dare say
you thought so when I went on so strangely
to you both at the time she was being buried.
I saw you were generous enough, Conway, to
make allowance. But with all my speculation,

one thought certainly has taken possession of
me. She loss not alone lohcn she died."

Jessica turned pale. A sudden chill feeling
seemed to strike upon her heart, as though the
end of the delightful paradise in which she had
been living so long was now at hand.

Impossible," said Conway, warmly. *' No
one could have seen it ; unless you mean to say
that they had a share in that terrible business."

"Ay, perhaps so," said Dudley. "For if
any one had been with her, it would be strangely
suspicious if they did not come forward."

It would be, certainly," said Conway. " But
have you anything to go upon ? Was this mentioned
to that poor Sir Charles ? Ah, Dudley,
I am not without repentance for my part in all
that, and have suffered, I can tell you."

I can acquit you, Conway," said the other.
'* I say so cordially. There were marks and
footprints discovered. If that Edgar Allan

Poe were alive But come to my room

to-night, and I will tell you more."

'' But why not go into it now, with Jessica

present ? Her quick wit will help you. Ah I
But I forgot."

"I thought' said Jessica, excitedly, 'you
promised me that we were not to talk of this ? "

You are quite right. But what Dudley tells
us alters the case. It is very strange that we
should both, Dudley — you and I — have had the
same idea."

No," said Dudley, " I can understand why
Mrs. Conway should not like the subject. I do,
though. It is my whole life, being, hope, and
comfort. Once that accomplished, and I care
not wdiat becomes of me."

He left them.

"A strange being," said Conway. *yet he
will work that out, depend on it."

"Oh, but why should you have to do with
it, or with him ? He can mean you no good ;
certainly not to me. Do let us leave him here —
leave this place. I tell you misery will come
of it."

But why 1 " said he, looking at her fixedly.
Give me a reason, Jessica. You are so

sensible, it is sure to be a sound one. Is it
fancy, or mere feeling, as they call it ? "

She hung down her head. Something whispered
her : " Now is the time — a full confidence,
and it will save much hereafter." But then tolet
him go from her to that man, then hear his
gloss upon it ?

Conway waited. " I knew it was only a
fancy. No, dearest, I am interested in this,
recollect. I owe something to the memory of
that poor girl."

He left her. With a sort of terror she followed
him with her eyes. Now she had time,
and could think calmly what she should do. She
must decide before he returned. There was
something of meaning in that Dudley's behaviour
; his stopping on his journey, his looks
at her, and his hints. It did seem as though
he wished to raise up some cloud between her
and her husband — to get some strong net entangled
about her, in which he could drag her
back from him. Her old, calm sense came to
her aid. Was not all this a mere difficulty of

the imagination, in which she was entangling
herself of her own act ? It was her own foolish
finessing.

Conway came back, musing. '' That Dudley
is wonderful," he said. *' It shows what purpose
will do for a man of a dull, heavy nature.
He has certainly made out some strange things
enough to justify him in a suspicion that she
died in a different way from what was given
out."

*' Oh, surely not. You cannot think that —
you must not. Oh, it would be too horrible. It
is one of this man's morbid, moody imaginings."
His facts are simple enough. But what is
so strange, they bear out exactly the theory I
had in my mind. What would sour theory be ? "
I have none. I don't wish to have any.
Oh, you promised me that we were to leave
the subject for ever and ever."

Again Conway looked at her with surprise.
*' My dear Jessica, this surprises me a little
in you, who were so firm and rational about
all things. Your old bitter vendetta with this

poor girl was too girlish to be elevated into
the serious matter that you would make it.
Neither would I show this singular repulsion
to the subject before people ; for you see,
Dudley remarked it, and he is morbid enough
as you say — to turn it to some purpose of
his own. Now, exert yourself, and your firm
self, as of old, and tell me what is your speculation,
and I shall tell you ours."

Now was the opportunity. Make a clean
breast of it, according to the old phrase, and
all might be well ! But the deception — he could
never forgive that, all she could say or do.
Again rushed in her pride, and she uttered
words that long after she was to regret. It
was the final step into the quagmire.

I can say nothing. I dislike the subject,
and it is unkind to speak of it."

She was hurt. It was as though a new
feature in her character had come on him by
surprise.

Wei], then," he said, slowly, " what we
have reached is this : that there was some one

with her when she died. That some one has
not revealed herself. We are going to be the
Edgar Allan Does of the mystery, Dudley and I."
She was so scared by this announcement that
she let him leave the room. Had he stayed a
second longer, she had almost made up her
mind to tell him. But the opportunity for
grace was gone. He sat up some hours that
night over books and papers, and the interval
was as good as weeks.

Families DESCENSUS."

They were now back in town again, but they
were changed in their relations. Conway with
disappointment, for he had begun to perceive
a want of firmness — a sort of fretfulness that
belonged to a young girl, and which might be
no profit to him in the great schemes that were
before him. She, with the old decision, which
she really possessed, had made up her mind
calmly to a distinct course. Dudley had gone
his way. This moody dream of his — for it
might be such — would lead him in some other
direction. It would all pass by. She, too, was
concerned at a faint alteration in her husband's
manner, which, faint as it was, she had detected.
This surprised her. He, too, had avoided the

subject. In short, by little and little, and by
a process which the parties themselves can take
no heed of, so gradual and imperceptible is its
progress, is built up that fatal Blue Chamber,
to which both parties have a key, but which
both go round long passages to avoid, and yet
are always coming face to face at its very door.

He had many things now to occupy him.
He was fast sliding into politics, which often
become the grave of love. There was a political
association where he was asked to deliver a
speech, and the preparation took up a longtime,
but the delivery was a success. The
speech was talked of, and there were leaders
in the journals. He was talked of for a seat,
and had to make journeys, and " interview '
people of all kinds. Thus, he was gradually
being drawn off from any interest in his calm
household; and if he felt a scruple, he salved
it over with the thought that Jessica had not
so strong a mind as he thought, and would not
take interest in his politics.

At last it became known that the seat would

be vacant, and one evening a gentleman of the
party, who " found " eligible boroughs, as a house-agent
might find houses, came to them mysteriously
one night. He was closeted with Conway
a long time, who then came up to his wife,
very grave indeed. 'they have found me a
seat," he said. " A man is willing to retire.
But who do you suppose — or where do you
suppose 1 "

Again she knew there was something coming
some thin o- with a dark shadow to it.

Benbow is the man, and St. Arthur's is the
place."

But you will not accept ? " she said. " You
could not ! A place with such associations for
7/oii — such associations for me ! "

Childish ones, dearest, as I have often told
you. Really, Jessica, this amounts to a little
folly — like a nightmare. My associations maybe
painful or unpleasant, but there is nothing,
surely, to be ashamed of — nothing, by reason
of which I should retreat from such an advantage."


Jessica answered with a flush. " I never
thought so, or dreamed of such a thing."

Not surely because you had a quarrel with
that poor girl — kept up rather too long — am I
to decline this great opening ? No, Jessica, I
cannot humour you so far ; unless you can tell
me some good reason. If, indeed, you tell me
that you have something to reproach yourself
with in her regard, if you will tell me now there
is some secret reason "

There is nothing to tell," she said. " Only
this — I cannot explain it. But I have . a
miserable presentiment — that ill - omened
place "

He smiled. *' Which brought us together !
Is that ill-omened ? And as for the presentiment,
it will do us no harm. I have had
too many presentiments ; but they never came
out true. There, dear, we must go on to
where glory waits us ; and, alas ! put our
feelings in our pockets, or, at least, seem todo
so."

Conway was a sort of epicurean worldling.

VOL. III. T

That great oyster, the world, was the chief
delicacy he cared for at heart, and all his life
he had been striving hard to open it. Now, it
would seem he had got his knife well in, and a
little more leverage would open it.

Now came the writing an address — the writing
of many letters. A few nights later Conway
came up quite full of spirits to report progress
to his wife. " All goes well. We have an unexpected
agent enrolled in our ranks, and who
has done me service already. He has saved mea
rebuff; for I had a letter written to Sir
Charles Panton, but Dudley tells me Sir Charles
is bitter against me."

'' What, that Dudley again upon the scene,"
she said. '* Oh, this is becoming wretched ! "

The old nightmare," he said, smiling. " But
this quite destroys my scruples, and should
yours. Let a man take the line of an enemy,
and I am always glad. Then I can take my
side. Sir Charles might have heaped coals of
fire on my head. But it is a relief that he has
taken this course."

And you will go down there — within sight
of that unhappy place, where she who was to
have been your wife met with such an end.
What will they say even as to the taste, the
delicacy of such a proceeding ? "

He coloured. '' A man who stands for a
borough must bid adieu to delicacy. But that
is for myself. And your scruples, too, are for
myself. Since you assured me you had no other
reason, I can take the rest on myself." She was
silent. She had walked so far into this quagmire
she could not turn round. " Dudley will
do his best for us. So, I presume, will your
father ; he will expect me to get him a bishopric.
I can hear him ringing, ' My son-in-law Conway,'
like a bell in his steeple. To-morrow — now
don't be shocked, dearest — I go down to canvass
with Dudley. We shall look up our Edgar
Allan Poe business, too, if we have time."

Again lurid shadows — wild and jagged in
shape — kept leaping backwards and forwards
in a sort of challenge. She made no more
protest, but seemed to accept the old "anangke"

T 2

of the Greeks come back again to the world.
Dudley came the next day, and found Conway
ready for him.

"Is it not curious," said the former, " the
mere accidents that direct the course of a life ?
He puts in, on board a yacht, at this small
port, and he is fortunate enough to find an
accomplished lady for his wife, and probably
a seat in the House of Commons. He is also
able to help a poor broken-hearted creature in
what you, Mrs. Conway, would unjustly call his
monomania."

No, she would not," said Conway. '' She
makes me feel ashamed sometimes that I have so
little tenderness about that time."

And you have none ! " said the other fiercely.
Not that you did anything to her. Indeed,
you behaved wonderfully — I own that. But, I
repeat, it seems like another dispensation that
you should be drawn back there again with me,
to help me with your well-trained wits, to what
my poor muddled brains could never reach to
of themselves. One look at the ground, the

detectives tell us, is worth whole volumes of
writing and description."

Yes," said Conway, *' you may count on my
putting my whole soul into it."

Why are you so eager for this ? " said
Jessica, excitedly. " I should have thought it
was a matter we should all be glad to have done
with for ever. Why should you be raking up
this dismal past ? For God's sake leave it so,
and leave us alone ! "

Why ? " repeated Dudley, coming back from
the door whither he had advanced, and gazij;ig
fixedly at her. " Do you ask in earnest ? " Her
eyes flew hurriedly in the direction of Conway,
who was putting some papers together. " Ah ! I
was sure not. Well, one of these days I shall tell
you — him too — and perhaps the whole world ! "

She felt this was growing unendurable. With
a sudden impulse she called aloud, *' Oh George,
I should tell you — I must "

Tell me what ? " he said. " One of your
secrets ? Ah ! you know you have no secrets
from me. Good-bye, dearest ! "

They were gone. She was left alone to the
dismal thought that for every hour of that
tedious absence Dudley would be dropping some
hint, filling her husband's soul with stray
thoughts and reminders, which would set his
mind in train to receive that one idea. She
dwelt on this till it became a protracted agony,
till her heart fluttered, and the days seemed to
drag by and the nights to stop short as she
thought of this far-off* process going on which
was destroying her shortened happiness.

BREAKING DOWN.

Conway wrote every day full of hopes and
anxieties; but everything seemed to be going
well on the whole. These letters gradually grew
warmer and more hopeful.

Dearest, I know now that I am quite certain ;
and when I return to you next week I shall be
M.P. for St. Arthur s-on-the-Sea. Then what a
world before us ! . . . . You write to me not to
be anxious about certain matters, but trust to
you. Trust to you, dearest ! Why there is a
melody for me in these words. You little know
the confidence I have in you. It was one of the
charms that drew me to you. Your very look
has been enough for me, and a mere motion, a
glance of your eye, I accepted as an assurance.

Indeed, your whole life for me has been such —
always true — though there has been a little
foolish cloud between us of late. Dudley I see
little of, and he is of no use to me."

There was something in this letter that gave
her a hope and peace she had not had for long
ages. He had never paid her so candid or so
just a tribute before, and it made her face glow
all over. It seemed to dispel the noxious
vapours which had been rising about her. Her
spirits began to rise.

The next day passed without a letter from
him ; the nomination was to be on the following
morning. It was now known that the other
candidate had but a poor chance. In the afternoon
she went almost treading on air, she was
so happy, when she met an elderly friend.

So glad to meet you," he said. " You can
tell me the meaning of all this."
„ " Of what ? " she said.

About your husband. What on earth made
him do that ? It seems incomprehensible ; with
the ball at his foot "

'' I know nothing," she said, excitedly. " What
can you mean ? "

Oh, then you have not heard." And he
pulled the evening paper out of his pocket. He
held this paragraph before her eyes. A film
seemed to come over them as they read :

St. Arthur's, noon. — Mr. Conway, one of
the candidates, has withdrawn. No reasons
assigned for this unexpected step. The other
candidate walks over."

She hardly knew how she got home ; but now,
indeed, the old shadow seemed to be cast before
her for all time — a dreadful presage of evil.
She waited for his coming as it grew dark. At
the hour she had guessed he entered, and
hurriedly embraced her, all as usual.

Well," he said. " There, I am out of all
that. The bubble is burst for ever ! "

She was quite calm. " But why ? What does
it all mean ? "

It looks like a mystery, a madness, does it
not ? and so it is. To-morrow I might have
been member — my life and hope ; a few years

later have held office ; later on — but that is all
finished, and for ever."

But why — why ? Ah, tell me, I implore

you."

There is good reason for it, at least in my
mind, whom it most concerns. As a favour I
ask you not to press or worry me about this act.
I could not tell you ; to make such a terrible
sacrifice I must have had a terrible necessity of
some kind. I am fretted and disappointed, and
it will add to my trouble if I have to face any
importunity. There was a real and substantial
reason. Can I depend upon you for this ? "

Gazing at him like one just stunned with a
blow, she said " Yes."

Then now adieu to that dream of folly which
I wrote to you of. That romantic life, the one
in which I had such hopes, is done with forever.
Oh ! " and he covered up his face, " what
a fall ! What a wretched, miserable fall ! Ah,
Jessica, that St. Arthur's was an ill-omened place
for us all."

Thus ended that episode of his life. He did

not come back to the subject, nor did her old
pride venture to approach it. For the public it
was a nine days' wonder. His money had fallen
short ; he had " broken down ; " there was a
very awkward business which wanted clearing
up. But between him and Jessica there seemed
to be a widening gap. He was the same to her,
and yet she felt there was a fatal alteration. Do
what she would, arm herself in what way she
would, she could not shut out the dim idea that
this strange sacrifice was in some way connected
with her. Yet not a word or a look of his
pointed to this, beyond a gaze of hopeless disappointment,
a miserable dejection, as he sat with
his eyes fixed on her. As he would not trust
her, she disdained to ask his confidence ; and
she was wretched, worse : she felt that this was
but the beginning of a wretchedness that was to
last all their lives.

He had a restless and feverish eagerness, as
she noted, about Dudley, always writing to him,
waiting for letters from him. At last she saw
him receive one with a foreign postmark, in

Dudley's writing, and which made him start.
Gone to India. Was there ever such treatment
? " he muttered. Oh, it is cruel to leave
me in this was ! "

Another letter came that seemed to promise
an early return, and he grew calm again. His
wife's quick sense noted also a certain discomfort,
lasting only for a second, in his manner,
when she first entered the room ; and the same
eager sense noted also a sort of devotion to her
that seemed forced, and almost acted, that fretted
her and drove her almost to madness.

He was getting ill. His heavy sacrifice preyed
on his mind, and within the week he was lying
in a nervous fever, with a squadron of doctors
about him. These gentry gave him over, with,
of course, a saving clause, " unless some extraordinary
turn took place."

Jessica watched and waited on him with a sort
of frantic devotion that took pride in every
sacrifice and suffering. For her there was no
rest ; for her no sleep. When the doctors passed
their sentence — for as such the patient's friends

look on it — that he was not to live unless he
did live — she received it with an icy insensibility.
Her thoughts that night went back to her own
life, which might as well, it seemed to her, end
with his — that weary penitential course which,
with the exception of a few weeks of happiness,
had been the pattern of her existence. She was
weary. He had been dead to her many weeks
now ; morally, his heart had been turned from
her ; the rest would make little difference, save
to him.

It was getting towards midnight, and her eyes
were on the ground reading all these things
fiercely in the very pattern of the carpet, when
she was roused by his voice calling to her gently.
His senses had come back. She flew to his side.
He asked the conventional questions, '' Had he
been long ill ? — had he been very bad ? — what
had been his illness ? " Then with some hesitation,
"Had he lost his senses? — had he raved
or talked ? "

No, dearest, no ; not a sentence."

Not a word, Jessica ? "

'not a word."

I am glad. I am satisfied. And the doctors
do they give me over ? Come. You know
me well, Jessica. Disguise to me would only-have
the effect of telling the naked truth to a
weak mind."

She knew this, and she told him.

I hope so — I trust so," he said, with a sigh.
If my old ill luck does not come in the way
to force me to live on and bear my burden."

She dropped on her knees beside him. " But
why burden ? " she said ; "oh, let us be happy
again ! Lay it down now, and be well once
more. Tell me here, at this moment, what it is.
Have I to do with it ? Tell me''

"It is no use now," he said. "The judges
have sentenced me, and I shall be out of the
way. You will be free then. You have seen
some change in me ? Well, let us put that
down to the same cause."

"What! and leave me," said Jessica, passionately,
" without this explained, as though I had
done some crime — some injury to you. Not a

word ; not a look even. Oh, how cruel and
unjust ! "

He grew excited. " I can tell nothing now,
for I know nothing. Later, if I live, — Ask your
conscience then. I mean," he added, hurriedly,
there is no use now in dealing with it. If I
have been wrong or mistaken I cannot cure it
now. But I have not been. What are all these
letters ? Read them out for me, and put mein
communion with the world again I "

Fearful of exciting him she did so. They
were a motley collection. One was from her
father. There was an archdeaconry really about
to be vacant. " Surely something could be done
now. Strange that with this much-talked-of
interest some trifling exertion could not be made.
He must really ask Conway to try and put his
shoulder to the wheel." With more in this
strain he passed on to St. Arthur's. "This place
is going to the dogs. I am sick of it. They
are wretched creatures — not fit for gentlemen to
be with. And but for the season time I should
not be an hour here. I suppose you have heard

about the man Dudley. He went off on some
mad outlandish excursion in India, and was torn
in pieces by a tiger. A most rude, ill-conditioned
fellow."

Dudley dead ! " said the patient, starting up.
What ! gone and left me in this way. Nothing
certain — nothing known ; and I may die without
anything known or anything certain. Oh,
Jessica, Jessica ! " he added, turning on her.
What are you ? JF/iat have you been? "

Then you do suspect something of me ?
And I knew this man was my enemy. Tell
me all now. I am entitled to it."

He paused. " Yes. I must be just, and at
such a time as this, I ought to tell you ; and as
Dudley is gone, who was to bring all home "

To me ? "

Yes, Jessica, you deceived me. You were
with that girl at her death ; you alone, and no
one else ! Deny it if you dare."

She saw it all now. " I do not deny it," she
faltered.

'' No, you could not. You heard me again

and again speculate over that poor victim's last
moments, wonder how strange and mysterious
it all was. Yet you never spoke. Never."

I own it. But "

You cannot deny it. It came up again and
again. Dudley had his suspicions, and named
them. You still said nothing. Jessica, there
was a reason for that silence ! "

There was," she went on, hurriedly, '* and
if you would only listen "

Never. I have done more than I meant
in telling so much. I tell you this solemnly,
Jessica : no explanation, however ingenious,
could clear it up for me now. I shall die
believing what I believe "

•'* God ! " she started back. " You do not
suppose that Oh, that would be too horrible 1"

** Yes. You were with her, and were seen
with her. Your quarrel, your angry voice, and
your threats, were heard. There were two
witnesses. Dudley one "

To what — to what ? " she repeated. " Oh,
does any one say I had to do with her death %

VOL. III. u

Oh, not you. In Heaven's name there is no
thought of that in your mind ? "

He was silent.

Speak, or this will kill me."

*' What can you deny of all this ; the quarrel,
or the threats % But denial could do nothing.

I deny nothing. I own it all, and yet you
have such poor faith in me, you can believe
these horrors ? Is it not your disgrace rather
than mine, that you have no confidence ? "

It is because you deceived me," he said,
fiercely, " and organized a deceit. Were I sworn
solemnly before Heaven to give a verdict, what
could I do, were I conscientious ? Dudley is
dead. Were he living, indeed "

Enough," she said, calmly. *' After this
never a word shall pass my lips. But be just to
the living. There was another witness of this —
crime."

Dudley went to India to search for him.
His death was unfortunate for us. Think not
that there is any idea abroad of this. This
spectre has risen between you and me alone.

There is no idea of violence, or of a blow, as that
brutal Dudley would have it. There was the
refined and more deadly vengeance of delay, of
making the removal of that fatal bridge an instrument
by which to kill her. Oh, it was cruel tolet
her lie there, her poor heart's blood welling out,
while you took the long round to fetch help."

She was so aghast at this minute, fearful, and
specious charge, she could not say a word. It
seemed to quite crush her. She saw that denial
was hopeless ; that with one of his sensitive
mind defence was idle. •

I wished to forget the whole thing," he said,
after a pause, ^* to leave it behind for ever. I
was prepared even to own that I had been a
little harsh in judging — though warranted, after
the ordinary rules of evidence, by the facts."

'but what facts? I demand on this spot to
know them fully and fairly."

'* You know them already. You disdain to
refute them."

Because you should have disdained to receive
them."

U 2

Can you answer me this one question ? Did
you not hear her call out for the boat ? '*

She thought a moment. " Yes, I remember it
now. I did hear her."

He started and stood up. " You did ! Then
that man was right in all ! And do you admit
this also,'^ he went on, with a look almost of
alarm, " that you said aloud as you saw her lying
there : ' There is retribution — all through your
own act ' ? "

Again Jessica thought a moment, and aghast
at these revelations, answered, " Yes, now I
recall it."

Then it is true ; and you let that girl lie
there to die, to carry out the idea of her being
punished through her own act — you that knew
there was a boat there. Ah ! Jessica, I know
your nature well. Not all the reasoning in the
world could explain that away."

Nor shall I explain it ever," she said with
bitterness and pride. *' Not one word shall pass
my lips after this night. Not if I were to lose
your good opinion for ever — and yourself forever.

I see what is passing in your mind, and it
is unworthy of you and of me."

*' It is not my work," he said coldly. '* It
was unworthy of you to conceal your share in
that business."

** Once more," she asked, " and for the last
time, do you acquit me ? "

** Why did you conceal it from me ? — explain
that first."

"Never!"

Be it so, then."

After that a barrier had been raised up between
husband and wife. Laura was avenged ! The
old affection seemed to have gone out for ever,
and instead there came a resentful defiance on
one side, and on the other a sort of shrinking
terror. Yet he speedily recovered ; got back fast
to good health and streno-th : but he had a sort
of morbid repulsion to her, as she well saw.
Every day, every hour she had to drag this
lengthening chain, until life grew all but insupportable.
At last she found she could endure it

no longer, and one morning came to him to say
she wished to go on a visit to a friend. She
noticed a curious excitement in his manner.

It will relieve you of the presence of one
whom you think to be at least a moral murderess."


Then say," he replied eagerly, " you are
not ! Say so, Jessica, explicitly, in solemn terms,
and I will go down on my knees and ask your
pardon."

'' It is enough that your own heart should say
it for me. It is idle asking me — and an insult."

Oh ! there is the subterfuge again. How
can I ask my heart anything, when it answers —
when facts answer ? "

Enough," she said ; " let it be as it is. I
will take an oath, but not the one you ask me to
take. As I stand here I swear, that after this,
not a word shall ever be uttered to clear myself.
If you wish me to be as I was you must clear me."

He shook his head. " I can do nothing. And
nothing else can help you. See, here is news.
You are going on this visit ? "

"Yes."

*' I am glad of it. This letter tells me that
Dudley is not dead, but •"

She turned pale. " Not dead ! "

*' No. He will give us more trouble still. He
is in England. He went to search for a boy labourer,
who had enlisted. That boy had seen you
with her, too. Who knows what he could tell ? "

And he found him ? "

** You may be easy — no. He had died from a
sunstroke, and his story with him whatever it
was. It would not tell against you, for your
share took place in your own heart."

This is fiendish," said Jessica.

Deny it — swear ! "

You shall acquit me first from your knowlege
of me."

I cannot."

She went away, torn with a secret struggle.
A cold kiss was their parting salute. As he
sat there alone on that evening, it came back on
him suddenly how much a failure his pompously-planned
life had turned out ; with all his

magnificently-planned schemes, which were to
regulate events to his ends, as a sort of providence
; even that boasted choice of a wife
made with such a flourish ! How this had
broken down. A miserable failure indeed — he
and his works.

Inaction of this sort, and with such thoughts,
he could not endure : and suddenly a strange
idea came into his head, and he felt himself
irresistibly drawn down to that old fatal St.
Arthur's-on-the-Sea, to be in its atmosphere,
wander about those scenes, and perhaps stumble
on something that might quiet his uneasy soul.
In a moment he had decided, hurriedly packed
a few things, and was presently in the train.

By the time he reached St. Arthur's it was
evening. He had a dismal, weary journey down,
with no company but his own thoughts, and when
he arrived the place had a strange look, as if he
had not seen it for years. As his eye fell on the
church, he thought of the monument within ;
and it suddenly flashed on him that that was
the very anniversary week of the death of the

young heiress of Panton. This seemed to him
very strange and singular, and the same fascination
which had brought him down drew him out
to those pleasant grounds near the river, which
he had never yet had courage to visit.

It was a beautiful evening, and the sun was
just setting as he reached the bank of the river,
at the point where the bridge — that fatal Bridge
of Sighs, as he called it to himself — had once
stood. There was the little stone cross which
marked the spot where the young girl had
fallen. As he stood there looking at it, the
struggle of the two women, developed foolishly
out of trifles, and closed by such a catastrophe,
opened out before him. The more he thought
of it, the more he looked back, the more
it was rung in his ear, like the jangling of
some hoarse bell : " Yes, she did it. It was
beyond one of her character to resist. She
would have said to herself — I can hear her saying
it — * This is the chastising hand of Heaven.
Why should I interfere ? ' She herself has cut off
the means which might have saved her, I shall

make no extra exertion. I asked her to swear,
but no, that could not clear lier. An eye-witness
alone would convince me."

He lingered on until it darkened gradually.
Below, in the town and harbour, he saw lights
beginning to twinkle. Then he thought it time
to return. As he advanced to go, he said, half
aloud : ^* It is a deserved punishment, and I shall
never see it cleared up."

A low voice near him said : *' No clearing up
is wanting. What more clear proof do you
require ? "

He knew that voice, and saw Dudley standing
near him. Dudley, much changed, grown aged,
and worn, and hollow-checked, with fires burning
in his eyes, and a strange, wild, and fitful
manner, that alarmed Conway. "You wonder
where I have come from. Not from that earth "
pointing to the cross — " where I wish I was
laid. I have been spirited across from that house,
where we all had so much happiness. What
would you say if I crossed on that bridge, a^
spectral one, which led to such misery ? I tell %

you I see it there now, its lines and network, as
plainly as I see you. This was a fitting opportunity
for us to meet here. If not, I was going
to look for you. We only want hers and then,
with the spirit of that poor saint, which, I
believe, never deserts this place, our company
would be complete ! "

In a moment the other saw that Dudley was
under some excitement, that looked like derangement.
Yet he continued to speak collectedly.
You see, I have come back. I would not miss
this anniversary. Yes ; I have returned unsuccessful.
I searched everywhere, but could *not
find what I wanted. At last I discovered that
he was dead, else I would have brought that
witness home, and made him confront her — your
wife — on this very spot. Where is she now ? "
Conway was silent.

I understand," said the other. " We understood
each other before. You have come to seethe
light at last, to know her in her true colours !
Oh, it was a black crime ! She is as guilty as
any wretch that has been sentenced and suffered

punishment. Is it fair or just that she is to
escape ? Tell me that ! "

'you take too harsh a view of Jessica's
behaviour."

It is your view also. You know it, and
cannot deny it. Her proud spirit knows it also,
and she will not stay with you because you will
not acquit her. And I tell you, Conway, you
must not ; you dare not. It is the only expiation
we can offer now. She must be punished
now, and by you. By-and-by I will reckon
with her."

.Every instant he was growing more and more
excited, and his hand clutched Conway's arm
with fiercer and fiercer energy. The latter saw
that his companion was scarcely safe company
at that hour and place, and tried to soothe him.

Let us go back now," he said, "it is growing
late."

Leave this spot, and on this day — the day
she died ! Don't you remember it now ? It
must be consecrated by some offering. Oh, if
she were here. Murderess ! murderess ! "

Conway, growing more and more alarmed
every instant, tried to calm him. The other
went on, with a sort of fury :

You had your part in the business also, and
you have only your escape by sacrificing her.
Up to this you have done well ; but if I see you
attempt to interfere between me and her, it will
be your turn next. She is a murderess. You
know she is ! "

We shall settle all that later. You will
judge her more generously yet. We may have
done her wrong."

** Take care, take care, Conway," Dudley said,
turning furiously on him. *' You are not secure
yourself. And if she tells me to reckon with
you, it shall be done, and nothing shall save you.
Do you think ihsit ?sou are innocent "? You, with
your heartless trafficking with her dear affections
; you that were going to patch up your
battered fortunes by sacrificing her happiness.
It amused you, and profited you, and in a man
of lower birth would be called the act of a
scoundrel."

The other's face flushed up. "You can
scarcely know the force of what you are saying.
She knew very well the mixed motives that led
me to that choice, and a share of her preference
for me was owing to dislike of Jessica."

You slanderer ! You low slanderer ! This
finishes it. What you say is false — false as your
own double-dealing self. You dare add this to
the rest ; finish all by meanly libelling her
whom you and yours drove into the grave.
Curses on you ! Curses on myself, that I stood
by and let all this happen ! It will drive me
mad."

Conway drew back hastily ; he saw that
Dudley was in a paroxysm. Foam was on his
lips, his eyeballs bursting from his head, his
arms struck out. As Conway walked away,
Dudley's hands clutched at him, and then tottering,
he muttered, " Help ! help across the
bridge ! " and fell slowly and stiffly to the
ground. His head struck against the base of
the little cross, and from a gash blood began
to flow. Conway saw with terror that the

unhappy madman was lying at his feet motionless,
and apparently lifeless.

All was stilL No one was near, and it was
now perfectly dark. What was he to do —
where rush for help ? Dudley had gasped out
something about the bridge ; but it was a
spectral one across his own brain. Conway knew
not what to do. Help could be got from the
house ; but how was he to cross ? All that was
left for him was to start off with all speed for
the village, and there get assistance. As he
hurried along, strange thoughts came upon him,
which alarmed him not a little. What if Dudley
should be dying there, and it should be known
that he had been with him ? The dislike of
Dudley to him and to Jessica, the incautious
language he would use, and his strange, ill-regulated
temper, would give the idea that a
quarrel had taken place. The blood — the cut !
And the idea made him shrink. Should he go
back, or go on ? At that moment the unhappy
Dudley might be dead, or dying. And then he
recollected that he had not taken even the most

ordinary steps of precaution ; that he had not
raised him, or even loosed his collar. He stopped
again and again irresolutely, but still hurried
on after a moment's delay, and at last got near
the village which was at the gate of Panton
Castle.

He crossed the stone bridge, and stopped there
a moment to take breath, looking up the river,
which stretched away in a straight line for a
mile and more. As he leaned against the parapet,
it all flashed upon him in a moment. She
WAS INNOCENT ! By some strange coincidence,
the very incidents of her crisis had been almost
exactly repeated in his case. He almost gave a
cry of joy at the thought. Others might surely
judge him as he had judged her : there might
be no earthly witness on whom he might call
to come and clear hwi, as there was none to clear
her. Though circumstances might be against
him ; though all the world might point to him
and denounce him ; though he might at least
have to journey through the rest of his life with
a cloud of dark suspicion attending him, and

the black shadows of imputed guilt cast behind
him, still would he disdain to justify himself,
to say a single word in his defence, precisely as
she had done.

He had pitilessly called on her for proof,
which she could not give, and disdainfully
rejected the proof from her own noble and
magnanimous soul ; and he felt humiliated to
think that should any suspicion or embarrassment
come of what had taken place, or should
she take the place of his silent accuser, he could
only justify himself by appealing to his Own
conscience and to his own character. Still,
Heaven be thanked for sending him this revelation,
and for letting him see — as clearly as he
now saw those stars shining ia the heavens
above him, and that moon which was now
stealing far behind a cloud — that Jessica was
innocent, and that she was his again. Whatever
befell him, he longed to cast himself at her feet,
and own the injustice that he had done her.

VOL. III.

THE LAST.

When they returned with assistance they
found Dudley alive, but still insensible, and one
of the men, casting about as to where it would
be best to take him, reported that there was
a boat moored close by under the bank, in which
he must have come across from the castle. The
doctor of the place said, quickly :

We should have gained a precious half-hour
if you had just rowed across and fetched someone
from the castle yonder."

Again a silent reproach struck into Conway's
heart like a sword, for he himself, but more
sternly and pitilessly, had made the same speech
to another.

I did not know of it," he all but faltered.

Why, you can see it actually from this
spot," said the doctor, one of the old " scum "
of the place, who had before now resented
Conway's haughty treatment of him in the
old days. " Had you any quarrel with
him?"

They placed Dudley in the boat, and carried
him across to the castle. There the usual violent
remedies were applied, those with which, in such
desperate cases, the battle is fought out with
the King of Terrors. The struggle went on
for hours, aud then, about midnight, they told
Conway that there was a gleam of hope. By
morning it was known that Dudley's life was
safe ; but there were symptoms of lunacy that
seemed incurable.

Conway went back into the town, and there
met the doctor. The whole story was by this
time all over the place.

What is all this ? " he said, austerely. " A
very awkward business, indeed. You should
have restrained yourself. We all knew here the

X 2

man was not accountable for his actions. We
all set him down for the past week as unsound
in mind. You should have restrained yourself."


Conway would have replied warmly, but he
seemed to hear his own voice accusing Jessica,
and was silent. He, indeed, longed to go and
cast himself at her feet.

By that evening he had found her, and made
his confession. By that evening the strange, yet
noble nature had accepted that tardy reparation.
Together they shaped out plans for a new life.
The old, by their own consent, was too humiliating
to look back to. They owned to each other
that a fatal pride of intellect, a contempt for the
average natures about them, with an almost
arrogant purpose of shaping the common course
of events about them to their ends and purposes,
had been the cause of the wretched series of
mistakes which had distracted their joint course
of life since the day when he had sailed into the
little port of St. Arthur s. Any obstinate self-assertion,
any violent shaping of the course of

events, the natures of others, the diversion of the
current of life to their own private ends, this
foolish theory had completely broken down,
and was gone for ever, with the fatal Bridge
of Sighs.

THE END.
