^

V

^

cJ-

^

\k\

^

VOL. I.

a

A NOVEL

BY

G. BERESFORD FITZGERALD, F.S.A,,

AUTHOR OF 'LILIAN,' ETC.

La meilleure Philosophic relativement au monde est deadlier a son egftrd
le sarcasms de la gaiety avec Indulgence du mepris.'

Comfort.

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON

F. V. WHITE & CO.

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.



COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

PRE F A C E.

Every human life, if faithfully told, has
probably an interest of its own, and a
moral, perhaps, for those who come
after, journeying painfully across an arid
waste and finding few oases. Anyhow,

it seemed to me that the life of Claret



^ Strong had as much human interest in

'^^ it as many biographies which I have

^ recently perused, after first having

heard their praises sounded.

To give lists of the guests at your

^ VOL. I.

dinner-table for a series of years, and
of those you met at other people's
houses, and to spice their conversation
with Joe Miller's, at which Methuselah
may have smiled rather faintly in his
nine hundredth year, may be biography,
but fails in the human interest which
is the one thing needful.

One fact I must add, namely, that
the dates at which this autobiography
were written are somewhat ambiguous.
Clare Strong certainly wrote at long
intervals, and it is impossible to say
when he first commenced his story.
Consequently, there are presumably gaps
in point of time.

He died in a remarkable way. He

was living in his beloved Paris, where
latterly he passed so much of his time,
and, walking back with his wife from
one of the cards on the boulevards,
where they had been breakfasting, he
complained, on reaching their apartments
in the Avenue d'Antin, of feeling
unwell. She placed him on a sofa
in his library, and flew to get some
Eau de Cologne. When she returned
to the room, his head had fallen on
his chest, and all was over.

He thus realised his own constant
prayer for sudden death, and for death
not at an inn, as Sterne's somewhat
artificial aspiration went, but without a
long and lingering illness, without a

deathbed struggle, and weeping relatives,
and paid attendants to swell the scene.

But he was not buried as he once
expressed a desire to be, in the Greenwood
Cemetery, overlooking New York,
but in the quiet graveyard at Carnage,
near those whom he had so dearly loved
in life, where the roses in the long
summer days still bloom luxuriantly over
his tomb, and over that of his beloved,
though far more distinguished, friend,
The Right Honourable William Penrose

Acquiescent in pace. '

THE EDITOR.

Nov ready, in One Vol., the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY; or Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange
Winter. Author of 'Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also, picture boards, 2S.

Also now ready, in cloth gilt, q.s. 6d. each.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By John Strange

Winter. Also, picture boards, 2S.
A SIEGE BABY. By the same Author. Also, picture boards, 2S.
BEAUTIFUL JIM. By the same Author.
IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs Edward

Kennard. Also, picture boards, 2S.
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By the same Author. Also, picture boards, 2S.
A REAL GOOD THING. By the same Author. Also, picture boards, 2S.
A CRACK COUNTY. By the same Author.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing O't.' Also,

picture boards, 2s.
MONA'S CHOICE. By the same Author.
A LIFE INTEREST. By the same Author.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Also, picture

boards, 2s.
THIS WICKED WORLD. By the same Author.
A DEVOUT LOVER. By the same Author.
THE COST OF A LIE. By the same Author.
THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart. Also, picture boards, 2s.
THE MASTER OF RATHKELLY. By the same Author.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By Edward Kennard. Also, picture boards, 2s.
TWILIGHT TALES. By the same Author. Illustrated.
SHE CAME BETWEEN. By Mrs Alexander Eraser.
THE CRUSADE OF 'THE EXCELSIOR.' By Bret Harte. Also, picture

boards, 2s.
CURB AND SNAFFLE. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
DREAM FACES. By the Hon. Mrs Eetherstonhaugh.
THE Hobble. MRS Verger. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn,' etc.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand,
London, W.C.

CHAPTER I.

ANTECEDENTS.
Conceit you me.'

I WAS born considerably more than half
a century ago, in Upper Grosvenor Street.
I often pass the house, and gaze, as one
is apt to do at houses one once knew
well ; but the shutters seem always put
up in the drawing-rooms, and the brilliant
parties which in my youth issued
therefrom have long since passed into
the land of shadows. Who was it said,

VOL. I. A

after living a lifetime in London, that
the town became a city of the dead, —
that is, of dead memories ?

I was born under one great disadvantage,
and I think it the greatest conceivable.
My mother, judging from her
pictures, a very lovely young woman,
died at my birth, and I was her only
child. My father, who was in the 3d
Guards (now the Scots Guards), was
always extremely delicate, and the loss
of his wife, to whom he was tenderly
attached, affected his health to such an
extent that the symptoms of that fatal
decline to which so many of his family
had succumbed, began to show themselves.
He only outlived his young
wife two years, and thus, at two years
old, I was left to the care of his mother
my grandmother — in whose house in

Upper Grosvenor Street I had been
born.

Before, however, speaking more particularly
of my grandmother, who so largely
controlled my somewhat chequered destiny,
I should like to say how much reason
I have to regard my poor father's memory
with affection and interest. For it is clear,
from the few papers and letters I possess
of his, including his last testamentary injunctions,
that he was a most loveable and
delightful man. I cannot help quoting, in
support of this, a clause in his will, which
provides for the comfort of his horses after
his death, and also a reference to one or
two of his regimental friends. He is
buried in the little cemetery in the Bays-water
Road, where he was taken from
Grosvenor Street. I was too young to
know how my grandmother was affected

by the death of this her only son ; but I
fear the love of the world had even then
eaten away her heart, and that she was
not capable of any intense grief.
Here are the extracts I refer to : —
I leave to Colonel B. the sword given
to me by His Royal Highness. I trust
he will do me the favour of wearing it for
my sake, and I am quite sure it cannot be
put into better hands. To Captain V. I
leave my large silver snuff-box. It is a
testimony of affection from a brother officer
and an old school-fellow. I leave to C. C.
S. my chestnut horse ** Agamemnon," and
hope he will not sell him, but, when he can
no longer do his work with comfort, send
him over to M. to pass the remainder of
his days in rest and quiet. I desire that
my old bay horse " Browning " may be
sent to M., and turned out there ; and it

IS my particular desire that he never again
be ridden, driven, or do any kind of work ;
and I likewise desire that, from the beginning
of the month of October until the
month of April, he may have two feeds of
corn each day. I likewise desire that the
farrier may occasionally come over to see
that he Is in health, and that his feet are
in good order. My reason for specifying
all this (however ridiculous it may appear)
is that I wish the old horse to be quite
comfortable, for he has been to me a most
faithful servant. To Her Royal Highness
I leave my little grey pony, and my bay
mare " Fidget." '

My grandmother was a Frenchwoman,
of Huguenot extraction, and her maiden
name was Chamier. She inherited a large
fortune from her father and his brother,
who, having migrated from France first to

Holland and subsequently to London, had
amassed great wealth in the City. When
she married my grandfather, Clare Strong,
she was no longer young, and had refused
many offers of marriage, as she very frequently,
in later years, informed me. In
fact, I believe she was thirty-eight years
of age, whereas my grandfather was a
professional young man of twenty-five.
Nevertheless, she outlived him, and also,
as already said, the only issue of the

marriage.

As it was impossible for her to continue
her dinners and ' routs,' as they were then
called, without a male assistant, and as I
was only three years old at the time, and
I could not be made use of, she married
Sir Everard Duncan, of an old Lincolnshire
family, and connected with every one
whose society she at all affected.

Sir Everard was a very simple, good-natured
old man, of a school which hardly
exists now. He was extremely polite to
my grandmother, who received his distant
attentions with the coquetry of her youth,
and he looked most dignified and imposing
at the bottom of her dining-table, where,
though he said but little, and that little
of an uncompromising character, he was
generally voted an excellent host, and a
good old fellow. *

London society fifty years ago was, it
need not be said, very different in every
respect from what it is now. To begin
with, the Americans had not then crossed
the Atlantic, to descend, like Byron's
Assyrian, on the Dowagers' fold. The
German Jew element of London society
was, of course, not then in existence, and
the men who had an influence in the

world, were men of undoubted birth and
breeding, whose antecedents were matters
of history. One can scarcely realise what
the feelings of the grandes dames of that
day would have been, for instance, at reading
the paragraphs in the papers of to-day
describing parties, and ladies' dresses and
jewels. But their surprise would not have
been greater than when they read the
names of the ladies who wore the dresses
and the jewels, and even wrote the
description for their own advertisement.
These names were unknown in Mayfair
in those days, and it would be unkind to
say more than that.

Lady Duncan was connected with the
City by parentage, and even had City
cousins, whom she had long ignored ;
but her family were noble in France,
and she was herself, in both manner, and

appearance, and mind, of the ancien
regime. Her husband, too (who was
always a most kind step-grandfather tome,
and who left me several thousand
pounds), was a rigid Tory, to whom
birth and breeding were in those days
synonymous terms. Lady Duncan was
one of those persons who seem to
outlive everybody, and I have often
wished she had outlived me. A very
good digestion, and no conscience, are
excellent things in life, as cynics tell us.
Well, my grandmother had the former,
and I don't think — in later life, at all
events — she troubled herself much about
right and wrong. How easily I seem to
see her now, after so many years, walking
on Sunday morning to her church in
North Audley Street ! One of her footmen,
a few paces behind, with her large

red morocco prayer-book, followed leisurely
her mincing steps ; for she was a little
woman, and latterly much bent. She
went to church always without fail every
Sunday morning, and as regularly devoted
herself to the scandal and gossip of the
London world with her numerous visitors
in the afternoon. I am told that this, too,
is a thing of the past, since cigarettes,
and curacoa, and coffee take the place of
afternoon church.

But the other day, glancing over some
letters of my grandfather's, I came upon
one written to him by my grandmother
before their marriage, and apparently while
their engagement was not countenanced,
which places her character in a better
light, and which is such a contrast to the
modern epistle written under similar circumstances,
that I transcribe it in full.

But I beg young ladies — If I am ever so
fortunate as to find any of them readers
of these pages — not to sneer at a style
which, in some respects, appears to me
to bear favourable comparison with specimens
I possess (not, of course, addressed
to myself) of a more recent date.

'How unfortunate a being is your Marie,
obliged to deny herself to the very person
who most on earth she wished to see! Indeed,
my most amiable, such was my very
cruel situation on Saturday even. My
poor, dear mother — for I still sincerely
love her, notwithstanding her perverseness
in condemning me to a situation and
society highly disagreeable — has been indisposed
with an intermittent fever, which
returns every other day. Saturday washer
bad day, and she had had a very

severe attack. I was sitting by her bedside
when your carriage drove to the door,
and, though my heart whispered me it
might be you, I had not power to retract
the orders I had given of a general denial,
as my friend Mrs V — and her little girl,
who are with me on a visit, were at that
very instant in the front parlour. Under
such circumstances as these, can you forgive
me ? Indeed you cannot conceive
the uneasiness it has given me. I wrote
you a few lines on Sunday even, but was
prevented sending them, having no opportunity
of conveying them to the post.
This morning is the very first that I have
had. My mother is, thank God ! much
better. To-morrow is her well day. Permit
me to add we are disengaged, and
shall be at home the whole even. I dare
not say more. However, should my most

amiable be better engaged, or not disposed
to favour me again so soon, let me entreat
him to oblige me with a few lines, as an
assurance of that forgiveness, for which I
remain, his very humble and affectionate
suppliant, Marie Chamier.

Wednesday Morn, 8 o'clock.

^ Pes, — I should not have mentioned our
being disengaged tomorrow even, but as
Mrs V. is with us, we are frequently out
of an even, and I should be extremely
sorry to subject you to a second disagreeable
jaunt.'

It is melancholy to reflect that the Marie
Chamier who wrote this charming letter,
even when no longer young and perhaps
versed in such matters, grew into a worldly,
cynical, old woman, whose one idea was
gaiety and society, even when she had

passed her eightieth year. I do not believe
she ever wrote or spoke to her second husband,
Sir Everard, in such a submissive
strain, nor did I ever hear her address him
as my * most amiable But vire all change
as the years go by, as much morally and
intellectually as we do physically, and I am
afraid I take the pessimist view that we
do not, as a rule, change for the better.
Youth is best with its golden aspirations,
its summer dreams, its fierce and delusive
passions, its boundless possibilities, and its
impulsive folly. If I had known my
grandmother in her youth, I dare say I
should not hold the opinion I have long
held of her character. Unluckily, I knew
her in her extreme old age.

Sir Everard died when I was sixteen,
and a boy at Eton. He was always extremely
kind and generous to me, and I

felt acutely the news, which was brought
to me by my grandmother's old butler,
with whom I returned to Grosvenor Street,
to attend the funeral. It was my first
personal contact, since I grew up, with
death, and it impressed me accordingly.
After the funeral — which took place in the
old graveyard, long since closed, where my
father is buried — there was a heavy
luncheon in the dining-room in Grosvenor
Street, where I had to take the head of the
table. I had always been treated with considerable
deference by my grandmother's
friends ; but now my consideration seemed
increased as I suppose, because the death
of Sir Everard left me the only heir. But
I recollect being much shocked at overhearing,
unintentionally, a nephew of Sir
Everard remark — no doubt disappointed
at the contents of the will, which left the

bulk of his property to my grandmother
absolutely, — ' You will see she will marry
again.'

I did not see my grandmother that day,
as her maid informed me she was not well
enough to do so, but she sent me her
love, and would see me the next day. I
afterwards discovered she had been closeted
the whole afternoon with the said maid,
examining certain large boxes of mourning
clothes. But the next morning, after
breakfast, as she knew I had to return to
Eton, she sent for me, and received me in
the most correct mourning of the period,
which certainly was not so becoming as
that adopted by disconsolate widows of
the present day. She looked, poor woman,
very old and wrinkled ; and her bay wig,
and broad velvet band across her forehead,
could not conceal her great age. She

kissed me very affectionately, and at once
plunged, with her strong practical good
sense, in medias res,

I have always wished, Clare,' she said,
that you should go into your father's
regiment, and dear Sir Everard wished it
too. He has now added to the capital
your father left you, which has been carefully
nursed, so that when you come of
age, though very far from rich, you will
be able to live in the regiment, and I shall
hope to supplement your income. The
late Duke of N. put your name down
long ago, when you were a baby, for a
commission, and we shall be able to advance
the money out of your capital ; and
I think another six months at Eton will
complete your education, so far as school
is concerned. Then, Clare, begins your
education in the world, and I hope you

VOL. I. B

will commence it here, and take care of
me.'

She spoke as if a long life was before
her, and with quite a cheerful interest in
the career of a boy who, in those days,
was slim, lively, and good-looking. What
could I do but kiss her, and tell her I
would do everything she wished ? She
gave me a five-pound note, and her fingers
to kiss, and I took my way to Windsor
that evening well content with the world
and its prospects, so far as I was concerned.

NOUS NE SOMMES PAS d'aCCORD.

Voulez vous voir h. quel point chaque dat de la society
corrupt les hommes ? Examines ce qu'ils
sont quand ils en ont prove plus longtemps
Influence — c'est-audire dans la vieillesse.

My grandmother retired for the space of
one long decorous year, — not abroad, * as
ladies under similar circumstances do nowadays,
but to her little property In Kent,
which she had bought In the early days
of her first widowhood, and where my
father had spent his youth. Her amusement
there was the constant devouring of
the most romantic French novels ; and
when I joined her there In my summer
holidays, I often found her In actual tears

over the sorrows and disappointments described
therein ; and yet I do not think
she ever shed a tear for any real distress.
Perhaps she never met with it. Anyhow
as soon as she came back from her daily
drive, out came the last French novel,
and after dinner, having no parties to goto,
she usually fell asleep.

This was not a gay life for an Etonian
of nearly seventeen. But I was of a studious
turn, and finding a few books in the
house, and having a horse to ride through
very pretty country, I got on fairly well.
My grandmother was a great letter-writer
in those days, even when franks were necessary,
and her worldly friends kept her
ati courant of all the scandals and gaieties
of the great world. She used to comedown
to our very simple dinner, I recollect,
covered with her diamonds, and leaning

on an ebony stick. I once ventured
to say to her, —

You pay me a great compliment,
Granny, in wearing all those jewels when
we are only dining tete-d-tSte.'

She made a little odd bow which was
very French.

I should have no opportunity of wearing
them, man cher, if I reserved them
now for society.'

When I went back to Eton for my last
term, she showed me a letter from a very
illustrious personage with whom she was
on intimate terms, assuring me of my commission
; and remarking on the complimentary
manner in which my poor father was
referred to, said, —

We shall spend next season together in
Grosvenor Street.'

I do not think she ever realised how

very different my views of life were rapidly
becoming from those she had planned forme.
As a middle-aged man now, I think
the schemes of the elders for the young
are generally doomed to failure, and that
a better course is to let a young man follow
his own bent, if he has the means and
the opportunity of doing so. Some characters
resent dictation on these matters ;
and it does not at all follow that because
a father has been a soldier, his son has
inherited the military instinct. He has
presumably had a mother, and may have
inherited some characteristics from her.
Of my mother, Lady Duncan never spoke
to me. I now know they could never have
been friends, and I also can very easily
guess why. My great ambition at this
period, hitherto totally ungratified, was to
travel ; and the books within my reach on

travels were eagerly read by me, and only
served to stimulate my curiosity. I was
also, in every sense, of a studious and contemplative
turn of mind. To this day —
having seen so much of men, and women,
and countries as I have done — I cannot
help feeling a sense of contempt, which I
try to suppress, for the energetic fussers
of the world, — for the people who boast
they are never idle, and who rush from
one pursuit to another. They are, after
all, only post-boys ; and the dust, and the
clatter of the wheels, and the cracking of
the whip, deceives the world for the time.
With these ideas, and, perhaps, to be
candid, a slight bent of indolence, the
career of a soldier, even if only an ornamental
one, presented no attractions ; and
I felt — however disappointing it might be
to my grandmother — the time was fast approaching

when I must tell her that I had
no intention of purchasing a commission in
the Guards. I had so seldom opposed her
in any transaction of my life, that I could
form no idea how she would receive this
resolution. But I feared a scene, and so,
with true cowardice, after consulting with
my greatest friend and contemporary at
Eton, one William Penrose, I wrote the
following diplomatic note, —

'Eton College.
My Dear Granny, — I think I ought
to write and confide to you how very
much I dislike the idea of going into
the army as a profession. To begin with,
I don't think I am at all suited for the
life ; and I would much rather wait fora
time before deciding on my course of
life. I would rather travel, and see the

world, before I make up my mind on so
serious a subject ; and I think my trustees
would enable me to do this. I hope you
won't be disappointed, — and remain your
dutiful grandson,

Clare Strong.'

What my grandmother's real feelings
were on receiving this letter I never
shall know ; but she only wrote to say
that we could talk it over when we met.
Our next meeting was in Grosvenor
Street, when I had finally quitted school.

My dear Clare, there are a few people
dining here quite informally to-night. Two
very old friends of mine, both military
men, amongst them, who will talk after
dinner to you about the Guards. They
are both Guardsmen. One, Lord Francis
Sherlock, you know, — one of my earliest

admirers, and who takes a great interest
in you. He asked me to marry him
many years ago, and he has never married,
which makes my refusal of him
quite a tragedy.'

I recollect him, Granny. I am not
surprised you never married him,' I
answered, somewhat drily.

My grandmother raised her eyeglass,
rather astonished, but went on imperturbably,
—

And the other — General Rosemere —
you know only by his fame.'

I really think Lady Duncan showed
a want of diplomacy in her treatment of
her grandson at this period. If she had
argued with me, — appealed to my father's
memory, and love of his regiment, and
finally fallen on me with tears and kisses,
I should probably have succumbed. But

to invite two ' old fossils.' — as I mentally
called them, — who knew nothing of my
character, or aspirations, to ' talk me over,'
was to invite failure. Lord Francis — of
whom there is much hereafter to be
related — was an old routs who, over my
grandmother's excellent port, dilated, not
so much on the glory of his country, and
the smartness of his former regiment, as
on the necessity of a profession in first
starting in life, to keep a boy out of mischief,
and on the obvious fact that the
only profession open to a gentleman was
the army, and the only regiments suitable
to a gentleman of means, the Guards.

When I say " keep you out of mischief,"
of course, you'll get into mischief.
Every man of spirit has his day ; but
absolute idleness is very expensive, and is
apt to cripple a man. You'll find London

very pleasant, as the young master
of this house ; and you'll have your
friends elsewhere. Egad ! Clare, I wish
I was you, and had your prospects.'

My lord, I want to travel. Every
young fellow travels now-a-days before
he settles down.'

^ You shall travel, when you march to
beat the French. We shall go at them
again some day, and then you will have
travelling enough.'

'Well, I am afraid I shall have to
disappoint my grandmother. I feel no
inclination to be a soldier,' I answered
doggedly.

Lord Francis was a man of pleasure, —
an old bachelor with an evil reputation,
and too little time left to him to arose
with a stripling. He turned abruptly
away, to discuss with General Rosemere

(the youngest cavalry general In the army)
the charms of some lady, about whom
both seemed to have much to relate. As
we all rose, Lord Francis said good-naturedly
to me, —

You have scarcely begun your gallantries
yet. Take my advice, and steer clear
of very innocent enthusiastic ladies.'

General Rosemere laughed. In after
years I knew him well, as these pages
will relate. He was then also a bachelor ;
but he lived to remember this advice,
thus addressed to one who did not in
the least comprehend its meaning, and
attributed it to the excellence of my
grandmother's port.

What passed that evening, or the next
morning, on the subject of my career,
between Lord Francis Sherlock and my
grandmother, I never knew ; but, the

following evening, I escorted her to a
ball at her earnest request, and so far acquitted
myself to her satisfaction at my
first London party that, driving home as
wide awake as a girl of eighteen, she
said, — * My dear Clare, after all, the profession
can wait. You will stay with me,
and go out this season, and pay visits
with me in the autumn, and we will see
later on.' She actually kissed me. I little
guessed then that her benevolence was
dictated by the fact that I had unwittingly
(sweet innocence of youth ! ) danced twice
with the greatest heiress in the room.

Canary MANOR.

Oh, thou oft depressed and lowly ;
All my fears are laid aside,
If I but remember, only
Such as these having lived and died.'

If the atmosphere of Upper Grosvenor

•
Street, and the society to be found there,

was of 'the world worldly,' I often escaped
into the country, to stay with the Pen-roses,
mother and son, at Carnaby Manor.
William Penrose and I had first been at
a private school together, and afterwards
entered Eton the same term, and we
always remained fast and warm friends.
His mother, the lady of the Manor at
Carnaby, was one of the most remarkable

persons I have ever known. At her birth
all the fairies presided ; for she was born
an heiress, and subsequently inherited the
property at Carnaby, and the lovely old
Manor House, in which she lived, except
when in London in her house in Devonshire
Place. Very rich, she had also been
exquisitely beautiful, and, even as an old
woman, the regularity of her features, and
the sweetness of her smile, and the expression
of her large brown eyes, seemed
to win both old and young to her side.
She was also extremely clever, and a great
reader, and brilliant talker. No wonder
that such a woman filled her houses, both
in London and the country, with the most
famous of the artistic and intellectual
world, who delighted in her society, often
dedicated their works to her, and enjoyed
the literary rest afforded them among the

beautiful gardens, avenues, and fish ponds

of Carnaby Manor. Yet Mrs Penrose, withall

her outward prosperity and success in

life, was, in reality, a very sad woman. She

had lost all her children, except William,

and they had been six in number. Oneby

one they were laid in the exquisite

little churchyard in the park, and often,.

when no one was near, Mrs Penrose might

have been seen among the rose trees,

standing weeping over the graves where

those she had so tenderly loved took their

last rest. But she was too clever and too

good to allow her own melancholy to affect

her life, and that of those around her.

Her village was a model one ; her church,

which she had restored, was the most

beautiful in the county ; and there was nota

villager there who would not have gladly

made any sacrifice for her sake, so dearly
VOL. I. c

was she loved and respected. * Her
charity,' as was once finely said, ' knew
no distinction save that of want'

In many respects, William, my dear
friend, had inherited his mother's fine qualities.
He had her noble, impulsive nature,
and the same expansive mind ; but, perhaps
naturally, he had not her strong-literary
tastes and instincts. He made
but little use of the books with which the
Manor House was stored — even the halls
and passages were lined with books ; and
besides the fine library, there was a delightful
workroom filled with rare volumes,
where many an entrancing literary work
had first been written. William was a
keen sportsman, and devoted his winter to
hunting. He had the softest heart, and
the warmest affections, of any man I have
ever known ; and his admiration for his

mother was the ruling passion of his Hfe.
He often said to me, — * Was there ever
anyone like my mother ? She never
thinks of anything but giving other people
pleasure. I feel quite ashamed, sometimes,
when I am with her, of my own
selfishness.' And amidst this great love
of the mother and the one child left to her,
there was a constant humorous banter.
Her poetical, romantic view of things was
often to him a subject of great amusement.
Her new mottoes, and the verses
she placed on the tombs of her dogs and
horses ; the constant purchase of books
of poems written by obscure and unknown
authors, — all this he often rallied her about.
To see them together was a charming
spectacle ; for he was as handsome as
Apollo, and as simple and unconscious asa
rustic virgin. ' My country friends,' as

Lady Duncan always called them, it maybe
imagined, afforded me a delightful respite
just now from the endless, frivolous
chatter and vapid gaiety which filled up my
grandmother's life. At the very entry to
the hall at Carnaby Manor I felt I was in
an atmosphere congenial to my feelings, —
where I could breathe, and think, and feel,
where I was sure of a sincere and genial
welcome from its mistress, whose dulcet
tones still ring on my grateful memory.

One lovely summer evening in July
I had escaped from London for only a
Sunday. The others who made up our
party had wandered out among the flowerbeds
after dinner, and I found myself
alone in the old bowling - green with
Mrs Penrose, the full moon sadly sailing
overhead, amid a silence which could be
almost heard.

I have always looked on you as Willy's
brother, my dear boy,' she said, in answer
to some words of mine of gratitude for
her constant kindness, * and as a son tome.
I wish I saw your future marked out
quite happily for you. But you will have
most things the world wishes for, except,
perhaps, distinction. I don't think, Clare,
you are ambitious. But still there is
much to be done in life without ambition,
for oneself. What a good and merciful
thing one knows not the path before us !
and if we did, how many of us would ask,
"Why were we born ? " '

Her tone of profound melancholy was
unusual.

I suppose we shall know some day,' I
said doubtfully, ' the whole truth.'

*' In that great day, when," as Addison
says, " we shall all be contemporaries together."

But whatever happens — and at the
very worst moment of your Hfe, dear Clare
remember to trust eternally and humbly
in God. Quite a Sunday lecture,' she
added brightly, as she saw I was thinking
of what she said. ' And so you won't
go into the Guards. Well, I wish Lady
Duncan would consent to your travelling
with Willy, as I presume he has told you
he is most anxious to go to America —
with a tutor, of course — for some months,
and, I suppose, I shall have to consent.'

In those days, America meant a very
long voyage, so Mrs Penrose's unselfishness
did not seem at all to guarantee tome
my grandmother's consent to a perilous
journey. Besides, I knew she counted on
my company both in London and the
country visits she always made in the
autumn.

Granny seems to have forgotten all
about her wish that I should enter the
3d Guards, and now seems to want me to
be always with her. It is very flattering,
but a little embarrassing.'

Mrs Penrose smiled.

She is very old. Perhaps your first
duty is to be with her. It is a marvellous
comfort, in years to come, to think you
did all you could in duties of that sort.'

Willy and I smoked until late into the
night that evening in the wonderful old
room devoted to that purpose at Carnaby,
discussing our mutual love for travel, and
the possibilities of ever seeing America,
and going round the world. I found he
rather agreed with his mother that I
ought to remain as much as possible
with my grandmother for the present.

We will travel together some day,

dear boy ; and I expect I shall be here
all the winter : I can't give up the hunting
this next season.'

The turret bell tolled the small hours
as we boys talked our friendly and, perhaps,
shallow philosophy.

The day came when I was to sit alone
and desolate, and to hear that bell, which
had a ghastly tone for me, as I listened for
the sound of a voice that was still for evermore.
But not yet, — not yet. I went to
bed, and thought how, having no mother, I
was blessed to have such a friend as Mrs
Penrose. At breakfast we were a jovial
party. The lady of the manor was in her
happiest mood, and the grave portraits
of her ancestors and ancestresses in the
honos dining-room seemed to me to beam
with satisfaction at the charm and gaiety
of, their present representative.

A COMPROMISE.

The Shape with " Thanatos " upon its brow,
Dreadfully peeps.'

My return from Carnaby on this occasion
was memorable always to me, because my
grandmother, in her ever capricious way,;
suddenly veered round, and suggested a
compromise as to my future.

I have been thinking it all over, Clare,
and as you have such a decided distaste
to the army, why not go to Oxford, — to
Christ Church — and take your degree ?
You will spend your vacations with me,
and, after all, I can't expect to keep you
always here.'

I asked for a little time for reflection,
and after communicating with Penrose, I
told Lady Duncan, if the money question
could be settled, I would gladly do my
best to matriculate at Christ Church, — an
effort which did not necessitate great
labour in those days for an Etonian.

I will consult the trustees, and we will
have a meeting about it. I think you
ought to be able to live on four hundred
a year.'

The end of it all was I entered at Christ
Church, and, to the great delight of his
mother, Penrose also made up his mind
to go up to Oxford too ; and so once more
we were thrown together in daily intimate
intercourse. I have no idea of describing
myself, or my career at Oxford ; for it
would be highly unprofitable reading, —
neither new, nor interesting. I frankly

confess — whether it was my own faut, or
not — that Oxford did very Httle for me,
and I look back on the three years which
I was supposed to spend there, as very
nearly, if not altogether, wasted. I went
there a studious youth, and I remain a
studious man, but not altogether in the
collegiate sense, as study was then understood.
The great variety of my reading
was altogether against any academic success,
and a translation from a famous passage
in De Faults, into Greek verse, was,
as the old Scotchman said, on another
occasion, — ' Mair curious than edifying.'
Nor can I say that I ever felt the sentiment
about Oxford which, in common
with most Etonians, I always shall feel
about my school-days. I suppose I do
not make friends easily. Those I made
at Oxford I certainly can count on my

fingers, and they never did much in later life.
My grandmother's friends, of course, had
sons and grandsons at Christ Church, and
to her it seemed a constant annoyance
that I did not choose my friends in the
same worldly way she did, and had always
done, herself. I verily believe that her only
idea of ' the house ' was a society where
opportunity was given to make friends
with men of rank and high social position.
The day before I took my degree, I
received a note which upset me very much.
It was from the old butler in Grosvenor
Street, to say that my grandmother had
had a bad fall, coming downstairs, and
would I come to London as soon as possible
? Now, the note had been delayed
in coming to me, and it was already two
days old. Moreover, it was impossible
for me to leave Oxford until after the

morrow, nor was it possible for me to let
them know in Grosvenor Street how I
was situated. Penrose had failed to take
his degree, and had gone down to Carnaby.
There was no one whom I cared to consult
as to what I ought to do. I arrived
at, probably, the best conclusion, — that nothing
was to be done except to wait until
I could get away, and then start forthwith
for London, sending a note at once, and
taking the chance of whether it or I arrived
first. As I drove up in a hack-carriage, I
looked up at the windows ; for my brain
had been in an excited agitation for some
days, and I had pictured the worst, and
that I should find my grandmother very
ill, perhaps dead. But all looked as usual
as I rang the bell. Dorling opened the
door, however, with a very grave face.
She is better, sir, but she is very much

shook, and she has taken on dreadfully,
sir, that you didn't come before. She
is in the back drawing-room, as usual ;
but she looks altered somehow.'

I hastened upstairs, and opened the
door of the smaller drawing-room. There
sat my grandmother, dressed just as
usual, and Mrs Dorling was reading hera
letter. But she did not seem to notice
my entry, and her eyes had a fixed, glassy
expression. Otherwise, there was nothing
in her appearance to indicate any change.
I put out my hand, and she held it. I
kissed her, and then she said rather
weakly, —

Why didn't you come before ? '

I couldn't, Granny. I took my degree
yesterday.'

She seemed not to hear.

Mind, Dorling, you take me to the

drawing-room windows to-night. I must
see the people go in to the Duchess's
party opposite. The house is to be
illuminated. What a pity I cannot go
myself!' Her voice was perfectly clear,
though weak. ' I shall dine with you
to-night, Clare ; ' and, leaning on her maid's
arm, with difficulty she hobbled up the
stairs to her bedroom. For years I had
urged her to sleep on the drawing-room
floor, where there was a boudoir, which
most easily could have been converted
into a sleeping-room. But her strength
of will, derived from her Huguenot ancestry,
had always opposed any supposition
of failing health, or advancing years. It
was most painful to see her going upstairs
that evening, and to hear her say she
meant to come down to dinner. I retired
into the small sanctum downstairs which

had been' mine ever since I had had a
room of my own, and rang the bell for
Dorling, who was my devoted friend and
ally, having often befriended me by sitting
up when I had gone surreptitiously,
as a boy, to the play.

This won't do at all, Dorling. Her
ladyship is far too ill to come down to
dinner. We ought to send for a doctor
who will forbid it.'

Dorling shook his head.

If your grandmother means to do a
thing, sir, not all the doctors in Mayfair
will prevent it, as long as she has the
strength to do it.'

But she hasn't the strength,' I retorted,
Has she seen anyone to-day?'

Lord Francis was here the whole
morning, and a young military gentleman
I never saw here before. I'm fearful, sir,

your grandmother has been adding a
codicil to her will, and she isn't fit to
make one.'

Has Lord Francis been here everyday
lately ? '

Every day since the accident, and
Sometimes twice a day.'

Will you ask Mrs Dorling to say to
her ladyship how much I hope she won't
attempt dining downstairs to-night ; and
that I should be so grateful if she would
send for the family doctor, who would
ensure her having a good night's rest.'

I then shut the door, and dressed
myself for dinner, though my mind was
greatly agitated as to what I ought to do
on the old lady's behalf. In those days,
people dined, when alone, at seven o'clock,
and, at that hour, I found myself alone
in the back drawing-room, so familiar to

VOL. I. D

me. There was my grandmother's green
parrots chattering away in his usual shrill
way — the large worked screen, and the
miniatures on the tulip wood table beside
it, the cushions she occasionally
stuffed — for she never knitted, — and the
oil painting of my father, which, as not
being a good work of art, never held a
place of honour in the large drawing-room.
I was glancing at it all — such a familiar
arrangement — once more, when I heard a
shuffling of steps on the passage outside,
and, hastening to the door, found Lady
Duncan descending the stairs to the
divine-room, with her maid and a footman
supporting each arm.

To my amazement, she was en grande
tenue, and her black satin dress was
covered with diamonds. I never saw a
more ghastly sight, and, as I followed her

down, I repeated to myself, ' O I ago, the
pity of it ! ' She sank, almost breathless,
Into her large chair at the head of the table,
and the dinner, which I have never forgotten,
almost immediately began. After
a glass or two of wine, and a little fish,
she seemed, in some measure, to recover
herself. But not a word did she ask meas
to my degree or my journey, or anything
personal to myself or to her. To
the last she seemed full of the frivolity of
her present life.

'It is the greatest disappointment tome,
Clare. I had hoped to go to-night.
But it is impossible. The Duchess never
forgets her old friends, and knew I
should enjoy such a beautiful spectacle.
Three new beauties come out tonight,
and all the Royal Family will
be there who are In town. But I shall

see them go in from my bedroom
windows.'

She was fanning herself, and all the
time her poor face was twitching with a
sort of paralytic affection. Towards the
end of that terrible meal, when Dorling
was alone in the room, I made one last
effort, by saying, —

Well, Granny, I hope they gave you
my message. I want you to let me send
for Sir William. He will just come in
from Brook Street, and give you a composing
draught, and tomorrow, I daresay,
sou will feel quite yourself.'

She looked at me in a very fixed and
resolute manner.

My dear Clare, I was never more myself
than I am to-night. You will finish
your wine ; and will you ring for the servants
to take me upstairs ? I am going

to my own room ; but not to bed. Goto
your club, mon cher and enjoy yourself,
and, if you're not too late, come and
say good-night.'

The Darlings came in ; and I kissed
her wrinkled cheek.

Don't sit up, dearest Granny ; I shall
say good-night now.'

As you will,' and she returned my kiss.
I heard them labouring upstairs. But,

of course, I had no intention of leaving
the house that night. I went to bed at
eleven, and called Dorlincr before I did so.

If my grandmother is worse, wake meat
once.'

He shook his head.

She is at the window in her room,
watching the carriages and the company
going in.'

I was very tired, but it was long before

I fell asleep. The noise of the carriages,
and the shouting of the llnkmen, were
sufficiently disturbing ; but my thoughts
were more so. I lay tossing on my bed,
living, as fever patients do in their delirium,
through all the scenes of their past
lives. Every now and then, as I might
have dropped off to sleep, the cries in the
street awoke me, and I seemed to see, ina
nightmare, the figure of my grandmother
bidding me farewell, and fading from the
room. I was within a few days of my
birthday, when I came of age ; but I
think, in that night, like the man in ' The
Spectator,' who put his head into the
tub, I lived through a long life of horror
and imagination. At last I woke with a
sudden scare.

Who are you ? What is it .'^ ' I exclaimed,
and my tongue seemed fever bound.

It was Mrs Darlings who was standing
by my bedside, and had evidently, as
gently as possible, aroused me. The sun
was streaming in through the curtains,
which she had partly drawn. The new
day, and another of those thankless journeys
for glittering Phoebus, had begun —
but no new days for Lady Duncan.

Oh, Master Clare, all is over ! She
died In her sleep, ten minutes ago, without
a struggle ; her breath grew weaker and
weaker, and once I thought she smiled ;
but she never said a word, and I think
she was asleep. I sat up with her all
night, and she would not go to bed until
late.'

What with my weird night, and my
sudden awakening, and a possible general
weakening of nerves (for I had been working
hard) I broke down, and burst into

tears. After all, I was very much alone.
We had not really had much sympathy ;
but she was the last link with my childhood,
and all that the interests of early
boyhood mean. And death is always
terrible to the young.

MY grandmother's WILL.

All heads must come
To the cold tomb ;
Only the actions of the just
Smell sweet, and blossom in the dust.'

In the present day, the shortness and
uncertainty of life have become so impressed
upon the minds of people, that
they abridge, so far as possible, and in
some instances totally dispense with, all
outward sign of mourning for those of
their kith who predecease them. ' I shall
never be out of mourning if I put on black
clothes for all my relatives who die,' I
heard a lady once say, and I am bound
to confess I found that very few of the

relatives who survived her made much
or long change in their toilette when her
death was announced. But thirty years
ago etiquette was still observed in such
matters, — at least among persons who
came, like St Patrick, ' of decent people ; '
and wills always, or very generally, contained
provision for the mourning of
servants. I observe in several wills of
the early part of the last century in my
possession, that, even to brothers and kinsmen,
money was left to buy mourning ;
and, I suppose, cynicism might suggest
that such bequests betokened a doubt as
to the mourning being adopted, unless
prepaid.

As soon as I had dressed myself, I
wrote a note, which was immediately taken
by hand to Mr Bandon, the family lawyer,
asking him to come at once to Grosvenor

Street, and announcing my grandmother's
death. As my grandmother had never
alluded to her will, or to her death, or any
testamentary wishes, it was manifestly impossible
for me, as her heir-at-law, to take
any steps whatever, without consultation
with him. I was sitting over a breakfast,
which I had hardly touched, when, to my
relief, he was announced. I had known
Mr Bandon all my life, and he had always
been a kind friend to me, although punctilious
in the old-fashioned solicitor's
manner of reserve and humility.

Will you do what is necessary, Mr
Bandon, about the funeral, and all the
arrangements ? You see, I have no experience
in these matters, and I trust
everything to you.'

He seemed gratified at my confidence,
but, at the same time, a little puzzled.

I must tell you, sir, Dorling stopped me
on my way here, to say he had fears Lady
Duncan had made a codicil to her will
yesterday, and that she was not in a condition
to have done so. Now it is impossible
her ladyship could have done this,
as the will was made ten years ago, and
has always remained in our office. Probably
Dorling has been talking nonsense.
Still, he declares that Lady Duncan was
busy writing yesterday morning, and that
she sent for General Rosemere, and that,
after his arrival here, a young Guardsman,
whom he did not know by sight, also
came. Altogether, though there may be
nothing whatever in it, as a matter of
form, let me have your grandmother's
keys.'

I went upstairs to Mrs Dorling to get
them. ' How little,' I thought, ' anyone

seemed to feel for her death ! — how selfish
is the world ! ' I did not realise then, as
I have years ago done, that, in the long
run, the world is very fair in its valuation
of its votaries, and wisely keeps its tears
and charities for those who deserve them.
The keys found, Mr Bandon proceeded
very prosaically to open the old-fashioned
drawers of the high escritoire at which
my grandmother often wrote. She sometimes
wrote in her boudoir, I reminded
him, as he tried the various keys, and
sometimes in the small drawing-room.
We were now in the divine-room.

It will not take long, probably,' he said,
as, if she executed any paper yesterday,
it will be at the top of other papers.'

There had been a constant knocking at

o

the front door since nine o'clock, — servants
coming to inquire, and returning with

hushed steps. But now Doting entered,
and asked if Mr Bandon would see
General Rosemere for a moment. He
glanced at me, and I saw, in spite of his
effort at composure, that he feared trouble.

I am very sorry. Say I am engaged
with Mr Clare Strong, and can see nobody
this morning.'

We heard the General depart, and Mr
Bandon continued his search without result.

'• I will ask Mrs Dorling where Lady
Duncan was writing yesterday morning,'
and he rang the bell.

It appeared from what Mrs Dorling
said, that my grandmother had sat in the
back drawing-room all the morning, and
had received General Rossmere there. So
we both went upstairs, and the lawyer
opened the little writing-table, with its
yellow satin bag, at which I had often seen

the poor old lady writing her notes. He was
not long seated there before he abruptly
rose, and, turning towards me with an
envelope in his hand, said hurriedly, —

This, no doubt, is what Dorling
meant.'

It was directed in my grandmother's
writing, which was, however, much more
shaky than usual, and the address was, —
My will. My executors are Mr Bandqn,
and General Rosemere, Cab.'

'This,' said he, * is the will of which I
know nothing. Very probably it is quite
informal. I have here in the bag the will
we drew for Lady Duncan, by which you
are made her sole heir, as, by every canon
of justice, you should be made. But what
this contains, or what it is, I have, of
course, no idea. I think, for many reasons,
I should open it now, and apprise you at

once of its contents. But if you prefer
waiting until the funeral, I follow your
wishes ; only this paper may, of course,
contain her injunctions as to her funeral.'

I suggested that he should open the
envelope at once, and he did so. Lawyers,
like doctors, are obliged to learn to mask
their faces, and Mr Bandon read to himself
the sheet of ordinary white note-paper
which he had before him, without comment.
When he came to the end, I noticed he
examined closely the signatures, and then
he shook his head.

No one will ever know what evil spirit
took possession of my grandmother's mind
on the morning she wrote out herself her
new will. As Mr Bandon very clearly
explained to me, she had completely disinherited
her next-of-kin, who had been
brought up by her as her own son, and

who had always tried to do his duty towards
her.

But said he, ' cleverly as this is drawn,
and witnessed, she forgot that there is ten
thousand pounds she cannot alienate. If
your father had lived, she could not have
left a shilling away from him, and there
remains this ten thousand pounds in your
father's settlement, which you must have.
But we can see, after the funeral, what
is to be done, and threaten the heir with
a Court of Equity.'

The will, a copy of which lies before me,
and which I would quote, but for the many
legatees mentioned in it, was as clear and
as characteristic as any will could be. I
may, perhaps, be allowed to add that it
was as cruel a will as ever was admitted to
probate. She began with her usual devotion
to rank by a bequest of a very fine

VOL. I. E

Raphael to her neighbour the Duchess
(whose various houses were filled with
European masterpieces). Her diamond
hoop-ring she bequeathed to another lady
of rank, and a dowager intimate of hers.
Then followed legacies to her two executors,
and a long list of her friends In London
society, all of whom she remembered
with gifts of money, jewels, or pieces of
plate. The Darlings and her coachman
received annuities. Then, after the acquaintances
and the servants, came the
only mention of myself. ' To my grandson,
Clare Strong, I leave the sum of ^v^
hundred pounds, and all the plate engraved
with the Strong crest or coat of arms. I
also leave him all pictures and miniatures,
either In Grosvenor Street or in my house
in Kent, of members of his family, and all
my books.' The bequest of books was

notable, as, excepting her French library,
which consisted of a remarkably risky
collection of old French romances, and
a certain number of modern novels, she
possessed none. The will went on : * And
as to the residue of my property, wheresoever
situated, and of whatsoever kind
consisting, whether realty or personalty,
I give and bequeath the same to my
faithful and dear friend, Lord Francis
Sherlock, for his own absolute use and
benefit.' The signature was written with
an effort, but was duly attested by two
young Guardsmen.

When I had grasped all this, I felt a
change coming over me, and in the few
moments of silence which elapsed, I became
a different being. I became a man —
hard, and cold, and resentful, at all events,
for the time. Mr Bandon first spoke.

As the family lawyer, I decline to act
as executor to this will, drawn without my
knowledge.'

And as the heir-at-law, disinherited so
cruelly, I decline to remain here another
hour. You must communicate with General
Rosemere, your co-executor, and I
shall at once go to the British Hotel, until
I can arrange my plans, and I shall not
attend the funeral.'

The lawyer seemed to approve of my
resolution.

I think no one can blame you. That
old reprobate. Lord Francis, who is a very
rich man, may refuse to benefit by this,
but I doubt it. Anyhow, his proposals,
if he has any to make, must come through
General Rosemere. I will of course, act
for you, as always.'

For an instant, to my surprise, I saw a

quiver of his lip, and I knew that he really
felt for me. Two hours later, with the
Darlings sobbing farewell at the door, I
had left that house for ever.

The body upstairs was upholstered, no
doubt, in the old dreary fashion to which
we all come, but I never saw her face
again — thank God ! not even often in my
evil dreams.

LORD FRANCIS SHERLOCK.

II est bonnet mais mediocre et d'un character epic
; c'est comme la perche, blanche, saine, mais
insipide et pleine diabetes.'

It was clearly my duty, however dreary a
one, to remain In London for the present,
and until my grandmother was burled.
She had left no Injunctions as to her
funeral, and I heard afterwards It was
conducted in a decent fashion, and that
she was laid in the same graveyard where
my father lies, In the Bayswater Road.
This Is the old cemetery of the Parish of
St George's, Hanover Square, and was
opened after the ground at the back of
Mount Street was closed In the year 1764.

There were very few mourners, Lord Francis
being the chief one ; but Grosvenor
Street was blocked with the empty private
carriages which followed the hearse. What
could be more characteristic of Lady Duncan's
life than such a termination ?

How I got through those days I never
knew. But I had many kind visits from
my few real friends, and a great many
letters, some of them painful enough. I
need scarcely say that, as King David
experienced, I also found that * my kinsmen
stood afar off' They generally do
on such occasions, though their overpowering
sympathy in the days of one's prosperity
is sometimes a little overdone. The
day after the funeral, when Mr Bandon
was sitting with me in my private room
at the hotel, discussing my resources,
came a note from General Rosemere.

He began his letter with a few words of
sympathy with me, and deep regret at
Lady Duncan's will ; and as Rosemere
was always a gentleman, I believe he
was sincere. Then he dropped into a
business tone, and said, on behalf of his
co-executor and himself, that they were
most anxious to make everything as little
painful to me as possible. Lord Francis
had decided to sell both the house in
Grosvenor Street, and also the Kent Cottage.
Of course, everything connected
with my family would be carefully selected,
and sent wherever I directed. Besides
plate, pictures, and books specified in the
will, anything I had any great fancy for,
Lord Francis wished to be placed at my
disposal ; and if I had any liking for the
house in Grosvenor Street, his terms for
the lease would be most friendly ones.

General Rosemere concluded his most
polite effusion by hoping we should always
remain great friends, and as he was about
to be married, he looked forward to presenting
me shortly to his wife.

But the fact remains,' I said, with
rather a cynical smile, ' that Lord Francis
takes whatever he gets under the will.'

Precisely so ; and, as he is seventy-eight
years of age, and a man who has
lived every day of his life, he is not likely
long to enjoy your fortune. Perhaps he
will leave it back to you ; but I want to
see and to explain to you exactly what
your means are. You come of age tomorrow
; and I must then give you a
written account of my stewardship ; but
meantime, roughly, the sums are these.
Your father left you fifteen thousand
pounds in the Funds — all he had in

the world to bequeath. There was ten
thousand pounds in addition, in your
parents' settlement ; but it was not payable
until your grandmother's death. It was,
luckily, settled on the Issue of the marriage,
so she could not alienate it, and
you now come into it. In addition, Sir
Everard left you three thousand pounds.
We have managed your property as well
as we could, and I think you will find
that, with the ten thousand pounds Consols,
you will be worth about twelve hundred
pounds a year. A young man can
do very well on that income, even without
a profession, if you do not marry, and
you will hardly think of marriage yet.
You have been abominably treated, and
I confess now to you I had hopes Lord
Francis might act as many rich men
would have done under such circumstances,

and renounced in your favour.
But they tell me at the bank he has
no intention of doing so, and that your
grandmother's bequest to him amounts to
at least eighty thousand pounds.'

If you are only twenty-one, and enjoy
excellent health, and a present income of
twelve hundred pounds a year, life ought
to appear to have many possibilities, and
to the eye of youth, the absolute independence
which now fell to my lot, softened
in time the blow the loss of so good a
fortune inflicted, and which, to older men,
would have seemed irreparable. I received
two notes the same evening, both
invitations into the country. One was
from Lord Francis Sherlock, dated from

his country house : —

Sherlock House.

Dear Clare, — I am an old man, and

you are a young one. Let us accept those
relations, and, in spite of what has occurred,
most unexpectedly to me, let me be your
friend. I was your grandmother's lover ;
but she would not marry me. Hinc ille
lacrymal. I hate business, and leave it to
others, so far as I possibly can. But I
told Rosemere to tell you I would do anything
you wished, in reason, to oblige you,
about the property in the Grosvenor Street
house, and also in the country. I can't
upset your grandmother's wishes. They
must take effect, and I am sorry for it. I
am not rich, but still I am too old for
legacies ; and I am not like that fool
Rosemere, who, I hear, is going to marry
an Exeter girl without a sixpence. Her
father was some pompous, scheming parson
there, and her grandfather a farming agent
o old Lord Denton. I fear I shan't livelong

enough to see him in his white sheet,
and with a flickering halfpenny 'dip" in his
hand. Fools, and d — d fools, make up
the world, and Rosemere comes under the
second head. But I run on, and forget the
object of my note. Don't be a fool, Clare !
Bear no resentment to me ; but come and
spend a week at Sherlock next month. I
can give you some good shooting later
on. — Yours, Francis Sherlock.'

The other letter was from Carnaby : —

Dearest Clare, — I have read your
letter to Willy, and so know all. I know,
too, how brave you will be, and that you
will be sure to act, at this important epoch
of your life, as your mother — of whom I
have so often heard — would have wished.
This is your home, and we long for you

to come home. Your room is always filled
with the books and flowers you love best.
We have a few literary people here just
now. Your favourite poet, of the modern
school, is writing a sonnet, and he is so
constantly in the elm avenue, I think it
must be addressed to the rooks. I have
been reading a passage in Southey's
Doctor," which I have marked for you.
With Willy's love, your ever affect.,

Mary Penrose.'

I have been always, and, even now, asa
middle-aged man, still remain, impulsive
and impetuous when I think I am
wronged, and I really believe I should
now re-write my letter to Lord Francis
Sherlock in nearly the same terms as I
did then. Those terms were these : —

Mr Clare Strong has to acknowledge

Lord Francis's letter. He considers, under
all the circumstances, that Lord Francis,
having secured Mr Strong's family fortune,
now desires, by addressing such a letter to
him, to expressly add insult to the injury
he has already inflicted. Mr Clare Strong
can only, definitely and finally, state that
he does not desire the acquaintance of
Lord Francis Sherlock, and that, as regards
the will of the late Lady Duncan,

•

he will take what the law gives him, and
nothing else. What the law gives him
will be arranged between Lord Francis
and his professional men of business.'

So there ended any further communication
between his lordship and me. I well
knew, too, how he would receive such a
missive, and could hear, in imagination, the
scornful laugh with which he would throw

it into his wastepaper basket. But, after
all, one of the first luxuries of independence
is to indulge oneself in speaking out one's
mind, as we term it, or, as the Americans
more tersely put it, ' a straight talk.'

Lord Francis Sherlock was a man of
very evil reputation in his county, as
already hinted ; and no ladies ever visited
at his house. As usual, in such cases, his
misdemeanours were largely exaggerated,
and the air of mystery which he absurdly
affected in his household arrangements,
led to a hundred conjectures, one more
ridiculously untrue than the other.

Sherlock is a very fine place, and was
entailed on the second son of the Duke of
Southamam by Lord Francis's grandmother.
For many years it was shut up, but never
let. Latterly, Lord Francis, in his old
age, had lived there altogether. Rumour

said truly there was a lady in the house.
Later on, I heard from her lips the whole
story ; but, at present, I knew little, except
that the ladies of the county would have
nothing to say with Sherlock, or its master.
I was very tired of London at this
period, and, gladly assenting to my dear
old friend's suggestion to 'come home,'
when I had finished all the business which
the attaining my majority, even in my
small affairs, necessitated, I started off for
Carnaby.

VOL. I.

MRS Penrose's guests.

Telle est la miserable condition des hommes qu'il
leur faut chercher dans la societe des consolations
aux maux de la Nature et dans la Nature
des consolations aux maux de la societe.'

It was late autumn, and Mrs Penrose had
gathered together an interesting society fora
few days' visit. William had two or three
friends for the cover-shooting, but we all
met at dinner, and, as usual, under the
happy influence of the lady of the manor,
there was much brilliant and amusing
conversation. Mr Eardley, a well-known
writer of those days, and of a very democratic
turn of mind, found himself, after

dinner, beside Canon Caryl, whose home
was, at that time, with the Jesuit fathers in
London ; and Lady Mary Vivian discussed
literature and politics with both. Mrs
Penrose, moreover, had discovered an extremely
interesting man — Mr Auguste de
Chamier — a relation of my own, and a
connoisseur of art, who, without my knowledge
hitherto, had lived for years in
Russell Square. He had come to Car-nay
with his daughter, a charming girl
of eighteen. It appeared he was a
widower himself, though of an age that
by no means forbade the idea of * seconde
7ioce! There were also two old maids,
who belonged to that useful genus, common
to ordinary English country houses.

Mrs Penrose's dinner table was always
a delightful sight. Fashions change, and,
though her greenhouses and conservatories

were crowded with lovely flowers, they
found no place on her round table. But
instead, it gleamed with beautiful old silver
ornaments and plate of the time of the
two Charles' and Queen Anne. The large
silver dishes which contained what are now
called ' entries! were arranged upon the
table on hot-water stands, and from the
middle rose a beautiful silver centrepiece,
representing both Ceres and Bacchus.
I am no judge of these matters, but am
told that the thick and bosky woods of
modern dinner-tables, and the piled-up
masses of rare flowers of new-fashioned
ballrooms, are much more effective than
the display of family plate. It may be so.
And as in these days most family possessions
come to the hammer, it is convenient
to be able to dispense with them. Still,
flowers recklessly thus displayed suggest

to my mind an idea of waste, whereas plate
remains.

In a house in which I was once staying,'
Mr Eardley was remarking, * there is a most
marvellous display of plate in the private
chapel. This plate was church loot in one
of the great wars, and came mostly from
Spain. It remained at the bank in London
for many years, only produced at great
dinner parties in the London house. The
owner of it all died, and, being childless,
his nephew succeeded him. The nephew
was a man of strong religious views, and
of Catholic bias, though he never was received
into the Roman Church. His first
act, on succeeding to the property, was to
re-dedicate this plate, and there it stood on
the altar in his own chapel, on all holy
days. He is dead now, and his son is
selling it all, to pay his 'gambling debts.

What an opportunity for some of your rich
friends, Baron Caryl ! for there Is no doubt
it all came from Catholic churches in Spain
and Portugal

You are quite right ; and I may reassure
you,' said the Canon, with a bright
smile, ' for it is to be bought in. Still,
you will agree with me, to retain cathedral
plate, stolen from the professors of one
faith, and to apply It to the uses of another
and totally opposed religion, was
not a very logical act. To restore it, I
grant you, would have been grand. To
utilise It as it was utilised, was illogical ;
and to sell it, I am afraid, Is mean.'

Which shows that meanness leads to
a good result — the restoration of stolen
goods,' laughed Lady Mary Vivian.

It Is a remarkable year for sales,' went
on Eardley. ' In the present unsettled

state of Europe, with revolutions apparently
imminent in almost every country,
and with Chartists here, the great families,
and even the European Courts, are
awaking to a sense of danger and insecurity.
I hear the great Vere collection
of jewels is to be sold privately. Men feel
they must realise the value of their possessions,
and especially of their diamonds,
before they cease to be valued in the
democratic Arcadia, to which we shall
all come.'

You will see, as has happened before,'
said Mrs Penrose, ' things will settle
down once more, and this year be only
recollected as an interesting epoch. As
for diamonds, the ladies of the Great Revolution
admired and collected them as
eagerly as those of the ancien regime

The late Marquis de Orville, your

great-great uncle, Mr Strong,' remarked
M. de Chamier, * was guillotined for his
loyalty to his master, and his large property
in Picardy was confiscated. It
was known he had ancestral diamonds
of enormous value ; but they disappeared.
Since I have lived in London, I have had
opportunities of tracing these jewels. The
Marquis sold them in 1787, and they are
now in various famous collections here of
your ancient families. He did what Mr
Eardley says others are doing at this very
moment.'

At that instant, the dining-room windows
being opened, owing to the unusual heat of
the autumn evening, a sound attracted the
attention of us all, though to some of us
it was familiar enough. The church bell
was tolling monotonously.

*Ah, you wonder what service, Canon,

can be proceeding at this hour, on a
Tuesday evening. In this year of revolutions,
you are Hastening to the Curfew
Bell. It has been rung here for many,
many generations, - and, as some antiquarians
believe, from the date of the
church's first erection. There is a bequest
to the ringer, which is lost, like the creation
of the first peerage of Mar, in antiquity.
But at all events, it has been
rung here for several hundred years : that
is proved by the parish books. However,
we do not '* cover the embers, or
put out the light," but leave you gentlemen
to your wine ; and when you feel
inclined to join us in the saloon, we
will have some music'

And the ladies left the room.

Carnaby,' observed Mr Eardley, as we
all settled round a horseshoe table near

a small fire, ' is the most feudal parish I
know in England.'

William Penrose, at one end of the
table, was deeply engrossed in a tHe-a-tHe
conversation with a friend as to their day's
sport. So Eardley's sermon was not addressed
to that end of the table.

As a Radical, I think the old system
wrong. The family living ; and the model
village — in which not even a public-house
is allowed — the absolute dependence of
every single human item in this place,
including the parson, on Mrs Penrose's
simple dictum, is, to my mind, degrading
in theory.

God bless the Squire, and his relations,
And keep us all in our proper stations ! "

But when I come to actual facts here,
I find, owing to the exalted character of
our hostess, and her absolute sense of

duty and unselfishness, that everything has
worked excellently well, and that, though
the Curfew Bell tolls nightly over Carnaby,
there Is no village in England better cared
for, and no landlord who has done his
duty more nobly than Mrs Penrose. She
has restored her church, and Increased its
endowment. She has made her village an
artistic treat. As I walked down it this
afternoon, every cottage was a picture,
and Its inmates the perfection of cleanliness,
health, and contentment. She has
built the schools here, and herself constantly
superintends them. When you
speak of her to her tenants, you can see
they adore her, and at the thought of her
sorrows In the past, their eyes fill with
tears. No ! the theory Is a degrading
one ; but, in the hands of a noble and intellectual
man or woman. It can, no doubt,

be made to work far better than a good
system in bad hands. But the noble and
intellectual are the minority in this world
the small minority, and always will
be

We all listened to this exordium, as
interesting from a pronounced Radical
doctrinaire, who was very fond of an
audience ; but the sound of music came
floating into the room, and one by one we
rose, attracted to the saloon. Mademoiselle
de Chamier, who had a fine contralto voice,
was singing an English song, privately
printed, called ' The Shadows on the Wall.'
Her voice, without being of the highest
order, was a sweet and pathetic one ; and
I confess to preferring simple and pathetic
songs, sung with expression, to those
elaborate tours de force, which, no doubt,
are marvels, as the work of a human

organ, but leave one unmoved, and unsympathetic.


After which confession, it must remain
on record that I am not a musician.
Canon Caryl's career had been a chequered
one, and originally he served in the Royal
Navy. With a little persuasion, he sent
for his guitar, and, accompanying himself,
sang that delightful naval ballad * Sweet
Alice Benbolt.' As the final lines we;j:e
given, in a wonderfully melodious, though
not powerful, voice, —

They fitted a grey marble slab to a tomb,
And fair Alice lies under the stone,'

I confess I walked to the window, and
gazed at the red harvest moon, sailing
across the sky, above the solemn avenue
of elms. After the usual jovial hour and
a half in the groom, with William for

the most cheery of hosts, we went to bed,
and I found myself suddenly thinking,
with all the insouciance of twenty-one, that
I had scarcely addressed a single word
the whole evening to my newly - found
cousin, — a charming girl, whose Christian
name I did not even know, and resolving
to atone for the neglect, I fell asleep.

IDA DE Chamber.

Beyond the reach of time or fate,
These graces shall endure,
Still, like the passion they create,
Eternal, constant, pure.'

People talk of the * mist of years,' and no
doubt, in retrospect, much we have done,
and seen, and thought, appears in a haze ;
yet, thereout stand simple and apparently
unimportant incidents which have affected
our entire life, and which once more evoke
the often asked question, ' Are we the sport
of a defined, uncontrollable destiny, an
inexorable Kismet, to which it is best to
bow, or is there indeed —

A Providence which shapes our ends,
Rough-hew them as we may " ? '

The morning found me strolling, after
breakfast, through the park at Carnaby,
with my cousin, M. de Chamier. It was
a brilliant autumn day, and the sun lighted
up the fine trees, and the distant view,
which, though not a grand one from any
part of the domain, is exquisitely English,
and pastoral.

I never saw your grandmother,' he was
saying, ' although my near relative, — in
fact, my first cousin. My father was her
father's brother ; but he did not marry
until quite late in life, which accounts for
the difference in Lady Duncan's and my
age. I once wrote to her, reminding her
of my existence, and our near relationship ;
but she never replied. The truth was,
she judged my motives according to the

standard of the wretched world she Heed
in, and she could not understand that my
only reason for writing was a family feeling,
which in us Huguenots has always
been strong. It is very singular how
devoid she was of it, and I daresay she
would have been amazed to have learned
that nothing would have induced me to
allow my daughter Ida to know her
friends, or to have mixed among them.'

I told him the details of her will, withall
of which he was not acquainted ; and
in expressing his horror, he asked what
had become of her diamonds.

The Chamier diamonds were famous,
and your grandmother had a considerable
share of them. Some were sold, as I
think I told you last night, at the time of
the great Revolution, or rather, I should
say, just before it, but others were taken

VOL. I. G

by my uncle to Geneva, and deposited for
safety in the bank there, and afterwards
bequeathed to your grandmother.'

Oh, yes,' I replied, * she often wore
them, — in fact, a few days before her death.
They have gone to Lord Francis Sherlock,
and are no doubt now decorating the lady
who graces Sherlock, as I hear, with her
presence.'

Of course I spoke with bitterness, and
my cousin did not remonstrate, but changed
the subject.

You must come and see us when we
return to London. I have been collecting
prints all my life. You will be interested
in those of your French ancestors, of which
I have a large number. My daughter is
a great companion for me, and she takes
an interest in all my tasks. I am glad I
have no other child. She is enough for me.

But our branch dies out then in the
male line ?'

The English branch dies out, if I have
no son, at my death ; but the French elder
branch Is very numerous.'

We were strolling back once more, and
had reached the wide extent of flowerbeds
which cover the terraces at Carnaby,
when we met Canon Caryl, returning from
some antiquarian researches in the church,
with Mademoiselle de Chamier.

Ida delights in old monuments and
family histories said her father to me, as
she approached.

She was an extremely pretty girl, with a
suspicion of French extraction, not without
its charm. She had the dark hair and
large limpid brown eyes which my grandmother
must have had in her youth, a fine
clear, healthy skin, a small nose, and a

very mobile, clever mouth. But she was
small in figure, although remarkably well
made, and inclined to be stout. She carried
herself extremely well, and had — what
used to be considered an attraction — a very
short waist. But her manner was charming
— all vivacity and intelligence, characterised
by a great desire to please, and
a total absence of all gene. She presented
a strange contrast to the tall slender figure,
bowed slightly with age, of her companion,
Canon Caryl, whose eagle eye, and aquiline
nose, and courtly manner, betokened
intellect, descent, and mental struggle.
He broke into one of his somewhat superficial
smiles.

We have been indulging in a little ancient
history. Monsieur de Chamier, and
your daughter is so good as not to be bored.'

Certainly, she did not look bored.

Oh, papa ! it is one of the most interesting
old churches I have ever seen. There
is a monument there of Sir Willoughby
Denton, and his wife, who Heed in the
reign of Charles I., which is perfectly
lovely ; and such a curious story about it,
the Canon has been telling me.*

'And what is the story?' I ventured to ask.

Nothing very remarkable,' observed
Canon Caryl, as the young lady turned
from me to him for an explanation. ' Sir
Willoughby did not belong to this county.
He hailed from Staffordshire, and was of
a devout family of the Church, and also
a staunch Royalist in later years. He
came here, however, and married one of
Mrs Penrose's ancestresses. He lies
under the chancel. History tells that
Dorothy, Lady Denton, died at the birth
of her first child. Sir Willoughby was

broken-hearted at her death, and her child
died also. The monument to which Mademoiselle
de Chamier alludes, is one of the
most perfect of its time, in England.
There are three effigies — Sir Willoughby,
and his wife, and the baby, the latter
swathed, after the manner of Italian children.
The sad record remains that Sir
Willoughby married again, and is buried
with his second wife in Staffordshire, so
that this beautiful effigy of him here has
rather a cynical effect on the county historian,
who knows his subsequent story.'

Well,' said M. de Chamier, ' it is only
the usual melancholy moral, which I won't
repeat before two young people ; but Sir
Willoughby ought to have had his effigy
removed to the grave he elected to lie in.'

Mr Eardley had joined us, and remarked,
— ' Did you ever see the fresco in

Leicestershire of the Day of Judgment,
where the two wives are depicted, amid
an array of bones all flying into their
proper places, in a state of bewilderment
before the skeleton of a second husbandlike
your Sir Willoughby ? '

Canon Caryl, observing drily, that difficulty
was answered more than eighteen
hundred years ago,' turned away.

M. de Chamier, whose religious views
were not quite so precise and defined as
those of his Huguenot ancestors, joined
Mr Eardley in some religious argument,
and I took the opportunity of turning
with my fair cousin into one of the wooded
paths which at Carnaby lead to innumerable
summer-houses, fish-ponds, and the
famous bowling-green.

How very odd,' I said, with all the
frankness of youth, 'that you and I, Ida,

should not have met before. I may call
you Ida, as we are such near relations,
may I not ? '

It will thus be seen that I was not, even
at that age, shy. It would have been impossible
for anyone brought up as I was
to have been bashful in the presence even
of so divine a creature, as further inspection
led me mentally to conclude Ida de
Chamier to be.

Of course we are nearly first cousins ;
and I have so few English relations, that
it is delightful to have found a new
one.'

Exactly what I feel. All my friends
have so many cousins, and uncles, and
aunts, and I seem to have none. So let
us, I hope, if you will, be great friends.'

Though several years my junior, she
answered (as girls are generally more advanced

in their ideas than boys of the
same age), with some demureness, —

I hope, and so does papa, that you
will come and see us in London.'

Of course I shall ; but I am not quite
decided yet whether I shall spend the
winter in London. In fact, I am not decided
about anything. You see my position
has been so altered this year, that I
sometimes feel I ought to work, and earn
money, if I could do so. I might get
called to the Bar, for instance. But what
I always have in my mind is the wish to
travel. I long to travel.'

And who so independent and free todo
so as yourself?' said Mademoiselle de
Chamier. 'I always wish I had been born
a man. My life is passed in a very narrow
groove ; but then I always feel I am
everything to my father ; and we have

travelled together in Europe a good deal.
But politics are so disturbed just now that
no English are abroad, I suppose.'

Then you winter in London this
year ? '

Either in London or at Brighton. My
father is fond of Brighton. He is not

o

now in business, but still he likes to goto
the city sometimes, and so to be within
reach of London. He is very clever,
and a great reader. I daresay you have
found that out already.'

I am afraid my interest in my fair cousin
had rather absorbed any curiosity I might
have felt as to my newly-discovered relative's
abilities. It seemed to me that he
was rather selfish in so totally appropriating
his delightful daughter's charms and
talents to himself, as he appeared to have
done. I forgot that Ida was only eighteen

years of age, as she spoke with the force
and gravity which an only and motherless
girl often acquires.

We had reached the bowling-green,
and sat down under the shade of the
old elms. Suddenly she said, —

I always think a place like this
does one o:ood. It makes one realise the
vulgarity of the riotous world without.
Here is rest, tranquillity, content. Twp
hundred years ago, it was as it is to-day.
No striving, no emulation, no disappointment,
and no disturbing tragedy or passion
; and then the churchyard close by.'

A sweet voice, very familiar to me,
suddenly interrupted, —

My dear child, you are too young to
talk about churchyards. Leave such
thoughts to old women like me ! ' Mrs
Penrose had interrupted our tete-astute,

and, dearly as I loved her, I could not,
for a moment, forgive her. But she
went on lightly, * I want to know if you
two young people care to drive with me
this afternoon. Perhaps, Clare, you
would drive us, and take charge of the
cobs. There is a beautiful old manor
house about eight miles from here, uninhabited,
but in perfect order, which,
oddly enough, Clare, belongs to Lord
Francis Sherlock. He keeps it up exactly
as it was, and it really was the original
house of his mother s family, before they
grew rich, and inherited Sherlock, in
William the Third's reign. Your father
tells me. Mademoiselle de Chamier, you
take an interest in antiquities, and might
perhaps like to see this curious house.
I don't know, Clare, if the fact that it
belongs to Lord Francis will render the

visit disagreeable ; but, of course, do exactly
as you like.'

I hastened to say — I am afraid a little
impatiently, for I still wanted to continue
my conversation with Ida — that I should
be delighted to drive the ladies over, and
that the fact of the owner being Lord
Francis Sherlock was a matter of perfect
indifference to me, as there was no possibility
of meeting him there. The carriage
which came to the door after luncheon,
was an old-fashioned waggonette, and as
Mrs Penrose took a footman with her, to
my chagrin I found myself debarred from
any further conversation with my cousin,
who sat with Mrs Penrose, her father, and
Canon Caryl. Mr Eardley and Lady
Mary did not join the party. The footman,
I was obliged mentally to admit, at
my side, was an unpleasant necessity, as

I did not know the route ; and the cobs,
a recent purchase, being very fresh, soon,
of necessity, engrossed all my thoughts.
It struck me afterwards, as a coincidence,
that I should thus find myself driving to
view one of the possessions of a man who
had so cruelly defrauded me of my inheritance,
and who had been an admirer
and a suitor of my grandmother's. We at
length arrived at a very humble swinging
gate, without any lodge, and, driving in,
passed through several grass fields, and
two or three other gates. Suddenly the
road took a sharp turn, and, under a
short and perfectly straight avenue of
lime trees, we pulled up before one of
the most beautiful old houses I have ever
seen in this or any other country. A
most elaborate old iron-work gate fronted
the house, which was of red brick, with

a large facade, and two small wings.
There was a grass courtyard, and a narrow
path, up which we all walked to the
simple doorway, over which was the
Sherlock shield, with the motto, 'Nil nisi
Deo! The centre part of the building was
manifestly much older than the wings,
which had been added in the reigns of
the two Charles'. As we entered the
quaint hall, with its magnificent carved
oak ceiling, Mrs Penrose explained to
the caretaker of the house, who respectfully
saluted her, ' I want to show the
house myself 'All this part of the
house,' she added to us, 'belongs to the
time of Henry the Seventh. It has not
been altered in any single respect, so far
as one can see, since it was built. Of
course, the furniture here, as you perceive,
is mostly of Queen Anne's time ; and

there is a delightful cradle upstairs in
one of the bedrooms, also of that date,
and made of solid oak.' Mademoiselle
de Chamier was delighted, as also the
Canon, with all they saw. The staircase,
with its shallow stairs, and carved designs
and legends, especially interested the
Canon, as also the old chapel, a most
diminutive and rather bare room.

I, too, was charmed with this present
and living picture of a home of one's ancestors
three hundred years ago, showing
exactly how men of gentle birth and
moderate fortune lived in those far-away
times ; but I confess to the weakness of
human nature in muttering to myself,
To think this, too, should belong to
that graceless old reprobate, who probably
does not care a straw for all these
wonderful antiquities.' But I was wrong.

Lord Francis Sherlock, like many of his
kind, had many sides to his character,
and at one time of his life had devoted
much time and money to the place ; and
I recollected afterwards that my grandmother
had once long ago spoken tome
of this house, and of his interest
in it.

The manor has only a small property
attached to it,' said Mrs Penrose, 'and, I
believe, only a couple of farms. Moreover,
it is unentailed, so Lord Franciscan
leave it as he chooses. Sherlock is
entailed on his elder brother's second son,
but the manor of Elcote has not been
entailed for a century.'

Through the various bedrooms, with
their quaint beds, and looking - glasses,
and latticed windows, to the powder closet,
where the ladies of the household resorted

VOL. I. H

for hair powdering, to the museum, where
Lord Francis, In glass cases, had stored
many curious documents, coins, medals,
and old prints, we all wandered In delightful
gossip, Ida asking constant questions,
and Mrs Penrose decking everything with
romance and sentiment. We came down
another staircase, and small, comparatively,
as the house was, it seemed easy enough
to lose one's way. A large bush of
mistletoe hung suspended in the hall,
to which we had again returned, and
which Mrs Penrose told us was only
renewed from Christmas to Christmas.
It looked a little brown and withered,
and Ida took no notice of it, and I
dared not make any facetious remark
about It.

And now, Mrs Penrose,' said Ida, * for
the ghost. It is impossible for such a

house as this to exist and for no ghostly
tradition to belong to it. Let us sit down
here on these remarkably uncomfortable
high-backed chairs, and hear the ghost
story.'

There is, I believe, a ghost story
belonging to the house ; but I don't believe
in ghosts, and it is better to
forget such stories. So far, however,
I may tell you that it is connected
with a tradition that whoever
inherits this manor, either never marries,
or, if he marries, does so at his
peril.'

Is that founded on a religious oath ? '
asked Canon Caryl.

'No,' replied Mrs Penrose, — 'on some
old story of a wrong and a curse. But
let us come into the garden, and see the
other side of the house.'

Some beautiful turf of considerable extent
lay beyond the glass door, opening
into the so-called garden, which in reality
was only laid out in grass. On one side of
the house was quite a vast orchard, and I
endeavoured to attract Ida to visit this
with me, under an assumed interest in
the apple harvest ; but she seemed to
avoid another tete-tete. The sun had
been shining brightly, but suddenly became
obscured. Everything to me looked
grey and chill, even the house we had
just quitted. Our hostess seemed to
feel the general depression, and predicted
a storm. So once more we
entered the carriage, and, not well
pleased, I drove the cobs home at a
needlessly hurried pace. The depression
was clearly explained by a roll of
thunder, and heavy drops of rain, as

we rattled up the solemn avenue at
Carnaby.

At dinner, that night, our conversation
naturally turned much upon Elcote. Mr
Eardley, as usual, was the chief spokesman.


Delightful, no doubt, theoretically !
Picturesque exterior, and charming specimen
of early Tudor domestic architecture.
But what about living in such a house
the present day ? Did you notice if
the floors slanted in an unpleasant way ?
Were there fire-places in all the bedrooms,
and how about the ventilation ? Bells, of
course, there were none, and drains were
best unmentioned. Oh, no, the sentiment
is charming, but I prefer a house like this,
which has been modernised internally, and
which has kept pace with the times. I
like comfort, and comfort means progress.

It is all very well for Lord Francis Sherlock
to keep Elcote up, as you say he
does, but he takes very good care to live
himself at Sherlock, where nothing, I will
be bound, is sacrificed to antiquarian interest
which could conduce to the comfort
of its possessor.'

*Ah! Mr Eardley, you pose as a
democrat and a cynic, and I never will
believe you are either,' murmured Mrs
Penrose.

I could not be a cynic,' he said,
with a little bow ; ' at least in this
house.'

We had no music that evening, but
were very merry over a round game of
cards, and never noticed the Curfew Bell.
Not once again had I an opportunity to
speak alone with my cousin. The fates
seemed against me. When she said 'goodnight

she raised her lovely brown eyes
most unconsciously to mine, though I ventured
on the slightest pressure of her
fingers, and said, in her most bewitching
half French manner, —

^ Take care you do not dream of the
Elcote ghost. I am sure there is a
ghost.'

That evening, in the dear old smoking-room,
where William and I had passed so
many pleasant evenings, recalling the jokes
and good stories of our school and college
days, we once more found ourselves alone,
our elders having retired to bed. One of
William's invariable customs was, when
the men came to the smoking-room, before
he joined them, to go up to his
mother's room, where he generally remained
for at least a quarter of an hour.
They were so wrapped up in each other,

that, before sleep, this nightly interview
alone was a sacred habit. She had no
one now but him to confide in, to clasp
to her heart, and even I, though so intimate
a friend of his, never knew what
passed between them on these occasions.
But, to-night, William, when he joined me,
seemed rather more serious than usual,
and, after we had lighted our pipes and
filled our glasses, he said, without hesitation,
—

I am glad those *' grave and potent
seniors" have deserted us to-night, I want
to make some plans with you. I have,
decided to give up the hunting, after all,
this winter, if you will go with me to
America ; and I think we might have a
very pleasant time of it. Mother gives
me three months of absence. She says
she can't spare either you or me longer.

But we could do a good deal In that time.
What do you say ? '

' Agreed ! ' I exclaimed joyfully, forgetting
everything else ; ' if you really think
you would like it

You see,' he said, * for one thing, your
plans are so unsettled ; and you have no
home but this at present ; and I don't
think you had better settle down in
chambers just yet. So this winter seems
an opportunity for the travel which we
have so often talked about ; and I shall
have many a hunting season here after
this year ; so let us go ! '

It was not then that I realised how unselfish
he was in this proposal ; and not
till long afterwards, that it was my second
mother who had suggested the self-denying
act he was too ready to perform. His
was a noble nature ; and life, alas ! has

taught me how few there are Hke him, in
the desire to make others happy at whatever
self-sacrifice. When we said goodnight,
the plan of a journey to the States
was settled.

OURVOYAGE.

The lawyer and the usurer,
That sit in gowns of fur,
In closets warm can take no harm,
Abroad they need not stir.
When winter fierce with cold doth pierce,
And beats with hail and snow, •

We are sure to endure,
When the stormy winds do blow.'

My life had hitherto been almost exclusively
spent on terra fir ma ^ and my marine
journeys had been short and infrequent.
Consequently, when William and I found
ourselves on board a vessel, needless to
say, very different to the magnificent
steamers which now cross the Atlantic,
and which are more luxurious than most

hotels, it was a great moment of excitement
for me. Our steamer was one of the largest,
most comfortable, and the quickest, of those
days ; but the journey was seldom then
accomplished from Liverpool to New York
under a fortnight, and often occupied a
much longer time. We had the first
officer's cabin to ourselves, and were, in
every respect, most comfortable. I remember
waking up the first day out, early
in the morning, and looking out of our porthole.
So far as eye could reach, of course,
was dull, monotonous ocean ; and, as it
happened, not even a sail in sight. The
thought occurred to me, then, and often
has done so since, what an apparent uselessness
there is in such a vast expanse of
water, and, for what purpose, if any, could
it have been created. But the sea has
always been suggestive to me of many

things, and a death which occurred shortly
afterwards on board, gave me weird and
strange dreams. It was late at night, in a
perfectly calm sea, except for that sweep of
wave which is always present in the Atlantic,
and with a brilliant moon riding
overhead, that the coffin was lowered into
the beautiful ocean, — ' Until the sea gives
up her dead.' She is very tenacious of
them now, and the moan of the waves, and
wind, which was rising, was not suggestive
of any resurrection. The next day, there
was a storm. All night I had been kept
awake by the roar of the wind, the creaking
and straining, and the horrible sensation
when a big sea has been taken on board, —
the cessation of the sound of the machinery,
and that awful tremble which seems to
invest a ship with humanity, struggling
against the elements. I was not sea-sick,

as my poor friend was ; but the sea was
so tremendous, and the rolling and pitching
so fearful, that it was impossible, for
two days, to get on deck. When I was
able to do so, I saw a grand sight, familiar
no doubt to thousands, but new to me at
that date. A sailor gave me his arm as I
mounted the companion, and I beheld what
landsmen mean, when they talk of the sea
being ' mountains high.' Our gallant
steamer looked as if she would be overwhelmed,
as the huge waves environed
her, and she plunged into the trough of the
ocean. The sky wore a wild appearance.
Scudding clouds flew across the horizon,
and all around were the ravages of the
gale, which now had spent its fury. I remember
thinking how little the small interests
of one's life seemed in such a grand
scene as this. My poor old grandmother,

and her wicked will, my bitterness towards
Lord Francis Sherlock, my passion
(as I termed it) for Ida de Chamier, the
hurricane seemed to blow all these things
away. And I thought of the grand words
of King David, —

'These see the works of the Lord, and His
wonders in the deep. For He commanded
and raised the stormy wind which Hfteth up
the waves thereof. They mount up to the
heaven, they go down again to the depths,'
etc.

The truth is, that it does a man good, at
any age, to face God and Nature, and to
forget, for a time, the petty chicaneries
which must always surround even a
noble life, and, much more so an ordinary
one. After that day, we had no
more rough weather. William recovered
his spirits, and his head, and came also
on deck. How lovely the nights were !
I have crossed the Atlantic, and also

the Pacific Ocean, several times since, but
I have never again seen such wonderful
effects in the sky at night. The heavens
seemed ablaze with shooting startle
fireworks of the Celestial. The sea
at night was brilliantly luminous with
phosphorus, which lighted up the beautiful
rollers, churned into many colours by our
screw. To me was new then that lovely
ultra-marine tint of waves, which one never
sees except in mid-ocean.

Our fellow-passengers were not interesting
to us, as they mostly seemed men of
business ; and the ladies were few, and
very different in appearance and class to
the fascinating persons who crowd the
decks of the modern Cunarder in the
summer-time, and who look upon a trip
to the ' other side ' as little more than an
excursion from Portsmouth to the Isle of

Wight. We did not escape fog altogether
in the neighbourhood of Newfoundland :
I think very few voyagers across the
Atlantic ever do.

A fog at sea is absolutely dangerous
and uncomfortable, and has no elements
of grandeur or interest. It is, besides,
far more perilous than heavy weather.
But in those days competition was so
much less that we slackened speed very
considerably, and did not rush on, as I
understand many modern companies insist
upon their captains doing, prepared
to assert that such speed in a fog constitutes
no special danger.

We were very glad, however, to see the

sun again, and to anchor, after a rather

tedious voyage, outside the bar at Sandy

Hook.

As everyone has been to America, it
VOL. I. I

Ck I

might be advisable not to give, even
cursorily, my unimportant impressions of
the country ; but I will go so far as to
say that there was nothing I saw in my
travels there which struck me so much as
the harbour of New York. My views are
often morbid, and I should like to rest,
when I die, in the Greenwood Cemetery,
overlooking the finest scene in the world.
It is finer now than it was then, as the
extent of shipping is so vastly increased.
But to my dying day I shall remember
that bright November morning when we
steamed leisurely past the forts, and for
the first time I saw the great unbeautiful
commercial city beneath a blue sky,
and without a suggestion of smoke, and
with the most romantic surroundings in
the clear distant air.

The last time I entered New York har-hour

my feelings were different. I was
a middle-aged, disappointed man, and
some of my disappointment was connected
with the great country I now visited for
the last time. Coney Island, with its
monster elephant, seemed the acme of
vulgarity. I only saw the exaggeration
of Brooklyn Bridge ; and the green hills
far away were inferior to the Cotswolds.
Jersey City was simply hideous ; and J;he
various dockyards of the steam companies
the incarnation of ugliness. How blessed
is youth !

Slowly we made our progress, and I
longed to leap on shore, full of enthusiasm
for the new scenes, the new manners, the
new food, and the new friends. There
were the usual tiresome delays about landing,
which, perforce, restrained my impetuosity,
and called forth much violent

language on the part of William, who
explained that the moment you arrived
in a country which boasted of free institutions,
it was absolutely necessary to
be emphatic in the expression of individual
opinion.

But at last we were rattled along through
very mean streets and over the most uneasy
paving stones, to our hotel in the
neighbourhood of Washington Square.
Such a vast city has now spread westward
towards Central Park, that this
situation, I presume, would not now be
fashionable ; but at this time it was sufficiently
central, and afforded us every
possible comfort, and even luxury, according
to the report given by the servant
who had accompanied us.

I afterwards found that taking a servant
to America was the greatest possible mistake,

as it gave an altogether exaggerated
idea of our wealth, which led to proportionate
fleecing.

The hospitality of Americans cannot,
now or then, be too highly eulogised ;
and with the letters of introduction we
carried, hotels were not likely to be long
a necessity. New York was still empty.
After a wet summer had come one of
those lovely Indian autumns for which
the country is proverbial, and consequently
the great people of New York
had not yet returned to the city. The
heat, indeed, was most unusual for the
time of year, and we were both well
pleased, having done the ordinary sightseeing,
to step on board a well-equipped
private steamer, which conveyed us up
the Hudson, in the course of about five
hours, to the residence of Mr Buer, a rich

merchant, who had given us a cordial welcome
to his country place.

I do not think any one ever forgets his
first impressions of the autumn foliage of
America, and as we steamed along we
were both mute with delight at the marvellous
colouring which both banks of the
grand river displayed. In some cases, the
maples, with their brilliant yellow leaves,
had scarlet trunks, which effect for a time
we did not perceive was due to the Virginia
creeper which clung round them. There
is a wonderful stillness, too, in the American
atmosphere at this time of year, which
gives an indescribable effect to this mass
of colour. There is death in the air, but
Nature dies in the hey-day of her beauty,
and with the dignity of Hecuba, as described
by Euripides.

Our landing-stage reached, our host was

there in his phaeton to receive us. He
was not at all effusive in his manner at
first, rather a silent, middle-aged man, with
scarcely any accent, but full of intelligence
and culture. In short, he was exactly the
reverse of every American I have ever
seen presented on the stage or in current
literature. One passion I at once discovered
in him during our drive, namely,
for horses, of which, it appeared, he breda
great many for his own amusement and
also profit. The two are seldom apart in
America. For politics he cared nothing
at all, although he foresaw the revolution
which was bound to come, and spoke tome
once or twice of the effects the inevitable
victory of the North would have on
the country generally. His horses flew
along at a marvellous pace, and, not being
quite free from the American love of display,

as we were careering on a straight
bit of road, at a pace which caused the
loose stones to fly up in my face as I held
firmly on, he suddenly threw the reins
down, and the horses came to a dead stop.
It was a piece of theatrical effect which
caused William to again indulge in an
expletive, but sotto voce on this occasion.

Mr Buer's park was not at all what we
understand by the term. We turned suddenly
off the road, through a plantation of
maples, tulip trees, and the American oak,
and soon drove up in front of a handsome
modern house — according to English ideas,
an extremely handsome villa. Below the
house was an artificial lake with two or
three islands. There were no flower-beds,
but the beautifully-coloured trees supplied
their place, and there was plenty of turf.
A verandah ran round the entire house,

and the view, with distant mountains, was
extremely fine. Still, as William observed
to me later, ' it did not look quite finished
Mr Buer was a bachelor, and we were
quite unprepared for the bevy of young
ladies who appeared in the drawing-room
before dinner. Our host had told us not
to dress for dinner, so, of course, we obeyed
his orders, and Imagined we were to discuss
a very simple bachelor repast. It
was rather embarrassing to us both to find
an elderly lady, who was introduced as
Miss Buer, our host's sister, no less than
four young ladles, and a young gentleman,
whose accent was far from being so subdued
as that of our host. The ladles were
all exquisitely dressed and bejewelled. Be
it distinctly understood they were ladles
in dress, manner, and cultivation of mind,
and it ought not to be necessary to say so.

were it not that one hears so many strange
stories of Americans in Europe, who
do not come up to this standard. But the
explanation is, that we see the worst side
of their society, and I have no doubt the
evil will increase until society in Paris
and London will receive the demi monde
of the States.

Miss Buer acted the useful part of Greek
Chorus in the establishment. She explained
us all to each other, and was a
most useful accessory to the whole party
for our host, as already said, seemed at
first a silent man.

I never ate a better dinner. It was
cooked. Miss Buer informed us, by a man
of colour, and a first-rate cook he seemed
to be. The attendants, too, were all niggers.
When I next visited New York, I
might have been in Grafton Street, and

there was not a black man In service ;
and one need not go to America to
decide on the merits of Irish cookery.

The four young ladies were all cousins
of one another, and all nieces of the Boers.
The one I took in to dinner was remarkably
handsome — Miss Angelina Pike. She
had the finest bust and shoulders for so
young a girl (she could not be more than
nineteen) that I have ever seen.

How did I like New York ? '

Well,' I said, ' of course, it's a very
fine city, but one seems rather out of place
as an idler. Everyone seems bent on
dollars. But if you ask me about the
harbour, you'll find me an enthusiast'

'You come along to Baltimore. I'm
going back there on Saturday. I'm a Baltimore
girl ; and my ma means to ask
you two gentlemen to stay with us. My

cousin Ella, who went in with your friend
to dinner, lives in Baltimore, too, and my
other two cousins live in New York.*

Mary Buer is my brother John's daughter,
and lives in Fifth Avenue,' said the
Greek Chorus ; * and so does Susan ; but
Angelina and Ella Pike, my two sisters'
children, live at Baltimore.'

It appeared to me that William was
having a very lively flirtation with Miss
Ella Pike, a small but pretty blonde with
a gay manner ; and it seemed a fortunate
coincidence that both these cousins, being
so handsome and agreeable, lived at Baltimore,
whither we also were bound. In
deference to English customs, the negroes
constantly passed the champagne, and Mr
Buer kept us company, though he professed
not to drink wine.

When you get to Baltimore, sir, mind

you ask my brother-in-law, Pike, for some
of his rain-water Madeira ; but he is sure
to give you some whether you ask for it or
not. Terrapin, and old Baltimore Madeira,
is no bad providing.'

After dinner, the weather was so mild,
that we all adjourned to the verandah,
from which a glorious sunset, or rather
the remains of it, in gold and crimson
clouds, charmed one's eye. We sipped
our coffee, and presently the two Miss
Pikes and the two Miss Buers came down
with their canoes, and gave us delicious
music. First, the two Miss Pikes sang
comic negro songs : one about the ark was
a trifle profane ; but, as Buer himself admitted,
' real witty.' Then they broke into
the pathetic Virginian air, familiar to
Europeans, with its beautifully melodious
chorus. These young ladies were so

amiable, and so delighted to give us the
pleasure which they saw on all our faces,
that it was quite dark as they all four sang
a lovely quartette, called ' The old Kentucky
Shore.' As we moved into the house,
Buer said, * Do you hear the Katydids ? '

Katydid, Katydid, Katydid.'

It was the monotonous cry of the
bird which sings continuously in American
woods when the summer is over,
and seemed to me a melancholy
sound. But I soon forgot it, as we
adjourned to a most luxurious smoking-room,
where our host did the honours
in the most hospitable style, and where
he insisted on brewing himself forme
one of those elaborate American
drinks,' of which I confess no appreciation,
except so far as the ice is concerned.
Mr Buer was in advance of his

time, for he told us he often went over
to Europe.

My business is chrome,' he said, * and
my father made a big pile in it ; but we
Americans are never content until we
make a big pile bigger, so we brothers are
pretty busy men, and I go over to the
other side on business. I'm a richer man
than my brothers, but that's only because
I am a bachelor. We don't have big
families in America, as you do in England ;
but still it stands to reason a single man
is richer than a married man. You must
see m)^ house in New York. I have some
fine pictures there, mostly French ones.'

If Mr Buer now talked a good deal
about himself and his belongings, as he
undoubtedly did, neither William nor I
found his conversation dull. He was full
of information, and all he told us about

himself, had the great merit to us of
novelty.

To-morrow morning you'll come along
and look at my stables, which may, perhaps,
rather surprise you. But Englishmen
don't, as a rule, care for our horses.
We shall see what you say. You ought to
ride well, sir,' he added, turning to William.

It was an instance of American intuition
; for William was one of the best
horsemen I ever knew, and one of the
hardest riders in the Midlands.

Yes ; perhaps ; I'm pretty well at home
outside a horse ; but how did you guess
that?'

Can't say, sir ; but you look like a
man who can ride.'

I found, to my surprise, that Buer was
extremely well read in eighteenth century
English literature, and seemed to know

his Shakespeare almost by heart. His
Library contained all the standard authors
of the eighteenth century, and some of his
books were curious and scarce editions.
He told me Pope was his favourite poet,
which seemed a strange taste for an
American. When I suggested that Boling-broke
wrote some of Pope's couplets, he
said shortly, —

And Bacon, I suppose, the best of
Shakespeare's plays ? '

No,' I said, * I despise the Englishman
who believes that'

And so do I, as an American. When I
went to England first, I went to Stratford ;
but it seemed to me you English don't revere
that great man's memory as we should do.^

Or, we revere it in a different way.'
He did not reply, as wishing to avoid

disputatious matter.

VOL. I. K

'Well, gentlemen, I sit up late, but you
have been travelling the last few days, and
I daresay would like to go to bed.'

As a matter of fact, we were both desperately
tired, and needed no rocking in
the luxurious beds to which we were soon
consigned. Our rooms opened into each
other, and the last words I heard William
say were, —

For a silent man, he does blow certainly,
but he's far better company than
half the men you meet at home ; and I
like him.' And William Penrose by no
means liked everybody.

WE GO TO BALTIMORE.

At morning and at evening both

You merry were and glad,
So little care of sleep and sloth

These prettier ladies had. •

When Tom came from labour,

Or Miss to milking rose.
Then merrily went their tabour,

And nimbly went their toes.'

The next morning, when William had had
his bath, which American civilisation had
long found a necessity, he confided to mein
his delightfully innocent manner, which
often reminded me of his mother, that he
had fallen in love with Ella Pike, to which
I replied that I had sustained exactly the

same accident in regard to Angelina. We
both agreed that they were charming girls,
and that our prospect of the visit to Baltimore,
before we did any further touring,
was likely to prove very pleasant. At our
age everything was easy, and we could
return from Baltimore to Philadelphia, or,
for the matter of hat, ' from any one
given point to another,' as Euclid puts it.
The given point, however, on this bright
autumn morning, was clearly the stables,
whither our host, whose silence was a thing
of the past, conducted us, after a breakfast
of which I still have tender memory.
The young ladies did not accompany us,
and the Greek Chorus was obviously no
longer a necessity. Much had been explained
; and Mr Buer was quite ready
now to explain the rest. Nothing could
exceed the luxurious arrangements of the

stables, which covered a large extent of
ground. Our host's breeding establishment
was some miles off; but he had a
number of horses of whom he had the
highest possible opinion, but all without
pedigrees. I confess I was glad to find
William Penrose, who always understood
horses, agreed with me that they were a
poor lot, from the English point of view
of horse flesh. What astonished me most
were the wheels. Mr Buer had no less
than thirty-seven carriages in his stables ;
and when he had his house full of company,
carriages were being ordered to
come round at all hours of the day and
evening. When I thought of my experiences
in Grosvenor Street, and English
country houses, — of the care bestowed on
the family barouche, and the three or four
horses in the stables, and station dogcart,

I could not help marvelling at this display.
The convenience of this plethora of conveyances
was almost immediately demonstrated.
Three phaetons were ordered
out, and in one of them I soon found
myself bowling out of the park gate. I
absolutely refused to drive ; so one of the
numerous stable-boys got on the box, and
beside him sat one of the Miss Buers,
while behind, in a roomy seat, sat Miss
Angelina Pike and your humble servant.
It was a most convenient happy arrangement
for me. William started in a similar
carriage, but was too independent to be
driven, depending on the instructions of
Miss Ella for his route.

I suppose,' said Miss Angelina, ' you
English don't drive out like this before
lunch, and without any chaperon. There's
no fun in walking in this sun, so why not

drive ? Aunt Mary always drives to the
farm in the morning, when she's staying
here, and don't want us girls.'

*And I'm very glad Miss Buer takes

that view

Don't you like Aunt Mary ? ' said her
niece, in rather a piqued tone.

Of course ; she is a charming old lady
—only it's so much nicer to have you two
girls to myself.'

*Wait till you get to Baltimore,' said
Miss Pike, * and see my cousin Lena, and
then you won't think so much of us.'

Baltimore seemed the El Dorado of
these young ladies, and until one arrived
at that haven of the blest, clearly one had
seen nothing. Moreover, Miss Ella Pike
did not evidently care for flirtation just
now, though perhaps she might later on do
so, as she seemed to insinuate, at Baltimore.

I mentally resolved to push on to Baltimore.


I wish you had been here earlier, for
the corn. It looked so beautiful two
months ago. All these fields about here
were covered with it, and it is the grandest
crop we grow. You had some corn last
night for dinner. Did you like it ? '

Delicious,' I thought ; * when served asa
vegetable with the roti!

The squirrels do a lot of damage about
here,' she observed ; * they want thinning
in this part, as they devour the corn ; but
uncle has a weak side, and he can't bear
to have the squirrels killed. Did you ever
taste squirrel pie '^. Down in Kentucky,
it's one of their prime dishes.'

I should think it would take a great
many squirrels to make a good pie. Miss
Pike.'

Depends on the size of the squirrel.
You should see our squirrels in the park
at Baltimore.*

The drive was a lovely one, nearly all
the way following the route of the Hudson,
on hilly ground, with the heights which
surround Westpoint as a distant view. It
was very delightful in the still, clear air
of a late American fall ; but American
young ladies, so far as my experience goes,
do not care for scenery, except as they
care for the decoration of their rooms, and
that excludes sentiment. We drove home
by another route, and arrived there in time
for a sumptuous luncheon at two o'clock.
If the American lady is a little deficient
in romance, like many English beauties,
she is not so in appetite.

Ne C7'oyez pas quelle est ange. Point de
tout ; elle mange les coteletteSy et elle Ive

tons les matins a suits heures, — a brutal
sentiment, for which, though not my own,
I apologise. But the young ladies at Mr
Buer's hospitable house would not have
demanded an apology. They did not
seem to consider themselves angels, and
they greatly enjoyed their luncheon. In
the afternoon, time being allowed for a
possible siesta, or for a cigar, horses and
carriages came round once more, and once
more William and I were the esquires of
the two Miss Pikes ; but on this occasion,
on horseback, and with the chaperonage of
our host. The Miss Pikes were fair horsewomen,
Miss Ella's small compact figure
showing to better advantage, perhaps, than
the more redundant charms of her sister,
on a horse ; but they both were in the
highest of spirits, and we were a merry
party. On our way we passed a magnificent

red-brick building, surrounded with a
good deal of well-cultivated land ; and I
asked Pike what it was.

*A Catholic College, founded here a few
years ago by the Jesuits,' he replied.
People in Europe don't know what the
Jesuits are doing in this country ; as they
always have done, since the days of Loyola,
they are advancing cautiously, and with
consummate tact ; but they are advancing,
you bet, in spite of the Atheism and
Freethinking in this country ; and as
long as they don't mix themselves up
with our political institutions, I wish them
success.'

It is extraordinary how liberal-minded,
on religious matters, intelligent Americans
nearly always are.

Our time in America was limited, and
though we were pressed to stay on with

the Buers, and were greatly interested by-all
we saw, we determined to go on to
Baltimore, after our three days' visit. I
will not say that the intended departure
for the same city of the Miss Pikes did
not partly influence us ; but there was
much to be seen and done in the comparatively
short time at our command ;
and we parted from our kind host, promising
to visit him later in New York.
With the young ladies, our farewell was
only a short au 7^evoir^ as they themselves
would be in Baltimore soon after we
arrived. They gave us their parents'
address. Miss Angelina assured us her
brother would make us members of the
Maryland Club, and that we should find
plenty of gaiety going on.

Some remark of mine to William, on
our journey, as to the interest Canon Caryl

would take in what we had heard about
the Jesuits in America, led him to think
a good deal of his mother, and of the possibility
of having letters from her forwarded
from New York. I thought he seemed,
for the first time, a little depressed, as he
remembered the great distance dividing
them. I suppose the traveller, like the
sailor, should be a light-hearted man, * sans

canaille ; ' otherwise, if there is a mother, or

•

a wife, or a sweetheart, as the sun goes
down, surgit mari aliquid. But in due
course we arrived at Baltimore, famous
for its monuments, and its pretty girls.
I remember someone saying, years ago,
to me, after visiting Leamington, 'that it
seemed to be all fly-men, and old women.'
The first morning we strolled about
Baltimore, we concluded that the monuments
were very over-rated, and that the

pretty girls, apparently, stayed indoors, or
reserved themselves for that sitting out
on the door-steps, which, in warm weather,
is a custom peculiar to Baltimore. The
fact is, we Oxonians were not well-read
in American history, except so far as Lord
Chatham and Lord North were concerned.
The monuments and statues required explanation
; for the names inscribed thereon
sounded strange and unknown to us. I
have, however, noticed the same ignorance
as to former local celebrities among
Americans themselves. That evening, we
both received intimation that we were
elected honorary members of the Maryland
Club, and also invitations to a ball
to be shortly given by Mrs John Pike,
and which was to commence at the extremely
sensible hour of nine o'clock. I
have been, naturally, present at hundreds

of balls since this particular one, which
was given in a house utterly unsuited for
such an entertainment, the houses at
Baltimore being mostly of very ordinary
pretension ; nevertheless, it is likely, as
the reader will hereafter perceive, if he
honours these pages by perusing them to
the end, that it is the one ball I am never
likely to forget.

Mrs John Pike was the sister, as
already said, of Mr Buer, our late host ;
but she had not the refinement of manner
of her brother, and she had never crossed
the ocean. She was very proud of her
daughter Angelina, as she well might be,
and very anxious to take her to Paris
and London ; but Mr John Pike declined,
at present, to advance funds for that
purpose, and gave, as a reason, the then
unsettled state of Europe. But Mrs Pike

only bided her time. She was a tuft-hunter
of the truest breed, and no Baltimore
young man should carry off, if she could
help it, the fine fortune and attractive
charms of her Angelina. All this, she
conveyed, not very indirectly, to William
and myself. The night of her ball, she
was attired as an English mother, on such
an occasion, at that time, would have
been, except for her magnificent diamonds,
which a duchess might have envied, and
which quite eclipsed my recollections of
Lady Duncan's display. Her hair, I recollect,
was powdered, and a gorgeous
bird of fabulous origin constituted her
head-dress. I had full opportunity of admiring
it, as she insisted on taking me
herself in to supper, after dancing a square
dance with me. As William afterwards
remarked, ' The old girl has taken you

regularly in hand, and means to let you
see what Baltimore can do.'

As we sat down together to a supper
which was singularly homely, according
to modern notions, I lifted my eyes, to see
opposite to me one of the most lovely faces
I ever beheld. She was very fair, with an
exquisite skin, and the most beautiful
golden hair. Her large limpid blue eyes,
heavily and darkly lashed, seemed to gaze
into space with a poetical languor, which
contrasted with her vigorous frame, clothed
in the purest white. Her voice, as she
spoke to her companion, was in consonance
with her beauty, low and distinct,
like exquisite music ; her nose was ever
so little retroussd ; but her lips were full
and red, her mouth small and refined,
and her teeth, when she smiled, as she
seemed to do whenever she spoke, were

VOL. I. L

like dazzling pearls. I turned at once to
Mrs Pike, * Who is that lovely girl ? '
Now, if Mrs Pike had been an Englishwoman,
she would have resented the
question, and, having a marriageable
daughter, although I had already impressed
her with my own ineligibility,
she would have spoken slightingly of this
Venus of the ballroom.

•' She is one of our Baltimore belles, —
Miss M'Carthy, an only daughter; and
her father, old M'Carthy, left a lot of
money. She and her mother will go to
Europe one day, and I guess they'll make
a pretty strong sensation over there.'

'Will you present me to her after
supper ? '

Mrs Pike most good-naturedly promised
she would, and shortly afterwards,
as we went upstairs, fulfilled her promise.

The lovely Dora McCarthy must have
noticed my admiration, as she raised
the most wonderful eyes in the world
to mine, and, on my asking for a
dance, assured me quite pathetically that
every dance was already 'booked.' (I
should have thought badly of the Baltimore
mankind if it had been otherwise.)

But you are a stranger, so let us
start.'

In an instant we were whirling round
the room, to the music of a most delicious
waltz. To this day I can hum the air ;
to this hour I recall the wild intoxication
of resting my arm on her waist, and the
perfume that seemed to distil from the
glittering hair, and the witchery of her
eyes, as she abandoned herself to my
guidance. I had hoped she would sit out
the next dance with me, which was a piece

of presumption on my part, but all such
ideas were dispelled by a somewhat truculent
young gentleman claiming my enchantress
for the next dance. But, as
morning broke, we did dance the Lancers
together, and she introduced me afterwards
to her mother, who cordially begged
me to call upon them.

MISS DORA MCCARTHY.

I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible that love should of
a sudden take such hold ? '

William and I walked home to our
hotel, beneath the brilliant rays of sunrise.


I never spent,' said he, * a more delightful
night. Baltimore is a charming
place, and Ella Pike the nicest girl
I know. You seemed dancing with a
very pretty woman. What is her
name ? '

Miss Dora McCarthy. I am going to
call on her mother this afternoon.'

The deuce you are ! You promised
to have a look at the duck shooting
and decoys. I can't let you off
that.'

I shall call on the McCarthys first,' I
said, in what William always called my
Huguenot ' manner.

So he said no more, and we turned into
bed.

Well, my inconstant swain,' he said at
luncheon, * you're an awful fellow to travel
with. You fall in love every day with
some fresh beauty. It was only two days
ago you were raving about the other Miss
Pike.'

I am not aware, William,' I said with
dignity, ' that I am raving about anybody ;
and as you are going only on a visit of

inspection on the important question of
the ducks, I can't see that an hour's delay
need put you out.'

Nor shall it, you bet. I shall be
found at the club, with a Havana and
a cool drink. So farewell, and good
luck.'

As a usual thing, William would have
accompanied me on such a visit, but today
I preferred going alone. That afternoon,
in the shady garden, sitting under
the trees, I found the beautiful Dora,
looking more bewitching than ever, in
her coquettish, well-fitting, simple brown
dress.

The sun was still powerful, so I came
out here to read,' she explained, pointing
to her book. ' Ma has gone down town,
but she'll be back directly, so pray sit
down.'

It is almost Impossible to propose marriage
to a young lady of any nation after a
few hours' acquaintance, and if I had been
possessed of the effrontery to do so, I
should have richly deserved the pointblank
refusal which certainly would have
been my reward. Still, in my youthful
impetuosity, my devotion was very marked,
and I was duly that day enrolled amongst
the considerable band of Miss Dora's admirers.
I now greatly rejoiced that, with
the love of independence natural to young
men, we had betaken ourselves to an hotel
at Baltimore, instead of availing ourselves
of Mr Pike's hospitality. Consequently,
being perfectly free, and Miss McCarthy
being allowed by her mother a vast deal
of liberty also, scarcely a day passed that
we did not meet ; and, as the society at
Baltimore is extremely small, we nearly

always met assail in the evening. William
watched our growing intimacy with rather
an anxious eye. I think he remembered
his conversation with his mother the evening
we settled to start on this journey, and
he felt a little weighted with responsibility.
As the days wore on, he hinted that we
were spending a most unequal division of
our time at Baltimore, as, indeed, we had
already been there three weeks. Looking
back on that time, I see that he was, as
always, most unselfish and forbearing ;
whereas I had completely become a slave
to the beautiful Dora, and in that slavery
for a short time forgot my friend.

At last one morning, when the weather
was bitterly cold, and some signs of a
snow-storm were apparent, he said, rather
gravely, —

My dear Clare, you really must pull

yourself together a little, or I shall have
to leave you here alone. As it is, vise are
bound to exceed our three months' absence,
and I cannot leave my mother, and
all the business at Carnaby, for an interminable
time.'

I clasped his hand. We should always
be dear friends till the end.

Give me till Friday (it vas Wednesday
morning), and we will go to Washington
on Friday.'

So it was agreed between us. He
added, —

You must not be angry with me, or
think I want to lecture you because I am
older ; but, if you take my advice, you
won't enter upon any serious matter
with Miss McCarthy between this and
Friday. She will be coming to
Europe next summer, and then you

can decide whether to speak to her
or not.'

I only nodded in a mysterious way, and
left the room. That afternoon I was engaged
to drive with Miss McCarthy, in the
beautiful park outside the city. How
lovely she looked in her fur cap and
cloak ! — the keen air bringing colour to
her cheeks as she handled the ribbons,
and we bowled along together towards
the park. By some lucky coincidence,
she had not brought a groom, and I
gladly got down to open the one or
two gates we came to, long since
removed. Her golden hair was flying
over her face, beaming with animation.
I never, at any period of her life, saw
her look so handsome, or carry herself
so proudly, as she did that afternoon.


Look at the squirrels ! ' she said, as
the Httle grey creatures, aroused by the
clatter of our steeds, took refuge in the
trees. * Poor little beasts ! they are in
for a fall of snow. How stupid you
are this afternoon, Mr Strong! What is
the matter with you?'

The matter is, I have to go away to
Washington, and continue our tour, on
Friday, and I don't like going at
all

'And why not? It certainly is rather
cold weather for moving about ; but you
will see Niagara, no doubt, in its grandest
dress of ice and snow. If I was
you, I should be delighted to move
on.

I don't think you would,' I said slowly.
The fact is, since I have known you,
Baltimore has become very dear to me.'

In a moment her gaiety vanished, and
a shade of sadness crossed her beautiful
face.

My dear boy, you must not think of
anything serious, at your age. When we
come to England next year, you will
have seen more, and thought more.
You cannot know your own mind
yet about Baltimore or anything else.
But I am glad you like my dear
Baltimore, and that you also like mea
little.'

Somehow, her muff tumbled off her
knees, and, somehow — I shall never feel
quite sure how — our lips met, and that
was my only love-passage with Dora
McCarthy. No doubt, Mrs Grundy will
think it a vulgar one, and that Miss
McCarthy was a forward baggage, and
I an impertinent young man. Soit, I

take this occasion to say I never did,
and I never shall, care much for Mrs
Grundy's opinion on any subject whatever.
Dora whipped up her horses immediately
after this incident, and talked
volubly, as the snow-flakes fell, and as
we drove towards home, without any
further sentimental allusion to my departure.


My grandfather was an Irishman, —
came over here from the county Tyrone,
without a dollar ; but he joined a friend
out here, and made a pile. I should
like to go to Ireland. My father was
born there ; but they were only small
farmers, who tried the new country.
There are not many Irish in Baltimore.
You have met C — , he claims an Irish
peerage. At least, he says he could do
so. We are nearly all what you call

Tories in Baltimore. Well, good-bye !
We shall meet to-night and, of course,
you and your friend must dine with ma
and me tomorrow night'

Thank you very much,' I said ; ' of
course, we shall be delighted to come ;
and you have promised me two dances
to-night.'

There will be a suicide if I give
you more.'

Her tall stately figure passed up the
stone steps, and there was no more
to be said. William never asked meany
questions, though he knew how
the afternoon had been spent ; and heat
once agreed to eat our last dinner
at Baltimore with the McCarthys, though
I knew he would rather have done
so at the Pikes' house, where Ella
remained, to his more constant and

better-regulated mind, a lasting magnet.


At the dance that night, with the
perfume of her lips still lingering on
mine, after that friendly salutation (for
it was not a lover's kiss), I passed
one more delightful evening. The next
day was a sad one to me. William,
though sorry to leave the Pike family,
and specially the younger daughter of
the house, had satiated himself for
weeks with slaughter of the ducks, and
was full of reflection on the passage
of the time. On the whole, he was
glad to leave Baltimore. That last
evening, Dora and I had no opportunity
for a tete-astute until, just as
we left, she beckoned me into the
boudoir.

We might meet in New York ; but I

don't, somehow, think we shall. But, anyhow,
I hope you've had a good time ; and
when we come to Europe, ma will let you
know.'

Her tiny, diamond-ringed hand was
clasped in mine, and, for the time, the
most lovely woman I have ever known
was lost sight of by me, though, often and
often, during the succeeding weeks, I saw
her face in my dreams. I had nothing but
those dreams, and that one kiss, to remind
me of her. And, as for myself, I think
it probable now, that 'out of sight was
out of mind.' We were destined, however,
to meet and to part again.

Onward we went to Washington, only,
comparatively, a trivial journey ; and there
the gaieties were at their height. An old
Etonian was in the Embassy — a great personal
friend of William's ; and, of course, we

VOL. I. M

carried a letter to our Minister. But with
my departure from Miss McCarthy's presence,
my interest in society seemed, for the
present, to vanish ; and so, after a week, we
went on our way. I have no intention of
assuming a guide-book Literary style, so
shall content myself by saying that, both
on this first occasion and on subsequent
visits to the States, I thought Philadelphia
the brightest and the nicest city in
America. I know no shops, and no
thoroughfares, so bright and gay, both by
day and night, as those of the old Quaker
city. Chestnut Street is a thoroughly
cheery promenade, far more so than any
street in New York, and, to my ideas, than
any in the almighty Boston, with all its
social and literary pretensions, — the one city
in America which always reminds me of a
big provincial town in England. But, no

doubt, then I was in a discontented state
of mind, and it is a true remark to say that
one's views of men and things depend on
the condition of one's own mental and
physical being. Dora McCarthy had much
to answer for. I brooded on, and must
have been a deplorable fellow-traveller to
my dear friend ; but he understood all the
circumstances, and never said one word of
reproach.

We saw Niagara under most favourable
circumstances, for the time of
year, for there was a brilliant sun
shining the morning we issued from
the Clifton House, and the icicles and
blocks of ice were magnificent, with
the foam rising up in clouds, and its
gorgeous prismatic colours. Niagara was
not then vulgarised, and it was possible
to observe all the different effects

without the intervention of touts, and the
presence of excursionists, and perpendicular
tram lines. Yet it never can be
totally degraded by any surroundings,
however coarse and mercenary ; and I
pity the man or woman who can gaze
at that mysterious and terrible whirlpool
below the rapids without a feeling of awe
in thinking of the one side of Nature
which is pitiless and ghastly — its immutability
among all the * chances and changes
of this mortal life.' The whirlpool at
Niagara will still be making its fatal
and profound eddies when the greatest
minds of the world, and what they wrote,
are buried in oblivion.

Years afterwards I saw Niagara in a
brilliant September night, with a harvest
moon shining grandly over the troubled
waters. * O God ! ' I prayed, ' take

me to Thyself in Thine own good
time, and without a weary struggle.
Beyond these waters, and this cold
judicial moon, there must be rest and
eternal peace.'

A STRANGE SITUATION.

Oh, may we all for death prepare !
What has he left ? and who's his heir?'

William Penrose and I had been absent
from England six months, instead
of three, when we stepped on shore from
the tender at the Liverpool landing-place.
A week before sailing for England, we
had directed all letters to be sent tous
at Liverpool, as we should rest there
a night before proceeding to Carnaby.
William had found a note from his

mother, in New York, just before we
sailed, addressed to us both jointly.

Carnaby Manor.
My Dear Boys, — I am glad to hear, at
last, you are turning your steps to New
York, with a view to coming home ;
because, of course, I pine a little, every
now and then, to see you. Not that I
am lonely ; for In London I was quite
gay, for me ; and Christmas Day I spent
with the Chamiers, who had a very
festive party ; but I thought much of you
both. Since I have been at Carnaby, I
have had constant visitors. Mr Eardley
is here now. You will have heard he is
now In Parliament, and seems to be rising
rapidly in public estimation. We shall see
how he succeeds. For myself, I think
he will do great things ; but he is on the

wrong side. I was delighted at Clare's
description of Niagara ; but he must not
take the melancholy side of life too much
to heart, at his early stage of life. I am
glad you have both, so far as I know, not
lost your hearts to any American enchantress
; and I long to hear all your
adventures, especially William's ideas of
sport in the States. I suppose he greatly
enjoyed the duck-shooting. Tim rides
Frederick vigorously every day; but the
stables want looking after, and their
master's presence will be a very desirable
event. I am sorry you did not care for your
literary friends in Boston, as I delight in
the little I know of American fiction ; but
not in their poetry. Every morning I hope
to find a letter fixing the week of your return
; but I shall wait here patiently, and
not allow my maternal instincts to bring

me to Liverpool In this very bitter English
spring. I was at Elcote a few days ago,
and heard Lord Francis was dying. . . .
Ever yours,

Mary Penrose.'

I also found a letter, among others,
which caused my heart to beat very fast.
It was curious that, throughout the voyage
home, I had felt a strange presentiment
of coming disaster. Of course, my gloom
was attributed by William to the feeling
which had rather darkened my latter stay
in the States ; but, in reality, it was some
vague sense of an important epoch in my
life. When I had read General Rose-mere's
letter, at the Liverpool Hotel, I
believed in my presentiment, and, though
far from superstitious, few events of importance
have occurred to me through

life, without a previous foreboding. The
letter was a short one, and ran in the
following terms.

•t>

Clarges Street, March 21.

Dear Clare, — I hear you have directed
your letters to be sent to Liverpool, and
that you are expected there for a night
some time in the course of next week. It
is very important that I should see you
as soon as possible after your arrival in
England. I to-day attended the funeral
of poor old Lord Francis Sherlock, in the
capacity, to my great surprise, of his sole
executor. He had been ill for some weeks,
but absolutely refused to see any of his
relations or old friends, including myself.
His will was produced by the family lawyers,
and by it you are largely benefited.
He has left you back, absolutely, your

grandmother's diamonds. He has also
left you Elcote, and Lady Duncan's eighty
thousand pounds, fettered with the extraordinary
condition that you are to lose
both one and the other on your marriage.
If you remain a bachelor, you can bequeath
both the estate and the funded property,
which is placed in the hands of trustees.
If you marry, all passes, with Sherlock
and the whole of his fortune (excepting
a jointure left to a lady), to his nephew,
the Duke of Sutham's second son. This
is about as plainly as I can state the case,
but you must see me at once, and peruse
the will ; and there will be much to explain.
We ought to meet at Sherlock
first. Will you therefore let me know
at once on your landing what day will
suit you to dine and sleep at Sherlock '^
Northampton is the nearest town, as you

probably know. The only inmate at
Sherlock is the lady in question; but the
place does not pass to the heir for six
months, and all the Elcote papers are
there. I am glad Sherlock has reversed
the unjust will of Lady Duncan, though
his peculiar views on matrimony may, I
fear, not entirely fall in with your own.
Ever yours, Jack Rosemere.'

To say that I was thunderstruck, as the
colloquial phrase goes, on reading this
letter but inadequately describes my state
of mind. It appeared to me that Lord
Francis had revenged himself, by this
extraordinary disposition to me, fettered
with such a cruel condition, for my refusal
to accept the hand of friendship he
offered soon after my grandmother's death.
I do not think so now in later years, but

such was my not unnatural conclusion at
that time.

On descending to our dinner in the
coffee-room, I ordered a bottle of champagne,
and silently handed William this
letter to read. To my surprise, he, who
had such control, when he chose, over his
mental emotions, gave way entirely to his
sense of the injustice which two wills,
executed by persons both between eighty
and ninety years of age, brought upon
me.

If ever I get into Parliament,' he said,
I will bring in a bill to render all wills
executed after the testator has passed
seventy-five years, void and illegal.'

I could not forbear lauo^hinof.

I suppose some people would envy
me, and say I was uncommonly lucky.
To come into three thousand a year,

and a beautiful old manor house, exactly
adapted for such a moderate income, is
not a calamity, William, if it were not for
the fiendish provision, which, of course, I
shall some day bring Into force.'

Listen to me, Clare. Anyhow, marriage
for you yet would be a mistake.
With your abilities, and this fortune, and
position in the county, added to your own,
you must seek a career — a political career.
Even I intend to do so some day. Your
early marriage would cripple you. So, for
the present, I should forget altogether the
condition on which you inherit. Time
enough ten years hence to consider it, and
its bearings on your happiness. Anyhow,
you have the diamonds.'

Which, with a cynicism worthy of
Lord Francis, I can bestow on any woman
in the world who is not my wife.'

True ; but, for the present, I should
keep them for myself at Courts'
Bank;

There was an insincere ring in my
dear friend's consolation. I knew quite
well that he felt that all my future happiness
was necessarily risked by this second
will. Sensational accounts would be sure
to be spread as to my inheritance, throughout
the county ; and the man who was
made rich by it, so long as he remained a
bachelor, was invited either to shut himself
out from his own natural instincts for
home and love, or beckoned — as, perchance,
Lord Francis wished — to the life which he
had himself notoriously led for many years.
We both agreed, however, that the first
thing for me to do was to go, as General
Rosemere wished, to Sherlock for a night.
So I sent off a letter at once to the

General, to say I would arrive at Sherlock
the day after he would receive my
note.

We can go to Carnaby tomorrow
morning, as I think my mother would be
hurt if you did not come with me first to
her. You know her romantic nature.
Then the next day you can go to Sherlock,
and find out exactly how you stand,
from Rosemere.'

I could not sleep that night, and I sat
by my open bedroom window, gazing out
on a clear, bright sky, and a watery moon,
and dreaming over my possible future, and
my strange, present position. Upward
floated the sounds of revelry from the
Liverpool streets — the strange snatches of
music, old familiar airs, fraught with a
pathos, amid the mass of humanity, struggling
in their sleepless effort for pleasure

and amusement, as the night wore on.
Sailors were having their * last fling ' on
shore ; sin, and misery, and death were
around me, all rendered more melancholy
by the fitful bursts of merriment, the
drunken laughter, and the boisterous cries
of a seaport town at night.

What a medley it all was ! what a puzzle
this short mysterious existence! When
life's fitful fever ' shall be over, shall we
not wonder at the great interest it has
caused us, and at the passions, the tears,
and the hopes it has excited ? I felt an
eagerness to know my end. How would
all this change in my fortunes affect this
life, for which I professed so keen a contempt,
and where, at last, should I succumb
to the mortal agony, which Bacon conjectured
was no more bitter than the
effort to struggle into existence ?

VOL. I. N

But the solemn tone of some church bell
warned me that another day would soon
be breaking, and that an ample bed, unlocked
by waves, invited repose.

%

MY NEW INHERITANCE.

Amour folio aimable :
Ambition sottise series.'

I MUST not linger on our coming home.
It was a repetition to William of many
happy * comings home ' from school, from
college, and from bachelor wanderings.
Happy those who can recall in after life
such greetings ! and I, who had not been
so fortunate in the bygone years, was
folded in the arms of my dear, faithful,
loving friend once more.

Welcome ! dear Clare,' she said, as
she led me across the hall Into her own

pet sanctum. William had rushed off into
the gardens, and to visit the stables,
and the farm, and the dairy, where all his
friends, human and animal, were eagerly
awaiting his arrival.

She took both my hands, and kissed
me.

My dear boy, I have heard about the
will, and I cannot find words to say all I
think about it. But I know your nature
well enough to be certain you won't allow
your life to be sacrificed, hereafter, for a
few paltry thousands a year. Only wait ;
and be sure you fix on somebody, when
you do think on marrying, worthy of the
great sacrifice you will make for her. For
Elcote will be a sacrifice for any man to
surrender. But you are young ; and, sofar
from believing in the ' vita brevis,' it
seems to me a very long affair ; and you

have plenty of time to consider. You will
go to Sherlock, I suppose, at once ? '

To-morrow. I have written to General
Rosemere that I will meet him at dinner-time,
tomorrow. There are a few points
to clear up, and Rosemere is sole executor.'

Have you thought what you would like
to do at present ? '

I have scarcely had time ; but I suppose
I must take chambers in London in
any case ; and I should like to move most
of my things to Elcote. It would be so
nice to live near you and William
here.'

That evening, as we three sat alone together
after dinner, Mrs Penrose said, —

Now, William, tell Clare about the letter
you have found here from Mr Eardley.'

*You had better read it, my dear
fellow.'

It was an offer of Mr Eardley to make
him his private secretary, with a view to
a start in learning politics, and possibly,
later on, as the writer hinted, some insight
into official life.

They say said William's mother,
that he has every chance, if the present
Government go out, of obtaining
some minor post in the next administration
; and as William takes the Liberal
side in politics, it may be a good opening.
I was brought up as a Tory ; but your
father's family, William, as you know,
have always been Whigs.'

There was no doubt about it, that this
offer opened some sort of a future to
William, whose duties would probably, at
all events at present, be light, and whose
position and pecuniary prospects would fit
him later to stand for his own county, when

this secretaryship would have brought
him in contact with many political personages.


You can always run down here,' said
his mother ; * and I shall remain longer
in Devonshire Place than I have done of
late years.'

William kissed his mother, and said, —

Of course, I will write to Eardley, and
gratefully accept the post of scribe. I
don't myself believe he is a Radical in
politics, only in philosophy ; and office
will tone down even his philosophy, if
he gets it.'

I rejoiced at these good tidings, and at
the prospect for my old friend. It was
better than coming into an immediate
fortune, with such fetters as were imposed
on me.

The next evening — a boisterous and

rough one, which led me to appreciate
the advantages of terra firma — I found
myself the sole occupant of a ridiculous
landau, which had been sent to meet meat
Northampton, and which now, at a
very leisurely pace, under the guidance
of an ancient and time-ridden Jehu, conducted
me, in solitary grandeur, through
narrow roads to one of the lodges of
Sherlock Park. I had, of course, donned
the conventional mourning for Lord
Francis. He had bequeathed to me a
large fortune, and, though I felt no
sorrow for his death, my Grosvenor Street
education prescribed my apparel on this
occasion.

Sherlock is the finest Tudor mansion in
the Midlands ; and it would be clearly
superfluous for me here to enter into a
long account of its unrivalled beauties of

external architecture, especially as I never
visited the place except upon this one
occasion, and it certainly is improbable
that I shall ever see it again. Built
entirely of brick, with stone decorations, it
covers an immense area, and lies in a
hollow of the magnificent deer park which
surrounds it, — a wooded hill rising before
the principle facade, which thus prevents
any distant view. After a drive from the
lodge gate we had entered, of nearly t^o
miles, through very undulating ground,
and superb trees, we arrived at the famous
cedar avenue, which is perfectly straight,
and at the end of which stands the
house. For many, many years this
beautiful place had been closed to the
county and society. Antiquarians came
and rhapsodies on its loveliness, tourists
came on the one day a week when some

^>

of the state-rooms were open for
inspection, and artists lingered in the
superb gallery, containing the pictures
which have since been disposed of at a
public auction by Lord Francis's successor.
Whatever his peculiarities and delinquencies.
Lord Francis would have shuddered
at the idea of those pictures — which
had been collected in Queen Anne's reign
by his maternal ancestor, — the friend of
Harley and Bolingbroke, — the patron of
Pope and of Addison — being appraised
in a London auctioneer's room. I was
ushered through the hall, and a suite of
many beautiful apartments, into the
saloon, a room perfectly octagonal, in the
centre of the house, where a fire, burning
brightly, threw its cheerful light on the
massive gilding and somewhat florid
decorations of this, the smallest recept

of the house. The old butler,
who himself conducted me to the room,
with an obsequiousness which betokened
a knowledge of my position in his late
master's will, and who eyed me with well-bred
curiosity, remarked, in a solemn tone,
that he would inform General Rosemere
I had arrived. The General came on the
scene almost immediately, and shook me
warmly by the hand.

So glad you managed to come. I
wanted to get the lawyer here, too, tonight
; but he could not leave town.
But, after dinner, we can go through what
is necessary ; and I thought we would sit
here until we move into the smoking-room.
The rooms are so vast and dreary
for only two persons to sit in ; though
poor Sherlock, when he was here, always
sat in the library.'

Dinner was announced, and we both
felt an uncomfortable pang as we took
our long walk through rooms, all half
lighted, into the dining-room, a magnificent
apartment, mostly in darkness, but in
the centre of which a small round table,
covered with wax lights, and glittering
with old silver, invited us to our meal.
While the servants remained in the
room, our conversation was, necessarily,
conventional, and chiefly respecting my
recent visit to America. General Rose-mere,
a thorough man of the world,
was fairly intelligent, had seen much,
and read much, and was as well acquainted
with the brilliant as with what
has been called ' the seamy ' side of life.
The dinner was, I remember, exactly
what I thought then, and think still, a
dinner should be. It was obviously

cooked by a French chef and in the
old style of French cooking. It was
just sufficient for two men, and included,
of course, the delicacies of the hour ; but
one did not feel wearied by long courses,
and unnecessary entries. Lord Francis
had well drilled all his servants ; and,
as for the wine after dinner, it would
have been hard to assign the palm to
the Lafitte, the Closvongeot, or the
Madeira, which last quite eclipsed any
wine I drank in America.

I could not help saying, — * We feast
magnificently in the dead man's house,'
when we were left alone.

The General shrugged his shoulders.

Ah yes ! Poor Sherlock ! If any man
ever understood comfort, he did ; and the
Duke's son inherits a magnificent cellar.
He was here yesterday, — in fact, is here

constantly. He seems to me a poor sort
of fellow. Sherlock never would see him
in his lifetime ; and latterly, since your
grandmother's death, he always spoke
rather bitterly of you. So his will surprised
me, and specially in the matter of
my executorship. What do you say to
your good fortune, Clare ? '

Well, after all, my grandmother's fortune
was left from me most unjustly, and
now that it comes back to me, it comes
back with a provision which makes it
nearly worthless.'

Don't say that he interposed hurriedly.
Keep out of marriage ; In nine cases out
of ten, it is a fatal mistake.'

As General Rosemere was now married,
I was a little amused at this view, but did
not wish to discuss it with him.

I suppose,' I said, ' you will prove the

will at once. There is no difficulty of
any sort.*

None. There are very few legatees.
His nephew is the residuary legatee. He
leaves me five thousand pounds. He
leaves you, as you know, the fortune of
your grandmother, and Elcote, on the condition
of non-marriage. If you marry,
his nephew inherits all. He leaves you
absolutely Lady Duncan's diamonds, and
her miniature, which, I think, I forgot to
mention. It is a large miniature, by
Conway, and set in brilliant. The diamonds
are at Courts' Bank, and you will
have them as soon as the will is proved.
The miniature is here, and you can take it
away tomorrow. Of course, there are
legacies to a good many of his dependants
here ; and a large annuity is given to a
lady, who has lived here for some years.

But there is a copy of the will, which has
been made for you, and which you can
also take away. I want you to go to
London, tomorrow, and, as soon as possible,
see the lawyers about Elcote. The
papers, which are very voluminous, concerning
the manor of Elcote, have always
been kept here ; but now they should be
deposited, when probate is granted, with
your own lawyers.'

Nothing could be more clear or straightforward
than General Rosemere's statement
to me ; and it seemed that Lord
Francis could have chosen no better executor,
— as he had decided, with his usual
eccentricity, to have only one for the
administration of so large a property. In
this view, I found later, in the smoking-room,
I was mistaken, as Lord Francis, it
appeared, had named his elder brother, the

Duke, as the General's co-executor ; but
his Grace had renounced, on hearing; that
Elcote was left away to me. General
Rosemere had forgotten accidentally to
mention this to me. I asked him, as we
smoked our cigars, what the Duke had
said, and if he had attended the
funeral.

Oh, yes, he came here, and seemed
greatly interested in the place, which, he
said, he had not seen for twenty-five years.*
When he heard about Elcote he whistled,
and uttered a prolonged and guttural
D — n." Then he asked what sort of a
fellow you were. '* Tell him from me," he
said, 'T wish to know him; and, if he comes
to Southamam, I will ask all the most beautiful
women in England to tempt him ; only
they will have to be virtuous as well as
beautiful, and there will be the difficulty.*

VOL. I. O

He went away the same afternoon, after
the will was read.'

*And what about the lady here? Is
she still in the house ? '

Mrs Adeane is still here. She has
lived for years in a separate wing of the
house, the furthest removed from the
rooms Lord Francis used. He has left
her an annuity of a thousand a year, and
as she is still young, and remarkably
handsome, she will probably marry well.
By-the-bye, she expressed a wish to see
you, before you leave tomorrow ; but, of
course, you can do as you like about
that.'

*Oh! by all means, I will see her, if she
sends me a message,' I replied ; for I was
not altogether free from curiosity about
this mysterious lady. I was very glad to
find, later on, that the General's and my

bedrooms were close to each other. There
was a stillness and a gloom about this vast
house, with Its Innumerable galleries and
passages, which rather chilled one. But I
saw no ghost ; although there Is said to be
one at Sherlock, In the haunted room ;
and I slept profoundly until my shutters
were opened, and a bright spring sun
poured Its rays upon ray bed.

After breakfast. General Rosemere produced
the miniature of my grandmother,
and handed it to me. It was a large oval
picture, set In a gold case, and surrounded
with brilliant. She must have been about
thirty years of age when it was painted ;
and it was a beautiful work of art. Her
hair was powdered, and drawn back
with two large curls, one on each side ;
a red rose was Its only adornment
; the lacework on her bosom, or

modesty,' was tied with pale blue
ribbons.

He told me once,' said General
Rosemere, ' she was the only woman
in his whole life he ever wished to
marry, and that she was twelve years
older than himself.'

She must have been, there is no doubt,
a very lovely woman ; and for my father's
sake,' I added, ' I am very glad to have
this, and shall regard it as an heirloom.'


At that moment a footman entered the
room and asked, with Mrs Adeane's compliments,
if it would be convenient to me
to call on her now. I at once followed
him, with a glance at the General, and
found myself exploring an entirely new
(to me) part of the house. I was ushered
into a boudoir, which bore signs of much

taste and refinement, and which seemed
even overcrowded with valuable china ;
but had scarcely had time to survey my
surroundings, when Mrs Adeane entered,
dressed in the deepest crape. She was
a very striking woman, as much from her
tall, commanding figure as from her features,
which were classically beautiful, though
not of a soft or an appealing type. She
held out her hand, with a slight smile, and,
motioning me to a chair, said, In a very
gentle voice, —

I am leaving Sherlock tomorrow, and,
after all Lord Francis has said to me of
you, I thought I might venture to make
your acquaintance, though it is unlikely
that we shall ever meet again.'

I am sure,' I said, ' I am delighted and
flattered beyond words at your message ;
but, I am afraid, anything poor Lord

Francis said of me in his lifetime, was
not complimentary.'

I assure you, you are mistaken. He
always spoke of you with tenderness, almost,
as the only descendant of the woman
he had loved.'

I have heard from others exactly the
contrary.'

Possibly ; but it was to me, and perhaps
to me only, that he really said what
he felt;

Then how do you explain the cruel
provision in his will ? I suppose you are
aware how he has tried to ruin my
life.'

Mr Strong, you misjudge him. He
has tried to save you from the misery
which marriage so often produces. If
you take his advice, as conveyed in his
will, you will not marry at all. You will

preserve your independence, and not run
the hazard of a Hfe of care, and anxiety,
and responsibility. But, if you do not
take his advice, at least he v^ill have
saved you from being married for your
possessions, — hunted down by some scheming
dowager, — treated as a question of

chattels,' where love is not in the

pool,' but where settlements, and an
establishment, and ample pin money, are
the only allurement. Lord Francis knew
the world ; and his will, to my mind, is
a monument of worldly good judgment.'


She spoke calmly, but with wonderful
decision, and certainly put things from a
strange point of view ; and I afterwards,
in years to come, recalled what she had
so cynically said. When we parted, she
begged me to remember Lord Francis

with kindness. ' He was in many ways
eccentric, but he meant no harm to you
I promised her I would, at all events,
treasure up no ill feelings of any sort,
and she answered, ' As the heir to
Elcote, and four thousand a year,
you ought to find it easy to be

generous.

She afterwards married an Irish baronet,
and made him, I believe, an excellent
wife ; so she did not, in practice, carry
out her theories as expressed to me about
marriage. She was partially received
within her own county in Ireland, and
died, after many years of devotion to
works of charity and religion.

I left for London, where I put up at
an hotel, that afternoon ; and on my
journey fell to perusing the voluminous
will which I carried with me, and in

which the following passage occurs : — ' I
desire that my funeral be as decent
and private as possible, and in the
next churchyard to where I happen
to die.'

I SETTLE IN LONDON.

Dans le monde vous avez trois sortes dramas :
Vos amis qui vous aiment : vos amis qui ne
Se soient pas de vous : et vos amis
Qui vous assent.'

During the time at my disposal in London,
while searching for suitable chambers,
and subsequently visiting innumerable
shops, and occasionally rushing to Lord
Francis's lawyers in the City, I often reflected
on the not altogether creditable
fact that, in the course of a brief two
years, I had no less than three times
imagined myself, rightly or wrongly, to
have fallen in love. It certainly seemed

a misfortune that a man whose wealth
was held entirely on the tenure of celibacy,
should, apparently, be so susceptible
to female charms. There was my cousin,
Ida de Chamier, there was Angelina Pike,
there was Dora McCarthy. The laws
of England prohibited my marrying all
three : Lord Francis's will declared I
should marry nobody ; and it was extremely
possible that not one of these
young ladies would have married me, in
any case, and certainly not under present
circumstances. For I was a humble man,
and could not imagine that I could beloved
only for myself, — another result of
my early training, in which the power of
money had held so prominent a place.
But a girl may, after all, very naturally
hesitate to allow such a sacrifice as I
was called upon to make in proposing

marriage, and to dread the possibility of
regret in after years, when the sacrifice
has long been made. She may very
fairly think, ' He is carried away now by
his devotion to me ; but some day he
will look at things more calmly, and will
call to mind that to win me he gave up
his fortune and his beautiful old manor
house : and then will come the suggestion,
— ' and perhaps, after all, it was too
much to throw away.' My case seemed
beset with difficulties, the more I considered
it ; so at last I gave up my
thoughts to the furnishing of the handsome
chambers I had taken in Piccadilly
the nicest situation in the world ; for,
after all, when one has travelled much,
and seen all the great cities east and
west, one comes back once more to
Piccadilly ; and whether from old association

or not, I am not sure, but it remains
the street most like home, the most
familiar, and the best beloved.

The spring was advancing, Parliament
was in session, and London was filling
fast, though many families were in mourning,
and it was certain that the season
would not be a gay one. We were still
plunged in that terrible war which cost us
so many of our bravest sons, and in which
the Guardsmen, idlers once in Piccadilly
and Hyde Park, had done such prodigies
of valour. But a certain outside gaiety
must always be found in London as the
spring advances, and the chestnut trees
burst into blossom. Meanwhile, established
in my delightful rooms, I found, but
not to my surprise, that all my grandmother's
friends, and their relatives and
connections, began to be once more aware

of m}^ existence. By this time, the contents
of the will were known, and I
appeared as an eligible friend and acquaintance,
if not, from the matronly point of
view, a possible parti. My hall table, on
my return in the evening, before dinner,
was always quite covered with cards and
notes, and, after a while, I began to be
amused with the excitement of going out
in the evening, and making new friends.
It was a new phase of life, as I had, since
Lady Duncan's death, entirely dropped
out of sight ; but it was not one that
could ever have enthralled me for long,
and my really pleasant evenings were
spent in Devonshire Place, where Mrs
Penrose constantly had delightful literary
and musical reunions.

How often have I sat at her round
<1 inner-table, at that time, and enjoyed the

charm of listening to brilliant conversation,
an art which is, I am told, almost extinct !
How skilfully she would stimulate conversation,
without ever appearing to lead
it, and how dexterously, and apparently
unconsciously, evoke the topics which
showed her guests at their best !|^

Mr Eardley was very often there, perhaps
a little more reserved than heretofore.
He spoke always of William most
enthusiastically. ' He was to stand at the
next election for a certain borough, and he
was sure to distinguish himself. How
curious that such a brilliant man should
have done so little at Oxford, and not
even taken his degree ! ' To Mrs Penrose,
you may imagine how sweet was all this,
spoken as it was by an earnest, sincere
man, who was rapidly making a name in
the House of Commons, and in English

politics outside it. And, next to his mother,
the praise of Mr Eardley, and William's
own enthusiasm, was, perhaps, most welcome
to me. If one's own life is marked
out on other lines, and distinction is not
one's destiny, the next best thing is to see
those you love succeed, and it was impossible
not to see that William was gaining
rapidly the good opinions of those who
were best able to aid him in his political
career.

The De Chamiers were also often in
Devonshire Place, and I renewed my acquaintance
with them, which soon ripened
into intimacy. Ida regained her ascendency
over my heart quickly, and, though
I never hinted at my admiration of her
beauty, we were, at all events, now firm
friends. She and her father often came to
my chambers to drink tea, and admire my

last new acquisitions in the way of prints
and bric-a-brac^ and it was in contemplation
that, later on, when everyone was
leaving London, they would come and pay
me a little visit at Elcote, where I now
had a very modest establishment. Ida
had very much improved in her appearance
and figure since I first saw her at
Carnaby, but had lost none of her delightful
archness and vivacity. It was not,
however, even now, until people knew her
well, that they discovered her great intelligence,
and how well her father had educated
her bright, clear, intuitive mind. I
remember once hearing an Irish father
say that his girls were so pretty that the
only education he felt inclined to give them
was to enable them to ride straight across
country in the day time, and to dance
gracefully at night. But M. de Chamier

VOL. I. p

had taken a very different view of what a
girl's education should be. In those days,
the higher education of women — to use a
vague but popular term — was not much
discussed ; and it was all the more to the
credit of the man of business that he had
found time to personally supervise his only
child's education, and to form her taste.
Mrs Penrose, for whom the talents of youth
had always possessed a peculiar charm,
had long known and appreciated my cousin
Ida's abilities, and had, latterly, constantly
lent her books of poetry and history,
which her father's library in Bloomsbury
did not contain. Though there was the
same vivacity, there was, perhaps, at
times, a shade of pensiveness which I did
not recollect formerly, and which made
her even more attractive in my eyes.

One night, I remember, I was dining
in Devonshire Place with a small party

of twelve, amongst whom were the
De Chamiers and Canon Caryl, whose
grave, shrewd conversation always interested
me. He was no longer under
the strict rules which formerly had
bound him, and was now a great diner-out
in London, among that most aliquis
of all societies — the Catholic beati monde
of London. Sitting by the side of our
hostess, who, as usual, looked one's ideal
of an elderly English lady, with her
beautiful white hair, and expressive clever
face, his austere features were lighted
up almost with animation.

And where is William to-night ? '
he asked.

He was so sorry not to be here, and
begged me to make his apologies to
you : but, as you know, it is a great
night at the House, and William went
over from Whitehall at five o'clock, and

2>

sent me a note to say it was quite uncertain
when he could get back here.'

I thought probably he would go. I
hear Eardley is to speak to-night against
Reform. Only conceive Eardley seceding
from his party on such a question !
But he says education must come, in
his judgment, before further extension
of the franchise. If the Government are
beaten, they will resign ; and the quidnuncs
say Eardley is sure of an Under-secretaryship
in the new Ministry.'

Did you hear,' asked Mrs Penrose,
turnings to the wife of a member of the
House, 'what time the division is expected
to be taken ? '

Not until the small hours, I believe,'
was the reply.

So, you see,' said our hostess, * we
shall go to bed without knowing what
has happened.'

I cannot understand myself,' said
Canon Caryl, ' the absorbing interest in
politics, which so many find. My poor
brother Charles, whom you remember,
used to tell me how, after the great
division in 1832, almost worn out with
fatigue and exhaustion, he walked, in
broad daylight, up to the gate in the
Green Park in Piccadilly, towards his
lodgings in Bury Street, and chanced
upon an early milkman. He said the
most delightful draught he ever took,
was the glass of milk he drank then,
fresh from the scene of excitement and
turmoil, and hoarse from cheering, though
he gave a silent vote himself, — '' And the
milkman," he used to add, " had no idea
that the constitution of society, and of
all classes, including his own, in England,
had been changed by a Parliamentary
vote, an hour before." '

It is the milkman you speak of,' said
Miss de Chamier, 'whom Mr Eardley
would not enfranchise. As a Liberal, he
would educate the milkman to understand
public questions, before he trusted him to
give a vote upon them.'

It would take a long time,' I ventured
to observe, ' to make the lower classes
look at politics, even when they take any
interest in them, except from the point of
personal concern, — of rates and taxes, — of
beer or no beer, as the case may be ; and
their vote, when they get it, will be for
the man who promises most.'

Canon Caryl laughed silently, as the
ladies went upstairs.

You want to change and reform human
nature, before you extend the franchise
and, in theory, as a Catholic, I agree-but
this country is rapidly growing democratic,
and you, as you are young, will

live to see changes in that direction, which
now seem impossible. If the greatness of
this country is to last, as I believe it will,
it will be the high-mindedness and undeviating
principle of great statesmen, — of
individuals, who will maintain it, and who
will stem the torrent which is already
swelling; and I am glad to see a Radical
like Eardley sacrificing much to his love
of truth, for, after all, even if he obtain
office in another Ministry, to break with
his party is always a terrible struggle to
an honest, patriotic man.'

The next morning the newspapers were
eagerly read. The division had gone
against the Government. Eardley had
made a most eloquent and closely-reasoned
speech, which had at once established
his fame as an orator. There was
no doubt the Government would resign.
I hurried up after breakfast to Devonshire

Place, where I found my dear friend in
raptures over Eardley's classical description
of the modern democrat, with his
crude ideas and his reckless theories, and
his contempt for all the lessons of history
and philosophy.

Reading these grand periods, and at
this eventful epoch of English Parliamentary
life, her and my thoughts were
with dear William, who was still in bed !
He must get into Parliament, if there was
a General Election ; and Eardley would
now be a great man. The time had come ;
and the old lady, overjoyed, gave me a
fond maternal kiss, as I hurried off to hear
the latest result of the morning's news,
which proved to be that the Prime
Minister had left at mid-day for Windsor.

END OF VOL. I.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, Printers, EDINBURGH.

June 1889.

F. V. White &, Co's

LIST OF

PUBLICATIONS.

VOL. I.

NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES IN TOWN AND COUNTRY.

BEAUTIFUL JIM.

By JOHN STRANGE WINTER, Author of "Booties' Baby,"
"Mignon's Husband," "Booties' Children," &c. 2 Vols.

PURPLE AND FINE LINEN.

By Mrs ALEXANDER ERASER. 3 Vols.

LONG ODDS.

By HAWLEY SMART. 3 Vols.

LANDING A PRIZE.

By Mrs EDWARD Renard, Author of " The Girl in the
Brown Habit." 3 Vols.

ON CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.

By FLORENCE MARRY AT. Author of "My Sister the
Actress." 3 Vols.

A LOST WIFE.

By Mrs H. Loveth CAMERON, Author of "In a (grass
Country," " A North Country Maid," &c. 3 Vols.

THAT OTHER WOMAN.

By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Cudlip). 3 Vols.

SEVERED TIES.

By Mrs HENRY W YLDE. 3 Vols.

THE QUEEN ANNE'S GATE MYSTERY.

By RICHARD ARK WRIGHT. 2 Vols.

A DISTRACTING GUEST.

By Mrs ROBERT JOCELYN. 2 Vols.

MISS KATE.

By "Eta." 1 Vol. 6s.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

THE Woes OF JOHN Strange WINTER.

Uniform IN STYLE AND PRICE.

Each in Paper Covers, Is ; Cloth, Is. 6d. At all Booksellers &■ BookstaP*

A little FOOL. (In June.)

MY POOR DICK.

(4th Edition.) Illustrated by Maurice Greiffenhagen.

Bootless' Children.

(5th Edition.) Illustrated by J. Bernard Partridge.
"John Strange Winter is never more thoroughly at home than when delineating
the characters of children, and everyone drill be delighted with the dignified Made
and the quaint Pearl. The book is mainly occupied with the love affairs of Terry
(the soldier servant who appears in many of the preceding books), but the children
buzz in and out of its pages much as they would come in and out of a room in real
life, pervading and brightening the house in which they dwell." — Leicester Daily
Post

THE CONFESSIONS OF A PUBLISHER.

"The much discussed question of the relations between a publisher and his
clients furnishes Mr John Strange Winter with material for one of the brightest
tales of the season. Abel Drinkwater's autobiography is written from a humorous
point of view: yet here, as elsewhere, 'many a true word is spoken in jest,' and in
the conversations of the publisher and his too ingenuous son facts come to light
that are worthy of the attention of aspirants to literary fame." — Morning Post.

MIGNON'S HUSBAND.

(8th Edition.)
It is a capital love story, full of high spirits, and written in a dashing style that
will charm the most melancholy of readers into hearty enjoyment of its fun." —
Scotsman.

THAT IMP.

(7th Edition.)

barrack life is abandoned for the nonce, and the author of 'Booties' Baby'
introduces readers to a country home replete with every comfort, and containing
men and women whose acquaintanceship we can only regret can never blossom
into friendship." — Whitehall Review.

This charming little hook is bright and breezy, and has the ring of supreme
truth about it." — Vanity Fair.

MIGNON'S SECRET.

(11th Edition.)
"In ' Mignon's Secret' Mr Winter has supplied a continuation to the never-to-be-forgotten
' Booties' Baby.' . . . The story is gracefully and touchingly told."
John Bull.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

The Works of JOHN STRANGE WmTER— Continued.

ON MARCH. (6th Edition.)

"This short story is characterised by Mr Winter's customary truth in detail,
humour, and pathos." — Academy.

"By publishing 'On March,' Mr J. S. Winter has added another little gem to his
well-known store of regimental sketches. The story is written with humour and
a deal of feeling." — Army and Navy Gazette.

IN QUARTERS. (7th Edition.)

' In Quarters ' is one of those rattling tales of soldiers' life which the public
have learned to thoroughly appreciate." — The Graphic.

The author of ' Booties' Baby ' gives us here another story of military life, which
few have better described." — British Quarterly Review.

ARMY SOCIETY : Life in a Garrison Town.

Cloth, 6s. ; also in Picture Boards, 2s. (8th Edition.)

"This discursive story, dealing with life in a garrison town, is full of the pleasant
go' and movement which has distinguished ' Booties' Baby,' * Pluck,' or, in fact, a
majority of some half-dozen novelettes which the author has submitted to the eyes
of railway bookstall patronisers." — Daily Telegraph.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blaukhampton.

(A Sequel to "Army Society") Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; also in Picture
Boards, 2s. (4th Edition.)

' Garrison Gossip ' may fairly rank with ' Cavalry Life,' and the various other
books with which Mr Winter has so agreeably beguiled our leisure hours." —
Saturday Review.

The novel fully maintains the reputation which its author has been fortunate
enough to gain in a special line of his own." — Graphic

A SIEGE BABY.

Cloth, 2s, 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s.

The story which gives its title to this new sheaf of stories by the popular author
of ' Booties' Baby ' is a very touching and pathetic one. . . . Amongst the other
stories, the one entitled ' Out of the Mists' is, perhaps, the best written, although
the tale of true love it embodies comes to a most melancholy ending." — County
Gentleman.

BEAUTIFUL JIM.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d.

F. V. WHITE & Co 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

Mrs Edward Kennard's Sporting Novels.

At all Booksellers and Bookstalls.

OUR FRIENDS IN THE HUNTING FIELD.

Cloth, 2s. 6d. fin June.)

A CRACK COUNTY.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d.

THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s. (4th Edition.)

'" Nell Fitzgerald ' is an irreproachable heroine, full of gentle womanliness, and
rich in all virtues that make her kind estimable." — Daily Telegraph.

There is a wonderful freshness about this novel which cannot fail to charm
even those who have never ridden to hounds." — Court Journal.

KILLED IN THE OPEN.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Board, 2s. (3d Edition.)

"It is in truth a very good love story set in a framework of hounds and horses,
but one that could be read with pleasure independently of any such attractions." —
Fortnightly Review.

' Killed in the Open ' is a very superior sort of hunting novel indeed"' — Graphic,

STRAIGHT AS A DIE.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s. (3d Edition.)

If you like sporting novels, I can recommend to you Mrs Kennard's ' Straight
as a Die'" — Truth.

'• Mrs Edward Kennard can write, and write well. Her descriptions of country
life are many of them admirable, and her story will be read to the end. Some
of the love passages between Dulcis and Bob are full of beauty and pathos." —
Pictorial World.

A REAL GOOD THING.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s. (5th Edition.)

"There are some good country scenes and country spins in ' A Real Good Thing.'
The hero, poor old Hopkins, is a strong character." — Academy.

TWILIGHT TALES, illustrated.)
Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
In Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d. The Second Edition of

A GLORIOUS GALLOP.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

Bawled Smarter Sporting Bovele*

At all Booksellers and Bookstalls.

THE MASTER OF RATHKELLY.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d.

THE OUTSIDER.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s. (4th Edition.)
"Since the deaths of Turtles and Whyte Melville, Captain Hawley Smart has
worthily held his place at the head of those writers who devote themselves to
sporting subjects . . . his readers know precisely what to expect when they
take up one of his books, and they are never disappointed." — Saturday Review.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

Each in Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d

THE LAST COUP.
CLEVERLY WON.

Two New Novels by B. L. FAEJEON.

In Cloth, 2s. 6d.

THE DUCHESS OF ROSEMARY LANE.

By the Author of " Great Porter Square," &c.

In Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d.

A STRANGE ENCHANTMENT.

By the Author of "Devlin the Barber," &c.

The Honourable Mrs Fetherstonhaugh's New Novel.

Cloth, 2s. 6d.

DREAM FACES.

By the Author of "Kilcorran," "Robin Adair," &c.

Bret Harte's New Novel.

Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s.

THE CRUSADE OF THE EXCELSIOR.

By the Author of "The Luck of Roaring Camp," &c.

Sir Randal Roberts' New Sporting Novel.

Cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.

CURB AND SNAFFLE.

By the Author of " In the Shires," &c.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

MRS H. LOYETT CAMERON'S NOVELS.

At all Booksellers and Bookstalls.

IN A GRASS COUNTRY.

(A Story of Love and Sport.) (7th Edition.) Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ;
Picture Boards, 2s.

"We turn with pleasure to the green covers of 'In a Grass Country.' The three
heroines are charming each in her own way. It is well sketched, full of character,
with sharp observations of men and women— not too hard oo anybody— a clear
story carefully written, and therefore easily read . . . recommended." — Punch.

When the days are short, and there is an hour or two to be disposed of indoors
before dressing time, one is glad to be able to recommend a good and amusing
novel. 'In a Grass Country' may be said to come under this description." —
Saturday Review.

A NORTH COUNTRY MAID.

(3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s.

A DEAD PAST.

(3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s.

A DEVOUT LOVER.

Cloth, 2s. 6d.
Without doubt one of Mrs Lovett Cameron's best and prettiest stories. The
character of Rose de Balfour is admirably drawn. . . . Mrs Lovett Cameron
deserves great credit for having made a good woman interesting." — Ladies' Pictorial.

THE COST OF A LIE.

Cloth, 2s. 6d.

THIS WICKED WORLD.

Cloth, 2s. 6d.

BY THE SAME Author.
Each in Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d.

NECK OR NOTHING.

. . . it is pleasant, easy reading, and the characters act in a way one can
understand." — Saturday Review.

. . . is really very bright and readable from first to last." — Academy.

, . . is a capital story of hunting and love-making combined . . .
Nothing prettier or more natural has been written for some time than the scene in
which Lucy Netterville betrays her cherished secret with such happy results. ' —
Pictorial World.

THE MADNESS OF MARRIAGE.

Mrs Lovett Cameron's books are never devoid of merit. . . . The interest
in Daisy Carew's fate is well sustained. . . ." — Morning Post.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

MRS ALEXANDER'S WOYELS.

At all Booksellers and Bookstalls.

A FALSE SCENT. (Third Edition.)
Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d.

A LIFE INTEREST, cloth, 2s. 6d.
BY WOMAN'S WIT.

(3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s.

'• Mrs Alexander deserves credit for keeping her readers mystified for some time
in the matter of Mrs Euthven's rubies. . . . How the widow's wit discovers the
treachery of the man she loves in spite of it ; how she avenges herself, and the terrible
straits Nora is involved in for a season, when she has accepted the wrong man
because the right man has been slow to declare himself ; and how all ends well for
her and her gentle stepmother, not to mention the old shinar whom she weds, is
written in Mrs Alexander's book, and very readable." — Athenaeum.
In Mrs Alexander's tale

Much art she clearly shows
In keeping dark the mystery
Until the story's close ! " — Punch.

MONA'S CHOICE. Cloth, 2s. 6d.

Mrs Alexander has written a novel quite worthy of her." — Athenaeum.
". . . It is pleasant and unaffected "— <Sa<Mrrfa?/ /2emew.

"Rite's" NEW NOVELS.

Each in Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth Is. 6d. At all Booksellers and

Bookstalls.

A VAGABOND LOVER.

THE MYSTERY OF A TURKISH BATH.

(2d Edition.)

'• Every fresh piece of work which 'Eta ' publishes shows an increase of power,
and a decided advance on the last. The booklet contains some very smart writing
indeed " — Whitehall Review.

'• ' The Mystery of a Turkish Bath ' has a well-wrought out plot of slightly sensational
interest, and is written with this author's well-known grace of style." —
Scotsman.

THE SEVENTH DREAM. A Romance.

". . . is a powerful and interesting study in weird effects of fiction. It will
hold the close attention of its readers from first to last, and keep them entertained
with changing sensations of wonder." — Scotsman.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

TWO NEW ONE SHILLING NOVELS,

for in Cloth, Is. 6d.)

A TROUBLESOME GIRL.

By the Author of "Molly Bawn."

THE MYSTERY OF Belgrade SQDAp,

By CURTIS YORKE,

Author of " Hush ! " &c. Third Edition.

POPULAR WORKS AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
AND BOOKSTALLS.

In Limp Cloth, 2s.

GOOD FORM,

A BOOK OF EVERY DAY ETIQUETTE.
By MRS ARMSTRONG.

By SAMUEL LAING.

A MODERN ZOROASTRIAN.

By the Author of " Modern Science and Modern Thought,"

A Sporting Quixote," &c.

1 Vol. Cloth, 2s. 66. (Second Edition.)

By W. H. DAVENPORT ADAMS.

Celebrated Englishwomen of the Victorian Era.

By the Author of " England on the Sea," &c.
1 Vol. Cloth, 2s. 6d.

By PERCY THORPE.

HISTORY OF JAPAN.

1 Vol. Cloth, 3s. 6d.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

iC

SELECT" NOVELS

Crown 8vo, Cloth, 2s. ci. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

1 THE HEIR PRESUMPTIVE.

2 THE HEART OF JANE WARNER.

3 UNDER THE LILIES AND ROSES.

4 HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.

5 FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.

By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Cudlip).

6 HER SUCCESS.

7 FRIENDS AND LOVERS.

8 Juniper.

9 KATE Valiant.

10 Atherton TOWERS.

By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.

11 MATED WITH A CLOWN.

12 MOLLIE DARLING.

13 ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN.

By MRS Houston,

Author of " Recommended to Mercy."

14 BARBARA'S WARNING.

By MRS ALEXANDER FRASER.

15 A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

SELECT " NOVELS— Consisted

By Harriet JAY.

16 A MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE.

By IZA DUFFUS HARDY.

17 LOVE, HONOUR, AND OBEY.

18 NOT EASILY JEALOUS.

19 ONLY A LOVE STORY.

By JEAN Middlemost.

20 POISONED ARROWS.

By MRS H. Loveth CAMERON.

21 A NORTH COUNTRY MAID.

22 A DEAD PAST.

23 THE COST OF A LIE.

By LADY VIOLET GREVILLE.

24 KEITH'S WIFE.

By NELLIE FORTESCUE HARRISON,

Author of " So Runs My Dream."

25 FOR ONE MAN'S PLEASURE.

By EDMUND Leather.

26 THE ACTOR'S AVIFE.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

"POPULAR" NOVELS.

Picture Boards, 2s. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

1 GARRISON GOSSIP. By John Strange

Winter, Author of "A Siege Baby," "In
Quarters," "On March," "Mignon's Secret,"
That Imp ! " " Mignon's Husband," &c. (Fourth
Edition.)

2 ARMY SOCIETY ; Or, Life in a Garrison Town.

By the same Author. (Eighth Edition.)

3 THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart, Author

of "The Pride of the Paddock," "Cleverly Won,"
Bad to Beat," " Lightly Lost," &c.

4 BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander,

• Author of "Mona's Choice," "The Wooing O't,"
"The Executor," "The Admiral's Ward," &c.

5 THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. By

Mrs Edward Kennard, Author of " Straight asa
Die," "Twilight Tales," "A Real Good Thing,"
"A Glorious Gallop," "A Crack County," &c.

6 KILLED IN THE OPEN. By the same Author.

7 STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By Mrs Edward

Kennard, Author of "A Real Good Thing," &c.

8 IN A GRASS COUNTRY: A Story of Love

and Sport. By Mrs H. Lovett Cameron.
(Seventh Edition.)

9 A NORTH COUNTRY MAID. By the same

Author.
10 A DEAD PAST. By the same Author.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR " NOYF^IjS— Continued.

11 POISONED ARROWS. By Jean Middlemost,

Author of "Wild George," "Dandy."

12 ONLY A LOVE STORY. By Iza Duffus

Hardy, Author of " Love, Honour, and Obey."

13 THE HEART OF JANE WARNER. By

Florence Marryat, Author of " Facing the
Footlights," "Her World against a Lie," "The
Heir Presumptive," "My Own Child," &c.

14 UNDER THE LILIES AND ROSES. By the

same Author.

15 KATE VALLIANT. By Annie Thomas (Mrs

Pender Cudlip), Author of "Her Success."

16 KEITH'S WIFE. By Lady Violet Greville,

Author of "Zoe: A Girl of Genius," "Creatures
of Clay."

17 MATED WITH A CLOWN. By Lady Constance

Howard, Author of " Only a Village
Maiden," "Mollie Darling."

18 NOT EASILY JEALOUS. By Iza Duffus

Hardy, Author of "Love, Honour, and Obey,"
&c.

19 FOR ONE MAN'S PLEASURE. By Nellie

Fortescue Harrison, Author of " So Runs My
Dream," &c.

20 THE CRUSADE OF THE EXCELSIOR. By

Bret Harte.

21 A SIEGE BABY By John Strange Winter.
F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

ONE SHILLING NOVELS.

In Paper Cover.

THOSE MARKED * CAN ALSO BE OBTAINED IN CLOTH (Is. 6d.)

At all booksellers and Bookstalls.

1 *MY POOR DICK. (Fourth Edition.) By John

Strange Winter, Author of "Booties' Baby,"
Houp La ! " tfec. (With Illustrations by Maurice
Greiffenhagen.)

2 *BOOTLES' CHILDREN. (Fifth Edition.) By

the same Author. (With Illustrations by J.
Bernard Partridge.)

3 *THE CONFESSIONS OF A PUBLISHER.

By the same Author.

4 *MIGNON'S HUSBAND. (Eighth Edition.)

By the same Author.

5 *THAT IMP ! (Seventh Edition.) By the same

Author.

6 *MIGNON'S SECRET. (Eleventh Edition.) By

the same Author.

7 *0N MARCH. (Sixth Edition.) By the same

Author.

8 *IN QUARTERS. (Seventh Edition.) By the

same Author.

9 *A GLORIOUS GALLOP. (Second Edition.)

By Mrs Edward Kennard, Author of "The Girl
in the Brown Habit," " A Real Good Thing," &c.

10 *THE MYSTERY OF A TURKISH BATH.

(Second Edition.) By " Rite," Author of " Dame
Burden," " Sheba," "My Lord Conceit," &c.

11 *THE SEVENTH DREAM. A Romance. By

the same Author.

12 *THE PRIDE OF THE PADDOCK. By

Hawley Smart, Author of "The Outsider,"
"The Master of Rathkelly," &c.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

ONE SHILLING NOVELS— Conimwec^.

13 cleverly WON. By Hawley Smart.

14 *A MILLIONAIRE OF ROUGH AND READY.

By Bret Harte, Author of " The Luck of Roaring

Camp," &G.

15 *DEVIL'S FORD. By Bret Harte.

16 *NECK OR NOTHING : A Hunting Story. By

Mrs H. Loveth Cameron, Author of "In a Grass
Country," &g. (Second Edition.)

17 *THE MADNESS OF MARRIAGE. By Mrs

H. Lovett Cameron.

18 *THE FASHION OF THIS WORLD. By

Helen Matters, Author of "Coming' thro' the
Rye," &c.

19 *A PLAYWRIGHT'S DAUGHTER. By Mrs

Annie Edwards, Author of " Archie Lovell," &c.

20 NO MEDIUM. By Annie Thomas (Mrs

Pender Cudlip), Author of " Her Success'* &c.

21 A MOMENT OF MADNESS. By Florence

Marryat, Author of " My Sister the Actress," &c.

22 SAVED IN TIME. By Mrs Houstoun, Author

of "Recommended to Mercy," &c.

23 EVERY INCH A WOMAN. By Mrs Houstoun.

24 A PAUPER PEER. By Major Arthur

Griffiths, Author of "Fast and Loose," &c.

25 *THE WESTHORPE MYSTERY. By Iza

DuFFUS Hardy, Author of "Love, Honour, and
Obey," &c.

26 *STORIES OF "THE WORLD." (Reprinted

by Permission.)

27 TWO BLACK PEARLS. By Marie Condor,

Author of "A Morganatic Marriage," "Beauty's
Queen," &c.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

Xonbon Society:

ESTABLISHED 1862.

A monthly Paine, Pierce Is.,

of Light and Amusing Literature by the Most Popular
Authors of the Day,

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION:
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE.

TWELVE MONTHS, SENT POST Free . . . . 123.

DO., INCLUDING THE SUMMER NUMBER

AND CHRISTMAS ANNUAL - - 14s.

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

Readers who like to be amused should take in
London Society ' . . . ' London Society ' is a good
shilling's worth." — Lady's Pictorial,

This attractive magazine is remarkable for variety
of subject and excellence of its light literature." — Public
Opinion.

Full of the light and amusing literature it professes to
supply." — Literary World.

"It is bright, interesting, and a perfect mine of light
and amusing literature. It is ably conducted, and should
enjoy an ever-increasing circulation." — Graham Times.

Ml Communications to he addressed to the Editor
of " London Society's

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

LJ r

.) [

wo

^^tf^gmftui!-

Jr'i*-:

i?

VOL. II.

a

A NOVEL

BY
G. BERESFORD FITZGERALD, FS.A.,

AUTHOR OF 'LILIAN,' ETC.

La meilleure Philosophie relativement au monde est deadlier a son regard
le sarcasms de la gaiety avec Indulgence du mepris.' *

Comfort.

IN TWO VOLUMES,
VOL. II.

LONDON

F. V. WHITE & CO.

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.



COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

CONTENTS.

Now ready, in One Vol., the Seventh Edition of
ARMY SOCIETY ; or Life in a Garrison Town. By John Branch

Winter. Author of 'Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also, picture boards, 2s.
Also now ready, in cloth gilt, is. 6d. each.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By John Strange

Winter. Also, picture boards, 2s.
A SIEGE BABY. By the same Author. Also, picture boards, 2s.
BEAUTIFUL JIM. By the same Author.
IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs Edward

Kennakd. Also, picture boards, 2s.
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By the same Author. Also, picture boards, 2s.
A REAL GOOD THING. By the same Author. Also, picture boards, 2s.
A CRACK COUNTY. By the same Author.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing O't.' Also,

picture boards, 2s.
MONA'S CHOICE. By the same Author.
A LIFE INTEREST. By the same Author.
IN A GRASS Counties. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Also, picture

boards, 2s.
THIS WICKED WORLD. By the same Author.
A DEVOUT LOVER. By the same Author.
THE COST OF A LIE. By the same Author.
THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart. Also, picture boards. 2s.
THE MASTER OF RATHKELLY. By the same Author.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By Edward Kennard. Also, picture boards, 2s.
TWILIGHT TALES. By the same Author. Illustrated.
SHE CAME BETWEEN. By Mrs Alexander Eraser.
THE CRUSADE OF 'THE EXCELSIOR.' By Bret Harte. Also, picture

boards, 2s.
CURB AND SNAFFLE. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart.
DREAM FACES. By the Hon. Mrs Fetherstonhaugh.
THE Hobble. MRS Verger. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn,' etc.

r. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand,

London, W.C.

CHAPTER I.

THE ROSEMERES.
Le pire de toutes les mes alliances est celle du coeur.'

General Rosemere had, as Lord Francis
once wrote, married a wife twenty-five
years younger than himself. The lady
in question was the daughter of an Exeter
clergyman of humble and bourgeois origin,
but who now was happily deceased, as
during his lifetime poor General Rose-mere's
existence had been one of constant
misery. There was another daughter, an

VOL. II. A

exceedingly ill-bred woman, who, when
they were first married, caused much
mischief between the Rosemeres. But
General Rosemere had, after some years
of controversy, got rid of her, by pensioning
her off; and she now, he believed
kept a lodging-house at Brighton. It
may be asked how did General Rose-mere,
the constant guest in Grosvenor
Street, and who knew London society so
thoroughly from his subaltern days, ever
come to fall in love with, and to wish to
marry, a person of this condition, and so
entirely out of his own way and status of
life ? It was not her beauty that could
have affected him so seriously, for she was
always merely a Bet Bouncer sort of young
woman, with a vulgar and loud manner ;
nor could it have been her intellectual
charms, for she possessed none ; and, attempting

music, could not even sing in
tune. There was certainly a heartiness
of manner and rural freshness, which
might have attracted a country curate, but
scarcely a veteran like General Rosemere.
Of her real character, as it afterwards
developed, of her meanness of nature, of
her heartlessness, her utter want of tact,
her irritable temper, her contempt for all
that was graceful, good, and refined, she
could have known nothing, when he first
met her at a table d'hote abroad. The
Exeter clergyman took his two daughters
abroad to endeavour to settle them in
marriage, as he had no fortune to leave
them ; and, in some moment of madness,
General Rosemere, at Vienna, asked
this woman to be his wife. He had not
made his proposal two days, and been
gleefully accepted, before he realised his

mistake, and endeavoured to escape ; but
they held him too fast, and he was dragged
to the Consulate before he had time to
even announce his engagement to many of
his friends. Lord Francis Sherlock, however,
heard of it, and hence his caustic
remarks in the letter quoted by me.

Poor General Rosemere ! He had to
learn, by degrees, a bitter truth. You may
marry your sister's lady's-maid, and possibly
educate her, if she is an intelligent
and amiable girl, to be ladylike in her
demeanour and her views of life, but I
defy you to make a lady of a vulgar-minded
woman. She may acquire the
veneer of society, but vulgar she will remain
till the end of her days ; and her
ideas and her views will jar upon a sensitive
gentleman's nature, in spite of every
effort to change what, in effect, is unchangeable.

He gave it up in despair at
last, and was dragged by his tactless and
untidy wife out of the position to which
he had socially belonged, and to which he
hoped to raise her. A 'grande dame'
once completely and shortly described her
thus : —

Poor old Rosemere's wife is a second-rate
dairymaid. I am certain, if I took
her into my service, she would always
keep the cream in the bowl which was
intended for the milk.'

I am afraid, if the great lady in question
had ever seen the lodging-housekeeper
sister, she would have relegated her to the
scullery ! All this I only gradually learned,
and so discovered the miserable life to
which the General was condemned : but
the first night I made her acquaintance,
and dined in Clarges Street, where they

were then living, I saw at once how
second-rate she was ; and the badness of
the dinner, the slovenly appearance of
everything, and the demeanour of the
servants, assured me that General Rose-mere's
home was a dismal failure. Of
course — as she generally did with strangers,
who, however, soon found her out — she
began with me her silly game of ' brag,'
and, while she sat mouthing away about
the great people — who, as I knew afterwards,
always ignored her — she little imagined
how I pitied her husband, who, as
the world said, with many faults, was
always a gentleman. She had, in addition,
an asserting manner of laying down
the law, which was specially aggravating
in one who had not the least right, socially
or intellectually, to do so, and which, even
then, provoked her husband beyond endurance.

The time had not arrived yet
when Billingsgate language was used between
them, — when they flew at each other
like tigers, and books became the favourite
missiles of Mrs Rosemere : but even that
very night there was a scene, which I have
never forgotten. He had been telling a
story of a certain peeress, and telling it
(as I, as a young man, thought) rather
tediously, and at unnecessary length. Nor
was there much point to the story, so far
as I can remember, except that he had
been calling on the lady that afternoon.
But, of course, I listened with assumed
interest. Not so the penniless daughter
of the Exeter parson, who showed
many signs of impatience, as she sat
at the head of the table, very much
overdressed, and with very bare shoulders
and bosom. When he had finished,

she said, in her masculine, insolent
manner, —

Well, I think the Duchess an old bore

Brought up in the old school, of which
my grandmother was a veteran, he stared
at her in blank surprise, and then lost his
temper.

Her Grace, I fear, is totally impervious
to any opinion your extremely slight acquaintance
with her may have led you
to form.'

You can't expect me to care for old
women three times my age,' was the angry
reply.

The servants had, luckily, left the room,
and she rose to do so likewise, and before
I could reach the door, had opened and
banged it. She always walked like a
grenadier, and her big splay feet resounded
on the staircase outside, — that

Mayfair staircase, accustomed to be trodden
by dainty feet and Parisian shoes,
and not by a step adapted to the village
school and the Rectory kitchen.

Again I say, poor General Rosemere !

The position was a difficult one for both
of us, especially considering the difference
of our ages.

You complain,' he said good-humoured,
' of your restriction as to matrimony ;
but I don't think you could visit any house
in London which should induce you to
consider more seriously the hazard of
marriage, or to rejoice more at the matrimonial
clause in Sherlock's will. But
pass the claret, and leave the subject
alone. As an old shepherd in the north
once said to me, " Women are very kittle
cattle'"

When we had discussed the political

crisis — on which, however, it did not
seem to me that the General threw much
fresh Hight — we adjourned upstairs, where
my host became immersed In an evening
newspaper, and Mrs Rosemere, with a
sort of elephantine playfulness, attempted
a slight flirtation with me. The Idea
of Mrs Rosemere flirting was, of course,
too preposterous, but she rolled about her
big eyes, and sat down to the piano to
sing a then fashionable and highly sentimental
ditty. As said before, she could
not even sing in tune, but, having failed
in her efforts to get Into society, she had
surrounded herself with a number of second-rate
Italian artists, who had persuaded her
that her voice was angelic, and pretended
rapture, when, in reality, they could with
difficulty repress their laughter. As she
sat at her piano, her coarse bare arms and

elbows in full display, and betraying, no less
than the rough red skin of her shoulders
and neck, her purely yeoman origin, I
secretly registered a vow that, while keeping
up my old acquaintance with her
husband, nothing should induce me to see
much of his terrible wife.

And don't you sing, Mr Strong ? you
have such poetical eyes. I am sure you
sing.'

No ; I regret I have no knowledge of
music at all.'

But you must come here, and hear my
music on Sundays. All the great Italian
artists sing here. My husband dislikes
music, I am sorry to say.'

I shall remember to drop in some
Sunday evening,' I replied drily.

It was impossible to get her away from
the piano, so there I sat on, bored to

death with her discord, and irritated by
her want of tact, and self-complacency.
As, at last, I made my escape, I thought
to myself, — if two hours of that woman
drive me to desperation, how must it be
to be married to her, to have her always
at hand, and, when from the discordant
voice there is a brief respite, to have one's
nerves lacerated by that dragoon-like
tread ?

I do not think I should have troubled
my readers with even this brief insight
into the Rosemere manage, were it not
that, later on, this woman had an influence
over my happiness, of which, if I had been
told then, I should have contemptuously
laughed. For it was impossible to know,
or to see her, without a disdainful repugnance,
and an honest pity for a man who,
with no great intellectual capacity, or much

to interest others in his career or happiness,
had stranded on a rock, and there,
as in the famous description of St Paul's
shipwreck (the terror of young divinity
students in my Oxford days) ' stuck
fast'

AT E L C O T E.

And the sun looked over the mountain's rim,
And straight was a path of gold for him
And the need of a world of men for me.'

The summer, which had been un-english
in its length and beauty, was drawing to
an end, when I found myself,, early in
September, domiciled in my wonderful
little old house at Elcote, and expecting
the arrival of a few friends to help me in
shooting my coverts, and in whiling away
the autumn. It was a remarkable fact
that it was not until I had taken up my
abode as the lord of the manor, that I
recalled the legend of the house, that no
one ever married happily who owned

Elcote. This led me to spend many days
in exploring the boxes of papers which
had been sent from Sherlock, to find out,
if I could, the origin of the myth. But I
found nothing to throw any light on the
story, which was purely, no doubt, an
idle oral tradition, and one not likely to
influence so superstitious a man as
Lord Francis in devising his property.
Still there remained the curious fact that
he had left it to me with the proviso that
I should relinquish it if I married. In
this investigation into the old Elcote
papers, and in examining all the old
rooms and pictures in the house, I found
ample amusement and occupation during
the time which had to elapse before my
guests arrived. I had made scarcely any
change in the furniture of the rooms,
except in the way of sofas, cushions, rugs,

and carpets. I had also brought down a
few of my own family pictures from
London, and some books. There was a
small English library at Elcote, but it consisted
almost entirely of the authors of
the last century. There were all Fielding's
works, and Richardson's, and Smollett's,
and Sterne's. I unearthed, also,
a first edition of Junius, with the title
page, and a complete set of both Voltaire's
and Rousseau's works. When I found
what the class of books at Elcote were, I
had all my grandmother's French novels
and wicked books sent down too. I have
always had a feeling that books, like
people, should not be jostled together
too promiscuously. Another delightful
feature about Elcote, to me, was its nearness
to Carnaby — only eight miles off.
Mrs Penrose one day came over to

luncheon with great news. William was
the accepted candidate for the county
town, in the Liberal-Conservative interest,
at the General Election, and everyone
felt hopeful about his success. She was
delighted with my arrangements, especially
in the bedrooms, where it had been
absolutely necessary, if ladies were to
visit me, to relax the severity of a bygone
age. To do this, and yet to retain
the proper tone of the room, and its
furniture, was not an easy task. But
Mrs Penrose thought I had succeeded,
and expressed herself delighted with the
two rooms I designed for her on her
approaching visit.

One of the disadvantages of the place
was, no doubt, its remoteness from any
town or any village, which necessitated
rather a primitive cuisine; and one had

VOL. II. B

to live rather longer than I, for one,
altogether appreciated, on one's own
sheep and pigs. Mr Eardley had promised
to be my guest for two nights. He
was to speak at an election meeting at
the County Hall, on behalf of William's
candidature, and they both were to come
on to me.

The De Chamiers, father and daughter,
were also to be of the party ; and Mrs
Penrose, General Rosemere, without his
wife, and a neighbouring Squire's son and
daughter, completed it, and would fill
every bedroom in the house.

It was a very bright September afternoon,
with the slight chilliness which prescribed
fires in the evening, when I
heard my dogcart coming up the straight
lime avenue, and found William, and his
political patron, the first arrivals.

Welcome to Elcote ! ' I said, as they
descended at the outer iron gate.

What a lovely old house ! ' exclaimed
Eardley ; * and Heaven forgive me for
never having been to see it before ! but,
no doubt, you have improved it internally
already, and forgotten my sneers at
ancient manor houses.'

You shall see, and say exactly what
you like, even if you sneer still : but tell
me, William, how did you get on at your
meetings ? I am dying to hear. Your
mother will be here presently, and you
will have to tell it all over again to
her.'

I believe the meetings went very well :
don't you think so, Eardley ? '

Magnificently ! You spoke really well
last night. You were nervous in the
afternoon. The roughs were rather terrible,

and the socialistic shoemakers did
their best to get up '*a row." But I
assure you, Clare, William spoke out last
night exactly as his audience liked ; and
when they shouted, " How about the Game
Laws ? " William answered them, 'ris that
Heath, who was up before the Bench the
other day ? Tell him to look out. He's
a better shot than I am, and he can't
make game of me." Then they all cheered
him. Oh ! he's safe to get in. His
mother's popularity as a landlord helps
him greatly. Besides, the country is sick
of a Government which never knows its
own mind.'

I shouldn't do much without you,
Eardley, though you never mention your
own speeches.'

No,' said Mr Eardley, with a touch
of his old dry manner, * because they will

all be reported on Saturday in the county
newspaper.'

Soon after, my other guests arrived,
notably my cousins, the De Chamiers,
Ida looking particularly pretty, and in the
highest spirits. As my only female relation
present, I naturally begged her todo
the honours of my house, a post
which, with a slight blush, she accepted.

That night at dinner I felt more happy,
I think, than I had ever done in my life
before. If, as the old quotation in the
Bible states, ' It is more blessed to give
than to receive ' (which I sincerely believe),
it also is certainly more delightful to entertain
than to be entertained. Moreover,
this was my first experience of this luxury
in my own house, and around me were
my greatest friends, while opposite meas
hostess, at the other end of the dinner-table,

sat the girl whom I had always so
much admired.

I cannot hope,' I said to Mrs Penrose,
my neighbour, * that my manage will go
quite smoothly at first, and, besides, my
housekeeper finds the catering here a
difficult matter. But you will all, I know,
excuse shortcomings.'

If this grouse is a shortcoming, my
dear Clare, I congratulate you on your
difficulties : but It is too delightful to dine
In this room. I suppose there has been
no dinner-party here for half a century.
You have heard how well William acquitted
himself. I wish you could be
persuaded to go into Parliament. When
I have one son there, I shall grow
greedy, and long for both to serve their
country.'

Her handsome, loving eyes encouraged

me always to be ambitious ; but, alas ! in
vain. It was not in my nature.

The next day we men went out shooting,
after an early breakfast ; and before
setting out I implored Mrs Penrose to
see that the ladies all followed their own
bent, and told the fair Ida that there were
several fishing-rods at her service in my
room, and also my fly-book, as I knew
she had some love for old Isaac Walton's
art, and there was a small but famous
trout stream beyond the orchard near
the house. We had a very fair day, considering
that the season was a very late
one, and that much corn was still standing.
Both William and Eardley were
first-rate shots. My cousin, De Chamier,
rather amused us all by his somewhat
excited demeanour, inherited, I suppose,
like his name, from another race.

In the evening three or four people
came to dinner, and after dinner we had
whist in one room, and music and conversation
in another, and we all went to
bed early, in view of the excitement of
the election at N — the next day, which
was to decide William's fate. Even now
elections are occasionally very turbulent
affairs, and Dickens' famous description
of the Eatonswell election was hardly
overdrawn at the time of which he
wrote. I had ordered three open landaus
and postillions to be at my gates
at ten o'clock, which were to conduct us
to the Tory headquarters at N — , ' The
Green Dragon ' ; and great was the excitement
in my small household as we
all dashed down the avenue, the postillions
with large blue bunches of ribbons, and
the horses with blue rosettes, and most

of the ladles also donning, in some shape
or other, the same colour. To this day
I recollect Mrs Penrose's handsome face,
animated with excitement, and the bunch
of blue cornflowers which her maid had
pinned into her dress. N — has been always
rather a Radical town, owing to the
trade pursued there : for undoubtedly, for
some occult reason, St Crispin has always
been favourable to democratic views.
We found the town in a ferment, and,
I confess, for the ladies' sake, I felt relieved
as we rattled through the High
Street and reached the asylum of ' The
Green Dragon,' where they were soon
safely placed in a front room commanding
an excellent view of the High Street
and its humours, and where they could
remain in comfort, and have their luncheon
later on.

To my cousin Ida the scene was
absolutely new, and she remained In the
balcony, profoundly Interested and amused.
Once William, and his agent, and Mr
Eardley, came down the street In one of
my carriages, and, raising their hats, as
they passed the inn, we gave them deafening
cheers.

^ How handsome he looks,' Mrs Penrose
whispered to me ; * dear William !
even if he fails, this is so good for him
hereafter.'

He won't fail,' 1 replied; ' they all say
in the hotel he is sure to get in.'

When we had finished our homely
luncheon. William came in with Wardle',
glowing with excitement.

This is the critical time. The shoemakers
have a half-holiday, and they are
pouring into the booths. Up to now, they

say I am two hundred odd ahead ; but
we shall see what results the next hour
brings.'

But look at Mr Penrose's hat ! ' said
Ida nervously.

A brickbat had indeed smashed it up.

Oh, only one of the missiles of the
crowd down by the river, the lowest part
of the town, geographically as well as
morally.' ♦

He laughed it off, but I saw from Mr
Eardley's grave face they had encountered
a very rough reception. Luckily, his
mother was so absorbed in questioning
Mr Eardley as to the calculation of the
votes, that she did not notice the telltale
hat.

'Will the result be known to-night, Mr
Eardley ? ' she asked.

Not, I think, to you all. To tell you the

truth, we ought to get off early ; at least, I
mean Clare, and you ladies, and the rest
of the party. Of course, William and I
must sleep here, as he will have to address
the crowd when all is over ; but that will
not be until ten o'clock to-night. We will
come over to Elcote the first thing tomorrow
morning, and bring you the
news.'

But couldn't we wait,' said Ida, 'and
drive home afterwards ? We should be
back sooner than if we were attending a
ball, after all.'

She was greatly excited, and looked
extremely handsome.

My dear Miss de Chamier,' he replied,
sotto voce, * I don't want to frighten Mrs
Penrose, but they expect rather a turbulent
evening here. William and I will be
quite safe in the hotel, but it is wiser for

the rest to drive home, and I have ordered
two closed carriages, without postilions or
ribbons, to be here at five o'clock.'

It was a great disappointment to everybody,
and to me especially ; but I had to
consider my guests, and quite acquiesced in
the wisdom of the arrangement. We had
the latest bulletin at 4.30, ' Penrose three
hundred and fifty ahead,' and, soon after,
avoiding the High Street, and driving
through bye-streets, we were on our way
home through the country roads ; but as we
went, we distinctly heard the angry murmur
of the excited crowd, and felt ourselves
poor creatures in effecting this escape.

*At animate,' said De Chamier, 'we
shall see them at breakfast tomorrow
morning. They have promised to be herewith
their news at ten o'clock.'

Of course, we talked at dinner, and after

dinner, of nothing else but the election. I
know of only two subjects which are all
engrossing in England, in the two circles
which affect them. They are, politics and
hunting. If you have ever tried to turn
the subject of conversation, when staying,
In the winter. In a Leicestershire house,
where there are hunting men, you must
have gauged the extent of your own Individual
unimportance; and, when a neighbouring
election Is In progress, I deprecate
any attempt at wit or fame In conversation
upon general matters. General Rosemere
was the latest sitter with me In the smoking-room
that night, his spirits having greatly
risen the last two days, in the absence of
his wife. xA.t last, he too, yawning, took
up his candle, and I was left alone to my
reflections. The question arises, whether
an autobiography Is bound to lay bare

everything, — to unbosom his very self to
his possible reader. Probably no one
ever really does do so ; but I have done
my best to be frank. Left alone, then, I
confess, I pondered over the half determination
I had formed to ask my cousin
Ida to be my wife. She really was my
first love ; and my attraction in the States
to Miss McCarthy was probably only a
passing fancy ; nor had I ever heard anymore
of the McCarthys since that night
at Baltimore. My party was to break up
the next afternoon, and I felt I must decide
my fate. If favourable, I should
leave Elcote at once, and for ever. I
had some hope. We were great friends ;
and there seemed a little advantage in
saying what I had to say in what was
now my own house, though it might
soon cease to be my own. I had always

loved and admired her, and I knew she
would make me a happy man, though we
should be comparatively poor, if she would
only consent to be my wife !

I sat late into the night considering
everything, and determined that this was
the opportunity I would seize for resolving
my future, and avowing my love to
Ida de Chamier. And I may honestly
say that the possible loss of my newly-acquired
fortune and estate did not weigh
much with me one way or another, —
a fact which may astonish the fortune-hunters
of a superficial age.

I RISK MY FORTUNE.

Oh, how this Spring of love resemble
Th' uncertain glory of an April day,
Which now shows all the beauty of the sun,
And, by-and-by, a cloud takes all away.'

It was a most lovely autumn morning, and
I was up betimes, because, first, it was impossible
to lie in bed in such gorgeous sunlight,
and, next, because I knew that the
news-bearers would certainly to arrive at an
early hour. Wandering among the orchards,
which take the place of flower-beds
at Elcote, and where the clusters of fruit
were fast ripening, my ears soon caught
the sound of the tramp of a pair of horses.
There had been a slight frost, and the

VOL. II. c

ground was so hard that the echo of
their hoofs reached me long before I
saw, shielding my eyes from the sun,
the old-fashioned carriage from the inn
coming up the lime avenue. I could
see also that Mrs Penrose was at the
iron gate of the courtyard, and, by her
side, the lovely Ida, looking as fresh
and as fair as such a girl must look
on such a heavenly morning. I hurried
up, but it was needless to ask for news
as I reached the group. It had been a
near contest, but William was returned.
He was elected member for N — by a
majority of over one hundred, and
his mother, proud and satisfied, folded
her last remaining son in her fond arms.
Ida seemed radiant too, and overflowing
with the delight of a sympathetic
nature.

Mr Eardley, with his iron constitution,
had no appearance of fatigue, after the
undoubtedly severe struggle of the last
week. But I noticed with regret that
William looked haggard and very tired.
A few days' complete rest at Carnaby
would, no doubt, however, set him up

adam.

We all crowded excitedly into the
breakfast-room. ^

A great ** slap in the face " for the
Government, for they have always considered
N — a safe seat, until latterly.
But they are losing seats in every part
of the country ; ' and Mr Eardley pulled
out of his pocket a newspaper, in corroboration
of what he said.

Wait till the county elections come
on,' said General Rosemere, whose politics
were of uncertain hue, and whose legislative

schemes would certainly have Included
the disestablishment of west country
rectors and their scheming daughters.
You can't judge yet of what the result
will be of the General Election.
These are stray boroughs.'

'At all events said De Chamier,
they show the direction of public
opinion, and, as all politicians know,
these first successes have an enormous
influence on the ignorant voters later on.'

Here is William's speech, Mrs Penrose,'
said Mr Eardley, rather ignoring
the commonplace. ' Well reported, too.
It was extremely fluent, and it reads
well in print, which many eloquent
speeches do not. I must go to London
to-day ; but I advise you to take
him over to Carnaby. He is a little
fagged by all this excitement.'

There are some scenes which remain
impressed on the memory for the
remainder of one's life, which presumably
will come before one, in all their
intense reality, years hence, when the
hour will have arrived to bid even
one's memories farewell. To me, this
breakfast scene is one of those recollections.
How bright, how joyous it
was ! I can see still the young man's
handsome face, its beauty rather heightened
by his slight air of lassitude and
fatigue ; and his mother, who had gone
through so much sorrow in her honor
and outwardly prosperous life, at last
happy and content in her son's success.

I can see, too, the bright, vivacious
girl, in all the glory of her youth, and
physical and intellectual vigour, with no
thought of evil, or misfortune, or anything

indeed, but sympathy at that
moment in the family triumph.

I can still very clearly recall the grave,
severe features, so strongly marked by
intellectual toil and earnest thought, with
the piercing gaze of those deep-set eyes
the features and the eyes of the
great statesman who was to be, and
who was destined, in the world's race,
to leave us all so far behind.

And such a morning, — such happy news,
such a sun streaming into my ancient
house ! — all these things were blessed
auguries to me, and emboldened my heart
to unfold itself. Unconsciously, almost, as
if led by Fate, when the party separated,
Ida and I strolled out into the sunshine,
on the grass behind the manor house,
into the moss-grown narrow paths, under
the apple trees, out of sight. Now that

the moment had really at last arrived, a
great calm came over me, and I spoke
with no quiver of passion in my voice.

My dear Ida, amid all this rejoicing,
I have brought you out here to ask you
to *' bless me also." I love you very
dearly. Will you be my wife, and trust
your life to me ? '

She started violently, and a deep blush
suffused her cheeks. It was evident my
words were totally unexpected.

What do you mean ? ' she faltered ;
why, Clare, you must be mad, to talk
like that.'

I suppose you mean because I lose
my fortune if I marry. But I have
enough without it, for content, and the
thought that I have made a little sacrifice
to win you, will make my love all the
more sacred to me.'

It Is Impossible, Clare. I could not
do It. It would haunt me through life.
You have everything you want ; and I
am fond of you, as your cousin, and shall
always be your friend ; but not your wife.
I could not ruin you, Clare. No, it is
impossible. Ask me anything but that.
I want always to admire you, and to see
you successful, like your friend. But to
injure you, and to make all the world
laugh at you for your infatuation, — I
could not, Clare, bear that. No, do not
ask me ! Do not break my heart ! '

She was sobbing ; but I still hoped.

Listen to me, Ida. I shall be glad
to give It all up. I never wanted, or
expected It, and I have enough for us
both. Don't let our lives be ruined by
worldly scruples. But, perhaps, you could
not love me in any case ? '

She looked up, with streaming eyes, reproachfully.


No, Clare. Had things been different,
I might, perhaps, but not as they are.
I am not worldly, but I could not injure
you by marrying you. Let us be friends
dear friends always, till the end of our
lives. Let us forget all this. We were
so happy until now.'

Is there no hope ? * •

None, dear, for us, in this way. If
ever,' she said solemnly, ' you need any
sort of help in the years which are before
us, come to me, dear, as the cousin who
loves you best of all your cousins. If
you are ill, I will nurse you ; if you
are heartsore, I will console you ; and,
could such a thing be possible as your
being poor and forsaken, I might do my
best to — ' She broke off. 'It is all a

dream, Clare. Let us go in, and forget
this. My mind is very clear about my
duty to YOU ; ' and she held out her hand,
which I carried to my lips.

There was no blessing for me. What
I had once foreseen as one of the results
of the Sherlock will had surely come to
pass. The girl who might have loved
me, and made me a blessed man for ever,
could not brave the danger of stripping
me of my wealth. Oh, idle hopes and
fictions ! What had I to do with these
things ? — with the wealth of love and passion
showered on those the world thought
far less fortunate than myself? — on the innocent
domestic life, and the smiling wife
and prattling children, and happy home ?

You are rich,' said the Sherlock
ghost, ' what more do you want ? You
have an ideal home, peopled with memories

and spirits of a manorial history.
And, if you want love, are you so
young and so inexperienced as not to know
that love has very little to do with the
laws of man, and everything with the
laws of Nature ? Be happy, and enjoy
yourself! Your male friends will show
you how to do so, and only demand an
imperceptible remuneration. Your female
acquaintances, made under such highly
advantageous circumstances, will combine,
with an intelligence and an unselfishness
equally surprising, to explain to you how
an ample income can be spent by a
bachelor, no longer the victim of delusions,
in a manner amusing to yourself,
and, of course, from a mercenary point
of view, with some ulterior benefit to
them.'

A very eloquent, but immoral ghost.

We both acted parts, on that sorrowful
day, until my guests departed. It
is easier for women to do so than for
men, as I have found out since that
time ; but I think no one guessed our
secret. The result of the election occupied
everyone's thoughts, and the interview
between Ida and myself was
never even suspected. Mrs Penrose
pressed me to go over with her and
William to Carnaby, and I promised
to do so in a day or two ; but remarked
I had business to attend to when the
party broke up, which it did after
luncheon. Under all the circumstances,
I felt it impossible for me to remain
at Elcote.

There are those to whom solitude and
complete repose and isolation seem most
fitting in bewildering disappointment, and

others, of whom I am one, to whom
change and rapid action and excitement
afford the only chance of distraction.
At that time, I had no real ground of
consolation to fall back upon. The
pools of Bethesda were numerous enough ;
but my lameness of mind was ever
present ; and there was no one vigorous,
or generous enough, to carry me — poor
mental cripple — to any of them. Still,
I remembered my dear friend's early injunction,
'Whatever happens, trust eternally
and humbly in God,' and before I started
for London, with the project of a long
European travel (as I felt I could not
bear just now to take a formal farewell),
I wrote the following note to Carnaby : —

My Dearest Friend, — I am leaving
England for a time, and have felt too

wretched and depressed to come over
to Carnaby, and say farewell, or tq
darken at all your present joy in
dear William's career and success.
When I come back, if I ever do, it
will be, I hope, and I believe, to hear
of his further advance in the path of
triumph. Give him my love, and ask
him to write to me in Paris — Hotel
Mirabeau. My dear cousin Ida has
refused my offer of marriage, actuated, I
believe, partly by the results, pecuniarily,
my marriage would entail upon myself.
She is always noble in her ideas ; and
thus this wicked Will begins to wreck
my life. But I shall often write to you,
and still more often think of you, and
of dear Carnaby ; and you will tell me
when you see Ida. — Ever yours,

Clare Strong.'

THE ETERNAL CITY.

Ce que j'ai appris je ne le sais plus
Le peu que je sais encore je I'ai divine. '

I HAD wandered far, and thought much,
during two long years, and I could not,
if I would, describe all I had seen and
done ; though the experience of those
years had, I fear, not bettered my
nature, nor improved my view of life as
it is now, or of the life that is to come.
But, at last, I had found a delightful
haven in Rome, where I had been
spending the winter, in an hotel near

the Piazza di Spagna, and where I had
as a companion Canon Caryl, whose
kindness in introducing me to his many
Roman friends had been a great help
to me socially. His health had very
much broken down, and, with the
assistance of doctors' advice, he had
naturally gravitated towards Rome, where
all his interests lay. It was the most
lovely period of the year, when the
shops of Rome are filled with the
most beautiful flowers, and the Campagna
assumes its most attractive garb :
the Carnival was approaching, and the
city was already crowded with visitors,
from all parts of the world. I had
lived much through the winter amongst
the papal or * black ' society in Rome,
and had made many friends, more of
my own age and standing, than Canon

Caryl was ; but he was very assiduous
in befriending me with both his own
Society and his delightful conversation, —
now gay, and now learned, but even
more often replete with that attractive
flange of the world and religion which
the Jesuits have so thoroughly mastered.
He found me often sceptical. One day,
I remember, I had been reading Sale's
translation of the Koran, and told him
how interested I had been in its perusal.
After all,' he said, *the Koran, tome,
considered as a sacred book, is on
a very low level. Many of the sacred
books of Orientalism rise far, far higher
those of Buddhism, for instance ; and
even Confucius was a far nobler teacher
than Mohammed. What a poor conception
of Paradise, to attract the sensual,
and encourage mere brutal valour ! '

VOL. II. D

And yet,' I said, ' what of our own
Heaven ? I do not mean to be profane.
But could not they retort on us ? The
description of the New Jerusalem in
the Book of Revelations is surely very
material. They might say it was framed
to allure the lovers of ornament to live
for the realisation of their trivial taste.
The ladies, described as " pearls within
their shell," in the Koran, are not a
whit more material than " the sea of
glass like unto crystal," or than the
rainbow 'like unto an emerald." The
answer is, it is all poetry, — man striving
in his imagination to depict his
dreams, but of which he cannot hope
to know in this world anything real.'

But the Church does not attempt
to describe Heaven. She tells us how
to get there, and Her teaching is as

clear, as practical, and as unequivocal,
as can be conceived. If you once
believe In the Church, — In the religion
which has vanquished everything, because
God's authority and favour is confided
to Her, all these doubts and quibbles
disappear ; and as for the future, fortified
by Her holy rites, you will not even
pause to reckon up mere words.'

But that Is just my position, sofar
as I hold one at all. I do not
reckon up mere words. I will not
believe that the world was originally
peopled by Incest, nor that humanity
Is so vile as some religionists would
declare. I endeavour to do my duty
in this life, though I am conscious I
often fail to do It ; but I trust In the
mercy of the Almighty, to pardon my
shortcomings, and to understand, though

University OF
^^-^'NO/S Library

man may not, my motives and my
efforts. For the future, I must wait.
I do not see that the Catholic Church
satisfies me on this point, any more
than the religious belief In which I
was brought up. And finding that no
Church and no individual can resolve
me on the question, I await results In
humble hope and faith. I am an
Agnostic, In short, — and if my prayers
are indeed directed now to an " unknown
God," they will, some day, I trust,
be less vague than they necessarily are
now. Agnosticism Is, after all, a confession
only of human ignorance, and
should find Its utterance in the sublime
saying, — '* Lord, I believe, help thou
my unbelief." And to what more can poor
fallible human creatures, existing under
absolutely mysterious circumstances, ina

world whirling through millions of
miles of space, at present aspire ? '

And could you die with resignation
and fortitude in such a negative creed as
this ? '

I must. I pray, like St Augustine, for
'' Euthanasia ; " and I do not wish for long
life. An easy death, and a sudden death
I think one should hope for both, though
Dr Johnson's saying that "" It does not
matter how a man dies, it takes so short
a time, the important fact is how he
lives," remains an extremely practical and
memorable statement.'

Canon Caryl turned the subject adroitly,
by suggesting a drive in the afternoon,
and disappeared. Our conversations on
serious topics brought us no nearer together
in religious opinion. He knew
that my mind was greatly unsettled, and

that I had undergone much In late years
calculated to shake the foundations of
my belief in Providence, and perhaps he
thought it an opportunity to win me
over to the true fold. His arguments
were always eloquent, and often subtle.
He was liberal, too, in his views, up to a
certain point. But I think my mind was
not open to his efforts, and that under no
possible circumstances could I have embraced
the Catholic faith. I will not say
that the Huguenot blood in my veins in
any way affected my views of religion,
as I had certainly not been brought up
in any narrow form of Christianity ; but
my brain had no Catholic bias whatever,
and, even in Rome, I have always felt a
slight repugnance to its religious side,
though, of course, I have never openly
expressed it.

That afternoon, after a delightful drive
in the Campagna, we turned into the
crowd of carriages on the Pinch, to catch
a gHmpse of the world of fashion. But
the sun was preparing to set in gorgeous
fashion over the distant plain ; the dome
of St Peter's seemed aglow ; and the
world was hurrying home before the
chill evening after sunset should set in.

As we also were about to follow the
crowd returning home, we passed close to
an open carriage in which sat two ladies,
very showily dressed, and, apparently,
mother and daughter. I could only see
their backs, but said to my companion,
Americans, evidently.' As we passed
them, the younger lady bowed pleasantly,
and I saw, unaltered, and, if possible, with
greater charm of beauty than ever. Miss
Dora McCarthy, of Baltimore, Maryland.

Who is your friend ? ' said the
Canon at once. * A very handsome
woman.'

'Yes, a Baltimore beauty. We met
her when William and I were in the
States. I suppose she and her mother
are travelling through Europe. I must
find out where she is staying, and pay
my respects to them. They were very
civil and hospitable to us in Baltimore ;
but, to tell you the truth, I had forgotten
all about them.'

She seemed to remember you very
well,' observed my priestly friend.

Yes ; it is wonderful how well Americans
recollect faces, and how they meet
you, after years, at 'Frisco, or at Mecca,
with the same good-humoured nod of the
head.'

Canon Caryl seemed somehow annoyed

at this rencontre, and, reminding me of
a reception that evening at one of the
Embassies, went upstairs at once on his
arrival at our hotel, to his own rooms. I
strolled out into the Corso, partly to
distract my thoughts, which had become
rather tumultuous, and partly also to obtain
a list of the strangers in Rome, and
so find out the McCarthys' address. But
I need not have taken the trouble in
this last matter ; for, on my return, I
found a note from Dora McCarthy.

Dear Mr Strong, — How curious,
seeing you just now ! We are here for
another month, and ma hopes you'll
come to see us tomorrow evening, after
dinner. We shall be alone.

Dora McCarthy.'

I CROSS THE RUBICON.

Une des meilleures raisons qu'on puisse avoir
de ne se marier jamais c'est qu'on n'est pas
tout k fait la dupe d'une femme tant qu'elle n'est
point la votre.'

It is best not to brood over much on the
destinies of individual human life. It is
wiser to be frail of mind, and cry ' Nescio.'
Many years ago, I was, by chance, an
inmate of a small house where many
bright-eyed, strong-limbed children rather
disturbed my natural love of calm and
tranquil repose. How their little feet flew
over the boards ! how their merry peals of
laughter became almost contagious ! how
gay those gambols on the lawn without,
when their voices seemed imbued with

life and strength, and their movements
with the grace and agility of the fairies of
the wood ! Alas ! alas ! When years shall
have passed, and when all that is so bright,
and good, and pure, is changed ; when the
little joyous feet are still for evermore, and
the cherubic image is drawn with pain, and
disease, and unrest, when I walk in my
dream, from that noisy nursery to the dim,
silent, majestic presence of death, the great
gaunt bed, and the burning candles, — Ah !
no, I would rather not foresee the future,
nor wish, as I might wish, if I knew all,
that I had never been born.

Dora McCarthy had always been lovely,
but, if possible, the maturity of her beauty
added the only conceivable want to her
magnificent figure ; and she was at this
time the most perfect woman, physically,
I have ever beheld. It was impossible

for me to find myself, as I certainly did,
favoured by her on every occasion, without
coming under the influence again of her
incomparable charms. She had not as yet
been in London, their intended travels in
Europe having been thus deferred for
over two years, but it was their intention,
after another month had passed, to proceed
by Florence and Milan (they had already
been in Naples) to Paris, and, after the
usual millinery equipment in that city, to
go to London, where, as her mother informed
me, she believed that Dora would
carry all hearts before her. I must say
Mrs McCarthy must have been very blind
not to see that Dora and I were fast falling
in love with each other. If she did have
any suspicions, she never acted on them,
for we constantly were left alone in our
various expeditions, and latterly rode out

almost every day together in the Campagna.
We had both, before we met,
seen all the galleries and sights of Rome,
and I had found it impossible to interest
Dora in the antiquities. This seemed tome
natural enough then. How should
such a blooming, lovely girl care for a dry
lecture from me in the Forum, as to the
site of the various temples ? Rome is a
city both of the dead and the living ; but
clearly Dora's side was with the living.
On one of our long rides, I took the occasion
to tell her the story of my inheritance
and of the restriction by which I held it.

What an old curmudgeon ! I suppose,
now, he was a real lady-hater. So you'll
be an old bachelor, Mr Strong, after all!'

It is impossible, on this dull paper, to
convey the idea of the music of her voice,
as she laughed, and endeavoured to confine

the golden tresses which the wind
disturbed.

• No, Dora,' I said, reining in my horse,
I should like to marry you, if you could
make up your mind to care for me well
enough to marry a poor man.'

She held out her hand.

There's no nonsense about me. 1
would have married you in Baltimore, only
I thought you were too young to know
your own mind. And now I see how
generous you are, — you'd give up all this
money, and this old house of yours, to
marry me. Well, you shan't regret it, Clare.
I suppose you have something besides this,
which we can manage to exist upon ? '

*Yes, I had about twelve hundred a
year ; but it is far more than that now, as,
of course, I have saved a good bit of
money since I came into Elcote. I daresay

my income is about sixteen hundred
a year.'

Well, my dear boy,' she said joyously,
we shan't starve ; and I'm sure you're not
like those dudes on the other side, who
find out all about one's dollars beforehand ;
and so I guess you'll be surprised to
hear I have more than two hundred and
fifty thousand dollars of my own, and all
invested in European securities

No, dear Dora, I had no idea of
what your fortune might be. But, without
it, your love and beauty would be a
thousand times worth what I shall resign.'

She leant over from her saddle, and
this time gave me a lover's kiss.

That evening, I had a prolonged interview
with Mrs McCarthy, at which,
however, Dora, with her usual independence,
insisted upon being present.

I know ma will want to put off the
marriage until after we have been in
London ; but I don't forget the sacrifice
you are making for me, and so I mean
to do what YOU wish, and to be married
in Paris, and then we can all go to
London together.

Mrs McCarthy and Dora's trustees, it
soon appeared, had no power to retard
her marriage. The mother was, at first,
most anxious to do so, especially when she
heard all my story ; but Dora was over
twenty-one years of age. I could, and
would, place twenty thousand pounds, in
settlement, and this, with Dora's twenty
thousand pounds, afforded sufficient provision
for even the most anxious of
parents. Moreover, she was much mollified
by my wish that, for the present, after
our wedding, she should reside with us.

It was agreed we should remain on In
Rome for another three weeks, — that we
should then go to Paris, where the
necessary legal business could be transacted
— Dora's fortune being entirely-invested
in English and Continental
securities — and where her uncle, and
guardian hitherto, would be able to
meet us.

How simple it all seemed ! and, at
last, I was happy. Every day confirmed
me more in my delight in my
future wife's beauty, in her amiability
of temper, and her charming geniality,
which promised me the companionship
for which I had always sighed. That
she was not literary, that she had no
particular artistic taste, troubled me not.
It was enough that she was keenly intelligent,
cheerful, and sympathetic, and

VOL. II. E

that she was beautiful beyond comparison,
not only in my eyes, but in the
eyes of all who saw her. As she entered
a room, everyone seemed to do
her homage ; even in the street, men,
women, and children turned to gaze in
admiration.

There was no object to be gained
by keeping our engagement secret, soit
was duly announced. Canon Caryl
was the first person to congratulate me,
which I thought he did rather icily.
You are marrying a very lovely person,
and you will have my prayers for your
future happiness.'

William Penrose wrote to me from
the library of the House of Commons.
I perfectly well recollect the handsome
Miss McCarthy at Baltimore, and shall be
delighted to renew my acquaintance with

her. I am utterly overwhelmed with Committee
work here, and shall be very much
occupied next month ; but, in any case, I
promise to come to Paris for your wedding,
and to officiate as your best man. I hear
the Duke of Southamam executed a pas
seul when he heard Elcote was to
return to the family. You have made
a great sacrifice in giving it up, and
also your grandmother's fortune ; but, of
course, I hear that your france is well
dowered ; and I am sure women are
more grateful in their natures than men,
and that you will have your reward.
You know that our friendship can never
be weakened in any sort of way, and
my mother is writing to you herself, so
I won't forestall any of her news. I
have not been very well lately ; but,
you see, I have been working hard.

Eardley is delighted at your chivalry,
and says, ** In these days, it does one
good to hear of such independence."
But, as you recollect, one never knows
if he is quite in earnest. Did you read
my short speech on the Irish proposals?
They say it was the best speech I
have yet made, and, oddly enough, it
was the least prepared one I have
as yet delivered myself of. My kindest
regards to Miss McCarthy.'

William had made a considerable impression,
by this time, in the House, asa
hard-working, shrewd, young man, with
considerable powers of eloquence. Mr
Eardley was now one of the Under-secretaries
of State, as it had long been
foreseen would be the case, and, of course,
his influence was exercised on William's
behalf. All this I explained to Dora,

who, however, like most Americans of
the upper class, did not affect much interest
in politics or politicians.

Mrs Penrose's letter to me was the
most loving one I received on this
occasion, — so much so, that I do not
transcribe it. I daresay many marrying
men have experienced, on the receipt of
their friends' congratulations on the auspicious
occasion, a sort of internal chill,
leaving behind it unsatisfactory, though
vague results.

In Mrs Penrose's letter there was nothing
of this sort ; but I imagine she
thought the transfer of my affections a
little rapid. Hers was such a romantic
soul, that any change of attachment
seemed to jar on her nerves; but she
expressed the greatest desire to see us
at Carnaby, as soon as we came to

England, and greatly regretted that she
could not be present at the wedding.

Rosemere emerged in quite a new-character,
namely, that of a wit, upon
this occasion. He wrote on black-edged
paper, and congratulated me on the loss
of my fortune.

To congratulate you on becoming a
married man would be,' he said, ' superfluous
and insincere. May you never
look back, hereafter, and thus become,
as I have long since done, ''a pillar of
salt ! " '

Dora was especially delighted with this
note, which I showed to her.

I must know that man, Clare, and
his wife, and I will make a conquest of
them both.'

Heaven forbid, Dora ! ' I answered,
that you should see much of Mrs

Rosemere. She is an awful woman, and
in the worst possible set in London ! '

But, amongst the many letters I received
in Rome, I must record one more
only, which came from the Duke of
Southamam. I must first say that his son,
Lord Robert, wrote me a most feeling
and proper note — the letter of a gentleman
writing under difficult circumstances
for he evidently had no intention of
Quixotic action in the matter of my
family money ; but the Duke's letter was
as follows : —

My Dear Strong, — The news which
Robert and the rest of the world bring
me, has fairly electrified me. That young
dog Robert does not deserve such luck.
But every man makes or mars his own
life. I can only tell you, I am eighty-five

years of age, and have been married
three times to three very handsome
ladies in their time ; having also known
many beauties who should have been
married, but, unfortunately for their reputations,
were not ; but I never saw
the lady yet I would have put in the
scales with Elcote and eighty thousand
pounds. When you come to town, as,
of course, you will, pray confer a favour
on my daughter and myself by presenting
your wife to us, and we shall hope
to see you often at South am House. I
confess to curiosity, but also to gratitude
for your impetuous temperament ; though
I wonder you are not afraid of an earthquake
in the St George's burial-ground.
Yours sincerely, Southamam.'

This letter I did not show to Dora.

I AM MARRIED IN PARIS.

'And hence looks forth a face,
As if at length inheriting its dreams.'

Affairs In Paris had for the nonce settled
down, and the finest city in Europe
was being gradually recreated under the
auspices of one to whom her ungrateful
inhabitants owe so much. My proudest
moment at that period was one evening
when we had just finished our dinner,
and I was told that a messenger from
the bank wished to see me personally at
once. I knew immediately his errand.
He came to deliver into my hands the
diamonds which had belonged to my
grandmother, and which had been brought

over by hand from London. I returned
with the large black leather cases, and,
in a few minutes, produced ecstasies on
the part of Dora and her mother at
their contents. To pin the stars over
Dora's beautiful evening dress, and place
the coronet on her shapely head ; to
fix the magnificent earrings into her
ears, was the work of a few minutes.
There still remained a necklace, which,
my grandmother only wore on gala
nights, and the beautiful bracelet which
she always carried in the evening. These
were a portion of the famous jewels of
my ancestor, M. de Orville, and it
was strange to reflect that, as they had
originally been worn in France, they
were now glittering on the lovely person
of the American beauty, once more
in Paris.

Mrs McCarthy was In the seventh
heaven of delight. Jewellery was her
special weakness, and she had, like most
American ladies, a considerable amount
of her own.

My ! ' she said, * that coronet is the
finest thing I ever saw. But, though
the stones are all picked ones, I guess
you're bound to have them reset. You
can't think ' (turning to me) 'what a difference
the new setting would make. Bit
they're lovely, Dora,' and she fingered
them affectionately, as the best of women
are apt to do where diamonds are concerned.


As for my francie she rewarded me
for my gift of the family diamonds, by
a succession of brilliant smiles, and a
kiss, more eloquent from her lips than
any words. At last I had to remind

the ladies that the bank messenger was
waiting, and that we must not risk retaining
so much valuable property at our
hotel ; and so they were all shut up in
their white satin beds, and taken back
to the strong room in the bank. There
is so much pleasure in imagination, that
we both found ourselves happy in thinking
which of the jewels my bride should
wear on that happy day, now so fast
approaching.

The morning before the day fixed for
our wedding at the English Church,
William arrived from London, with a
beautiful present from his mother — a
bracelet of sapphires — and also a gift forme.
We all dined together that night
in our private room. I thought William
rather aged and worn, and told him he
was working too hard.

Perhaps,' he said, * I do ; but, you
see, I have really taken in earnest to
political life, and it absorbs my whole existence.
Here are you, entering on a life
of love, and pleasure, and idleness, with
a beautiful wife, and here am I slaving
away ! How we should have laughed
at Eton, in the old days, if we could
have foreseen this night ! '

Don't reproach me with my useless
life, William, and don't exult in your
own liberty ! You will fall in love yet,
and marry, as we all do.'

If I do, it will be to help my career.
My career Is my object, and all things,
except darling mother and Carnaby, will
be subservient to that. So you will see
I shall succeed.'

How handsome he was, how ambitious,
how full of purpose and action ! — in a

word, how different from what I had
become ! Dora was delighted with him.
The slight reserve and dignity of his
manner attracted rather than repelled her.
To use a colloquial phrase, with her
womanly intuition, she saw * there was
a great deal in him,' and at once became
interested. But he did not unbend, and
I, even then, reluctantly felt that he
might admire, as he could not help
doing, Dora's great beauty, but that, in
his inmost heart, he regretted my choice.

And where do you go, dear boy, tomorrow
? ' he asked.

To Tours first. It is rather early
for Touraine and the Loire ; but we
shall rejoin Mrs McCarthy in Paris, after
three weeks, and go on to London.'

You will have a delightful time. I
have been in Touraine when it was

too hot. Now you will not, of course,
see the vines ; but the weather promises
to be fine, and how you will enjoy the
old castles, with all their wonderful
memories! But I don't advise you to
encourage the idea of a double manage,
of the mother-in-law living with you.'

I rather agree with you,' I answered,
with a smile.

Dora and I were married the following
morning, among a very small party of
spectators, and we left in the afternoon
for the Hotel de I'Univers, at Tours,
in brilliant weather ; and I presume I
may add, as we were both young, well
endowed, and much in love with each
other, with good prospects of happiness.

It would be an appropriate place to deliver
a homily to the young and unmarried
who may peruse these pages — a homily

not delivered in the church. I will, however,
refrain from this temptation, and, in
sparing them the infliction, only observe
that I believe there are very nearly as many
happy marriages in the world as there
are disastrous ones, only one hears of
the latter, and the former escape notice.
And, lastly, that the man who elects to
marry out of his own groove, either in
rank of life, or nationality, or antecedents
of queer relatives, or indifferent education,
must do so at his own risk. The
man who marries the girl in his own
county, whom he has known all his life,
pursues a less exciting, but by far a safer
course.

I was supremely happy during my
honeymoon, but one thing was clear tome,
namely, that the tour I had planned
was not altogether well chosen. My wife

was greatly bored with Blois and Amboise,
with Chenongeau, and the Abbey
of Fontrevault. It was impossible to
evoke any interest in those wonderful
languid eyes in the buildings which
still remain in that part of France to
teach history. Dora's ideas of beauty
were crowded rooms, and lovely dresses,
and brilliant music, and flashing diamonds,
and handsome men and women. To her,
mediaeval castles and Norman churches
were damp and rather musty places,
which made her shiver. Her knowledge
of French history was, unfortunately,
singularly meagre ; and the names of
Diana of Poictiers and Catherine of
Medici conveyed no personal ideas to
her mind.

One lovely May day we drove from
Nantes to Clisson. The air was warm

VOL. II. F

and balmy, full of the scent of the spring
flowers, — the very day for the newly-wedded
to pass through lovely scenes.
I hoped, by degrees, to teach Dora that
it was not necessary, on the occasion of
a rustic excursion, such as this, to put
on such very gorgeous attire, but at
present she had not realised this, nor
the fact that ladies in England do not
put on diamonds, or carry fans, when
they drive out for a picnic. We had a
delightful ddjeuner in the little inn at
Clisson, facing the rustic bridge, and
afterwards sat in the balcony, soothed
by the murmur of the river and the delicious
scent of the violets and lilies.

Our Parisian instincts had, however,
demanded coffee, as well as cognac,
and I was enjoying my cigar, and my
surroundings, and the beautiful face of

my wife, when she turned to me with
great interest.

'What fun it will be, Clare, furnishing
our house, when we have found it !
I certainly do look forward to seeing
London. I have heard so much about
it all my life, and now I am not only
to see it, but to live there.'

*Yes, it will be nice to have a home,
dearest. You know I have a good deal
of furniture, and a great many pictures,
and prints, and curios. They are scattered
about, — some at Elcote, and some
in my London chambers. We shall have
to collect them in our new house.'

I like French furniture ; don't you,
Clare ? I should like our house to be as
French in taste as possible.'

I was about to point out that the term
French, as applied to furniture, was an

extremely vague one, and, in fact, conveyed
no idea to my mind, when I saw-that
the rays of the sun had been too
strong, after a heavy lunch, for my fair
bride. She had fallen back in her easy
chair, and her closed eyes and heavy
breathing betokened sound repose ; and
watching her thus, I bethought myself
of (to my mind) the loveliest of all the
ancient statues of Venus — the one in the
gallery at Florence. How proud should
I be when the day came for me to show
my friends in England my adorable wife !

When she woke up, and our horses
were being put to, Dora confided to me,
with the most musical of laughs, that
she did not care much, she thought, for
French provincial life.

But you have not seen anything of it,*
I remonstrated.

Oh ! I mean French country towns,
and hotels, and middle-class surroundings
generally. For Instance, to-day, I would
rather we had lunched In our own house,
on a meal skilfully prepared by our own
cook, and with a few friends to keep us
company.'

Do you feel tired of my society already,
Dora ? That is very sad news.'

Not at all, darling boy. You don't
understand me. We shall always, everyday
of our lives, be often alone, and
happy to be so ; but a little society
makes the tete-astute more delightful, gives
one new ideas, and subjects of conversation.
And you can't say our culinary
experience of late has been encouraging.'

Well, dear, it will soon be over ; we
shall be In London in a week.'

I said it a little pettishly, and, of course,

was coaxed back again to good humour.
It was my own fault. I knew Americans
cared very little for scenery, and less
for antiquity. To me, Clisson was like
Heaven that first day of spring. I could
have wandered for hours among those
lovely flowers, and along that meandering
stream. All my future, brightly as
I pictured it with her by my side, would
have taken its colouring from the poetry
of that still, sunny afternoon, which seemed
to invite dreams, and repose, and love.

But it is ridiculous to expect all natures
to be the same ; and probably it is best
for the contemplative and indolent mind
to be mated to the active, bustling, eager
nature. The more I thought about it,
the more selfish it seemed to keep Dora
away from the scene of her aspirations,
and that night I told her we would return

to Paris, en route for London, on
the morrow, if she Heed. Her beautiful
large eyes gleamed with pleasure at the
proposal, and the next day the servants
were ordered to pack up.

My honeymoon had, however, lasted
for a fortnight, and the aspiration for
London is a very common malady.
There are natures which may lose their
way, as the novelist once put it, to the
pleasant city of Prague,' as years go 'on,
but they never lose their way to London.
Was there not my grandmother, who
always talked of * Town,' as if no other
place was worthy of mention ?

The thought began to dawn on me
that, perhaps, I had done in effect what
the Prayer Book has declared illegal, and
what I had hitherto deemed impossible —
I might have married my grandmother !

EARLY MARRIED LIFE.

But a smooth and steadfast mind,
Gentle thoughts and cain desires,

Hearts with equal love combined,
Kindle never-dying fires ;

Where these are not, I despise

Lovely cheeks, or lips, or eyes.'

We arrived at our hotel in Dover Street
when the gaieties of London were at their
height ; and it was with some difficulty I
made Dora understand that time was required
to find a house, and then to purchase
it, and then to furnish it, and so on.
Her idea appeared to be that everything
necessary could be accomplished ina
couple of weeks, and that we should
inaugurate the happiness of our new

home by an immediate house - warming,
to which all that was best in London
society would gratefully flock !

In the meantime, I had found a house
which appeared likely to suit us, both
as regards size and situation, in Lower
Brooke Street ; but it was impossible
to think of taking possession of it until
after the season, and at last Dora reluctantly
agreed to the delays required
in such a case. I don't think we haS,
either of us, much to complain of, as we
had a luxurious suite of rooms in our
hotel, and friends crowded in upon us,
and we received more invitations than it
was possible to accept.

It was extremely difficult for an American
to understand how necessary it is to show
some discrimination in London in choosing
your acquaintance. The society which

had met in my grandmother's house in
Grosvenor Street had nearly died out,
leaving, however, sons and daughters who
remembered me, and of whom many now
called on my wife. I endeavoured to impress
upon her that these people, who
really formed part of the society which she
ought to cultivate, would not tolerate
others who endeavoured to attract Dora
by the admiration which they bestowed
upon her, but who, in no sense, belonged
to the London world.

Conspicuous among these was Mrs Rose-mere,
who repeatedly called in Dover
Street, invited us to dinner, and to her
opera box, and endeavoured, in every
possible way, to commence an intimacy
with my wife. I found Dora perfectly
willing to listen to my worldly wisdom ;
but at the same time she confessed to

liking ' amusing ' people, irrespective of
their antecedents and surroundings.

Now Mrs Rosemere,' she said, one
day at dinner, * may be all you say, and
a very undesirable acquaintance, from a
worldly point of view ; but, on the other
hand, I hear she gives delightful musical
parties, and many people, who really
dislike her personally, simply keep up her
acquaintance on that account, and why
should you object, Clare, to my doing
the same ? '

I will tell you why, my darling, in very
few words. Mrs Rosemere is not only a
second-rate person, quite unfit to be your
friend, and indeed incapable of being so,
but her ideas and her principles are so
utterly bad, that I dread any influence she
might exercise on you.'

It is not at all likely that Mrs Rose-mere,

or any one else, would influence
me in any one respect. I only instanced
her. Life is short. Why not make friends
with the people who amuse you ?'

Well, do as you like. But, of course, I
shall never go to her house. Rosemere
is an old friend, and I shall always continue
to see him now and again. His
wife I object to most strongly, as I do
to all shams, and I think it hazardous,
Dora, for so beautiful a woman as you
are to go into society, especially such
society as hers, without your husband.'

Dora said nothing, and remembering
certain saws as to feminine dislike to reiterated
opposition, I prudently changed
the subject, and referred no more to the
lady, whom I had latterly nicknamed ' the
modern Xantippe.' Dora became quite
the rage in London in those days, when

American beauty was not so well known
as it has more recently become. It was
impossible for her to enter a ballroom,
with her stately figure and carriage, without
everyone inquiring about her, in this,
her first debut in the London world.
Often as I stood modestly in a corner,
I unwillingly overheard the criticisms,
Beautiful, isn't she! Her husband gave
up his fortune to marry her. Don't you
remember old Sherlock's will ? '

Once, at a most brilliant entertainment
at Southamam House, I saw the withered-up
old Duke, now nearly ninety years of age,
follow her with his eyes, as she moved,
like a goddess, magnificently attired,
through the crowd. Directly afterwards,
he came upon me, and beckoned me aside.
I followed the old man, hobbling into an
anteroom, with his broad light-blue

ribbon across his breast, and a stick to
support him, as he nodded to his
friends.

Let us sit down here, Strong. Delighted
to see you. So that's your wife.
I retract all I said. She is divine, she is
superb. I should have done the same at
your age ; and, besides, there was some
arithmetic to be done. Add this and
deduct that. I daresay you d — d the
arithmetic. I never saw such shoulders
or such hair. Excuse the freedom of an
old man. Ah, Marquis 1 ' and he turned
to the French Ambassador of the day.

I looked round, and saw Dora waltzing,
and as she and her partner came near me,
and were stopped by the crowd, ' The next
is ours,' she said, with an entrancing smile.
I thought of that night we first met at
Baltimore ; but in the glitter and magnificence

of this scene, that homely * parlour '
seemed far away, even in recollection.

Night after night these parties succeeded
each other, and it seemed as if
Dora would never weary of them.
London had far surpassed all her fondest
expectations ; and London life and society
seemed to offer her everything in the
future of which she had ever dreamed, —
admiration, excitement, the entre into the
great world, and a devoted young husband
everything was hers. Fortune even
smiled upon her in the matter of her
mother's sojourn with us, for Mrs McCarthy
early discovered that London did not suit
her, and had retired again to Paris. To
say that I enjoyed the life we led, would
be ridiculous ; but then I was very much
in love with my wife, and, though I would
have liked to have her oftener to myself,

I never, at this time, had the slightest
grounds for jealousy or annoyance. The
world was at her feet, but she took its
adoration in the simplest way, as a
natural tribute to her beauty.

I like to be admired, Clare, I confess,'
she once said to me, when waiting for
her maid to dress her, with all her lovely
hair falling round her, like the shower of
gold which bewitched Dance. ' And,
besides, you ought to be proud of it. I
can't help my beauty, can I ? '

What began to trouble me was the total
absence of any inclination for a domestic
life ; but I hoped it would come later on.
One night we went to a large crush in
Devonshire Place, which to me was a
pleasure, but to Dora, who had few sympathies
with literary or political society,
was, I knew, rather a concession to my

views. William's success in the House of
Commons had naturally largely increased
the number of Mrs Penrose's political acquaintances,
and several members of the
Government were present that evening.
Amongst them I met Mr Eardley, in one
of the rooms, and he drew me aside.

Have you heard of William's prospects ?
Of course, not a word at present ; but he
is talked of as a coming Under-Secretary.
He has been so useful to us of late ; and
he really is the best speaker of all the
young men in the House. You never
come there, and you ought to hear him.
I believe he is going to speak early
tomorrow night, on the Navy Estimates.
I daresay that topic is not particularly
interesting to you, but it will give you an
idea of William's power of grasping details,
and of dealing with figures.'

VOL. II. G

I promised Eardley I would go, with
some doubt in my mind as to what our
engagements might be for the evening in
question. As usual, Mrs Penrose had
collected a number of promising young
men — authors and artists — at her house,
and I could not help reflecting, as I
glanced round me, how few undistinguished
and idle men were present except
myself. It was not the world of fashion —
for my dear friend cared wisely little for
that ; but talent, and especially struggling
talent, which she could befriend, was
always welcome to her rooms. That night
I encountered, as I had foreseen, for the
first time, the De Chamiers. They had
sent me a handsome wedding present, and
now met me — both father and daughter
without the least embarrassment or gene,

'So pleasant to meet again.' One

knows the formula ; but I noticed that
they did not suggest an introduction to my
wife, nor offer to call upon us ; and as
Dora came up to me at that moment, they
moved away. But if beauty is the most
desirable thing in a wife, as thousands of
men believe, there was no doubt at all
that Dora was the belle of that party.
Clever women are very often plain, it is
needless to remark : and Mrs Penrose, ^s
we departed, said in my ear, ' How handsome
she looks ! mind you come, dear, if
you possibly can, to the House tomorrow
evening. You must let him come, Dora,'
and she kissed my wife affectionately.
Yet I fancied always that she looked at
us anxiously, as if wondering how two
such opposite natures would eventually
agree, and as if praying that all might be
well with us in the future. As the season

drew to an end, not to my regret, and as
our house began to look as if some day
it might be inhabited, I had the great
happiness of hearing that Dora thought
it might be necessary to reserve two rooms
in it for nursery purposes : but she did
not tell the news with enthusiasm. She
had always disliked children : ' But I suppose,'
she concluded, with her soft laugh,
I shall have to like my own

THE MODERN XANTIPPE.

So, in rich jars from China brought,
With glowing colours gaily wrought,
Ofttimes the subtle spider dwells
With subtle venom, bloated swells.
Weaves all his fatal nets within
As unsuspected as unseen.'

It was the first cloud which came upon
the horizon.

Well, Clare, I don't think you're quite
fair. You wish to go to the House of
Commons without me to-night, and I wish
to go to Mrs Rosemere's musical party. I
don't care for the debates, and you don't
care for Mrs Rosemere's music ; we ought
to fix it up easily enough, my dear boy.
You go along to Westminster, and I go

along to Clarges Street, and tomorrow
morning we compare notes

I am quite tired,' I replied testily,
of arguments about that woman. Perhaps
you will be disgusted with her
second - rate Italians, smelling of garlic,
and low restaurants, when you have once
been there. So go, my dear.'

And there the matter ended for the
present.

I went down to the House after an
early dinner at the club, and almost immediately
ran against Eardley, who was
not going to speak.

William is dining. He means to speak
after dinner.'

I took my seat in the Strangers' Gallery,
and waited for at least an hour while one
dreary speech succeeded another, principally
delivered by elderly naval men, whose

eloquence was of an extremely prosy type.
At last, about nine o'clock, a well-known
member of the Opposition rose, and made
a furious attack upon the Government,
with reference to recent dismissals of workmen
at the dockyards, alleging the total
inefficiency of the present British fleet.
And as for your ships, small and inadequate
as is their number to constitute the
first defence of a great maritime power, I
gather, from what has been confessed by
the Right Honourable member, that it is a
matter of absolute doubt whether those
most recently constructed vessels have not
been built upon utterly exploded principles,
and that, even supposing they float, it has
hitherto been found impossible to steer
them with any certainty.'

He sat down amid cheers and laughter,
and I turned anxiously to the Government

Bench, to see who would rise ; but, to
my astonishment, after a pause, I saw
William get up, his face pale, as it
always was when he was agitated,
and his arms crossed. At first he
spoke slowly, and with some hesitation.


The noble Lord,' he said, in the
course of his speech, * has laid down with
absolute precision all the conditions of
modern naval warfare, which to others,
less favoured with the gifts of prophecy,
present considerable doubts and difficulties.
To the noble Lord, no forecast
causes any diffidence. He is, doubtless,
as prepared this moment to take the
command of the British fleet as he is to
predict its defeat in any great naval encounter.
But what are the facts as regards
the ships which have been laid down since

the accession of the present Government
to power ? '

With a wonderful mastery of detail,
which thoroughly justified Eardley's encomium,
he went on to give the fullest
statistics on a subject of which I was
unaware he had any special knowledge.
The fact was, as I heard later, it had been
arranged that he should speak on behalf
of the Government, and when he concluded,
he was loudly cheered.

He left the House immediately, and,
joining me in the lobby, we waited at the
door to take his mother to her carriage.
She came down from the Ladies' Gallery,
and we all three drove to Devonshire
Place, where we had some supper. Mrs
Penrose and I congratulated him warmly,
but he seemed jaded.

Congratulate me tomorrow, dear old

Clare, for I believe I am to have an offer
from the Government. At present, I am
terribly tired, and am only fit for bed. So
you won't mind my saying good-night.
We shan't have our usual final tete-astute
to-night, mother ; you must have it with
Clare instead,' and he kissed her fondly,
and shook my hand.

They say,' she said, as he left the
room, ' he is to have the secretaryship at
the Admiralty, and that is the reason they
put him up to-night. It was delightful,
Clare, to hear them all talking of him in
our gallery, and all praising him, and without
an idea that his mother was there.
But I wish he could rest a little. He is
almost too energetic'

I'm afraid there's no chance of a rest
for him until the end of the session,
especially if the rumours are true ; but,

after all, another three weeks will see the
House up

And don't forget, Clare, your visit to
Carnaby. Your wife will want a little
repose after all her gaiety, and will not
mind a quiet life in her present condition.'


I could not help laughing.

Of course we shall come to Carnaby,
dear ; but don't imagine Dora will ever
care for a quiet life. She is already planning
a visit with me to Ostend.'

She is young, and she is beautiful, and
it is natural she should like amusement.
Later on, she will settle down. It will all
come right, Clare. I wish you were to be
distinguished, like my other son ; but, at
all events, you will be happy ; and the
domestic felicity the wisest philosophers
have concluded to be the most desirable

of all. Well, dear, good-night ! and God
bless you ! *

The next morning, Dora, with usual
womanly curiosity, was most anxious to
hear all my news of last night.

Of course I shall read his speech presently
in the newspapers. Was it a
success ? '

Oh ! very great. They say he will have
an offer to-day of an official appointment.'

'And then he will have to give receptions,
won't he ? How delightful ! '

And what of your party last night ? '

Oh, Clare, such music ! I am so sorry
you did not hear it.'

Did Mrs Rosemere sing?' I asked drily.

Yes, she did ; but, of course, that was
not the feature of the evening. What
really fixed me was the tenor. I never
heard such a voice.'

And who was he ? '

Count Paolo Bianchi, a new arrival,
and quite a young man, who is sure to
create 2. furore later on.'

Was Rosemere there ? *

No ; they tell me he never is present
at her entertainments. I suppose he does
not care for music'

And who was there 1 '

Oh, of course, no one of the great
world ; but they were all musical people,
very pleasant in their way, without being
fashionable. In short, Clare, it was just
what I expected. I know well enough Mrs
Rosemere is not thoroughbred, far from
it, but she gives one most perfect music'

I shrugged my shoulders, and kissed
my wife.

Was the garlic very pronounced ? ' I
laughed.

Yes, but the patchouli crowded it out.'

So I expected, and, no doubt, " the
modern Xantippe" was dressed with her
usual grace. Am I wrong in surmising
she wore some faded artificial flowers on
a black satin dress, cut in such a way as
to leave nothing to the imagination ? '

Of course, Clare, it is easy to be sarcastic
about her. She can't be held responsible
for her red skin, any more than
she can be for growing fat ; and as for
dress, they say her husband gives her a
very small allowance, alleging, as an excuse,
that he supports her sister ; and, I
admit, she has no taste : but how few
English ladies have ! '

• You seem to have found out a good
deal about her.'

Her friends were wonderfully communicative
; but who was Xantippe "^ and

why do you call Mrs Rosemere by that
name ?'

Xantippe, my dear, was a lady, who
lived thousands of years ago. She had a
husband who led with her a most uncomfortable
domestic life : and she had a
tongue, which was used in uttering most
unpleasant abuse to that respectable old
gentleman, who was also, by the way, a
philosopher. I do not know if she was
a clergyman's daughter, but it is perfectly
possible. She talked Greek, and not
Billingsgate, when she was angry. With
this exception, I think the nickname fairly
earned.'

Dora gave me a mock curtsey, and
burst out laughing.

It is no use arguing with a man about
his bite noir and clearly she is yours.'

Again, once more, a presentiment

of evil had crossed my mind, and left
a permanent shadow. It was quite
natural, for many reasons, and all of
them good ones, that I should dislike
a woman of Mrs Rosemere's type, and
hold strong objections, in her own interest,
to my wife's growing intimacy
with such a person. And these strong
feelings are not concealed, as people sometimes
fancy they are, from the object of
one's dislike, however diplomatic one maybe.
Mrs Rosemere was perfectly well
aware that I despised her, that I pitied
her unfortunate husband, and that I did
not consider her a desirable or even
suitable acquaintance for my wife. What
was the natural result ? She had been
educated in the strictest dogmas of Evangelical
religion by the Exeter parson already
alluded to, and even now, I was

told by the General, never omitted to
carry her prayer-book about with her on
Sunday afternoons. Had she not every
Sunday for many years walked down that
dusty road which lay between the Rectory
of her birth and the Sunday school where
she laboured to teach the stories of the
Old Testament to the recalcitrant infant
mind ? Surely, therefore, she had herself
learned, from her parent's unctuous lips,
the first lesson of Christianity, namely, to
love her enemies.' She must so often
have been inspired, one would imagine,
by her unworldly father's sermons, to pray
for those who were blind to her own moral
excellencies ! Perhaps Mrs Rosemere had
forgotten her Exeter days. It is certain
she resented being reminded of them ; and
it is equally certain that, divining my dislike
of her, she bitterly, in return, hated

VOL. II. H

me, and sought every means of revenge,
as such a vulgar, narrow-minded woman
naturally would do. I was aware of all
this, and knowing how volatile and pliable
was Dora's nature, I dreaded an influence
which was certain to be directed against
our happiness.

The fox who lost his tail is constantly
reproduced, I am sorry to think, by the
woman whose domestic life having proved
a failure through her own fault, endeavours
to persuade more fortunate wives that she
is happier, after all, than they are.

THE CLOUDS THICKEN.

That time ! oh times !
I laughed him out of patience, and that night
I laughed him into patience.'

The winter which succeeded my marriage
was one of the happiest periods of my Hfe.
To begin with, there was the delightful
settling into our new house in Brook
Street, the arrangement of all our new
furniture, and the resurrection of treasures
from which I had so long been parted
that I had almost forgotten their existence.
And then came the birth of my daughter,
since grown so dear to me, and the
lengthened dissertations as to who she was
like, and how she should be dressed. We

called her * Delicia Penrose,' the first name
being at Dora's special desire, and the
second after her godfather William. It is
quite true that the early rearing of children
entails a considerable amount of worry
upon a conscientious mother, and that the
father is exempt from such anxiety in most
cases. He only sees the children when
they begin to be amusing, and when they
are on their best behaviour ; and so, as
Dora often expressed herself, * You men
have the best of it.' Yet, I do not think
little Delicia ever, at that time, gave her
mother much trouble; for the insane craving
for society soon again enthralled her,
like an omnivorous Octopus, and the child
was almost entirely consigned to a nurse's
care. Fortunately, the nurse was skilful
and experienced, and the child throve wonderfully.
Early in the year we all went to

Carnaby, where a large party was assembled.
William was now duly installed at
the Admiralty, and was much more in
London than he used to be ; but he had
come home for a fortnight, and his despatch
boxes went backwards and forwards
to town. After a week, Dora confided tome
that her mother intended shortly to
return to Baltimore from Havre, and that
she was very anxious for her to come over
to Paris and pay a farewell visit ; and the
next day I had a letter from Mrs McCarthy
herself, urging me to spare Dora for a
week. ' I cannot hope,' she concluded,
to see my grandchild at present, as no
doubt it would be a risk for her to travel
to Paris in this cold weather.' As I
knew Mrs McCarthy openly professed a
dislike to babies, this diplomacy was
unnecessary; but I was extremely annoyed

at the proposed separation, though I did
not see how I could well oppose it, without
appearing tyrannical ; so it was arranged
that Dora and her maid should start for
Paris in two days' time, and that I should
remain at Carnaby with my small daughter
and nurse until she should return to
Brook Street.

For me, indeed, life always went
pleasantly at Carnaby ; and even aftermost
of the guests had left there never
was any want of interest or amusement
in my eyes. William was full of the idea
of a yacht, which he was anxious to purchase.
As he said, ' Here am I at the
Admiralty for the present, and a perfect
landsman ! I am determined, as the
summer comes on, to take a cruise. You
must run down with me, Clare, to
Southampton, and see the 'alone:" the

accounts of her sound well so far as
fittings are concerned. She is about
ten years old, and her tonnage about
seventy. She's a yawl, and a very pretty
boat, so I hear. If I buy her, you must
take a cruise with me at Whitsuntide.'

Though William talked thus, neither his
mother nor I thought him well. Lady
Mary Vivian, who stayed on at Carnaby,
said to me privately, —

I don't like his cough ; I hear him
coughing as he goes about the house ; why
don't you speak to him about it ? '

I have, Lady Mary, but he always
instances, in his joking way, some Lord
Chancellor who boasted of his cough of
thirty years' standing.'

Meanwhile, time went on, and, for
many reasons, I was anxious to get back
to London, especially as William had

gone to Devonshire Place, and I knew
his mother would be glad to join him there.
But my letters from Paris still seemed to
put off Dora return, and to dwell on
her gaieties and amusements in Paris.

Ma thinks she may as well remain
here another week ; and so I hope you
will not mind my staying on until she goes.'

As I sat one day alone on the ,
after reading one of these
procrastinating letters, I found myself
realising the situation as I had never, sofar,
done. The story of the man of
literary bias, of sympathy, and poetry,
mated to the woman whose slight nature
will famish if deprived of gaiety, and excitement,
is a very old one ; and I began
to think it might be mine. Dora found
my friends dull, and, perhaps, thought
me an unentertaining companion. She

was not, and could not be, a domestic
woman, — a woman who would read one's
thoughts, and mingle them with her own,
and be content. But it was clearly her
duty to return to the luxurious home I
had prepared for her, to her child, and to
her husband. I should be wrong to allow
her to remain longer away ; and when she
returned, it should be my object to make
her London house as bright for her as
my means and hers would allow. Lady
Mary had left that day : Mrs Penrose
and I dined alone. After dinner, I told
her the truth, and that I should return
with Delicia to London the next day. I
knew in my inmost heart that she was
sorely vexed at Dora's continued absence
from her home ; but she never said one
word of blame.

She will not see her mother again.

probably, for a long time, and, naturally,
wishes to be with her until she sails.
However, I am sure, when she gets your
letter, she will see what you wish is right,
and she will return to Brook Street at once.
I should have missed you, and the little
one, — Willy's godchild, — if I had stayed
on here ; but I shall go up to Devonshire
Place the day after tomorrow.'

We started for London the next afternoon;
but, in the morning, Mrs Penrose was
going over to the Rectory, on some small
matter of business, and I walked by her side.

I am not happy about dearest Willy,
Clare. I am certain he works too hard,
and that the late hours are bad for him.
What is all this distinction to me, if it
is to injure his health } I told Mr Eardley
so the other day ; and he suggested this
yacht, which he means to buy as a

pastime. But, Clare, they — strangers, I
mean — don't understand. I have seen so
many glide, like shadows, from me, and I
grow nervous when I see him so thin, and
coughing as he does. Have you noticed it?'

I know he has a bad cough ; but I
think he comes out of the House at night
and does not wrap himself up enough. I
have told him about it ; but he always
jokes, when you tell him to take care of
himself.'

We were near the churchyard, and a
cold east wind swept across it, and I saw
Mrs Penrose shudder as she passed into
the Rectory garden.

I think we are so fond of him,* I said,
we are over nervous. They say the
present Government will not last very much
longer, and, if so, then William will have
a rest, as he will lose his appointment.'

I don't think he will ever rest again.
He has been so fortunate, that he must
aim higher.'

Yes,' I answered, ' and will succeed.'
I was sorry, as I always was, to leave
Carnaby. Besides, I was going to a
solitary house, and to a lonely dinner.
The mind should be its own place,' says
the conscience, or the Eidolon of Plato ;
but, after all, I had married for love, and
for companionship. I had had my books,
and my mental interests, at Elcote, as a
bachelor. In short, I felt aggrieved ; but,
when Delicia looked at me in the nursery
out of her cot, with those stern, uncompromising
baby eyes of hers, I determined
to take the cheerful view, and descended
philosophically to my dinner, which seemed
to me, I even now recollect, absurdly
elaborate for one person to consume.

THE GRADUAL DESCENT.
Families descensus Aversion

a remarkable and dramatic Italian
poem I once read, the murderer of his
unfaithful wife traces the first signs of
her deterioration to her neglect of her
daily religious duties. She had been
pious. She grew to be neglectful. At
last the day came when she omitted even
her nightly prayer, and when she said
her last Ave Maria. But even before
that climax in her life she had gradually
descended in her worship from one chapel
to another, until her last devotions in
public were paid at the most gaudy, the

most showy altar which the church
contained. That seems to me a melancholy
but a very just description of a
phase of women's nature : and it was
thrust beneath my notice in the months
which were to follow.

As soon as my wife returned, which
she did almost immediately after the receipt
of my letter, my impulsive nature
was again intoxicated with her beauty
and charm for a time. She pouted at
my lecture, kissed me when I wished to
be most serious, and finally proposed our
going to the theatre that evening. It
became impossible, as time went on, to
persuade her to spend two evenings in
succession at home, alone with me. ^ One
must have new ideas,' was the continual
excuse ; and, although of a different age
and school, I was often reminded of my

grandmother's constant question, — * And,
pray, what is the last news ? ' by Dora's
almost daily inquiry, ' Did you get any
tips at the Club ? ' Another fact was
that constant entertaining and divino
dinners proved a very expensive
part of our life. That she absolutely
knew nothing of household management,
and left everything to an extravagant
housekeeper, was another element of expense
: and, lastly, Dora openly expressed
her view that no woman of position who
lived half the year in London could possibly
spend less on her dress than eight
hundred a year. If any one had demurred
to this, her reply would have been that
she had always had fifteen hundred a year
of her own to spend, and had naturally
spent half her income in this manner !
Religion faded away from our daily

lives as it did in the poem of the Italian
girl. Mrs Penrose had urged me, when
I set up a large establishment of servants,
to commence the custom of family
prayers. I knew she was right : and
though in Grosvenor Street such a practice
was unheard of in the old days, I
began it in Brook Street, and was always
downstairs by half-past nine in the morning.
Latterly it dropped. Dora never
appeared ; and soon took to having breakfast
in her bedroom. When Sunday came
round, she had a headache, and could not
go to church. At last, when the summer
was in view once more, and invitations
came pouring in, we never were alone
for more than a few minutes. The hours
of the house had become disorganised ;
and I found my club a resource at luncheon
- time, to avoid the idle prattlers

who turned my house, at that hour
into an hotel, and amongst whom I
knew, though her name was rarely
mentioned between us, was frequently
Mrs Rosemere.

At this period, I must say frankly, I
rarely gave myself over to reflection. I
was fully conscious of the unsatisfactory
state of my domestic, and also of my
pecuniary affairs. I drifted into a sort
of desperately cynical view. It is no
use thinking or fretting about disagreeable
facts, I thought ; and life is short,
and had best be undisturbed while it
lasts, by that painful consideration of
what mio^ht have been.' One afternoon
Dora told me she expected some
musical friends, and hoped I would return
home early to welcome them.

Have you asked Mrs Rosemere ? '

VOL. II. I

I was obliged to do so, as she brings
most of the musicians.'

Then, my dear, as she comes here
against my wishes, you cannot expect me
to receive her personally

I expect it, Clare, because we love
each other,' she replied.

'And I expect obedience, because you
promised it.'

I left the room and my house — in a few
hours to be filled with a mob of second-rate
musicians, amongst whom, as I afterwards
learned, was Count Paolo Bianchi.
At the club I met Rosemere, who had, at
last, decided upon a separation from his
wife. He was very excited, but I attempted,
with some success, to calm him
down before hearing what he had to say ;
and when I heard his story, I forgot my
own, in the humour of the situation. It

appeared that the boarding-house at
Brighton, kept by Mrs Rosemere's only
sister, had suddenly collapsed, leaving that
highly objectionable person without present
resources of livelihood. Under these
circumstances, she at once betook herself,
without notice, to Clarges Street, and
claimed an asylum. Now, as Mrs Rose-mere's
sister, and her father, when alive,
had never ceased abusing the General
after his marriage, and had, moreover,
considerably dipped into his pockets, it
seemed rather hard that he should be compelled
to receive his sister-in-law as an
inmate of his house, and a pensioner at his
own table, on his charity. But why had
the hitherto flourishing pension failed ?
It seemed that the old ladies who frequent
these establishments had been lone suffering
; but, at last, as happens in prisons, in

reformatory schools, and sometimes even
in convents, there had been an insurrection.
These old ladies, descending to
their meals in shawls of many colours,
and who were all persons of the ^ highest
family,' at last struck at the parsimonious
way in which their comfort was neglected.
Neck of mutton may be a delicacy, although
there are two opinions even upon
that simple point ; but neck of mutton
repeated on five days of the seven, with
the insufficient variation of a meagre preparation
of lean pigeon, and a tepid gravy
dignified by the name of soup, proved too
much for the endurance of the inmates of
the Brighton pension. They all unanimously
gave notice to quit, and, as Dora
would have said, * quitted.' General Rose-mere,
from some years' experience of the
regime to which his wife had consigned

him, could guess what the cookery had
been which, designed to put a few pounds
into the pocket of the grasping mattress
(£ hotels had ended in her discomfiture and
ruin.

She asserts,' he concluded, * that she
has not saved a penny, which is, of course,
untrue, and my wife says *' she must live
with us until some new arrangement can
be made.'^ My answer is definitely, *' I
decline. If you insist, I shall separate
from you," and I am to have her answer
here to-night.'

But, at the present moment,' I said,
they are all singing and making merry
in my house, from which I am, as a
result, an absentee.'

Then we will dine together,' replied
the General, ' at eight o'clock.'

No,' I said ; ' I am very sorry, but I

go home to dinner. I objected to the
party, or rather to those who compose it,
but I am anxious to return.'

As a matter of fact. General Rosemere
did not return home, and his separation
from the wife whom in an evil hour he
had first seen abroad, dated from that night.

I never blamed him. Fortunately he
had no children ; and she was an impossible
woman for a gentleman to live with.
Happily I need speak of her but little
more in these reminiscences, though, for
the present, her evil influence upon my
wife continued, and Dora persisted in
thinking the General had behaved selfishly
and badly to Mrs Rossmere, and
actually found the sister a very agreeable
old maid.

As a matter of fact, he behaved to the
two women in question, in regard to

money matters, most handsomely, as he
always had done. He belonged to a world
who were not accustomed to haggling.

Whitsuntide came, and the Government
still stayed in, though they had a risky
existence ; and William, who had bought
the ' lone,' wrote pressing me to join
the yacht.

'We have no ladies on board, only
Eardley, and another pal of his, and there
is a berth waiting for you. We shall be
in Portland Roads on Saturday, and certainly
remain there till Monday. Very
likely we may be kept there longer, if the
wind does not serve to take us across the
West Bay.'

Poor Dora was so devoted to London
she could not bear to leave it at this time
of year, for a single day, and seemed to
wish that I should give up my cruise.

My dear,' I said, 'you have become a
London sparrow, and just now / feel all
the instincts of a seagull. / long to be
careering over the foaming billow, with
the wet sheet and the flowing sea " of
Allan Cunningham's song ; while you are
content to dash in your carriage over the
London puddles. Let me go for a few days.'

I remember so well how we parted that
bright afternoon. She held little Delicia
up in the balcony, and they both waved
their hands to me as I drove off in a hansom
down Brook Street. For a moment
the spirit of presentiment came over me,
and I had almost ordered the driver to
turn back ; but I still could see the golden
hair, and the languid eyes, and the white
hand blowing kisses, and how could I
doubt or tremble ? I would have staked
my existence on Dora's troth.

IN THE CHANNEL.

And the while the wind began to sweep
A music out of sheet and shroud
We steered her towards a crimson cloud
That land-like slept along the deep.'

It was growing late as I found myself
beneath that gloomy convict rock at Portland
; but the gig was at the landing-place,
and four stalwart sailors soon rowed
me out to the * lone anchored in the
roads. A cheery voice called out, as we
came along aside of her, * Welcome, Clare ;
and make haste ; for we are dying of
hunger, and dinner is ready.'

Three or four days at sea had already
done much for William, and he looked
less careworn and preoccupied than he
had been of late. He had an excellent

and experienced captain — a necessity for
the Secretary to the Admiralty, who knew
but little of practical seamanship ; but
he warned me that the cuisine would be
of the simplest character.

Even if I could afford It, I hate all
that ostentatious luxury on board a yacht.
There was a fellow at Cowes the other
day, who had footmen in powder on board
his steam yacht. Everyone was laughing
him, and no wonder. The sea soon
gives one an appetite ; and plain food is
best, when one Is afloat, as one cannot get
much exercise.' In spite of this, we made
an excellent dinner, and the champagne
came from Carnaby, and was undeniably
good. Eardley had thrown off all his
official manner, and returned to the
bright, sparkling conversation of the philosophical,
if somewhat cynical, democrat.

The wind seems rising said William ;
but it does not matter, as, in any case, we
do not sail till Monday. Do you hear
the roar of the waves on Chess beach ?
Rather a region, Eardley, for one of the
ghastly stories you used to write. On no
coast of England have there been more
wrecks, I believe.'

We listen,' said Eardley, ' with attention
to all you say on naval subjects, both
here and elsewhere. Only, please, don't
talk of wrecks, when we are going to sea,
especially before the family man here.'

I was escorted, after dinner, over
the good ship to which our lives were
entrusted for the time, and duly admired
the luxurious and ingenious fittings up
of the various cabins, and was especially
loud in my praises of the pianoforte,
which also served as a bookcase. There

is something (all sailors understand it)
which inspires jollity, and total forgetfulness
of care, when you are afloat, and
dependent only on heaven's wind for your
course, — when you have bade good-bye
to the letters, and the worries, and the
tricasseries ' of life on terra firma. I felt
it then, and have often experienced it
since. One's whole life seems to alter
in aspect ; and what does anything matter
then, but to exist, and enjoy existence ?
One traces the feeling in the literature
of the sea ; as, for instance, in the Duke
of Dorset's well-known ballad, ' To all You
Ladies now on Land,' and even in the
illiterate epistles of Emma, Lady Hamilton,
when she wrote on board a man-of-war.
Eardley was a confirmed late man
at night. He never seemed ready to turn
into bed. So he and I sat and smoked on

deck after our host had retired, which he did
early. It was a brilliant night, without a
breath of wind — for William was wrongs in
his predictions, and it had suddenly dropped
and the canopy of heaven was richly
studded with myriads of unclouded stars.
What a night ! ' said Eardley, suddenly
dropping his gay manner ; ^ and
yet, if the " sun shines on the just and
the unjust," what millions live in an impregnable
prison like yonder rock, while
Nature works inexorably on ! and all her
grandeur, and all her lessons of truth
and eternity, are without the prison bars
of such human existence. The outlaws
of human society are comparatively few
in number, but the outlaws of all that is
o^reat and beautiful and soul - absorbing
are innumerable. Perhaps best so ; for
there only remains melancholy when you

have once broken through the bars. My
dear Clare,' he suddenly broke off, ' I am
rhapsodising. I shall presently waltz
across the deck like a dervish. The
other worlds will only laugh at us if we
do not enjoy this when we can ; and as
I mean to plunge into the sea at 7 a.m.,
let us to bed.'

Sunday was spent in the usual delightfully
indolent way ; and we none of us
had the slightest desire to go ashore,
Portland presenting, to my mind, one of
the most forbidding coasts I know. In
the evening I played a succession of
innocent games of piquet with our fourth
messmate, while William and Eardley
were intent on chess. Very early the
next morning I knew the wind must be
favourable, though it was blowing a
stiffish breeze, as I heard above me all the

noisy preparations for a weighing anchor.
Outside we found a lumpish sea ; and
the race ' at ' the Bill ' was not calculated
to make landsmen feel cheerful. Luckily
we were all fairly good sailors — I especially
so ; and when ' the Bill ' was passed,
we sped gaily across the West Bay. I
never saw a man so joyous as Eardley,
as the day wore on. He was now no
longer young ; and his hair was already
very grey, and his face deeply marked :
but the salt breeze seemed to recal his
youth, and he became the life of the
party.

Of course, we had the usual delays.
The wind dropped, and the doldrums
are not exciting. It was not until nearly
nine o'clock, with a bright moon shining
down upon us, that, with several tacks, we
made our way into the beautiful harbour

of Torquay. But when everything was
made snug for the night, and we were
anchored in the inner harbour, William
was taken ill with violent coughing and
sickness. We sent ashore at once for a
doctor, who, however, made light of it.
He prescribed a sleeping draught, and
assured us he would be quite well in the
morning, and that we might continue our
cruise, as we had intended, to Dartmouth.

I don't like it, at all,' said Eardley ; ^ he
is not by any means as strong as he used
to be ; and that fellow never even examined
his lungs. When he goes back to town,
he ought to be properly overhauled. And
to think that he has everything before him!
His life is of the greatest value to everyone.'

You don't mean to say you think it in
danger ! ' I exclaimed suddenly, alarmed at
his grave tone.

No ! no ! Clare, not in danger ; but
political life means such a strain on a
man's physique, now-a-days, that he might
have to give it up, and that would be
heart-breaking just now, when he has so
much in his grasp. Did I tell you, if the
Government goes out before the recess,
they mean to recommend his being made
a Privy Councillor ? But he must rest if
necessary ; he must get strong again. I
am proud, you see,' he concluded, in his
old cold manner, ' of my political pupil,
and I cannot spare him from the arena.'

Nevertheless, William seemed to be
much as usual, as the doctor had predicted,
the next morning, when the * lone '
spread her beautiful wings and carried us
along the romantic coast, until we scudded
through the narrow entrance of Dartmouth
harbour, with its lovely wooded hills. We

VOL. II. K

remained at Dartmouth for two days, and,
after exploring the town, I went with
Eardley up to Tones.

I remember so distinctly every object
we passed on that short journey up the
Dart, while I have forgotten so much of
what I have seen in my journeys through
strange lands around the world. I can
still see the herons, standing patiently in
the shallows, watching for their prey, and
hear the song of the fishermen as they
laboured with their nets. The sun went
down, and as I clambered up the side of
the lone,' I received a letter, which
changed everything I had so fixed on the
retina of my brain, into frenzied horror.
It was a letter from my housekeeper in
London, asking me to return at once, as
Mrs Strong had gone away without leaving
any message or address.

MY DESOLATE HOME.
The light of his life as if gone out.'

I AM writing years after the agony of
that night, and successive days. I could
not have written then at all ; and, even
now, must curtail the confession of What
I suffered. I am only thirty-five now ;
but my hair has long been white. Do
you recollect, reader, that sublime passage
in aeschylus, where Menelaus realises
that Helen has abandoned him ? He
gazes at the statues of his beautiful wife,
which adorn his palace, and seems to see the
terrible truth in the w^^via ofxfxarihv — * the
eyes' blank gaze.' There stood in Brook
Street, on the staircase, a beautiful bust

of my wife, and as in the dusky London
dawn I passed it, the quotation came
back to my mind. ' Blank gaze,' indeed,
for evermore, for me ! I had come up
by the night mail, and the servants were
not yet astir. How silent, how gloomy
my house seemed, with no one to greet
me, and with all the shutters closed ! I
staggered up to the room which had been
ours, half shuddering to think I might
find her a corpse on her own bed. There
was not a sound ; but the bed was made
as usual, and the sweet, heavy perfume
of her chamber fell on my weary senses.
Not a single chair, or table, or wardrobe
was apparently disarranged ; even her
toilette table was spread as usual, with
silver. But pinned on to the pink satin
cushion was a note, directed to me, and
which, no doubt, had been the cause of my

summons, though they had been afraid
to send it on. It only contained three
lines, — ' You will never see me ao-ain.

o

I know I am mad ; but I cannot help it.
Forget me, and do not visit my sin on
our poor child ! '

For a moment I thought I should have
a fit. I felt the blood rising to my head,
and I grew dizzy. But the end was not
to come yet ; and I wanted air. The
sickly perfume, these treacherous lines,
the very furniture of the room, suddenly
assumed a meretricious aspect. I hurried
downstairs in my travelling dress, and,
somehow, found myself in the street.

It was the commencement of a beautiful
day ; and the morning breeze, as I
strode into the Park, seemed to calm me, —
it was so cool and fresh. No one was yet
about ; the very stillness of the great city

seemed to give me life again ; and I sat
down, and, worn out, sobbed like a child.
Then came a reaction of feeling, and fury
at her treachery, and her crime, took possession
of me. I started across the Park,
out of the way of the few pedestrians who
began to appear on the scene.

Utterly bad, depraved, and unnatural.
So soon to leave me, and her infant
daughter, — without a word of warning —
I who idolised, who adored her, and who
gave up everything for her. Oh, my
God ! have mercy upon me ! '

My walk had brought me opposite to
the iron gate leading into the cemetery
where my father and mother as also Lady
Duncan lie buried. Some sudden impulse
made me cross the road, and finding
the gate unlocked, I went in. Ah, could
they have seen me now ! Could my

grandmother, who had so wrecked my
early Hfe, have only beheld the result of
her injustice ! But there stood up the
marble lying monument, erected by another,
now dead himself, in the early sun-rays
; and I realised, at that instant, how
true it is, 'Blessed are the dead,' — 'for
they cease from their labours.' As I went
out, I became aware of my dishevelled,
strange appearance, from the stares of the
early risers and the late revellers who
passed by. Suddenly came a tide of
energy, sweeping everything away in my
mind, as strong as it was unwonted.
There was much to be done. The guilty
must be tracked out, and punished. My
honour must be satisfied, and I must take
my place in my own household, and in
the world, as the injured husband and
father, who must assert his rights, legal

and moral, to the uttermost. For my
own sake, and my child's, I must discard
my dreams, and my natural indolence.
I had, indeed, finished with dreams;
nor would I rest until I had revenged the
wrong which had been so cruelly done me.
For I was certain now that she had
eloped ; and my first letter from my house,
when I entered, to the terror of the housemaids
on the steps and in the hall, was
to the head of the London detective force.
My next note, as I left the breakfast
they brought me, untasted, was to Mr
Bandon, whom I summoned at once. I
paced up and down the library, waiting,
with acute anxiety, for the answers to both
notes. I knew they would both be answered
in person ; but hours seemed to me
to elapse, as the clocks ticked solemnly on.
Mr Bandon came first. He had not

been to his office, but came straight from
the country to me, consequently he had
missed my note ; but he had that morning
received a letter from my wife, which
rendered the services of the detective,
who presently appeared, unnecessary.

It came this morning,' he explained ;
you must nerve yourself, sir, to read it

It appeared from the letter that she
considered our marriage had turned out
a great mistake for the happiness of both
our lives, and that it was better to realise
the fact at once, than to continue for
years to live together an existence in
which there was no mutual sympathy.
She preferred writing to Mr Bandon to
sending a long explanation to me, because
she had a definite proposal to submit
; and it was best to make such a
proposal through a solicitor. If I would

take immediate steps for a divorce, she
would not defend the action, and she
knew there would be no difficulty in
obtaining a decree. On the other hand,
she was prepared to execute a deed,
securing half her own fortune to her
daughter, Delicia, on her death. She
knew some men took a terrible revenge
in such cases, by declining to take any
steps for divorce ; but she did not believe
that I would so act.

This was the pith of her letter, sofar
as I can recollect its terms. It
overwhelmed me with shame and grief;
for it suggested, but too clearly, that she
had long meditated flight, and that she
had probably, for a long time, deceived
me. As I wrung my hands, Mr Bandon,
now a very old man, ventured to put his
on my shoulder.

We are very old friends, Mr Strong.
If ever strength of purpose was required,
it is now. May God help you ! '

I shook my head.

First, you reject this offer, of course ? '
Absolutely, and with contempt. My

daughter will never wish to soil her
fingers with the gold of the woman who
has disgraced her and me.'

I felt quite sure of yotir view. The
divorce court will, however, make a
proper order in the case, for your
daughter's benefit. Then, as to the
divorce, I think steps should be taken
at once, and without delay.'

Then you know more than this letter
tells ? '

I know what everyone will soon know.
Your wretched wife has eloped with Count
Paolo Bianchi, the fashionable tenor of the

day. Her name has long been mentioned
in musical circles in connection with his.
But you, of course, would be the last person
to hear of it. At least, stop short
of the revenge she speaks of! She has
robbed you of everything, including the
fine estate you inherited ; but give her the
chance of becoming an honest woman,
and of marrying this man ! '

'It is not for that so much, but to
clear my own name, I act,' I answered
hoarsely. ' As you say, I have played
my cards strangely. I have lost my
patrimony, and my inherited manor. I
"have lost my wife, and all hope, or
belief, in anything or anybody. But, as
you imply, let me keep my honour. Take
all necessary steps, Bandon, at once, for
divorce, and tell the future Countess
Bianchi I accede in this to her request,

for the honour of my name, and that
I reject her proposal, with the scorn
and loathing it deserves.'

And there is one point more, though
all is very painful ; but I must mention
it. I presume you wish her own
jewellery and property here to be returned
to her, unless she has taken it
with her ? '

Her maid, whom she had left behind
her, was summoned, and, then and
there, she and Mr Bandon and I went
upstairs, and investigated matters.

At such a crisis, just as immediately
after the death of a dear relative, there
is almost a relief in the necessary work
and business to be done. The resting
idle is the real agony. She had taken
all her own diamonds and other jewellery
in her dressing-bag, and had, no doubt.

engaged a new maid to attend her.
The family jewels, of which so much
has been said, were safely locked up.
For the rest, the myriads of clothes,
furs, and lace — my poor presents — they
could be sent to her wherever she directed.
A thousand things pressed upon
me, perhaps fortunately. Of course, the
house was far too expensive for my
present means, and must be got rid of
as soon as possible. Mr Bandon had
said something about debts ; but I did
not realise until later on to what he
alluded, when I found myself liable
for over two thousand pounds. Rather
than have any correspondence on the
subject, I paid them without reference
to my wife's private income. But this
is anticipating events.

When I found that my presence in

England would not be necessary, and
that an affidavit would be all that was
required of me, I began that night to
wonder where I should go to. I had
written no other letters but those two
I have already mentioned. I had not
even explained to William my sudden
departure from the yacht. All the world
would hear the story soon enough ; and
I found that night at the club, where
I went to dine alone, it was already
known.

THE CONSOLATION OF A GOOD WOMAN.

Then the waves
Of darkness breaking on me like a sea,
Seemed to o'erwhelm me, and I sank and sank
Down, down to unknown depths of black despair.'

I MUSED and pondered, and argued with
myself, and recalled all manner of little
occurrences, speeches, and smiles, and
tricks of utterance, that first night, until
I nearly went mad. Most of all I
wondered — though I knew the lightheartedness
of American women in the
matter of divorce — how my beautiful
Baltimore girl — the belle of that never-to-be-forgotten
ball — could ever have
arrived at the state of mind which could
have induced her to write a letter to

my solicitor, suggesting money inducements
to facilitate her marrying, as soon
as possible, her Italian paramour, — to me,
to whom, whatever my faults, no one
yet, least of all my wife, could fairly
have attributed the vice of avarice. I
remembered a lady, who, without a blush,
had accepted (and worn) the diamonds
of her dead aunt, from the hands of
the man who had bought that aunt's
dishonour with them ; but it stung me
to the core that Dora should have
apparently classed me with such
canaille. Poor thing ! She had not
been well brought up ; but the generosity
and frankness of her nature should have
prevented all this misery, — her self-esteem,
and her beauty, should have
saved her from such abasement. Who
was this man ? Some low adventurer,

VOL. II. L

no doubt, who thought only of her
money, which he hoped to secure.
But the quotation in the Bible is always
true, ' Evil communications corrupt good
manners (or morals.' That genial friend
Mrs Rosemere, had, of course, been in
her confidence : it was at her house
that Dora had met this man. It was
easy, in imagination, to fill up the gaps.
I had not been firm enough in banishing
the woman from my house, and in
insisting on my wife dropping her acquaintance.
How she would exult, mentally,
in this shipwreck, I could only
too well guess.

My endless self-communing was put a
stop to by the entrance of a footman
with a card ; and in another two
minutes Mrs Penrose embraced me,
and gave me a mother's kiss. She had

heard all, or, at least, the most, of the
cruel story. During all the agony I had
endured the last few hours, I had, somehow,
forgotten Delicia ; but Mrs Penrose's
first words to me were, —

And my darling William's godchild.
Let us send for Delicia.'

I could not help it, and I knew how
weak I was, for I began to sob.

No, dear Clare, do not give way.
Remember, first, the eternal trust in
God's great mercy, of which we have
spoken so often together. It can never,
never fail ; and here comes Delicia.'

Escorted by her nurse, the child toddled
into the room. She was now two years
old, and a most lovely little creature,
with golden hair, and eyes of the true
forget - me - not hue. Alas ! she would
always remind me of Dora, as she was

in my far-away romance. Mrs Penrose
took her on her lap.

I am going to take you into the
country with me, baby. You will like
that better than London, won't you ? '

Is mammy summing too ? '

I saw my dear friend's lips quiver,
and I turned to the window ; but, baby-like,
she repeated the question.

Yes, darling, some day, but not yet ; '
and I knew what her Christian hope
was, as she looked at those large, blue,
questioning eyes.

She never asked me any details about
my wife's flight. Her mission was to
spare suffering, not to inflict it, — to dry
the weeping eyes, and point, by the eloquence
of her own devoted life, to the
rest beyond the grave, where we are promised
that ' there shall be no more pain.'

But, as my reader knows, she was no
visionary ; she was always practical.

I am going back to Carnaby tomorrow,
and will take Delicia and the
nurse. I think Carnaby, while I live,
had best be the child's home. You
must, of course, break up this establishment,
and will not wish, for the present,
to set up another. Probably, too, you
think of travelling. Anyhow, the child
is safe with me in the nurseries at
Carnaby. I shall leave you now, because
you have a great deal to do and
to settle ; but you must dine in Devonshire
Place to-night.'

I promised I would, and then set about
the dreary duties, which took me first
to Mr Bandon's office in the City.

Fagged and weary, I arrived, at half-past
seven o'clock, to dine with Mrs Penrose.

Just before I started for dinner, a
note had been brought to me to say, Canon
Caryl had proposed himself for dinner,
and that she trusted his presence would
not prevent my coming. I felt that it
would be weakness to say the truth,
which was that I greatly disliked meeting
him just now, as he had been the
one friend in Rome who had seen the
love passages between Dora and myself.
So I went to Devonshire Place. I had
arranged everything, so far as legal
matters went, for the present, and had
decided, as an asylum was found for my
child, to go to Brussels the next day,
and there meditate on my future movements.
When I arrived, to my surprise
the old butler told me ' Mr William has
come up unexpectedly from Devonshire.'
In another minute a long grasp of my

hand from my earliest friend told me he
knew all.

Come into the smoking-room for a
few moments before you go upstairs. I
can't talk to you yet about your trouble
perhaps not at all, if you do not wish
me to do so. But this has brought me
up to town.'

It was a letter from the Prime Minister,
stating that, in consideration of William's
public services, in conveying his own resignation
to the Sovereign he had thought
it his duty to recommend him for the
honour of being appointed a Privy Councillor.
My first joy at finding William
at home, and at escaping the dreaded
tHe-tete with the Canon after dinner,
was, of course, swallowed up in this
wonderful tidings.

Ah ! dear boy, you know how truly

I feel with you in this triumph. I always
felt sure you would mount the ladder ;
but I won't say any more.'

We went upstairs to the drawing-rooms,
where we found his mother and the Canon
in a state of excitement over the news.
It is a stern lesson to a man in grief
and failure of life to hear of the prosperity
and success of his friend ; but the infinite
tenderness of my early playmate, and his
mother, prevented any bitter reflection which
human weakness might have suggested.

Of course you have no idea,' said the
Canon at dinner, * when you will have to goto
Windsor. I heard this afternoon there
is to be a Cabinet Council tomorrow.'

So I believe,' rejoined William.
Eardley travelled up with me to-day from
Dartmouth. He seemed in rather low
spirits. But, in reality, he does better in

opposition than In office, and, being a
bachelor, and very well off, the loss of
income Is of small Importance to him.'

Mrs Penrose hoped that his temporary-rest
would cause him to resume his pen.

I confess,' she said, ' that volume of
essays which he published two years ago
Is to me the most charming production,
In later times, of a thoroughly cultured

mind. I often take It up ; for It Is full

•

of wisdom, as well as learning, always
tinctured with the humour which makes
life endurable. On the other hand, I
never cared for his romances. He is
essentially an unsentimental man ; and
when he ventures on love affairs, as he
is bound to do in his novels, he at once
mounts on stilts, and becomes forced in
his manner, and unnatural in his descriptions.
I never was so surprised as on

that night in the House when he made
his famous speech on Reform. I had
looked on him perhaps too much as the
Literary man, the Oxford tutor, the brilliant
essayist ; and I never shall forget the effect
of his masterful oratory, and the famous
passage which he quoted from Thucydides
It is impossible for me,' observed the
Canon, * to share your admiration for the
statesman, though I admit all you say in
his favour as an author — in fact, more
than you say, for I class, at all events
one of his romances, as superior in the
same vein to Vathek. But, with all his
brilliancy, he seems to me unstable in his
political views, as he certainly is in his
religious ones. He pays, to my mind, a
fatal obsequiousness to "public opinion."
It is impossible to know what the phrase
*' public opinion " really means. Is it the

condensed drift of the leading articles of
the morning papers, or is it the efficient
cause of a general election ? Too often
there is the shifty expression of conviction
in some so-called reform, which will lead to
the return to power of your own party, and
you are pleased to designate this euphemistically
as necessary yielding to '^ public
opinion." And Eardley, of all modern

statesmen, seems to me to worship this

•
public opinion " most, and, therefore, to

be politically unreliable. The truth remains

the truth for ever ; and men of the highest

stamp only yield to " public opinion " when

it coincides with the principles which, in

their view, are eternal and immutable.'

I hope you don't mean. Canon,' said

William, rather hotly, * that Eardley is

unprincipled. His views are as strong

as your own, and based on the results of

years of thought ; but he is not a fool, —
a Mrs Warrington to oppose his mop to
the flood. The time may come when, in
the interests of his country, and not of
one party or the other, concessions must
be made, and old lines even abandoned ;
but surely that is consistent with straightforward
statesmanship, as well as with the
purest patriotism.'

Mt is useless to argue, I am afraid,'
said the Canon, with a frigid but polite
smile. ' I will only say for myself, if it
became, or ever could become, a question
of surrendering my conscience to outward
pressure, I should prefer, if I was a politician,
relinquishing political life altogether.'

Mrs Penrose smiled as she went upstairs.

I can't imagine you. Canon, at the
hustings. " Odi profane " is written
on your brow.'

I could not join in this conversation, and
I felt that they all made an effort to talk
on the topics of the day, with a view to
ignore, for my comfort, my terrible misfortune,
and also William's delicacy of health.
His constant cough made a most melancholy
impression on my mind, and several times I
saw his mother turn anxiously towards him.

As he was standing in the hall, preparatory
to leaving. Canon Caryl turned
to me, almost affectionately, —

Do you remember our serious conversations
in Rome ? I wish you could tell
me you had ceased to be what you called
then an Agnostic'

For the moment, I am a drowning man,
catching at any straw.'

Well, come and see me. Let us talk it
all over again. I have so much to say to you.

I am very grateful, but I am going

abroad tomorrow. When I come back,
I will come and call on you.'

As he held my hand to say good-bye,
I heard with surprise a Latin benediction
issue from his lips.

William and I talked long in the smoke
that night ; but the only words
he allowed himself to utter about Dora
were, ' Poor girl ! You were both too impetuous.
To me, as an outsider, you always
appeared so unsuited to each other. But
I am afraid, as I grow older, I grow more
and more opposed to matrimony. So very
few marriages turn out well. But, anyhow,
I shall never marry, for' (after a long
pause) * my wife would have to be a nurse.'

It was the first and only time he had
ever referred to his failing health, and no
words of mine can suggest the terrible
despondency of his tone.

'U HOMME PROPOSE, MAIS DIEU DISPOSE.'

Thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of
women.'

Owing to the many agitations I had
undergone in the last few days, I do not
think it was until I found myself alone
in my large bedroom in the Hotel der
Europe at Brussels that I had time,
calmly and judicially, to review my present
position ; and, as I did so, a chilling
sense of loneliness took possession of me.
These are the times, I am well aware,
when the evil spirit often enters into a
man, perhaps never to leave him again.
But I may apply the Horatian maxim
about * coelum non animus ' to myself, with

regard to the fact that, never having cared
for vice, or vicious company, my present
desolate condition in a foreign land did
not the more incline me to it. My original
intention had been to make a prolonged
tour through Europe, and, first,
through Germany, with the Northern
States of which country I was but
meagrely acquainted ; and, in accordance
with this intention, I shortly left Brussels
for Hamburg, a city which has been
ridiculously called * The Venice of the
North.' Restless as I then was, I yet
remember with appreciation many things
in Hamburg, especially the famous Restaurant
of Forte, and the delightful
trips I took by water up the Elbe to
Blackness and other places. It was at
my hotel there, facing the Alter Basin,
that I received a letter which entirely

changed my plans for the year. It was
from Eardley, to say that, as he was now
a free man, he had decided to utiHse this
temporary Liberty by a trip to Egypt, and
possibly a prolongation of it to India, If
I felt inclined to join him, he would beat
Brindisi, and await my arrival the following
week ; but I was to let him know
my decision, at his hotel in Paris, from
which he wrote.

The opportunity of travelling with so
delightful and so distinguished a companion
was too attractive to be resisted.
The only difficulty was the vulgar one
of expense. I still scarcely realised all
my liabilities, but I was completely cognisant
of the fact that my income was
reduced to about fifteen hundred a year,
that my balance at the bank was not
altogether satisfactory, and that I had a

VOL. II. M

large house on my hands. I determined,
however, to risk it, and wrote to Eardley
that I would join him in Paris, instead
of at Brindisi, on the following Saturday.

The elder D' Israeli's chapter on books
which never have been finished might be
supplemented by one on journeys planned
out, which never have been made. There
is a great deal in the philosophy which
makes no plans. You ring for your
valet. ' We start by the night mail this
evening for Berlin.' It sounds energetic :
but, alarmed by such unusual decision of
character, he has to rise to the occasion,
by filling his own purse, and starting
in another direction. You communicate
with the police, and start nowhere.

Eardley and I were together in Paris
for a few days. I did not see much of
him during the day, as he had many interests

and many friends in Paris ; but
at night we generally dined together,
and went either to the opera (for he
was passionately fond of music) or to
the Theatre Fran^als, and sometimes he
even relaxed so far as to go with me to
the Palais Royal. I honestly believe he
wished to divert my thoughts, and had
been commissioned to do so by William,
to whom he was personally devoted.

I have always loved Paris, and shall
do so, In spite of many sad alterations
and terrible, historical stains, to the end
of my life. I said so one evening at
BIgnon's, to Eardley.

Your French blood Is coming out.
But you are wrong about the French, asa
nation. The revocation of the Edict
of Nantes caused the expulsion of the
best blood in France — the best, I mean.

in a national sense. I confess I have no
sympathy with the French national character
as it is — blatant, frivolous, combative,
unstable. The day may come,
much as I, for one, shall grieve over it,
when the French nation, as a nation,
will disappear before the intellectual and
moral superiority of the Teuton races.

But notice that sauce, ** au vin blanc ! "
and be not too serious over that divine
bottle of Chambertin ! Be a Roman when
you are at Rome, and even, as Nero
fiddled, forget the politics of Europe in
an unexceptionable dinner.'

'Yes, but you should not be sarcastic,
if I am to enjoy it. The intellectual
colonial who moralises with satire over
the ruins of London in the future, will
probably have the excuse of an indigestible
steak, eaten hurriedly in the 'surviving

" kitchen of '^ the fittest " Fleet
Street chop-house, but you at present
have none.'

To the superficial observer it will, no
doubt, appear heartless for a man under
my circumstances to have enjoyed my
life as I apparently did in Paris. When
I was alone, I often broke down, and
found nothing left to make me wish that
it should be prolonged. But human
nature is, fortunately, so fashioned that,
however deep a man's sorrow, he cannot
always dwell on it, and as time passes
on, it undoubtedly gradually recedes into
a misty past. I do not mean that it is
forgotten, or that it will never come
before him again in absolute reality, but
that it is less and less present with him
in his daily life, and this is a great
mercy.

The day before we were to have
started for the south, I received a letter
from Mrs Penrose, which again completely
changed all my plans. It was
written with a forced calmness but too
evident to my loving eyes, and it told
me that William had been seized with a
most alarming haemorrhage the previous
night, that the local doctor looked rather
grave, and forbade his being moved to
London, and that she had, therefore,
sent for one of the best known of London
physicians to come to Carnaby, and
give an opinion. ' I do not myself at
present feel alarmed, but I fear there
must be lung disease, and it is imperative
to learn to what extent.'

This letter caused me at once to decide
to return to England ; I could not
be away from my dearest friend at such

a time. I should go to Carnaby immediately,
and leave Paris by the night
mail.

When Eardley came downstairs, I
silently handed him the letter. When
he had read it, he moved to the other
end of the room, but presently returned.

I don't know, Clare, what you mean todo.
This is the heaviest blow which has
fallen on me for many years. I love
Penrose as if he were my own son. I
shall return to England to-night. I cannot
go on. But he is young ; and these
complaints are kept in check for many,
many years, even if not cured.

'I have quite decided,' I replied, 'to
return too — first to London, and then, if
Mrs Penrose will receive me, to Carnaby.'

So our meditated travels came to an
end, and we started that evening for

England. What a miserable journey that

was ! The presentiment of evil was ever

with me. I had lost nearly everything I

held precious, and I felt a horror at the

thought that, perhaps, I was, ere long, to

lose my dearest friend — the brave, sincere,

simple man, who seemed stricken at the

moment when all the world and its glory lay

at his feet, — who had worked so bravely,

and won so much, and yet remained the

manly, affectionate, gentle soul he ever

had been at school, at college, and in the

arena of life. Eardley was absolutely

silent the whole night. I never knew

what his thoughts were ; but I am certain

they were bitter ones, and he never closed

his eyes. We parted at the London

station, but agreed to lunch together at

a club to which we both belonged. When

I reached Brook Street, where the atmosphere

seemed to freeze my heart, I found
a hurried message from Carnaby.

*SIr George admits there is advanced
lung disease, though he trusts greatly to
his comparative youth. But he must not
spend the winter in a northern climate,
and he suggests Madeira. Come hereat
once.'

I had telegraphed from Paris to say
I was on my way to London ; and I left
with Eardley by the three o'clock train
for Carnaby.

THE ANTE-CHAMBER OF DEATH.

The hour concealed, and so remote the fear,
Death still draws nearer, never seeming near ;
Great standing miracle ! that Heaven assigned.
It's only thinking thing this turn of mind.'

It was a dark night, and a windy one,
when we alighted at the Httle roadside
station, where so often William and I had
stood together, laughing and smoking,
and recalling old jests, as we waited for
the morning train to take us up to
London. It all looked gloomy enough
to-night, when the solitary porter pulled
his forelock in rustic fashion, and told us
the Carnaby dogcart was waiting for us.
Still Eardley was very silent, as he took
his seat behind ; ' A rough night, George

being his only salutation to the coachman.
It seemed, indeed, that a great storm was
imminent, as we drove along the long,
straight, chalk road which lies between
Carnaby and the station. The * wet piper *
as it used to be called in Ireland — was
whistling drearily among the trees, and
we were not sorry to turn into the avenue,
and, amid weird shadows, thrown by the
trees and our flickering lamps, to approach

•

the house. The rooks were cawing noisily,
as if alarmed for the stability of their
ancient elms, and the Manor House showed
no light but a slender streak from the
outer hall. On our drive, the old coachman,
by whose side I sat, had already
given me the latest bulletin of William,
whom the whole household adored. He
was very weak, and in bed ; but had had
no return of the bleeding, and had coughed

very little all day. I had nerved myself
to meet his mother ; for I knew if I once
gave way before her, she would lose all
power of restraint. She met us both in
her usual cordial but dignified way, in her
drawing-room.

So kind of you, Mr Eardley, to come
with Clare. William will see you both
tomorrow morning. I told him Clare
was coming. He is better, and sanguine
about his recovery. The difficulty will be
to keep him quiet, and, later on, induce him
to relinquish work. But, I fear, he must.'

Only for a time,' said Eardley hurriedly
He will get strong again, and such a
career as his must not be nipped. We
must keep his illness out of the papers.
At present, I have seen no reference
to it.'

Servants generally take the worst view of

a sick-bed ; and I found the man who
always attended on me at Carnaby was
most desponding.

The nurse says, sir,' he told me, with
tears in his eyes, * Mr William is in a
consumption.'

How we three should ever have been
able to pass that evening, with our minds so
over-clouded and anxious, I do not know,
had it not been for the wonderful fortitude
of Mrs Penrose. Though we both knew
the dull aching at her heart, she never
flagged once in cheerful conversation.
The plays in Paris, the changes in the
streets and shops since she had been there,
the great convenience of the improved
service of trains, the Court at the Tuileries
these, and similar topics, she discussed
like a true heroine. When we entered the
drawing-room, she was upstairs with her

son ; but any trace of tears, when she descended,
had been carefully obliterated.

Willy feels quite easy, and says he is
sleepy ; but he has a fancy to see you fora
moment, Clare, only to say good-night.
Don't let him talk, dear ; and come down

ao^am at once.

I went up to his room, so well remembered,
and knocked at the door, which
the nurse opened. Willy had raised himself
in his bed, and was propped up by the
large pillows, but in an instant I saw he
was very ill. So changed, so thin, so
worn ; those fine, intelligent, dark eyes
seemed full of pathos, and very hollow ;
and he looked at me with a keen, questioning
gaze, as if to read what I thought.
It was very hard and cruel to appear calm.

I am hoping, Clare, to have a goodnight,
but I wanted to thank you for

coming. I am not going to die yet.' (For
my tears would start.) ' God bless you,
dear old Clare ! You look the same
as if we were both back in the playing
fields, years ago.'

His voice was so strong, that I too felt
that, ill as he was, he had plenty of
strength left. I grasped the hand, which
he held out, and staggered downstairs.

He seems fairly well, Clare, doesn't
he ? considering what an attack it has
been. You see, he must be weak for sometime
to come, after losing so much blood ;
but I think he will have a good night, and
be much brighter in the morning.'

His voice is wonderful,' I said : Mt is
the voice of a man in perfect health.'

He always has charmed everyone with
his voice,' said Eardley. ' The reporters
in the House had never any difficulty in reporting

his speeches. It is one of those
clear, bell-Hke voices which reach every
ear, however distant, and which are the
special gift of the predestined leaders of
men.'

It was curious to see how he would not
dwell on William's illness. Again and
again he recurred to his career, to his
certain success, to his political talent. He
shut his eyes resolutely to the moral certainty
that William would never again be
able to face the excitement and fatigue of
a Parliamentary life. I sat for quarter of
an hour in Mrs Penrose's dressing-room
that night, at her request ; and there, for
the first time, she broke down.

Even if his life be spared to me, it
will not be for long ; and his career is, at
all events, ended,' she sobbed. ' Besides,
he does not feel resigned to giving up his

future. He is still eager, just as Eardley
is, for political life ; and who is ever to tell
him the terrible truth ? '

I could only weep with her, and she said
a prayer with me, on behalf of our dear one.

Ah, Clare ! I have often felt inclined, in
my long life, to show my contempt for
those who flattered me for my outward
prosperity, but I have restrained myself,
by thinking, *' if they only knew all." Life
is a strange mystery. Come and see its
earliest phase.'

She led me into a large room adjoining
her own bedroom, and which had, for
generations, been the nursery of the house.
In one corner, in a very old-fashioned
wooden cot, reposed, in profound slumber,
the little Delicia. We stood watching her
regular, peaceful breathing, shielding the
candle - light from her delicate features.

VOL. II. N

The pathos of infant sleep has often been
insisted on, and remembering all the past,
and recalling the great likeness of the
child to her mother, I felt I could not
gaze any longer.

May God bless her ! ' she said reverently,
and with profound pity. ' That is
the cot in which dearest Willy slept as a
child, and this is the room where all my
babies spent their first years. Only he is
left, and I am to lose him too. Pray, Clare,
not to live to see all your dear ones go.
To die early is, as the ancients held, a
happy fate, if we could only realise how
much weary sorrow we thus escape. But,
good-night, dear,' and she turned, with her
beautiful smile, to kiss me. ' Delicia will
live to break your heart with her flirtations,
sir, in spite of those innocent slumbers
in which she now indulges so peacefully.'

I was leaving the room, when she called
after me.

Read these verses some day. I wrote
them long ago, and came across them today
in a drawer.'

Once more in the dear old gun-room,
and alone, for Eardley did not join me.
How many pleasant evenings William and
I had spent there together in the years
gone by ! It seemed difficult to realise
that he was not there, opposite to me,
sitting in the particular chair he always
occupied. Once or twice, as I sat pondering,
and listening to the monotonous dripping
of the rain on the stones outside, and
the fierce gusts of wind among the trees,
I turned towards the empty chair, as if
to address him. Should I ever hear that
jovial laugh, and see that genial smile
again 1 or was he to be only an invalid for

the rest of his life ? — he so independent,
so self-recant, not only to sit helpless and
see 'the story of his days' (in Raleigh's
fine phrase) ' shut up,' but also to have to
look to others for the little alleviations of
his lot ? But there was no answer. The
clock bell in the ancient turret on the
house tolled out the hours, and the half-hours,
and the quarter hours, and the
church bell chimed on, amid the raging of
the elements, over the silent graves where
slept the children, whom God had loved
and taken to Himself, from their desolate
mother. I remembered the verses she
had given me, and with tears I need not
now be ashamed to think of, I read them
to myself in that solitary room.

BY THE SEA.

I often pause where their ashes sleep,

And moulder in decay,
Where the roses bloom, and the willows weep
O'er my loved ones passed away.

'- And then, in the soft faint light of even,

Memory paints those angels fair ;
While I turn my aching eyes to Heaven,
And trust they are sheltered there.

Wide to the horizon's utmost verge

The circling billows roar,
And there comes to my heart the murmuring surge, —
The moan of the never more !

Yon rising orb which I gaze on now.

As it gleams on the glancing waves.
And casts a beam on my throbbing brow,
Shines too on those lonely graves.

What was mortal sleeps. Each soul has risen

Far above yon moonlit sky ;
I shall see them yet, when, freed from prison,
I whisper the world good-bye.

In a pensive vale, and its shadowy bowers,

They were wont with me to stray ;
With the river's song and the breath of flowers
Life's spring-time passed away.

'■ And no pain they knew, nor sorrow, nor care,

Their youth was a soft sweet tune.
O God ! when to look on the past I dare,
Ip ray to follow them soon.'

THE END.

Forget me not as they forget,
Hush'd from the fever and the fret,
From all long life's remembrance free,
Though I forget, remember yet —
Forget not me ! '

The next day William seemed quite a
different being. Even the local doctor
was surprised, on his arrival in the morning,
at his extraordinary recovery of strength
and spirits. He insisted on being dressed,
and moved on to the sofa in the delightful
book-room, looking over the gardens — perhaps,
of all the charming rooms at Carnaby,
the most attractive. Filled with the most
valuable books the house possesses, its bookcases
completely cover the walls, except

where, here and there, a gap admits of a
map being hung, or a statuette placed.
Here, too, is one of the choicest collections
of ancient musical instruments to be found in
any English manor house, arranged with
precision in two large cases, standing in
the mullions windows, from which a wide
view extends beyond the gardens and fishponds
to the distant parts of the park.
Into this delightful room, on to which the
late autumn sun was pouring its rays,
William was carefully carried, and placed
on a couch near a window. A fire had
been lighted, by the doctor's order, and
here Eardley found his political pupil,
though altered and thin, ever so much
better than he had, in his inmost heart,
dared to hope. I did not witness their
meeting, but went up, at the mother's
bidding, to prevent the interview being

too prolonged. They both seemed already
living in the future, with eager
eyes and gesture, discussing the situation.
Eardley was speaking.

No Government, I tell you, which he
can form, can possibly last long at this
juncture ; but I know his cards. To begin
with, the Licensing Laws, and then the
eternal question of Reform. He calls himself
a Conservative even now, and he will
try to pass the most Radical measure of
modern times. No wonder the Carlton
dreads such men ; but I doubt his success.
His followers are dazzled by his brilliancy,
but they always mistrust his guidance.'

William was listening eagerly, and with
an excitement almost painful to me to
witness.

And you talked of going to Egypt,
Eardley ! Every man should be at his

post at such a moment. All the winter
should be spent in agitation, and in endeavouring
to drive the truth into the
dense, selfish minds of the urban electors.
It is misery to be a poor cripple like meat
times such as these.'

There comes a time, my dear fellow,
when it is better to remain quiet than to
agitate. We are in bad odour just now in
the country, chiefly through gross mismanagement
of small and trivial matters. In
my view, the true diplomacy, therefore,
for the party, is to let our foes do their
worst. Give them plenty of rope, with
the usual result. I feel the same avidity
for mingling in the fray as you do, and
meant to restrain it by going East. Don't
regret your temporary illness. It won't
injure our party.'

I am sure Eardley was sincere, but he

was so engrossed by the interest of his
topic, that he failed to see dear William's
exhaustion after this long interview. He
was going back to London that afternoon,
and, at a look from me, he said good-bye.

I have scarcely ever, in rather a sorrowful
life, seen a sadder picture than that of
the handsome young statesman lying on
his sofa in the beautiful room, on that perfectly
still October day, and wistfully following
with his sparkling eyes the retreating
figure of his friend and patron. ' If I was
only as strong as he is,' I heard him mutter,
and I did not trust myself to answer him.

It is, perhaps, comparatively easy for the
sexless pale nun to kneel, beneath the splendours
of mediaeval glass, in the convent
chapel, and to murmur devoutly, ' Fiat voluntas
tua;^ but it is a harder task for the
man, who has already tasted success, and

whose ambition, and active brain, defy
physical disease, to bow humbly and submissively
to the Divine decree, which
simply states, ' Thy soul is required of
thee.'

William was again, the next day, subject
to one of those sudden changes in condition
which are the most trying peculiarity
of the disease which we call consumption.
The London doctor again came to Carnaby,
and on this occasion advised that William
should be taken to Torquay at once ; that
is to say, as soon as he should recover from
his present relapse. The doctor had not
said so, but both Mrs Penrose and I
silently and despairingly noted that he
talked no more of the lengthy journey to
Materia. It was settled between us that
I should start first for Torquay with her
butler, who had been in her service for

many years, and arrange the comfort of the
villa she had taken, before she and the
invalid and his nurse arrived.

Meantime, it became impossible to conceal
the fact of the illness of a person so
well-known in the world as William had
long been. A summons came for him to
go to Windsor to be sworn in a member of
the Privy Council, and it was necessary to
announce how seriously ill he was. Paragraphs
in the newspapers made their appearance,
which I endeavoured to prevent
Mrs Penrose seeing, but the letters poured
in, which rendered all such attempts futile.
I often saw them in piles on the table in
her own ' sanctum,' and she told me she
could not, on some days, bring herself to
open them. At other times, she seemed
more cheerful, and gratified at the affectionate
terms of the letters from old friends.

and, still more, at the interest with which
comparative strangers wrote. But, at all
times, she retained her firm, unflinching
humble trust in the great mercy of the
Almighty. There was no cant about her
faith, no open protestation ; her prayers
were most emphatically uttered 'in secret;'
but in this the supreme trial of her long
life, there was no doubt or suspicion of
failure. If it pleased Him to remove her
last remaining prop, her darling gifted son,
still she could, albeit with streaming eyes,
and breaking heart, murmur to 'herself,
Thy will be done.'

I cannot now express in words what an
effect this calmness and reliance on the
Divine power had upon me at this time, or
how greatly my own efforts to trust all to
the mercy and over-ruling love of a Supreme
Being were strengthened by it.

Meanwhile William's condition daily improved
in the genial climate of Torquay.
He was able to drive every afternoon, and
often to walk in the morning in the gardens
of our villa, which was beautifully situated
on the hill overlooking the bay, with a
distant view of Brigham. William, in
those days, was never tired of watching
the sea. Formerly he had rather neglected
his reading, but now, he delighted in hearing
his mother quote from memory the
grand passages dating from Homeric to
Byronic times, which attempt to describe
the indescribable loveliness and variety of
the ocean. Often, in one of the windows,
I found him watching the Brigham fishing-fleet,
with their picturesque sails, returning
to the bay after their nightly expedition.
But politics still retained their hold upon
his mind and imagination, and Eardley,

who was constantly at Torquay, never
failed, you may be sure, to keep up the
infatuation that he would return to his
great career.

It is wonderful how" much this climate
has done for me,' I heard him saying to
his political master one day ; ' I feel a
different being. You will see in the
spring I shall be back in the House
again.'

Of course, my dear boy ; and I shall
be surprised if we are left out in the
cold very long. It's a very rash thing
to try to tackle the Publican interest.
They had much better have left it alone.
*' Bung " is a great man in this enlightened
country of ours : and the opulent
brewers and distillers who dispense charity
so munificently, and who, on the other
hand, have indirectly done so much to

demoralise and pauperise the lower classes,
will have a great deal to say for themselves
at the bye-elections.'

I listened to all this but very indifferently.
I never could have cared for
politics, even in an ideal Republic, much
less when they are steeped, as it seems
to me, in America, and even in England
they now are, with all that an English
gentleman was taught in former times
to despise and abjure. Yet William was
the soul of honour, and had always
laughed at my ideas on this subject as
utterly Quixotic.

To me, few personal events of interest
occurred as the winter passed away. The
Duke of Southamam died and left me a
legacy of one thousand pounds, as his
will expressed it, ' to denote my admiration
of his total ignorance of the value of

money, and with the special request that
he will not give it away within a period
of twelve months from the date of my
decease.' I saw, also, in the papers I
received from Mr Bandon, an Intimation
that my divorce proceedings had terminated.
I was, therefore, a free man, and
legally able, at the end of another six
months, to venture again, if I chose todo
so, on the risky voyage of matrimony.
Mr Bandon also informed me that * he
understood that as soon as the decree
was made absolute, my late wife would
marry the Count Paolo Bianchi. I felt
glad that this was to be so : for, though
I thought it most improbable that such
a marriage could eventually prove a happy
one, I had no feeling of vindictiveness
left now, and, at least, she would thus
be a married woman, and if the man

VOL. II. o

was not a cur, he would behave decently
to her, considering what she had sacrificed
for him, and what a large fortune
she brought him upon their marriage.

Mrs Penrose, who sometimes, though
rarely, in our evening seashore walks,
alluded to my married life, once said tome,
—

It is wonderful, as we grow old and
near the end of our pilgrimage, how
diminutive the big things of our youth
and middle age become. Everyone
knows the sensation of re-visiting, after
many, many years, the place or house
with which one was so familiar in childhood.
It always seemed so large and so
important in one's own eyes then, and
now we see it in a different aspect. We
retain, perhaps, our romance : but one
never realised until now how small and

how stunted It all is, — how unimportant,
in view of all we have done and seen
and thought in these long years which
are past. Ah ! Clare, that is almost
universal experience. You will live, I
trust, to a good old age, and you will
look back upon this great trial as a small
one, and perhaps, in the exultation of a
great happiness, realise that, after all, it
was intended to make your life instead
of to mar it.'

I grasped the hand she held out so
sympathetically.

Yours is always the voice of Faith
and Hope and Charity ; and yet you
have suffered so much.'

I have had a letter to-day from your
cousin Ida de Chamier,' she said, changing
the subject. * Imagine her father
being about to marry again ! '

And who is the happy lady ? '

A widow of a suitable age, an Irishwoman,
whose husband was a Judge —
probably you know all about her — a Mrs
Lely. But I am sorry for Ida, as it
will somewhat break up her life : and I
mean to invite her to be with me, whenever
and as long as she wishes, at Car-nay,
after the marriage has taken place.
She likes her future stepmother, fortunately
: but still, it will be pleasant for
her to feel she has another home now
beside her father's house.'

That night we were recalled from all
other thoughts or speculations by a grave
relapse in dear William's condition. A
slight change in the weather, a drive
prolonged, perhaps, beyond the prudent
limit, an east wind which suddenly
springs up, — these are the slight causes

which lead, as we have all experienced,
to such direful results.

The Torquay doctors both agreed that
William had taken a chill, in spite of all
the anxious care with which he had been
surrounded, and that there was congestion
of one lung.

All through that first night I lay awake,
and could hear the fatal coughing of my
old friend. Christmas was approaching,
and, as I tossed restlessly from side to
side, I heard outside the music of the
waits.* They were singing ' Adeste
Fideles ' : and the familiar music sounded
with a melancholy intonation in my ear,
for I now knew that the old Christmas
gatherings of Carnaby, at which William
and I had spent so many jovial evenings,
would return no more, and these choirs
without seemed to play the funeral

march of our happy, ancient friendship.


The melody sounded fainter and fainter
in the distance, and at last, like the ghostly
music of a Scotch haunted house, died
gently away.

Suddenly I became aware that my door
was opening. It was Eardley, who had
arrived at the house late that night, on
a summons from me.

There is a change for the worse,' he
said hoarsely. * His mother is with him,
and she asked for you. He is quite
delirious.'

I huddled on some clothes, and we
both went silently up in the grey dawn.
I shall never forget what I saw as I
entered dear William's deathbed chamber.
He was sitting up in his bed, seemingly
addressing some person or assembly, while

his arms were crossed. His mother, pale
as death, supported the pillows at his
back, and the nurse wetted his parched
and feverish tongue. As we entered, he
raised one arm, and in his delirium suddenly
exclaimed, * Hark ! do you not
hear ! The Division bell has rung : ' and
he fell back.

Alas ! for him it had indeed rung ! the
Division between the loved ones whom, we
have lost, and the mourners whose tears
shall be wiped away, — between human
hopes and ambitious aspirations and the
silence and awful solitude of those left
to stare mutely and helplessly at death, —
that great Division between the pomps
and vanities of this present world and
the realisation of immortality in the life
to come.

We were all kneeling by his bedside,

when Mrs Penrose cried, in the voice of
despair, * Has no one a prayer to say for
us ? ' And then I heard the successful
statesman, in a voice broken by sobs, repeating
the Lord's Prayer, as he had
learned it at his mother's knee. When
he had finished, and in the hush which
momentarily followed, the bereaved mother
murmured the words from the hymn : —

A few more struggles here,

A few more partings o'er,
A few more toils, a few more tears,
And we shall weep no more.'

BEYOND.
'A wretched soul bruised with adversity.'

William was buried in Carnaby churchyard,
in a terrible fall of snow, still remembered
in that county. At his grave stood
many distinguished statesmen : so many
famous people had never before been
assembled in that quiet churchyard, some
of whom turned aside for a few hours from
the struggles of public life and ambition,
and even shed tears over the grand career
of the man, so earnest, so simple, and so
honest, thus abruptly closed.

A beautiful window was placed by public
subscription to his memory in the church,
and, at my request, Mrs Penrose added to

the inscription she had placed on his tomb
the lines I have always so much admired,
which D'Alembert suggested as an epitaph
for the grave of Fenton, the good and
famous Archbishop of Camera : —

Traveller, efface not by thy tears this epitaph ;
Let others read it, and weep as well as thou.'

I am afraid that, to my readers, if I have
any, these records have seemed a book of
tears ; and I have already pleaded guilty
to a certain morbid view of life, due,
perhaps, it may be remembered as my
apology, to a somewhat chequered existence.
But in hastening to the end of all,
I mean to write about myself, I must
again record that once more I took flight.
The love of travel is a very strong passion :
it came to me in my boyish days, and
is still a power in my life. But I could
not have left Mrs Penrose without being

assured that, during my absence, she
would be carefully tended and watched in
the absolute desolation of her life. I knew
quite well that it was impossible she could
ever recover the shock of our dear Willy's
death. However long her time vouchsafed
here on earth, it could but be a
period of resignation on her part ; and it
was but too true that nothing was left to
her to hope for in this world. But, at
this juncture, worn out and desponding as
I was, it was the greatest possible comfort
to me to see Ida de Chamier taking her
place at Carnaby as a daughter, and, with
infinite tenderness and affection, endeavouring,
not indeed to assuage the forlorn
mother's grief, but to make the life which
remained supportable. Well as, years ago,
I had reckoned up the gentle, womanly
virtues, and the great mental force of my

cousin Ideas character, I never, perhaps,
until now, realised how beautiful her nature
was. Mrs Penrose most fortunately had
many and imperative duties connected with
her large estates, and the great number of
pensioners on her bounty ; and Ida, with
marvellous tact, took advantage of this fact
to take her out of herself as much as possible.
It was to this task and labour of
love I left her and my dearest friend a few
weeks after our bereavement. The doctors
frankly told me I must go, and I often
felt myself that my brain might become
diseased, and my ultimate destination bea
lunatic asylum, if I did not obey their
orders. Through all that time, I seemed
to live in daily intercourse with my dead
friend, — to constantly question him on
matters of personal concern, — to receive his
clear and manly answers, — to see his smile,

and hear his laugh. Then, Hke a clap of
thunder from a cloudless sky, burst on me
the truth. He was gone, she was gone,
everything was gone. God help me ! was
I becoming mad .-^

One early morning, as the English
spring was deceptively making Its debut
with blue skies and a southerly breeze, I
started in a large vessel from Plymouth,
bound for Sydney.

For a long time during the voyage, and
after I landed in Australia, my strange
delusions lasted ; and, with all the cunning
of a mind diseased, I carefully concealed
from everyone my imaginary conversations
with my dead friend. Once I remember
nearly betraying myself, when a fellow-passenger,
not, of course, cognisant of my
intimacy with him, alluded to the melancholy
and untimely death of so rising and

distinguished a young man. I quelled my
impulse to deny the fact of his death, and
affected an indifference which afterwards,
in my cabin, cost me many bitter tears.
I am quite certain, so far as one can
presume to judge, that the dead we have
loved, and who have loved us, have no
knowledge of our human life and its vicissitudes
; nor would I personally wish it
otherwise. Reflect, for an instant, on the
history of human lives you have known,
and you must admit that the sorrow, and
agony, and disappointment such a knowledge
would often entail upon the dead,
are totally inconsistent with the calm rest
and tranquillity with which we ought to
associate * the great majority.' Could William
have seen and realised my delusions,
and the state of my distraught mind, as I
wandered round the world, his spirit could

not have rested content ; and It was not
his spirit which ever troubled my slumbers,
but my own unbalanced imagination.
A year soon passed away, and every
mail, wherever I was, brought me tidings,
either from the lady of the manor, or
sometimes from her deputy, my cousin
Ida. They never omitted to write,
or to say they longed to welcome me

home. Once Mrs Penrose went so far

•

in her letter as to say, — ' And, dearest
Clare, it is not absolutely true that there
is no object left me to wish for in this
life. To see you truly happy, still remains
as my last ambition, and somehow
I think there is another person who
shares this last wish of a poor desolate
old woman.'

At last, my health — both physical and
mental — was greatly restored, and I left

'Frisco for New York, with a view to
returning again to Europe. But, instead
of proceeding direct to New York, under
an uncontrollable impulse I swerved aside
to visit Niagara once more, and then,
overwhelmed with the memory of the
past, I broke down altogether, and uttered
the prayer before alluded to in these
pages.

In New York I fell upon Mr Buer,
who resolved evidently to do all he could,
during the few days I remained in the
city, to divert my thoughts. He insisted
on my becoming his guest in his gorgeous
home in the Fifth Avenue, and on escorting
me to all the theatres, and places of
amusement — which, by the way, are remarkably
few in number — in New York.

The night before I sailed, we dined
with two of his friends at Delmonico's. A

most elaborate dinner had been ordered
there early in the day, and precautions
taken to secure a table, — precautions
which were useless, for, as is usually the
case in that gorgeous, glittering diningroom
downstairs, the crowd was overwhelming
; and at last, growing weary of
waiting for a table, and our host being a
man of some importance in the city, we
were conducted upstairs to a smaller aid
magnificently decorated room, where the
inevitable oysters, and the Chateau Yquem,
at once made their appearance. There
were a few other diners in this reserved
apartment ; and Mr Buer amused his
guests by telling us who they were,
and recalling the strange histories of
these handsome and magnificently-attired
ladies, whose diamonds flashed on every
side of us.

VOL. II. p

These elaborate dinners,' Mr Buer
was observing, ' are very much wasted on
the female sex. In reality, they nearly
always despise the art of cooking, and
merely affect an interest in it to please
the other sex.'

There speaks the old bachelor,' replied
gaily one of his guests. ' I can only tell
you, if I want a sound opinion on a new
brand of claret or champagne, I always
ask my wife to taste it at dinner, and I
generally find her judgment to be correct.'

When I spoke of elaborate dinners, I
was not referring to wine.'

But the attention of our table was
called to the entry in the room of a very
tall and striking-looking woman, dressed
in the extremest fashion, and attended
by a dark slim young man, and an elderly
duenna. As they brushed past our table,

I looked up, and felt my heart momentarily
stand still. The party consisted of
the Count and Countess Bianchi, and her
mother, Mrs McCarthy ; and they placed
themselves at a table only a short distance
from ours. It was a terrible
moment for me ; but Buer, who thoroughly
realised the situation, and was perfectly
well acquainted with Dora, at once advised
absolute calmness and indifference.

There is nothing unusual over here,
I assure you, my dear friend, in such
encounters. To leave the room would
only be a cause of ridicule to that low
scoundrel. We must finish and enjoy
our dinner, as we best can ; but I'm real
sorry we couldn't do so without this
complication.'

How I sat on through that meal I
cannot now comprehend. Of course

Mrs McCarthy and her daughter at once
perceived our presence, and evidently
determined, after a short and earnest
conversation, to remain where they were.
If I had desired one more proof of the
fatal mistake of my marriage, and one
more blow to shatter the idol of clay I
had once set up on high, I had it herein
this gorgeous restaurant

Dora's beautiful eyes never seemed to
turn towards me ; but they wandered
eagerly round the room ; and their
languor and poetical dreaminess were
things of the past. We left the room
at last, after what seemed to me an interminable
time ; and, glancing at her
sitting there in all her finery — her Brussels
lace, and her Brazilian diamonds —
I turned with a feeling akin to contempt,
for my own delusions first, and then

with pity as well for her, — the living
portrait of * Profane Love.'

At seven o'clock the next morning I
was taking my last look, for a long time,
at the And of freedom,' as the huge
vessel made her way through the crowds
of ferry and pleasure steamers in the
harbour of New York.

SACRED LOVE.

I had not loved thee, dear, so much,
Loved I not honour more.'

If I sometimes fancied that I possessed
a prophetic intuition of coming evil and
disaster, I certainly can lay no claim to
any power of foreseeing happiness ; for I
arrived in England with a weary, desolate
heart. And yet, though I had no prescience
on the subject, I stood at that
moment like the famous Hebrew on
Pisgah's summit, and the ' land of promise
' lay beneath me. The * land of promise'
often lies before us in the distant
valleys, enveloped in the golden and uncertain
mists which Turner loved to paint,

o

and, like Moses, we never enter It, and that
divine atmosphere remains a lovely and a
vague recollection to the end of our mortal
existence. But for me, though I knew
it not, there awaited a beatific journey
through that heavenly country as the
mists cleared away, day by day disclosing
greater beauty and more complete happiness.
Those gorgeous golden mists have
long since lifted. I see the purple hills
beyond, and those pellucid lakes, the
forests of eternal green ; for the sun of
sacred love ' has dispelled the fleeting
clouds which hid from me the beauty of
the world which is.

Yet Carnaby was a melancholy house,
and the lady of the manor a very altered,
saddened woman. In spite of Ida's constant
help, she had found it impossible to
return at all to her former life. But few

guests ever came to the Manor House
now, and Mrs Penrose scarcely ever
quitted her gardens or park except when
business compelled her to do so. Her
London house was entirely closed, and she
even talked of selling it. In the village the
old inhabitants shook their heads sorrowfully,
for they could not fail to note on
Sundays the whitened hair and halting
gait of the one who had so generously, so
faithfully, and for so many years, provided
for them. It was a beautiful sio^ht to see
Ida supporting her as they walked up to
the chancel together. I remember that a
new Rector had come during my absence
to Carnaby, and, in my talks with him,
what an agony I felt in being unable to
make him realise how brilliant, how enthusiastic,
how poetical, his patroness had
been. To him, I suppose, she appeared

a broken-down, melancholy old woman,
oppressed with age and grief ; and when I
described to him what she had been to me,
and to hundreds of others in the past, he
seemed to be unable to understand. So
great was my affection for her, that it became
impossible for me to have any
interest in the society of those who had
not known her as she was. Between my
cousin and myself this mutual tie of veneration
and love was very strong, and we
often found ourselves lamenting that we

o

could in no way help to fill up the gap
which dear William's death had caused.

One day Mrs Penrose said to me, ' You
are both far too good to me, and it is very
dull for you to spend your time in trying
to cheer up a poor desolate old woman.
Take Ida for a drive this afternoon : she
has not been outside the gates for two days.*

It was a summer afternoon, so still that
the buzz of insect life was the only sound
one could distinguish. The water-birds
seemed to be sleeping among the lilies,
and even the fish were too lazy to take
note of the dragon-flies flitting lazily above
the water's edge. The horses came round,
and Ida mounted on the box seat by my
side. I never asked her in which direction
she wished to go, nor did I, at first,
realise myself what our destination was
to be. But I chose a shady road, and I
drove the horses leisurely ; and we both,
every now and then, languidly exchanged
ideas. It was not a day for either physical
or mental exertion. I do not know how it
came about, but, as we slowly mounted
a hill, Ida suddenly exclaimed, looking
down on the valley, —
* Why, surely that is Elcote ! '

As she said it, a delightful blush mounted
to her cheeks ; for she could not forget
that in those orchards of my surrendered
inheritance she had refused to accept my
early love.

So it is I replied innocently, 'and, as
we have come so far, let us once more
visit the old place. I hear it has been
shut up for the last year, so we shall not
encounter any of the Sherlock family.'

Ida did not reply ; and I interpreted
her silence as meaning consent. But, as
we drove up the linden avenue, laden
with its sweet perfume, where the humming
of the bees reproached us for our
indolence, a rush of memory came over
me. It was not that I recollected then
how I had thrown away, for unworthy
love, this beautiful and unique inheritance
; but that morning after my dead

friend's election returned to me with all
the vividness of the misery I had endured
amid the general rejoicing at my
poor William's success. Of what use
was that success now? It had only enhanced
the bitterness of early death.
And I — poor unambitious I — was here
once more, as a spectator, revisiting with
Ida the scene of that refusal on her
part which had seemingly so helped to
wreck my life. We entered together
the beautiful old iron gate, and were
admitted into the well-remembered hall,
with its massive beams, and splendid
oak carving. I explained to a new
housekeeper who I was, and we were
allowed to wander out behind the house ;
and there, under the shade of the ancient
apple trees, we sat down, and took our
rest.

Several minutes elapsed before either
of us spoke, and it is certain that our
thoughts were together in that mutual
retrospect. I turned at last to her, and,
holding out my hand, said gently, —

'The same beautiful old scene, Ida —
and are pott the same ? '

The very same,' she answered, with
a passionate quiver in her voice, — ' the
very same woman who would not accept
such a sacrifice on your part as you
offered me in your generous, impetuous
youth. You asked me to blight every
worldly prospect you possessed, — to deprive
you of your inheritance, and your
social position. How could you expect
any girl, Clare, who respected herself
and you, to agree to that .^ I could
never have held my head up again,
when I had always before me the vision

of what you might have been, but for
your ill-starred love for me.'

And yet they say, Ida, love is self-sacrifice.'


It is, Clare. I am a woman now ; I
was only a young girl then ; and I know
the sacrifice I made.'

Stop ! ' I cried joyously, with sudden
intuition ; * can it be possible, after all these
years, and all which they have cost us, you
will marry me now ? '

She took my hand, and smiled in her
old vivacious way.

We must make no more mistakes.
Why, Clare, you must be blind not to
have seen I have always loved you, and
no one else but you. It was because I
loved you so dearly that I could not, even
for love's sake, do you grievous wrong.
I had long made up my mind to the life

to which Providence destined me — not a
bright, or distinguished, or adventurous
life, — but one such as thousands of single
women live, trying to do my duty, and to
make the life of others more happy than
my own. I have found, as you know,
that interest at Carnaby ; but it has been
willed otherwise,' — and she fell into my
arms.

I never shall, Ida,' I said, after a
delicious pause, ' agree in your view. You
would have sacrificed yourself and me to
a false idea. In fact, you did so.'

At all events,' she murmured, ' I have
my reward. I do not deprive you of anything
in marrying you, dearest cousin ;
and, perhaps, you may think I bring you
something to console you for your
loss.'

The most lovely face in the world,

and the most beautiful nature I have
ever known.'

We sat long together in that orchard,
so full of memory to us both, until the
strokes of the neighbouring clock recalled
us from our delightful dream of tenderness
and hope to the lateness of the hour ;
and, as we sauntered along to find the
coachman and order the carriage, Ida
said, very gently, —

And do not forget, dear, little Delicia 1
I shall try to make her love me. Indeed,
she does so already, I hope. How happy
we shall be, and how delighted Mrs Penrose
will be to hear our news ! Do you
know, our marriage has been the dream
of her life for years, though she once told
me she sent you to America to separate
us ? '

It was one of the finest traits of her

noble character that, even at this instant,
she thought more of the happiness our
union would bring to others, — to me, to
Delicia, to Mrs Penrose, — than of her
own bliss. Infinitely below her in every
moral attribute, I thought just then only
of our two selves.

VOL. II.

THE PROMISED LAND.

En resonant au monde et a la fortune, j'ai trouve
le bonheur, le calme, le santa, meme la richesse
et en cepit du proverbe, je m'apper^ois que qui
quitte la partie la gagne.'

These fragmentary pages must now be
closed. What remains of life to me is
too sacred to be revealed, and would
appear too monotonous, and possibly, in
these unsentimental times, too unreal to
be interesting, or even to be believed.
For many years after our marriage, Car-nay
was our home ; and only one blessing
was denied us — for Ida and I never had
any children ; but Delicia grew up a lovely
and an amiable girl ; and her story may

probably be a more interesting one hereafter
than ours. .

We took many delightful journeys together
; for Ida still shared my passion
for travel ; but we always returned gladly
to Carnaby. Our other home, latterly,
was Paris, where we now spend a portion
of every year. Both she and I had long
ago gauged the miserable folly of living
for society, and sacrificing time and happiness
in the service of the hardest, most
ungrateful, and most exacting of taskmasters.
Many friends we have always
had ; but for mere acquaintances of the
worldly sort we have nq hankering ; and,
with our slight literary bias, we prefer for
friends those who have brains as well as
hearts. The model of such friendship, to
which we owe what can never be repaid,
and of whose memory I cannot, even to

Ida, ever speak without tears, remains
the lady of the manor. And, in our
mutual prayers, when this life of happiness
shall be over, and the summons comes
to snap the union of our lives and love,
we hope to meet her again whose noble
life we bless ; for ' the righteous shall be
had in everlasting remembrance But this
is a prayer, and not a belief.

Mr Eardley is a great man now, and
controls great events. He sometimes
writes to me, and during our few and
brief visits to London, he dines with us ;
and I go to the House to hear his eloquent
voice once more. That voice has los
none of its persuasive eloquence or charm;
and it is always uplifted on behalf of the
weak or suffering, or the maligned, and the
oppressed. Latterly, he has been a strong
advocate of women's suffrage ; but then,

as Ida observes, he is still a bachelor.
Perhaps, because I am not a great man
myself, political success does not seem tome
to have improved Eardley's character,
either as a man or a critic.

Ladies lose that softness and delicacy of
feature, which is a special physical charm
of the sex, when they devote themselves
to violent out-door exercise, especially in
the hunting-field ; and it may be that the
struggle of politics hardens, but does not
refine, the masculine mind.

As for Mrs Rosemere, she has long
since, as might have been expected, sunk
out of social view. She lives with her
sister in some of the modern Kensington
suburbs ; and, trading on the name of her
brother-in-law, the General, Miss Amelia
keeps a species of lodging-house, chiefly
frequented by French ladies of the bourgeois

class, who temporarily believe that,
under the chaperonage of these two plausible
daughters of the whilom Exeter parson,
they will see something of English
High Life,' — a delusion, needless to say,

of short duration.

«

The General has grown to be a very
old man, but, on the whole, a happy one,
albeit frequent twinges of the gout. When
in London, I talk over old times with him
at his club ; and he is one of the few left
who still remember my grandmother, —
a" link between a bygone and forgotten
generation and the present.

M. de Chamier lives a very contented
life with his second wife, and has set up a
nursery in his old age. It is a great disappointment
to him to have no grandchildren
; but the Huguenot line will not
be extinct, as he has two boys.

And as for myself, I agree with Canon
Caryl, whom we meet at times abroad
and at home, that the world does not
improve. The social barriers, which so
long existed, have long since been thrown
down, and trampled under foot. Practically,
we have Universal Suffrage ; and the
days of religious establishments are held
to be numbered. Literature is at the
command of all, — both cheap and coarse,
religious and secular. The Peerage has
necessarily largely lost its prestige, when
shopkeepers have declined coronets.
Clearly, English society has made great
strides ; and law is to be respected as
suits the convenience of those who read
it. When I reflect on my early days and
education, and the morals and manners of
Lady Duncan's set, and contrast them with
what I see now, I cannot help laughing

with the philosopher Democritus. But
progress and reform are high-sounding
phrases, and may yet be found to be vox
et praeterea nihil.

THE END.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

June 1889.

F. V. White ^ Co's

LIST OF

PUBLICATIONS.

VOL. II. R

NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES IN TOWN AND COUNTRY.

BEAUTIFUL JIM.

By JOHN STRANGE WINTER, Author of "Booties' Baby,"
"Mignon's Husband," "Booties' Children," &c. 2 Vols.

PURPLE AND FINE LINP:N.

By Mrs ALEXANDER ERASER. 3 Vols.

LONG ODDS.

By HAWLEY SMART. 3 Vols.

LANDING A PRIZE.

By Mrs EDWARD Renard, Author of " The Girl in the
Brown Habit." 3 Vols.

ON CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.

By FLORENCE MARRY AT. Author of "My Sister the
Actress." 3 Vols.

A LOST WIFE.

By Mrs H. Loveth CAMERON, Author of "In a (grass
Country," "A North Country Maid," &c. 3 Vols.

THAT OTHER WOMAN.

By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Cudlip). 3 Vols.

SEVERED TIES.

By Mrs HENRY W YLDE. 3 Vols.

THE QUEEN ANNE'S GATE MYSTERY.

By RICHARD ARK WRIGHT. 2 Vols.

A DISTRACTING GUEST.

By Mrs ROBERT JOCELYN. 2 Vols.

MISS KATE.

By "Eta." 1 Vol. 6s.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

THE Works OP JOHN STRANGE WINTER.

UNIFORM I^^ STYLE AND PRICE.

Each in Paper Covers, Is ; Cloth, Is. 6d. At all Booksellers & Bookstalls.

A LITTLE FOOL. fin June.)

MY POOR DICK.

(4th Edition.) Illustrated by Maurice Greiffenhagen.

BOOTLES' CHILDREN.

(5th Edition.) Illustrated by J. Bernard Partridge.

"John Strange Winter is never more thoroughly at home than when delineating
the characters of children, and everyone will be delighted with the dignified Made
and the quaint Pearl. The book is mainly occupied with the love affairs of Terry
(the soldier servant who appears in many of the preceding books), but the children
buzz in and out of its pages much as they would come in and out of a room in real
life, pervading and brightening the house in which they dwell." — Leicester Daily
Post

THE CONFESSIONS OF A PUBLISHER.

"The much discussed question of the relations between a publisher and his
clients furnishes Mr John Strange Winter with material for one of th brightest
tales of the season. Abel Drinkwater'a autobiography is written from a humorous
point of view: yet here, as elsewhere, ' many a true word is spoken in jest,' and in
the conversations of the publisher and his too ingenuous son facts come to light
that are worthy of the attention of aspirants to literary fame." — Morning Post.

MIGNON'S HUSBAND.

(8th Edition.)
It is a capital love story, full of high spirits, and written in a dashing style that
will charm the most melancholy of readers into hearty enjoyment of its fun." —
Scotsman.

THAT IMP.

(7th Edition.)

barrack life is abandoned for the nonce, and the author of 'Booties' Baby'
introduces readers to a country home replete with every comfort, and containing
men and women whose acquaintanceship we can only regret can never blossom
into friendship." — Whitehall Review.

This charming little book is bright and breezy, and has the ring of supreme
truth about it." — Vanity Fair.

MIGNON'S SECRET.

(11th Edition.)
"In ' Mignonne Secret' Mr Winter has supplied a continuation to the never-to-be-forgotten
' Booties' Baby.' . . . The story is gracefully and touchingly told."
John Bull.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

The Works of JOHN STRANGE "WmT EH— Continued.

ON MARCH. (6th Edition.)

"This short story is characterised by Mr Winter's customary truth in detail,
humour, and pathos." — Academy.

By publishing ' On March,' Mr J. S. Winter has added another little gem to his
well-known store of regimental sketches. The story is written with humour and
a deal of feeling." — Army and Navy Gazette.

IN QUARTERS. (7th Edition.)

'sin Quarters' is one of those rattling tales of soldiers' life which the public
have learned to thoroughly appreciate"— TAe Graphic.

The author of ' Booties' Baby ' gives us here another story of military life, which
few have better described." — British Quarterly Review.

ARMY SOCIETY: Life in a Garrison Town.

Cloth, 6s. ; also in Picture Boards, 2s. (8th Edition.)

"This discursive story, dealing with life in a garrison town, is full of the pleasant
go ' and movement which has distinguished ' Booties' Baby,' ' Pluck,' or, in fact, a
majority of some half-dozen novelettes which the author has submitted to the eyes
of railway bookstall patronisers." — Daily Telegraph.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton.

(A Sequel to "Army Society") Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; also in Picture
Boards, 2s. (4th Edition.)

' Garrison Gossip ' may fairly rank with ' Cavalry Life,' and the various other
books with which Mr Winter has so agreeably beguiled our leisure hours." —
Saturday Review.

The novel fully maintains the reputation which its author has been fortunate
enough to gain in a special line of his own." — Graphic.

A SIEGE BABY.

Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s.

The story which gives its title to this new sheaf of stories by the popular author
of ' Booties' Baby ' is a very touching and pathetic one. . . . Amongst the other
stories, the one entitled ' Out of the Mists' is, perhaps, the best written, although
the tale of true love it embodies comes to a most melancholy ending." — County
Gentleman.

BEAUTIFUL JIM.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d.

F. V. WHITE & Co 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

Mrs Edward Kennard's Sporting Novels.

At all Booksellers and Bookstalls.

OUR FRIENDS IN THE HUNTING FIELD.

Cloth, 2s. 6d. fin June.)

A CRACK COUNTY.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d.

THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s. (4th Edition.)

'" Nell Fitzgerald ' is an irreproachable heroine, full of gentle womanliness, and
rich in all virtues that make her kind estimable" — iJai/y Telegraph.

There is a wonderful freshness about this novel which cannot fail to charm
even those who have never ridden to hoanda " —Court Journal.

KILLED IN THE OPEN.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Board, 2s. (3d Edition.)

"It is in truth a very good love story set in a framework of hounds and horses,
but one that could be read with pleasure independently of any such attractions." —
Fortnightly Review.

' Killed in the Open ' is a very superior sort of hunting novel indeed. ''-♦CrapMc.

STRAIGHT AS A DIE.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s. (3d Edition.)

If you like sporting novels, I can recommend to you Mrs Kennard's 'Straight
as a Die'" — Truth.

'• Mrs Edward Kennard can write, and write well. Her descriptions of country
life are many of them admirable, and her story will be read to the end. Some
of the love passages between Dulcis and Bob are full of beauty and pathos." —
Pictorial World.

A REAL GOOD THING.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s. (5th Edition.)

"There are 8om<i good country scenes and country spins in ' A Real Good Thing.'
The hero, poor old Hopkins, is a strong character." — Academy.

TWILIGHT TALES, illustrated.)
Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
In Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d. The Second Edition of

A GLORIOUS GALLOP.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

Ibawlc^ Smarts Sporting novel*

At all Booksellers and Bookstalls.

THE MASTER OF RATHKELLY.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d.

THE OUTSIDER.

Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s. (4th Edition.)
Since the deaths of Turtles and Whyte Melville, Captain Hawley Smart has
worthily held his place at the head of those writers wno devote themselves to
sporting subjects . . . his readers know precisely what to expect when they
take up one of his books, and they are never disappointed." — Saturday Review.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.

Each in Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d.

THE LAST COUP.
CLEVERLY WON.

Two New Novels by B. L. TAHJEON.

In Cloth, 2s. 6d.

THE DUCHESS OF ROSEMARY LANE.

By the Author of " Great Porter Square," &c.

In Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d.

A STRANGE ENCHANTMENT.

By the Author of " Devlin the Barber," &c.

The Honourable Mrs Petherstonhaugh's New Novel.

Cloth, 2s. 6d.

DREAM FACES.

By the Author of " Kilcorran," " Robin Adair," &c.

Bret Harte's New Novel.

Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s.

THE CRUSADE OF THE EXCELSIOR.

By the Author of "The Lucy of Roaring Camp," &c.

Sir Sandal Roberts' New Sporting Novel.

Cloth gilt, 2s, 6d.

CURB AND SNAFFLE.

By the Author of " In the Shires," &c.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

MRS H. LOYETT CAMERON'S NOVELS.

At all Booksellers and Bookstalls.

IN A GRASS COUNTRY.

(A Story of Love and Sport.) (7th Edition.) Cloth Gilt, 2s. 6d. ;
Picture Boards, 2s.

"We turn with pleasure to the green covers of 'In a Grass Country.' The three
heroines are charming each in her own way. It is well sketched, full of character,
with sharp observations of men and women— not too hard on anybody— a clear
story carefully written, and therefore easily read . . . recommended." — Punch.

When the days are short, and there is an hour or two to be disposed of indoors
before dressing time, one is glad to be able to recommend a good and amusing
novel. ' In a Grass Country ' may be said to come under this description." —
Saturday Review.

A NORTH COUNTRY MAID.

(3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s.

A DEAD PAST.

(3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d. ; Picture Boards, 2s.

A DEVOUT LOVER.

Cloth, 2s. ed. .

Without doubt one of Mrs Lovett Cameron's best and prettiest stories. The
character of Rose de Balfour is admirably drawn. . . . Mrs Lovett Cameron
deserves great credit for having made a good woman interesting." — Ladies' Pictorial.

THE COST OF A LIE.

Cloth, 2s. 6d.

THIS WICKED WORLD.

Cloth, 2s. 6d.

BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
Each in Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d.

NECK OR NOTHING.

. . . it is pleasant, easy reading, and the characters act in a way one can
understand." — Saturday Review.

". . . is really very bright and readable from first to last." — Academy.

. . . is a capital story of hunting and love-making combined . . .
Nothing prettier or more natural has been written for some time than the scene in
which Lucy Netterville betrays her cherished secret with such happy results. ' —
Pictorial World.

THE MADNESS OF MARRIAGE.

Mrs Lovett Cameron's books are never devoid of merit. . . . The interest
in Daisy Carew's fate is well sustained. . . ." — Morning Post.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

MRS ALEXANDER'S NOVELS.

At all Booksellers and Bookstalls.

A FALSE SCENT. (Third Edition.)
Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth, Is. 6d.

A LIFE INTEREST, cloth, 2s. 6d.
BY WOMAN'S WIT.

(3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 66. ; Picture Boards, 2s.

'• Mrs Alexander deserves credit for keeping her readers mystified for some time
in the matter of Mrs Euthven's rubies. . . . How the widow's wit discovers the
treachery of the man she loves in spite of it ; how she avenges herself, and the terrible
straits Nora is involved in for a season, when she has accepted the wrong man
because the right man has been slow to declare himself; and how all ends well for
her and her gentle stepmother, not to mention the old shinar whom she weds, is
written in Mrs Alexander's book, and very readable." — Athenaeum.
In Mrs Alexander's tale

Much art she clearly shows
In keeping dark the mystery
Until the story's close ! " — Punch.

MONA'S CHOICE, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Mrs Alexander has written a novel quite worthy of her " — Athenaeum.
". . . It is pleasant and unaffected "— (Sa^Mrtfa?/ /2mew.

"Rite's" NEW NOVELS.

Each in Paper Cover, Is. ; Cloth Is. 6d. At all Booksellers and

Bookstalls.

A VAGABOND LOVER.

THE MYSTERY OF A TURKISH BATH.

(2d Edition.)

'• Every fresh piece of work which 'Eta' publishes shows an increase of power,
and a decided advance on the last. The booklet contains some very smart writing
indeed " — Whitehall Review.

'• 'The Mystery of a Turkish Bath' has a well-wrought out plot of slightly sensational
interest, and is written with this author's well-known grace of style." —
Scotsman.

THE SEVENTH DREAM. A Romance.

. . . is a powerful and interesting study in weird effects of fiction. It will
hold the close attention of its readers from first to last, and keep them entertained
with changing sensations of wonder." — Scotsman.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

TWO NEW ONE SHILLING NOVELS,

for in Cloth, Is. Qd.)

A TROUBLESOME GIRL.

By the Author of " Molly Bawn."

THE Mystery OF Behave SQDAp,

By CURTIS YORKE,

Author of " Hush ! " &c. Third Edition.

POPULAR WORKS AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
AND BOOKSTALLS.

In Limp Cloth, 2s.

GOOD FORM,

A BOOK OF EVERY DAY ETIQUETTE.
By MRS ARMSTRONG.

By SAMUEL LAING. •

A MODERN ZOROASTRIAN.

By the Author of " Modern Science and Modern Thought,"

"A Sporting Quixote," &c.

1 Vol. Cloth, 2s. 6d. (Second Edition.)

By W. H. DAVENPORT ADAMS.

Celebrated Englishwomen of the Victorian Era.

By the Author of " England on the Sea," &c.
1 Vol. Cloth, 2s. 6d.

By PERCY THORPE.

HISTORY OF JAPAN.

1 Vol. Cloth, 3s. Gd.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

c i

SELECT" NOVELS

Crown 8yo, Cloth, 2s. 6cl. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

By FLORENCE MARRYAT.

1 THE HEIR PRESUMPTIVE.

2 THE HEART OF JANE WARNER.

3 UNDER THE LILIES AND ROSES.

4 HER WORLD AGAINST A LIE.

5 FACING THE FOOTLIGHTS.

By ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender Cudlip).

6 HER SUCCESS.

7 FRIENDS AND LOVERS.

8 Juniper.

9 KATE VALLIANT.

10 Atherton TOWERS.

By LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.

11 MATED WITH A CLOWN.

12 MOLLIE DARLING.

13 ONLY A VILLAGE MAIDEN.

By MRS Houston,

Author of " Recommended to Mercy."

14 Barbara WARNING.

By MRS ALEXANDER ERASER.

15 A PROFESSIONAL BEAUTY.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

SELECT " NOVELS— Cow^mited

•

By Harriet JAY.

16 A MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE.

By IZA DUFFUS HARDY.

17 LOVE, HONOUR, AND OBEY.

18 NOT EASILY JEALOUS.

19 ONLY A LOVE STORY.

By JEAN Middlemost.

20 POISONED ARROWS.

By MRS H. Loveth CAMERON.

21 A NORTH COUNTRY MAID.

22 A DEAD PAST.

23 THE COST OF A LIE.

By LADY VIOLET GREVILLE.

24 KEITH'S WIFE.

By NELLIE FORTESCUE HARRISON,

Author of " So Runs My Dream."

25 FOR ONE MAN'S PLEASURE.

By EDMUND Leather.

26 THE ACTOR'S WIFE.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

a

POPULAR" NOVELS.

Picture Boards, 2s. each.
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS AND BOOKSTALLS.

1 GARRISON GOSSIP. By John Strange

Winter, Author of "A Shire Baby," "In
Quarters," "On March," " Mignon's Secret,"
That Imp ! " " Mignon's Husband," &c. (Fourth
Edition.)

2 ARMY SOCIETY ; Or, Life in a Garrison Town.

By the same Author. (Eighth Edition.)

3 THE OUTSIDER. By Hawley Smart, Author

of "The Pride of the Paddock," "Cleverly Won,"
"Bad to Beat," "Lightly Lost," &c.

4 BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander,

Author of "Mona's Choice," "The Wooing O't,"
"The Executor," "The Admiral's Ward," &c.

5 THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. By

Mrs Edward Kennard, Author of " Straight asa
Die," "Twilight Tales," "A Real Good Thing,"
"A Glorious Gallop," "A Crack County," &c.

6 KILLED IN THE OPEN. By the same Author.

7 STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By Mrs Edward

Kennard, Author of "A Real Good Thing," &c.

8 IN A GRASS COUNTRY: A Story of Love

and Sport. By Mrs H. Lovett Cameron.
(Seventh Edition.)

9 A NORTH COUNTRY MAID. By the same

Author.

10 A DEAD PAST. By the same Author.
F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

*' POPULAR " Noyes— Continued.

11 POISONED ARROWS. By Jean Middlemost,

Author of "Wild George," "Dandy."

12 ONLY A LOVE STORY. By IzA Duffus

Hardy, Author of "Love, Honour, and Obey."

13 THE HEART OF JANE WARNER. By

Florence Marryat, Author of " Facing the
Footlights," "Her World against a Lie," "The
Heir Presumptive," "My Own Child," &c.

14 UNDER THE LILIES AND ROSES. By the

same Author.

15 KATE VALLIANT. By Annie Thomas (Mrs

Pender Cudlip), Author of "Her Success."

16 KEITH'S WIFE. By Lady Violet Greville,

Author of "Zoe: A Girl of Genius," "Creatures
of Clay."

17 MATED WITH A CLOWN. By Lady Constance

Howard, Author of "Only a Village
Maiden," "Mollie Darling."

18 NOT EASILY JEALOUS. By IzA Duffus

Hardy, Author of "Love, Honour, and Obey,"
&c.

19 FOR ONE MAN'S PLEASURE. By Nellie

FoRTEScuE Harrison, Author of " So Runs My
Dream," &c.

20 THE CRUSADE OF THE EXCELSIOR. By

Bret Harte.

21 A SIEGE BABY. By John Strange Winter.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

ONE SHILLING NOVELS.

In Paper Cover.

THOSE Marked * CAN ALSO BE OBTAINED IN CLOTH (Is. 6d. )

At all Booksellers and Bookstalls.

1 *MY POOR DICK. (Fourth Edition.) By John

Strange Winter, Author of " Booties' Baby,"
Houp La ! " &c. (With Illustrations by Maurice
Greiffenhagen.)

2 *BOOTLES' CHILDREN. (Fifth Edition.) By

the same Author. (With Illustrations by J.
Bernard Partridge.)

3 *THE CONFESSIONS OF A PUBLISHER.

By the same Author.

4 *MIGNON'S HUSBAND. (Eighth Edition.)

By the same Author.

5 *THAT IMP ! (Seventh Edition.) By the same

Author.

6 *MIGNON'S SECRET. (Eleventh Edition.) By

the same Author.

7 *0N MARCH. (Sixth Edition.) By the same

Author.

8 *IN QUARTERS. (Seventh Edition.) By the

same Author.

9 *A GLORIOUS GALLOP. (Second Edition.)

By Mrs Edward Kennard, Author of " The Girl
in the Brown Habit," " A Real Good Thing," &c.

10 *THE MYSTERY OF A TURKISH BATH.

(Second Edition.) By " Rite," Author of " Dame
Burden," " Sheba," "My Lord Conceit," &c.

11 *THE SEVENTH DREAM. A Romance. By

the same Author.

12 *THE PRIDE OF THE PADDOCK. By

Hawley Smart, Author of "The Outsider,"
"The Master of Rathkelly," &c.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

ONE SHILLING l^OVEIuS—Contimied.

13 *CLEVERLY WON. By Hawley Smart.

14 *A MILLIONAIRE OF ROUGH AND READY.

By Bret Harte, Author of " The Luck of Roaring
Camp," tfec.

15 *DEVIL'S FORD. By Bret Harte.

16 *NECK OR NOTHING : A Hunting Story. By

Mrs H. Loveth Cameron, Author of " In a Grass
Country," &c. (Second Edition.)

17 *THE MADNESS OF MARRIAGE. By Mrs

H. Lovett Cameron.

18 *THE FASHION OF THIS WORLD. By

Helen Matters, Author of "Coming' thro' the
Rye," &c.

19 *A PLAYWRIGHT'S DAUGHTER. By Mrs

Annie Edwards, Author of " Archie Lovell," &c.

20 NO MEDIUM. By Annie Thomas . (Mrs

Pender Cudlip), Author of " Her Success," &c.

21 A MOMENT OF MADNESS. By Florence

Marryat, Author of " My Sister the Actress," &c.

22 SAVED IN TIME. By Mrs Houston, Author

of " Recommended to Mercy," &c.

23 EVERY INCH A WOMAN. By Mrs Houstoun.

24 A PAUPER PEER. By Major Arthur

Griffiths, Author of "Fast and Loose," &c.

25 *THE WESTHORPE MYSTERY. By Iza

DuFFUS Hardy, Author of "Love, Honour and
Obey," &c.

26 *STORIES OF "THE WORLD." (Reprinted

by Permission.)

27 TWO BLACK PEARLS. By Marie Condor,

Author of "A Morganatic Marriage," "Beauty's
Queen," &c.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.

Xonbon Society:

ESTABLISHED 1862.

A PNTHLY Gazing, Pierce Is.,

of Light and Amusing Literature by the Most Popular
Authors of the Day,

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION:
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE.

TWELVE MONTHS, SENT POST FREE . . . - 12s.

DO., INCLUDING THE SUMMER NUMBER

AND CHRISTMAS ANNUAL - - 14s.

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

Readers who like to be amused should take in
London Society ' . . . ' London Society ' is a good
shilling's worth." — Lady's Pictorial.

This attractive magazine is remarkable for variety
of subject and excellence of its light literature." — Public
Opinion.

Full of the light and amusing literature it professes to
supply." — Literary World.

It is bright, interesting, and a perfect mine of light
and amusing literature. It is ably conducted, and should
enjoy an ever-increasing circulation." — Graham Times.

All Communications to he addressed to the Editor
of " London Society. ^^

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand.
