OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS


F745o
vl

BY

URQUHART A. FORBES.

VOLUME I.

SLontron:

'ALEXANDER GARDNER

12 PATERNOSTER ROW.

&o t&e iJftrmovg of
EDWARD THROCKMORTON,

;/)

&

-:

THESE REMINISCENCES OF BYGONE DAYS ARE
AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED

BY

THE EDITOR



Chap.

I. — Introduces two of the chief personages of this history
to each other, and to the reader,

II. — Gives some account of the Chessington family,

III. — A Walking Excursion ; and what came of it,

IV. — In which Reginald Oakburne makes some new
acquaintances,

V.— Doctor Novelle,

VI.— At Lichfield,

VII. — In which Wilfrid takes his departure for London,

VIII. — In which Giles Rowancourt makes a discovery,

IX. — George Chessington's correspondence, .

X.— No. 9 Poulford Street,

XI. — Recognitions,

XII. — Walter Chessington's Visitor,

XIII. — In which ' misfortunes never come singly,' .

XIV.— What the world said of him,

XV. — The Consequences,

XVI. — In which Mr. Karl receives important news from
Germany,

XVII. — Complications and Confidences, .

XVIII.— Clears up some points which needed explanation

XIX. — A morning ride among the hills, .

XX. — A wiping off of old scores,

XXI. — A Funeral and a Wedding,

Page.






























CHAPTER I.

Introduces two of the Chief Personages of this History to
each other, and to the reader.

Who quarrel more than beggars ? Who does more earnestly long
for a change than he that is uneasy in his present circumstances ?
And who run to create confusions with so desperate a boldness as
those who, having nothing to lose, hope to gain by them? — Sir T.
Moore.

HE year 1848 will ever be memorable in history
for the revolutionary movements which then
convulsed Europe, in some cases destroying
thrones, and in many instances causing changes in dynasties
and the remodelling of constitutions. The objects of
their promoters were nearly everywhere identical. The
more moderate demanded liberty of the press, trial by jury,
State education, and the free right of holding public
meetings ; while the extreme party clamoured for universal
suffrage, the abolition of standing armies, and the
protection of labour, with a guarantee for the supply of
all the necessaries of life.

In Great Britain alone, in spite of an unsuccessful
Irish Rebellion and the abortive and foolish agitation of
the Chartists, the monarchy not only stood firm amid the
tempest, but even seemed to acquire additional strength

A

from troubles which on the continent threatened to subvert
the whole fabric of society.

Of these France was the chief sufferer, but the national
movement, as it was termed, also assumed very
serious proportions in most of the States forming the
German Empire. The Grand Duchy of Baden, the
Rhenish Provinces, Nassau, Hesse-cassel, and Bavaria,
as well as Hanover and Saxony, were all in turn the scene
of insurrections more or less successful which received
support, not only from turbulent enthusiasts, but also
from all the desperate characters whom crime had banished
from society. Bands recruited from these sources
were formed by two Democratic leaders named Necker
and Strive, who roamed the country, plundering, murdering,
and everywhere inspiring terror by the lawless
deeds they committed under pretence of aiding the cause
of liberty, till, after for some time successfully resisting
the troops of the German Diet, they were finally defeated
at the heights of Scheltenau near Ruder.

As the year went on, however, the disturbing elements
began to show signs of settling. In some cases rulers
satisfied by timely concessions insurgents who had often
fair grounds for complaint, in others the mere appearance
of troops sufficed to disperse the rebels and restore order.
Moreover, both rulers and people had begun to long for
some form of government which would more closely
unite the component parts of the vast German Empire,
and on the 18th May the first German National Assembly
met at Frankfort under the presidency of Von Gager
and Von Soiron, and established a Provisional Central
Power for the administration of the whole Empire which
they entrusted to John, Archduke of Austria, and uncle
of the Emperor Ferdinand, as Regent. He was solemnly

installed in this office at Frankfort on the 12 th July,
but it was destined that before his government was
finally assured, the smouldering embers of rebellion
should once more burst into flame and threaten its subversion.


A majority of the Assembly had on the 5th of September
resolved not to ratify an armistice which had been
concluded at Malo between the Danes and the Prussians,
who were then at war. The ministry of the Regent
had therefore been driven to resign, and it was only with
difficulty that he succeeded in forming a fresh one. The
violent conduct, however, of the Schleswig-Holstein
Duchies, which in a combined Assembly rejected the
new Provisional Government and voted themselves independent,
considerably modified the opinion of the
German Parliament, and led that body, after a stormy
debate, to reverse its former decision and ratify the
obnoxious armistice. This determination raised to the
highest pitch the fury of the Radicals and of the war
party, who lost no time in appealing to the passions of
the mob in order to overawe the Assembly, if possible,
by a display of popular violence. The Democratic
leaders harangued the mob from balconies in the streets,
and monster meetings were held outside the town, at one
of which it was voted that : — ' The members who had
ratified the infamous armistice of Malo were guilty of
high treason against the majesty, liberty, and honour of
the German People,' and that the ' German People ' and
the Assembly should be informed of this resolution. The
Senate now officially announced to the Regent that they
could no longer preserve the peace of the town, and in
the emergency he persuaded Herr Von Schelling, who
had but lately resigned, to resume office provisionally.

This minister, a man of courage and energy, immediately
ordered detachments of Austrian, Prussian, and Bavarian
troops to march into the town, and prepared to enforce
the cause of law and order, while the insurgents on their
part took equally prompt measures for carrying out their
views.

Such was the state of affairs in Frankfort on the morning
of the 1 8th September when a tall black-bearded man
knocked at the door of one of the houses in a quiet
square not far from the Saalhof. The fierce restlessness
of his strongly-marked Jewish features was strangely in
contrast with the quiet of the spot on this still bright
autumn day. The old-fashioned houses with their latticed
windows and huge gables, and those in the narrow lane
leading to the quay of which the upper stories almost
met, were all so silent that anyone coming from the more
frequented thoroughfares might think that he had passed
into a deserted city. The place seemed abandoned to
the sparrows inhabiting the three dusty-leaved elm trees
in the centre, and to the swallows who had built under
the eaves of the houses, and were incessantly darting to
and fro in the sunshine. The soothing effect of the surroundings
did not, however, at all seem to influence
him. Seeing that his first summons produced no
effect, he knocked again more loudly, but it was not till
he had repeated the process a third time, with many
imprecations, that the door was slowly opened by a tall,
handsome young girl of between nineteen and twenty.

Himmel ! what a time you take !' cried the man
angrily as he followed her down a long dark passage;
4 Were you asleep or what ?'

I did not know who it could be who knocked so

noisily,' replied the girl. 'Where is Theodore?' she
added anxiously.

Theodore ! Donnerwetter ! I am parched with thirst,
and my throat nearly raw with dust and shouting ! you
must get me some wine.'

1 Your thirst is always the same whatever the condition
of your throat may be,' said the girl with a scornful
laugh as they ascended a narrow stairway and entered a
large room on the second floor. An old man, spare,
small, and with rather a weak expression of countenance,
who was clad in the long dressing-gown which the Germans
so much affect, was pacing up and down in deep
thought. He held a cup of coffee in one hand and a
rusk in the other, and muttering to himself, partook in
turn of each, scarcely noticing the entrance of the pair.

1 It is Herr Reuben, father,' said the girl, motioning the
other to be seated, and placing before him a glass and a
bottle of wine, from which he immediately helped himself.

Ah ! Herr Reuben !' cried the old man with a little
flutter of alarm, plunging his rusk into his cup, and
bowing profoundly, ' I commend myself to you Herr
Reuben ! I am much rejoiced at this visit ! Permit
me to show you what I have received this morning
from Dusseldorf. Frederica, get Herr Reuben some
refreshment,' and he hurriedly set down his cup, and
after fumbling nervously in his pocket, handed to Herr
Reuben a geological specimen, with many comments on
its beauty.

'It is very fine,' replied the latter, glancing at it
impatiently and throwing it on to the table. ' But I
have no time for such things, Herr Professor, for such
trifles you understand. The cause demands that I
should to work and at once.'

Work !' said the Professor, only half-catching what he
said. ' Ah yes ! my work on the " Geology of South
Germany " is nearing its completion, and then Herr
Reuben, by its sale I may hope that my debt to you ' —

1 Psha,' said Reuben contemptuously, cutting him
short, ' do not bother now about that, old man ! Have I
not my security,' and he leered affectionately at
Frederica, who however steadily avoided meeting his
eyes. ' No ! I spoke of the great work ! the cause of
Liberty ! Ah ! we have done great things to-day, and
we shall do more V

To be sure ! To be sure !' said the old man timidly.
What then has happened, my good Herr Reuben ?'

1 And where is Theodore ?' enquired Frederica.

Theodore ! Theodore ! It is always Theodore with
you, girl !' cried Reuben, angrily. ' I tell you I will not
allow it !'

You ! ' replied the girl fiercely, ' you have no right to
allow or disallow what I choose.'

Beware how you raise my jealousy, Frederica,' said
Reuben, with a lock so savage that she quailed before it.

'You know you have no cause for jealousy, Reuben,
said she softly, giving him a glance that at once seemed
to mollify his anger. ' You know that on the leaders
depends much of the success of the cause. We cannot
spare our best leaders, such as you and Theodore.'

Herr Reuben gave a grunt of satisfaction, and fastened
his eyes on her with an almost repulsive expression of
coarse admiration.

Frederica's was a face that could not fail to rivet
attention. The finely-shaped head, the low, broad forehead
and regular features, and the contrast of the jet
black hair with the beautifully clear pale complexion

made up an ensemble which at once commanded admiration.
But what most struck an observer were the
large dark eyes, which seemed formed to express changes
of mood to which the repose of the rest of the countenance
afforded no index, — now blazing fiercely as when her
freedom of opinion was challenged, and as easily melting
into tenderness when she desired to appease Herr
Reuben. She rose, and leading the Professor, who
looked somewhat scared at this passage of arms, to a
chair, she placed his breakfast before him, and begged
him affectionately to continue it while Herr Reuben
should tell them the news.

News ! I promise you it is good ! ' said the
latter. * Before evening the city will be ours.
I went first to the Church of St. Paul's, where the
Assembly is, to learn how things were going on. Him-mel
! we Democrats had our way, I tell you ! Von
Schelling even could not obtain a hearing. One after
another the speakers of our party rose and denounced
this villainous armistice and this tyranny of a government,
till the meeting had to be dissolved. Theodore
and I had already summoned the brethren, and as the
traitors left the church we raised such a hissing and
hooting, and threw so much mud, that they will not soon
forget that walk ! '

Ei ! Ei ! This sounds serious,' cried the Professor.
1 It is alarming ! terrible ! But yet it is good ! of course
it is good ! ' he added nervously, as he saw a shade of
anger pass over Reuben's face.

The troops were gathered round to try and over-awe
us,' went on Reuben. ' Some of them hustled our brave
fellows. " Give them a volley, my men," cried Theodore,
and at the words they got such a storm of stones

that they were thrown into confusion, and some fell.
Hein ! It was glorious ! They shall be taught that the
sovereign people will not submit to be trampled upon.
They charged us, the cowards ! so we dispersed, every
man to get his weapons. Our main rallying point is the
Constabler Wache, which we have already seized and
fortified.'

Fortified ! then it is war ! civil war ! ' cried the Professor,
wringing his hands. ' My God ! it is terrible !
yes, terrible ! '

1 Aye it is war ! ' cried Reuben ; ' war for the cause of
liberty and the regeneration of society ! Society is
diseased. It needs a sharp knife to remove the ulcer !
Yes it is war ! The city has been declared in a state of
siege, and fresh troops are entering. But everywhere
our barricades are ready. At the Romerberg, the
Dongesgasse, the Schnurgasse, and by the Exchange.
Every lane and alley is full of our sharpshooters. I tell
you, we are irresistible.'

The Professor wrung his hands in mute despair.
Do not fear, old man ! ' cried Reuben, grandiloquently.
'This house is sacred to the brethren. I
Reuben Pfeiffer have said so ! No one will dare to
touch it. The square itself will be free from conflict.
You are quite safe if you stay within. Mark me,
Frederica, thou must not stir from the house. Mark.'

The conversation and furious gesticulations of the
speaker were here both interrupted by a loud knocking
below.

1 Tis Theodore ! ' cried Frederica, starting from her
seat, and going down quickly to open the door. She
soon returned, followed by two men, the younger of
whom had a blood-stained handkerchief bound round

his head. He was rather above the middle height, fair,
blue-eyed, and with a remarkably amiable, though somewhat
weak, expression of countenance. He sank into a
chair, apparently exhausted.

1 Hey, Frederica ! Bring water, please, quickly ! '
cried his companion. ' The young man is hurt. He
has saved my life. Quick ! the wine there, Reuben ! '

1 And you have saved mine,' replied the other, in a
pleasant voice, and in very indifferent German.

1 Saved thy life, Theodore ! ' cried Frederica, with a
tender look, hurrying for the water.

1 Yes, that he did,' answered he. Standing over six feet
in height, with a figure framed in proportion, Theodore
was as fine a specimen of his countrymen as could well
be met with. He had a mass of curly, dark, reddish
brown hair, rather light hazel eyes, and a florid complexion.
Good-looking, rather than handsome, his square cut coin
and firmly-set lips denoted energy and resolution, redeeming
his face from the recklessness which was its
characteristic expression. His age must have been about
five-and-thirty.

1 Who is this foreigner? Why do you bring him hereat
such a time ? ' asked Reuben, somewhat fiercely. He
had noted the looks exchanged between Frederica and
Theodore with evident displeasure, and was regarding
the wounded man with a gaze the reverse of kindly.

'I repeat, he saved my life,' replied Theodore,
quietly disregarding his comrade's anger. ' One of
these accursed soldiers, a Major Auerswald, would
have cut me down, when this young English mister,
who was riding with him,, seized his arm, asking
him to spare me, and turned the blow. The
second volley of stones knocked the poor boy off his

horse, and the brethren would have made short work of
him had I not rescued him. Drink this,' he added,
handing a glass of wine to the Englishman.

1 Thank you,' said the latter. ' My name is Chessington,'
added he, turning apologetically to the fierce
Reuben. ' I am sorry to intrude on you at such a time ;
but I could not quite help it you see. Pray excuse me.'

He spoke so politely, in such imperfect German, and
there was a boyish, good-tempered air about him so
ludicrously in contrast to the anger of Reuben, who stood
glowering at him in astonishment, that Theodore and
Frederica both laughed outright, and at last even the
grim features of Reuben relaxed into a smile of pitying
contempt.

1 Himmel boy ! this is no drawing-room ! ' cried
Theodore, ' you are among republican socialists, children
of the people, who do not care for politeness ! never mind
though. I owe you a good turn, and Theodore Hoff-baker
never forgets a kindness. I speak your English
too, boy, a little. I have some English blood in me. Do
not fright thyself therefore,' he added, in the latter
language.

Frederica had knelt down beside the young man and
removed the bandage, and was bathing a deep, though
not dangerous wound in the temple, evidently made by
a stone. ' You will soon be better,' said she kindly.

Reuben PfeifTer, however, did not view the matter in
such a pleasant light.

How Hoffbauer ! ' cried he, ' you would let this young
foreign aristocrat go free — doubtless to give information
to imperil our safety and endanger the cause ! I will not
suffer this ! He must die ! or at least remain a prisoner,

till the brethren have pronounced sentence on him ! ' and
he drew a pistol from his belt.

1 Fool ! ' said Theodore HofTbauer, placing his big
body between the Englishman and the angry speaker,
1 Fool ! Put back your pistol ! Do you fear such as
this? I tell you he is an English gentleman — a milord.
I will answer for him ; you will not help the cause by
shooting influential foreigners. Do you doubt, pray, that
I care for the cause ? Have you known me ever false ?
Did I fail at Scheltenau ? '

At the mention of Scheltenau, Herr Reuben changed
colour, for he had, to tell the truth, rather speedily left
the field of battle on that occasion, no doubt considering
that the ' cause' would be best served if its valuable leaders
were safe. Though, however, evidently overawed by
Hoffbauer, his blood was up, and he was about to 'make
an angry reply, when the noise of drums and trumpets,
mingled with the dull hoarse roar of many voices, made
all pause. A minute after, loud knocks were heard at
the door below, and cries of ' Hoffbauer ! ' ' Reuben ! '
made the two men hurriedly prepare to join their companions.


'Look after the young Englander, Lichen!' said
Hoffbauer, lingering behind his companion; and, in
spite of an angry protest from the latter, he embraced
the young girl tenderly. Then the pair rushed down the
stairs, the street door closed with a bang, and Walter
Chessington found himself alone with a handsome female
socialist, and an apparently half idiotic old man, for the
Professor had sat as if stupefied in his chair during the
whole of these proceedings.

For a young Englishman who had but a slight
acquaintance with German, the situation was rather an

awkward one ; and when it is considered that he was wounded,
and weak from loss of blood, and that his way back to
the Hotel Russia lay between two conflicting hosts, it
will be owned that it was not altogether devoid of
peril.

Chessington, a gentleman of good family and the
heir to a considerable property, had been travelling
for his amusement on the continent, but was now, at the
desire of his father, returning to England by easy stages
from Heidelberg, where for the last two months he had
been reading at the University. His interest in the
state of affairs had induced him to linger some
days at Frankfort, where he had made several acquaintances,
and among others that of Major von
Auerswald, with whom he had been riding when
the adventure just narrated had occurred. He had
been led to intercede for Hoffbauer with the major, both
by his appearance and bearing, which made a very
favourable impression on him, and also by the fact that
his English instincts revolted at the idea of a soldier
striking an unarmed man. This sudden impulse of
generosity had certainly brought him into strange quarters,
and as he had a strong sense of humour he could
not help feeling somewhat amused at the ludicrous aspect
of the position in which he found himself.

He now felt sufficiently recovered to be able to walk
to his hotel, and began to consider how he could best
manage his departure.

Frederica was apparently absorbed in a reverie, and
the Professor was absently contemplating his geological
specimen.

That is a piece of mica, sir, I think ; is it not ? ' said
Chessington, wondering how such a quiet, inoffensive

personage had got mixed up with men like Reuben and
Hoffbauer.

Ah ! It is beautiful, is it not ? ' replied the Professor
brightening up suddenly and handing it to him. ' Come
with me,' he added, barely giving him time to look at it.
1 Come ! I will show you more,' and, without waiting for
an answer, he took the young man by the hand and led
him to the further end of the room, which was full of
cabinets ranged round the walls and in the centre, after
the manner of a museum.

My father is a professor of geology,' said Frederica, who,
aroused from her day dream by the sound of her father's
voice, rose and followed them. ' His collection is considered
very fine. He thinks of nothing else.'

So I see,' replied Chessington, half amused. ' It is
certainly very beautiful, ' said he after the Professor had
led him to each cabinet in turn, and explained and dilated
on its contents.

Each Himmel ! ' cried the Professor, ' it is beautiful
indeed ! ' and he took Chessington by one hand, and his
daughter by the other, and, standing in the centre of the
room, repeated three or four times, with tears in his eyes,
It is very beautiful, very beautiful ; ah ! it is magnificent
! '

While they stood thus, as if the lady was about to be
formally betrothed to Chessington, who, scarcely able to
restrain his laughter at the absurd situation, yet felt a
kindly pity for the old enthusiast, the sharp rattle of musketry
rang through the air.

Heavens ! the fighting has begun ! ' cried Frederica,
and her face, which had, during the Professor's eulogium,
presented an odd mixture of shame and mirth, turned
deadly white. She ran to the window, while her father,

quite overcome, tottered to a chair, and, covering his
face with his hands, muttered — ' Terrible ! terrible ! '

4 The troops are attacking the barricades, I suppose,'
said Chessington to Frederica.

1 Yes,' replied she. ' Ah ! it is very terrible ! Why
do they always like to shed blood, these cruel men !
Come with me, ' she added, ' I will take you to a place
whence we can see everything. Come, my father is best
left alone just now. His studies have unnerved him. Weare
quite safe here whatever happens.'

May I ask you the name of the man who saved my
life?' enquired Chessington as he followed her half
mechanically up a narrow stairway that led to the roof of
the house.

Theodore Hoffbauer,' replied she, ' and the other is
Reuben Pfeiffer.'

And your own name, if you will not think me impolite
? '

i Frederica Schroeder is my name. My father is
Professor Schroeder.'

And you live here alone with him ? '
1 Yes ; alone. We used to live at Heidelberg, where
my father had a post till my mother died. She was
Italian.'

1 And they are only your friends, then, these two, not
related in any way? You will excuse my curiosity.'

Oh ! certainly I will excuse your curiosity,' said she,
turning on him a rather defiant look, ' though I don't see
how it will benefit you. Yes, they are only friends, no
relations. They are friends of my father's and mine.
They have espoused the cause of liberty, and so have I.
We are striving for the regeneration of society.'

Walter Chessington was about to enquire of this strange

young girl what the term ' regeneration of society ' comprised,
when she opened a door which admitted them to
the roof, and they found themselves looking down on the
scene which soon made them forget everything else.

In all the principal streets of the city the insurgents
had torn up the pavement and erected barricades composed
of packing cases filled with stones and rubbish,
and one near the Exchange was crowned with a sort of
crevice and loopholed battlement, while omnibuses and
carriages had been dragged in front to still further
strengthen it. A detachment of Prussian soldiers had
been placed round the Parliament House to protect it,
while another body of troops had been despatched against
a barricade in the Zeal, a broad, open thoroughfare exposed
to the fire of the rebels occupying all the lanes and
alleys opening on to it, as well as to that of those who
had taken possession of the Constabler Wache, a fortified
guard house. A third was moving down on a formidable
barricade in the Dongesgasse, the street nearest
to Chessington, and his companion, who watched the
scene with feelings of mingled interest and horror, while
the thick smoke, illumined by occasional flashes of musketry,
and the hoarse shouts of the soldiers and insurgents,
blended with the shrieks and groans ofthe wounded,
made the scene seem like some horrible picture of pandemonium.
They saw a body of Austrian troops advance
to attack the barricade over which a large red flag
floated in triumph. They charged gallantly forward,
evidently intending to take it by storm and without firing,
but ere they could reach it a heavy well-directed volley
from its defenders threw them into confusion, and a young
officer who had dashed forward in front of his men to try
and seize the Republican banner threw up his arms with

a wild cry and fell backward shot through the heart. A
shout of exultation rose from the barricade, but as the
Austrians slowly retired, leaving many of their comrades
dead, a Prussian regiment, which had been advanced in
support, opened its ranks to give a passage to the retreating
troops and quickly re-formed amid an ominous
silence. They moved forward steadily till within
range of the barricade, when the order to fire was given,
and they poured a deadly volley upon the insurgents.
They were met with one equally destructive and the
advancing mass seemed for a moment to waver.
Then the voices of the officers were heard rallying
their men with cries of encouragement or fierce imprecations,
the gaps were quickly filled up, and
the regiment continued to advance firing, till presently
the two spectators heard a great shout as the whole
line, with levelled bayonets, rushed on to the barricade.
There was a brief struggle, and then the insurgents
were seen flying in every direction, their defences
had been carried, and the victorious troops passed on to
join their comrades in the Zeal.

Ah ! they have been beaten ! ' cried Frederica with
clasped hands, ' But, thank heaven, he is not there ! '

Who ? ' asked Chessington, turning towards her in
some surprise. He had become so absorbed in the sight
he was watching that he had for the moment quite forgotten
her existence.

Theodore, of course,' replied the girl. She was still
very pale, and her eyes wore a haggard, anxious look,
but she seemed perfectly composed. ' He is in the Constablerr
Wache. It is the post of danger, and he always
leads where there is most danger.'

And your other friend ? ' enquired Chessington.

Friend, indeed ! ' said she scornfully.

1 You spoke of him as such, just now replied he.

Ah ! it is true,' said she with a sigh. 'I am forced
to call him friend, because I dare not call him enemy.
We are in his power, my poor father and I ! He was
there,' pointing to the now deserted barricade in the
Dongesgasse, ' but doubtless he saved himself long before
the troops charged.'

1 And you don't much care where he is now ! '

She made no answer save by a significant look, and he
was about to enquire how she and her father had managed
to make the acquaintance of such strange friends
when they were startled by hearing a peculiar whistle from
some one below, followed by a knock at the door,
repeated twice.

Frederica's face flushed scarlet. ' That is Reuben ! '
she cried passionately. ' The coward ! he has skulked
away as usual ! ' ' While Theodore is risking his life !
That is what he has always done — always ! I am sure
that more than once he has betrayed his comrades for
money ! I am sure of it ; but Theodore will not believe
it ! The coward traitor ! Oh ! if I could be a man ! '

Chessington felt rather glad that she was not, as he
saw the savage light in her eyes, her clenched hands, and
her whole form trembling with suppressed anger.

What will you do,' he asked.

I must admit him replied she \ ' but you ! I promised
Theodore I would help you ! You must not remain
here. He would murder you for the sake of the
cause ; and for your watch and money,' she added, scornfully.


What can I do ? ' enquired the young man rather

anxiously. He had plenty of courage, but was unarmed,
and still felt the effects of his wound.

I dare not take you into the house. Reuben is sure
to come up here to try and see how matters are going on,
replied she in some perplexity. ' Stay ! I will take you
into the little yard at the back. If you can manage
to scramble over the wall you will find yourself
in a lane leading to the quay. All is quiet there, and
you will be safe. Then if you can find your way to the
soldiers you will be out of danger, will you not ? What
do you think ? '

I will try, at all events,' answered he, and Frederica,
without more ado, led the way down stairs, and softly
opening a door, showed him a small yard surrounded on
three sides by houses, and on the fourth by a low wall
which shut it off from the lane.

Do not begin to climb till you hear me cough,' whispered
she. ' I shall take him up to the sitting-room, and
must pass this door. He is sure to want wine as usual,
the brute ! I will cough as I pass, and then you will
know all is safe.'

Are you not afraid to be left alone with this man ? '
asked Chessington in the same low tone, feeling half
ashamed of leaving an old man and a young girl to the
mercy of such a character as Reuben.

Afraid ! ' said Frederica, scornfully. ' He is an
arrant coward at heart, and besides, he worships me ! I
can manage him. If it come to the worst I have these,'
and she showed him a small pistol and a dagger in a
silver sheath. ' They were given by Theodore,' added
she, with a sigh. ' Do not fear for me. I know how to
use them.'

1 Well, I give you my best thanks for your help and

kindness, Fraulein,' said he, after a pause, with a strange
feeling of interest in his fair deliverer. ' I owe my life
this day to you — to you and to Theodore Hoffbauer, and
I shall never forget it. See, here is my address in England.
If you ever should come there and stand in need
of a friend come to me. I do not suppose we are likely
to meet again, but if we do I shall remember my debt.'

Frederica thanked him and put the card carefully in
her pocket ; then, with a little laugh accepting the
English shake of the hand which he preferred, she closed
the door quietly, and left him. He listened intently,
and in a few minutes heard footsteps coming down the
passage, and the loud harsh voice of Reuben apparently
in angry altercation with his companion. Then he heard
Frederica cough, and knew that he must set about making
his escape. For a moment he hesitated as to
whether after all he ought to leave the Professor and his
daughter alone with Reuben, but he decided on reflection
that the girl was well able to take care of herself, and
that without weapons he would be rather a hindrance
than a help. Thanks to a loose brick the wall was easily
surmounted, and hurrying down the narrow lane he soon
found himself on the quay. The place was quite deserted.
Far off he heard the shouts and the firing of the belligerents,
but here all was as quiet and undisturbed as the flow of
the Maine. Presently the silence was suddenly broken
by the sound of approaching horsemen, and he had
barely time to draw back into a recess, when a troop of
cavalry came round the corner of one of the neighbouring
streets, at a trot. To his joy and relief he saw his
friend Major Auerswald riding at their head, and hurrying
forward, made himself known to him.

How in the name of goodness came you here ? ' asked

the Major in great surprise. When Chessington had explained
the matter as shortly as he could, he made one
of the troopers dismount and surrender his horse to him,
and after bidding him conduct him safely to his hotel,
rode hurriedly on with his men.

As they slowly followed, Chessington's guide told him
that some of the Radical members having petitioned the
Archduke to withdraw the military from the town, he had
answered their modest request by at once proclaiming
martial law, but that Prince Lichnowski, one of the most
eloquent and distinguished members of the Assembly,
together with a few other lovers of peace, had determined
to try and reason with the insurgents. Major Auers-
walt, bearing a flag of truce, was with his troop escorting
these ambassadors on their kindly errand.

It would have been possible for the pair to have made
their way through quiet streets to the Hotel Russia, but
as both felt a strong desire to learn the result of the
mission, Chessington easily persuaded the dragoon to
lead him in the direction of the Constabler Wache, to
which it had gone, as being the stronghold of the rebels.
Their pace was, however, necessarily slow, and by the
time they reached the Guard House, they found that the
armistice of an hour which had just been proclaimed,
had only been arranged by the sacrifice of two valuable
lives.

Major Auerswald and the Prince, who had just ridden
forward with a white flag in order to open negotiations
with the insurgents, had been received with a volley,
which caused the former to fall from his horse mortally
wounded, and completely disabled Prince Lichnowski,
who was then pulled from his saddle by a party of

ruffians who sallied from the Guard House, and inflicted
terrible injuries on him with their hatchets.

'We were about to charge,' said the soldier who
narrated the event, ' when we saw a huge red-headed
man dash from the Guard House, strike down with his
own hand one of the Prince's assassins, and, spite of
wounds which the brutes gave him, drive off the rest with
imprecations. We gave him a cheer, for the poor fellow
fell down fainting from loss of blood on the steps of the
Constabler Wache. Then another of the rebels came
forward, and the armistice was arranged. Hoffbauer, or
some such name, they called him, this big Republican.
Tis a pity he's so wrong-headed, he would have made a
fine soldier.'

'And where have Major Auerswald and the Prince
been placed?' asked Chessington, deeply shocked by
this news.

The trooper told him the name of the hospital to
which they had been carried, and he at once proceeded
there. He found, however, that his poor friend was
quite unconscious, and he expired very soon after his
arrival, though Prince Lichnowski, in spite of the terrible
mutilation he had suffered, lingered on till the following
day. Chessington made his way sadly back to his hotel,
and hardly had he reached it when the deep booming of
cannon rang through the air. Artillery had been brought
into the city, the barricades were everywhere destroyed,
and before midnight complete tranquility had been
restored. His thoughts, however, were entirely diverted
from all other matters by the contents of a letter which
he found awaiting him.

CHAPTER II.

Gives some account of the Chessington family.

Will Fortune never come with both hands full,

But write her fair words still in foulest letters ?

She either gives a stomach, and no food, —

Such are the poor in health ; or else a feast,

And takes away the stomach, — such the rich

That have abundance, and enjoy it not. — Shakespeare.

|T is not easy to describe the painful shock, and
the tumult of feelings which the perusal of the
letter mentioned in the last chapter produced
in Chessington. It informed him of the sudden and
unexpected death of his father, to whom he was passionately
attached, and whom he had looked up to and
trusted as only a rather weak and self-distrustful son can
rely on a parent whom he loves and reveres. Without
the slightest premonitory warning he had been seized
with a sudden spasm of pain while transacting business
in his study, and almost immediately expired, and the
writer, Chessington's sister, implored her brother to return
home immediately. He sat down half stunned by the rush
of conflicting emotions, and tried to realize all the consequences
of this terrible loss. He had not only been deprived
of his best and dearest friend, but the same event
which had caused him this great sorrow had also invested
him with the care of a large estate, and left him as the
chief protector and adviser of his mother and only sister,
As an only son he had been indulged in every wish

from his cradle. He hated trouble of any sort,
and had an absolute dread of responsibility, and
now he was suddenly called upon to take a high
position in the society in which he lived, and one
which, owing to certain facts to be now explained to the
reader, was peculiarly trying to a sensitive and generous
nature. His father, Captain Chessington, was a natural
son, and had moreover acquired his property under conditions
which caused his ownership to be regarded with
disfavour by some of his neighbours, though he could not
himself be considered in any way responsible for them.

The estate of Otterstone Hall, which had originally
been held by an ancient Roman Catholic family of the
name of Oakburne, had passed from their hands on
account of the prominent part taken by Sir Francis
Oakburne, representative of the house in Elizabeth's
reign, in Barrington's conspiracy of 1587. Death on
the scaffold and attainder were the results of his devotion
to the cause of the ill-fated Mary Queen of Scots, and
the Otterstone property, after changing hands more than
once, was eventually bought in 1605 by Sir Thomas
Chessington, Knight, and Alderman of London.

The majority of his descendants found themselves,
as a rule, on the winning side, throughout the various
troubles which disturbed the peace of the kingdom in
subsequent reigns, and managed not only to retain, but
to add to their ancestral estates. These passed soon after
the accession of George III. into the possession of Sir
Pelham Chessington, whose father, General William
Chessington, had been created a baronet in the previous
reign in reward for his gallant conduct in the field both
in India and America-sir
Pelham was well known as a man of fashion and

taste, but he was a great disciplinarian in his own
house, and had very strict notions with regard to
religious observances, and it was on account of the restraints
he was under at home, that George, the elder of
his two sons quarrelled with his father and absented
himself as much as possible from Otterstone. He was,
however, his father's favourite, and his death in 1 791, at
the Assault of Fort Kistnagerry, in the Madras Presidency,

where he was serving as a Lieutenant in the ■ th

regiment, was a blow which Sir Pelham never recovered,
though he survived it some years. He cherished the
memory of his son with peculiar tenderness, and
became softened to the two children who still remained
to him. Of these, James, the younger, who had served
in the navy, inherited the property on the death of his
father, who died intestate. His sister, Isabella, had
married a gentleman of the name of Beechcroft, who
owned an estate in the neighbourhood, and . as her
brother was a bachelor, it was generally supposed, and
he himself gave her to understand, that her son would be
his heir. Such seems to have been his original intention,
and it was only after he had been in possession of his
estate many years that he formally acknowledged his
natural son, Horace, and at the solicitations of Horace's
mother, the sister of a brother officer, made a will, leaving
all his property to him, to the total exclusion of his
nephew.

Horace Chessington, through his father's interest,
obtained an ensigncy in the army, and being handsome
and clever, blessed with an agreeable manner, and
furnished with ample means, he soon became popular
in his regiment and in society. Among others, he
formed a close friendship with Giles Rowancourt, only

son of the Earl of Asheleigh. The two made the grand
tour together, and took the pleasures of the town in
company ; and on one occasion Captain Chessington,
went out with a certain French Count whom he
overheard aspersing his friend's reputation, and succeeded
in wounding his adversary. They were in
short inseparable, and it was to this intimacy that Chessington
owed another of the gifts which Fortune so
lavishly bestowed on him to recompense him for the
flaw in his birth. It was when he and Giles were at
Brighton together that the Captain was introduced to the
Lady Adela Rowancourt, who with her mother and five
elder sisters was staying at that fashionable place of
resort. She was young, pretty, and impressionable, and
the attentions of her brother's good-looking friend led to
a close intimacy, which ended in an engagement.
When Lady Adela, against her lover's wishes, informed
her mother, the Countess of Asheleigh, of
what had occurred, her ladyship was furious, forbade
Chessington the house, and shortly afterwards
took her family to Cheltenham, where the Earl was
taking the waters as a specific for the gout, to which he
was a martyr. The Captain, however, was a resolute
wooer, and followed them thither, and the result was a
runaway match, which for a time cut Lady Adela off from
her family, with the exception of her brother Giles, who
made no difference in his intimacy with his brother-in-law.
It was said by his friends that he gave the couple
the money they required for the elopement; by others
that he was so deeply in Chessinrton's debt that his
consent to the marriage was taken by the latter as a
wiping off of old scores. Be this as it may, the friendship
remained unimpaired, and when Horace Chessington

found himself suddenly in possession of Otterstone Hall
by his father's will, the rest of his distinguished relatives
by marriage so far forgave him as to receive their sister
back, to a certain limited extent, to the bosom of the
family. Though of ancient lineage and connected with
some of the noblest houses in Scotland, the family of
Asheleigh was at this time somewhat impoverished,
and Lady Adela's husband now found himself possessed
of a greater property than those of her two
married sisters. Her 'wicked folly in eloping with a
penniless nobody,' as her mother had been wont to
term it, was therefore condoned, and Horace Chessington
set himself to work with his usual vigour and
address to try and gain the goodwill of his neighbours.
In this, however, he only half succeeded. The
County of Clayshire was . a very Conservative one,
and it happened that the family of Mr. Beechcroft, which
had been ' established there for many generations, was
held in as high an estimation as that of Chessington.
James Chessington was considered by all the numerous
friends of the Chessington and Beechcroft connections to
have put an insult on them by leaving his large property
to an illegitimate son, and thus injuring the prospects of
his sister's child. All these, therefore, the more Tory
portion of the county, kept resolutely aloof from the
new owner, and expressed the deepest sympathy with
Mrs. Beechcroft's son, General Beechcroft, and his wife ;
a feeling that was still more strongly increased when the
latter soon after lost, by a sudden illness, both their elder
children, and were left with only one little girl. Sybil
Beechcroft, as the child was named, was spoken of by
the Beechcroft faction as 'the heiress of Otterstone,'
and the General was repeatedly urged to go to law and

upset the will, until, wearied by this impracticable advice,
he pointed out as forcibly as he could, and, once and for
all, that the law was powerless to aid him. Such a determined
opposition might have daunted a less resolute
man than Horace Chessington, and was a great trial to
his amiable and sensitive wife. He was, however, not
easily turned aside from his purposes, and resolved to
live it down and succeed in spite of it, and as the Tories
set their faces against him he became an ardent Whig.
A man who could command so many votes, was so hospitable
and such an excellent sportsman and man of
business, was not long in making himself popular,
and in this, his wife, Lady Adela, against whom
personally, not even her husband's enemies could say
anything, ably seconded him. The Beechcroft faction
as years went on allowed its animosity to slumber, save
at election time, and when Walter Chessington received
the news of his father's death, the position of the family
in the county had for many years been fully assured.

Had he therefore inherited more of Captain Chessington's
disposition, Walter would not have felt so depressed
by the thought of becoming master of Otterstone. The
idea, however, that his father was a bastard, and
that those who ought to have possessed Otter-stone
were deprived of it by an injustice done in
behalf of his family, was deeply painful to him,
and the feeling was made more bitter when he by chance
met Miss Beechcroft and became for a time much enamoured
of her. For some months he fell into such a depressed
state that his parents grew anxious and after some difficulty
persuaded him to go abroad with some college friends,
and when the party dispersed, Walter for a time wandered
over Europe by himself. The cheerful tone of

his letters soon made it evident to those at home that
the change had done its work, and his father having summoned
him back with a view to get him to enter public life,
he was, as the reader has already been informed,
now travelling leisurely towards England. Hence the
sudden news of Captain Chessington's death fell with
such crushing weight on him, that it was some little time
before he could come to any decision, even as to his
journey. He felt, however, that he must return at once,
and at last roused himself to make the necessary arrangements
for starting next day as soon as the disturbed
state of affairs made it possible. Then after a few
hurried lines to his sister he went to bed. The events
of the day, however, haunted his slumbers and after
passing a weary night he rose early.

As he sat dejectedly at breakfast, the waiter, who had
taken a liking to the good-humoured young Englishman,
tried to cheer his evident dejection by chattering about
the doings in the town.

Had the Herr heard of the Regent's proclamation ?
No ? Ah it was a grand one ! He had said that it was
his duty to protect the country against domestic crime
as well as against, foreigners. He had said, " I know my
duty, and I mean to fulfil it, and you German men,
lovers of your country and of liberty, from you I expect
that you will stand by me." Was that not fine ? '

Poor Chessington wearily assented.

1 Would the Herr have some cold meat ? ' ' No ? '
1 Another egg, then ? ' ' Yes !' ' Ah, that was right ! The
Herr must prepare himself for his journey. Did he
know that there had been a vote of confidence in the
ministry passed, and also a vote of thanks to the Federal
troops ? Yes it was so. All was right now ; quiet was

restored: But those ruffians had behaved terribly,
abominably.'

Chessington agreed that they had and enquired
whether the troops had succeeded in capturing many of
the rebels.

A good many, Mein Herr,' answered the waiter; ' yes,
a good many, but some important ones have effected
their escape. There was one Hoffbauer, a noted rascal,
brave, and not so bad as some, perhaps, but a turbulent
villain, who has given them the slip. A very powerful
man, big, courageous as the lion, but still pestilent, you
understand. It is possible he is killed, so many were
slain, as they deserved. Ah ! when they break all laws
they must expect to suffer without mercy ! Is it not so?'

Chessington admitted that, perhaps, he was right, and
then put an end to the good-natured fellow's gossip by
calling for and paying his bill.

Though his sorrow had deadened nearly all his interest
in affairs at Frankfort, he felt glad to think that his deliverer,
Hoffbauer, had probably escaped, and during the
long journey homewards, after he had left the city, he
found himself frequently recalling his strange adventure,
and wondering how poor Theodore and Frederica were
faring. He resolved that, come what might, he certainly
would never forget the debt of gratitude which he owed
them.

CHAPTER III.

A Walking Excursion ; and what came of it.

I was a sketcher then ;

See here, my doing ; curves of mountain, bridge,

Boat, island, ruins of a castle, built

When men knew how to build, upon a rock

When turrets lichen-gilded like a rock :

a Tudor-chimney bulk
Of mellow brickwork on an isle of bowers. — Tennyson.

HERE is a saying among the inhabitants of Clay-shire
that the county is famous for its ' spires,
squires, and spins.' It has been declared by some
disappointed lover or bitter misogamist that by 'spins'
are meant the unmarried ladies of the district, and the saying
is often quoted in this sense by gentlemen when they
want to be jocular or sarcastic. The ladies, on the other
hand, assert with far more apparent reason that 'spins '
stands for spines, the Clayshire term for a copse, and
it is certain that, setting aside the unjust aspersion on
their sex, they are right in their contention. The country,
for the most part, presents an alternating series of
sharp ridges and deep hollows. Every hollow is watered
by a stream, and at intervals along the course of each
stream, will be found a 'spiny' or copse of willows
and birches, perhaps garnished with a few Scotch
firs. These spines form good covers, and make a
picturesque feature in the scenery which, though pleasant,
can boast of no pretensions to grandeur or striking beauty.



The county is almost entirely agricultural, and to those
who do not appreciate an ordinary English landscape,
Clayshire, with, its expanses of undulating pasture and
arable land, its well-timbered parks, substantial country
houses and homesteads, and its abundance of spires, is
apt to appear a trifle monotonous.

Anyone, therefore, who, like the Rev. Owen Bowers,
vicar of Otterstone, considers that the grander features of
nature are alone worthy of contemplation would have
looked with something of surprise on two young men
whom he had been watching from his window for the
last ten minutes gazing down on the village, and more particularly
on the hall, from the eminence above it.

What can they possibly be at ! ' he said at last, putting
off his spectacles, for he was short-sighted ; and as his
curiosity was rather excited, and as he had nothing particular
to do, he determined to walk up across the fields
and reconnoitre them. It was a beautiful morning in
the beginning of March, the heavy rains which had fallen
continuously for the previous fortnight had ceased, and
everything bore the impress of the coming spring. So he
yielded to the impulse, got his hat and stick, and set out
from the vicarage.

Meanwhile, the two objects of his attention, unconscious
of the scrutiny of the portly figure that leisurely approached
them, continued to occupy their position on a
high bank upon one side of the steep road that here
descends into Otterstone. The younger of the two
strangers, a tall youth of about twenty, was sketching
Otterstone Hall, while his companion, a well built,
athletic looking young man, some three or four years
older, was standing by him, occasionally making suggestions
in a decided tone, at other times studying the scene

before him as if he would fain impress it on his memory.
It was easy to see that the pair were brothers, though
rather from an indescribable general likeness than from
any particular points of resemblance. The elder had the
firm carriage of the military profession to which he belonged,
decided aquiline features, dark brown curly hair,
and a pair of resolute blue eyes. Those of the younger
were of a lighter hue, and had a dreamy expression
that spoke of a temperament fonder of contemplation
than of action ; his hair was fair, and his features irregular.


That tower is rather crooked, old fellow,' said the
elder authoritatively, ' and those - trees down in the hollow
are too washy.'

I want to give the effect of the haze, you see, Rex.'
replied the other. ' A little haze improves a landscape
wonderfully to an artist ; at least, I always think so.
Besides, our associations with the place are rather hazy,'
he added slyly, 'so it is not altogether inappropriate.'

His brother looked rather annoyed. ' I see you can't
appreciate my feeling about the place, Wilfrid,' said he.
I know it rather amuses you that a man of my temperament
and tastes should care about such things. But I
can never forget that I come of an old stock, and that
Otterstone once belonged to my ancestors. It is a very
strong feeling with me ; and now that I am going
abroad I wish to carry away some reminiscence of a
house that is so connected with the history of our race.
Do you understand? That is, of course, my reason for
asking you to sketch it, as you like that sort of thing
and chance has brought us into the neighbourhood. I
must say, I wonder you of all others can't understand
me.'

1 1 do understand you to a certain extent,' answered
Wilfrid, ' of course one feels one's connection with the
place in a way. Still its all so vague. Two hundred
years ago, was'nt it that our people lost the place ? '

1 Two hundred and sixty odd years ago Sir Frank
Oakburne was attainted for his so-called treason,'
rejoined his brother, ' and ever since then the Oakburnes
have been going down in the world. But they have
always been gentlemen and true to the old faith — at least
you, as far as I know, are the first Protestant of our name,
and that of course was in deference to our mother.'

1 Yes, fortune has been rather hard on the Oakburnes !'
said Wilfrid. ' I wonder what we should all be doing
now if our respected ancestor had never made Barrington's
acquaintance. Was it not Barrington's conspiracy
that cost him his head ?'

1 Yes, if he had been a wiser man you and I might be
sitting in that house now.'

Or might never have come into the world at all,
said the other, and the two regarded in silence the scene
before them.

The house, the greater part of which was built of the
ironstone which is found plentifully in the county,
stood on an eminence opposite to them, while the little
river Otter, crossed in the hollow by a picturesque stone-bridge
and bordered by the spiny on the park-side of
the road, flowed in the valley between. A portion of the
Hall, distinguishable by its turrets and a round grey
tower, had been built in the troublous times of the Wars
of the Roses, but the greater part of it was of the date of
Henry VIII. The park around it was well-filled with
elms, oaks, and ? beeches, but immediately in front of the
house was a level piece of lawn bordered by a broad

c

terrace, from the other side of which the grass sloped
gradually down to the river, here widened into a small
artificial lake, between which and the paling close to
them was a dense coppice of osiers. On their right lay the
little village with its two farm houses, its rectory, and
picturesque old church, which could be approached by a
path over the fields, crossing the Otter by a foot bridge.
The sky was bright and clear, the air fresh, and everywhere
the trees and hedges were coming into bud,
while over the river and amongst the osiers a faint blue
haze was hovering. To Wilfrid and his brother, who
had walked some miles to see it, the whole had made up
a picture pleasant to contemplate in the sunlight.

1 A pleasant morning for sketching,' said a voice close
to them, and turning, they saw the inquisitive vicar, who,
unperceived, had come into the road by a stile not far
behind them.

Very much so,' replied Wilfrid, picking up the brush
he had dropped.

That is a fine old house, sir ! a most picturesque
object,' continued the vicar, turning to Reginald. ' That
tower there is a good age ; built in the reign of Henry
VI., some four hundred years ago.'

So I understand,' replied the latter. ' Can you tell
me, pray, who owns the place now.'

A Mr. Walter Chessington,' replied the vicar. ' His
father, Captain Chessington, died some four years since.
Quite a young man — unmarried — lives there with his
mother, Lady Adela, and his sister.'

'Indeed,' said Reginald, amused at Mr. Bowers's
loquacity. ' Do you think we should be allowed to look
at the park ? '

Hum ! let me see ! ' said the clergyman, thoughtfully.

stroking his chin. ' I don't know — you see they are here
just now — hum ! well — ' when as he was doubtfully considering
the matter they saw a young gentleman and
lady suddenly turn into the lane that ran parallel with the
park and ride towards them.

Ah ! stay ! here is Mr. Chessington and his sister. I
will ask them,' and the vicar, going up to themes saluted
the lady and made his request.

'We are on our way to Thornbury,' said Reginald,
coming forward and taking off his hat. 'We shall be
much obliged if we can be allowed to see the park.'

'Certainly,' answered Walter Chessington, whose
acquaintance the reader has already made, perceiving
that they were gentlemen. ' Wait though. If you are
going to Thornbury you can take a short cut across the
park. Perhaps Mr. Bowersbyby you would not mind
showing these gentlemen the way. My sister and I must
be moving on.'

Mr. Bowersbyby expressed himself very willing. The
sketch was hurriedly finished, and the two Oakburnes
entered the park in company with the good-natured
clergyman, who commented on its various beauties in a
way which showed he enjoyed his self-imposed task of
cicerone.

1 You don't belong to this county, I suppose, now ! '
said he, after dilating on the solidity which characterised
the building.

No,' answered Wilfrid, ' we do not. We are merely
stopping at Thornbury ; but we leave it tomorrow to
return home. My brother leaves England next week
to join his regiment in India.'

1 Oh, indeed !' replied Mr. Bowersbyby. ' Ah, yes ! I
thought he looked like a soldier. What I was going to

say was that if you belonged to Clayshire you would know
the merits of the ironstone as a building material. It is
not only practically indestructible, but it has such a
variety of beautiful tints. Look now at that part of the
Hall — the east wing — with the sunlight on it. Isn't that
the perfection of colour for a house, now ? '

I'm not sure I don't admire that grey tower more,'
said Reginald.

1 Ah, yes ! the tower ! that, of course, is very old and
picturesque. That little window, too, that faces us is associated
with a tragedy, and with the only ghost story
that Otterstone can boast of, which is strange in such an
old house, eh ? Not that the ghost appears in that room,
you understand. That was the room where Sir Walter
Oakburne quarrelled with his bosom friend, Sir Walter
Throckmorton.'

'And whose ghost is it? Where does it appear? '
asked Wilfrid.

I'm going to tell you,' replied the clergyman. * Weare
just coming to the spot. You see that clump of
beeches by the brook. They call it the glade. That is
where the two men fought, and Oakburne killed Throck-
morton. They were inseparable friends. Throckmor-
ton had married Oakburne's sister, which united them
still more closely. Throckmorton, who had property in
another part of the county, was stopping here, and they
were sitting in that room when during a discussion Oak-burnt
hinted at something about his friend's wife which
roused his anger, and the latter, who was very passionate
and wholly to blame in the matter, forced on a quarrel
by striking his brother-in-law. Oakburne did all he
could to avoid bloodshed, but was so pressed that he
considered himself bound in honour to accept the

challenge. They fought at daybreak next morning in
the " glade " over there, with only one witness, a squire
of Throckmorton's. Oakburne mortally wounded his
opponent, who, as he was dying, implored his friend's
forgiveness, calling his squire to witness that he met his
death in honest fight caused solely by his own fault.

'When did this take place?' asked Wilfrid.

In the reign of Richard III. Oakburne was deeply
affected by the event, and ever afterwards when he went
into battle he wore black, saying always that he longed
for death to restore him to his friend. He was killed
at Bosworth fighting on the side of Richard.'

And is it his ghost ? ' asked Wilfrid. They had now
reached the glade, an open space by the Otter surrounded
on three sides by beech trees. The little river
here formed an irregularly shaped pool thickly fringed
with reeds, while at the far end of the level piece of
green was a huge moss-covered block of grey granite.

No ; it is Walter Throckmorton's ghost,' answered the
vicar. ' It is said that when any trouble is going to happen
to an Oakburne who happens to be at Otterstone,
the wounded figure of Throckmorton is seen just before
dawn to drag himself to that boulder which commemorates
the event, and to point, in a warning manner, to the
window in the tower, which you will see just faces the
spot.'

1 So it does,' said Reginald going to the stone and
looking back towards the hall. ' Has it often been seen ?'
added he, half incredulously, but interested in spite of
himself.

1 Well, as there have been no Oakburnes here since
the beginning of the seventeenth century that is rather a

difficult question to answer,' said Mr. Bowersbyby with a
laugh. ' That is the tradition at all events.'

We are Oakburnes,' said Wilfrid. ' So perhaps we
might see it.' His brother looked at him rather angrily.

Oakburnes ! are you, indeed ! that is very singular.

It is an odd coincidence,' said Reginald and his
brother together, and then there was a silence of a
minute, which was broken by the striking of a distant
clock proclaiming that it was noon.

1 Dear me ! twelve o'clock ! ' cried the vicar. " I
must be getting back. I had no idea it was so late. If
you follow this path it will take you to a wicket gate close
to where those deer are feeding, and that will let you
into the road. There is a gate opposite which, if you
like walking on grass better than the road, I advise you
to go through.'

I hate a high road,' said Reginald.

Well, in that case, if you go through that gate, a field
path will take you to Draxf.on, a village of some half-dozen
cottages, with a queer little old church that's
worth your looking at, and to which I ride over todo
duty every Sunday afternoon. The village is quite
in the fields. There is no highway to it, but if you
follow the footway through it, it will take you straight
into the Thornbury Road, and save you a mile and a
half. And now I must be off.'

The young men thanked him for his courtesy, and
Mr. Bowersbyby strode away towards the village.

A good-natured sort of man,' said Wilfrid.

Well — yes ; but rather too talkative and inquisitive.
There was no need, my dear boy, to tell him that I was
going to my regiment in India, or that we were Oak-burnes.'


1 I can't see any harm in it.'

You must not be too " gushing" and communicative,
Wilfrid. However, as you say, there's no great harm
done ; and I'm glad we've met him and seen the old
place. What a grand old house. Ah ! if it were ours
again ? ' and Reginald fell into a reverie which kept the
pair silent for some time.

The grass track which led to Draxton was for the first
quarter of a-mile clearly enough defined, and soon they
saw the church and the few cottages in the distance.
After a certain point, however, the road split into a number
of very faintly defined paths, the pedestrians chose a
wrong one, and it was only after half-an-hour's wandering,
and after scrambling through two or three hedges, that
they found themselves on the summit of a hill opposite
to the little plateau on which the village stood. In the
hollow between flowed a rapid stream, swollen by the
recent heavy rains, to a breadth of some eight or ten feet.
The hamlet itself was surrounded on three sides by deep
hollows forming natural trenches. It consisted of a row
of seven tumble-down cottages, two of which were in an
utterly ruinous condition, and a tiny church without any
pretensions to architectural beauty save in the tower,
which was evidently of great age and well built.

What a queer little settlement ! ' said Reginald, and
the pair were about to descend and cross the brook when
Wilfrid, laying his hand on his brother's shoulder,
pointed to a sight which made them pause a moment in
some amusement.

Below them, some ten paces higher up the stream,
with looped-up skirts and bare feet, a young lady was
standing in evident hesitation opposite to some steppingstones,
the two centre of which were completely covered

by the unwonted amount of water brought down by the
rains. In one hand she held a good-sized covered
basket ; in the other the shoes and stockings which she
had just taken off. Her exertions had loosened some
locks of dark chestnut hair, and as she glanced around,
before venturing to cross, she revealed a pair of blue
eyes and a pretty flushed face that much enhanced the
interest with which her two unseen observers were watching
the movements of her lithe, graceful figure. Seeming
reassured that she was quite alone she advanced
slowly. The first two steps were accomplished in safety,
but the third stone was more distant and necessitated a
little jump. The water too was deeper and the landing
place more slippery so that it was only with difficulty
that she regained her footing, and in the effort to steady
herself the boots and stockings slipped from her hand.
Uttering a little cry of dismay she hurried over the two-remaining
stepping stones to the bank and, basket in
hand, stood ruefully contemplating her lost apparel
which, after being sportively whirled round for a moment
in an eddy just out of her reach, was swept rapidly down
the stream. It was with equal astonishment and confusion
that she suddenly saw Reginald rush down the
slope with a loud exclamation and dart in pursuit of it.
Reckless of consequences he dashed into the water justin
time to save a fast sinking boot, and, after a good
of floundering and splashing, succeeded in recovering its
fellow and the stockings which, hurrying across, he presented,
dripping, and panting with his exertions, to their
fair owner.

Thank you very much ! ' said she, blushing crimson,
it was very awkward of me to drop them.'

Not at all ! ' answered Reginald. ' I am delighted

to have been able to recover them. The stream is
rather rapid.

1 Yes ! It is certainly, very ! ' said the young lady, and
then, becoming mutually conscious of the absurdity of
the situation, they both burst out laughing simultaneously.

1 Can I take these — these things anywhere for you ? '
asked he politely.

'No! thank you! I think not,' said she quickly.
That is— I—'

At this moment a tall thin middle-aged gentleman
with a very upright figure, who was mounted on a
powerful bay mare, suddenly appeared on the brow of
the slope just under the church, and at once cantered
towards them.

Sybil ! Sybil ! ' cried he.

Tapa ! ' answered the young lady.

What on earth are you doing here, Sybil ? ' cried the
horseman utterly astonished. ' \ » hat is the meaning of
this ? ' looking at her bare feet. ' And you sir, may I
ask who you are, sir?' he added fiercely, turning to
Reginald, who stood, awkwardly enough, with the boots
in one hand and the stockings in the other.

I My name,' replied Reginald equally fiercely, ' is
Oakburne — Reginald Oakburne of the — th Rest.
What is yours may I ask ? '

I I am General Beechcroft, sir, the father of this young
lady,' said the other in a slightly milder tone. ' Excuse
me if I ask, sir, how it is we are indebted to you for your
interference, — in short what you are doing with these —
these, er, stockings of my daughter's, sir ? '

Sir ! ' cried Reginald getting into a rage, and
flourishing the dripping garments in his excitement. ' I

tell you — ' when Miss Beechcroft, who had gone off into
another fit of laughter, interposed.

Papa ! ' said she, ' Pray don't be so stupid. It is just
this. I was coming down to take some things to old Nurse
Bolton, who you know is very ill. The stream was
over the stepping stones, and not knowing of course that
anyone was near, I thought I would wade over.
And as I was crossing I dropped my boots — ' here she
again burst out laughing.

Very well, my dear ! I don't see myself why on earth
it should amuse you so much,' said her father.

'I dropped my boots and the other things,
and this gentleman who happened to be on the other
side of the stream, on the top of the hill there, very good
naturedly ran down, and after a good deal of trouble,
picked them up. That is all. I am sure I am very
much obliged to him.'

Oh ! He happened to be on the other side ! ' said
General Beechcroft, rather dubiously, looking from one
to the other. ' Ah yes ! I see,'

Yes ! ' said Oakburne, still rather angry, ' that is what
has happened, sir. If you will allow me,' he added,
waving the unfortunate boots, ' I will make these over to
you. I must rejoin my brother. I am glad to have
been of use,' and he raised his hat to Miss Beechcroft
and turned to go.

Stay, sir ! ' cried the irascible General, now somewhat
mollified, and beginning to feel the ludicrous
nature of their position. 'Stay! I owe you an
apology; but you must own that circumstances
were — were peculiar. I am obliged to you, Mr. O — I
did not quite catch your name.'

Oakburne ! ' said Reginald stiffly.

I beg your pardon, Mr. Oakburne. I repeat I am
much obliged to you for the service you rendered
my daughter. I wish you good day, sir. Come, Sybil !
give me those things. We will go to Mrs. Bolton.'

1 Thank you so much for your trouble,' said the young
lady with a merry smile, and, with a bow from her, and
a more haughty one from her father, the two went slowly
up the hill and disappeared into one of the cottages.

Come along, Wilfrid ! what a time you take ! ' cried
Reginald, as his brother, having seen the departure of
the Beechcrofts, came down from his post of observation
and leisurely made his way across the stream. ' Do
make haste man ! '

Quite a pretty picture you made Rely, with the
boots in one hand and the stockings in the other !'
said Wilfrid. ' And the girl, too, with bare feet !' And
he burst into a laugh at the recollection.

All right my good fellow ! ' responded the other
angrily, ' I daresay it looked very funny. But you need
not have stood there grinning like an idiot'

What could I do ? ' asked Wilfrid much amused. ' I
held myself in reserve, .as you would say in your profession.'


His brother made no reply, and they ascended the
slope in silence.

I wonder who the girl was,' said Reginald, as they
gained the summit, ' she was very pretty. I didn't catch
the old fellow's name. I'll just ask who they are. I say,'
addressing an elderly labourer who was standing by the
church door, 'Can you tell me who that lady was who
went into the cottage there, and that gentleman on the
bay mare ?'

That gentleman,' answered the man with a grin, 'why

"&t * «*«

General Beechcroft of Thornbury Grange to be sure, and
Miss Beechcroft.

Beechcrome did you say ? '

Beechcroft I said, of Thornbury. Most folk knows
him about here.'

Is Thornbury Grange near here ? '

Oh aye ! A matter of two mile ! ' replied the labourer,
scanning him curiously.

1 And how far is it to Thornbury town.'

Mebbe five mile. 'Tis a good four an' a half.
Straight down the lane,' pointing to a gate leading
into a grass road with thick hedges on either side,
'turn to the left when you get into the turnpike.'

'Then we'd better be getting on,' said Wilfrid, and
they walked on with but few attempts at conversation
till they reached Thornbury.

CHAPTER IV.

In which Reginald Oakburne makes some new acquaint-warm

broke the breeze against the brow,
Dry sang the tackle, sang the sail ;
The lady's-head upon the prow
Caught the shrill salt, and sheered the gale.
The broad sea swell'd to meet the keel,
And swept behind : so quick the run,
We felt the good ship shake and reel,
We seem'd to sail into the sun !

By peaks that flamed, or, all in shade,

Gloom'd the low coast and quivering brine

With ashy rains, that spreading made

Fantastic plume or sable pine ;

By sands and steaming flats, and floods

Of mighty mouth, we scudded fast,

And hills and scarlet-mingled woods

Glow'd for a moment as we past. — Tennyson.

Some ten days subsequent to the events described
in the preceding chapter, Reginald Oakburne
found himself moving rapidly down Channel onboard
one of the P. and O. steamers bound for Madras.
The great steamship company was in those days still,
comparatively speaking, in its youth, but those who, like
Reginald, found themselves pressed for time were glad
to avail themselves of the facilities it offered in preference
to the cheaper but more tedious voyage round the Cape.

To one blessed with good health and plenty of
animal spirits, however, a voyage is usually very agreeable,
and his pleasure was considerably increased by
unexpectedly finding among his fellow passengers, the
young lady and her father, whose acquaintance he had
made as above narrated at Draxton.

General Beechcroft had been forced by the state of his
affairs to leave his home in Clayshire. He had fallen a
victim to the then prevailing mania for railway speculation,
and found himself obliged to accept a command
in India which would detain him there some years, and
force him as he said to begin the world again in his old
age, but which would enable him to avoid the painful
necessity of parting with his patrimony, and give him the
hope of eventually returning to enjoy it.

Long and anxious had been his meditations on this
perplexing subject, and many the colloquies which he
held thereon with the friend to whom he chiefly
resorted for advice when in difficulties, — a certain Mr.
Throckmorton, a barrister of Lincoln's Inn. His
intimacy with the latter, who was some few years
younger than himself, had begun at school and been
continued through life, and his opinion was almost
invariably accepted by General Beechcroft, when he
found it hard to form one for himself. As therefore Mr.
Throckmorton counselled it, his friend, who was still
full of energy, accepted the Indian appointment which
had been put in his way by some influential friends
who sympathised with his misfortune. Still the wrench
of leaving home had been very painful. He was no
longer young, had been out of harness some time,
and in addition to this, he was burdened with the
care of his only daughter. It had been a great problem

with him whether he should leave Sybil at home with
her aunt, Lady Felsparley. for whom neither of them
had any very strong regard, or make her his companion.
Sybil had, however, decided the matter for him by flatly
declining to be left behind. Her father, she said,
must have some one to keep house for him ; the
prospect of India would be delightful to her, — she quite
longed to go there ; and at all events she was quite sure
that she could not bear to be separated from him. These
arguments, supported by the more feminine ones of tears
and caresses, easily defeated the poor general's scruples
as to exposing his girl to the discomforts of travel and the
injurious effects of an Indian climate. His daughter
was to him the most precious thing in the world, and
after all, anything would be better than to be separated
from her. So the Grange was let, the horses were sold,
and Sybil said good-bye to her pets and her garden. Mr.
Throckmorton, who of course had known Miss Beech -
croft since her childhood, accompanied the pair down to
Southampton to see the last of them, and thus it came
about that one bright windy April evening they stood
watching with wistful eyes and sad hearts the fast fading
coast of England.

The elements have, however, — and doubtless it is
happy for us that it is so, — as little respect for human
feelings as they have for the works of men's hands, or
the barriers of nature. The gusty wind put a summary
end to their melancholy reflections by catching the
broad-brimmed hat which the General wore, and wafted
it behind them. Sybil and her father turned hastily,
and both gave vent to an exclamation of gratitude as a
young man deftly arrested the progress of the flying hat
and restored it to its owner.

'Thank you so much, Captain Cope,' said Sybil,
turning towards the gentleman. Captain Cope was her
father's aide-de-camp, and had only left them a few
moments in order to arrange something in his berth.
He had been making himself very pleasant, and, as
she was wishing at the moment that he would return and
talk to her father, she, at the first glance, mistook the
rescuer of the hat, who was much, the same height, for
their friend.

My name is not Cope,' replied the young fellow,
bowing as he recognised the speaker ; ' It is Oakburne-
But I think I have had the pleasure of meeting you in
Clayshire.'

The voice recalled the occasion of their meeting to
Sybil's memory, and, as she reminded her father with a
laugh of the circumstances, the latter also remembered
it with some amusement.

'Oh yes ! I recollect you sir!' said he, ' You did my
daughter a service. I think.'

1 Much of the same kind as that which I have just had
the pleasure of rendering you,' said Reginald, smiling,
and then they all laughed in company, and fell to talking
of the oddness of the rencontre.

Sociability on board ship becomes almost a necessity
to even the sternest misanthrope, and many a pleasant
intimacy dates from a voyage to India by the
P. & O. The idle life, the monotony and confinement,
draw out whatever good temper and cheerfulness
the passengers possess; and many who meet
each other as total strangers part as if they had been
friends all their lives, and carrying away with them
a fall knowledge of many of the most confidential details
of each other's history. Desperate flirtations are matters

of course, and as often as not crowned by engagements ;
while, on the other hand, alas ! quarrels, jealousies, and
life long dislikes are equally the consequences of the
enforced intercourse.

Reginald soon found himself on the best of terms
with the Beechcrofts. He sat near Sybil at meals,
was often her partner in the pleasant, merry, but
somewhat rough dances they had in the evenings.
He joined the General in his walks up and down
the deck, and played at chess with him when he was
so inclined. Both he and Cope were in a friendly
way rivals for the favour of Miss Beechcroft. That
Reginald was head over ears in love was patent, Cope
would say in confidence to other men, — to the whole
ship ; — but while his auditors owned that he spoke the
truth, they had also to agree with Oakburne when he
told them that it was clear that ' Cope, poor beggar,
was utterly gone about Miss Beechcroft.' Their affections,
however, did not, strange to say, interfere with
their liking and friendship for each other, perhaps on
account of their dissimilar temperaments. Cope, who
was some four years the elder, was of a practical and
somewhat phlegmatic disposition, and deliberate in
his speech, with a slight lisp. Reginald had a strong
spice of romance in his character, and was impetuous,
and an animated voluble talker. He was fond of reading,
and well informed on most subjects ; while Cope
who was rather the reverse, and hardly ever seemed to
open a book, having plenty of humour, had somehow
picked up a mass of droll stories, riddles, and the like,
which, told in his slow way, kept people in roars of
laughter. Their very appearances were in contrast.
Cope being fair haired, and rather stout and florid, while

D

Reginald, as has been said, was lithe and dark haired,
and their respective accomplishments were the complement
of each other. Cope sung and played admirably.
Oakburne could do neither, but he was a capital draughtsman,
and had a taste for caricature. It was Cope who
organised the private theatricals that so amused everyone
on board, and in which he acted so well ; but it was
Reginald who constructed the stage and scenery, and
gave effect to the performance by his excellent stage
management.

As for Miss Beechcroft, it would have been very
hard to say which of these two admirers she preferred.
She liked them both very well, no doubt, but
they were not by any means the only men on board ;
and, to tell the truth, she much enjoyed and made the
most of the homage which she received from everyone as
the belle of the ship. Perhaps she never passed a happier
period in her life than during this voyage, which complete
change of scene and the absence of worry, as well
as the constant gaiety combined to make so pleasant.
All the men vied in trying to make themselves agreeable
to her, and^she made friends with most of the ladies onboard.
The poor General, indeed, was rather bothered
by the amount of attention his daughter received, and
confided his troubles both to Cope and Oakburne.

1 You see, sir,' he would say in his abrupt manner,
'You see I feel she wants a mother to look after her.
A man can't be father and mother in one — confound
it ! And that's what my girl wants. What all
girls want — some one of their own sex to advise 'em — to
confide in.'

Of course both his young friends agreed with him.
Perhaps they felt inclined to suggest that a male confident

and adviser would be more desirable than a female
one. So too did Mrs. M'Cormont, a lady with two
marriageable daughters, who had made friends with
Sybil, and whom the General took rather a fancy to.
Perhaps she thought 'her Dora' or 'her dear
Cora ' had qualifications for the post. Indeed,
the worthy woman would hardly have been human if
some such idea had not crossed her mind when the
General so frequently complained to her during the passage
from Aden to Galle of the misfortune it had been to
Sybil to lose her mother so early, and of the ' confounded
nuisance,' as he called it, of the doctor's attentions to her.

The doctor's attentions were certainly very marked,
and were made the more disagreeable by the peculiar
disposition and views of that gentleman, whose name of
Rovelli, as well as his dark eyes and crisp curly black hair,
bore witness to the Italian blood in his veins. He was
a fine looking man of about thirty, but his prepossessing
appearance was neutralised by the familiar assumption of
his manners, and his opinions, both on politics and
morality. He disgusted the better class of men, by his
frequent boasting of his successes with the fair sex, and
his offensive parade of his disbelief in either female
virtue or revealed religion, while his easy abandon of
mannered the ladies for the most part rather shy of him.
These, however, only saw the best side of his character,
and as Rovelli had a magnificent voice, and considerable
conversational powers, they found him an agreeable
companion, and did not endorse the severe judgment of
the other sex.

He early annoyed the General and the few military
men on board by denouncing war as a remnant of barbarism,
and declaring that he had no more respect for

the Duke of Wellington or any other great general than
he had for the chief of a tribe of Red Indians or Italian
banditti. The great exhibition of the previous year was,
he said, ' the inauguration of a great cycle of universal
peace, during which the barriers of tyranny and rank
would be swept away by the steadily advancing and
beneficent might of the sovereign people, who would
thus establish the universal brotherhood of the whole
human race.' This magniloquent nonsense was of
course laughed at by the more sensible among the passengers,
though the fire and grace of manner with which
Rovelli delivered it made a strong impression on some
of the ladies. General Beechcroft, however, heard it
with intense disgust and anger. To begin with, he was
an ardent Tory, and the mere mention of the progress of
the 'sovereign people' raised his animus as being suggestive
of rebellion and brutality. But his wrath was far
more excited by the comparison of the Duke of Wellington
to an Indian chief and Italian robber. His admiration
for that great soldier, under whom he had served,
and with whom he had had a slight acquaintance,
amounted almost to worship, and such a speech regarding
him was, in his eyes, flat blasphemy. He could not
contain himself, but, in the silence which followed the
doctor's eloquent outburst, he declared to Captain Cope
in a loud voice, husky with passion, that ' By heaven,
sir ! if any man had dared to make such a remark at
the mess table of the regiment I had the honour to command,
I would have ordered him under arrest, sir —
expelled him from the mess — and he would have been
most certainly chastised by one of us — by all of us, sir !'
Captain Cope replied, with a laugh, in his slow way,
that it would serve him doosid right well, too, by Jove!'

But the General left his half-finished lunch, and stalked
solemnly out of the room ; while his daughter got first
very red and then very white. The doctor also grew a
shade paler, and an unpleasant expression came into
his eyes, but, as he afterwards explained, he was a man
of peace. He chose to affect to ignore this sally on
General Beechcroft's part, and went on as unconcernedly
as he could to show how the ' germs of progress ' were
sprouting already in Italy, France, and especially in
Germany. He, however, took the earliest opportunity
of apologising in very courteous terms to General Beech-croft,
which he did so skilfully, that the latter not .
only felt bound to accept his excuses but also
began to accuse himself of having been too hasty,
and Dr. Rovelli made use of the advantage thus gained
to pay those marked attentions to Miss Beechcroft, wjpch,
as has been said, so strongly roused her father's animosity
against him.

It must be owned that these were not so displeasing
to the young lady, who, to tell the truth,
was a little too fond of admiration, as the General
could have wished. A great moralist has recorded
his opinion that 'if any woman were to hang a man
for stealing her picture, although it were set in gold,
it would be a new case in Law ; ' but that if he carried
off the setting and left the picture, his safety could not be
answered for. Like most of her sex, Miss Beechcroft,
much to Messrs. Cope and Oakburne's disgust, could
not find it in her heart to be very severe to such an
ardent and handsome admirer, who sang too as only a
native of Italy can sing, as if liquid rolling song were his
natural mode of expression. So the doctor continued
his attentions, the two young officers, his rivals, chafed,

and General Beech croft grumbled to Mrs. M'Cormont,
amid the daily routine of eating and drinking, dancing
and singing, flirting and squabbling. The squabbling
especially increased, as is usually the case, with the
heat and discomfort of the Red Sea, and seemed to
form the chief amusement of many of the passengers till
those on board the ' Cathay ' awoke one Saturday morning
to find the steamer coasting along a rocky shore
covered with woods of palm down to the water's edge, and
the news spread rapidly among them that they were off
Ceylon.

There are few objects more refreshing to the eye
of the traveller from Europe than the first glimpse
of that green island after the sandy deserts of Egypt,
and the barren rock of Aden. ' Contra Head,' the
southernmost point of the island, first appears an undefined
grey outline on the horizon. The steamer coasts
along a shore covered with luxuriant vegetation to the
water's edge, until at length Point de Galle is sighted
with its coral rocks, crowned by the fort, and backed
by dim mountain ranges clothed with jungle to the
summit, and the town, with its spacious, though
dangerous harbour is reached.

After much time had been wasted in haggling with
the Cinghalese vendors of so-called precious stones, a
large party from the ' Cathay ' landed to see what was to
be seen in the place. General Beechcroft and his
daughter, and therefore of course Messrs. Cope and
Oakburne, were of the number, and to the annoyance of
three at least of them, so was Doctor Rovelli. The
General, seated between Dora, and Cora M'Cormont,
who were as usual accompanied by their mother, gave

vent to an audible expression of disgust as he saw that
gentleman descend into the boat.

Two or three old stagers who knew Galle too well to
take the trouble to land there, watched the departing
boat with lazy indifference as they smoked their cigars
on the deck, and made cynical comments on the
pleasure seekers whom she carried.

Galle's a fatal place, Chapman,' said Mr. Norris, an
elderly civilian, returning as he hoped for the last time
to India. 'I've known many a flirtation brought to a
head there. I'll give you two to one in sovereigns that
Oakburne carries off Miss Beechcroft.'

'Done with you,' replied Major Chapman, lighting a fresh
cigar. ' I fancy myself that Cope is the real favourite.
He's a steady goer, and when that sort of man's once hit
its always a case of win or lose. As for Dora and Cora,
they're nowhere. The General's too old a stager to
yield to Dora's charms, though I must say it won't be
her fault or her mother's if he doesn't.'

I think you are both wrong,' said Wilmington, a Bombay
merchant, ' I'll back the doctor against both Cope
and Oakburne. I'll trouble you for a light, Chapman.
I remember when I came out by the Cape in 18 — &c.
&c. &c.,' and he began a story which served to occupy
the time of the three till tiffin.

The party in the boat — or at least all the younger
portion of them, — were in high spirits, and though there is
little or nothing to see in Galle, they managed to enjoy
seeing it wonderfully. They inspected the reservoir and
the building in the fort, wandered round the ramparts,
drove out a mile or two into the country, and finally,
after having dined, temporised 'a little dance ' in the
spacious room of the hotel.

The idea of the ' little dance ' exhausted General
Beechcroft's patience. He naturally thought that the
dancers had quite enough of their favourite amusement
on board ship, and, as his daughter insisted on taking
part in it, he made her over to the charge of Mrs. M'Cor-
mont, and went back to the ship. He began to feel more
than ever that she wanted a mother to look after her. * Its
natural in the young of course,' said he to himself. ' I
suppose pleasure-hunting's a second nature to them, but
it is rather hard on an old fellow like myself.' His life
had had a good many ups and downs. As quite a youth
he had had his first disappointment with regard to the
Otterstone property, which he had been brought up to
believe he should inherit. He had lost two of his
children when they were quite young, he had survived a
wife whom he had fondly loved, and now in his old age
he had had to begin life again and act the part of both
father and mother to a high-spirited young girl. Though
he idolised her he could not but feel it was rather weary
work sometimes this constant watching over her, and dim
thoughts of the possibility of his being released from his
care by her marriage to some young fellow whom he
could gladly receive as a son-in-law, crossed his mind.
Ah ! but what should I do without her,' he thought, and
he sought the society of Messrs. Norris and Chapman to
try and banish the melancholy reflection. Could he have
foreseen all the consequences of the ' little dance,' he
would doubtless have insisted on enforcing his paternal
authority and taken his daughter back to the ship with
him.

Mrs. M'Cormont was a good-natured Scotch woman,
whose principal conception of her duty towards her
daughters was to marry them as well as possible. She

quite intended to try and bestow Dora on General
Beechcroft, while she thought Cora might be very
happy with Captain Cope, who would, she had somehow
learnt, eventually inherit some considerable property,
and in whom she fancied that she had detected signs of
admiration for ' dearest Cora.' Cora, however, was
refractory, and on her part felt that Dr. Rovelli would
make a much more suitable husband, and she therefore
felt rather angry with Sybil Beechcroft for, as she called
it, monopolising him. Her mother, however, was
determined to subdue this rebelliousness, and was therefore
well pleased that Sybil should keep the doctor out of
her daughter's way.

'The doctor's a man of no breeding or family,
Cora, ye understand,' she would say. ' One can see
that at a glance, dear ; and your dear father, I'm well
assured, wouldn't care for us to cultivate his acquaintance.
Ye comprehend me, Cora ? '

1 Wasn't grandpa, her mamma's father, in Aberdeen,
a timber merchant ? I'm sure a doctor's as good as a
timber merchant ! ' says the fair rebel.

'Your dear father comes of some of the best fluid in Scotland,
Cora,' replied her mother sternly, ' and ye mustn't
forget it. When I was a girl, I shouldn't have dared to
say such a thing to my mother.'

To tell the truth, the good lady took care to keep all
her acquaintance in mind of the fact that Captain
M'Cormont was a distant cousin on the mother's side of
Lord Glenshale, and made good capital out of the fact
in cultivating the acquaintance of General Beechcroft,
who was also distantly connected with that distinguished
nobleman, and in fact, owed his present appointment to his
influence at the Horse Guards. 'The M'Cormonts,' she

was wont to say, ' built their nests on the rocks, and led
their clans to battle and plunder long before the Glen-shales,
pair bodies, had ever been heard of in Glasgow.'
Of her own family, the Hardy, timber merchants and
com factors in Aberdeen, she naturally spoke less.

It therefore fell out that Miss Cora made one or
two little speeches which had the effect of putting
Sybil very much on her mettle, and determining her to
exercise her powers of fascination as much as possible at
the other's expense. She was by no means ill natured,
but still it is pleasant sometimes to punish people who
will be rude. Then, too, she was further urged to be
gracious to the doctor, because Reginald Oakburne, who
she could see was devoted to her, had taken into his
head to be very sulky whenever she spoke of or to
Rovelli, and she was determined to read him a lesson.
Captain Cope was not so stupid as to be offended, and
yet disliked Rovelli just as much ! These motives led
her to receive the doctor's homage with great favour, and
to give him more dances than was perhaps wise. People
began to talk, and even Mrs. M'Cormont began to think
her young charge imprudent. Poor Oakburne, after a
while, gave up dancing, and stood gloomily watching the
pair in the doorway, indifferent to all Cope's good-natured
chaff. After a while he could stand the spectacle no
longer, and leaving the hotel he wandered down to the
beach below, and watched the sea dashing in heavy
waves on the rocks. He felt thoroughly disgusted
with Sybil, and indeed with things in general. The
voyage would soon come to an end, and then he would
be separated from the object of his adoration, and yet
here she was giving herself up to a brute like that ! If
it had been Cope he would have borne it. Cope was a

right good fellow ! But this Italian — a man she knew
her own father hated — it was too bad — it was revolting !

Meanwhile the doctor had been enjoying his triumph.
It was a real pleasure to him to show these insolent
young military men that he was a far more attractive
personage than they were — that Paul Rovelli was not a
man to be despised. Then, too, he really admired
Sybil in his passionate way, and love-making came
naturally to him.

They had just finished a waltz, when he suggested to
his partner that they too should go out into the cool
moonlight. Sybil hesitated. She was getting a little
tired of Dr. Rovelli, and was annoyed at being noticed.
Besides, she had promised to dance the next set with
Oakburne, and she expected to find him waiting eagerly
to claim it. She looked round in vain for him, however.
I don't see my partner,' she said.

If it is Mr. Oakburne, he is gone, I think,' replied
the doctor. ' He was standing in the doorway. I saw
him take his hat and go.'

Sybil felt very mortified. Well, if he did not care to
claim his dance, he should not have it ! She was just
going to ask Dr. Rovelli to take her to Mrs. M'Cormorrt
when she caught sight of Cora sitting with Captain
Cope, laughing very much, and evidently making some
remark, as she thought, about her. She felt very angry.
She would show Miss M'Cormont that she disregarded
her jealousy. ' Well,' she said, ' I think I will go out,
as my partner has deserted me. The moonlight looks so
beautiful.'

The doctor was delighted. He led his partner
triumphantly out of the room, and they descended the
few steps that led from the hotel verandah to the rocks

below. They had hardly quitted the house when Sybil
began to realise that she was acting very foolishly in
encouraging this man. Her discomfort increased when
Rovelli, after they had walked a little distance, suggested
that they should sit down. There was something in his
tone and manner which filled her with dislike. ' I think
we had better go back,' said she, looking round
anxiously. They had turned a point round seme low
rocks and found themselves in a little cove with a beach
composed of millions of shells.

1 Go back ! when we have only just seen this loveliness
!' cried the doctor. * Look at the glorious moon,
at the silver lighted waves ! Look at the blue above,
dear Miss Sybil, turn not yet I pray you !'

Take me back at once, please,' said Sybil sharply.
She felt herself blush crimson in the darkness. ' Dear
Miss Sybil /' Her anger at the man's caressing tone,
and a vague alarm as to what he would say next, made
her begin to tremble.

The doctor, however, was elated with success, and had
moreover been drinking freely at dinner. He mistook
Miss Beechcroft's manner for coyness, and perhaps
suppressed emotion, both of which he was accustomed
to disregard in the fair sex.

Dear Sybil !' said he, taking her hand. ' Hear me, I
pray you ! Hear one who worships you and regards the
beauty of the moonlit heaven as nought, when compared
with the radiance of your glance.'

1 Let me go at once, sir ! Take me back instantly !'
cried Sybil. Under different circumstances she would
have laughed at this high-flown language, but now she
felt ready to cry with shame and fear. ' Let me go, or I
call for assistance.'

Never !' cried Rovelli. ' I am your slave, Sybil !
Paul Rovelli is your slave ! Never will I let you go till
I have won a kiss from those lovely lips !' and he tried
to put his arm round her waist.'

Sybil, springing from him, cried aloud for help, and
burst into despairing tears. Help was nearer than she
thought.

'You scoundrel! How dare you touch her,' cried
Oakburne, rushing forward between them as the doctor
again advanced towards Sybil.

Scoundrel ! ' said the doctor, turning very pale.
Scoundrel, to me ! Retract that word at once, sir ! '

I You are an impudent scoundrel ! ' repeated Reginald
very deliberately, and facing his antagonist with a look
full of scorn and anger.

The doctor glared a moment at him, and then, livid
with passion, struck straight at his face.

It must be owned that this was rather what Reginald
wanted, though he had not expected it, as he had imagined
Rovelli to be an arrant coward.

You will have it, will you ? ' said he, as stopping the
blow, he replied by a terrific left hander, which sent the
doctor sprawling on the sand.

Come back with me, Miss Beechcroft,' he said,
giving Sybil his arm. ' It is lucky I happened to be
wandering on the rocks.'

'Reginald! Mr. Oakburne ! Do take me back!' and
poor Sybil, clinging to him and crying, ' How wrong I
have been ! Oh, I hope he is not hurt ! Take me back
to the ship at once ! ' She felt overwhelmed with terror
and confusion.

I I don't think you need be anxious about him,' said
Reginald gravely. The doctor still lay prostrate on the

sand, but he thought he might safely be left to come to
himself.

I will take you to the boat,' continued he. ' We
must all be going soon, and I will tell Mrs. M'Cormont
you are waiting there. Though mollified by being called
Reginald, he still felt a grave disapproval of Sybil,
which he could not help showing. He felt her shrink
towards him as they ascended the steps of the verandah.
I will wait here ! ' cried she. * That will be best of all.
Let me sit here ; and tell Mrs. M'Cormont I am not
well.'

Reginald seeing this would be the wisest course, did
as she asked him, and begged Mrs. M'Cormont to try and
get the party back to the ship as soon as possible. After
he had done so, and while the ladies were getting ready
to return, he took an opportunity of telling Cope what
had happened.

Serves him doosid right,' was that officer's comment,
as indeed it was on most occasions of a similar kind.
But perhaps its a pity you hit him, eh ? ' ' You'd have
done the same, Cope,' replied the other. ' You know
you would. The question is, what am I to do now ? '

'Wait and see what he does,' said Cope, after a
moment's reflection.

At this moment the doctor appeared in the doorway.
He had an ugly cut on his forehead, and was very pale
but preserved his usual sangfroid and insolent swagger.

You will have to account to me for this, sir,' said he
to Oakburne in a low tone.

I'm quite ready,' replied the latter. Dr. Rovelli was
about to say something more when the ladies entered the
room, and the whole party made their way down to the
boats, and returned to the 'Cathay.'

There was a sort of suspicion among them that something
unpleasant had occurred, but the four who knew
what it was wisely kept their own counsel, and all retired
early to rest.

CHAPTER V.

Doctor Rovelli.

Beyond the infinite and boundless reach
Of Mercy, if thou did'st this deed of Death,
Art thou damn'd. — Shakespeare.

Farewell ! a word that must be and hath been —

A sound which makes us linger ; — yet — farewell ! — Byron.

HE Sunday which followed the unfortunate
fracas between Dr. Rovelli and Reginald Oak-burnt
was one of those beautiful days which, on
those rare occasions on which they come to us, seem to
shed an atmosphere of peace and happiness over all
created things, and to make even the most sorrowful
feel that existence alone is a blessing. The beautiful
island which the ' Cathay ' had left at daybreak seemed
now but a faint speck on the horizon, and a light breeze
was blowing which just sufficed to ruffle into tiny waves
a sea as blue as the cloudless sky above it. Oakburne,
like everyone else, was soothed by the sweet influences
of the day, and the events of the previous evening
seemed for a time like the recollections of some hideous
nightmare. The doctor did not appear at breakfast, but
his absence from that meal was, owing to his duties, not
unusual, and therefore occasioned no comment. General
Beechcroft seemed unusually cheerful, and, though his
daughter was somewhat silent and depressed, it was
plain that she had told her father nothing of what had

happened at Galle. Everyone seemed in high spirits on
account of the delightful weather and the prospect of a
speedy termination to their voyage, and those who
assembled round the Captain for divine worship were, sofar
as perfect content constitutes a thankful heart, well
attuned to take part in it.

Oakburne and Cope had taken their places near the
Captain, and the latter had just begun to read the service
when the noise of a violent scuffle on the companion
ladder leading from the saloon made him pause, and his
hearers enquire of each other with some consternation
what could be the cause of the disturbance.

They were not long left in doubt. With a wild shout,
a man, half dressed, and with a drawn sword in his hand,
rushed up the ladder followed by a terror-stricken steward
who cried ' For God's sake take care ! He is mad.'

The man he was following was Dr. Rovelli. His thick
curly hair was all in disorder, his eye gleamed wildly, and
his feet were bare, as, brandishing a cutlass, he passed
through the terrified passengers assembled on each side
of the deck. Singling out Oakburne with a look of
bitter hatred, and shouting in a terrible voice, ' Revenge !
Revenge !' he rushed towards him. Oakburne's fate
seemed certain, for he and all around him were for the
minute quite paralysed by the suddenness of the maniac's
attack, when, to the admiration of all, Captain
Cope stepped quietly forward, and fixing his eye
on Rovelli, said, in a loud, stern, but perfectly calm
voice —

'Doctor, give me that sword instantly.'

It was a moment of terrible suspense to all, and a
deathlike silence prevailed, as, to the astonishment of the

spectators, the madman suddenly halted with a bewildered
look, and dropped his uplifted arm.

'Give me that sword,' repeated Cope, in the same
authoritative tone, still keeping his gaze fixed on him,
and laying his hand on the hilt of the weapon. Rovelli
surrendered it like a child ; his head fell on his breast ;
then with a wild cry he sank on his knees, covered his
face with his hands, and sobbed piteously. Courage and
presence of mind had triumphed, and the danger was
averted. The strain on those who had watched the
scene was suddenly removed, and simultaneously, almost,
their pent-up feelings found vent in a burst of applause.
The cry seemed to arouse the maniac, who sprang to his
feet and glared around fiercely; but by this time one of the
quartermasters and some of the sailors had come to the
rescue. Rovelli was seized and pinioned, and led without
resistance below, and then it was discovered for the
first time that both Miss Beechcroft and Miss Cora
M'Cormont had fainted.

Cope ! ' said Reginald Oakburne, going up to him.

Cope ! I owe you my life. I .' His voice failed

him as he seized the other's hand.

Not at all, my dear fellow. It's nothing,' replied he.
'You'd have done the same for me, you know.'

'I don't know how to thank you, old fellow,' said Reginald,
ringing his hand ; ' I'll never forget, never . . .'

Meanwhile everyone crowded round Cope, praising
him and shaking him by the hand, and every one
wondered at the quiet way in which he received the
general applause. He was, as had been said, naturally
phlegmatic, and, as in all such natures, his strong pulses
beat but slowly, and his brain was but seldom overexcited.
To his matter-of-fact mind all this fuss was

rather astonishing. 'It's a great mercy I stopped the
poor beggar, but it's just what you'd have done yourself,
you know,' was all he could think of saying by way of
reply to the congratulations showered on him, and
people began to think that perhaps it really was the case.
When the matter was discussed again in the evening, it
was quite surprising to find how many men had really
been just prepared to do exactly what Cope had done
when he had anticipated them.

Though the affair, by reminding Messrs. Wilmington
and Chapman, and other old stagers, of various adventures
which had befallen them earlier in the century indifferent
parts of the Eastern and Western Hemispheres,
served for a time to furnish matter for interesting conversation,
its effect on the whole was depressing to the
passengers on the ' Cathay.' The ladies, it is true, all
agreed in regarding Captain Cope as a hero, and Miss
Cora M'Cormont underwent a violent revulsion of
feeling which raised the Captain to as high a position in
her esteem as her mother could desire \ but they were
also much affected by the blow which had fallen on the
poor being whose fury he had so suddenly tamed. No
one on board could help feeling pity for the unfortunate
Rovelli, and, it was felt that gaiety would hardly be in
good taste after what had happened. The evening
dances ceased and the piano was but rarely heard, forever
and anon, terrible cries would come from the cabin
where the poor doctor was confined. The voyage began
to grow wearisome, and all on board welcomed the
evening when the ' Cathay ' cast anchor in the roadstead
of Madras.

It had been ascertained that Dr. Rovelli had relatives
in the town, and it was decided to consign him to their

care. On the evening of their arrival, therefore, he was
conveyed ashore under the charge of the chief officer,
the time chosen being the dinner hour, as well to save
the passengers from the painful spectacle, as to secure as
much quiet as possible for the unhappy sufferer.

Reginald Oakburne had come on deck to see the
boat take its departure, and as alone he watched it
moving shorewards through the heavy surf, he felt very
sad. His heart was full of pity for the unhappy Rovelli,
and of regret for his share in the fate which had befallen
him, and he resolved that, as soon as he got an opportunity
after landing, he would go and enquire as to his
progress. The next morning he would have to make
the same journey as the poor doctor, and to say farewell
to his friends. Chapman, two others, and himself, were
the only passengers for Madras. The Beechcrofts and
Captain Cope were going on to Calcutta. When should
he see them, should he ever see them again ? and he fell
to thinking of all the incidents of the voyage, and, of
course, of Sybil. He felt, unreasonably enough, a good
deal of bitterness towards her for having, as he chose to
think, avoided him since they had left Galle, and that
feeling was struggling for mastery in his heart with an
affection for her which had been unconsciously growing
in strength during the voyage.

1 So you leave us tomorrow, Mr. Oakburne,' said a
timid voice at his side.

He started at the well-known tones, and felt rather
self-conscious.

1 Yes, Miss Beechcroft,' he replied, * I must say .'


He had, to tell the truth himself, avoided Sybil —
though perhaps he was scarcely aware of it — more than

she had him. In the first place he had taken offence at
her imaginary neglect, and in the next — though he hardly-owned
it to himself — he had felt a strange diffidence in
speaking to her after what had happened. Now that
the time of parting approached he was angry with himself
for his conduct. Yes ! tomorrow he must say goodbye
! and he felt a fresh pang at the thought. Then
with the unreasonableness of a lover, his bitterness and
jealousy suddenly returned. After all, what did she
care, and why should she ?

I wish,' said Sybil, nervously, ' that is, I have never
had an opportunity of thanking you for the service you
did me.'

'What service do you allude to'' asked he ironically,
as the incident at Draxton rose in his mind.

You were so kind — you interfered for me,' she began.

Reginald chose to misunderstand her.

1 Oh, you mean about the boots. . . . I'm sure I was
very glad.'

'You know perfectly well what I mean,' said Sybil,
angrily. ' I merely wanted to thank Mr. Oakburne for
condescending to come to my assistance at Galle. As
we were about to part I wished to acknowledge his '

Her anger made him penitent at once.

I beg your pardon — Sybil — Miss Beechcroft, I mean.
Forgive my rudeness and silly temper. I beg your
pardon.'

I can't see why you should choose to misinterpret
my words,' says Sybil, indignantly.

He felt that he was both foolish and rude. Perhaps
this was the last time he should ever see her alone again.
How pretty she looked in her anger ! His penitential
sorrow increased.

1 I had no right to do so. It was utterly boorish and
stupid of me. I beg your pardon. Do forgive me!
Say you forgive me, Sybil ! ' cried he, incoherently.

'I only wanted to thank you, Mr. Oakburne,' said
Sybil demurely, turning away.

Thank me I You thank me ! And for that ! Why !
Good Heavens, Sybil ! You know I would give my life
for you ! '

Would you ? ' says the lady in a very low voice, ashe
took her unresisting hand in his.

He forgot the ship,*the passengers, and all conditions
of space and time, and was only conscious of Sybil's
presence.

'Sybil, darling Sybil,' whispered he, 'if you would
only —

A dry cough made the pair start guiltily, and a voice
in slow drawling tones, and with a very pronounced
lisp, said: —

1 What a nith still smooth night it with ! you'll find
thigh the best place Mrs. M'Cormont.'

Reginald gave vent to a wicked ejaculation under his
breath, as he turned and recognised his friend Captain
Cope placing a chair for the mother of ' Dora ' and ' Cora,'
on the other side of the deck. Happily for Sybil it was
too dark to see her blushes, nor could Cope observe the
malevolent look which Reginald cast at him. If people
choose to make love on the deck of a steamer they must
be prepared for such interruptions, and Miss Beechcroft
and Oakburne had to cover their confusion as best they
could. The lady suddenly remembered that her father
wanted her to read to him, and the gentleman, after
watching her retreating figure for a moment, lighted a
cigar, and remained for somewhere engrossed in the con-temptation

of the moon-lit sea and the distant lights of
Madras.

When he thought the matter over next morning as he
donned his uniform, preparatory to leaving the steamer,
he felt inclined to be angry with his friend, fond as he
had become of him. Cope had come between him and
happiness ! Confound him ! Why need he have coughed
in that infernal way ! And now he would have Sybil all
to himself for the rest of the voyage ; and see her everyday,
of course, afterwards. Lucky beggar ! And he
knew, too, that Cope was very fond of Miss Beechcroft.
What chance would he, the absent Oakburne, have
against such a formidable rival with such advantages !
He felt for a moment savagely jealous of the man. But
then ; what a good fellow he was ! And did he not owe
him his life ? After all, it was better to be beaten by
such a rival as that, than by an inferior one, and after
all, there was just a chance that he might not be beaten.
So he steeled himself to say good-bye gaily to all his
friends, and called the steward to get his luggage on
deck. As he entered the saloon he saw Sybil and her
father seated at the far end, and went up and made his
adieux.

So we're going to lose you sir, eh ? ' said the general.
1 Well, I'm very sorry ; very sorry. But we must all say
good-bye some time, eh ? ' and he shook Oakburne
cordially by [the hand, and expressed a wish that they
might soon meet again.

1 1 hope so, I'm sure, General,' said Reginald — and
the wish was at all events sincere, which is more than
such expressions usually are. ' Good-bye ! Good-bye,
Miss Beechcroft ! I don't suppose there is very much

chance of our coming across one another again — but —
but I hope so.'

Good-bye, Mr. Oakburne,' said Sybil demurely.

By the way, where will you be stationed, Oakburne ? '
asked the General.

At Madras I fancy, sir, — at the fort for some time to
come.

1 Ah ! I shall take care to remember ! Good luck to
you, my boy ! '

Sybil had walked away, and, as Oakburne turned to
go, a fallen glove caught his eye.

'You have dropped this, Miss Beechcroft,' said hee
overtaking her.

Something in his look made her colour.

May I keep it, Sybil ? ' whispered he. And with a
murmured adieu and a pressure of the hand, he hurried
on to the deck. He had been very popular with his
fellow-passengers, and everyone pressed forward to bid
him farewell.

1 Good-bye, old fellow ! I shall never forget what I
owe you,' said he to Cope as they stood by the shipside.
' It's hard to say all one feels — but you know that
I can never forget. . . .'

1 All right, my lad ! ' replied the other, cutting him
short with a hearty slap on his shoulder ; ' I understand.'
And then amidst a chorus of farewells, Oakburne and
three other passengers entered the large rocking coracle,
called in Madras a Moola boat, and after passing safely
through the formidable surf of that port with the usual
accompaniments of yelling and tossing, were finally
seized and borne ashore by half-a-dozen dusky pairs of
hands.

Notwithstanding the pleasant hospitalities which engross

a young officer fresh from home on his arrival in
India, Oakburne lost no time in seeking out Dr. Rovelli,
and he was not a little shocked to learn from the worthy
Italian merchant — an uncle of the same name — with
whom he was staying, that his unfortunate nephew had
become steadily worse since his arrival. The fever
which disordered his mind had completely destroyed his
physical strength, especially since its abatement, and the
partial recovery of his faculties seemed to entail increased
exhaustion of body. He was still, Signor Rovelli said,
under the delusion that he had stabbed Oakburne, and
now and then would pray him to forgive him, while at
other times he would burst into violent abuse of him.
It would hardly be possible for Reginald to see him
then, but later on he hoped he would repeat his visit.

The troubled heart of poor Paul Rovelli was, however,
to be sooner at rest than his uncle supposed, and it was
no later than the evening of the third day after his visit
that Oakburne was summoned to his death bed.

Driving rapidly under an avenue of spreading banyans,
along a road chequered with black shadows and brilliant
moonlight, he reached the Italian's house in a state of
highly wrought feeling that impressed the scene indelibly
on his memory. After a few moments of anxious waiting
alone in the verandah, during which the ceaseless murmur
of insect life that filled the air seemed almost oppressive,
Signor Rovelli entered and conducted him to the
room of the dying man.

There lay the wreck of the strong frame of Paul
Rovelli. Oakburne could scarcely identify the head
shorn of its thick black curls, and the pale hollow face
so lately glowing with life and beauty, with the man he
had known, The dark eyes looked weary and wistful

with constant suffering, and seemed, as he caught his
visitor's name, to disclose some new trouble. His look
changed to a happier expression as Oakburne, with
evident emotion, took his hand between his own, and
showed both by his face and manner his deep sympathy for
him.

You have come to forgive me, dear Oakburne !
You are well again ! Thank God your blood is not on
my head ! Say that you forgive me, for I am dying ! '
he gasped.

Forgive you ! Of course I do, my poor fellow ! But
there is nothing to forgive, Rovelli ! I blame myself as
much as you for it all ; indeed I do ! '

Rovelli smiled and seemed greatly relieved. ' Say
again, " Paul, I freely forgive you," ' said he.

Oakburne repeated the words, and then Rovelli, turning
with a great effort, took a locket from under his
pillow and placed it in his hands. ' Keep this,' he said,
and remember me sometimes. It was my mother's.
She, too, was an Englishwoman; some day you may
see her, and tell her all. And, Oakburne, do not
be angry. I know you love Sybil, and you know my
folly. Pray her to forgive me. I, too, loved her.'

My dear Rovelli, I know that Miss Beechcroft feels
deeply for you, and that she has no angry recollection
of that unhappy evening.'

The dying man smiled and pressed his hand. Then
he sank back, exhausted with the interview, and Reginald
quietly withdrew. At his request, the elder Rovelli
gave him the address of his sister-in-law, and furnished
him with some particulars of his family history, which
will be imparted to the reader later on, and the two
parted with mutual feelings of esteem.

Reginald's first care on reaching his quarters was to
note down the address of Paul Rovelli's mother and to
examine her locket. It was of curiously chased silver ina
circlet of brilliant surrounding the initials ' G. P. C in
monogram. Inside was a curl of fair hair, and the name
Estelle Chessington,' with the date March 23rd, 1877,
below it.

Chessington ! Estelle Chessington !' repeated he to
himself. * Where can I have heard that name ! Chessington
? I know I have come across it somewhere !'
But do what he would he could not recall when and
where, and his efforts were suddenly interrupted by the
entry of a brother officer with the news that the regiment
was ordered to Kurryapore in the Bengal Presidency.

Oakburne started. Kurryapore was the station to
which General Beechcroft had gone. He chose, however,
to conceal his delight under an affected irritation
What on earth is that for, Danvers ?' said he. ' What an
awful nuisance ? I thought we were to be a year longer
at Madras.'

1 How on earth should I know ?' answered Danvers.
You ought to be able to tell me. You are last from

home. The th are to embark at once for England

and we are to replace them ; that's all I've heard.'

1 What a bore ! I say Danvers, did you ever hear of
the name of Chessington ?'

1 Chessington ! Let's see. No, never. Chessington !
You're thinking of Blessings, Lady Blessings and
Count Doorway you know. I say, come and have a
game of billiards.'

But Oakburne excused himself on the plea of having
to write a letter, and Danvers soon went off to find a

more congenial companion, leaving him to try and collect
his thoughts, a task in which for a time he had no great
success.

CHAPTER VI.

At Lichfield.

For what then was I born ? — to fill the circling year

With daily toil for daily bread, with sordid pains and pleasures ? —

To walk this chequered world, alternate light and darkness,

The day dreams of deep thought followed by the night dreams of

fancy ? —
To be one in a full procession ? — to dig my kindred clay ?—
To decorate the gallery of art ?— to clear a few acres of forest ? —
For more than these, my soul, thy God hath lent thee life.

—Martin Tupper.

T is a favourite theory now-a-days that all
things move in cycles. 'We hear of cycles
of faith and cycles of scepticism ; cycles of
commercial prosperity and of commercial depression;
cycles of plenty and cycles of famine. The rule
might plausibly be extended to more particular cases,
and it might be argued that, could the history of
many families be traced, it would not improbably
be found that each had experienced its cycles of riches
and of poverty, now rising and now falling in social
position during the revolving centuries. It has already
been intimated that while the Chessington family had
prospered in the world, that of the Oakburnes, the
old possessors of Otterstone Hall, had experienced a
long run of ill fortune. Since Sir Frank Oakburne had
lost his estates through his too great zeal for the Church

of Rome and the unfortunate Queen of Scots, who
represented it, the fortunes of the race had been passing
through a cycle of depression. Always poor and struggling,
still clinging to their native country, and always
true to the Romanist faith, they had for the most part
gained their livelihood by fighting their country's battles
by land and sea, until Godfrey Oakburne, the grandfather
of Reginald and Wilfrid, had varied the usual
programme by marrying the daughter of a wealthy manufacturer,
and taking a farm in a county on the borders of
Wales, which we shall call Hillshire. Finding farming
unremunerative, he entered into partnership with a wool
manufacturer, who had long been settled at Lichfield,
Godfrey Oakburne's nearest market town. The firm of
Elkfield and Oakburne throve beyond the best expectations
of its founders, and though the children of the
junior partner never inherited any share in the concern,
the profits enabled their father to start them all in life
with a good education and a small patrimony. At the
time this story commences, all of these had died without
leaving descendants to perpetuate their name, save
Henry, the second son, who had secured a fair practice
as a doctor in Lidfield, and had the satisfaction at his
death of leaving his widow and three children — Reginald,
Wilfrid, and Ethel — comfortably provided for.

Lidfield is described in an old county history as ' a
fine well-built market town, situated in a rich clayey
ground.' ' It is,' adds the chronicle, ' much inhabited
by clothiers, and has a good market weekly on Tuesdays,
and two fairs yearly on the list May and the 21st September.'
It claims to have been a born' since the reign
of James I., when Dr. James Thornton, Vice Chancellor
of Oxford, was master of its ancient hospital, ' well endowed

for the relief of the poor,' and when Sir Eustace
Thornton, the doctor's brother, and ancestor of the
present Marquis of Thistledale, received from the
Solomon of the North the titles of Baron Briarsby and
Earl of Lyddlenesse. The descendants of the latter —
the marquisate dates from the reign of Charles II. —
have, it is said, ever since exercised a considerable
influence over the elections. The river Lydd, from
which the town derives its name, passes to the north
of it on its way to the Severn, and to the east of it
lies a pleasant range of wooded hills, studded here
and there with the remains of Roman and British
encampments. On Tuesdays, when the farmers come
into market, and the gentry of the neighbourhood drive
in to patronise the local tradesmen and see and be seen
by their acquaintances, the town presents an animated
appearance, though a stranger visiting it on any other
day of the week might incline to describe it as
picturesque but sleepy. Lidfield, however, in spite of
appearances to the contrary, is, or rather was thirty years
ago, a thriving country town which, though it might seem
rather old-world and stupid to one accustomed to live in
London, was regarded with much pride and affection by
those who, like Wilfrid Oakburne and his sister, had dwelt
there all their lives.

The Oakburnes inhabited a long, rambling, two-storied
house on the outskirts of the town, with a garden
running down to the Lydd, and from the windows of the
morning-room, which opened on to the lawn, Mrs. Oak-burnt
and her son and daughter, as they sat there one
fine spring morning in the year 1853, got a pretty
glimpse of the hurrying river, now swollen by the winter's
rains and snows.

I don't think I ever knew a more unpractical person
than you are Ethel, except perhaps myself,' said Wilfrid
Oakburne, stretched at ease in the most comfortable
arm-chair in the room, and looking remarkably morose
and melancholy.

Even if I was,' answered the young lady, who was a
pretty likeness of the speaker, ' Even if I was as weak
and unpractical as you are — which I don't believe anyone
else could be — its very boorish and rude of you to say
so.'

1 1 don't think there is much to choose between you.
Rex is the only practical member of the family. Poor
fellow ! It is a year now, more than a year since he left
us ! Poor dear Reginald !' — and Mrs. Oakburne sighed
as she thought of her favourite son, whom the reader has
just left in the best of spirits at Madras.

She was a lady whose handsome regular features, and
somewhat hard expression, showed that she had full confidence
in her own opinions, and being blest with a good
share of common sense, and having but little imagination,
she was apt to be impatient with those who were of a less
practical turn of mind. Just now she felt the absence of
her eldest son strongly. His return to England on a
year's sick leave, at the close of the Sikh war, in which
he had served with distinction, had done much to cheer
her from the depression into which she had fallen on the
death of her husband some five years before. Like the
majority of his countrymen and countrywomen, Dr. Oak-burnt
had speculated in railway shares during the mania
that prevailed for that investment in the year 1846-7,
and his widow had suffered in consequence. In addition
to this, she was beginning to feel very anxious as to her
second boy's future, and her anxieties made her long fora

man like Reginald to whom she might go for counsel
and support.

Poor dear Reginald ! ' she repeated.

Poor old fellow ! ' echoed her daughter.

1 Poor fellow indeed !' cried Wilfrid the gloomy with
some warmth.' ' Poor! why is he so to be pitied. He's
been uncommonly lucky ! You are always telling me I
am not practical. Only give me a chance, and you'll
soon see that I am just as practical as Reginald or anyone
else ! Ah ! why did I not go into the army !'

And yesterday you thought you ought to have been a
sailor,' said Ethel, who rather enjoyed teasing her brother.
1 There seems scarcely any profession in which you do
not think you ought to have been.'

1 Come, come, Ethel !' said Mrs. Oakburne, ' somebody
else I know is not perfect. You and Wilfrid are much
alike in many ways let me tell you dear. You have
certainly neither of you inherited the Underwood
characteristics. You are Oakburnes both of you.'

She had been a Miss Bolderwood, (the Bolderwoods
are an old Hillshire stock) and her family had, in the
worthy woman's opinion, for ages transmitted to their
descendants a large proportion of the cardinal virtues.
She was therefore fond of reminding her children of the
achievements of various distinguished ancestors, and
especially of those of a certain Sir Rupert Bolderwood,
who, together with the garrison, met his death in Molehill
fort, some seven miles from Lidfield, the last possession
held by the King's forces in that part of England, sooner
than surrender it to the Parliamentary force under Ireton.

I know all that, mamma !' cried Ethel, ' but whenever
you talk about a profession, Wilfrid always changes the
subject ; and now that things are getting serious, he

F

really ought to make up his mind. He knows I only
tell him so because I am so fond of him. Don't you,
old boy ?'

1 It's true, Wilfrid, that you ought to decide on something
dear,' said his mother gravely, as she had said it
any time during the last eighteen months. ' Face the
question as a man should — as Sir Rupert Bolderwood
faced — '

1 Confound Sir Rupert Bolderwood,' cried her son,
getting into a rage.

Why not go on with medicine now that you have got
so far,' said his sister; but an incoherent objurgation
against medicine and things in general, was the only
answer which Wilfrid vouchsafed to her suggestion.

'My income is so seriously diminished now,' began
Mrs. Oakburne, assailing him from a new point, ' That I
feel it will be a struggle to keep on the house, and I
should be very sorry to leave it.'

Leave the house !' cried Wilfrid, starting to his feet ;
that you never shall ! I'd sooner enlist ! You are
quite right, something must be done. Look here ! I'll
just go for a walk and seriously think over everything,'
and without waiting for an answer he left the room.

Poor fellow,' said Ethel, ' He is always seriously
thinking over things, and it always ends in nothing buta
walk to try and meet Beatrice Elkfield.'

'We must have patience with him, dear,' said her
mother, and they fell to discussing Wilfrid's chances of
success as a doctor.

Meanwhile the subject of their conversation was
walking rapidly along in a very unamiable and discontented
frame of mind. After following for a little way
a path that skirted the river, he climbed a hill overlooking

the town, and sitting down began for the
hundredth time to consider his future.

Owing partly to circumstances and partly to his own
indolence, Wilfrid Oakbume found himself at three-and-twenty
still dependent on his widowed mother. When
he was beginning to acquire a fair knowledge of
medicine, an accident in the cricket-field, which laid him
up for a year, compelled him to discontinue his studies
at St. Christopher's Hospital in London. Then his
father had died, his brother had returned from India, and
from one cause or other he had failed to renew them, and
never taken up any other profession. His abilities were
decidedly above the average, and his mother and sister
felt naturally aggrieved that they should be frittered
away in an aimless course of desultory reading, varied by
fits of devotion to the study of painting, of which Wilfrid
was very fond. They saw with anxiety that continued
idleness was making him daily more and more disinclined
for an active career, and that his indolence and irresolution
were being encouraged by the fact that he had been
foolish enough to fall in love with Miss Elkfield,
the daughter of the present representative of the
firm of Elkfield and Oakburne. The two had played
together as children and been intimate all their lives,
and Wilfrid's love had, almost unknown to himself,
grown and kept pace with his development from boyhood
into manhood. To some temperaments such a passion
might have proved an incentive to work, but with young
Oakburne it expended itself in writing verses to, and
drawing portraits of the object of his admiration, and
losing much time in moony reveries on her attractions.
It will be plain to the reader therefore that this young
man was ' rather in a bad way,' and that his relatives

had some cause for their endeavours to drive him into
making a start in life. It was destined that these should
now at last meet with success.

After a good deal of reasoning with himself, and a
good deal of self-pity, and sentimental regret, Wilfrid
Oakburne decided that it was not fair to his mother and
sister to be idle any longer, and that he really would
re-enter himself at St. Christopher's Hospital, and
qualify himself to practice as a doctor, concluding with a
mental picture of a home at Lidfield with Beatrice Elk-field
as its mistress. After making these wise resolutions
he leisurely descended the hill, commending himself nota
little for the sacrifice he considered he was making,
in voluntarily forsaking his pleasant life of idleness for
what he chose to assume would be a course of tedious
drudgery. Instead of taking the path he had come up
by, he chose a more circuitous one which would lead
him close to the Elkfield's house, and as he emerged
from a wood of venerable ash trees, that clothed the
base of the hill, he saw the young lady in whose favour
he had been making the above mentioned flattering
resolve coming up the road, accompanied by an ungainly,
frolicsome Newfoundland puppy, which was dashing
hither and thither in the utmost disregard of its
mistress's commands. Just as Wilfrid was preparing to
meet her the obstreperous dog dashed into a cottage
garden, and the young lady had to enter in pursuit. He
reached it just as she came out, followed by the smiling
owner of the cottage, to whom she had been apologising.

You should take him in a chain, Miss Elkfield,' said
Oakburne, saluting her as he felt with a mixture of
bashfulness and defiance, ' a dog like that wants training
you know.'

Do you think so? ' answered the young lady, looking
all the prettier from the colour that exercise had brought
into her cheek. * Of course I'll do so if you think it
right,' she added with a mischievous twinkle in her dark
eyes.

It's the best thing you know. He's young and wants
training.'

1 Really ? I wish you'd come and train him ! Why do
you never come and see us now. ' I suppose you are very
busy ! so many engagements of course ! '

'I shall be very glad to come over, but I think he
ought to have a chain — '

1 A chain my good fellow ! a puppy in a chain ! Ha,
ha ! What are you thinking of, Oakburne,' says a loud
powerful voice close to him, and Wilfrid turning sees a
tall, slight, young man, some three years older than himself,
with thick black whiskers and moustache, who greets
Miss Elkfield with jaunty ease.

Oh ! Mr. Portal !' said the latter with a little start,
How do you do ? You should not take people by surprise
in this way ! So you don't approve of the chain
plan ? Mr. Oakburne says it is so good !'

No ! certainly not. I should say a whip,' is the
decided reply.

'Well, I daresay you're right,' says Wilfrid, rather sulkily.
He had never in truth interested himself much in such
unpoetical matters as the training of dogs. ' He seems
to want control of some kind. I must be going. Goodbye
Miss Elkfield,' and he shook hands with the pair,
feeling that whatever the dog might require, Portal
certainly needed a whip, and that he should like to
apply it.

All well at home ! Good news from India,' calls

Portal after him, who makes a point of being civil to
everyone.

1 Yes,' replied Wilfrid curtly, and he strode savagely
down the hill.

Of course being jealous of him he did not like Portal.
It was too evident, as he thought, that Miss Elkfield did.
Portal seemed to be always at the house, and on the best
of terms with the whole family. And who was the
fellow ? Merely a pushing young solicitor who had an
insufferable [amount of impudence and self-confidence.
What a fool he, Wilfrid was, to care for such a little flirt !
and he soon found himself again beside the river in an
even more unpleasant mood than he had left it an hour
before. He stood for a moment and listened moodily to
the swirling water as it swept through the reeds, past rich
broad meadows, the hedges in which were just beginning
to bud.

What a fool I am to go on like this !' he involuntarily
exclaimed, and then he glanced down the
bank wondering whether anyone had heard the uncomplimentary
remark. He was startled to see some twenty
paces ahead of him a young girl standing beside one of
the pollards, a row of which skirted the bank. Surely he
knew her ! yes ! It was Lois Simcox, the schoolmistress.
He knew her as a quiet, nice, pretty girl, whom
everyone spoke well ot. What could she be doing here ?
She evidently did not see him. His curiosity was
awakened, and he stood and watched her.

What was that ? It sounded like a sob ! She turned
and looked anxiously round as if to see whether she was
observed, and he could see that her eyes were red, and
her face swollen with weeping. ' Poor girl ! ' thought

Oakburne. 'After all there are other unhappy people
in the world besides me ! What a selfish brute I am.'

The girl took a step towards the water, and laid one
hand on the gnarled trunk of the willow. Then she
glanced once more furtively round with a look in her face
that made Wilfrid feel uneasy. Was she thinking of
suicide ? Good heavens she was ! On a sudden he saw
her clasp her hands, cast an agonising look upwards,
and then spring forward into the river. There was a
splash, a shriek, and the next instant r she was being
swept towards him.

Without hesitation Wilfrid threw off his coat and
waistcoat, and, with a loud cry for help, jumped in to
try and save her. He was a powerful swimmer, but the
icy cold of the water numbed him, and his clothes
hampered his efforts. The rapid stream bore her
towards him and in another moment he had grasped
her dress, when, with the desperation of a drowning
person, she threw her arms round his neck and they
sank together. It was a most perilous moment for
both, but with a great effort Wilfrid somehow wrenched
himself free, and rose gasping to the surface to find the
girl had disappeared. He was preparing to dive when
she rose some six or seven paces ahead of him, and,
exerting all his strength, he managed to get up to her,
and seizing her by the hair, struggle to the bank and
grasp the reeds. He was too exhausted to raise the
now senseless girl, and was obliged to content himself
with clinging to the shore and shouting for help. Two
men, who had fortunately been working in a field not far
off, had heard his first cry, and now ascertaining his
whereabouts, came hurrying up and helped the pair out.

Why, that's Simcox's girl,' said one of the men, who
recognised her.

Mr. Simcox was the schoolmaster appointed to carry
out the terms of what was known in Lidfield as the
Lightowler Charity, in accordance with which he occupied,
rent free, a certain cottage and lands, and instructed
without remuneration twelve poor boys of the town, while
his daughter Lois, who received a small salary, taught
the same number of girls.

1 However did she manage to get into the water, sir ? '
he asked.

She fell in,' said Wilfrid quickly, ' and luckily I was
walking behind her and jumped in after her. Make
haste and help me to carry her home. It's not far.'

Jumped in after her did you, sir ? That's well done,
wasn't it, Skibbers ? '

That's so ! you're right Bill,' replied the other.
1 Master Oakburne, ain't you, sir ? the doctor's son ?
I snowed him well ! Brought my missus and babies
through the scarlet feeayver ! '

Wilfrid replied in the affirmative, and the three, as
tenderly and quickly as they could, carried the girl to
the schoolmaster's cottage which was at a corner of a
street at the entrance of the town. The unwonted
spectacle soon drew a number of loiterers round, and by
the time they had arrived at the door of the house, they
found themselves the centre of an eager, wondering
crowd.

What's this ? what's happened ? Oakburne my good
fellow what is the meaning of all this ? ' asked a well-known
voice as they halted and knocked for admittance.
It was Portal, looking, as Wilfrid thought, strangely

white and excited, who had shouldered his way up to
him through the press.

1 She fell into the river, sir, and this gentleman pulled
her out,' said one of the bystanders.

1 Well done, Oakburne ! well done, sir ! You're a
fine fellow ! ' cried Portal, seizing his hand. ' I say,
she's not dead ! I hope she is not ! is she ? She's only
senseless don't you think?' He asked the question
with an earnestness that made Wilfrid stare at him, and
one of the crowd laughed. ' The gentleman seems very
anxious, don't he,' said the fellow, who was a wag, and
his remark produced a general titter.

Death is a solemn thing, my friend ! ' said Portal
sternly in his deep bass voice. He could speak well in
public, and was the chief pillar of the 'Lidfield Debating
and Mutual Improvement Society.' ' Death is an awful
thing, and it behoves us to respect all its associations.
You seem to forget that this poor girl is her father's only
child !' The crowd murmured approval, and rebuked
the unlucky jester, while Portal rose in their estimation.
It's the young lawyer,' whispered one, and they began
to regard him with a little awe.

By this, Mr. Simcox, a bent grey-haired man, had
opened the door, and his daughter was carried into the
house. The poor man was quite overcome with grief
and anxiety, but a doctor who had been summoned soon
reassured him as to his child's safety. By means of
stimulants and warmth she slowly revived, and at length
the father was able to tell Oakburne and Portal, who had
been waiting in the house, that she was out of danger.

4 1 don't know how to express my gratitude to you,
sir,' said the schoolmaster to Oakburne, with tears in his
eyes. ' She is my only one, Lois is all I have left me

now in the world, God bless you, sir — ,' and his voice
broke.

I am only too thankful,' replied Wilfrid with emotion,
that I was able to save her and he grasped the hand
offered to him by the other and shook it in silence.

By heavens ! it was a noble act cried Portal. ' But
look here my dear fellow, you mustn't stay here any more
in those clothes or you'll be laid up.'

'Yes; I think I'll get home now,' said Oakburne.
I shall come here tomorrow, Mr. Simcox,' added he,
and the pair bade the schoolmaster adieu and walked
together in silence to the end of the street, whence their
roads lay in opposite directions.

i I can't tell you how much I admire your pluck,
Oakburne,' said Portal, as he shook hands with him.

1 1 .' He looked as though he would have said

something more, but suddenly checked himself, and
Wilfrid noticed a suppressed anxiety in his manner very
different to the tone of condescending banter that he
usually adopted towards him.

1 Pooh ! my good sir ! you make too much of it ; you
would have tried to save her yourself if you had been in
my place, Portal.'

I don't know that,' replied the other. ' Good-bye.
Simcox will never forget you all his life for what you
have done,' and again shaking Wilfrid warmly by the
hand, he turned and walked rapidly away.

After all, Portal's not such a bad fellow,' said Wilfrid
to himself as he changed his wet clothes.

CHAPTER VII.

In which Wilfrid takes his departure for London.

Frail creatures are we all ! To be the best,

Is but the fewest faults to have :—

Look thou then to thyself, and leave the rest

To God, thy conscience, and the grave.— Coleridge.

'Both Mrs. Oakburne and her daughter were
naturally well pleased and not a little proud of
Wilfrid's exploit; and they were still further delighted
— the pleasure being the greater because it was
unexpected — when he announced his determination to
recommence his medical studies at once, and made arrangements
for going to London to do so some ten days later.
To have a hero in the family circle is very enjoyable no
doubt, but if one is burdened with the expense of providing
his armour and steed, and feasts to set before him, one is
apt to forget his heroism at times, or at least to wish it
could be the means of maintaining him. It may be
questioned whether the honest burghers and yeomen who
supplied the wherewithal for the gallant knights of the
middle ages fully appreciated the noble deeds of those
lights of chivalry. Wilfrid, it is true, was not, poor
fellow, by any means extravagant in his drafts on the
general purse. But, do what he would, his mother
could ill afford to support him, and she and Ethel were
for that reason, and also it is only fair to add, for his own
sake, very glad to learn that he had not only made such

good resolutions — to which they were only too well
accustomed — but was actually carrying them out. Wilfrid
himself could not help feeling well satisfied at the course
he had taken, and set to work to make the necessary
preparations and say good-bye to his friends in the
place.

One of his first cares was to go and ascertain how the
girl whom he had saved from drowning was progressing.
The rain was falling heavily as he walked towards Mr.
Simcox's cottage ; the hills were shrouded in mist, and
wet and almost deserted pavements, over which
occasional passengers hurried beneath protecting umbrellas,
made the scene the reverse of cheering. Wilfrid
was therefore somewhat surprised to see Miss Elkfield
suddenly step out from a shop he was passing. She
greeted him warmly and complimented him on his feat
of the day before.

Its dreadful weather for you to be out in,' said Oak-burnt.


1 Oh ! you know I never mind rain,' replied the young
lady. ' Where are you going to ? Do come to luncheon
and tell us all about your saving the girl. It was really
very brave of you !'

Wilfrid felt more pleased than he cared to show, and
could not resist the temptation.

I shall be very glad to come after I've been to the
Simcox's cottage. I am just going to enquire how the
girl is going on.'

1 Mind you don't forget !' said Miss Elkfield, and he
went on his way much elated. ' After all I won't give
up hope yet !' said he to himself. ' Perhaps some day
when I've got on in the world she'll care for me yet !
Anyhow, Portal has'nt saved anyone's life ! I've beaten

him there !' With which cheering thought he knocked
at the door of the cottage.

It was opened by Lois Simcox herself. She started
back with a flush when she saw who it was. Her father
was away, she said, teaching the children. Would he
mind coming in ? Yes ! she was all right again now,
she continued, placing a chair for him before the fire,
and then she thanked him very warmly for the service
he had rendered her.

I shall never cease to be grateful to you all my life,
Mr. Oakburne,' said she. ' I can never repay you for
what you have done, or make you know how thankful I
am !' and the tears rose in her eyes. They were very
beautiful eyes, Wilfrid observed; grey, large, oval-shaped,
and with a peculiarly touching expression of sadness in
them. A young man cannot help noting such details
when he is face to face with a young woman who is
pouring out her gratitude to him, and more especially if,
like Wilfrid, he has a strong artistic appreciation for
beauty. He also noticed that her dark brown hair was
modestly braided back, and that her dress, though very
quiet, was very tasteful, and showed off to advantage her
tall, graceful figure. In short, having never before taken
the trouble to notice her, he was almost surprised to see
how handsome she was.

'You really magnify what I did too much!' cried he
'Everyone does. No man worth his salt could
have stood by and seen you in such danger without
making an F effort. You don't know how thankful I am
that I was able to save you ! It was ;other a chance once
though. I thought we should not have reached the
bank.'

Ah ! ' replied she, ' you don't know all,' and she
turned aside with a little sob.

How do you mean all ? ' asked Wilfrid, thinking to
himself that her voice was very musical.

Tell me, Mr. Oakburne/ said she eagerly, leaning
towards him with clasped hands, 'did you — tell me
honestly — did you see me — I mean did you see me fall
into the water ? '

Yes replied he, after a moment's hesitation, ' I saw
you throw yourself into the water.'

She covered her face with her hands, and cried with a
bitterness that alarmed him.

Never mind Lois ! ' cried he, unconsciously calling
her by her christian name. ' Never mind ! It is all right
now. No one saw you but me, and I was careful to say
that you had fallen into the river. No other human
being shall ever know it but me. I swear to you that I
will tell no one. Don't grieve over it now. I will keep
your secret. You were unhappy I could see, and half
beside yourself.'

1 You have saved me from committing a terrible sin,
and God help you for it ! ' cried Lois. ' You can never
know my sorrow. Perhaps — perhaps if you did — if you
knew all the truth, you might think I had some excuse.
Never mind now. I hear my father's step. For Heaven's
sake say nothing to him ! He is so fond of me.'

Wilfrid was sorry, and yet rather relieved, when
the entrance of the schoolmaster put an end to this
interview. He said a few words to the latter, congratulating
him on his daughter's recovery, and then took his
leave of the pair.

What reason could such a quiet, nice, pretty girl have
had for attempting to commit suicide, he said to himself



as he walked towards the Elkfield's house. What sorrow
could it be that led her to such a desperate remedy ? It
could not be insanity. She was [as sane as he was himself.


'None the worse for your ducking?' said a voice
close beside him, as an arm was slipped into his.

1 None the worse, Portal, thanks,' he replied, as they
walked onwards. ' I am going to lunch with Elkfields.'

1 Oh ! I envy you !' said Portal, with a little laugh.
4 Pretty amusing girl, Miss Beatrice, very ! Now I,
poor beggar ! am on my way to the office to wade
through a lot of greasy savings bank accounts.'

He was manager and secretary of the Lidfield Savings
Bank, which adjoined the offices of his firm.

1 How is poor Lois Simcox going on ?' enquired he.

Oh ! I've just been there,' said Wilfrid. ' I'm glad
to say she's much better.'

'I am very glad, indeed, to hear that — very glad,'
said Portal fervently. ' Ah ! you may be thankful you
were able to save her, Oakburne ! I say, do you know
you are in the Hillshire Post ? Yes, its a fact, I assure
you. A good long paragraph too; Daring Act of
Heroism at Lidfield they call it. Mind you get a copy.
I must be off; I'm late,' and he hurried away to his
business.

The Hillshire Post P thought Wilfrid, half amused
and half annoyed. ' How absurd ! But it won't do one
any harm. Not a bad fellow, Portal. Very benevolent
of him to take such an interest in Lois. I shouldn't
have expected it of such a hard, business-like sort of
man. He's too free and easy though the fellow.
1 Pretty, amusing girl, Miss Beatrice ! ' confound his
impudence ! How handsome that girl Lois is ! if she

were a lady she'd be as much admired as Beatrice
Elkfield,' and so thinking, he entered the Elkfield's
house, where an abundance of compliments awaited him.

So, so ! Mr. Wilfrid ! You're a fine fellow ! pulling
pretty girls out of the water ! You're sure you didn't
push her in first on purpose, eh ? Ha, ha, ha ! '
laughed Mr. Elkfield, a stout, jovial, and somewhat
coarse - looking personage. He was a very shrewd
energetic, man of business, who had turned the considerable
capital left to him to such good account that he
was now growing to be one of the richest men in the
county. He had a kindly regard for all the Oakburnes
on account of the early connection between the two
families, though he thought Wilfrid too lazy and too
much of a dreamer to get on in the world, and felt
rather irritated that the young man should have chosen
to fall in love with his daughter, of whom he was
extremely fond, and for whom he had certain vague
ambitious views of his own.

How can you say such things, Mr. Elkfield !' cried
his wife, a kindly lady now rather portly but bearing the
remains of great beauty. She, on the contrary, was rather
fond of young Oakburne, and sympathised with his
evident admiration for her daughter. ' Tell us all about
it, Wilfrid,' and the young man has once more to recount
the episode of which he is getting thoroughly weary.

1 Wasn't it brave of him, mamma ! ' says her daughter.
'You know it's in the Hillshire Post as an "act of daring
heroism." He's quite a public character.'

I He did it for the sake of an uncommon pretty girl ! '
chimes in Mr. Elkfield, with a sly chuckle at Wilfrid.
An uncommon pretty girl is Lois. Hey, Wilfrid ! '

I I don't think she is a bit,' cries Mrs. Elkfield. 'She's

no more colour than the tablecloth. Do you admire her,
Wilfrid?'

I think she's not bad looking. But she's not' the
style of face I care about and Wilfrid glances nervously
at Beatrice.

I Oh you do admire her then,' cries the latter.

'You wouldn't have done so much for Miss Trixy
there I'll be bound. Hey ! would you now ? ' asked the
jovial Mr. Elkfield, pointing laughingly to his daughter.

I I daresay not ! ' says she pouting.

Wouldn't I though ! ' cried Wilfrid, with quite indignant
fervour. ' I only wish I had the chance ! I hope
I should be always ready to do a great deal more than
that for Miss Beatrice,' and in his excitement he nearly
upset his sherry on his roast chicken.

'Really!' and Beatrice blushes and looks very pleased.
1 Ha ! ha ! ha ! ' laughed Mr. Elkfield, who enjoyed a
joke, and took care that it was very seldom against him.
Ha ! ha ! well I'm sure I hope you won't be called
upon to do it. Eh ? Never mind Wilfrid, here's your
health ! What are you drinking ? Sherry. Take a
glass of port. It'll do you good, man ! There's no wine
like it. George (to the butler), give Mr. Oakburne some
port. My father, sir, never drank anything else but
port, and he took his two bottles every night. And
mind you, that was not much for a man in his days, as
times went then, you understand.'

1 Oughtn't you to be going off to the Savings Bank,
papa ? ' says his wife after a little pause. ' Sir Joseph
Boarsbyby will be waiting for you ; and he's always testy at
being kept you know.'

Let him be testy, then ! ' cried her spouse with some
warmth, though, to tell the truth, he wouldn't have

G

offended Sir Joseph Boarsbyby for the world. 'People
must consult other people's convenience, madam. Who's
Sir Joseph Boarsbyby, I should like to know, that he should
be treated differently from other people, eh ? Though
he's a worthy man, a very worthy man ! and I am glad
we've got him as one of the trustees. He's an old family
is Boarsbyby, one of the best in the county, and member
for the born' too ; and people think a deal of that, eh
Wilfrid ? '

Wilfrid owned that they did.

'Well, I suppose I must be going, for that Savings
Bank requires my attention. It's a noble institution !
Your grandfather and my father had the founding of it,
Wilfrid, and it's the oldest and best in the county. It
is a duty; I feel it is a duty, sir,' continues he, 'a duty on
the part of the rich to encourage thrifty habits in the
poor. Do you understand ? '

Yes ! that's very true,' says Wilfrid, glancing involuntarily
round the well-furnished room, and at the well-appointed
table at which he was seated.

'It was thrift got my father his money,' continued
Mr. Elkfield, 'thrift, and a good business head, and
steady habits. He always rose at six to the day of his
death.'

1 1 don't call two bottles of port every night steady
habits, do you ?' says Beatrice irreverently to Oakburne.

Yes ! yes !' continued her father, not heeding her,
That's what you young fellows should bear in mind,
Wilfrid. Hey? steadiness and thrift. There's young
Portal now, whom we find so invaluable at the bank.
He's a steady fellow and a shrewd fellow. Well educated
too ; been at Oxford and got the what-dye-call-um — '

'Got his degree you mean, papa,' said Beatrice.

Well at any rate he's got a very good opinion of
himself.'

1 1 think you are too hard on him, Miss Elkfield,' says
Wilfrid, with hypocritical sympathy for the absent.

1 That's right, Wilfrid. Of course she is,' cries Mr.
Elkfield, rising to go. ' A man should always think
well of himself, and make the most of himself. Make
yourself at home my boy. Good-bye, remember me to
your mother. And, I say, don't you go picking too
many pretty girls out of the water. Hey ? We shall have
Miss Trin falling in to try what its like. Ha, ha ! »
and chuckling to himself he bustled off to superintend
the business of thrift at the Savings Bank.

'We must show Wilfrid the conservatory, Beatrice,'
said Mrs. Elkfield. 'Perhaps he can give us some
suggestions,' and she told him that they were going to
have a dance on Beatrice's birthday, and were making
preparations.

You must come,' said Beatrice, as they went together
towards the conservatory, while Mrs. Elkfield, who had
conveniently forgotten something, returned to the diningroom.


It will be the night before I go,' replied he.

Never mind, its my birthday ! You must come,'
said the young lady, with pretty insistance.

Oh ! of course, if you say I must,' said Wilfrid
gallantly.

Do you know I am beginning to get very tired
of balls and gaiety,' said Miss Elkfield suddenly, with an
unusual expression of sadness on her handsome face.

Why ?' asked her companion with a new interest,
awakened by her melancholy.

'Why? Well I can hardly tell you. I often think
what a useless, selfish life one leads.'

I've often felt that said Wilfrid, * and that is one
reason why I'm glad I am going away and going to try
and do something. Even if it ends in nothing its better
to make an effort'

Of course it is said Beatrice eagerly. ' Every man
should try. You are quite right. So you are very glad
you are going way?' she added, glancing at him.

The imputation was too much for this ardent lover.
■ Glad ! How can you say so ? O Beatrice ! you know
I hate it cries he, taking her hand.

Hush !' said the young lady laughing and blushing.
1 Here comes mamma ! 'Don't be stupid, please !
Mamma, Mr. Oakburne has no ideas to give us ! he's
really very dense ! But he has promised to give us the
pleasure of his company on Tuesday week instead.'

'You are very rude, Beatrice said her mother
reprovingly. ' I am glad you are coming, Wilfrid. I
took it as a matter of course that you would. It will
look very pretty, don't you think so ?'

Wilfrid expressed the necessary admiration at the
various preparations, and after a little more general
conversation took his leave more in love than ever.
1 This dance shall decide my fate he said to himself as he
strode homewards, and so pre-occupied was he, that he
ran into and very nearly knocked over Mr. Simcox,
whom he met at the outskirts of the town. ' I am very
sorry. I was thinking of other things said he
apologetically, and then the schoolmaster, when he had
recovered his breath, explained that he had been anxious
to meet him in order to ask for the loan of a certain book
which he much wanted to consult. ' I should not have



ventured to do so,' said he, ' did I not know, sir, that
you take an interest in the work on the history of
Lidfield, which I am trying to compile.'

Wilfrid gladly complied with his request and promised
to send him the book next morning.

The next morning, however, he thought that after all
he might as well take the book himself. He could
explain certain points to Mr. Simcox ; and it would be
only civil to enquire after Lois, who certainly looked
delicate. So it ended in his going and finding Mr.
Simcox away at his work, and in his having another very
pleasant tete-astute with his daughter till he returned.

Such interviews are apt to be dangerous when the
lady happens to be pretty and owes a heavy debt bf
gratitude to the gentleman, and the danger in this case
was not lessened by the fact that Lois was not only
clever, but decidedly superior to, as well as better educated
than, most of her class. The foundations of an
intimacy were laid which increased more rapidly than
either was aware of. It was, of course, accidental that
Oakburne, having learnt that the schoolmaster's daughter
was in the habit of walking by the river, should also take
that road and meet her, and that these meetings should
lead to others. Wilfrid, as may be supposed, was at
first quite unconscious of the perils he was incurring ;
nor did he dream for a moment that his devotion for
Beatrice Elkfield was in any way influenced by his conduct.
The idea of injuring a girl in Lois's position never
entered his brain ; and, on the other hand, to be listened
to with admiration by one whom he was conscious of
having inspired with very warm feelings of gratitude, was
so pleasant as almost to forbid any thoughts of ill consequences.
The fact that he had hitherto felt himself

rather an object of toleration, made this sudden
elevation inexpressibly agreeable to his self-love, and the
desire to make the most of it was increased by the failure
of all the attempts he made to see Beatrice during this
period. His shyness prevented him from calling again
so soon at the house, and his efforts to meet her elsewhere
were fruitless. In vain did he frequent the paths
he knew she was wont to take, and the streets in which
were shops which Miss Elkfield honoured with her
custom. In vain did he haunt the ash wood near the
house. The only result was to see Portal constantly
entering its gates, and to make him anathematize the latter's
impudence and his own timidity. At last, as his
precious time grew shorter and shorter, he in desperation
screwed up all his courage and called one afternoon.

Of course, he found his rival already there, superintending
the arrangements for the dance to take place two
days later. Everybody seemed to appeal to Portal, and
especially Beatrice ; and Portal seemed provokingly
capable of doing whatever he was asked — a sort of
Admirable Crichton in all relating to carpentering, lighting,
and decorating. What did Mr. Portal think of this
way of managing the lights ? Would he come and see
how the supper-table was to be laid out ? Was he satisfied
with the arrangement of the flowers in the conservatory
? And Portal was giving orders everywhere in his
deep, authoritative voice, bullying the workmen and
servants, and directing everyone and everything. ' Why
did I never get up carpentering and this sort of thing ? '
said poor Wilfrid to himself. Even good-natured Mrs.
Elkfield had hardly a word to say to him, and he felt
thoroughly disgusted,

1 1 feel I am only in the way, Miss Elkfield,' he said
grumpily to that young lady. ' So I'll say goodbye.'

In the way ! — how can you say so ? ' Do stay !
replied she, very kindly, and stopping in her task of
arranging flowers.

1 Portal is doing all that is required,' said Wilfrid,
savagely. His jealousy had got the better of him, and
he chose to think he was slighted.

What do you mean, Mr. Oakburne ? ' cried Beatrice,
angrily.

I mean that while Portal is making himself so useful,
I consider my presence de trop?

1 Then you had certainly better not remain,' was the
tart reply, and Wilfrid, with a restrained shake-hands,
walked savagely away. He did not look back ; so he
did not see that Miss Elkfield's eyes filled with tears at
what she considered his unkindness, nor catch the
regretful look with which she watched his tall figure pass
down the drive to the gate. He went home very angry
and hopeless, and the next afternoon he and Lois were
again wandering by the river.

I shall never be able to forget that bend of the river,
Mr. Oakburne,' said the schoolmaster's daughter, pointing
to the distant woods, and gazing at them with sad,
wistful eyes.

I wish you would call me Wilfrid,' said he, taking her
hand. ' I have not got many friends. You are one of
the best'

Lois gave a sudden start. ' Hush ! ' said she. ' Who
is that ? ' A man came striding down the path. ' Ha !
Oakburne. How are you ? ' It was Portal, and Wilfrid
felt he could have pitched him into the river. The man
was his evil genius ! — always crossing him ! He seemed,

however, hardly to have noticed them, and walked on
rapidly towards the town.

Lois had turned deadly pale. ' I hate that man ! '
cried she between her clenched teeth. Wilfrid looked at
her in astonishment, her face seemed so suddenly
changed. ' Why ? ' he asked.

I can hardly tell you,' replied she, recovering herself
with an effort. ' I mistrust him.'

I can't say I like him ; but I know nothing against
him,' said Wilfrid; and he'wondered where she got her
knowledge.

Let us go home now,' said she, after a pause, and
they retraced their way in silence.

Wilfrid, beware of that man Portal. I am sure he is
a bad man.' It was the first time she had called him by
his Christian name, and Oakburne started. He pressed
her hand silently, but he went home feeling, he knew not
why, a little distrustful of Lois.

From this time he carefully avoided walking by the
river, and occupied himself at home with preparations
for his departure. Both his mother and sister noticed
that he was gloomy and absent-minded, and put it down
to regret at going away.

1 Poor boy ! he feels leaving us,' said Ethel. ' I don't
think he ought to go to the Elkfields' dance. Beatrice
is such a terrible little flirt. I expect we shall hear of
her being engaged to young Mr. Portal ! '

Mrs. Oakburne, who thought her daughter had herself
rather a penchant for the latter gentleman, shook her
head. ' Never mind that, my dear ! It will cheer him
up,' said she, ' and as you are going, it is as well he
should.'

Though Mrs. Elkfield's ball much resembled that

given by Mrs. Perkins and other folks who have given
balls from time immemorial, it was a very important
event in the eyes of that lady and her husband, as weP
as in those of one or two of her guests. To begin with,
it marked an era in the rise, which had been very
gradual, of the Elkfield family on the social ladder. Sir
Joseph Boarsbyby and other well-recognised county people
who attended it, were accustomed as children to hear
their parents talk of old Elkfield, Beatrice's grandfather,
as ' the wool man,' a worthy creature perhaps,
but one that no one of their set would ever think of asa
social equal. But when his heir increased the wealth
left to him, and was made Mayor of Lidfield, and
grew to be an influential personage and a capitalist, the
magnates of the county began to look more kindly on
him, and to ask whether a man who had so many votes
at his disposal, and no particular politics, had not
atoned for his father's defects. It was discovered too
that Mrs. Elkfield was of a good family (all the members
of which, by the way, she had mortally offended by
marrying her husband), and really very nice ; and that
Beatrice, on whose education no money had been spared,
was decidedly good-looking and clever, quite presentable,
and — an only child. So when Lady Idleness called,
and then Lady Boarsbyby (the wife of the Tory member),
also thought it right to visit the wife of a man whom
Sir Joseph was always meeting on the Bench and in
business matters at Lidfield, all the less important families
who had hitherto held aloof, — like the Bolderwoods of
Slopley, and the Snipingtons of Marshmire Park, —
followed suit, and now, after years of patient waiting,
Elkfield and his wife had the happiness of seeing all the
best society in the neighbourhood dancing at their ball.

Lord Idleness had condescended to be present,
bringing with him a large party, among whom was Giles
Rowancourt, Lord Ashleigh's son ; the Boarsbys had
brought another party, and in short, they had achieved a
great social success.

Then, too, it was very pleasant to the parents to seethe
good impression their daughter made. It was her
twenty-first birthday, as has been said, and she could not
but feel gratified by the attentions paid to her as one of
the prettiest and richest girls in the neighbourhood.

There were, however, two of Miss Elkfield's admirers
who watched her with a pleasure, a good deal disturbed
by less agreeable feelings, and the emotions of one of
whom may be best described in the language of the
poet as ' sorrow touch'd with joy.' Both of them felt
disheartened and alarmed at the brilliant rivals whom
they saw paying court to their idol, and who they knew
held them but in small esteem. Though caste is not
such a serious thing in England as in India, it is
certainly an element of power not to be overlooked in
English society, and though the elite of Hillshire might
condescend to dance to Mrs. Elkfield's music, it was but
natural that they should ignore the less distinguished
friends, whom she in the fulness of her heart had
invited, but whom they knew nothing about. ' What a
queer lot of people !' ' Who is that extraordinary
looking man ?' ' Can you tell me who that funnily-dressed
girl is ?' were the sort of comments that showed
where the hostess had failed in what was in the main a
most successful ball. Of the two above-mentioned
observers of Miss Elkfield's triumph, Portal was, as the
reader will suppose, far less disturbed by it than Wilfred
Oakburne. He was very ambitious, and had long since

made up his mind if possible to win the hand of Beatrice,
whom he really admired, and whose money and friends
would he felt give him just the sort of help he needed in
his career. He was decidedly clever and agreeable, and
had managed to make himself very useful not only to the
young lady, but to her parents, while he possessed an
amount of patience and energy which, combined with a
freedom from scruples of any kind, and a cool calculating
brain, made him succeed in most of his undertakings.
Though, therefore, he felt startled when he saw Rowan-court,
a widower old enough to be her father, paying
considerable attention to Miss Elkfield, and felt irritated
by the marked admiration shewn for her by young
Snipington of Marshmire Park (who was just of age and
had a considerable property), he consoled himself with
thinking that old Elkfield was too shrewd to think of
flying at such high game, and dismissed his jealousies as
not worth sensible consideration. He was in truth far
more afraid of young Oakburne as a rival, for he thought
he had noticed in Beatrice a decided liking for him.
Though therefore he seldom indulged in the foolish luxury
of disliking anyone, and had no other feeling towards
Wilfrid than a good-natured contempt (in fact he rather
liked him than otherwise as a good-tempered, harmless
creature), he felt it advisable to speak always slightingly
of him to Beatrice, and to endeavour to lower him in her
estimation. This led him to take the opportunity on
this occasion of telling her of the growing intimacy
between Lois and Oakburne, and of the conversation he
had overheard when he came upon them by the river.
1 Women always enjoy scandal,' he said to himself, ' and
even if she's angry with me for the time it will considerably
damage Master Wilfrid in her good graces.' She

listened to him at first in evident surprise and anger, and
indignantly discredited the idea; then she affected to
make light of it, and then towards the end of their dance
manifested a little ill-concealed anxiety to know if it was
really true. Portal felt sure he had succeeded in his
object, and attributed the fact that he was actually
allowed to put his name down for another dance to her
mingled disquietude and curiosity.

Meanwhile poor Wilfrid, quite unaware of the means
thus taken to prejudice his suit, was waiting with gloomy
resignation for the happiness of waltzing. with the object
of his adoration, and suffering bitter pangs of jealousy
and despair. ' How can a such luckless nobody as I,
without money or friends, hope to gain such a prize !'
said he to himself as he watched those more favoured by
fortune dancing and flirting with her. At last, however,
the long-wished for moment came. Wilfrid, like many
tall men, waltzed well, and when the felicity of whirling
round the room had left them well-contented but rather
out of breath, he led Miss Elkfield into the spacious
conservatory, artistically lighted with many-coloured lanterns
half-hidden among the plants. He was pleased to
note that by good luck it happened just now to be empty.

Isn't it pretty ? ' said his partner. ' Yes ! It was
my idea chiefly, though I'm bound to say Mr. Portal improved
on it.' Wilfrid winced. ' And so you are really
going away tomorrow ! I suppose you will often run
down here ? '

Often run down ! ' said Wilfrid, gloomily. ' Perhaps
once or twice in the year for a week ! One might as well
be at the other end of the world for all I shall see of —
of Lidfield ! '

1 Well, I suppose you are going to be very busy ; and

that will be quite enough for you,' said the young lady,
with a slight smile, playing indifferently with her fan.
A change to London, too, must be delightful ! ' added
she. ' I quite envy you ! Look ! there is Mr. Rowan-court
! He waltzes divinely, though he is so bald !
They say he is so horribly wicked ! Do you know anything
about him ? '

I daresay a week in the year will be quite enough for
my friends,' replied Wilfrid, bitterly, quite ignoring
Rowancourt's existence. ' I don't expect any one to miss
me. There are plenty of young men in Lidfield ; a
man like Portal must be a host in himself. What a
treasure you must have found him ! '

The sneering tone which it seemed good to Wilfrid to
adopt made Miss Elkfield very angry. This was the
second time he had chosen to make these remarks about
Portal. ' This is too rude, Mr. Oakburne ! ' cried she,
with a flushed face and trembling tones. ' I think you
had better take me back to the drawing-room, if you
please.' And she rose as if to go.

1 Stay, I beseech you ! I beg your pardon most sincerely
! ' cried Wilfrid. But she would not be thus appeased.


Mr. Portal is certainly never impertinent ! ' said she
'and that cannot be said of Mr. Wilfrid Oakburne.
Perhaps, however, when walking with his chief friend by
the river he is more polite. I suppose Lois Simcox inspires
more courteous behaviour ! '

1 Beatrice ! it is false ! I know now who has been
slandering me ! But you will not be so unfair as to
judge me unheard ? Say that you do not believe this ! '
and he took her hand in his eagerness, and looked at
her with imploring eyes.

1 Silence, Mr. Oakburne ! you have no right to call me
Beatrice ! ' cried the young lady, struggling to free
herself.

No ! I will not be silent, Beatrice ! ' answered he,
passionately. ' I love you. Yon know how I have
loved you ever since I was a boy ! — ever since I was a
child, I think ! I have thought of no one but you, and
my love has grown with your growth and become part of
me. I cannot leave without having your answer. The
future of my life depends on it. I have been jealous —
angry — mad ! Forgive me. I can't help it. I love
you,' and he poured forth a torrent of protestations of
affection and penitence to which Beatrice listened with
half-averted face. The strains of the prelude to a galop
began to be heard in the ball-room, and a well-known
form appeared at the far end of the conservatory and
came towards them.

1 Beatrice ! answer me ! Give me some hope ! ' But
still Beatrice did not speak, though her hand still remained
in his.

Ha ! I see how it is ! You prefer this man to me!'
cried Wilfrid, in sudden fury, as he saw it was Portal
who approached them. ' Enough ! you must choose
between him and me ! If you dance with him, I shall
accept it as your answer and know my fate ! '

Wilfrid ! Mr. Oakburne ! I cannot suffer this ! ' cried
Beatrice, stung by his manner, and angrily snatching her
hand from him. ' You are unkind and ungenerous, and
deserve no answer,' added she in a lower tone tremulous
with emotion, and growing suddenly very pale.

1 This is ours, Miss Elkfield, I think,' said Portal, airily
examining his card. ' No. 13 — a galop.'

Yes,' replied she, very quietly, and, bowing coldly to

Oakburne, she left him, leaning on the arm of her partner.
* I have settled your hash, my friend,' thought the
latter to himself as he gave Wilfrid a half-amused, half-malicious
nod.

How pale he looks, poor boy ! ' whispered Ethel to
her mother as Oakburne, after telling them that he should
walk home at once to try and get some rest, quitted the
room. Mrs. Elkfield agreed with her, and thought her
son had done wisely in leaving. As, however, Ethel was
anxious to stay for two or three more dances, and she
herself was engaged in discussing family history with one
of the Miss Bolderwoods of Slopley, who no longer
cared for the giddy dance, they still remained on.

So ends my happiness ! ' said Wilfrid, bitterly, as he
walked homewards. ' What a fool I have been ! What
chance had a fellow like me ! And yet I fancied she
cared for me ! ' But the thought of Portal changed his
emotion to anger. ' Heartless little flirt ! she was not
worth it ! Well, she shall not break my heart. I will
show her I can despise her ! '

He had reached the outskirts of the town, and stopt
for a moment to look back. It was a beautifully still,
clear night, and amongst the trees he could see the
distant lights in the Elkfields' house, and almost thought
he could hear the faint tones of the music. ' It does not
matter now what I do, or what happens to me ! ' said he
with a groan as he walked slowly onwards.

Who could that be in the little garden of the Simcox's
house ? A woman, surely ? He quickened his pace
and approached the wicket gate. ' Lois ! ' cried he in
astonishment as he recognized the schoolmaster's daughter.
' Lois ! how is it you are here now ? '

Hush ! ' said she, in a whisper. ' My father has been

poorly, and I have been sitting up with him. He is
asleep now, and I came out because I could not rest,
and it is such a lovely night.' She was standing close by
the little gate ; Wilfrid opened it and stood beside her.

1 It is a glorious night,' said he, ' but the sight of so
much beauty only adds to a man's sorrow if he is unhappy.'


Are you unhappy ? ' asked she.

As unhappy as a man can be, Lois, who has no hopes
and no friends.'

It is remarkable how one sorrow or disappointment
can immediately obliterate from a man's mind all the
good things that God has given him !

Well, you'll have one friend always, if I am any good,'
said Lois.

Will you be my friend then, Lois ? ' he asked, coming
nearer to her and taking her hand. ' I am going away
tomorrow. God knows whether 1 shall ever come back.
You will be my friend ? '

1 Always,' answered she, and he could see that there
were tears in her eyes. She looked very beautiful as she
stood there, and as he looked at her he remembered how
but half-an-hour ago he had been pleading with Beatrice
and received no answer but implied denial of his petition.
A mad thought came into his angry heart. He
would show Beatrice that he despised her.

Lois,' whispered he suddenly, ' will you love me ?
will you marry me ? '

1 Love you ! ' cried she with a start.

You must and shall love me,' he said, passionately ;
and before she could prevent him he had taken her in
his arms and kissed her.

For God's sake Wilfrid, don't ! ' cried she in a voice

so piteous that he released her. ' You don't know all !
you don't know what I am ! '

Know what you are ! ' said he, retaining her hands.
I know you are poor. What of that ? So am I. Accident
has placed me in another rank of life. I don't care
for that ; you are better than any woman in my own.
Say you love me, Lois ! '

Never !' she cried almost fiercely, i Never ! You
must not, shall not love such as I ! You do not know
your folly ! I will not let you love me. Listen, here
closer !' and she whispered two or three words in his ear
which caused Oakburne to drop her hand and start back
as if he had been shot. ' My God !' he cried, ' Is this
true ! Oh, the villainy ! Lois, say it is not true !'

1 It is as true as that we both stand in the sight of
Heaven,' she replied solemnly, in a quivering voice,
could I have told you such a thing if it was not ?'

Wilfrid covered his face with both hands. ' I believe
you,' he said at last, after a long pause. ' Poor soul ! I
see it all now ! God knows how I pity you, and how I
honour you for your truth and courage in speaking tome!'


Lois sobbed. ' If you knew all, you would not blame
me,' said she.

I / blame you ! You know I do not !' cried he
eagerly. ' Lois, promise me that if you ever want a
friend you will come to me.'

I I promise.'

1 And promise me solemnly you will never again think
for a moment of committing the terrible sin from which
I saved you !'

I promise faithfully,' she murmured through her
tears.

H

1 God bless you ! Remember, trust me always !' He
pressed her hand warmly.

The girl raised his to her lips and her hot tears fell
upon it. ' Goodbye, Wilfrid,' she cried with a sob, ' and
Heaven be with you.'

She watched him walk rapidly down the street, and
then going to her room, fell on her knees in an agony of
weeping.

The next morning Oakburne took his departure for
London. His mother and sister accompanied him to
the station, and just as she was going to say good-bye,
Ethel remembered that she had forgotten to give her
brother a note which had come for him that morning
from the Elkfields.

Just like you, Ethel,' said her brother maliciously, but
just then the train began to move off, and he had
to bid them a hurried adieu. When they were well
out of the station he opened the note, which was a
brief one, evidently written in a hurry.

Dear Wilfrid,' it ran, ' Forgive me if I seemed unkind
last night. I was vexed at what you said, and you
misunderstood me altogether. I do not believe anything
against you about Lois. Will you forgive me ?

Yours very truly, Beatrice Elkfield.'
1 Pes. — You are not to answer this or you will offend
me very much. Answer it in person when you return.'

Of course Wilfrid read this precious missive over two
or three times, and then placed it very carefully in his
breast pocket. Of course, too, it raised his spirits
immediately, and made the world in general appear in a
totally new and deliciously bright light to the world he
had awoke to in the morning. How long the time
would seem before he answered this almost sacred note

in person ! But now there would be something to work
for, and hope would make work seem easy and time
short ! Then he remembered Lois. Ah ! what a narrow
escape he had had ! How good and true she had been
to him ! He should always feel she was a dear, true
friend. Poor, poor Lois ! these conflicting thoughts
fully occupied him during his journey to London.

K

CHAPTER VIII.

In which Giles Rowancourt makes a discovery.

To beguile the time,

Look like the time ; bear welcome in your eyes,

Your hand, your tongue ; look like the innocent flower ;

But be the serpent under it— Shakespeare.

among those who travelled by the train which
took Wilfrid Oakburne to London, was Giles
Rowancourt, who has been more than once
alluded to in these pages. That gentleman had concluded
his visit to Lady Thistledale, and was on his
way to visit his sister at Otterstone Hall ; and as he
alighted at the small station where passengers had to
change for Thornbury, Oakburne recognised him, and
recalled how Beatrice had pointed him out the night
before with the enquiry 'whether it was true that he,
Rowancourt, was horribly wicked She used the phrase,
as young ladies are apt to do, in a very vague manner,
for in truth, neither she nor anyone else had ever heard
him accused of any particular kind of ill-doing. His
manners and appearance were on the contrary all in his
favour. He was not indeed handsome, but he looked
eminently a gentleman. His fair reddish hair was
somewhat scanty for a man nearing fifty, he stooped
slightly, and his light grey eyes and somewhat hard
features were not attractive at first sight, yet he had
that unmistakable air of good-breeding which is so easily



recognisable and so impossible to describe ; and anyone
who had talked ten minutes with him, especially any
woman, was sure to be favourably impressed. There
were, it is true, people who spoke of him as 'unscrupulous,'
* horribly selfish,' ' a mere man of pleasure,' and
so forth, but they were for the most part acquaintances
who were glad enough to welcome him as a very pleasant
member of society. As a young man, when he and Captain
Chessington had been so intimate, he had undoubtedly
been rather fast, and he still took great interest
in the turf; but the sowing of wild oats, when the sower
is blessed with ample means for the process, is not an
altogether exceptional occurrence among the members of
good society. People said he had married for money,
and, after driving his wife to leave him, spent all her
fortune. But it was well known that the lady had eloped
with an old lover shortly after her marriage, and the
charge of ill-treatment quite broke down. She had died
soon after, and though some said he showed want of
spirit in not calling out her seducer, most people thought
that Rowancourt had acted very sensibly in the matter.
The incident was soon forgotten, and he was left to
spend his wife's money in peace. As he approached
middle life the interest of the spending process rather
flagged, and he settled down into a confirmed club man.
Though he went a good deal into society, he devoted
most of his time to whist, at which he was a great proficient,
and when the clubs emptied at the end of the
London season, betook himself to the numerous country-houses
open to him. His connection with Horace
Chessington had led him to take an interest in politics,
and though he was not an orator, and far too fond of
comfort to dream of entering Parliament himself, his large

circle of acquaintance made him a useful ally. Every
man, however, as he advances in life, likes to have some
harbour to which he can occasionally betake himself to
rest and recruit at ease before beginning the business of
life afresh, and is well content to have some human ties
to satisfy the desire for affection which is to be found even
in the lowest specimens of humanity. Giles Rowancourt's
only real affections, so far as such a cold, calculating
being could be said to possess any, were centered in his
sister, Adela Chessington, and her children. On his
brother-in-law's death, he endeavoured to the best of his
power to assist her according to his own views of life,
and it suited him very well, when feeling at all out of
sorts or weary of society, to be able to retire to Otter-stone
for a little quiet and change. As time went on, these
visits began to be more frequent. He felt rather proud,
and for him fond, of his niece and nephew, and began to
interest himself in their future ; and it was with the
object of, as he esteemed it, furthering Walter's advance
in life that he was now on his way to Otterstone.

Neither Walter nor his sister altogether appreciated
their uncle's benevolent feelings towards them, and,
though they managed to get on very well with him when
they were all assembled together, they neither of them
looked forward with any extraordinary pleasure to his
arrival. Notwithstanding this, however, after he had been
in the house a couple of days, both had to acknowledge
that his visit was an agreeable change in the monotony
of their rather humdrum life. He talked so well
about everything, knew so many people, and had
such a fund of amusing and satirical stories about
everyone who was anyone ; and then, too, he made
himself so pleasantly at home with all about him.

He was particularly kind to Catherine, whose good
qualities and beauty pleased him as being in a way
creditable to himself, and frequently praised her to her
mother, regretting that Miss Chessington — who was very
constant in visiting the poor — should, as he expressed it,
1 bury herself alive so much ; pottering about with these
old women, you know.'

1 Upon my word, Adela,' said he to his sister one
morning — ' upon my word, Walter speaks uncommonly
well. He has clearly a decided gift for that sort of
thing, inherited, of course, from both sides. I was
pleased to find last night that he has the taste, because
I've been feeling for a long time that he ought to think
of public life. His father, you know, came forward more
than once, and Walter owes it to his position to do the
same. What do you say to Parliament now, eh ? '

1 Penny Readings ' were then coming into vogue, and
it was the share taken by Walter — who had acquired
a taste for declaiming at school and college, and frequently
volunteered his services — in one held at Otter-stone
soon after Rowancourt's arrival which gave rise to
the above remarks from the latter. The reader perhaps
would not have spoken so warmly in praise of young
Chessington's eloquence, but it gave Rowancourt a good
opportunity of introducing the subject which had brought
him to Otterstone.

Parliament, Giles !' cried his sister laughing, but
looking a little startled. ' Nonsense, dear !' She was a
gentle, timid woman, easily led and easily frightened.

But supposing he had the chance ?'

1 Supposing ! Nonsense, Giles ! Supposing he had,
and had the capacity and the inclination too, I am sure
his constitution never would stand the wear and tear !

You don't know him as I do — as a mother must, my
dear Giles !'

The suggestion really alarmed her, for to tell the
truth she feared it would prove only too acceptable to
Walter who, though pleasure-loving, was ambitious, and
who frequently showed signs of weariness at the humdrum
country-life which he found it necessary to vary
pretty often by visits to London and to country friends.
Her life was centered in her children, and she thought
this plan of her brother's sounded like a design to
deprive her altogether of the son of whom she now saw
only too little. ' Please don't put any such ideas into
Walter's head, Giles,' she said.

1 Nonsense, Adela !' replied her brother, smiling at her
anxiety. ' There's no wear and tear at all, unless a man
chooses to wear and tear himself; and the boy's as
strong as a horse — as sound as possible ! Gad ! I wish
I had his constitution ! Young men lead so much
healthier lives — more exercise and all that — than we
used to in my day. At least, Walter has. But he's just
fitted for it ! He's had a public school education, been
at the University, called to the Bar, travelled, and all
that ! eh ? He's got money and position and that sort
of thing you know, and any interest I can give him
besides.'

But Giles, dear '

Its just what he wants — a career, an object, don't you
know — an object in life, eh ? And he's got some knowledge
of law.'

1 My dear Giles, he says he knows next to nothing
about it ! He took one brief, which some friends got
offered him, just because he was told it was the thing todo
when he was called ; but he had nothing to say,

poor, dear boy ! as he's often told me, and drew pictures
oa the blotting-paper in front of him all the time ! He's
often declared he hates the law, and he lent his wig
and gown to the Walzingmore girls at Thorpe Ashton for
private theatricals, and I believe they've never returned
them yet. People are so forgetful.'

Bless my soul, Adela ! ' said Rowancourt, rising and
placing himself before the fire, ' what does it matter if
he's not a sucking lawyer ! I like him all the better for
it. I never cared much for the profession myself — too
doosid keen don't you know, and too bookish for my
taste. It would make no difference if he were as ignorant
as Hopkins the butler — all that kind of thing is quite
a secondary affair in cases of this kind. But Walter's
had good training ; he's got views, one can see, takes an
intelligent interest in questions, reads, and so on.'

1 Nonsense ! ' murmured the fond mother, pleased
against her will. ' It would never do Giles.'

1 It's not nonsense at all my dear ! Now look here,
the long and short of it is this. I've been staying at old
Lady Thistledale's at Lidfield, and we've had to discuss
the question of the seat for the born'. You know we're
great friends she and I, — she's a dreadfully imperious old
creature, — and Walter's just the man we want.'

Walter ! you don't really mean it, Giles.'

Poor Joe Boarsbyby, the member for the born', must
die soon,' went on Rowancourt, not heeding the interruption.


1 Oh Giles ! how can you speak so !' cries Lady Adela,
looking very shocked.

Eh, my dear ! yes ! very sad indeed, isn't it ! poor
fellow. I know him well, — a very good fellow ! very !
It's fatty degeneration of the heart of course. His

mother was a Porkington you recollect — one of Lady
Porkington's daughters, and they all inherited it from
her. He was as sound as a bell — a great big stout
creature with a face like a warming' pan, by Jove ! you
must remember old Lord Porkington in the old days,
eh? Yes, its very sad, but we must be prepared for
these things. Homme propose, you know, eh, Adela ?'

'I'm very shocked to hear it,' says Lady Adela,
quickly. ' I think I remember something of him. I
met him as a girl, you know.'

Ah, yes ! I daresay. Yes it's very sad. He's dying
by inches, poor fellow. Not a doubt of it. The Tories
will make a great fight to keep the seat, they've had it for
generations you know ; but Lady Thistledale wants to
try and win it for our people, and all we want is a good
candidate. They are working away quietly now, but so
are we. We've brought over a splendid supporter —
Elkfield he calls himself, owns a wool factory, and could
buy up the whole place, has immense influence. A
man like Walter, clever, and a gentleman, is just the
thing we're looking out for.'

1 My dear Giles ! what do they know of poor Walter
at Lidfield?'

Know ! nothing at all of course. All the better for
us. No nasty stories about wild oats, or family affairs,
and that sort of thing. Don't look so shocked. I've
known great capital made out of such affairs at elections.
No ! Walter's just the man. I answer for him to Lady
Thistledale, and she recommends him to the Lidfield
people. It's a great thing you know in these Radical
days to get a man who combines enlightened views
and some experience, with gentle breeding, eh ? '

Well, Giles ! ' says his sister with a gentle sigh, ' you

of course must understand more of these matters than I
do. And — and I know too well that Walter is clever and
ambitious, and finds home dull sometimes. Walter will
judge for himself of course. He'll soon be eight and
twenty. Dear me ! How time flies. I'm afraid, very
much afraid he's not up to it.'

Pooh, pooh, Adela ! Be comforted, my dear ! I'm
quite convinced he is, or be sure, I shouldn't think of it.
I have not spoken to him yet, of course. I would not
dream of doing so, as you know, unless you approved,
and I am very glad you agree with your old brother's
project,' and he laid his hand affectionately on his
sister's.

I don't quite know that I do altogether approve,
Giles,' said she. ' But — but I leave it to you, dear.'

I am sure you may safely do so,' my dear Adela, for
you know my affection for you both. By the way,
I remember a long time ago Walter had some absurd
penchant about that little Miss Beechcroft. A sort of
eccentric scruple about the property, combined with a
little smoothness about the girl if I'm not mistaken. He's
quite got over that I suppose.'

'Oh yes, quite,' answered Walter's mother eagerly.
1 Quite, I'm glad to say. It was only a boyish folly, and
his own over-tenderness of conscience. He has got such
a good heart, dear Walter. Oh yes, that's quite done
with now. It was long ago, and you know they went to
India last year.'

1 Oh, ah yes ! True ! I remember now ! Old
Beechcroft burnt his fingers in that railway mania
business and had to go into harness again. Great
jobbery his getting that command. But they've good
interest. His grandmother, you remember, was a

Caution, and one of her sisters married old Marshal
Glenshale. They were a good-lookin' lot the Caution
girls. But I never could stand the Glenshale people
with that horrible frigid manner.'

'Well, Uncle Giles, are you ready to explore the
tower ?' said Catherine, who entered at this moment and
interrupted Rowancourt's reminiscences. 'You promised
you'd come. Just imagine mother, he's never
been into the tower all these years. Isn't it lazy of
him ?'

Dear me ! Is that really the case, Giles,' said his
sister. ' How very odd ! But of course you never did
care about that sort of thing, did you ? After all dear,
though they say its so old, its only a lumber-room now.'

Upon my word I feel its very negligent of me,' said
Rowancourt good-humouredly. ' Quite lazy as Catherine
says. I don't believe I ever realised that it existed till
she began talking about it last night. I must go or this
young woman will never cease bullying her old uncle
till I do. It'll be an excuse for a cigar too. Come
along, Catherine ! Where's Walter ?' and putting his
arm into his niece's they went out of the room together.

I think he's an affectionate uncle,' said Lady Adela
to herself, with a sigh. Dear me ! I wonder what
could have put parliament into his head. If it would not
take Walter from us altogether I should like it. We are
all so happy together now.'

She was really fond of her brother. He had stood by
her during the trying period of her estrangement from
her family after her runaway marriage ; and as children
they had always been together a good deal. She had a
great belief in his sagacity and knowledge of the world,
and reflected that when he became Lord Asheleigh — an

event which could not be very long deferred — he would
be a great help to her children. He had often told her
that he should leave all he possessed to them, and she
felt sure he would ; for Rowancourt did not get on well
with his mother and other sisters, and she could see
that he liked both his nephew and niece as much as he
ever liked anyone. Perhaps it was wisest to let him do
what he wished; Walter, she feared would be sure to
agree with his uncle. So with another sigh she
dismissed the subject from her mind and began to
consider the more immediate question of who was to take
who into dinner at the party arranged for the next day.

Anyone seeing the Hon. Giles Rowancourt as he
sauntered along the broad terrace in front of the house in
the sunshine of that bright April morning, would have
thought him a model uncle, and perhaps have envied the
nephew and niece who walked on either side of him.
Being in a good-humour with himself and his surroundings,
he managed to impart his pleasurable feelings
to his companions as he chatted to them between
the puffs of the fragrant cigar he was smoking.
He dilated on the beauty of the timber, pointing out at
the same time to Walter which trees he thought ought to
be felled and sold. He complimented Catherine on the
freshness of her colour, and rallied her playfully on what
he was pleased to term her old-fashioned way of doing
her hair. In short, he made himself thoroughly agreeable
as they walked, with many pauses, towards the
tower which was connected with the house by a long
passage communicating with the kitchen and offices.

What a queer old relic of the past. How many
times I must have passed it without thinking about it.

Positively I believe I hardly noticed it. So it belongs
really to the times of the Tudors, Catherine, eh ?'

1 The Tudors, no ! Long before the Tudors, Uncle
Giles, of course ! Really you ought to have known
better,' says his niece. ' It was built in the reign
of Henry II., you know. I wish Mr. Bowersbyby
was here to explain it all. He knows the history
thoroughly.'

To be sure. Of course. Henry II. and all that ! oh
yes !' said Uncle Giles, with whom history had never
been a strong point. ' Henry II. of course. And so
Mr. Bowersbyby knows all about it, eh ? A worthy man,
but rather an old slow coach, I should imagine ?' added
he, glancing at Catherine.

He's very clever I believe,' replied she, rather
warmly, ' and he's not so very old. He can't be more
than seven or eight-and-thirty.'

And you don't call that old ! Ah, well ! I suppose
that's a compliment to your old uncle ! eh, Walter ? I
thought myself pretty old at seven-and-thirty I remember!
Well, let us see what is to be seen.'

The lower portion of the tower, a grey, ivy-covered,
two-storied building, had anciently been used as an
armoury, but in recent times had been converted into two
rooms, one of which was used as a wash-house, and the
other as an apple-room — to ' such base uses may we
come!' The upper part, however, was still one large
circular-room, reached by a spiral stair-way outside the
building.

You are not too old to get up the stair-case I hope,
Uncle Giles,' said Catherine laughing, as they ascended,
and unlocking the massive oak door, entered the room.
It was lighted by four windows so obscured by the pendant

ivy as to admit but a small proportion of the bright
sunshine outside.

Now this room is all just as it used to be,' said
Catherine, 'and this window is the one to which Sir
Walter Throckmorton's ghost points when anything is
going to happen to the Oakburne family. You know the
story, " This quaint fragment of legendary history," as the
county history says. " Sir Walter Oakburne and his
friend, and relative by marriage " ' —

I Oh, ah, yes ! You may spare me that, Catherine !'
said her uncle with a ludicrous expression of alarm. ' I'm
afraid to say how many times I've heard that unfortunate
ghost story. The ghost's off duty now that the
Oakburnes have disappeared.'

I I don't know about the Oakburnes having disappeared,'
said Catherine laughing. ' Mr. Bowersbyby
declares he's somehow distantly related to some of them,
and he would have insisted on telling you the whole
story from beginning to end if he'd been here.'

Then I'm not sorry he is not of the party. Odd that
he should be related to the Oakburne's though. How
long is it now since this room was used ? '

Poor George Chessington, my father's uncle, is said
to have been the last person who inhabited it,' said
Walter. He had long since accustomed himself to
ignore, though he could never quite forget, the bar-sinister
in his pedigree. His uncle looked approvingly at him.

1 Oh I did not know that,' said he.

1 Yes,' replied his nephew. ' He did not get on well
with Sir Pelham, his father you know, and it is said that
after one of their differences he would pass two or three
days here, having a bed placed in the room, and his
meals sometimes brought to him. He was the one who

was killed at the siege of some hill fort in India, and
after his death, which affected his father very much, the
room was locked up.'

Ah, yes ! I recollect — a sad business, very ! very sad !
and that's how the property went to your grandfather.'

Look, Uncle Giles,' said his niece, ' this trap door
communicated with an underground passage that had an
entrance somewhere, a mile away in the Thornbury Road ;
and they used to bring priests here to hide when Elizabeth
and Edward VI. were persecuting the Roman Catholics.
One was found concealed here after Sir Francis Oakburne
had been beheaded for his share in Barrington's conspiracy.'


Really ! very interesting. How well up she is in her
history, eh Walter ? I suppose the passage has been
closed now. What is that bureau there ? '

The passage, oh dear, yes ! it was closed long ago,'
said his niece ; ' you can see if you look through the
trap door.'

1 I'll take your word for it my dear. Who did the
bureau belong to, Walter ? It looks a good piece of
furniture,' said Rowancourt, examining rather curiously
a substantial-looking bureau, with a bookcase and pigeon-holes
forming its upper portion, which stood in a corner
of the room.

1 It belonged to George Chessington,' said his nephew.
They tell me it would be difficult to find workmen who
could make such a thing now. It is so beautifully
famished.'

1 Yes. But the desk's quite empty said Catherine.
We've often looked. It used to be a great mystery tous
as children.'

It's good mahogany,' said her uncle, closing the lid

he had raised, and tapping the woodwork above with his
cane. Hill ! what have we here ! '

He had accidentally touched the spring of a secret
drawer in the thicker part of the bookcase, which flew
suddenly open.

What a discovery, Uncle Giles !' cried Miss Chessington,
running forward. * Let us see what is inside. A
bundle of letters ! do look ! Isn't that odd now,' and
she handed a faded packet tied with a piece of red silk
to her uncle.

1 Bless my soul so it is answered he, examining them
carefully. ' Ah ! I see they are all addressed to George
Chessington, and in a female hand too. No, here are
two in a different style of writing — perhaps from Sir
Pelham.'

Oh do let us read them,' cried his niece.

How like your sex, my dear,' said Rowancourt with a
laugh.

1 We'd better let you read them first, Uncle Giles,'
said Walter. ' They are not very likely to be important.
Probably they are old love letters, and you can tell us the
story after you have studied them.'

1 One would like to know who they are from at all
events, said Catherine, peering over her uncle's shoulder.
1 See, there is a signature ! " Estelle — Estelle che — ," I
can't make it out. It must be some French lady.'

Feminine inquisitiveness, eh ? ' said Rowancourt,
playfully taking them from her. ' I think perhaps I
had better read them first.'

1 Well do ! ' said Catherine. ' I must be going down to
the village ; so you and Walter can read them together
and tell me all about them when I come back.'

More old women, eh?' said Uncle Giles; ' she lives
among 'em, upon my word.'

1 1 daresay you envy them, uncle. Why don't you
come too. Au revoir ! '

A good girl Catherine,' said Giles Rowancourt with a
little sigh, as he watched her slight figure walking rapidly
towards the house. ' A good girl ! and she'll make a goodwife
some day for some lucky fellow, eh ? Well, let us
get out of this musty old room. We'll just have a look
at the stables, and then I must peruse this precious
packet,' and they locked the door and went out again
into the pleasant sunlight.

CHAPTER IX.

George Chessington 's Correspondence.

The world's all title-page ; there's no contents ;
The world's all face ; the man who shows his heart
Is hooted for his unities, and scorn'd. — Young.

These letters are far more important than I had
at first imagined, Walter,' said his uncle as
they sat together that afternoon in the study.
He had been reading them during the morning, and
their perusal seemed to have made him rather grave.

Look at that,' he said, handing him over a letter,
which was written in a beautifully clear hand, was dated
Otterstone, September, 1787, and was addressed to

1 Lieut. Chessington of the — th Rest. of Foot,
At the house of Mr. Woodbridge, No. 21 Bedford Street \

Covent Garden, London''
where George Chessington was apparently lodging. It
began, ' Dearest George,' and after many expressions of
affection, implored him to return as soon as he could to
Otterstone. ' I pray you,' wrote the lady, ' do not forget
that the period of my continuance in your father's
house draws very near to its close. Your sister has no
longer the need of my care as you well know, and what
am I then to do, and whither must I go ? George, you
cannot picture to yourself how my terrors increase as the
hour of my departure approaches ! Dearest, I should

deceive you, should I say that I am resigned to fate !
This uncertainty is overwhelming. Return then quickly,
I conjure you. Your father will pardon you now I am
assured. It was but yesterday at the breakfast time that
he complained of your absence.'

The letter which was written for the most part in
somewhat stiff and laboured English, now and then
interrupted by expressions in French, where the writer
could not be sure of her meaning, or was carried away by
strong feelings, then went on in the same urgent strain to
state reasons for confessing everything to his father, or
going away with the writer to France. It concluded
with another urgent request to return, and was signed,
'Thy loving wife, Estelle.'

1 It is clear that he was married,' said Walter.

4 It looks like it, but whether it was a legal marriage is
another question,' replied his uncle. 'However, you'll see
that more clearly as you read the rest. The lady was
evidently French governess to George Chessington's
sister Isabel, who afterwards became Mrs. Beechcroft.
Her maiden name seems to have been " Estelle Leon."
Read on and you'll see.' And he stirred the fire vigorously
and then carefully watched the face of his nephew.

The other letters, which were all later in date, showed
that George Chessington had, after his wife left Otterstone,
procured rooms for her in London, and that, when
ordered on service to India, he had sent her over to
Paris to a sister spoken of as her only living relation.
The latest letter of the series was written from Paris just
before her husband sailed, bidding him a heart-broken
farewell. Here the record ceased. Of the remaining
letters two were from Chessington's sister Isabel — one
of which was addressed to himself, and the other to

Estelle Chessington — in both of which the latter was
spoken of in most affectionate terms, while the third was
from Sir Pelham to his son, in which the Baronet
assured George of his full forgiveness for past differences,
and of his warm affection, concluding with the hope that
he would speedily return with honour to his country.
This letter had evidently been written in answer to one
from his son, from London, informing him of the
approaching departure of his regiment to India.

'What a strange secret to have discovered said
Walter, as he finished reading it. ' What a sad story !
If there had been a descendant of this marriage he
would be the heir to Otterstone, and in my place.
Heavens ! Why should there not have been. Oh ! if
I could only discover ! ' and he sprung to his feet and
began excitedly pacing up and down.

I Well, and if you could discover him,' said his uncle
with a keen look.

1 By heavens ! I would surrender the property tomorrow,'
cried Walter, turning to the fire, and giving the
big log that smouldered on it a kick that sent the sparks
flying. It was lucky Walter's back was turned, and that
he could not see the sneer that passed over his uncle's
face, as he heard this sentiment.

1 Egad, would you ! ' said that gentleman ; ' well upon
my word the idea does you credit — infinite credit, upon
my word ! So like a young man too ! Generosity is
ever the fault that ruins us when we're young.'

Generosity, uncle Giles ? ' cried Walter, turning and
staring at him. ' It would only be justice.'

Justice, eh ? Hem ! well — perhaps, in a way. I see
what you mean. But my dear boy, it must be clear to

you — plain as daylight, egad, that there's no possibility
of such a thing, eh ? '

1 Why ? ' asked his nephew.

1 In the first place, remember there's no marriage certificate,
no proof of any legal union in short, and one
knows that sham marriages were quite the thing in those
days. A different age from ours, Walter; we've improved
since then, eh ? And I should feel inclined to fear,'
said Uncle Giles, wagging his head sorrowfully, 'that the
young fellow deceived her, you know. You see there
would have been the dickens to pay if it had not been a
mock marriage.'

Of course it may have been a mock marriage,' assented
his nephew, ' but there is no proof either way

'Precisely, no proof. But there's a strong presumption.
But granting it was real, do you suppose, my good fellow,
that if any such claimant had existed, he wouldn't have
looked after himself and pressed his claim long ago, eh ?

Perhaps he might be ignorant, or have no means of
doing so,' said Walter.

Nonsense, my dear Walter ! people in that position
don't want teaching, bless you ! Do you suppose his
mother or her relations would have been silent ? '

True,' murmured Walter, ' there's not much chance
of that.'

And then don't you see,' went on Uncle Giles, warming
with his subject, 'that it's plain from Mrs. Beechcroft's
letter, that she must have known something of this foolish
connection, or had a shrewd suspicion of it ? '

Yes, it certainly seems so.'

And do you suppose, sir, that knowing that fact, these
Beechcroft people, when they were trying to oust your
poor father, begad, from his rights, wouldn't have played

that card then if they had it, eh ? No, damme ! I know
'em better ! They'd have moved heaven and earth to doit,
if they could ! ' Mr. Rowancourt crossed his legs, and
leaning back in his chair gazed triumphantly through his
eye-glass at his nephew, who was fain to acquiesce in the
truth of his remarks.

1 The whole thing is a mere affair of shadows so to
speak,' said the uncle after a pause. ' But even if it
were not, remember, for another thing, when this took
place. Recollect that that deplorable Revolution, don't
you know, played the douce with things in France.
You're better up in that sort of thing than I am, eh ?
But you know that those infernal scoundrels cut off
everyone's head, and robbed and murdered right and
left. And I should think it not at all improbable that
this poor girl was guillotined, or something of that kind,
in Paris — don't you see ? Justice, I may say, is quite a
weak point with me, and I should be very sorry to keep
anyone out of what belonged to them. But its quite
manifest, beyond a doubt, that there's no case of that
kind here. No claimant has ever appeared, or is likely
to appear, so my dear Walter there is nothing to be
gained by discussing the matter.'

1 Yes, no doubt, you are right,' said Walter, who had
been listening not without an inward sense of amusement
to his uncle's generous sentiments. ' As you say it
is mere " fighting with shadows," it is impossible there
should be any claimant, but it's very sad.'

Ah, that's right,' said Uncle Giles, * I am glad you
agree with me. Of course it's sad — doomed sad,' and he
continued to throw some semblance of sentiment into
his light grey eyes, as he stared for a moment at the
fire.

Yes, I think we may safely dismiss the subject from
our minds,' he resumed after a pause, t and now to turn
to another one. I must tell you, Walter, that I am the
bearer of an important proposition to you.' And he
then told his nephew of his plan for contesting the
borough of Lidfield.

His proposition took Walter so much by surprise that
he was for a moment inclined to meet it with a direct
negative. ' He was quite unfitted, he was sure, for such
a position. He was untried, and perhaps — was he not
too young ? ' By degrees, however, the adroit flattery
of his uncle and his plausible arguments, agreeing as
they did with his secret aspirations, began to tell on him.
His mother and sister made so much of him, and took
it so much to heart whenever he stayed long away from
them, that he felt a little qualm when he thought what
an effect his acceptance of his uncle's offer would have
on them. But after all, he said to himself as he dressed
for dinner, surely it would be a good thing for him to
feel that he was doing something useful — that he was
helping to guide the destinies of his country !

Uncle Giles renewed his attack after dinner, when
Catherine and her mother had retired to the drawing
room, and Walter began to feel that, if he had gifts
which, even to a small extent fitted him for parliamentary
life, it would be in a way shirking a duty not to try
and turn them to account. He had very fair abilities,
and, unknown to himself, a good deal of ambition,
which had hitherto found sufficient satisfaction in acquiring
popularity with his friends and neighbours. He had,
moreover, read and thought more than most men of his
age on political questions, and was fond of imparting
his views to others. It was therefore not altogether

surprising that under Rowancourt's adroit encouragement
he should find himself stating his opinions
on various subjects very fully to his uncle. When
the latter made a final attempt to gain his point, over a
cigar in the smoking room, Walter virtually yielded to
the temptations of the prospect, and his shrewd canvasser
felt that the battle was won.

4 You ought to keep these letters, Walter, eh ? ' said he
as they were going to bed, ' but I should just like to
make a note about them before I return them.'

I Certainly, Uncle Giles said his nephew ; and he
wished him good night with a feeling, that though his
uncle, perhaps, was a little hard and unscrupulous, he
certainly was very shrewd, had a great deal of discernment,
and was, moreover, a very agreeable man.

I I wonder if he's to be trusted with these letters, poor
boy,' thought the uncle as he carried them to his room.
Perhaps it would be safer to forget them for a little ;
but I think he sees the folly of his sentimentality. Of
course he's outgrown most of it as I expected ; but he's
got a good deal of it still, egad. Full of ingenious ideas
apparently, but that '11 make him all the more manageable,
and people like to see a fellow of that age fresh and
enthusiastic. I think he'll do with care. He has a great
idea of making himself agreeable \ but I must take him
in hand a bit, and get rid of some of this ingenuousness.
They ought to get more people here, too, for Catherine's
sake. Poor Adela's getting quite callous as to her duties

in that way. When I come into the title ' and full

of such schemes he sought the repose which should reward
a well-spent day. Once in the night he awoke
and found himself wondering whether George Chessington
had left a son. * Utterly impossible,' he said to himself.

' These Beechcroft people would have made capital
out of it. What a fool I am ! ' and he went to sleep
again.

Chapter X.

No. 9 Fourfold Street.

Mr. Spectator, . I am, sir, a bachelor of some standing,
and a traveller ; my business, to consult my own humour, which I
gratify without controlling other people's ; I have a room and a
whole bed to myself; and I have a dog, a fiddle, and a gun ;
they please me, and injure no creature alive. My chief meal is
a supper, which I always make at a tavern.'

The Spectator.

O. 9 Poulford Street, where Wilfrid Oakburne
had installed himself on his arrival in London,
was a roomy, three-storied house, at the corner
of Poulford Square, a tidy looking block of buildings,
standing on the slope of a steep incline, not far from
the Gray's Inn Road, down which he had to walk daily
when he went to St. Christopher's Hospital. From its
proximity to the hospital, Poulford Street is much affected
by medical students, while its situation on, what may for
London be considered, high ground, close to two great
Railway termini, and the line of 'busses,' makes it a
convenient situation for city men, and hence No. 9, like
the other houses in the street, was seldom empty for long.
These facts were imparted to Wilfrid when he first
took the lodgings, by Mrs. Hollis, the landlady, a short
stout woman with a red face, and a pair of broad shoulders
that excited the wonder of all who beheld her for
the first time. She also told him, as she was wont to
inform all her lodgers, that she was a widow, with one

little girl, (whom she called Battie) ; that there were ' four
other gentlemen' in the house, besides himself; and
that she ' generally gave satisfaction to her gentlemen,' —
all which facts, the last, strange to say, included, Wilfrid
found to be strictly true. His rooms were clean and
comfortable, his comforts well looked after, and his
fellow lodgers pleasant and sociable, and he soon found
himself far more contented and happy than he could
ever have imagined when he left Lidfield.

One of Mrs. Hollis's ' gentlemen,' as she called them,
was a young fellow of the name of Norton, a ' Pitt's r
man— the students of ' St. Christopher's Hospital ' always
alluded to it as ' Kitts ' — and with him Oakburne
naturally soon became intimate. The pair shared their
sitting-room in common, and studied and attended lectures
together, and though Norton, — an incorrigible
wag, sometimes wearied him by his incessant chaffing,
singing, and talking, Wilfrid found him a very
good fellow, and decidedly superior to most of his
fellow students, a large proportion .of whom delighted
in wrenching off bells and knockers, in making noisy
demonstrations in public places, in wine parties and
music halls, and other such boisterous amusements
which were not at all to his taste.

The opposite sitting-room was occupied by another
couple of friends, both of whom were the seniors by a
good deal, of the two young embryo doctors. Of these,
one was a hard-working literary man, of some three or
four-and-thirty, Beverley Chipps by name, who supported
himself by contributions to various papers and periodicals.
Being of a sociable and jovial disposition, he often
invited Oakburne and Norton to come and smoke their
cigars with him, and being an admirable mimic and a

good musician, he used to make the evenings thus
spent with him, pass very pleasantly, and was on very
good terms with both of them. For some time, however,
these little meetings were only held when Beverley
Chipps's friend, Mr. Throckmorton, who usually dined
at his club, and came home late, was away, and it was
not till he had been an inmate of the lodgings sometime,
that Wilfrid made the latter's acquaintance.

Mr. Throckmorton, who has already been mentioned
as the great friend of General Beechcroft, and who
bequeathed to the present writer the MS. and notes
from which he has extracted the history now laid before
the reader, — a history in which Edward Throckmorton
himself bore a not inconsiderable part — was a gentleman
held in some awe, not only by Mrs. Hollis the landlady,
who had the greatest reverence for him, but by his. fellow
lodgers. The former described him to Wilfrid as 'a
lawyer sir, — a very rich gentleman, connected with the
aristocracy as I'm told — rather curious in his ways, but
quite the gentleman ; ' a description which Oakburne's
conversations with Beverley Chipps and Norton on the
subject shewed to be correct, as far as it went. Mr.
Throckmorton was a conveyancer and a member of
Lincoln's Inn, where he had chambers in Old Square.
He was very well off, and of a very good old family,
and it was true that if his kinsman, Sir Carnaby Rudstone,
the rich Yorkshire Baronet, died unmarried, he would
inherit his extensive property. No doubt, also, it was
curious, in a manner, that a man with such ample means
should choose to live in Poulford Street, instead of in
the Albany, or even in Lincoln's Inn, solely for the sake
of the situation ; and still more strange that he should
rise all the year round at half-past six, and betake himself

with unfailing regularity to his work, as if his bread
depended on it. Such was the case, however. Precisely
as the clock struck a quarter to seven, the sounds of
falling water, followed by the splashing and floundering
of some heavy body, informed the inhabitants of No. 9
that Mr. Throckmorton was taking his shower bath ; and
equally surely did the snatch of some old song, sung in a
mellow bass voice, proclaim to them that the tubbing
ceremonial was at an end. By seven they knew he was
working in his room till eight o'clock, when he would
himself cook his breakfast, and, having eaten it,
would start exactly at nine to walk to Lincoln's Inn,
reaching his chambers in Old Square punctually at ten.
As he had been an inmate of the house for nearly seven
years, — 'seven years come Michaelmas, Mr. Oakburne,
just before my poor husband died, he came first, and
was most kind to me at that sad time,' said Mrs. Hollis, —
and had never been known to fail in this daily routine,
it was natural that he should be looked on as somewhat
different from his fellow men, and that his singularity,
combined with his wealth, his kindness, and
a certain stern decision of manner, should lead his
younger acquaintance to regard him with respectful
curiosity. That he wrote books, and articles for the
papers, and had a considerable share in the ' Weekly
Censor, a Political and Literary Review,' of the staff of
which Beverley Chipps was a leading member ; that he
belonged to the 'Athenaeum,' and other clubs; that he
went away every 12th August, and every 30th December,
returning regularly every 29th October, and 31st January ;
that he had travelled everywhere, was near fifty, wore
double eye-glasses, played the violin, and was very
charitable ; all these were facts concerning Mr. Throck-

morton, that Norton and Beverley Chipps imparted to
Wilfrid as matters which he must feel that it behoved
him to know. The manner in which they were thus told
to him, naturally piqued his curiosity concerning the man,
and made him feel that he somehow occupied an inferior
position in the little society of No. 9, as long as he
remained unacquainted with him. In spite of this
feeling, however, they still continued strangers to each
other for some two months after his arrival.

It happened that one morning towards the end of
June, Wilfrid, coming down early to do some reading,
and requiring to make some notes, found his ink bottle
empty. As he was pressed for time, and as the notes,
though important, could be made in five minutes, he
thought he might save himself trouble by asking for the
loan of Beverley Chipps' ink-stand. It was, however,
nearly eight o'clock ; Mr. Throckmorton would be in the
room, but Beverley, who was a late riser, would not. He
hesitated a moment, and then decided that it would be
better to ask him than to lose time by going out to buy
the necessary fluid. Mr. Throckmorton's door, to his
surprise, was half open. He tapped and received no
answer, and looking in, saw the room was empty. He
was in a hurry, and therefore determined to take French
leave, and apologise afterwards to the owner of the room.
There was the ink-stand on the middle of the table, which
was half covered by a cloth on which were the necessary
preparations for Mr. Throckmorton's breakfast, while at
the other end a pile of manuscript, the upper sheet of
which was still wet with ink, lay on the open blotting
book. Wilfrid, seizing a pen, bent over the table and
had soon scribbled off the important notes. He replaced
the pen, and turned to depart, congratulating himself on

having managed so neatly, when his foot caught in
the table-cloth, and giving it a sudden jerk, discharged
the contents of the ink bottle half over the newly-finished
manuscript, and half over the loaf which was to
form an important part of Throckmorton's breakfast.
As he was gazing in despair at the mischief he had
wrought, a deep voice made him suddenly start in
dismay. ' Upon my word, young sir,' said the voice,
your conduct is outrageous ! ' and looking up, he
beheld opposite to him a portly gentleman of middle
height, with curly, grizzled brown hair, whose face, clean
shaven save for a pair of small grey whiskers, bore unmistakeable
signs of anger. A heavy frown clouded his
broad square forehead, his piercing grey eyes glared
savagely at the luckless Wilfrid from under his bushy
eyebrows, and there was an unpleasant look about his
firmly-set lips that made the young fellow stammer very
awkwardly over the excuses he tried to offer in his
extenuation.

An accident ! yes sir ! that I can well conceive. Few
men would dare to come and spill the contents of a
man's ink-bottle over his own table as you have done, on
purpose. But let me tell you, sir, that your presence
here was quite unwarrantable. I have not the pleasure
of your acquaintance, and your conduct in, without leave
granted, making use of my ink-bottle, can in no way be
justified.'

Wilfrid fired up at this. ' Upon my word, you have
no right to say that ! ' cried he. ' I have known Mr.
Beverley Chipps some time, and being in a hurry and
having found myself short of ink, I ventured to make
use of his ink-bottle for a — a few minutes. The accident
I am very sorry for, but it might have happened to

anybody ; and let me tell you, Mr. Throckmorton, that
I — that I consider your remarks are '

He suddenly stopped short in his indignation, for Mr.
Throckmorton here interrupted him by breaking into a
hearty laugh. ' Come, come, my dear young sir ! ' cried
he, ' I was only joking. I came in unobserved while you
were making your notes, and heard you congratulate
yourself on having avoided me. The temptation to denounce
you while you were so horribly confused with the
consequences of your accident was irresistible, and
besides, let me tell you that you have half ruined my
manuscript. It ought to have gone to press this morning,
and as I shall be busy all day it will now have to stand
over till next week when probably it will be out of date.
Look here ! ' and he held up one of the blurred and
stained pages with a rueful smile.

1 Will you allow me to copy it as some amends for my
stupidity?' cried Wilfrid, relieved at the unexpected
turn things had taken.

Eh ? Will you really ? Upon my word that's very
good of you ! ' cried Mr. Throckmorton eagerly, laying a
hand on his shoulder. ' You would really do me a great
service, because I particularly want the article out this
week. Are you sure you don't mind, eh ? '

Not in the least,' replied Wilfrid, ' I shall be very
glad. I have to attend a lecture, but I shall be back by
eleven if that will suit you.'

That will do capitally ! you have taken a great weight
off my mind ! ' and then Mr. Throckmorton, examining
the amount of damage done, showed Wilfrid what
required rewriting, and gave him an envelope directed to
Messrs. Dint, Flatters & Son, the printers of his paper,
to whom he requested him to send the MS. by post.

K

And now you had better have some breakfast with
me,' he said, and after watching the process of chop
frying, to which Mr. Throckmorton devoted himself with
much earnestness, Oakburne at length found himself
discussing that meal with the man whom he had been so
long anxious to meet.

1 So you're name's Oakburne, is it ? I once had a very
dear friend of that name, Edward Oakburne. We were
at college together, but he died early, poor fellow !
Poor fellow ! he was a very gifted man, a very worthy
man ! Help yourself to some more bread. That's
right ! What part of the world do you come from ? '

Wilfrid replied that he lived in Hillshire. ' My grandfather
settled there as a young man,' said he, 'but I
believe my people lived in Clayshire before that. They
were there for many generations.'

'Hillshire? That's odd! you don't live at Lidfield,
do you?' and Mr. Throckmorton laid down his knife
and fork, and gazed keenly at Wilfrid, who replied with
a laugh that he did, and that he had been born there
and his father before him.

'And your grandfather was the partner of Elkfield,
the wool manufacturer there ? '

Yes of course he was,' says the other.

'Then my dear boy, your uncle Edward Oakburne
was my very great friend. You had an uncle Edward
surely ? And you must have heard of me — of Edward
Throckmorton ? '

I had an uncle Edward, but he died almost before I
was born I think,' replied Wilfrid, ' and I have heard of
your name — where I can't exactly remember, but not
from anyone at home. All my uncles and aunts died
early, and we have no living relations now.'

Ah ! I daresay it's natural that you should never
have heard. Why should you, indeed ?' and Mr.
Throckmorton rose and paced the room as though
moved by some sudden recollection. ' Why should the
present generation care for, or even remember the things
that are so precious to those that have gone before them ?
Dear me ! How long ago it seems now. Yes, young
man, your Uncle Edward was my great friend and crony
at college, and for some two years after. Then a
difference arose between us, which estranged us' — he
paused in some emotion — 'which estranged us altogether.
We discontinued our intercourse to the great sorrow of
both — and then, he died before we were ever able to
effect a reconciliation. We never met again as friends.'

Wilfrid had listened, as may be supposed, with great
interest to those reminiscences of his dead relative. . He
was about to make some remark in reply, when the
baker's cart rattled up to the door, and Mrs. Hollis's little
girl was heard rushing up the area steps to receive him.
His ring at the bell was a landmark in the day to Throck-
morton, and recalled him to himself.

I must be off,' he cried. ' I am late ; I fear
I shall have to take a cab — a very rare occurrence
with me, I can assure you ! I am glad to have come
across you, my boy, for your uncle's sake. You have a
look of the Oakburnes about you ! Don't forget the
papers, and please stamp the envelope, and I will repay
you the postage,' and two minutes after Wilfrid heard
him bang the house-door and hail a passing hansom.

As Oakburne was copying out the article which had
been the indirect cause of his introduction to his uncle's
old friend, he suddenly remembered that he had heard
the name of Throckmorton for the first time at Otter-stone,

when he visited it with his brother, as described ina
previous chapter. He mentioned the circumstance to
his new friend when they met that evening, and learnt
that this made a fresh bond of interest between them.
Mr. Throckmorton knew all about Otterstone Hall
of course, and all about the Oakburne's ownership of the
property in old times. He knew, moreover, all about
James Chessington's will, and the consequences of that
instrument. He had always regarded the latter's conduct
as most cruel and unjust, and had left no stone unturned
which was likely to help his friend General Beechcroft to
recover the estates of which he had been so unexpectedly
deprived. It was with the greatest regret and vexation
that he was obliged to abandon the cause as hopeless,
and bid his old school-fellow resign himself to his loss.
In addition to the interest he still continued to feel in
all that related to the place, he had certain other motives
for disliking Giles Rowancourt, and hence he was apt to
look on the whole race of Chessingtons as dangerous
impostors.

All these facts Oakburne gathered during his conversation
with Mr. Throckmorton over an excellent cigar
which that gentleman invited him to smoke, thanking him
for the copy he had made for him, a proof of which he
had seen at Messrs. Dint, Blatter, and Sons. Norton
was included in the invitation, and he and Beverley
Chipps helped to enliven an evening which passed very
pleasantly, and it was past eleven o'clock when Mr.
Throckmorton, who was seldom later in going to bed,
gave the signal for dispersing.

Late as it was, however, Herr Karl was only just
coming in as they sought their respective bedrooms.
Herr Karl was that fifth lodger of Mrs. Hollis's who was

mentioned at the beginning of this chapter — a gigantic
Saxon, whose red bearded face always wore a half-starved,
anxious look, and who gained his living as a
teacher of his native German. " Which I don't think he
makes much by it, sir ! " said Mrs. Hollis ; " not enough
to feed himself properly. And he's always away by eight
in the morning, too, and doesn't get back till ever so late.
He's very poor, and I'm sure he's in very bad health,
sir. But he always pays his rent regular, poor gentleman,
and is most quiet and civil ! '

Poor Herr Karl had no sitting-room, but had to smoke
his solitary pipe in his little bedroom at the top of the
house. Whatever his circumstances were — and thelandlady
was fully convinced he had known better days — he continued
unknown to his fellow lodgers, carefully avoiding
them, and speaking to no one but Mrs. Hollis and her
little girl. Little Battie — ' Battie ' was her mother's
abbreviation for Beatrice — was a general favourite in the
house as a clean, nice-looking, useful child, and was
Herr Karl's chief friend. Wilfred used to hear the
German talking to her in his broken English, when she
brought up his breakfast to him in the morning. ' Rom
hither, Meets Battie,' he would say, ' and tell me how ze
day goes to-day,' and the little maiden would then report
on the state of the weather, and carry on a short dialogue
till his hurried meal was over. Then Herr Karl would
remark that ' Ze hour waits for nobodies \ it is time to
be gone, Battie, hey ? ' and presently his heavy tramp
would be heard descending the stairs. Thus though
they had a good-natured pity for him, the other gentlemen
who inhabited No. 9 Poulford Street had but little
occasion to trouble themselves about the doings of this
hardware and ill-fed foreigner,

CHAPTER XI.

Recognitions.

I said there was not half a guinea's worth of pleasure in seeing
this place. Johnson : * But, sir, there is half a guinea's worth of
inferiority to other people in not having seen it.' Boswell: 'I
doubt, sir, whether there are many happy people here.' Johnson:
1 Yes, sir, there are many happy people here. There are many
people here who are watching hundreds, and who think hundreds
are watching them.' — Boswell's Johnson.

So memory stirred in each ;

As on a tideless beach

The moaning wind will ape the loud sea wave.

Then, in a moment's space,

Faded from either face

The shade of shades which dim remembrance gave ;

She was a queen, erect, and fair, and cold,

And he a singer, to be fee'd with gold. — Gosse.

R. THROCKMORTON was fond of telling Wilfrid,
in his somewhat sententious way, that ' no
one has a right to deliberately sit down and
gloat or mourn over past reminiscences or future prospects
till he's too old to work, and may be excused from
trying to live in the present. Day dreaming in the young
is a vice that should be sternly checked, and you are too
fond of day-dreaming my lad ! A fellow of your age
ought to have nothing but the present, and has no business
to be remembering or castle-building. Don't tell
me, sir ! I have watched you, and know it's the case,'

It may be supposed that the intimacy between the
pair had grown to be pretty close, which enabled Mr.
Throckmorton thus to admonish Oakburne, and it was
chiefly on account of the friendship thus formed, that
Wilfrid Oakburne, with all due respect for the above
precept, used in after days to recall the first half year of
his sojourn in Poulford Street as one of the happiest
periods of his life. The inhabitants of No. 9 formed, as
has been said, a peculiarly harmonious and cheery circle.
Wilfrid could not well have found a more suitable chum
for one of his somewhat despondent temperament than
Norton, and when he was inclined to be lazy, Mr.
Throckmorton, who was ever instilling into him the
beauties of the maxim elaborate est rare, kept him
steadily to the task he had undertaken by constant
admonitions full of caustic humour and sound sense.

This friendly mentor, however, did not confine himself to
showing his interest inhim solely by preaching him sermons.
He manifested an evident pleasure in having him with
him ; making him visit him in his chambers at Lincoln's
Inn, having him to dine with him at his club, and introducing
him to some of his friends, from whom Wilfrid
learnt that Mr. Throckmorton was held in high estimation
by all who knew him as a clever, benevolent, though
somewhat eccentric man. He also directed Wilfrid's
reading, and judiciously encouraged a talent for composition,
which he discovered him to possess, so that
the young fellow had the delight of seeing one of
his articles in the Polyolbion, a magazine with the
editor of which Mr. Throckmorton had an acquaintance.
It will be seen therefore that Oakburne had decidedly
fallen on his feet in the matter of friends, and with
friends in London who can be dull ?

The season of 1853 was more than usually brilliant,
and the martial pride of the nation was gratified by the
spectacles of the Naval Review at Spithead, and the great
camp at Cobham. The spirit of war was in truth in the
air, for the struggle between Turkey and Russia was impending,
though those who, full of the memory of the
Great Duke, crowded to Apsley House which his son and
successor had generously for a time thrown open to the
public, little knew how soon their own country was to be
drawn into the conflict, or how they would miss the skill
and counsels of the greatest of English generals. Besides
sight-seeing, theatres, and the like, Oakburne got more
healthy amusements. He and his friend Norton often
managed in the summer to get down to Putney or Twickenham
for a pull on the river, while Wilfrid, who was a
very fair cricketer, got plenty of his favourite game by
joining the Hospital club. So summer succeeded spring
and in turn gave place to autumn, till the days began to
grow short and chilly, and Wilfrid Oakburne, engrossed
with his work and his recreation, often forgot all about
Lidfield and its associations. Now and then letters
would come from home full of affectionate satisfaction at
the good accounts he wrote of himself, and giving him
in return a budget of local gossip, while still more rarely
brief epistles from India showed that his brother
Reginald had not altogether forgotten him. On one
occasion Ethel wrote that when calling at the Rectory
she had been introduced to Giles Rowancourt, and his
nephew Walter Chessington, who had been for some time
staying at Lady Thistledale's. ' Both Mr. Elk field and
old Mr. Portal,' said the writer, 'told the Rector
in strict confidence that Mr. Chessington, who seems very
nice, is coming forward to stand for the Born' when poor

Sir Joseph Boarsbyby dies, and he's been so dreadfully ill
that they say he can't last through the year, though he
rallied so wonderfully before. I am sure this is the case,
for the girls at the Rectory, whose mother tells them
everything, told me. Mr. Chessington and his uncle
have dined two or three times with the Elkfields. What
a catch he would be for your flame Beatrice ! ' Wilfrid
laughed at his sister's idea of ' strict confidence,' and set
down her remark about Miss Elkfield to feminine
jealousy. He did not care very much who represented
Lidfield, and his work just at this time being rather
heavy, he soon forgot all about the matter.

As the autumn drew to a close he noticed however a
marked change in these letters from Lidfield. They not
only grew very rare indeed, but were also so extremely
cold and short, that it seemed as if the writers were
offended with him. His mother seemed to have given
up writing to him altogether, and his sister to write
always as if it were an unwelcome duty. He would have
been inclined to be angry had he not been forced to
own to himself that he had been very remiss in answering
them ; but his shortcomings in this respect, and the
near approach of Christmas, when he was to go to Lid-field
for a time, made him content to show his displeasure
by a continued silence.

One evening early in December, as he was sitting over
a text-book of physiology, his studies were suddenly
rudely interrupted by the entrance of Norton, whose
spirits had been raised by a remittance from home, and
who therefore proposed that they should go to the
Momus Theatre,' and hear a certain new burlesque
which had met with a very favourable reception from the
public. They had not been for ages — (indeed it was

nearly a fortnight, as Oakburne sarcastically remarked) —
and he was evidently depressed and wanted cheering. ' I
always think a good laugh benefits the whole system,' says
his friend, whose normal condition during the best part
of the day was laughter, 'you're hipped and require it my
boy ! Come. We'll dine at the Cafe Frankfurt which
they say is wonderfully good. Come now. No humbug
— I'll stand the dinner.'

Wilfrid, who did not feel very much inclined to go,
for some little time attempted to adjourn the expedition
to a future day. Norton, however, having once made
up his mind on the subject was not thus to be put off.
He commenced giving a series of imitations of the
principal actors in the piece, and singing snatches from
the most popular songs, till the study of physiology became
impossible. Then, having successfully diverted
his friend's attention from his work, he renewed his entreaties
until Wilfrid yielded in despair, and Norton led
him in triumph to the restaurant at which they proposed
dining.

The Cafe' Frankfurt in Leicester Square, the proprietor
of which was a certain Mons. Reuben Ledru, said to bea
Belgian, was in those days rather popular, especially
with foreigners, and as Wilfrid and Norton entered most
of the little tables were occupied.

7 hey say that Madam Ledru is a great beauty,' said
Norton. ' There she is. By Jove ! Is'nt she a stunner !
That big fat man with the black beard who is just going
out, and getting into the cab, is her husband, the proprietor.
I believe he drinks, and beats her.'

She certainly is very handsome,' said Wilfrid, as they
took their places at a table close to the bar, glancing

with admiration at Madam, whose dark bright eyes and
clear pale complexion were indeed very striking.

I wonder what is up ? ' said Norton, fixing his eyeglass
and staring about him as his wont was.

1 What is up, sir ? ' asked he of a man sitting at the
table near him,' 'there seems to be an uncommon row
about something.' There was a great buzz of talk on
some subject which seemed to connect all the tables,
and newspapers were being handed from one to the
other.

Haven't you heard ? ' was the reply, ' Russia has declared
war against Turkey, or rather accepted the Turkish
declaration, and the British fleet has entered the
Bosphorus.'

What, really ! Bravo ! ' cries Norton, ' I drink confusion
to the Czar ! Oakburne, why don't you drink confusion
to Nicholas ? '

What a politician you are ! ' said Oakburne, laughing.

I take great interest in this most important question,'
said his friend pompously. 'England must not stand
aloof at this crisis. The British Lion must be up and
doing. Is not that your opinion, sir ? ' he asked of his
informant, and then the two fell to denouncing Pease,
Cobden, and Bright, and extolling Lord Palmerston. The
feeling against Russia which had been growing steadily
during the year was now beginning to assume a very
decided form, and the news that hostilities had actually
begun created a good deal of excitement and made the
frequenters of the Cafe Frankfurt unusually talkative
that evening.

Madam Ledru sat calm and unmoved amidst the table
of sounds and the bustle of hurrying waiters and coming
and departing guests. Wilfrid, who felt oddly attracted

by her, could not help watching her, and found himself
wondering how such a refined looking woman had
accepted such a position and married such a coarse
looking fellow as the man Norton had pointed out as her
husband. He noticed that her handsome eyes seemed
always to be fixed on the entrance which opened into
Princes Street, till suddenly he saw them light up as a
big, red-bearded man, with a pale thin face, strode into
the room.

'I say,' said he, nudging Norton, 'Isn't that Herr
Karl ? '

So it is ! ' replied the other, getting him under the
range of his eyeglass, ' so it is ! How ill he looks, poor
beggar ! I daresay he always comes here to dine. This
is a great place for foreigners.'

'He does look ill !' said Wilfrid. ' He seems to know
Madam Ledru pretty well though, doesn't he ? '

Lucky beggar ! ' cried Norton.

Herr Karl had gone up to the bar and greeted Madam
Ledru warmly, who, descending from the raised seat she
occupied, extended to him both hands, and the pair
began talking earnestly together.

'Ah ha!' said Norton, looking very roguish, 'we saw
Monsieur Ledru drive off as we arrived. I'm shocked
at Herr Karl ; this shows him in a new light. See, he's
going to feed now. Poor fellow ! I'm sure he looks as
if he wanted it. I never saw a man who had starvation
more plainly written in his face.'

He seems to be miserably poor. One can see it
from his dress,' said Wilfrid, as they saw their fellow-lodger
sit down to a steaming plate of bouillon. ' I say
Norton, we ought to be moving, if we are to be in time,'
and they paid their bill, and set out for the theatre.'

The frequency of their visits to such places of entertainment
made them often content to take seats in the
pit, and on this occasion they managed to secure some
in the front row, which, the stalls at the ' Momus ' in
those days being few in number, was very close to the
stage.

1 It's not much of a house,' said Norton. ' A good
many of the boxes seem empty ; but it's early of course
as yet. I wonder who those fellows are ? ' he added, asa
party of four well dressed men entered a box not far
from them on the lower tier.

'I'm sure I don't know replied Wilfrid. 'Stay
though! I'm sure I've seen that bald, red whiskered
man before ! Yes ! Of course ! His name's Rowan-court
— Giles Rowancourt. He is Lord Ashleigh's son.
I saw him at a ball down at home, but I know nothing
about him,' and he recalled the incidents of that
eventful dance at the Elkfields. The face of one of
the younger men seemed also not unfamiliar to him, and
as he was trying to remember who he could be, a man
and woman, with the usual apologies for treading on
their toes, passed by them and took two seats which had
been somehow left vacant next to him. They had
hardly got into their places, when Norton whispered toto
his friend, ' Herr Karl, again, by Jove ! and with
Madam ! '

Wilfrid who had not looked at them turned in surprise,
and Herr Karl, seeing himself recognised, gave
him the nod, and the ' how you do mister,' which he
was accustomed to do when they met on the stairs of
their lodgings. Having thus satisfied the demands of
politeness, he fell to talking in German with his companion,
whose striking beauty seemed to attract much

attention. Norton, looking unutterable things at the
pair, had just begun to whisper 'that he was deeply
grieved with Herr Karl, and should write to Monsieur le
proprietary,' when the curtain rose and diverted his
attention.

The preliminary farce did not much divert Oakburne,
and he was dreamily wondering why the ' first walking
gentleman' — now-a-days, of course 'nous avons change
tout cela' — should go to a dinner party in a black frock
coat and white woollen gloves, when Herr Karl touched
him gently on the shoulder.

Pardon, Herr mister ! Can you tell me pray who
shall be that young man in that box over there ? Hey ? '
and he pointed to that box in which .Wilfrid had seen
Giles Rowancourt and his friends.

Which young man,' said the latter, rather surprised,
there are two.'

The yellow-coloured haired young man, the blonde
you understand,' said Herr Karl.

Well its odd ! I feel sure I have seen him somewhere,
but at this moment I can't remember. The bald,
red-whiskered man is . . .'

No, no ! Not him. I mean the young man. The
two others, besides the red-whiskered, shall have both
black hair, and one shall be not very young. I mean the
blonde. You cannot tell me ? No ? '

Upon my word,' says Wilfrid, anxious for his own
satisfaction to recall the name, ' It's very odd. I have it
on the tip of my tongue — but . . .'

It is not Kensington ? hey ? no ? '

'Eh? say it again. .It's very like that.'

Kensington. Ha ! yes ! I think yes ! '

4 Chessington ! the very name,' cried Wilfrid. ' That's

it of course, Walter Chessington ! He is a young man
of property.'

The man whom they were talking of seemed suddenly
conscious of their observation, and levelled his glasses at
them.'

Undertone 'All is it not ? yes ? ' enquired the
German.

Yes, you are quite right,' replied Wilfrid, smiling at the
odd pronunciation, ' yes, I am glad you asked me, for I
wanted myself to remember who he was. You have seen
him then before ? You know him ? '

Oh ! I do not know him well you understand. We
shall have met abroad ; in Dutchman. Yes. That is
all. I know him slightly — only that. Yes. I thank
you sir,' and with a bow he turned and resumed his conversation
with Madam Ledru, who also seemed to recognise
Walter Chessington. After having satisfied themselves
as to his identity, they ceased staring at him,
but Oakburne could see that they were still talking about
him. The object of their scrutiny seemed to be in high
spirits, talking and laughing with his companions, with
whom he was evidently popular. When the farce was
over, Wilfrid saw him leave his box and reappear in one
on the opposite side of the house, where he was welcomed
by the party occupying it. Norton, who complained of
the heat, insisted at this point on his going out with
him to get a ' brandy and soda,' and when they returned
the burlesque had begun.

It was one of the first of that class of productions
which have now superseded the elaborate burlesque
fairy stories of Planche, and which, despising all plot,
depend on abundance of puns, absurd ' business,' and
comic songs. Its novelty made it very acceptable to the

audience who loudly applauded it. Wilfrid at first
joined heartily in the laughter and clapping, and in the
vociferous encores. In that scene, however, in which the
Princess — the scene of the story is laid somewhere in eastern
realms, and the events took place sometime in ' the
golden prime of good Haroun Alraschid,' — together with
her retinue passes down the* street, and the youthful
hero becomes enamoured of her charms, Oakburne
started so violently and gave vent to such an
exclamation of surprise as rather startled Norton, and
made him turn and stare at him.

What's up ? ' said his friend, ' Are you seedy ? you
look rather pale.' Wilfrid was gazing fixedly at the procession
of brilliantly dressed ballet girls who formed the
suite of the Princess.

It is nothing,' he said, still keeping his eyes rivetted
on the bright array of warriors and courtiers who were
marching two and two to a popular air round the stage
by way of conducting their royal mistress to her far off
home.

Nothing man ! I say I hope you don't feel bad ? '

Yes . . Yes it is,' murmured Wilfrid.

1 What ? ' asked the astonished Norton.

1 — I think I know that girl, that one in pink and blue,
with the gold helmet and black and gold stockings.'

The warrior thus dazzlingly attired seemed also to
recognize Oakburne, for she turned and stared so intently
at him that she allowed her scimitar to slip from her
hand and nearly tripped up in her efforts to recover it,
thus slightly spoiling the beauty of the cavalcade's exit.

1 By Jove ! ' cried Norton, with a laugh, ' I believe she
recognised you ! what a lark ! I say we'll go round to
the stage door and ask her to supper, eh ? '

1 Hush ! ' said Wilfrid, angrily. ' Don't be a fool, and
please speak more quietly, Norton. I slant do any such
thing.'

'Why not? Ah, I see. Ha, ha, ha! Sly dog!'
said Norton, fixing his eyeglass and poking Wilfrid in
the ribs. ' I shouldn't have thought it of you, Oakburne.
Ha, ha ! sly dog ! sly dog ! '

Do be quiet, you duffer ! ' said Wilfrid, feeling rather
uncomfortable as he saw one or two of the people near
laughing at him, and detected a smile on the face of
Herr Karl.

Certainly, sir ! certainly ! ' says the irrepressible
Norton. ' I understand your feelings, sir. Let us attend
to the drama. Improving ! very improving, sir. Let
us gather those moral lessons which that great educator
the stage teaches. Most improving ! most improving ! '
and he assumed a preternaturally solemn look, and stared
earnestly at the proceedings of the hero's wicked uncle,
who was just then compassing his nephew's destruction
by means of some of the most highly comic business in
the whole play.

Oakburne bore his friend's chaff as best he could, and
watched with anxiety for the return of the Princess's
suite. Those gorgeous beings, however, did not reappear
till the third and last act, by which time he had
recovered his composure ; and, having borrowed a pair
of glasses from an obliging man on the other side of
Norton, he examined them steadily as they came tripping
on to the stage to slaughter the wicked magician and his
followers. Yes ! there was no mistaking her. The
warrior in blue and pink was Lois Simcox. How handsome
she looked in that silly dress. She knew him, too,
for she gave a little nod of recognition when the phalanx

L

drew up, and marked time in front of the audience — a
nod that no one else could have told meant anything,
but which he perfectly understood. What was she doing
there ? He could think of no satisfactory reason ; and
her presence in such circumstances made him feel
anxious and distressed. Should he really try and speak
to her afterwards ? But no ; with Norton there it would
never do. He must wait. He wistfully watched her
retreating figure as the corps of fair soldiers, having vanquished
their enemies, retired to the background, and
the principal personages in the extravaganza came forward
to sing the concluding chorus. He felt relieved
when the curtain fell, and Norton, giving him a slap on
the back, bade him 'come along.'

There goes Herr Karl and his friend,' said the latter,
pointing out the pair. ' I say, shall we go to the stage
door?'

No, no ! not now,' said Wilfrid, ' let us get home.'

Norton was somewhat disappointed. The idea of a
supper with one of the corps-de-ballet had delighted him.
Being, however, the essence of good nature, and seeing
that his friend was not in a humour for such pleasures,
he forbore to press him, and they slowly made their way
out.

There was a great crowd now, for many had looked into
see the burlesque only, and increased the originally
small audience. Oakburne and his companion somehow
got hustled into the principal entrance of the
theatre, from which the occupants of the stalls and boxes
were gradually taking their departure as their respective
chariots appeared.

See ! ' said Wilfrid suddenly, ' Herr Karl has got hold
of his acquaintance.'

The block was so thick that they had got wedged into
the lobby — the Momus Theatre, though tastefully decorated
and very complete in its way, was then but a little
box of a place — and were unable to move. In a recess
close to them, Herr Karl, who had apparently parted
from Madam Ledru, was speaking to Walter Chessington,
whom Oakburne now clearly recognised. They were so
close to the pair that they could not help over hearing
some of their conversation.

I do not feel sure that I remember you, my friend,'
Walter was saying. ' What name did you give me.'

Hoffbauer ! Theodore Hoffbauer. Do you not
remember Frankfort, Herr Mister, and 1848 ? That
beetle house in the Krone Plats, and that old Professor ?
Surely you shall recollect them ? Yes ? See, here is
your handwriting. Is it not so ? ' and Herr Karl looked
at him eagerly as he handed to him a dingy piece of
paper.

1 Frankfort ? of course. Yes, I remember you now,'
cried Chessington, as he glanced at the paper. * Good
heavens ! you have changed, my poor fellow, during
these five years. I recollect you perfectly now. Can't
we get out of this infernal crowd somehow, though ? '
He looked round, but his hansom had not yet come up.

You told her to whom you shall have given this
writing,' went on Herr Karl, 'you shall have dismissed
her that if she should require it she might, or I might
myself, call on you ? Will you allow that I speak to you
Herr Mister, therefore, kindly to help me ? '

Yes ! my good friend, of course I will help you,' said
Walter, a little impatiently. You may trust me to keep
my word. Look here ! come to me tomorrow at this
address, Jermyn Street, No. 9 Jermyn Street. Don't

forget. Hah ! there is my cab. I must be off,' and he
signalled to a smart-looking hansom, which speedily drew
up in front of the theatre. ' Stay ! ' he added, as a
thought struck him. ' Give me your address.'

I So ! this is my gard,' replied the German, pocketing
the one Chessington had given him, and producing his
own, which bore the inscription : ' Herr Karl, Professor
of German, No. 9 Poulford Street.' 'Yes, that shall be
my address.'

I I shan't forget you, Theodore,' answered the other,
and giving him a kindly nod, he drove off. Herr Karl
gazed after him wistfully for a moment, and then,
heaving a great sigh, he plunged into the crowd, and
was soon lost to sight in the darkness.

1 That's queer ! ' said Norton. ' He called him Theodore,
and Herr Karl said his name was Hoffbauer. Has
he three names.'

Perhaps two of them are christian names,' answered
Wilfrid. ' Let us share a cab back to the lodgings. It's
not our business after all, is it ? '

No, that's true enough,' said Norton, as they hailed a
passing hansom. ' But I wonder how a poor beggar like
that could have become acquainted with a man of means
like the other seems to be. It's not uncommon, you
think ? well, perhaps not. I say, though its also no
business of mine, may I ask how you got to know that
lovely being in pink, and a gilt helmet, at the Momus ?
Sly dog, sir ! sly dog ! '

1 No, I'm nothing of the kind, Norton,' replied Oak-burnt,
with a forced laugh, ' though I own it looks like
it ; ' and as they drove home he told his friend how Lois
Simcox was the schoolmaster's daughter down at home
at Lidfield, and how he had saved her from drowning,

which he thought would be quite sufficient reasons to
satisfy the other's curiosity. ' You see I could not help
feeling surprised at seeing her in such a place,' said he.

Yes, of course you must have been,' said Norton,
rather drily. He was anything but inquisitive, but he
could not help thinking that Wilfrid had not told him
everything. On the other hand, however, he felt equally
that he had no right to expect him to do so, and, as the
cab here drew up at No. 9 Poulford Street, he soon forgot
all about the matter, and the pair separated for the
night on as good terms as ever.

CHAPTER XII.

Walter Chessington 's Visitor.

This crowns his feast with wine and wit ;

Who brought him to that mirth and state ?
His betters, see, below him sit,
Or hunger hopeless at the gate.

Who bade the mud from Dives' wheel
To spurn the rags of Lazarus ?

Come, brother, in that dust we'll kneel,
Confessing Heaven that ruled it thus.— Thackeray.

|T was a good deal past ten o'clock when Walter
Chessington sat down to breakfast in his chambers,
in Jermyn Street, next morning. Rowan-court
had steadily carried out the plans which he had
formed regarding his nephew, who was in every way
affording him satisfaction. Walter's ambition had been
roused by the idea of entering into Parliamentary life.
Looking after the property, and presiding at quarter
sessions, varied by shooting and hunting when the season
came round, were all very well for an elderly man, but
for one just in his prime, who felt that he was perhaps
capable of making some figure in the world of politics,
such a course of life was almost contemptible. So at
least he got to think in spite of the remonstrances of his
sister Catherine, who did not at all approve of his new
plans. ' They did not see much of him as it was,' she
would say, ' and in future they would never see him at
all. He would have to be perpetually entertaining
political friends, and quite change their quiet happy life,

He would find out his mistake, and regret that he had
neglected the duties that lay at his own door — which
God had given him — just for the sake of gratifying their
ambitious uncle.'

You silly little woman ! ' Walter would reply when
this gentle counsellor made such appeals, ' Why should
I neglect the duties that lie at my door ? On the contrary,
I shall be able to discharge them all the better.
Women don't understand these things,' and he calmly
pooh cooled all her protests. Catherine loved the quiet
humdrum country life. Otterstone Hall and Otterstone
village were the inner and outer circle of her affections,
and the world beyond the radius of Clayshire had but
little interest for her. To manage the household, —
which she did admirably, — to minister to the wants of
the poor, and be the directing spirit in church and school
matters, satisfied all her ambitions ; and as for pleasures
she was fully contented with the routine of county
gaieties, the archery meetings in summer, the solemn
dinner parties in winter, and the four or five balls which
took place in the year. Her mother in her heart of
hearts agreed with her views about Walter, but her pride
in, and unconfessed ambition for her son, as well as the
influence of her brother Giles, kept her silent. So
Rowancourt and his nephew had gone up to London for
the season, and the former had introduced Walter to all
his friends, and was rejoiced to see how well he acquitted
himself. Walter was fond of society, and to win the
good opinions of his fellow-creatures was one of his
strongest instincts. With such a disposition, good looks,
and pleasant manners, he soon succeeded, therefore, in
becoming popular, and entered with zest into all the
amusements which life with ample means, and with the

entree into some of the best sets in London can offer ;
going to everything worth going to, frequenting the clubs,
an d — though he did not really care for it — losing a
little money at play and on the turf, because it seemed
the right thing to do. Then too his uncle had taken
him down to Lidfield on a visit to Lady Thistledale,
and had introduced to him the Elkfields, and all the
people whom it was his interest to know in that neighbourhood.
Both had come away well satisfied with the
results of their expedition, and now he was back again in
London. Town was unusually full, there was a good
deal of political excitement in the air, and Otterstone
was rather dull, so Walter felt it advisable, all things
considered, to take up his residence in Jermyn Street
for a time.

As he sat over his breakfast, with the greasy card of
1 Mr. Karl, Professor of German,' before him, all that
was good and kindly in his disposition began to rise upas
it were, and enter into conflict with the dictates of
selfish prudence. Here was a man who had saved his
life, and to whom he had given a promise of help,
coming to him in evident distress. He recalled the sad
event which had happened at the period of their meeting,
and his own feelings and views of men and life at that
time, and thought with a little sigh how they had now
changed. Then he should have had not the slightest
hesitation as to aiding the man to whom he owed such a
debt, and would have been eager to do so. Now he felt
very grave doubts as to how he ought to treat him. They
had met under exceptional circumstances ; he, Walter,
had, after all, also first come to HofTbauer's rescue ; the
man's antecedents were the reverse of good — at least of
respectable ; and might he not lay himself open to very

disagreeable annoyance by being kind to him ? Would
it not be wiser to treat him with some coldness, and to
show that he was not a person to be imposed upon. He
said to himself that that was what his uncle Giles would
probably do in such a case, and, as he said so, there
came a double knock at the door, and presently Herr
Karl — whom the reader of course has long since identified
with Theodore HofTbauer — was ushered into the room.
Walter with a slight flush, somewhat to his own surprise,
and to the evident surprise of his well-bred
servant — who was shocked to see his master greet so
shabbily dressed a 'person' — found himself shaking
hands with him. Then, half regretting the action, he
rather haughtily motioned him to a seat, and ordered
his servant to take away the breakfast things, affecting to
busy himself with some papers on the writing table,
during the two minutes required for that process.

The difference in social conditions conveyed to a
polite ear by the two names of Poulford Street and
Jermyn Street could hardly be greater than the change
evident in the appearance of each of these men since
they had last met in Frankfort five years earlier. Time
had developed the delicate youth into a handsome
robust looking man, to whom the duties of ownership
and constant intercourse with the world, had given a
confidence and decision of manner in striking contrast to
his old languid and somewhat irresolute address. All
this his visitor took in at a glance, and with the slight
sense of personal inferiority produced by the feeling that
he was a petitioner to a man of some position. Walter
on his part was not slow to notice how time had changed
the turbulent, reckless socialist, who had saved his life
from the infuriated mob and chastised the assassins of

Major von Auerswald and Prince Lichnowski. Though
barely forty, his curly hair and beard were already
sprinkled with gray, his eye had lost its fire, and his form
much of the upright martial bearing, which Chessington
had so much admired in him. Most of all, however, he
was struck by the paler of the man's face, his emaciated
and sickly appearance, and the look of suffering written
on his brow and in his eyes. He felt moved by a
sudden compassion which for the moment made him
forget all his suspicious caution.

You are not well, Hoffbauer,' said he, seating himself
in the arm chair opposite to him. ' I fear the world has
gone ill with you since you did me that service in Frankfort.
Let me hope that I can make you some return
now.'

I am ill, and I am very very poor, Mr. Kensington,
replied the other. ' I am not strong as I was you see.
I get not much food, because I have but little nonage.
I fear that if I do not get the medicine and the food, I
shall give up — what you call break down. I want to get
nonage.'

Yes, I suppose so,' said Walter, amused somewhat at
this naive address. ' But are you willing to work ? I
will give you money ; but you cannot live always on what
I give you. You are a teacher of German, are you
not?'

1 Yes, I am a teacher of my native speech, sir. I ama
German, as you know,' and he drew himself up
proudly. ' Halle in Saxony is my native place. I
instruct in the speech of my father-land. But I cannot
speak well your English. Your masters of gymnasium
will not employ me except the very cheap ones. I get
so beetle nonage that I can scarce live. And now this

month I shall have had no work, and I am getting too
sick, yes ! too sick to work ! I am, therefore, without
work, without nonage ! How to buy food, how to get
lodging, or medicine, I know not. What gan I do
then?'

Humph ! what have you been doing since we parted,'
asked Walter. 'Have you been long in England,' and
he looked at him rather keenly, as a suspicion of imposture
again came into his mind.

I see you doubt me, Mr. Jessington,' said Hoffbauer,
drawing himself up defiantly, and looking at him with
something of his old fire. ' It is natural, perhaps, you
should doubt one so in rags clothed as I appear. But
you need have no fear. I have been two years in your
country, sir ! weary, bitter, and hard years they have
been to me ! It is my own fault, perhaps ! Ah yes, it
is much my fault ! But though I have been unwise, and
wrong, I have nothing done to be ashamed of, Mr. Kensington
! I see in your land the man is bad, is held to
be a rascal, a spitzbube, who has the holes in his coat.
You saved my life once too. It is enough, sir ! I thank
you, and I commend myself to you and say good-day,
Mr. Jessington ! ' and he rose, and with a proud glance
prepared to leave the room.

Stop, stop, Hoffbauer ! ' cried Walter, laying a hand
on his shoulder. ' Pardon me ! you quite mistook me.
I can bear witness to your courage and honour,
and I owe you a debt which a man can never fully
repay. Sit down and tell me all.'

His kind manner, and the sincerity of his tones,
reassured the German, and touched him deeply. ' Sir,
you are good, very good to me. Pardon my anger, but I
am still proud though I am a poor man, I thank you,

and I will tell you all. There is no reason why I should
not. I have nothing done that I shame myself to tell.'

That's right,' said Walter. ' Tell me.'

The German, with a look of deep gratitude, reseated
himself, and then proceeded in a plain, straightforward
way, that was good evidence of its veracity, to relate the
story of his restless, wandering life.

Theodore Hoffbauer was the only child of a well-to-do
merchant, and from his earliest years had been indulged
in every wish. When, after a year's study of theology at
his native university of Halle, then famous for its teachers
of that science, he had expressed a desire to relinquish
it for that of medicine, his parents gave up their
darling project that he should enter the ministry, without
a murmur, and cheerfully acquiesced in his proposal to
enter himself at the neighbouring University of Leipsic.
At Leipsic, however, he had got into a bad set, and led
such a wild life that even his indulgent father became
at last incensed at his extravagances and follies, and fora
year forbad him the house. His mother then interceded
for the young prodigal, who was freely forgiven,
and for a time endeavoured to learn his father's business,
and kept steadily to his desk. It was, however, but fora
time. The dull routine of the counting-house, and the
restraints of home, proved too wearisome for him, and
once more he persuaded the parents who could not say
him nay, to permit him to resume the study of medicine,
this time at the University of Heidleberg. There he
had made the acquaintance of Frederica Shrouded and
her father, a Professor of Geology, and had formed an
attachment to the girl which, he said, had it been allowed
to terminate in a happy marriage, would have changed
the whole course of his life. The Professor, however,

was altogether under the influence of a certain Reuben
Pfeiffer — the Herr Reuben to whom the reader was introduced
at Frankfort — who at that period was carrying on
a thriving trade as a money-lender. This man, much to
the grief of her mother — an Italian by birth, who had
encouraged Theodore's suit, — had become deeply enamoured
of Frederica, and persuaded her father to betroth
her to him as a wiping off of all accounts. He cordially
detested Theodore on account of the girl's marked preference
for him, and therefore managed to get a hold
over him by lending him money and introducing him to
those who would help him to spend it till poor Hoffbauer
found himself in greater difficulties than he had ever yet
been. Both at Halle and Leipsic he had associated a
good deal with those students — at that time very
numerous — who supported the popular doctrines of
radical reform, and his ability and reckless energy had
always made him a leader among them. Through
Reuben Pfeiffer, who encouraged such zealots for his
own ends, he became acquainted at Heidleberg with a
more turbulent set of Socialists than he had hitherto met
with, and entering as usual heart and soul into their projects,
speedily obtained a pre-eminence among them. At
this time Mrs. Shrouded died, and Reuben compelled the
Professor to resign his post at Heidleberg and settle at
Frankfort, hoping thus to get rid of his troublesome
rival. Hoffbauer, however, followed them thither, and
made the girl confess to her father that she preferred
him to Reuben Pfeiffer. The Professor was so completely
under the sway of the latter, that he was forced against
his own wishes to tell him that his daughter was irrevocably
pledged to his rival ; but Theodore refused to
accept this decision, and Frederica, who was of age,

obstinately declined to marry Reuben, though her deep
attachment to her father made her equally determined
in resisting Hoffbauer's constant proposals that they
should elope together. Thus a silent contest was perpetually
going on between the two men, each of whom
was so dependent on the other through their mutual connection
with Socialist societies, that open violence or
quarrelling was out of the question. Each had therefore
to strive to attain his end by craft, and here Reuben's
unscrupulous dishonesty served him in good stead. The
zeal of the Liberalism reformers was, happily for him,
constantly breaking forth into action, and their risings
everywhere brought them into conflict with the ruling
powers. Reuben, while he encouraged and affected to
take part in these mentes, always managed unknown to
his comrades to give information to the Government • of
their preparation, and thus both to make a profit out of
his perfidy, and also implicate such as he choose
of his associates. Theodore's daring and skill were for a
long time quite a match for his antagonist. Though many
suffered, he always succeeded in escaping from the effects
of Reuben's treachery, and at last, getting some inkling
of it, managed, as he thought, to involve him so deeply
in the conspiracy organised by the Socialists at Frankfort
in 1848, that if it failed he should run an equal risk
with his companions, while, if it succeeded, he should be
exposed and punished for his baseness. But it was destined
that Reuben's cunning should once more prevail.
The events which took place at the rising have already
been described. Reuben, in spite of his rival's care,
managed before it began to make, as usual, a profit out
of his information to the Police, and specially to implicate
Hoffbauer ; but being warned that he must no longer

remain in Frankfort, he secretely removed all his ill-gotten
wealth to Cologne. The reader will remember
how, while Frederica and Chessington were watching the
conflict in the streets on the memorable 18th of September,
Reuben surprised them by returning, and thereby
necessitating Walter's speedy retreat. While the latter
was making his way back to his hotel, and before even
the armistice of an hour was concluded, a creature of
his own came by previous arrangement to Reuben with
the news that all was lost, and that Hoffbauer was dead.
To the latter statement he was able to give additional
colour by the fact that Theodore had really been severely
wounded in his rescue of Major von Auerswald, and had
fainted from loss of blood. Affecting to be deeply moved
by this intelligence, he persuaded the Professor that,
having harboured Socialists, he was himself implicated
in their proceedings, and that it was therefore necessary
for him to fly at once from the city. He even showed
him a forged warrant for his arrest, and so worked on
the fears of the silly old man, and through him on his
daughter, that they were induced to follow his advice
and accompany him without delay to Cologne. There
he used his forged warrant as a weapon against Frederica,
and, by perpetual bullying, and by threats of denouncing
her father if she refused, forced the unhappy girl, who
fully believed Theodore to be dead, to marry him. Then
Reuben determined to put the sea between him and the
vengeance of Hoffbauer, whom he had every reason to
fear was not only alive, but burning to repay the injuries
he had done him. He therefore hurried his bride and
her father to England. The hurry and fright were, however,
too much for the now almost insane Professor, and
he died soon after they reached London. Reuben

buried him with great decorum, and many protestations
of grief, and then, assuming the name of Ledru, purchased
the goodwill of a small restaurant in Leicester Square,
which he enlarged and re-christened the ' Cafe Frankfort.'
Poor Frederica was so crushed by all she had undergone,
that in her despair she attempted self-destruction,
and failing, sank for a time into a hopeless stupor, till her
husband's continued brutality roused her to a sort of
defiance. His coarse love had turned to bitter hatred
when he found that she could only regard him with
detestation. He had now more ample means than he
had ever yet possessed, and prospered as such shrewd
unscrupulous men usually do. He took revenge on his
wife by every conceivable kind of insult and neglect,
sometimes even beating her, and gave himself up to drink
and his own pleasures, till even her high courage and
resolution almost broke down. It was when in this
frame of mind that she was suddenly aroused to new life
by learning from a compatriot, who had known them
both in Heidelberg, that Theodore Hoffbauer was still
alive.

1 Then Frederica and her husband are the proprietors
of the Cafe Frankfort interrupted Walter. ' How did
you find that out ? Do they know you are in England ? '

1 Yes they know. She knows too well, poor soul !
poor child ! And he, he knows also, I think, though he
suspects not that I have discovered him. He hates me,
but he fears me as ever. Enough ; I some presently to
that.'

He then went on to relate how, in spite of his
wound at Frankfort, he had managed to escape
capture, and, after many months of wandering, had
at last got back to Halle to find that during his

long absence from home his mother had died, and
his father had married again. The latter, who had
had serious losses in business, received his son with all
his old affection, and, though he could not forbear from
chiding the prodigal, would gladly have received him
again in his house had not the part he had taken in the
political disturbances made it unsafe for Theodore to
remain in Halle. Even had this not been the case, however,
his stepmother, who had a great antipathy for him,
would have refused to live under the same roof with him.
There was therefore no course left him but to go into exile ;
and after, at great risk, paying a visit to Frankfort, where he
heard from a friend an account of Reuben's conduct and
the flight of the Professor, he had come to England and
endeavoured to gain a livelihood by teaching. For a
time his father, who had furnished him with the funds
for his journey, regularly remitted him a small sum ; but
during the last three months he had ceased to do so,
telling him — evidently, as HofTbauer said, at the instigation
of his stepmother — that with his second family to
maintain, and the increased expenses of his business, he
could no longer help him. The result had been gradual
starvation. ' I cannot teach as they want it,' said he.
1 The pupils mock my speech, and my coat which is
shabby, and my torn shirt ; then I am angry and strike
the insolent ones, and the director quarrels with me, and
I go. And now I am getting ill, and I starve also.'

Poor fellow ! ' said Walter. ' It is a sad history —
very sad ! But I will try and help you. You have not
told me yet, though, how you came to meet with
Frederica and her husband.'

Oh, it is not much to tell,' replied HofTbauer. ' It
was one evening, some seven months back, when I was

M

walking through the place you call Bedford Square, — it
was bright, fine weather, when the trees were still fresh
and green, — and I saw her come forth from a house
near one corner of this square. I knew at once it was
she — anywhere, of course, I should have known her —
and I hurried, for she was beyond me, and she did not
see me. So I did overtake her, and said, " Frederica ! "
That was all ! Ah, my God ! how she did start, poor
child ! For she has known my voice ; of course, at
once she has known it ! "I have come back, my dear,"
I said ; " I have found thee at last ! " Dear heaven ! I
was happy then for a moment, and cared not for any
mans that was passing, no not I ! I embraced her in
my arms. Poor child ! she turned white like the death !
It is too late, Theodore," she cried ; " too late ! "—
that was all,' — and his voice choked, and his head sank
on his breast.

Walter pitied him from the bottom of his heart. Good
heavens ! here was he rolling in wealth, with everything
that selfish desire or ambition could want ready at his
command, and this poor soul, whose faults after all were
the faults of a rash, generous temperament, was slowly
starving to death, and deprived of his home, his love,
and all that he held most dear ! He resolved at once to
help him, and a thousand ways of doing so flashed into
his brain. Yes ! there was no doubting his story ! he
must help him ! But he must think the matter over
carefully first before deciding on any plan. ' And she
told you everything that happened since you parted ? '
said he.

Yes ! everything ! Ah ! it makes me mad to think
of these things ! Donnerwetter ! that villain ! was there
ever before so accursed a wretch on this earth ? Never,

never ! ' And he rose and paced the room excitedly.
1 But enough ! I ask your pardon, Herr Jessington, —
I am out of myself. Pardon ! She has helped me, poor
child, with the little she can ; but it is nothing. He
gives her nothing, he who has always so much money.
Ah ! the accursed villain ! ' and his manner became
so wild that Walter felt it was better to put an end to the
conversation.

'Well,' he said, 'I have no more time to spare now. I
will write to you, HorTbauer, to-night or tomorrow morning,
and let you know whether I cannot get you some
pleasant and more remunerative work than teaching.
Meantime take this,' and he gave him a ten-pound note.
1 It will help you along. And now, goodbye. No ! it
is nothing, my friend. Remember, you saved my life.'

1 Ah, Herr Jessington ! ' replied the poor fellow, with
a hoarse voice and with tears in his eyes. ' God bless
you ! ' He took Walter's two hands in his own in his
demonstrative German fashion, and shook them fervently.
' God bless you ! ' he repeated, ' you have been
very good to me — very good to me.'

Poor fellow ! ' said Chessington to himself as he
heard the house door close on his visitor, ' I must help
him somehow. What a queer jumble of misery and
happiness life is ! I wonder what my uncle would say
to all this ! By Jove, it's half-past twelve, and I promised
to meet that man at the club at twelve ! ' and he
hurried off to keep his appointment.

Meanwhile the man whose necessities he had relieved
walked from his door with rapid steps and hat slouched
over his brows, causing more than one passer by to pause
and stare at his wild looks and powerful frame. Half
mechanically he passed down St. James Street into Pall

Mall, and, turning by Marlborough House, entered St.
James's Park ; and then his space slackened and his expression
grew quieter. It was a mild, rather hazy morning,
but enough sunlight struggled through the mists to
make a pleasant warmth. A few loafers huddled on
benches, or prone on the ground, were sleeping off the
last night's debauch. Little bands of ragged children
were playing by the ornamental lake, mingling their cries
with those of the water-fowl, and a few nurseries, whose
care of their little charges was for the most part divided
by that of listening to the sweet converse of a red-coated
admirer, were strolling under the trees.

HorTbauer sought out an unoccupied bench by the
water and sat down full of thought. All that he had
told Chessington of his history was perfectly true, for
with all his faults he had an instinctive scorn of deceit.
Walter's kindness had deeply touched his sense of gratitude.
' It is a joyful and pleasant thing to be thankful,'
if the thankfulness begets feelings of contrition in him
who feels it, and Chessington's reception of him at a
critical point in his fortunes had thus affected him.
Yes ! he had lived a selfish evil life, and his troubles had
sprung from the seed he had himself sown. His mind
wandered back to his childhood. He recalled the form
of the mother who had loved him so tenderly, and whom
he should never see again, and all the lavish kindness
which his parents had showered on him. He had not
been a ragged uncared for little wretch like those poor
children playing so happily yonder, but had had all that
money could give him from his birth up, until of his own
choice he became a lawless wanderer. What return had
he made for the affection that had been lavished on
him ? He covered his face with his hands. It was all

gone now. The irrevocable past had been wasted and
its gifts flung aside with scorn. But what of the future ?
Was it going to be brighter and better ? This young
Englishman had promised him help ! Ah ! how good he
had been to him, he who knew him so little ! Truly he
had been to him a good Samaritan in word and deed.
He had promised him help ! Might he not perhaps
open to him a better future ? And hope, baseless and
vague, but still hope, began to rise again within him.
The chimes of Big Ben rang out their slow measured
cadence, and then one after another the neighbouring
clocks proclaimed the news that another hour had died.
Yes ! please God, he might yet atone in some measure
for the wasted years, and a silent prayer that it might be
so filled his heart.

Hast thou then forgotten me ? ' asked a low voice
close beside him.

1 Frederica ! ' he cried, and started to his feet ; and
for once he felt sorry to see her. Was not her presence
at the moment when his heart was full of better thoughts,
an omen of ill ?

1 Thou art not pleased to see me, then ? ' said she,
pouting. ' Were we not to have met at the far entrance
half-an-hour ago? I have stood close to thee these
five minutes, and thou didst not heed. Tell me, what
did he say ? '

Ah ! Frederica ! he has been very, very good to me,'
cried Hoffbauer; and she took his arm, and as they
walked slowly by the waterside he recounted his interview
with Chessington.

And thou ! ' he said, when he had concluded and
his companion had expressed her pleasure at the success

of his mission. ' Is it not dangerous that thou art so
long away from him ? '

1 I am calling on Madam Rovelli,' replied Frederica,
with a laugh. ' He has business as usual, and one of
his drinking fits is coming on.'

An expression of mingled anger and pain passed over
Hoffbauer's face. ' Ah yes ! I had forgot,' he said with
a sigh.

1 Thou art bad company to-day, Theodore,' said the
lady, rather pettishly. ' But, poor fellow, thou art ill, I
see,' added she tenderly, as she looked at his pale,
haggard face. ' Come ! I must return, and thou shalt
spend this money in food and medicine and clothes.'

Ah, Frederica ! I am sad, it is true, and but a poor
companion. Perhaps it is because I feel so weak and
ill just now. Yes, it is better that we part now. I have

been thinking but it is nothing. Another time

I will tell thee. And now, goodbye, my darling ! Kiss
me, and we will part.'

Why art thou, then, so sorrowful ?' replied Frederica ;
but she did not refuse the kiss he asked, and then they
left the park in silence, and Hoffbauer having signalled
to a cab, handed her into it.

Remember that on Tuesday at twelve I go to Madam
Rovelli's,' whispered Frederica as they shook hands.
Adieu ! ' cried Hoffbauer, waving his hand, with a sad
smile, ' adieu ! ' and he made his way slowly down the
Strand.

Theodore had resolved in his heart that that adieu
should be the last. He could not trust himself again
with Frederica; and he said to himself that if he and
Reuben met, it should be only to decide which should
die first. Once only had he seen his enemy by chance

in the street, and then he had seen him turn pale and
tremble at the recognition, and had felt a fierce pleasure
in the terror he inspired. With Frederica he had had
many meetings when she went to the house in Bedford
Square where a wealthy and childless relative of her
mother's resided, with whom Reuben, ever alive to the
chance of making money, encouraged her to keep up an
intercourse. The proprietor of the Cafe Frankfurt, as
has been already hinted, now went his own way, though
he managed to keep a certain watch over his wife, and
having become a greater drinker than ever, he at times
was seized with a fit which incapacitated him from
attending to his business, which he would then entrust
to a manager, making Frederica preside in the room
while he retired to his villa in St. John's Wood to
recover his faculties. Hence, as we have seen, Theodore
had been able with impunity on such occasions to go to
the Cafe Frankfurt and conduct Madam Ledru to the
theatre. But now he resolved that these clandestine
meetings must cease. He would try to live without
seeing her — if it were possible. He would try and do
some honest work, and wait patiently for what the future
should bring him.

Full of such thoughts, he bent his steps homewards.
He would write to his father, he thought, and tell him of
this interview with Chessington. Then, toodle must
clothe himself decently, and he must see some doctor
and get him to cure the strange pains that he had been
feeling so long in his head, and make him give him
something to strengthen him a little. He felt weaker
than usual just now, and as he passed an eating-house he
bethought him for the first time that he had had nothing
but a crust and a cup of coffee that day, and must dine.

He entered, and ordering a substantial meal, sat down
and tried to spell his way through the paper that lay on
the table. At all times the reading of English was a
matter of some difficulty to him, but to-day it seemed
harder than ever. The letters seemed to dance about
before his eyes, and to take shapes that did not belong
to them. There had been a great battle somewhere, he
gathered, and that was all. ' There has been a great
fight ? ' he asked the waiter who brought the steaming
plate of beef he had ordered.

1 Yes, sir,' replied the latter, seeing he was a foreigner;
'the battle of Oltenitza' — (he pronounced it 'Olli-
nutsur ') — ' between the Turks and the Rooshians, sir,
and the Rooshians has got a good beating, they say.'

So ! ' replied Hoffbauer, smiling. ' So ! I am glad!
I should like well to have taken my part ! Yes ! ' and
he recalled his conflicts with the Prussian and Austrian
troops in his wild Socialist days. ' Ah yes ! I have
fought also in battle, my friend — often ! yes ! '

Have'ee now, sir?' said the waiter, thinking he was
a jolly-looking fellow, and noting his big powerful frame.
1 Have'ee indeed! Well I never was that way myself,
but anyhow I'm glad they've beaten the Rooshians,' and
he hurried off to attend to another order.

Hoffbauer, to his surprise, found himself very hungry,
and ate and drank voraciously. All the time, however,
he felt strangely heavy and stupid, and at last he leant
back and closed his eyes.

1 Hey ! was list ? ' he cried suddenly, in German.

The waiter was standing by him laughing, with his
hand on his shoulder. ' You've been asleep this three
hour, sir ! ' said he. ' I didn't like to wake yer, sir,

because yer did seem so tired, and we're always slack in
an afternoon. But it's getting on for six now, sir.'

1 Ah so ! I was very tired ! I thank you, my good
fellow ! ' and he paid his bill, not forgetting a gratuity to
the good-natured lad, and still feeling strangely heavy
and stupid, set out homewards. The chilly night air reminded
him that he required an overcoat, and he entered
a ready-made clothes shop in the window of which
several were temptingly displayed, and bought one. The
shop was a corner one, and as he stept out a man,
hurrying from the opposite side, stumbled and fell, just
as a heavy dray cart came thundering down the cross
street into the Strand. The emergency aroused him.
He darted forward and dragged the fallen man out of
the way, just before the ponderous vehicle reached him.
He whom he had rescued rose breathless and muddy,
and stammered forth his thanks, as the little crowd, always
in readiness in London, gathered round them.
Hoffbauer stept back with an exclamation. It was
Reuben Pfeiffer ! ' Ha ! ' he cried in German ; ' we
meet again, then ! '

Reuben started and grew deadly pale. 'I thank
thee, Hoffbauer,' murmured he in the same language.

It is better so ! Thou hast not deserved this from
me, Reuben ! But enough ! it is good ! ' and he turned
and strode along the street, scarce knowing where he
went. He had saved the life of the man whom that
morning he would have been ready to murder ! He
laughed aloud, a strange laugh that made those who
heard it stare at him ' It is better so ! ' he repeated.
1 Yes ! I am thankful ! ' The strange pain in his head
suddenly came on him, and made him feel quite faint.
He entered the lighted porch of a theatre, and began

mechanically to read the playbill. As he did so he felt
so weak that he was fain to sit down on a stool which
some official of the house had deserted

Come, sir ! you must move out of this or I must calla
policeman ! ' He started. He had been asleep again.
A dapper little check-taker was standing in front of him
full of wrathful authority. .

Pardon, sir ! ' said Hoffbauer, rising. { I have felt
myself unwell,' and he went out. A clock in a shop
opposite showed him that it was past eight. He would
go straight home and rest.

He felt a little relieved by the sleep and the fresh air,
and looking around him realised that he had come a
good deal out of his way. He soon retraced his steps,
but as he walked he felt himself grow weaker and weaker.
The Gray's Inn Road seemed interminable, and, as he
stumbled down the ill-lighted thoroughfare, all sorts of
strange fancies shaped themselves in his brain. Now he
thought he was back again in his native town of Halle,
and seemed to recognise the old familiar buildings ; or
he was at Heidelberg once more, standing with Frederica
on the old bridge that spans the beautiful Neckar, or
sitting beneath the castle far up on the height above.
Ah no ! It was still the dreary street. Would it never
end ! Certainly he felt strangely weak, and an intolerable
weight seemed to be oppressing his brain. On !
past flaring gas-lamps and dingy shops, through a crowd
of ill-dressed grimy men and women, chattering and
laughing and jeering. He must get home. On again.
Where was he ? Ah yes ! that was the turning ; and he
passed out of the main road into a quieter street, and
began ascending the slight ascent to Poulford Square.
Then he began to fancy that he was swimming in the

river Saale at Halle, in which he used to bathe as a boy,
struggling for his life against the strong current that
flowed from the weir past the bathing place. His heart
began to beat painfully, and his breath to grow shorter.
1 A few more strokes,' he cried aloud, ' and I shall reach
it.'

A timid medical student returning from a quiet pipe
with a friend, overheard him, and stopped and stared
after him with alarm, thinking he was an escaped lunatic.
Hoffbauer did not see him though he had passed close to
him. Had he been asked where he was going, he could
not have given a rational answer, though his instinct was
leading him straight 'to the place. His limbs grew
weaker and weaker, and a sudden darkness seemed to
be creeping over everything, but still he struggled on.
Ah ! at last ! ' he cried, ' the shore at last ! ' and he
stumbled up the steps of No. 9 Poulford Street. Then
he realised for a moment where he was. He managed
to grasp the bell and ring a startling peal, and then a
mortal faintness seized him, and when the door was
opened he fell forward senseless on the threshold.

Oh goodness ! whatever shall I do ! ' cried the
startled Mrs. Hollis. ' Mr. Chipps, sir ! Mr. Throck-
morton ! Oh dear ! Do come ! Here's Mr. Karl in a
dead faint ! And I never knew him intoxicated ; and
him so quiet always ! Oh, sir, what shall I do ? '

It so happened that the little fraternity at the lodgings
had assembled in Mr. Throckmorton's room to listen to
a reading of a certain story which Mr. Beverley Chipps
was about to bring out, and on which he wished to
consult his friends, and they all four rushed immediately
into the passage.

1 He's screwed,' said Beverley Chipps, that being the

first idea which presented itself to his convivial temperament,
an idea which was strengthened by the fact that
his reading had been unceremoniously interrupted at a
peculiarly interesting point.

It certainly looks rather like it,' said Mr. Throck-
morton, peering at the prostrate man through his double
eye-glass. He, too, was rather incensed at being disturbed
in this sudden fashion.

The two younger men were, however, wiser in this
instance than their seniors.

1 No ; it's worse than that,' said Norton, who with
Wilfrid had knelt down and was examining HofTbauer's
pulse and heart. 'He's not drunk, is he, Oakburne ?
I fear it is far more serious.'

Wilfrid agreed with him. ' He certainly is not drunk,'
said he, ' or if he is, it has resulted in something like
paralysis of the brain. Feel how cold he is.'

Perhaps you'd better get a doctor,' suggested Mr.
Throckmorton.

4 HI be off for Dr. Block!' cried Norton, 'if you
fellows will carry him to one of the rooms. Yours is
nearest, Oakburne. This is a serious case, if I know
anything about it ' ; and in two minutes the good-natured
fellow was tearing off in a hansom to St. Christopher's
Hospital. The other three carried the senseless
man into Oakburne's room, but they had scarcely laid
him on the bed when he began raving and gesticulating
in such an alarming way that it required their united
efforts to keep him down till the doctor arrived.

A very bad case of brain fever,' said the latter, after
he had made his examination, ' brought on probably by
some strong mental excitement acting on a terribly
weakened system. The poor fellow's absolutely 1 emaciated

! Look at his arm ! He must have been almost
starving.'

Something very like it,' said Norton and Wilfrid, and
Mrs. Hollis corroborated the statement.

Of course there was no more reading that night, and
each did what he could to aid in attending to the
sufferer.

1 He'll be better now,' said Dr. Block, as he took his
leave after having done all that was possible for his
patient. ' He may pull through. He's evidently a very
strong man with a good constitution ; but he'll be on his
back for weeks, and it will be touch and go with him.
Good night, gentlemen.'

CHAPTER XIII.

in which ' misfortunes never come singly'

What had'st thou to do being born,

Mother, when winds were at ease,

As a flower of the spring-time of corn,

A flower of the foam of the seas ?

For bitter thou wast from thy birth,

Aphrodite, a mother of strife ;

For before thee some rest was on earth,

A little respite from tears,

A little pleasure of life ;

For life was not then as thou art,

But as one that waxeth in years.

Sweetspoken, a fruitful wife ;

Earth had no thorn, and desire

No sting, neither death any dart. — Swinburne.

[HE reader will recollect that when he parted from
Reginald Oakburne that gentleman had just
been delighted by the unexpected news that his
regiment was under orders to proceed to the station to
which he knew the Beechcrofts had already gone. The
prospect of seeing Sybil for the time drove all other
matters out of his mind, and he looked forward, as lovers
will do, to a happy ending to his courtship, quite unaware
of a new actor on the scene, who was destined to put an
end to all his castles in the air.

When General Beechcroft had learned from his
daughter, who was accustomed to confide everything to
him, all the particulars of the little episode at Galle in

which she had played such a prominent part, and a more
or less true account of which somehow became known to
all their fellow-passengers, he felt more than ever that his
daughter required a chaperon to look after her. He
therefore determined to write home by the earliest mail
to his widowed sister, Lady Felsparley, begging her to
come out to him, and the latter, who before his departure
had offered to accompany him to India, had at once
accepted his invitation. When therefore Reginald went
to pay his first call he found that lady and her daughter
installed as members of the General's household.

Lady Felsparley was a thorough woman of the world,
who had married her late husband, a captain in a dragoon
regiment, as much from the prospective advantages to be
gained from his being a nephew of Lord Glenshale and
thus akin to the family of the great Duke of Graniteshire,
as from affection. Having a great deal of shrewdness
and tact she found herself, as head of General Beech-croft's
household, able to indulge pretty unrestrainedly
that love of managing other people's business which was
the prominent impulse of her nature. In her brother
and daughter she found obedient subjects enough, but
with respect to her niece Sybil the case was very different.
That young lady, a high-spirited girl, already a little
spoilt by being always allowed to have her own way, not
only found herself ousted by her aunt from the position
she had hitherto occupied — a trial to which, all things
considered, she submitted with a very fair grace — but also
soon discovered that she was now under the supervision
of a lynx-eyed guardian, who endeavoured to direct and
control all her actions. To this kind of surveillance
Miss Beechcroft was, as has been said, quite unused, and
she chafed and fretted not a little under it. Her affection

for her father made her put up with a great deal for
his sake, but at times her haughty temper would get the
better of her, and sharp battles would take place between
Lady Felsparley and herself.

Reginald Oakburne's attentions were one of the points
on which they found themselves constantly at issue.
Lady Felsparley objected on principle to love matches,
which she really thought not only silly, but absolutely
wrong, being of opinion that means and position should
occupy the first place in the consideration of such
questions, and that affection, if it entered at all into the
matter, should be kept in entire subordination to them.
As soon, therefore, as she discovered — which it was not
hard to do — the feelings of her niece and Oakburne for
each other, and had satisfied herself that the latter was
not a desirable parti, she at once proceeded to let Sybil
know her opinion on the subject. Mr. Oakburne was
only a subaltern in a marching regiment, with but a
miserable pittance of his own ; he was a Roman Catholic;
his family might perhaps be old, but it was now of no
account, and he was merely a country doctor's son. It
was madness for Sybil to think of marrying such a man \
and her ladyship discoursed on the dangers of mixed
marriages, the evils of poor marriages, duty to parents,
proper feeling for her position, and other truths bearing
on the subject, in a way which was very sensible and impressive,
for she had had much experience of the world,
and could illustrate her admonitions by numerous
examples. As for Oakburne, Lady Felsparley felt herself
bound to snub him and discourage him as much as
possible, and the young fellow did not better his cause
with her by a foolish speech which he made about her
in public.

He happened one evening in the billiard-room to
allude to Lady Felsparley's weakness for talking of the
Duke of Grandsire and her other great relations, a
peculiarity which soon became well known throughout
the station, and of which most of the young men, military
and civilian, used to make joke. One of the men in
the room, who was much smitten with the charms of
Miss Evelyn Felsparley, and to whom Evelyn's mother
on account of the young officer being the heir to a
baronetcy — showed herself very kindly disposed, warmly
took up the cudgels on her behalf. There being a good
many in the room the dispute waxed warm, and Reginald
in the heat of the moment bet his friend, who was going
to dine with him at the General's the next night, that
Lady Felsparley would mention her aristocratic connections
ten times during the evening. He won his lktle
bet ; but some kind friend carried the story to her ladyship,
whose disapproval of him was, as may be supposed,
changed thereby into intense dislike. She became more
opposed to him than ever, and when Oakburne, having
won Sybil's consent, summoned up his courage to apply
for that of General Beechcroft to his marriage with her,
Lady Felsparley was able to revenge herself very completely
on him. The General, though he liked Reginald
personally, did not dare to act in the matter without consulting
his sister, and the latter spoke so strongly, and as
it seemed to him wisely, against the match, that, with
great sorrow to himself, he was obliged to tell his young
friend that he must not dream of a union with his
daughter. It would be unwise, undesirable in every way.
He was very sorry, he had been himself to blame in the
matter in not checking ' this — this unfortunate attachment.
It's very hard to me to say this, Oakburne. You

N

know I have a great regard for you, my boy ; but — I
feel it is better not ; and that — that also is Lady Fels-
parley's opinion. Yes, sir, I'm afraid its impossible ! So
try and bear your sorrow, my dear fellow — and for the
future you will feel yourself that it will be better that
you should see as little as possible of Sybil — for a time,
at least'

It is hardly necessary to say with what anger and dismay
the lovers received this decision j but remonstrance
was useless, and they were obliged to part, contenting
themselves with mutual protestations of eternal constancy.
Miss Beechcroft found a warm sympathiser in her cousin
Evelyn, who, though she stood far too much in awe of
her to dream of telling her so, considered that her
mother had acted * most unkindly and most unjustly' in
the matter. Oakburne at first sought consolation by imparting
his grievances to Danvers, the friend with whom
he had made the unlucky bet ; but the latter, though a
good-natured fellow, could not quite stand all his
denunciations of Miss Felsparley's mother, and as he
frankly told him so, Reginald had to forbear from speaking
his mind with regard to her. He had indeed reason
to believe that Captain Cope, with whom he was on far
more intimate and affectionate terms, to some extent
shared his views respecting General Beechcroft's sister,
but he was restrained by natural delicacy from talking
much to him on the subject, because he knew that Cope
who, of course, saw Lady Felsparley constantly —
cherished an affection for Miss Beechcroft, which her
aunt not unnaturally regarded with a good deal of
favour, since he had, as has been said, ample means, and
would, if he lived, inherit a fortune. Hence, having no
confidant to whom he could unbosom himself, the young

officer began to brood a good deal alone over his ill
fortune, and his friends began to remark that he was not
half such good company as he used to be.

One evening, however, as Reginald was sitting, with a
cigar for companion, fretting over his troubles; his native
servant glided into the verandah and presented to him a
little twisted note.

1 Chit, sare, from big bungalow ; peoples answer, wait,
sare,' said the ' boy,' who had come with Oakburne from
Madras, and like many of the servants in that presidency,
could speak English after a fashion, and he stood motionless
and impassive before his master, who started as he
heard that the note came from ' big bungalow,' which he
knew meant General Beechcroft's house.

Who brought it ? ' cried he fiercely, when he had
read the direction.

'Woman, sare — ayah woman, sare,' says the fellow,
beginning to show signs of alarm, for he had had some
experience of the humours of British masters. 'She
wait outside, sare, in compound.'

1 Let her wait till I call you, then, Lachman,' growled
Oakburne, tearing open and devouring his note, which,
as the reader will perhaps have divined, was from Miss
Beechcroft. He opened it in dread, wondering if it
was a dismissal from her own lips, but his mind was
agreeably relieved on seeing its contents.

She had read his dear letter,' said the fair writer, the
dear letter ' being a very fervent petition to her not to
yield to Lady Felsparley's tyranny which he had sent to
her the day before. * She would never never submit to
the unjust persecutions of her cruel aunt, or consider her
father's decision as final, &c, &c. The bearer of this
note was thoroughly trustworthy. If, as he said, he

really must see her again, she (the bearer) could guide
him to a place where they could meet without fear. But
perhaps, &c, &c, &c.'

It need hardly be said that the ' thoroughly trustworthy'
messenger who had brought this important epistle took
back a similar one, couched in very ardent language,
to her young mistress. In fact, Miss Beechcroft and her
lover being prevented from meeting openly, began todo
so in secret, and Clime', the ayah, and Oakburne's
boy ' Lachman, found themselves constantly engaged in
acting as confidential letter carriers.

In spite, however, of trustworthy messengers, and the
observance of all precautions, Lady Felsparley before
very long discovered their secret. It struck her as
strange that Sybil should so soon recover from the
depression into which her father's decision had plunged
her, and should actually appear to be in better spirits
than ever, behaving in the most provoking manner with
regard to several most eligibly 'partis,' and flirting outrageously
with all sorts of 'detrimental.' Her suspicions
were therefore aroused, and when her ladyship really
tried to get to the bottom of a matter of this kind, she
seldom failed. Somehow the faithful Lachman was
caught in the act of delivering a note to the trustworthy
Clime, who, though she managed to screen herself by
her audacious denials and equivocations, failed to save
her young mistress, to whom she was really attached,
from discovery. Lady Felsparley, with the knowledge of
their secret engagement once in her possession, was able
to come down in triumph on Sybil. The latter was quite
terrified by her aunt's threats to inform General Beech-croft
of the affair, for she could not bring herself to
face the anger and indignation which she knew that

indulgent parent would feel when he heard of her conduct.
He had the greatest contempt for deceit,
and Sybil, who also had naturally strong antipathy
to it, and had only allowed herself to be overpersuaded
into it by her lover, could not endure the
thought that her father should know how she hard acted.
Hence Lady Felsparley, by threatening and cajoling, was
able to put a stop to the correspondence and meetings
with Oakburne, who, receiving no answer to his letters
and being suddenly cut off from all communication with
Miss Beechcroft, grew almost beside himself with
anxiety and hopeless love. His perplexity and trouble
were further increased by the fact that, as his ' boy '
Lachman had been bribed to silence, he was for a longtime
ignorant of the cause of Sybil's unexpected change
of conduct ; and when he at last discovered how this had
been brought about, the young lady herself had been
persuaded into parting with him.

After a great deal of manoeuvring, Lady Felsparley had
induced her niece — reluctantly enough indeed — to listen
more favourably to the addresses of Captain Cope, whom
she had always liked, and who, believing his friend Oak-burnt
to be finally dismissed, now came forward openly
as her suitor. This she had chiefly accomplished by
poisoning Sybil's mind by reports about poor Reginald's
fastness and extravagance. The luckless youth, when
his love troubles became unbearable, sought relief in a
course of counter excitement, which ended in his losing
more money than he could afford at play and over a
horse of his own which he had thought fit to back heavily
for a certain race. In short, he became desperate, and
began living in a reckless way that made his friends and
brother officers shake their heads, and hint that ' poor

Oakburne was going to the bad.' Of all this Lady
Felsparley made immense capital. Never were slanders
more baseless and more unkind than those whispered
about Reginald ; but an Indian station, it is hardly
necessary to say, is a more fruitful soil for scandal than
is perhaps to be found anywhere else in the world.
Lady Felsparley was of course only too willing to believe
that he was a confirmed gambler and drunkard, and it
was by dinning this supposed ill-doing of Reginald's into
her niece's ears, and by continued comments on his
1 wicked extravagant life,' that she at last brought her upto
the pitch of indignation against him which she desired.
When Oakburne made one more passionate appeal to
her in a letter which he himself delivered openly at the
Beechcrofts' bungalow, Sybil, on condition that her aunt
still kept the matter concealed from the General, wrote
back a cold and studied note, in which she told him
that, ' after all she had learnt of his mode of life, she
felt that it was better for them both that they should
part, and that she deeply regretted her conduct in having
entered into an engagement with him contrary to the
wish of her dear father.'

When Reginald received this carefully written epistle
and the little parcel containing the ring and the one or
two little trinkets he had given her, the poor fellow felt
quite stunned. He read it over and over again, scarcely
able to believe his eyes, for he had still been hoping
against hope that all must come right. ' His mode of
life ' ! What could it mean ? His anger and sorrow
were for the time neutralised by his surprise, and a sense
of despair that seemed to numb all his energies. He
was to ride in the garrison steeple chases that day a
horse called ' Boston,' belonging to his friend Danvers,

Boston ' was first favourite, and Oakburne, who had some
reputation as jockey, had looked forward to the result
as a pleasant certainty. Sybil's note, however, for the
time almost unnerved him. He went down to the course
like a man in a dream, and with such a white sad face
that his friends could not help noticing it, and the owner
of ' Boston ' asked with some concern if he felt up to
riding. He rallied for the moment, and declared laughingly
that he would certainly ride and intended to win,
and when he was mounted, and the horses had had
their preliminary canter, he felt once more up to his
work and ready to ride at anything. The four horses
that came to the post were despatched at the first
attempt to a capital start. For the first few fences
Boston lay about a dozen lengths behind the others,
Fusileer, the second favourite, taking the lead. At the
eighth fence, a double, the latter, however, fell, and the
race now seemed virtually over, for Oakburne, bringing
up ' Boston,' was first over the water jump, and held a
long lead up to the last fence, a rather awkward looking
mud wall. Just before reaching it, however, the horse
was seen to stumble, and, though his rider pulled him
together, jumped short and fell, and 'the Clown,' a horse
that everyone had looked on as an outsider, came up
with a rush, and galloped in an easy winner. Oakburne
was taken up senseless, with a broken collar bone,
and these injuries were aggravated by a bad attack of
fever, which much delayed his recovery, and left him
so weak that he was ordered up to the hills to recruit.
As he was gradually recovering strength in the delightful
air of the little hill station, there came one day to the
hotel a man in the Forest Department whose acquaintance
he had made before his return to England. Having

passed through Kurryapore on his way up, he was full of
the news of the place, which he poured forth in a continuous
stream to Reginald, who listened with but languid
interest, as they sat together at breakfast one morning.
He scarcely took in a tithe of all his companion told
him concerning Jack and Tom, Mr. Black and Miss
White, and all the scandals of the station ; and he was
beginning to feel greatly bored, when the mention of
Cope's name aroused him.

'Then you know Cope? of course. He's A.D.C. to
General Beechcroft,' said his companion.

'I should rather think I did,' answered Oakburne.
1 Well, what about him ? '

'Cope's engaged to be married to Miss Beechcroft,
and everybody says it's an awfully good match. He's got
plenty of money. What's the matter ? '

Reginald had turned quite white and given vent to a
strange exclamation, half pain, half surprise. ' It's my
arm,' said he. ' It's not healed properly, and sometimes
gives me awful pain, — makes me feel quite faint.
Thanks, I shall be all right directly.' But he soon after
said he would go and lie down for a bit, and it may be
imagined that his frame of mind was not an enviable one
as he lay in the room assigned to him and pondered
over the news he had heard, not knowing whether to
believe it or no.

The next day he resolved to return, some days earlier
than he was due, at Kurryapore. He felt determined to
find out the truth about Cope's rumoured engagement,
and if it was true, to show Miss Beechcroft and the
world in general that her faithlessness did not distress
him. Bat it was destined that sickness should delay
him in these manful intentions. At the Dak Bungalow

at which he first stopped on his way down, he was
seized with a sudden attack of cholera, and had it
not been for the kindness of Captain M'Cormont
and his wife and daughter, who were on their way
to the hills and insisted on taking him back with
them, poor Reginald's career would have ended then
and there. In India, however, the part of the good
Samaritan is acted oftener than in our colder climate.
These worthy people — Miss Dora M'Cormont was already
married, and her sister Cora was on the high road to be
so — nursed the young officer as if he had been their own
son, and he made such satisfactory progress that he was
able to return with them to Kurryapore. They knew of
course a good deal about his unfortunate attachment and
his troubles, and assured him that they had heard nothing
of Miss Beechcroft's engagement. The good-natured
Cora, — who had long since become on most friendly
terms with her, — could not forbear from writing to Sybil
a very particular account of Oakburne, of course dwelling
much on his illness, his melancholy, poor fellow ! and his
great devotion to — etc. etc. She got a very warm letter
from Miss Beechcroft in reply, thanking her for her kindness,
and for the news she had given, and confiding to
her friend something of the real state of the case, but still
saying nothing with regard to Captain Cope. Reginald,
who of course was not aware of what Miss M'Cormont
had done, parted from his friends with sincere regret, and
with a feeling of gratitude which lasted during his life.
He went back to his duties softened and comforted by
their kindness, which served much to cure the bitterness
and anger which he had been inclined to cherish against
General Beechcroft and his family. He soon ascertained
that his friend of the Forest Department had been premature

in his announcement with regard to Sybil. There
had been no definite engagement, but Cope was known
to be paying the young lady great attentions, and everybody
said that it 'must soon end in that.' Oakburne
got but little consolation from this information. He felt
that Sybil was now lost to him for ever, no matter whom
she might eventually marry. He would rather, indeed,
it should be his friend than another. Still it maybe
imagined that even Damon would have preferred
avoiding Pythias, if the latter had eventually carried
off the prize among women on which Damon had set
his heart, and Oakburne, though he still felt the same
regard for him, now avoided Cope. As time went on he
grew more and more moody and discontented, and
longed for some change which would take him away
from his sorrows, till at last the news of the outbreak of
war between Russia and Turkey reached India. Then
came the tidings of the spring campaign, and of the
siege of Silistria, and of the gallantry of Nasmyth and
Butler. Oakburne, like so many of his comrades, was
fired by these accounts. He had a considerable amount
of leave due to him, and determined at all events to goto
the scene of war and witness, if he could not take
part in, the stirring scenes which were being enacted
there. Somewhat to his surprise his friend Danvers,
when informed of his plans, offered to join him. He too
had reasons which made him anxious for change, for
his uncle, Sir Leopold, had unexpectedly married again
in his old age, and Lady Felsparley had ceased to welcome
his visits. So having obtained the necessary leave
the pair bid adieu to Kurryapore, and sailed per steamer
for Alexandria, whence they purposed to make their way
to the Danube,

Oakburne little knew what a service Miss Cora
M'Cormont had done him, by writing as above related,
to her friend Miss Beechcroft. Her letter had reached
Sybil just as she was beginning to yield to the pressure
put upon her by her aunt, and indeed by her father and
cousin also, to accept Captain Cope. The news of her
old lover's illness and sorrow touched her very deeply.
She had learnt that nearly all that she had been told
about his ' wicked and extravagant life ' was untrue.
Her conscience smote her for her behaviour to him, and
she began to dislike her aunt more than ever for her
share in the matter. After much secret grief and perplexity
of spirit she resolved that she could not marry
Captain Cope. She would never anger her father by
again listening to Reginald Oakburne — if indeed he had
not ceased to care to make her listen to him — eut she
had given her heart to Reginald, and she would never
marry anyone else. So, to the intense vexation of her
family, she refused Cope's offer, and told them in reply
to their remonstrances that she intended to ' live and die
an old maid.' That officer bore his disappointment with
manly silence and resolution. His was not an excitable
temperament like Oakburne's, and he could look at disagreeable
things with a calmer judgment. Moreover he
was comforted by the assurances of her aunt and father
that Sybil must before long change her mind, and the
hopes they expressed that he would not be discouraged
by this first rebuff. So the result of this proposal was
kept a profound secret from the gossips of Kurryapore,
and Reginald heard nothing of it till years afterwards.
He departed from Kurryapore with but little regret ; and
as he was making his way, full of prospects of honours
to be won, to the seat of war, Sybil was beginning to feel

that her resolve to ' live and die an old maid,' though
heroic, entailed a painful amount of melancholy and
regret.

CHAPTER XIV.

What the world said of him.

The man that mentioned him, at once dismissed
All mercy from his lips, and sneer'd and hiss'd ;

Cowper.

[HOUGH both Mr. Throckmorton and Wilfrid
got letters bearing the Kurryapore post mark,
which informed them of some of the facts
narrated in the last chapter, the former had no idea that
Wilfrid's brother was at all concerned in the trouble and
anxiety which General Beechcroft told his friend he had
been experiencing with regard to Sybil ; and Wilfrid was
as yet ignorant of the fact that Mr. Throckmorton was
on such intimate terms with the father of the young lady
who, as Reginald confided to him, had 'caused him the
greatest sorrow he had yet had in life.' Each, therefore,
being unaware of the other's knowledge, was silent on the
subject of the news they respectively received from India,
and indeed they had plenty of business of their own to
occupy them without troubling their heads about the love
affairs of Reginald Oakburne and Sybil Beechcroft. In
order to recount these it was necessary somewhat to anticipate
the course of events, and the reader must now
be requested to revert to the period, some four months
earlier, when Theodore Hoffbauer was so suddenly prostrated
by his attack of brain fever.

The latter's illness, poverty, and apparently friendless
condition, drew forth a good deal of sympathy from his

fellow lodgers. Mr. Throckmorton, as Wilfrid subsequently
learned from Dr. Block, insisted on paying the
latter's bill, and the four men united their means to
procure him a nurse, and furnish him with such little
comforts as would further his recovery.

About ten days, however, after Mr. Karl, as he was
still known to the inhabitants of No. 9 Poulford Street,
had disturbed the party assembled to listen to Beverley
Chipps' reading, the calls of twb visitors to enquire for
him, made it evident that he was not so altogether without
friends as was supposed. The first was a lady, who
came in the morning when all the other inmates of the
house were away on their various avocations. ' A tall
stylish person she was, sir,' said Mrs. Hollis, recounting
the fact to Wilfrid and Beverley Chipps. ' Quite the
lady with a real good silk gown, sir. Gave the name of.
Lejoo, Madam Lejoo ; and left this card to be given to
Mr. Karl. She wanted to see him, sir, but I told her of
course she couldn't do that yet, and then she said she
would call again. A furineer she seemed to be, I think,
Mr. Oakbnrne, sir.' The latter examining the card saw
that it bore the name of Madam Ledru, and that some
lines in German were written on the back of it, and
suggested that the lady might be a sister of Mr. Karl's
who had married some Frenchman. Beverley Chipps,
however, laughed the idea to scorn, saying that a. sister
would have turned up earlier if she existed, and would
probably have written to him. No ! it couldn't be a
sister ! and the two had an argument on the point, which
was set at rest by the arrival of Norton, who immediately
identified the mysterious visitor with the wife of the proprietor
of the Cafe Frankfurt, and reminded Wilfrid how

they had seen her in company with Mr. Karl at the
1 Momus Theatre.'

Two days later, as Wilfrid and Norton were working
together in their sitting-room, preparatory to attending
an evening lecture at the Hospital, a hansom drove upto
the door, and they heard Mrs. Hollis engaged in a
conversation with a man who had alighted from it.

'Perhaps you'd like to see Mr. Oakburne or Mr.
Norton, sir,' they heard the landlady say, and presently
Walter Chessington was ushered into the room.

I must apologise for troubling yon,' said he, ' but I
want to ask you to give me some information about a
Mr. Karl, a teacher of German, who is lodging here.
The landlady tells me you have been so kind as to look
after him during his illness.'

Norton, always glad of an excuse to talk about anything,
hastened to give him in reply a full account, with
as much medical detail as he could conveniently introduce,
of the German's illness, dwelling a good deal on
his poverty and his suffering through want of proper
food.

Chessington heard him patiently to the end, and then
explained how Hoffbauer had called on him, that he
had afterwards written to him, and receiving no answer
had now come to try and ascertain the reason. ' I take
a great interest in him,' said he, ' for he rendered me a
signal service once, in fact he saved my life in a street
riot at Frankfurt some years ago. I want to assist him
if I can.'

1 It will be some time before he is strong enough to do
anything,' said Wilfrid.

'Ah yes! so I suppose,' replied Chessington. 'I am
going out of town for a time now. When I return 1

shall hope to come and see him. Meantime I shall
esteem it a great favour if one of you gentlemen could
let me know if any change for the worse sets in, and also
if you would tell me when he is strong enough to get
about.'

I shall be very happy to do so,' said Wilfrid, 'if you
will let me have your address.'

1 1 shall be much obliged to you,' answered the other,
giving him a card. ' I can't help thinking,' added he,
that we have met before, though I can't recollect where.
Your name I think is — '

'Oakburne,' answered Wilfrid. 'Yes. I had the
pleasure of seeing you at Otterstone once,' and he
recalled to Chessington how his brother Reginald and
he had explored the park under the guidance of Mr.
Bowersbyby.

1 To be sure ! ' cried Walter, ' I remember now perfectly
! Odd we should meet again in this way ! Well,
I shall try and call again when I get back from the
country ; and you'll let me know, won't you, if anything
happens.' He then took his departure, and Wilfrid
explained to Norton how the Chessingtons now owned
the property that had once belonged to his, Oakburne's,
ancestors, and that that was why he and his brother
had gone to visit it — information which rather raised him
in his friend's estimation, whose family was not of any
very great antiquity.

So one day succeeded another in a pleasant routine,
which left nothing to distinguish them by, and the invalid
passed the crisis of his illness, and slowly gained strength
till the approach of Christmas dispersed Mrs. Hollis' other
lodgers. Mr. Throckmorton took his departure for Yorkshire,
and Beverley Chipps, rejoicing in the fruits of the

new Christmas story, hurried off to Essex, where his
father had a living. Wilfrid had persuaded Norton,
whose nearest relative was a stepmother with a family of
her own to care for, to accompany him to Lidfield. He
had taken a great liking to him, and Norton for his part
was delighted with the idea of passing ten days in the
country, instead of at the maternal residence at Thickens
where his presence was not particularly looked
forward to. So on the receipt from his sister of what
struck Wilfrid as rather a cold acquiescence in his proposal,
the pair set off in good spirits for Oakburne's
home.

The Christmas of 1853 was what it is customary to
term "seasonable" and " old fashioned," there being an
abundance of frost, and snow, and fog, which increased
the distress among the poor caused by the high prices of
food consequent on bad harvests, both in France and
Germany, as well as in England. It was a Christmas
that was pervaded, moreover, by a spirit of excitement
quite out of harmony with the season, for the minds of
all men were full of the possibilities of war which the
coming year was to convert into certainties. Lord
Palmerston had tendered his resignation at the beginning
of the month, and though it was afterwards withdrawn,
it had created a ministerial crisis. The English people,
among the majority of whom a warlike impulse to espouse
the cause of the Turks had long been gaining strength,
chose to attribute this step on the part of that minister to
his disapproval of the hesitation of the government, and
began to regard him as the representative of the popular
policy ; and anticipations of the coming struggle had
begun to produce in the minds of very many a restlessness
which communicated itself even to those who were
unaware of its cause.

o

There was an unusual amount of gaiety at Lidfield
this year. People who had never before given parties
now took to giving them. A huge Christmas tree was
set up in the Town Hall for the benefit of the distressed
poor to whom the handsome sum thus collected was
distributed in the form of bread, coal, and flannel. An
amateur dramatic performance was organised for the
same purpose and was so successful that it was found
necessary to have another for the Hospital which was
discovered to be in want of funds. Besides this,
Sir Joseph Bores was now really known to be dying,
and both his nephew Ferdinand Bores in the Conservative,
and Walter Chessington in the Liberal interest,
were actively canvassing the borough, and the leading
members of both parties did their best from motives of
policy to promote all forms of hospitality and sociability
in the town. Hence, what with skating and shooting,
dancing and taking part in private theatricals, Norton
found his time during his stay at his friends pass very
pleasantly. He won the heart of Mrs Oakburne by his
attentive politeness and deference to her opinions ; flirted
quietly but persistently with Ethel, to their mutual satisfaction
and Wilfrid's amusement ; threw himself heartily
into whatever was going on, and in short thoroughly enjoyed
himself. Wilfrid, however, who ought to have done
so equally, found his stay at home becoming gradually
more and more disagreeable. This certainly did not arise
from any disposition in himself for he had come down fully
prepared to make the most of his holiday, and the
companionship of the volatile Norton was as good a
stimulant to cheerfulness as he could well have found ;
nor was it, as the reader perhaps may imagine, because
he saw but little of Miss Elkfield, or at least never saw
her alone. Though this might at other times have made him

gloomy, his time was now so fully occupied that he had
little leisure to dwell on it. His unhappiness arose from
neither of these causes, but was produced by an almost
indescribable atmosphere of unexpressed dislike and
suspicion which he noticed in the manner of all
his acquaintance since his return to Lidfield. At
first he endeavoured to pay no attention to these
unpleasant feelings, and to ascribe them to some morbid
trick of his imagination, but as time went on he found
that his sensitiveness was not to blame on this occasion.
To begin with, his mother and sister had greeted him
in a way which seemed to imply secret displeasure and
reproach, and though at first he took no notice of this,
he observed that they assumed this manner whenever they
addressed him, and that his not very frequent sallies of
fun and good humour which used to please now seemed
to shock them. Norton's presence, however, served to a
certain extent to make him feel the effects of their bearing
towards him less keenly than he would otherwise
have done, and also prevented him from asking the
explanation which he was often on the point of demanding.
So far indeed as Ethel and his mother were
concerned he was half inclined to attribute the feeling
shewn towards him to the fact that he had brought his
friend to them at very short notice, but he was not slow
to observe that it was not confined to them, and to detect
the same unpleasant elements in the manners of most of
his acquaintance in the place. Young men and women
with whom he had been accustomed to be on friendly
terms saluted him with unmistakable coolness and
confined their conversation to the barest and briefest
common places. He fancied that even the tradespeople
looked at him askance, and once or twice noticed that
his arrival in a room or shop was the signal for a whisper

followed by disapproving glances. He began to feel
convinced that it was no mere fancy, and that there must
be some unknown charge against him, which was making
him generally unpopular. One of the things that pained
him most was the evident displeasure of the rector whom
he had always liked, and who had ever been accustomed
to take a kindly notice of him. Now he and his wife
and daughters either avoided him altogether or gave him
the very current of greetings. In short the general disapproval
with which he was regarded, was so manifest that
he began to feel very unhappy and indignant. If he
was accused of anything, why was he not told plainly
what it was ? But he was quite unable to solve the
mystery till one morning as he was walking down the
High Street he saw Mr. Simcox coming towards him.
He was hurrying up to greet the schoolmaster warmly
when he was shocked to see the latter, with a marked
look of pain and dislike on his gentle, good-tempered
face, cross over to the other side to avoid him, and altogether
ignore his nod of recognition. When he had recovered
from his surprise and anger at this behaviour, he
suddenly remembered how he had lately seen Lois at the
theatre, and his conscience reproached him for not
having tried to find her out. He resolved that he would
go and see Mr. Simcox as soon as he could, both to try
and find out the meaning of his conduct, and also to
procure news of his daughter. He was going with
Ethel and Norton that afternoon to skate on some
flooded meadow-land, about a mile and a half out of
the town, to which everybody resorted in the hard
weather. He would slip away early he thought, and go
and have a talk with the schoolmaster.

After a hurried luncheon the trio set out for Black-acre,
as the skating ground was called, Norton beguiling

the way by his usual flow of chaff and nonsense which,
though it amused Miss Oakburne, was scarcely heeded
by her brother, who was silent and pre-occupied. In his
present frame of mind, Wilfrid was getting rather impatient
with his friend's cheerfulness and loquacity, and almost
longed for his departure, which was to take place in a
couple of days, that he might have a full explanation
with his mother. The ice, however, presented such
an animated appearance, that it for a moment made
him forget his gloomy thoughts. All the good
people of Lidfield and its neighbourhood were
there, apparently enjoying themselves thoroughly.
Skaters skimmed hither and thither, or wobbled clumsily
along, according to their degrees of skill. Here a
master of the art was cutting graceful figures in a swept
rink before an admiring circle of spectators; there a
noisy party of boys and men were playing at hockey.
Shouts, laughter, the ringing, cracking, and groaning of
the ice, and the barking of dogs filled the air; while
around the edge of the frozen water a goodly show of
carriages was interspersed, with the more humble throng
of spectators, the putters on of skates, the owners of
chairs, and the vendors of hot coffee and chesnuts.

After having fastened on his sister's skates — for Ethel
was one of the adventurous few of her sex who in those
days aspired to learn the art — Wilfrid handed her over to
the guidance of his friend and prepared to take his way
alone over the ice. As he left the shore, however, he
caught sight of Mr. and Mrs. Elkfield seated in their
carriage, by which a gentleman was standing. The latter
was talking earnestly to Mr. Elkfield, and Wilfrid quickly
recognised him as Giles Rowancourt, who with his
nephew had arrived the day before at his old quarters
at Lady Thistledale's in order to resume the business of

canvassing. The two men took no notice of him, but
Mrs. Elkfield gave him a kindly bow which sent the
blood rushing to the young fellow's face, for it seemed
the first cordial greeting he had had since his return
home. He moved rapidly away to cover his confusion,
and in doing so nearly ran into a sledge chair, propelled
by a fair handsome young man, in which a lady was
seated. It was Beatrice Elkfield, and the man with her
was Walter Chessington. She honoured him with a cold
stare, and returned his bow with a frigid little nod
which rekindled all the angry feelings in his breast ; but
Chessington saluted him with a rather surprised but very
friendly ' Hullo ! How are you ? ? as the pair went scudding
on their way. Wilfrid was a very tolerable skater,
and his suppleness and length of limb made him a proficient
in the art of cutting figures, but his presence of
mind was so upset by this unexpected meeting that he
stumbled and very nearly came on his face to the great
amusement of two little urchins engaged in sweeping
away the snow. 'Ee bent good for much,' remarked
the one to his fellow, who concurring with a grin of derision,
immediately ran up and begged Wilfrid for a
copper. His ill-temper was not improved by his mishap,
and, flinging the lad a penny, with a savage curse
that thoroughly frightened him, he went spinning along,
not much caring where he went. Such of his acquaintance
as he met he saluted with a fierce abruptness
that made them stare. After all, if people were rude to
,him why should he not repay them in their own coin.
So he skated on, full of suppressed anger and indignation,
and regardless of the shortening day, till
he suddenly ran full against a man who was skating
towards him, and who, like himself, was too engrossed
to notice where he was going. The shock was so

violent that both of them were nearly upset, and each
breathlessly begged the other's pardon.

1 Hallo ! Portal ! ' cried Wilfrid, recognising the solicitor,
' I'm very sorry ! ' He had not seen him since his
return, for Portal had been very busy about electioneering
business.

Oh its you, Oakburne ! ' said the other. ' Such accidents
will happen, I suppose. Good afternoon,' and he
turned to go. His manner was studied, almost offensively
cold, and nettled the already angry Wilfrid beyond
endurance. Here was a chance thought he, to have it
out with some one. He had never liked Portal much, soif
it ended in unpleasantness, all the better. He would
make him talk to him. He would not submit to be cut
by Portal.

Oh ! by the way ! ' cried he, stopping him. ' I want
to speak to you.'

What is it ? ' said Portal, looking at his watch, ' I'm
rather busy to-day.'

And that's why your skating, eh ? ' said Oakburne,
sarcastically.

Exercise,' replied Portal, a little confused, ' one must
have a little fresh air, you know.'

'You're very busy about this election ; looking after
voters, aunt you?' went on Wilfrid, throwing the
slightest possible dash of contempt into his tones and
leisurely lighting his pipe. ' You're going to give us a
new member I hear.'

1 1 don't know what you mean by giving you a new
member. Our client, Walter Chessington, of Otterstone
Hall, is going to come forward — a very good candidate
he'll make too. I'm hard at work. Cold, isn't it ? ' and
he tried to move onwards again.

Stop a moment ! ' said Wilfrid, determined to continue

the conversation. ' I wanted to ask you about, —
about the Simcoxes, you know. Can you tell me how
they are going on ? I've been away some time, and I
take an interest in them, as I think you are aware He
could not think of anything else to say, but that would
do as well as any other subject, though it struck him
directly after that it was a queer question to ask Portal.

The latter gave a sudden start, and changed colour ;
then he faced round and looked at him with a disagreeably
astonished stare. ' Well ! Upon my word,
Oakburne,' said he, ' I wonder you have the face to ask
me!'

1 What the devil do you mean, sir ? ' cried Wilfrid so

fiercely, that the other turned still paler, and gave a

frightened glance at his tall questioner, who during the

last year had filled out considerably, and, with anger

in his eyes, presented a somewhat formidable appearance.


Don't be so fierce, my good fellow,' stammered
Portal. ' Of course there's really nothing in it. I think
none the worse of you, I assure you. Though the
thing had a bad appearance here you know, on account
of their being so well known.'

The two were quite alone in a far corner of the big
piece of water which was more than a mile in length.
The brief winter day was drawing to a close, and as the
light began to fade such skaters as remained kept to
the end where the carriages and chairs were, and the
murmur of far off sounds, and the dim figures in the
distance increased the feeling of solitude.

1 Look here, Portal,' said Wilfrid sternly, going close
up to him, and looking him full in the face, ' I insist on
your explaining to me instantly what you mean by that,
or by Heaven you will regret it,'

1 All right, my good sir ! you needn't look so infernally
as if you were going to kill one,' said Portal, very nervously.
' Surely you know I allude to the Simcox business
. I say its so cursedly cold here, standing
about, that I think I'll just take a drain — won't you have
some ? ' and with a tremulous hand he drew a brandy
flask from his pocket, and put it to his lips.

I don't want any of your brandy,' cried Wilfrid
savagely, waving away the preferred glass. ' Speak out
man, and say clearly what you mean ! How should I
1 surely know that you allude to the Simcox business.'
Tell me at once please, for I'm getting a little impatient,'
and he laid a heavy hand on the other's shoulder, and
looked still more unpleasant.

1 You won't gain anything by bullying, sir ! ' quavered
Portal, striving in vain to be calm. ' I have done you
no injury, surely, my dear Oakburne,' added he, in a
whining voice.

1 Then speak out in God's name ! ' cried the other.

Portal paused for a moment, with eyes bent on the
ground. ' Surely you know,' he said at length, speaking
very slowly, and with a little ring of triumph in his tones,
1 surely you know that Lois Simcox had a child about
four months after you left ; and that she and the baby
disappeared suddenly ; and that you are said to be the
father of that child.'

1 My God ! What an infernal lie! ' cried poor Wilfrid.
His hand dropped from Portal's shoulder, he leaned fora
moment against the gate of the field close to them.

That he, with his strong loathing of the crime imputed
to him, conscious of feeling the strongest sympathy and
respect for the man whose daughter he was believed to
have ruined, as well as a deep pity, and a liking almost
amounting to attachment for the girl herself, should not

only be thus held up for public reproach, but have his
character blackened in the eyes of his own mother and
sister, filled his heart with an indignant grief, the bitterness
of which he could never forget. Many a time in
after years the whole scene would rise vividly before
him ; the wide deserted expanse of ice, the leafless
hedges with the snow covered fields beyond, the bright
sunset tints in the far horizon, and in the foreground.
Portal, confronting him with a look of triumph in his
dark eyes, and an evil half smile on his pale keen
features.

I am very glad to hear you say so,' said the latter,
reassured by the effect of his words, ' though I fear you'll
find it hard enough to prove your case now. You must
admit that appearances are against you.'

This second shot was well aimed, and Wilfrid groaned
in the bitterness of his heart, as he felt that it was true
that by his foolish attentions to Lois he had given cause
for the report against him.

It was imprudent of you,' went on Portal, enjoying
the wounds he was inflicting on the spirit of the man
who dared to bully him, ' it was imprudent — though of
course you meant no harm — to walk with her as you
did. These things so soon get known.'

If I could only find the scoundrel who first circulated
this diabolical calumny, by Heaven, I would half kill
him ! ' cried Oakburne, stung to fury by the thought of
his hopeless position.

No, no ! — That is, of course you would almost have a
right to ! ' said Portal, drawing away a little, and getting
a little paler. ' But my dear fellow, surely you make too
much of this ! Such things happen every day. Many
men would be rather proud of the .affair. Its just what
many men, and women too, admire. Of course the fact

of her being the daughter of a man so well known in the
place as Simcox, makes it seem a little cruel and hard at
first, but that will wear off in time.'

1 Stop this, Portal ! ' cried Wilfrid with an oath, and a
look of fierce disgust. ' To me the man who does such
things is utterly loathsome; and so is the man who
admires them.'

His look and tones silenced Portal for a moment. c I
really must be going now,' he said at last. ' Of course
you can try and disprove the thing,' added he, with a
sneer, 'I hope you may ; but you'll find it very difficult.'

1 Stay, Portal ! I am going too. I've heard enough.
Tell me one thing, though,' and he seized his arm, and
looked him keenly in the face. ' Tell me, on your word
of honour, does Lois herself say that I am the father of
her child ? '

I — I really can't say,' stammered Portal, faltering before
his steady gaze. 'I — I don't know that she did,
certainly. Its not impossible that she may have done
so — in fact its almost probable. But, — but I wont — I
really can't say one way or the other.'

That will do,' said Oakburne, and they skated back
in silence to the bank, which was now almost deserted.

Rely on my contradicting this story, whenever I can,
my dear Oakburne,' said Portal, grasping his hand with
great fervour. Wilfrid, though he somehow distrusted
him more than ever, felt bound to thank him, and the
other espying another acquaintance who was just leaving,
hurried off to greet him. Ethel and Norton had long
since given up waiting for him, so Wilfrid took his way
back to Lidfield and, as soon as he reached the town,
bent his steps to the schoolmaster's cottage.

CHAPTER XV.

The Consequences.

In such a world, so thorny, and where none
Finds happiness blighted, or, if found,
Without some thistly sorrow at its side ;
It seems the part of wisdom, and no sin
Against the law of love, to measure lots
With less distinguish'd than ourselves ; that thus
We may with patience bear our moderate ills,
And sympathize with others suffering more.

Cowper.

HE more he thought over the matter the more
gloomy did things appear to Wilfrid Oakburne.
Appearances were certainly against him in every
way. It was natural that every one should believe him
guilty, when such a very plausible slander against him
had once found acceptance with his friends and acquaintances
; but who could have been base enough to start
the story ? He could think of no one likely to do so
save Portal, and he reflected that it would be quite
contrary to the cautious nature of the latter to circulate
a rumour which, as far as he could see, could not benefit
him in the smallest degree. He dismissed the idea as
quite unreasonable. The more he thought of it the more
he felt that Lois was the only person who could help him
to prove his innocence. It was true that her attempt to
drown herself ought to be pretty clear evidence of her
having fallen long before he became intimate with her,
but he was the only person who knew of her attempted

suicide, and for her own sake and her father's he felt
loth to make it known, even to justify himself. It was
very hard ! His mother and sister, how disgusted
and shocked must they not have felt ! And Beatrice
too! how she must loathe and despise him! He knew
that she took a special interest in Lois, who was much of
her own age, and whom she had known from a child.
No wonder she was cold to him ! How could he ever
face her again ! And yet Mrs. Elkfield had plainly
showed that she at all events still felt kindly towards him.
The whole subject was full of perplexities and contradictions
; but one thing he was resolved on. He would
return to London and try and find out Lois if possible.
He would leave the place as soon as he could after
Norton's departure, but before going he would have an
explanation with his mother and sister. Full of these
thoughts he. entered the little wicket gate, at which he
had last parted with Lois and knocked at Mr. Simcox's
door, and presently the schoolmaster, holding a lamp in
his hand, stood before him on the threshold.

Mr. Simcox ' said Wilfrid eagerly, 'can I speak to yon
on a matter of great importance.'

'What do you want with me?' cried the other in a
voice tremulous with the anger plainly written in his
face. ' How dare you come here — to my house —
to the home you have ruined ? Do you wish to add
insult to the curse you have brought on me and mine ?
Begone, Mr. Oakburne ! you call yourself a gentleman —
it is true that by birth you have the right — and I am a
poor man, not a gentleman, not of your caste, but I tell
you that sooner than be such as you, I would pass my
days in the lowest misery and squalor ! Sooner than
soil myself with the touch of your hands I would eat the
refuse in the streets ! Begone, I say ! I am old now

but — ' and the passion with which he trembled, choked
his utterance.

For Heaven's sake hear me ! ' cried poor Wilfrid.

Heaven ! who are you to dare to talk of Heaven !
You ! who have driven my Lois, my only child to
perdition ! Why did you not leave her to drown ? why
did you save her life to ruin her — to blast my "life?'

'Stay Mr. Simcox!' said Wilfrid fiercely. 'Cease this
abuse for a moment. I can make due allowance for your
feelings ; but more than a certain amount of calumny I
will not submit to hear. Listen ! you are accusing me
falsely. You are heaping your anger and malice on an
innocent man. I tell you,' cried he drawing himself up
proudly, ' I tell you that as truly as there is a God above
us who hears and judges all that we are saying now, I am
innocent with regard to your daughter.'

You ! Innocent ! ' cried the schoolmaster with a stare,
half of amazement, half of incredulity.

Yes ! innocent ! ' repeated Wilfrid ; ' as innocent as
you are yourself. What proof have you of my guilt ?
Lies, accursed lies, have been told of me in order to
saddle me with the crime of another. I swear to you
I am innocent of poor Lois' ruin. Heaven knows how I
feel for your sorrow ! But do you suppose I have suffered
nothing ? Do you forget my shame, at this false accusation
? Why, my own mother and sister believe me guilty ! '

Come ! come ! ' cried the schoolmaster, touched in
spite of himself, ' I would accuse no man falsely, God
knows ! I speak but what I have heard from everyone.
You say you are innocent. God grant it may be so.
But the charges I have heard brought against you are
very serious, Wilfrid Oakburne ! Still I will not be unjust
or condemn you unheard. Come into my room for a
minute that we may speak more freely,' and he led the

way into the little parlour in which Wilfrid had had his
first interview with Lois after he had saved her life.

I have been told,' he began, placing himself full in
front of Wilfrid, and looking at him fixedly, 'that you
walked constantly with my daughter by the river, and
that you came here to see her while I was absent at my
work at the school. Is that true ? '

It is true,' said Wilfrid, steadily.

1 You admit it then ? ' cried the other, with anger rekindling
in his eyes. ' You admit it ! Was that the conduct
of an honourable man, of a gentleman — '

Stop, Mr. Simcox. I do not deny it, nor,' added
he proudly, 'am I ashamed of it. You know what first
led me to become intimate with your daughter. It was
that I saved her from death. I learnt then to feel an
esteem and sympathy for her which I still feel— "for I
will never believe that she had anything to do with
this slander. I own that I was foolish and wrong
to give occasion for scandal, and deeply is my folly
punished. "But I swear to you again on this Holy
Book,' and he took a Bible that lay on a bookcase close
to them and, placing it on the table, laid his hand upon
it, ' I swear to you most solemnly en this sacred book,
that no guilty intercourse, no act of which an honest
man would be ashamed, ever passed between Lois and
me,' and he looked with unflinching eyes into the pale
face of the schoolmaster, who had never for a moment
removed his steady gaze from him.

You swear this ? ' asked he with deep earnestness.
Remember how deep an injury has been done me — an
injury which none but a father can realise, one which
has robbed my life of happiness and will cover my
lonely old age with shame and unceasing grief. Remember
this, I say, and in God's name do not deceive me ! '

Wilfrid restrained with an effort the momentary anger
which the doubt of his word kindled in him, and
repeated solemnly, ■ I swear that I am innocent, so
help me God ! '

For an instant he was tempted to support his declaration
by telling her father how Lois had attempted self-destruction,
but he generously forbore to pain him
further by this fresh disclosure. He was glad that
he had refrained from doing so when Mr. Simcox, after
a long pause, during which he had studied Wilfrid's face
as though he would read his very soul, said, ' I believe
you. Forgive me if I have wronged you.'

'God bless you,' cried Wilfrid, eagerly, extending his
hand. ' God bless you ! you have taken a heavy load
from my heart ! ' The other grasped it in silence, and
motioned Wilfrid to take a seat.

And now,' said the latter, ' I must ask you to tell me
how it was that you first came to hear these charges
against me. I cannot believe that Lois told you. Tell
me ! Remember that I am as anxious as you are to find
out the truth in this matter.'

No, no ! ' cried the other, shaking his head. ' No !
It was not she who told me ! She left me without a
word or even a hint. She merely wrote a few lines
telling me the story of her shame, and that she would
not stay to disgrace me. No, no ! It was not Lois !
Ah ! poor darling ! if you could tell how I have loved
her, Mr. Oakburne ! She was my all ; I lived for her !
Now, even now, I would forgive her everything ! She
never could have fallen had not some arch devil tempted
her ! She was so good ! so pure ! Lois ! Lois ! my
child, my child ! ' and he covered his face with his hands,
and wept aloud.

'You are right, Mr. Simcox,' said Wilfrid, deeply

moved, and forgetting the question of his own justification
in the sight of the poor father's anguish. 'You are
right. Some arch demon it must have been who could
betray one so simple and good as Lois. But do not
despair. I have seen her in London. We shall find
her yet.'

Seen her ! ' cried the other, starting to his feet.
You have seen her, and did not tell me where she is !
Tell me at once, sir, I conjure you; and I will go to her
immediately.'

1 Stay ! be calm for a little, and I will explain all to
you,' replied Oakburne, and then he told him how he
had recognised Lois at the theatre, of his alarm and surprise,
and how he had hitherto been prevented from
carrying out his intention of visiting her.

The father listened with breathless eagerness, and it
was only by the strongest remonstrances that he could
be hindered from going off at once to London in search
of his daughter. She had, it appeared, left home on the
pretext of paying a visit to an aunt who lived in the neighbouring
parish of Molehill, and had posted the letter in
which she revealed her true purpose at a station intermediate
between Lidfield and London. Then little by
little the news had become public gossip, and — he knew
not how or by whom — it had been at first vaguely
rumoured, and then stated with certainty, that Wilfrid
was the seducer. His walks and his visits to the house
were reported as conclusive evidence against him, till, as
has been shown, his guilt had been assumed as a fact.
Nothing more had been heard of Lois, and in spite of
all his efforts, her father could get not the slightest clue
to her movements. Had he done so, he said, he would
at once have given up his work and gone to seek her ;
but all information as to her whereabouts was so

absolutely wanting that he had felt it would be
hopeless. He had clung to his school work as a
consolation in his deep sorrow, hoping always that she
might return or write to him. Now that he had heard,
why should he not go at once ? It was his duty. He
would see the rector, who had been a most kind friend
all through, and would start immediately.

Wilfrid however after a good deal of difficulty
managed to dissuade him from this course, pointing out
the great uncertainty of finding Lois, who would of course
be acting under an assumed name at the theatre where
he had seen her, and that it was to be feared that if she
got any clue to his intentions she would immediately try
and conceal herself from him. It was most probable too
that, as the piece in which she had been performing had
been withdrawn to make room for another more suitable
to the Christmas season and she had filled such a very
minor part in it, she had gone to seek a livelihood
elsewhere. After some difficulty he at length succeeded
in convincing Mr. Simcox that it would be wisest to wait
till he, Wilfrid, could communicate with him on the
subject. He was going to London in two days time and
would at once commence his search for her, and he
added that he thought he had friends who could materially
aid him in it. He advised him to take counsel with
the rector on the subject, telling him all that had passed
between them. ' I do not expect him at once to believe
in my innocence,' added he, ' nor shall I consider it at all
satisfactorily proved to you or to any other person till it has
been declared by Lois with her own lips. This will be one
great inducement to me, apart from my esteem for and
desire to serve both you and her, to spare no trouble in
seeking her, and you may rest assured that I shall leave
no stone unturned till I succeed in finding her.' Then

with renewed protestations of good will on both sides, he
took his leave.

As it was Norton's last evening with them, Wilfrid
would have liked to have been in a better humour for
making it pass as pleasantly as possible. To begin with
however he was late for dinner, a thing which Mrs.
Oakburne regarded as one of the minor sins, and the
good lady's displeasure at this, combined with the
unexplained misunderstanding between her and her son,
cast an atmosphere of 'wet blanket' over the party. Then,
too, though he tried his best to be lively and talkative,
the news he had just received was not calculated to
raise his spirits. Mrs. Oakburne attributed his occasional
fits of gloom and abstraction to remorse, and Norton,
from professional habit of thought, set them down to a disordered
liver. The next morning the latter started for
London as full of regret to leave the quarters he had
found so pleasant, as Mrs. Oakburne and her daughter
were to lose his cheerful companionship, for, to tell the
truth, his presence had been most welcome in the unhappy
state of feeling between Wilfrid and his mother
and sister. When Oakburne accompanied his friend
to the station the latter, on parting, expressed a hope that
he might find him in a more cheerful frame of mind when
they met again in Poulford Street, and Wilfrid mentally
resolved that he would follow him thither directly he had
had an explanation with his mother and sister.

Full of this purpose he slowly climbed the long ascent
from the station to the town, and so intent was he with
his own thoughts that he hardly noticed till he got level
with it a carriage drawn by a couple of ponies which had
been preceding him. Then as he turned to glance at its
occupants he saw that they were Mrs. Elkfield and her
daughter, who had also driven in to see the last of a

departing guest. The elder lady greeted him kindly, and
rebuked him for not having been to see them oftener.

'You have quite cut us, Mr. Oakburne' said she.
'Hasn't he Beatrice?'

Her daughter, who looked as calm and impassive as
the well drilled groom seated behind them, coldly assented.


Wilfrid pleaded that they had had a friend staying with
them, and that he had been unable to leave him. ' I meant
to call on you, Mrs. Elkfield, I assure you,' said he, 'but
I am leaving myself tomorrow.'

'Are you really!' said Beatrice quickly, giving the
ponies a sharp flick with the whip, ' I suppose you find
Lidfleld insupportably dull after London.'

It is not that,' said Wilfrid drily. It was clear that
Beatrice evidently did not share her mother's good opinion
of him. ' It is not that, Miss Elkfield, but I have to
be getting back to my work.'

Oh ! of course,' replied the young lady with a little
toss of scornful incredulity.

Have you heard that poor Sir Joseph Boarsbyby died
last night ? Very sad, isn't it ? ' said Mrs. Elkfield.

Very sad ! ' answered Wilfrid. ' Then I suppose we
shall have another election,' added he after a pause.

"Yes. There will of course be nothing done till
after the funeral • but then I suppose all that noisy electioneering
business will begin. Mr. Chessington is
coming forward on our side you know, and Mr. Elkfield
is going to give him his support. You are a Liberal, of
course.'

Wilfrid replied that he was.

'That's right, Wilfrid,' said the good-natured lady.
Mr. Chessington seems a very nice young man. But I do

hate all the worry, and crowds, and confusion of an election
! I suppose it will all be set right in time though.'

1 Yes ! one day I hope everything will be set right,'
and Wilfrid, full of his own troubles, sighed rather
wearily.

'What a melancholy man!' cried Mrs. Elkfield with
a laugh. ' Well, there are certainly a good many things
that want setting right in the world ; and it is a comfort
to think that some day they will be.'

'Yes, I hope so,' said Wilfrid. 'I must wish you
goodbye now.' They had reached the summit of the
hill, and the town lay below them.
Goodbye, Miss Elkfield.'

1 Wilfrid, if you are not going till tomorrow, won't you
come and see us this afternoon,' said the wayward young
lady, suddenly becoming very kind in her manner. ' I
hope with you that all will come right one day.'

He warmly grasped the hand she extended to him,
with an eager look at the face he loved so well, and Miss
Elkfield whipped up her ponies and the carriage rolled
swiftly down the hill.

'Take care where you are driving to my dear,' said
her mother. ' Don't be too hard on the ponies. They
have had very hard work lately.'

Miss Elkfield had some excuse for venting her feelings
on those unoffending cattle for she had been lately a
good deal troubled by the rumours which had not failed
to reach her about Wilfrid. It happened that she had,
as has been mentioned, known Lois Simcox since childhood,
and always taken a great interest in the poor girl,
and the news had thus been doubly painful to her. It
seemed so sadly probable and yet it was so hard to
believe this charge against her lover, that she had
experienced much secret distress in consequence,

'I hope Wilfrid will come this afternoon,' said her
mother. ' I always have liked him, and thought him a
very worthy young fellow, and we have seen so little of
him of late.'

Beatrice gave her a grateful look. ' I hope he will
mamma,' said she. 'He looked very ill and out of
spirits poor fellow ! Didn't you think so ?'

Mrs. Elkfield assented, and then happening to remember
that Mr. Rowancourt and his nephew were coming
to dinner that evening, she changed the conversation
to the latter's chances of success at the coming election.

Oakbume followed the rapidly receding pony carriage,
feeling happier than he had done since his return to
Lidfield. Evidently Beatrice only half believed the
calumnies which he knew she must have heard against
him, and which would now account for much of her
apparent coldness of manner. She had called him
Wilfrid again, and had asked him to go and see them ;
yes he certainly would go there that afternoon. He
hurried home to luncheon in good spirits and told his
mother and sister the news of Sir Joseph Boarsbyby's
death.

'We have already been informed of it,' said Mrs.
Oakburne coldly.

You saw Mr. Norton off? ' asked Ethel.
'Yes, I saw Norton off,' replied Wilfrid. 'Its a pity
he could not have stayed another day, and then we
could have gone back together.'

Yes — We shall miss him certainly. He's so bright
and amusing,' said his sister. ' But what do you mean
by travelling together?'

I am going back myself tomorrow.'

To-morrow, Wilfrid ! You have not given us much

of your company ! ' said his mother, in a tone of aggrieved
surprise, and an unpleasant silence followed.

Must you really go tomorrow, Wilfrid ? ' Ethel said,
at last.

'It is perhaps better that your brother should go,
Ethel, as he desires to do so.' Mrs. Oakburne spoke in
her coldest and most measured manner.

1 Yes ! ' answered Wilfrid, . hotly, ' it is better your
brother should go, since his family treat him as they
have done the last few weeks.'

You have only yourself to thank, sir, for your treatment,'
said his mother sternly. ' When we are led to
believe that you are guilty of conduct which no christian
can tolerate — conduct ' added she, with a tremor in her
voice, 'which I never dreamed a son of mine could
lower himself to pursue. It is natural that your sister
and I should show our indignation and disgust, when
you are unable to disown the charge brought against
you of such a wanton cruel act as you know you are
accused of.'

'Oh mamma!' cried Ethel, 'you are too hard on
him.'

Silence, Ethel,' said her mother, ' I must say what I
feel and think right.' Both her pride and her religious
feeling had been deeply wounded by her son's supposed
misconduct. ' I feel it my duty to do so,' added she.

All the resentment and indignation which had been
gradually gathering in Wilfrid's heart, burst forth at this
unlucky speech of Mrs. Oakburne's. ' So madam,' cried
he, ' you have been content to judge your son unheard !
Pretty conduct in one who professes such affection and
so much Christianity ! I have long wished to ask an explanation
of your manner, since I only learnt yesterday
the charge that has been brought against me. But as

you choose to swallow, without question, all the lies that
have been told of me, I shall not condescend to do so.
It was well that I arranged to go tomorrow, and I no
longer repent it. Nay ! I feel it is putting off my going
too late. I will stop no longer under your roof. I will
go to-night,' and full of anger he left the room.

1 Stay, Wilfrid ! ' cried his mother. ' Do not say unheard,
I ,' but he took no heed of her words, and,

going up to his room locked his door, and began packing
his trunks. After a while he heard a gentle tap at
his door, and his sister's voice imploring him to speak to
her. But his fierce temper quite mastered him. He
savagely bade her begone, with an imprecation that
fairly frightened the poor girl, and went on with his preparations
for departure. His mother's and sister's
conduct had been intolerable ! To judge him unheard !
to decide on his guilt without asking one word of
explanation ! It was monstrous ! What could he expect
from others if his own family treated him thus ! He felt
that he did not care to see them before leaving. What
should he do till the time for leaving came ? His train
did not start till between nine and ten ; he would just
have time he thought to go and see the Elkfields. They
had not formed such a cruel judgment of him at all events.
He brightened at the thought, and determined to set out
at once. As he was about to descend the stair his
mother darted from her room which was opposite to his.

1 My dear boy ! ' she cried. ' Forgive me if I have been
hasty ! ' The poor woman had been waiting for the last
hour, for the chance of speaking to him.

'No !' thundered Wilfrid, his wrath boiling up again.
I cannot forgive such injustice ! It is enough to be
slandered by others, without looking for it from you ! '

and he would have passed on had not Ethel run to him
and seized his arm.

Oh Wilfrid ! ' cried she, ' do not be so wicked and
cruel ! Why did you not listen. Oh, its my fault ! ' and
she burst out crying.

Wilfrid ! ' interrupted his mother, scarcely heeding
her, ' at least condescend to listen ! It is false to say
I judged you unheard. In the midst of my grief,
after the Rector had been here to talk to me, and made
me feel more miserable than I ever felt in my life,
I wrote to you immediately, as tenderly and gently as I
could, and implored you to contradict this at once — this
dreadful report. Why did you not do it ? When your
sister wrote afterwards, and begged you at my request to
answer my letter, why did you make not the slightest
allusion even to what I said, when you wrote to me?
What were we to believe after all we have heard ? — and
you've never said a word, not one word since you have
come back. If you knew what I have suffered — ' and
here she fairly gave way and sobbed.

Wilfrid had been listening in amazement while she
spoke, turning first to one and then to another. ' Letter ! '
said he, at last. ' Not answer ! What do you mean ?
I got no letter ! I heard nothing of this infernal slander
till Portal told me on the ice yesterday evening.'

Wilfrid ! is it possible ! Thank God ! I knew you
never could have been so — have done this ! Thank
God ! ' and with a sudden change of feeling, Mrs. Oak-burnt
threw her arms round her son's neck, half-laughing
and half-crying.

1 There's been some mischief-making here,' said Wilfrid
at last, after he had returned his mother's embrace, and
asked her forgiveness for his anger.

'Oh mother ! Its all my fault !' cried Ethel, again
giving way to tears. f Its all my wicked, stupid, carelessness
! Oh Wilfrid, do forgive me ! ' and then, with much
sobbing, she proceeded to say how when she had gone
to her room, after having been repulsed from Wilfrid's
door, she had there espied her cloak hanging up ; how
some mysterious impulse had made her suddenly look
into the pockets, and that there she had discovered
this very letter of her mother's to Wilfrid which she had
totally forgotten to post. Wilfrid, having never received
it, had of course been at a loss to understand what his
sister meant by imploring him to answer it, and hence
his next letter to his mother had naturally led her to
think that he had nothing to say in his defence.

Oh Ethel ! let that be a warning to you to be more
careful in future,' cried Mrs. Oakburne. 'Oh what a
weight is off my head!' And there was more embracing
on the part of the two ladies.

Harmony being thus fully restored between the
trio, Wilfrid told them of his visit to Mr. Simcox,
of his having seen Lois at the theatre, and of his
intention to try and find her in London, all of which,
as it may be supposed, greatly relieved and pleased poor
Mrs. Oakburne and Ethel. They in their turn told how
the Rector had called to try and ascertain whether
through Wilfrid any clue could be got as to Lois's whereabouts,
and of how the miserable imputation on the
young fellow had thus first reached them, and how
wretched it had made them. As they sat thus, eagerly
talking and explaining, the afternoon had slipped away
when Wilfrid suddenly remembered that he had meant
to go to the Elkfields. Was it not too late ? Well if it
was, for once he would risk a breach of the convenances,
and his mother and sister, guessing the cause of his

anxiety, bade him go. They had agreed that as he was
bent on returning to town the next day, it was just as
well he should start late that night as early next morning,
so leaving them to make whatever further arrangements
were necessary for his departure he hurried off to pay his
visit.

But for the quarrel now so happily reconciled and the
delay it had occasioned, Wilfrid would have had the
opportunity of a tete a tete with Miss Elkfield, which
would probably have materially altered the course of his
life. Beatrice had stopped at home on purpose to see
him. She was really fond of him, fonder than she knew,
and the sight of his unhappy face and the dread that she
had been judging him harshly and unjustly had filled her
with a tender compunction that, had Wilfrid been thereto
plead his own cause, would have gone far to win him
the prize he coveted so much. She waited patiently in
the house, neglecting a rehearsal for some most exciting
private theatricals in which she was to play a leading
part, and anxiously did she listen for the knock and ring
which should announce the arrival of the lover whom
she had begun to reproach herself with having treated so
badly. But it was not to be. The short afternoon
changed to twilight, and still Wilfrid Oakburne never
came. It was only when Beatrice had been obliged to
give him up in despair and to go and adorn herself for
the reception of Walter Chessington and his uncle, that
the banging of the house door told her that the laggard
had come too late. ' What a silly time to call ! ' was all
Miss Elkfield remarked as she saw on the hall table the
piece of pasteboard which Wilfrid had left in token of
his visit, and she sang unusually well, and was remarkably
lively and agreeable to their guests that evening.

Everything is against me,' said poor Wilfrid, as he

turned from the door after delivering his card, and learnt
that the ladies had gone to dress for dinner. ' Something
tells me this was my last chance of winning Beatrice,' and
he stood and took a last look at the house with its lights
glimmering cheerfully through the murky air.

He had -a very dismal journey that night. He could
not sleep, and spent most of the time in brooding over
his injuries and ill-fortune till the train at last glided
into the terminus towards the dawn of a dull January
morning. The porters and the cabman were all half
asleep, the deserted streets were slushy with half-melted
snow, and the gas lamps were paling in the growing daylight.
All was cold, desolate, and wretched, and on
arriving at his lodgings, he found of course that he was
not expected, and that Mrs. Hollis was consequently
somewhat sulky at being roused to receive him. None
of his fellow lodgers, she said, were likely to return for a
week or ten days, though Mr. Karl was of course still
there, 'a getting' better slowly, Mr. Oakburne sir, but
wants a deal of nursing' yet, the doctor says.' Wilfrid
felt thoroughly tired and miserable, and, rejecting the
landlady's offers of refreshment, was glad to turn into.
Norton's room, his own still being occupied by the
German.

CHAPTER XVI.

In which Mr. Karl receives important news from
Germany.

Sauntering hither on listless wings,

Careless vagabond of the sea,

Little thou eldest the surf that sings,

The bar that thunders, the shale that rings,—

Give me to keep thy company.

Little thou hast, old friend, that's new,
Storms and wrecks are old things to thee ;
Sick am I of these changes, too ;
Little to care for, little to rue,—
I on the shore, and thou on the sea.

Lazily rocking on ocean's breast,

Something in common, old friend, have we ;

Thou on the shingle, seek'st thy nest,

I to the waters look for rest—

I on the shore, and thou on the sea.— Bred Harte.

Bring his fellow-lodgers' absence Theodore
Hoffbauer had been steadily getting the better

mam f the brain fever which had so nearly proved
fatal to him. The struggle had left him very weak, and,
though he was now allowed to see visitors for short
periods, the doctor still forbad much excitement and all
exposure to cold and fatigue. He had not been left
quite alone, for Madam Ledru had been frequently to
see him, but with this exception no one else had called,
and the chief companion of his convalescence had been

the landlady's little girl ' Battie,' of whom, said her
mother, ' Mr. Karl did take a deal of notice.' He pleased
himself with imagining that he was perfecting himself in
his study of English by his conversations with the child,
from whom he certainly picked up a good many words,
though these were not always pronounced with that
correctness of accent which professors of the language
require from their pupils, — and many curious idiomatic
phrases, of which he might have remained long in ignorance,
under the teaching of one more cultivated. All
these it was his wont to write out carefully in a book
which was shewn many years afterwards to the present
writer, who found it full of phrases like the following : —

l A bobee ; a member of the corps of police. '

1 Tip; a geschenk of small moneys often given
to "bees," u. s. v.'

Shuck farthing ; a game of hazard of the English
poor man.'

1 Punch or pons ; this word means n. s. the pons
what you think which smelt gut; 2. the pons with
Judy, the marionettenspiel (play) of the sheets ; 3.
pons (verbum), to back (schlegel) with the fist.'

The study of a difficult language is not, however, a
very lively recreation for an invalid unless he be of a
very studious turn, which HofTbauer was not, and it maybe
imagined that, having no companions and very few
books, he found the hours hang heavy on his hands.
He was, therefore, agreeably interested when Battie one
morning, some two or three days before Wilfrid's return,
brought him on his breakfast tray a bulky letter bearing the
postmark of Halle, his native town. As he hardly
ever now heard from Germany he felt curious as
to its contents, so having made the little maiden

happy by the present of the postage stamps, he dismissed
her and began eagerly to read his budget while he eat his
breakfast. The frequent pauses he made during the
meal, the changes which passed over his expressive face,
the strange ejaculations he gave vent to, and the deep
reverie into which he fell when he ended its perusal, all
bore witness to the interesting nature of its contents.
As therefore these had the most important influence, not
only on his own fortunes, but also on those of all
the personages who figure in this history, it will be
advisable to impart them at once to the reader.

The letter, which was from Hoffbauer's father, began
with expressions of regret at their separation from each
other at the glad season of Christmas, and anxious
enquiries as to his son's health and prospects. Then,
after stating that he enclosed a present of a sum of
money which he wished were larger, but which he still
hoped would prove acceptable, the writer went on to say
that, he now felt it right to make certain disclosures
which he had hitherto kept secret from him. 'Did I
entertain any hope,' he wrote, 'that I should ever again
enjoy the happiness of talking to my dear son face to face,
I should hesitate to do this. But alas ! Theodore, thou
knowest that I am now old and of weak health. Thy
offences against the Government must make thee for
many years to come an exile, and even were it otherwise,
thy stepmother, worthy but misguided woman, will not
endure thy presence in our house, while her children
claim the greater part of my fortune. I have resolved
therefore, after much thought, to tell thee some facts
regarding thy dear mother which might perhaps prove of
use, — though as to that I cannot speak with any certainty,
■ — but which at all events it is right and fitting that thou
as a son, should'st know.' His father then proceeded to

explain that there had been a mystery connected with the
birth of Mina Hoffbauer, Theodore's mother, who had,
as it appeared, been born in Paris, in 1788, and thereon
the death of her mother, had been adopted under
peculiar circumstances by Theodore's father. In proof
of these facts the writer enclosed, together with certain
certificates, letters, and papers, a carefully written
statement by Theodore's grandfather of the causes which
led him to adopt the little Mina when not much more
than six months old. This document, which it is
necessary that the reader should examine for himself, ran
as follows : —

I, Richard Hoffbauer, merchant, residing at No. 4,
the Hauptgarten Halle am Saale, have thought it my
duty herein fully to recount all the events relating to
my adoption of Mina Chessington, now Mina Hoffbauer,
and the wife of my son Karl Richard Hoffbauer.

During the years 1787, 1788, and part of 1789, my
business drew me to Paris, where I resided in a lodging
over the shop of a gunsmith named Rovelli in the Rue
de Basfroid. This Rovelli, who was partly Italian and
only French by the mother's side, was a wealthy man and
had also a business as a jeweller in the Rue de Richelieu.
His wife would have had him live there, but he was a very
timid man, and thinking it wiser to reside where there
was an abundance of weapons than where there was
plenty to tempt thieves, he would not humour Madam, a
brave, honest, little woman, comely in face, but somewhat
stern in manner, for she belonged to the reformed faith,
which indeed drew us together, that being my own
religion. I got in time to be very intimate with my
landlord and his wife, who had but one little boy, whom
I used to pet a good deal so that he became very fond
of me. In the summer of 1 788, — I remember it was just

before the minister Neckar was recalled, and the French
parliament re-established, — our party was increased by
the arrival of Madam's sister, the Mademoiselle Estelle
Leon. Before she came Madam used often to speak with
pride and affection of her beauty and good qualities, and
would say to me : — 'Ah! Monsieur HofTbauer ! Estelle
would make a nice wife for thee !' for she knew I was
well-to-do, and would, I think, have much liked to have me
for a brother-in-law. But this would not do, for I was
in the first place betrothed to a maiden in my own
native country, and further, it turned out that
Mademoiselle herself could not be a party, for she
declared she was already married ! This Mademoiselle
Estelle had been in England with a great family, and
had not for some two years seen her sister. They were
daughters of a French officer, now some time dead, who
had been compelled to leave his profession in great
poverty, and while the elder had provided for herself by
this rich marriage (which her father, who was descended
from an old family, had only agreed to on account of his
want of money), the younger had been teaching for her
living in England. It was this question of the marriage
of Mademoiselle which led to so much sorrow, and
eventually to my adopting the little Mina. It became
evident soon to all of us, that she was about to become
a mother, which made me understand why she had
always been so particular to insist that I should style her
Madam Chessington ; though her sister, Madam Rovelli,
would frown when she heard me call her so, and once
said to her, loud enough for me to hear : — " You know
you have no right to that name ! ' which made the poor
lady blush, and the tears come into her eyes. I could
see that all was not happy between the sisters, and there

Q

were often tears and upbraiding between them, while
the manner of Madam Rovelli grew sterner than ever.
That of her sister was very gentle and composed, with a
dignified sadness that was very touching, and she was,
without doubt, very beautiful. Well, the year drew on,
and with it, as all know, the troubles of France increased.
The democrats grew ever more violent, and changes were
more and more talked of, so that Rovelli and other
traders began to grow anxious. I myself also began to
feel that I should do well to think of returning to Halle,
but I determined for the sake of my business to remain
as long as it was safe to do so.

On the night of Christmas, 1 788, Madam Chessington —
as she would style herself, poor soul — gave birth to a
little daughter, no other than Mina, who is now the wife
of my son Karl. She was christened by that name, as is
shewn in the certificate of baptism which accompanies
this. I could see that Madam Rovelli was very grieved
at this time, though I did not then know why. She
grew very silent and grave, and it was easy to see that
she had something on her mind. So the time passed,
and the baby throve, and her mother recovered, till in
the month of May the great Revolution began. Though
there was no violence at first, prudent men soon began
to ask each other after the meeting of the estates on the
5th of the month, what was to be the end of it all?
When King Louis took his seat on the throne all
the deputies rose and covered themselves, — they who in
old times had been used to speak only on their knees,
and remain uncovered. Then this Tiers eat would
not fall in with the scheme of Necker, the minister,
for establishing two chambers, and at last, after several
weeks of wrangling and conflict, declared itself the

'National Assembly,' and all taxes not voted by it
illegal ! All this made us traders feel very apprehensive,
and Rovelli spoke constantly of moving with all he
possessed to Milan where he had friends and kinsmen.
Then came the famous 'Tennis Court Oath,' and the
meetings at the residence of the Duke of Orleans, the
Palais Royal, and Rovelli used to congratulate himself
thatwe did not live over the shop in the Rue de Richelieu,
near the scene of those noisy gatherings. Each day the
situation grew more alarming, till on the 1st July the
Gardes Franchises broke into mutiny, and after that
Rovelli made up his mind to fly, and managed, very
cleverly and secretly, to sell his jeweller's business after
transporting a great part of his stock to Milan. For my
part I resolved to go too, but I agreed to stay with the
family till their departure, which was fixed for the last
day of the month, for I began to feel so interested in all
that was taking place that curiosity got the better of
prudence. It was destined, however, that we should all
go much sooner than any of us anticipated.

Rovelli was so alarmed by the riot which took place
on the nth July, — when the mob, enraged by the dismissal
of Necker, and with Camille Desmoulins for a
leader, shed the first blood of the Revolution, — that he
was for leaving Paris next day. It would have been
well at least for one of our party if he had not yielded
to his wife's advice, but Madam, who was always loth, as
she said, to run away, persuaded him to remain one day
more. That evening the sisters had a very bitter
quarrel, so much so that neither would speak to the
other, and each sought their beds without saluting,
which they usually did most affectionately. Next
morning, as we were all busy making preparations for

departure, Rovelli, who had gone out as he usually did
to the Cafe' close by at the corner where the Rue St.
Bernard enters the Rue du Faubourg St. Antoine, rushed
suddenly into the room as white as a sheet—

They are coming ! quick, they are coming !' cries he
quite breathless.

Who ? ' asked we, all together, the women turning
as pale as Rovelli.

The devils ! the murderers ! the robbers ! the people,
as they call themselves ! They are breaking into all the
gunsmiths' shops ! The troops are withdrawn ! We are
lost ! ' And he stood there gesticulating wildly.

Bah ! ' cries Madam, trying to look contemptuous.
'For shame! Calm thyself! It is only a rumour.
We hear such all day.'

I tell you it is truth, fool ! ' answered her husband ina
frenzy of fear. ' The mob were moving down the Rue
de Tivoli when I left the Cafe' Faubourg but now — a
moment ago.'

Scarcely had he spoken when we heard the roar of the
advancing rioters, and that terrible sound made us all
quail, and unnerved even brave little Madam Rovelli
who sat down and began to weep. I went out on to the
balcony, and there sure enough they were, that evil
rabble, making straight for the shop of Monsieur Dennis,
who, luckily for us, poor man, had a small gunsmith's
business close by at the corner of the Rue St. Bernard,
which was the continuation of our street, joining it to the
Rue du Faubourg St. Antoine. Never before or since
have I looked on such faces. Every bad passion was
written in the most of them, and fierce anger blazed in
the eyes of all. But the worst were the drunken women
who howled, and shouted, and brandished their arms.

They will not hurt us,' cried I, anxious to make the
best of things, ' if we let them take what they desire.
It is the weapons they want. Take courage, ladies ; if
we all slip round by the back way into the baker's house
next door, we shall be safe. Everything of value is put
away now. Rovelli and I will hide these boxes under
the dust-heap at the back, if you Madam, and your
sister Madame Estelle, will take the children and go
quickly.'

They saw that what I urged was best. Our next door
neighbour Monsieur Blanc, the baker, was an old friend
of Rovelli's, and the two little yards behind their houses
communicated with each other, fortunately for us.
Rovelli and I worked like horses, and in ten minutes we
had managed to hide our few remaining boxes, — for
most of those containing our property had already been
removed to Fontainbleau, — under the heap of dust and
rubbish in the yard above mentioned. We were busy
over this when Madam Rovelli with her little boy,
followed by the 'bonne' with Madam Chessington's
infant, passed through the yard and entered Monsieur
Blanc's house.

1 Where is Madam Estelle ? ' cried I.

1 She comes immediately,' replied her sister. ' Go
and call her, good Monsieur Hoffbauer, I beg ! It is
some silly papers that delay her.'

In two minutes more we had done what was necessary
to conceal our boxes, and, leaving Rovelli to take his
way to Monsieur Blanc's, I hurried back into the house,
calling ' Madam Estelle ! Madam Estelle ! ' I was only
just in time, for the mob had got what they could of
poor Monsieur Dennis' property, and our turn had
come. They were busy breaking in the door of the

shop, which we had fortunately locked, and which
was of good stout oak. Madam Chessington was still at
the top of the house. ' I come directly,' answered she,
quietly.

1 For Qod's sake be quick ! ' cried I, getting angry at
her coolness, and bounding up the stairs I met her
leisurely descending as I reached the second floor, holding
a small box bound with brass clasps in one hand and a
reticule in the other. The sound of a heavy fall,
followed by a savage yell from the mob, told us that they
had forced the door. I seized the box and thrust it into
my vest, fearing that the robbers would think it was
money, and, grasping her by the hand, hurried her down
the stairs. As we reached the ground-floor two ruffians
burst through the door which opened from the shop into
the hall. I had a pistol in my belt and, foolishly perhaps,
I grasped it half involuntarily as if to fire.

1 Ah you resist ! ' shouts one of the villains, who were
both half drunk, and, with a filthy oath, and "Vive la
Publique ! ' he made a clumsy lunge at me with a pike.
I easily avoided him, but poor Madam Chessington, whom
I strove to drag with me, was not quick enough in her
movements, and the weapon made a cruel wound in her
side. She would have fallen had I not caught her in my
arms. The russian who had wounded her overbalanced
himself in his drunken rage, and as he fell his head
luckily dashed against the corner of a table, which
rendered him senseless. Then a happy thought came tome.


Brother Citizen,' I said in a low tone to the other
robber, ' There is wine in the cupboard upstairs ; and
doubtless there is gold in the escritoire. Quick before
others arrive. Shall I show you ? '

1 Gold ! wine ! ' cries he. ' I will find them alone !
Stir not on your peril ! ' And he ran up the stairs.

Fortunately the rest of the mob were as yet too
engrossed in plundering the shop to think of the other
parts of the house, and I was able to make my escape
to Mons. Blanc's house, bearing with me Madam Estelle,
senseless and bleeding. After a time she came to herself
again, and we got a doctor as soon as the mob had done
pillaging the shop and it became safe to go abroad again.
When he had examined the wound he told us that Madam
Estelle could live but a few hours, and with that the grief
of her sister, who was already quite overcome by her condition,
became terrible. She fell on her knees by the other and
implored her forgiveness for her harshness and injustice,
till Madam Estelle at last murmured, 'I forgive thee,
dearest Sophie, most fully,' and the two wept together.
Meanwhile Rovelli was in a state of great agitation,
vowing that he would leave the city at daybreak the next
morning. This led to a stormy scene between him and
his wife, who declared that she would never desert her
sister and her little niece.

That little bastard ! ' roars Rovelli. ' Do you value
her more than your own son ! Woman, if you do not
come I leave without you ! there ! ' Cowardice had
made him brutal, though naturally he was a very kindly
man and had hitherto treated his sister-in-law and her
child with more tenderness than his wife had. Pitying
their perplexity, I volunteered to stay with Madam
Rovelli and bring her on to Fontainbleau if her
husband would await us there with the two children till
poor Madam Estelle should be laid at rest. This proposition
however so distressed the latter that even
Rovelli's selfish fear was touched. She implored her sister

not to desert her child — her little Mina. She, Estelle,
felt that she had but a few short hours to live, she said ;
and if her sister would go with her husband and her own
child and would take little Mina with her to a place of
safety, and promise never to desert her, she would give
her the greatest happiness that it was in her power to
confer. I think the poor soul mistrusted Rovelli after
she heard his speech about her child. After a great deal
of sorrowful discussion it was. at length arranged that I
should stay with Madam Estelle to the end, and that
the Rovellis, taking the two children, should set out at
noon next day for Fontainbleau, which was as yet comparatively
quiet, secure our effects, and await me there.

A more sorrowful parting than that of the sisters cannot
be imagined, Madam Estelle imploring her sister to
love and cherish her little Mina,' and the latter giving
her the most earnest assurances that she would always
treat her as her own child. At last Madam Rovelli was
forced to tear herself away, weeping as though her heart
would break, for delay was dangerous as it was rumoured
that the democrats were about to do some terrible deed.
Madam Chessington died on the night after they had
started on their journey, very peacefully, and without
much suffering. I was with her till the last, and she
charged me with many earnest messages to her sister
concerning the little Mina, and bade me particularly enjoin
her to keep carefully the box with brass clasps
which I had taken charge of when we had left the house
together on that fatal morning. It contained important
papers, she said, which she wished her sister to read and
preserve for the sake of her child.

We buried the ill-fated lady in the cemetery of Mont
Parnasse, Mons. Blanc, his wife, and myself being of

course the only people present. I arranged for a small
wooden cross with the name, * Estelle Chessington,'
which the dead lady set such store by, inscribed on it.
I have never myself visited Paris since those days, but I
am sure Monsieur Blanc would not neglect such a
matter and that he saw it duly erected. He and his
wife were most kind and worthy people, whom I should
like to meet once more. The next morning I bade them
adieu and have never heard anything of them since that
day. Poor people, they must have fared ill when the
time of famine began.

When I reached Fontainebleau I found fresh troubles
had arisen for poor Madam Rovelli. Her husband flatly
refused to have anything to do with poor little Mina,
whom he chose to call a bastard. He would not mind
paying a little, he said, but he would never take the child
into his house. He was, as I have said, naturally timid,
and was also inclined to be close-fisted, and his troubles
had quite deadened all his natural kindly feelings. At
the request of his wife I tried to argue with him, but
one might as well have argued with the trees in the forest
of Fontainbleau ; and at last, being perhaps foolishly
tender-hearted, and feeling an intense pity for the poor
helpless child and for Madame Rovelli's distress, I
offered to adopt Mina myself. Madam accepted my
proposal with a transport of gratitude I shall never forget,
telling me I was devoted, noble, generous, and I know
not what beside ; seizing both my hands, and being in a
state half tears, half laughter all the time, for she was an
excitable little personage like most who come from her
province of Gascony. Her husband, with a laugh, said
he believed she would have kissed me if he had not been
present, whereupon I made bold to raise her hand to my

lips, and told her with my best bow that I had never been
so honoured in my life before.

It was arranged that she should send me money regularly
from Milan for the child, and that I should from
time to time inform her of its progress ; and then she
confided to me the cause of the difference between her
sister and herself. The latter, it appeared, had declared
that she had been secretly married to a young English
gentleman of the name of Chessington, a lieutenant in
the army, but that the marriage had been kept carefully
concealed on account of the displeasure it would cause
her husband's father, a man of great property, very proud,
and very severe with his son. This young Chessington had
gone with his regiment to India, and when he returned,
so the poor lady used to assure her sister, all would be
well, and she would be rich and a great lady. But alas !
there was absolutely no proof of this fine marriage ! Her
husband, said Madam Estelle, mistrusted women's ways
and was afraid of his father's anger, and therefore he
kept the marriage certificate himself. Poor child ! she
was very simple ! All that she had to shew were two or
three love-letters signed by this English lieutenant, a
locket he had given her containing his hair with
Estelle Chessington engraved upon it, and a picture of
him. She remembered indeed the name of the place
she was married at, and that the only other person
present at the ceremony besides the clergyman — (a vulgar,
stupid man, she said the latter was) — was the
servant of her husband, a soldier named Bolton. The
name of the place was Colthole in the county of
Hillshire, she thought, and the church stood on a hill by
itself, far away from all houses. I often searched in
English maps for such a place but always in vain.

Madam Estelle had never heard again from this Lieutenant
Chessington, though she wrote more than once to
him from Paris to the address he had given her in
India, nor did Madam Rovelli ever hear anything again
about him. It was therefore but too easy to conclude
that the marriage was a false one, and that the heartless
young officer deserted her. Such things, as all the
world knows, and shame be it said, are but too common.
Rovelli was as delighted as his wife at my decision, and
lavished so many fulsome epithets on me that I at last
grew angry, for his cowardice and selfishness irritated me.
However, I took Mina and her bonne with me to Halle,
and Madam Rovelli gave me the birth certificate but
kept for herself the letters, the locket, and the portrait
of the English lieutenant. She secretly hoped, poor
woman, that her husband would relent some day, or that
she might survive him and so get back the little maiden
into her charge. Parting with her was a bitter trial, not
only to her tender heart, but to her conscience, for she
was perhaps over scrupulous, and had been always
excessively fond of the child's mother, her severity
towards whom she never ceased to reproach herself with.
When I reached Halle with a bonne and an infant
there was, as may be supposed, a good deal of railing
and some scandal making, among my friends and
acquaintances, but my wife, though she might well
have fought shy of me, and declined to abide by our
betrothal, never doubted my version of the story, (and
the good God knows it is true every word), for one
moment — may heaven reward her for her loving belief
in me ! When we were married, two months after my
return, the child and her nurse came into the household
as part of the family, on which Hans Schneider made a

vastly humorous joke about beginning the married state
with a nurse and a baby ready-made. But I forgive the
poor fool for I know he did not really doubt me, and he
was ever an amusing fellow over a seidel of beer.

Regularly, four times a year, I received from Madam
Rovelli remittances for Mina's maintenance with earnest
enquiries as to her well-being, all of which were duly
acknowledged, and duplicates of my receipts for the
money are placed with this paper. When, however,
Mina was twelve years old these payments suddenly
ceased towards the end of the year; and, though
I wrote four or five times to Madam Rovelli, I
never heard again from her, and the last time my
letter was returned unopened. I conclude from this
that that lady either died suddenly, or departed from
Milan, and that her husband, who never liked the poor
child, stopped the payments. I cannot believe that anything
but the strongest compulsion would have caused
her to discontinue her contribution towards Mina's
bringing up, for she was a most affectionate, as well as a
very conscientious and religious woman. When Mina
grew to eighteen years of age she formed an attachment
to my son Karl, who was more than a year her junior,
and some four years after they were married. I was
careful to have the marriage certificate made out in the
name of Mina Chessington, as she was baptized, though
I am bound to declare that I doubt her title to the surname.


I have signed this statement in presence of a notary,
though I am aware it is not worded exactly in the language
or form which the law prescribes. I have, however,
preferred to write it with my own hand, instead of entrusting
it to one of the legal profession, because I desire that

my son Karl, whom it chiefly concerns, should learn
from me, as plainly and fully as I can state the matter,
how and why I was led to adopt into my family his
present wife, Mina Hoffbauer, and that he may judge
for himself what right she has to that surname of Chessington
which she bore previous to her marriage.

I, the said Richard HorTbauer, having been duly
sworn on the Holy Evangelists by John Schreibmeister,
Notary Public, do hereby solemnly declare that all that
I have here written is true, and contains nothing but the
truth. In witness whereof, I have hereto set my hand
and seal, this 14th June, 182 1.

Signed, sealed, and delivered, by the said Richard
Hoffbauer, in the presence of us : —

John SchreibiMEIster, Notary Public, of 2 Krone
Plats, Halle.

William Mayer, Clerk of the above John Schreib-
meister, of 6 Kleinesaale, Strasse, Halle.

The certificates which were enclosed with the above
curious document were : that of the baptism of Mina
Chessington, there described as the ' daughter, aged six
weeks, of George Chessington, Gentleman, a lieutenant
in the — rest. of foot of H. M. the King of Great Britain
and Ireland, and of Estelle Chessington his wife ' ; and
also that of her marriage, (in which the lady's parentage
was stated in the same words), to Karl Richard Hoffbauer,
son of Richard Hoffbauer, of the firm of Hoffbauer
& Son, of Halle am Saale, and of Theodora, his wife.
There were also some dozen duplicates of receipts for
money received from Madam Rovelli together with the
letters written by her from Milan which had accompanied
such remittances. Theodore's father concluded his letter

by saying that he had often discussed this matter with
his own father, Richard Hoffbauer, both before and after
the latter had drawn out his statement, and that he
himself quite concurred in the view that Mina Chessington
was in all probability the natural daughter of the
ill-fated Estelle Leon, whose marriage to George
Chessington must have been a mock ceremony gone
through for the purpose of deceiving the poor lady.
Nevertheless,' said the writer in conclusion, ' it is always
possible that you being in England, which after all is buta
small place, might find out something in the matter
which might prove of benefit to yourself. With the
earnest hope that this may indeed be so, and with great
love, and best wishes for thy welfare, my son whom I
long so much to behold, I am ever, Theodore, thy
affectionate father,

Karl Richard Hoffbauer.'

The reader will not be surprised to hear that the reading
of this correspondence considerably interested Theodore
Hoffbauer, and perhaps for a time raised his pulse
higher than Dr. Block would have thought desirable.
He could just remember his grandfather, the Richard
Hoffbauer who had been in Paris at the commencement
of the French Revolution, as a tall, spare, bent old man,
whose sparse white hair was usually covered by a velvet
cap, and whose knee breeches and buckles had been the
object of his youthful admiration. But he knew him
better by his portrait, taken at the time when he was a
young man of thirty, and which hung in the dining-room
opposite to that of his wife, Theodora Hoffbauer, (done
when she was a fresh, blushing young woman of twenty),
the grandmother whom he was named after, but had never

seen. Perhaps, as he said to himself with a laugh, he had
inherited his revolutionary tendencies from the effect
which this episode in his grandfather's life had had on
the latter ! His mother, who of course had been kept
in ignorance of the history of her parentage, had for that
very good reason talked but little to her son on the
subject. She had been always told, when she asked the
curious questions which children will, that her father
was an English officer, and her mother a French lady,
and that both of them had died when she was still quite
a baby. These facts she had repeated to her son Theodore,
but more than this she had never heard, nor, as she
grew up amid the circle of her adopted parents, relatives
and friends, had she ever cared to make further enquiries.
She had no memories of the past in connection with
those other parents who were quite unknown to her.
Her first recollections had been of Halle, and with them
she was naturally quite satisfied. Richard Hoffbauer,
whom she called father, had never even told her of
Madam Rovelli, for she had been too young to understand
the matter at the time when the correspondence
between them ceased.

To her son Theodore, therefore, this sudden disclosure
of the history of her parentage came with considerable
force. It is true that he had pretty well outlived the age
of sentiment, and that it did not affect him at forty years
of age, — when our deceased grandmother, apart from
property which may be inherited from her, has usually
ceased to have much hold on our strongest affections, —
as it might perhaps have done at eighteen. Still the
feeling of interest in our near belongings is one that
somehow survives a good many of our other natural instincts,
and it interested him to think that there was just

the chance that he might be able to find out additional facts
which would solve conclusively the question of his grandmother's
legitimacy, and that in so doing he might perhaps
'find out something,' as his father said, 'which
might prove of benefit ' to him. The point which
naturally struck him most was the odd coincidence that
his reputed grandfather, George Chessington, should
have borne the same name as the man he had
saved at Frankfort and who had now in turn helped him.
For a moment it occurred to him that he might write and
mention this fact to Walter ; but he soon found himself
laughing heartily at the idea. That he, an outcast such
as Walter knew him to be, should presume on their slight
acquaintance so far as to claim a kinship which would
most probably turn out to be one on the wrong side of
the blanket amused him excessively. After all
Chessington was not such a very uncommon name, and
there might be plenty of families who bore it in England.
He remembered now that there was a grocer called
Chessington whose shop was just opposite the Rev. Mr.
Caneby's Academy at Ealing, where he used to teach
German to the junior classes. No ; he would wait and
think it over, and take some one's advice, — Frederica's
perhaps, but some Englishman's would be better, —
and then see what could be done. After all, as he said
to himself, it was a matter of but little moment to him.
All his life he had been a restless wanderer, a bird of
passage most at home when the sea was roughest and
storms were brewing ; why should he care for relationships
and genealogies at his time of life !

The next few days, however, he found himself thinking
over the matter a good deal though without much result.
fie read his grandfather's statement over and over again

till he had quite mastered all the facts it contained, and
having, through Battie, procured an atlas and made sure
of the position of Hillshire in England, he searched
laboriously for Collhole or Colehole. That he failed
to find the place thus referred to was not to be
wondered at considering there is no such village
in Hillshire, or, so far as the writer is aware, in
England, but his failure nevertheless rather disappointed
him. Frederica, for some reason or other,
was at this time prevented from coming to see him, so
that he was unable to take counsel with her on the matter;
but soon a new turn was given to his thoughts by the
intercourse which, after Wilfrid Oakburne's return, began
to spring up between the latter and himself.

Wilfrid rose somewhat late after his journey, breakfasted
somewhere about noon, and in short passed
rather a lazy day. By the time that the growing
darkness of the evening had rendered it necessary
to light the candles and make up the fire, he
felt rather tired of his own society; and, not being inclined
to read, either for improvement or pleasure, he
bethought him of paying Mr. Karl a visit. 'We are
companions in misfortune,' said he to himself; for he was
very miserable and depressed as the reader knows, and
his melancholy had not been improved by being alone
all day. So presently Hoffbauer was surprised from a
doze into which he had fallen by the entry of Mrs.
Hollis, with the announcement that Mr. Oakburne
wanted to see him. ' One of my gentlemen who is
lodging here,' explained the landlady, in answer to his
astonished enquiry who ' Oakbunn ' was. ' They've all
enquired after you a good deal, Mr. Karl, as I have told

you sir ; and they have sent you fruits and wine, and
such like sir. very often.'

'Himmel! Is it so ! They are very good!' replied
the invalid, who heard the last part of her information for
the first time. ' Let him enter, pray,' and he rose and
saluted Wilfrid with his best bow. '

The first visit was of course marked by rather an awkward
stiffness. Hoffbauer greeted his visitor with much
cordiality, as * Oakbunn,' thanking him for ' your most
obliging kindness during my sick health.'

Then Wilfrid of course hoped he was ' getting all right
again now ;' to which Hoffbauer, feeling he was at home
in this sort of dialogue, replied, ' very well, I sank you.
Most better now. All right again soon, you know j and
all sat.'

After Wilfrid's remark that 'we have been having
unusually severe weather this winter,' had been assented
to by Hoffbauer, and the latter, proud of his knowledge
of the art of English conversation, had advanced the
opinion that ' ze state of politics by ze east is very anxious
for England. War is on the verge of outbursts, I
think,' a very long pause had succeeded Wilfrid's agreement
with this profound observation. Then it happily
occurred to the latter to ask Theodore if he cared
about reading, and, on his replying in the affirmative,
he volunteered to lend him 'Vanity Fair.' With
that wonderful book Hoffbauer was as much delighted
as most of its readers have been, and he was
almost equally pleased with the study of Pickwick,
to which Oakburne afterwards introduced him. These
two books he declared, taught him far more English than
ail his ' urammatique and phraseology,' and their discussions
on them and on the peculiarities of our language

and manners soon served to make them more at home
with each other. Owing to various causes both
Throckmorton and Norton put off their return to Poul-
ford Street, and Beverley Chipps, who came back a couple
of days after Wilfrid, was so engrossed with a new, and
most important literary work that he was away everyday
and all day. Thus it fell out that Oakburne and
Theodore Hoffbauer saw a good deal of each other at
this time. The latter, accustomed to mix with all sorts
of men, and naturally of a cheery and volatile disposition,
was pleased and touched by Wilfrid's kindness in sending
him little comforts and coming to see him in his sickness,
and soon managed to make himself very pleasant to him.
Wilfrid for his part was agreeably surprised to find that
Mr. Karl ' was so much of a gentleman, and found
himself listening with a good deal of interest and
amusement to the accounts he now and then gave of the
varied experiences of his wandering life, and thus, as
has been said, the friendship between the two gradually
became closer and more confidential. In this way it came
about that owing to a certain unexpected little trouble that
befell Wilfrid Oakburne, Hoffbauer was led to consult
the latter with regard to the information which had been
communicated to him from Halle. The causes which
led to this confidence, and how Wilfrid received it, must
however be made the subject of a separate chapter.

CHAPTER XVII.

Complications and Confidences.

Twist ye, twine ye ! even so,
Mingle shades of joy and woe,
Hope, and fear, and peace, and strife,
In the thread of human life. — Scott.

The beck grows wider, the hands must sever,
On either margin, our songs all done,
We move apart, while she singer ever,
Taking the course of the stooping sun.

Glitters the dew and shines the river,
Up comes the lily and dries her bell ;
But two are walking apart for ever,
And wave their hands for a mute farewell.

Jean Angelo.

T was chiefly in the evening that Wilfrid
paid his visits to Hoffbauer, for he was now
working very hard to try and gain a certain
prize medal granted by the Hospital authorities,
which had long been the object of his ambition.
He therefore devoted the greater part of his time to
reading, and such leisure as he had he employed in trying
to ascertain the whereabouts of Lois Simcox, whose
father he kept duly informed of the result of his efforts.

These were at first by no means successful. To begin
with, he did not know under what name she was acting,
for though he had preserved the playbill of the piece in
which he had seen her, it gave him no further information
then the fact that the parts of the members of the
Princess' suite, in which Lois had figured, had been performed
by some dozen young women with remarkably
high sounding names. In order, however, that he might
leave no stone unturned, he determined to make enquiries
at the theatre about the girl who bore the least pretentious
of these,— a certain Amelia Jenkins, who also
appeared in the bill of the new piece which had replaced
the burlesque.

He therefore went one afternoon to the ' Momus,' and
after losing his way in various dark passages, and after
one or two fruitless enquiries, he was at last told that
perhaps Mr. Isaackk could give him the information he
wanted. He was therefore shewn into the dingy little
sanctum of that gentleman, a Hebrew youth of about
twenty, dressed in the height of fashion, who informed
him that Amelia Jenkins was a ' lady super' and was at
present playing tone of the ' lady butterflies ' in the
pantomime of Little Queen Topsy and Harlequin Prince
Survey ; or the Gorgeous Home of the Golden Butterflies,
and that's about all as I can tell you,' added he.

Wilfrid explained that he wasn't sure whether Amelia
Jenkins was the person he wanted to see. He was
making enquiries for a girl who had left her friends, and
who, he knew, had been acting at the ' Momus ' some
months before.

1 Left her friends ! oh ah ! that vay. I see now.
Why didn't yer say so before;' and the Hebrew, who
was not an ill-natured fellow, then suggested that, as

there was a rehearsal coming off in a quarter-of-an-hour,
Wilfrid should take his stand in the passage, where he
would see the corps de bale file past him. 'I don't
think you'll find it's Amelia Jenkins,' remarked Mr. Isaackk.
I don't think she ever had no friends to leave, leastways
she must have left 'em a precious long time back.'

Wilfrid willingly agreed to this proposition, and resigned
himself to listening patiently to Mr. Isaackk, who rattled
away with great affability about the 'profession,' the 'fair
sex,' and ' society,' till a dirty boy tapped at the door and
shouted, ' Isaackk wanted.' Then arming himself with a
big key, and carefully dusting his boots with his handkerchief,
he led the way to a recess at the end of a long
dark passage, terminated by a closed door, outside which
a great deal of scuffling and giggling was heard ; and the
door having been unlocked, the ' lady butterflies,' some
twenty in number, of all ages and degrees of plainness
and prettiness, streamed in.

It was soon evident that Mr. Isaackk was right in his
surmise, and that Amelia Jenkins was certainly not Lois
Sin cox.

No, she's not here,' said Wilfrid, after the last of the
5 lady butterflies' had disappeared into the 'wings;' and
after thanking Mr. Isaackk for his services, and proffering
him a douceur, which was graciously accepted, he
returned home rather disheartened by the result of his
visit.

He now determined to ask the advice of Beverley
Chipps, who had, he knew, written one or two little
things for the stage, and was therefore acquainted with
various managers.

My dear fellow,' said the latter, in reply to Wilfrid's
request for his assistance, ' my dear fellow ! let me warn

you to have nothing to do with that kind of woman. I
am your senior, and so entitled to give you advice, eh ?'

1 It is a poor girl — ,' began Wilfrid.

Pooh ! pooh ! they are all poor girls. Take my
advice. I have had experience of the world my boy.
Why, there was a man in my old office, the " Parchments
Preservations" you know, who came to most signal grief
in that way, about a poor girl' Beverley Chipps, as has
been said, had begun his career in the Civil Service.
Poor little Flattery was a very quiet good fellow too
in many ways, and his case is one out of a hundred I
know of.'

'You misunderstand me,' said Wilfrid. 'This is a
girl I used to know down at home.'

Oh ho ! ' said the latter, looking very knowing, 'that's
it, is it ! sly dog !'

No Beverley, it's nothing of the kind,' cried Wilfrid,
rather inclined to be angry, and then he explained as
fully as he thought necessary the circumstances regarding
Lois.

1 Ah well ! that perhaps rather alters the case,' said
Beverley Chipps when he had finished. ' And the part
you are taking in the matter does you credit, Oakburne.
I do happen to know the manager of the " Momus," and
if you like, we will go there together and enquire. Still
I advise you to be careful. I've lived in town, my dear
boy, since I was eighteen, and as I'm nearly five-and-thirty,
I have naturally picked up some experience.
Gad ! I remember coming up to enter the office a hearty,
fresh little chap, without a hair on my face, and as innocent
as a baby. Ah ! we were a wild lot at the " Old
Parchments," as we used to call it!' and Beverley Chipps,
whose natural kindness of heart had been but little

impaired by these not altogether improving experiences
of his youth, and who had taken a great fancy to Oak-burnt,
lighted a fresh cigar and proceeded to relate
various reminiscences of his career as a government clerk
and a literary man, till it was time to go to bed.

A few days after, true to his promise, he took Wilfrid
to the ' Momus Theatre,' and being fortunate enough to
find Mr. Vernon Trapster, the manager, at home, he
introduced him to him, and explained his errand.

Mr. Vernon Trapster, who bore a sort of distant
resemblance to Mr. Isaackk, listened patiently, though
with rather a bored air, and at last, with a rather discouraging
shake of the head, he said he feared it was
rather a hopeless business.

1 We owe you ten thousand apologies, Vernon Trapster,'
said Beverley Chipps in his best manner, 'you must
be very busy.'

'Very busy,' answered the other, — who cultivated a
lisp — very busy, very, — demeaned busy in fact,' and he
ran his fat, white hand, covered with rings, through his
curly black locks, which he wore very long. ' Can you
describe the girl ? ' he asked Wilfrid.

Wilfrid gave as clear a description as he could of the
schoolmaster's daughter.

'Ah!' said Mr. Trapster, who had listened with a
smile that showed his very white teeth to advantage.
Ah ! ye-es, grey eyes, with dark brown hair,
and marked eyebrows, — ye-es. Your description
is graphic, but er women are so much alike. But I'll see
what we can do for you.'

Then he rang a bell and summoned Mr. Isaackk, who
recognised Wilfrid by an almost imperceptible but very
very knowing wink, and an imposing ledger was brought

in, and at last Mr. Trapster after studying it attentively
in silence for some moments said : —

1 What do you say to Miss S. Lois, eh ? How does that
sound, Beverley Chipps, eh?'

1 That must be her,' cried Wilfrid eagerly.

1 You take great. interest in her, eh ?' and Trapster
smiled at Wilfrid in a way that made the latter long to
kick him, and began picking his teeth with a gold toothpick.


Yes ! I told you,' put in Beverley Chipps quickly,
1 she's the only daughter of the village schoolmaster,
where his people's place is, and the rector and all the
people in the neighbourhood take an interest in the case.'

■ My people's place, indeed !' thought Wilfrid with
amused surprise.

1 Indeed ! does 'm great credit ; very interesting,' said
the manager with a grin.

1 And what is the address ?'

1 Well, oddly enough, I see there is a note of the
address. I don't know why. Perhaps she was good-looking,
eh?'

1 Ah, you dog !' cries Wilfrid's friend in a manner
highly pleasing to this Don Juan. 'And what is it, eh?'

1 Well, here it is my good fellow. I'll write it down ;
though I daresay she's gone ages ago,' and he wrote
down, "Miss S. Lois, 21 Bede Street, Euston Road,' on a
piece of paper which he handed to Wilfrid.

Then he offered his guests a glass of sherry, and after
Beverley Chipps had duly praised the wine, ("I can't
make out how the deuce you always manage to get such
good sherry, Vernon Trapster "), and the manager had
discoursed a little on society in a way calculated to show
that he moved in the very highest circles, the pair took

their departure with many expressions of thanks to him
for his trouble.

Not at all ; charmed, I assure you said he. ' See
you at the " Helicon " to-night, Beverley, eh ?'

Not to-night. Very busy just now,' replied Wilfrid's
friend ; and, as they walked away, he explained to him
that the 'Helicon' was a literary club to which they
both belonged.

Of course his name's no more Vernon Trapster than
yours or mine is. It's Abraham Trapp. He was a son
of Miss Abraham, the great tragic actress who married
Trapp, the hairdresser in Conduit Street. He's retired
and dead long since, butl'veoften had myhaircutthereasa
youngster. You heard me praise his sherry ? miserable
rubbish, isn't it ? Of course I was obliged to. It comes
from Cobler and Bishop the great refreshment contractors
and wine merchants. Trapster's sister, who was a
great beauty by the way, married Jeremy Cobler, and so
of course our friend Vernon does his best to push the
poisonous liquor. Vernon, indeed ! Well, here we must
part,' and he made his way to his club in Pall Mall,
while Wilfrid, thanking him very heartily, went back to
his books, rejoiced by the hope that at last there was
some chance of finding Lois.

Bede Street, Euston Road, was not more than ten
minutes' walk from his own lodgings, and he found his
way there without any difficulty the following afternoon.
It was with a beating heart that he knocked at the door
of No. 21. All the way he had been rehearsing in his
mind all that he would say, and how he would greet the
poor girl whom he expected to find, and it was with a
feeling of dismay that he heard the landlady, a stout,

red-faced, honest looking woman, reply to his enquiry for
Miss S. Lois ; ' No we aunt no one of that name here.'

■ No one ? ' cried Wilfrid, ' Are you sure ? '

I ought to know,' was the answer, with a savage grin,

But have you had no one here of that name ? A
young woman, tallish, handsome ? ' and he proceeded to
give as clear a description as he could of Lois.

1 Ah ! well ! we had a young woman of that name, like
the person you means, here,' said the landlady, folding
her arms and gazing sternly at Wilfrid. ' She was here.
But she's left more than a month ago.'

Left ! and where has she gone ? I am very anxious
to find her.'

1 Oh ! ye're very anxious to find her, are you ? Well!
I can't tell you,' and she continued to examine him with
searching, and anything but amiable looks. ' She had a
baby with her, but it died,' said she.

It died ! Ah poor thing ! '

'Yes, very sad ! aunt it? I don't know where she is
though.' It was plain from the good woman's defiant
looks and short answers, that she mistrusted him, and
Wilfrid was about to go away in despair when his eye
caught sight of a card in the window, with the name of
Mrs. Skibbers on it, and the information that ' washing
and mangling was done' at No. 21.

'Is your name Skibbers?' he asked.

Yes,' was the reply, in a defiant tone. ' Do you know
anything against it ? '

No,' said Wilfrid smiling. ' I only know good of it.
There is a man of that name at Lidfield, in Hillshire,
where I live, whom I know something of.' Skibbers
was the man, as the reader may remember, who had
helped him to carry Lois to her father's house after he

had saved her from drowning, and who considered himself
under a debt to Wilfrid's father for having tended his
wife and children gratis during a dangerous attack of
scarlet fever, when the doctor had showed the family
much kindness.

1 What ! . do you come from there ? Why, that
Skibbers must be my old man's brother!' cried the landlady,
and after a little enquiry, it turned out that her
husband, who was an engine driver, was really the
brother of Wilfrid's acquaintance, and that she had often
heard the name of Oakburne favourably mentioned.
This discovery made a complete change in Mrs. Skibbers'
manner, and she asked Wilfrid to step in and told him
all she could of Lois, to whom she had evidently taken a
great liking. For a time the poor girl had supported
herself by needlework, and by acting at the theatre where
Wilfrid had seen her. Then her baby had died, which,
though it was, as Mrs. Skibbers said, perhaps a good
thing for both of them, had been a terrible sorrow to herat
first. Besides this, the manager of the theatre had
persecuted her with his addresses, — Wilfrid now saw why
Mr. Vernon Trapster had taken an interest in Lois, and
respected and liked him accordingly, — and what with
this, and grief for the death of her child, she had got so
miserable, that she had determined to leave London.
But she would not tell her landlady where she was going.
She dreaded meeting her father, she told the latter, and
could not bring herself to face him. She had said she
would go into the country, but without specifying where,
and had promised to write to Mrs. Skibbers. ' You see
sir,' said the latter, 'we was very good friends, what with
her coming from my old man's country and that. And
I was with her when she buried her baby in the swimmingly,

poor thing, and promised to look at the grave sometimes.
Besides which I liked the girl for herself. I had
a daughter once — just like her — went wrong the same —
and — poor lass, she threw herself into the canal.'

1 Poor thing ! '

That's twelve years ago ! ' said the mother, drawing
the back of her rough red hand across her eyes. ' Twelve
years ! but I aunt likely to forget it ! But Lois is very
good — better than most. Not like my poor little Jinny,
who was always a wild little thing. Ah ! he must have
been a regular bad 'un who ruined Lois ! '

You are right ! ' cried Wilfrid fiercely. * He must
have been a thorough-paced villain ! ' and then he told
Mrs. Skibbers of the sufferings poor Lois' father had
gone through, and how he was trying for his sake to seek
her out. 'You will tell me if you do hear anything, Mrs.
Skibbers, won't you?' said he. ' This is my address. 1

That I will,' she replied, taking the card he gave, and
the two parted very good friends.

Hst, Hst ! ' he heard, as he was walking moodily
down the street, and turning, he saw Mrs. Skibbers running
after him.

I say ! ' said she, when she had recovered her breath,
I say ! you didn't want to know where she was afore
she came to me, did you ? '

1 Well, I don't know. Perhaps it might be of use.'

Ah ! well I can't tell you that neither,' replied the
good lady.

Then I am sorry you took the trouble to run after
me,' said Wilfrid.

'Look here!' said she, drawing him aside, and speaking
in a whisper, ' Look here ! It's this ! You're quite on
the square, aunt you ? You mean fair to the girl, don't

you ? I don't know anything about you, sir, asking your
pardon. You might be the man who ruined her for all
I know ! You don't mean harm to Lois, now, do you?'

For a moment Wilfrid felt a little angry, but the recollection
of the construction that all he had had to do
with her at first put on his conduct speedily checked
any such inclination. ' You have a right to be suspicious
Mrs. Skibbers,' he said, ' and your question is natural
enough. If it will satisfy you I will swear most solemnly
that I only want to restore Lois to her father. I have a
great esteem for her. I'm not ashamed to say I
regard her as a friend. I'll swear it if it will ease your
mind.'

1 No, no ! ' cried the good woman. ' No, no ! I'll believe
you without that! you're a good feller, sir! excuse me!
Give me your hand ! Anything I can help you with, I
will,' and without waiting for an answer she grasped his
hand in her big fist, and then walked rapidly back to her
house.

Wilfrid could not help laughing as he resumed his
way, after watching for a moment the massive figure of
Mrs. Skibbers sail down the street with a see-saw action
that reminded him of an old-fashioned three-decker going
into port on a rough sea, and he went home well satisfied
with the result of his visit.

When he woke next morning and thought over his
interview with Mrs. Skibbers, it seemed still more satisfactory,
and he resolved that he would write at once to
Mr. Simcox, and tell him that at last there was a hope of
finding his daughter. He dressed and went down,
feeling in better spirits than he had been for a longtime.


He would be able to restore Lois to her father, he felt

pretty confident of gaining the prize medal, and by the
end of the spring he would have completed his course
and be qualified to write M.D. after his name. Then he
would settle down at Lidfield, where his reputation must
ere long be cleared up, and then Beatrice would — but at
this point his pleasant schemes were interrupted by the
entry of Mrs. Hollis with his breakfast and a letter.

'A nice morning, sir!' said she. 'We shall have Mr.
Norton and Mr. Throckmorton back by end of the week,
sir. I say it's always more cheerful when all-my gentlemen's
here together, sir.' Thegood woman wasquite pleased
to see Mr. Oakburne, who had been, as she informed
Mr. Karl, ' a bit low like, I think, sir,' of late, in such
good spirits.

It is a very nice morning, Mrs. Hollis. Thank you, I
shall be glad to see them back,' and he proceeded to read
his letter.

It was from his sister Ethel, and, after some tender
enquiries about himself, and affectionate messages from
his mother, — for both the ladies just now regarded Wilfrid
as a martyr, who required to be petted and comforted, —
it went on to say that Reginald, from whom they had
lately heard, was coming home on leave, and was going
to spend some time on the continent before returning to
England. Then followed a budget of local gossip, the
details of which Wilfrid, having plenty of work before
him, read rather hurried), till his attention was suddenly
aroused by the last paragraph of the letter.

1 And now, dear Wilfrid,' said the writer, ' prepare
yourself for a great piece of news. Beatrice Elkfield,
your old flame, is going to be married to — whom do you
think ? Well, Mr. Walter Chessington, our future member
as I may call him, for everyone now says his election

is certain. They are to be married directly after it is
decided, and it is not improbable that / may be asked to
be a bridesmaid. It has been coming on for a long time.
/ saw it ages ago. I'm sure it is a very good match for
both in a worldly point of view, and of course that is
important, and they seem very happy. How fearfully
proud the Elkfield people will be ! — at least Mr. Elkfield
will. Mere nobodies mamma says they were forty years
ago. I know you used to admire Beatrice once, but I'm
glad to think you've got over it, for though she is my
friend, and I am fond of her in a way, I have always
thought her a great flirt.'

A bitter pang went through V/ilfrid's heart as he flung
down the letter and went to the window. Married !
Beatrice, whom he remembered almost since he could
remember anything, going to be married ! and to "Walter
Chessington ! a stranger almost ! It seemed only the
other day, that she called him Wilfrid again, and asked
him to come and see them and made him hope. . . .
and now she has passed from him for ever ! Going to be
married to Walter Chessington !

The sun seems to have clouded over suddenly, though
the passers by in the street do not perceive it, and are
commenting on the unwonted brilliancy and warmth of
its light. Perhaps it is the mist that rises in his eyes, ashe
stands there gazing out at the human stream which is
beginning to flow down the thoroughfare. He is not
conscious of the wayfarers passing before him, or of the
thousand sounds that tell that the great city is astir and
that the business of life has begun again. What is it all
to him ! He stands at the window in a sort of waking
dream . A thousand reminiscences of Beatrice,
her ways, her looks, her voice, flash on his memory ashe

realises with a sense of dull hopeless pain that now all
his planning, hoping, and longing, must cease for ever.
He had never known till now how much' he had loved
her, and what a precious possession his castle in the air
had grown to be to him. Does anyone indeed ever
thoroughly love or value things or people in this world,
till the sense of injury aroused when they are taken from
them, makes the worth of the lost treasure apparent, or,
as sometimes happens, raises it above its true standard ?
Wilfrid's castle in the air, at all events, was ruthlessly
shattered now, and for a time his mind seemed to have
no room for anything but the contemplation of its destruction.


Ho there, Battie ! ' cried a loud voice outside.
Battie, my poets please bring. Quickly my child if it
please you, with my goat also ;' and Mr. Karl's demands,
given from the top of the kitchen stairs, for these and
other articles of clothing, roused Oakburne to the fact
that he could not afford to spend the day in regretful
reverie, and he sat down and tried to eat his breakfast.
But it was no good. The bread seemed like sawdust,
the butter nasty, the tea undrinkable ; and he gave up
the attempt in disgust. It was time to go to the Hospital,
and after all work was the best consoler, and so he
went off to St. Christopher's.

In spite of his efforts to banish it, however, the feeling
of depression weighed on him throughout the day, and
in the evening, after a cheerless dinner alone at a restaurant,
he determined to try and divert his thoughts by a
visit to Hoffbauer. The German whom he found reclining
on his sofa with a heap of papers on the table near
him, and enjoying his usual evening cigar, gave him a
hearty welcome, but though Oakburne did his best to bes



lively and cheerful, his friend soon saw that he was evidently
in low spirits.

I have been reading poetry, Vilfrid,' said he, after
an unusually long pause. ' The poetry of Schiller. Ah
how grand ! But you English — you do not understand
poetry ! no ! '

We have our poets,' said Wilfrid, scarce knowing what
he said.

'Ah yes, Shakespeare ! I know ! But you do not
understand him as we Germans do ! And you have no
Schiller, no Goethe ! nothing like them in England ! no !
I have been reading Der Touched. The " Diver " of
Schiller. It is glorious ! night war ? ' and Hoffbauer began
declaiming the lines in his powerful base voice : —

Wool short man die Branding, wool kehrt sie struck ;
Sie verkiindigt der donnernde Shall ;
Da bttckt such's hunter mit lie ben dem Black.
Es kommen, es kommen die Masser all,
Sie rauschen herauf, sie rauschen niece,
Den Jingling bring keines wider.'

Wilfrid knew the poem well. ' His was not an uncommon
fate ' said he in a tone that made the other stare
at him. 'It is the lot of many ! Failure is the fruit of
their best efforts, and they are generally made for a prize
not worth the winning.' I have dived for my prize and,
like the page in the legend, have been drowned in the
whirlpool, and the prize I strove for was no prize at
all, was of course what the young "fellow really meant by
this remarkable speech.

What is this then my young free', Vilfrid ? ' says the
other, half-amused, and half-surprised. * What fails thee
now, then, my boy?' and he rose and laid j his hand
kindly on Oakburne's shoulder.

1 It's nothing. I am out of sorts, that's all,' said Wilfrid,
trying to rouse himself.

1 Tell me. Thou hast heard ze pad news ? The tailor
or the footman (he meant the shoemaker) shall pursue
thee? No. Ah ! then it is the maiden? She has not
been kind to thee ; eh, my boy ? Ah ! it is ever the
woman is the cause of evil from the beginning ! Yes, it
is so ? '

'This one was everything in the w r old to me,' said
Wilfrid, with something between an imprecation and a
groan.

Hoffbauer went to the cupboard and took out a bottle
of Rhine wine, and a box of cigars. ' So she has married
sat over fellow, eh?' said he, lighting a fresh cigar at the
candle.

Wilfrid murmured 'yes.'

Ah ! sat do they always,' continues his philosophic
comforter, puffing forth a cloud of blue smoke. ' It is
ever so arranged. Fret not thyself, Vilfrid. There are
ever as good as she, and most better too. Oh yes !
Trust me, I" have lived much. I have seen most of ze
woman. I tell you they are not worth ze trouble any of
zem. Eh ?' and he snapped his fingers contemptuously.

I daresay you're right ! ' said poor Wilfrid.

I say to thee do not fret thyself my boy ! ' said the good
natured fellow as a sudden thought struck him. ' One
glass of gate wine must thou now drink, and also thou
shalt smoke this cigar, because I require that you give
me thy advice. See here ! I too have my perplexing,
(he had learnt this pronunciation of perplexities from Mrs.
Hollis.) All men are kummervoll sometimes, is it not so?
Read zee papare, mein freund, and say what you shall
think. It is mordent and confidential Wilfrid ! ' And

before he well knew what he was about, Wilfrid found
himself drinking Rhine wine, and smoking his cigar ashe
read that budget, already perused by the reader, which
Hoffbauer had received from Germany. As he read, he
soon got interested in the history of Estelle Chessington,
and his host, who had not before this dreamt of taking
his counsel, looked on well pleased as he saw a more
cheerful expression come over his young friend's face.

It is certainly very remarkable ' said Wilfrid, when he
had finished his reading, ' that the name of your grandmother,
that is her — her married name, should be
Chessington, the same as that of the man whose life you
saved at Frankfort.'

Eh ? yes ! It is a queer zing, is it not ? Bud the
question is my were fellow if my groszmutter had any
right to sis name or not ! ' He quickly detected Wilfrid's
hesitation as he referred to this delicate point.

'That certainly seems not quite clear as yet' said
Oakburne, who had been much struck by what he had
read. ' Look here. If you will allow me, I should much
like to show these papers to Throckmorton— Mr. Throck-
morton our fellow-lodger you know. He's a lawyer, and
knows all about these things ; and he takes an interest
in you ; and he's one of the best fellows I know
into the bargain.'

So ! one of the pest fellows you know into the bargain.
Gut ! that sounds very well ; but I do not know him
my free' remember.'

Yes, but he knows you,' cried Wilfrid eagerly. 'Why,
it was he who first suggested — ,' and then he stopped
short, not liking to tell the invalid of the little subscription
they had made towards procuring him comforts during
his illness.

Ah! I know my good Vilfrid,' says the other, who was
very quick. ' Yes, you have been all very good to me,
you four gentlemans. I am grateful. Yes. I shall not
forget your kindness. Yes. Well, if you sink it is safe,
and that Herr Drogmorling will be so kind, do what you
say my boy.'

I am sure you may trust him,' answered Wilfrid with
a smile at the other's pronunciation of Throckmorton's
name. ' You could not find a better counsellor anywhere.
As for thanking us, why, my dear fellow, I assure you weare
all only too glad to have been of use. And I must
thank you for — for your kindness this evening.'

'It is a good intentioned youth,' said the German to
himself as he went to bed. ' That thought of showing
my business to the lawyer is good, very good. We
shall see what then happens. Bah ! what does it matter
to me. Doubtless I shall find that it is but a mare's nest
that I have come upon.'

When Mr. Throckmorton returned at the end of the
week, Wilfrid duly told him of his interview with HorT-
bauer, and showed him the important documents.

I am very pleased to have seen them, Oakburne,' said
the latter when he had read them. 'They have interested
me very much, and recalled to me a subject which occupied
my thoughts a good deal at one time.'

\ What is that ? ' asked Wilfrid.

Mr. Throckmorton did not, however, satisfy his curiosity
on this occasion, but told him that he intended to
pay Hoffbauer a visit, and have a talk with him about
Estelle Chessington and her strange history.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Clears up some points which needed explanation.

Alas, alas, fair Lines !

She went away with song,

With music waiting on her steps,

And shouting of the throng.

And some were sad, and felt no mirth,

But only music's wrong,

In sounds that sang, Farewell, farewell,

To her you've loved so long.

Farewell, farewell, fair Lines,

That vessel never bore

So fair a lady on its decks,

Nor danced so light before.

Alas for pleasure on the sea,

And sorrow on the shore ;

The smile that blest one lover's heart,

Khs broken many more !

Hood.

must not be supposed that Miss Beatrice
Elkneld was altogether such a heartless young
lady as her treatment of Wilfrid Oakburne
might lead the reader to think. In point of fact her
acceptance of Walter Chessington as her future husband
had been a very great effort, only accomplished after
much bitter self-reproach, and after a great deal of
pressure had been brought to bear upon her. She
really did love Wilfrid, and had he only paid his farewell
visit a little earlier on that day when he had that stormy

explanation with his mother and sister described in a
former chapter, he might have won her for his wife.
When, after his proposal to her on the eventful night before
he first left Lidfield for London, she had written that
note which, the reader may remember, she had asked
him to answer in person, she had fully meant to show
him that she was ready to yield to his pleading, and had
also hoped that this encouragement to his suit would lead
him, as indeed it had done, to set to work in earnest to
make a career for himself. She had watched her old
playfellow far more closely that he ever dreamed of; and
while the delicate intuition of her sex made her keenly
alive both to his merits and his faults, her affection made
her eager to try and correct the latter by the only
weapons at her disposal, — raillery and banter. Her free
use of these, and her natural love of admiration, had led
to those early misunderstandings between herself and
Wilfrid of which the reader has been informed ; but
these were all forgotten by both, when Wilfrid had
once spoken, and all might have gone well had
not the unfortunate report about Lois come to
her ears during his absence. As has been said,
the fact that Lois was an old acquaintance and protege of
Miss Elkfield's made this all the more painful to her,
but at first, in spite of her jealousy, shame, and wounded
pride, she had been very loth to believe him guilty.
It is however by no means an easy matter to believe
in the innocence of a person whom all the
world condemn, and in whose defence even his
own family are unable to say anything. Wilfrid had
moreover a most decided enemy in the person of Mr.
Elkfield. That gentleman had noticed with great alarm
his daughter's growing partiality for young Oakburne,

and, as he was inordinately fond and proud of her, and
by no means intended her to marry, such a ' poor match T
as he considered Wilfrid to be, he was glad of the
handle which this unhappy scandal gave him against
him. Though the subject of course was not one that
could be discussed in Beatrice's presence, he
had ample means of showing by his scowls
and disparaging epithets whenever the young fellow's
name was mentioned, how very badly he thought of him,
and he privately informed his wife, with the view of course
that she should report his opinion to Beatrice, that ' he
considered him an idle, good-for-nothing young rascal.'

Mrs. Elkfield, however, had a great regard and liking
for Wilfrid, and stoutly refused to believe anything against
him, and therefore, much to her husband's disgust, would
at first do nothing to prejudice the liking which she knew
her daughter had for him. She was, it must be owned,
rather of a sentimental disposition, and having married
for love herself in the face of a good deal of very bitter
opposition from her parents and family, — who could not
bear that a daughter of the good old house of Thornton
should marry Joseph Elkfield the ' wool man,' — she had
a sneaking tenderness for Wilfrid's passion, and had
perhaps even secretly fostered the boy and girl love
which had so early sprung up between the pair. She
now therefore privately did her best to console her
daughter in her unhappiness by always taking his part
and speaking well of him, an encouragement which
emboldened the young lady once or twice to utter in
public expressions showing that she still liked and
believed in him. As she was accustomed to have her
own way, and had a good deal of wit and spirit, there
was at first a silent antagonism between her and her

father, who was much enraged by these manifestations
of her feelings. Mr. Elkfield, however, who was accustomed
to rule his household pretty absolutely, was
determined that in this matter he would submit to no
rebellion against his authority. Happening to notice
Oakburne's card on the hall table on that evening which
Beatrice had waited so long and so anxiously for his
visit, he anathematized him for daring to come at all,
and decided that he should call no more in future. When
their guests had departed, and Beatrice had retired to her
room, he addressed a curtain lecture to his wife, in which
he gave the kind-hearted lady plainly to understand that
he would countenance no attachment between young
Oakburne and his daughter, and when he once chose to
command, Mrs. Elkfield knew too well that she must
obey. She and her daughter shed some tears together
in private, and perhaps the latter said some harsh things
and had some hard thoughts of her father, but from that
day Wilfrid's name was never mentioned in the family
circle. The mother, unfitted by temperament to resist
her husband's strong will, speedily acquiesced in his
decision ; and Beatrice, who naturally found it hard to
believe that her father (of whom she was very fond),
would willingly speak or think ill of a man with whom
he had always been friendly without just cause, and who
was herself inclined to believe that her lover, had he not
feared facing an explanation, could have called in time
to see her, found herself daily losing faith in him, ' Les
absents ont toujours tort,' and Miss Elkfield found herself
gradually growing less anxious to refute the ill opinion
that the greater part of the good people of Lidfield had
formed of Wilfrid, and her regard for him, though half

unknown to herself, consequently began to be seriously
shaken.

It was while she was undergoing this change of feeling
that the rival suitor on whom her father smiled, — or it
should rather be said 'beamed,' so expressively did his
pleasure manifest itself — began still further to encourage it
by attentions which were undeniably most flattering to
her. The more that Giles Rowancourt saw of the
Elkfield family, and the more he recognized the attractions
of Beatrice, and realized the extent of her fortune,
the more did he feel convinced that his nephew could
not do better than secure the hand of this provincial
heiress. Once having made up his mind on this point he
lost no time in impressing his views on Walter, who for
his part soon showed himself well disposed to fall in
with them. At first indeed he made some objection on
the score of not being particularly anxious to marry just
yet, and also on the ground that he imagined that
Beatrice's affections were already engaged. His uncle,
however, soon overruled his faint-hearted objections.
My dear boy,' said he, ' you don't consider this matter
seriously enough. For my own part I have always felt
that men ought to marry young, if they can afford it —
.not too young, don't you know, but about your age ;
thirty, or eight and twenty is it ? It steadies a man, eh ?
I've often wished I had married earlier myself. Yes upon
my word, I do,' he continued, seeing a slight smile on his
nephew's face caused by his knowledge of the history of
Rowancourt's married life. ' I am telling you a fact
though, as you are aware no doubt, my own experience of
marriage was in fact not a happy one. In this case it
seems to me to be your positive duty not to allow this
opportunity to slip; it seems as I may say almost a gift of

providence.' Then he proceeded to enlarge on Beatrice's
good looks and cleverness, on her money, and on the
advantages, for a member of the born' in having a wife
with such influential connections. As for her affections
being engaged it was all rubbish. A girl like that must
have plenty of admirers, perhaps had had flirtations as
girls will, but there was no one who had as yet actually
aspired to her hand, no one whom her father, who was
after all t'^e most important personage in the matter,
looked on half so favourably as he did on Walter.
1 Think it over Walter my boy ; and if you are wise you'll
take your old uncle's advice.' So Walter thought it over,
and the more he thought of it, and the more he saw of
Miss Elkfield, the better he liked the idea.

He and his uncle were staying with old Lady Thistle-dale,
who insisted on their making her house their headquarters
during their electioneering campaign, the idea of
which was indeed chiefly of her own devising. The
widowed marchioness was, as has been said, a great
friend and ally of Giles Rowancourt, with whose family
her own was distantly connected, and it was she who
determined to bring forward his nephew to fight for the
seat against the Conservatives, who had long held the
born' of Lidfield. She was a lady of high spirit and very
strong will, ruling her household and dependents with a
rod of iron, and exercising great influence in Lidfield,
the inhabitants of which looked up to her as their
chief grandee. A great beauty in her youth, she
was still remarkably handsome, and, as everyone acknowledged,
looked every inch a grande dame. She had been
born towards the end of the previous century, remembered
as a child the French Revolution, and had shone
as one of the stars of the Court of the Prince Regent.

Now that the times in which she had dazzled the world
had given place to a new and tamer order of
things, and now that her husband — who, though perfectly
her slave, had been a useful one, — had passed
away, she no longer cared for the life of the court and
the capital, and preferred to rule in her own territories.
Her rule, as has been said, was a very autocratic one.
The Boarsbyby family, who represented the Tory faction in
the county, and were, so to speak, her rivals, boasted, it
was said, a far older pedigree than her ladyship. The
well known rhyme which states that —

Before ever the Norman robber took England in fee,
Boarsbyby's ruled in Mastdune three score years and three,'

is commonly quoted as evidence of the antiquity of their
race, and there is no doubt that their place, Mastdune
Castle (the name itself bears evidence to its Saxon origin)
is by far the oldest residence in Hillshire, in which, as all
the world knows, they have for ages enjoyed the extensive
influence given them by their wealth and position.
Lady Thistledale, however, — whose family, as the reader
will remember, only came into notice in James I.'s reign —
by no means acknowledged these claims to veneration, or if
she admitted them, held that they ought to be second to her
own. Hence though she took but little interest in politics,
and though her disposition, mode of life, and associations,
all led her to dislike the doctrines of modern liberalism,
she proclaimed herself to be an ardent Whig, and when
the vacancy caused by the death of Sir Joseph Boarsbyby
gave her the opportunity she had long been hoping for,
her faithful henchman, Giles Rowancourt, was at once
ordered to find her a candidate. It was she who ordered
her daughter-in-law, Lady Lyddlenesse, first to call on the

Elkfields, because she was told that Mr. Elkfield's influence
was such as would probably secure her candidate a majority.
Lady Lyddlenesse of course obeyed her as
everyone else did, and, as her son, the Earl of Lyddle-
esse, had obeyed when his lady mother had commanded
him to marry the Countess his wife. Neither of them
were remarkable for any great talent or force of character,
though both were deservedly popular with all classes
throughout the neighbourhood for their benevolence
and kindly, unaffected manners, and they accepted the
candidate whom their imperious mother was patronising,
as they accepted all her wishes, without any question,
and made much of the young man who, indeed, managed
to make himself liked by most people. Lady Thistle-dale
graciously consented to his coming forward directly.
It had been suggested by his uncle Rowancourt, whom
she liked as an agreeable, clever man who, though a good
deal younger, had always professed great admiration and
esteem for her. Of course she knew all about Walter
and his father ; but she cared nothing about old stories
concerning the Chessington family history. Every
family in England had had some such told of it, and in
the days of the Prince Regent they were common enough.
Young Chessington suited her very well. She liked him
personally for his good looks, pleasant manners, and perfect
submission to her orders, and, as he was able to
play the part of an aspirant for political honours very
tolerably, she did not trouble herself about his pedigree,
and patronised him very graciously. She was also
pleased to smile on the matrimonial projects which
Rowancourt had formed for his nephew, and so Walter's
courtship and canvass progressed together very satisfactorily.


All the electioneering business of the Liberal candidate
was conducted by the firm of Portal, Quipsonon, and
Portal, Lady Thistledale's solicitors, in whom she placed
the most implicit confidence, and who, as a very old established
and respectable house, did business for most of
the best families in the county. Raymond Portal, — his
mother fond of high-sounding names, had christened him
Raymond D'Arcy Portal, and he so described himself on
his cards, — the junior member of the firm, who is already
well known to the reader, took the chief share in the
management of affairs, and proved himself invaluable as
an agent. His energy, shrewdness, and readiness, his
gift of speaking, and his tact in dealing with delicate
questions of remuneration to deserving voters, won the
highest praise from Giles Rowancourt. The latter had
never before interested himself much in the question of
electioneering expenses, which his anxiety for his nephew's
success now led him to do with some minuteness, and he
was much taken with one or two simple little devices thus
revealed to him, which, though doubtless well known to
agents, had for him all the charm of novelty.
He was delighted with the idea that the open
accounts in favour of certain worthy voters who loved to
drink success to ' Liberal Principles and Walter Chessington
! ' at the ' White Elephant ' and ' Lyddlenesse
Arms,' — accounts which the proprietors of those hostelries
had learnt from Portal that it was not unlikely he
would be commissioned to defray, — would not be sent in
till three months after the election, instead of within the
prescribed thirty days. When Portal suggested privately
to Mr. Elkfield at one of their meetings that, though
candidates might not provide conveyances for bringing
their supporters to the poll, there was nothing to prevent

a gentleman who sympathised so warmly as he did with
the progress of the great " Liberal Cause " from doing
such a thing out of his private means, Rowancourt, overhearing,
as he was intended to, Portal's loud whisper,
showed himself most highly pleased at the idea. So he
was with the cartoon which the ever-active agent designed
and circulated throughout the born', entitled, " Driving
the Boar to the Woods again" which represented a young
horseman, attired in pig-sticking costume and armed with
a spear, chasing a fat boar from a garden that he had
been ravaging. The face of the animal had a most
ludicrous resemblance to the Conservative candidate,
Ferdinand Boarsbybybyby, the nephew of Sir Joseph Boarsbybybyby
the late member, and out of its mouth were issuing the
lines —

For eighty long years I've held Lidfield in fee,
But this is the last that you'll hear of Boarsbee.'

This parody on the well-known distich relating to the
family which was given above, and the cleverness of the
caricature, won for the skit a decided success, which
made Rowancourt declare repeatedly that young Portal
was ' a first-rate agent, by Jove, and a dev'lish shrewd
fellow ! ' It was Portal, too, who coached Walter in his
part, giving him the necessary hints as to speeches,
taking him to visit such influential supporters as required
a personal interview, and arranging public meetings,
dinners, and demonstrations of enthusiasm when
Chessington drove with Lady Thistledale in her chariot
and four — her ladyship was rather fond of this
display of state on certain occasions — into the town.
In a word he managed the business of his nephew's candidature
so effectively and pleasantly, that Giles Rowan

court formed a very favourable opinion of him as a clever
young lawyer, not over-burdened with scruples, who
might prove useful to himself, and therefore, in a patronising
way, showed him that he quite appreciated his good
qualities.

Portal, however, though willing enough to be made
use of, provided he was properly paid for it, and could
turn the employment to his own advantage, was far too
shrewd to let his services to his patrons interfere with his
own schemes. He had, as the reader is aware, decided
in his own mind to marry Miss Elkfield, and though it
suited him to do his best to return Walter Chessington
to Parliament, it was not by any means part of his programme
to secure for him the hand of the heiress he had
specially selected for himself. This made him view the
progress of Walter's suit with anger and dismay, and led
him to try and thwart it by every means in his power.
He even tried to make use of Beatrice's love for Wilfrid
Oakburne by suddenly posing as the advocate of the
latter. That young lady, however, speedily detected the
motive of his conduct, and frustrated his manoeuvre by
affecting a very well simulated surprise at his remarkably
sudden change of opinion, which it took all his adroitness
and eloquence satisfactorily to explain. She had now
decided against Wilfrid for herself, and was not to be
altered in the conclusions she had come to by anything
short of an explanation from him. Portal, thus driven to
his last resources, now began to grow more earnest and
marked in the attentions he had never ceased to play
her in a quiet unobtrusive way. Hitherto he had been
content to play the part of the ever constant, but
quietly respectful admirer ; now he began to adopt
the demeanour and manners of the ardent lover. Like

all Portal undertook, this dovelike devotion on his part
was very well done ; but, lacking as it did the true ring of
sincerity, it made but little impression on Miss Elkfield.
She had never regarded him in any other light than as a
clever and agreeable acquaintance, and she had, moreover,
begun secretly to distrust and dislike him because
she suspected him of having prejudiced her father against
Oakburne. He for his part however had grown to believe
that she really cared for him, and when he realised how
anxious Giles Rowancourt and Mr. Elkfield were to make
a match between the young lady and Walter Chessington,
he determined that he would lose no time in defeating
their scheme by asking her himself to marry him.

It happened that on the morning after he had made
this resolution he was called upon to visit Lady Thistle-dale's
house on certain electioneering business which he
had to discuss with Rowancourt. It had occurred to the
latter that this would be a good opportunity to talk to
Portal about an estate of Lord Asheleigh's in another
part of Hillshire which had hitherto been very badly
looked after, and the management of which he was
thinking of transferring to other hands. The little
matters relating to Walter's candidature having therefore
been discussed, he was just about to open the subject
when a message came to him from old Lady Thistle-dale,
begging him to come to her immediately in order
to discuss something of importance. The Marchioness'
requests were laws which required immediate obedience,
or there was no answering for the consequences. She
had once refused to speak to her late husband, the
Marquis, for two months, because, in releasing her from
its jaws, he had strangled a favourite fox-terrier which
had made its teeth meet in her hand. As she was

equally quick at taking offence with all her friends,
Rowancourt was therefore obliged to ask Portal if he
would mind waiting till his return, and, giving him the
Times to amuse himself with, he left the room.

As he went out, shutting the door rather sharply, a
packet of papers fell out of his pocket. Portal, who
noticed them directly, was at first inclined to run after
him with them, but reflecting that there was no hurry he
was about to place them on the table, when the words,
George Chessington's correspondence. Private,' written
on the outer wrapper, caught his eye and made him
examine the packet with some curiosity. It was merely
a bundle of letters tied together by a piece of red tape.
They were evidently relics of the past, for the string was
faded and the superscription showed that their contents
were of value at all events to their owner ; would it be
worth his while to examine them ? Who was George
Chessington ? Portal had taken care to inform himself
of some of the main details of the Chessington family
history, which were indeed no secret to anybody. What
bearing had these letters, or had they any at all, on what
he knew ? At all events Rowancourt, it was plain, set
store by them, and therefore a knowledge of what was
in them might give him perhaps some hold over him.
Rowancourt and his nephew were threatening to upset
his plans with regard to old Elkfield's heiress ; it would
be only wise and fair to see if there was anything in the
packet that could be used against them. Even if this were
not so they would be more amusing reading than the Times.
As has been said, he was not troubled with scruples of any
kind, and the only question was, had he sufficient time ?
He well knew that a conversation with Lady Thistledale
meant, first, having to hear what her ladyship intended

to do ; then, listening to all her reasons (which were
generally numerous) for doing it, and discussing each
seriatim; and, finally, giving an unqualified and admiring
assent, which must never be expressed too abruptly, to
her proposal. As she spoke slowly, and occasionally
digressed a little from the main point, this process was
necessarily a slow one, and, in addition to this, her
boudoir was at one end of the building, — Briarsby House,
a stately mansion with long lofty corridors and broad
staircases, was built in the time of Charles I., — and the
little room assigned to Rowancourt as a study was at the
other. Portal could easily hear anyone coming down the
long passage, and came to the conclusion that he should
have plenty of time. He therefore placed the chair on
which he had been sitting close to the door, so that it
should be knocked down by anyone who entered, and
proceeded to study the packet which the reader has, of
course, recognised as that discovered by Rowancourt at
Otterstone Hall, with the contents of which he is already
acquainted. Of these, Portal's professional habits enabled
him rapidly to master the main points, and he was beginning
to make a few brief notes respecting the presumption
of the marriage of George Chessington to Estelle
Leon when the sound of approaching footsteps made him
hastily tie up the bundle and place it on the table.

1 You dropped these papers as you left the room,'
said he, handing the packet to Rowancourt. ' I see they
are marked "Private"'

Thank you ! Yes, so I see. It was stupid of me,'
answered the other, taking them rather eagerly. He had
often considered the advisability of destroying this obnoxious
packet, but had been deterred by the fact that
its existence was known to his niece and nephew, and

might be known to others through them. After all it
was as safe under lock and key as anywhere else, and
there was no knowing whether it might not some day
prove of use in some way or other. So he had always
kept it in his own possession, till this morning having
occasion to have the box in which he usually kept papers
of any importance repaired, he had been about to place
it in another when Portal's arrival interrupted him, and
led him to thrust it into his pocket. He was very glad
not to have lost them, and immediately locked them up
in his desk. The idea that Portal had any interest in
looking at them never occurred to him, and he was moreover
in high good humour, for Lady Thistledale had been
informing him that she thought it would be a most excellent
thing for Walter to marry Miss Elkfield, and that
she intended to ask the Elkfields to dinner that week,
because she considered the thing should be done without
delay. Rowancourt was well pleased to find her so much
of his mind in the matter, though he was a little in dread
as to what course she might think it necessary to pursue
best, for she was quite capable of commanding the principal
parties to be united in matrimony forthwith, an
arbitrary proceeding which might perhaps offend them.
He said his say to Portal concerning Lord Asheleigh's
estate, giving him to understand that he should require
the services of Messrs. Portal, Quipsonon, and Portal, in
the affair, and after a little general conversation, in which
he was more than usually affable to the young solicitor,
the latter took his leave.

1 Ah ! There's Walter,' said Rowancourt, as his
nephew cantered past the window just as Portal was
about to quit the room. ' He's been down to the Elk-fields,
I suppose. Great attraction there, Mr. Portal !

Eh? Charming creature Miss Beatrice, is she not?
We dine with the Elkfields to-night I believe, he and I.
Good day to you ! ' and having seen the other depart he
strolled out into the garden, much elated at the success
which promised to attend his schemes. ' Everything
seems to promise well !' said he to himself, 'and when I
see the boy in Parliament, and married to a pretty, rich
young wife, I think I shall be entitled to say, that I've
done my best for him. With her fortune and his own, if
he only manoeuvres properly, he may fairly hope to get a
baronetcy some day, and who knows what will follow. I
wish this election were over though. Its very wearing,
and I'm not so much up to my work as I used to be.
Well Hicks ! hard at work, eh ? ' and he stood awhile
listening patiently to the grumbling of the old head
gardener, who was superintending some arrangements
which had been designed in one fashion by Lord Lyddle-
esse, but were now ordered to be carried out in a
diametrically opposite fashion by the Marchioness his
mother.

Her ladyship, the old lady has one mind,' says the
old fellow testily, ' and her ladyship the young lady has
another, and Lord Duncan he's another, and the best of
the lot, if they'd let 'im alone ! But the eddies never
can stop their meddling' 'bout things, what only a man
understands. Never see such a house ! '

Meanwhile Portal was walking rapidly towards the
Elkfields' house. Rowancourt's remark about Walters
finding a great attraction in Beatrice, — the manner in
which it was said rather than the words, — and the news
that the uncle and nephew, were to dine with the family
that evening, made him all the more eager to carry out
his resolve of the night before. ' They are always dining

there,' thought he, 'and young Chessington is always
hanging about the house, confound him ! There cannot
be the slightest doubt of their game ! But I'll beat them
yet ! They shall not cheat me of my prize ! ' and with
much inward wrath and enmity against these intending
robbers of spoils designed for his own use, he made his
way through the ash wood above the house.

That fortune which is said to wait on the daring seemed
specially to favour his enterprise, for he had hardly passed
into the shadow beneath the fine old trees, when he encountered
Miss Elkfield returning from a solitary walk to
that very hill to which poor Wilfrid had gone, on the day
when he made up his mind to set to work in earnest.
There could not well be found a more suitable place fora
lover's declaration than the wood on this sunny February
morning, and Portal felt that if, as he believed, the
young lady loved him, he had chosen the best time and
place for making her confess it.

He told his tale well, pleading his patient devotion,
and the ever-increasing passion which would now no
longer permit him to be silent. He had been always
working for this one object, and now his success in his
work enabled him to offer a home to her who would ever
be the dearest in the world for him, etc. etc. He artfully
hinted that his jealousy was aroused by the interested
fortune hunters whom he saw around her, and that he
could no longer run the risk of seeing the best hope of
his life snatched from him ; and then he ended with
an impassioned declaration of affection, (given in his
best style, the style which had often won applause at
public meetings, and at the Lidfield Debating and Mutual
Improvement Society), and a prayer that she would accept
him as her husband.

He was no less surprised than mortified by the cool
reception and chilling refusal with which his eloquent
appeal was met, and for once in his life his self-possession
a little forsook him. He renewed his entreaties, and
attempted to take her hand, but Beatrice easily eluded
him with some anger, and, with a decision in her tone
that there was no mistaking, begged him to desist from
trying to move her. She thanked him for his offer, but
most firmly declined it, for she felt she could never care
for him in the way that he wished.

This was a bitter humiliation for Portal, who had long
been convinced that he was a favoured suitor. Miss
Elkfield did not even seem pleased by his declaration,
and was apparently no more moved by his passion than
the venerable ash trees under which they were standing.
Her coolness angered him, and its contrast to his ardent
address made him ridiculous in his own eyes, and
ashamed lest others should come to hear of his failure.
He longed to reproach her with a preference for one who
had better worldly advantages to offer her, for he felt
sure now that Walter Chessington, with his substantial
property and superior position in society, was the rival in
whose favour he was rejected. His habitual prudence
and self : control, however, did not desert him, and made
him refrain from such rash speeches as folly.

At least we may still be friends,' said he pleadingly.

Oh yes,' answered she kindly, but quite quietly, ' let
us still be friends;' and she gave him her hand.

He bowed over it, and, with a murmured ' good-bye
Beatrice,' walked rapidly down the hill. She might have
assented to the proposition that 'the sun was shining'
with equal placidity of tone ; and he felt that she cared
as little for his friendship as for his love, and that she

valued neither any more than she did the cane which he
carried in his hand. He had utterly failed to touch her
heart, and he felt bitterly hurt, angry, and crestfallen.
His love, he owned to himself, had not been deep, — he
told himself that he was incapable of such a passion, and
indeed rather despised it, — but he had at any rate offered
her as good a love as he had to give, and it had been
rejected, almost with scorn. His love had been rejected,
and what was worse, far worse than that, his ambitious
projects had utterly failed, and Rowancourt and his
nephew would triumph over him. How he had been
deceived, both in Beatrice, and in his own powers of
pleasing ! Yes ! Chessington, and not poor Wilfrid
Oakburne, — it was a comfort to think that there was
some one else in the same boat, — was the fortunate man.
He felt that he hated this Chessington, and his uncle,
Rowancourt, and the Elkfields, all equally. Should he
ever get a chance of repaying them for the ill they had
done him, he would certainly not let it slip ; and he
went back to the office sore at heart, and chafing under
his disappointment. The clerks noticed that the ' young
guv'nor' was more than usually down on them, and
speculated much among themselves that afternoon as to
what had 'put his back up.'

The interview left Beatrice hardly better pleased than
it had Portal. A proposal is flattering, no doubt, but
coming from a man you not only do not care for, but have
even begun to dislike, it must cease to possess much
charm. She had for some time, as has been said, been
feeling convinced that Portal had prejudiced her father's
mind against Wilfrid as he had tried to prejudice her own,
and now she thought she saw the reason. The scene
recalled to her how she had met poor Wilfrid in this

wood, when she was walking there with Portal a year ago.
She had laughed at him then. Perhaps she had teased
and laughed at the poor fellow too much ; but she had
meant well when she did it, had meant to try and rouse
him to action. Well ! now he was gone for ever ! What
was the good of thinking of him ! Perhaps he was guilty
after all ! She could hardly believe it, but still, how
could she know ? No ! there was no good thinking of
him any more. She was wearied of love and courtship
which, as she well knew, was undertaken partly, in some
cases indeed entirely, for her fortune. Plenty of other
suitors were in the field besides Portal and Chessington,
and she was quite tired of such attentions. Young
Snipington of Marshmire Park was now perpetually
riding over on all sorts of pretexts, and his sisters were
always asking her to go to luncheon; Captain Bolderwood
too was always dropping in and had begun to make himself
most acceptable to her mother by the interest he took in
her garden, and the valuable hints he gave her as to
'bedding out,' 'potting' and 'grafting,' etc. Then there
were not a few less eligible aspirants like Mr. Pecten, the
senior curate, and Dr. Doseyy, a widower with four children,
who had succeeded Wilfrid's father in the best practice
in Lidfield. She was beginning almost to hate them all,
and to feel that this kind of life was a burden. As she
walked homewards through the wood she said to herself
that she could bear it no longer. Wilfrid was lost to her;
even if his character was cleared her parents would never
let her marry him. And here was Walter Chessington,
handsome, rich, and well born, longing to offer her a
position which surely ought to be a pleasurable one, and
which she had an ambition to fill. As the wife of the
member for the born', she would be equal with or even

superior to many who were now patronisingly kind to
her, and in Clayshire, as well as in Hillshire, she would
take a first rank among the great ladies of the county.
She was ambitious, and the idea of being a leader in
society had great charms for her. Then the delights of
the London season, and dim visions of social successes in
the great capital, floated before her mind. Besides, she
would delight her parents, and, at the same time, free
herself from the persecutions of matrimonial adventurers
like the man she had just refused. At all events, Walter
Chessington, who had so much money of his own, could
not, she thought, be marrying her solely for her fortune.
He was not quite her ideal of a husband, which, like that
of many other young ladies, was a very high one ; — but
ideals, as she owned herself with a sigh, are not often
realised in this prosaic world. Yes, it must come to
that! 'Poor Wilfrid!' she thought, 'you were very
generous, and honest, and true, and loved me very dearly!
Why were you so poor ? Dear old playfellow ! you and
and I must forget each other!' She reached home
weary and sad, but with a heart suddenly grown much
harder. She had had enough of such wooers as Portal.

So it came about that when Walter Chessington dined
at Ashen that evening she was very kind to him, and
sung the songs he admired with unusual skill and pathos.
Finally, when he asked her to marry him the next morning
she consented with a very good grace, and there was
consequently much rejoicing in the houses of Elkfield
and of Thistledale.

CHAPTER XIX.

A morning ride among the hills.

Over clover wet with dew,

Whence the skylark startled, flew,

Through brown fellows, where the hare

Leapt up from its subtle lair,

Past the mill-stream and the reeds

Where the stately heron feeds,

By the warren's sunny wall,

Where the dry leaves shake and fall,

By the hall's ancestral trees,

Bent and writhing in the breeze,

Rode we.

George W. Thornbury.

ane fine, still morning at the beginning of March,
some three weeks after their engagement, and a
couple of days before the poll which would
decide the fate of the election, Walter Chessington and
Miss Elkfield set out to ride to Rolhill, a village in the
neighbouring county, some seven or eight miles distant
from Lidfield, where there was an ancient encampment
and a curious old church, both of which were generally
acknowledged to be well worth visiting. Old Elkfield
came out as the horses were brought round, and watched
the pair start with the greatest satisfaction. He was
overjoyed at the match, and the cup of his delight had
been filled to the brim by the fact that, some ten days
after the happy arrangement had been come to, Walter's

uncle, through the death of his father, — ' Henry Giles
Vernon Rowancourt, Tenth Earl of Ashleigh, Keg.,
K.T., F.R.S., etc., etc., etc,' titles which Elkfield read
with much unction to his wife, — had succeeded to the
earldom. Beatrice would soon be the niece by marriage
of a peer ! What better reward could have come to this
shrewd, hard-working, British capitalist ? How he
enjoyed talking of 'my future connection with the Earl
of Ashleigh,' and with what solemn gravity he ' deplored
the sad event that has called Lord Ashleigh away at this
anxious time of the election !'

c They make a pretty couple, my dear, eh ?' said he,
rubbing his hands with gleeful satisfaction as he entered
the drawing-room after their departure. ' He's a fine
young fellow is Chessington ! And you wanted to marry
Miss Trin to that worthless chap, young Oakburne !
What'd you do without me, Polly, eh ?' and he gave hera
rough but good-natured caress.

Meanwhile the ' pretty couple ' were riding along, well
pleased with each other, and in high spirits at the brightness
and beauty of all around them. Walter was most
devoted and attentive, and Beatrice felt, for the time at
least, well satisfied with her choice.

So you are pretty confident of victory on Thursday,
Walter,' said the lady. ' Your eloquence has secured the
right number of voters ; your " unanswerable arguments,"
is not that the word, have convinced every one.'

Walter laughed. ' Neither eloquence nor arguments
have anything to do with the matter, my dear Beatrice,
as it is time you should know. The only argument an
Englishman understands is self-interest, I verily believe ;
and of course that is the best argument. What right
has an elector to care about abstract principles ? He

wants his representative to represent his interests. It
sounds horribly low, but I am afraid it is the truth. Of
course bribery is a shocking thing in the abstract, and I
highly disapprove of it, but I am beginning to believe
that it is the only sort of reasoning that the bulk of
English electors have ever understood, or will ever
understand.'

I didn't know you were so wicked, so sordid in your
views of your fellow creatures ! ' said Beatrice, I slant
talk any more about such nasty subjects as bribery. If
you win that is all I care about, and I choose to set it
down to your good speaking. Let us have a canter ! '
and they gave their horses a breather over the soft elastic
turf of the down.

This is the Waste— Rolhill Waste,' said Miss Elkfield,
as they reined in their steeds. ' That is the encampment
on that hill over there, and there is the village.'

What, a village ! it appears to consist of a church and
one house. I call this an imposture, Beatrice ! '

There are some dozen more cottages down below at
the foot of the hill, and I believe two or three on the
other side of the encampment. It's a scattered parish.
Isn't it a funny place to build a church ? '

Yes,' answered Walter, * I suppose, as it is so old,
some hermit good " built it here to be out of the way.
We are out of Hillshire now, are nt we ? '

No, Walter. We were when we began our gallop,
but now we are in Hillshire again. If you look at the map
you'll see that just this little piece — Rolhill Waste and
Rolhill village — are marked "part of Hillshire," though I
can't tell you why. I must tell you a story about the
"Waste," Walter!'

1 Part of Hillshire,' replied Walter. ' That's an odd

arrangement ! but I believe it exists in a good many
counties. Well, what is your story ? I am all attention.'

It's only this. A man who lived in one of those
cottages, more than a hundred years ago, was digging a
ditch round it one day, when he came on a large coronet
of gold, set with diamonds, big enough for an ordinary
head.'

'Happy man!' says Walter. 'And what did he do
with it ? Took it to the pawnbroker's, eh ? or wore it to
go to church in ? '

Don't be silly, sir. It's all quite true, and I call it
very remarkable. He, knowing nothing of its value,
took it to a goldsmith at Gloucester, who gave him ^31
for it.'

'When he probably got horribly, drunk, and beat his wife.'

Don't interrupt. There is very little wife-beating in
this neighbourhood, I can tell you ! Well, the Gloucester
jeweller sold it to a London jeweller for ^250; and the
London jeweller sold it for — how much do you think ?'

I haven't any idea, Beatrice.'

He sold it for ^1500. That is a fact. What do you
think of that ! Isn't it curious ? It must have belonged
to some Royal personage ? Don't you think so ? The
man who found it was the grandfather of the owner of
the inn where we are going to leave the horses while I
show you the church. You must see it ; I insist, Walter.
It is very old and quaint, and it won't take long.'

'caius Whitworth, licensed to sell beer, spirits, and
tobacco," ' read out Walter as they halted in front of the
inn door, over which was a board proclaiming these facts,
while a sign on a post in front announced that the
hostelry was the ' Blue Boar's Head.'

Caius Whitworth ! what a quaint name ! He must

be a descendant of some of the ancient Romans who
made the encampment yonder, and who got left behind
by mistake. No doubt we shall find some traces of
Albus next ! What a queer place for an inn, too ! at
the top of the hill and close to the church ! '

Here he comes,' said Beatrice, pointing to a man who
was approaching them from a field at the back of the
house. 'He is a yeoman farmer. It doesn't look very
much of a farm though, does it ? But he is of a very old
and respectable family, and his ancestors first settled here
a hundred and fifty years and more ago. One of this
man's uncles used to be called the "parson's parson." '

Parson's parson ! Really Beatrice you have brought
me to a very remarkable place. Inns stand alone on the
top of hills, close to churches which have no one to goto
them. The inhabitants are ancient Romans turned
farmers and publicans, and some of them follow the profession
of parson's parsons. What on earth is a parson's
parson ? '

Hush, Walter,' answered the young' lady. 'It was
only because he was village schoolmaster, and clerk, and
helped the clergyman in his work a good deal. Good
morning, Mr. Whitworth ! we want to put our horses up
please, while we look at the church.'

The landlord, a fine looking, healthy man, of sixty or
so, with a grizzled bent head, and rather a sad expression,
saluted Miss Elkfield with a pleasant smile ol recognition,
and took their horses, telling them that the key was in
the church door, as the ' young woman was a cleaning of
it out.'

This is the high road over the downs into Hillshire,'
said Beatrice, as they walked towards the church, ' and
so far more people pass this way than you'd imagine,

Mr. Walter. And as for the church having no one to goto
it, it is very well filled on Sundays. There is the
village down there.'

What a lovely view ! ' said Walter, as they paused at
the entrance of the churchyard. ' It is certainly worth
riding here to see it alone.'

Oh ! It is satisfactory to hear you graciously condescend
to admire something, after all your uncomplimentary
remarks ! ' answered Beatrice, laughing. ' Yes,
it is very beautiful ! '

From the high ridge they were on they looked down
on the one side at Hillshire, with its ranges of undulating
wooded hills, bounded in the far background by the mountains
of Mid Wales, and on the other on the broad fertile
expanse of the neighbouring county, — a great plain,
stretching away to the far horizon, with rich meadow
lands and orchards, and many a stately mansion and
substantial homestead half seen amongst its parks and
copses.

Now let us look at the church,' said Beatrice, after
they had gazed for a moment in silence at the fair
prospect before them. ' The clergyman who does duly
here lives three miles away in the other county, and
only comes here every other Sunday.'

The little church 7. as more remarkable for the antiquity
than the beauty of its architecture. Beatrice pointed
out that a considerable portion of the tower was built
with the flat bricks used by the Romans, and she told
him how the latter, as well, as the Saxons and Normans,
had — as is not unfrequently found in the churches of our
island — all left the impress of their styles on the
building.

So you own that it is interesting and worth coming

to see. That's a great compliment from a gentleman
who has seen so much celebrated architecture on the
Continent,' said Beatrice, as they entered the church, at
the far end of which, near the altar, a woman, whose
back was turned towards them, was engaged in the process
of ' cleaning.'

Ah ! there's a great deal abroad that will please you
immensely, Beatrice ; though I own that we don't know
half enough of our own country. Wait till I show you
St. Peter's and all the sights of Rome, and Venice,
Naples, and Paris ! How you will enjoy them all ! '

Pleasures to come,' says Miss Elkfield, with a little
laugh. ' Meantime, there are one or two curious monuments
here. Look at that crusader ! ' and she pointed
to a full length recumbent statue of an early Christian
champion, whose nose, and the end of whose sword, had
been chopped off by some wanton iconoclast. ' That is
Sir Hugo de Boarsbyby, an ancestor of your opponent
Ferdinand Boarsbyby, who did wonderful things in Palestine.
And read this. It is to the memory of a royalist
leader who defended Rolhill Tower which used to
stand on the Hillshire side of the hill about a mile away,
against the Roundheads, and was killed there with all
his men. It was King Charles's last stronghold in this
part of the country.'

Walter read out with some difficulty the inscription on
a brass cross let into one of the massive pillars in the
centre of the building.

Pray for y e soule of Sir Rupert de Bolderwoode, the
which deceased the v day of April the yere of our
Lord God a thousand xlvii and on whose soule
Jehu have mercy. Amen.'

How quaint ! what queer old spelling ! and what a
u

lot of figures ! I suppose that is some ancestor of
Captain Bolderwood of Slopley.'

Yes ! ' answered Beatrice, with a little blush. She
did not think it necessary to tell him that Sir Rupert
was also, as the reader knows, a maternal ancestor of
Wilfrid Oakburne's.

There is one more I want to show you close to the
altar,' continued she, as they walked up the aisle. ' It is
to a clergyman who was once rector of Lidfield, and
master of the Hospital. He left directions in his will
that he should be buried here. He was an ancestor of
my mother's, Dr. Thornton.'

Thornton ! That's the same name as Lady Thistle-dale's
family,' says Walter.

'Yes. He was a younger brother of the man who
was made Earl of Lyddlenesse. You didn't know I was
so respectable, did you ? But the younger branch never
prospered like the other did, and they of course, therefore,
did not care to keep up the connection much.
There's the tablet at your feet. Read it to me.'

Sub tedious Doctor Janet hie in legions Thornton
Esse pious docuit, quoque, docebat erat, &c. &c. &c.'

repeats Walter obediently, reading a somewhat lengthy
Latin inscription.

Yes that is it ! Isn't it nice ? Now listen to the
English translation, which I know by heart : —

Here lies Dr. Thornton underfoot,
Who was what he taught men to be, pious and good — '

She stopped abruptly at this point, for the woman who
had been sweeping near to them started as she heard
her voice, dropped her broom, and turned towards her a
frightened face, which made Miss Elkfield when she saw

it pause with a sudden exclamation of surprise. Walter,
who had been listening to his betrothed with lover-like
attention, was equally startled ; but he was still more
astonished when the woman, leaving her broom and
dust-pan, hurried precipitately from the church.

1 It is Lois Simcox ! ' cried Beatrice, whose face had
grown a shade paler, gazing after her retreating figure.

'And who the — who on earth may she be?' asked
Walter. 'Another Rolhill curiosity? Anything to do
with Caius Whathisname or the parson's parson ? What
is the matter, Beatrice ? you look quite scared !'

1 Oh ! Walter ! I must see her ! Oh it is so sad ! come
back at once with me to the inn. She must be living
there. Do you mind coming? I will tell you afterwards.'


Of course I'll come ! ' replied he, still feeling very bewildered.


Oh thank you ! Let us go at once. We have
seen everything now, and I am so afraid I may miss
her ! ' and they walked quickly back to the ' Blue
Boar's Head.'

1 You must wait here, Walter, while I try and find out
Lois, and talk to her,' said Beatrice, who was evidently
much excited.

I suppose I ought to get something for the good of
the house,' answered her lover, who was now rather disposed
to be amused at the occurrence. ' What shall it
be ? spirits or tobacco ? which do you recommend,
Beatrice ? '

But Beatrice was not at all inclined to joke, and
suddenly descrying in the little garden at the back a
glimpse of the dress of her she was in search of, she

darted into the house, leaving Walter at the door in a
state of greater perplexity than ever.

Lois Simcox, for she indeed it was, had not imagined
that Miss Elkfield would think of following her, and was
taken completely by surprise when she heard the latter
call her by name. She had thought that the scorn and
angry abhorrence with which virtuous women are apt to
regard those who have fallen, would not only deter
Beatrice from such a course, but also lead her to shun
her. Relying on this she had sought the refuge of the
garden till these, to her, unwelcome visitors should have
departed, and the risk of another meeting would be over-anger,
timidity, and shame, were blended together in
her pale, sad face, as she turned defiantly on Beatrice
and asked almost fiercely —

What do you want with me ? How dare you follow
me thus?'

1 Lois !' cried the other, as she held out her hand to
her, ' Do you think I want anything but to do you
good ? Why should you fear me ?'

The two had known each other since childhood. Mr.
Simcox's cottage was not far from the Elkfield's house,
and Mrs. Elkfield, always good to the poor and suffering
around her, had been especially kind to his wife during
her last illness, and, after her death, to his little motherless
girl then between five and six years old. She had
had Lois constantly up to her house where she naturally
saw a great deal of Beatrice, and the intercourse thus began,
— though as time went on it became as was
inevitable less frequent, — was as far as possible continued
when the two grew to womanhood. Hence the strong
bonds of mutual liking and esteem combined with her
sympathy for her father's great sorrow, and with her

earnest desire to know that Wilfrid Oakburne was
innocent of the cruel charge brought against him, to
make Miss Elkfield forget any squeamish repugnance
she might otherwise have felt at addressing the schoolmaster's
daughter.

The kindness of her greeting, which was so different
from that which she had anticipated, touched poor Lois
deeply, and changed her angry defiance to a sudden outburst
of bitter grief.

No, no ! never now !' cried she, turning away from
the hand extended to her, ' I cannot ! I cannot !' and
she covered her face and wept in silence.

Beatrice soothed her with kind words and womanly
consolation. * You must not treat me thus, Lois,' said
she. * Am I not your friend ?'

1 God bless you !' sobbed the poor girl, and then, as
she grew calmer, she was induced little by little to tell
her all. How she had fled to London'; how she had
tried to maintain herself there by the stage and by
needlework ; of the persecutions of the manager of the
Momus Theatre ; of her privations and sufferings, and of
the rough kindness of her landlady, Mrs. Skibbers. How
at length, when her baby died, she had fled from
London, as from a place which she said was full of evil,
to this lonely refuge. Mr. Whitworth had married a
sister of her father's, and it was on the pretext, as the
reader has been already told, of visiting her that Lois had
first left her home. When she resolved to quit London
she had, after much inward struggle, forced herself to
appeal to the pity of her uncle and aunt; and when, after having
made her journey for the most part on foot, she reached
them weary, and heart-broken with shame and grief,
she found that she had not reckoned without good reason

on their kindly affection. They received her with open
arms and unfeigned gladness, and never did she hear one
word of reproach from their lips. Childless themselves,
they had always looked on her almost as a daughter, and
when she came to them in her sorrow, they gave her
such a welcome as touched her to the heart. Here she
had lived for the last six weeks, helping them in household
matters, and discharging the duties of caretaker in
the church in which Mr. Whitworth, — as his father and
his uncle, ' the parson's parson,' had done before him, —
officiated on Sundays as clerk. Save occasional
strangers who travelled over the hills from one county to
the other, and the clergyman who baited his horse at
the inn every other Sunday, the Wentworth saw hardly
anyone. Lois felt that here she was unknown, and
secured from the scorn of those who were acquainted
with the story of her sin and shame. It was a haven of
peace after the storm, and she rested there in thankful
content. In one thing, and one only, had she pained
her uncle and aunt, and that was by her refusal to see
her father. She could not bring herself to face him, and
when they tried to persuade her to go to him,
Or write to him, or allow them to bring him to her, she
had begged them with such painful eagerness to desist
from their efforts, and shewn signs of such alarming
mental distress, that they had agreed at last to let the
matter alone, for the time at least. She was so strongly
convinced of her father's horror for her sin, and felt so
keenly for his wounded pride and bitter sorrow, that she
dared not meet him.

On this point Beatrice was rewarded with success
where Mrs. Whitworth and her husband had failed. She
drew such a touching picture of the schoolmaster's grief,

of the illness which had prostrated him on his first hearing
of his trouble, and of the effect which constant
anxiety was having on his mind and body, that his
daughter's heart smote her. Beatrice had seen him and
talked to him so often of late, that she was able to
appeal more directly to her feelings than Lois' uncle or
aunt could do ; for the latter, owing to a want of sympathy
of tastes, had had but an occasional and constrained
intercourse with him for many years. He had
rather opposed his sister's marriage to Whitworth, and
the pair had never quite forgiven him, so that their
distance from each other was accepted by each as a
sufficient excuse for the rarity of the visits which
they exchanged. Thus it happened that Beatrice's earnest
advocacy at last triumphed over Lois' sensitive
reluctance, and won from her a consent to allow Miss
Elkfield to tell the schoolmaster how she had found his
daughter, and that she besought him to visit her.

I Perhaps he will not come, Miss Elkfield,' said poor
Lois. ' It is I who ought to go to him. But I dare
not ! oh I dare not !'

I I am sure he will come to you,' said Beatrice, who
sympathised with the poor thing's reluctance to visit her
native place, and felt that for every reason it would be
better that Mr."Simcox should go to Rolhill. 'Trust
me Lois, all will be made happy now,' and with renewed
expressions of goodwill she prepared to go. She could
not bring herself to do so, however, without making an
effort to learn Wilfrid's innocence.

'Do you know,' said she with a deep blush, 'that
Wilfrid Oakburne is pointed at in the streets of Lidfield
as having ruined you ? '

Wilfrid Oakburne ! the man who saved my life ! It

is false, utterly false, Miss Elkfield ! ' cried Lois aghast.
He saved me from death ; from worse, from crime !
Mind you tell this to no one ! I was so wretched that I
tried to make away with myself; and he saved me.
Swear you will not tell my father ! '

1 Good heavens ! poor Lois ! ' cried Beatrice with a
shudder. ' But I promise most solemnly to keep your
secret. Then he is guiltless ! '

Guiltless ! Yes ! He has been generous and honourable
in all his conduct to me ! It was I who was wicked
and foolish ! Oh why am I born to bring sorrow on
those whom I love ! — on those who have been so good
to me ! '

I am very glad to hear this,' said Beatrice with a
sudden rush of mingled feelings, — of joy that Wilfrid was
innocent, of sorrow that his supposed guilt had separated
him from her for ever, and of a slight pang of jealousy
because she saw that Lois loved him and wondered
whether, even though he was innocent, he did not return
the feeling.

Take comfort, dear Lois ! ' said she. * After all it
was not your fault that men accused him falsely. Remember
your father will come to you tomorrow, I hope ! '

1 Yes, tomorrow ! ' replied Lois. ' God bless you,
Miss Elkfield, for all your goodness to me ! ' and, moved
by a sudden impulse, she seized Beatrice's hand and
pressed it with a sob to her lips ; and then the latter, with
a full heart that showed itself in her eyes, rejoined her
lover, whom she found talking with Mr. Whitworth, who
was holding the horses.

1 hope your interview has been satisfactory, Beatrice
said Chessington as they rode homewards, after bidding
the landlord good day. ' I have been very patient. I

have drunk some wonderful ale for the good of the house,
and discussed agriculture and farming prospects in all
their bearings with old Caius Whitworth.'

I kept you a long time I know,' replied she ; ' and, as
you have been so good, I'll reward you by telling why I
behaved in this extraordinary way.' And then she told
him as much as it was possible for her to do of poor
Lois' story, and how she hoped now to restore her to
her father.

Walter listened with great interest. He had been in
his heart rather inclined to set down Beatrice as a little
spoiled and selfish, but this incident showed her in quite
a new light, which surprised and delighted him. ' Poor
thing ! ' cried he. What a sad story ! But I'm glad I
heard it for one reason.'

Glad ! How can you be glad ? '

'Because it teaches me something about Beatrice
Elkfield I had not yet learned, I am ashamed to say. I
see that after all / am like the man who found the
treasure on Rolhill Waste, and know nothing of its real
value. This poor Lois has opened my eyes a little. It
is very, very good of you, dear ! '

Nonsense ! ' said Beatrice.

They had now reached the ash wood above the Elk-field's
house, and just as Walter opened the gate that led
into it from the down, a man who had been sitting on a
fallen trunk close by, which was half hidden from them
by the stems of the trees, suddenly rose to his feet. His
movement frightened Walter's horse, which, shying
violently, reared up, and its feet slipping on the precipitous
bank would inevitably have fallen back and
crushed him had not the stranger, who was the unconscious
cause of the accident, rushed forward and caught

the reins, thus enabling the animal to regain the road
with a scramble. The whole thing occupied but a few
minutes, and in the confusion Chessington did not at first
recognise the man who had come to his rescue.

1 1 am extremely obliged to you, sir ! ' said he ; ' you
have saved me from a nasty fall, perhaps worse.'

The other was still holding the horse, now perfectly
quiet. He started on hearing the voice, and looked at
the speaker in some surprise.

'I am very pleased to have been of use, Mr. Chessington,'
replied he, flushing. ' I fear the accident was partly my
fault, for I startled your horse. You do not recognise
me I see. My name is Oakburne. I had the pleasure
of meeting you in London. Can I be of any further
assistance? No. Then I'll wish you good morning.
Good-bye, Miss Elkfield ! ' and raising his hat to Beatrice
he walked rapidly through the wood.

Miss Elkfield, after a little scream for help, had sat
a trembling and silent spectator of the scene, and had
had some difficulty in managing her own mare, which
had become very restive. She had recognised Wilfrid
directly he ran forward to assist Chessington. How pale
and ill he looked, poor fellow ! But she contented herself
with giving him a frigid little bow. Was it not his
place to come forward. At all events he might have
had the grace to congratulate her, — if he knew. But of
course he knew !

That was the man who saved poor Lois Simcox from
drowning,' said she to Walter as they made their way
slowly to the house.

Isn't he a doctor, or something of that kind ? I think
I have heard of him before,' said Chessington, looking
up at her rather keenly and with a mischievous smile.

He had somehow learnt that Wilfrid was the rival for
whom, as he had told his uncle, he had suspected Beatrice
of having a tendresse when Rowancourt had first suggested
that he should pay his attentions to her.

1 Yes ! He is studying medicine. He used to be a
great admirer of mine, if that is what you mean ! '
answered the young lady carelessly, but nevertheless
blushing a little. Are you jealous of him, Walter ? '

No ! I don't think I am ! ' says he, looking earnestly
into her frank eyes. ' No ! I'm not. Poor fellow ! Of
course he couldn't help being a great admirer after all.

Rubbish ! ' cried Beatrice. ' Well, you need not be
jealous ! '

\1 don't intend to be, madam. Soh ! Soh ! Steady,
old fellow ! ' to the horse which for a minute showed
signs of refractoriness. 'No! I don't intend to. be. I
really feel very grateful to this man Oakburne, I assure
you Beatrice. He certainly saved me from a very ugly
fall. Oddly enough, too, I have come across him twice
before, and have to thank him for another little service
he has been doing for me.' And when they had entered
the house he told Beatrice where and how he and Wilfrid
had met, which led him to speak of Hoffbauer and
to tell her all about his connection with him also.

CHAPTER XX.

A Wiping off of old Scores.

In civilised society, personal merit will not serve you so much as
money will. Sir, you may make the experiment. Go into the
street, and give one man a lecture on morality, and another a
shilling, and see which will respect you most. '

Boswell's Johnson.

Sweet is true love tho' given in vain, in vain ;
And sweet is death who puts an end to pain :
I know not which is sweeter, no, not I.

I fain would follow love, if that could be ;
I needs must follow death, who calls for me ;
Call and I follow, I follow ! let me die.'

—Tennyson.

HOUGH, as has been stated before in these
pages, Lidfield may perhaps appear to be
rather a dull town on ordinary occasions, no
one would have called it so who had seen it during an
election thirty years ago. Party feelings always ran
high at such times, and the electors or those who
acted in their name were in the habit of relieving their
pent-up feelings by demonstrations which sometimes led
to acts of violence, not to say ferocity. The river Lid
offered a dangerous means of testifying their disfavour
by ducking any unfortunate victim who had made
himself obnoxious to either party. 'Down the river with

him,' was the cry on such occasions ; and, ' Chessington
for ever — Boarsbyby down the river!' or, vice versa, was the
phrase by which each party showed its convictions to the
other. Colours were freely sported in those days, and
the wearer of those of either candidate had to be prepared
for rude chaff and perhaps rough usage if he happened
to meet with a body of his opponent's supporters. The
town was, in short, given over for a season to the
more unruly portion of its inhabitants, who, by their
boisterous behaviour at public meetings, and noisy processions
led by brass bands and composed of mobs
equally ready to shout, fight, or break windows, drove all
ladies and lovers of peace and quiet to keep as much indoors
as possible.

Owing to various reasons there had been a delay in
issuing a writ to the ' faithful burgesses of Lidfield,' and
Parliament had already been sitting over a month before
the holding of the poll which was to decide whether
'Walter Chessington, Esq., J. P., of Otterstone Hall, in
the County of Clayshire,' or ' Ferdinand Boarsbyby, Esq.,
D.C.L.; F.R.S.; F.R.G.S.; etc.; of Little Drove House,
Mastdune, in the County of Hillshire,' should represent
the borough. The facts, that there had been no now
contest for twelve years, that the Liberals had always
hitherto failed in their efforts to carry the
seat, and also that the feelings of the whole nation were
at that time in rather a highly wrought state owing
to the impending war, all united to make the
excitement and interest in this particular election
stronger than usual. The Queen's Speech had
announced many important measures. We were going
to reform our representative system, and the manner of
trying disputed elections \ to remodel our Parliamentary

oaths, and alter the principle of appointing candidates
for the civil service ; besides changing the law of removal
and settlement, and the constitution of the governing
body of Oxford University, etc. etc. etc. But this extensive
programme of domestic legislation was quite thrown
into the shade by the demand made by the royal
message for an increase of the naval and military forces,
with a view to give effect to the impending negotiations.
It was pretty patent to everyone that France and
England were about to embark in a war which was almost
universally believed to be ' righteous ' because
such conscientious men as Lord Aberdeen and Mr.
Gladstone were consenting to it, because Lord Palmerston,
the most energetic and popular member
of the Cabinet, advocated it, and because it must
be right to assist 'the down-trodden race of Othman'
against the ' Muscovite despot ' who, even though he
might not be the cause, as Mr. Urquhart affirmed, of
absolutely all the evils which befall mankind, was
certainly an ' unprincipled and tyrannous oppressor.'

The liberal candidate for Lidfield had therefore a
strong claim to the support of the electors in the fact that
he had pledged himself to support the ministry which
was about to undertake this 'righteous' and popular
war ; and he further commended himself to them by the
personal advantages of a prepossessing appearance, a
straightforward and pleasant manner, and a ready
address. As regarded the principles he represented, and
mere externals, he was therefore decidedly the popular
candidate, since Ferdinand Boarsbyby, though he was, to
tell the truth, a far more gifted individual than Walter, —
having gained all sorts of honours at college, travelled in the
most distant parts of the world, and made himself a reputation

as an active member of several learned societies, —
was hesitating in speech and insignificant in person. He
was moreover, as in duty bound, a denouncer of the
Aberdeen Ministry, and hence the respect and liking felt
for him personally, and the influence of his brother Sir
Peter Boarsbyby, the present owner of Mastdune Castle,
were counterbalanced by his defective oratory, and the
then unpopularity of his party. Notwithstanding this
however, there is no doubt that he would have headed
the poll had not the unusually strong advocacy of Lady
Thistledale, and the great wealth of Mr. Elkheld been
thrown into the opposite scale. Had the late Marquis
indeed been alive, the Thistledale support would have
been almost useless on account of his unpopularity with
his tenantry through his harshness and niggardliness,
which contrasted most unfavourably with the generous
treatment of the Boarsbyby family to all their dependents.
Lady Thistledale however had wisely begun to turnover
a new leaf after his decease, and had been so ably
seconded in her efforts by her son and daughter-in-law
as completely to change the opinions of those around
her from strong dislike to great esteem for herself and
the members of her family. It was, however, Joseph
Elkfield's great influence among the traders of Lidfield,
and the generous way in which he spent his money for
the good of the town and the benefit of the liberal cause,
that really made weight against the old, established, aristocratic
sway of the rival House of Boarsbyby. It is
to be feared that Walter was right in the main in
what he had said to his fiancee about the necessity
of appealing to the interests rather than the principles of
the electors. Education had not then had the chance of
effecting those immense improvements which we hope it is

now doing in the culture and morality of the more plebeian
part of the nation, and perhaps there was more excuse
thirty years ago than now for doubting whether
a vote, in spite of all the stringent enactments to the
contrary, will not always be regarded as a marketable
article by the electors of this much denounced ' nation
of shopkeepers.' Of course the election now being described
was conducted on the very purest of principles,
and both the candidates were equally vehement in their
denunciation and dislike of bribery, and perhaps, after
all, it was merely an odd coincidence that the most votes
were eventually found to have been given on the side of
the party which had most money at its command.

The appeals made in public to their constituents on
this interesting occasion by the two candidates were in
no way different from those usual in such cases. While
Walter Chessington called on them to give their votes
in support of those glorious principles of liberty which
have made England the temple of freedom for the whole
world, and the leader in the great march of progress
among the nations of the earth,' Ferdinand Boarsbyby implored
them ' to rally round the Church and the Throne,
and to preserve from the subversion of ignorant and unprincipled
Radicals that glorious constitution which was
the pride of England and the envy of the world, by returning
as their representative a staunch Conservative
who could at least boast that he came of a stock whose
members had ever been found striving for the interests
of Lidfield, of Hillshire, and of England, since English
history began.' There was the usual number of rival
skits and lampoons, the usual quantity of cleverly managed
corruption, and the 'usual amount of drunkenness and
breaking of heads ; — in short, this parliamentary contest

differed little from any other, and the attention of the
reader is only drawn to it in order that he may be told
of an event which occurred during the poll, and which,
though it in no way influenced the result of the election,
materially affected the interests of Wilfrid Oakburne and
other personages in this history.

Two reasons had induced Wilfrid to visit Lidfield at
this particular period. In the first place overwork, acting
on the despondent state of mind to which his anxieties
with regard to Lois, and the unexpected news of Miss
Elkfield's engagement had given rise, had so evidently
affected his health that both, his tutor Dr. Block and his
friend Mr. Throckmorton had recommended him to take
a little rest previous to his examinations for the prize
medal and the degree of M.D. In the second he was
anxious to get home on account of certain tidings he had
heard of Lois Simcox.

For some time after his interview with Mrs. Skibbers
he had been content to wait in the hope of hearing from
her some news respecting Lois, and only once had he
been led to renew his attempts to discover where she
was. It was one evening towards the end of February
when Norton, who was strongly bitten with the prevailing
war fever, suggested that they should go and witness the
departure of the Guards for Southampton, which was to
take place early the following morning. Wilfrid agreed
without much opposition, feeling, as his friend said, that
a little idleness would do him good, but chiefly became
he was glad to humour the latter, who always shewed a
great deal of kindness and good nature to himself. So
the pair left Poulford Street between half-past three and
four in the morning, and made their way to Trafalgar
Square. They found a crowd of several thousand people,

w

OTTEKSTUNE HALL.

many of whom had taken their stations there long before,
watching with quiet expectation the entrance to the St.
George's Barracks, which lie behind the National Gallery.
The vast concourse which awaited with wonderful
patience the coming of the troops, the gloom of the
Barrack Square, lightened every now and then by the
gleam of a bayonet, and the silence, which was broken
by nothing save the measured tones of the clock of the
neighbouring church proclaiming the flight of the hours, all
made the scene a very impressive one. At last, as the first
pale light of daybreak appeared in the sky, the crowd,
weary of the prolonged delay, began to show their impatience,
and at the same time their loyalty, by singing
the National Anthem. Begun by a few voices, the
grand old air was gradually taken up by the whole
crowd till the familiar strains pealed forth from a thousand
tongues. Then ' Rule Britannia ' was chanted with equal
vigour, and, as the last notes of the chorus were
ringing in the air and mingling with the deep bell from
the tower which told it was five o'clock, the long enduring
spectators were at last rewarded, and the band of the
regiment marched out from the gateway and took up its
position in the Strand below. The cheer that greeted
them had hardly died away when the men, in their tall
bearskins and grey great-coats, came trooping forth pellmell,
and rushed without order down to where the
band were stationed; and then the whole regiment,
having formed up, marched down the Strand to
Wellington Street, and thence over Waterloo Bridge
to the South Western Railway Station. The gallant
body of men, the martial music, the incessant
cheering and wild but hearty choruses of the crowd as
they took up some favourite tune, the strange figures

which, suddenly roused from sleep, rushed to the windows
waving handkerchiefs, shirts, or any other article of
apparel they could lay hold of, and shouting their farewells,
all made up a spectacle so wild and so stirring
that Oakburne and Norton were fairly carried away by
the common enthusiasm, and marched along cheering
and singing with the rest.

Suddenly Wilfrid grasped his friend's shoulder.
1 Heavens ! Norton, there she is ! ' cried he.

Who is ? ' replied the other. ' Where is she ? '

Lois Simcox, my good fellow ! There ! don't you
see?' and he pointed to a meanly-clad woman who was
being hurried along with the crowd some ten paces ahead
of them.

1 My dear Oakburne, how can you tell at this distance
and with the woman's back turned towards you ? ' cried
Norton, who did not relish this interruption to their
adventure.

1 That's just how I can tell,' replied Wilfrid. ' I must
follow her.'

'All right; if you must,' said Norton, with his usual
good nature. ' But I warn you its no use ! ' and they
pressed forward as fast as they could. The dense crowd,
however, prevented their getting any nearer till they had
got over Waterloo Bridge, when as they reached the
York Road a good many of those who had been following
turned off and left the main body which continued
to accompany the regiment to the station.

'Hurrah! There she goes!' cried Wilfrid, as the
woman they were pursuing turned aside and walked
rapidly in the direction of Blackfriar's Bridge. ' Come,
quicken up ! '

Is this a walking race ? ' panted Norton, as they

hurried after the woman, who had got a very fair start of
them. ' I say, I am not in training ; this pace is killing!'

'Come on!' cried Wilfrid fiercely. 'I must catch her!'

He was convinced it was Lois; the shape of the head,
the hair, the height, the walk, were all her's exactly. At
last he had found her ! '

On they hurried down the long street which looked
more than usually unsightly in the dreary light of the
dull morning. Slowly, but surely, they gained upon the
woman. 'It is Lois!' said Wilfrid triumphantly, as she
half turned her head.

1 It may be Lois,' replied Norton. ' But this kind of
thing cannot continue much longer. I faint ! I die ! '

'Come on!' repeated Wilfrid. 'See! she has turned
up there,' and they followed her up a long dirty alley,
and then, turning sharply down another lane which was
if possible still more dirty, found themselves in a
little court of rickety, dingy-looking dwellings, at the
door of one of which the woman stopped breathless.

What a rookery!' cried Norton, who was bringing up
the rear. ' I am glad I left my watch at home !'

Lois !' cried Wilfrid, going eagerly up to her, and
quite regardless of the surroundings. ' Lois ! I have
found you at last !'

'Who the are you?' cried the young woman,

turning sharply on him. ( What do you mean by calling
me names. I'll Lois you! Are you detectives or what?
I aunt done nothing that I'll take my solemn davy.'

Alas ! it was not Lois, but a pale, wretched outcast,
whose face, otherwise comely enough, was marred by a
look of hardened devilry, and who showed by a decided
black eye that she had but recently been engaged in a
personal encounter.

I'll Lois you !' repeated she fiercely. ' By
I'll tench you to follow when yer aunt wanted !'

Vere's the rum, Kitty ?' cried a dirty, back-haired,
dwarfish man, with a most repulsive countenance, who
suddenly rushed from the house. ' Where's the rum

you slut ! Wot dryer mean by stopping' out all

night yer good-for-nothing, lazy brute you, eh? Til
teach yer !' and he aimed a blow at her which her
superior height enabled her easily to parry. He was
continuing to pour forth a torrent of filthy abuse on her
when he suddenly turned and saw Wilfrid.

1 They're detectives ! ' cried the woman. ' They've
bin follerin' of me all the way from Waterloo Bridge,
drat em ! I aunt done nothing !'

'The gentleman has made a mistake,' said Norton,
coming forward with a droll look, and removing his hat
with an enormous flourish and an extravagant bow.
He mistook the lady for another lady he knows, and
wanted to find, so he followed the lady home. He begs
to apologize to her for his stupidity. We both apologize.'

The woman burst into a shrill laugh. ' You're a rum
little man, you are !' cried she, quite appreciating his
humour ; but the dwarf was at first by no means disposed
to take the affair in good part, and began a tirade in
which ' — blackguards — follerin' my wife — smash you —
eyes. I'll smash you, I will !' were the most prominent
expressions.

'Smash me, will you?' cried Wilfrid, who was already
savage at his mistake. ' We'll see that !' and he turned
so fiercely on his opponent that the little wretch beat a
hasty retreat into the doorway.

What are you about, stupid ?' cried Norton, seizing
him by the coat tails. ' Don't you see that you have

given the gentleman just cause for anger by following
this lady. Come away, you old owl !'

The woman again began to titter in high amusement
at being called a lady, and Wilfrid burst out laughing in
spite of himself. 'You're right!' cried he, 'It's all a
mistake, my good woman ! You needn't be alarmed, I
thought you were some one else whom I have been looking
for. Let us be off, Norton.'

Won't the gentlemen give us suthin' to drink their
healths in ?' whined the woman, putting on a smile that
she meant to be fascinating.

Oakburne tossed her a sixpence which the little dwarf
darting out vainly tried to take from her, but she speedily
repulsed him with a good sound box on the ear that
made him retreat with a volley of bad language to his
den. Two or three more disreputable looking inhabitants
of the court began to appear at their windows, and
the two friends therefore made their way back without
delay to the street, and adjourned to a restaurant in the
Strand to get a cup of coffee.

I'm very sorry, Norton, to have given you such a
wild goose chase,' said Wilfrid. ' I'm a great fool, and
you're the best natured fellow in the world. I shall give
up this business. It's hopeless.'

Do not give up,' replied the other, lighting a cigar,
Only in future select your wild geese with more care.'
\ ' I'm the luckiest beggar in the world ! ' went on
Oakburne, thoroughly disheartened. ' All I do turns
out badly. I've a great mind to enlist and join some of
those fine fellows we saw this morning. I'm fit for
nothing but to be knocked on the head !'

Nonsense, my boy ! ' says the other kindly. ' You're
out of sorts, and want change as we've all been telling

you. You're sure to get the medal if you only give
yourself a fair chance. Go home, have a change,
and you'll come back as right as a trivet.'

It's no good ! ' said the gloomy young fellow bitterly.
It will always be the same. Some men are born to
failure, and I am one of them ;' and Norton found his
friend excessively poor company that morning.

Nevertheless, his perseverance with regard to Lois was
about to he rewarded sooner than he expected. That
very evening Mrs Skibbers came to pay him a visit.

1 1 said I'd come if I found out anything,' was the
somewhat abrupt greeting of that lady, 'and you see I
stand by my word, don't I ! '

Wilfrid informed her he was very glad to see her, and
made her sit down, and, after recovering her breath,
which seemed rather short, and wiping her red perspiring
countenance with a silk pocket handkerchief of much
the same hue, she told him that she had heard from
Lois. ' The letter did my old man more good than all
the doctor's stuffs, ' said Mrs. Skibbers, and then entered
into a somewhat lengthy digression to explain how her
old man ' had been ' driving a pilot ' to Chalk Farm
Station in foggy weather, when there were a lot of ' empty
goodness ' about, and how a collision had consequently
taken place between the pilot engine and that of one of
the empty goods trains, to the injury, which was happily
not serious, of Mr. Skibbers ; how it was all the fault of
the signalled ; how everything was always ' put upon
the drivers,' and how 'that dratted company was no
better than a parcel of rascals,' &c. &c.

Wilfrid listened very patiently, and expressed his sympathy
with Mrs. Skibbers in her domestic sorrow, and
then the worthy woman gave him Lois's letter, which

merely consisted of a few lines to her friend, telling her
that at last she had found a quiet happy home where
she hoped to remain for a long time to come, and thanking
her for all her kindness, which she should never
forget.

1 But she does not say where it is ! and there's no date
or address to tell one, is there, Mrs. Skibbers?' said
Wilfrid in some dismay.

1 No there Taint ! That's the bother of it,' says Mrs.
Skibbers, rubbing her nose violently. ' But its a nice
letter, aunt it? I thought as how I'd show it you.'

'Thank you,' replied Wilfrid, with a rueful smile.
'But stay, have you got the envelope?'

'The what?' enquired she, staring blankly at him.

The cover you know. What it came in. The cover
with the stamp on it.'

The river, oh, ah ! To be sure ! the paper river ! '
and, after a good deal of fumbling, she produced a
greasy envelope, the examination of which shewed Wilfrid
where it had been posted.

Ah ! I know where she is ! ' cried he joyfully, and
then he explained to Mrs. Skibbers how Lois must have
taken refuge, as the reader knows she had, with her aunt
at Rolhill. The good creature was delighted at the
news, and at Wilfrid's intense sagacity in finding out
where the letter had come from. She made him write
down the address in order that she might send Lois an
answer, though she was, as she said, but ' a pore
scholar,' and it would take her ' a deal of time.' Then
after telling Wilfrid that she thought he was 'a proper
sort of feller, a good feller,' and wishing him 'the best of
luck,' she asked leave to 'shake him by the hand, 5 and
departed, charging him with many messages to Lois

and to her brother-in-law, the Skibbers at Lidfield, ' if
you should perhaps see un, sir, and I might make so bold.'
This discovery made Wilfrid resolve to return home atone*,
and he accordingly took his departure for Lidfield
next morning to the envy of Norton, who gave much
good advice as to his health, and bade him not forget
to give his kindest remembrances to Mrs. Oakburne and
his sister.

Both his mother and Ethel were delighted to see him,
and combined in their affectionate efforts to make his
little visit as happy to him as possible. They sympathised
with his disappointment with regard to Miss Elk-field,
towards whom these ardent partisans now developed
a strong animosity ; they predicted his brilliant success
in the approaching examinations ; and they constantly
assured him that the scandal about Lois was now quite
forgotten, and that his character was quite cleared from
all the false imputations which had been made against it.
On this latter point, however, they were mistaken, as
Wilfrid was shortly to learn.

One of his first cares after his return was to visit Mr.
Simcox with the view of telling him how he had learnt
that his daughter was at Rolhill. He had called at his
house the morning after his arrival, and finding him out
had strolled into the ash wood above the Elkfieldo'
house, where, as the reader has learnt, he was able to
save Walter Chessington from what might have been a
nasty accident. He went home feeling very bitter against
Beatrice and her ficificee after this meeting, which had
been anything but pleasant to him, and when on going
again to the schoolmaster's cottage that afternoon he
found Miss Elkfield's pony carriage standing at the gate,

for she had lost no time in fulfilling her promise to
Lois, — he retreated at once. When he returned next
morning he was mortified to learn that Mr. Simcox had
gone out for the day, — the woman who was taking care
of the cottage did not know where, or he would have
learnt that it was to Rolhill, — and would not be back till
late. He therefore had to content himself with leaving
a note for the schoolmaster, and the day following all his
time was occupied by a visit which he paid in company
with his mother and sister to Mr. Bolderwood of Slopley,
a cousin of Mrs. Oakburne's. The intercourse between
the relations was somewhat limited, both because Slopley
was a long way off, and also from the fact that there had
been rather an interruption in their friendly relations
when Wilfrid's mother, who had at one time refused an
offer from this very cousin, married Dr. Oakburne. The
latter was all very well, and quite a gentleman, but it
was felt that his profession somehow raised a little barrier
which a Bolderwood of Slopley could only get over with
an effort. Hence a few formal invitations to luncheon
or dinner, and stiff ceremonial visits three or four times
a year, were the only mode in which the two households
kept up their intimacy. Wilfrid went on this occasion
solely to please his mother, who was, as has been said,
proud of her descent and all that related to it, and was
also proud of her own children, whose merits she loved
to make known to her kinsmen and acquaintances. Old
Mr. Bolderwood was a strong Tory and staunch supporter
of Ferdinand Boars, while his nephew and heir, Captain
Bolderwood, who had been at college with the latter, was
if possible still more zealous in his cause. The Captain,
who was always very cordial with his relatives, and
especially with Wilfrid, denounced Walter Chessington

as an unprincipled advocate of revolutionary doctrines,
deplored his engagement to Miss Elkfield, — towards whom,
as has been mentioned, he had at one time himself been
rather marked in his attentions, — as a calamity for the
neighbourhood, and pretty well succeeded in convincing
them that the return ot the Liberal candidate would bea
most terrible misfortune not only for the county, but
for Great Britain. ' A perfect stranger like that,' said he ;
it's shocking', upon my word ! A piece of audacity that's
perfectly astounding', by jove ! It's just the sort of
thing that w r ould have been denounced as jobbery and
pocket borough business if we'd done it, eh, Wilfrid ? I
tell you the man's a mere creature of that dreadful old
woman Lady Thistledale. And for a mere outsider like
that they oust a representative man like Ferdinand
Boarsbyby, who is most wonderfully clever, and whose
family is as old as the hills, and has been the life
of the county — positively the life of the county ! It's
monstrous, and if men like this fellow Chessington are to
be returned to Parliament, the ruin of the country is certain!
— positively certain! — not a doubt of it, eh, Julia?' Soit
fell out that, after listening to a series of discourses
delivered in this strain on the merits and demerits of the
rival candidates. Mrs. Oakburne, at the end of a visit,
which was pleasant enough, but occupied the best part of
the day, drove out of her kinsman's park, at Slopley,
firmly impressed with the conviction that the future of
England depended upon Ferdinand Boarsbyby's being
returned member for Lidfield. This led her to purchase
a large supply of the Tory colours, and to induce Wilfrid
and her daughter, who had been fully persuaded into the
same way of thinking, to decorate themselves with
rosettes of the same ; and the next morning her anxiety

to find out the state of the poll was such as to make her
ask her son to go down into the town after luncheon and
bring them back a full report on the subject. Wilfrid's
interest was not by any means so keen as her own, but
still he had quite sufficient sympathy with the success of
Boarsbyby's cause to make him glad to do so. He had
been very busy all the morning writing letters and filling
up certain forms in connection with his coming examinations,
and as in three days he would have to return to
London he thought it would be an opportunity, which he
could not afford to lose, of making another attempt to see
Mr. Simcox. who had not yet returned an answer to his
note. If he failed he determined to walk over to
Rolhill himself on the morrow, and make enquiries for
Lois. So he donned his colours, armed himself with a
thick stick, and set out.

The principal polling station was close to the town
hall, which was a quaint old-fashioned edifice, raised on
four ancient stone pillars, under which the nucleus of the
market was wont to be stationed. The streets were gay
with flags, and thronged with the supporters of both
parties, all wearing colours, and all more or less noisy
and demonstrative. The Borough of Lidfield included
four outlying hamlets besides the town itself, and two
continuous streams of coming and departing voters kept
steadily moving up and down the main street, interchanging
comments, chiefly of an offensive or at least chaffy nature,
with the little bands of townspeople, most of whom had
polled early. Nearly all the tradespeople had prudently
closed their shops, and most of the crowd were clad in
their best garments, so that the whole place wore a
holiday appearance, and the throng, the gay colours, and
the groups round the polling booth in the market place,

which was bright with flags and coloured placards, made
the picturesque old town a good study for a painter. So
thought Wilfrid as he made his way to the polling station,
where he learnt that Chessington was a little ahead of his
rival, but that the latter had been gaining steadily during
the last hour. He noticed several people he knew
hovering around the market place. Lord Ashleigh,
dressed in deep mourning, and his ' future connection,'
Mr. Elkfield, were there. So was the rector, who was a
strong conservative, and was talking to Dr. Doseyy, who
wore the same colours. Captain Bolderwood was riding
about on a serviceable cab, in company with a younger
brother of Ferdinand Boarsbyby, — he eventually married
one of Boarsbyby's sisters — and gave Wilfrid a
kindly nod of recognition. Snipington of Marsh-mire
Park was conspicuous for his large rosette ot
the Liberal colours and the bunches of ribbons, of
the same hue with which he had adorned his mare,
for, to the great disgust of his mother and sisters who
were very intimate with the Boarsbys, his friendship for
the Elkfields, which had even survived Beatrice's engagement,
led him, having no particular opinions of his own,
to give his vote to Walter Chessington. These were all
on the side of the market-place nearest to the church,
which was comparatively quiet and more retired than the
others. Wilfrid passed under the hall after learning the
result, and as he crossed the crowded, open space beyond
he caught sight of Portal mounted on a wiry-looking
bay mare.

You're on the wrong side I see, Oakburne !' cried the
latter. He had been doing yeoman's service all day in
marshalling the supporters of his candidate, for, though he
now bore the latter no love after his engagement to Miss

Elkfield, he was quite determined that he should win
for the sake of his professional reputation. ' I suppose
you are not here for long ? ' added he, riding a little way
with him.

No ! ' answered Oakburne. ' I return to London the
day after tomorrow ! '

Groups of rough-looking men, some with the liberal,
and some with the conservative colours, most of them
more or less the worse for liquor, and all armed with
sticks, were dotted here and there over the broad
square, now chatting among themselves, now interchanging
noisy abuse with their rivals, but in all cases
ready for any mischief. Portal turned aside to address
some order to a man in one of these and, as he did so, a
couple of ill-conditioned fellows, who wore Boarsbyby's
colours, came up to Wilfrid.

Capon Bolderwood, sir ! ' said one of them, a big
rough-looking drover, who was evidently more than half-drunk,
'Capon Bolderwood, sir! I've been working V and
he laid his hand on Wilfrid's shoulder.

1 Get out ! ' cried Oakburne, shaking him off. ' I'm
not Captain Bolderwood.'

Give me a shilling, or I'll kill you ! ' cried the fellow,
staggering up to him again, and grasping his coat. c I
will kill you if youth don' giv m' half-a-crownsh.'

Wilfrid gave him a push which sent him sprawling,
and those around burst into a rude laugh.

'What d'ye mean by knocking my mate about? you !'
cried the other, a smaller man who was rather more
sober. ' What d'ye mean ! ' repeated he with an oath,
squaring up at Oakburne. ' A pretty fellow you are to
serve one of your own side so, you Oakburne ! '

It was his own fault,' cried Wilfrid, enraged at his

impudence, and surprised at being addressed by name.
Why did he get in my way if he's one of my side?
Look here, if you don't move, I'll serve you in the same
way too. Ha ! take in then ! ' and, as the man defiantly
aimed a blow at him with his stick, he suited the action
to the word, and with a blow of his fist knocked him
down amid the jeers of the spectators. The man lay fora
moment on the rough uneven stones, then, suddenly
springing to his feet, he advanced threateningly towards
Oakburne.

Ah ! I know you ! ' cried he fiercely, shaking his fist
at him. ' I know you ! You are the young Oakburne
who ruined old Simcox's daughter ! You ought to be
flogged, you ought ! I say lads, this is the man that
ruined Lois Simcox, and took her away from Lidfield,
and broke her father's heart.'

'Its a lie!' cried Wilfrid turning pale, and trembling
with suppressed rage.

Ah ! look at his face ! He's the man ! ' cried his
antagonist, as a crowd of roughs gathered round. ' He's
the man, I say.'

Yes ! he is ! He's the man ! ' echoed the crowd.
1 Shame on him ! shame ! '

Down the river with him ! ' cried his first assailant,
with drunken fury. ' Downs river's with him ! ' and
the cry was eagerly taken up by the assembled mob.

'This is a false lie! a d lie!' cried Wilfrid,

clearing a space round him with his stick. ' Portal I
appeal to you. Is this not a lie from beginning to end ? '

How can I say ! ' answered Portal, who had grown
very white. 'Let him answer for himself he said in a
rather tremulous voice,

1 That's right Mr. Portal ! ' cried the crowd. ' Leave
him alone ! Leave him alone ! '

You coward ! you know its false ! ' cried Wilfrid
getting desperate.

1 What do you mean you impudent brute ! For all I
know, it may be true ! ' answered Portal angrily. He
could not stand being called a coward in public.

That's right ! He's the man ! Down the river with
him ! Down the river with him ! ' was the cry from a
hundred hoarse voices.

No ! no ! He amt the man ! I say he art the man!'
cried a loud harsh voice. ' He saved the girl's life !
He's not the man, Oakburne is'nt ! '

1 You be quiet, Skibbers ! ' said some one.

'I say it's a shame! He art the man!' repeated
Skibbers loudly. 'I helped him to pull her out of the
water myself. His dad was Doctor Oakburne what got
my missus and babies through the scarlet fee-ay ver!
You helped me, Bill Parrott, to pull 'em out. You know
you did!'

A jeer of disbelief burst from the crowd, who had not
enjoyed the satisfaction of ducking anyone for many a
year now, and did not intend to be thus balked of their
pleasure.

Dont you say nothing, Skibbers!' said Bill Parrott.
k It aunt no manner of good now. It'll only make it
worse for him. We'll help get him out.'

I'll run and tell old Simcox, damn'd if I don't !' cried
Skibbers, who was of course the brother-in-law of Wilfrid's
friend of Bede Street, Euston Road. ' I art going' to
stand this ! ' and off he darted up the street.

No one noticed him save his friend Parrott, for the
crowd were intent on their sport. ' 1 town the river with

him ! ' they roared, and in a moment half a dozen pair of
strong hands seized and pinioned Wilfrid, who managed
to give and receive some ugly blows during the process,
and bore him towards the river.

1 Perhaps I'd better go and see that no real mischief
is done, or I might be held responsible ! ' said Portal to
himself. ' But this will be useful to me ; very useful ! '
and he put his horse into motion and followed on the
skirts of the yelling rabble, who moved on with reiterated
cries of ' Drown him ! Duck him ! Down the river
with him ! ' Many of them believed that they were
really punishing an offender, and those who did not enjoyed
the fun as only an English crowd — one of the most
savage of all crowds — can.

Up the long High Street, past the hospital and the
rectory, swept the mob, and then turned into time little
lane leading to the river, in which the schoolmaster's
house stood. As they neared it, however, the progress
of those who were carrying Oakburne was brought to a
sudden stand-still, for a woman darted into the centre of
road, and, standing full in front of them, cried, ' Stop !
In Heaven's name stop! I am Lois Simcox; I command
you to stop ! '

The suddenness of her appearance, her clear ringing
voice, her pale, beautiful face, and above all the defiant
courage in her tones made the rough mob halt abruptly
in silent wonder as if in obedience to her words ; and, as
they did so, her father, with his grey hair streaming in the
wind, and honest Skibbers, still hot and panting with his
exertions, came and stood beside her, and formed a
barrier in the path of Wilfrid's persecutors.

Aye ! It's her sure ! Tis true ! Tis her ! That's

right!' cried several voices. 'That's Lois Simcox !
That's the schoolmaster's girl !'

Hear me !' cried she, quickly seizing the advantage
she had gained; ' Hear me! you are doing a cruel wrong!'

The crowd was now tightly wedged in the narrow way.
In the front rank were Wilfrid and his bearers, and hearing
Lois's voice, and profiting by the astonishment of his
captors, he struggled to his feet and stood pale and
bleeding before them all. Not far from him on the right
was Portal on his horse, who unwillingly enough found
himself also thus forced forward into a prominent position.
On seeing Lois his face immediately showed signs of dismay,
and he looked back as if to see whether he could
not retreat. The dense mass behind him, however, made
this quite impossible, and he was fain to remain an unwilling
spectator of the scene, looking to any new comer
like the leader of the crowd.

What do you want there, d you ? What d'ye

mean spoiling' sport, woman ? Move off ! Out of the way
there !' began some of the fiercer of those in the back
ranks of the mob, but their cries were not taken up by
those in front, and Lois, taking no heed of them, cried
out again in a voice that at once rivetted attention : —

1 You are doing a cruel wrong, I say ! This man,
Wilfrid Oakburne, never harmed me. He saved my life.
He has been my best friend. Yes, my best friend ! He
has tried to bring me home to my father. You all know
me '

Aye, aye, that's true ! We know you, Lois !' cried
the crowd.

'What I say is true, God help me ! Wilfrid Oakburne
never injured me. Look ! There sits the man who ruined
me — who, on pretence of marriage, wrought my shame,

who turned my life into a hell, and drove me from my
father, from my home ! Aye, you, Raymond Portal, who
sit there quietly looking on at the persecution of the man
who has unjustly had to bear the stain which you wear in
your soul ! You ! false, lying, coward ! who robbed me
of my innocence, and now allow the innocent to suffer for
your guilt ! Look at him, you men ! His guilt is written
in his face, look !'

All eyes were now turned towards Portal who, with
downcast eyes, and his pale face convulsed with alternate
shame, fear, and anger, sat looking the incarnation of a
convicted criminal. He motioned with his arm as if
about to speak, but though his dry lips moved, no sound
issued from them. Then, as a low murmur rose among
the crowd, which gradually deepened to a roar
of fury, with a strange cry, that was half a groan
and half a shout of defiance, he drove his spurs
into his horse's flanks, and, giving her a furious cut with
his whip, dashed madly past the trio in front of him,
hurling poor Skibbers to the ground.

A howl of disappointed rage broke from the mob as
they saw their intended victim make good his escape.
Some would have rushed after him in vain pursuit, had
not Lois again suddenly arrested all attention.

Do you believe me now ? ' she cried, in a voice suddenly
weaker and more tremulous, laying her hand on
her father's shoulder for support. ' Do you believe me ?
I swear by heaven I have told you all the truth, — aye
even to my shame !'

There was a moment's silence, and then a great shout
of 'It is true ! it is true!' rent the air, and the fickle
mob burst into hearty cheers for Lois Simcox.

1 Good heavens ! ' cried Wilfrid, running forward, ' she
is ill ! she has fainted !'

A sudden fit of coughing seized her as she strove once
more to speak. She tottered forward a few paces, and
then fell prone on the earth, and a thin stream of blood
trickled from her parted lips. Oakburne, aided by her
father, bore her senseless form into the house, leaving
the excited crowd, full of wonder and pity, to disperse
and carry back with them to the town the report of the
strange spectacle they had witnessed.

CHAPTER XXI.

A Funeral and a Wedding.

Oh hearts that break and give no sign

Save whitening lip and fading tresses,

Till death pours out his cordial wine,

Slow-dropped from Misery's crushing presses, —

If singing breath or echoing chord

To every hidden pang were given,

What endless melodies were poured,

As sad as earth, as sweet as heaven ! — O. W. Holmes.

There is one very sad thing in old friendships, to every mind that
is really moving onward. It is this : that one cannot help using his
early friends as the seaman uses the log, to mark his progress. —

O. W. Holmes.

HE bells were ringing, and the crowds buzzing,
because the Liberals had gained a great victory.
While Walter Chessington, from a commanding
but uncomfortable position on the roof of the ' White
Elephant Hotel,' was thanking the electors of Lidfield
for the honour they had done him in returning
him as their representative to Parliament, and declaring
that 'to watch their interest an 1 devote himself
to the fulfilment of his duties as their representative
would be the first object of his life,' poor Ferdinand
Boarsbybybyby, from the balcony of the ' Boarsbybybyby Arms,' was
also thanking his supporters for 'the staunch and devoted

aid they had given him in fighting this battle for the
cause of conservatism, — a battle he meant to fight again
on the first opportunity, now that he was assured that he
could rely on such disinterested and loyal help, a help
which made even defeat more bearable.' Neither the successful
nor unsuccessful candidate, we may be sure, forgot
to state what a satisfaction it had been that ' this contest
had been throughout conducted in such an honourable,
such a thoroughly straightforward and gentlemanly
manner ' by his opponent ; and the faithful adherents of
both, it is equally certain, did not forget to drink in oft
repeated bumpers the health of their respective champions.
Cheering, music, wine, and jollity, were paramount
everywhere throughout the town, and all this while poor
Lois Simcox lay dying. The crowd had quite forgotten
all about her and her wrongs, about Portal and about
Oakbume. Her father, Wilfrid, and the doctor, who
watched beside her bedside, seemed now the only people
in the world who knew of or cared for the existence of
one who a tew hours before had been for a brief space, a
popular heroine.

Wilfrid's professional experience told him at once, and
the doctor confirmed his opinion, that she was in an
advanced state of consumption, brought on through the
mental and bodily suffering she had undergone. Her exertions
when interfering on Wilfrid's behalf had ruptured a
bloodless, and the mischief must, it was to be feared, prove
fatal in her weak and over wrought state. All the skill,
care, and time, that his natural kindliness of disposition
led the doctor to devote to the case proved unavailing,
and his prognostications turned out only too true. Fever
with delirium set in in the course of the night, and for
the next two days quite prostrated the poor sufferer,

whose wanderings of mind were most painful to listen to.
At one time she could not bear her father to approach
her ; at another she implored him to come and save her
from shame. Then her fancy would carry her back to
her childhood, and she would imagine herself playing
with Beatrice in the Elkfield's garden ; or she would
imagine herself to be wandering by the Lid with Wilfrid,
addressing him in terms which showed her real affection
for him, when suddenly she would beg him piteously to
rescue her from some one who was pursuing her, and
these dreams always ended with shrieks and cries that
she was drowning, after which her moans and struggling
would suddenly cease, and she would murmur 'Saved!
saved ! ' and pass into a state of unconsciousness.

During this period, Wilfrid, who gave up for the present
his idea of returning to London, and whose mother and
sister fully sympathised with his motives, constantly
visited the house, and he then learnt for the first time
many details of this sad history which had hitherto been
unknown to him. Poor Mr. Simcox, whose grief and
anxiety were pitiful to witness, seemed to find some relief
in talking to and confiding in him. He told him
how he had learnt from Beatrice Elkneld that his daughter
was at Rolhill, and how he had gone the next day to
visit her ; how happy and yet how painful to both their
interview had been, and how she had told him everything.
He had then learnt, he said, for the first time,
that Portal had betrayed poor Lois under a solemn
promise of marriage evidenced by some dozen letters.
He had, it appeared, renewed this promise on the
birth of her baby, on condition that she would go to
London and wait there till he was in a position to fulfil
it, She had, therefore, left home with money supplied

by him, only to learn on reaching London that he had
deliberately deceived her, and that he now cast her off
fur ever. Her sufferings after this, the death of her
baby and her painful journey to Rolhill ; all these she
had related at length :o her father. She had also told
him of Wilfrid's offer to marry her. and how Portal, after
Oakburne had saved her life, had tried to induce her by
every means in his power, to make use of the latter's
inexperience to lead him on to make her his wife,
and thus at once screen herself from shame, and
rid her seducer of the victim of whom he had grown
weary. It was plain, her father said, — he could
hardly mention the man's name without expressions
of the most intense loathing and anger, — that Lois
had loved Portal very deeply, and that he had
almost to the end retained a fatal influence over her, but
that after her attempt to commit suicide, this feeling had
changed to one of bitter, almost dangerous hatred, and
that she tlv.n only clung to him in the vain hope that he
might at last be induced to keep his promise and marry
her. Wilfrid's saving her from self-destruction, and his
evident admiration and friendship for her, had kindled in
the poor thing a love almost amounting to worship. It
had, she told her father, reawakened all the good that
was left in her, had helped her to struggle to pray and
repent, and had kept her from falling into utter depths of
hopeless ruin in London, when she had first learnt from
Portal that he would have nothing more to do with her,
and had left her to live or die as she best could. When she
had heard from Beatrice Elkfield and her father how he,
Wilfrid, had been bearing Portal's burden of well merited
infamy, her anger and affection had been so strongly
roused, that she had come into Lidfkld, against her

father's wish, for the express purpose of seeking out
Portal, and either compelling him to acknowledge his
guilt, or publicly denouncing him. When, with this
resolution in her heart, she had suddenly learnt from the
worthy Skibbers (who, as the schoolmaster said, burst
upon them breathless and almost speechless with indignation
and anxiety), how Wilfrid was being dragged past
their cottage by the mob as a punishment for his
supposed crime, she had gone out in spite of all remonstrances
and acted as the reader has already learnt.

1 All seemed so happy again ! ' said the poor father.
All was going on so well ! I was going to have left this,
and lived with her at Rolhill. She seemed so hopeful
once more, once more like the Lois of old, the little
daughter I nursed and cherished, and now — and now — '
and he fairly broke down.

When Wilfrid arrived next morning, a lady was coming
out of the little sitting-room as he entered the passage.
It was Beatrice Elkfield, who started back when she saw
him. She was crying, and looked very pale and agitated.
' Wilfrid ! ' she said, ' She is dying ! She wants to
see you again ! And — and, Wilfrid, will you forgive
me !'

1 Beatrice ! You know you need not ask that ! ' he
cried. As he grasped the hand that she extended to
him Mr. Simcox came out to them. 'She is asking for
you ! ' said the poor father. ' It is for the last time ! '
and Oakburne silently followed him into the room.

As he looked on the wasted figure, the lovely
face which wore that transparent paler that consumption
gives to its victims, and the bright wistful
eyes which looked up so tenderly into his,
he felt he was looking for the last time on one who loved

him as he could never hope to be loved again on this
earth, and that he had never realised the extent of that
love till now. His tears fell fast as he silently took her
hand in his, and he forgot all else save the presence of
the dying woman.

Wilfrid ! ' whispered she, ' I want to say good-bye to
you.'

'Ah ! Lois ! Lois darling ! ' cried he passionately, 'you
must not die ! you must not die.'

1 Hush ! ' said she gently. ' It is better so ! I am not
sorry or frightened now. Kiss me once more, dear.'

A moment after she had said the words a sudden
change came over her face. ' Father ! Father ! ' she cried ;
and as the schoolmaster with broken utterances of
mingled sorrow and affection, came and knelt beside her,
she placed her arms round his neck.

Saved ! saved ! ' she murmured, and her spirit passed
away.

In accordance with a wish expressed shortly before her
death, Lois was buried at Rolhill, and as Wilfrid, in
company with her father and uncle, neared the quiet
churchyard on the down, three persons, dressed in deep
mourning, were seen to be already waiting there, who
proved to be the two brothers Skibbers, and the wife of
the one employed on the railway, who had shown so
much kindness to poor Lois when she was in London.
The worthy couple, learning from their brother what had
occurred, had managed to obtain a free pass down the
line, and had given up a whole day on purpose to attend
the funeral.

When the service was over Mr, Whit worth, pleased

and touched by this token of respect to his niece on the
part of strangers, and especially by the genuine grief of
Mrs. Skibbers, made the two rest awhile at his house,
where Mr Simcox had arranged to stay for the night, and
so Wilfrid went home on foot alone. A pleasant breeze
was blowing, the blue sky was dappled with white fleecy
clouds, and the country on either side of the pleasant
hills was beginning to show the tender green tints of
spring. Unbroken silence reigned around him, and ashe
turned and looked back towards the lonely church,
and watched for a moment the ' waves of shadow ' sweep
over the sunny hillside, he felt that no fairer spot could
have been chosen for the last resting place of poor, ill-fated
Lois Simcox. A flood of solemn thoughts rose in
his heart as he recalled the events of the past year, which
that distant grave had now severed as it were from the
rest of his life, and of which it would henceforth farm a
solemn monument. He went on his way homewards,
feeling that life had of a sudden changed for him in all
its aspects, and that he could look back on the past as a
period, fruitful indeed in matter for grief and self reproach,
and in hard lessons of self government, but as something
which now appeared by some mysterious influence almost
to have ceased to form a portion of his existence.

'Our brains'' says the American writer, whose verses
form the heading to this chapter, ' are seventy year clocks.
The Angel of Life winds them up at once for all, then
closes the case, and gives the key into the hand of the
Angel of the Resurrection. Tic — tac ! tic — tac ! go the
wheels of thought ; our will cannot stop them ; they cannot
stop themselves ; sleep cannot still them ; madness
only makes them go faster ; death alone can break into
the case, and, seizing the ever-swinging pendulum, which

we call the heart, silence at last the clicking of the terrible
escapement we have carried so long beneath our wrinkled
foreheads.' There are few who have not at one time or
another realised this, and who have not striven by
study, business, or pleasure, to control the never-ceasing
flow of thought. Wilfrid fled to his studies as a refuge
from himself, and he was not slow to reap the reward of
his unceasing labours. His mother and sister would
have had him give up his examination and remain at
home for a time, and he was the more tempted to do so
by the fact that, now that the true story of poor Lois
Simcox's troubles was known, people at Lidfield seemed
disposed to try and make up by a good deal of kindly
notice for their past hard treatment of him. Setting his
face, however, against all such seductive influences, he
returned to London and set to work in such good earnest
that he not only gained the prize medal which he competed
for, but acquitted himself so well that, after having
obtained his doctor's degree some months later in the
summer, he was appointed to a very good subordinate
post at St. Christopher Hospital, with the understanding
that the authorities had still better things in store for him
if he would stop on.

One morning in the middle of April, just after gaining
his prize, as he was reading the limes, — which, now that
war with Russia had been really declared, every one who
could do so studied with avidity, — he happened to glance
over the first column, and saw there a notice which he
could not help reading with a little emotion. It was the
announcement of the marriage ; on the 7th April at the
Parish Church Lidfield, of Walter Horace Chessington,
M.P., of Otterstone Hall, Clayshire, to Beatrice, only
daughter of Joseph Elkfield, J.P., of Ashen House,

Lidfield, Hillshire ; ' and the day after he received from
home a copy of the Hillshire Post giving a full account
of the ceremony.

Wilfrid read it all with rather mingled feelings. He
had not seen Beatrice again after their meeting at
the deathbed of poor Lois, and since that time he
had felt that his passion for her was quite cured.
Sail he could not help feeling a good deal of bitterness
as he thought how he had loved this young lady, who
had just been married with so much pomp and ceremony,
and how tamely and sadly his courtship of her had ended.
He little thought how soon, or under what strange
circumstances, he would again meet Beatrice and her
husband, or how closely their fortunes were destined to
be bound up with those of some of his relatives and
friends.

END OF VOL.

HI

3 0112 045842058

OF THE
University
or ILLINOIS

82.5
F74-50

BY

URQUHART A. FORBES.

VOLUME II.

Jldntron:

ALEXANDER GARDNER,

12 PATERNOSTER ROW.

CONTENTS.

Chap.
I.-

II.-

III.-

IV.-

V.-

VI.-

VII.-

VIII.-

IX.-

X.-

XI.-

XII.

XIII.
XIV.

XV.-

sin which Reginald restores an heirloom to its rightful
owner,

-In which birds of a feather flock together,

-At Otterstone Hall,

-Is chiefly conversational,

-Retribution,

-In which Lady Felsparley asserts her authority

-Shows how Mr. Throckmorton had an adventure
and how Sybil went to the Wars,

-"What will Uncle Giles say?"

-With the Army before Sebastopol,

-How Reginald Oakburne got his Majority,

-In which Mr. Portal becomes generous,

-Shows how Mr. Simcox found an old volume, and
how Mr. and Mrs. Chessington went into exile,

-A Meeting that was not all a merry one,

-Is penultimate, and treats of the law's delays and
other matters,

-Beechcroft v. Chessington,

Page










lOI












CHAPTER I.

In which Reginald restores an heirloom to its
rightful oivner.

A scene of death ! where fires beneath the sun,
And blended arms, and white pavilions glow ;
And for the business of destruction done.
Its requiem the war horn seem'd to blow.

Campbell.

And thou wert once a maiden fair,
A blushing virgin warm and young ;
With myrtles wreathed in golden hair,
And glossy brow that knew no care —
Upon a bridegroom's arm you hung.

The golden locks are silvered now.
The blushing cheek is pale and wan,
The spring may bloom, the autumn glow,
All's one — in chimney corner thou
Fittest shivering on.
Thackeray (From the German of La Motte Fouquet.)

[HOUGH Rustchuk with its domes, and minarets,
and gardens, looks very picturesque
as one approaches the bold promontory,
overlooking the Danube on which it stands, it
has all the unpleasant characteristics which are

VOL. II. A

wont to deter travellers from staying for any length of
time in Turkish towns. Such at least was the conclusion
come to by Messrs Oakburne and Danvers,
as they sauntered through its silent thoroughfares one
evening in July 1854. After landing at Venice they had
made their way leisurely to Vienna, whence they had
taken boat down the Danube, and had reached Rustchuk
on the 22nd June, the day before the siege of Istria
had been raised. Lieut. Ballard, of the Indian army,
who took such a prominent part in that memorable defence,
had, shortly after their arrival, joined the force of Hassan
Pasha, in which some half-dozen English officers were
then serving. The offer of Oakburne and his companion
to serve as volunteers had at once been accepted, and
they in common with their brother officers, and indeed
the whole Ottoman force, were just now fretting a good
deal at their enforced inactivity, after hearing of the
retreat of the huge Russian army which had besieged
Silistria. On the further side of the Danube the garrison
of Rustchuk could see the long lines of white tents
of General Soimonoff's army, and watched its movements
with unceasing vigilance and the greatest impatience.


As Oakburne and his friend made their way to their
quarters, horsemen began to gallop hurriedly to and fro,
and signs of activity began to be visible among the Turkish
troops, and when they reached the quarters of the
Turkish General and his staff, they learnt that Hassan
Pasha was meditating making an attack next morning on
an island which lies between Rustchuk and Giurgevo.
Though some of the English officers, and notably Lieut.
Burke, thought that the plan of this reconnaissance inforce
was unwise, all, both English and Turk, were

delighted at the idea of a brush with the enemy, and
proceeded to make their preparations with great alacrity.

It was a lovely summer morning, deliciously fresh and
bright, when the troops embarked in four boats, each
carrying 350 men, and pushed off towards the island,
some 900 yards distant from the Bulgarian, but only
separated by a narrow channel from the Wallachia
side of the Danube. Save for the necessary words
of command, and the plash of the oars all was perfectly
silent. A great eagle was sailing along in solitary grandeur
above the noble expanse of water towards the
mountains on the far horizon, and Oakburne, who
was in the boat commanded by Lieut. Burke, could
not help feeling impressed by the beauty and peace of
the scene. Of the other boats, one was commanded by
Captain Arnold, a second by Lieut. Meynell, and the
third by General Cannon, who took command of the
whole of this portion of the force. Each division made
for a separate point of the shore, while another party of
200 men under Colonel Ogilvy, were carried across by a
steamer and landed still higher up.

The four boats made the land very nearly at the same
time, and the Russian pickets though they at first
retired rather hastily, were speedily reinforced, and
opened a hot fire on the men as they disembarked,
to which the latter replied as well as they
could. Burke, who led on his little force most gallantly,
was attacked, the moment he leapt on shore by some six
soldiers, two of whom he shot with his revolver, while a
third he cut down with his sword, when the others turned
and fled. As he was endeavouring, however, to form his
men, he was again attacked by overwhelming numbers,
and after a heroic defence fell pierced with two rifle balls

and thirty bayonet wounds. Then ensued a terrible hand
to hand fight. Oakburne and his fellow subalterns, rallying
their division, managed to fight their way to the point
where Arnold, who had at first driven the Russians fi-ora
one of their entrenchments but had been in his turn
forced to retire, w^s endeavouring to maintain himself.
But the attacking force was so seriously outnumbered,
that its gallant efforts were for the time
unavailing. Scarcely had Oakburne reached Arnold's
side when fresh Russian reinforcements renewed the
attack with irresistible fury. He saw his leader fall with
a bayonet wound through his heart, and cut down his
assailant. Then he found himself almost surrounded,
and fighting desperately with the enemy, who were aiming
blows at him from all sides. He had rid himself of
two of his assailants when his sword broke on the helmet
of a third, and then a tremendous blow on the head
stretched him senseless on the ground. When he came
to himself he was a prisoner with his hands bound, and
a Russian soldier was standing guard over him, while a fair
haired, blue eyed young officer was seated on a chair
watching him with evident interest.

Ha ! you are yourself again,' said he in French. ' I
thought there was not much the matter with you. Look
at him, doctor.'

At this a third personage, standing behind Reginald, —
who was chiefly conscious that his head and right leg and
arm were very sore, — bent over the pallet on which he
was lying and felt his pulse, after which he said something
in Russian to the officer, who seemed much
pleased with his report, and left the room.

Gradually Oakburne began to realise his surroundings,
and was soon able to reply to the questions of the young

officer, who informed him he was Count Dorikoff, and
had had command of one of the Russian earthworks,
after which he proceeded to tell him how it was he had
fallen into his hands.

It appeared that the attack at this point had been unsuccessful,
and that General Cannon had been obliged to recross
to Rustchuk, in order to obtain reinforcements. The
Russian soldiery taking advantage of this lull in the '
attack, had begun plundering the dead and wounded,
and one of them was attracted by an object glittering on
Oakburne's chest, from which his tunic had been torn in
the melee. This was no other than the locket given to
him by Dr. Rovelli, which he had taken to wearing
under his uniform and had neglected to remove before
going into action, and in which the young fellow
was sentimental enough to carry a lock of Sybil Beech-croft's
brown hair, alongside of that fair curl which had
been placed there by its original owner. Oakburne, who
had fallen on his back with his right arm across his
breast, was still grasping the revolver he had drawn when
his sword broke. It was at full cock, and as the
Russian, eager to seize the locket with its circle of brilliant,
tried to disengage it from his neck, the sleeve of
his grey great coat caught in the lock causing it to go off
and wound him in the leg. Like most of his countrymen
of the lower ranks he was very superstitious, and, imagining
that the locket was a charm which had caused his
injury, he gave vent to a howl of mingled rage and
terror, which excited the curiosity of his captain, Count
Dorikoff, who happened to come up at that moment.
On discovering Oakburne to be an English officer and
not dead, he had had him carried into the entrenchment
and had placed him under the doctor's care. The remnant

of the Turkish force under Col. Ogilvy had meantime
managed to keep their position on the extreme edge
of the island until reinforcements commanded by Als
Pasha arrived from Rustchuk, after which they managed
to entrench themselves and maintain a desperate conflict
until sunset, when by mutual consent the firing ' ceased,
and both parties withdrew to the shelter of their works.
Under the cover of night the Russians retreated, some to
Frateschti some to Kalugerni, and the third division
which comprised Count Dorikoff's regiment, to a position
more in the neighbourhood of Bucharest, in a house in
which town the latter had lodged himself and his English
prisoner. On examination, it was found that, beyond
contusions on his head and arm Oakburne, had received
no real injury, and in a few days he had quite recovered.
All these facts were imparted to Oakburne by his
captor on their march to Galata, for fortunately for him
as it turned out, Count Dorikoff had himself been slightly
wounded, and was sent in charge of a detachment of sick
and wounded to Odessa. The count was a young man
of good family and a distant connexion of the great Prince
Woronzoff. During their long march through the dreary
region of the Drobrudscha, and the almost equally desolate
country of the Steppes, the two young men became very
great friends. The Count could not only speak French
but also knew a little English. He expressed the greatest
interest in hearing all about Oakburne's native country-his
grandfather had, he said, been entirely educated in
England, as was also indeed his connection, Prince
Woronzoff, and had there formed one or two very close
friendships. One of them was with a Mr. Beechcroft, a
man of property. Did Reginald know the name ? Yes ?
That was very odd. This Mr. Beechcroft had married a

lady, a MissChessington, who should have been an heiress,
but who somehow never got her property, which was a
sad thing, as her husband had played a good deal
and lost heavily to the Count's grandfather. The
latter had been a very fortunate gambler, and had
almost ruined another friend of his, a certain Chevalier
Leon, a Frenchman. He and the Chevalier and Beech-croft
had travelled over Europe together ; and his grandfather's
good luck at play had never in anyway interfered
with the intimacy of the trio. All this, it may be
imagined, was very interesting to Reginald, who thus
learnt for the first time something of the Beechcrofts'
claim to Otterstone Hall, and who in turn told his new
friend all he knew about the family.

On their arrival at Odessa, Oakburne, thanks to Count
DorikofPs influence, was most comfortably housed, and
continued to receive the greatest kindness from his captor,
who was, to tell the truth, rather proud of his
prisoner. The officers and crew of the Tiger, — which it
will be remembered ran aground near a lighthouse some
four or five miles from the city, — had been brought into
Odessa some two months before. As English manners,
owing to Prince Woronzoff s early training and inclinations,
were at that time in vogue there, these English
prisoners, the first taken during the war, received, as is
well known, an amount of consideration from all with
whom they had to do during their captivity, 'which was
as creditable to their kind gaolers as it must have been
astonishing to themselves. Hence Count Dorikoff,
having one of these lions, so to speak, all to himself,
made a good deal of Reginald, who thus was enabled to
see something of Russian society, as well as everything
worth seeing in the place and in its neighbourhood.

This pleasant captivity, however, did not last long.
The English admiral having proposed an exchange of
prisoners, the Czar abandoned his first decision that the
officer commanding the Tiger should proceed to St.
Petersburg, and that the other officers and men should
be sent to Riazin, a town some loo miles south-east of
Moscow, and so it came about that at the end of July
Oakburne found himself, in company with others of his
fellow captives, on board an English man-of-war bound
for Varna. Count Dorikoff who accompanied him to
the ship gaily announced his intention as soon as hostilities
should be over, — which could not but be soon, — of
visiting England, when he should delight to renew his
acquaintance with ' son cher captif,' as he used to call
him. The pair parted with mutual regret and feelings of
deep gratitude on Oakburne's part for all his captor's
kindness. Often in after years did Reginald recall the
bright handsome face, and laughing blue eyes of this
kind-hearted young fellow as he stood waving him a
cheery farewell while the vessel steamed out of the magnificent
harbour of Odessa, with its crowded shipping
and the stately buildings of the city rising behind it.

From some of the officers on board Oakburne heard
that his friend Danvers, who had escaped unhurt from
the battle of Giurgevo, had been summoned to England
by urgent private affairs, and having also learnt that his
regiment was one of those which had been sent from
India to take part in the forthcoming campaign, he determined
to abandon his idea of going home, and to rejoin
it at once.

He had long since resolved that he would return the
locket, to which, it might really be said, he owed his life,

to Dr. Rovelli's relatives, and as soon as he had settled
himself at Varna, he sent it to his brother Wilfrid, giving
him a full account of how it had come into his possession,
and had been the means of preserving him from death, as
well as of the particulars he had learnt from Count Doris
as to the Beechcroft family. He concluded by begging
him to take the locket to the address which Dr.
Rovelli had given him, and to let him know the result as
speedily as possible.

The month of August was drawing to a close, and the
hospitals were becoming crowded, and necessaries
scarcer, and things in general were beginning to look
very gloomy at Varna, when he received a reply from his
brother, the contents of which he read with very great
interest. The latter had, he said, satisfactorily executed
his commission, and, in so doing had discovered another
ink in a chain of evidence relating to a matter which had
long interested him. He then proceeded to tell him of
his acquaintance with Hoffbauer, and all those details
relating to the latter's connection with Estelle Chessington,
with which the reader has already been furnished.
He further stated that his task was made much easier
by the fact that a certain Madam Ledru, a friend of
Hoffbauer's, to whom the latter had introduced Wilfrid,
was already acquainted with Madam Rovelli, whom she
constantly visited.

When I called,' said the writer, ' I of course asked to
see Madam Rovelli, and was rather surprised on being
ushered into the drawing-room to find myself in the presence
of a white haired, decrepit looking lady, whose age
1 have since learnt is not less than eighty-six or eighty-seven.
As, however, you did not mention the doctor's
age, and as the servant indicated this venerable lady as

the mistress of the house, I at once told her the object
of my visit, and concluded by showing her the locket.
Until I gave it to her her manner had been remarkably
quiet. She seemed indeed scarcely to comprehend what
I said, though she now and then murmured two or three
words in English, which she spoke with a strong foreign
accent, and in fact she almost gave me the impression
that she was not in full possession of her senses. But
directly she saw the locket she uttered a cry so strange
that it quite startled me. It sounded like the utterance
of one coming to life again after a long insensibility.

*" Mon Dieu ! Monsieur ! " cried she, " tell me for the
love of Heaven how you became possessed of this ! "
Her eyes sparkled, she sat upright in her chair, and
seemed suddenly to have grown twenty years younger.

'As I had just been telling her the whole story as clearly
as I could, this rather embarrassed me, but I proceeded
again to repeat what I had heard from you. She seemed
however to pay no more attention to my second account
than to my first ; but kept gazing at the locket till at last
she burst forth into ejaculations of " Estelle ! Estelle !
Ma pauvre petite ser. On tea trahis ! On tea trahis ! Ah •'
ma chere Estelle ! " and then she began crying bitterly,
mingling her sobs with incoherent exclamations and
self reproaches.

"'I am sorry to have distressed you, madam," I began,
when to my relief Madam Ledru and another lady entered
the room. The former at once introduced me to
her companion, who proved to be the younger Madam Ro-velle,
an Englishwoman, the widow of the old lady's son and
the mother of your unfortunate friend, the doctor. Then
for the third time I repeated the history of your meeting
with her son, to whom she appears to have been deeply

attached. She seemed to be very much moved by my
account, and charged me with a very grateful message
of thanks to you, though she also took your address
for the purpose of writing to you herself. No doubt from
what I have already told you you will have justly concluded
that this elder Madam Rovelli is the sister of
Estelle Chessington, Hoffbauer's grandmother, who met
such a sad death during the French Revolution. It appears
that some years after their flight from Paris — you
will remember that they then went to Milan — the poor
lady was seized with a mysterious attack which threw her
into a cataleptic state for some ten years. During that
period her husband died, and her son brought her with
his wife and only child (your Dr. Rovelli) to England?
where they finally settled. Here after a time the old lady
began to recover her powers by degrees, but seems never
quite to have done so till the sight of this locket, which
she cannot have seen for some thirty years at least, suddenly
revived all her early recollections. She listened
intently while I talked to her daughter-in-law, and at the
first pause in the conversation between us began, to our
surprise, telling us in the most vivid manner the whole
story of her unfortunate sister's life. It appears that this
locket, which had been given to Estelle Chessington by
the man whom she persisted in styling her husband, was
handed over by her to her sister on her deathbed, to be
kept for her daughter. On Madam Rovelli's illness her
son, who took possession of all his mother's trinkets, gave
it to his own wife, who, as you know, in turn gave it to
her son, Dr. Rovelli. During one of our interviews with
old Madam Rovelli, she produced the receipt of Richard
Hoffbauer for monies sent by her for the maintenance of
little Mina Chessington her niece, also two letters, written

to Estelle Chessington by her supposed husband,
from the "house of Mr. Woodbine, No. 21 Bedford
Street, Covent Garden," in which he addresses her as
my dear wife." 'There appears to be no doubt that
the sorrow she had undergone with regard to her
sister, coupled with the fact that her husband would
never yield to her constant entreaties to receive her
niece Mina into his home, acted so strongly on
Madam Lovell as to produce the illness which so long
robbed her of her faculties. I have now told you all I
can of this extraordinary history, and you will see that my
friend, Throckmorton, who, as you know, takes great
interest in the matter, has good grounds for concluding ;
ist,that Mina Chessington was the illegitimate daughter
of Estelle Leon and a Lieut. Chessington, though who
the latter was it is almost impossible to say, since there
were three of the name in the army at that time ; and
2nd, that her son, Theodore Hoffbauer, is the great
nephew of old Madam Lovell.

'Talking of Chessington brings me to another piece of
information which will rather surprise you, namely, that in
October I am going to Otterstone Hall on a visit to Walter
Chessington, the member for Lidfield, our meeting with
whom you will of course remember. I need not tell you
how glad I am to have this opportunity of visiting the
old place, of which I shall write you a full account.
Mind that in return you send plenty of news of yourself
to,

Your ever affectionate brother,

Wilfrid Oakburne.

Pes. — I had almost forgotten to ask you to keep a
look out for a great friend of mine, Jim Norton, who is
just going out as army surgeon to join the force at Varna.

He is a St. Christopher's man, and has Heed in these
lodgings with me ever since I came to London, and
moreover paid us a visit at Lidfield last winter. You
will be glad to hear that I am an M.D. at last'

While Reginald was pondering over the contents of this
letter he was suddenly aroused by a tremendous shouting
and cheering outside, and two of his brother officers
rushing in great excitement into his tent, told him that
the long wished for news had arrived, and that the advance
of the allies to the Crimea had been definitely announced.


From that moment everything was forgotten in the intense
excitement and military enthusiasm that pervaded
the whole force, which set sail from the Bay of Varna
on the 7th September.

CHAPTER II.

In which birds of a feather flock together.

He is, by continual application, become a general master of
secret history, and can give an account of the intrigues, private
marriages, competitions, and stratagems, of half-century. — Dr.
Johnson (The Rambler).

It is not but by experience, that vise are taught the possibility of
retaining some virtues, and rejecting others, or of being good or
bad to a particular degree. — Dr. Johnson (The Rambler).

N the day after the result of the Lidfield election
had been publicly declared, Mr. Raymond
D'Arcy Portal had found it advisable to quit
home for a time on a visit to the Continent. He had
easily succeeded in making good his escape to his
father's house when he had fled from the fury of the
mob, aroused by Lois Simcox's denunciations of him ;
and owing to her sudden illness, and the excitement consequent
on the Liberal victory, the unpleasant episode
was for the time forgotten by the Lidfield public. Still
there was no knowing how soon it might not be remembered
against him, and he had always borne such a high
character in the place, that an attack on his reputation
would have been very disagreeable. There was therefore
nothing for it but to make a clean breast of it to his
father, and though that gentleman, himself a high-principled
man, was at first deeply pained, by the
disclosure of his son's guilt, his great affection for

Life in London was by no means disagreeable to
Portal. He had of course heard of Lois's death during
his absence, and that, and the fact that her father had
gone to live at Rolhill with his sister and her husband,
added to the oblivion that so speedily shrouds the events
of last quarter, would have made his return to his home
quite consistent with prudence. Still there was no harm
in making perfectly sure of a thing, and therefore, as this
opening offered, he willingly closed with it. He found
it moreover an agreeable change after life at Lidfield,
and it was eventually the means of bringing him into
close contact with various personages who had a great
share in the events of this history.

Besides their numerous aristocratic and well-to-do
clients there were others of less repute, — commission

agents, persons connected with the dramatic profession,
and speculators whose credit was rather shaky, — who
sometimes had recourse to the firm of Quipsonon,
Lease, and Mallgage for advice. It was in this
way that Portal, who now found himself a good deal
brought in contact with these, first made the acquaintance
of Mr. Vernon Trapster of the Momus Theatre, —
who was at times only kept going by the good offices of
his solicitors, — and also of Mons. Reuben Ledru of the
Cafe Frankfurt. The latter, who had been mixed up ina
very shady money lending case, had been, thanks chiefly
to Portal, completely exonerated from all liability regarding
it, and from that time the pair became close friends.
The novelty of his work, which was in many respects
unlike any he had had at Lidfield, made it for a time a
pleasant variety to Portal, who, it is hardly necessary to
say, did not forget to give himself plenty of amusement.
He had a fair share of respectable acquaintances, among
whom was Mr. Mallgage, the junior partner of the firm,
to whose third daughter. Miss Joanaa Mallgage, he at this
time began to pay his addresses. The match was felt
to be desirable by both families for financial and other
reasons, and it was doubtless because the prospect of
hum-drum married life began to grow a little oppressive,
that Mr. Portal now became somewhat dissipated. Now
too for a time his usual luck deserted him. He managed to
'drop' a good deal of money at play, and was beguiled into
laying heavily against Mr. Gully's ' Andover,' the Derby
winner of that year, and the same gentleman's ' Hermit '
with which it will be remembered, he won the Gold Vase
at Ascot. Through Mr. Vernon Trapster he was introduced
to the well known and charming Miss Popsie
Delacourtt, — an actress justly celebrated for her success

in ' breeches ' parts at the ' Momus ' and other theatres,
who afterwards married Lord Wanderer, — and spent a
good deal more money than he could at all afford on
that fascinating young lady. In short, he began to find
himself extremely 'hard up,' and it was while he was
casting about how he should ' raise the wind ' in order to
free himself from them, that he became acquainted with
Theodore Hoffbauer.

The latter when on his sick bed, touched with the
unlooked for kindness of friends, and full of regretful
remembrances of the past, had made many good resolutions
as to the future, which shared, — like alas ! those of
so many of the best of us, — the fate of that vow to
become a monk which an old rhyme declares a certain
personage to have made when similarly circumstanced.
When he learnt that old Madam Rovelli was his great-aunt,
and on visiting her in Bedford Square, received
from the old lady herself a substantial acknowledgement
of the fact, all his old inclinations to reckless extravagance e
revived in him. He might have tried, however, to obtain
some steady occupation, had it not been, in the first place,
that he was waiting to see whether Chessington would
fulfil his promise of helping him, which he still delayed todo,
and, in the next, that his unfortunate connection with
Madam Ledru led him into a reckless mode of life.

Finding time hang heavy on his hands he took to
frequenting the casinos and gambling tables patronised
by the polyglot community of political refugees, which
then haunted the region round Leicester Square and Soho.
With most of these Hoffbauer's career made him hale
fellow well met, and enabled him to sympathise to some
extent with their futile plots and intrigues, and the
swaggering gallantry which not unfrequently led to

VOL. II. B

desperate 'duels between them. It was at one of these
hells that he first fell in with Portal, who went everywhere
and prided himself on seeing all kinds of life. The
chance meeting led to a closer acquaintance, and one
day the German, who was naturally frank and communicative,
showed him the other documents relating tohisbirth,
as to which he had already consulted Wilfrid Oakburne
and his friend Mr. Throckmorton. Portal alter studying
them carefully came to the same conclusion that the two
last named friends of Hoffbauer had done, viz : — that the
latter was the grandson, through a mock marriage, of
Estelle Leon and some individual calling himself Lieut.
Chessington; and having determined this point, he further
resolved that he would if possible make it useful to himself
That correspondence of George Chessington's
which he knew to be in Lord Ashleigh's possession, and
which he had taken the opportunity of reading during
the Lidfield election, had shown him enough to make
him think that these documents which Hoffbauer set
such store by might possibly he used to extort money
from Walter Chessington or his uncle. Money he must
have in some way, and this mode of raising it would have
the advantage of enabling him to have his revenge on
Lord Ashleigh and Walter, whom he could never forgive
for having, as he considered, deprived him of Beatrice
Elkfield and her fortune. Hoffbauer, too, would make an
admirable tool, behind whom, if necessary, he could screen
himself, so he managed to pump the latter very skilfully
as to all that he required to find out of his family
history, and was preparing to sound him with respect to
his willingness to enter into his scheme when Wilfrid
Oakburne, unexpectedly, and quite unintentionally, interposed
to frustrate it.

It happened that the latter had gone down to Sydenham
with Hoffbauer to witness the opening by the
Queen and Prince Albert of the Crystal Palace, which
it is hardly necessary to remind the reader was a very
grand ceremony, attended by the Primate, the Ministry,
the Lord Mayor, and various other great personages.
The pair, though now close friends, did not often make
such expeditions together, but on this occasion the German,
who had an almost childish pleasure in witnessing
sights of this kind, had persuaded the young doctor to
accompany him . The great business of opening the building
had been duly performed, and having taken the refreshment
necessary after the fatiguing process of
watching it, they ^^^ere sauntering through the grounds
when they suddenly came on Portal, accompanied by
Miss Popsie Delacourtt. Hoffbauer greeted him with a
friendly nod as the couple passed them, and Oakburne
at once recognised the man who had ruined Lois, and
done so much to make his own life miserable. They
had accidentally met once before in London at an evening
party, and had carefully avoided each other ever
since, and on this second rencontre Portal also wisely
ignored Wilfrid, as he had also to do young Mallgage and
his sister Joanaa, whom he and Miss Delacourtt nearly ran
into as they were hurrying to witness the departure of
the royal party.

'You know that man then, Hoffbauer?' asked his
friend.

Certainly I do, mein Vilfrid,' says the other. ' He is
a young lawyer. Very clever too, let me tell you ! But
you know him also, it seems, yes ? And you do not like
him, no?'

He is a villain ! '

A villain ? how my boy ? The man we like not shall
always be so ; yes ? But this one is a very pleasant
villain, let me tell you, who shall I think be most useful
in my legal affairs. His beautiful companion, who
ravishes one with her dancing at the theatre, she shall
be wunder-hiibsch, night war ? '

For Heaven's sake do not trust him ! ' cried Wilfrid.
He is capable of any crime ! ' and, on being pressed for
his reasons, he gave his companion such an account of
Portal as made him open his eyes and express strong
disgust.

I don't like speaking against the man more than I
can help, much as he has injured me,' said he, 'but as
you talk about his being useful to you I feel it my duty
to tell you what I know, and warn you against trusting
him.'

You have right mein freund Vilfrid, and I thank you !
Yes, ver most I thank you my boy ! ' ' and as they went
back to London together he managed to extract a few
more particulars from Wilfrid as to Portal's career, which
confirmed still more strongly his newly-formed prepossession
against him.

Hence it came about that when, some short time after
this visit to the Crystal Palace, Portal made known to
Hoffbauer, at a dinner to which he had invited him for
the purpose, his project of extorting money from Walter
Chessington by means of the papers shewn him by the
German, the latter rejected his proposals with scorn
and anger. Had Portal suggested Lord Ashleigh
instead of the young owner of Otterstone Hall, Hoff-baker's
wrath would not perhaps have been so strongly
kindled, for he had mixed with so many questionable
characters that he had been accustomed to hear not unfrequently

propositions of an equally mean and revolting
character freely advanced. Towards Walter Chessington,
however, his feelings of gratitude were very strong, and
the fact that he had saved Walter's life, and Walter had
saved his, made a bond between them which he was
determined nothing should ever break, if he could help
it. The thought that he should be considered capable
of the baseness of trying to extort money from one who
had saved him from starvation and was still sending him
pecuniary aid, excited such an anger in him as made his
host turn pale through the fear that it might vent itself
in personal violence.

Yes! yes! you are a rascal ! a dam rascal, sir!' cried
Hoffbauer, rising from the table. ' Donnerwetter ! you
dare to propose this to me ! You will sit there quietly
and ask me to rob my benefactor, the free' of my
sorrows ! Got in Himmel ! This should demand a
punishment, this insult you put on me ! Yes ! I know,
young man, of your evil history! I hear of your earlier
doings, sir, from one who knows you well, from my free'
Vilfrid ! You give me the wish to chastise you had I
not sat at your table I I will not eat your bread, who
thus dishonour me, sir ! Take then my moneys, the
price of the food you have given me 1 From henceforth
we are no more to be acquainted, Donnerwetter ! '
and flinging down a sovereign on the table he left the
room.

It was lucky perhaps that they were in a private room,
and that Portal was well known to the proprietor of the
restaurant in Regent Street where they were dining.
Being, however, in the habit of frequenting it, he was able
to reassure the scared waiter who had rushed up stairs at
the sound of Hoffbauer's loud voice, and whom the

latter in his descent nearly knocked over and cursed in
good round German for his clumsiness in getting in the
way. Portal told the fellow with a significant smile on
his pale face that the foreign gentleman was rather queer
and had had too much wine, and he paid his bill with a
somewhat trembling hand, and went away full of suppressed
hatred and anger not only against Hoffbauer
but against Wilfrid Oakburne, whom he of course recognised
as the ' free' Vilfrid ' from whom the former had
got his information respecting his past life.

'This sanctimonious fool is always crossing my path!'
said he savagely to himself. ' He succeeded once, but
he shall be taught that it is dangerous to meddle with
me, and so shall that pig-headed German too.' As he
walked on with these angry feelings in his heart he found
himself close to the door of the Cafe Frankfurt, at which
Mons. Ledru, the proprietor, chanced to be standing, enjoying
the cool air of the summer evening. The latter,
always on very good terms with the young solicitor, on
this occasion greeted him with more than usual civility,
and asked him to step into his private room, as he
wanted to consult him on a matter of business.

Mons. Ledru was a good deal altered from the stalwart
personage to whom the reader was introduced at the beginning
of these pages as Reuben Pfeiffer. Time had not only
'to silver turned' the coarse hair and beard which had been
coal black in 1848, but had given a thickness and rotundity
to his person, as well as a redness to his nose, and a
wariness and peculiarly unpleasant expression to his
eyes. The love of generous Rhine wine which had distinguished
Herr Reuben the money-lender, had in Mons.
Ledru the restaurant proprietor developed into a

passion for ardent spirits but he was still as unscrupulous,
cruel, shrewd, and keen in his pursuit of money as of old.
As has been mentioned above the pair were on very
good terms, Portal, who often visited him at St. John's
Wood, where he now lived in much splendour, having
borrowed some money from him which he at present
found it difficult to repay, and having in return
frequently given him professional advice when he required
it.

On the present occasion Reuben seemed unwilling to
begin the conversation, and so Portal, partly thinking he
might learn something, and partly for something to say,
asked him if he could give him any information about a
certain refugee who had for a long time passed under the
name of Karl, but who also called himself Hoffbauer.
He felt sure that there must be some dark pages in Hoff-baker's
past life which could be used against him, and
he knew that Reuben Ledru was acquainted with something
of the history of most of the political exiles with
whom the German associated.

Reuben's face changed colour and he rapped out a
savage oath at the mention of the name, while Madam
his wife, who had been sitting scarcely noticed in a
corner of the room, also started and gave vent to an exclamation
of surprise, which at once attracted Reuben's
attention. He told her fiercely to go up to his room and
see if certain papers had been placed there, adding that
she need not come back as he wanted to speak to Portal
on business, Frederica, preserving her usual haughty
calm of manner, and returning Portal's salutation with a
cold little bow, at once left the room ; and as she did so
the latter, who admired, and was always polite to her,

noticed that she had an ugly scar on her left cheek, as to
the cause of which he drew his owen conclusions.

Yes. I know this Hoffbauer,' said Reuben, after she
had closed the door. ' And I know nothing good of
him, Mr. Portal. He is a wild fellow ! turbulent, unscrupulous
; a dangerous man ! Have nothing to do
with him, sir, or with any of those refugees. As a rule
they are all bad ! ' and he proceeded to tell his guest,
much to the latter's satisfaction, all that he knew, and a
great deal that he invented on the spur of the moment,
against the character of the unfortunate Hoffbauer, till
Portal, having heard enough, changed the subject by
asking what Ledru wished to consult him about.

The matter in question was, as he said, a sad trial to
this excellent creature. He suspected Madam Ledru of
being faithless to him ! She whom he had overwhelmed
with so much love and tenderness ! and the viper who
had ruined his domestic Eden was, strangely enough, no
other than this very Hoffbauer, — a man whom he
treated with every kindness, to whom in earlier days he
been almost a father ! He had borne long and
patiently with Frederica, but he could bear with her no
longer ; and it was on this point that he wanted his good
friend Portal's counsel.

His 'good friend Portal,' though ignorant of Reuben's
former wickedness with regard to poor Frederica,
whose life he had ruined, was nevertheless well aware
that he treated his wife brutally, shrewdly suspected him
of beating her, and was acquainted with the lady who
presided over the smart establishment in St. John's
Wood. He felt certain, therefore, that there was something
more important behind this tirade against Madam
Ledru, to which he' listened with fitting expressions of

regret and sympathy, and his surmise was presently justified
when Reuben explained to him that the great bar to
dissolving his union with his wife was the fact that see
would inherit a valuable legacy from Madam Rovelli,
which he did not see how to get into his own power, if
he decided to do so. Was it possible to obtain it in any
other way ? Could Portal help him ?

It is not necessary to burden the reader with all that
passed between this worthy pair. Suffice it to say that
after one or two consultations Portal evolved a pretty
little scheme by means of which Madam Ledru was to
be driven, through threats of exposure, separation, &c.,
to sign a document, to be drawn up by him, bequeathing
all the property she expected to acquire from Madam
Rovelli, to her beloved husband ' Reuben Ledru,' who,
in consideration of his professional services in this matrimonial
difficulty, was content to forego Portal's debt to
him. Reuben was quite confident that he could so work
on his wife, by judicious bullying, as to make her sign
anything he wanted, for, by means of various spies, he
had long been informed not only of her meetings with
Hoff'bauer, but also, as he told Portal, of various interviews
which she was known to have had with a certain
young Dr. Oakburne, a friend of the German's. All this
was, as may be supposed, delightful to Portal, who thus
saw an opportunity of revenging himself on two of his
enemies at once ; and he formed such a high opinion of
Reuben's cleverness, and usefulness as a coadjutor, that
he not only entered heart and soul into his project, but
also imparted to him all he knew of Hofifbauer's family
history, and persuaded him to join him in his scheme of
extorting money by means of it from Walter Chessington
and his uncle Lord Ashleigh. Having therefore devised

these excellent plans, these two conspirators proceeded to
set them in train with a skill and audacity which, if such
qualities deserve success, certainly merited it in a high
degree.

Summer had passed away, the Arctic Expedition had
sailed in search of Sir John Franklin, the cholera had
begun its ravages, news had been received from Lord
Raglan regarding the successful landing of our army in
the Crimea, and many other equally important events
had happened while Messrs. Ledru and Portal had been
maturing their scheme, when one fine warm night towards
the end of September, the former changed the whole aspect
of affairs by taking more Hollands than was good
for him.

Owing either to the heat of the weather, the state of
his liver, or perhaps to imprudent anticipations of triumph
Mons. Ledru drank more deeply than usual that evening,
and beginning with a little coarse sarcasm, passed on to
virulent and foul-mouthed abuse of his wife. No one
was more a master of this art than he was, and in the
delights of its exercise he was carried away beyond the
limits of common caution. His taunts were such as
even Frederica, hardened as she had become to them,
could not endure in silence. She answered with bitter
and angry replies that excited Reuben to still more
violent and offensive language, till the recriminations
became so vehement that, maddened by anger and drink
he struck her such a blow as made her reel for a moment
into a chair with a shriek that startled several of those in
the neighbouring houses. He gazed at her half frightened
by what he had done, but when she rose, and with the
blood trickling down her face, quitted the room, he felt

reassured, and sitting down again resumed his drinking
till, heavy with liquor, he sank into a sottish sleep in his
chair. ^Yhen he came to himself next morning, and had
to set about the business of the day, he learnt, to his
wrathful amazement, that the wife he ' had overwhelmed
with so much love and tenderness ' had quitted his roof,
as she informed him in the note she had left for him,
never more to return to it.

Portal calling on him that evening, after a hard day's
work, was astonished and rather uneasy at the state of
passionate excitement in which he found Reuben, who
was increasing it by constant recourse to the bottle.
That his wife should dare to leave him had never entered
this outraged husband's head, for he had grown to look
on her as completely his slave ; but what was still more
annoying was that he could not find the slightest clue to
the fugitive's whereabouts. Madam Rovelli knew nothing
of her and could therefore give him no assistance ; and
the only information he had obtained at the lodgings in
Poulford Street, was that Hoffbauer and Oakburne had
gone together into the country, on a visit to Walter
Chessington at Otterstone, which made it impossible
that she could be with them. Nevertheless, he said, he
felt convinced that Hoffbauer certainly, and perhaps his
friend, was at the bottom of this injury to his domestic
peace, and he paced the room, breathing such furious
curses and vows of vengeance against the pair as fairly to
alarm Portal.

We must be prudent,' said the latter, trying to calm
him. 'We must not do anything rash, vexatious as this
is.'

Yes, yes ! you are right ! ' cried the other, draining
the glass that stood on the table, ' We must be prudent.

We will not have our game spoiled by fools like that !
Ha ! Ha ! No ! We will have revenge, sweet revenge,
delicious revenge, my friend ! Ha ! Ha ! Ha ! ' and he
laughed so fiercely and wildly that his companion thought
for the moment that he had lost his senses.

You must take a little rest, Ledru ' said he, thinking
that it was best not to excite him more by talking. ' Take
my advice and get to bed and don't worry yourself unnecessarily.
I shall call tomorrow and then you will tell
me what news you have got ; for you are sure to hear
soon', and he bade him good night, and went away feeling
a good deal disturbed at his associate's excited condition
of mind.

What a miserable thing it is to be a sot ! ' said he to
himself. ' Thank goodness I am guiltless of that weakness
! If I could only get clear again I would marry
Joanaa Mallgage and her five thousand pounds and settle
down quietly at Lidfield. I think I'll make a clean
breast of my difficulties to the governor ; he is sure to
come round in the end, and I'm tired of this silly accepting
life. I will certainly have nothing more to do with
this madman Ledru, if I can only back out of it. He
has drunk his brains away and is positively dangerous.
There's no knowing what he may not lead one into. No !
I'll cut the connection as soon as I can. This sort of
life doesn't pay.'

As he turned into the Strand on his way home, he
found it thronged with an excited crowd, some of whom
were gathered in little groups talking loudly together,
while others were congregated round each street lamp,
trying to read newspapers which two or three eagerly
scanned together, and then passed on to others who
waited impatiently for them. An extraordinary Gazette

had been published on account of the victory of the
Alma, which the Lord Mayor, after announcing it at the
Sheriff's dinner, had proclaimed from the Royal Exchange.
In all the theatres, managers had made known
the good news to their audiences, and the whole city
was carried away by prevailing enthusiasm. Porta
could not help being a little infected by the general feeling,
and for the time forgot Reuben Ledru, and his
affairs. On going again, however, as soon as he was
able, to see the latter, he was told that he had gone away
for a month, but had left no address, and that all communications
to him must still be addressed to the Cafe
Frankfurt.

CHAPTER III.

At Otterstone Hall.

A brave old house ! a garden full of bees,
Large dropping poppies, and queen hoUihocks,
With butterflies for crowns — tree peonies
And pinks and goldilocks. — jean Angelo.

|N the morning after its proclamation in the metropolis,
— which happened to be that of the Sunday
set apart for the Harvest Thanksgiving, — the news
of the victory of the Alma was announced by the clergy in
every church throughout the kingdom. Though, however,
it produced a general feeling of thankfulness and exultation,
it also caused the keenest anxiety among the
members of many an English home, and in one at least
of Mr. Bowersbyby's congregation at Otterstone, it raised
these conflicting emotions.

Wilfrid Oakburne, seated by the man who now owned
the broad lands which had once belonged to his own
race, found himself worshipping for the first time in a
church built in the far off past chiefly through the bounty
of his ancestors, whose remains had been laid to rest in
the sacred ground around it, and whose memory was
recorded in many an ancient inscription on its walls. He
could not but recall how he and Reginald, scarce two
years ago, had visited this place for which he knew his
brother felt such affectionate veneration, and had first
met the preacher who was impressing on them the solemn
lessons to be learnt from this great victory. The

memorable morning service filled him, as it did so many
others that beautiful September day, with many affectionate
memories and vague forebodings of evil.

Neither Oakburne nor his friend Hoffbauer were aware
of the fact that the invitation to Otterstone Hall which
they received from Walter Chessington was in great
measure due to the opposition, which his uncle Lord
Ashleigh had made to their coming. The latter had
always disliked his nejnew's notice of Hoffbauer, which
he considered an evidence of his weakness of character.
Saved your life, my boy,' he would say, ' what of that ?
Didn't you repay him by saving his in return? and a most
generous thing on your part, — a man in your position !
Let the matter end there. Take my advice and avoid
becoming intimate with people of that kind or making
proteges of them That mistaken charity don't pay
Walter, and you don't know where it will lead you.
Never forget the difference in station between you my
dear fellow You have behaved most admirably in the
matter hitherto. Be content with what you've done and
let him look after himself now.' When therefore Walter
told him one morning that since his marriage and return
to Parliament he had begun to find that, what with
the management of his property and his duties as a
magistrate, he required a secretary to assist him in transacting
his business, and thought of employing Hoffbauer in
that capacity. Lord Ashleigh was extremely disgusted, and
did all he could to dissuade him from his project. He
laughed at the plausible excuse of Walter's requiring a
secretary, and repeated his warnings against patronising
a man of whom he could know so little. It so happened
however that his remonstrances rather offended his
nephew who was beginning to grow touchy as to any

interference, and his uncle, seeing that they only
strengthened his intentions with regard to Hoffbauer, like
a wise diplomatist tried the effect of completely changing
his front and pretending to be persuaded that after all his
scruples were foolish and old fashioned, and that it was
right that Walter should obey the dictates of ' his own
kind heart.'

Yes ! obey the promptings of your own kind heart
my boy ! They do you credit. Your friend Hornblower,
(Hoffbauer I mean), is a good enough fellow, I dare say.
I shan't see them, by the way, as I go to Homburg next
week, — that is unless the office of secretary to your worship
is made permanent. Only remember, don't make
too much of him.'

No fear of that ! ' said Walter laughing, and the pair
parted as good friends as ever.

No better means of successfully combating his nephew's
plans could have been devised than this seeming acquiescence
of Lord Ashleigh's. It threw him completely on
himself and aroused numberless scruples that had lain
dormant while his pride was in arms against his uncle.
His mother, Lady Adela, had, as usual, been brought
round to her brother's opinion, and her feeling in the
matter made him hesitate still more. After his uncle's
departure his reluctance increased, and had it not been
for his wife and sister, who began to laugh at him for
postponing his friend's visit so constantly, he would
probably never have invited them at all.

For all that such cases are of very common occurrence,
it is a melancholy thing to have to record the fact that
the marriage between Mr. and Mrs. Walter Chessington
had not turned out quite as happily as could be desired,
or as might perhaps have been fairly anticipated. While

Walter had never been very much in love with Miss Elk-field,
who had, so to speak, been suggested to him as a
wife by his uncle, she for her part had never really loved
her husband at all before their marriage, but had merely
liked him and acquiesced in the idea. Naturally imperious
and self-willed, she was, though very warm-hearted,
also somewhat quick-tempered, and her husband's yielding
disposition and love of conciliating everybody constantly
irritated her, while his forbearance and invariable good
humour increased the irritation ; for what disconcerts an
angry man or woman more than the refusal of the person
with whom they want to quarrel to lose his or her
temper ? Just now the chief cause of Mrs. Chessington's
dissatisfaction with her husband was his constant obedience
to all his uncle's wishes and advice. Though she
was personally very well inclined towards the latter, and
like most of her sex ready to own that he was a very
pleasant person, she could not bear that her lord and
master should be managed by him. She considered that
Walter did not sufficiently assert himself as owner of
Otterstone, and in her heart of hearts began to despise
him as wanting in resolution and energy. This led herby
way of increasing that strength of will in which she
deemed him deficient, to attack him constantly with
those shafts of thinly veiled sarcasm which a clever
woman can use with such effect, inflicting painful wounds
which none but those who know each other most intimately
are able to give. Fortunately Beatrice had taken
a real liking both for Lady Adela and Catherine, and was
very glad that they should still continue to inhabit Otter-stone
Hall. Lady Adela was of a still more yielding
nature than her son, and willingly surrendered many
of her prerogatives to Walter's imperious bride. Miss

VOL. II. c

Chessington had at first been perhaps a little inclined to
be jealous of her new sister, but this feeling soon gave
way to one of genuine affection on both sides, and thus
the three ladies managed to live very harmoniously together.
This, however, was not altogether an unmixed
happiness to the young owner of Otterstone. His
sister, like his wife, strongly disapproved of Lord
Ashleigh's tendency to govern everybody, and also like
her, secretly considered her brother wanting inspirit
; so the two being of the same mind on most subjects
acted together, and at last by their stronger wills
led Lady Adela, against her own inclinations very often,
to think as they did. Poor Chessington therefore began
to find himself falling under petticoat government, and
being too fond of a quiet life to be always asserting his
authority, began more and more to seek distractions
abroad in order to avoid unpleasant little differences at
home. In London, business, pleasure, and one thing
and another, prevented the society of his womankind
from being oppressive to him, and it was in the country,
where he began to feel that the pursuits of the ladies,
and their perpetual talk about local trifles, bored him,
that gradually a little estrangement sprang up between
him and them. His uncle, who sympathised with him
and had no very strong opinion of feminine influence,
usually sided with him in the little discussions which
arose, and this, and Walter's above-mentioned acquiescence
in most of Lord Ashleigh's suggestions, made Mrs.
Chessington and her sister-in-law hail with delight the
difference between the pair respecting Hoffbauer, and
encourage Walter to have his own way in the matter.
Catherine, who had grown to be rather fond of her uncle,
was just now all the more inclined to resent his constant

opposition to the wishes of the female portion of the
household, because to humour him she had gone
to London with her mother in the season, and tried
to be civil to fast young men, to girls with whom
she had no taste in common, and even to old
dowagers, whom she pronounced 'horrid,' and whom
her brother laughingly described, in the lines of the poet
Rogers on the palaces of Venice —

The fronts of some, though time had shattered them,
Still glowing with the richest hues of art. '

So these two gave Walter no peace till he had carried
his resolution into effect, and towards the end of September
Wilfrid and his friend arrived at Otterstone and
found assembled to meet them Lady Cynthia Rowan-court,
a maiden sister of Lady Adela Chessington's, Mr.
Sprott, an elderly M.P., supposed once to have admired
Lady Cynthia, and celebrated for his powers of going to
sleep in the House of Commons, Heron Fowler, a
college friend of Walter's, much addicted to field sports,
but prevented in a great measure by want of means from
the enjoyment of them, and a Miss Walzingmore, the
daughter of a neighbouring squire and a great friend of
Miss Chessington's.

Wilfrid Oakburne, though he felt some reluctance at
thus meeting his old flame, was glad of this opportunity
of seeing Otterstone Hall, and at the same time making
himself useful to his friend Hoffbauer ; and Mr. Throck
morton, who had invited him to visit him in Scotland
later on, happening to be also staying near the adjacent
town of Thornbury where a relative of Wilfrid's resided,
it was arranged that they should meet there at the conclusion
of Oakburne's visit and go northwards together.

As for Theodore Hoffbauer he proposed to enter on his
new duties with an amount of zeal and eagerness which
would have been amusing even in a younger man, and
which considerably diverted his companion. When, two
days before his departure, he presented himself in Wilfrid's
room, his changed appearance considerably startled the
latter. He had parted with his fine flowing beard,
retaining only a pair of closely-cut little mutton-chop
whiskers, and had arranged himself in a high stand-up
collar and garments of the latest fashion in place of the
rather neglect costume which he usually affected.

Why ! what on earth have you been doing to yourself
Hoffbauer ! ' cried he with a laugh ; ' upon my word I
hardly knew you at first.'

Yes ! I have adopted the clothing and manners of
your country, my friend ! ' says the other with much
dignity. ' I have myself into your English " man-of
business, " your " cited-man," converted. Is it not so ? '
and he turned himself round for inspection, much to
Wilfrid's amusement, who thought how Norton, by
this time, well on his way to the Crimea, would have
enjoyed chaffing their friend on his transformation.

I think you've made a very good imitation of the
sort of thing,' replied he, unable to restrain a smile.
But what on earth made you part with that magnificent
beard of yours. I wouldn't have done such a thing for
any consideration.'

My good young free', Oakburnes, I am a cosmopolite,
a world-citizen, you understand, and therefore I adopt
myself ever to the situation ! Yes ! that beard was the
flower of my sorrows, the growth of evil times, and I
now cut down that emblem of misfortune ! He is gone,
and let us hope that better times shall follow. I am

now Englander, English citeeman.' And as he surveyed
his fine figure and pleasant cheery face with much complacency
in the cracked mirror over the fireplace, Oak-burnt
owned to himself that his friend certainly had a
fair excuse for his evident self-satisfaction, and looked
thoroughly a gentleman.

So thought evidently most of the people they encountered
on their journey, during which the big German
talked incessantly, asking innumerable questions
about everything. When they arrived at Otterstone
he greeted Walter Chessington with alarming effusion,
and would doubtless have wished to embrace him, after
the manner of his countrymen, had he not been checked.
He saluted the ladies with bows that were worthy of any
master of the ceremonies, and altogether pleased and
amused' every one by his courteous manners and queer
German English.' On his being presented to Catherine
Chessington, that young lady gave a start of surprise,
which made the others feel a little curious, and which
she explained afterwards when the" ladies had retired
from the dining-room.

I thought the picture in the gallery had come to life,*
said she.

Nonsense, Catherine ! which picture ? ' says Lady
Adela, opening her eyes.

I know ! ' cried Beatrice. ' She means the one ot
George Chessington who was killed in India ! '

Of course I do, Beatrice ! How odd that you should
have noticed it too ! Is'nt it, mother ? '

It is strange. I see what you mean now, my dear,'
replied the latter. ' He has the same sort of hair and
colouring, and the eyes are set in the head in the same
sort of way. Yes, there certainly is a kind of likeness,

Those sort of things are very odd, the resemblances between
people of different nationalities, I mean. I recollect
when we were abroad years ago, when I was quite a girl,
there was a Russian Prince at Ems just like your poor
dear grandfather. Lord Ashleigh. He had a sort of wart
under one of the eyes just in the same way. We used
to laugh, we girls ! Do you remember, Cynthia ? '

Perfectly ! ' answered Lady Cynthia. ' They used to
be mistaken for each other. And then when we got to
know him we found that he was gouty just like poor dear
papa ! It was very droll ! ' and they fell to talking over
their reminiscences of foreign travel.

Partly because it was the most convenient room in
which to put him, and partly in order to enable him todo
his work undisturbed, Chessington had placed his new
secretary in the upper room of the old tower at the
extremity of the house, of which mention has been
made more than once in these pages. After a
thorough airing and cleaning, and with suitable furniture,
it made a very pleasant living room, and it
was a fine sight to see Hoffbauer seated in
great dignity at his writing bureau, — the same in which
Lord Ashleigh had discovered those old love letters of
George Chessington's, — with a pen behind each ear, and
a pile of papers and books before him. He quite startled,
his 'principal,' as he insisted on calling Walter, by his
eagerness for work, and showed himself to have great
aptitude for his task. He was in fact so full of zeal, and
anxious to testify by all means in his power his gratitude
to his ' good young benefactor,' that the latter felt that if
his energies did not grow rather less keen, it would soon
become a hard task to keep them sufficiently employed.
There was nothing in the least servile or cringing about

him, but he constantly showed, in a way very pleasant to
notice, his sense of Chessington's kindness to him ; and
his unfailing good humour soon made him a favourite
with everyone at Otterstone, while his attempts to conform
entirely to the manners of those around him occasioned
no little amusement. On Sunday he insisted on going
to church, clothed in the gorgeous garments and high
black hat which he considered the correct garb for the
Englander, business-man ; business man but always
gentlemans Oakburnes you understand.' Having but
seldom if ever visited an English place of worship, he had
but vague ideas of the ritual ; and having got into his
head that the responses should always be loudly given,
and that the word 'Amen' in particular formed an
essential part of them, he took occasion to repeat it so
impressively, and once or twice so out of place, that
Wilfrid, who was seated by him, had to kick his shins
and whisper to him that his fervour disturbed the congregation,
after which he maintained a dignified silence
till the close of the service.

Oakburne, on whom the German looked as his special
instructor in the usages of English society, found himself
enjoying his visit, to which he had not looked forward
with any great anticipations of pleasure, very much indeed.
Beatrice Chessington was not slow to notice that the
young doctor who had gained a distinguished degree and
written several clever scientific articles, was a very different
creature to the idle, love sick Wilfrid Oakburne
of Lidfield, and that he was much improved by his hardwork
and private trials, which had given him a grave self-possessed
manner that made him seem older than he
really was. His hosts and fellow guests took a liking to
him as a good-natured, clever, unobtrusive young fellow.

and Lady Cynthia Rowancourt, who had a good deal of
the pride of birth, and was somewhat formal and
stately in manner, was pleased to tell her sister that she
thought him a very agreeable and presentable young
fellow. ' And I think it is a very satisfactory thing, my
dear Adela,' continued she, ' to reflect that gentlemen do
enter the medical profession, which is such an important
one for all of us. I am sure it was not often the case in
our day.' Her ladyship being rather an invalid, had a
natural leaning towards medicine, and perhaps thought
that Wilfrid would make a pleasant 
for herself.' ' This adige frau Cynthia, this
Late Rowangort, will make you her physician of
state, my young free !' said Hoffbauer, who liked to
rally him on such subjects. ' It is a pity, my boy, that
she shall be no longer young late, and that you are not of
higher estate, that you might espouse her ? eh ? Is it
not so ? But you prefer without doubt the two mddchen
this Fraulein Valzingmore, and this pretty Meet
Catherine !'

The latter young lady told Walter and Beatrice that Dr.
Oakburne really seemed ' very nice ' after all, which
showed how absurd her uncle Giles' prejudices were, on
which Walter, glancing at his wife with a queer little
smile, asked his sister if she didn't think he was a little
melancholy, and looked as if he had been crossed in love ;
and it is probable that Mrs. Chessington gave her afterwards
some further particulars concerning ' young Dr.
Oakburne,' which gave him an increased interest in her
eyes.

It is not necessary to attempt to analyse the feelings
with which Wilfrid and Beatrice met again after all their
loves and jealousies, their half reconciliations and further

misunderstandings, had been conclusively set at rest.
That some little pain and regret was experienced by both
can well be imagined, but their own good principle and
the change of feelings which each had undergone enabled
them to regard the barrier which fate had raised between
them with perfect equanimity. Walter Chessington, who
knew all that had passed between them, was so kindly
and generous in his treatment of his unsuccessful rival
as speedily to win his esteem. He evidently wished to
make a friend of him, and his wife could not but admire
his conduct, and own that no man could have a better
heart than her husband. No! No one! Only — and she
thought with a little sigh how discontented we all are.

Certainly whatever might be his faults, everyone, including
Mrs. Chessington, admitted that Walter was a
perfect host. Somehow everything contributed to make
this gathering at Otterstone pleasant to all assembled
there. Sport was good, and everybody was in a good
humour with his neighbour. Hence when Lord Ashleigh
wrote to say that he found it necessary for his health to
remain at Homburg instead of returning, as he had intended,
to slaughter the pheasants, Wilfrid, and Walter's
college friend. Heron Fowler, and Mr. Sprott the member
for Grubbingham, were all easily induced to stay on for
the massacre of those ill-fated birds, and no more
contented and cheery party ever assembled in a country
house, or took part more gladly in the various recreations
of that pleasant phase of existence, until an event occurred
which suddenly changed all their happiness into
gloom.

CHAPTER IV.

Is chiefly conversational.

God made the country, and man made the town.
What wonder then, that health and virtue, gifts
That can alone make sweet the bitter draught
That life holds out to all, should most abound
And least be threaten'd in the fields and groves ?

COWPER.

Miss CHESSINGTON,' said Hoffbauer one
morning at breakfast — 'Miss Chessington, I
beg to tell you that I have this morning meta
being very wonderful ; the most wonderful, upon my
honour, that I yet in England meet with. Yes ! yes !
Nothing like him anywhere else I am sure ! Nothing ! '

And who is he, Herr Hoffbauer ? ' asked Catherine,
while the rest listened in some amusement.

Who is he ? That can I not tell you. I think you
shall tell me that — yes ! I will describe him for you,
fraulein. Well now ! he shall be a youth of perhaps
eighteen or nineteen — perhaps more, but he has the look
to be younger. He shall be the height of Herr Mister
Sprott, but not so gross'

Mr. Sprott, a stout, burly gentleman, looked rather
disconcerted.

You mean not so big,' said Walter.

Yes, I thank you. That is the word. No so pig.
This shall be a very thin mans, with the hair black, long

very long on his shoulders — and very thirty, — pardon
me that I used this word,— very thirty and close together,
like the hair of the dog Carlo.'

'Yes, yes,' said Miss Walsingham, with a laugh in
which all joined, ' he means matted, uncombed ! '

Neglected, unkempt ! ' suggests Mr. Fowler, who is
sitting next to that young lady.

That is so, fraulein. I thank you,' says Hoffbauer,
with a bow. ' That is the description of my gentlemans.
And his face is each ! schrecklich ! horrible ! with a cunning
sly look that shall yet seem almost silly.'

And he had very high shoulders and a very red face
with little narrow green eyes ? and he made a curious
noise when you spoke to him ? ' asked Catherine. ' I
know who it is then ! You mean Neddy Bolton.'

Yes ! ' continued Hoffbauer eagerly. ' He has produced
sounds the most extraordinary that it is my fortune
up to this time to hear ever anywhere. I was making
my morning stroll among the trees towards the water,
when, of a sudden, I see my gentlemans near the big oak
tree, filling up as it seems to me, a hole in the ground.'

What on earth could Neddy have been doing there ! '
says Lady Adela.

I have asked him myself just this very question,
adige frau,' answered Hoffbauer. ' I say to him,
Hold ! rascal ! what business shalt thou have thus
kneeling here ? " And when he sees me approach he
jumps up on his feet, and he grins at me, and shakes the
fist, and makes — oh ! so ein soiiderhares Get'ds". ! such a
most astounding sound in his anger ! I cannot explain
it ; it is " Ahwur, ahwur, wah ! wah ! " and so forth! '

Everybody burst out laughing at H (jeff bauer's description,
which was delivered with a good deal of gesticulated



UNIVERSITY or ^^\^^rs^^

tion, to explain his deficiencies in English. When the
mirth had ceased Miss Chessington enlightened the
puzzled German.

It was Neddy Bolton, Herr Hoffbauer. He is an
idiot, — not quite in possession of all his faculties, you
know. Poor fellow ! it is a very sad case ! His father
is dead, and he lives with his mother and his old grandfather.
He is quite harmless I believe, but he often
does most extraordinary things. He nearly drowned
himself the other day."

*I don't believe he is as harmless as you think,
Catherine,' said her brother. ' I strongly suspect him of
pilfering, and I have told Robbins to keep a sharp lookout
on him.' Robbins was the policeman of Otterstone.

I don't think that, Walter. I am sure old Bolton and
his mother look after him most carefully, but I think the
boys tease him, and he gets into bad company sometimes.
Old Mrs. Parrott told me he'd been seen with
two very nasty looking men in the Thornbury Road.
They must have been tramps.'

There are a good deal too many of these ugly customers
about,' remarked Walter. 'Vagrancy is certainly
on the increase.'

Indeed it is,' said Lady Cynthia, ' and I think you asa
magistrate should do something, Walter, with your
fellow magistrates, to watch these people. Your mother
and I passed two horrid looking creatures as we were
driving into Thornbury the day before yesterday. Didn't
we Adela ? They made one feel quite alarmed. Do you
remember ? '

Perfectly dear ! They make me feel quite uncomfortable,'
answered her sister.

Mr. Sprott observes that there is a great deal of difficulty

in getting work just now. ' Even tramps must live,
Lady Cynthia,' says he good-humouredly.

Of course there is no denying that, Mr. Sprott. But
that class of people require to be looked after. How
sad to think there is so much distress ! Adela, dear,
you forgot to give me any cream.' And her ladyship
sighs, and remarks to her neighbour, Dr. Oakburne, that
she has been recommended always to take plenty of
cream, to which he of course replies that cream is a most
excellent and nourishing thing.

I think the magistrates are most energetic here ! '
says Beatrice, standing up for her husband. ' I am sure
in Hillshire things are much worse, aren't they. Dr. Oak-burnt
? Don't you remember what a lot of roughs there
used to be in Lidfield on market days? Though of
course Lidfield is a town.'

Wilfrid, who has good reason to recollect the roughs
of his native place, agrees that of course that makes a
great difference.

I shall think, Mees Chessington, that it will be the
venerable grandfather who came up and carried away
my young friend the idiot,' resumed Hoffbauer. ' As I
have been wondering what I shall do with this strange
fellow, a tall old man, with the hair very white,
comes hobbling across the Park from the gate by the
Thornbury Road, and gives this Neddy a blow on the ear
and makes him an angry discourse, which causes the poor
fellow to weep, and give out cries worse than ever ! Oh
schrecklich ! I assure you ! ' and he laughed at the
recollection.

Yes, that was old Bolton,' said Miss Chessington. ' I
suppose he had missed his grandson and come to look
after him.'

So said this old Bolton, fraulein. " I 'ope he's not
give you troubles, Mister George ! " said he. He called
me Mister George, upon my honour ! Why, I cannot
tell you. I reply, " Oh, my friend ! no trouble at all.
All right— yes ! " '

And then he led Neddy back, I suppose ? '

Yes ! but first he makes me the salute and smiles
with a smile quite pleased and joyous, and says to me —
You're back again. Mister George. Been away longtime
now, sir ! Glad to see you looking so well again,
sir, and so will some one else be, sir!" "My good free,"
I respond to him, "My good free' I am no Mister
George ! I am Herr Hoffbauer, the secretary of Mister
Voltaire Chessington ! " " Oh ah ! " he says, looking
foolish ; " Oh ah ! Mister Walter, to be sure ! Good
morning. Mister Walter, sir. I beg your pardon. I'm
an old man now. I thought it was the other." With
that he goes away, mumbling and holding his boy by the
ear, and I promise you I have laughed very much over
this affair, Mees Chessington ! '

I think he sometimes mistakes my brother for George
Chessington, my great uncle, you know, who died in
India. Bolton was his servant, and a private in his regiment,
and old Sir Pelham made a great deal of him
when he came back, because he had been with him
when he was killed.'

Yes, yes ! Mees Chessington, I know ! Famille
'history ! I understand ! ' said Hoffbauer rather hastily.

Yes ! it is a sad story. George Chessington quarrelled
with his father. Sir Pelham, you know, and got killed at
the siege of Kistnagherry in India, and so they never met
again. Poor Bolton is very old, and I fear his brain
is going now. He does not know me sometimes, and

he often forgets other people who don't see so much of
him as I do.'

He's only a degree better than his grandson Neddy,'
remarked Lady Adela, who sometimes got tired of her
daughter's proteges.

'The idiot grandsire of an idiot boy,' suggested Walter,
and then the arrival of the post-bag interrupted further
discussion on the subject of the mental powers of the
Bolton family.

What a difference there is in the feelings with which
the various members of such a party view the arrival of
Her Majesty's mail ! Walter Chessington and Mr
Sprott, who had both had some experience of what it is
to be overwhelmed with correspondence, would have
been well content if the letter-bag had brought them
nothing ; but, of the rest of those assembled at the breakfast
table, those who got no letters felt rather injured than
otherwise at the luck of their neighbours. It happened,
however, that the morning's budget was unusually large,
and that very few of them were thus disappointed.

Miss ^\'alzingmore informs Catherine that she has
received a letter telling her that she must positively
return home next Tuesday; on which the latter exclaims
that her family ' are most selfish, dear Cecilia, to
ask such a thing,' and the countenance of Mr. Fowler
falls so manifestly, that the ladies of the party
wRo have noticed, as they think, 'something coming
on' between the pair, exchange meaning little smiles.
Poor Fowler himself has received two claims, one of
which from the landlord of his chambers in Grays Inn
must be met at once, and Wilfrid has had letters both
from his brother and his friend Norton, giving accounts
of the battle of Alma.

Reginald, whose regiment formed part of the
2nd Division, led by Sir De Lacy Evans, told how
they had crossed the river under the murderous
fire of the Russian batteries, and how fierce had
been the struggle among the vineyards till the arrival
of the two guns, which Lord Raglan ordered to be
brought up to the now celebrated Knoll, had completely
changed the fortune of the day. Though his chin strap
had been shot off and his belt torn, he had only received
a slight wound in his left hand, and he related two or
three miraculous escapes of men and officers similar to
his own. Dr. Norton, who had smelt powder for the
first time on this occasion, naturally dwelt more on
matters relating to his own branch of the profession,
describing the terrible slaughter, especially among the
light division, and the noble manner in which the navy
had assisted in the work of carrying the wounded to the
ships. He told how several hundred wounded Russians
had been sent in the transport ' Avon ' to Odessa ; how
the Allies had without distinction or creed, buried men
of all the four nations, and conveyed the wounded of
every nationality to Constantinople ; and how Dr. Thomson
of the 44th and his servant, had been left alone, undefended,
and unarmed in an enemy's country to tend
that enemy's wounded who, but for Lord Raglan, might
have been left to rot on the ground.

Details such as these seem tame enough now, but in
those days, when the whole nation was eagerly watching
the progress of the army, in the safety of which so many
households in England were so deeply interested, letters
of this kind were read with avidity by all, and the party
at Otterstone were no exception to the rule, and looked

on Oakburne as a fortunate man for having such correspondents.


Mater es, Alma, necks ; parts sed sanguine nostri
Pads tu nutrix, Almaque mater eris,'

said the host, breaking the silence which had followed
the reading of Norton's letter, by quoting one of those
fragments of classical scholarship on the battle which
appeared in the papers of that day. 'To me that
account of Dr. Thomson is the best bit of news I have
heard yet during the war. If there were more of that
spirit, " Alma Pacis nutrix eris," the battle of the Alma
might really have been the foundation of peace.'

Lady Cynthia tells her nephew that he should not
quote Latin before ladies, and Miss Walzingmore asks
Mr. Fowler to translate the quotation for her, which he
is of course delighted to do.

For my part,' says Miss Chessington, who has shewn
two or three little symptoms of emotion during the
account of the sufferings of the soldiers, ' For my part I
think the finest piece of news is how Sir Colin Campbell
told the Highlanders that he wanted them to do him the
favour not to fire till they got to the redoubt, in order
that he might feel justified in asking the Queen to allow
them to wear the bonnet.'

I quite agree with you, dear ! ' cries her sister-in-law ;
and all the ladies say ' Yes ! it was most gallant of him ! '
at which the gentlemen all laugh.

Fowler suggests that it is the idea of ' bonnets ' which
makes the ladies admire the incident so much ; on which
Mr. Sprott says that the ladies' sympathies had already
been enlisted in favour of the Highlanders on account of
their petticoats, with something jocular about petticoat
government which much amuses Lady Cynthia.

VOL. II. D

I particularly admire my sister's heroic ferocity ! ' says
Walter Chessington, ' for she almost goes into a fit if
anyone fires a gun within twenty yards of her, — yes, you
know you do, and my wife is just as bad, — and the sight
of a wounded hare or partridge invariably moves her to
tears.'

What nonsense, Walter ! ' cries the young lady, and
the party rises while Mr. Sprott is telling Oakburne that
his ' confounded constituents insist on my going down to
Grubbingham at the end of the month to give them a
little speechifying ; ' — a process which he really enjoys,
but, by his artful affectation of disgust, leads Wilfrid to
imagine that he hates, and so draws from him sundry
useless expressions of sympathy for his ' trying duties.'

Wilfrid noticed that Hoffbauer had also received a
letter, and that it had' caused him to start and frown ashe
read the superscription, after which he had carefully
placed it in his pocket unopened.

I desire that you shall come to my room to converse
with me this evenings my free,' said Theodore to him as
they left the room. ' We shall smoke the cigar together
when the others shall have retired, and I shall tell thee
something of news.'

What about ? ' asked Wilfrid.

That will I explain when the time shall come,' says
the other significantly ! I wish that thou shalt give me
the advice as to something, my Vilfrid ! ' and he went off
to his secretarial work.

The day passed much as other days had done. The
cloudless sky and bright sunshine, made it seem a positive
duty to spend as much time in the open air as possible.
The four gentlemen, in company with two friends

from the neighbourhood invited for the purpose, went
out shooting, but somehow Fowler, usually such a good
shot, could not hit anything on this occasion, and at
length declared his intention of going home to get
through some necessary correspondence. Wilfrid had
also letters to write, and so the pair returned together
after some friendly chaff from Mr. Sprott. Though his
age equalled both of theirs put together, the latter never
missed anything and never got tired, and he professed to
disbelieve in the correspondence, and hinted at other attractions.


It was a still, sleepy sort of day, and the atmosphere
and the influence of tobacco made both of them disinclined
to conversation.

Hallo ! who the deuce is that ! ' cried Fowler suddenly,
breaking the reverie into which they had fallen.

They had been crossing some of those very fields
which Reginald and his brother had gone through on
the day of their memorable walk from Otterstone to
Draxton, and were nearing the Thornbury Road which
there skirts the upper side of the park. Wilfrid, recalling
the occasion, was lazily wondering what they were
probably doing in the Crimea at that moment. Fowler
was thinking of his debts, his want of briefs, and what a
nice sort of girl Miss Walzingmore was, when his attention
was attracted by the sight of three men close to the
park paling, two of whom had clambered up and were
gesticulating and talking together evidently about something
in the grounds. ' What on earth are they doing ! '
repeated he.

As Oakburne and his companion approached, the man
who remained in the road perceived them and warned

his companions, who instantly descended with great
alacrity, and set off walking at a smart pace.

Hi ! stop ! what are you doing there ? ' cried Wilfrid.

The shortest man of the three faced about, shook his
fist at them, and shouted — ' Ah wur ! ah wur ! ah, ah !
Wah ! ahwur ! '

It is the idiot ! ' said Oakburne laughing, and remembering
Hoffbauer's description of these strange utterances.


Idiot grandson of an idiot grandsire, as Chessington
called him,' said Fowler. ' Yes ! no doubt it is. But I
wonder who the others are. I don't like the looks of
them. Eh, Oakburne ? '

'Let us give chase!' suggested Wilfrid, and they walked
after them.

The men were getting over the ground at a good rate,
but their pursuers slowly but surely overtook them, till at
last they all three stopped abruptly as if by agreement,
and one of them, a stout black-bearded man, shouted
out : — ' What are you following us for ? '

Wilfrid, directly he did so, thought that he recognized
the face, which was coarse, bloated, and extremely repulsive.
The man had a foreign, rather Jewish look, and
spoke with a slightly foreign accent. Where could he
have seen him ? ' Why are you following us ? ' repeated
the fellow, ' we are not doing harm ! '

'What were you doing by the park fence?' asked
Fowler.

We were doing no harm, sir,' said the taller of his
companions, who was of a much more prepossessing
appearance, but whose pronunciation also showed that
he was not an Englishman. 'We are strangers. This
gentleman,' pointing to the idiot, ' is showing us the way

to Grendon, and we have desired solely to see what is
inside this park, that is all — on my word.'

T\'ah ! wah ! Ahwur ! ahwur ! Ah ! ah ! ah I '
chattered the idiot, grinning and looking very pleased,
while the black-bearded man repeated rather surlily,
that ' they had been doing no harm, and that there was
no call to follow them.' The way in which he said the
words gave the idea that he was trying to act a part, and
together with his appearance, inspired both Fowler and
Oakburne with dislike and distrust. Still the story
seemed plausible enough, and they could not well contradict
it.

Well,' said Wilfrid, ' I hope that's true ! But I advise
you not to go clambering about gentlemen's park walls
or you'll have the police looking after you. You've got
three good miles yet to go to Grendon.' Grendon was
a neighbouring village where there were three or four
big farms to which wandering Irish, and all sorts of
tramps, resorted in harvest time, and though the harvest
was over it was possible these two men might be the remains
of a batch of such wanderers.

You seem to be foreigners,' said Fowler, ' but I advise
you to take this gentleman's advice and avoid trespassing,
or, as he says, you are likely to get into trouble
with the police. Good day to you.'

Wah ! wah ! wah ! ah ! ' repeated the idiot,
evidently still in high good-humour; and the men, with
a ' Thank you, sir,' and ' Good morning ! ' went on their
road, leaving the two gentlemen to return to Otterstone.

I suppose it's all right,' said Oakburne.

Oh yes ! sure to be ! ' returned the other, ' still there
was no harm in looking after them. What a nuisance an
idiot must be about a place ! Very sad that sort of

thing; and it's wonderful how women always seem to
have a special pity for it. There's a creature of that sort
at home that my mother and sisters look after, almost
as if he belonged to them, don't you know. And Miss
Walzingraore was telling me this morning of one at their
place, near this.'

I expect every village has its pet cripple or deformity,'
said Wilfrid. ' It is very sad and very mysterious, — an
existence like that, apparently so useless and unhappy.
Look there is Robbins ! I'll just tell him that we saw
these men,' and he mentioned what had occurred to the
policeman, who of course grinned, touched his hat, and
said he'd 'be sure to look 'after it.'

In the evening, after the ladies had retired, Wilfrid,
mindful of his promise to Hoffbauer, took advantage of
a somewhat ardent discussion between Walter Chessington
and Mr. Sprott, on the policy of the Government in
persisting with the Reform Bill, to leave the smoking
room early, and repair to his friend's sanctum. What he
learned there must be told in a subsequent chapter.

CHAPTER V.

Retribution.

Life ! we've been long together

Through pleasant and through cloudy weather ;

'Tis hard to part when friends are dear ;

Perhaps 'twill cost a sigh, a tear ;

Then steal away, give little warning.

Choose thine own time,

Say not ' Good Night,' but in some brighter clime

Bid me ' Good Morning '. — Mrs. Barbauld.

ILFRID OAKBURNE felt far more inclined for
bed than for conversation as he ascended the
stone staircase leading to his friend's room in
the tower. To him the day, though pleasant enough, had
seemed a trifle monotonous, but for his friend Hoffbauer
it had been full of life and excitement. The latter's meeting
in the morning with old Bolton and his idiot grandson,
which he had recounted to Miss Chessington at breakfast,
had awakened in him a new and stirring train of
thought. Why had this old Bolton called him Mr.
George? He knew, — for two or three people had remarked
it, — that there was a singular likeness between
himself and the portrait of that George Chessington who
had died in India, and with whose history he was now
perfectly acquainted, though he had affected to take no
interest in it. He had not told the party at breakfast
that the old fellow had shaken him by the hand and

said, ' I've been expecting you a long time, Mr. George,
and you've come at last, but I know a lady that'll be
more pleased than I am,' and he had altered the story
from a feeling which he could hardly explain to himself.
Constantly pondering, as he had now been for months,
on the history of the unfortunate Estelle Chessington, it
was only natural that he should be deeply impressed by
the strange coincidence of learning at this house the history
of an officer whose description tallied so remarkably
with that of the man supposed to be his grandfather.
Gradually the conviction had been growing in his
mind that he had at last found the Chessington he
had been longing to discover. Had not Estelle Chessington,
previous to her going to Paris, earned her
livelihood as a governess in the house of a family in
England? Had she not there met the young English
officer who had betrayed her, and whose name she
had adopted ? Often of late he had told himself that
Otterstone Hall must have been the house, and that the
officer could be no other than George Chessington, and
the adventure of the morning served still further to
convince him that he was right. This old soldier servant,
Bolton, had evidently mistaken him for his dead master,
and his allusion to the ' lady who would be more pleased '
than he was, seemed to Hoffbauer to imply that he was
acquainted with the secret of the connection between her
and George Chessmen ; for why should not Estelle
Chessington have been that lady ? His duties prevented
him from pushing his enquiries further just now, but he
determined to question Bolton on the first opportunity.
Yes ! he was gradually getting to the truth of this mystery.
He felt convinced of it. Of course if all his surmises
were correct, there would still be no proof of a marriage

between his ill-fated relative and George Chessington,
his mother would still bear the stain of illegitimacy ; but
nevertheless, if true, they would prove that he was in a
manner the cousin of the young owner of Otterstone
Hall. And perhaps, — was it not possible ? — Bolton
might even have some knowledge which would show the
marriage ceremony between the pair to have been genuine
after all.

Such was the train of reasoning which had occupied
his mind all day, and the thoughts it suggested would
alone have served to prevent him from finding it dull.
In addition to this, however, he had received that morning
a letter from Madam Ledru, which helped still further to
stimulate his mental activity. It was therefore on these
two subjects that he wished to talk with Wilfrid Oakburne,
and they made him so preoccupied that he found it
difficult to settle down to anything till the time arrived
that he had appointed for doing so.

He had come to his room as soon as dinner was over
with the object of doing some work. He lighted his fire,
arranged his papers, and sat down before them, but when
he tried to write, his thoughts reverted so persistently
to the dominant idea which occupied them, that he gave
up the attempt as useless, and rising from the bureau
went and stood at the fire. As has been said, the bureau
was the same piece of furniture in which Lord Ashleigh
had discovered George Chessington's letters, and had
been very handsomely done up in a way which made the
'good mahogany,' he had then pronounced it to be,
appear to the best advantage. The drawer was now no
longer a secret one, and was full of correspondence of a
very different character — letters from \\'alter Chessington's
agents, and from members of his Election Committee at

Lidfield, and other documents of a similar business-like
nature. Had he known the sentimental matter it contained
when Lord Ashleigh brought it to light by that
random stroke of his cane, Hoffbauer would no doubt
have looked at it with more interest. As it was, however,
he merely noticed that it was open, and that the
bundle of papers in it required arranging. He stepped upto
put them in order, and as he did so the thought
suddenly struck him that it was odd that there should bea
drawer on this side of the bureau and not on the other.
It was very odd. He closed it and noticed that when shut
it would have been indistinguishable from the rest of the
woodwork had it not been for a little ivory button which
had evidently been newly put there by way of a handle.
It was a strange place for a drawer, and it was also
singular that as the maker had chosen to put one there
he had not, for the sake of symmetry, made a corresponding
one on the opposite side. But there was nothing;
no sign of a drawer.

It is very peculiar ! ' cried he aloud ! ' Very ! ' and
he began tapping with a ruler the place where the other
drawer should have been. ' Hein ! Stay ! It sounds
hollow. Yes ! without doubt it is hollow ! ' and he
rapped again, listening carefully. ' Ha ! Donnerwetter !
What is this ! '

Bang ! There is a sound of a sharp crack, something
like the report of a tiny pistol, and out springs the corresponding
secret drawer. This is a discovery ! What is
in it ! Papers. Surely he may look at them ? He
glances round furtively, but all is still as the grave.
Hush ! What was that ! Psha ! it was only a rat
underneath the boarding where the trap door was. He
had heard them a good deal during the last few days.

Yes ! he must read them ! and he takes out of the drawer
a yellow looking parchment together with a letter written
in a clear female hand. He unfolds the parchment.
What is this ! His heart beats quickly, his head seems
to swim, and he gives vent to a sudden cry of mingled
surprise and delight. It is a copy of the parish register
of Rolhill Church in the county of Hillshire which
records a marriage celebrated by J. F. Whitworth, on the
1 8th March, 1788, between ' George Pelham Chessington,
a lieutenant in His Majesty's — rest, of Otterstone Hall,
Clayshire, and Estelle Leon, gentlewoman, daughter of
Jules, Chevalier de Leon, deceased, late Captain in the

rest. of cuirassiers, and witnessed by George Bolton

of Otterstone.'

Hoffbauer could hardly believe his eyes as he read this
document, and when he had done so twice or thrice, he
still continued to gaze at it in wonderment. It was the
one bit of evidence he had been wishing so long to find.
It proved that poor Estelle was really married after all,
that his mother was born in lawful wedlock, and that he
was the lineal descendant and sole representative of
George Chessington. George Chessington was he knew
the elder brother of James, his patron Walter's grandfather,
and he must therefore be the real owner of this
property of Otterstone Hall. Heavens ! what a discovery !
The thing might be hard to prove ; he was ignorant of
the law of course ; but — but still he felt sure of it. Yes !
perfectly certain ! ' Himmel ' he cried aloud, 'What a
revolution in my life, in the life of my poor good young
patron, may not this yellow bit of paper, so long hidden
from everyone, cause — .'

Hark ! what was that ! The rats again ! He could
almost have declared he heard the trap door lifted ! So

strongly did he feel assured of this that he actually raised
it and looked down. Of course it was all right. The
empty space extended only down two or three feet below,
for the ancient passage, which had been so useful to the
Romanists in the days of Henry Vii and Elizabeth, was
choked up with rubbish. Of course there was nothing.
It was still only those noisy rats ; he would get a trap for
them tomorrow. But the very feeling of alarm which
had been roused in him served to suggest a different train
of thought to his mind. What right had he to look at
these papers ? Did they not belong to the owner of the
house ? Of course they did, and he had no business to
take them. He would tell Walter Chessington. Yes !
he would tell his kind young benefactor of this discovery,
and of his own history, and be guided by his wishes on
the subject. But first of all he would consult Wilfrid
Oakburne about it, and, — and before putting the papers
back he might just as well look at the letter. He had a
perfect right to look at what concerned him so closely.
So he opened it and eagerly scanned its contents.

He recognised the faded handwriting at once as
the same as that of one of the letters which he had
seen among the papers preserved by old Madam Rovelli.
There was the same signature too : ' Estelle Chessington
; ' ' Your loving wife, Estelle Chessington.' It was
dated the 14th March, and was written from Otterstone
Hall to ' ma tres cher George,' telling him that the next
day the .writer would be ' leaving for ever ' his father's
house, and that she should come to the place he had
appointed in London. There was little else in it save
some expressions of regret at leaving the place where she
had been so happy, which had become sacred to her,
because there she had first met him to whom she was

writing, and at being parted from her ' dear Isabella,
whom I shall soon have the happiness of calling sister
by right and not only by friendship.'

Hoffbauer had never heard of the Isabella thus
affectionately referred to and, though it was clear that
she must be a sister of that George Chessington whom
he now believed to be his grandfather, his knowledge of
the family history did not extend far enough to enable
him to identify her, as the reader will have done, with the
mother of Mr. Throckmorton's friend, General Beech-croft.
Knowing nothing of the Beechcroft family, he did
not trouble himself as to that point. It was sufficient
for him that the letter was an additional testimony in
confirmation of the marriage certificate, and that the
couple had evidently been secretly married at Rolhill, —
not Colore, as it had been erroneously described in his
grandfather's statement. He would find out all about
this Rolhill, he would try and visit the place, he would
question old Bolton about it, — and, as he was pacing up
and down, thinking of this and a thousand other plans
which had begun to suggest themselves to his excited
imagination, he heard a crunching sound on the gravel
below, and had just time to replace the documents in the
drawer when Wilfrid knocked for admittance.

You are late, my young fren',' said he, as the latter
entered. He determined that he would talk to Wilfrid
first about Frederica's business before telling him of his
new discoveries. ' Sit down, Vilfrid my boy, and light
the cigar. It is so cold you see that I have lighted for
myself the fire. It is more kosee, as you call it in England.
Is it not so ? '

Wilfrid agreed that it was. ' Well ! What do you
want to talk to me about ? ' said he, noticing as he

thought, a strange and unwonted excitement in the
usually easy and nonchalant German. ' What are these
important affairs, eh ? '

Well, first of all Oakburnes, I have received a letter
this morning. It is in German, so I shall not show it to
you, for you do not sufficiently comprehend the nmtters-
oracle ; but I must tell you about it, and he paused fora
moment in evident hesitation.

Well ! fire away, Hoffbauer. I'm all attention. What
is it ? '

To begin with, my boys replied the German, his face
growing suddenly rather grave. ' To begin with, I have
not been quick or eager to tell you, because I am not
sure how you will listen. It may happen that you shall
call me ' villain,' think me ' wicked,' und so writer.
But it is not so, oh man of stern morals ! It is not
that I shall be the ' villain ! ' But I know my boy
that thy views are of the most strict, — so strict that forme,
poor sinner, I shall not comprehend them ! — and
therefore Vilfrid I delay, you understand.'

I don't think I'm so very strict,' said Wilfrid smiling.
Go on with your story, Hoffbauer, and I will promise
not to be too severe.

We have known each other a long time now, Vilfrid,'
replied the other still more earnestly, ' and thou hast
been a kind friend to me. This is no jesting matter my
boy. I desire much that thou shalt not think harshly of
me in what I shall say, but listen in patience.'

*You may rely on my doing that, Hoffbauer,'
answered Oakburne in some surprise. ' I am very
pleased that you care to trust me, and if I can be of use
I will. We are quits in friendship ; and you may safely
confide in me.'

Well, Oakburnes,' began Theodore, speaking very
slowly, and with some embarrassment. ' Well Oak-burnes,
you know that there is a certain Madam Ledru
who is a very dear friend of mine.'

Of course I do. Have I not often met her ? '

You know also that her husband is proprietary of the
Cafe Frankfurt.'

Wilfrid nodded assent.

But you do not know that that man is my bitter
enemy, the man who has ruined my life, has taken from
me all that I value, and made me ten thousand times
worse than I should have been ! ' His face blazed with
an anger so fierce that his listener, who had never seen
his friend in a passion before, was rather scared, and
could only murmur a vague expression of surprise and
regret.

You do not know all my history Vilfrid,' continued
the German, rising, and pacing the room. ' Some have
I told you, but not much. It is necessary now that you
know more. It is not perhaps a good history, but it is
lehrreich^ rich in lessons that it shall teach, instructive,
eh ? ' And he proceeded to tell Oakburne, as he had previously
told Chessington, all that the reader has already
heard concerning his intercourse with Reuben Pfeiffer,
alias Ledru, and with Frederica and her father, his share
in the disturbances at Frankfurt, Reuben's subsequent
villainies, and his meeting with Frederica in London.

I have been wild, reckless, selfish ! ' cried he. ' I
own all my faults ; but, but for this man, all would have
been different. It was he who led me back to evil courses
when I had kept away so long. It was he who beguiled
me into these accursed rebellions, he who sold me and
my comrades, whom he had deceived, for money to the

government he pretended to detest. It was he who
came for ever between my love and me, who killed her
father by his infernal plots and cruelties, and who, after
making me an outlaw, has nearly driven her whom I
should have married mad by his devilish tyrannies and
wickedness. Shall I not love this man to whom I owe
this heavy debt ? What do you think now that I feel
towards him ? '

He has certainly given you cause to hate him if ever
man did,' said Wilfrid ; but Hoffbauer was so excited
by the passion that these recollections never failed to
arouse in him that he scarcely heeded the reply.

I come to London,' resumed he, seating himself
again opposite Wilfrid. ' I come to London, and met
my poor Frederica again, — and learn only that it is too
late, — too late ! She tells of all the diabolical doings of
this viper, his cruelties and unfaithfulness, and tears my
heart with these histories, which make me long to meet
him but once, face to face, and settle our differences forever.
But still I have tried at first, Wilfrid, on
my honour, to resist these feelings, to keep away.
Yes ! I tell you solemnly that when Herr Chessington
had so helped me — before I became ill you know, Vilfrid
I tell you I had resolved, on my sacred word, to part
altogether. But I declare to you that it has been
impossible ! Listen my friend. This villain, this accursed
Reuben, has added this to his other crimes, he who
always curses her, now beats her ! beats her ! '

Poor thing ! Poor thing ! ' cried Oakburne, ' The
man deserves to be hung ! and, trust me, he will live to
be yet.'

Ah ! my friend ! none but she knows what it is that
life of hers, save, perhaps, I who tell you ; and I know

but half. But there is worse to tell. One evening after
he has quarrelled with her, and beaten and cursed her as
usual, there comes to his house your friend the amiable
Portal, that bright star of the profession of laws.'

Portal ! ' cries Wilfrid, astonished ; * Does he know
him ?'

Yes. You shall be surprised I see, but they know
each other well these two worthy gentlemen,' and after
telling him of Portal's suggestion to him to extort money
from the young owner of Otterstone, by means of his
papers, Hoff bauer went on to relate how Frederica had
discovered the plot contrived by Ledru and his associate
for getting possession of the money old Madam Rovelli
intended to leave her, and the mode in which they purposed
to make use of their knowledge of the German's
claims to the name of Chessington.

By fear of the loss of her good name, — and you my
friend, who have been seen to meet her, you were also to
made use of in this way, — by dread I say of this, and of
injuring me, whom she so loves, this poor, innocent, soul,
who has suffered so much, was to be first robbed of her
inheritance, and then divorced. What do you think now
my friend, eh ? '

What awful villainy ! ' cried Wilfrid.

Happily Frederica was always on the look out to defeat
such devil's contrivances. By good luck hei suspicions
were excited, and she listened ; — and then she tells me.
What do you think I should have done in this case?
What would you have done yourself, Oakburnes ? Well,
I will tell you what I have done."

*What?'

I told her to leave for ever this man and come to me.'
You told her to leave her husband ? '

VOL. II. E

Yes, young man ! That is what 1 told her ! ' cried
the German fiercely. ' But she would not, this good
angel ! What say you to that ? She said her duty forbade
her, and she would not.'

Surely she was right and you were wrong, Theodore
'Of that there may be two opinions, my boy ' said Hoff-baker

rather sternly. ' She said she would try and bear
up a little longer, for that, now that she knew of his
plans, she could defeat them. And she did endure a
little longer poor child, till one evening this demon of a
Reuben during one of his drinking bouts, begins as usual
to curse, and insult her, till he 'had driven her nearly
mad; and then, — oh Himmel ! that I could have been
there! — he strikes her such a blow that she fell to the
ground half stunned.'

Is there no punishment for such infernal villainy ! '
cried Wilfrid.

No, my friend, if it is only your wife that you strike
and she does not choose to complain,' replied the other,
laughing bitterly. * No ! there seems to be no punishment
; but this was more than my poor Frederica could
bear. She came to me then ;sand — and the next day,
two days before you and I came to this place, I took
her to— to Lidfield.'

'Lidfield, Hoffbauer! what made you choose Lidfield?'
asked Wilfrid with manifest displeasure in his tone.
He had become very grave as the story went
on. Though he was very sorry for both poor
Frederica and his friend, he could not help wishing that
he had not been made a confidant in the matter, and
this feeling of regret was changed to one of vexation and
suspicion, when he heard that Madam Ledru was at Lid-field.


My friend you look angry,' said Hoffbauer, with some
confusion. ' Perhaps you have reason. You care not
that such as my poor Frederica should be your neighbour.
Well ! it is natural ! But you must forgive me,
for I trusted to you my Vilfrid.'

To me ! ' said Oakburne in dismay.

Ah, think my boy ! This poor woman has no
friends I Had she gone to the house of Madam Rovelli
her demon of a husband would have come and taken
her back. She trembles before him. He has some
strange influence of fear over her.'

She could have got a separation, a divorce.'

Hoffbauer coloured a little. ' She ! ' cried he impetuously.
' She ! poor girl ! you little know ! She has no
money for that ! no friends ! and what does she know of
your law ? I tell you that was impossible ! No ! It
could not be, — yet, — at all events. And I, — I have
chosen Lidfield, because I thought to myself that if anything
happens to me, I can ask Wilfrid Oakburne, who
has been so good to me, to help my dear. Ah my
friend can I not ask this? If it is wrong forgive me.
Remember I warned you I should tell you what would
perhaps shock you. But think ! she is ao lonely and
friendless.'

Wilfrid shook his head sadly in response to this eloquent
pleading.

Ah, my friend, consider her helpless sorrow ! Listen !
The day after tomorrow I procure the leave of absence
from my good principal, and go to Lidfield. I must,
for to-day she has written to me to go, because of her
money is left so little. Wilfrid, my friend, let me tell
her that in the worst she may look to you for help ?
Something warns me, I know not what, that she will'

need thy friendship sadly one day. Say then that you
forgive me ! that you agree that I have done right'

No ! ' said Wilfrid decidedly. ' No ! I tell you
frankly Hoffbauer that I think you have done wrong.
But, — Good Heavens ! who am I to condemn you ! '
added he in great agitation. ' You have done wrong,
but I would help you if I could. You know I would
■do so. Let me think a moment,' and he rose, and walking
to the window, looked out while Hoffbauer, seated
by the fire, watched him curiously.

Himmel ! it is strange this excess of conscience ! '
murmured the latter to himself.

Look ! ' cried Oakburne suddenly. ' Look ! Who
can that be?' and his tone made Hoffbauer at once
leave his place to see what had attracted his attention.

The window faced the grove of beeches near the river
which, as has been mentioned in the earlier part of this
story, was known as the glade. It was a clear bright
night, and a moon nearly approaching the full, threw a
flood of light upon the great stone said to commemorate
the fatal duel between Sir Walter Oakburne and his
friend Sir Walter Throckmorton, and made the stream,
winding amongst the trees beyond gleam, like a bright
band of silver.

What shall this mean, Oakburnes ? ' enquired the
German in some surprise. ' What do you then gaze at?'

Did you not see him ? ' enquired the other with
evident anxiety. * Did you not see a man by that stone
wave his hand ? When I called you he was there ! I
could swear I saw him beckon. But now he has
suddenly vanished.'

My dear boy ! ' said Hoffbauer wither laugh ? You
are sleepy, half dreaming. It is the good claret that

makes you dream. I see nothing — positively nothing,
Donnervvetter I'

I saw it distinctly I tell you ! ' repeated the other
with some warmth.

You have been reading this old ghost story Oakburnes
my boy, and this, with the excellent wine, shall make the
vision. Your thoughts are excited ; and perhaps you are
too much tired. I keep you too late my dear fellow. It
is selfish. Therefore go. Let us talk more to morrow.'

Nonsense, Hoffbauer !' answered Wilfrid excitedly.
I am not a bit tired. I saw this most distinctly I say,
as plainly as I see you. A man by that stone beckoned
me ! I would swear it ! And what is more, I am going
to see who it is. I am not the least tired and, on the
contrary, I feel as if I could not sleep. I will just walk
there and reconnoitre, and then I will come back and
talk with you again.'

You will not really go ?'

Upon my word I will ! Come with me. There
have been suspicious people about. It will not take
long, come !'

Oakburne felt impelled, by some sudden impulse he
could not resist, not only to go himself, but to make his
friend go too.

My dear, Wilfrid, excuse me, but you are most unwise.
It it had been as you say, should I too not have
seen this man who beckons ?'

No ! he was only there a moment, just as I went to
the window. When you came up he was gone. But /
v.ill go \i you will not,' and he moved towards the door.
The whole story of the quarrel between Sir Walter
Oakburne and his friend and brother-in-law came back
With extraordinary freshness to his mind, and he recalled

the legend of the warning which the spirit of the former
was said to give to those of his race over whom any
danger impended. He was not at all superstitious,
and at most times would have laughed at the idea
of the legend, but on this occasion he felt such a
strong conviction that he must go and examine the stone,
that, do what he would, he could not but yield to it.

I slant be five minutes away,' said he, as he opened
the door ; ' and I will of course come back and finish
our talk. I ic^\ inclined to sit up all night.'

If you will go, go, Vilfrid ! ' replied the German
rather testily. ' You shall get the cold in the head, and
there shall be much laugh at the breakfast tomorrow,
when I shall recount this history of you ! But you must
go, you obstinate one ! So be it. I will sit here warm
by the fire, while you make your cold promenade. I do
not envy your heroism, my boy ! '

Oakburne went out and closed the door, and Hbff-
bauer, taking out his precious papers once more, seated
himself in the chair which the former had occupied.

Poor Oakburnes ! ' said he to himself ' He is a very
good fellow, but a very strange one. How foolish this
escapade, because of a shadow on the grass ! I shall
make the peoples laugh tomorrow, silly fellow, with the
account of it. It is perhaps the English nature to act
thus. Ah well ! I must show him this parchment of
mine, and ask what he advises, for he has a good head,
this Vilfrid. As for Frederica, I see he will come round
in spite of the conscience. It is strange that just when I
have had to recount to him my history I should have
made this grand discovery which may so change it all.'

A pleasant sense of triumph and content stole over
him. He was not usually given to castle-building, but

for once the fatigue of this exciting day, the comfortable
arm-chair, and pleasant blaze on the hearth, disposed
him to it. He placed the papers in his lap, and gazing
at the fire with folded hands, fell into a reverie.

It had been an eventful life his. Plenty of storm, but yet
some little sunshine. He thought ot his early youth, with
its happy comradeship and jovial pleasures. He lived once
more the stirring life of arms, when he risked everything
in the hopeless cause of so-called liberty, and recalled its
brief successes, hairbreadth escapes, and joyous excitement.
What a contrast to the ordinary routine of most
men's existence ! How the quiet life at Halle had made
him chafe and fret ! And yet, how he loved that dear
old home in spite of its dullness ! He seemed to see it
all now, the old familiar streets and buildings, and the
river flowing among its wooded islands. What was that ?
The rats again ! He was too lazy to turn round. Bother
the rats ! How long this foolish Wilfrid was ! Should
he go after him ? No. He was doubtless all right, and
it was pleasant here ; and he half-closed his eyes and
fell to dreaming of the past again. He recalled how the
spirit of the rover had first came upon him after some
talk with a wild young friend, and how his restless
longings to see the world had vexed his mother.
Poor dear mother ! she was at rest now under the
green turf in the churchyard of that quiet old town,
and he was an exile for life from the spot where
she was buried ! At rest ! Blessed termination
to this life of conflict, sorrow, and failure ! yet her
life had been in many respects happier and more fortunate
than that of most women. What a contrast to poor
Frederica's ! Poor darling ! He thought of her now,
alone, an outcast, friendless among strangers, and cursed

Reuben as the cause of her sorrows. Poor darling I
But for her too now there was hope, and her sad fortune
might all be changed. Now that he had the prospect of
prosperity, independence, — aye who knew? — perhaps
even of riches and power before him, all might be
changed. Might not Reuben die ? yes, his vices must
destroy him soon; and if he should, and if he, 
wealthy and powerful, then, then . . and
a bright vision of the future rose before him in the glowing
embers. Yes ! Life was full of tempest and trouble,
but in the end it was glorious to have lived ! . . .

He must have unconsciously fallen asleep for a
moment, when a noise behind him made him suddenly
spring to his feet. As he did so, there was the sharp
report of a pistol, and a bullet whizzed past, and
lodged in the chair in which he had been sitting
Thrusting his precious documents in his breast, he
turned to confront his would-be assassin, and saw before
him his enemy Reuben Pfeiffer who, holding a dagger in
one hand, and in the other a still smoking pistol, rushed
upon him with a savage oath. Hofifbauer had just time
to notice that the trap door was open, and that another
man was in the room, who was busy ransacking the
drawers of the bureau. But he did not heed him. All
his fury was concentrated on the man before him.

You false villain,' he cried. ' You vile incarnation
of all that is evil ! You have crossed my path, and
ruined my happiness through my whole life, and now
Heaven has given you into my hands.'

He sprang at his throat, and, as he did so, Reuben
discharged his second barrel, wounding him in the chest,
but the next moment he was in the powerful grasp of
his antagonist. The other robber turned as his fellow

villain uttered a piercing cry for help, and was preparing
to rush to his assistance, when the door opened and Wilfrid
Oakburne, seeing the situation at a glance, dashed
at him and struck him a blow. on the temple, with the
stout stick he carried, that stretched him senseless on
the ground. When he had satisfied himself that there
was nothing further to be feared from the fellow, Wilfrid
hastened to render aid to Hoffbauer, and found that the
latter had thrown his enemy to the ground, and, with
one hand still on his throat, was kneeling beside his
motionless form. In the fall Reuben's head had been
dashed with such violence against the end of the iron
camp bedstead that stood in the corner of the room as to
fracture his skull. He lay there with fury still glaring in
his eyes, and his clenched teeth gleaming through his
parted lips, an awful picture of ferocious hatred suddenly
made impotent.

He is dead ! ' panted Hoffbauer, who was bleeding
profusely. ' He is dead, the accursed wretch ! I have
had my revenge ! — and Frederica ! — but — '. He raised
his hand to his head as he spoke, and sank fainting
to the ground.

Wilfrid with difficulty managed to raise him and
lay him on the bed, and, whilst he was doing so,
Walter Chessington with a gun, followed by two
of the men-servants, one with a pistol, another with a
cudgel, hurried into the room ; and presently the other
two male guests, with anything that they could lay hold
of in the shape of weapons, joined them.

Oakburne speedily explained the state of things and
the ruffian whom he had disabled, and who was now
beginning to recover his senses, was securely bound,
while one messenger was sent to the village for Robbins

the policeman, and another galloped to Thornbury for a
doctor. It was quite clear that the burglars had made
their entrance by the trap door, and on examination it
was seen that the rubbish had been cleared away, and
that the old passage, by which the Romish priests had
been wont to secure their safety when hard pressed,
had again been made available.

Hark ! ' said Fowler suddenly, ' Don't you hear someone
moaning?'

They all listened.

I'll be hung if it isn't the idiot ! ' added he, ' Don't
you recognise his infernal gibberish, Oakburne ? '

Wilfrid agreed that the sounds did resemble those
which the unfortunate Neddy Bolton was accustomed to
utter, and it was resolved that they should examine the
passage. Walter Chessington therefore descended in
company with Fowler, Mr. Sprott, and one of the footmen,
while Oakburne remained to tend the wounded
man. There, sure enough, they found the idiot at the
foot of the subterranean steps, weeping and gibbering.
The servant speedily secured him, while the others,
continuing their way, found that the other entrance to
the passage was about a quarter of a mile distant, well
concealed by a large thorn-bush that overshadowed it,
which was not far from the Thornbury Road. Having
thus ascertained how the burglars had gained access to
the tower, the party returned, speculating much as to the
motive which could have led the men to go there, and
deciding that it could only be attributable to private
enmity against Hoffbauer.

Meanwhile the whole household had been roused, and,
with lights flitting too and fro, frightened women cowering
in the doorways and passages, and busy servants

hurrying hither and thither, Otterstone Hall presented a
strange scene of confusion. Oakburne's medical skill
enabled him to render some assistance to his poor friend,
but having no surgical instruments he could of course do
but little. The bullet, striking the chest, had lodged in
the shoulder, and had so injured the lungs in its passage
that there was every reason to fear the wound would be
fatal. Every moment the sufferer grew weaker, and it
was soon apparent that there was little hope of saving
his life. After a time Iloffbauer began to realise this
himself.

Wilfrid,' said the poor fellow, ' I feel I have had my
death wound. My friend, I beg of you my last favour.
Be kind to poor Frederica when I shall die, and try to
give her the help she needs. Tell her, my boy, I
solemnly adjure you, how I died, and that he, that
villain, has been destroyed. Tell her that we are avenged.
Tell her,' he resumed, with weakened utterance,
that my last words were to pray God bless her. Promise
me.'

Most solemnly I promise to do so, my dear friend,
and to help her to the best of my power replied Oak-burnt,
much affected.

'Enough. I thank you, dear Wilfrid. Now also
promise me to tell nothing of the story of my life and so
forth to anyone but to Chessington, and to him only if
he questions. Thank you once more, my friend. And
now please tell my dear patron I must speak to him
before I die, to him alone, quite alone.'

Oakburne went immediately to their host to inform
him of the dying man's wish, and Walter, who had been
anxiously waiting for the doctor, hastened to the sickroom.


On seeing him Hoffbauer seemed to gain a momentary
access of strength.

I wish to bid thee lebewohl, my kind Walter,' said he,
raising himself on his arm. ' Thou hast been one of the
best of the friends of my life. Now that we must part
for ever, I wish to say once more my thanks and affection
! '

My dear Hoffbauer,' answered Chessington, ' you
know that my debt of gratitude to you is as great as
yours to me ! But do not say that it is good-bye ! Every
moment I expect the doctor. The bullet will be easily
extracted. We shall spend many happy years together,
my dear friend ! '

Never ! Nevermore, Walter ! ' said the other faintly,
sinking back on his pillow. ' But listen,' he added eagerly.
While I have strength I must tell thee. Take these
papers,' and he drew from beneath his pillow the documents
relating to the proof of his descent, together with
the copy of the marriage certificate of Estelle Chessington,
all of which were stained with the blood from his wound.
Take these, Walter,' he repeated. ' Read them carefully,
and when thou hast done so, cast them into the
flames. Thou shalt then find that they show that thou
and T, dear friend, are of kin to each other.'

Of kin ! ' ejaculated Chessington, astonished. He
thought the poor fellow's mind must be wandering.

Yes. We are of one family, Walter ; though without
doubt it shall seem strange to thee. Read them
then I pray, and then destroy them; and sometimes
remember me.' His voice grew weaker, and a moan of
pain escaped him.

My dear friend ! ' cried Walter in great agitation, ' I
will do what you wish.'

Hoffbauer half raised himself once more.

Let me be buried here in the churchyard of Otter-stone,
dear Walter,' he said, and then he sank back insensible.


At this moment there came a loud knocking at the
door, and Walter, hurrying to it, brought in the surgeon
who had been summoned from Thornbury.

I am afraid you are only just in time, doctor,' said
he, as the latter examined Hoffbauer's wound.

I am afraid I am too late,' replied the doctor, shaking
his head when he had finished his scrutiny of the unconscious
man. ' It is all over now, I fear.'

They saw a bright smile pass over his face, he murmured
faintly a few words of which none but Oakburne
could tell the import, and then, with a deep sigh, th
stormy voyage of Theodore Hoffbauer's life ended.

CHAPTER VI.

In which Lady Felsparley asserts her authority.

The world has long been amused with the mention of policy in
public transactions, and of art in private affairs ; they have been
considered as the effects of great qualities, and as unattainable by
men of the common level : yet I have not found many performances
either of art or policy, that required such stupendous efforts of intellect,
or might not have been effected by falsehood and impudence,
without the assistance of any other powers.^THE Rambler.

T has been mentioned that Mr. Throckmorton
was staying with some friends near Thornbury,
a town some five miles from Otterstone, at the
time when the events described in the last two chapters
took place. The MS. of that gentleman, which has
hitherto been always followed as closely as possible, only
alludes in an incidental way to this visit. As, however,
certain occurrences connected with it must be related in
order to make the narrative intelligible to the reader, the
present writer has been obliged to fill this awkward
hiatus to the best of his power by means of a few letters
in his possession, and his recollections of conversations
with Mr. Throckmorton on the subject.

The correspondence of the latter with General Beech-croft
after his departure for India had not, as is to be
expected in such cases, been very energetically kept up.
Each had his own business to occupy him, and, as
neither had ever been very much given to letter writing,
their communications to each other, though as warm and
unreserved as ever, were rare and generally occasioned

by matters of importance. It was therefore with feelings
of grave anxiety that Mr. Throckmorton read a letter he
received early in the year from his friend, in which he
alluded, somewhat in detail and altogether contrary to
his custom, to his failing state of health, and which concluded
as follows: — 'Sybil will of course at my death
find a home with her aunt and natural guardian, Lady
Felsparley. She will, thank God ! be tolerably provided
for, now that I am getting clear of my difficulties, and
the Grange will be her property. You kno.v all my
affairs Throckmorton, and it is with perfect confidence
that I ask you to befriend my dear girl. You and I
have, I think, never had any secrets from each other
since the old Rugby days when we used to get into
scrapes in company ; and I will confide to you that,
though no doubt Gertrude means to be kind, Sybil does
not get on well with her aunt. My sister is (alas ! that
a brother should say it !) rather worldly, and is moreover
hard, and unforgiving, as you Edward, if any, have cause
to know. Sybil is very high-spirited, and cannot brook
her interference; perhaps it is her father's fault, for I
fear I have not had the heart to be as strict with her as
I should, and therefore, perhaps, I ought not to complain
of those who try to restrain her. Be this as it
may, however, Sybil does not rely on her aunt Gertrude
as she ought, and, in the event that she should ever be
driven to take counsel of some one else, I have bid her
go to you, as her guardian. This I am sure she will
not hesitate to do, for you know she has always had a
great affection for you, and still calls you Uncle Edward,
as she did when she was a child. Forgive my burthening
you thus with the duties of counsellor to a young woman,
who has no claim on you save our well tried friendship,

I am content, however, boldly to rely on that. Please God
you and I may yet meet again at the old place in Clay-shire,
and laugh together over a glass of the old wine at
my gloomy forebodings. Still I have been feeling
strangely out of sorts of late and something has been
urging me for some time past to write to you as I have
done. We old fellows can't last for ever, and I am your
senior, Edward, remember, though you were always ahead
of me in the school. Let me have news from you when
you are at leisure ; and I hope to hear that you are as
hearty as ever, and that time has dealt more tenderly with
you than with your old friend

Rupert Beechcroft.'

This letter, which affected Mr. Throckmorton not a
little, and to which we may be sure he sent by the next
mail such an answer as was well calculated to comfort
and cheer his friend, was the last he was ever to receive
from those hands. Some two months later the papers
announced the death, suddenly from heart disease, of
General Rupert Beechcroft, commanding the Kurryapore

Division in the Presidency of India, appending to

their notice the usual account of his services.

In General Beechcroft,' said the Daily Dictator
'the nation has lost another of those distinguished
Peninsular veterans who are now disappearing so fast
from among us, and whose military talents and experience
it can so ill afford at the present time to spare.
The deceased officer began his career in India, and was
subsequently present at Corunna, where he was severely
wounded. He took part in the Walcheren expedition,
and served with distinction throughout the Peninsular
campaigns, being present at the siege and storming of
Cuidad Rodrigo, as well as at the battles of Salamanca,

(where he was twice wounded), the Pyrenees, Nivelle,
Orgies, Toulouse, Quatrebras, and Waterloo. The great
Duke, his commander, whose acquaintance he had the
honour to enjoy, is known to have expressed a high
opinion of his abilities as a soldier,' etc.

Lady Felsparley of course returned with her daughter
and niece to England, and at once put herself in communication
with Mr. Throckmorton, who had been
appointed one of the executors of her brother's will.
General Beechcroft in that document, as well as frequently
during his lifetime, had expressed an earnest wish that
Sybil should live with her aunt and cousin ; and as
Thornbury Grange,' a small property near the town of
that name, was once more available through Mr. Throck-
morton's exertions on his late friend's behalf, the trio took
up their residence there in the course of the summer.
Previously to this, however, Lady Felsparley, who was
now tolerably well off herself, had in conjunction with
her niece rented a little house in Half Moon Street during
the season for the purpose of renewing her intercourse
with her relations and such of her friends in London as
she thought it advisable to cultivate. She was there
enabled to resume, with her usual steadfastness of
purpose, the to her interesting occupation, — and as she
considered duty, — of seeking for eligible husbands for the
two young ladies under her guardianship ; and in the
case of one of them her efforts were crowned with gratifying
success.

At her mother's command Miss Felsparley, — though
it cost her many tears and the young fellow a great deal
of grief, — had broken with Reginald's friend Lancers,
when his uncle. Sir John Danvers, had unexpectedly
married in his old age a girl of seventeen. The old

VOL. II. F

gentleman, however, having been carried off by a sudden
attack of bronchitis without leaving an heir, his nephew
succeeded after all to the baronetcy, and, as he had still
remained constant, renewed his suit to Evelyn Felsparley
immediately on his return to England. On this her
mother, having regard to his improved prospects, was
now graciously disposed to smile. ' I could not bear my
poor darling's woeful looks any longer, Sir Leopold,' said
she. ' I had thought that dear Evelyn might perhaps
have chosen a connection of ours who has long shewn
a great attachment to her ; I think you know that I allude
to Augustus Dollop, Lord Dumplingford's son. (Her
ladyship had indeed been bitterly disappointed when that
young man, who was connected with herself through the
Duke of Grandsire, had married Miss Vivian Ruck the
American heiress.) I had, I say, thought that it might
have been, but I feel from what she has said to me that
it would be wrong to stand any longer in the way of my
dearest child's happiness.' So, as regarded her daughter
Lady Felsparley felt triumphantly content, but in the case
of Miss Beechcroft she was again doomed to meet with
disappointment.

Captain Cope, who had come home to England on
urgent private affairs ' shortly after General Beechcroft's
death deprived him of his appointment, had once more
proposed to Sybil ; but the latter, though she owned to
liking him very much, and treated him very kindly, had
refused him more decidedly than ever. It was in vain
that Lady Felsparley told her niece that she was ' foolish,
heartless yes wicked ! etc. to throw over a man with such
prospects. Miss Beechcroft replied very haughtily that she
was her own mistress, and would not be dictated to
in such matters, and to her aunt's great annoyance Capt.

Cope, whom she earnestly pressed to try his chance
again, frankly owned that he had resolved to persist no
longer in his courtship, and shortly after rejoined his
regiment in the Crimea, where, though the Alma had
been won, the nation was beginning to learn that there
remained still plenty of work to do.

It was after the little quarrel thus occasioned that Miss
Beechcroft first consulted Mr. Throckmorton with regard
to her troubles. He was rather shocked one morning
when she arrived in a cab at the door of his chambers in
Lincoln's Inn, and, on being shown into the sanctum
where he transacted his conveyancing business, began to
tell him how utterly unhappy she was ; how her aunt
Lady Felsparley was a tyrant ; how she longed to retire
into a ' home,' a convent, anywhere out of the world ; —
and a great deal more to the same purpose, ' the whole
concluding,' as the playbills say, with a passionate burst
of tears. It was an embarrassing situation for an elderly
lawyer who had seen as little as he could possibly manage
of ladies during a long period of his life, and the words
of consolation and wisdom did not come so readily as
might have been expected from a man who had so much
to do with literature. He was, however, able to comfort
her somewhat, and, accompanying her back to Half Moon
Street, managed to effect a reconciliation between Sybil
and her aunt. During the remainder of their stay in
London the latter was much more gentle with her niece,
and, being pretty well occupied with preparations for
her own daughter's marriage, allowed Miss Beechcroft to
have her own way pretty well.

Her own way ' at this time took the direction of trying
to reeve suffering and want among the poor. She
was constantly pouring into the ears of her guardian her

desire to make herself useful to others, and allowed him no
rest till he had introduced her to some friends of his own
who, having devoted their lives to such good works, were
able to help her to occupy herself in the way she desired.
Among these was Miss Nightingale, who at that time, in
addition to her other good works, had voluntarily
assumed the management of an asylum in London for
sick governesses. There Sybil found plenty of congenial
work, and evinced such zeal and aptitude for nursing as
won the good will of the lady under whose direction she
laboured. It was the foundation of a life long intimacy,
which led Sybil to take part in many undertakings of a
like nature, and when the time came for going down to
Thornbury Grange, she left London only after urgent
entreaties from her friends, and with unfeigned reluctance.
It was considered a matter of course that Mr. Throck-
morton should pay the Thornbury party a visit, and thus
it came about that during a great part of October he was
residing within some six miles of Otterstone Hall. His
stay at the * Grange' was not, however, an unmixed
pleasure to him, and, indeed, considering his tastes,
may safely be said to have been for the most part endured
as a duty. Lady Felsparley was an exigeante hostess,
and over anxious to try and find amusement for her
guests, instead of allowing them to amuse themselves ;
while Sybil was, it must be owned, rather thoughtless
in her demands upon her old ' Uncle Edward's '
time and good nature. The gentlemen who came
to stay in the house were, for the most part, friends
of Sir Leopold Danvers, all of whose tastes centred
chiefly in 'sport,' and with whom Mr. Throckmorton
had but little in common. In addition to these drawbacks
to his comfort was one which, trifling and absurd

as it may seem, disturbed him more than any of the
others. That inveterate old match-maker, Lady Felspar-ley,
had taken it into her head that, his means being
considerable, and his family an old one, — as has been
already mentioned he was heir to his cousin Sir Carnaby
Rudstone's large Yorkshire property, — he might prove
an eligible parti for Sybil. His interest in all her plans,
his affectionate manner towards her, — it was so romantic
his having known her since she was a baby, — his
frequent visits to Half Moon Street, and his zeal in discharging
his duties as executor and best friend of
General Beechcroft, all gave some sort of colour perhaps
to her idea that he had really formed an attachment
for Sybil which ought to be encouraged ; but the writer,
who on this point can certainly speak with more authority
than anyone else, is able to declare most decidedly that
none of those tender thoughts which Lady Felsparley
attributed to him ever entered Mr. Throckmorton's
brain. His affection for the daughter of his old friend,
great as it was, as well for his sake as her own, had not
one spark of romance in it, but was purely paternal. All
romance, — and he had but little in his composition, —
had indeed been buried for him long before Sybil was
born, and as he was not slow to perceive his hostess*
little plans which, though they served rather to amuse
the other guests, soon began to annoy him, he was
much relieved when circumstances occurred which freed
Miss Beechcroft and himself from the false and ridiculous
position in which Lady Felsparley chose to place them
to each other.

It is hardly necessary to remind the reader that the
thought and sympathy of the whole British nation were
at this time centred in the gallant army in the (crimea.

By the establishment of ' The Patriotic Fund,' — which,
started on the 13th October, amounted to ;£"3o,ooo by
the end of the month, and ;£"3oo,ooo by the end of the
year, — and numberless other like organisations for the
benefit of our soldiers and sailors, and for supplying chaplains,
nurses, etc., the country testified its eager desire to
make up for the faults of a deficient Administration,
which every day made more apparent. It poured
forth the wrath aroused by these against the Government,
while it rica the papers with countless suggestions,
many of them, it must be owned, very absurd, — for our
army, and inundated the War Office with extraordinary
plans for the taking of Sebastopol by means of balloons,
subterranean passages, and heaven knows what besides.
Although the brief interval that separates us from that
period has been so eventful that both the Crimean War,
and the terrible scenes in India which followed it, are
well nigh forgotten, all who can recall it will bear witness
that it was a stirring time, when the nation showed with
what a generous and gallant spirit it could rally in
disaster, and speak with one voice : —

A people's voice ! we are a people yet.
The' all men else their nobler dreams forget,
Confused by brainless mobs and lawless Powers.'

God grant that in all times of Britain's troubles those
lines of the Laureate, written but a short time before that
terrible war, may still prove to be true !

Everyone will remember how, when the shortcomings
of our hospitals in the East were brought to light the
numerous schemes suggested by medical men and others
for remedying them eventually led to the proposal, made
by the Rev. Mr. Shepherd, of St. John's House, — a

Protestant Sisterhood in Westminster, — to the Bishop of
London, that ladies devoted to acts of charity should
voluntarily go out as hospital nurses to the Crimea.
When the plan developed, and, receiving the countenance
of the Duke of Newcastle, as minister of war, ended in
the establishment of a body of lady hospital nurses under
the management of Miss Nightingale, Sybil Beechcroft,
who had followed all the correspondence on the subject
with the greatest interest, at once made up her mind that
she would be one of the thirty-eight ladies who were to
go out to Scutari. Of course she consulted Mr. Throck-
morton, and of course he at first endeavoured to dissuade
her from thus leaving her home and friends. Though her
strong will and high spirit led her to treat his remonstrances
with much less attention than they deserved, they had
sufficient weight with her to make her falter for a while
in her resolve, and might perhaps in time have led her
to alter it, had it not been for a certain drive which she
took with her aunt to pay a visit to some neighbours.
The road, — though it is difficult to realise it now, —
traversed a portion of what was once a great battle-field
from ^vhich Cromwell's Ironsides pursued the routed
troops of King Charles for some sixteen miles, ' even
unto Leicester where the King lay,' and it happened oddly
enough that Sybil and Lady Felsparley, who having
known the fact the whole of their lives were scarcely
conscious that they were passing over the scene of the
great parliamentary victory, managed to fight a battle
together as they reclined among the cushions while the
carriage drove homewards.

Did you hear what Miss Smithfieldson said about
Miss Nightingale, aunt Gertrude ! ' said Sybil as they
left the lodge gates of Karflam Park, where they had been

calling. ' Did you hear her say that she had visited all
the principal reformatories and hospitals in London and
Edinburgh, as well as on the continent ? '

Yes, dear. Quite charming of her ! Miss Smithfield-son
is very nice I think, — considering what they were (Mr.
Smithfieldson, of Brandywine & Smithfieldson, contractors,
was one of the few nouveaux riches in Clayshire).
Yes ! Very nice really ! Though the father is certainly
vulgar, the son seems fairly well-bred and will be
immensely rich. What a pretty place it is.'

I call it a glorious life ! ' continued her niece,
ignoring the Smithfieldson family. ' A noble life ! Just
think, Aunt Gertrude, of the good she does ! That
Home for Sick Governesses in London where I used to go
owes everything to her.'

Delightful ! ' says Lady Felsparley, who would not
have entered a hospital on any account if she could help
it. ' Quite a perfect character indeed ! ' and she stifled
a little yawn. ' But you know her of course, don't you ?
Did not your uncle, — I mean Mr. Throckmorton, — by
the way I wish you would not call him uncle, Sybil, ashe's
no relation ; it's very silly, and I find myself doing
the same. Did not Mr. Throckmorton introduce you
to her?'

Yes, it was very good of him.'

How good he is ! How truly excellent ! I hardly
know anyone so really unselfish as he is my dear ! ' went
on the elder lady.

Indeed he is,' replied Miss Beechcroft with enthusiasm,
though somewhat surprised at this warm expression
of admiration on her aunt's part. ' Dear old Uncle
Edward ! '

Please don't say uncle child. It annoys me. Look

how pretty the red-brown of that beech looks against the
yellow and green of that old elm ! Is it an elm ? No !
its an oak. Quite charming is it not ? Do you know
my dear Sybil and she lowered her voice, so that
Thomas the coachman, and Joseph the footman should
not overhear her. ' Do you know I have often thought
dear, and especially of late since he has been here, that
Mr. Throckmorton has a great tendresse for some one ? '

How can you be so stupid. Aunt Gertrude ! ' cries her
niece, who of course at once divines who ' some one ' is.
It is too absurd !'

Not at all Sybil. Age has nothing to do with it ; and
I don't call Mr. Throckmorton old ! Some hearts are
always fresh. I remember Lord Lameck paid me great
attention when I was a girl, and people said he was quite
eris. Such a charming old gentleman ! And then
there was Mr. Cutlerham the great Birmingham man
who was worth half a million of money, he was long past
sixty when he married Lady Osmunda Rowancourt, the
youngest of Lord Ashleigh's daughters, and she was only
seventeen.'

Such things are horrible ! ' cried Sybil with a flushed
face.

Horrible ? Nonsense child ! The Rowancourts
were in difficulties then I remember. Since that they
have come in for a good slice of the Ivitree money through
old Lady Rowancourt, the daughter of Ivitree, the
solicitor who managed the Rowancourt property, and
that mesalliance saved them from ruin. I remember
Cynthia Rowancourt, the second girl, very well. She was
a great friend of mine as a girl. There were seven, and
all their names ended in " a." Aurora, Cynthia, Sophia,
Leonora, Osmunda, who is now Lady Cutlerham, and

Adela, who ran away with Captain Chessington, and
lives near this at Otterstone. Osmunda was a very good,
charming girl, and all the world thought it a splendid
match.'

Sybil vouchsafed no reply to these remarks but a scornful
toss of the head, to which Lady Felsparley paid no
attention.

Mr. Throckmorton,' went on the latter, ' is, I repeat,
a most excellent man. He can't have less than ^1500 a
year, and if he survives his cousin, Sir Carnaby Pvudston,
he'll get the greater part of the Carnaby property. He
can't be more than fifty-eight, in fact I know he is not,
for I have known him since he was quite a boy, — and he
is evidently very fond of you, Sybil. He has watched
you from babyhood, dear.'

Aunt Gertrude ! I request you to say no more on
this subject ! ' says her niece in a great rage.

Sybil ! What do you mean ! Please not to speak so
loud or the servants will hear ! I shall tell you my
opinion when I think fit, and it is your duty to listen,
and to be guided by my advice.'

I forbid you to mention the subject to me,' repeats
Sybil, trembling with anger.'

Forbid ! to me ! You wicked undutiful girl ! ' Never
before had Sybil ventured to use such language to her
aunt, and Lady Felsparley was a good deal taken aback
by it.

Yes ! I will hear no more of it ! You are always
trying to get rid of me ! Always dictating to me, and
worrying me to marry some one ! And now you must
go and make mischief between me and dear Uncle
Edward ! It is too bad ! too bad !

Sybil ! I command you to be silent ! He is not

your uncle, you little fool, as you very well know. It is
you who are always opposing my plans for your welfare.
I am your natural guardian, and you are always rebellious
and obstinate. Ever since that young Roman Catholic,
Mr. Oakburne, — from whose dangerous advances I saved
you, — turned your head, you have been unmanageable
and disobedient, you wicked girl ! '

You parted me from the only one I ever cared for,'
spit Sybil; 'and now you make my Hfe wretched
through your vile schemes. I will stand it no more.
You have married poor Evelyn as you wish, and that
ought to content you. I will hear no more from you on
this subject, I tell you. It is very cruel of you to bring
up poor Reginald, and say such wicked falsehoods of
him. Yes ! cruel and wicked ! ' and the young lady
burst into tears.

If tears were a sign of defeat she was routed, but if to
assert one's own views and receive no answer be victory,
she may be said to have won the day Perhaps it was
through pity, or desire to avoid a scene, or again because,
maybe, she had no answer ready, but whatever the
reason, Lady Felsparley made no reply to her niece's
passionate speech, and the rest of the drive was accomplished
in silence. Each lady at once sought her room,
and during dinner that evening Sir Leopold Danvers,
Evelyn Felsparley, and Mr. Throckmorton, did all the
talking.

It is impossible to say how much of this quarrel
Thomas the coachman, and Joseph the footman, heard
in their exalted posts of vantage on the box. Servants,
it is well known, do somehow manage to know everything
sooner or later ; and it is to be feared that, as they
took the carriage back to the stables, Joseph, according

to his custom, made some humorous remarks to his
fellow on the subject, and that, with that keen sense of
amusement which the troubles of their masters ever
excite in the domestic mind, the party in the servants'
hall at Thornbury Grange discussed that evening the
question as to whether the ' young missus ' or the ' old
un ' had got the best of the battle.

CHAPTER VII.

Shows how Mr. Throckmorton had an adventure and
how Sybil event to the wars.

Here comes a man of comfort, whose advice
Hath often stilled my brawling discontent. —

Shakespeare.

Two paths lead upward from below,

And angels wait above,

Who count each burning life drop's flow.

Each falling tear of Love.

• • ■•

While Valour's haughty champions wait

Till all their scars are shown,

Love walks unchallenged through the gate

To sit beside the Throne !— O. W. Holmes.

HE fact that they were each, in a way, mistresses
of Thornbury Grange, did not serve to increase
the harmony between Lady Felsparley and her
niece. Miss Beechcroft was, it is true, the owner of the
little estate, and was known by all the household to be
so, but, in deference to her relationship to her, as well
as to her age, she yielded the position of ruler of the
establishment to the elder lady who of course contributed
her share of the expenses of the joint menage. She had
of late, and especially since her visit to Mr. Throck-
morton in London, been striving as much as possible to
be yielding and unselfish towards her aunt ; but we
all know that at times even the worm will turn, —
precious little benefit does the poor wretch derive

from the contortion ! — and there were certain points as
to which Miss Beechcroft, who had nothing of the worm
in her disposition, would turn on a very slight provocation.
Lady Felsparley, who of course had learnt pretty
well what these points were, and was, as has been said, a
person of great natural shrewdness and tact, was able by
skilfully using her knowledge to inflict tortures of a very
refined kind upon Sybil, when she proved unmanageable.
Her ladyship being quite unable to understand religion
herself was in the habit of setting down other people's
efforts in that direction as cant and hypocrisy, and
regarded her niece's visits to the poor, and attendance
at hospitals, as merely an artful means for rebelling
against her lawful authority. She professed to be inconstant
dread lest Sybil should engage herself to some
curate or benevolent doctor, purely to spite her for
having made so many efforts to marry her to an eligible
husband, and indulged in a good many sneers at the
kind of labours to which she now devoted herself The
reader will therefore easily understand that the abovementioned
altercation respecting Reginald Oakburne, —
a subject which Lady Felsparley, with her knowledge of
what she was pleased to term Sybil's deceitful conduct
to her father in the matter, found very useful as a means
of humiliating her niece, — was merely one of a series
of similar conflicts waged with the ever varying success
of war. It was destined, however, to be more decisive
in its results than any previous one, owing to the fact
that Mr. Throckmorton was called upon by Miss Beech-croft
to arbitrate between the fair combatants.

He was, as may be well believed, disagreeably surprised
at the duty thus thrust upon him. Sybil had come upon
him suddenly as he was smoking his after-breakfast cigar

on the lawn, and rudely broken in on one of the
pleasantness moments of the day, by begging him to speak
to her on a matter of vital importance, and then besought
him once more with many tears to give her his assistance
to try and join the party of ladies about to sail for the
Crimea, under the guidance of Miss Nightingale. She
recounted the quarrel of the previous day, and all tie
permanent causes of difference between herself and her
aunt, and pleaded so strongly in support of her wish to
devote herself to the noble work of a hospital nurse, that
at last she persuaded him to go and talk to Lady Fels-
parley on the matter. Then began fresh troubles. Her
ladyship of course was furious. The idea was monstrous!
How could Mr. Throckmorton suggest such a thing !
People would say that Sybil was out of her senses ! that
she, Lady Felsparley, had driven her out of the house !
Heaven only knew what they would not say ! Mr.
Throckmorton was most kind, — she had indeed a secret
contempt for his kindness, and had had ever since she
had encouraged him and then jilted him as quite a young
man years ago, — he was most kind, but he must not
allow himself to be talked round by Sybil. Poor dear
Sybil, she feared, was not quite straightforward. Yes !
she could not bear to say it of one of whom she was
so deeply fond, but she must speak the truth, — she was,
she feared, rather deceitful.

Excuse me, Lady Felsparley,' cries Mr. Throckmorton
with some warmth. 'Excuse me ! I think you are utterly
wrong on that point. Sybil is one of the most truthful
girls I know.'

Ah ! my dear Mr. Throckmorton ! men are so
deceived in our sex ! I fear we are most of us given to
subterfuge ! — all except a very few, who, like my poor

self, get into trouble for our plain speaking. No ! I fear
I cannot change my opinion of poor Sybil ! The fact is,
I am so much afraid that that stupid old love affair with
Mr. Oakburne is at the bottom of all this.'

Mr. Throckmorton expressed surprise. Oakburne !
who was Mr. Oakburne ?

Mr. Oakburne ! did he not know ? She really thought
she ought to tell him. And then Lady Felsparley told
him the whole story, — her version, that is, of the story, —
with, as may be supposed, but little tenderness for the
faults either of Reginald Oakburne or her niece. The
recital astonished and rather shocked Mr. Throckmorton,
who had a very high opinion of Sybil. He could not,
however, bring himself to accept all Lady Felsparley's
statements, and concealing the displeasure and suspicion
which they roused in him, begged her to think over the
matter again.

After luncheon was over he again had a talk with Miss
Beechcroft, setting before her more seriously and fully
than he had yet done, the sterner side of the duties she
thought of undertaking, but he only found her still more
fixed in her resolve. Her cousin Evelyn, who was very
fond of her, had come round to her side, and the two
young women having taken counsel together, and having,
of course, enlisted Sir Leopold Danvers in the cause. Miss
Felsparley had agreed to attack her mother on Sybil's behalf
Then Mr. Throckmorton, with the reluctance with
which he always approached such subjects, asked Sybil to
explain to him what had really happened with regard to
this Mr. Oakburne. He felt it his duty to do so, for he
was helping her to undertake an arduous mission against
the wishes of her nearest female relation, who darkly
hinted at some previous love affair as the prime motive

for her conduct. He wanted therefore to set his mind
thoroughly at rest in the matter, and as he fully believed
Sybil, and from old experience had but little faith in her
aunt, determined to try and ascertain the truth of the
charge against her from her own lips. The truth, and
the whole truth, did Miss Beechcroft tell him. Bitter as
was her feeling of humiliation at having to justify herself
against her aunt's statements, it was a satisfaction and
relief to her to tell her version of the tale to one for
whom she had so much respect and affection. She
therefore told him everything, owning how wrong they
had been in concealing their engagement, but blaming
herself, nevertheless, for not having kept it after she had
once entered into it. She admitted that she still retained
the same feelings towards Oakburne, but declared that
there had now long been an end of all such thoughts
between them. He was, she said, still with his regiment
in India, as far as she knew, and she had been told that
he now cared for some one else. She implored Mr.
Throckmorton with great fervour therefore not to
believe that she could be so base as to be influenced by
any such motive as her aunt ascribed to her, and assured
him most earnestly that she had given her whole heart
to the good work which Miss Nightingale was about to
undertake. If she was not to be allowed to assist in it,
she said, she should be utterly miserable ; while to live
with her aunt any longer would either drive her out of
her mind, or make her very ill indeed.

Well, well, my dear ! I quite believe you,' said Mr.
Throckmorton at last, regarding very kindly the flushed
face and tearful eyes.

You don't know Lady Felsparley ! ' cried Sybil.
'You don't know how she persecutes me. She is

VOL. II. G

ahiuays pestering me to marry some rich men. I believe
she wants you to marry me — that is — I mean that she
wants me to marry you. You know what I mean, Uncle
Edward,' says the young lady, blushing crimson.

God bless my soul ! ' cried that gentleman, with an
expression of alarm so comical that Miss Beechcroft
burst out laughing at it, and at her slip of the tongue.

Upon my word that's too bad ! ' ejaculated Mr.
Throckmorton warmly ; and then he heartily joined her,
telling her playfully that she was ' an impudent young
women.'

Well, well,' said he after a pause, ' I own I think
you aunt is a terrible old matchmaker, Sybil. We have
been acquainted since we were boy and girl together, and
so I know her pretty well. I will speak to her once
more ; and you had better write to Miss Nightingale at
once. Of course you are no longer a minor, and can do
what you please in the matter ; and then I will go and
see her myself tomorrow.'

O thank you ! Thank you a thousand times, Uncle
Edward ! But I have, — that is — I did write to her
before.'

What ! Before this business, this scene took place ? '

Yes. I wrote directly I saw the scheme mentioned
in the papers,' replied Sybil, in some confusion.

Oh ho ! That shows you are in earnest, at all events,
my dear. But you might have told me. I suppose,
however, ladies never can tell one everything I '' and,
while Miss Beechcroft was warmly repudiating the idea,
he left her with a laugh, and went again to interview
Lady Felsparley.

This time his massage was more successful. He
pointed out how Sybil was now nearly three-and-twenty.

and fully entitled to control her own actions. He said
that she had shewn him that she felt so thoroughly resolved
on her project, that in his opinion it would be
very wrong to attempt to thwart her, while the experience
she would gam would no doubt soften, and do her a
great deal of good. Finally, he added that her niece had
said that she thought Lady Felsparley made a much
better mistress of the Grange than she could ever do,
and had hoped she would have consented to continue
there and put things thoroughly in order, so that on her
return she might find that they were once more really
settled in Clayshire.

This last argument decided the matter. One of her
ladyship's chief objections had been her belief that she
and her daughter would be bound in honour to leave
Thornbury Grange if Sybil expatriated herself, and the
good lady felt a decided repugnance to doing so. She,
however, by no means objected to being its sole mistress
for a time. Evelyn might be married from there, which
would have a much better effect than if she had been
obliged to give the breakfast in the poky little house in
Half Moon Street. So, after the proper amount of reluctance
at such an idea, and of fear at the dangers dearest
Sybil might incur, the aunt consented to be reconciled
to her niece, and they kissed each other most tenderly,
and became to all appearance as affectionate a pair of
relatives as could be found in Her Majesty's dominions.
Sybil's spirits rose from zero to boiling point, and she
never ceased praising and petting her good friend Mr.
Throckmorton, who, true to his promise, set off early
next morning to have a personal interview with Miss
Nightingale on her behalf

Mr. Throckmorton was fortunate enough to find Miss

Nightingale at home when he called. On learning the
object of his visit she told him that she had that morning
received a letter from Miss Beechcroft, of whom she
spoke in very kind terms, and whom, after some consideration,
she consented to accept as one of her staff of
hospital nurses. Mr. Throckmorton, much pleased with
the success of his mission, and feeling that time was of
the greatest importance, then took his leave in order to
return as soon as possible to communicate his good news
and make arrangements for Sybil's departure.

It was already evening when he hurried to the station,
and took his ticket. A train was standing by the platform
just ready to start, and he enquired of the porter if
it was for Thornbury.

Thornbury ! Come along sir ! no time to spare ! '
cried the other, and Mr. Throckmorton had just time to
get into a first-class carriage as the train began to move
out of the station. It was an express, and his mind was
so fully occupied with Sybil and her intended journey,
that it did not occur to him to trouble himself about his
own, till the train stopped at the first station, some thirty
miles out of London.

This train stops at Thornbury, does it not ? ' said he
to one of his two fellow-passengers, more by way of conversation
than anything else.

Upon my word, I don't think it does,' answered the
younger of the two.

No, I really don't think it does,' added the other, a
man of his own age. ' I was rather surprised to hear
that porter tell you so. But I don't feel sure.'

Mr. Throckmorton in some alarm put his head out of
the window and made the enquiry.

Stop at Thornbury? '

No, sir ! This train don't stop there. They told
you wrong, sir. It stops at Grendon. That's your nearest
station ; it's only three miles from Thornbury.'

With that they began to move off again, and he was
obliged to resign himself to his fate with a laugh in which
his fellow-travellers, — it is' odd how comical such mistakes
of one's fellow-travellers always appear to us, — of
course joined.

It is only three miles,' said he, ' and the weather is
fine, so I shan't suffer as much as I deserve for my carelessness,'
and the three fell to discussing the virtues and
shortcomings of the railway company on whose hne they
were travelling, the war, and various other subjects till
they reached Grendon.

It must have been a little past eleven when Mr.
Throckmorton left the station, which is half a mile distant
from the little village, and set out to walk homewards.
The night was beautifully fine, the moon was at
the full, and there was a keen almost frosty feeling in the
air. All promised a pleasant walk, and he set off briskly,
after having received careful directions as to the route,
which he thought he was pretty sure of, from the people
at the station. He trudged on till he came to a point
where the road branched into two others, when he took
the turn which he was told to take, to the right, imagining
himself to be making for his destination. It so happened,
however, that the porter, as so often occurs in
such cases, had meant the turn to his right, and
that Mr. Throckmorton had understood this as his
own rights which was of course the porter's left.
Hence it came about that after walking some two
and a half miles, and finding that the lights of Thorn-bury
did not appear in the distance, he stopped in some

perplexity. No one was near whom he could ask. What
was he to do ? He went on slowly a little further, and
presently heard a measured step in front of him. He
joyfully quickened his pace, and found that the pedestrian
was a policeman. The fact that it seemed a very
lonely part of the road, was sufficient to account to his
experienced mind for the presence of the guardian of
the peace who, in rural districts, seems usually to be met
with in such spots, and far away from the hamlets entrusted
to his charge.

How far to Thornbury, my good man ? '

The policeman stared a moment at the questioner's
high black hat, and black frock coat, and then burst into
a loud guffaw. ' Thornbury ! you are going out of your
way for Thornbury, sir ! This 'd take you to Draxton !
Leastways part of Draxton, for Draxton mostly lies away
from the turnpike, and there aunt no road to it Hke. Let's
see, — this 'd take you to Cressborough and then to
Nottingham.'

That is very provoking ! ' cried Mr. Throckmorton.
I have walked from Grendon station.'

Ah ! you mistook the turning to be sure ! Ought to
have kept to your left.'

What had I better do ? '

'Well, I was thinking,' replied the policeman, rubbing
his nose violently. ' Let's see, now. If you come with
me a little way I'll put you into a lane that'll take you,
after about half a mile, straight into the high road
through Otterstone.'

Otterstone ! Oh yes ! I have heard of that place.'

Ah ! that's my village ! ' He was, in fact, Robbins
the Otterstone policeman, but the hamlet of Draxton
was also in his beat. ' Well, then. You go down the

lane and turn to your right, and then you're in the turnpike
to Thornbury. It's about five mile and a bit, and
as straight as you can go.'

Thank you, my good man,' said Mr. Throckmorton,
slipping a coin into his hand.

'Stay a minute,' answered the other, his faculties perhaps
brightened by the tip. ' If you like to go by the
fields it'll save you a good mile and more, sir.'

How can I do that ? '

Well, after you get into Otterstone you'll pass a
cottage or two, and then you go by a wooden fence, and
you'll find a gate on your right. On your rights mind,
sir. There's another gate there, but that's the park way.
You'll easily see.'

'Two rights. I shall remember,' said Mr. Throckmorton.

'Two rights, that's it, sir. You'll find it a straight
enough path, and save you a mile and more, it will.
Good night, sir ! and I hope you'll find the way, sir ! '
and Mr. Throckmorton, having heartily responded,
plunged boldly down the lane indicated, remarking to
himself how much more civil people are in the country
than they are in the town.

When one comes to be a certain age walking ceases to
be that pleasure which it is to some people in their youth ;
and even in youth walking has not much fascination for
the most ardent pedestrian after a certain time of day.
When Mr. Throckmorton, — who at no period of his life
had at all cared for pedestrianism, — found himself safely
out of the lane, it seemed to him to have been a very
long half mile indeed, and a strong desire to meet some
sort of conveyance, no matter what, going to Thornbury,
filled his mind, as he passed by the ' cottage or two '
which indicated Otterstone village, All, however, was

silent as the grave, and he said to himself that if people
were more civil in the country than in London, the inhabitants
of the metropolis were at all events not so
absurdly early in their habits as they were here. Oh
for a hansom ! a four-wheeler ! or even an omnibus ! and
then he remembered that it must be past the time even
for the last London ' bus.' Not a vehicle or a human
being, however, did he meet ; and as he plodded along
by the wooden fence it occurred to him that ' five miles
and a bit ' was a terribly long way, and that it would bea
great thing to ' save a good mile and more ' by going
across the fields.

Ah ! This must be the gate on the right ! There was
one opposite to it, but that seemed to open on an undefined
sort of tract, and the policeman had certainly said
the right. He opened the wicket and found a well-trodden
path. This was it no doubt. What a pretty
field ! So much timber ! It was almost partake scenery !
He walked quickly some two hundred yards or so down
a gradual descent, thinking how much pleasant this
was than the road, and wondering how such fine trees
came to be left in fields, and how it was that the fields
were so large. But of course in Clayshire the meadows
always were large, and had often fine timber in them !
Holloa ! What was that ? A river ! A river undoubtedly,
though a small one, and what was more, a river
without a bridge ! He had reached a sort of glade of
beech trees by the side of a stream, and at the end of it
was a great moss-covered boulder that looked as if it
must have originally come from some more rugged
country than Clayshire. There must be some mistake !
and he paused and looked about him. My goodness !
there was a great big house ! and there was a light, too,

in that round tower at the end of the building ! He had
again taken the wrong turn and got into the park the
policeman mentioned instead of into the fields. Otter-stone
Park, of course ! and that must be Otterstone
Hall ! What an intolerable nuisance ! In his fatigue
and disgust he felt almost inclined to go to the house
and ask for a night's lodging. Wilfrid Oakburne must
be still there. But of course that was ridiculous ! He
took off his hat, and going to the big boulder leaned fora
moment upon it to rest. Of all absurd adventures this
was the most absurd ! Never again would he set out fora
walk in an unknown country at eleven o'clock at night !
But he must get back to the road. Good heavens ! if
people saw him they might think he was a poacher ! ora
burglar ! An elderly barrister arrested on a charge of
poaching, or for entering Otterstone park with intent to
commit a burglary I In spite of his weariness and discomfort
he laughed aloud at the absurdity of the idea.
Yes ! He must be off. There was a light in the tower,
and he half thought he saw a figure come to the window.
Yes, certainly ! it teas a figure ! and the person, whoever
he or she might be, was staring at him ! Good gracious !
He would return immediately to the road, and take good
care to stick to it, though it was five miles !

He hurried back as quickly as he could to the highway,
and walked steadily on till he reached Thornbury.
It was past two in the morning when he arrived, and the
Grange ' was a good mile and over from the town, so
he rang up the night porter at the ' Queen's Arms ' Inn,
and was uncommonly glad to tumble into the bed allotted
to him.

It was eight o'clock, two hours later than his usual
hour of rising, when Mr. Throckmorton awoke next

morning, and being anxious to get to Thornbury Grange
as soon as possible, he ordered a trap to be got ready for
him, and a cup of coffee to refresh his inner man.

They've had a terrible piece of work at Otterstone,
sir ; last night, sir,' said the waiter who brought his
breakfast.

At Otterstone ? ' enquired he. ' What has happened
there ? '

A burglary, sir, at the hall ; Mr. Chessington's place,
sir. 'Bout one o'clock it must have been they say, A
fortin' gent, Mr. Chessington's secretary, was murdered,
sir ; but they didn't take nothing' it seems. One of the
burglars was killed, and t'other they knocked down and
took 'im alive, sir. Going' to bring 'im in this morning',
and the inquest '11 be 'eld at the] " Golden Cow " over
the dead man. Yes sir.'

Dear me ! dear me ! that's a bad business ! ' replied
Mr. Throckmorton a good deal startled. ' You don't
have the inquests here, then ? ' added he.

Oh dear no, sir ! Wouldn't suit us at all ! No respectable
folks would stay with us, sir. It brings such a
lot of low fellers about the 'ouse, and there's so much
drinking, what with the witnesses and the jury and that.
No ! that 'd never do ! They always holds 'em at the
"Cow," sir.'

Ah, yes ! You are quite right ! It must be a very
disagreeable thing for Mr. Chessington's family this !
Very sad altogether!' and Mr. Throckmorton, after
a little more gossip on the subject, paid his reckoning
and drove off .to the " Grange." Being a prudent man
he did not think it fit to tell the waiter that he had accidentally
strayed into Otterstone Park probably but a
short time before the burglary, nor was he of course

aware that by doing so he had in all likelihood saved the
life of his young friend, Wilfrid Oakburne, by leading
him, as the reader knows, to go out and see who the
strange figure standing by the great boulder could be,
and thus to escape the commencement of the murderous
attack upon Hoff bauer.

Miss Beechcroft was of course overjoyed by the news
that her friend brought her from London, and great was
the commiseration which his adventure excited among
the ladies of the household, though Sir Leopold Danvers
playfully hinted that it was an after-dinner walk. Sybil's
preparations were soon made, and she took an affectionate
farewell of her cousin and Lady Felsparley, the
latter overwhelming her with tender regrets. She subsequently
made great capital in conversation out of her
dearest niece Sybil's heroic devotion, "and the great
shock that her going has been to me;" and at her
daughter's wedding next month bewailed to everyone the
absence from the ceremony of one so dear to her.

Next day, amidst the crowds assembled to witness the
departure of Miss Nightingale and her devoted followers,
Mr. Throckmorton bade his ward an affectionate farewell.
As is wtII known, men of all countries and creeds united
in doing honour to the little band. The authorities at
Bologna, the railway officials throughout the route to
Marseilles, the captain and crew of the ' Ventis ' steamer
which bore them to the East, all, of whatever rank or
condition, with whom they had to do, delighted to give
them every help in their power, and pay them their
tribute of praise and respect. But sad and terrible was the
contrast of the life they entered on when their journey
ended. Then all romance vanished and they found
themselves face to face with the sternest realities. No

more crowds of healthy, happy, folk to cheer them on
their landing, but instead a confused assemblage, of which
the wounded and the invalid orderlies waiting to bear
them to the hospitals, formed the greater proportion ;
the bodies of the dead ; stretchers, and arabas to which
oxen were yoked, ready to carry away the helpless sick ;
stores, munitions, and all the paraphernalia of war, the
scourge of the earth. To spend day after day in
hospitals, filled well nigh to the doors, — in the Barrack
Hospital alone there were almost two and a half miles of
sick beds, — to minister to men eyeless, footless, armless,
shot, sabred, bayonetted, emaciated with want, writhing
under the agonies of cholera, of dysentery, and of fever ;
to tend every form of suffering, and to suffer in spirit
themselves from helplessness to aid it on account of the
heart "breaking want of necessary appliances ; — such was
the life of the hospital nurses at Scutari, and such were
the duties that Sybil Beechcroft found herself called onto
fulfil.

CHAPTER VIII.
What lull Uncle Giles say ? "

Self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control,

These three alone lead life to sovereign power.

Yet not for power, (powder of herself

Would come uncall'd for) but to live by law,

Acting the law we live by without fear ;

And, because right is right, to follow right

Were wisdom in the scorn of consequence. — Tennyson.

HE murder and burglary at Otterstone made, as
may be supposed, a good deal of stir, not only
in the neighbourhood, but throughout the
country, and supplied the newspapers with some valuable
material for their columns.

Both at the inquest and the trial Wilfrid Oakburne was
of course the principal witness, and from what Hoff bauer
had told him just before his death with regard to
Frederica Ledru and the plans which her husband and
Portal had formed respecting the unhappy pair, it was
not hard for him to arrive at a true, and the public at a
tolerably fair conclusion in the matter.

Reuben on his wife's flight had, it appeared, determined,
partly owing, no doubt, to the half-insane state of mind
to which his drinking fits had reduced him, — to be revenged
on Hoff bauer, and at the same time secure the
papers which he and Portal coveted. Evidence showed
that he had made careful enquiries at the lodgings in

Poulfoid Street respecting Hoffbauer's movements, and,
after successfully tracking him to Otterstone, had, in
company with a certain Louis Conduce, — an unscrupulous
associate of Theodore's who bore him a grudge, and who
had been concerned in a previous robbery in his own
country, — gone to the village of Grendon, where they
had taken lodgings for the purpose of reconnoitring the
house and arranging their plans. Chance had thrown in
their way Neddy Bolton, and it was through him that
they had discovered the existence of the secret passage
to the tower. It was shewn that this unfortunate wretch,
who had been always allowed to wander about the park
at his pleasure, had long since found out that this hidden
way was not, as popularly supposed, filled up, and had
penetrated by it to the room in the tower, which he had
actually been in the habit of using as sleeping quarters
till Hoffbauer's arrival. That event having deprived him
of his resting-place had excited his anger against the
German, and, being much more in possession of his
faculties than was supposed, he had, by means of signs
and exclamations, imparted his knowledge to Reuben and
his confederate, who, with his help, had worked at making
it available for their purpose for some nights previous to
the burglary. This accounted for the noises which Hoff-baker
attributed to rats, and of which he had spoken to
Wilfrid only the day before his death. The latter and
Fowler were of course able at once to identify both
Reuben and his accomplice as the men they had met in
the Thornbury road; and no doubt it was they too whose
appearance had so unfavourably impressed Lady Adela
and her sister, when they passed them out driving. With
regard to the motive of the crime, all that transpired at
the trial was that it was due in a great measure to

jealousy on Reuben's part, and that there were certain
papers relating to Hoffbauer's history out of which his
murderer had hoped to make money. Had it been
desired to summon Frederica as a witness, Wilfrid Oak-burnt
ot course knew where to find her, but he was
able to prove the fact that she had left her home, and
her intimacy with the murdered man, without going to
the painful necessity of calling on her to give evidence.
The public, therefore, heard but little of her name in
connection with the proceedings, and of course were
kept entirely ignorant of the share that Portal had in
suggesting the robbery of the papers from Hoffbauer.
That worthy thus managed to escape scot free from the
consequences of his guilt, though it may be imagined he
felt considerable uneasiness till the trial was concluded ,
and Conduce had been sent across the seas, and Neddy
Bolton to Broadmore. The circumstances of Wilfrid's
going out into the park just before the burglars made
their entry excited a good deal of curiosity, and he was
subjected to rather a searching cross-examination on the
subject, by the counsel for the prisoners. While most
people concluded that the figure he had seen was one of
the robbers, some lovers of the supernatural, having discovered
the old legend of Sir salter Throckmorton's
ghost, started the theory that it was a veritable apparition,
and Mr. Beverley Chipps made the incident the
basis of a thrilling ghost story for one of the magazines.
It was not till long afterwards that Wilfrid Oakburne,
who was a good deal puzzled by it at the time, learnt
quite accidentally from Mr. Throckmorton the real facts
of the case.

The reader will thus perceive that full as was the
account then given in all the newspapers of what was

popularly known as the ' Otterstone Hall Tragedy,' the
world in general was kept in ignorance of two or three
of the hidden causes and side issues of the crime, which
have been imparted to him ; and he must now be
informed of a still more important consequence resulting
from it.

Walter Chessington, when he received from Hoffbauer
on his deathbed, the documents relating to the ancestry
of the latter was, as has been said, at first inclined to
believe that the poor fellow's mind must have been wandering
when he claimed kinship with him, and owing to
the amount of business which the unfortunate occurrence
threw on his hands, he was so occupied for some weeks that
he could find no time for reading them. When at last
he got an opportunity of doing so all his guests had
taken their departure, except Lady Cynthia, who at her
sister's special request stayed on to help her to recover
the shock which the robbery had caused her, and he was
alone with his womankind once more, and was once
more getting a little tired of their society. Once more
the painful little differences, which the presence of their
guests had for a time averted, began to arise between
him and Beatrice.

'Upon my word, Beatrice, it is too provoking the way you
chop and change with every wind that blows. I can door
say nothing right !' said Walter one day after a warm
discussion with his wife and sister about some trifling
point.

You know that is not true Walter ! You know very
well that I am most decided in my opinions ! On the
contrary it's you who never listen to anything I advise !
You treat me as if I was a child and had no sense ! You
have no consideration for me, and you care for nobody's

opinion but uncle Giles.' Catherine, dear, let us get your
aunt Cynthia to drive with us to Thornbury this afternoon
and return Lady Felsparley's call. Her daughter seems
a nice little thing !' and Mrs. Chessington turns her back
on her husband, who goes out with wrath in his heart, and
leaves the ladies to their own devices.

I can't stand this sort of thing much longer !' says he
to himself. ' What a fool I was to marry ! Poor Beatrice !
her temper's so infernally sharp ! — with me at least. She
never cared for me that's the truth. But it's my fault for
marrying as I did chiefly to please Ashleigh ! How that
man has influenced my Use ! ' and he goes off to the
stable and sees no more of his family till dinner time.
He was beginning to find that in Beatrice's eyes, as he
had said, he could do nothing right. She had affected
to believe, that he was jealous of Oakburne, — which he
was not in the least, having, on the contrary, taken a
great liking for him. In her heart of hearts Beatrice
knew this well enough, but she preferred to assume otherwise.
Perhaps she was angry that her husband was not
jealous of the young doctor. Perhaps she was angry with
herself for not loving Walter more. More probably still,
there was, though she did not realise it, a combination of
both these feelings in her heart; but be this as it may, there
was ' a something ' just now which made her continually
at variance with her husband, and manifested itself in all
those manifold little ways of making a man's life disagreeable,
of which a woman is so thoroughly mistress.

It was after some such little domestic quarrel as the
above that Walter one morning, having shut himself into
his study, bethought him of looking over the papers
which Hoffbauer had entrusted to him, and finding out
what the poor fellow could have meant by his extra-vol.

II. H

ordinary statement that he was his relation. He had
grown to have a great regard for this wild protege of his,
and when the latter was buried according to his wish in
the little churchyard of Otterstone, Walter felt that he
was paying a last tribute to one who had felt a real
gratitude and affection towards him.

'- Well, it is something to think one has had it, though
it is gone ! ' said he to himself with a sigh, as he looked
out on the dull leaden horizon and foggy November
atmosphere, the bare dripping trees to which but a few
brown leaves clung, and the rime-covered grass beneath
them. The prospect was not calculated to cheer his
gloomy humour, and the fire seemed all the more
pleasant by contrast ; so he lit his cigar, looked out the
papers, and seated himself in his most comfortable armchair.


He began to read with a good-natured interest that
statement by the elder Hoffbauer of which the reader
has heard so much. As he read on his interest grew
keener, and presently an observer, had one been present,
would have seen him start as he came to the account of
Estelle Chessington. Then the interest changed to
eagerness, and the cigar was laid aside as he read on
with ever-increasing excitement till he had finished the
papers. Then he rose, laid them on the table with a
violent exclamation, and going to the window threw it
open, letting the damp November fog stream in. He
wanted air to relieve his throbbing brain and the strange
feeling at his heart. What he had read made him feel
much as he had felt years ago when he got the news of
his father's death at Frankfurt, and all the old associations
and thoughts which he carried with him when he

had gone abroad on that occasion now came back to
him.

Great Heavens ! Here was that dread belief that he
was enjoying what did not really belong to him, that he
was keeping others out of their rights, which had haunted
his early years like a ghost, and which he had thought
had been buried in oblivion long ago, suddenly reviving
without any warning ! Reviving ? Nay ! Was not
belief now turned into certainty ? That poor fellow who
rested in the churchyard hard by had really been his
cousin, had actually been the lawful owner of the estate
of Otterstone and the house he was staying in. And he
had known it ! and had given him these papers, this
marriage certificate of George Chessington and Estelle
Leon, and told him to destroy them ! His last act had
been to make him a generous gift, of the value of which
he, Walter, had not had the slightest notion, and for
which he therefore had never been able even to say
thank you ! ' Hoffbauer, the outlaw, who had lived such
a wild troubled life, and had died in dependence and exile,
Hoffbauerwhom he had treated with a kindly condescension
which he had felt rather meritorious, had actually had the
power to oust him, his supposed patron, from his fancied
riches and honours ! But he was dead now, gone beyond
the reach of gratitude and remorse, and none need ever
now know the truth. He had but to throw these papers
into the fire, and the secret would be safe for ever.
Better do it at once ; and he turned from the window
with that intention, when suddenly a fresh thought
checked him. It was true that Hoffbauer's death disposed
of his own claim, but how did the proof of the
fact of his being the grandson of George Chessington

affect those other claimants, the Beechcrofts ? of Sybil
Beechcroft, his boyish love ?

Chessington, as has been said, had, like many other
young gentlemen of large means, gone through the form
of reading for the bar, and his legal knowledge, slight as
it was, was sufficient to suggest to him a possibility which
might perhaps otherwise have escaped him. If George
Chessington had left an heir, and that heir was actually
still living when his brother, — Walter's own grandfather,
succeeded to the property, the latter's title must have
been altogether without foundation. Sir Pelham had
died intestate ; his eldest son George, who ought then to
have succeeded him, had died, leaving a daughter. It
was she, therefore, and not his grandfather James, who
should have inherited the estate. The latter, it was
clear, had no power to will away his lands to Walter's
father. Captain Horace Chessington, who, as a natural
son, of course lost his title the moment that James
Chessington's will was proved invalid. Yes. There was
no doubt of it, the property would then legally devolve
on Mrs. Beechcroft's descendants. General Beechcroft,
Sybil's father, and, after him, Sybil was entitled. The
Beechcroft faction, as his uncle called them, had been
all along in the right, and he, Walter, was in possession
of what did not belong to him. There seemed to be but
one conclusion, — that he was bound in honour to renounce
his supposed birthright, and all the good things he had inherited
with it, and to go forth on the world a dependent
on his wife's means and the bounty of his relations. Was
he really bound to make such a sacrifice, — a sacrifice that
would affect not only himself, but all those nearest and
dearest to him ? It was a moment of terrible perplexity;

and in the midst of it the servant knocked at his door to
tell him that luncheon was ready.

He rose and locked up his papers half mechanically.
He noticed that the ladies rather stared at him when he
joined the party in the dining-room, and Lady Cynthia
enquired whether anything had happened.

Oh no ! nothing thanks, Aunt Cynthia ! ' he replied,
and took his place quietly at the head of the table.

You are bothering yourself about that speechifying
at Lidfield next week, Walter !' said his wife with unusual
tenderness. ' I know you are. Why do you bother
dear ? '

It was the first kind word that Mrs. Chessington had
vouchsafed to him for some days, and quite startled poor
Walter. He flushed as he answered that it 'was all
right,' adding something incoherent about having caught
a chill in the fog. How would she take the news? What
help could he expect from such a proud passionate nature
as Beatrice's ? All the time they sat at luncheon he kept
asking himself, ' Is this really true? Can it be proved ?'
and then he remembered of a sudden the discovery of
those letters of Estelle Chessington's by his uncle Lord
Ashleigh. They furnished another proof, another link in
the chain ; and they were in his uncle's possession !
What would he, — what would Uncle Giles say ?

His heart sank within him. He finished his meal in
silence, and at its conclusion, declining the suggestion
of the ladies that he should accompany them on their
drive, he went out into the park and resumed his gloomy
cogitations alone.

What ought I to do ?' was the question ever revolving
in his mind. ' If these things are true am I bound to
surrender everything ? Ought I not to consult the interests

of those who are dependant on me ? No one is
really injured at all by the present state of things. Of
course Miss Beechcroft is well provided for, and if I do
this everybody will think me not only a Quixotic fool, but
cruel to my own flesh and blood. I know what old
Ashleigh would say, and what nine men out of every ten
would say : burn the papers and keep your own counsel,
at all events keep your own counsel. Heaven help
me ! what ought I to do.'

'You have chosen a damp place for meditation,
Walter, ' said a voice close to him as he stood absently
gazing at the grey river noiselessly gliding amongst the
reeds.

Hullo, Mr. Bowersbyby ! You startled me. Are you
meditating too ? — on your sermon eh ? I might return
the compliment.'

Mr. Bowersbyby laughed in his short hearty way. He
was rather fond of coming into the park for a constitutional,
and to think over his sermons. 'Yes,' he replied.
So you might. I was meditating on my sermon, but I was
doing it prophetically and not standing still as you are.
You are not looking well, Walter. Has anything happened?'
He had known Chessington since he was a
boy and had long ago gained the right to call him by his
christian name, a right which the other would have felt
very sorry if he ever renounced.

No ! No ! Nothing at all ! my liver's wrong I
think. This infernal damp weather I suppose. This
place is terribly damp in the autumn, isn't it ! But
they all tell me I am looking seedy. What are
you going to tell us about, eh? Any more discourses
against scientific arrogance ? ' added he rather flippantly,
for Mr. Bowersbyby was rather opposed to the tone

of the modern scientific thinkers, and though Liberal
enough in some of his views was fond of maintaining that
they were far more dogmatic, and, on their own showing,
had infinitely less basis for their assumptions, than the
dogmatic theologians whom they denounced. As Walter
was a great admirer of the scientific school, the two had
had several little arguments on the subject, and Chessington
being in rather a combative frame of mind felt half
inclined to raise a discussion.

But the vicar was not in a mood to humour him.
No,' said he gravely, ' I am going to give you a very
commonplace text on Sunday. It is " whatsoever ye
would that men should do to you, do ye so to them." '

Short at all events, but rather a well known passage,'
replied, Walter still disposed to be cantankerous.

Yes ! well known, but not much followed, I believe,'
said the other drily. ' But I won't keep you, Walter, for
I want to get a stretch before I settle down to my work.
Good-bye !' and he strode across the park towards the
gate that opened on the Thornbury road.

I've a mind to follow his text,' said Chessington to
himself as he watched his retreating figure. ' He's a
good fellow ! Odd he should have chosen that particular
text at this time. Yes I will, so help me Heaven ! First
I will speak to Beatrice, and, if the result is as I fear it
will be, I will act alone. If, as I hardly dare hope, she
is of my mind, we will face the result together, please
God I' He felt relieved by his decision, and determined
that he would speak to his wife that very evening, and
then he went in and wrote some letters.

When the evening came, however, his courage failed
him. He had thought out his little speech quite clearly
but he could not summon resolution to make it, and the

evening went by silently and rather gloomily, without his
having said his say. He passed a miserable night,
harassed by conflicting thoughts. Was he after all justified
in re-opening a question which might so easily be left to
slumber in oblivion ? Would not everyone say he was a
fool, — he who had a reputation for being rather clever,
and intellectual ? But ever as an answer came the vicar's
text ; and, do what he would, he felt it was the truth.
All night through the battle was being waged in his heart,
but when the dim light of the winter morning broke, his
first resolution won the day, and after breakfast he told
his wife that he wished to speak to her about an important
matter.

Let us go into the study,' said he. ' We shall be freer
from interruption there ! ' and they entered his sanctum.

Well ! what is this mystery ? What is it you want to
tell me !' asked Beatrice as he carefully closed the door
and she seated herself in his easy chair. There was justa
Httle tinge of contempt in her tones, just enough to
imply that she did not think Walter's ' mysteries ' could
be of any great importance.

Her husband looked at her fixedly, rather sternly, fora
moment.

You will find it concerns you more closely than you
imagine, Beatrice.'

Well ! I am quite at your service.'

He took two or three turns up and down the room
before answering, and then went up to the fireplace and
stood facing her.

'What should you say!' he began. 'What should you
say, Beatrice, If I told you that this property of
Otterstone Hall no longer belonged to me ? '

Good Heavens, Walter ' what do you mean ? '

I mean what I say. What would you say if I were to
tell you that I am no longer master of Otterstone Hall ? '

He looked so stern that for once his wife felt a little
frightened of him.

I should say,' replied she, turning rather pale, and
with a somewhat unsuccessful attempt to laugh, ' I should
say that you were going out of your mind.'

I am quite serious, Beatrice. This is anything but a
laughing matter, I can assure you. The "mystery" I
had to tell you amounts in plain words to this : I am not
master of Otterstone Hall ! I never had a right to it.'

Walter ! ' ejaculated his wife, turning quite white.
She really thought that his mind was unhinged.

I don't wonder at your astonishment. It must sound
to you rather like the statement of a man who has lost
his senses. But it is true, nevertheless. This place does
not belong to me. The fact has only just come to my
knowledge, but it is a most solemn undoubted fact, for
all that.'

She gazed at him blankly. ' I really think you must
be mad ! '

Do I look mad, Beatrice ? '

What do you mean, in God's name, Walter ! Explain
this pretty fact, please. Do you mean to stand there
and solemnly tell me that you have no right to Otterstone
Hall ! That you were a beggar when you married me ? '

Yes, that is what I mean. I am sorry to have to say
it. I am strictly speaking, a beggar, though of course I
did not know it when I had the honour of proposing for
Miss Elkfield's hand. Mean as is the opinion you seem
to have been gradually forming of me Beatrice, I could
not be quite capable of that ! You had better moderate
your anger and listen to my explanation.'

I am quite ready to do so, Mr. Chessington, and I
think the sooner you make it the better,' and she sat
watching him with pale face and compressed Hps, angrily
drumming her little feet on the carpet.

You know that my father was a natural son of James
Chessington. That James Chessington only got this property
when his brother George died, as was supposed,
unmarried. Well, the whole thing was a mistake.
George was married, and he left a daughter. That
daughter married a German named Hofi'bauer, and had
a son, who was murdered the other day in the tower, in
this house, and who was buried in Otterstone churchyard.
That man, my late secretary, was the legal owner
of this property of Otterstone ! '

Beatrice gazed at him with unfeigned amazement,
which slowly turned into an expression of incredulous
scorn. ' This is monstrous ! preposterous ! I cannot
believe this, Walter ! Either you must be out of your
senses, or else you are playing a cruel, unmanly trick
upon me to try me ! Yes ! cruel and unmanly ! You
have no right to say such things ! You married me for my
money ! You did ! you know you did ! You never cared
for me really ! Never ! I say it is cruel to say such
wicked things to me seriously like that ! Cruel ! ' and
she burst into a flood of angry tears. She had been
secretly nourishing this little grievance in her heart, persuading
herself, though poor Walter gave her no real
excuse for doing so, that it was for the wealth she would
inherit, and for her father's influence in Lidfield, and
not for herself, that he had sought her.

An expression of such great pain passed quickly over
her husband's face that she almost repented her words
for a moment.

'What you say is most untrue and most unkind,
Beatrice,' he said sadly, after a moment's silence, during
which his face recovered the expression of stern gravity,
so unusual to it, which it had worn during this interview.
' You know that it is not the case, and that I
might make a similar retort with more truth.'

Her face flushed angrily.

But I do not want to quarrel or bandy words. I forgive
you ; for your anger is natural, perhaps just. I
asked you to listen to me now because,' — and his voice
trembled a little, — 'mainly because I consider that if a
wife really loves her husband she should be his chief
counsellor. You forget apparently that what I am telling
you cannot be exactly pleasant to me, for I must repeat
most solemnly that all that I say is true, — the plain
truth.'

Beatrice's heart smote her a little, but she could not
bring herself to forget her wrath in a moment. All her
life she had been accustomed to have her own way, and
she could not bear to admit that she had been in the
wrong.

If I spoke hastily you provoked me,' said she drying
her eyes with an injured air. ' If you loved me you
could not say such things ! I repeat that your assertions
seem to me preposterous ! '

I admit it,' replied Walter quietly, ' and I am going
to prove them. Please to read these,' and he handed to
her Hoffbauer's papers.

She took them with a half incredulous, half petulant
air, and began to read ; and Walter, watching her face
steadily, noted how her expression changed from one of
ill-tempered carelessness to a keen interest manifested by
occasional exclamations of concern and surprise. He,

however, said nothing, but still remained standing by the
fire before her.

It is very wonderful!' cried she at last, when she had
finished, ' But is it all true? really true ?'

I am afraid there is no doubt of it.'

But then if it is ! ' she exclaimed, with a sudden look
of triumph, as the thought struck her. ' If it is ? What
then ? He is dead. This poor Hoffbauer is dead, and
there is nothing to be feared from him ! That settles
the matter ! '

I am sorry to say it does not,' replied her husband ;
and then he told her of the Beechcroft's claim, of his own
feelings on that point as a young man, and all the circumstances
of his journey abroad.

She listened with unfeigned anxiety and interest. ' If
this is indeed the truth, we are ruined ! ruined ! But I
won't believe it ! I won't believe it till it has all been
proved ! ' and she started to her feet. ' You are not
called upon to prove it, Walter ! '

Listen, Beatrice,' said he, gravely. ' Listen to me.
All depends on that. It is that question which I asked
you to help me to decide.'

A curious expression crossed his wife's face as he said
this, which he could not quite interpret, but which he
was inclined to attribute to anger that he should hesitate
as to his decision. After all it was only natural, he
thought with a sigh, that if he felt reluctant to risk parting
with his fortune for a moral scruple, she, on whom the
onus of doing justice pressed so lightly, should feel still-more
loath to do so.

I said help me to decide,' he continued, ' but I
should really say it is this I asked you to hear my decision

on, for, for myself, I confess that I have already resolved
what I shall do.'

Well ! ' cried Beatrice, coming close to him and
looking eagerly into his face. ' What is your resolve ? '

I have thought very long and earnestly over the
matter,' answered he. ' I have prayed to be helped todo
what is right, and it has been a hard struggle with
me ! You must remember that Miss Beechcroft is not
poor or starving ; on the contrary, she has a little estate
of her own. She has no claims on her as I have, no
family to think of. . She has never lived here, whereas I
and my sister were born here, and, with my mother, have
lived here all our lives. More than this. She has never
dreamed that this place could ever be hers, and knows
nothing of our neighbours, of the tenantry whom we have
known all our days, and who have, I think, become
attached to us, — at least to Catherine and to my mother.
If I should surrender the property to her it would only
add to her riches, but it would reduce me and mine to
comparative poverty. No one knows of the existence
of her claim but myself, and I have only to throw this
marriage certificate,' — and he took it from the table ashe
spoke, — ' I have only to throw this into the fire, as
poor Hoffbauer asked me to do, and all things will
remain as they are, and nobody will be in any way really
injured.'

Once more he paused and watched Beatrice's face
carefully. It bore witness to a strong conflict in her
mind. A half suppressed scorn was its strongest outward
characteristic, but beneath it he thought he could
detect an almost tearful, half pleading eagerness.

I am glad that you can condescend to consider your
wife and family ! ' said she at last contemptuously, in a

hard and forced voice. ' I wonder, though, that you can
hesitate so long in the matter !' Her breath came quickly,
and her eyes grew brighter with excitement.

The expression of pain again passed over Walter's face.
Then, evidently controlling an impulse of anger, he went
on steadily.

Yes. I have thought of them, and I have told you
plainly all the reasons in favour of destroying this bit of
parchment. Your little speech is but another proof,
added to many I have seen, that you never loved me,
Beatrice. Nay ! I know well you never did, and who
had your first affection. I had hoped that perhaps you
might grow to care for me a little as time went on, and
to return my love. But I fear that can never be now.
In marriages like ours we have perhaps no right to hope
for such things. Let it be so, however. You cannot ;
and I cannot blame you, but it makes my burden heavier
to bear. Hear me ! I have made up my mind to sift
this matter to the very bottom, to spare no time or
money over it. And if, as I feel almost sure now, it
should turn out that Sybil Beechcroft is the legal owner
of Otterstone Hall, I shall inform her of the fact and
surrender it to her, heavy though the trial will be to me.
That is my decision.' And he placed the certificate in
his pocket, and with folded arms prepared for an outbreak
of violent anger.

Beatrice burst into a passion of tears.

I am very very sorry, Beatrice, God knows ! ' said he
piteously. 'I know it seems cruel, perhaps unjust to
you ; but it is my duty. Forgive me if you can, Beatrice ! '

To his surprise she put her arms round his neck.

No Walter ! ' she cried. ' It is you who must forgive.

You said I did not love you. You are right, I did not
at first, — but, darling, I love you now.'

Thank God ! You think I am right then,' cried
Chessington.

Right ! Walter, can you doubt it ! You have taken
a great load off my heart dear. I thought you really
meant to burn that paper, and then I should have hated
you. Yes, hated you. I daresay many men would have
done it. I am sure many women would. But now ' —
and she gave him a kiss which must have gone far to
console Mr. Chessington for the unpleasantness of the
first part of his interview.

Thank God ! ' said he again after a pause. ' Otter-stone
is well lost if it has gained me your love, Beatrice !
I think I should have gone mad if we had gone on much
longer as we have been doing. I was beginning to think
we should never be happy together dear, and that you
had given away all your heart before you married me,
Now it will be easy to do my duty if you face it with me
Beatrice. But remember, very many people will say weare
foolish, insane, Quixotic, Heaven knows what ! And
I fear my poor mother and sister will not be able to
think so well of my conduct as you do. Remember
they have lived here all their days, and what an affection
they have, — as I have, — for the dear old place. And if
they say I am cruel and foolish what will the world say?'

Who cares for the world, Walter ! ' cries the lady enthusiastically.
' Its opinion must be worth nothing if it
does not see that you have done the only right thing.
And as for your mother and Catherine, I am sure they
can only agree with me. What are you thinking of
Weaker?'

I was thinking,' replied her husband very tenderly,

Well, — I was thinking my dear how enthusiastically you
hail the idea of poverty, and that reminded me of a certain
story you once told me of a fellow who found a
jewel he didn't know the value of.'

Oh Walter ! ' and again there was a pause in the conversation,
which was still further interrupted by Lady
Adela's knocking at the door, and asking her daughter-in-law
to come and speak to her.

My goodness ! ' cried Beatrice, as a sudden thought
struck her. ' Walter ! what will your Uncle Giles say ? '

A cloud passed over Mr. Chessington's face. Few
men were less given to using oaths than he was, but on
this occasion he did certainly swear.

Damn Uncle Giles ! ' cried he, with great fervour ;
and it must be added with regret that his wife laughed
heartily at the wicked expression.

CHAPTER IX.

With the army before Sebastopol.

Hark to the trump, and the drum,
And the mournful sound of the barbarous horn,
And the flap of the banners, that flit as they're borne,
And the neigh of the steed, and the multitude's hum.
And the clash, and the shout, ' they come, they come ! '

Byron.

Something like home that is not home, like alone that is not
alone, is to be wished, and only found in a friend, or in his house.

Sir William Temple.

HE interview recorded in the last chapter between
Mr. and Mrs. Chessington took place on the eve
of Guy Fawkes day, and while the youth of the
village of Otterstone were amusing themselves by making
the usual arrangements for its celebration, the two hostile
armies in the Crimea were, though they were unaware of
of it, also preparing to commemorate the 5th of
November, 1854, in a manner which has made it as
memorable in European as in English History.

It has been incidentally mentioned that Reginald
Oakburne escaped with but a slight wound from the
battle of the Alma, after which he of course proceeded
with his regiment on that celebrated march to Balaclava
which has been characterised by some historians as so
rash, and by others as so brilliant a feat of arms. In the

battle of Balaclava, the second division, of which his
regiment formed a portion, was not called upon to take
part, the chief share of the infantry fighting being done,
as everyone knows, by the 93rd Highlanders of Sir Colin
Campbell's brigade of the first division, but in the first or
minor battle of Inkermann when 1500 men of the second
division withstood the outset of 8000 Russian troops,
Captain Oakburne, — for he had been promoted to that
rank on account of the casualties at the Alma, — managed
to win for himself well-merited distinction.

Though the second division was protected by the guns
of the first and light divisions, and supported by the brigade
of guards and several-regiments of the fourth division, as
well as by General Bosquet with his French division in
the rear, it was on it, and e specially on the pickets of his
own and another regiment, that the first attack and the
brunt of the fighting fell. The Russian cavalry, artillery,
and infantry, with parties carrying intrenching tools, and
preceeded by crowds of skirmishers, swarmed up the slope,
on the crest of which the camp of the second division
was pitched. Had it not been for the gallant stand made
by the pickets, the enemy would doubtless have intrenched
themselves in a position from which they could have been
only dislodged by a pitched battle. The little handful of
men, however, kept the enemy in check with the greatest
intrepidity until Sir De Lacy Evans brought his artillery
into position and used it with such effect as to force them
in half an hour to abandon the field. It was then that the
British infantry were able to assail in their turn and drive
the Russians over the ridges to the head of the bay, and
it was at this stage of the conflict that Reginald Oak-burnt
won his Victoria Cross.

In following up the enemy his own regiment and

another pursued them too far, and were indeed only
recalled with difficulty. A young ensign of his company,
with the impetuosity of his age, was in advance
of his men when they were ordered to return, and some
of the enemy turning poured a parting volley on their
pursuers which wounded him in the chest and the leg,
and stretched him helpless on the earth. Oakburne saw
his peril and, amidst a shower of bullets, ran back and
raised him from the ground. As he did so a shot
struck his left hand, shattering two of the fingers, and
causing him such pain as forced him to relinquish his
burden for a moment. By dint of extraordinary exertion,
he had managed to get his comrade on to his back and
stagger away with him, when a sergeant and private of his
regiment, happily perceiving his danger, ran back to his
assistance, and the four succeeded in rejoining the main
body in safety.

This affair, which took place the day after the battle of
Balaklava, did not receive so much notice in the despatch
of the Commander in Chief as it perhaps deserved, owing
no doubt to the ease with which the Russians were repulsed,
and it was only realized later that, — as has been recorded
by a distinguished officer, — had the enemy succeeded
in effecting their design they would have inflicted a
more serious injury on us then if they had taken Balaklava.
That question, however, must be left to military critics to
decide, and it is sufficient for the purposes of this history
to state that those who took part in the action were well
pleased with the result of their labours, and that to
Captain Oakburne it was particularly satisfactory, although
it cost him the loss of two fingers. The battles of
Balaklava, the two Inkermans and the Tchernaya, — all
of which were of the enemy's provoking, and attempts

not only to break through the lines of investment which
the allies were continually striving to bring closer to
Sebastopol, but also to annihilate them by assaults on a
position offering quite as many vulnerable points as his
own, — were regarded by the troops as agreeable diversions
from the routine business of the siege. Though
we had partially surrounded the great fortress, the
Russians had also contrived to encircle us in such a
way as to make our position one of constant danger ; and
while we had the ocean to rely on in case of retreat, they
had the advantage of an open route over terra firma
in their rear by which they could bring their supplies
and reinforcements into the beleaguered city. The.
artillery duel continued unceasingly, sometimes with advantage
to one side, sometimes to the other ; and picket
duty, and work in the trenches, went on day after day
with monotonous regularity, while those engaged in the
service of death grew daily more callous to dangers and
sufferings of all kinds. Artillery waggons, full of powder
for the magazines, would be driven for a half a mile
within full range of the enemy's batteries, a well aimed
shot from which would have blown both horses and men
into the air; but neither officers nor drivers gave a
thought to the peril. During a lull in the firing men in
the trenches chatted and made merry under the muzzles
of the Russian guns and mortars, as they would in their
own tents. The wounded were carried to and fro to the
hospital tents, or despatched in waggons and ambulances
to Balaklava ; the dead were cast into the burial pits dug
for them ; the sick fell out of their ranks, or failed to
answer to the muster roll in the morning ; and men
heeded it scarcely more than they did the daily arrival
of ammunition and stores. Englishmen, Frenchmen, and

Turks, fraternised and caroused together, worked,
suffered, fought, and died together, with the same reckless
courage and nonchalance, and still the unceasing
bombardment went on. No wonder that now and again
men got weary, and longed for some great struggle to
vary the terrible uniformity of their lives.

Among the few amusements available for our soldiers
none was more welcome at this time than the simple one
of a good dinner, if it happened to come in their way.
The commissariat was still as yet regi:b.^, and. under the
circumstances, plentiful and good, but to possess a really
good cook and a well furnished table, were luxuries
which but few officers enjoyed, and the man who had
these good things was tolerably sure of not meeting with
a refusal when he invited a comrade to dinner.

It happened that one of the press correspondents, with
whom Oakburne was slightly acquainted, added to his
many other claims to popularity the above virtue of
always somehow placing a well cooked and substantial
repast before the guests he invited to his very hospitable
board. When, therefore, he was kind enough, on the
4th of November, to ask Captain Oakburne to dinner,
the latter accepted with great alacrity. He had recovered,
as much as he could ever hope to do, from his hurt of
the week before, and had just come off picket duty at the
time when his friend sent the invitation, and the prospect
of cheery society and a good meal was doubly agreeable.
He devoted himself during his spare time in the afternoon
to answering a letter his brother had written him
from Otterstone, asking the latter many questions
as to the old house, and the Chessington family, and
telling him that when laid up in the hospital tent he had
at last met his friend. Dr. Norton, whom he pronounced

to be a very good fellow. When he had finished and
despatched his epistle it was time for him to start, so he
set out leisurely for his friend's tent.

There had been heavy showers during the day, but
towards sunset the rain temporarily ceased. It was a still
evening, and on the outskirts of the camp of the second
division, which lay on the edge of the plateau occupied
by the allies, he paused for a moment to contemplate the
scene before him. Below the Tchernaya river lazily
wound its way past a few meadows and farm buildings to
the harbour of Sebastopol. Thick brushwood covered
the steep descent to it and the crest of the ridge where
he stood, while on the opposite side of the valley, where
lay the village of Inkermann, massive and almost perpendicular
rock walls showed the abrupt break made by
the river bed in a bold chain of mountains between 1200
and 1500 feet high. The face of the steep limestone
cliffs was pierced by hundreds of caves, cells and passages,
according to tradition the work of the Turbans, —
which mark the site of that ancient Inkermann, then known
as Eupatorion, which one of the generals of Mithridates is
said to have fortified two thousand years before the building
of Sebastopol. The massive outline of the mountains, the
deep crimson backed by heavy black clouds of the evening
sky, and the darkling valley below, presented in their
silence and absence of all trace of life, a strange contrast
to the busy scene he had just left, and, but for a small
earthwork battery not far from where he stood, which had
not yet received the guns destined for it, Oakburne might
have almost forgotten for a moment that he was close to
the camps of two mighty opposing armies. Had he
known the history of the rock fortresses opposite , his
fancy might have repeopled them once more with the



soldiers of the great monarch who so long withstood the
armies of mighty Rome, when the names of England and
of Russia had no place among the nations, or have rebuilt
the ancient city of which the little Tartar village below
was the puny successor. But Reginald had neither the
imagination nor knowledge which suggest such trains of
thought, and his mind was still full of the subject of his
letter, a subject which aroused his susceptibilities on the
few tender points of his naturally rather hard nature.
Ris thoughts wandered back to those at home, to
Lidfield, and more especially to Otterstone, which in
his heart of hearts he secretly venerated and coveted as
the old home of his family, — for pride of race was, perhaps
unknown to himself, his strongest foible, — Otterstone for
which he felt an affection, though he would have been
ashamed to own it, because it was associated with his first
meeting with Sybil Beechcroft. Should he ever see her
again, — or his mother, or Ethel, or Wilfrid ? Ah ! for
one more look at them all ! once more to hear the well
known voices ! For a moment a rush of feeling came
over him, as it will do at times in the hardest and coldest,
and then with an impatient exclamation he turned and
walked on towards the hill where the tent of his friend
the correspondent lay.

He found on his arrival that a captain of the Enniskillen
dragoons, a lieutenant in the marines, and his brother's
friend. Dr. Norton, had also been asked to dinner, and were
awaiting the coming of himself and another guest. Ashe
was apologising for keeping them waiting, a burly,
bronzed, fair-haired man, entered and shook hands with
his host. ' Major Cope ! glad to see you,' said the latter.
Let me introduce you to Captain Oakburne of the
th.'

'Halloa! Cope!' cried Oakburne delighted. ^ You
here. I am glad.'

Upon my soul ! Why it's Oakburne ! How are you
old man ! Glad to see you again !' answered his friend.
I thought you were back at Kurryapore long ago, and
often pitied you with the infernal climate and those
natives ! '

'And I thought you were married and settled ages
ago Cope,' said the other with a slight flush. 'Were
you at the Alma with your regiment ? Surely not ?
When did you get here ? You're part of the light
division I know.'

'No ! I'm not married, and I wasn't at the Alma,
worse luck ! ' says Cope. ' I only rejoined after poor
old Beechcroft's death. You heard of his death of
course ?'

No, Reginald had not heard of his death. Was awfully
sorry to hear it. And then the two fell to interchanging
experiences till the arrival of dinner interrupted them.

The host had been true to his reputation as a first-rate
dinner-giver. He had been on a foraging expedition to
Balaclava that morning and secured a goose, tinned hair
preserved milk, fresh eggs, and other delicacies. His
French cook had done wonders with these and with the
commissariat beef, and under the influence of good cheer
the conversation soon grew interesting to all and to
himself instructive as well. None of the men cared to
talk about the doings in their own camps in cold blood,
but as all were anxious to hear of those in others, they
naturally drew each other out.

The dragoon, whose regiment had taken part in the
charge of the Heavy Brigade at Balaklava, told how one
of the men in his troop being unhorsed ran to a Russian

lancer, pulled him by main force out of his saddle, and
after killing him, mounted it and galloped off again to
the fight. Then, as a counter story, he related how
another trooper, acting as a vidette in one of their pickets,
had been one evening accosted by an officer asking his
way to the front, who got into conversation with him, and
drew from him all sorts of details as to the strength of
the regiment in men and horses, and its place of encampment.
' And after he had got all he wanted out of the
idio*"/ continued the narrator, * ♦"h'^ ^e^low cinHcJpnly pulled
out a pistol and told him he was a Russian officer, was
going back immediately to the Cossack picket, and that
if he gave the alarm till he'd got fifty yards away, he
would return and shoot him. Would you believe it the
oaf stood there with his loaded carbine in his hand and
let him ride quietly away without attempting to fire ! and
a pretty night we had of it, galloping about, changing the
pickets, and sending out patrols.'

I'll tell you a plucky thing I heard of the other
day,' broke in the officer of marines. ' When the
Russians made that sortie on the 26th that you were
in, Oakburne, one of the Lancaster guns that the
naval brigade were working was in such danger that
an order was sent to spike it and retreat. It was
touch and go, for the Russian skirmishers were
within 300 yards, peppering the gunners with Mine
bullets, but Hewett, mate of the " Beagle, " who had
charge of the gun, — I happen to know him personally,
Hewett said quietly, " Such an order does not come
from Captain Washington, and, I will not obey it till it
does !" Washington commands the Brigade you know.
Well, then he pulled down the earthen parapet of the
battery, got some soldiers to slew round the gun, and

gave it the Russians hot with grape. They didn't like it
at all I can tell you, and when they were in retreat he
did tremendous execution on those huge columns of
theirs with sixty-eight pound shot. It's extraordinary
how they stick to that formation ! Here's Hewett's
health ! '

The toast was drunk very heartily, for the exploit had
attracted a good deal of attention ; and then Cope and
Oakburne were led to recount incidents with regard to
the doings of their respective divisions. Even Norton,
though a non-combatant, was able to contribute his
share to the conversation by his account of some of the
experiences of himself and his fellow surgeons. When
very ill, he had obtained from his superior medical officer
a signed recommendation that he should go for a time
to Balaklava. This recommendation had to be countersigned
by the quartermaster-general, then by the
colonel of the regiment, then by the general of the division,
and finally by the adjutant general.

A pretty complex process wasn't it ?' said he ' It
travelled for six days about the camp, I believe, and then
somehow got lost altogether !'

'And what did you do?' asked the host.

Do !' answered Norton. ' What could I do ? I never
saw the paper again ; and so I did without it. Somehow
I got over my illness, I am thankful to say, though I
really couldn't explain how I managed it. It's wonderful
how men do get over these things.'

It is wonderful ! ' replied the other. ' And it is still
more wonderful to me how much gross mismanagement
can exist, not in the medical only, but in the transport
and all the other official departments. The army is
ruined by red tape.' He had already exposed a good

many such abuses in his letters, and did not cease to do
so throughout the war.

I believe you ! ' cries the Enniskillener. ' Its a
miracle to me how we keep our horses alive, by Jove ! '
and they fell to criticising all the authorities with great
impartiality.

Is it true, Oakburne ! ' enquired the marine, ' that
Sir De Lacy Evans thinks the position of your camp requires
strengthening ? I have heard from some one
who ought to know that he has said so more than once,
but that the Chief always says it's all right.'

I have heard something about it,' answered Reginald.

I know the General wouldn't have guns put in that
sandbank battery, because he said it would be only
asking the enemy to take them. I say Cope, when did
you get your majority ? '

I got it after the Alma. When did you get your
company ? '

Why, after the Alma,' answered his friend with a
laugh, in which all joined.

I expect a goodish many of us got our steps there, or
at Balaklava,' said the dragoon. ' Its good for getting
one's steps this kind of thing. Well ! I must be off,' he
continued, rising. ' Picket duty for me tomorrow. Four
o'clock you kno'.v. Let us sleep while we can — eh ? '

Give us long rest or death,
Dark death or dreamful ease,'

quoted the marine, who was an admirer of the laureate.

There's more chance of the former than the latter for
most of us up here — isn't there ? I'm on duty too tomorrow,
and will follow the good example of my friend
here.'

It was the signal for the break up of the party, and
everybody shook hands with the host, and with each
other. Men who parted thus in the Crimea well knew
it was, to say the least, highly problematical whether
they should ever meet again, and perhaps the thought
made them feel more kindly towards their fellows.

The camp of the Light Division was on the right of,
and next to, that of the 2nd Division, so Cope and
Reginald Oakburne walked homewards together.

It's odd wp should have been such near neighbours,
and yet not have met before this Cope,' said his friend.
When did you get here ? '

'About a fortnight before Balaklava. I was in that
affair the other day, — that sortie on your camp on the
26th. Two companies of ours were ordered out, though
we had nothing to do. But my dear fellow that's nothing.
I heard a case only yesterday of two men who met
accidentally in the trenches, great friends, and even connections
in some way. One was on fatigue duty, the
other on guard duty. They had not met for twelve
years, when they ran across each other in this way, and
they had only just said ' how are you ? ' when a shell
came whizzing over the parapet and laid one of them as
dead as Julius Caesar,' and Cope puffed furiously at his
cigar.

'Let us hope we shall have better fortune, old boy,' replied
the other. ' Do you know,' added he, ' that I
thought you had married Miss Beechcroft more than a
year ago.'

'No such luck, Oakburne. Tried, — I don't mind owning
to you, — and more than once too. But it was not to
be. Another man had forestalled me. Confound him !

I know the beggar too, — a fellow who fancied himself a
good deal. He was a man not at all unlike you, Rex.'

No no, Cope ! I cant stand that old boy. It's my
weak point. You know how I was thrown over, and how
I suffered. I won't deny that it cost me a bitter pang
when I heard, — and till now I fully believed it, — that you
had been accepted, though I would sooner have been
second to you than to anyone else. But I am wrong
after all then. You can believe me old fellow when I
say how thoroughly I sympathise with you. They're all
the same. I daresay we're both the happier as it is,' and
he grasped his friend's hand heartily.

I think you've been a bit hard on her,' said Cope
with a slight tremor in his voice. ' I don't think she
quite knew her own mind in those days. One of the few
certainties I have grasped in my career is that precious
few people do. I said goodbye to her for the last time
just before I came away, and, — and she's Miss Beech-croft
still. Look here,' added he after a somewhat
lengthy pause, ' you must come and look me up. Why
not come tomorrow. To-morrow 's Sunday, you know.
Come to breakfast.'

I will. Oddly enough I've a free morning tomorrow.
Yes, I certainly will, Cope.'

They had reached the point where their roads separated,
and halted for a moment in the drizzling mist
which had begun to descend and which every moment
grew denser.

'I can't say how glad I am that we have met again old
fellow,' said Reginald. 'I was only wondering this
evening whether we should ever see one another, and
have a talk of the old times.'

So am I awfully glad, Rex. Mind you come ! Goodnight.'


Good night, Cope ! '

So the two friends parted in the rain and the darkness,
full of the reminiscences and conflicting emotions which
their unexpected meeting, and their mutual affection and
generous rivalry for the same flighty young lady, had
called up. The sincerity of their friendship, however,
made each forget any bitterness and jealousies which
the desire to win Sybil may in former days have aroused,
and each looked forward with unfeigned pleasure to the
prospect of renewing their intercourse on the morrow.

CHAPTER X.

Hoi Reginald Oakbiirne got his Majority.

Few, few, shall part where many meet !
The snow shall be their winding sheet,
And every turf beneath their feet
Shall be a soldier's sepulchre. — Campbell.

A thousand glorious actions, that might claim

Triumphant laurels, and immortal fame,

Confus'd in crowds of glorious actions lie,

And troops of heroes undistinguish'd die. — Addison.

Auburn got but a poor night's rest after parting
with his friend, and awaking towards
morning from a troubled sleep, he rose, went
to the tent door, and looked out. The rain was falling
heavily, and, peering into the murky darkness, he heard
faintly the distant church bells of Sebastopol tolling for
some religious service. A weird melancholy sound it
seemed, borne through that cheerless atmosphere, and the
cold night-air made him shudder and called forth angry
incoherent grumbling from the other occupant of the
tent ; so he closed the door, hastily, and buried himself
under the bed clothes. It seemed to him that
he had hardly got to sleep again, when he and his comrade
were roused by the now familiar sound of the rattle of
musketry and became aware, after a few yawns and

ejaculations, that some one was standing in the entrance
of the tent. It was one of the subalterns ! ' Oakburne !
Lacy!' cried he, 'Look sharp! The Russians are
advancing ! We have to occupy the Sandbank Battery.'

They hurriedly accoutred themselves and ran to where
the regiment was forming. All was hurry and confusion.
The pickets had been driven in ; there had been a surprise
; and large bodies of the enemy were clambering up
the slope and pouring on that weak point in the position
of the allies to which Sir de Lacy Evans had so often m
vain drawn attention. As they marched down through the
heavy blinding rain, over the black slippery ground, cannon
balls, shells, and rockets began falling among the tents
behind, riving and shattering them, and dealing havoc and
death to those in charge of the horses and engaged in camp
duties. The enemy had got his guns into position on those
very heights which Reginald had been dreamily contemplating
a few hours before, and presently their artillery on the
left, as well as the forts of Sebastopol and the ships in the
harbour, opened their fire on the allies. The Russians
were making another great effort to drive their foes from
their vantage ground, and had this time selected the
camp of the 2nd Division as the most favourable point
for their attack.

As they neared the earthwork, Oakburne's regiment
passed through a storm of bullets, and, when they were
close enough to distinguish them through the fog, they
saw that swarms of Russian infantry, — who in their grey
great coats were almost invisible till quite near,— were
pressing up under cover of the thick brushwood. Some
were already within the work, and others were climbing
over the parapet, when the order was given to charge,
and the enemy were hurled back before the bayonets of

the British. Of what follows Oakburne, like most of
those who took part in the battle of Inkermann, can give
but a confused account. He remembers how they kept
on firing volley after volley, and repelling charge after
charge with the bayonet ; how the Russians seemed
countless, and how the grey clad waves of men kept
dashing with dogged devotion against the frail barrier
opposed to them, till at last, by sheer weight, they drove
out its defenders, and forced them back up the hill,
fighting every inch of the way. Then suddenly they
heard a cheer behind them, a forest of bearskins loomed
through the mist, and the Grenadiers and Fusiliers
charged past them, dashed at the battery they had
evacuated, and drove the Russians from it down the
slope.

After this the regiment was reformed and moved forward
to defend another point of the plateau, against
which the Russians were hurling from all sides fresh
masses of troops. The men could scarcely see their determined
foes, who seemed to spring from the dense
thickets and the mist, till they were close upon them, nor
tell whence the ceaseless shower of bullets came. It was
all hand to hand fighting, a life and death struggle,
amidst distress and confusion, between some 60,000
Russians and 8500 British soldiers.

Meanwhile at other points the 4th and Light Divisions
had been led by their chiefs into the black ravines
below, into gorges obscured by sulphurous smoke and
blinding misty rain, and illumined only by the flashes of
musketry. Their ranks broken by the underwood, outflanked,
and outnumbered four to one, both bodies of
men were forced to turn and cut their way back to the
heights with fearful loss, the leader of the former being

VOL. II. K

slain and of the latter severely wounded. To advance
was almost impossible, for none could tell whence the
foe were coming, or their exact position, and commanders
and men were alike bewildered. They could fight but
they could not manoeuvre. All that could be done was
to hold the heights, so the gallant and devoted troops
steadily met their resolute foes and drove them back for
hour after hour ; firing, charging, and firing again ; sometimes
retreating for a little, but only to rally and return
again to the charge.

After some delay the British artillery is got into position,
and then it is found not only that it is outnumbered by
the Russians, but that the latter are opposing 12 pounder
field guns and 32 pounder howitzers, to British 9
pounder guns, and 24 pounder howitzers. But the
Russians are not inclined to allow their enemies to make
use even of this inferior ordnance. Column after
column is launched against the batteries and resolutely
repelled. At last they reach one of the guns, driving
back the artillerymen, — all save one sergeant. He
stands alone with one arm round the muzzle, as if to save
it, while with the other he lays low Russian after Russian
who assails him, till he falls pierced by fifty bayonet
wounds. But he does not die unavenged. Oakburne,
standing not far off sees the danger, and calls on the men
nearest to him to follow. He dashes at the gun, cutting
down one Russian and shooting a second, the men behind
him charge with the bayonet, and the gun is retaken.
Hardly has this been done when they see a British officer
lying on the ground among the brushwood, some twenty
paces below, surrounded by four Russians. He draws
his pistol and lays one low, but a second is just going to
bayonet him when a private of Oakburne' s company

leaps from the ranks and fells him with the butt end of
his musket. The other two turn on this new assailant
when Reginald, unable to restrain himself, runs to the
rescue and cleaves one of them through the brain. The
private soon disposes of the remaining fellow with his
bayonet, and the pair assisted by a corporal, who has
hurried up to help them, carry the wounded man they
have rescued up the ridge, and, — Good Heavens ! it
is Cope ! He had been shot in the chest while fighting
his way from the gullies into which Sir George Brown,
in order to make a diversion on the flank of the enemy,
had led the Light Division till, finding itself between two
Russian columns, it was forced to retreat with its gallant
Commander seriously wounded. Cope smiles feebly ashe
recognises his friend, but he is too weak to speak.
The corporal gives him some water out of his bottle, the
ambulance carries him to the rear, and Reginald turns
again to his duties.

It was indeed a time when men could scarcely pause
to think, much less to regret. Failing ammunition and loss
of men necessitated the withdrawal of the British artillery
from action for a time, and it was not till two eighteen
pounder iron siege guns had been got into position by
Lieut-Col. Dickson that the superior ordnance of the
enemy could be held in check. The unequal contest
had now lasted for more than six hours, and, though the
courage of the British was unbroken, failing physical
strength and decimated ranks began to weaken their
resistance to the stubborn Russian legions who seemed to
rise from the earth like the fabled host of warriors that
sprung from the dragon's teeth which Jason sowed in
the plains of Colchis. Their dense masses made a sudden
rush on one of the batteries. The gloom made our

gunners unceu whether they were friends or foes, and
in their doubt they hesitated to fire. The Russians took
immediate advantage of the error, and by the weight of
overwhelming numbers, and the fierceness of their onset,
drove all before them, bayonetting the artillerymen and
spiking the guns. With wild shouts their struggling
hosts won their way to the summit of the hill and for a
moment all seemed lost.

Then our troops prepared to make one desperate effort
to retrieve the day. The two brigades of the 2nd Division,
the Light Division, the remnant of the 1400
Guardsmen, who had so heroically held the crest of the
ridge and the Sandbank Battery, which they had won back
at the beginning of the action, all rallied for a final
charge. Supported by the unceasing fire of Dickson's
two-gun battery they swept down the slope, pouring a
deadly volley on the enemy. The Russians halted and
returned it with one equally murderous, and then
advanced again. But the steady fire made them waver,
the British levelled their bayonets and charged, and,
after a desperate hand to hand struggle, forced the
enemy with a mighty effort pell mell down the ravine.

At this moment when another charge from the Russians
might have changed the fortunes of the engagement,
General Bosquet with some 6000 troops, — chasseurs,
zouaves, and tirailleurs of Algiers, — appeared on their
flank. While they were assailed by these, and galled
by the fire of the French artillery, the British cheered by
the timely aid, once more bore down upon them, and,
driving their shattered columns in triumph into the
valley below, decided the fate of the Battle of Inkermann.
Once indeed after all seemed over, the Russians, taking
advantage of our inactivity and of the obscurity caused

by a sudden return of the mist and rain, made another
attempt to advance, but General Canrobert immediately
directed his troops to attack them in flank, and quickly
forced them to retire suddenly to Sebastopol. The work
of bloodshed had ceased for the day, and there was time
to breathe and to think, to tend the wounded and to bury
the dead.

Gradually now men began to learn what had really
happened, and what a great effort the Russians had made.
How tip hinting and rinp;i"fT of hells wVtjrh fhev had
heard in the silence of the night were part of impressive
religious ceremonies in Sebastopol. How Bishops had
solemnly blessed the army which had been newly reinforced
by 30,000 men. How mass had been said, and
how two grand dukes, the sons of the Czar, had come to
take their share in the work of expelling the invader from
the sacred soil of Russia. How addresses had been made,
rewards promised, medals, and, — what was perhaps a still
stronger incentive, — spirits had been distributed, and all
that could be done had been done to work up the enemy's
troops to that state of enthusiasm most conducive to
victory. It was now found that two powerful armies had
been sent forth to attack the British right and left wings,
while another division made a feigned attack at Kadikoi,
and a sortie from Sebastopol had diverted the attention
of the French ; that our allies had been engaged in a
severe and quite distinct struggle ; and that the fourth
division of our own army had also had a separate assault
to repel. Above all, it was discovered for the first
tiuic that there was a road, with the existence of which
the allies were quite unacquainted, leading from Inkermann
through the valley below, to the camp of the second
division, and that it was by this route that the

Russians had moved their forces to the principal attack.
New too our troops had leisure to realise how terrible
had been their losses ; that nearly all the commanders of
the brigades or divisions which had been chiefly engaged
in the battle had been either killed or wounded; that 144
officers were reported as killed, wounded, or missing ;
while the total number under these three heads was 2590
out of some 8500 men. The casualties among the 1400
men forming the brigade of guards amounted to 600,
and when the second division, which had to resist the
attack of the Russian centre, mustered after the
battle, it was found to be only 300 strong. A major of
one of the regiments, the senior of six field officers able
to do duty, had to take charge of the remnant, and, as,
out of sixty captains only twelve remained fit for service,
Reginald found himself raised to the rank of major with
a fair prospect of obtaining his lieutenant-colonelcy if he
should be fortunate enough to survive such another
battle. It was as the captain of the Enniskillens had said,
the night before, a good time ' for getting steps.' Poor
fellow ! though his regiment had not been called into
action it had been under fire, and Oakburne learnt that a
chance shell had ended his career for ever. He himself
had not come altogether scatheless out of the terrible
conflict but, with the happy fortune of some men, he had
escaped with a wound, — a bayonet thrust in that arm of
which the hand had already been injured, — which skilful
treatment soon enabled him to disregard.

One of his first cares, as soon as he had leisure to do
so, was to go to the hospital tents and enquire for Major
Cope. As he was about to set out, an envelope with a
great many different stamps and postmark on it, and
bearing evident marks of having been frequently redirected,

was put into his hands. The writing was strange
to him and, opening it with some curiosity, he found to
his surprise that it came from Count Dorikoff, his kindhearted
captor at Giurgevo, who must have written it buta
short time after they had parted at Odessa. It had
followed him to Varna, got somehow mislaid, and been
sent to England ; and now at last it had found its way
to him in the Crimea. The Count, who wrote in French,
and dated his letter from Moscow, informed his ' cher
captif,' that he had returned to that city to be married
to that Princess Olga, of whom Oakburne had often heard,
and that if matters were soon settled, as he hoped, with
England, he intended to travel with his wife in Europe.
He had been speaking one day, he said, to his parents
about the old friendship between his grandfather, Mr.
Beechcroft, and the Chevalier Leon, of which he and
Reginald had so frequently talked together, and had then
learnt for the first time a curious Httle fact which it might
interest his correspondent to hear. His grandfather, it
seemed, during his last visit to Europe, some few years
before the French Revolution, had unexpectedly come
upon his old companion the Chevalier at the town of
Aix-les-Bains. He had found him very poor, and much
broken in spirit. He was a widower, and quite alone,
for, of the two daughters who formed his family, one had
married from necessity a rich jeweller named Rovelli, — a
match which, though it saved him from absolute poverty,
had been a great blow to the Chevalier's pride, — while
the other had been obliged to find a home in a rich
English family. ' And where do you think this home
was my friend,' continued the writer. ' Where, but in
the house of that Chessington whose daughter my grandfathers
other friend, Beechcroft, had married ! Was it

not a strange coincidence ? This poor Chevalier Leon
was nearly heart-broken with shame at the fortunes of his
children. The jeweller, the husband of the elder, gave
him the money to live with, but the proud old fellow
could not bear their menage and must live alone ; and, he
gambled still ! My grandfather made him a feast the
evening they met, did his best to cheer his heart, and he
offered him a loan which the other would not take. He
went again the next morning to his lodging to try and
force him to do so, nd found that the poor gentleman
was dead, — he had died in the night of some injury to
the heart. Was it not a sad ending ? '

There was not much else in the letter save kind wishes
for his happiness, and, having but little time to spare, he
placed it in his desk and hurried off to see Cope, wondering
much at this strange and unexpected confirmation of
what his brother had told him of the history of the Leon
and Rovelli families.

The blood-stained ground was covered with piles of the
dead, where men of all arms of the service, — and in some
cases of all three nations, — lay heaped together. Grave-diggers
and litter-bearers were going about their work as
unconcernedly as if it were the porterage of goods, or the
cultivation of a garden, while camp followers, seamen
from the ships, and vagabonds from Balaklava, were
busily searching for trophies of the battlefield. Something
made Reginald suddenly pause before one of the yawning
pits, some thirty or forty feet deep and well nigh as broad,
in which the dead were being laid as closely as they could
be packed. He started back with an exclamation of horror.
There lay the writer of the kind letter he had just been
reading, — young Count Dorikoff. The laughing blue
eyes were dull and cold, the lips that had smiled so

cheerily were parted and bloodless, the pale face stained
with gore, but there was no mistaking the gallant, happy
friend who had waved him his last goodbye from the pier
at Odessa. There he lay, one of the mound of corpses
waiting to be cast into their common grave ; side by side
with his dead fellow countrymen, with Frenchmen, with
red-coated Englishmen, some with a half smile on their
face, others, like himself, expressionless, and others with
the cruel scowl of hate on their brow, and fierce anger
still in their eyes.

He turned away sick at heart, and walked on to the
hospital tents. As he reached them, the train of arabas,
ambulances, and French mule litters, which was constantly
bearing the sick and wounded to Balaklava, whence they
were being despatched in ship loads to Scutari, was just
about to start. A faint voice hailed him from one of the
ambulances, and as he ran up, the driver stopped for a
minute.

'Just in time, Rex !' said Cope, feebly stretching out
his hand. ' Just in time ! I thought you'd try and come.'

You'll soon pick up again on the voyage old boy ! '

The other nodded. ' That breakfast never came ois,'
he whispered, 'but we'll have a jolly meeting yet, —-in
better quarters !'

'Goodbye and God bless you old friend!' cried
Reginald, and the melancholy procession jolted off on
its way with its groaning, suffering burdens, and was
soon lost to sight as it descended the rough, steep road,
that led to the harbour.

Another meeting ! poor fellow ! If any man ever had
the signs of death written plainly in his face it was poor
Cope ! No ! for them there would be no more meetings
here ! So thought Oakburne as he walked rapidly back to

the camp of the second division. And yet his own lot was
one which demands some sympathy. To be ' out of bed '
more than half the week, to be exposed to constant
danger and privation, to endure toil, sickness, hunger,
wet, and cold, and yet be always on the alert and ready
to risk his life in opposing an ever watchful enemy, are
conditions of existence which should win for him who
undertakes them cheerfully and courageously the compassion,
if not the admiration, of his fellows. Reginald,
however, full of pity and sorrow for the comrade, from
whom he had just parted, forgot all his own hardships
and the possibility of his being in a similar position. He
little thought how soon he should be taking that same
route to Scutari on which Major Cope had set out.

CHAPTER XL

In which Mr. Portal becomes generous.

Sorrow, like a heavy-hanging bell,

Once set in ringing, with his own weight goes :

Then little strength rings out the doleful knell.

Shakespeare.

I never wonder to see men wicked, but I often wonder to see
them not ashamed. — Swift.

Or Hoffbauer little thought what a legacy of
troubles his dying gift to Chessington was destined
to prove to the very man it was intended
to benefit, or that his confidences respecting
Frederica Ledru would so soon give trouble and anxiety
to his friend Wilfrid Oakburne.

As soon as he had leisure to do so after the fatal
catastrophe at Otterstone, the latter, remembering what
Hoffbauer had told him of her poverty and friendless
condition, wrote to tell the unfortunate lady of the tragic
deaths of her husband and of her lover, and at the same
time sent her a sum of money sufficient to help her in
her necessities. Among Theodore's papers was found
one in which, — though it had no pretensions to be called
a will, — he requested that all that he possessed or might
hereafter acquire, might be given to his dear friend
Frederica Ledru. As, however, his small salary had been

in great part already spent, and Madam Rovelli, who had
made decent provision for him in her will still survived,
poor Frederica's prospects were very dismal unless some
friend came forward to help her. Her parents and all
her near relatives save old Madam Rovelli were dead,
and, after the step she had taken in flying from her
husband, she did not dare to apply to the latter or her
daughter-in law, whom she knew would otherwise have
been well disposed to help her. So at least she told
Wilfrid in a ve»"y piteous letter in which 'she thanked him
for his kindness, and implored him if he could, to see herat
Lidfield.

Though he felt bound for the sake of his dead friend to
accede to her request, Oakburne did so with a great deal
of reluctance, as the odium he had unjustly suffered on
account of Lois Simcox made him morbidly sensitive to
exciting any gossip about himself in Lidfield. As soon,
however, as his attendance at the inquest and other matters
connected with the murder permitted it, he made arrangements
for returning home ; for his visit to the north in
company with Mr. Throckmorton had been for the time
postponed, that gentleman, as has been shown, having
found himself unexpectedly detained in order to assist
Miss Beechcroft in carrying out her plans for going to
the Crimea, while the business thrown on his hands by
what had occurred at Otterstone had prevented Wilfrid
from joining him at Thornbury.

It was late one November evening when Oakburne
arrived at Lidfield. The London train had just come in
as his own reached the opposite platform, and the passengers
from each met at the exit where the tickets were
collected. As he was giving his up he was accosted by
a well-known voice behind him, and, turning, sow with

mingled surprise and displeasure that the speaker was
Portal. He turned away and was about to make his way
to a cab, when the latter, laying his hand on his shoulder,
said he wanted to say a few words to him.

I don't wonder you want to cut me Mr. Oakburne,'
said he, as Wilfrid shaking off his hand, asked very
abruptly what he meant by speaking to him. ' I injured
you deeply once and have never had an opportunity of
telling you how sincerely I deplore it.' They had withdrawn
a little from the entrance to the station, and were
comparatively alone.

Indeed ! ' replied Oakburne contemptuously. ' I am
glad to hear that you have the grace to acknowledge it
at last'

You naturally feel strongly on the subject,' went on
the other. ' Let me, however, hope that bygones maybe
bygones. You are unaware perhaps that my father
died a fortnight ago, and that I am coming down to
settle his affairs.'

I regret to hear it,' answered Wilfrid, coldly. He had
known Mr. Portal, senior, more or less all his life, and
the latter had written to him very feelingly with regard
to his son's behaviour respecting Lois Simcox. The
news of his death, therefore, prevented him, as the
speaker intended it should, from giving him a little more
of his mind on the subject of this old quarrel, which he
had originally resolved to settle in a more decided and
practical manner.

I need not say how great the blow has been to me,*
said Portal, with much feeling, though, to tell the truth, he
had borne his affliction with considerable fortitude, being
perhaps the better enabled to do so because it gave him
an unexpected release from the pecuniary embarrassments

which he had fallen into. ' You can imagine what my
sorrow has been. It has, I hope, changed me for the better.
Coming as it did just after my engagement to a
young lady whom my poor dear father in every way
approved, and whom I had hoped shortly to have introduced
to him, the shock was doubly great to me.'

Oakburne, though he distrusted the fellow all the
while, could not help feeling a little softened by this
appeal to his compassion.

I am sorry for you, Mr. Portal, I am sure ! ' he said
in a mollified tone. ' I don't want to dwell on the past
now, so let us, as you say, agree to forget it. What is
the business that you want to talk to me about ? '

It was with regard to that terrible tragedy at Otter-stone
Hall, and the fate of poor Hoffbauer. What an
awful thing it was ! You were there, weren't you ? '

Wilfrid replied that he had been.

Ah yes ! I saw your name mentioned in the papers,'
continued Portal, to whom that matter had indeed been
an ' awful ' one, making him very thankful that he had
escaped being implicated in it, and swear solemnly to
himself that he would never have anything more to do
with people likely to commit such crimes. ' Yes, I saw
your name, and compliment you on your courage and
presence of mind. As you are doubtless aware, I had
some acquaintance with Mr. Chessington, and I knew a
little also of Hoffbauer and his murderer. I wont detain
you now ; but if you could look in at my office tomorrow
you would do me a great favour. There is a rather important
point connected with the affair on which I should
like to talk to you.'

Oakburne felt unpleasantly surprised. What could
this important point be ? Ought he to hear it or to refuse?

He felt strongly inclined to the latter course, but
then the thought occurred to him that he might possibly
learn something that would be of benefit to Frederica
Ledru, and he felt that he ought not to shrink from anything
that could prove of assistance to her. After a
moment's hesitation, therefore, he agreed to come.

Thank you ! Thank you most sincerely, Oakburne !
At|twelve o'clock tomorrow morning, then, at my office.
All well at home, I hope ? But I forgot you have not
yet had an opportunity of learning!' and with a most
etnpresse good-night, he hurried away.

What can he have to tell me ?' thought Wilfrid, as he
drove homewards. * It all sounds plausible enough,
but to the end of my days I can never believe Portal.'

He, had been so long away from home that his mother
and sister were very eager to see him, and the three had
so much to tell each other that the evening passed very
pleasantly and rapidly. Early next morning he made
his way to the lodging which Madam Ledru had named
as her address, the corner house of a little narrow street
leading to the church, over the door of which was the
neatly printed inscription, "The Keys of the Church."
The wife of the parish clerk, to whom the house
belonged, was rather astonished to see who her visitor
was. * I thought it was some one come after the
Church,' said she. Occasionally tourists who wandered
out of beaten paths, or an antiquary in search of matter
for exploration, would come to look at the fine old
church of which Lidfield folk were justly proud.

I wanted to see the lady who is lodging here, Mrs.
Brian,' answered Wilfrid.

Ah ! do you now ? Well, I'll tell her. She seems
very strange, poor thing, almost crazed like. I don't

know nothing of her myself. A gentleman brought her
here and took the rooms, and he hasn't been again since ;
and she's very down like, poor lady. Of course / don't
ask no questions,' and she hobbled away, and presently
returning, asked Wilfrid to ' step up, please, to the parlour.'


Poor Frederica received him with a joyful cry.
Oh ! I am so pleased that you have at last come
to me, Herr Oakburne,' said she, and there was no
mistaking the truth of her statement. He was quite
shocked to see the change which sorrow had wrought
in the handsome, stately woman he had been wont to
see when she visited Hoffbauer during his illness in Poul-
ford Street. All her old fire seemed gone. Her eyes
were sunken, her face lined with care, her figure bowed,
and her manner timid and shrinking, and he was quite
startled to see a great band of grey hair amidst her glossy
black tresses. She had been now for nearly a month
with scarcely a soul to speak to, and the mere opportunity
of opening her heart to one she knew seemed an intense
relief This life of imprisonment, after her flight from
her husband, had been suddenly broken in upon by the
news of that worthy's death at the hands of her lover,
and of the murder of the latter, whom she loved more
than anyone else on earth and regarded as her only
protector and friend. The blow had been doubly hard
to bear in this solitude, and the utter estrangement
from her fellow-creatures had preyed upon her health
and spirits.

I thought I must have gone mad ! ' said she. ' My
life has been like some horrid nightmare that would
never end itself I have scarcely dared to walk out
much, and but for that church, with the pretty, quiet

God's Acre, which has been my sanctuary, I believe
Herr Oakburne that I could not have borne it ! Everyday
my money got less, and I have not been
able to get always the food that I should eat, though
Heaven knows I have little appetite to eat at all ! '

Oakburne, touched by her recital of her troubles,
assured her now that she would have no more need for
anxiety, and that he had come to help her in whatever
way he could. ' I promised my poor friend that I would,'
said he. ' And you may trust me to keep my word.'

The mention of Hoffbauer upset the unhappy lady
altogether. She burst into a flood of tears, and then,
after a time, poured out to him the history of her life.
It was evidently good for her to do so, and he therefore
allowed her to tell her story, though, as the reader is
aware, Hoffbauer had related it to him on the night of
his death. One point in it, however, Wilfrid had forgotten,
and that was how Portal had promised to aid her
husband in acquiring for himself the sum that she would
be entitled to on the death of old Madam Rovelli. It
suddenly struck him now what sort of communication
the solicitor might probably make to him, and an idea
occurred to him as to the manner in which he should
receive it. When she had concluded, he spoke such
words of consolation as suggested themselves to him,
telling her that he was sure Walter Chessington would
be most willing to help her, and adding that he knew of
others whom he thought would do so. ' In any case
though you may rely on me. Madam Ledru,' said he,
and may trust me to keep my promise to Theodore.
I can't help thinking, however, that the happiest and
wisest course for you would be to return to Madam
Rovelli.

VOL. II. L

I cannot ! I dare not ! ' cried she. ' I dare not go
back there now ! ' and she covered her face with her
hands.

Won't you let me intercede with Madam Rovelli ? '
answered Wilfrid. ' I am sure that she would receive
you gladly. Do let me try at all events.'

After a great deal of pressing, poor Frederica at last
consented that he should do this, and Wilfrid, finding it
was time to keep to his appointment with Portal, left
promising to do all in his power to settle matters.

It was pleasant enough to come home again successful,
he thought to himself, as he walked down the town, and
to have carried out at least part of that plan he had
made for himself on the hillside three years ago.
True, that other half which related to Beatrice
Elkfield had failed miserably enough, but he could
afford to laugh at that now ; and had grown to congratulate
himself on his freedom. He must go and see the
.Elkfields and the Bolderwoods of Shapely, and all his
old friends, and he would walk over to Molehill and see
Mr. Simcox who, Ethel told him, had now given up the
school, and lived there altogether with his sister and
brother-in-law, and he reached the offices of Messrs.
Portal, Quipsonon, and Portal, full of agreeable schemes for
occupying himself during his visit to Lidfield.

When he told one of the three clerks who were seated
on high stools in the outer office, that he wished to see
Mr. Portal, a responsive grin passed over the faces of
that acute trio. Portal, contrary to custom, happened to
be coming out of his sanctum, and greeted him with a
cordiality that was rather embarrassing.

How are you, Oakburne ! It is very good of you to

come, my dear fellow !' says he, grasping Wilfrid warmly
by the hand. ' Pray, step into my room.'

The truth was that Portal was anxious to guard against
any revival of the ugly stories about himself, and
was therefore well pleased that Oakburne should come to
his place of business. The scandal about Lois, coming
as it did at election time, was indeed, owing to her death,
his own well-timed absence, and Mr. Simcox's departure
from Lidfield, pretty well consigned to oblivion. Still
these things are never altogether forgotten ; ill-natured
people might possibly choose to rake up the unpleasant
episode ; and, he thought that on the whole he could not
provide a better defence against them than by showing
publicly that there had been a complete reconciliation
between himself and the man whom he had so injured in
the matter.

You wished to speak to me about this affair of poor
Hoffbauer,' said Wilfrid, when they were comfortably
seated in the room in which the solicitor interviewed his
most important clients.

Yes. It was respecting that that I wanted to have a
talk with you, Oakburne, for I know you were very good
to him, and took a great interest in the poor beggar ; I'll
just tell you what I consider important in the matter,'
Portal then proceeded to tell him how Hoifbauer had
shewn him all the papers proving his descent from
George Chessington ; how he had reason to know that
Lord Ashleigh had in his possession certain letters, very
important letters, written by a certain George Chessington,
and how, putting two and two together, he had come to
the conclusion that there was good ground for presuming
that Hoffbauer had been in reality the rightful owner of
Otterstone. He pretended very skilfully to imagine that

all this was quite new to his hearer, though he knew well
enough from Hoffbauer's own lips that the latter had
confided all he knew concerning his family history to
Wilfrid. The existence of the letters was, he was quite
sure, known only to himself and Lord Ashleigh, but he
mentioned that fact as if it were a part of the rest of the
transaction. Wilfrid, who listened very attentively, wondering
what was coming next, informed him that he had heard
most of this before, at which he expressed well feigned
astonishment.

Dear me ! I had no idea of it,' cried he. ' He of
course consulted me in a professional way, and was, as I
imagined, by way of being rather mysterious about the
whole business. You saw the papers then ? Do you
know what has become of them ?' and he looked at him
rather eagerly, concealing with some difficulty the anxiety
with which he awaited the answer to this question.

The answer came slowly. No. Wilfrid did not know
what had become of them. They were not among Hoff-baker's
other effects as far as he knew, and he had never
seen them since. This was of course the truth, for he
was as yet entirely ignorant of the fact that they had been
given to Walter Chessington, and had indeed wondered
where they were.

Portal's face fell visibly as he heard this news. He had
in reality all along hoped that they had come into Oak-burnt's
possession, and that he might induce him to let
him see them. He, however, speedily concealed his
vexation.

That is very strange ! ' cried he. 'That is net as it
should be ! I think a search ought to be instituted for
those papers, Oakburne.'

May I ask what object there could be in getting them

back now?' asked the other quickly. ' Now that Hoff-baker
is dead, and as he has left no heirs, I don't see what
good they could do to anyone.'

The question was rather an awkward one for Portal.
He had counted on Oakburne's having the documents.
His real object was to work on Lord Ashleigh's fears
through them, and at the same on Wilfrid's sympathy for
his dead friend. It had seemed to him that they contained
the germs of a pretty little will case. By careful
enquiries he too, as well as Walter Chessington, had
discovered the awkward fact that if Hofifbauer's identity
could be established the will of James Chessington, under
which Lord Ashleigh's nephew held the property, could
be proved to be invalid. His desire had been therefore
to see the documents once more, make copies of them,
and then ascertain the rightful heirs and either prevail on
them to attack Lord Ashleigh with this information or do
so himself. He had hoped that Wilfrid might have
been induced to unbosom himself to him through his
desire to do justice to the claims of the deceased Hoff-baker.
He had, therefore, in his previous calculations
not thought much of the possibility of this rather natural
enquiry being put to him.

I did not know he had left no heirs,' answered he, in
some confusion. ' That is, I was not sure of it. One
never knows, you know, who may turn out to be an
heir to a property. But, — but, to tell the truth,' as a
bright thought here struck him, ' to tell the truth, that
poor woman Madam Ledru, with whom our poor friend
had that unfortunate intimacy, is left penniless I believe.
Her husband, — a regular villain ! but we come
across some queer characters in our professional experience
! — her villain of a husband left all he possessed to

a mistress with whom he had been Using for the last two
years. I say all he possessed, but the brute drank so
that it was found that, though he was supposed to be so
wealthy, he had muddled away the greater part of it. I
thought then, I say, that if there was no heir, or
other person interested in proving his descent,
some claim might be made on the Chessington
family, on behalf of this unhappy creature, whom I
knew, and indeed esteemed, and whom, in spite of her
faults I sincerely pity. Her husband treated her like a
dog, poor thing ! Yes ! I pity her most sincerely ! ' and
Portal concluded with quite a little tremor of feeling in
his voice, and blowing his nose loudly, drew himself up
in his chair with the air of a virtuous man deprecating his
own generosity and magnanimity.

Wilfrid listened to him with an unfeigned astonishment,
which helped him to smother any rising expression
of the deep disgust he felt for this would-be philanthropist.
That anyone who had acted as he knew Portal to
have done, with regard to poor Frederica, could speak in
such a manner, both of her and of that husband with
whom he had conspired to injure her, .while it filled him
with loathing and scorn, took him for the moment quite
by surprise, and he felt that he had never before realised
the depths of lying and meanness in the man.

But I thought that she had disappeared,' said he at
last, disguising his feelings with an effort.

Yes, it is true ; but we can always advertise for her.
After all, too, it is possible that Hoffbauer might have
given over these papers to her! Of course we must have
them to establish any claim on her behalf against the
Chessingtons. Yes ! she might have them ! And so
might perhaps Walter Chessington who, of course, if

asked, is too honourable to hesitate a moment to
surrender them ! Yes, for her sake we must get hold of
them somehow ! Poor thing ! We must really advertise
for her, Oakburne !' cried he enthusiastically. ' I
would give a great deal to be able to succour her in her
distress !-It is such a hard fate !'

This was too much for Wilfrid. ' Are you aware, Mr,
Portal,' said he sternly, ' that the object of your
benevolent solicitude is in this very town now, not two
hundred yards away from this room .?'

What ! here in Lidfield !' cries Portal, turning very
pale not only at the unexpected information, but at the
tone of the speaker.

Yes, here in Lidfield I saw her this very morning, and
at our interview she told me, as Hoffbauer had told me
before, on the very night on which he died, of the share
yoii had in making the life of that poor woman miserable.
Yes ! and not only that, but how you and that devil
Reuben Ledru had planned between you to get these
papers of Hoffbauer's from him, and use them for your
own vile purposes ! I know it all, I say, and I forbid you
to disgust me any more with your abominable lies, and
mock benevolence !' and Wilfrid rose, and going up to
Portal, stood over him, so to speak, looking down en
him with one hand on the table close to his chai;.
Perhaps the memory of his old injuries rose in his heart
and increased his righteous indignation against the man.

There is some mistake ! It is false ! There have
been base misrepresentations, Mr. Oakburne ! ' cried the
other in abject terror. ' For Heaven's sake, man, don't
speak so loud !' and he pointed with a trembling hand
to the clerk's room next door. His glib audacity had

suddenly all vanished, and had been replaced by a
cringing and pitiful agitation.

Look here, Portal,' said Oakburne, ' I know enough
of your conduct to show that you were a party to the
attempt to get these papers from Hoffbauer. No ! there's
no good denying it ! You were, though you left the
dangerous part to your accomplice. More than this,
you were also a party to the project of robbing Madam
Ledru of the inheritance she will have from Madam
Rovelli. Don't interrupt me. I say I know these things,
and I can prove them too. I understand the law sufficiently
to know that I know enough, if not to get you
punished as a criminal, at least to get you struck off the
roll ol solicitors, — to ruin you, in short.'

*Well !' hissed the other with a momentary gleam of
hate and fury in his eyes. ' Well ? '

'Well, unless you consent in writing to do what I ask,
I will make the best use I can of my knowledge.'

Spare me ! spare me ! ' cried Portal piteously. ' Remember
this was in the past. I am changed ! I swear
to God I am changed! And 1 knew nothing of these
schemes of wicked violence ! on my honour, I was as
innocent as you are of all idea of the murder or robbery.
I was wicked, foolish, — I own it, but I was terribly
pressed ! And I have bitterly repented ! I swear it
most solemnly. Remember the sorrow that has fallen
on me ! Think of my poor mother, — think how
you will blight the happiness of an honest young
girl who loves me ! I meant to make reparation to
Madam Ledru — on my honour, I did ! I swear it ! For
pity's sake Oakburne spare me ! do not ruin me thus ! '
In the extremity of fear called forth by the unexpected
revealing of a secret which he imagined had died with

Reuben Ledru, and the dread of shame and exposure
just as he was on the point of beginning a new career
that promised every success, the man's shrewd readiness
and clever impudence deserted him, his nerve completely
gave way, and Portal fell on his knees.

'Get up ! You need not beg any more' said Oakburne,
regarding him with stern contempt, ' We have agreed to
forget the past, and '

'God bless you, Oakburne ! yours is a noble heart!'
ejaculated the other fervently as he rose to his feet.

I have consented that, as you say, bygones shall be
bygones. Portal, and on one condition I will keep my
word as to this new matter, as well as with regard to the
poor girl whom you ruined and accused me of ruining.
And this is the condition. I will only hold my tongue —
and remember that I was an important witness both at
the trial and the inquest and have Madam Ledru to
back me, — I only consent, I say, to be silent on condition
that you promise, in writing, to make the reparation you
have just said you intended making to poor Frederica.'

I will pay what you like !' cried the other. ' Make
your own terms, Oakburne. I tell you, I swear most
solemnly it is true ! I always intended to make reparation
!'

Well, as she had been nearly starving, I don't think,
considering that you tried to take her money from her,
that ^100 is too high a figure to name. I am trying to
reconcile her to her relations. If you will draw out a
cheque for ;;^ioo payable to her, and promise me in
writing to help me to pay for her needs till she is placed
beyond the necessity of help, I will make that the price
of my silence.'

Portal drew a cheque book from a drawer, and

hurriedly wrote a draft for the amount named. * There !'
he gasped out, handing it to Oakburne, ' Let that be an
earnest of my intention ! and, — and, look here, I think
there is some small amount, about loo a year, out of
what has escaped from Ledru's creditors, which I think
I might be able perhaps to rescue from the clutches of
the woman to whom he has left everything.'

Wilfrid pondered a moment. ' Give me a written promise,'
said he, ' and I will agree. But mind it must be
such a promise as my solicitor will be able to assure me
is a binding undertaking on your part.'

Portal winced, hesitated a moments and then wrote
what was required of him, and handed it to Wilfrid, who
placed both it and the cheque in his pocket.

Now I am satisfied,' said he, ' provided I learn this
is a document that will be recognised by the Courts of
Law ; but remember that if I learn that you have in anyway
failed in your promise, I shall be always ready to
put it in force against you. Provided, however, that you
keep your word, I swear most solemnly that you need
not fear that I will ever make use of my knowledge.
And now I think our interview had best end.

For Heavens sake, I implore you, part amicably from
me in the presence of my clerks ! ' said Portal abjectly.
I know you would not wittingly ruin my reputation.'

Wilfrid nodded, and then the other, recovering his
natural assurance with an ease that astonished, and a
little alarmed him, accompanied him to the door, and,
much to his disgust, went through the same farce of
cordial leave-taking as he had executed at their meeting,
this time insisting on going with him to the entrance of
the office, so that passers by in the street might witness
his last adieu.

Oakburne responded with what grace he could, and
walked rapidly home.

He had had a revenge he little anticipated, and felt
proportionately elated. At any rate he had made good
terms for Frederica Ledru. ' Though "I don't know,'
said he to himself, ' if I am not compounding a felony !
I wish I knew more about such things. At any rate my
threat brought him on his knees, and that shows that
there is something in it, though of course I have no
other evidence than Frederica's oath. As for this promise
I will find out its real value from my solicitor as
soon as possible. It seems clear though, that
he will not dare to break it, for it is evident that he
would sell his soul now for the sake of keeping up his
character for respectability in Lidfield. I suppose just
now 1 took him at a fearful disadvantage ; and even he
deserves some pity, perhaps ! But, faugh ! it is awful to
think of such meanness !' and he went to luncheon, well
satisfied with his morning's work, and as soon as he
could do so, sent the cheque for ^100 to Madam Ledru.

As for Portal, the reader may be left to imagine his
feelings. Perhaps the bitterest drop in the unpleasant
cup he had had to swallow was that he had been outwitted
by Wilfrid Oakburne, for whose honest simplicity
he had always felt a secret contempt. It was
very galling to have been thus defeated by such a man,
and at this time he grudged the ^100 very much.
Nevertheless, in spite of his mortification, he was able
to console himself by reflecting that he had escaped from
a most awkward predicament uncommonly cheaply ; for
he felt that though there was no written agreement between
them, he could rely on Wilfrid's keen sense of
honour without the slightest fear, and he was pretty sure

that he need dread no further drains on his purse from
him. Then too, best of all, he had gone very far
towards persuading people that he and Oakburne were
thoroughly reconciled, and had thus been successful in
one at least of his objects for seeking this interview with
him.

CHAPTER XII.

Shows how Mr. Simcox found an old volume, and how
Mr. aid Airs. Chessington went into exile.

Spring shall come round, and all her sounds be dear,
And sweet her lips with all ambrosial dew,

The wooing sun shall set earth's heart astir.
And she rejoice, and we have rapture too,

But one hushed cord shall no more answer her.

C. Eraser Tatler.

We leave the well-beloved place

Where first we gazed upon the sky ;
The roofs, that heard our earliest cry.

Will shelter one of stranger race. — Tennyson.

N the morning after the scene described in the
last chapter, Wilfrid set out to visit Mr. Sims
at Rolhill. His interview with Portal had
revived all his bitter memories, with regard to their
mutual connection with Lois, and his pity for the
worthy schoolmaster, whose sad lot he could not help
contrasting with that of the man who had destroyed his
happiness, and driven his daughter into an early grave.
The lonely church on the down, and the familiar
scenery, recalled very vividly all the incidents of his
friendship with her, and yet it seemed hard to reaHse
how comparatively brief a period had passed since its

sad ending. The day was a very different one from that
one in early spring on which he had last seen Rolhill,
a year and a half ago, for now the woods on the distant
hills were bare and leafless, the fertile plain on the
farther side looked drear and gloomy, and both hills and
plain were half-shrouded in grey November mists ; but
Caius Whitworth's house and all its surroundings were just
as he had always remembered them as a boy. Life in this
isolated spot seemed always to present the same quiet
monotony, and even the master and mistress of the Blue
Boar seemed to share its prevailing characteristic, and
remain always unchanged.

When Mr. Whitworth mentioned his name to the
schoolmaster, whom he found walking in the garden,
Wilfrid saw his face suddenly light up, and he hurried to
meet him with an evident pleasure that touched the
young doctor very much. He was rather shocked to seethe
change in his appearance, for his sorrows had aged
him prematurely and, though in reality younger, he
looked a good ten years older that his brother-in-law.
' He'll be very pleased to see you, Mr.
Oakburne,' said the latter, ' for he often speaks of you,
and I take it very kind of you to remember us, sir,' and
then he told Wilfrid that poor Mr. Simcox's mental
powers had been a good deal weakened by the shock of
his daughter's death, and that he passed a great part of
his time at her grave, or in the church where she had
performed her humble duties during the last few months
of her life. When not there he would rest in the little
garden at the back, or pace quietly up and down it, on
the walk in front of the south wall, against which the
fruit trees were trained. All his thoughts, said Caius
Whitworth, were full of the dead girl, and he could begot

to take but little interest in other matters. He
seemed contented enough, and at times almost happy, but
he had ceased to be the active, intelligent man of old
days, who delighted in teaching and in acquiring fresh
knowledge himself. He had become a quiet dreamer,
waiting with resignation for the day that should end his
sorrows, and unite him again to the daughter he loved.

It is very good of you, sir, to come to see me,' said
the schoolmaster, in reply to Oakburne's greeting. ' It
is ver' kind. But I knew you would come. They have
all been very kind to me — everyone is, sir. I like to
walk here, Mr. Oakburne. She used to like it they tell
me. Dear Lois would often come here, sir. But I like
best to be in the church, or to sit by her grave. I have
planted some flowers there, and I like to keep them fresh
and beautiful. I must show them to you, sir ; you will
pardon me for saying so, — but you must come with me
to see her grave.

Wilfrid told him that he had stopped there already on
his way.

Ah ! I knew you would, Mr. Oakburne ! but if you
will allow me, I should like to visit it with you, sir. The
flowers are nearly all over now, but in the spring they
will come up again. Will you come ? '

Wilfrid felt bound to give a kindly consent. ' I hear
you often see people from Lidfield,' said he. ' My sister
said that she had paid you a visit, and I suppose Mr.
Elkfield and Mrs. Chessington have been too ? '

Yes, both sir ! and the rector too, Mr. Lumley. Yes!
Mrs. Chessington, — Miss Beatrice Elkfield she was, you
know, — she has been most kind. So she was before
Lois died. She married that young Mr. Chessington,
dear me how time flies ! And that reminds me,*

and his expression suddenly became keener, 'that
reminds me that I have made a discovery, Mr. Oak-burnt.'


A discovery ! what is it ? ' asked Oakburne, smiHng.

'It is a discovery, sir, which was interesting to me,
though I don't suppose it is of any importance now to
anyone. If you don't mind coming to the church, as I
suggested, I will show it to you,' and he led the way
eagerly up the rise.

Mr. Simcox's discovery was simply this. In the church
tower at Rolhill, — much admired by the way for its
architecture, — there was, as is still to be found in some
few of our old churches, what is known as a priest's
room. It was a comfortless cell, designed to enable the
ecclesiastic, if inclined to vigil, to pass the night under
shelter, but without any temptations to luxury, and was
therefore so constructed as to prevent anyone from lying
down in it, or even sitting, save in the most constrained
posture. It was lighted by two long and very narrow
windows, one of which opened on to the roof, and on it
just outside this window, was a quaintly hideous figure
of the Arch Fiend, with demon countenance, hoofs,
claws, and outstretched wings, ready to fly into the room
and attack the good pastor whilst pursuing his ghostly
exercises. Whether this very realistic image helped to
check the wandering thoughts of divines who were
driven, during their sojourn in the priest's room, to lookout
of the window, it need not be attempted here to discuss.
All that it is necessary to tell the reader now is,
that Mr. Simcox, while contemplating its hideousness,
chanced to overbalance himself and stumble forwards.
In so doing he discovered a deep, oblong, stone
recess, under the window sill, on the inner side,

which, but for this chance accident, the dim light in
the room would never have enabled him to see.
How it came there, whether through carelessness or stupidity,
or with a fraudulent design, could not be known,
but in this recess was an old parish register for the year
1788, and this ancient volume, damp, tattered, and
mouldy, Mr. Simcox now showed with great triumph to
Wilfrid Oakburne.

It is indeed a strange discovery,' says the latter,
looking curiously at this treasure, some of the leaves of
which were torn, some few burnt, and the writing in
many of the others partially obliterated by time and wet.
It was evident that there were portions of it which the
parish priest desired to consign to oblivion.

Yes, sir ! it is a remarkable thing, certainly ! ' Poor
Mr. Simcox had always taken a great interest in antiquities,
and had compiled a very praiseworthy book on those
of Lidfield and its neighbourhood. ' It is indeed
remarkable, and I consider myself most fortunate in
finding it two days ago. On Sunday I hope to show it
to the vicar,' added he complacently. ' But the most
strange coincidence is this, — look here,' and turning over
some pages he pointed out to Wilfrid a marriage certificate,
in which the writing was still quite legible, though
much faded.

Our doctor gave a start and a little exclamation. It
was no other than the registration of the marriage of
George Chessington to Estelle Leon, witnessed by George
Bolton of Otterstone, and performed by F. J. Whitworth,
the copy of which the reader has already learnt that poor
Hoffbauer had discovered at Otterstone the night before
his death. Never having seen this copy, Oakburne, as

VOL. II. M

may be imagined, was a good deal struck by the sight of
the original.

I should not at all wonder, now, if that turned out to
be some ancestor of our young member's ! ' said Mr.
Simcox, knowingly, 'and it is very singular that, as he
comes from quite a different county, it should be found
here ! ' The schoolmaster, stirred by his discovery, spoke
like his old self, and his former air of dreamy wistfulness
changed to one of triumphant eagerness. ' I should like
you to ascertain that now, Mr. Oakburne,' said he, ' if
you will be so good, for I am sure Mr. Chessington
would like to hear of it.'

No doubt he will,' replied Wilfrid abstractedly. The
sight of this old register coming just after his interview
with Portal, raised a train of thought which made him
for some moments pre-occupied, and he scarcely heeded
the discourse which Mr. Simcox continued to pour into
his ear, as to other remarkable entries in the volume, its
interest to the antiquary, and so forth. He at last roused
himself sufficiently to congratulate the schoolmaster once
more on his discovery, and to ask him to make a copy
of this special certificate for him, and tg send it to him
at Lidfield. This the good man willingly agreed to do,
and Wilfrid, after he had gone with him to his daughter's
grave, returned home.

Mr. Simcox's discovery set him thinking a good deal,
and when he got back to London at the beginning of
the following week, he determined to consult Mr.
Throckmorton about it. The only conclusion he
himself could come to was that, though it appeared
to confirm the idea that Hoffbauer was the lineal
descendant of George Chessington, the death of
the former put an end to any further consequences

in the matter. He was, therefore, considerably-astonished
when his friend, after hearing his story, told
him that it by no means put an end to the matter at all,
but that, on the contrary, it appeared to him to raise
very serious issues. With his knowledge of the claims
of his late friend General Beechcroft, he speedily made
up his mind, as Walter Chessington and Portal had
already done, that Sybil Beechcroft was by this discovery
made the heiress of Otterstone.

But of course all this could only be proved by the
evidence of the documents showing Hoffbauer's descent,'
said he. ' Do you know what has become of them,
Wilfrid?'

Wilfrid was obliged to answer that he did not know;
that they certainly were not among the papers which the
dead man had left, and that he was unable to conjecture
what had become of them, unless Walter Chessington
had found them ; and then the two men looked at each
other significantly.

I am sure he would have told me if he had found
them,' said Oakburne sharply, and then he fell to staring
at the fire. He could not bear to think that he should
have. a share in doing an injury to Walter Chessington,
his friend, and Beatrice's husband. On the other hand,
however, was not this Miss Beechcroft the very girl
whom his brother Reginald had been attached to ? It
was a strange and unpleasant complication enough.

Of course, without these papers things remain as they
are,' said Mr. Throckmorton. * The only question is,
ought you to write to Chessington about them ? '

Wilfrid could not exactly see that he ought to write ;
at least it was not his business as far as he could judge.
Mr. Throckmorton thought that, in a way, it was his

duty to write. And then they argued the matter over
and ended, Hke most arguers do, in keeping their respective
opinions. The subject, as tending to lead to unpleasant
differences, was therefore for a time banished
by mutual consent from their talk, and Wilfrid continued
to feel great doubt and perplexity regarding it.

It will therefore be seen that the history and descent
of Theodore Hofifbauer, whom the reader will doubtless
have regarded as a rather disreputable character, was
destined to work great changes in the fortunes of most
highly respectable families, and that the discovery of his
grandmother's marriage certificate, coming as it did
through separate channels to two or three different people
at the same time, some of whom were ignorant of the
others' knowledge, created a considerable amount of
anxiety and division in their respective households. It
is partly in order to make this clear that the
facts given in this and in the preceding chapter have
been recorded. Had the narrator been writing a mere
romance, instead of editing a veracious history, it might
perhaps have been possible to have confined himself to
simply stating Walter Chessington's view on the subject ;
but then the reader would not have understood the
peculiar light in which Messrs. Portal, Throckmorton, and
Oakburne, regarded it, or how it even created a little
estrangement between the two latter.

The misunderstanding between Mr. Throckmorton and
his friend was suddenly put an end to by a letter,
which, much to his surprise, Wilfrid Oakburne received
from Walter Chessington, one morning towards the end
of November. The latter wrote, telling Oakburne
how the documents that he enclosed had been given
him by Hoffbauer ; how he had come to the conclusion,

after carefully studying them, that they completely
upset his own title to the property; and that,
if he was right in his surmises, it was his intention to
surrender it to Miss Beechcroft of Thornbury Grange, to
whom, as it seemed to him, the estate would now revert.
As he had learnt from Hoffbauer that Wilfrid had a full
knowledge of most of the details of the subject, he
would be much obliged if he would be so good as
to hand over the papers in question to his friend Mr.
Edward Throckmorton, Miss Beechcroft's legal guardian,
and explain to that gentleman such points in connection
with them as might require it. He had, he continued, sofar
presumed on Wilfrid's friendship as to write himself
to Mr. Throckmorton by the same post, telling him his
interests in the matter, and that he had begged Wilfrid
to consult him with regard to it, after which he hoped to
call on him in person. The letter then concluded with
a request to Wilfrid to come down at his earliest convenience
to Twickenham, where he and his wife were
renting a small house at No. 7 Ferry Cross Terrace.
We are quite alone, so please come without ceremony,
either to luncheon or dinner, as suits you best. But
above all, come as soon as you conveniently can, and
you will most exceedingly oblige, yours very sincerely,

Walter Chessington.'

Is it not an extraordinary thing?' said Wilfrid to Mr.
Throckmorton, as they were discussing the contents of
their letters. ' Imagine poor Hoffbauer having really been
the owner of Otterstone, unknown to anybody, and only
finding it out on the eve of his death ! '

Plenty of things just as strange have happened
replies the other.

I should have been inclined to doubt the plenty

myself, Mr. Throckmorton; but of course you ought to
know better than I do. But certainly the rarest and most
pleasing thing in the business is the noble way in which
Chessington has acted.'

Noble ? Well ! hum! I should call noble rather too
strong an epithet. Remember he is only doing his duty
after all, — an unpleasant duty, I grant you, — but still
only his bounden duty.'

I think you are rather stingy in your approval of
him !' cried Wilfrid, warmly. ' Remember what a
sacrifice this entails, not only on him, but on all
connected with him. If he had quietly destroyed this
copy of the marriage certificate, which no one could
have suspected, much less proved to be in his possession,
he would have done no great harm, for your ward, Miss
Beechcroft, knew nothing of all this, and is rich already.
I don't believe one in a hundred would have acted as he
has !'

What ! you at your age have so cynical an opinion of
your fellow-men ! I hope it will improve as you grow
older. I, for my part, have more faith in human nature,
and, though I own I think his conduct does your friend
great credit, I believe that five out of every ten would do
the same. I wonder how far Mrs. Chessington approves
of her husband's proceedings,' added he, rather slyly.

'Of course she approves,' said Wilfrid, decidedly. * At
least, I hope so, I'm sure,' he added, after a pause. ' He
says they are alone ; and I've no doubt all the rest
of the family disapprove. I sympathise thoroughly with
them !'

No doubt,' answered Mr. Throckmorton, drily.
'But for Heaven's sake, don't let us begin to discuss
Chessington's proceedings, or I shall be late at chambers.

Of course you will go and see him, and then you must
tell him that all this is horribly irregular, which he, as a
barrister, ought to have remembered.'

Irregular ! how do you mean ?'

I mean,' says Mr. Throckmorton, rising to make his
preparations, ' I mean my giving an opinion in this way,
on an important case in which I may be a party on the
opposite side, for of course Lord Ashleigh and his mother
and sister will have to fight this, in his interest. And
then he must know that this ought to come to me
through a solicitor I Dear me ! how many years is it
since I first gave an opinion as to this Otterstone case !'
and he took two or three turns up and down the room as
his wont was, when excited. ' But, of course, I understand
! Poor fellow, it is hard ! Lord Ashleigh, if I
know anything of him, will fight this tooth and nail. He
will be furious with his nephew.'

Do you know Lord Ashleigh, then ?' asked Wilfrid.
'Well, yes, I did, years ago,' answered the other.

He married a young Scotch girl, an heiress, to whom
your uncle, Edward Oakburne, my college friend, was
much attached, and, in a way engaged. I know she
returned his attachment, but her parents were opposed
to it, and wanted her to marry Lord Ashleigh, and his
title dazzled her, and she did. He spent all her money, —
he was a terrible gambler in those days, — and, never
having cared for her, neglected her. She said he ill-treated
her. Perhaps he did. Anyhow, she never had
loved him, and before two years were over she eloped
with your uncle,' and he went on to tell Wilfrid how
that difference, which he had once before spoken to him
of, between the latter and himself, had been on account
of his uncle's conduct throughout this matter. * He

was over-refined and sentimental, poor fellow ! He
first refused to interfere with what he considered a good
match for the girl, who trusted and believed in him
implicitly, and then, after she had married against her
better judgment, persuaded her to go off with him.
It pained me terribly. And they both died soon after,
utterly miserable. But it's an old story. I must be off.
I advise you to go down to Twickenham as soon as you
can find time.'

I shall go tomorrow,' replied the other, and the
next day he found himself enquiring the way to 7
Ferry Cross Terrace, from the Twickenham station.

As he rang at the bell of a narrow, red brick,
semi-detached villa, not far from the river, Wilfrid
could not help wondering why a wealthy young
member of Parliament, fond of society, should have
chosen such dreary winter quarters. Parliament
had been prorogued till the 14th of December, and any
member who had any powers of speaking, and many who
had very small powers indeed, were improving the opportunity
offered by the general uneasiness and depression
felt as to the prospects and management of the war, to
denounce or defend the Government to constituents
who were everywhere eager to listen and applaud.
The Times was daily exposing the shortcomings of
various branches of army organization, and the lamentable
state of things in general, while the nation listened with
sorrowful anxiety. Why then had Walter Chessington
failed, — and Ethel had written to her brother that he
had done so, — why had he failed to meet his constituents
as other members of the legislature were doing ? Why,
instead of being at Lidfield, had he retired with his wife

to the quietest part of one of the quietest suburbs of
London? Unless, indeed, .

she was not long kept waiting for an answer to satisfy
his curiosity. His friends, who received him very kindly,
were evidently very glad to see him, but it was soon
made clear to him that it was not merely for the pleasure
of his society that they had invited him to come down.
Little by little, hints were dropped, and suggestions given,
and at last Wilfrid was told plainly the reason why Mr.
and Mrs. Chessington had taken up their residence at
Twickenham.

We have been fighting a series of battles at Otter-stone,
Mr. Oakburne,' began the lady, with a glance at
her husband.

Yes, Oakburne,' said the other nervously. ' We have
been at war on this matter of Hoffbauer's claims with
regard to which I wrote to you. The house has been
divided into two camps, and, as my wife tells you, there
have been a series of battles. There was one terrible
engagement.'

'A regular Inkermann, wasn't it, Walter?'
Yes, as Beatrice says, a regular Inkermann ! with
plenty of killed and wounded on both sides, and rather
a doubtful result. And after that it seemed good to
Caesar to lead the army into winter quarters at Twickenham.'


Yes ; but we were victorious. We had our own way :
you know we had Walter,' cries the army triumphantly,
and with a decision that made Oakburne wonder whether
the army did not lead Caesar sometimes, when that
general felt undecided as to his manoeuvres. ' We have
won the battle, and done what we think right. But it
has worried him terribly, poor dear fellow, — much more

than it has me. Tell him all about it, Walter.' And
then Chessington told his friend what had occurred.

Walter Chessington, who had imagined that he was
pretty well acquainted with his mother's disposition, had
been astonished, and almost dismayed, by the unexpected
show of spirit that lady Adela displayed on being informed
of his intentions to surrender the Otterstone property.
Naturally the best tempered and most easy going of
women, and the fondest and most indulgent of mothers,
the idea of her son making over his rights to Sybil
Beechcroft, roused in her a display of angry energy that
fairly startled her family. At Otterstone she had spent
the happiest part of her life, there had been born to
her the children whose growth she had so tenderly
watched, there the husband she so loved had died.
The inhabitants of the village, many of whom she had befriended
in their troubles, the numerous families in the
county with whom she had been on more or less intimate
terms of friendship all her life, and the little round of
quiet social duties which bound her to each, had all
grown to form part of her existence. To be severed
from this life of hers, and from these dear familiar
scenes, would be a blow which would kill her. A blow
which it would be a wicked, cruel act to deal. So she
told her son most frankly, with bitter tears and passionate
upbraiding. Had he no thought for her or for his sister?
The latter felt all this in her way equally strongly, for
Catherine's deepest affections were, as has been said,
centered in her home and home-life ; but, keen as was
the pang, and bitter as were the tears that she shed on
hearing Walter's resolve, her nature was scarcely capable
of feeling the anger that it roused in her mother, and,
in her heart of hearts, she believed that her brother was



acting rightly, a conviction which, though it did not
lessen her personal sorrow, made her slow to blame him.
Lady Adela, however, could not, or would not, see any
right in the matter, and after denouncing his project as
unjust, insane, and wickedly selfish, and administering a
lecture to Walter and his wife, that took them both entirely
by surprise, she wrote off to her brother and chief
counsellor. Lord Ashleigh, to come at once to her aid,
and help her ' to save her poor misguided boy from ruining

them all.'

Lord Ashleigh, who had of course left Homburg by
this time and was recruiting himself in Paris before returning
to his ancestral property, lost no time in obeying
her summons, and it may be imagined that, if Mr. and
Mrs. Walter Chessington had heard their cause abused
by their mother, they had to listen to far more bitter
diatribes against it from their uncle. Reasoning, sarcasm,
and even at last vituperation, every possible means that
could be brought to bear, in order to change the resolve
of this foolish young couple, was in turn made use of by
that shrewd advocate. Walter had his property under a
perfectly sound legal title. Lord Ashleigh maintained,
and if anyone was rash enough to try and upset it the
onus of proof lay on him. As for the documents he
didn't believe in half of them — in any of them. They
were probably, nay undoubtedly they must be all forgeries.
And then ! who was this grand sacrifice to benefit ?
Why ! bless my soul ! a young heiress ! a girl who has
more than she knows what to do with, by Jove ! And
you want to turn your poor dear mother and sister, and
your young wife, — rebellious little monkey that she is ! —
and your future family too, yes, you must remember
that, Walter ! — you want, I say, to turn them all out of

the home they've lived in all their lives, to subject them
to want and misery, not for any poor starving wretch, —
there'd be some meaning in that! — but for the sake of a
young single woman rolling in wealth ! I tell you it's
iniquitous ! monstrous ! Not to be thought of for an instant
! '

When Walter still remained unmoved by such speeches,
Lord Ashleigh, in real alarm, called in Mr. Elkfield as
an ally, and begged him to try and use his influence over
his daughter and son-in-law, to dissuade them from their
madness.' All the efforts of the latter, however, as well
as those which his wife made at his command, proved
equally unavailing. Walter, still as politely obstinate as
ever, and beginning to get a little wroth with his antagonists,
one day announced that he was going to put himself
into communication with Mr. Throckmorton, and
then what Beatrice called the ' battle of Inkerman ' had
taken place.

As the young madman,' said Mr. Elkfield, the morning
after Walter had stated this intention, ' as the young
madman, — I beg your pardon, Lady Adela, but it is acting
like a madman, — as he insists on doing this, the only
way I can see is to stop the pocket money. He can't
touch my daughter's money because of the settlements,
d'ye see, and if his lordship here and me both give him
to understand that he won't get a penny from either of
us, he'll have less than a beggarly three hundred a year,
because all the rest is drawn from the Otterstone property,
which he can't touch, according to his notions. Once
make them see that clearly, and we'll soon bring them
on their knees ! eh. Lady Adela ? As for Beatrice, she
was always saucy and wilful from a child ! '

Lady Adela and her brother both owned that the idea

was a good one, and it was agreed that Lord Ashleigh
should tell Walter of the decision they had come to without
delay, ' for,' said Mr. Elkfield, ' he doesn't look tome
with as much regard as he ought ; but he has always
thought a deal of his lordship's opinion.'

We where on the terrace one morning together,' said
Walter when my uncle expressed a hope that I had
changed my mind about this business of Hoffbauer's. " '

I have not changed it in the smallest degree,' said I.
'I thought I had told you yesterday, that I am going to
write to Mr. Throckmorton.'

Then my uncle " let me have it," as they say in racing
lingo. He dwelt for the hundredth time on the sentimental
side of the thing, " giving up the the old place,"
tearing away your mother and sister from their old
home," " the cowardice of surrender " and so on ; all of
which considerations I need hardly say, have caused mea
very great deal of pain and anxiety. I told him so
plainly, and that I felt them quite as much, if not more
than anyone, but that I considered my duty, my sense of
honour, paramount to everything else. " I feel bound,"
I said, " to surrender to its rightful owners what has never
belonged to me." That made him very angry. "Avery
well, Walter," said he, " it is my duty to tell you in that
case that you can expect no help from me or from your
father-inlaw He has begged me to tell you so. You
will have to maintain your wife and family on the beggarly
pittance which belongs to you after surrendering this place,
you know well enough what it is ! If you choose to
starve on that, and to make your mother and sister starve
with you, it is your own look out. I will be no party toit,
and you must take the consequence of your wicked
folly." '

I told him I was fully prepared to do so, and then
his wrath fairly boiled over. "You are an obstinate,
sentimental, young fool, Walter," he was pleased to say.
I have been thinking, and working, and saving money
for you, boy this last ten years ! And this is my reward.
So be it ! You choose to dishonour your name, and
surrender your ancestral rights for a scruple that even a
school girl would be ashamed of confessing, to her bosom
friend ; you, by Jove ! who have brains, and a good headpiece
of your own ! Let it be so. It severs the connection
between us. I shall fight this matter to the last penny
for your poor mother's sake, and, what is more, I shall
win and make you ridiculous in the eyes of the world.
Henceforth you may sink or swim as you please. You
know how I have denied myself for you, but now every
• penny I can save, will go to your cousin Vere Cutlerham,
who will inherit the title ! Expect not a farthing from
me." '

Then Walter told him that the money ought certainly
to go with the title, and that he was pleased to think that
both would pass to one whom Lord Ashleigh so much
esteemed,' interposed Beatrice. 'You know his uncle
always hated all the Cutlerhams, and never liked Lady
Cutlerham, his sister. He used always to call Vere, the
son, "that horrid little cad." Imagine how angry he
must have been to say that, Mr. Oakburne ! You know
he has always been very fond of Walter.'

I said something to that effect,' went on Chessington,
'and I told him that he need not fear I should ever
trouble him. Then, — for I too had worked myself into a
great rage, — I "added that I would no longer consent to be
lectured by him, and that it was my intention at once to
leave Otterstone ; that he and the others might remain if

they pleased, but that I would stop no longer under the
roof that did not belong to me. My poor uncle was very
much moved. I must do him the justice to say that he
has always been most generous and kind to me. But we
were both in a rage, that's the truth. I had never
seriously thought of going before, but, on consideration,
I thought it was the best thing to do. There was another
scene, a tremendous one, in which my mother, — both
our mothers, — took part, and my uncle Giles and Mr.
Elkfield came in to back them up. You can imagine
the tears and objurgations ! However, it ended in our
sticking to our plan and here we are. I am no longer
owner of Otterstone, but only a briefless barrister with
very little to live on.'

Poor Walter gave a great sigh, and went and gazed
from the window at the other end of the room, on the
dreary little street where the lamps just lighted glimmered
through the fog, and on the grey strip of river which was
just visible beyond the dark meadow at the corner. No
doubt his thoughts were in keeping with the melancholy
prospect.

You can think what a trial it has been to him,' said
Beatrice, in a low tone, to Oakburne, sitting by the fire.
Think of all he has had to give up. He has resigned
his seat. Yes. Of course he has. Why, you know we
have only three hundred a year to live upon, and are
working for our bread. I don't think many men would
do that,' she whispered, her bright eyes moist, and
glittering in the firelight. ' I ought not to boast, but I
don't believe there are many men who would do what
my husband has done.'

'Not one in a hundred,' answered Oakburne, fervently,
and indeed he believed it, and felt a great admiration and

fresh liking for his friend. ' Not one in a thousand,' he
repeated. At any rate, it was clear that Walter had
a willing coadjutor, and that the pair were, in that way,
happy on account of their somewhat quixotic self-sacrifice.
It was plain that misfortune had drawn them much
closer together, and Wilfrid felt glad to think it was so.
And what view does Miss Chessington take?' he asked.

Poor Catherine ! she has a very sad trial to bear,'
said Beatrice. ' My sister-in-law believes that Walter is
right, and yet, of course, she is passionately devoted to
the dear old place, and naturally cannot think of leaving
poor Lady Adela. So there she is cut off from us. Weare
in exile, Walter and I. You are really the first
creature we have seen for the last week in the shape of a
friend. None of our relations, as you can suppose, come
near us. 'We are put in the corner like naughty
children !' and she laughed merrily at the idea. It was
plain that Mrs. Chessington was by no means overwhelmed
with sorrow at the situation.

Yes ! and we shall have to eat our Christmas dinners
in cumberland, like Horner of classical memory,' says
Walter, coming back to the fireplace with a rueful smile.
Wilfrid could see how pained and worried he had been
by all that had occurred, and heartily sympathised with
him. ' You must come and help us to get through the
feast if you are in London, Oakburne,' he continued.
And what is more, you must stay and dine now, and
tell us all about what Throckmorton said.'

Wilfrid gladly consented, and then proceeded to tell
them of his interview with Mr. Simcox, and how the
latter had discovered the old parish register in Rolhill
Church, a circumstance which naturally interested them
a good deal, though, so far as Chessington was concerned.

the knowledge had ceased to be important. Then,
having talked over Mr. Throckmorton's advice, and
arranged that Walter should call on him, they fell to discussing
the latter's plans for gaining a livelihood. He
did not expect to get many briefs at first, and had been
trying his hand at literature. Beatrice felt sure that her
husband would make a great deal by his pen, by his
literary talents. Mr. Oakburne knew a good many
literary people, she was sure ! Could he help them ?
And Wilfrid, mindful of Beverley Chipps and Throck-
morton, said he thought he could, and promised at all
events to do his best. Then they found themselves unconsciously
gliding into talk about Otterstone, and reminiscences
of the happy time they had spent in the
autumn. How Fowler was now engaged to Miss ';
how Mr. Sprott had made a very sensible
speech in the House against the Government ; and how
Lady Cynthia Rowancourt had taken quite a fancy to
Wilfrid, which, really, if she was younger, would be, etc.,
etc., etc. They recalled the sport, the rides, the picnics,
and the various incidents of that pleasant period,
till some chance allusion reminded them that a time
must soon come when they would no more care to dwell
on these recollections, and a chill silence fell upon the
trio that seemed to rob the bright fire of half its cheerfulness.


Dear old place ! It's hard to think of ! ' said Walter,
and for a moment the tears rose unbidden in his eyes,
as he thought of all that he was renouncing.

The greater the sorrow, the greater the glory of the
sacrifice ! ' said his wife, laying a hand on his. And then
she turned the conversation to Lidfield and its gossip,

VOL. II. N

till Oakburne, finding it was time to return to London,
bid his friends a hearty farewell, feeling that he liked
them both better than he had ever done before.

CHAPTER XIII.

A Meeting that tuas not all a merry one.

Men must die — one dies by day, and near him moans his mother,
They dig his grave, tread it down, and go from it full loth :

And one dies about the midnight, and the wind moans, and no other,
And the snow gives him a burial — and God loves them both.

—Jean Angelo.

A Lady with a Lamp shall stand.
In the great history of the land,

A noble type of good,

Heroic womanhood.

Nor even shall be wanting here
The palm, the lily, and the spear,

The symbols that of yore

Saint FiloFiena bore.

Longfellow.

T was the middle of November, before the ship
that bore Major Cope and his fellow sufferers,
reached Scutari. Those who survived the horrors
of that voyage never afterwards recalled them, without a
shudder, though, — to England's shame be it recorded, —
they were horrors which nearly all wounded soldiers who
were conveyed from the port of Balaklava to the Bosphorus
had to endure. While the officers, in virtue of
their rank, got slightly better accommodation, the men with

maimed limbs and fresh gaping wounds, were packed side
by side on or between the decks, without beds, and in
some cases, without even a blanket beneath them. Three
or four overworked surgeons, strove to carry out the herculean
task of tending some three hundred helpless sick,
endeavouring to make up by unceasing labour for their
own inadequate numbers, and the absence of proper
supplies of medicine; while eight or ten invalided soldiers,
quite unequal to their duties, but assisted in every possible
way, by the officers, crew, and passengers, of the ship,
administered to these victims of war and official mismanagement,
the salt meat which formed the sailors
rations, — the only food available, — together with such
scanty supply of water as could be procured. Cope and
those with him were, indeed, more fortunate than the
wounded transported on board the 'Mauritius,' which
was despatched from Balaklava Harbour, almost wholly
unprovided with stores, who would have died from
neglect had it not been for an invalided colonel, the sailors
of the ship, and some soldiers' wives. But though it kept
those who could eat it from starving, a diet of salt meat,
ship's biscuit, and insufficient water is not calculated to
improve the health of those who are at death's door.
One poor fellow succumbed to his miseries, some five
days after they had left the Russian coast, and Major
Cope suffered so severely from similar causes that, when
the vessel anchored in the Bosphorus on the tenth day of
their voyage, he felt that had it continued two days longer
he must have shared a similar fate.

The day was clear, fine, and still. The light of
the early morning sun shone full upon the splendours of
the fair city of Constantine, and the tabled summits of
the mountains beyond. As Cope gazed on the hills and

the cypress groves, on the spires, domes, towers, and
battlemented walls washed by the blue waters, all
brightened and gilded by that glorious light, a sudden
pang of sorrow mingled with his keen joy, — a warning
thought that he and many of those with him would not
long be able to rejoice in God's fair earth and sky.

It was not, however, Tambour, with its wealth of historical
associations, but the less renowned suburb of Scutari
opposite to it on the Asiatic coast which was the destination
of Cope and his companions, and the ' golden
city,' in which the Persians established their treasuries
when they attempted the conquest of Greece, is better
known to Englishmen through its hospitals and cemeteries
than its palaces, gardens, and famous marts and bazaars.
The morning wore on, and still no boats appeared to
transport the shipload of wounded men to the shore.
Noon gave place to afternoon, and afternoon to evening,
but still they did not arrive, till at length a message came
from the shore to explain that all that were available had
been appropriated to the shipment of troops for the
Crimea. There was nothing for the unfortunate
sufferers but to wait patiently, and thus, anchored within
a quarter of a mile of the landing place, they were
able to contemplate at their leisure the beauties of the
scene, and the huge block of buildings forming the
Barrack Hospital, which stood on the cliffs opposite, and
which was to be the destination of many of them. To
one at least, however, the delay proved fatal. During the
day a chill wind sprung up which brought back an attack
of the fever from which Major Cope had been suffering,
and the night found him in a high state of delirium. The
patient was not much better next morning, and he was
scarcely conscious when at length the wished-for boats

came alongside, and conveyed him and his companions
in misfortune, by batches, to the wretched pier, which
served as a place of debarkation. There they found the
hospital attendants awaiting them. Such as could not
walk, among whom of course was poor Cope, were placed
on mattresses; those who could, followed as they were
best able, the stronger helping their weaker comrades,
and the sad procession of maimed, bruised, and bandaged
men, some stricken unto death, wound its way slowly up
the steep, a Roman Catholic priest walking among them
to offer his consolations to such as belonged to his
church.

Five hospitals had at this time been assigned to the
British troops ; — the General Hospital, two floating
Hospitals, the Naval Hospital, and the Barrack Hospital.
The latter of these, which was by far the most extensive, —
being, as the name implies, a portion of the barracks, —
was a large building enclosing a square court. Each
floor consisted of a corridor, with doors at intervals opening
into large wards, the sick and wounded private
soldiers being placed in rows along the corridors, while
for the officers, accommodation was provided in some
of the wards, others of which were fitted up as dispensaries,
store rooms, and the like. A tower at one end of the
hospital had been assigned to Miss Nightingale and her
sister nurses. Of the apartments in this building some
were set aside for sleeping and eating purposes, and
one large one was used as a kitchen and store room,
while another was devoted to the meetings presided over
by Miss Nightingale, at which measures were arranged
for providing for the daily wants of the various hospitals.
From this head-quarters did the little band of devoted
women, to which Sybil Beechcroft had attached herself.

organise all those beneficent schemes by which the condition
of their poor suffering charges was alleviated.
Here were received those gifts which the generosity of
the British nation sent forth so lavishly to aid its wounded
soldiers, and hence were dispensed the medicines and
comforts for the sick, and the articles of clothing of
which the feeble, gaunt, ragged, half-starved men
consigned to their care, arrived so deplorably destitute.
Here did they devise how best to overcome the thousand
obstacles which official blundering and routine had
opposed in the way of any decent treatment of our
wounded. Here, aided by Mr. Osborne, by Mr. Stafford,
by Mr. Macdonald, the almoner of The Times fund,
and a few other gentlemen who had devoted themselves
to the good work, did they plan their campaign against
misery, disease, and death ; sending hence to the government
and friends at home those letters, — the despatches
of this little army of Good Samaritans, — which told the
people of Great Britain how deplorable was the condition
of that portion of their troops who had been struck
down while fighting their battles, and which roused in
response such a wonderful outpouring of sympathy and
practical benevolence. In later times we have grown
used to the spectacle of charity working side by side
with fire and slaughter, but in those days it was new tous,
— the dawn of a fresh era in the long history of human
warfare. Surely it is among the most signal of England's
glories, and one of the most striking of the fruits of
Christianity, that such a General and staff should thus,
scarce noticed by the world, have been fighting against
the evils of war on the shores of the Bosphorus, while
those other armies on which the eyes of Europe were

fixed, were doing their work of destruction on the
Crimean heights. :;

It was to the Barrack Hospital that Major Cope was
conveyed, wracked with pain from wounds which the
voyage had aggravated, burning with fever, and scarcely
conscious. He did not heed the lanes of wounded men
through which he was carried, the moans of suffering, the
distorted countenances of some, the dull, fixed, hopeless
expression on the pale faces of others. He did not note
the doctors and the sisterhood of nurses passing from bed
to bed, and doing their work of mercy. He was all
unconscious, like the great part of that assemblage of
wounded and dying men, of the lady who, in the silence
of the night, passed, lamp in hand, from corridor to
corridor and from ward to ward, through those 
miles of stricken, helpless humanity, noting what
duties had been left undone, where comforts had been
neglected to be given, or remedies had been left untried,
Miss Florence Nightingale thus fitly ending her day of
ceaseless labours.

To all such things as these poor Cope was oblivious
as, with frequent paroxysms of delirium, he lay for two
days on his rough couch conscious of nought but pain.
Then, on the morning of the third day, the fever suddenly
abated, and he awoke to find Sybil Beechcroft standing
by his bedside.

His illness had left him so prostrate that his mind had
scarcely power to wonder at anything. He half thought
he must be dreaming as he watched the woman whom he
had loved so well, and whom but a few months back he
had asked for a second time to be his wife. Where could
he be ? What was he doing here ? In a faint voice of
surprise he uttered her name, as he mechanically took

the cup she offered him. He saw her smile a tearful look
of recognition, and knew that she said, ' you will soon
be better now.' He tried to answer, to ask an explanation,
but his strength failed him. He sank back and
again became unconscious. When he next came to himself
he felt wonderfully clearer and more at ease, but he
knew quite surely that he was dying. He lay quiet fora
time full of sad and solemn thoughts, but still with the
idea of the unaccountable fact of Sybil Beechcroft's presence
there uppermost in his mind, till at last he was
aroused by becoming aware that the doctor, who was
feeling his pulse, was scrutinising him keenly with a look
of pity in his eyes, of which he at once read the meaning.

Doctor,' asked he in a voice now reduced to a whisper.
'Tell me, have I any chance?'

The doctor shook his head sadly, and Cope was for a
moment silenced by the awful announcement, as a
thousand remembrances of the past mingled with that
indescribable fear of death which the bravest must
experience. Then he managed to gather strength again
to ask to be allowed to speak to Miss Beechcroft.

Miss Beechcroft ! ' answered the doctor in some
surprise. ' Oh yes ! certainly ! I will tell her.' He gave
him a draught of some cordial, and then rose and went
hurriedly to fetch her. Doctors and nurses had never
much time to spare in the Scutari Hospitals.

The noonday sun was streaming into the room, and he
lay dreamily watching the light that fell on the stone
arch of the doorway, and the changing tints that it painted
on the rough blocks, discoloured by damp and time.
There was a low murmur of sound throughout the room.
Such as had the heart and the strength were chatting to
each other, some were reading, others like himself were

lying motionless lazily watching and listening, while
doctors and nurses engaged over their work were passing
and repassing. He began to realise where he was, and
to notice the prostrate forms on either side of him. He
tried to raise himself and look around, but the effort
brought on such a spasm of pain that he sank back
groaning and dizzy ; and then the awful feeling came over
him that he should never have strength to rise again.
For a time he lay quite overcome, but gradually his
faculties became clearer, and he was able to determine
with himself what he wanted to say to Sybil Beechcroft.
As he was thus meditating, his mind full the while of such
thoughts as rise in a dying man's heart, some half dozen
orderlies passed through the room bearing something on
a stretcher. It was a burial party, but none seemed to
heed it. Two sick men at the further end of the ward
went on with their conversation without in the least
noticing it, though it brushed past close to them, and a
sister, who was reading to another patient not far off,
and who had to shift her place slightly, scarcely interrupted
herself, and resumed in an unaltered tone immediately.
The incident was so common throughout the day that it
excited scarce any attention. It was, however, the first
time that Cope had seen it, and a sigh of hopeless grief
escaped him as he turned his face to the pillow. In a
short time a well known voice aroused him, and he saw
that Miss Beechcroft had come and was sitting beside
him.

She said a few words of kindly greeting with a great
but perceptible effort to control her agitation, and then
tried to cheer him by telling him how it was that she had
come there, and all that was being done in the hospitals
and at home for the cause of the wounded.

You will soon get well and strong again now,' she
repeated.

Cope shook his head. * The doctor has told me,' said he.
His voice was so low that she had to bend down to
catch the words. ' 1 know now,' he continued, ' and I
felt it directly when I first came to myself. I want to
say goodbye, Sybil, as we have known each other so well.'

No, no ! not goodbye !' she replied, with tears in her
eyes.

Yes, it is so, Sybil. The doctor has told me, and I
know it. I wanted to tell you,' he resumed, after a
painful pause. * I wanted to tell you one thing before I
die. Poor Reginald Oakburne is in the Crimea. I met
him, dear old fellow ! You know what friends we have
been ! Sybil, I know he loves you still, and that you
used to care for him before they made mischief between
you in India. Promise me to forgive him.'

Poor Sybil was too startled, and too deeply moved to
reply, save by a pressure of the hand.

You will, I know. Don't believe what they told
you. It was all untrue. I never had a better friend,
and you don't know how true he has been to
you. I can't say more now,' and his breathing became
painfully laboured. ' Bid him goodbye for me — and,
send this, please, this watch to them at home, to my
mother, and my other things. . . . God bless you,
Sybil !' and he sank back utterly exhausted, while Sybil,
no longer able to control her tears, whispered that she
would do all he wished. He gave a sigh of relief and
closed his eyes. The effort to speak had exhausted the
little strength that remained to him. In a few moments
he became unconscious, and when the doctor shortly
after returned to him he was dead,

'I thought he would have lasted till this evening,'
said the latter coolly, half to himself ; he had naturally
grown somewhat callous to the sight of death. Then his
glance fell on poor Sybil, sitting half stupefied by the
dead man's bed, and the sight of her grief stirred a pity
in him which that of the"poor lifeless form before him
had failed to awaken. He saw at once that she had
known this dead officer in old times. 'Miss Beechcroft,'
said he, kindly, ' You had better come away and rest a
little. You are overtaxing your strength, and we can't
afford to let you do that,' and he led her to the room to
which the sisters used to retire for rest and refreshment.

That afternoon the remains of poor Major Cope were
borne to the cemetery where the British officers who fell
in the Crimea are laid in resting-places more pleasing to
the fancy of the fastidious than those of the nameless
rank and file who lie buried together in large graves not
far from* the hospitals, or of such as with still less
ceremony were cast into huge pits on the field of battle.

Miss Beechcroft's strength had already been impaired
by the unwonted strain upon it, but hitherto she had
borne up bravely enough, scarce conscious of the severe
tax on her powers. Though, as was natural, more than
one of the little band of sisters had begun to show signs
of undermined health, she had still managed hitherto to
perform her duties with, outwardly, unimpaired zeal and
efficiency. The shock of her meeting with Major
Cope, and the pain of witnessing his death, combined
with the tidings he had given her respecting
his friend, now began however, to tell seriously
upon her health. Ever since they parted, she had not
ceased to blame herself for her conduct to Reginald

Oakburne, and had secretly longed to see him and ask
his forgiveness ; and now she knew that any ship might
bring him wounded to the pier on the shore below,
perhaps but to die as his friend had died within these
very walls. Tight he not be here even now in one of
the other hospitals ? Or, saddest thought of all, might
he not be lying buried on the Crimean heights, or herein
Scutari, and she know nothing of it? Every fresh
arrival of wounded men filled her with dread, and as she
did her work in the hospitals a vague fear was ever at
her heart, lest she should suddenly come on that well
remembered face, perhaps distorted with pain, perhaps
unconscious, perhaps borne by her with its eyes closed
in death. Longing for news, and yet dreading it, she
felt that her duties were her only solace, and devoted
herself more earnestly to them than ever; but let her
work as hard as she would, she could not banish the
thoughts that haunted her. Day by day her cheek grew
paler and thinner, her step less elastic, her spirits more
depressed, till her fellow nurses and the doctors began to
glance at her with secret pity, and whisper to each other
that Miss Beechcroft would be the next to give way.
But Sybil had a high spirit, and resolved that she would
never give way. It was as well, after all, to die here, —
doing her duty, feeling that she was doing good, — as
anywhere else. She persevered doggedly in spite of the
kindly remonstrances of those around her, and got daily
weaker and less fitted for her task, till one morning,
towards the middle of December, a letter reached her
from Mr. Throckmorton, telling her of her claims to the
Otterstone property, and that she ought either to come
home as soon as she felt at liberty to do so, or at least

tell him what course she would like him to take in the
matter.

Everyone was now beginning, as usual, to look forward
to the approach of Christmas, but that season of peace
and goodwill promised to bring no change in the attitude
of the belligerents in the Crimea, where things had been
going from bad to worse. The terrible hurricane of the
14th November had wrought ruin and confusion throughout
the camps and the fleets of the allies, wrecking
vessels, overturning tents, unroofing huts, and scattering
their contents to the winds. After the battle of
Inkermann hostilities were confined to mere encounters
of outposts, and by the latter end of November
the siege had been practically suspended. Correspondents
reported that the army was without rest,
shelter, or warm clothing. Rain fell unceasingly till the
trenches resembled canals, water a foot deep stood in the
tents, and the camp was a sea of mud. Food became
scarce, the roads impassable, and the confusion and
horrors in the town of Balaklava, — where stores of food
for men, and fodder for horses, lay rotting in the mud
because they could not be taken to the camp, — increased
daily. The few horses that remained available for service
were feeble and covered with sores ; the ambulance
waggons had nearly all broken down; among the 12,000
effective British troops there was by the middle of December
scarcely one sound garment; and fever, dysentery,
and diarrhoea, were rife throughout the camp. Such were
the tidings which Sybil and her companions at Scutari
heard week after week, while the number of wounded
and sick continued to increase alarmingly. By the end
of January there were 5000 at the camp, and 6000 at
Scutari, at which ship loads continued to arrive weekly

till the hospitals were crowded to the very doors and
preparations had to be made for fitting up the cavalry
stables near the Barrack Hospital, and the open space in
the Square, to furnish additional accommodation. The
work therefore to which she had fled as a distraction from
her sorrows was supplied to Miss Beechcroft in abundance,
but the gloomy atmosphere of the hospitals was scarcely
calculated to act beneficially on either her mind or body.
On the morning when Mr. Throckmorton's communication
reached her she had, during the early part of the
day, felt very faint and depressed, and it was while she
was taking a few moments rest that the letter was given
to her. Her first feeling as she perused it was one of
utter bewilderment and dismay. No idea of becoming
the possessor of Otterstone had ever entered her brain.
She might indeed as a child have heard her father and
mother talking of their claim to the property, but
she had always been given to understand that
they had long since relinquished all idea of pressing it.
The thought of suddenly becoming the owner of a large
estate, with its manifold responsibilities, frightened her.
She had quite sufficient for her needs, too much indeed,
already. What good could this additional wealth be to
her ? All that she wanted just now was rest, that this
weary problem of life should be solved for ever. She
felt peevishly angry with Mr. Throckmorton for having
thrust this additional burden upon her. He had a
hobby, she knew, about Otterstone, which she had heard
her father even, — who, of course, might have been excused
for strong feeling on the subject, — laugh at, and chaff
him about. Why could not Mr. Throckmorton leave
her in peace ? She found herself altogether so upset by
the news, and so ill, that she resolved to walk out for a

little. The day was tolerably fine, and she determined
that lie would walk up to the cemetery, which was but a
short distance from the hospital. The burial parties did
not begin their melancholy duties till the afternoon.
The place was quiet, and was on the heights above the
sea ; the air and the fine view would do her good, and
she would also have an opportunity, as she had often
wished, of visiting Major Cope's grave. So she set off,
trying on the ■vyay to make up her mind as to how she
should answer Mr. Throckmorton's proposals.

She felt horribly perplexed. To go home now would
be like flying from duty, and she had made up her mind
not to give in. On the other hand, what could she say
to Mr. Throckmorton? It seemed very hard to take
this property from the Chessingtons, who had had it all
their fives, and to give it to her, who did not in the least
desire it. Though she had never known them personally,
she had always heard that Lady Adela, — who had been
in former days a friend of her aunt, Lady Felsparley's, —
and Miss Chessington, were very popular in the county,
and had the reputation of being very kind to the poor in
their neighbourhood; and she knew that Walter Chessington
had lately married. She remembered how, when
quite a girl, barely sixteen, she had met the latter, then
not quite of age, at a large archery meeting ; how he had
began to talk to her, and that she had liked him ; and
that then her father had suddenly come up and said, very
angrily, 'you must not speak to that man.' Then he had
told her afterwards that their family had been deeply
wronged by the Chessingtons, which had naturally made
her rather indignant, and quite satisfied to obey his command
in the matter. Ah ! if he were only alive to help
and advise her ! How different all would be then. He

would have been overjoyed at this news; but to her,
what was it ? What ought she to do ? What would her
father have wished her to do ?

She had reached the Cemetery, and walking to the
extreme verge of the cliff, looked down on to the
deep waters of the Bosphorus. Oh for some friend
to counsel her ! A friend ! Poor major Cope ! he
had been a true friend to her. Her heart smote her
that she had not before come to visit his last resting-place,
and she turned and sought among the recent
graves till she found the tablet that bore his name.
Her eyes filled with tears as she recalled his generosity,
his chivalrous devotion to her, and his sad fate. To die
thus, after a lingering illness, from wounds and disease,
and to be buried in a foreign land far from his home, and
those nearest and dearest to him, it was a sad lot ! How
forbearing and generous he had been with her ! She
felt she had never realized till now how good he had
been She felt utterly lonely and helpless, and, going a
little way from the grave, she sat down, and, hiding her
face in her hands, gave way to a passion of tears. The
breeze rustled through the tall, graceful, cypress trees that
half darkened with their black shadows the green graves
on which the changing sunlight fell, the sea below was
dashing in little waves on the beach, and opposite to her
lay the beautiful city of Tambour ; but Sybil sat there
weeping, with bowed head, heedless of the beauty
around her, ill, heart-broken, and weary of her life.

She may have remained thus some five minutes when,
glancing around, she was startled to see a man standing
by the grave she had just left. He was evidently
engrossed in his own thoughts, and had not seen her,
but something in his half-averted face and figure caused

VOL. II. O

Miss Beechcroft to start to her feet with a strange feeling
of mingled hope and anxiety. As she did so, the man
turned, and for the first time perceived her. With a
sudden exclamation of surprise he strode hurriedly
towards her. His pale, thin face was half hidden by a
bushy black beard, his tall figure, though still retaining
the upright military carriage, was gaunt and wasted ; butin
spite of the changes wrought by time, trial, and illness,
she recognized him at once.

'Reginald!' she cried, turning to him with outstretched
hands. ' Thank God ! Then, you are still alive !'

Sybil ! Miss Beechcroft !' he exclaimed, in a husky
voice. 'Is it really you! How, in the name of Heaven,
came you here?' and he grasped the little hands extended
to him, and stood gazing at her with delight and
astonishment in his eyes. ' Sybil, I thought we should
never meet again !'

'Yes!' answered Miss Beechcroft, hath erinconsequently,
with a blush overspreading her pale face. ' I am glad to
see you again, alive and well, Mr. Oakburne I' and she
suddenly drew back.

All is so terribly uncertain here for — for us now.
I — I came here because it is quiet, and I wanted to
see his grave,' she continued in a faltering voice,
pointing to the wooden tablet beneath the cypress tree,
by which Oakburne had been standing.

You knew he was buried here, then ?' cried Oak-burnt,
with a quick glance.

I was with him when he died,' replied she, sadly.
He died in the Hospital where I am helping to nurse
the wounded.'

Sybil !' cried her lover, the momentary cloud which
had passed over his face, changing to a look of fond

admiration. * Are you one of those who are with Miss
Nightingale, then ?'

Yes,' answered she gravely. ' That is how I came to
be with him then. He spoke of you very affectionately,
and told me where you were. Almost his last words
were to ask me to bid you goodbye from him, poor
fellow!'

God forgive me ! I had forgotten him for the
moment,' cried he with deep emotion. ' He was my
best and dearest friend, God bless him ! But Sybil,
do not think me unfeeling because I thus seem to
forget. He had told me of you, had given me, I
hardly know why, new hope. I have never ceased
to think of you since we parted in India so miserably ! —
I have tried but I never could ! I have been wounded
and ill too. There was a time when I thought I should
never recover — but, I have never forgotten. And now
when I meet you thus, after all these years, — how can I
help it ? I can't think of anything else till I know if you
can forgive me. Sybil, can you forgive me ?'

Forgive you !' cried Sybil with a sob. ' It's you to
forgive ! ' and the next moment she was weeping on his
breast.

It was with very solemn feelings that this pair of
reconciled lovers stood awhile by the grave of the dear
friend, with whom they had been so much associated
during their whole intercourse, and to whom Heaven had
allotted a fate apparently so hard when contrasted with
their own; and then, full of tender, regretful remembrances
of him that chastened their joy at being thus
re-united, they returned slowly to the town.

Each had of course much to tell the other. Sybil had
to explain how she had been led to join Miss Nightingale;

Oakburne, to tell how a week after Inkermann he had
received a bad wound in the shoulder while on duty in
the trenches which had sent him to the hospital, and
how, while he had been there, the hurricane had taken place
which destroyed the marquees set apart for the wounded,
causing him to suffer so severely from the cold and
exposure that he had been sent on to the General
Hospital at Scutari. Here he soon recovered sufficiently
to get out and hire quarters for himself, and, feeling that
his best chance of recovery was at home, he had managed
to get a certificate from a medical board enabling him to
obtain leave of absence to England, whither, not knowing
that Sybil was so near to him, he had, since his meeting
with Cope, secretly had other motives for wishing to
return. Then he had by chance heard of Cope's death,
and thus been led to visit the Cemetery. He had intended
leaving for England in three days time, but now of course
all his plans would depend on what Sybil was going todo.


Then Miss Beechcroft told her lover of the communication
she had received from Mr. Throckmorton, and
asked his advice. Major Oakburne's surprise may be
imagined. That his future wife should prove to be the
lawful owner of Otterstone, the property which had
belonged to his own ancestors, naturally filled him with
elation. It seemed as if the two highest points of his
desire were to be reached at once and at the same time.
To his eager mind therefore, there was no doubt that
Sybil ought to return immediately, and do without hesitation
whatever Mr. Throckmorton wished. His own
leave of absence was but short. Why should they not
be married as soon as possible here or in England and
then return to the east together after having arranged

everything? Sebastopol could not hold out much longer,
and perhaps they need not return at all ; and pleasant
visions rose in his mind of becoming the master of
Otterstone Hall. Sybil, however, only agreed after a
good deal of hesitation. She was, of course, her own
mistress, and if she had chosen might have been
married at Constantinople without any delay, but she
shrank from leaving her work. The doctors, however,
soon settled this objection by telling her that if she did not
take a thorough rest now she would soon be laid up
altogether, whereas a little repose at home might fit
her to resume work in a short time. So it .vas agreed that
Major Oakburne should go home as he had arranged,
and that Sybil should follow a week later at the end of
the month, when another of the nursing listers was, like
herself, returning to England in order to recruit her
strength. As regarded the Otterstone Hall question.
Miss Beechcroft wrote telling her friend and guardian,
Mr. Throckmorton, to do what he considered necessary
in the matter, and at the same time told him of her
meeting with Major Oakburne and its results.

It will be seen therefore that the preparations for
depriving Walter Chessington of his property were proceeding
in a way which ought thoroughly to have satisfied
that sensitive gentleman ; and, on the other hand, his
uncle. Lord Ashleigh, was leaving no stone unturned to
defeat the projects of his opponents. How their respective
plans prospered must be shown in another chapter.

CHAPTER XIV.

Is penultimate and treats of the laid's delays and other
matters.

The human race are sons of sorrow born ;
And each must have his portion. Vulgar minds
Refuse, or crouch beneath their load ; the brave
Bear theirs without repining. — Thomson.

HE case of Beechcroft v. Chessington was one
which promised to be of considerable interest,
both to the legal profession, and to the public.
Many of the circumstances connected with it were of
such an uncommon character, and the principal parties
to the suit were of such good social standing, that when
paragraphs on the subject got into the papers, people
naturally began to talk about it. It was not till after the
year had well commenced that matters were fairly set in
train for commencing legal proceedings ; and when things
had been actually started, they progressed uncommonly
slowly.

Lord Ashleigh's counsel and solicitors were naturally
anxious to proceed with as much deliberation as possible,
and perhaps those engaged against him were equally
averse to hurry. Certain it is that to the litigants the
Maw's delays' seemed interminable, and that, as their
wont is, they frequently expressed unfavourable opinions
of their legal advisers. Major Oakburne especially, who

soon grew to imagine himself a party to the suit, and
who had fondly believed that the whole thing was so
clear and simple that it could be settled in a month at
the outside, was loud in his denunciations of the dilatoriness
and, as he was pleased to call it, ' humbugging ' of
those connected with the law.

Mr. Throckmorton and his fellow barristers, on the
contrary, thought the case a very pretty one, and were
anxious that there should be no foolish and unseemly
precipitation in the matter. The former was naturally a
very zealous partisan of the plaintiffs. He had so often
heard his old friend. General Beechcroft, denounce
James Chessington's conduct in former days, and had
sympathised so strongly with him, that, having also acted
professionally in his interests, he was extremely pleased
that there seemed at last a fair prospect of restoring to
his daughter the property of which her father had been
deprived ; and when at last the trial was fixed to take
place at the next Assizes, to be held at Thornbury, he
felt very jubilant at the prospects of victory. Doctor
Oakburne, as has been said, by no means agreed with
him on this point. It was perhaps equally natural that
his sympathies should all be enlisted on behalf of Walter
Chessington and his family, and though he acquiesced in
the justice of Miss Beechcroft's claim, and admired his
friend's conduct in determining to enforce it against
himself, he could not help wishing that it might turn out
somehow to be ill-founded, and that Lady Adela and her
children might be spared the pain of leaving their old
home. In holding this opinion, Wilfrid not only found
himself at variance with Mr. Throckmorton, but, as time
went on, with his own family. When his brother. Major
Oakburne, returned from the Crimea, and his engagement

to Miss Beechcroft was publicly announced, both
his mother and sister, no less than himself, felt excessively
elated by the thought that he was about, by his marriage,
to become the master of those broad lands of which Sir
Francis Oakburne had been deprived more than two
hundred and fifty years earlier. Mrs. Oakburne in particular
was delighted at the idea. Even the recollections
of Sir Rupert de Bolderwood himself, and of his gallant
achievement at Rolhill fort, sank into insignificance fora
time, as she recalled traditions of the ancient splendours
of the Oakburnes, — for next to her own family she
esteemed that of her deceased husband as one of the
best in the land. She, therefore, and Ethel, and Major
Oakburne, were very severe on Wilfrid when he attempted
to argue the case from the Chessington point of view,
and denounced his leanings as sentimental and unjust.
His brother in particular spoke so warmly about his want
of proper interest in the fortunes of his race, that their
discussion closed somewhat abruptly, and Reginald the
invalid, — who, of course, was made a good deal of asa
wounded Crimean hero, — being somewhat irritable,
Wilfrid afterwards was careful to keep his opinions to
himself.

Lady Felsparley, it need hardly be said, was quite of
Major Oakburne's opinion, and indeed far more eager in
her feelings on the subject than her niece, who now
began to experience constant twinges of conscience at
the thought of ousting the Chessingtons from Otterstone.
The former lady now made no difficulty with regard to
Miss Beechcroft's matrimonial plans; first, because Major
Oakburne, a winner of the Victoria Cross, who had been
favourably mentioned in despatches, and was well spoken
of in his profession as an able officer, was regarded by

her with some justice as a very different personage from
the extravagant subaltern of Indian days, and also because
her niece's prospective wealth made her a lady of sufficient
importance to be on the best of terms with. So
she made much of the couple, and especially of Sybil,
and spoke with a great deal of virtuous indignation of
the wickedness of James Chessington, Walter's grandfather.


Thus the lawyers consulted and argued, and the friends
of the respective suitors grumbled and grew more and
more impatient ; Ministers left the Cabinet, and others
took their places ; the Czar died, and his son reigned in
his stead ; diplomatists met at Vienna, consulted, differed,
agreed, and parted again ; and still the war went on, and
still the Otterstone will case remained undecided.

All this while Mr. and Mrs. Chessington were leading
a life that was far from happy. Not only were they
harassed by constant thoughts of the painful sacrifice they
were making, but were also suffering still more keenly
from the sorrow caused by the painful estrangement which
their conduct had caused between themselves and their
respective parents, not to mention Lord Ashleigh their
uncle. The latter had won Miss Chessington over to
think that Walter, though acting nobly, was mistaken,
and persuaded her that in his interests, as well as in those
of her mother, she must be made a party in the suit as
being the person next entitled to the property after himself
and his heirs. This, combined with the pain she
felt at her separation from the brother to whom she was
so attached, preyed upon her spirits to an extent that
made her suffer so visibly as to make Lady Adela
constantly inclined to pardon her son had not she had
his uncle by her to check her imprudent tenderness.

As for the Elkfields, Beatrice's father, — who thoroughly
agreed with Lord Ashleigh and felt a great deal of
anger and contempt towards Walter for having, as he
termed it, ' thrown all he had into the mud,' — very
quickly controlled any tendency which Mrs. Elkfield
may have felt to sympathise with her daughter, and
took good care that she should hold no communication
with 'those rebellious children.' His scheme for 'stopping
the pocket money,' as he playfully called it, was most
rigorously carried out, and as neither Walter nor his wife
had hitherto had the slightest practice in the art of
domestic economy, they found that to live on £z^o a
year was a task of considerable difficulty, and passed buta
gloomy time during the dreary months preceding the
hearing of the case.

The season, it will be remembered, was a trying one
for the whole nation. The cold weather set in with
extreme severity in January, and lasted well nigh till
June ; bread, potatoes, and all the necessaries of life,
became alarmingly dear; everywhere the sufferings of
the poor were very great, and the death rate increased
terribly, till, at the end of the winter quarter, it exceeded
the ordinary return by 20,000. In the midst of all this
trouble at home, the news of the sufferings of the army
before Sebastopol, and of the failure of its operations,
as well as of those of our fleet in the Baltic, reached
England. Men began to feel as if these accumulated
calamities were a special judgment inflicted on them
from Heaven, and seldom has any religious observance
been so fully joined in as was the service on the day of
Fasting and Humiliation, appointed by the Queen to be
kept throughout the United Kingdom, in order to implore
the mercy of the Almighty to avert the dangers that

seemed to be impending over the nation. It was during
this troublous period that Walter Chessington's cares and
sorrows were further augmented by the advent of a little
daughter, who survived her birth but two days. It might
have been hoped that this fresh trial to the young couple
would have proved a means of reconciling them with
their relations ; but though letters of condolence arrived
from Lady Adela and Mrs. Elkfield, both the husband
of the latter, and Lord Ashleigh, took care that they
should contain no messages of forgiveness which should
condone Walter's rebellion, and Chessington and his
wife, stung by what they naturally perhaps considered as
harsh treatment, stoutly declined to make any overtures
of peace, and replied to them in the same spirit as the
writers. This sad loss, however, won from Lady Adeline
small concession, which was a great consolation to
her son and daughter-in-law. Miss Chessington, on
hearing the news of their trouble, implored her mother
so earnestly, and with such affectionate persistence, to
permit her to visit them, that the latter — who had many
secret qualms of conscience with regard to her behaviour
towards them, — at length allowed her to have her will.
When to the great pleasure of her brother and Beatrice
she one day arrived at Ferrycross Terrace, they were nota
little shocked to see the effect which her sorrows were
having on their sister, who, from a bright merry girl, was
becoming listless, pale, silent and melancholy. They of
course did their best to cheer her, and the pleasure of
being once more with them, and the desire to do her
best to console Beatrice for a grief with which none buta
woman could thoroughly sympathise, together with the
change of life and scene, began, after a time, to benefit
Miss Chessington's health and spirits. Both her brother

and his wife had, however, to own with a sigh that she
was still sadly different to the Catherine of a few months
ago, and none of her friends was more pained to notice
this than Wilfrid Oakburne, who was now constantly at
the little house at Twickenham, and whose knowledge of,
and sympathy with, most of their troubles and hopes,
made him a welcome visitor. The sight of Miss Chessington's
depression and half-concealed sorrow roused a
chivalrous pity in the young doctor that considerably
increased the antagonism he already felt towards his friend,
Mr. Throckmorton's, proceedings, and all, — including
even the members of his own family, — who were concerned
in them. Perhaps the sentiment was the more
increased by the fact that he regarded himself as
being, — unintentionally, indeed, but still none the less
certainly, — the prime mover in the inquiries which had
led to the proof of Hoffbauer's title to the Otterstone
property, and also because his brother Reginald was
now so closely connected with those who were about to
drive his friends from their old home. As he looked at
Miss Chessington's pale face and sad eyes, he longed
more than ever that the plaintiffs in the case of
Beechcroft v. Chessington might prove unsuccessful. But,
alas ! it was only a vain longing, as he knew only too
well, as Walter Chessington knew, and as even Lord
Ashleigh, gallantly as he had struggled against the
conviction, was at last beginning to own to himself

That nobleman met his niece in London at the
termination of her visit, and escorted her down to Otter-stone.
He had vowed never to speak to Walter again
till he should have apologised for his little speech about
the desirability of the money going with the title. His
nephew's opposition was all the more bitter to him as

conflicting with an affection for him which had only
grown gradually, and the full extent of which he had
never realised till it was thus wounded. This, and the
worry of the lawsuit, chafed and fretted him terribly, and
his confidential servants began to remark that ' his lordship's
temper,' which was formerly easy enough, was
becoming 'outrageous.' Once, in the winter, having
driven down from London to the neighbouring
town of Richmond, he had met Walter and his
wife, face to face, as they were crossing the bridge
over the Thames, but had turned from them with
a haughty scowl, and cut them dead. The incident,
which rather amused Beatrice, who made some sharp
remarks on his conduct, greatly pained and annoyed
Chessington, and it required all his wife's gaiety and
tenderness to cheer him that evening. Had it not been
for her, he often said afterwards, he felt he never could
have borne his troubles at this period, but she unflinchingly
supported him through them all, soothing his
wounded pride, making nought of the scruples as to the
justice of his conduct which sometimes perplexed him,
and refusing to be disheartened by the contemplation of
either present or future evils. The ten guinea brief
which her husband received, the few pounds he
earned by literary work, chiefly procured through
Oakburne's friend, Beverley Chipps, and all other like
results of Walter's efforts to gain a livelihood, were by
her kindly feminine hypocrisy made to appear the most
cheering successes ; and her affectionate solicitude and
thoughtful tact, kept him from giving way to despondency,
and enabled him to face his trials with patience and
courage.
At last, in the beginning of May, the dreaded week of

the trial arrived. The marriage of the plaintiff with
Major Oakburne had been celebrated some ten days
before, and the happy pair had departed for a brief
honeymoon to Paris, where our allies, in spite of the
war, were holding an Exhibition, and sumptuously entertaining
the Lord Mayor of London, in return for the
splendid hospitalities shown by the latter to Baron de
Haussez, Prefect of the Seine, and other French officials.
Reginald's health was still so precarious that he had
procured an extension of leave, and it was not yet certain
whether he would be fit for service again, Sybil was
only too glad to be out of the way, and Mr. Throck-
morton was left as the commander in chief of the forces
marshalled against the Chessington family, a post which
he much enjoyed, — for while Lord Ashleigh, though still
defiant, was almost hopeless, his opponent was calmly
confident of winning the case which he had so many
years ago longed in vain to fight.

As Walter Chessington, who was of course one of the
principal witnesses for Miss Beechcroft, sat together with
his wife and Wilfrid Oakburne in the little drawing room
at Twickenham the night before the trial, the extent of
the sacrifice he was making rose so vividly before his
mind, that his self-control quite gave way for a time,
and he yielded to a grief and despair which alarmed
his two auditors.

It is not myself,' he cried. ' It is my poor mother
and Catherine. For me there has always been this
curse hanging over me, but for them it is so terribly
cruel. Heavens ! why was I born to bring such misery
on them.'

Courage, Chessington ! ' cried Wilfrid suddenly.
'Something tells me that after all things will not turnout



as you think. You will not have to make the sacrifice
you imagine.'

Don't, for God's sake, Oakburne, talk nonsense ! It
maddens me, man. From a woman I can understand it,
but not from you. Don't, I beg you,' and he went to
the window.

'Nevertheless, I feel convinced of it,' said the other.

Walter gave a scornful laugh, and muttered something
uncomplimentary; and shortly after, his friend, feeling
his presence de trap, took his leave.

Certainly, it must have sounded like the remark of
an idiot,' said he to himself as he lighted his cigar. ' I
wonder what could have made me say it. Would to
heaven it could be true. Poor people ! heaven help
them ! ' and he went back to town in a very melancholy
and irritable mood.

A letter lay awaiting him on the table, which bore the
Lidfield post mark. He took it up listlessly, and then,
recognising Mr. Simcox's handwriting, cast it aside with
a peevish exclamation of disappointment.

What can the poor old fellow have to say to me,' he
thought. ' Some antiquarian twaddle no doubt. It will
keep till tomorrow, and I am very sleepy.'

On second thoughts, however, as the envelope had
'urgent' written on it, and as he had not yet finished his
cigar, he threw himself into a chair, and began to peruse
the schoolmaster's somewhat feeble, but still neat and
legible, characters. As he read his face began to assume
a look of interest, which gradually grew stronger, and
when he had finished the letter he began pacing the
room in great perplexity. It was evidently no antiquarian
twaddle, but something which caused him a
good deal of doubt and agitation.

Cornerstone HALL.

When next morning Mr. Throckmorton came down
very early, prepared to start for Thornbury, and enquired
for Dr. Oakburne, Mrs. Holes told him that that gentleman
had left the house at a still earlier hour, taking a
carpet bag with him. She thought he could not have
been to bed at all that night, and said that the dyspeptic
city man, who now occupied Norton's room, had complained
of being kept awake by the noise he made,
'a tramping' up an' down.'

'What has happened, I wonder,' thought Throck-
morton ; but he had no time to spare, and had soon
forgotten all about Wilfrid in the bustle of his own
journey.

CHAPTER XV.

Beechcrojt v. Chessington.

Dear home in England, safe and fast

If but in thee my lot lie cast,
The past shall seem a nothing past

To thee, dear home, if won at last ;
Dear home in England, won at last.

Arthur Hugh Clough.

All yesterday I was spinning,

Sitting alone in the sun ;
And the dream that I spun was so lengthy.

It lasted till day was done.

I went up the hill this morning

To the place where my spinning lay —

There was nothing but glistening dewdrops
Remained of my dream to-day.

Adelaide Procter.

I HE court was crowded to suffocation when Miss
Beechcroft's leading counsel, Mr. Friedrich,
Q.C., — with whom were Mr. Vane Pleasure,
and Mr. Bloobagge, — rose to open the case. The rival
claimants were so well known in the neighbourhood, and
the stake involved was so great, that considerable
excitement prevailed as to the issue of the suit. There
could only be one issue, thought Mr. Throckmorton, ashe
watched Lord Ashleigh, brave and composed outwardly,
but inwardly very hopeless, enter the court. ' He

VOL. II. p

puts a good face on it,' said he to himself. ' It is hard
perhaps on them, but justice must be done ! ' Vcb Victim P

The case of his client, said Mr. Briefrich, though it
involved somewhat complicated details, was based on a
very simple question. He admitted that the will of the
late Lieutenant James Chessington, Ren., was in itself a
perfectly valid legal document, and that the title of the
defendants, under it, was in that sense perfectly well
established. He should make no attempt whatever to
impugn it, nor in any way question the conduct of those
who held under it, believing it to be valid. He based his
case on a graver matter, — on the disability of James
Chessington to make any will dealing with the Otterstone
property. He should prove that that property had never
belonged to the devisor, that during the whole of his
possession of it he was holding it illegally, and against
the lawful owners, the heirs of his deceased elder brother,
George Chessington, who were not only in existence
during his lifetime, but had continued to be in existence
till within a very recent period, in fact till the autumn of
the previous year, when the last of those descendants of
Sir Pelham Chessington's eldest son, met his death at
the hands of an assassin, which must still be fresh in the
recollection of many of the jury.

The learned counsel then went on, after stating those
particulars of the history of Sir Pelham Chessington's
sons and daughters, with which the reader is already
familiar, to point out that the main point at issue was the
legality of the marriage of Lieutenant George Chessington
to Estelle Leon, a French lady who had been a governess
in his father's house, and proceeded to produce
documentary evidence, and to call witnesses in proof of
his assertion. The certificate of the marriage in the

Rolhill Parish Register, and the copy of it found by Hoff
bather at Otterstone, were of course brought forward,
together with the correspondence between George and
Estelle Chessington, after which, to make the proof still
more conclusive, old George Bolton, the witness who had
signed the register, was placed in the box.

Though the old man's mind wandered at times as
other subjects, his memory on this point was wonderfully
clear and accurate, and the severe cross-examination to
which he was subjected by the defendant's counsel altogether
failed to shake his testimony.

He had been George Chessington's servant in the
regiment, and had been employed to carry notes from his
young master to Idle. Leon, who was governess to his
master's sister, ' her who married Mr. Beechcroft ot
Thornbury. He knew all about their clandestine meetings,
and the shifts they had been put to in order to prevent Sir
Pelham's finding out their intercourse. He remembered
distinctly having accompanied the young couple down to
Rolhill. Theladyhad met his master in London at his lodgings,
and they had gone down the next day. It was an out-of-the-way
lonely place, a little church on the top of the
down, no houses to speak of. The parson. Rev. Mr.
Whitworth, was a friend of one of the officers in the
regiment, he thought. Did not look quite the gentleman
to his mind, and a bit rough in his manners, but quite a
parson. He remembered him well, for he had a scar on
his forehead. He had signed the book. That was his
writing. He could write a bit before he got so old ; had
learnt as a boy at Otterstone, and been thought rather ' a
scholar ' in the regiment, where he used to write letters
for the men ' to their lasses.' The young couple went
back to London that very night, and soon after

the regiment was ordered to India. He remembered his
master taking the lady to St. Katherine's Docks in London
to send her off to Paris, and that she cried terribly,
and that ' Mister George ' seemed very much ' cut up '
too. He had gone to India with the rest and had seen
his master mortally wounded at the siege of Kistnagherry.
His master had said to him just before he died ; ' Mind
Bolton you never say a word about my marriage till your
mistress tells you to. Unless you're driven to it, don't
speak about it at all' He had been made to call young
madam his ' mistress.' She was a pretty young thing,
very quiet, quite a foreigner and couldn't speak much
English. He'd a job to understand her at times. He'd
kept to his word to his master and had never spoken till
now. He'd been always very good to him, Mr. George
had. They'd been always wonderful thick since they were
boys together, and he'd have done anything for him.
Didn't think so much of Mr. James. He was a navy
gentleman, always away. He never saw much of him.
No ! He'd never spoken till now. Once, a short time
back, he thought he'd seen a gentleman very like Mr.
George, wonderful like him, but he knew nothing about
him except that he was told he was a ' furineer ' who did
work for Mr. Walter. It was him who got murdered at
the Hall they said. Yes ! he'd come back with the
regiment and taken his discharge and gone back to
Otterstone, where Sir Pelham was very good to him.
A real gentleman was Sir Pelham ! Yes ! He was an
Otterstone man he was ! He'd been born and bred in
the place and he hoped to die there. Hadn't got long to"
wait now he thought ! and so forth. He would
gladly have rambled on with his reminiscences of the
whole family, had not the court put a summary conclusion

to them. The appearance of this fine old octogenarian
was very much admired by the public, and he was heartily
cheered both on entering and leaving the court. His
evidence was of course most damaging to the hopes of
Lord Ashleigh and his friends, whose countenances
visibly lengthened as Mr. Briefrich went on to prove
Hoffbauer's descent and trace his history, and when
Walter Chessington gave his evidence on these points his
uncle's wrath was very manifest.

The examination of the plaintiffs witnesses and the
statement of his case occupied nearly three days, and
that learned Q.C., Mr. Briefrich, was cut short in his
closing remarks, by the adjournment of the court.
When they re-assembled next day he, and the two
juniors, Mr. Vane Pleasure and Mr. Bloobagge, as well
as Mr. Throckmorton, were all alike struck by the change
in the demeanour of Lord Ashleigh and of the opposing
counsel, all of whose countenances wore, for the first time,
not only a decidedly cheery, but an almost insolently
triumphant expression.

'I suppose they are making the best of a bad business,'
said Mr. Throckmorton to his friends. ' They can have
nothing to say, and they want to say it as well as
possible,' and when the statement of their own case had
concluded, they waited with some amusement to hear
how the enemy would manage to make anything like a
fight against them.

Mr. Serjeant Feezebrooke, who was assisted by Mr.
Rollscourt Smith, Q.C., Mr. Templeton, and Mr.
Darlington Wigge, being called on by the court, rose,
and, with a side glance at the learned gentlemen opposed
to him, said that he wished to make a few remarks before
getting to the subject matter of his brief. Within the

last twenty-four hours evidence, he said, had been put
into his hands which, while strengthening, somewhat
changed the nature of the defence he was about to put
forward against the extraordinary claims urged by the
plaintiffs counsel.

There was much bobbing about of wigs, and whispering,
and writing on scraps of paper, among the last
named gentlemen, on hearing this remark, after making
which, Mr. Feezebrooke paused for a moment, and then
resumed his discourse in his well-known deliberate tones.
His learned friends, the counsel for the plaintiff, had, he
was pleased to see, admitted the intrinsic validity of the
will of the late Mr. James Chessington, and had confined
themselves to disputing the ability of that gentleman to
make it. He was glad of this, he repeated, because it
made his task much easier, — his learned friends smiled
at the word ' easier,' but he could assure them that they
were smiling too soon, — it made his task much easier he
must again remark, because he should not now have to
trouble himself to enquire into the extraordinary
pedigrees, and romantic careers of foreign adventurers,
with accounts of which they had been favoured at such
length, and about which he did not think the Jury need
trouble themselves much either. He should confine
himself to what his learned friend had justly shewn was
the sole point on which the case turned ; — the ability,
namely, of James Chessington to dispose of the Otter-stone
property by will ; and he should proceed to show
that that gentleman had every power requisite for
thus disposing of it. He had every power and
right thus to devise his estates, because they were
his absolutely, inasmuch as this pretended marriage of
George Chessington's which, if valid, would have

deprived him of his title, was not a marriage at all in the
legal sense of the term. It was no marriage at all, he
repeated, and consequently the issue of that union,
assuming always that the people supposed to be so were
really such issue, — a point which he would leave it to the
jury to decide, — were illegitimate. Yes! his learned
brethren might try to appear amused, — an audible
'pooh, pooh,' escaped from Mr. Throckmorton in his
eagerness, — but he was about to bring forward the most
irrefragable testimony to show that this so-called marriage
was celebrated by a person who was not a priest in holy
orders as the law required, and was therefore illegal and
void.

It may be imagined that there was a good deal of
excitement among the public in court, and that there
were evident signs of anxiety among Miss Beechcroft's
legal champions, when, after this startling announcement.
Dr. Wilfrid Oakburne, was called into the witness box,
and asked to state how and where he had come across
the parish register of Rolhill, containing the entry of
George Chessington's marriage. When first Wilfrid, and
after him Mr. Simcox, had described the finding of this
record of births, deaths, and marriages, and had borne
witness to the out-of-the-way place in which it had been
discovered, and to its dilapidated condition, — the reader
will remember that some of its pages had been torn, and
others burnt, — the learned Sergeant went on to discuss it
more fully with the jury. He begged them to observe
that some of the entries were signed in the name of
Whitworth, but others in the name of Bovill.

When I tell you, gentlemen,' continued Mr. Sergeant
Feezebrooke, ' that there is no record that any clergyman,
save Mr. Bovill the rector, ever did duty during this

period in Rolhill Church, you will admit at once that
it is a very strange and suspicious circumstance that this
other signature of Whitworth, F. J. Whitworth, should so
frequently occur in '

'My lord! I protest my lord against this spinning
out the case by dwelling on such trivialities !' cries Mr.
Bloobagge, the youngest of Miss Beechcroft's junior counsel,
springing excitedly to his feet, 'Is valuable time to be
wasted in explaining that a rector and a curate sign a
register altern .'

Really, Mr. Bloobagge, I must request you not to
interrupt me in this absurd manner !' says the learned
orator turning majestically to Mr. Bloobagge, with an
expression of surprised scorn.

The young barrister, — it was only his second brief, —
feeling a warning kick on the shins from Mr. Vane Pleas-more,
the learned brother sitting beside him, sat down
abashed, and resumed his drawing of figures on the
blotting paper in front of him, in order to recover his
composure.

Yes, gentlemen,' resumed Mr. Serjeant Feezebrooke
to the jury, ' one of the signatures is indeed that of the
rector, as my learned friend has obligingly pointed out
to us, — and the remark does credit to his sagacity,' —
(laughter at Mr. Bloobagge's expense, which he affects
not to notice), 'but the other signature, I regret to say,
is not that of the curate, as he ingeniously suggests.
Gentlemen, Mr. Bovill, the rector of Rolhill, had no
curate. It is a disgrace to England, — a disgrace, I am
thankful to say, which is now well nigh impossible in our
enlightened age, — it is a disgrace, I say, that such menas
he was should ever have been allowed to hold a living,
and be entrusted with a cure of souls, Mr, Bovill's life

was one long scandal and reproach to that Church which
permitted him to perform, or rather to grossly neglect to
perform those holy offices which it is the duty of her
servants to administer. Mr. Bovill, I repeat once more,
never kept a curate ; and the person called Whitworth,
who has been alluded to during the course of this trial
as the Rev. F. J. Whitworth, and has so often signed his
name to this register, has no more right to the title of
Reverend than I have. He was Mr. Bovill's clerk and
schoolmaster, he never made any pretence of being in
holy orders, and the numerous couples over whom he
read the marriage service were no more legally united
than they would have been if any of you gentlemen, to
whose sagacity and experience the decision of this case
is entrusted, had done the same.'

Then, amid the growing excitement of all his audience,
the speaker went on to explain that the hamlet of Rolhill
formed part of the living of Blackamoor in the neighbouring
county that it was a neglected isolated village, and
that Mr. Bovill, the rector, was in the habit of only going
once a month to do duty there. Mr. Bovill, as he would
shortly prove to them, was a man of very bad character,
one of the remnant of the hard-drinking, fox-hunting
clergy, who were the scandal of the Church of England
during the eighteenth century, frequenting races and
cock-fights, gambling, rioting, giving their whole time to
sport and amusement, neglecting their duty, and, in
short, doing anything but lead a christian life. Parson
Joe Bovill,' as he was commonly called, was a notorious
evil liver even in those days of irreligion, but, though
such a bad shepherd, his gambling propensities and
extravagance made it a necessity for him to fulfil all
those obligations towards his flock which could earn him

fees. Not caring, therefore, to go to the expense ot
keeping a curate, he had been in the habit of making
his clerk, Whitworth, who was the village schoolmaster
of Blackamoor, officiate whenever it was required at
Rolhill in his own clerical robes. Its remote situation
made the church a favourite resort for run-away couples,
and it was for this reason that it had been suggested to
George Chessington by a brother officer, who was acquainted
both with its reputation, and also with * parson
Joe Bovill' Whitworth, the clerk, was a self-educated
and rather stupid, but not ill-meaning man, against
whose character there was nothing particular to be said.
He had evidently enjoyed the importance conferred on
him by his office, and appeared not to have had the
slightest idea that he was doing anything wrong in
officiating as a clerk in Holy Orders, which he perhaps
imagined his post of parish clerk fully entitled him to do.
He therefore took an honest pride in signing his own
name to the entries in the register, a fact as to which his
rector, wholly engrossed with his own pleasures, appeared
never to have troubled himself until it was forced upon
him.

Of the witnesses called in support of these facts, Caius
Whitworth, yeoman farmer, whom the reader will remember
as the proprietor of the Blue Boar's Head Inn, was
the most important. Frederic Joseph Whitworth, who
had thus acted as parson, was his father's brother, and
he therefore of course remembered him and his performance
of his duties perfectly well, nor had he indeed
himself any idea of its illegality. His uncle had
gone by the name of 'Parson Joe's parson,' or the
Parson's parson,' in Rolhill parish, and had, he knew,
buried, married, and christened very many of its inhabitants.

He remembered, too, the scandal that had been
caused by ' Parson Joe Bovill's ' bad living, and how at
last the Bishop of the Diocese had found it necessary
to investigate the reports which reached him regarding
his conduct. Then it was that Bovill, after having
inspected it, ordered his clerk, Whitworth, to destroy the
parish register. The latter, however, after one or two
ineffectual attempts to do so, failed to screw up his courage
to the proper point, and after having torn and burnt
portions of it, as has been shewn, finally compromised
the matter by hiding it in the recess below the window in
the priest's room, as being the place where it was least
likely to be discovered. He had told his brother, Caius
Whitworth's father, of what he had done, and the latter
had afterwards communicated the fact to his son, but it
had never occurred to either of them that the subject was
in any way worth bothering their heads about.

Other witnesses were then called by Mr. Sergeant
Feezebrooke to corroborate this testimony, and when,
after an eloquent speech reviewing the whole of the facts,
he asked the jury whether in the face of such evidence
they could consent ' to drive from their home a family
whose ancestors had so long dwelt in Clayshire, and who
were so universally respected and beloved throughout
the county for their virtues and generosity,' it was felt
by Mr. Throckmorton and his friends that the battle was
lost.

All that forensic skill could do'in cross-examination of
their opponents' witnesses was done by Mr. Briefrich and
his fellow counsel ; and if the plain facts that had been
submitted by the former to the jury could have been disproved
by consummate legal oratory, that gentleman's
reply on the defendant's case would have done so. But

on this occasion his ability and experience were exercised
in vain. The summing up of the judge was, as was plainly
foreseen by all that it must be, overwhelmingly in favour
of the defendant, and the jury had almost made up their
minds before his lordship began his able charge. They
considered but for twenty minutes, and then returned
the only verdict that it was possible for them todo
: — that James Chessington was in absolute legal possession
of his property at the time that he made his will,
and that consequently that property belonged to those
who had acquired it by descent from Captain Horace
Chessington, to whom it had been devised by that instrument.


So the trial was at last ended, and the victors drove
off amid the cheers of the crowd, while the vanquished,
as is ever expected of them, made their way home in
silence and despondency. Otterstone Hall was once
more secured to Walter Chessington and his heirs, and
Edward Throckmorton had experienced almost the
severest disappointment, that ever came to him in life.

The MS. of my esteemed friend and connection, Mr.
Edward Throckmorton, which I have thus far had the
pleasure of placing before the reader, here breaks off
abruptly. His chagrin and grief at the result of his
efforts in behalf of his ward, Miss Beechcroft, were very
excessive, though her own feelings were rather those of
relief than disappointment, when she learnt that the hopes
he had formed for her had been frustrated. He had
been actuated chiefly by the desire to repair the injustice
done, by the will of James Chessington, and to restore
the inheritance, to which he held her to be in equity

entitled, to the daughter of his old friend. The unexpected
way in which his plans, which gave such a fair
promise of success, were defeated, led him for some time
to feel considerable resentment against Dr. Oakburne, who,
in conjunction with Mr. Simcox, was mainly instrumental
in causing the loss of the lawsuit. When he had learnt
from the schoolmaster's letter the story of ' Parson Joe
Bovill ' and his ' Parson's parson,' Whit worth, Oakburne
had, after informing Lord Ashleigh's solicitors of the facts,
at once gone down to the spot and worked untiringly in
the interests of his friend Chessington, with the result
that has just been described above. Mr. Throck-
morton's natural sense of justice, and generous nature,
made him however, after a time, fully forgive his
friend, with whom he renewed his old intimacy, and to
whom, at his death, he left a substantial token of his
esteem. The bulk of his property, which was considerable,
was left to his ward, Sybil, now Mrs. Reginald
Oakburne, with whom, during the whole of his life, he
maintained the closest and most affectionate intercourse.
He never ceased, however, till the day of his death to
express his regret that she, 'the heiress of Otterstone,' had
not been restored to her rights as he desired.

Among the papers which, as his executor, came into
my possession, are some which enable me, before taking
leave of the reader, to give him a few particulars of the
subsequent history of most of the characters to whom he
has been introduced in Mr. Throckmorton's narrative.

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Chessington did not long remain
at variance with their relatives after the decision of the
Otterstone will case. They were naturally rather elated
at its unexpected result, and were a little inclined to
assume a haughty tone towards those who had treated

their efforts to do what they considered just with such
indignant and angry contempt. Their virtue, when they
least anticipated it, had brought them a most substantial
reward in addition to that which good actions of themselves
give to the doers, and they were therefore not unwilling
for a brief space to assert their superiority over
those beings of inferior clay, who had failed to see the
merit of their behaviour, and were now no longer able to
rate them for it. It is satisfactory, however, to record
that Lord Ashleigh was, in this instance, the first to come
forward and make peace. Now that everything had
turned out so well, he was warm in his admiration of
Walter's conduct, the motive for which, though he had
affected to despise it, he yet in his heart of hearts really
respected and liked. He visited his nephew and his
wife, who still continued to remain for a month after the
law suit in their now triumphant exile at Twickenham,
frankly owned that he had been perhaps hasty, and soon
succeeded in making his peace with the young couple.
Shortly after, the happy family party was once more
re-united at Otterstone, to the unspeakable delight of
Lady Adela and her daughter, who now speedily
recovered her health and spirits. Walter Chessington
once more sought the suffrages of the Lidfield electors,
and had again the satisfaction of defeating his rival,
Ferdinand Boarsbyby. He represented the borough for
many years after, till the programme of reform, advanced
by his party, caused him to abandon their ranks and
relinquish his seat in favour of his old opponent, who
was always ready to occupy it. He eventually inherited
the bulk, both of Lord Ashleigh's and his father-in-law,
Mr. Elkfield's, properties, and is so rich that he has been
more than once offered a baronetcy. His chief reason

for refusing this is supposed to be the fact that Mrs.
Chessington has presented him with nothing but
daughters. He is very fond of his three girls, and is
quite content to have no heir, nor does he care for the
distinction for himself, which his wife, who would
certainly like the title personally, has often vainly urged
him to accept. They are both all the better, and their
affection for each other all the stronger, for their little
period of probation ; and they are very popular, and doa
great deal of good in the county.

Major Oakburne appears to have been excessively
mortified by the result of the suit of Beechcroft v.
Chessington, and like Mr. Throckmorton, to have felt
rather angry at first, with his brother, for his share in the
proceedings, a feeling, however, which his better nature soon
enabled him to overcome. Much against his wife's wishes,
he again returned to the Crimea, where he further distinguished
himself in the battle of the Tchernaya,and was also
present at the taking of Sebastopol, at which he was somewhat
severely wounded. After this he yielded to his
Vv'ife's entreaties, and, much to her relief, retired from the
army with the rank of colonel, returning to England with
Dr. Norton, who had also won the Victoria Cross for his
gallant conduct in the field, and who, by his marriage
with Miss Ethel Oakburne, which shortly after took
place, was brought into still closer connection with the
family of his friend Wilfrid. Colonel and Mrs. Oakburne
have now for many years lived very happily at Thornbury
Grange. The Colonel is a great sportsman, and an
energetic magistrate, and his wife is very devoted to the
poor around her. The former was never happy till he
had purchased from Mr. Chessington a small portion of
the Otterstone estates, a proceeding which in time led to

a very close intimacy between the two families ; and it
is not impossible that the friendship between his son
Reginald, — who is just leaving Oxford, and from his
boyhood has passed a good deal of his time at Otter-stone
Hall, — and Miss Beatrice Chessington, Walter's
eldest daughter, may some day lead to a union which
would place the property once more in possession of an
Oakburne.

Catherine Chessington has had a good many chances
of changing her name, but remains Catherine Chessington
still. She persistently spoils her nieces, is adored by
the poor, and passes her life in kindly ministrations to
all about her. Her mother and her uncle, and her good
friend Mr. Bowersbyby, have all long since passed away.
She is rich, but all her substance is given to others, and
she and Mrs. Oakburne of Thornbury Grange have
between them organised a hospital at Thornbury town,
to which they are constant visitors.

Dr. Oakburne, who still remains one of her greatest
friends, is now a sober and rather stout, middle-aged
gentleman. He eventually carried out his plan of
purchasing Dr. Doseyy's practice, and, though his
mother is dead, and his sister married, as has been
said, to Dr. Norton, — who has a permanent appointment
at St. Christopher's Hospital, — he still lives
alone in the old house, where he was born, on the
banks of the Lid. His practice is far larger than
he cares about, and among the poor of the town his
name is a household word. His means were increased,
not only by the legacy, above mentioned, from his friend
Mr. Throckmorton, but also by one bequeathed to him
by Lord Ashleigh, who always expressed the warmest
gratitude for the service he had rendered him and his

family at the trial. He keeps up his intercourse with
Frederica Ledru, who, after inheriting Madam Rovelli's
money, eventually married a wealthy stockbroker who
lived a few doors off from her house in Bedford Square.
He pays periodical visits to Otterstone and to Thornbury,
and now and then rides over to Rolhill to visit the quiet
churchyard on the downs in which Mr. Simcox, has long
since been laid to rest beside his daughter.

It need hardly be said that Mr. Raymond D'Arcy
Portal attained to the highest position in Lidfield; was, at
at one time or another, churchwarden, mayor, chairman
of all the boards, and president of half the societies in his
native town; that he had almost the best practice in
Hillshire ; and that he became extremely rich. At his
death his fellow-townsmen were unanimous in their expressions
of regret, and a handsome tablet in Lidfield
church, representing Charity and Faith mourning over a
prostrate figure of Truth grasping a broken spear, records
the grief of all who knew him, and all the virtues which it
is possible for a man and a husband to possess.

Thus, of all the characters that have been shewn to
the reader prosperous and happy, as actors are bound to
appear when the curtain is about to fall on them, none
has more reason to be thankful with his lot than Wilfrid
Oakburne, happy in his well wrought work, and happy
with his friends in his leisure, and never more content
than when he finds himself at Otterstone, in the old
house that has played so great a part in his life, the
home of his race in far off days, and now the home of
his best friends.

It rises before me now as I saw it with my dear
friend Mr. Throckmorton one clear, still, autumn
evening long ago. Of how many histories has it

VOL. IL Q

not been the silent witness ! How many happy children
have played in its pleasant gardens, and grown out
of their merry playtime into manhood and womanhood,
to labour and to enjoy, to suffer and to die ! The last
gleam of the fading sunlight for a moment on the
ivy-covered tower, on the broad terrace and the bright
belt of flowers that skirts it, casting chequered patterns
of gold between the trees that shadow the green slope
below, painting with orange, and emerald, and crimson,
the dark silent waters of the river gliding among the
reeds. A moment, and the light has vanished, and the grey
twilight falls over all, hiding house, trees, lawns, and stream,
in a sombre gloom, and warning me that my task is
done, and that it is time for me, kind reader, to bid you
goodbye.

THE END.
