The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was borrowed on or before the
Lowest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutllatieiv ami undermining of books ore reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
TO RENEW CALL TELEPHONE CENTER, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

MAY 1 2 1995

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. L162

F8t2.^

V

JOHN M. FOTHERGILL

'Tis greatly wise to talk with our past hours,
And ask them what report they bore to heaven,
And how they might have borne more welcome news.'

Young.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

AU rights reserved.

CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS.

V

\

TO

®lxbtx WthwMl f holmes,

IN ADMIRATION OF HIS WRITINGS AND

REGARD FOR HIS WORTH

THIS WORK IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED

BY

THE AUTHOR.

CHAP. page

I. ENOUGH TO MAKE A SQUIRE SWEAR . 1

II. THE Wharton . . . . 26

III. THE squire's HEIR . . . 51

IV. Morass GRANGE . . . 76

V. THE REFORM MILL GRINDS . . 102

VI. HAVE ALL MAIDENS HEARTS TO LOSE ? . 128

VII. PROBABLY THEY HAVE . . . 155

Vii THE FIRST PEAL OF THUNDER . . 181

IX. THE CLOUD GATHERS . . . 207

X. A CHANGE OF FRONT . . . 233

XL THE CHARTER . . . . 259

XII. YES OR NO? . . . . 285

CHAPTER I.
ENOUGH TO MAKE A SQUIRE SWEAR.

! It is surely not true ! '

It was a full round oath such as an old-fashioned
Squire of hasty temper would be
likely to utter under intense feeling. It
was all the more significant from the fact
that Squire Wharton was not in the habit
of swearing, fashionable still at that time.

'It is those bloodthirsty Chartist fellows
that have done the foul deed. Some of
those scoundrels that attend meetings when
they ought to be at work ; who cry down
the Corn Laws instead of trying to honestly
earn the bread they eat. And now they

VOL. I. B

add murder, cold-blooded murder, planned
and carried out in cold blood, to their arguments.
I wonder what Nephew Jack will
say to this ? '' Peace, Law, and Order ! "
Yes ; that is a fine motto ! But midnight
murder scarcely tallies with it. Poor Tom !
as honest a fellow as ever breathed. To
be shot like a dog ! It is enough to make
one swear, though I am ashamed of myself
for doing[ so. Confound it ! I'll have some
of them hanged for it. I can't bring the
poor fellow to life again ; but I can do my
duty by him. I can see that the villains
are brought to justice. I'll spare no money,
and no pains. They can come and burn
Gaythorne Hall over my head and me in
it; but that is not a prospect likely to
frighten an old soldier from his duty. I
don't care what they may threaten. I'll let
them see they shall not go on in riot, and
murder, and violence. It is a thousand
pities the Government don't suspend the
Habeas Corpus Act, and declare martial law
in the land. We might then do something

to put down this lawlessness. But a white-livered,
mealy-mouthed Whig Government
will do as little as possible to protect their
loyal subjects. I wish the Duke were in
power ! '

Here the Squire ceased his invective fora
moment while the messenger who brought
the news stood trembling, uncertain whether
to go or stay ; afraid to move, yet scarcely
daring to remain. Mrs. AUouby, the
Squire's housekeeper, stood still, apparently
also uncertain what to do in the presence
of such unwonted passion. She evidently
was at a loss how to proceed ; and in doubt
whether a remark would soothe her master,
or rouse him to another outburst. Like a
prudent person she followed the old counsel
when in doubt do nothing ! So she
stood silent and motionless, waiting to see
what would happen.

'The vile, cowardly assassins,' broke out
the Squire after a brief silence. * To
shoot the man from behind a fence 1 A
Red Indian's trick all over. I did not think

B 2

Yorkshire the place for such a deed. It
is that cursed Sheffield, where they think
so little of murder. It always has been so.
Some of those wild beasts in human form
who delight in bloodshed. Poaching and
rioting, arson and murder. This is what
we are coming to ! And then when they
carry their Charter they will soon confiscate
property. Let the multitude get the upper
hand, and we shall have the French Revolution
over again. Mob-law ! That is the
blessed end that nephew Jack and these
peaceful, radical, reforming, moral-force
Chartist fellows are after. Well : this is a
part of the beginning. Torchlight processions,
armed mobs. That is the gospel of peace !
Such cant ! Chartism is nothing more than
the rule of lawlessness. The man who has
nothing shall share with the man who has
something. Very likely ; but I am not a
convert to that doctrine. I have something :
and I'll spend some of it to avenge poor
Tom's murder. I'll swear I will ! '

No one that knew Squire Wharton had

any doubt about this keeping this word.
Indeed ' I have said it and I'll do it ' was
a favourite expression of his. And in this
matter there could be no questionings that
this rule would be carried out. His eye
gave evidence of his earnestness, quite as
unmistakable as the tones of his voice.
I swear it ; and I'll do it. Poor Tom's
blood shall not cry up in vain ! '

Passion is a fearful thing to behold.
Even a little child convulsed with rage is
a shocking sight ; but when an elderly
man is shaken with anger it is a sight
which fills one with sadness, blended with
a sense of fear. The distorted features,
the unwonted tones, the sheer abandon of
the moment, combine to produce an effect
which is as awe-inspiring as it is revolting.
The lessen-er's alarm now became so
intense and obvious that Mrs. Allonby felt
that at least she must ask if he might go.
So she took advantage of a momentary lull
to ask :

May the messenger go now, sir ? '

Go ? certainly. Let bim go into the
kitchen, I may want to ask him some
questions. He must stay awhile.'

The messenger lost no time in availing
himself of the permission to leave the
room : and to the end of his days he
used to tell of the fear that fell on
him through the Squire's thunderstorm of
passion.

Yo' may go that likes to tell th' Squire
his gamekeeper's shot i' th' woods. I']!
go no moore ! ' he would assert after he
had recited the affair. * I w^or' glad to
get to th' kitchen, I can tell yo' ! '

After the messenger had left the room
the Squire broke out again ; but the outburst
was less violent.

Sit down, Mrs. Allonby, sit down :
what are you standing there for ? Are
you surprised I am in a passion ? Such
a passion as you have never seen before.
Well, I can't help it when I think of poor
Tom Earnshaw shot from behind a hedge.
The cowardly assassins ! If it had been a

fair fight where he could have had a chance
for his life, I would not have minded so
much. It would have been bad enough
for me to have lost the faithful fellow ;
and for him to have lost his life ! But it
would have been better than this. Shot
from behind a fence, as he was walking
along the edge of the wood ! Lying out
all night in the rain ; while his wife was
wondering what ever had happened him.
Looking after poachers, I dare say she
thought. Tom never shirked his duty.
He didn't lie in the blankets while the
thieving poachers fetched the pheasants
down out of the trees. That was not Tom's
way of earning his wages. He was a truehearted,
honest fellow as ever broke bread ! '

Mrs. AUouby watched the gradual stilling
of the storm in motionless silence. She
was mistress of Gaythorne Hall to all
intents and purposes in ordinary times,
and under everyday circumstances. But,
now, she knew her place ; and kept it !

'He had his enemies, Tom had; like

every man that does his duty. He hated
a poacher as a terrier hates a rat. The
rat hates the terrier in turn ; and the
poachers have paid him out. Yes ; and
111 pay them out for this ! ' continued
the Squire. *He has got a lot of them
into trouble at time and time : and I
dare say while they were in prison they
planned how to do for him. And they
have done for him too ! Stone-dead and
cold, when he was found, with the gun
beside him at half-cock. It had not gone
off when he fell. He could have had no
suspicion of what was going to happen ? '

*None whatever, it seems, from what
Tunstall says,' replied Mrs. Allonby, understanding
from the Squire's tones that he
wished her to speak. ' It's very dreadful I '

*And the queer thing is, no one heard
a shot fired. It was a close, thick night ;
when did it begin to rain ? '

The rain began about eve : it was dark
soon.'

*I suppose the villains had just light

enough to see to shoot by. It was a
dastardly foul scheme ; to escape into the
wood if any one had happened to hear the
shot, and come to see what it was about.'

The Squire was now passing into that
comparative calm which follows a storm — a
calm which will soon in its turn give way to
action, however; a period of Acquiescence, when
the forces are gathering for new activity.
His brain was busy forming — not. resolves,
they where already taken ; but schemes, devising
the measures that were to be adopted ;
for he had been a soldier, and was ready of
resource and prompt to act. After a period
of silence, he commenced : * The first thing
to be done is to have the ground searched
to see if any traces of the scoundrels can
be made out. The next thing: is to offer
a reward without delay. Times are bad :
but I will give two hundred pounds to
any one who will tell us the murderer's
name, or point him out. That ought to
tempt some one to tell out. Any one but
the man that pulled the trigger ought to

jump at it. He could go away and
start life afresh on that. Tell Timstail I
wish to see him again, Mrs. Allonby ! '
The housekeeper did as she was requested,
and brought Tunstall back into the room ;
after that taking up a position beside
her master's chair. Tunstall had obeyed
the order in fear and trembling ; and
could hardly be persuaded to revisit the
Squire, until thoroughly assured that his
rage was greatly spent. With some persistence
Mrs. Allonby induced him to pluck
up courage enough to face the Squire.
If it had been a fight, a tussle with menin
his own rank in life, Ned Tunstall would
never have flinched for a moment ; but
he had the awe for his master which such
a servant of that time felt. His master
belonged to a totally different class in life ;
which he had always been brought up to
look up to as his betters. He went inconsiderable
fear of the Squire at all
times ; and that outburst of passion had
simply frightened him. To have entered

the Squire's own rooms would have been
a serious matter to him under any circumstances
; but as it was, his courage forsook
him. It was evident agony to him to
stand where he was; and the Squire
observed it.

The first thing to be done, Tunstall,
is to examine the place to see if there is
any paper that has been used for wadding ;
that might tell us much. Then see if there
are any footprints ; though I fear the rain
will have washed all traces away, unless
there is some clay not covered by leaves :
it's a chance, but try it. Then see if there
is a piece of rag on any thorn near. When
a man is in a hurry lie is very apt to get
a tear, and a bit of his clothes is left
behind. That is a tell-tale the Indians
always looked for carefully. If you find
any bit of cloth, don't take it down at
once : look, and see how it hangs, and
how it has been torn. You can't eut it
back as you find it if once you shift it.
Bulman has got the rheumatics ; get old

Jim Woodcock to go with you. He is
as cunning as a fox ; and though lie is one
of those cursed Chartists, Jim is no
physical force " man. He'll help you.
You two will see as much as ten men,
and not tread about so much. Tell old
Jim there is to be two hundred pounds
reward. That will give him an interest
in the search. Go at once, before it gets
known, and a crowd gathers, till you can
find nothing, and all traces of footsteps
are lost.'

Ned listened as attentively as the state
of his faculties would permit. His natural
acumen enabled him to follow the Squire,
and to see the points he put. In fact
Ned's respect for his master was raised
to that pitch on seeing how quickly his
rage had passed into collected thought,
that he held him ever after as almost
more than human. When telling the tale
of his fright in after days he never forgot
to describe his wonderment at the Squire's
clear orders after so brief an interval.

He did not need to be told to go twice ;
and set off for old Jim Woodcock's as fast
as his legs could carry him. Jim was a
cobbler and a strong politician ; and a
man of keen wit, and shrewd good sense
to boot. He listened to the story of the
finding of poor Earnshaw, the taking of
his body into his cottage ; and then of the
Squire's passion, and his after directions,
without comment.

Odds winds, man ! but it's a grievous
tale yo' tell. The Squire '11 be rare an'
mad, I's warrant yo'. Let's be groin'. If
wee can du envy good the sumner we're after
it the better,' replied old Jim at last.
Let's be off ; ' falling, as most men do
who speak a vernacular, into the dialect all
the more strongly when under emotion.

They set off together to the scene of the
murder. It was a long pasture running
alongside the wood which formed Squire
"Wharton's main preserve. It was an extensive
wood, well stocked with pheasants
and ground game ; and consequently was

the object of poor Earnshaw's best attentions.
A stout lily-fence, common in that
part of the country, formed the boundary
betwixt the pasture and the wood. The
wood consisted largely of comparatively
young oak trees ; and the undergrowth of
hazel with a few blackthorns and briars,
was pretty thick. The assassin had chosen
the place well, for the holly-fence screened
him perfectly from his victim ; and also
from any one who might, by any accident,
have seen Earnshaw fall, and come to see
what was the matter. The fence was unbroken
for three or four hundred yards, and
if some one had been attracted to the spot,
the assassin could have escaped into the
brushwood and been lost in the shades of
evening, long before any pursuer could have
got round the end of the holly-fence into
the wood. All this the two noted carefully,
and commented on the cunning displayed
in the manner of the deed. Here and there
near the fence were clumps of gorse ; and
it was close to one of these that Earnshaw

fell when eliot. Had any one heard the
shot and looked towards the direction of
the sound, the body on the ground would
scarcely have been distinguishable from the
dark gorse. The close dark night, with
impending rain, made it most unlikely that
any one would be about, Earnshaw was
very fond of sauntering along; the edsre of
the wood in an evening, and if a rabbit
showed itself to bag it ; but he never
allowed his dogs to accompany him in this
stroll, as they disturbed the game too much.
Consequently there was no dog to give any
alarm. Whoever had done the deed was
evidently very familiar with his habits.

At last they came to the place where the
body was found. A patch of bloody grass
told where the blood had soaked into the
o-round ; and the heavy rain had washed it
so that no clots had formed. The grass,
too, still bore the impression of the form
that had rested on it for some fourteen
hours. When Tunstall had gone to look
for Earnshaw, he had got quite close to

the body before he discerned it. The
face wore that calm which is found in
death from a gunshot-wound. When the
cause of death is a sword or bayonet-wound,
the features still wear in death
the expression they bore when the fatal
wound was received. A gunshot is unseen
; and the features are comparatively
expressionless. Tunstall was surprised to
find him lying calm on his left side : his
gun, which he had been carrying in his
arm, lying under him. His velvet coat
was soaked with rain ; and its collar was
torn with shot, and stained with blood.
The neck showed a ra2:o:ed wound beneath
the ear. It was evidently made with a
charge of shot. The murderer had obviously
taken a deliberate aim from behind the
fence and shot him at a short distance,
thus making sure of his object. The shot
tore through the large blood-vessels of the
neck, and he must have rapidly bled to
death. It was skilfully planned altogether;
both with a view to the success of the deed

and the escape of the murderer; and so
both of the men felt. After having surveyed
the ground carefully in search of any
piece of paper which had been used as
wadding in the loading of the weapon, to
their surprise none could be discovered.
The matter was debated whether the
assassin had come round and removed
the paper after it had fallen, or not. This
hypothesis was rejected as impossible. Todo
this he must have returned in the dark,
and so cunning a villain would never have
exposed himself along that long, impenetrable
fence ; and would have had to have
used a light. It was next conjectured that
he might have used some dry leaves or
grass, which would be blown completely
to pieces by the explosion. Then the fence
was examined ; there were no marks of
gunpowder anywhere, and no leaves had
been torn by shot. The wonderment of
the searchers waxed greater and greater.
They then placed a mark on the top of
the fence, so as to recognise the precise
VOL. 1. c

spot from the inside of the hedge ; and
having done this, they went away to the
entrance of the wood. Tunstall easily made
his way along the rides of the wood till
they approached the scene of the murder.
Here he plunged into the underwood, and
soon found the mark they had placed on
the fence. They then searched narrowly
everywhere ; but nothing betrayed the
recent presence of man. The grass was
long and tangled, covered with fallen
leaves. If these had been recently disturbed,
the heavy rain had obliterated
every trace of such disturbance. The
underwood around was mainly hazel ; there
were neither thorns nor briars near, consequently
no rag of clothing could be
expected. They then looked for footprints,
but in vain. The weather had
been fine for a day or two and the
ground was hard, so that there were no
footprints ; at least that an English eye
could detect. Perhaps the Need Indian or
the native of Australia could have found

them readily ; but there were no traces the
two Yorkshire men could find, though
they searched carefully and long.

I'm feared we're going' to find nought,
Ned said old Woodcock at last. ' I'm
fair beaten. He's known what he's bin
coin', the chap 'at planned this job.'

*Aye, that he les. But we nun try a
bit longer. Th' Squire '11 be anxious to
know that all's bin done.'

But no further search availed them anything.
It was quite clear that the villain
had thought the matter well over, and taken
care to make no oversight ; fully impressed
that in murder it is only the blunderers
who get caught. There was no clue to
be found, and very unwillingly the two
gave up their efforts. Retracing their
steps, they left the wood, and returned to
where the body was found. It was useless
to look for anything there. There were
to be seen the marks made on the wet
ground by Tunstall and the others who
helped him to carry the body of the

C 2

murdered man to his cottage ; but these
were unimportant.

'I'm heard we'll lev to give up the
job exclaimed Woodcock, evidently greatly
chained at their failure. ' Whatever will

CD

th' Squire say, does t' think ? '

*ril non go and see,' replied Ned.
I'se not forget in a hurry t' scene this
morning. Ye nun gang yersen, Jim ; I
aren't ! '

All the old cobbler's persuasive powers
were unequal to inspiring Tunstall with the
courage to face the Squire again. So he
set off by himself to announce the failure
of all their efforts.

He was shown into the Squire's room,
where the inmate was still fuming, his rage
having but partially subsided. His condition
was that of the sea after a storm.
As the waters seethe in restless unquiet, so
the old Squire's mind was perturbed and
uneasy. He felt that if he could only get
some trace of the murderer, some hope or
prospect of bringing him to justice, of

avenging poor Earnsliaw's death, he could
be somewhat pacified. He had great hopes
that the searchers would find some evidence
which might point out the assassin. But his
hopes were dashed to the ground by Woodcock's
report.

Are you quite sure, Woodcock, that you
took every pains ; that you have neglected
nothing ? '

'As sure as I am that I'm standing here

afore you. We sought everywhere, and

could find nought — neither ras: nor footer
o

step. He was owre- cunning to leave a
single evidence o' any kind.'

That's very extraordinary,' replied the
Squire. 'It seems to have been some one
who was quite familiar with Earnshaw's
ways, and the ground ; who has laid
his plans very skilfully. Indeed, he must
have surveyed the ground very carefully
; both as to the certainty of killing
the poor fellow and escaping afterwards.'


That he has, sir. He's non going' to be

caught if he can help it. He's a crafty
villain.'

'You are rio^ht there, Woodcock. You
know all the " physical force " men among
the Chartists round here : who do you think
has done it ? I know you have no sympathy
with the " physical force " men.'

'Not I, sir. I'm only too sorry that
these rough chaps hav' joined us. They'll
only bring discredit on the party, and doit
harm i' the end. But are you sure, sir,
that the Chartists have done it ? '

Who else would be likely to have done
it ? No one on the other side would have
injured Earnshaw. Why, with the winter
coming oii, every friend of order felt Tom
to be invaluable. He hated a Chartist ashe
did a poacher ; indeed they were the
same to him. These 'physical force" men
are all a lot of ruffians, who if they are
only defying the law are happy. It must
have been one of them that owed poor Tom
a grudge ; and perhaps wanted him out of
the way. If they are planning some 

oiitraires, some more rick-burnings,
Tom was just the man they would want to
get rid of ; the villains ! I wonder respectable
men like you and my nephew, who
ought to know better, countenance such
lawlessness. You ought to be ashamed of
yourselves, both of you : though the ease is
worse with him than with you. He has a
vote ; he does not need to seek one. You
haven't one, and naturally want one. But
I don't think pikes and riots, lawlessness
and outrage, shooting mien from behind a
fence, the road to the franchise ; or indeed
to any of the points of the Charter.'

This was rather unfair to Woodcock, who
deprecated violence as much as any of the
opponents of Chartism, and who raised his
voice against it at every opportunity.

^ I think you are rather hard upon us, sir.
I am sure that the real reformers seek to
attain their ends by legal measures ; the
physical force " men are only drawbacks
to our cause. We regret violence, and
speak against it as much as you or any

other magistrate can. I don't think you
are just to us *' moral force" Chartists, that
wish to do all legally. '' Hold fast by the
laws," old Major Cartwright used to say ;
and we hold with him. I'm sure, sir, I amas
sorry as you are. I am sorry about poor
Tom Earnshaw ; and I am sorry that this
has happened, for the sake of the cause ; '
his language rising with his subject.

The Squire felt the old man's rebuke,
and his natural generosity prompted him at
once to apologise.

I am sorry I said what I did, Woodcock.
You are right, it was not quite fair to charge
you and your party with abetting violence ;
I was unjust. But then I am under great
provocation.'

that's true,' replied the old reformer.
You've been greatly tried, sir, and provoked
; and I'm sorry we've been unable
to find any trace of the scoundrel. We did
our best, I can assure you.'

I am sure you did, Woodcock, and I
am very much obliged to you. My gratitude

will take another form than words. I
shall not forget your ready help in this
terrible trouble that has come upon us. Do
you think a reward might bring anything
out?'

It's well worth train', sir. But I'm
feared this is a single-handed job ; an' if he
keeps his own counsel he's safe.'

Well, we must try, and see wdiat it will
do. Good morning, Woodcock.'

The old Chartist was turning to go, when
he halted, saying,

If it's bin done by the " physical force "
men hereabouts, Dan Appleyard will know
something about it.'

Do you say so ? ' the Squire said eagerly.
Then the reward may do some good.'

Chapter 11.

THE W H A E T N S.

The old Squire's efforts remained barren
of result. The only effect of the reward
was to arouse the anger of his turbulent
neighbours, the * physical force ' Chartists.
It came somehow to Dan Appleyard's ears
that the reward was supposed to be related
to him in particular ; and conscious of his
innocence and his ignorance on the matter,
Dan felt very much injured. People who
know that they are not beyond suspicion on
many matters, can usually be specially virtuous
and indignant when they do chance to
be charged unjustly. Dan might never have
coveted a pheasant, or listened to a Chartist
speaker, to judge by the wails he sent up at
being supposed to be cognisant of the perpetrator
or perpetrators of Tom Earns haw's

murder. It was a dastardly deed, was
agreed on all sides.

The inquest was held ; Ned Tunstall and
Jim Woodcock said wdiat they had to say,
and were complimented by the coroner on
the pains they had taken and the intelligence
they had displayed in the matter ;
but the Verdict was — ' Wilful murder : but
by whom committed there is no evidence
to show.'

The matter soon ceased to be actively
debated ; but the Squire did not stand alone
in his opinion that the murder was the work
of some of the lawless fellows who joined
the ranks of the Chartists, and who would
join any movement directed against the
Government, or those in authority : men
who cared only to oppose law and order,
and recked not under what banner they
arrayed themselves, so long as they were in
revolt against the ruling powers. They
were the bane of the Chartists. Those who
were true to the matter of reform as a cure
for the evils around them, and who, like

Jim Woodcock, honestly believed that in
the Charter they had a panacea for the
national troubles ; and those of the upper
classes who sympathised with them, regarded
the ' jDhj'sical force ' men as more
injurious to their cause than their avowed
enemies, Whig or Tory. To this last class,
namely, those socially above the Chartists
(who were mainly belonging to the wage-class),
who sympathised with them, or, in
their own words, held that ' the earth was
made for the many, and not for the few,'
belonged the old Squire's nephew Jack ; his
heir in default of a lawful son of his own.

It may now be well to see what kind
of folks the AYhartons were. They were
gentlefolks ; a younger branch of the great
Wharton family of the North, whose attachments
to the Stuartss cost them so dear.
The Bibles and prayer-books still distributed
yearly over the old manors of the Wharton,
which have passed into other hands, keep
the memory of the family, if not green, still
in remembrance. These Wharton had

had of later years Whig leanings, and the
old Squire of Gaythorne Hall, who died in
1801, was a Whig. He had married a
Miss Wollaston, the daughter of another
Yorkshire squire, who died before him in
1790. Both families were old, highly
respected, and though without titles, belonged
to the rank of the county families ;
among whom many a plain squire holds a
prominent position in Yorkshire. From
their union sprang three boys — Charles,
born in 1772 ; Edward, born in 1775 ; and
Francis, born in 1778. There were no girls.
The Wharton property was a handsome
one, free from incumbrance, so that there
was no need for any economy ; and Gay-thorn
Hall, the family residence of the
Wharton, was known for its plenty of
everything to eat and drink ; both with the
family and the domestics. Beef and ale
were to be found there in no stinted
quantities. Neither the Squire nor his
wife cared to travel, and consequently they
were profuse at home. They of course

observed the rule of saving a certain
portion of their income yearly for their
children ; but three sons and no daughters
were a family, measured by a Yorkshire
standard, which called for little thrift or
forethought ; these boys could easily be
provided for. The eldest would of course
have the estate ; Edward would be a
soldier ; and Francis be a clergyman, or
enter the navy, according to the tastes he
might develop as he grew up. It was
necessary to provide for their education :
to give Charles an eldest son's allowance
while his father lived ; to buy Edward a
commission, and supplement his pay, so
that he could live as became a Wharton ;
and to make provision for the future needs
of Francis. But all this rather furnished
material for Squire AVharton and his wife
to talk about, than necessitated that self-denial
of which so much was heard and
so little seen.

Mrs. Wharton's dower consisted of
£7000, well invested in shares in the Aire

and Caller Canal Company ; and the liigli
rate of interest which they paid enabled
her to save a sum yearly which would
provide Edward with all he would require.
So they lived easily without anxiety, and
were happy : perhaps happier than many
of their neighbours who found London in
the season an irresistible attraction, and
Bath in the winter almost a necessity.

The Wharton stayed at home : the
Squire looked after his property and his
tenants ; while his lady looked after the poor.

The farmers prospered ; they had ready
markets for their corn, their butter, their
fat cattle in the neighbouring towns of
Barnsley and Sheffield ; and the labourers
shared in their prosperity. The parish of
Brigstone, on the high ground which slopes
up to the moors lying betwixt Lancashire
and Yorkshire, was a model rural
parish. Its south-eastern lip touched the
famous Satanstoe collieries, where the coal
comes almost to the surface, and so was
easily worked.

But the border-scrap of the parish was
allied to Satanstoe in every respect : and
knew nothing of its connection with Brig-stone
except by the collection of the rates ;
and the facts that its denizens went to
Brigstone to marry, to bury, and to christen.
As a matter of fact, Brigstone was a strictly
agricultural parish. The village itself had,
besides the rectory, two taverns, a large
house where dwelt the solicitor, who was
also Squire Wharton's man of business ; a
less pretentious house tenanted by the
village doctor ; a farrier of local repute ;
and the usual craftsmen — smith, carpenter,
mason, shoemaker, and tailor, found in all
village communities. The AVhartons were
the family of the parish, and occupied the
high-railed pew in the parish church. Except
the rector, the solicitor, and the
doctor, all were home products — sons of
the soil of Brigstone. Every man knew
all about his neighbour ; every woman was
familiar with the smallest details in the
lives of her gossips. Lying away from the

great industrial fields of Yorkshire, it turned
its back on Lancashire ; consequently received
no incomers, who had their own
private reasons for leaving their native
places : such sought rather the manufacturing
towns. From this Mrs. Wharton
had the satisfaction of knowing precisely
who and what kind of persons the recipients
of her bounty were.

Mrs. Wharton's fortune, by some whim
upon her father's part, was settled upon
her ; and after that upon her first female
grandchild, no matter by which of her
own children. Until the first female
grandchild came of age the income of the
shares was to be enjoyed by the holder
of the estate : it being enjoined that it was
expected he would make the girl, while a
minor, an appropriate yearly allowance ;
but this was optional, and no amount was
suggested. As to any other grandchildren,
male or female, their parents must provide
for them, as seemed fit unto themselves.
Under the settlement the income fell to

VOL. I. D

the old Squire on his wife's death in 1790.
When he followed her in 1801, his eldest son
Charles drew the interest ; and a very comfortable
addition to his own income he found
it. It enabled him to continue an allowance
to Edward beyond what he inherited
under his father's will ; and to continue
Francis at Cambridge with ample funds.
He was a right brotherly brother : and as
his own tastes were strictly squarely, he
had enough for himself and to spare. His
pride made him very sensitive about the
position of the Wharton ; and as his own
position was beyond dispute, his anxieties
lay with his brothers and their respective
positions. Consequently he was generous
to them to an unusual extent. His dog,
his gun, his fishing-rod, his roadster, were
the objects of his thoughts ; as to the
carriage-horses, they were the business of
the coachman. A kindly genial Squire,
fond of a rubber of whist, and a glass of
good port : that was his character. He
attended the petty sessions, but was scarcely

an active magistrate. Consequently lie
developed a latent tendency to gout which
ran in the Wharton blood.

He remained a bachelor ; Edward bought
a commission ; Francis passed through a
creditable college course at Cambridge ;
but could not decide upon a subsequent
career. He was reckoned a good classic
and a sound mathematician ; and what
more did a man want in that day ? He
had no ambition to stay at Cambridge, and
did not take such a class, or such a position
in the mathematical tripos as to encourage
any hopes he might have held of gaining a
position there. He had a studious turn,
but would not enter the Church ; neither
was he inclined to enter the navy, though
Nelson's deeds had rendered the naval
service at that time very attractive to the
cadets of good families. He had declined
to be a midshipman, and preferred a civilian
life ; so he had been sent to school, and
after that to the University, without any
definite aim ; and chiefly because the old

D 2

Squire did not see what else to do with
him. He was too much of a Wharton to
think of manufacture or commerce for his
son. Yet Francis was not lazy. When his
elder brother Charles came to be the head
of the family he had even less inclination
to press anything upon his younger brother.
So Francis went here and there for a year
or two, seeing most of the prominent towns
of England. He had been to Bath, was
familiar with Cheltenham, had visited
Brighton ; and had kept always in a good
circle. The Squire's disinclination to marry ;
Edward's connection with the army, which
was not favourable to matrimony ; caused
Francis to be looked upon as the one by
whom the Wharton estates would be handed
down to posterity. At last he came to
Gaythorne Hall ; and found amongst Lis
brother's neighbours a Miss Marston, of
Fowrass Grange.

Fowrass Grange was a comfortable if
small country house, with a property attached
to it — the Grange Farm. Her father,

Mr. marston, was an asthmatic, and bad
been compelled to reside in the south, taking
up his abode at Hastings. He was a
widower of literary tastes, and brought up
his daughter to share them. When his
death permitted of Miss Marston returning
to Fowrass Grasse, the neighbouring
Squires, their wives and daughters, were
rather afraid of the well-read young lady;
who if not quite so wealthy as themselves,
stood above them in picture. She was a
tall, auburn-haired lady, of erect carriage,
aud a decided will of her own. It is needless
to say that Squire Wharton made no
approaches to her, or her hand. He was a
perfectly courteous neighbour ; no more.
But when the college-bred Francis came to
Gaythorne Hall, a very different state of
affairs began. The attraction was obviously
mutual : the Squire had no objection to
Miss Marston as a sister-in-law ; she was of
age, with no one to consult. She was not
rich enough to attract that contemptible
social parasite the fortune-hunter ; nor was

she a very promising object for this wiles.
So it ended in Francis settling down at Morass
Grange ; near enough to Gaythorne Hall
for intimate association betwixt the brothers.
Perhaps Charles always entertained a little
feeling of fear towards his handsome,
clever, and managing sister-in-law.

The Wharton were fair : and the dark
auburn hair of Mrs. Wharton formed a contrast
to her husband's locks. They were
held to be a handsome couple ; and when a
little boy came in 1808 he was considered a
beautiful baby. Some years elapsed before
a little girl was added to the family group.
When the last arrival came on the scene,
the little heir of the Wharton was a remarkably
handsome boy, with hair and
eyes the colour of a new-fallen chestnut.
He was of a more intense shade of colour
than hitherto belonged to the Wharton.
A bright little fellow he was, too, full of
curiosity and willingness to learn ; and a
great favourite with his uncle the Squire.

Why should I marry, with a little chap

like that for an heir ? ' he would say in his
good-natured way. ' I don't believe if I
married I should ever have half such a
fellow of my own. The Wharton won't
drop out of their position with sou at the
head of them, Jack.'

Soon after his marriage Mr. Francis
found that the Marston property was in a
very confused condition. There was a good
deal of it, scattered about ; but there where
also several mortg^ao-es. Mr. Marston had
left his affairs in the hands of his solicitor,
and the solicitor had made work for himself
out of it. It was determined to make a
clean sweep of it ; so all was sold except Morass
Grantee and the Grange Farm ; and the
balance remaining after the expenses, and
mortgages, &c. were all paid, was invested
in some new docks building in Liverpool.

The investment won't pay for a year or
two, but it will come in pleasantly when
the boy will have to go to college,' was
the remark made over and over again by
Francis to his wife.

When the little girl came the Squire was
greatly delighted. 'Now I can bear the
expenses of this one he would say. ' This
one is my care. Now for the old Wollaston
dower. I think fifty pounds a year for a
start will feed and clothe her. At present
at least ! How do the docks get on, Frank ?
Not much plunder yet, eh ? ' he would continue
in his genial brotherly way.

The old housekeeper at Gaythorne Hall
was even fonder of the children than her
master ; and many a mild reproof little
Jack got from his mother for visits to her
room, where a carnival, threatening a
stomach-ache, was invariably provided for
him. But one day the old body caught
cold, and was soon in her grave. The
Squire hated new faces, and was determined
to make Mary Allonby, the parlour-maid,
housekeeper. Mrs. Wharton was firmly
opposed to this, urging that a more experienced
person was desirable. But the
Squire showed that beneath the greatest
good-nature there may lie, hidden from

ordinary vision, a hard piece of stubbornness
in the groundwork of the character. It
was the only difference which ever cropped
up in the relations betwixt the two brothers.
Mrs. Wharton retained her connections,
and was always courteous and civil to the
new housekeeper ; but always preserved a
distinct distinctness of manner. Mrs.
Allonby, as she now was termed, felt this,
as she was intended to feel it ; but gave
no sign of her feelings. The little fellow
missed the old housekeeper, as the new one
treated him less liberally than lier predecessor
; who endured his mother's protests
without the slightest intention of heeding
them. But under the circumstances such
a position could not be continued, so Mrs.
Allonby practised economy towards him ;
which was more trying to herself even than
the boy. The relations of the two households
were unaffected by this attitude of
Mrs. Wharton towards the new housekeeper ;
who simply kept out of the lady's way at
her visits.

Then the Squire went the way of this
fathers, to the regret of every one. * No
man's enemy, but his own ! ' was the universal
remark.

Edward had now to leave the army,
where he had served with distinction in
the war of 1812 betwixt Great Britain and
the United States. He had been in Canada
some fourteen years, and, except his brother's,
all the faces almost at Gaythorne Hall were
new. He made little change in the domestic
arrangements of the Hall ; and was as fond
as his brother before him of seeing the
children and their parents. Mrs. Wharton
and he soon became great friends ; he was
glad to find some one with wider sympathies
and a more extended knowledge than
obtained among country families in those
days. She too was delighted to have a
neighbour who knew something of the world
outside the West Eidins; and its local interests.
So the good feeling was mutual. Mr.
and Mrs. Wharton made their visits more
frequent even than before ; while the nurse

was at Gaytliorne Hall with the children
every day that the weather would permit.

They were two sweet children ; the little
girl being a paler, less intensely coloured,
copy of her brother. Squire Edward was
(pity as inclined as his brother before him
to jji'Gfer a claim to her, and to honour the
clause in his father's and Miss Wollaston's
marriage settlement. But a very curious
accident had happened ; the document had
disappeared. Old Squire Wharton had
always kept his deeds, and all papers and
parchments relating to his property in an
old oak chest, of massive character, guarded
by portentous locks. He was afraid of
their being mislaid, or lost : but he evidently
entertained little or no fear of fire.
Had a fire ever occurred at the Hall, that
chest must have been carried out bodily ;
for he kept the key of one lock, and his
solicitor the key of the other. It was a
great affair at the Hall when this chest
was opened. When Charles had deposited
his will in it a year or two before his death,

every paper and every deed was there. But
after his will had been taken out, it was
found on reading it desirable to consult
the marriage settlement of Miss Wollaston.
But it was not forthcoming when looked
for. Another search followed, but was
equally barren of result. It could not
easily have been mislaid : it was too bulky
to drop out of sight very easily. Poor
Mr. Wordsworth the solicitor was greatly
puzzled about it.

Wherever can it be ? ' he said. ' Whatever
can have happened to it ? The vouchers
of the shares, they are all right ! It was
no use to anybody. There is no dispute
in the family ; there is no motive for anyone
to take it. Miss Edith will lose nothing
by her uncle's death. The Captain
can allow her what he likes. There is
nobody else for the money. Wherever is
the deed '? ' he asked of himself again and
again, and of all around him. ' The new
Squire will be so annoyed,' he remarked.
In vain Mr. Francis tried to soothe him.

Look here, Wordsworth ! ' he would say.
What is the use of bothering about it ?
The shares are there, safe and sure ; wdiat
is the use of troubling yourself ? Edward
Till do just the same without it as with
it. He knows about the original settlement
as well as I do ; or you either. I
would not worry if I were you ! '

Very likely ; you are not the family
solicitor. I am responsible for the documents.
A pretty story it would be at
Barnsley if Jeffcock and Wordsworth cannot
keep their clients' deeds safe ; whether they
are at their homes, or at our office. I tell
you I must find it.'

Very well ; but how do you propose
to do it ? '

It Was no use ; whatever injury and detriment,
through loss of reputation, to the firm
of ' Jeffcock and Wordsworth, solicitors,'
mio-ht be the result, the marriage settlement
of Miss Wollaston refused to be discovered
anywhere. When Squire Edward, for he
dropped his military title when he was

made a Justice of the Peace, on taking the
Wharton Estates, heard of the incident,
he treated it with the utmost unconcern.
He continued the allowance of fifty pounds
a year, and washed to double it. So taken
up was he with his little nephew and
niece, that shrewd judges declared he would
never marry. ' The late Squire looked on
them as if they were his own, and the
new Squire's the same,' was the local comment.
The opinion was warranted by the
facts : for handsome as he was, with his
erect military bearing giving him a commanding
look ; highly cultured with the
reputation of a brave and skilful soldier ;
a gallant man in every respect as ever
took a lady's eye ; the Squire remained
unmarried. The single ladies of the neighbourhood
took this as a personal affront ;
and there were a number of spinsters around
Gaythorne Hall who thought, and not unreasonably,
that they could play the part
of its mistress well. Some declared their
conviction that the reason was that the

Squire was too fond of his good-looking
housekeeper : who certainly filled the position
to perfection, and let all beneath herat
least, know that she was the housekeeper
; though it was never urged that
she did so in any unkindly manner. Others
were equally certain that the rejection of
the married state was due to his sister-in-law.
No one was so blamed as Mrs.
Wharton : he wanted a wife like her : they
had not mind enough : such and such like
were the remarks made by the disappointed
spinsters. But, whatever the reason, the
fact remained.

Years rolled on and the prospect of
Squire Wharton's taking unto himself a
wife died away even in the bosoms of the
most sanguine of the marriageable maidens
of the district. Two widows had set their
caps at him, and besieged his heart with much
courage ; but without success. The citadel
could neither be taken by assault, nor carried
by time. Both retired baffled and chagrined
at their failure. He remained a bachelor.

If lie was without wife, he could scarcely
be said to be without children ; for his
nephew and niece were almost as much
his as their parents

Jack takes like me, to the Collections,'
the Squire would say ; ' he has more inches
than the old Wharton ; and he is heavier
about the shoulders. He is close upon six
feet. He would make a fine Guardsman,
Frank 1 '

Yes, so he would,' replied the father,
looking on the youth with fond paternal
pride ; * but Jack has no warlike ambition.'

He has a lot of the Marston in him
too ; look at the tinge of colour in his hair
and eyes, it is deeper than the blonde of
the Wharton. It's a pity he has no fancy
for a uniform 1 '

He is like his father ; a peaceful warfare
his will be. But there is the fighting
blood in him all the same. He will make
a mark of his own, Ned ; if you will be
good enough to live on, and not spoil the
prospects by dying : and so thrusting him

away from his own career by making him
Squire of Gaythorne Hall.'

Why, but you would be that, Frank ! '

I don't think so. You will outlive me.
I don't say anything about it, it would worry
the wife so. But I know it.'

Tush ! I hope not. One of us must
hang on if only for the lad's sake : if he
would be spoiled by the Wharton estates.'
Such was their brotherly affection.

And Miss Wharton, Edith, what of her?
She still remained a paler copy of her
brother. Erect, high - spirited, ' leonine,
tawny-haired, amber-eyed, full-throated,
skin like a blanched almond ; calm, high-tempered,'
she was a ' positive blonde '
after Oliver Wendell Holmes's own heart.
She was a lighter shade of auburn than her
brother. There was, too, much suppressed
energy in her. Calm ordinarily, those eyes,
shot through with golden light, dipped in
yellow sunbeams,' could ' light up like
lambent flame ' when the feelings were
roused by the tale of wrong or oppression.

VOL. I. E

He'll have his work cut out that marries
that girl, Frank her uncle would remark.

She will not need the canal shares to
get her off. But it may be well to keep
my grip on them until we see what the
fortunate fellow is like. She will please
herself on that point, however willing to
yield ordinarily.'

CHAPTER III.

THE squire's heir.

Such then were the Wharton of the
rising generation. A handsome pair they
were too, as was universally admitted.
Their father watched them with an interest
intensified by the conviction that he would
not be with them lons^. He beo^an to look
hacrcrard, wasted, and having lived to see
his boy of age, passed quietly away. His
brother felt the wrench keenly. At Fowrass
Grange the blow was received with an outward
calm which told of inward sorrow.
Mrs. Wharton was devoted to her husband,
whom she worshipped. He was her idol,
her embodiment of wisdom and goodness ;
for under his quiet exterior there lay qualities
which perhaps were evident to her

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
•IJINOIS Library

alone, and at which his brother even only-guessed.
He would say —

Frank was a fine fellow, but he never
made any figure ; hadn't enough of go in
him. Would have made a capital member
of Parliament. Could have thrown a lot
of light on some of these questions that
are causing so much commotion. But he
was not likely to sit for a close borough ;
and never would have contested a large
constituency. His talents were rather
buried, I think,' he would conclude ; thinking
vaguely of those whose lives were
utilized but to the half of their full
capacities. Possibly he had some rather
sharp twinges about his own life.

Mrs. Wharton's sorrow was dry-eyed for
the husband she loved so well. She seemed
to devote herself more completely now to
her daughter, to whom she was an elder
sister as well as a mother. All her energies
were bent on the completion of her
daughter's education, which had been conducted
by her father and herself. The

little maid lead always been quick to learn,
and had a retentive memory. Consequently,
while her brother was away at school and
college, she was the object of her parents'
care, and her mind expanded naturally ;
and was neither dwarfed nor distorted by
the boarding-school] education of that day.
She was a companion for her brother in
his holiday rambles, and kept up with him
in his studies very fairly. She had a
smattering of Latin, and some mathematics,
but her French was good. Mr. Francis
Wharton had been very fond of the French
language, so that the Squire (who was not
given to study, but had picked up a colloquial
French among the French colonists
in Canada) often talked in that tongue ;
while the children were brought up to speak
French and English alike, sirs. Wharton
being much exercised to correct the errors
acquired by the Squire's example. In conversation
with her daughter, in the study of
history, in which French literature was extensively
employed, and in other matters,

Mrs. Wharton found relief from her inward
thoughts. But it was clear that she would
ere Ions: follow her husband. Edith's mind
was constantly exercised about her mother's
health, and in study each found diversion
from the thoughts which at other times
engrossed them.

When John was at home all seemed
lively by comparison. He was a keen
student, who, when he had completed a long
spell of reading, would start, stick in hand,
and go for a stroll over the Gog Magog
Hills, or even as far as the heath of Newmarket.
He was, in fact, a studious man
by habit, and was believed to be one of the
most promising men at his father's old
college, King's, at Cambridge. It was evident
that he was a worker by choice ; that
it required no strain to keep him well in
the collar with the traces tight. He took a
better position in his final examinations than
his father did ; and might have claimed from
his college some recognition of his position,
but he had no wish to settle in Cambridge.

He evidently inherited this father's tendencies
to wander about, or perhaps in each
case there was a return to the ways of our
okl nomadic ancestors ; and he was fond of
mounting a knapsack and, stick in hand,
setting off to see some place, some historic
site, some fine scenery, or some industry
which attracted his attention. One matter
especially attracted his thoughts and enlisted
his enthusiasm, and that was the
progress of reform : the subject then convulsing
the whole nation. As a student he
had taken an active part in the politics of
the day, and was frequently a speaker in
the debates which went on in Cambridge.
His sympathies were with the party of
reform, and he was a Whig. Consequently
after his college career was over he made
himself familiar with different districts of
England.

The rejection of the proposed bill of reform
brought forward by Earl Grey, by the
House of Lords in 1831, had been followed
by a wild outburst of violence. The riotous

mobs of different towns retaliated on their
enemies. Some of the prominent peers
were assaulted and put in peril of their
lives. Not only that, but their castles were
fired or sacked. The Duke of Newcastle
had to endure both, and his seat, Nottingham
Castle, was burned to the ground.
Revoir Castle, the Duke of Rutland's, was
attacked. Bristol plunged into riots such
as have scarcely been witnessed in this
country, when its recorder went there, who
had been a strenuous opponent of the bill.
Bread-riots were not unknown there ; butin
this burst of fury the Mansion House,
the Bishop's palace, the Custom House,
warehouses and private dwellings, went up
in flames, while the 14th Light Dragoons
charged the masses. The mob at Derby
broke open the gaol. All was fury. The
opponents of reform grew alarmed. Amidst
all too there was the incubus, the burden
of the Corn Laws goading the poor to madness.
The opponents of reform were par
excellence the large landed proprietors, the

bulk of the peers who rejected the Reform
Bill after it had passed the House of
Commons.

Still their spells they mutter in the storm,
Retarding long the march of slow reform.'

Their opposition to the will of the people
was producing the effects that might have
been anticipated. Violence was afoot. The
people and the landowners were locked in
deadly strife.

While tower and temple at their bidding burn,
And the land reels and rocks from side to side,
A stillness wreck, with none to save or guide ;
A stillness wreck, with multitudes to do
Deeds more accursed than pirates' deck ere saw ;
A helpless wreck, a famine-frantic crew,
All rage and hunger, hand and voice and maw ;
And in that rolling wreck, no food, no hope, no law.'

Such was the condition of the country.
No wonder a thoughtful man like John
Wharton was occupied with the events
around him.

And how did this terrible deadlock end ?
It forms an epoch in our history. Once
more the bill passed the Commons ; the

Lords successfully opposed it ; the Whig
ministry resigned ; the Duke of Wellington
tried to form a Tory ministry, but failed.
The Whigs went to the King, and at last
wrung from him a promise to create as
many new peers as would cast the balance
of the House of Lords in favour of the bill.
Lord Brougham asked the King to put his
consent in writing. The King complied;
and the House of Lords sullenly bowed their
stubborn heads, and passed the bill. The
contest between the connected peers and
the people was decided. The people had
won ; but at what price ? The verses above
tell. And the multitude had learned the
dangerous secret, — the value of violence.
This gave a stamp to the times which seem
almost incomprehensible to us at the present
day ; removed though we are from them by
but half a century.

Leaving his mother and sister safe under
the protection of his uncle, and amidst a
rural population endeared to the family for
their kindness and goodness in times past,

as well as present, John Wharton took his
staff in hand and went out over the land —
to see what he did see. And what he saw
was not comforting. The country still
seethed in disquiet : and demoralized by
the old poor-law, the lower section of the
wage classes was in a state disturbing to
think of still. He returned much perturbed
and decidedly of the opinion of Ebenezer
Elliot, the poet, — the author of the 'Corn
Law Rhymes.' He often repeated the lines —

To live in vain ! to live in pain !
To toil in hopeless sadness !
Is this the doom of God-like man,
God of Love and Gladness 1 '

The passing of the Eeform Bill in 1832
had done much to allay the social hurricane.
The new men of the House of Commons
were far more the representatives of the
people than the members of the 'rotten
boroughs ' could pretend to be. The middle
classes were represented : and hope animated
the lower classes that their turn would
follow. The Whig ministry brought with

the reformed parliament a new increment
of power, and set to work with a will to
put the nation in order.

The lull gave him an opportunity of
going over to the Continent, where he
wandered first through Belgium and then
through Normandy. First he went to
Antwerp ; and while he gazed with a
student's interest upon the grand records
of the great industrial epoch, when the
wool of England went to the looms of
Flanders, he carefully studied the people.
Then leaving the wooden sabots as winter
drew on, he skated over the canals of
Holland, noting, observing, and reflecting.
Then as spring approached he made a walking
tour through Normandy. Here he
was recalled by a letter from his sister,
saying that his mother was not so well ; the
winter had tried her, and her strength was
failings, and her couo[h more troublesome.

When John Wharton returned from this
tour of observation his opinions were distinctly
formed. It is needless to say they

different widely from those entertained by
this uncle. The latter was one of the land-owning
party in every sense of the word.
He did his duty to his tenants ; and he
also knew what was due to the landlord.
He thought the Corn Laws a part of the
wisest devices ever ordained by heaven for
the benefit of man. His nephew, though
himself a landowner to a limited extent,
did not share the views of his uncle. They
differed, and differed widely ; and did not
agree to differ. The nephew, as a young
man who felt keenly, could not be expected
to rest satisfied with a chill neutral position
on so spurning a question. His temperament
was ardent. It was a time of change
and of active thought. The air was filled
with reform. The mighty deeds of the
reformed parliament were illustrating the
wisdom of the Eeform Bill. The people
were eager for further reform ; believing it
would bring: with it further blessings. The
position is not difficult to understand. John
Wharton held with the masses. His uncle

held the reformed parliament to be a pack
of busy-bodies, who could let nothing alone,
but must be tinkering and mending everywhere,
till they would improve the British
Constitution off the face of the earth ; and
leave nothing but mob-law : believing this,
Squire Wharton was also not likely to bea
passive spectator of what was going on
around him. He was quite satisfied with
what he saw, and what he had seen ; and
his own opinions thereon. He could never
understand his nephew's craving for wandering
about to see things for himself.

It is just poor Frank's way over again.
It did him no good, and it will do you no
good. I've been abroad, I've not been a stay-at-home
man. I've been far enough from
the old country to see her in comparison with
the rest of Europe. I saw how far she
was in advance of the other countries when
I was in Canada. I came back and found
it so. But you,' he would say, ' you only
go about, it seems to me, to unsettle your
mind. You come back to join the people

who think that England of all countries in
the word is in most need of doctoring.
Yes, that Dick, Tom, and Harry can guide
the helm of state a precious deal better
than the Duke ; the only man who was
more than a match for Napoleon. If that
is the only outcome of your travel, I think
you would have been a great deal better
at home.'

John had his own private opinion that
Canada was scarcely the standpoint from
which to view Europe, or the best country
to contrast with England, but he did not
say so ; so he put off his uncle's last argument
by replying —

*Your observations have not been confined
to England, I am quite ready to
admit ; but you must see, uncle, what a
difference the tax on corn has made with
the people.'

Tax on corn made on the people ! What
do you suppose the Canadian farmer thinks
about it ? ' he would burst in hotly. ' Do
you think he would not sell his corn to

England ? lias he no grievance as he calls
it?'

Well, let him send it here, there are
mouths that would be glad to eat it.'

Yes, and how would the farmer pay his
rent, do you think, in that case ? The people
must share the burden of the land ; and
how can they do it better than by paying
a fair price for corn ? Thus they share the
farmer's burdens. Quite right they should
too!'

But then they don't see it in that light,
uncle. Perhaps an empty stomach warps
their judgment. They think the loaf a
little too dear.'

Then let them work a little harder
for it. What do I see, but a great lot
of idle fellows who will never work an
honest day's work as long as they can get
a living out of the rates. Plenty of
them ! '

John knew that this was a strong point
in his uncle's storehouse of argument, so
he would reply after this fashion :

But will not the new act to do away
with the old poor laws, and refuse relief to
any man that can work, except in the
workhouse, be a cure for the evil ^ and a
terrible evil it is, no doubt.' ^

Another bit of patching and mending.
I wonder what will be left of the constitution
when this reforming Whig government
has done its do. Every evil to be mended
right away. I wonder, however, the old
country got on so far. Out of the frying-pan
into the fire ! Patch, and mend, and
reform ! '

At this point the Squire's arguments
began to get rather mixed, whereupon he
would conclude : ' Always the way ; has
been, and will be ; the young folks so much
wiser than their elders.'

'But did not Job find wisdom in the
youngest of his counsellors ? '

Job be hanged ! ' was the irreverent
answer. * I don't remember who his counsellors
were ; but if the youngest was the
wisest of them, I fancy they were a poor

VOL. L F

set. They wouldn't do in these times,
however they got on then.'

It would be clear that at this point the
Squire was moving from the ground of
argument to the morass of declamation ;
and his nephew would beat a retreat. His
respect and affection for his uncle overruled
his strong convictions to the point
of retiring: — when he found that he could
not yield.

Such is a sample of the conversations
which frequently occurred betwixt uncle
and nephew ; both hasty in temperament
and decidedly self-willed. Neither seemed
at all likely to convert the other. Every
fibre of the ex-warrior vibrated in
harmony with the policy of the rulers as
against the ruled. His nephew, on the
other hand, not only was free from prejudices
in favour of what had been, but he
recognized the energy of the reformed
parliament ; both in what had been achieved,
and what was proposed to be done, with
every prospect of accomplishment. Despite

these collisions the relations of the Squire
and his brother's family were as cordial as
ever.

Mrs. AVharton's cough was growing worse,
and at times she was seized with attacks
of difficulty of breathing ; and then some
dropsy showed itself. It was clear to all
that her time upon earth was limited, and
very limited. John gave up his travels
and settled down at home, where he made
an assiduous nurse. Tenderly, carefully,
kindly, considerately the brother and sister
tended their failing; mother. She in turn
looked the position calmly in the face ; she
knew death was coming. But as life was
closing in upon her, the prospect of rejoining
her beloved husband was enlarging, and
brightening as the time drew near when
they should meet again. If she regretted
the fact that she was leaving earth rapidly
behind her, it was solely on account of her
children. But, she reflected, they can do
without me better than many children can
their only parent. The lessons I have

F 2

taught them are like the seed that fell
upon good ground. Their characters are
formed ; their principles good ; and their
faith sound. She sighed sometimes when
the thought flashed upon her that she
would have liked to have seen whom they
would marry. The mother's heart in her
yearned after their future happiness. It
would be well with them, she felt assured ;
and then anxieties would thrust themselves
upon her. When feeling fairly well she
was pretty hopeful ; when not so well,
then the dark troop of imaginings would
hover around her. Ashen feeling decidedly
ill the horizon of the future was very dark.
But in these varying moods, even at the
worst, she felt that her training had been
the wisest she could have given them ; and
that it, added to their native disposition,
would enable them to outride any storm that
was likely to happen. The waves of sin
would never engulf them, she felt ; she
hoped ; she prayed. Patient and long-sufferings
too she was. ' How long, Lord ? '

was often in her heart, if rarely on her
lips. But the disease steadily progressed,
and she no longer could sit by the fire,
but was confined to bed ; here her children
nursed her more attentively than ever.
Beyond the daily walk each took from a
strictly hygienic point of view, neither son
nor daughter was ever seen, even at church.
This walk, except when something very
pressing took them elsewhere, was invariably
up to the Hall, to tell Uncle Edward
how his sister-in-law fared. Sometimes he
had come to see the invalid ; but he took
into his head his visits distressed her, reminded
her of the past, and so agitated
her. His natural delicacy of feeling
prompted him accordingly to stay away.
He was right as to the fact, but in error
in his interpretation. His visits did agitate
the invalid, did remind her of the
past ; but she did not think of the past
to regret the present ; she thought of the
past in connection with the future. His
visits recalled to her the time when lier

husband was with her upon, earth. The
thoughts they raised within her were of
their being together once more in heaven.

At last the long-looked-for end came,
kte in the autumn of 1834 ; and the loving
wife was reunited to her husband in the
spirit : while all that was mortal of her was
laid beside his remains in Brigstone churchyard,
in the family burying-ground of the
Wharton. It was a large gathering at the
funeral, for the old-fashioned 'bidding' of
the AVhartons extended over the widespread
parish ; and all honoured it, and the
deceased lady by attending to it. It was
the last act of respect they could pay the
dead : and the rough, homely north-country
folk have deep buried in them sentiment
which they only manifest on special occasions,
of which a funeral is the chief. She
had not bought their respect by gifts, for
her charity was limited by her means, but
by her walk in life. Every one pointed to
Mrs. Wharton as an example to be followed
in the manner in which she had

brought up her children, and especially her
daughter.

The finest, bonniest girl far and wide,'
they said in Yorkshire phraseology, in which
bonny ' means rather mentally attractive ;
whereas the Scotch ' bonnie ' applies rather
to good looks. Looked at indeed from
either point of view, Edith Wharton was
in fact * bonny.' Grave, sad, thoughtful,
bearing on her features the evidence of her
patient vigils, — her long, long watching, in
her mourning dress of crape she looked
statuesque and even imposing. The rude
crowd looked at the brother and sister with
feelings of admiration, closely linked with
profound respect ; which found ready expression
as it broke away from the churchyard
to the liberal tea at the Brigstone
Inns, the immemorial custom of the place.
John and Edith Wharton went home to
realize fully aud distinctly that their mother
could return to them no more. Keenly as
they felt this, they inherited much of the
Marston qualities, and occupied themselves ;

realizing the fact that there is no evicting
one set of thoughts effectually except by
the steady introduction of other thoughts.
So Edith went south for a visit to her
father's cousin, Lady Barbara Saville, the
daughter of the Earl of Hardcastle, who had
married a Wollaston. The Lady Barbara
lived at Great Stanmore, in Middlesex.

It was a long journey; and when she
arrived at her destination, Miss Wharton
looked indeed like the motherless girl she
was, — greatly in need of some one to look
after her. Compared with Brigstone, Stan-more
was a semi-tropical climate, though
its slopes are comparatively high ; and
along the footpaths for w^iicli the meadow
lands and pastures of Middlesex and Surrey
are famous, the girl regained her wonted
vigour, and the hue of health ; albeit in a
winter sun. Every one at Stanmore knew
the Lady Barbara, and doffed their hat or
dropped their curtsey, from the landlord
of the Crown to the urchins who sliced
on the village pond in front of Thirlmere

Lodge ; when there was any ice permitting
of that amusement.

John found some occupation at home.
When the Grange Farm was let on lease
the brothers decided it would be well to
make the lease expire shortly after Edith
came of acre, so that John mio'ht act as he
pleased ; for Francis knew he would never
live to see the lease out. Consequently the
tenant of the Grange Farm would leave the
ensuing spring, and John consulted his
uncle as to what should be done.

I don't like the idea of a Wharton being
eno:ao:ed in farming ; though, of course, it is
somewhat different when the land is your
own. It would be impossible to farm land
from another. There is a good deal to be
said, Jack, for your taking the land into
your own hand. It would keep you near me :
and though, my lad, we do see some things
differently, I would not like to see less of
you. And of course Edith will go with you,
till she joins a husband; and that would
please me. Perhaps, too, if you shared the

lot of the landowners a little more it would
do your views no harm. Old Holroyd was
a good tenant, had saved money; you were
never in any anxiety about your rent. But
you must have a manager, Jack ; I couldn't
have my nephew and heir going to markets
to sell corn, or buy cattle ; or going round
his stock with a cattle-jobber, or a butcher.
That would not do.'

This difficulty in a managing man was
solved by John Wharton mentioning to a
friend what his design was ; and how he felt
his trouble about a man.

Man ! ' he exclaimed ; * I know the very
fellow for you. He had a small farm of his
own, copyhold ; he had to put a bit of a
mortgage on to pay his brothers and sisters
out, when his father died. Then the owners
were a racketing set, and brother after
brother died, at short intervals — those fast
Lacklands you may have heard of — and the
fines at the death of the lord counted up, till
he decided to sell the place ; as he would
have to mortgage it up to the hilt otherwise.

So he sold it, and after all was paid
he had a small balance left ; not enough to
make a fresh start : but, as he says, it will
be a nest-egg for his savings till he can
start ao;ain. Luke Ellwood's his name. A
steady, decent fellow, wife to match ; only
one child. She is a good manager. Luke
would like to make a beginning as a wage-servant
somewhere where he was not known.
He is the very man for you.'

So negotiations were set on foot which
ended in Luke and his wife and child bringing
their furniture with them, and settling
down at the Grange Farmhouse. Luke
soon found he had got a master to his mind ;
and as for John Wharton, he was not long
in discovering that his foreman was all he
was represented to be ; and could discharge
for him most efficiently those portions of his
duties as a farmer, which the old Squire
regarded as beneath the dignity of a
Wharton.

CHAPTER IV.

F W R A S S GRANGE.

So John Wharton settled down as a
gentleman farmer ; and found in his new
position much to interest, as well as to
occupy him. He was brought into closer
contact with national and local interests
than he had hitherto been. To receive the
rent punctually from a first-rate tenant
leaves only a lukewarm interest in agriculture.
Old Holroyd was a shrewd, calculating
farmer, who had early in his lease seen that
the position of the Grange Farm and its
altitude was not favourable to the growing
of wheat ; or, indeed, to tillage of any kind.

Keep th' land th' green side upmost,'
was his maxim. ' We can't grow corn to
a profit up here. But th' limestone makes

it grand butter land ; nothing can touch
limestone for butter. And th' lime makes
bone. Good for th' young stock. Grass-farm
the Grange ; them's my views. Good
markets for butter close at hand ; and
handy for th' butcher too. But it all lies
i' th' judgment i' th' matter of stock ; ' he
would continue, with a twinkle in his keen
blue eye, and a half smile passing over his
weather-beaten face. * Anybody can grow
corn where th' land and th' climate are
right, wi' th' Corn Laws at their back. But
all the corn laws i' th' world won't make th'
Grange Farm a corn farm ; not as I can see.'
And the old man proved the practical
wisdom of his view by prospering, as a
waxing balance at his banker's told. So
when Luke EUwood came to the farm. Old
Holroyd, who had gone into Brigstone,
retired (' to live a gentleman,' as is the
north-country term for a life not entailing
work of any kind), would not unfrequently
walk over to see the old place, with which
so many memories were linked.

^ He's got a good head on 'im, that
manasseh o' th' master's. I wonder how
he comes to be takin wage ? The master
won't do far wrong by takin' the place into
his own han' wi' him there ; if he'll only
let him have his head. But the Wharton
like their own way ; and the Marston cross
has not lessened that bit of 'em. But I'll
try a word or two with th' master the first
chance I get.'

It was not long before the opportunity
came for the old man expounding his views.
I've done well by th' place, an' I could
like to see you do well too, sir. There's
them as would laugh if you didn't succeed ;
an' I would not like to see them pleased ; '
was his conclusion.

I suppose I am rather self-willed, Hole
; but I hope I am open to conviction.
You made the place pay, you say.'

Aye, I did. It paid me ; an' it will pay
you, wi' the man you've got.'

Then you think Ell wood's the right
man ? '

You're i' luck wi' him at any rate. An'
if you'll only bear i' mind the natal' o' th'
farm, and what it's fit for, you'll do right
enough.'

John Wharton pondered over the matter
frequently, and asked Luke what he
thought.

I'm o' th' ould man's opinion, sir. This
place is a grass farm, and nothing else.
He's a clever ould chap, kept his eyes
open ; and then he was well backed up wi'
his women-folk. You can do no good wi'
young stock and butter if the women won't
help i' earnest. A good milk-stock all the
year round : some of the cows to calve i' the
spring, and some at the back-end, when
butter is dear ; and a few young stock to
fat i' th' summer. I agree wi' old Mr.
Holroyd. That's the way he did it : and
that is the way for you, sir, if I may say so.'

This was a long speech for Luke, but he
wanted 'to have his say out' when the
chance came ; just like old John Holroyd,
who could not screw himself up to talk to

'til' young Squire as he was familiarly
termed in the neighbourhood, while still a
tenant of his.

'Well, how do you propose to carry it
out, Luke ? '

IVe been turning it over i' my mind,
sir. I and the man can look after the
stock, indoor and out ; and the wife will see
to the milk and butter, if she had a strong
lass to help her. If you would just walk
over the pastures now and again and see th'
stock are all right, sir ? '

Well, my part of the farming is not going
to be very heavy, so far as I can see, Luke.'

I hope not, sir. But you'll have to be
there pretty constant, for I can't look after
the stock i' the fold and be away both ;
leastwise mostly.' It was quite evident
Luke was prepared to do his part ; but he
wished a clear understanding on the matter
with his master.

John Wharton saw this, and felt his
confidence in Luke all the stronger for
taking up this position.

I cannot expect the plan to succeed if I
set the example of shirking myself, Luke.
It is my affair, and I must look after it.
You will have to teach me a good many
things, I suspect. I used to think it was
very nice of old Holroyd to keep the place,
as he calls it, " the green side up," when I
went out with my gun; but I cannot say
I ever gave my mind to his reasons for
avoiding the plough. I knew he was a
capital tenant; that was all. We bought
a good deal of his stock at the sale, didn't
we, Luke ? '

Yes ; a fairish lot, I'm glad to say ;
and I wish we'd had more. We'll have to
get some more soon, sir.*

Well, I tlioudit it well to be neighbourly.
John had always been a good
neighbour, as well as a tenant, and been
very obliging. I could not do less. And
it seems in doing a neighbourly turn I
have profited myself. When do you
propose to buy some more stock ? '

There's a spring fair at Huddersfield

VOL. I. G

next week. I thought o' seeing if I could
find anything to my mind their; if you
could let me have th' money, sir. My
little bit's locked up.'

Bless me, certainly ; I never thought
about that. I will give you so much, and
you must keep an account.'

I'll keep the accounts, sir, I'se warrant
you. It wasn't the want of keeping
accounts that sent Annas and me away ,.
fra' th' old place. But o' th' keeping' th'
accounts i' th' world wouldn't keep the
Lacklands fra' drinking ; and the fines
ruined us.'

I am aware of all that, Luke ; though of
course I did not like to say anything. I
have every confidence in you ; I can assure
you. I have been thinking though, that it
is hardly fair of you to get no more for
doing your work thoroughly than if you
only got through it anyhow. If things do
well this year, I am going to propose to you
to take a per centre on the profits, if they
reach a certain figure. What do you say ? '

Well, I'd like to think it over, sir. I
couldn't enter into such a bargain, wi'out
on th' other hand taking a share i' th'
losses. I couldn't do th' one, and not
t'other. I'd like to talk it over wi' th' wife,
sir. Women like to be consulted i' these
matters when they are concerned : as you'll
find when you're married, sir. Excuse my
saying so.'

That's your opinion is it, Luke ? I ama
bachelor, and therefore can have nothing
to say. It is evident you respect your
wife's opinion, Luke. You can tell me
what your conclusion is after you have
talked it over together.'

Matrimonial relations were evidently subjects
which had not particularly interested
John AVharton, so far at least ; but Luke's
remark was not forgotten.

I shall be very glad if this plan will
work. Of course I should like the scheme
to succeed. As old Holroyd says, there are
those who no doubt would enjoy a laugh at
my expense if it didn't ; and I cannot say

the Wharton, or the Mars tons either, for
that matter, have any liking for being
laughed at. We are too thin-skinned for
that. I am so thankful too that such a
plan would do away with any questionings
about the right to grow corn under the
existing corn laws, and my private views
upon the subject. I certainly should not
like to have to grow corn ; and it is a
mercy that I can do without doing so.'

After he had matured his plans, he was
telling his uncle about what he had decided
upon.

I think you are decidedly prudent in
following old Holroyd's example ; and the
scheme is a sound one. All depends upon
Ellwood's judgment in buying the stock.
Does old Holroyd seem to think he is equal
to it ? '

He tells me so. He has been very good
in giving us every information his experience
can suggest ; he gave Ell wood, what
seems in the face of it, some practical advice
the other day.'

What was that ? ' asked the Squire,
rather eagerly.

He said, never buy any stock from
below you, from the lowlands ; they never
do so well when brought to a place higher
up. Look to the moor-farmers for
your stock. Xo matter if they are in
poor condition ; they will come out
on a good pasture. Always buy from
above, never from below ; that was his
advice.'

Shrewd old dog, Holroyd. He never
feathered his nest so well out of the Grange
Farm without using his wits. And he left
it in capital condition too. Rather too
much grass, I fancy.'

The last season has been favourable to
tillage I admit, and the arable land did
well ; but, I think, as a general rule, old
John was right. I am glad the farm is in
grass, as I am in no trouble between my
convictions and my interests.'

What do you mean ? '

Well, I am glad I shall not grow corn ;

I could not do so with a clean conscience,
holding the opinions I do.'

I should fancy not. If you had a field
of waving corn of your own, perhaps the
corn laws would not look so abominable,
I see this scheme will suit you capitally.
My hopes that a little practical experience
of farming would convert you, are dashed
to the ground. Your interests and your
opinions will not clash under these circumstances
: ' continued the Squire ; nettled at
an arrangement which did away with one
argument upon which he had relied, with
some confidence, for his nephew's conversion.
His nephew thought it well to let this item
of the conversation drop ; so instead of
answering directly, he replied,

It will give me a good deal to do in
the way of seeing after the cattle in the
pastures ; I must be out every day. I
cannot play at farming, and merely see the
men are at work ; as an arable farm would
permit.*

I suppose so. If the place was in Essex

you would ride about and see the men were
after the plough, or sowing the seed, or
pitching the corn-sheaves. You would
realize the value of corn then ! But, however,
I am glad your time will be largely
occupied. When you come to know a little
more about the land and its burdens your
eyes will be opened.'

The Squire was still unquiet ; but was
hopeful of his nephew's experience in connection
with agriculture weaning him from
the objectionable views which had taken
possession of him.

Have you heard from Edie lately ? ' he
went on. ' I hope she will be coming back
soon. I want to see her. She will be
staying down there till some young fellow
will be persuading her to share lots with
him.^

I don't think so, uncle. That idea has
not struck me about Edie.'

Very likely not ; but it has me. Now
look here, Jack ! you and your sister are my
care now that you are left. You can go

your own way; and will do it, despite
anything I might say '

Nay, uncle, that is scarcely fair. I am
sure I shall always consult your wishes
when possible

When possible, very likely ; that is,
when your own wishes harmonise with
mine. But when your principles interfere,
an uncle without offspring on an entailed
estate does not count for much. Well,
well ! I shall let you do your own way.
But about Edie, she is of age now. I suppose
she will be your housekeeper — until, of
course, she goes to keep some other young
fellow's house. Now I dare say your fine
farming scheme will not be very lucrative
at first : aud I am not going to have Edie
pinched, or short of money when starting
housekeeping ; so I am going to double the
allowance I have made her hitherto.'

It is very handsome of you, I am sure.'

But remember she has not to take it to
help in the housekeeping expenses. That
is not my design. I want her to have

what money she may require for herself,
without bothering you for anything. If the
plan does not pay, you may not have much
to spare. I don't want you to feel her a
burden.'

'I don't think I should ever feel her
that, uncle. Besides, she has something of
her own from mother. And I have my
dock shares. I think we can get along
without my having to stint Edie at all.'

I dare say you can, my boy ; and I am
very glad to hear of the dock shares paying
welL Times have been good with me too.
Farming has been profitable the last year
or two ; and the canal shares pay well.
If those confounded railroads do not spoil
the canal business. But you know, Jack,
I am not o-oingj to hand over the canal
shares. Your father and I agreed that I
was to keep my grip on them until we, or
rather your late mother and I, saw her
choice. She is high-spirited ; and high-spirited
girls are apt to be headstrong. If
I gave up the shares, they would be a

temptation to some fellows who are not
desirable. As it is, I am partly master of
the situation. He will have to satisfy meas
well as her, you know.'

That is a matter on which I cannot
interfere, uncle. That you will act for the
best I know well. I quite understand
about increasing the yearly allowance to
Edie ; it is very kind and considerate of
you, and I thank you, and I have no doubt
Edie will too. I am sure if I was not very
full of funds, she would do anything sooner
than ask me for money. And I may not be
successful, though I shall try hard. "It is
not every one that can command success,"
you know, uncle.'

I know ; and I know the rest of the
quotation — " But we'll do more, Symphonies,
we'll deserve it." I dare say you will do
that too. I am sure I wish you may ; both
for your sister's sake, and your own. You
will write and tell her what I have said. I
find writing letters harder work than it
used to be.'

I will write to her at once ; and T daresay
lie will write to you directly, ere long.'

'Mind you give her my best love, and
kindest regards to Cousin Barbara. She
used to be a kindly-hearted, gossiping
soul ; I fancy she has not altered much.
The girl will be full of all the gossip about
the court. No harm in that now. Queen
Adelaide has made the court fit for the
little daughter of the Duke of Kent to live
in, if she lives to come to the throne ; as
I am sure 1 wish she may. You won't
forget.'

However stoutly John Wharton might
adhere to his convictions, and in so far
oppose his uncle, he never could be other
than sensible of his uncle's thorough goodwill
and his generosity.

"When Edith Wharton received the letter
acquainting her with her uncle's intentions,
she told Lady Barbara ; and both admired
very much his kind-heartedness and his
generosity.

The money comes out of the old

KoUeston canal shares, does it not, Edith "? *
her hostess asked. ' Was not the old settlement
lost ? '

So I have heard ; when Uncle Charles
died it could not be found. But it was
always held that it made little matter unless
Uncle Edward married.'

And very little then, my dear, from
what I have understood of your uncle's
character. It only makes this difference ;
that instead of having the money in your
own right, you have to await your uncle's
discretion. You know, my dear, you will
excuse my saying so, but I think you are
quite as well without the money in hand.'

Whatever do you mean. Lady Barbara ? '
said Edith, flashing up. ' I cannot conceive
your meaning.'

xlii, there it shows, the compound of
the Wharton and the Marston ! You are a
fine, handsome girl ; but, my dear, you are
hasty. I am sure you will admit that is
not unfair criticism.'

Yes, I am, I know it, and I do struggle

with it ; but I cannot always command myself
as I would like. But wdiat do you mean
about it being well that I must await Uncle
Edward's discretion about the money?'

Well, my dear, a handsome, impulsive
girl like you, with money of your own,
mio^ht attract admirers — well ! who would
not press their attentions upon you while
your uncle holds these shares.'

And do you think I would be taken by
a man in that way — a bird for the fowler ? '
she replied. * I have all the self-respect of
the Wharton and the ' Marston : to say
nothing of my mother's training.'

She was evidently wounded deeply ; and
yet the Lady Barbara meant what she said
in the very kindliest spirit. With her it
was nothing more than the truism, that a
handsome, well-bred girl, with money of
her own, is the aim of the fortune-hunter.

You feel too intensely for your own jieace
of mind, my dear, I fear, at times. But
come, kiss me, Edith, I did not mean to vex
you ; ' went on the good-natured lady.

Your Uncle Edward's kindness is all the
same, despite my thoughtless remark. It
is the sort of advice we older folks are
constantly giving to girls. You know
old people think they are so wise. I am
over sixty, you know ; I am getting quite
an old woman.'

It is very foolish of me, I know. I am
so sorry. You are quite right. But girls
sometimes are sensitive about such remarks
some girls more than others. I am sure
I have never thought of marriage, though
I know Stephen Oldfiekl has an eye to me.
The little conceited creature ! '

Then, my dear, if you have not thought
about the matter, my remark was the more
excusable. You will have to think about
it, my dear. You see, if you don't ; the
gentlemen think about you evidently. Who
is this Stephen Oldfiekl ? '

I wish I had not mentioned his name.
He lives at Orton Hall, a few miles away,
and pays court to Uncle Edward. John
does not care much about him. He says he

is a cunning, artful, self-seeking, sleek-haired
humbug

'My clear, that is very strong language
to use about a neighbour. What makes
John say so ? '

He does not like him. He says he is a
Jacob — a smooth man. ind John detests
Jacobs. I can t like Mr. Oldfield ; though
he is always very kind and neighbourly.'

I am afraid John has prejudices, my
dear. We should always avoid prejudices
above all things. You know, if we hold
prejudices we may be very unfair to people
whom we may come to like and respect,
when we know more about them. We
should always be open to conviction. I am
sure Mr. Oldfield must have some good
points about him, else your Uncle Edward
would not approve of him, or associate
with him.'

It was quite clear that Lady Barbara was
fully impressed with the wisdom of elders,
as was natural, when she herself was advancing
in years.

Oh, lie is an active magistrate, and a
staunch true-hie Tory. He agrees with
uncle against reform, and all other political
questions. John says he ought to know
better.'

But, my dear, I am afraid John is wrong
in his extreme views. From what you tell
me, I fear he is inclined to be a reformer —
one of those persons who wish to overturn
society ; as I understand. I am like your
uncle, I don't like these views. I wish
John would give them up. Tell him so,
from me, when you get home.'

Edith thought her brother was not very
likely to be influenced by the message, but
she promised to deliver it ; and as the old
lady seemed to think she had accomplished
a piece of far-sighted diplomacy which would
have great results, she did not like to
undeceive her complacent satisfaction.
Next day she wrote a long letter to her
uncle, in which she thanked him very
prettily for his considerate generosity ;
telling him too, that in a few days more

she would be back again at Brigstone, welland
strong.

Lady Barbara was very sorry to part with
her handsome young relative, who had
become a general favourite amons^ the
families at Stanmore and the neighbourhood
; and made her promise not to be very
long in repeating her visit.

I am getting an old woman, you know, I
cannot expect to see you often. Come again
as soon as you can. There is the horn of the
coach. Wrap up and keep yourself warm.'

The coach pulled up at the Crown,
and Miss Wharton took her place inside,
while her travelling trunk was placed on the
top. Then the coachman started his horses
at a gallop at the hill on the road leading
out to Watford, and Stanmore was quickly
out of sight.

As she crossed the Midlands Miss Wharton's
thoughts often reverted to her journey
of a few months before. Then all was preparing
for winter ; now the winter was over
and all were looking for spring. When she

VOL. I. H

travelled the road before she was under the
cloud of a great grief, worn out with long
watching ; now she was in vigorous health
and buoyant with hope, full of her brother's
schemes. Sometimes she felt as if she was
wanting in respect to her mother's memory
to forget the past ; but she recognized it
would neither be right nor proper to brood
over it. Her elastic temperament rebounded
from the depression of the past — and she
felt it was not wrong, not failing in loyalty
to her mother's memory, to look forward to
the future.

When she arrived at Sheffield the Squire's
carriage was there to meet her, and her
brother with it of course. When they had
reached a private room, her brother took
her in his arms and kissed her ; while a long
lingering look told him she was fully restored
to health.

You have indeed made good use of
your visit, Edie. I must write and thank
Lady Barbara for the care she has taken of
you ; that is the least I can do.'

I have a message for you from her ; it
will keep. I will tell you it when you get
home. Don't bother about it now 1 '

He did not bother : his utter want of
curiosity as to its nature would have sadly
discomposed the good lady had she seen
him. It did not suggest that her message
would have any very magical effect in
altering his views, when he did hear it.

How is Uncle Edward ? ' she went on.
And the Pryors ; are they well ^ '

Uncle has had a little gout, which has
made him slightly irascible, otherwise he is
very well. The Pryors too are well ; and,
like him, are glad to hear of your return.'

Such and such-like was the staple of
their conversation, as might be expected
when one member of a family had been
away in the olden time. Now it would be
something of this kind. ' How late you
are ! What was it '? ' ' Oh, we had to wait
at Market Harbor' for some horse-boxes to
be put on, and then at Derby for the Bristol
train.' * What a nuisance ! Are your traps

H 2

all safe ? Have you got an evening paper ?
This is the newspaper train. Oh, you've got
the " Globe." All right ! Your uncle has
had the fidgets : his doctor calls it the gout.
It makes him deucedly nasty I know. How
was the old girl when you left her ? ' From
which it would appear, that though modern
means of travelling are much more expeditious
and agreeable than a stage coach ;
the conversation of the present is not so
conspicuously superior to the talk of a bypast
generation.

On their arrival at Fowrass Grange their
conversation turned upon the new scheme,
and all that each intended.

I am going to take a share in the interest,
Jack. I am going with you when it
is fine to see the cattle in the pastures.
And I want to learn to make butter. I
wonder if Mrs. Ellwood will be pleasant, and
let me go in to the dairy ? '

*I don't know about Mrs. Ellwood, and
her private views ; but I do know your
Uncle Edward will object to it. You area

Wharton, you know. He found my turning
farmer rather a large pill to swallow ; it
took several gulps to get it down. But I
fancy be will never manage such a bolus as
you turning dairymaid, and making butter.'

Dear Uncle Edward, he is so good. But
he is so impressed with what belongs to the
Wharton. I can't do it against his knowledge
; however shall I manage it 1 '

'Female diplomacy will do it, Edie, I'll
be bound ; if it can be done at all' And
somehow or other the young lady did contrive
to overcome her uncle's objection, —
to the extent of making the butter required
for her brother and herself; with no little
pride in her success. Still to have sent her
uncle a pat would not have been a politic
step.

CHAPTER y.

THE EEFOEM MILL GRINDS.

The most frequent visitor at Fowrass
Grange was the Rev. Henry Pryor, rector
of Brigstone. His visits were no less frequent
than welcome. He was a "parish priest"
indeed, as his flock called him, for he knew
his parishioners.

There was a sprinkling of dissent in
Brigstone, but it was not enough to leaven
the parish ; and there was no chapel excepta
miniature one on the edge of the Satanstoe
collieries. At every house the rector was
welcome, and he had been an especial
friend of Mrs. Wharton's in her last illness.
A casual observer would note that he
seemed naturally fitted for his calling,
and his ordination vow was not a mere

matter of form. He was an Oxford man,
and had naturally a good deal of the spirit
of the Praetorian movement which sprang
up after he was at Queen's College. This
protest against the spiritual deadness of.
the Church of England had attracted the
attention of earnest men throughout the
land, who wished to be something: more
than the mere civil servants of the State,
with certain duties to discharge in return
for their stipends. This was not the
view of Mr. Pryor. He had much of the
enthusiasm of the apostolic age, and laboured
amongst his people as one who should give
an account of his stewardship. During Mrs.
Wharton's illness he constantly visited her,
read to her, and comforted her. But he
made no exception to his rule in thus
ministering to the dying lady at Fowrass
Grange ; the meanest and poorest of his
parishioners shared with her his ministrations.
When then the Praetorian movement
sprang up, and the glowing fire of
enthusiasm swept through the ranks of

the Anglican party ; and church building,
church extension, and parish visitation
were the outward form of the inward feeling
; Mr. Pryor rejoiced. Especially he
approved of its design to charm, to win
proselytes ; its avoidance of all aggression.
It came not to plunge a parish
into discord ; but to unite it in the
bonds of peace, as well as of earnestness.


In John Wharton the rector found a
parishioner with whom he could hold converse
as a scholar. Thus there was a double
tie betwixt him and the inmates of Fowrass
Grange. When Mrs. Wharton died, the
memory of his kindness to her lived in
the breasts of her children. It was not
merely the force of habit which caused him
to continue his visits to Fowrass Grange.
A strong friendship had sprung up betwixt
him and John Wharton. He was glad to
have a cultured, college - bred man for a
parishioner ; both personally and as the
spiritual head of the parish. The rector

thought his parishioner could be made
useful, and ought to be utilized.

I want you very much to do something
for me, AYharton/ he said one day.

'What is it, Mr. Pryor ? I will oblige
you if I can ; you know that.'

Yes ; but this is a great matter. T want
you to think it over before deciding.'

'Whatever can it be? You seem so
serious ! '

I am very serious indeed. I want you
to be a guardian of the door under this
new poor law. I cannot make a slight
matter of it.'

What amount of duty will it entail ?
You know I have taken the Grange Farm
into my own hands. This will make considerable
demands upon my time. I must
know if I can afford the time to do the
duties properly, before I can entertain the
proposition.'

The board-day will be once a fortnight,
and be held at Wybrow, where the workhouse
is to be for our little union. I

propose to be one guardian, tliougli it is
a secular matter ; and I think you are the
most suitable person for the other representative
of the parish. We will have to
meet the magistrates, who are ex-officio
members. Your uncle is one, and Mr.
Oldfield is another, and Canon Wordsworth,
and one or two more. There will be a
good deal to do at first till we get the
thing into working order ; and, if possible,
men of position and education must be
secured, in order to act firmly with the
rough fellows who fastened themselves on
the rates under the old law, — the " chargeable
labourers " as they are called.'

Those fellows that Uncle Edward inveighs
so terribly against.'

'The same. They will form a great
difficulty ; especially as the premises we
have secured as a workhouse will require
a lot of alterations before being fit to be
occupied ; and you see we will not be able
to offer them "the house," the " Whio-
Bastille" as they call it, until it is ready.'

'They must be firmly dealt with, else
we will be beset with difficulties. I will
think it over ; and it may be well to sound
Uncle Edward on the matter.'

That will be a proper step. How soon
do you think you can give me an answer ?
There is to be a meeting of the rate-payers
at the latter part of next week ; will you
be able to let me know your decision by
then ? I should much like to have you and
myself proposed at the meeting.'

'I will give the subject my best attention.
It is a grave matter to decide upon ;
as, if I put my hand to the plough, I cannot
very well withdraw it.'

The subject engaged John Wharton's
thoughts very gravely. In the discussions
he had heard on the matter he had taken
no more than a casual interest. Not having
any formed views as to where he should
reside or what he should do, he had not
given his attention much to the subject.
But now, as Mr. Pry or presented it to him,
its full importance forced itself upon him.

He was at heart a reformer. When then
an opportunity came to take a practical
share in the work of reform, he could not
well stand aloof. That was one side of the
question. Then came in the personal element.
If Mr. Pryor seriously wished him
to assume the duties of guardian, he could
scarcely refuse him. The post was not one
to be coveted ; it involved a good deal
of labour, and a certain amount of odium.
The ' chargeable labourers ' were like leeches
who had once tasted blood, they kept on
sucking. Having once established themselves
on the rates, there was no prospect
of readily driving them off. There was
no great amount of these aggressive paupers
in Brigstone, the Wharton had prevented
that evil ; but in the other parishes, which
formed the rest of the union, the evil was
considerable.

In order to enable the reader to understand
the proposed change, which has been
a matter of great national importance, a
brief historical summary is essential. The

duty of the overseer of the poor in each
parish was to find work for the unemployed ;
or, if that could not be done, to find them in
food. This had been established by acts
dating from the time of Elizabeth. Sturdy
vagabonds, now called vagrants, were a
greater nuisance then than they are now.
Consequently stern measures were adopted
to repress them. Each parish kept its
inmates to itself, as far as possible ; and
wandering was made decidedly unpleasant.
But if a parish could not find work for its
poor, they could not be allowed to die of
hunger. Starvation could not be permitted.
Consequently * workhouses ' were
instituted, where the overseers of the parish
could 'take order for setting the poor to
work.'

By a bloody code of laws crime was
repressed according to the light of that
day. In 1796 the device was hit upon
of eking out the wages of the poor from
the parochial rate, otherwise called ' the
allowance system.' It was a benevolent

design ; but its outcomes merely furnished
one more illustration that a certain unsavoury
place is paved with good intentions.
This ' partial payment of wages out
of the poor rates ' became in time an
intolerable nuisance. Idle fellows would
not, and pleaded they could not, find work ;
and threw themselves on the rates. Thus
subsidized, they poached, got up rows, and
were the terror of all around them ; where
they were strong in number, and the ratepayers
weak or timid. In some places the
farmers forced down wages in order that
the working class might be aided by ' the
allowance system,' when the other ratepayers
of the parish were wealthy enough
to offer temptation. In other parishes ' the
chargeable labourers' became so numerous
that farms were unlet ; men simply would
not apply for them because the rates were
so heavy. The device weighed so heavily
on the land that even the Corn Laws could
not secure tenants. A whole brood of
pauperism had grown up over the land,

which constantly received recruits ; but
never furnished any free labourers, or
independent labourers as those were
termed who kept themselves off the
rates. ' Once a pauper always a pauper
was the saying. The parish rate for the
poor was the equivalent of the pension-list
of the aristocracy. The evil became
so great that some leading reformers despaired
of remedying it in any other way
than by the entire abolition of the poor
rates ; and so leaving starvation and private
charity face to face with each other. St.
Paul's maxim, ' If ye will not work, neither
shall ye eat,' was, however, scarcely compatible
with the instincts of the nineteenth
century. A commission appointed to inquire
into the matter decided that the
scheme was ' destructive to the industry,
forethought, and honesty of the labourers,
to the wealth and morality of the employers
of labour and the owners of property, and
to the mutual goodwill and happiness of
all.' This sweeping condemnation was

endorsed by all classes of society except ' the
chargeable labourers ' themselves : who, however,
not being represented in parliament,
were legislated for. And for this legislation
they were not thankful.

By the new act parishes were grouped
into unions ; each union had its workhouse ;
which really became in time an asylum for
those incapable of working, rather than the
house where work was found for the unemployed
: retaining its old name when
serving quite an opposite end. For the
ao:ed and infirm outside the workhouse, or
those temporarily compelled to apply to
the rates, a relieving officer was appointed ;
the old overseers of the poor only acting
in emergencies. To work the scheme, the
ratepayers of each parish elected so many
guardians of the poor to represent them on
the Board ; while the magistrates were exofficio
guardians by virtue of their position.
To supervise all there was a Central Board
in London. Contracts with medical men
for the workhouses, and the ' districts as the

divisions of the Unions were called, to each
of which a medical officer was appointed, had
to be sanctioned by the central authority ;
as were all other important matters.

Such central control limited the local
powers, and acted as a wholesome restraint
on local opinion in many ways. It was one
of the greatest of the reforms ; and its
effects have been admitted by all to have
been most beneficial. Without it Pharaoh's
seven lean kine would before long have
eaten Pharaoh's seven fat kine ; and the
fat kine saw what was coming.

One great difficulty in the old arrangement
was 'settlements.' Vagabondism was
sternly repressed by it; and only handicraftsmen
who had served a regular apprenticeship
to their craft were allowed to travel
in search of work according to the demand
for labour, known as 'journeymen.' Unskilled
labour had no encouragement seven
it to wander in search of employment. But
men would and did wander ; or perhaps ran
away from home for some social offence or

VOL. I. I

petty crime. When one of these wanderers
became chargeable to the rates his ' settlement
' was searched out, and he was returned
to his proper parish. Great cost was involved
in so returning a pauper, often with
a wife and family, to his native ' parish ; '
and far greater sums were spent in lawsuits
by the respective parishes. By the new
scheme the pauper would be relieved on the
spot, and the amount charged to his own
parish. The machinery of this large comprehensive
Act, involving all England and
Wales, enabled such matters to be carried
out equitably and peacefully.

Such then was the huge social transformation
in which the Rev. Henry Pryor wished
his neighbour and parishioner, John Wharton,
to take a share. Educated men were
essential to the working of this new machine ;
though others might serve as Guardians
when once all was got thoroughly into
working order. To ' the chargeable labourer '
the whole thing was iniquitous class legislation
; the Board of Guardians was unmitigated

tyranny ; and the workhouses were
Whig Bastilles.' He saw clearly that ' no
out-door relief for the able-bodied,' the soul
of the new Poor Law, was the death-knell of
idleness ; and he did not like it. However
desirable for the rest of society, it was a
change of which he could not be expected
to approve. But the rest of society being
not only the majority, but holding the
purse-strings, the pauper had to submit.
There was no longer * parish pay ' except at
the discretion of the Board of Guardians.
This did not meet his views at all. Idle
fellows who spent their earnings in drink as
quickly as possible in order to qualify for
parish pay ; ' lawless fellows who poached
and often stole ; idle dissolute women who
would do anything but work ; saw with
dismay that a change was at hand. However
good for them other people might hold
the prospect, it had no attractions for the
class who were mainly to be benefitted by
the new Act. The old plan suited them very

I 2

well, and they had no goodwill towards the
new Poor Law.

In the half-century ending 1833 the
population had increased 75 per cent., while
the Poor Law levy had in the time increased
300 per cent. It was high time the fat
kine were looking about them. Even the
Duke of Wellington, staunch Tory and
opponent of reform as he was, supported the
measure in the House of Lords.

Thunderstorms clear the air ; but in the
mean time thunderstorms are decidedly
unpleasant. Such was the thunderstorm to
which Mr. Pryor invited John Wharton to
give him his assistance as regards Brigstone,
and the Union to which it belonged. John
Wharton spoke to his uncle about his being
a Guardian.

Capital ! ' answered the old Squire ;
nothing could possibly be better. You are
just the sort of man for an elected Guardian
to work with the magistrates. The farmers
are too dense, they would never be put into
motion ; and there is a great deal to be done.

I am very glad Mr. Pryor thought of it.
And another thing, nephew mine, when you
come to mix with the poor officially as a
Guardian it will cure you of some of your
romantic notions. You will cool down into
a o'ood upholder of society in time. You
will not be such a fiery reformer, you'll
find;

Well, suppose I do, — though I am not
so sanguine of my conversion, — you must
admit that this piece of the reformed parliament's
work is acceptable to you,' he replied
rather mischievously ; knowing the Squire's
susceptibility to any insinuation of change
in his views.

Well, something had to be done ; we
could not go on as we were. The Whigs
were in power, and of course must deal with
the matter. I dare say we will find plenty
of difficulties in carrying it out. It will be
time to crow when we see how it works. I
am oiad you are o-oino; to bear a baud. The
Wybrow Board of Guardians promises to be
as food a team as any I can hear of. You

and the Rector will hobnob with the magistrates
capitally

I am heartily glad you approve of it,
uncle. I was undecided what to do ; now
I shall call and tell Mr. Pryor without delay
that I am willing to serve.'

The Rector was delighted to hear his
decision : and when the meetings of the ratepayers
came off, the two were proposed and
elected unanimously. Not only that, but
the people of Brigstone where delighted that
Mr. Wharton was going to take an interest
in parish matters.

Eh, but I'm fine an' glad that gentlefolks
like til' parson and Mr. Wharton are
going to tak' this job i' hand. I were so
feared as it would break down i' th' working.
We ratepayers won't be long i' seeing
the last of our friend " the chargeable
labourer," whose bin a charge to us lang
eneas, to my mind. His back's th' best
sight of 'im i' or eyes ; ' was the comment
of one sturdy farmer. 'Mr. AVharton will
stand by th' magistrates, I reckon ; but

there'll be some sharp work afore these
*' chargeable labourers" '11 be gotten rid of

Nor was the farmer far out in his forecast
; there was some 'sharp work.'

The first meeting: of the local Wit ten-agent,
otherwise the Wybrow Board of
Guardians, was held in the rooms of the
King's Head, the best hotel in the town ; a
roomy place, well adapted for the purpose.
The magistracy mustered in strong force,
and every one of the elected Guardians,
the representatives of the ratepayers, was
present. The senior magistrate present,
Canon Wordsworth, a man of great energy
and decision of character, was voted to the
chair ; and a very capable chairman he was
too. After the vice-chairman had been
elected, the Canon, as chairman, made a few
brief but appropriate remarks. He commenced
by pointing out what a vast measure
of reform the new Poor Law was, and how
necessary it had become to deal firmly with
the waxing abuse of ' parish pay.' Had the
old plan continued long, the burden of

pauperism would have become intolerable.
We must act, gentlemen lie insisted, ' with
firmness and decision, as well as with discretion
He was glad to see the direct representatives
of the ratepayers joining hands
with the magistrates in dealing with the
immense subject. Concluding, ' Gentlemen,
there is a very great deal to be done, and I
think we had better start at once to do it
than waste time in talking about it. What
is the first business, Mr. Clerk ? '

*The first matter, Mr. Chairman, is to
deal with the applicants for out-door relief ;
some of whom are very noisy outside.'

The first applicant was a widow, who
held up her hands stiffened by rheumatism
as evidence that she could not maintain
herself. It was decided that she was a fit
subject for out-door relief, so her name was
entered upon the relieving officer's list.
Next came a cripple who did any odd job
that he could find. His name went down.
Then came in a burly ruffian, Will Da] ton,
a 'chargeable labourer' of old standing,

who was a noted poacher ; a bully who was
dreaded by the public-houses, their keepers,
and their frequenters ; a fellow who was a
first-rate hedger and ditcher, thresher, and
thatcher — when he pleased : but this last
was very seldom. He had honos decided

J o

that he would have a tussle with the new
Board. ]\Jost of them knew him well. The
magistrates knew him for a bold, desperate
poacher, greatly detested by their gamekeepers
; the farming element knew him fora
man who would steal a stake whenever he
got a chance, who pulled down their fences
for firewood ; all the more delighted when
by doing so their cattle could get out at the
opening, and stray. He stepped forward
with alacrity, looked about him with a keen
discriminating gaze, and took the measure
of his company. His name he gave in a loud
offensive tone, which the Chairman marked.

William Dalton, what do you desire ? '
he asked, with a certain edge in his tone in
return.

Summit to eat. That's what I want.'

Then why do not you go and get it ? '
Haven't got any brass.'
Then you must go and earn some
money.'

Can't find ought t' do.'
You are able to work.'

Aye ; I can work, if I could get any.'

Why will not the farmers employ you ? '
'Cause they've gotten a spite again' me.'
Is that the whole truth, Mr. Pearson ? '

asked the chairman. ' Let us have the

facts, please.'

Mr. Pearson was one of the elected

Guardians of Wybrow.

It is not, in my opinion,' was the answer.

Dalton can work, and do as good a day's

work as any man in Wybrow ; but the

farmers will not employ him. He knows

why well enough.'

What do you say to that, Dalton ? '

'I know nought about what he means.
He owns I can do a day's work.'

Then you know nothing of the farmers'
objections to employing you 1 '

It's nought but spite,' he replied
savagely.

The chairman looked at Mr. Pearson, as
much as to say — * What is it ? '

He robs their fences on his way home.
And they suspect he takes corn away in
his pockets after he has been threshing ;
although none of them like to search
him. They prefer not to employ him ; to
keep clear of him altogether.'

It's a lee ! ' was the comment of the
accused.

You must not speak like that here, my
man,' said the chairman. ' You are not
dealing with a parish overseer now ; but a
body of gentlemen who are met to carry
out the law.'

Dalton was not in the least abashed.
i'm claiming.* I want summit to
eat.'

Then I am afraid you must pledge your
credit ; and see if you can find some one to

Lancashire ' hemming,' a well-known word, which
means ' hun serins.'

trust you ; we cannot relieve you. Bat
I will take the sense of the Board.'

The sense of the Board was unmistakable ;
every hand was held up against allowing
the applicant any relief.

I am afraid you must apply elsewhere,
William Dalton ; the Board do not regard
you as a proper person to receive relief.
The able-bodied poor can have no relief
given them out of the house. If you will
make an application to be admitted to the
workhouse, it will be entertained.'

What ! the Bastille over their ? ' nodding
his head in a certain direction. ' Fll
do nought o' th' sort.'

Then we can do nothing for you. What
is the next case, clerk ? '

I'll let ye see whether yo can do
nought for me, or not. I'll stop here till
ye gie me summit,' was the reply.

Porter, remove this man ! ' said the
chairman without hesitation.

Come away,' said the official, putting
his hand on the ruffian's collar.

I'll do nought of the sort for yo, nor
nought like ye ! ' was the gruff answer.

*Take hin away, porter,' said the chairman.

The porter tried, but failed signally.

The scene was one which could not be
tolerated ; an example must be made of
the ruffian. The police were called in from
outside, and after a desperate struggle, in
which one policeman got badly bitten,
Dalton was handcuffed and disabled.

Lock him up, sergeant ; and bring him
before us tomorrow mornings. We will
deal with him then.' Dalton was removed.

You see, gentlemen, what we have to
deal with. That is a specimen ; but we
will make an example of the ruffian tomorrow.
What is the next case, clerk ? '

The business was got through quickly
and yet properly ; as is usually the case
where there is a really efficient chairman,
at once clear-headed and decided.

There were one or two more of the Will
Dalton type, but they were quieted down
considerably by the sight of that hero in

the hands of the police ; who were not the
only ones who had suffered in the struggle.
The spectacle cowed them, and they confined
their remonstrances to pleading they
were ' claiming ' ; while two took the osier
of the house.

'He is a hard-hearted auld tyrant, th'
Canon. He wasn't let the others giv' us
ought ; if they wer' inclined. But mebbe
some of these days they'll be a row. And
there's no swearing to slugs. His day may
come.' Such was the expression and half-threat
of one of the baffled applicants.
But they felt that the Board was going to
be master. If the Guardians stood firm,
they were powerless. It would be no use
to try violence. They were in a hopeless
minority.

Next day the Canon presided at the
magistrates' meeting. Will Dalton was
charged with assaulting the police in the
discharge of their duty. The charge was
heard ; the Bench carefully deliberated
before the decision was pronounced.

William Dalton said the Canon, with
slow speech telling of fixed determination,
you have committed a very grave offence.
You came to defy a very important law,
which must be carried out firmly. You
resisted the officers ordered to remove you :
one of whom was severely injured by you.
It is our duty to pronounce an exemplary
sentence. You, and those who hold your
views, must be taught a lesson ; you must
go to prison for six months with hard
labour.'

For a moment Dalton was staggered by
the sentence ; then he again resorted to
violence, which was useless.

A specimen, gentlemen, of what we have
to deal with. We must do our duty.
Anything else on the list, sergeant ? '

The ' chargeable labourers ' of the Wybrow
Union took the lesson to heart.

CHAPTER VL

HAVE ALL MAIDENS HEARTS TO LOSE ?

Miss Edith Wharton, having taken up
lier position as her brother's housekeeper,
her neighbours felt themselves bound to
make the proper calls, in acknowledgment
thereof, at Fowrass Grange. Conventionality
carries with it some advantages, if it
has its drawbacks. If a gentleman contracts
a mesalliance the ladies of the neighbourhood
do not call upon his wife. By
this simple negative act she is told in the
most emphatic manner that she is a black
sheep ; and her neighbours will have none
of her. Yet the act is without offensiveness.
By simply declining to call she is given to
understand in an unmistakable manner
that she is a social pariah. It is useless for

the victim to resent the attitude. She is
powerless. She might as well attempt to
influence the Fates. When the ladies of a
locality have decided not to visit a newcomer,
they are inflexible, unrelenting, unyielding.
The new-comer may live down
the opposition if she belong to a sufficiently
long-lived family, and can endure the long
period of probation requisite for her end.
Calls tell of new positions. So her friends
called upon Miss Wharton.

One day a carriage drove up to Fowrass
Grange, drawn by two red-roan horses. It
was very evident the owner of the conspicuous
pair was fully conscious that he was
somebody ; at least in and near Brigstone.
So he was too ! Stephen OldfielJ, of Orton
Hall, was a squire and a magistrate of considerable
means, and good social position.
His father died young, and at an early age
Stephen became the head of the Oldfields.
The Oldfields thought pretty well of themselves
; and in this respect Stephen manifested
no degeneracy. He had remained a

VOL. I. K

bachelor so far ; whether because he could
not induce any of the fair sex to take him
at his own estimate, or because he had
never given his mind to courtship, was a
matter on which there was no approach to
agreement amidst the gossips of high aud
low degree around Orton Hall. His leading
mental characteristic was he was circumspect.
His circumspection revealed itself in everything
and everywhere. It spoke in his neat
attire ; it was eloquent in his suppressed
manner ; the tones of his voice pealed it
in muffled chimes. He saw as much of his
neighbour's hand as he could ; but never
showed his own. He played a good hand
at whist ; and he knew it. He was well
informed ; aud he knew that too. He held
a good position ; it was not necessary to
inform him of the fact. His consciousness
was acute and sleepless. His sister looked
up to him as her idol. A man must have
something in him when his sister looks upto
him with reverence ! Why did not other
men's sisters regard him in the same light ?

Perhaps their reverence was such that it
overwhelmed and smothered every other
feeling !

He is worth a little study : if only as one
of a well-marked type of man. He was
slight ; he was short ; he was sandy. A very
neat, quiet, subdued ; yet self-conscious personage
he was. He knew exactly how the
little curl of his sandy hair stood out over
each ear. He knew his hair came to a neat
point at the back of his neck, exactly in
the middle line. His clothes were worn
with precision ; and came from a first-class
London tailor. He constantly looked as if
he was going to have his portrait painted.

Mentally his personality was equally pronounced.
Prudence is the only virtue
which is certain of its reward in this world !
This was the centre-point of his creed. He
was exceedingly careful to gain the good
opinion of others ; and certainly held his
own good opinion as worth winning. He
instinctively hated any one who did not
care for his opinion. His estimate of

K 2

himself was not a lowly one ; and he certainly
was a Pharisee. ' Thank God, I am
not as other men are suffused the whole
of his being.

All who had transactions with him spoke
highly of his integrity. Stephen Oldfield's
good opinion of himself was evidently warranted
by the facts. Considerate for all,
his sister declared he was the best of
brothers ; his domestics pronounced him
the best of masters. Squire AVharton gave
it as his opinion that Oldfield had more
respect for the opinions of his elders than
any other young fellow he knew. Nor was
this respectful attitude towards his seniors
marked by any servility, any approach to
humility. The little sandy-haired man
always maintained his position — in his own
quiet way.

His features were not plain : yet he was
not a handsome man. He had a good
forehead, a bushy, sandy eyebrow, and
under it an eye which was observant.
It was rather a difficult eye to describe :

its groundwork was grey, yet the eye was
sandy. At the outer rim of the iris was a
circle of a darker shade ; while at the pupil
there was a distinct line of yellow : that
yellow ring which gives steadiness to the
gaze. The nose was prominent, and was
pointed ; it was cut away, however, at the
tip, so that it formed a very obtuse angle
v/ith the upper lip, which was long. The
mouth was compressed. The whole face
had an intent look ; yet its muscles were
immobile, trained to keep still, as carefully
as ever pointer was trained. There was
much individuality about the man ; considerable
force of character ; and intense
self-consciousness. His mariner was studied.
He looked you gravely in the face when
addressed, not a quiver of a fibre of any
of the muscles of expression escaped his
ken. He read the faces of those with
whom he came into contact, like the pages
of an open book. Yet no one seemed to
regard him as a genius. His name was not
in the mouths of men as a coming man ;

there was no transcendent ability about
him. Yet no one ever spoke of him in
any contemptuous tone, or affected to hold
him cheap. He was a staunch Tory ; this
did not require any positive action from
him; he stood on a strong defensive position.
He could criticize the proposals of
the Whigs from this position. It was impossible
to convince him. He could stand
argument, reason, persuasion ; and withstand
them. He was as immovable as a
rock. * A safe, sound Tory without any
fancies,' was the judgment of his neighbours
about him. As a magistrate he kept himself
in the background, yet he was never
out of view ; as a junior he gave his opinion
last. When the sides were equally balanced
this often gave him the casting vote. Indeed
it had become recognized that his
opinion often gave the decision. He was
not unaware of this fact. Wherever he
was he was not a cipher ; he was a numeral.
But you might place as many ciphers behind
the numeral as you pleased ; the

number did not disturb him. How many
ciphers stood behind the numeral in his
heart of hearts, no one ever knew ; probably
he had never calculated himself. His precise
value in the eye of his Maker will only
he revealed at the last assize, when all hearts
are opened.

This prim, formal personage was accompanied
by a lady, so closely resembling
him that a casual glance told she was his
sister. They were not twins, but they
might have been. The external likeness
was not the only likeness between the two ;
mentally they were alike, allowing for the
differences between the male and the female
mind. Miss Oldfield, though so like her
brother, was plainer ; perhaps her mind
stood in something of the same kind of
relation to her brother's as did their
respective features. Women always spoke
kindly of her ; and she was certainly
obliging. Whether she had ever had an
offer or not, was unknown to any one
but herself; it was never a topic of

conversation either in her presence — or
out of it.

The Oldfields were a well-to-do county
family, who were present at the county
balls ; and sat on the raised benches beside
the Judges when they attended the assizes.
Squire Oldfield's carriage with its red-romans
was well known at Sheffield, and even at
Wakefield. It was not unlikely that some
day he would be pricked by the Lord-lieutenant
for High Sheriff. They visited
a good deal, and were particular about
whom they visited. Had any test been
required as to the position of the Wharton
when John had decided upon farming his
own land, it would have been furnished by
the action of the Oldfields. Their carriage
at Fowrass Grange was a distinct intimation
that John Wharton was still a gentleman if
a farmer. No other evidence was required.

They alighted, and were shown into the
drawing-room on one side of the hall, where
Miss Wharton received them after a little
while.

You will find my brother in the diningroom
with the Eev. Mr. Pry or,' remarked
Miss Wharton. She did not appear to
wish to be rid of the gentleman ; yet clearly
she was in no way anxious to induce him
to remain with them in preference to joining
the gentlemen.

The gentlemen knew each other welland
the greeting was brief.

'We are talking: over our meetings: the
other day. It went off very successfully ;
wee think,' said Mr. Pry or.

I share that opinion with you,' said Mr.
Oldfield ; looking very much like an incarnate
note of interrogation.

That is our view as elected guardians.
It is a novel union of the magistrates and
the representatives of the ratepayers,' said
Wharton rather awkwardly. ' Mr. Pryor
and I were speculating as to how far the
magistrates were prepared to accept their
new colleagues.'

It is an important national work on
which we are engaged ; which will require

the best energies of both classes of guardians,
the representative as well as the exofficio,
for its satisfactory execution. We
shall be glad of any suggestions, you maybe
sure was the response.

The Canon is evidently determined to
stand no nonsense from the old " chargeable
labourers." '

That impudent scoundrel Dalton was
soon disposed of. He deserved his sentence
said the Rector.

I am glad you think so. We felt a
great responsibility in forming our decision.
The Canon thought a distinctive sentence,
even if it seemed somewhat harsh, was real
mercy to the class ; and would prevent
others from following in Dalton's footsteps.'

Well, they will find his footsteps on the
treadmill, if they are anxious to tread in
them,' commented Wharton without any
intention to pun.

You have put it rather happily,' said Mr.
Oldfield, who evidently had his own reasons
for cultivating John Wharton ; yet it was

not natural sympathy which drew them
together.

'The new Poor Law is a great boon in
every way so far as I can see went on the
Eector. * Look at that poor fellow Weather
who has just become chargeable to the
rates. He came here a year or two ago
with his wife and a child. He was a steady
fellow, but she was a shiftless creature :
they never had a penny. He fell ill the
other week, soon his credit was exhausted,
and his wife had to apply for relief. Under
the old plan he must have been conveyed
to Ashbourne, to which he belongs ; a long
journey which would have taken three days
in his condition slowly plodding through
the Derbyshire hills. As it is, we relieve
him, and the amount is charged to Ash-bourne.
The whole cost of keeping him
till he is well, will be less than the cost
of conveying him would have been.'

Quite so. Out-door relief in such a
case is quite proper. It was its being given
to able-bodied fellows which made it so

objectionable under the old law. The old
law went by the name of the 43rd of
Elizabeth. It seems our Poor Law dates
back to that time. I know the fact ; but
I am in ignorance how it comes to be so.'

John Wharton declared he could throw
no light upon the subject.

What do you say, Mr. Pryor "? ' continued
the interrogator, fixing his gaze
upon the Eector.

^ I fancy the question is mixed up with
the dissolution of the monasteries. They
seemed to have the poor under their protection.
When they were abolished it
became necessary to do something in the
matter ; but there was something more
than that. The poor were recognized in
the tithe. The Church took a third, the
incumbent a third ; while the other third
went to the poor. Assure (jregem vero,
exemple, cibo : that was the duty of the
clergyman in the days of old.'

'Indeed! how very interesting. I did
not know that before ; ' continued the Justice

of the Peace, * I do not think you will
forget any of the three now, Mr. Pryor.'

Fortunately the '' ciho" is also Within
my power. With roan of my poorer
brethren, the two first alone are possible.
Yet there is no denying a little of the
last, — a little appeal to the stomach predisposes
the brain to listen patiently to the
word, and to consider the example.' The
Eector evidently was a student of human
nature. ' However, I must be going, and
say good-bye to you two gentlemen. The
duties of guardian must be subordinate to
and not superior to the other duties of the
pastor. The sick have more than material
wants ; the word in season is desirable.'
So saying, the rector departed.

Shall we join the ladies ? ' asked
Wharton.

With pleasure.'

We will let Pryor have his word with
them first, though.'

Certainly. How is Miss Wharton ?
Has she recovered her wonted good health

with lier stay in the south ? She had a
long strain upon her.'

She is quite strong, thank you. She is
taking up the subject of horseback exercise.
Uncle Edward has doubled the allowance
made to her from the canal shares.' (He
knew he need not explain what the allowance
was, or what the reference to the canal
shares meant, to his auditor.) ' He thinks
my farming operations may not be very
remunerative, and he does not want Edith
to be pinched.'

How very considerate of him ! '

'He is a kind, generous fellow. As she
has made up her mind to settle with me ;
she thought the only use the money
could be put to was to have a horse, so
as to ride about with me.'

Capital ! Miss Wharton will look well
on horseback. I must congratulate her
upon her decision. She will make a famous
horsewoman, I know.'

Here the front - door could be heard
to close, as the Rector passed out, and

the gentlemen turned to the drawing-room.


Fowrass Grange was rather small as a
country house. It had a central hall with
a room on each side, each with a large
mullions window ; above these were bedrooms
also with mullions windows ; and
above these again were dormer windows.
If small it was a bijou residence ; and it
was one of those houses which stretch backwards,
and cover more space than is apparent
at first sight. Its windows looked out upon
a lawn, pretty thickly covered with evergreen
shrubs ; with a drive down to the
road, at a distance of some sixty yards.

Spring is coming upon us,' said Mr.
Oldfield. ^ I hope it will be favourable
to the agricultural interest. You have a
pleasant view from the window ; I don't
think I ever noticed it so distinctly before.'
Possibly not : Fowrass Grange never had
occupied so much of Mr. Oldfield's thoughts
until lately. 'Miss Wharton,' he said
impressively, ' I must congratulate you

on your appearance. You seem quite
strong

The amber-hued blonde did indeed look
well in her mourning attire, which seemed
to become her. Mr. Oldfield was perfectly
sincere in his enthusiastic address. Her
features seemed to possess a more distinct
maturity, a full development of expression,
which Mr. Oldfield thought he had never
observed before.

I am very well, thank you,' she replied.

Then do you like the north after your
experience in the south ? I am afraid we
lose by the comparison.'

I do not think so. Cousin Barbara will
not admit that the north folk are in anyway
inferior to the southern. It is a great
point with her.'

And do you share her opinion ? *

On the whole, I think I do.'

You are going to have a horse of your
own, and ride,' went on the Squire : he
was very soon away from the Lady Barbara.
So your brother tells me.'

*Yes, I have been thinking it will be
pleasant to ride out with my brother. The
climate of Brigstone is not favourable to the
roads, and walking. I shall often be able
to get out on horseback when I could not
possibly go out on foot.'

I am afraid the roads here do not compare
favourably with those of Stanmore.
On the slope there they are soon dry. You
see you are critical about our roads since
you have had an experience elsewhere.'

The lady did not seem particularly interested
in these comparisons, and the
conversation had no great charm for her.
Yet Mr. Oldfield was doing his best to be
agreeable. He observed the slight change
of expression on her features, and changed
his front.

Have you got a steed yet, Miss "Wharton,
or are you still looking about for one ? '

My brother has seen nothing to his
mind yet. It must meet with his approval
before it will be submitted for mine.'

It will not be easy to find the horse for

VOL. I. L

you, Miss "Wharton. It must be handsome,
of course ; safe and trustworthy. Your
brother will be careful about that, I am
sure.'

Yes ; I think he is too exigeant. He
will never obtain the perfect animal he has
set his mind on ; at least not at the price I
am willing to give

But you must do yourself justice with
your horse, Miss Wharton. A good-looking
horse costs no more to keep than a plain
one. It is only the first cost.'

But that first cost is a consideration. I
am not rich. If I had a fortune I might do
as I pleased.'

You possess what is better than mere
wealth.' Miss Wharton looked inquiringly
at the speaker ; a tendency to undervalue
riches had never been a conspicuous element
in the Oldfields. ' You have qualities which
throw riches into the shade.'

'I was not aware of them,' she answered
rather coldly.

You would accuse me of flattery if I

told you what I think, so I must refrain
from saying it. I should not like to forfeit
your good opinion of my sincerity.'

*I am. afraid flattery would be wasted
upon me ; if I recognized it was flattery, of
course. If I did not, then my vanity would
be gratified, I dare say.' The last remark
was made rather as the continuation of the
thought than as a deliberate utterance.

^ Truth is not flattery, Miss Wharton.
There can be no insincerity in speaking the
truth. Nature has been bountiful to you
in many ways.'

This was said with a certain amount of
impressment. Miss Wharton began to
realize the position, and felt it a little
awkward. Mr. Oldfield had always exhibited
a preference for her ; he now evidently
was in earnest as a suitor.

It is always somewhat of the nature of
a surprise to a girl when brought face to
face with a lover, who is gradually bringing
his parallels nearer and nearer. She is ina
sense like a beleaguered fortress ; the

L 2

besiegers gradually complete the circuit ; then
their lines creep closer and closer. With
the latter, however, the intention is obvious.
With a girl who is being courted it is not
so easy to be certain about the gentleman's
intentions ; consequently she must wait,
she cannot act till the proposal is made.
Especially is this the case where a certain
amount of intimacy has long existed. With
a comparatively new acquaintance it is not
difficult to distinguish clearly when the
attentions pass from mere politeness to
something more distinctly personal. If
disposed she can arrest the progress by an
attitude of distance ; but when the gentleman
stands on the footing of an old friend,
one known familiarly from early years, a
cool distance is not always so easily maintained.
Mr. Oldfield was evidently advancing
a nearer parallel. Miss Wharton gave
an almost imperceptible start as the change
in the tone struck her. This is courtship,
was the conclusion flashed upon her. She
had no intention of being courted. What

was she to do ? Yes : what was to be
done ?

John Wharton was talkmo; to Miss Old-field,
who was listening with evident attention.
The topic was the new poor-law,
and its probable effect upon the ranks of
pauperism. There was no courtship going
on there, evidently ; so Miss Wharton
thought. Old Lady Barbara would not
have been so confident. To be an attentive
listener is a subtle flattery ; especially when
the speaker is pursuing a topic on which he
feels keenly. Miss Oldfield really wanted
to know something of the subject, and was
as absorbed in what John Wharton was
saying almost as himself. Hearer and
speaker were mutually interested ; so Miss
Wharton could scarcely break in upon their
Ute-d-ttfe. She must fall back upon herself ;
and she adopted a line which never fails
any one in a dilemma, and especially a
woman in a difficulty like the present.

I cannot say. that I quite comprehend
you,' was the answer.

This threw upon the speaker the onus of
further explanation ; without making the
said explanation at all easy. It was quite
clear Miss Wharton was not going to advance,
to say nothing of meeting him halfway
; as she might have done, if disposed.

Cautious, circumspect as he habitually
was, Stephen Oidfield felt he must plunge ;
nothing else was feasible in the emergency.
So he plunged.

Surely, Miss Wharton,' he said, ' you are
conscious that nature has given you many
attractions ? But if you do not realize the
fact, others do — at least I do,' lowering his
voice.

This was a very decided plunge ; especially
from a person with Mr. Oldfield's qualities.
It virtually was a proposal ; a very guarded
proposal truly ; a proposal at arm's length ;
a stretching out the hand no further than
admitted of its readily being withdrawn.

Time cannot be measured by the chronometer
at such moments ; a second seems
half a lifetime. Miss Wharton seemed to

be passing through a long experience, to
judge by her sensations. She was not
prepared for decisive action. She had long
been aware that Stephen Oldfield looked
upon her as a potential Mrs. Oldfield ; but
the prospect had never seemed to be near
enough to call for any serious thought.
But here behold, the distance had become
measurable. She had no time for proper
consideration on the spot ; she must make
an answer. This answer, as might be expected,
was of the nature of a compromise.
It was neither definite encouragement to
proceed, nor did it block any further
advances.

It is very kind of you to say so ; but
then you are partial to me, Mr. Oldfield.
I know you always were most polite to me
when quite a little child ; you are an old
friend, you know.' This left the matter in
abeyance. She had taken up no definite
attitude.

Mr. Oldfield was not clear whether this
meant that he was still to regard himself as

in the position of an old friend ; or he might
consider the admission as establishing him on
such a footing as admitted of his advancing
to something more. In such times of emergency
the mind is apt to take its view from
the standpoint of the inclinations. Stephen
Oldfield decided that he might hope to be
some day something more than an old family
friend : but that the lady was not disposed to
give him any distinct encouragement just
then. Whether Miss Wharton meant this,
or not, was not so clear. When she came to
think all over, perhaps she might take the
contrary view. However, her end was served
so far as extricating herself from the immediate
dilemma.

Inspired by hope Mr. Oldfield proceeded :
I hope our friendship will permit of
my saying that when you get your horse,
you and your brother will include Orton
Hall within the range of your rides. Mr.
Wharton,' he said, breaking in upon his
conversation with Miss Oldfield, * I hope
you and Miss Wharton will not omit Orton

Hall in your list of riding excursions. I
am sure my sister and I will be very glad
to see you whenever you can call.'

I hope you will come, Mr. Wharton.
Do promise me, Edith, that you will come.
Miss Oldfield adopted a conventional prefix
to Mr. Wharton's name, while she gave
Miss Wharton her Christian name. This
passed unnoticed.

The promise was given and the visitors
departed. John Wharton thought no more
about the visit. His sister, however, carried
with her a vivid remembrance that Stephen
Oldfield had made an advance, a clear and
definite advance towards a proposal, — the
shadow thrown forward. Really his remark
bore the same relation to a definite proposal
that the outside signals at a railway station
bear to the inner signals. He had then
passed the outer signals on his way to Miss
Wharton's hand ; and she realized this.
When would he attempt the inner signals ?
She felt that her lack of decision had
rendered her liable to a proposal from him.

She must regard him as a suitor for her
hand, she began to see. What should she
say when the next advance was made ? She
was angry with herself. She did not see
how she could have acted otherwise ; and
yet she was dissatisfied. She had no intention
of saying ' Yes:' and such being the
case, she must say ' No ' when the time
came. When would it come ?

CHAPTER Iii.

PROBABLY THEY HAVE.

The thought of what had occurred at
that, to her, memorable visit troubled Miss
Wharton exceedingly. We must remember
she was only just twenty-one; and that her
experience had not been that of many
sophisticated town girls, who at that age
are familiar with suitors and offers. An
experienced damsel of the present day
would quickly dismiss such a matter from
her mind, if not from her memory ; and feel
quite equal to the emergency when the
definite proposal came, whenever that might
be. But not so Edith Wharton ; who belonged
to an earlier epoch, when being
engaged meant something more than a
recognized position, and a right to seek
each other's society — until it could be

broken off if desirable. A proposal and
an engagement were in those days the end
of a courtship, almost as sacred as marriage
itself (the Verlobung of the Germans) ;
not the formal commencement of courtship,
— as it has now become. An engagement
is now nothing more than a sort of
feeler of each other's inclinations, — a permission
to examine into each other's ways
and thoughts by an intimacy otherwise
impossible. It is a sanction to a tentative
courtship ; not the indication that the
courtship has culminated in a step that
can scarcely be retraced.

Edith Wharton now felt the want of a
mother's counsel as she stood alone. Probably
if her mother had been living this
unpleasant episode could never have happened
at all. She could not speak to her
brother on the subject. That Stephen
Oldfield would be some day a suitor for
Edith's hand was a matter tacitly recognized
by all. He was distinctly eligible,
even to freedom from vicious practices ;

and there was even a sense of fitness in
such union. There was nothing which had
transpired that could be made an excuse
for limiting the friendly intercourse betwixt
Orton Hall and Fowrass Grange. Yet the
episode allowed Stephen Oldfield to throw a
certain tenderness into his polite attentions
to Miss Wharton, which she recognized ;
and which he knew she recognized. Yet
this link was irksome to her, and certainly
did not tend to produce a better understanding
between them. Like a great
many scheming persons, Mr. Oldfield looked
down the line of facts in the light of his
wishes. He did not grasp the idea that,
looked down by the light of Miss Wharton's
feelings, their aspect might be widely
different. He realized that he had placed
himself in a position from which advances
could readily be made ; he did not equally
clearly realize that his attentions were not
much appreciated by the lady. He had
stolen a march upon her, and done it very
artfully too ; but he miscalculated the girl

he had to deal with. An ordinary girl
might have recognized the position, but
decided to let the matter drift, trusting to
chance to help her out ; and if no such
rescue turned up, reconciled herself to her
fate, on the what's-done-can't-be-helped
argument. But such was not Edith Wharton's
way of looking at the matter. She
felt injured by the march stolen upon her ;
it was not quite fair, she felt. He had
taken her at an advantage, and evidently
meant to stick to the claim which had then
been implied, rather than admitted in her
evasive answer. Why could not she have
said something else, been more self-possessed
? This was a question she asked
herself hundreds of times : and the more
she turned the matter over in her mind,
the more she resented it ; and the more her
heart hardened against the man who had
stolen the march on her. It was a very
clever step on the part of Mr. Oldfield ; but
it just happened that it really was a step
backwards, and not forwards.

At last a horse was found to John
Wharton's mind, a bay with black points.
A nice lady's horse in all respects ; good-tempered,
gentle, with a small clean head,
and a nose small and brown, like a deer's.
Probably it had some Arab blood in it ; it
looked like it. It soon established itself
as a prime favourite with all. The groom
doted on it. Luke EUwood gave it as his
opinion that —

It's just the verra nag for the young
lady. If ye searched Yorkshire through ye
couldn't find a mair suitable herse ; and
well she lurks on its back ; they're the
bonniest pair ye'll see anywhere. And it
is as sure-footed as it's good-looking.'

Sometimes, when the weather was too bad
for her to get out, Luke would ride * Daisy '
through the fields to see to the stock; and the
care he would take of her was quite motherly.
The feeling of attachment was mutual.

It's as wise as a body,' he would say, ' and
a sight mair to be trusted than a many.'

As to Miss Wharton, she was very proud

of * Daisy,' who carried her so easily, and
was so graceful,

John Wharton began to think the old
horse which had been his father's, and
which used to draw the little old-fashioned
four-wheel (a phaeton), for him and Mrs.
Wharton, aud afterwards Mrs. Wharton
and her daughter, getting altogether too
antiquated for his requirements. Luke
argued it would be just the horse for the
farm, to cart the coals from the collieries a
few miles away, and do the odd jobs ; and
he would take good care of it. The last
sealed the old horse's fate. John could not
bear the idea of parting with him, for fear
he might find a hard lot somewhere ; but
with Luke he was safe from ill-usage. Of
course this entailed a new investment. He
soon found a steed to his mind, a dark-brown
horse of great power, a hunter that
did not take kindly to his fences. * That
will constitute no drawback with methought
the would-be purchaser. ' I shan't
take any fences.'

So he bought the horse, and the brother
and sister now rode out together regularly.
They commonly rode up to Gaythorne Hall,
as Uncle Edward wished to see how the
new steeds went on ; especially Edith's.

She and the horse are a regular picture
Mrs. Allonby would say ; ' don't you think
so, sir "? '

Mrs. Allonby was Squire Wharton's
factotum.

And a handsome picture too,' he would
add. *Miss AVharton sits so straight and
square. Though she is my niece, she is the
handsomest girl in South Yorkshire. Daisy
seems quite proud to carry you, Edie,' he
would remark. ' I declare she is.'

Then the pride must be mutual, uncle ;
for I am sure I am proud of her.'

Have you been to Orton Hall lately ?
What do the Oldfields say ? Stephen is a
good judge of a horse. In fact he has
good judgment all round.' (It was quite
clear that Mr. Oldfield had an ally in the
Squire.)

VOL. I. M

He is very complimentary on the subject.
Almost too much so ; it makes me
uncomfortable.'

The Squire cast a keen look at his niece ;
for he noticed the remark, and the tone in
which it was uttered.

Oh, he is an old friend. His criticism
and compliment are both natural, both go
free. Young ladies are apt to be exacting,
and so very particular at times.'

Edith made no remark. That a marriage
betwixt Mr. Oldfield and herself would meet
with her uncle's sanction, and even favour,
she knew well enough. She felt that she
stood on ground which gave her admirer
the advantage : which he took. It was not
generous of him, she felt. His whole conduct
was scarcely that of the man she
would wish to marry. Something to lookup
to, not to look down upon : that was
the natural lord of a lady like Edith
Wharton.

When they visited Orton Hall its Squire
was all attention. Under the cover of

admiring Daisy, he could pay astute compliments
to the lady on her back.

There is a natural sense of fitness
betwixt you and your steed, Miss Wharton.
She is such a handsome well-bred little
mare, and carries you so well' The inference
was unmistakable. ' You seem on
excellent terms.'

Daisy was very fond of a biscuit, a piece
of bread, or even an apple. This predilection
was never forgotten. She would sniff about
if something was not forthcoming, in a most
suggestive manner.

Want something, Daisy ? ' the observant
swain would say. * I'll get you something.'

It is possible to court a lady through her
steed, if so minded. So* an equine bonne
bouche would be forthcoming, which Daisy
would munch with a relish which was
unmistakable.

She has a very amiable disposition, your
mare. Miss Wharton the Squire once continued,
after Daisy had finished her little
repast ; * it is quite remarkable.'

M 2

^ I am afraid it is more than can be said
of her mistress was the response.

'Do you know, Miss Wharton, you are
given to depreciate yourself; you do yourself
injustice.'

This was said with a marked witnesses
implying the right of the speaker to
address her in the manner he did. It was
one of those tugs at the chain which connected
them that roused Miss Wharton's
ire, and she resented it.

I do not know why you object to my
speaking the truth about myself. You
seem to assume that I am amiable. I know
that I am not ! ' (And at that moment she
certainly did not look so either. Her
appearance bore out her words.) The
Squire took a note of this, but went on.

Is it fair, or right to be unjust to yourself,
any more than to some one else ? I
question it.'

I wish you would not persist in holding
me better than I am,' she replied rather
pettishly. 'It worries me.'

I am sure I am the last person who
would do anything against your wishes,
Miss Wharton. I have no desire to do so.'

What was she to do with such a man ;
who understood so well the soft answer
which turneth away wrath ? It was impossible
to say anything more on the subject.
But the soft answer of some men, if it
makes wrath impossible at the time, only
fans it into a steadier glow. This was
Mr. Oldfield's error, and one he constantly
made, — his besetting sin. Because the
answer prevented any outbreak or exhibition
at the time, the feeling only rankled
in the other person's mind. He thought
he had cleverly disposed of the difficulty ;
really he only put it away for the time — to
brood. This constantly making her feel the
bond, and leaving her so that she could not
in common politeness take overt notice of
it, began to chafe on Miss Wharton. Her
feelings towards her suitor were taking
shape ; but it is to be feared it was the
shape of dislike.

He calculated very carefully the position.
He knew that the world, — at least that
portion of the world immediately surrounding
Orton Hall and Fowrass Grange, looked
upon the intimacy existing betwixt the Old-fields
and the Wharton as the prelude to
closer relations in the not far distant future.
It had grown accustomed to associate Mr.
Oldfield and Miss Wharton together, as a
matter of course. It would end in a match,
everybody said. His attentions were skilfully
measured. There was just that amount
of personality in them which a single man
may pay to a lady of his acquaintance,
which shows, in northern country phrase,
that there is something between them ' ;
but it gives no indication of the dimensions
of the something. And yet it was not
more than courteous politeness. His
gradual recognition of this relation made
it increasingly difficult to the lady to retreat
or escape from the position into which
she was being edged. That Mr. Oldfield
should be all politeness was looked upon

by all as a matter of course. When the
old Squire asked his niece if they had been
at Orton Hall lately, his inquiry was made
as if it was natural that he should ask that
question ; as if something underlay the
question which it was unnecessary to put
into words. It was an astute line of attack ;
but whether it was the form of assault to
carry that particular virgin-fortress maybe
questioned. If the lady had rested upon
popular opinion for her convictions, she
must have yielded. But a careful observer
would doubt how far this line of attack was
adapted to the case of a lady with Marston
blood in her, and decidedly given to think
for herself. The besieger was pursuing a
plan which would drive most birds into his
net ; a slow, steady sap and mine, the most
certain of all forms of siege. Time would
fiofht for him, he felt.

The position in which Mr. Oldfield thus
placed Miss Wharton is one by no means
uncommon even yet in remote rural areas ;
but which was more frequent in past times,

when travelling was less easy, and areas
were more localized. It is one which tells
hardly upon the lady. There is a certain
understanding, vague but recognized ; and
the outer world knows it. Consequently
any other suitor is warned off; to pay the
lady any attentions is pretty much like
poaching. It would not be quite an honourable
action to break in upon the gentleman's
preserves. With the lady thus hedged off,
time fights for the gentleman. Whether it
is quite an honourable line for a gentleman
to take is another question. All is fair in
love and war ! But it is a very safe line,
and usually ends in success. The lady
reconciles herself to the arrangement intime,
a formal engagement follows; and
shortly after that the irrevocable step, and
the lady is finally secured. All depends
upon how far the friends on each side favour
the prospect of a union. If they do not
look favourably upon it, the scheme breaks
down ; if they are in favour of it, the lady
is sooner or later won over ; they court for

the gentleman, and the lady sooner or later
succumbs. It was quite clear in this case
the Wharton and Oldfields were in favour
of such alliance ; and it became tacitly understood
that the match would come off when
the two contracting parties could make up
their minds. In this instance the gentleman
had made up his mind distinctly
enough, and only waited the favourable
opportunity. The lady bad not made up
hers, however ; and so far as she had travelled
towards a decision, it was against Mr.
Oldfield.

Thus matters stood, and time went on
without any change or advance being made.
Mr. Oldfield was not the kind of man to lay
himself open to be refused when he proposed
to a lady ; so he bided his time. Miss
"Wharton was a lady who, if young, possessed
much force of character, and was scarcely
likely to capitulate to any siege, however
persistently pushed on ; and when lie communed
with her own heart, which she
frequently did, she could not find that her

feelings towards Mr. Oldfield grew warmer
as time flew. Nevertheless she recognized
the position in which she was placed. Had
her mother still lived, she would soon have
extricated her from the dilemma ; but that
active brain, that loving heart, were mouldering
in the grave. But her wise plan of
forming her daughter's character survived
her, and her lessons were not lost upon her
in deciding upon action.

Matters thus stood still, nearing some solution
of the problem of course ; an end being
one day involved in the flight of time. So
long as no one else appeared on the field
Mr. Oldfield felt pretty secure of ultimate
success ; but a new factor entered into the
position, very gradually, insensibly, and
apparently unnoticed by all.

The railway system was extending. London
was united to Birmingham ; and then the
Grand Junction was to unite Birmingham to
the Manchester and Liverpool Company by a
line running in at Newton Bridge. A proposal
to join Sheffield to Manchester was set on foot,

and a firm of surveyors were working at the
district to see how the line must run. John
Wharton was in favour of such a scheme,
while his uncle was tooth and nail opposed
to it. Among the surveyors engaged was
one George Ashworth, a junior partner in
the firm. He was a tall, lithe, active fellow,
with a keen, quick eye ; dark and sinewy,
capable of immense labour ; sanguine, and
ambitious. He was the son of a Lincolnshire
clergyman who farmed his own glebe ;
a father who made all the provision for his
progeny of which his circumstances would
permit. He belonged to a fairly good
family, but not occupying quite such a
good social position as the Wharton. On
first sight it was easy to see the young
surveyor was a gentleman. John Wharton
met him casually ; and as they fell into conversation,
their views on may important
matters were found to be very similar. The
natural result followed, and George Ash-worth
was invited to dine at Fowrass
Grange.

From that time he came to be a frequent
visitor, always welcome. The conversation
ran commonly on the feasibility of making
the proposed line ; at other times on the
work of the reformed parliament. Miss
Wharton sat with her large wooden knitting-needles,
working steadily away at some
woollen comforter, or wrap, for some old manor
woman near by. She listened, as ladies
like to listen to the conversation of gentlemen
whenever they get the opportunity ;
further, it made a change, and the evenings
were very quiet at Fowrass Grange. In the
day there was the ride, or a walk in the
fields, or a visit to the Rectory, or Gaythorne
Hall ; or a visit to read awhile to some
invalid, or bed-ridden person among the
poor ; or if wet to go to the Grange Farm
and watch Mrs. EUwood in her dairy, or
maybe to make a few pats of butter if
churning was going on. But the evenings
were very quiet, and George Ashworth
made an agreeable diversion. Still not
even Mr. Oldfield saw underneath this

friendship betwixt the gentlemen, anything
which would affect Miss Wharton. John
Wharton held advanced views ; but that was
permissible, a mere eccentricity in a man
Who was bound hy family ties to the governing
hisses. George Ashworth was a man
who, if a gentleman by birth and breeding,
worked for a living:. Advanced views in
him were suite another matter. He was a
radical, a reformer: one of those men who
wished to overturn the car of state in
order to see what might fall to them in the
confusion. Had he aspired to Miss Wharton's
hand, it was certain the Squire would
put his foot on the matter and suppress it
at once. It was not even likely that John
Wharton would be prepared to accept the
young surveyor as a brother-in-law. There
was no evidence that lie looked upon Miss
Wharton in any other light than the future
Mrs. Oldfield ; as all around Brimstone
assumed. Further, no one supposed for a
moment that Miss Wharton had any objection
to become Mrs. Ohlfield. Mr. Oldfield

seemed indifferent about the visits of the
young surveyor, even if he knew of them.
The conversation related to anything but
courting or love-making ; it never ran on
sentiment or poetry ; it was as practical and
realistic as the young surveyor's measuring-chain.
The tunnel which would be necessary
to pierce the mountain ridge at Denton
Bridge, the heavy ascent from Sheffield ; the
probable opposition of the landowners like
Squire Wharton, who would not sell an
inch of ground if possible ; or what was
being done, or had been done at Westminster
such were the topics. They recounted
the triumphs of the Whig ministry : and
pointed with pride to the new poor-law ;
the abolition of negro slavery ; the movements
made for the relief of the 'white
slaves ' in factories and mines, and especially
the unfortunate children who were
terribly overworked in both. Lord Ashley
had taken the poor little white-slave child
under his care ; and white and black were
both to be free. Or they discussed the

question of education, and the effect it
would have upon the nation. The mere
mustard-seed of a beginning had been
made by Parliament voting a small sum,
some £30,000 for educational purposes.

It is the beginning, anyhow,' John
Wharton went on ; ' but it must take a
considerable time before the educational
movement can tell. The children affected
by it must grow up before they can exercise
any influence. I am inclined to think more
immediate results will follow from the reduction
of the newspaper tax. Fourpence
constituted a prohibitory tax, and forbade
a cheap newspaper ; bat now that the taxis
reduced to a penny it will be possible to
have newspapers at twopence : and then
even the artisan can have his own newspaper.'


It will have a good effect throughout
the country. As we go about we see a
good deal of what goes on. In the little
villages you will often find a newspaper
left weekly at one of the inns, usually a

Tory paper. On asking how they come to
take it, the answer is, '' Oh, it comes every
week, we know nothing about it ; there is
never any charge made for it." And on
inquiry it turns out that the leading Tory
peer of the neighbourhood has a number
of inns, to which a newspaper is sent gratis.'

I see ; educates the people to hold the
right views by sending the only newspaper
which penetrates the neighbourhood. It is
not a bad piece of tactics ; represents to the
free and independent voters the right aspect
of thing's. But the new act in reducing
the newspaper stamp will rather upset that
astute arrangement.'

I don't know that the Tory squires are
to be blamed for their conduct. The existing
state of affairs suits them ; they have got
their interests to look after, and they look
after them. I should probably feel with
them if I were one of them. Your brother
is an exception to the class to which he
belongs, Miss Wharton ! "

How am I to take that, Mr. Ash worth ?

My uncle holds the opposite views ; and I
am sure Uncle Edward is a good and a
kind man. My brother is the same : yet
they never agree about this question of
reform.'

It is not so much a question of right
and wrong, as a question of feeling. One
man holds one set of views ; another man
another. For instance, we surveyors are
most variously regarded. In one place we
find the people quite ready to believe that
a railroad would be a good thing for the
district ; while in other places the farmers
and their men will come with pitchforks
and other weapons, and drive us away,
because they think a railroad would injure
them.

How strange ! ' And then the feminine
intellect would once more turn itself to
the knitting, and apparently become oblivious
of the topic of conversation.

It is no doubt a question of interests to
a very large extent. The reformers have always
inveighed against class legislation ; and

VOL. I. N

asserted that if our legislators are derived
mainly from the land-owning class, and the
property qualification is maintained, so
long the said legislators will look after the
landed interests. That of course is the
raison d'etre of the Corn Laws, And
naturally they have exhibited no inclination
to ease the burdens of manufacturers.
The reduction of the duty on paper is an
evidence that the present parliament does
not maintain the old attitude of hostility
to producers. It is a step in the right
direction, in that respect, and also in
another. The cost of books and newspapers
will be considerably reduced by it.
Cheap books and cheap newspapers will soon
be quite common. This will be a great
boon to the working classes, and give a
stimulus to the Mechanics' Institutions
springing up everywhere ; but it will
bring with it some alloy : there is no such
thing as unalloyed good in this imperfect
world. What do you say on the subject,
Mr. Ashworth ? '

I think the movement is in the right
direction. Very likely we will get a
number of noisy fellows who will produce
a good deal of disturbance, and furnish
the Tories with arguments in their favour.
That can scarcely be helped. You rarely
get a piece of rich alluvial land by a river-edge,
but you find a bit of marsh here and
there. But for all that we do not object
to the arrangement, upon the whole : we
would rather take the marsh with the flat
than be without both.'

Yes, but the Tory will only see the
marsh, on which his eye will be steadily
fixed ; and he will take his stand accordingly.
In every movement likely to benefit the
people at large he detects lurking danger
to the landed interest.'

Such and such like were the conversations
which went on ; but soon Mr. Ashworth
had to shift his quarters, and left the
neighbourhood of Brigstone for a position
nearer the Manchester end of the proposed
railway. Surely there was nothing here

N 2

to militate against Mr. Oldfield's interests.
Cupid could never shelter himself behind
such prosaic matters as railroads and politics.
Besides, Mr. Ash worth knew that Miss
Wharton was as good as engaged to Squire
Oldfield. He himself might be engaged
for anything the Wharton knew. Yet
somehow it was no uncommon thing for
the Wharton on a quiet evening to wish
Mr. Ashworth were near them again, so
that he could drop in as of yore : Miss
Wharton joining in her brother's regret
without reserve.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE FIRST PEAL OF THUNDER.

The life led at Fowrass Grange was as
quiet as that led by the denizens of Gay-thorn
Hall, and Orton Hall respectively.
It was a quiet and perhaps humdrum life,
as some might choose to think it, when the
stage-coach rattling past was the incident
of the day ; and when the guard's horn
had not given way to the more piercing
but less melodious railway-whistle. John
Wharton, gentleman-farmer, had prospered ;
first, because the seasons were good ; and
secondly, because the advice of old John
Holroyd to keep the place ' the green side
up,' and always ' to buy stock from above
and not below,' was rigidly adhered to in
both instances. Nor did he, or his man

Luke either for that matter, feel disposed
to call in the plough though the price of
wheat kept steadily rising.

Won't the price of wheat tempt you to
plough out that pasture, Jack?' inquired
his uncle one day. * My rent-audit came
off well the other day. The times are
good ; manufacturers are busy and paying
good wages ; their work-folk can buy freely ;
and, thanks to the Corn Laws, the farmers
are prospering.'

The Squire knew the allusion to the Corn
Laws was like treading on his toes ; but
he resolved not to deny himself his say.
If the seasons continued as they had been
for the last two years, farming, and especially
tillage, would pay very well.

I am very glad to hear it, uncle, both
for the farmers' sakes and your own ; but
I am satisfied. The experiment has been
successful; and I have been the better for
it in many respects. I have had to look
into many matters that I merely glanced
at before ; and consequently seen many

things I should otherwise probably not
have noticed. But I am not yet a convert
to the Corn Laws : indeed my opinion has
not changed about them at all.'

But surely you see that good trade and
busy manufacture give good wages, and the
working people can readily buy the loaf
at the present price ; and that helps the
landed interest : and we all profit by it : all
round

'Yes, in favourable times when wages are
good, and the harvests plentiful, the objections
to the Corn Laws are not so obvious as
they become under opposite circumstances.
However, I am not going to set my sails to
the Corn Law winds.'

^ Spoken like a AVharton and a Marston
in one. Verily, Jack, thou art an obstinate,
self-willed fellow ; and I don't believe all
the arguments I can bring to bear upon
thee will make any impression.'

My dear uncle, we will never agree
upon that head. But what do you say to
the working of the new Poor Laws ? '

What have I to say ? That I think the
seasons have been much in their favour.
If we had had slack times and bad harvests,
we would have heard more of our departed
friend, '' the chargeable labourer." I don't
often attend the Board of Guardians : how
are you getting on there ? '

*We are now working out Lord John
Mussels new Act on the General Registration
of Births, Deaths, and Marriages.
It seems a useful Act.'

Oh, of course it is if it is the work of
the Reformed "Whig Parliament; it could
not help but be good. How much better
is it than the old Parish Register kept in
the Church?'

That can still be kept. But the clergy
did not always keep their record very carefully.
For instance, they entered the date
of the christening ; but they did not always
say how old the infant was. And there
was no machinery for collecting the dates.
Now each registrar keeps his book, and
annually all will be taken together and the

result published. We shall know where weare
nationally

As a testimony to the prosperity of the
country under the Whig reformers. Perhaps
after all Providence, and the good seasons,
have had something to do with this national
prosperity. How will it be if the seasons
take a turn ? *

They very likely will ; seasons run in
cycles, and I should not be at all surprised
if we have a series of indifferent harvests.'

Wouldn't you ? But if bad seasons do
come upon us you will see what will be the
effect upon these reformers you seem so
wrapt up in. You'll find out how many
more mouths there will be to feed : your
new registration will tell you that.'

Then we had better know it ; and then
the foreign farmers will know how many
to provide for. If the English acres remain
the same, and there are so many more
mouths to fill, the more need of foreign
corn.' The old Squire perceived that this
line of argument was going in the wrong

direction for him, so he prudently changed
the subject.

How is Edie, Jack ? Is the little horse
as great a favourite as ever. She has not
ridden up here for a fortnight : how's that ?
She has always been up on foot. I either
forgot to ask after " Daisy," or it has slipped
me what she said about her

The blacksmith got a nail too near the
quick the last time she was shod, and she
limped ; so Luke must needs have her
ridden on grass only till the foot gets well.
Of course Edie quite agreed to what he
said, and consequently she has only ridden
round the fields with me lately. I believe
the invalid is going on so well she will be
on the roads again shortly. Then Edie
will bring her up to show to you. She
will be very anxious to learn your opinion
as to whether you think the prick will do
any permanent harm, or not.'

She is a kindly-hearted creature, and
sets great store by her old uncle's opinion.
More than you do, you self-willed young

scamp 1 ' It would seem that disregard of
the opinions of their seniors has been a
characteristic of young blood from times
immemorial. Each age regrets the past
when speaking of youthful obedience to
their elders, or the want of it : so the
Squire continued : * I don't know what weare
coming to. It is not that the young
are to obey their elders ; but, that the
elders have to be guided in counsel by
their juniors.'

Oh no, uncle, not that quite ; but as
Canon Wordsworth is so fond of insisting
at our Board meetings — "The young to
pull, and the old to guide ; that is the true
division of labour." Don't you think he is
right ? '

Humph ! I don't know. Take care the
young ones do not pull the elders' arms off
in their anxiety to get on. The Canon
knows human nature, and how to manage
the youthful element ; just keeps things
going capitally. I really don't know where
you could find such another chairman.'

We would rather not have to try ; at
least just at present. I must be going

John Wharton left Gaythorne Hall, and
instead of going in the direction of Fowrass
Grange turned to Brigstone, and halted at
the shop of ' James Woodcock, Master
Shoemaker ' : knocking at the door, he then
lifted the latch, and bowing his head, for
the doorway was low, he disappeared.

Busy, Jim ? ' was the question asked ina
cheery tone. John Wharton had gone to
Jim Woodcock's ever since a boy. Sometimes
for a * wax-end ' (the tapering end of
the shoemaker's threads, in great demand
with boys, chiefly for the bristles with
which they are tipped) ; or a bit of shoemaker's
wax for his silk for fishing purposes;
or, with it, a hint about the proper
fly for the season, and how to dress it.
Mrs. Wharton had discouraged his visits
as much as possible : not that she had
any objection to Jim himself, but because
the shoemaker's shop was a sort of village
lounge, where idle fellows dropped in when

they had no money to spend at the Black
Swan, or the Stanhope Arms. But Jim,
knowing her views on the subject, always
attended to Master Wharton, and got him
off when any undesirable characters were
in without delay ; conduct which Mrs.
Wharton appreciated. If the coast was
clear, then he dusted a seat with his leather
apron ; and, with a significant look, indicated
to his journeyman and apprentice the necessity
for a prudent tongue and their best
behaviour.

Bless me, Mr. Wharton. Is that you ?
Why you're quite a stranger,' said Jim,
heartily. 'Will ye tek' a seat, or yell
stand ? '

'I think I'll stand, Jim, if you don't
object ? And then I shall see if the shop
is altered : I think it is much the same.'
So saying he cast his eye around the
familiar sight. There were the sides of
brown sole-leather, and the bit of * Settle
blue-bend,' prized beyond all other leather
for durability ; and a pile of upper leather :

with one hide devoted to thongs, which old
Jim cut so neatly. There were the balls of
cotton for the threads ; a bucket of water iu
which the spare pieces of wax floated, safe
from mischief; and, by the window, the
bundle of bristles. There was the old
vanstone on which Jim taught the apprentice
to beat the soles so conscientiously ; the
clams for closing the uppers ; the well-worn
seats, with the little square divisions for
tacks, parables (the nails driven into the
soles) ; the wax ; while the multifarious
tools lay over the rest of the settle. He
took them all in at a glance, with the background
of lasts hanging against the wall.
All was as of yore ; especially the peculiar
smell of a shoemaker's shop.

I don't see any change, except in the
faces, Jim. They're new.'

I'm glad the place isn't changed. Have
you bin fishing much this year, sir ? Now,
my lad, get on wi' th' thread. No idling
allowed here ! ' This was addressed to the
apprentice, who was slowly progressing

round an old shoe, to wych he was attaching
a new sole : awl in one hand and a
bristle-pointed thread in each. * There's no
excuse for your hands not going' if there is
some one i' th' shop

The boy blushed, and applied himself to
his work with great determination ; his
temporary arrest of labour being rather
due to amazement at the appearance of
the visitor, so unlike their usual visitors,
than to any inherent laziness.

He's a good lad, an' a capital worker
upo' th' whole. I must say that for him ; '
continued his master, too penetrated with
a sense of fairness to allow Mr. Wharton to
carry away a wrong impression about the
boy. ' Do you remember him, sir ? He
was th' lad I got from the Board at
Wybrow.'

Oh yes, I remember him well. I am
glad you give him a good character. Weare
always glad to hear how our apprentices
get on.' The boy applied himself to work
with an assiduity which told that he was

resolved not to be the subject of conversation,
if possible. ' You will set him a good
example, Jim, I know. And not be too
hard on him.'

'He's a good lad an' comes o' decent
people, if he is a parish apprentice : and I
nun' do my duty by 'im. Ould Jim's no
respecter of persons, — they say, that wish
to hav' a fling at him.'

Those who object to your views as a
reformer.'

That's about it, sir. And they're likely
to keep on saying it. I'm a people's man.
And they say this stir i' th' '' London
Working Men's Association" will lead to
something. Lovett's got Mr. Roebuck to
tak' an interest i' th' subject, an' Colonel
Perron Thompson, an' Oakley. They're
good men ; but I can't say I care about Dan
O'Connell.'

Then you don't fancy '* the repeater " ? '

'I can't say I do. I don't trust him.
He's a man that strikes me as always
lookin to his own hand : to see how he

can better himself : two for myself' and one
for my neighbour. But of course they
couldn't well do otherwise. They've long
kept th' public attention awake, and th'
petition's been signed by three thousand
persons. Th' House can't but notice it.'
What do you think of their programme ? '
I think th' principle's right enough.
But I'm not so sure that they'll mak' anything
out. I should like to think otherwise
; an' I'm right glad they're going to
mak' a trial. I've no opinion o' th' reform
of the House of Lords being listened to.
They'd better let that hare sit, and do their
best to try and get th' House o' Commons to
entertain th' matter o' th' Charter. You know,
sir, as well as I do, that the people, that is the
working class, lev' ni wer bin satisfied about
the Eeform Bill. They helped th' middle
classes to th' franchise, expecting' naturally,
that when th' middle-class got a voice, — an'
what's mair, a vote, they'd bear them i'
mind ; and help them i' turn. But reform
stopped where it was left in '32, and th'
VOL. I. o

working class feel as if they'd bin' deceived
like ; and as if faith hadn't been kept wi'
them.'

I don't think they are wrong about that.
But many of the Whigs think the franchise
has gone low enough for the present ; and
are not at all inclined to take up the question
of further reform. They say they are doing
good work ; and it cannot be denied they
are ; and that they cannot abandon practical
work, which all but the ultra Tories admit
to be good, for chimerical work that they
can't see the end of. The Tories and these
lukewarm Whigs are too many for Lord
Durham's men.'

Aye ; that's only owe true. Having got
what they want, they care nothing about
th' people. When they wanted th' franchise,
they could ask th' people to come to th'
hustings, and hold up their hands, and
shout ; with a riot now and again, or a stack
or two i' flames, just to keep th' world i
mind they didn't like the Corn Laws.
That was all right then when it suited

them ; but it's all wrong now when they're
satisfied.'

Jim spoke with the bitterness which all
his class felt at the manner in which they
had been treated in the matter. They had
been utilized, and then cast aside. It had
been a bitter experience to many of the
earnest reformers.

I am afraid there is too much truth in
what you say, Jim. The people feel that
they have not been fairly, let alone well-treated,
in this matter. The Whigs have
not kept their promises, except such as it
suited them to keep. They have carried
some very important measures ; such as the
Parliament, as constituted before the Reform,
would never have attempted.'

That's what makes it so hard to bide.
The Tories reckoned that if th' Reform Bill
passed, th' end o' all things was at hand ;
that th' bonds o' society would be unloosed,
and that all 'ud be anarchy. Instit o' that
we've seen seek mighty deeds dune as we
nivver saw afore. There's th' new Poor



Law ; and th' slave abolition ; and th' Education
vote ; and th' newspaper stamp, and th'
duty off paper ; th' masses are to hav' information
; and Lord Ashley skin' about th'
white slave " at home. There was Corporation
reform ; and th' doing away wi' th'
press-gang. It's a grand roll o' deeds ; but
ane can see th' energy's wearing out o' th'
Whigs ; half of 'em are getting tired, and
wanting' to rest. And th' people cry, " Seeth'
results o' Reform ! Let us hav' mair
Eeform, and we'll hav' still greater results 1 "
Surely they've reason upo' their side i' that ?
If all th' forecasts of evil indulged in by th'
Tories hav' remained unrealized, what right
hav' they to keep on saying that all manner
of evil will happen if th' franchise's lowered
any further ? It's all a pack o' lies ! That's
my opinion, sir.'

The argument that any further lowering
of the franchise will be followed by mob-law,
by the rule of numbers, and that the many
unwise will rule the few wise, and destruction
lie close ahead of us, is quite d priori

argument ; which is not borne out by our
experience of Eeform, and is certainly
negatived by the experience of Switzerland
and the United States of America.'

They know that as well as we do ; but
they'll neither read the past, nor look around
them. Th' many unwise rule the few wise !
aye, and how have the few wise ruled us 1
Over a million of us working men hav'
perished i' the bloody wars they've waged
since th' last century began. And how
much money hav' these wars cost ? Not less
than three thousand millions o' money.
That is what class legislation has done for
us. Just think what that auld full George
th' Third cost us wi' his war wi' France.
Because France threw off those Bourbons —
an' served them rest too — and would be
ruled her own way, " we must have a bloody
war with France ; a long and bloody war,"
said Burke i' th' House o' Commons. To
be sure his brain was given' way, an' he
was not th' man he once was. But to
think that because France was tired o' they

Bourbons, that newer learned ought nor forgat
ought, we nun' ga t' war wi' her. What
did that cost th' country, d'ye think ? I
think th' many unwise could do quite as
sensibly as th' few wise hav' done, i' some
o' their ^^ class legislation' '

John Wharton knew that ' the black
record of class legislation,' the cost of our
wars waged for dynastic purposes, in men
and money, were stock arguments with the
reformers before and after the Reform Bill ;
and that no satisfactory answers ever had
been made to the charge. So he kept
silence, and did not break in on the thread
of the old reformer's thoughts ; but as he
took in the effect he could not help being
somewhat amused. The journeyman was
putting the last touch to the soles of a pair
of shoes, but was arrested by the harangue ;
there he sat with the little candle burning
with which he heated his iron to smooth
the black rim of the soles, burning but only
wasting ; his tool in his hand, but no use
made of it. The apprentice was industriously

using his awl, then fumbling his
bristles through the hole and drawing the
threads taut with an unsteady hand and
unpractised arm ; giving himself to his work
with abandon, after having been the subject
of conversation and attention. Alone — he
had no interest in the burning words of the
speaker.

Aye, th' unwise many hav' a score again
th' wise few, for the auld days. But it's
nought to what they think about th' Corn
Laws. There's a bit o' class legislation, if
ye like ! . There's no denying that ! That
th' poor man's bread has to be taxed that
th' landlord wi' his mortgaged acres can get
his rent ! Do ye think that one o' God's
laws ? Nay indeed ; it's th' wickedest
law man ivver invented. That th' landowners
may live i' plenty the poor man's
bairn can't get enough o' bread. I've
watched th' effects o' th' taxed bread-laws ;
the chiltern' getting whiter and shorter ; less
bone to fill out wi' th' flesh they nivver
get ; a punier race altogether than their

fathers an' grandfathers. Especially i' th
towns you see th' chiltern' growing up into
weedy men and lasses. Th' young fellows
ye'll see now are nothing' like th' fine
straight old chaps that ye see here and
there, the men that fought Bonny. I've
watched th' results of that devilish law, an'
see them i' th' faces of th' grown' generation.
Just luik at th' lad there : d'ye think
he'll ivver get to six foot ? — yet his father
stood six feet in his stockings.'

The allusion to him seemed to strike the
boy as reflecting upon him in some way,
and his face flushed ; while he fumbled more
than usual with his awl, and seemed ready
to burst into tears. His kindly-hearted old
master did not observe this, else he would
have had his word of explanation and
approval, to put the boy's mind at ease.
Not noticing the effect of the allusion, he
pursued his line of thought.

They'll find their reward, sir, when they
see and realize what they've done. They've
cut down th' bone and th' sinew of th'

country wi' their class legislation, and the
bread-tax. D'ye think a law like that
would ivver hav' been passed if tV people
that eat th' bread had had a voice i' th'
law-making' ? Not it. The poor know
they've been sacrificed to th' interests o' th'
great. Times are good, an' wages are good,
an' th' harvests hav' been good ; an' for a
year or two there's been no want to goad
th' people to madness. But just let times
tak' a change, an' you'll see what '11 happen.
Th' red cock '11 crow again, ye '11 see. I had
a man wi' me a year or two ago that was
working i' th' west when th' Bristol riots
break' out. He said it was na uncommon
thing to luik out of a meet, and see a stack
blazing : that was nothing thought of. The
folk that had to eat th' taxed loaf burnt a
stack when they wer' hungry. Hungry folk
are not reasonable folk ; and th' proverb
says, " Oppression will mak' a wise man
mad." And an empty stomach is a Strong
argument ; and an indifferent heart make
th' empty stomach a' th' worse to bear.

The let-well-alone party i' th' House will
perhaps doubt their wisdom i' refusing to
alter th' Corn Laws if bad times come, an'
th' red cock begins to crow again. What
was that cost th' Bourbons their heads i' th'
French Revolution ? It wasn't so much th'
rule o' th' Bourbons, tho' God knows that
was bad enough. It was that speech o'
Queen Marie Antoinette, when they felled
her th' poor o' Paris were famishing for
want o' bread, " Then let them eat legs o'
mutton." Legs o' mutton ! — that might bea
come-down for a queen ; but legs o' mutton
were out o' th' reach o' folks that couldn't
get enough o' bread to fill their stomachs
wi'. The Charter '11 be a grand thing. Th'
barons wrested a charter fra' King John ;
now th' people '11 wrest a new charter fra'
th' legislative order, — th' great folk that rule
us, an' mak' th' laws for us. When we've
our own Parliament, then th' laws '11 be
just, and proportioned to th' wants o' th'
nation. Not a patch here, and a bit o'
justice there ; but broad comprehensive

laws sic as we hav' had a few since th'
reformed Parliament gat to work. Let ns
hav' th' Charter, and then th' bread-laws '11
soon be abolished ; an' a few mair things
beside. There's a many need it.'

The old man pulled up at last, seeming
to recollect himself.

You have the heart of the old reformer
in you yet, Jim. Peterloo has not been
forgotten. And you really do think that
the Charter would be desirable ? Is there
not some real fear that if the franchise was
extended there would be some danger of
ignorance getting the upper hand sometimes
? Is there not something in that
argument ? '

Yes ; there is something ! It is a refuge
for those who are determined to let things
remain as they are. Th* rough, ignorant
fellows cannot rule th' rest o' society.
There's not enough of them 1 Here and
there they miorht cast an election ; but that
would have no real influence. They nivver
could do anything unless their demand had

til' country at its back. There's no real
danger, sir, fra them. The ignorant folk
are not so proud o' their ignorance, as to
want to Stan' again' their betters. Not
they ! They'll want to go wi' other folk,
ye '11 see. Unless, as I said, hunger comes
to upset them. Th' empty stomach argument
will touch th' poorer end, no doubt ;
but then who '11 be to blame for that ?
Why th' men that made th' Corn laws,
and th' men that uphold them. But the
Charter's right, so far as it goes. They '11
hav' to agitate and mak' a row over th'
face o' th' land, afore any notice '11 be taken
o' them. But if they stick to what is legal
they '11 win notice. " Hold fast by th'
laws," that was auld Major Cartwright's
advice i' th' auld days afore Peterloo ; an'
it was sound advice too. Now, sir, you're
a sensible man, that I know o' my own
experience ; an' a far-learned man by what I
hear ; do you think now ' — and here Jim
dropped his vernacular in order to give
emphasis to what he said — ' As a reasoning

man, do you think that change will come
from those that are satisfied ; or do you
think the dissatisfied will have to win
over the satisfied to their way of thinking
? What is your opinion on that
subject ? "

Put in that way, Jim, of course I agree
with you : the satisfied will not move until
the dissatisfied have put them into action.
The principle must be admitted ; but how
about the practice — the getting it worked
out ? '

Aye, sir ; that's the rub ! But if those
that can think won't help those that
can not ; what will be th' result, d'ye
think ? Those that hav' th' cause o'
th' people at heart must tak' th' lead.
There's no other way for it, that I can
see.'

It is a matter one can not shirk, or
thrust from one ; one must be for it, or
against it. I am a Bedlamite — the happiness
of the greatest number is the true
aim.'

You'll have no difficulty, sir, in deciding
i' that case. You must be a Chartist ! '

It would seem so ! ' and John Wharton
left the master shoemaker, and went away
in deep thought.

CHAPTER IX.

THE CLOUD GATHERS.

While John Wharton was taking a
practical interest in the condition of the
people, and working hard as a guardian, his
sister shared his interests and imbibed his
enthusiasm.

Am I powerless to help in the work ? Is
there no way in which I could make myself
useful ? Women seem restricted to domestic
work. Are there no other spheres for her ?
Is she simply to look on ? ' said Miss
Wharton one evening;, after a long; talk with
her brother on the state of the people.

I do not know, I am sure ; certainly
not in the way in which I am engaged.
Perhaps Mr. Pry or could utilize you. Mere
perfunctory district-visiting, because it is

right to be trying to do some good, or as a
lady-like occupation admitting of the gratification
of curiosity and a prying into the
affairs of the poor, will never gain his
approval. But if you seriously wish to do
something and to help, I am sure you will
find him most willing to aid you.'

Having thought the matter over until she
was confident that she was in earnest, and
not persuading herself she was in earnest
and so deluding herself, Miss Wharton went
one day to offer her services as a volunteer.
The Rectory was a large, roomy edifice of
imposing character, suggestive of a comfortable
stipend, very neatly kept, and bearing
evidence of attention and taste. The Ev.
Henry Pryor was a large, heavy, yet not
corpulent, man. That he was kind-hearted,
industrious, and active has been shown ;
he was also thoroughly sincere, and full of
the dignity of his office. Mrs. Pryor was
middle-sized, energetic, kindly, and well-informed,
a good housekeeper, and a well-read,
intelligent companion to her husband.

Miss Wharton looked up to her, and consulted
her in all difficulties ; except such as
she brought before her uncle's housekeeper,
Mrs. AUonby, which greatly flattered that
functionary's vanity. One day she was rather
surprised by Miss Wharton saying, * I am
come with a new want, Mrs. Pryor ; I am
anxious to be doing something among the
people ; I seem to be leading such an idle
life.'

My dear, how can you call yours an
idle life ? Henry often says how you are
always engaged in something or another ;
that your hands are always full when he
calls ; and I know how many comforters
you knit for the poor.'

That is true. But I want to be doing
something more. What John tells me
about the condition of the poor has impressed
me : so I have come to offer my
services to Mr. Pryor as a volunteer.'

*Then you must wait till he comes in.
He is out at present, but will be in shortly.
Can you stay with me ? '

VOL. I. p

I should certainly like to do so, if I am
not in the way.'

Put your mind at rest on that head. I
shall be glad to have your company. I
should indeed be glad to see more of you ;
but I could not say so when you were
occupied with nursing your mother ; may I
say so now ? '

Tt is very kind of you ; but really what
with going over the farm with John, and
riding out with him, and calling upon Uncle
Edward, and attending to housekeeping,
where I found I had much to learn, and
learning to make butter with Mrs. Ellwood ;
my time seemed quite taken up. And then
John likes me to take an interest in what he
is reading in an evening, and I feel interested
in it, and the evenings slip away so quickly
I seemed to have no spare time. But I feel
I ought to be doing something more. I
hope Mr. Pryor will not think I am going
to be a meddlesome person in the parish.'

He will have to change his opinion considerably
if he does. Have you read about

the young Queen, — how she received the
deputation announcing her uncle's death ?
The King seems to have died rather unexpectedly,
with his head on Queen Adelaide's
shoulder. The young Queen was in bed,
and had to dress hastily to receive the
deputies. It was a trying scene for her.'

It must have been ; but she carried
herself through it with much dignity.'

So she did. One is naturally very
desirous of knowing something about her.
Her mother seems to have brought her up
in great seclusion ; and her father died
in debt ; they must have had to practise
economy.'

It gives one quite an' interest in her to
learn this. The coronation must also have
taxed her self-command.'

She seems to have behaved quite prettily,
and to have won the hearts of all. Lord
Melbourne and the Duke of Wellington are
like parents to the fatherless girl. For that
is what she is, though she is also Queen of
England.'

P 2

Yes ; it is more than seems to have been
expected of Lord Melbourne from what one
has heard of him. The Duke, of course,
is another sort of person altogether.'

*And this action of paying her father's
debts as soon as she has the means, betokens
a good disposition. It is a promising
beginning.'

Just at this moment the Eector entered.


'What is this about "a promising beginning,"
Agnes ? How do you do. Miss
Wharton,' he said, cordially shaking hands
with her.

We were talking about the Queen going
to pay her father's debts.'

And why should she not, like any other
girl who has got the means at last to
carry out her wishes ? Quite proper, Miss
Wharton, eh ? '

But Miss Wharton also wants to make a
beginning ; she is a young lady of merit,
too, I think.'

Certainly. What is it, Miss Wharton ? '

She explained her errand with much
diffidence and many apologies.

I may seem to have remained oblivious
of what I now think my duty for a longtime.
But I have explained to Mrs. Pryor
how it was I had many demands upon my
time.'

I think I comprehend the circumstances,
Miss Wharton. You need not take yourself
to task. It is not yet the eleventh hour.
And if it were, who am I to judge ? '

It looks rather like it though, does it
not?'

I can't admit that. But with so engaging
a volunteer, what can a parochial pastor do?
Certainly he can not decline her services.'

After much consultation it was decided
that Mrs. Pryor and Miss Wharton should
make periodical visits to the poor.

You will not make it uncomfortable for
them. The poor things have got used tome
; and don't mind my visits. They will
feel rather afraid of you at first; especially
you, Miss Wharton. The people here are

accustomed to look up to the Wharton
as people immeasurably above them. Your
uncle is held in great awe, as well as
respect, I can assure you. And what does
he say to this proposal of yours, Miss
Wharton ? '

Oh, he grumbled at first, and said the
admixture of the Marston blood had curiously
altered the Wharton character. The
Wharton were distinctly patrician, he said ;
but the Marston are certainly plebeian in
their instincts. He says it is rather hard
upon a Tory Squire to have only one
nephew and one niece, and both bitten with
such Radical tendencies. He calls John a
Chartist," because he holds the Charter
would be an improvement on the present
state of affairs. '

It is not likely that he and your brother
will take the same sides on that question.
He is a worthy old gentleman, but he is
certainly wedded to the past ; and the
word Eeform is very objectionable to him.*

'It is a source of perpetual wonder tome

that he has not wedded in the past,'
commented Mrs. Pryor, who held strong
views on prepositions. ' Such a fine handsome
man, and always so courteous to the
sex, too ! '

Yes ; I cannot tell why Uncle Edward
has remained a bachelor. He was very fond
of mother, and my brother, and self.'

I fancy that has had a great deal to do
with it ; he would not have you disinherited,
even by children of his own.'

My wife looks upon your uncle, Miss
Wharton, as a sort of modern knight errant
in the romantic self-devotion with which
she credits him.'

I do not think I do anything of the kind,
Henry. I think him a splendid specimen of
the country gentleman. Canon Wordsworth
with all his height and his appearance, never
looks so thoroughbred as Mr. Wharton.'

You see she is devoted to her idol. It
is useless to attempt to influence the opinions
of your sex in matters of that kind. So we
will change the subject. You are my two

lady-curates, when do you propose to set
to work. The summer is getting on, and
the outlook of things is not very promising.
We have had good harvests now for a few
years. A change may be at hand. I should
like you to commence before the bad weather,
and, perhaps too, the bad times, come. It
would be well to know something of your
own observations about the poor before the
time arrives, when your discrimination maybe
taxed.*

Perhaps the female eye may possess some
power of observation not given to the male
eye. We may not need so long a time to
estimate the women at least, as is necessary
in the case of the lords of creation.'

Mrs. Pryor was full of the respect due
to her husband, as head of the house and
spiritual head of the parish ; but a little
playful banter escaped her at times.

Then make a good use of the power,
please. Now I have something to attend
to, and will leave you ladies to lay down
your plans.'

Accordingly they set to work to devise
what time they could devote to the work ;
how they should cut out their visits so as
to take ill the different portions of the
parish, and see each section in turn. At
last this was satisfactorily arranged.

One thing remains, Miss Wharton, that
must be considered, and carefully considered
by us, and it is this : What are we going todo
to help these poor people, — when we have
decided that they are proper persons to be
helped ? '

I have been trying to think about it ;
but have come to no satisfactory conclusion.'

They will scarcely thank us if we have
never anything more for them than words ;
yet at the same time we must not let them
expect too much from us. A certain portion,
I fear, will look at us from the standpoint
of what they can get. '

I suppose they will. But we must use
our eyes. Cleanliness, I think, would weigh
with me.'

It is not a bad thing to start from. Yet

I fear in some of the houses there can be no
cleanliness ; we must take some other test.'

Do you mean to say there are people
who do not care about cleanliness, or that it
is impossible for them ? '

I fear in some cases it is scarcely reasonable
to expect much of it.'

How shocking ! '

I am afraid we must make up our minds
to see a great deal we would rather not see ;
and be compelled to know much we would
rather not know.'

I have thought of that. But the knowledge
can do us no harm Can it ?'

I think not. But there will be much to
think about which will not be pleasant
matter for thought.'

I am prepared for that. Let us know
,the facts. Knowledge must precede action

A very pretty axiom, Miss Wharton ;
but the acquisition of the knowledge will
involve much that, at times at least, we
may wish we had never known. You are
young, very young, you know.'

M suppose I am. But my mother always
trained me to look at tidings as they are.
Knowledge is always better than ignorance.
There may be a healthy knowledge and an
unhealthy ignorance, you would say. I
thought all over well before I made up my
mind.'

On this understanding, then, we will proceed.
We are not going to pose as Ladies
Bountiful. That is one satisfactory thought.'

And so they started on their visits, and
were variously received. By some distantly,
as if suspicious of their motives. By others
cordially ; in some cases so cordially as to
raise the suspicions of the visitors. By all,
w^h ether distant or cordial, with respect.

One old crone confined to the house with
the rheumatism was very glad to see them,
and to be read to.

Eh, bless ye, ladies, I'm pleased to see
ye. Mr. Pry or often reads to me, whenever
he has th' time ; but he hasn't over mich
o' that to spare for me. I've my share 1
But sit ye down ; don't stan' about i' th'

floor.' Taking chairs as requested, one
would read a chapter slowly, with careful
enunciation, and with explanation where required.
' Eh, but it does me good to hear
ye ! Ye read soa different fro' th' other folk.
I can understand ye. They aether read too
fast for me, or they stop to spell th' words,
and then I lose th' sense of it.'

In another cottage they found a young
woman whom Mrs. Pryor remembered some
years before as a domestic servant.

When I knew her first she was a smart
girl, with a face always clean, her hair neat,
with a clean apron ; and see now, poor
thing, her face is dirty, her tangled hair
over her eyes, her apron all crumpled and
dirty, and her whole appearance slovenly
and neglected.' * How is this, Annie ? '
she asked. * You are not so neat as you
used to be.'

It's all very well, ma'am ; when you've a
good hanse (house) to live in yo can irksome
pride in it, and yer sen'. But leak
at this hut, wi' th' rain coming in hear and

tliear. It's heart-breaking' ; ane nivver can
be tidy. Gi' me another hanse, and I'll be
another woman.'

Tbe argument seemed on the face of it a
very strong one.

They bad not pursued their visits long
before it seemed very clear that there were
many families where the father was gone,
leaving a young widow with a large family
of little ones. In many such cases it was
simply impossible for the widows to earn
sufficient for their families. The death of
the father meant parochial aid, and that
again pauperism.

It is very sad,' said Mrs. Pryor one
day ; ' Henry tells me this is the outcome
of the early marriages engendered by the
old Poor Law. A young fellow found it
easy to get parochial relief when he had
nothing except bare walls, and a wife and
two or three children : there was no question
about it. So he never tried to do any
better. Henry says that in the evidence
given before the Commission about the

working of the old law, one man said, " I
had saved a little money, got a cow and
a pig or two, and got my cottage fairly
well-furnished. My master was obliged to
discharge me : he had no more work forme.
I couldn't find any work. I couldn't
get work. I was ' an independent labourer,'
and I could not take the wages of ' the
chargeable labourer,' who got an allowance
from the parish ; I could not live on such
wao^es. So all went : and when I was
beggared of everything, then I got parish
pay, and with it and the wages I earned I
got on." '

How very horrible ! Why it seems that
that was the very way to encourage pauperism.
There was no inducement for a man
to try to have a decent cottage and to save
a little.'

That was the effect of the old law.
All these young widows were married under
the old law ; paupers they are, and paupers
they must be till their children grow up.'

I often hear John talk about the results

of the new Poor Laws. I hope they will
do the work which is expected of them.'

This early widowhood and pauperism
is a sad things. There is no chance of a
widow with a family getting married again.
No man will start to work for what
they call hereabouts " a ready - made
family." '

Well, one could hardly expect him. It
is scarcely likely a man would. But it is
very hard all the same for the widows.'

Then they came to a cottage where an old
dame was looking after a number of very
young children.

Where have you got all these little ones
from, Grannie ? ' asked Mrs. Pryor.

Eh, ye may well ask me that. Their
mothers are away i' th' hay-field, making'
a little brass for th' winter. They pay mea
trifle to leak after th' chiltern.'

You have one or two asleep, I see. How
good they are ! ' remarked Miss Wharton.

Aye, there good chiltern', these. There
carry quiet ; they sleep most o' ther time.

But I give them a little drop when they
wakes, an' then they goes off again.'

What do you give them in the little
drop ? '

'Just a drop o' laudanum i' some gin.
It sleeps them foin. They's vary good
wi' it.'

But don't a great many die with it ? '

I can't say as they does.'

But the doctor tells a different tale.
He says half the children hereabouts die
before they are three years old.'

I can't think as th' doctor's rest about
hear. It may be true i' th' towns. I've
heard it said about Sheffield. But ye can't
keep them quiet no uther way as I knows
of Leak at that 'un higgins' i' th' corner.
Fra th' moment he's awake the cry 's nivver
out of his mouth till he's had a drop, and
then he drops off in a minute.'

On looking carefully at the child they
found its face in deep wrinkles, looking
rather more like an old person's face reduced,
than an infant's face.

She toises flesh, she does ; shell nut belong
wi' us, that 'un, I fear.'

It was clear the old woman looked upon
gin and laudanum as part of the necessaries
of life ; and a high infant mortality as part
of the plan of Providence for keeping down
the population.

Bless ye, they nivver misses 'em. As
one goes another comes. They've always
as many as they can feed.'

What a Malthusian old wretch she is ; '
said Mrs. Pryor, after they had turned
away.

The cold-blooded old vampire ! Getting
a living by sucking the life-blood out of
those unhappy infants.'

She does not see it in that light. She
makes a trifle by looking after them while
their mothers are helping their fathers in
the fields. They are so accustomed to see
children tended, and kept quiet by this, or
some other like means, that they think
nothing about it.'

She seemed a kind-hearted old body,

VOL. 1. Q

who would not be unkind to them. And
she was very clean, — kept herself clean, and
the children, as far as she could.

'Old Hannah is held in great respect, I
can assure you. She is in great demand
hereabouts in hay-time and harvest ; and
is rather a character.' Mrs. Pry or had
accompanied her husband often enough to
know the parish well. They saw much
that was painful, much that they deplored,
much that they would willingly blot out of
their recollection, had that been possible.

Especially was this the case when they got
to the edge of the parish lying close to the
Satanstoe collieries. Bad as things were
before, they found them worse there. The
cottages were worse kept ; there was more
dirt about ; the gardens, what there were
of them, were untilled and overgrown with
weeds. The same number of children
were seen about, the same slatternly
wenches, only more of them ; many, too,
without the wedding-ring of the married
woman. The morals of the pitman were

sadly loose ; indeed they could scarcely be
said to have any morals. AVhat could be
expected "? Women and children worked in
the pits at that time under the men — rough,
reckless fellows, who gambled with life, and
whose pleasures were of the lowest. Their
highest pleasure was music, and many of
them sang well. But beyond that it was
drink — and worse. And what could be
expected ? A man would go to the workhouses
far and near, and hire apprentices,
lads who for seven years would never have
a penny to call their own. Such a boy was
a ' butty,' merely a slave of his master.
He would treat his own children much the
same. When the poor little fellows were
mere children they were taken down into
the pits, to keep the doors here and there ;
when they heard the little waggon coming
they pulled open the door, and woe betide
them if they were found asleep. Yet they
had to sit all alone in the darkness without
a light. The waggons were drawn by
boys a little older, who had been doorkeepers

themselves ; and who revenged the
suffering they, as such, had undergone upon
the poor little wretches at their mercy.

But the waggons were not always drawn
by boys. It was given in evidence before a
Royal Commission that women and girls
worked in the coal-pits. With a chain
around the waist, boys or gills upon all-fours
drew the waggons along by chains
which passed between their legs, — through
ways more like a common sewer than anything
else. Labour in the pits utterly
brutalized the women who worked there.
They had no sense of decency left ; and
never washed their bodies, only their faces,
necks, and ears. The clothes of boys and
girls who were ' drawers,' as they were
termed, wore the dirt off as they themselves
were worn out. On Sundays the collier
would turn out, if a buck, in white
stockings, and very tall shirt-necks, stiffly
starched, and even ruffles at times ; with his
best clothes on ; his ' posy jacket,' as he
called his best coat, from the * posy ' or

flower he was wont to wear in the buttonhole.
But underneath this finery he was
utterly unwashed, and his skin was ingrained
with coal-dust. Sights they saw
here that neither maid nor mother should
see. They might have said as Kingsley
said in his ' Rough Rhymes on a Rough
Matter at a later day :

'Our daughters with base-born babies
Have wandered away in their shame ;

If your misses had slept, Squire, where they did,
Your misses might do the same.'

But they went through it all dutifully ;

bearing in mind that unto the pure in heart

all is pure. Amidst these brutalized beings

who had lost all but the semblance of

womanhood, they went stoutly.

Gie mal my coit, th' eddies ar' coming,'

a rude collier would say, who had been all

but nude ; so far as a thick covering of

dried sweat and coal-dust permitted of the

word * nude ' being applied. * Ah'd been

owe looking for 'en to-day. Let mal lev'

my boots. I nun lev' them on when they

come into th' hanse.'

All tried to put on their best appearance
when the ladies were in the neighbourhood.
In one house into which they entered they
found a collier lying in bed, with an injury.
He had had a quarrel with a mate in the pit,
and had been hit by him with his pick. He
had received an ugly wound, and the other
man was in gaol for the assault. They saw a
pick in the corner of the room ; and on asking
why it was there, were told that it was the
pick with which the injury had been inflicted,
and that it was very carefully watched. If
the pick rusted, the wound would canker ;
in which case the man would die.

It is inconceivable,' said Miss Wharton,
when they had got outside the house, ' that
such a superstition should linger still in
these days. Why, this takes one back to
the middle ages ; or rather to the dark ages
before them.'

It tells of the state of mind of the
collier, poor fellow ; no wonder with his
range of mind, if his pleasures are coarse : of
the earth, earthy ! '

We must Dot judge them too harshly
Such were the experiences Mrs. Pryor
and Miss Wharton met in their visits about
the parish of Brigstone. Often they found
poverty which they were glad to relieve.
Often, too, they found poverty where some
counsel was as much required as an}^
material help. Sometimes the poverty
seemed wilful. But everywhere almost
they saw evidence of lack of thrift, — the
want of preparation for a rainy day. Each
could intelligently follow the conversation
when it ran on the poor, the state of the
country, and the price of food. And as the
harvest went on the weather worsened, and
it became clear the price of corn must rise.
Already the corn merchants were holding
their stocks, and forcing up prices. It was
becoming only too clear that a certain
amount of ' claiming ' was inevitable.

We will have that ugly argument old
Jim Woodcock dreads so, to deal with erelong,
I fear — " the empty stomach," — and a
terrible argument it is,' John Wharton

would remark. ' The rough fellows who
have had a sort of rade plenty for a year
or two will begin to feel the pinch ; and
then they will raise an outcry for the old
outdoor relief," and perhaps riot. I am
sorely afraid we shall soon see troublous
times.'

Miss Wharton would listen with a feeling
of impending evil. Her recent experiences
had made these topics of enthralling interest
to her. She was almost as absorbed in them
as her brother himself. If her grasp of
the subject was not so wide, her sympathy
was even keener.

CHAPTER X.

A CHANGE OF FRONT.

No one can suppose that in a society so
limited as the world of Brigstone, the new
step taken by Mrs. Pry or and Miss Wharton
passed unnoticed. It attracted the attention
of alL The Rector, of course, approved of
it. Squire Wharton said :

My sister-in-law was a clever, well-informed,
good woman ; but she brought
up the children too much to think for
themselves : because they think differently
from their elders, it does not follow they
are wiser. This admixture of blood is a
queer thing: the Wharton were never given
to these whimsies ; they left the Government
to look after the people. This interest
in the people only upsets them, I fear.

Still, it is not a matter in which I can
interfere

The people took various views. One saw
very little come out of it ; the poor had got
little. Another did not see why one family
should have benefited, while another had
been passed over ; she would have distributed
the charity differently. But as she
did not practically interfere in the way of
doing anything for those who, in her
opinion, had been passed over, it is not
necessary to set much store by her thoughts.

Perhaps,' said another, ' since the ladies
are beginning to look into things for
there's, we may get some better laws.
There is a stir being made up in London
about the Charter ; and, I hear, against the
Corn-laws too ; but it will never reach
Brigstone, I fear. But the ladies' visiting
may do something.'

A larger section were of the opinion that
a number of the old people had got comfortable
winter wraps, the work of Miss
Wharton ; and so had reason to be thankful.

It was a step which was a good deal
canvassed among the better classes of society.
Now, it is quite usual for ladies in
the best social positions to visit the poor,
even to the lowest neighbourhoods. Nothing
is said of such action but approval. But
at that time such action was novel ; and
novelty always brings upon itself much
criticism ; and, usually, among minds opposed
to all change, a certain amount of
condemnation. Even Canon Wordsworth
thought it a questionable step. Meeting
the Rector and John Wharton one day,
before the Board met at Wybrow, he opened
up the subject abruptly.

Well, gentlemen, how is all in the parish
of Wybrow 1 What do the ladies say about
the people ? I am afraid they see much
that they ought not to see.'

In what way ? ' asked John Wharton.

Sights and scenes a lady does not care
to look upon ; much that they must revolt
at.'

And if they do,' said the Eector, firmly

shall they go on in ignorance that it
exists, not knowing and not caring ; or if
it is there, and they see it, and if they
think it should not be, should they not
say so ? Which of the two is to be preferred
? If there exists what they ought
not to see, should we shut our eyes to the
facts? — or ought we to recognize its existence
and do away with it? Surely the whole
of our aim in being here is to devise the
best plans for dealing with poverty and
wretchedness.' The Canon saw that there
was little to be gained by pursuing the
main line of inquiry, so he deftly turned
it aside.

'Of course we know and recognize that
knowledge must guide us in action ; and
perhaps ladies see some things more clearly
than we men do. But this is a novel step.
Mrs. Pry or is married, and, as the clergyman's
wife, might be expected to see for
herself; but Miss Wharton is young — much
younger, and single too.' The old Canon
was an energetic man of the world as well

as an ecclesiastic, and recognized social laws
and regulations.

Of course if much exists that is objectionable,
they cannot well avoid seeing it.
But, after all, is seeing it worse than hearing
of it, or reading about it ? The impression
made is more vivid certainly,' said John
Wharton. 'I do not think my sister will be
injured by what she sees.'

I see you, neither of you 1 see much
objection to it. And, after all, you must
be the judges on the matter. I only reflected
what I hear said around me. Will
we have much business to transact to-day,
do you think ? ' The practical Canon felt
that the business was none of his particularly.
From the remarks both gentlemen
learned that district-visiting by ladies was
an innovation of which the local Mrs.
Grundy did not much approve ; and at
which she was disposed to shake her head.

At Orton Hall the subject was gravely
debated. Stephen Oldfield knew all that
went on amongst local social respectability

; while, of course, Miss Oldfield
heard what was said by the ladies of their
large visiting circle. As said before, it was
generally recognized that ' there was something'
between Stephen Oldfield and Miss
Wharton ; and consequently several well-intentioned
ladies took the opportunity of
informing Miss Oldfield of what was said,
and thought about the action of one with
whom they were so closely linked.

Miss Wharton is very young, you ?ee,
for such a step. And unmarried too ! Not
even engaged ! It would be well for her
to observe conventional laws a little more,
I think ; * said one old lady, wise in the
wisdom of this world.

It is scarcely becoming ; though she
never goes alone, 1 hear, and only with
Mrs. Pryor. I think it well for ladies tolet
these matters alone. It is well enough
to be charitable ; and to give orders to the
cook to supply sundry articles to those of
the poor of whom one has certain knowledge
from the clergyman, or the doctor-but

not to go any further.' Certainly ; she
was right if it was merely the duty of the
rich to give to the poor out of their superabundance.
But if human sympathy, and
the great Christian principle of the strong
helping the weak, had to extend no further
than this, ' love ' and ' charity ' have very
restricted meanings : and the Levite who
crossed over to the other side could not
exactly be called a bad neighbour, though
scarcely helpful. But the example of Christ,
and his association with publicans and
sinners, tell us that something more is
involved in the Christian brotherhood.
Else, why should the rich man have been
condemned, for Lazarus was ' fed with the
crumbs which fell from the rich man's
table ' ; and yet this was as much as the
lady was proposing should be done ; and
no more ! But perhaps the old lady did
not read her Bible very attentively.

How does your brother like Miss
Wharton going about in this way, Maria ? '
asked another old dame, whose feelings

were none of the finest ; who had a strong
judgment, little guided by tact. This
placed Miss Oldfield most awkwardly. She
knew very well that ' the something ' was
nothing very definite, and that her brother
was not in a position to remonstrate ; though
very possibly the old lady imagined he
was.

He thinks it is very good of her to see
about the poor for herself. It shows great
self-denial, I am sure.'

It shows great " self-will," my dear, that
is my opinion ; and if she belonged to me,
or mine I would very soon let her know
what I thought about it. I wonder her
uncle does not put his foot down upon such
goings - on. They don't belong to the
Wharton, I am sure. I always thought
their mother, Mrs. Wharton that was, had
a great deal of self-satisfaction about her.
They take at her clearly. I hear John
Wharton is in favour of the Charter ; which
means the division of property, and mob
law, and the reduction of the rich to

poverty, by what I hear. It is scarcely
quite respectable, my dear.'

They both certainly are inclined to think
for themselves ; whatever other people think
about them : ' was Miss Oldtield's answer.

The remarks made to Mr. Old field were
conceived in the same spirit, if couched in
more guarded speech. He began to grow
very uncomfortable about the matter. One
day he said to his sister :

Maria, can you spare me a few minutes ?
I wish to consult you upon a matter of
grave importance.'

Certainly, Stephen ; I am at your service.
What is it you wish to talk about ? '

Well, Maria, my mind is much exercised
about Miss Wharton ; and what is said about
her. Don't you think it is a great pity ? '

Which do you mean ? — a pity she is
going on as she is doing ; or a pity that
such remarks are beintr made ? '

o

'Well, both Mr. Oldfield was not
the person not to see a subject in all its
bearings !

VOL. I. R

What should be done about it ? '

How can we interfere in any way ? There
is no engagement betwixt you and her

No ; that is it ; if there where I could
interfere. But as it is, we are only old
friends and well-wishers.'

Certainly, we are those. Have you
resolved to ask Miss Wharton for her
hand?'

Maria, you speak of it in such formal
terms.' It was rather surprising to hear
the little prim gentleman speaking so of
formal.'

How else am I to put it ? Are you
paying your addresses to her ? Will that
dor

Of course I am. I should like to make
Miss Wharton my wife. She will be
acceptable to you as such, Maria ? *

Most assuredly,' she replied ; kissing her
brother — a rather unusual step) for them,
except the regular customary night and
morning salute, to assure him of her feeling.

Then I think I will speak to John

Wharton on the subject, before asking the
lady herself.'

That is the first step, without doubt.
And her uncle ; what shall you do about
him ? '

Oh, I shall speak to him too. But I
have my own reasons for thinking he will
raise no objections to my suit. 1 am not so
sure about John Wharton.'

Why not about him, Stephen '{ 1 am
sure he is always most courteous.'

Yes, he is ; but at bottom he holds mea
true-blue Tory, and he has no liking
for me.'

Men may differ about their views on
politics, but that should not affect their
friendship. Squire Wharton is a Tory ; yet
he and his nephew are on excellent terms.
I do hope John Wharton will not stand in
the way. I would take an early opportunity
of speaking to him, however.'

After this family council, and the formal
assurance that his sister approved of his
offering his hand to Miss Wharton, Mr.

E 2

Oldfield set to work in earnest to bring his
relations with that lady into some tangible,
definite shape. He also arrived at the conclusion
that he would call at Fowrass
Grange some day, when he would be likely
to find John Wharton alone. He had
calculated that it would be well to gain
his permission first ; after that to consult
the Squire ; and then so armed, and on the
vantage-ground of the sanction of her family,
to seek the consent of the lady herself. It
was a well-laid plan. It placed Edith
Wharton in the difficulty of seeming to
run counter to the wishes of her family, if
she declined his attentions.

It might not be a very gallant way of
approaching a lady ; not a chivalrous one
certainly ; but Stephen Oldfield was not of
a particularly chivalrous nature. It did,
however, contain more promise of success
than any other scheme he could devise.
And, after all, he thought in his innermost
heart, there is nothing so successful as
success.

It was not long before he found the
opportunity of calling upon John Wharton,
and found him alone. This was no mere
fortuitous matter : he had carefully informed
himself of Miss Wharton's movements, and
had good reasons for believing she would
not be at Fowrass Grange at the time of his
visit. Shown in to Mr. Wharton, the usual
civilities and salutations were interchanged ;
after which the suitor opened out his errand.

I am desirous of ascertaining your views
upon a very important matter, Wharton.'

I am all attention : proceed,' was the
reply, rather off-hand ; but then the little
man's formality was so habitual that his
remarks might have been the prelude to the
question of whether out-door relief or the
house ' was to be offered to some particular
applicant for parochial relief. The tone was
rather disconcerting, considering the intention
of the speaker ; but he proceeded :

'You have doubtless observed that my
attentions to Miss Wharton have been somewhat
marked. We have been old friends.

But a warmer feeling has sprung up in me ;
which, without wishing to be chargeable
with vanity, I venture to think is reciprocal
betwixt your sister and myself.' John
Wharton began to listen very attentively
now. ' If I didn't feel an assurance that
such was the case, I should scarcely have
thought it proper to take the step I am now
taking. In such belief, then, I now ask you
formally if my suit for your sister's hand ' —
and heart, he would have added had he felt
that in John Wharton he had a warm ally
' will be acceptable to you ; or not. You
are her brother, and her natural guardian; I
must have the knowledge that my action
will be agreeable to you before I can address
her.'

John Wharton was not exactly taken by
surprise by this request ; yet he was hardly
prepared for it : thinking it still ia the
distance only, he had not given it the
attention he had intended to give to it.
Nevertheless, the whole circumstances were
well known to him : there was no sufficient

reason for declining to give a positive answer
until he could think the matter over,
Stephen Oldfield was not a man after his
own heart ; but he was in every way
eligible.

'I have no objection to offer; all must
depend upon her own decision. She usually
knows her own mind : and on a matter of
this, kind I think the lady herself must bethe
sole judge ; if competent to judge for
herself.'

Which Miss Wharton certainly is.
Then I am to understand that you, — as her
natural guardian, — have no objection to
my seeking your sister's hand ? '

Quite so. She shall not be influenced
by me in the matter at all. I will drop no
hint even that you have consulted me on
the subject.'

This was an attitude so definitely neutral,
so entirely negative, that even a personage
so habitually self-satisfied as Mr. Oldfield,
did not get much encouragement therefrom.
Still it was consent : there was no mistake

about that. He had got his foot down on
the first rung of the ladder which reached
up to Miss Wharton's hand.

I thank you. I think I would prefer
you to say nothing.'

Now this was not untrue ; because he
felt that if John Wharton did speak to his
sister on the subject, it would not be warm
advocacy of his suit. But at the same time,
it was not exactly correct ; for he would
have liked that Miss Wharton should know
that he had obtained her brother's consent,
when the momentous time of proposal
came. But, failing advocacy, a neutral
attitude was certainly the best thing for
him.

I should be prepared with suitable settlements
; I should like you to understand
that.'

I quite believe so ; but are these not
matters of detail which it is rather premature
to discuss at this stage ? '

This was rather cruel ; rather like a sharp
frost on a tender shoot : but still it was fair

and proper ; though young love did wince
under it.

•' Certainly. I merely wished to intimate
to you that I quite appreciate the value of
Miss Wharton ; and would do what a gentleman
should do to testify his appreciation.
A practical evidence of his feelings ; you
understand

Quite so ; your habitual thoughtfulness
is well-known, Oldfield. Had you not
better see Uncle Edward before taking any
positive step '? I think he would like it.'

Most assuredly. I should not think of
taking a step involving those belonging to
him, without first consulting him. I shall
wait upon him shortly.'

After he had taken his departure, John
Wharton mused : ' He is anxious to be my
brother-in-law. Not on my account, I fancy.
However has Edie evoked the fire of love in
the breast of that piece of formality ! It is
testimony to the powder of her charms, which
cannot be gainsaid. I wonder how she will
take it. I should not give much for his

chances ; at least the first time of asking.
Once, twice, will not deter him. He is one of
the most determined of mortals. I hope he
won't pester the girl. I should not like the
thought of thafc. Uncle Edward will receive
him cordially. Well ; if he does not, the
little man can hardly think the Wharton
connection very anxious about the alliance.
I am afraid I was not very enthusiastic. I
must drop no hint to Edie. I wonder if she
will be taken by surprise. I hardly think so.
Women are said to have a very keen scent
for any love-making. And certainly the
little man has tried to throw some tenderness
into his manner of late ; now I begin to
think about the matter seriously. I wonder
if he will make her happy. He is a steady-going
fellow ; nothing fast about him. If
anything, rather staid ; but she will not
object to that. But he is a true-blue Tory :
that is rather against him. I suppose they
will learn to compromise, as all married people
do, I am told.' Here John Wharton revealed
the fact that he still walked about in

the nightly darkness of bachelor ignorance ;
nor did the soliloquy indicate the dawn of
any coming matrimony. His wonders were
natural under the circumstances; and he
felt a most genuine, unaffected interest in
the question of his sister's future. ' He has
got my consent : even if not very cordially
given. And Uncle Edward's is certain. He
will make the most of these facts, if he
experiences any difficulty. I wonder if she
will be quick enough to see the stealthy
approach ? Women's wits are keen. I hope
she will not allow him to make too much
of our consent. After all, I should not be
grieved if she said him, No. And yet the
match is a proper one in every respect.'

So much for John Wharton.

When Stephen Oldfield called upon Squire
Wharton he found him in his sitting-room
with its dark oak panelling, smoking a cigar,
and listening to some remarks from Mrs.
Allonby. He at once observed the Squire
was in an excellent good humour. So far,
so good, he thought. Mrs. Allonby seemed

to tctke in the errand intuitively ; and after
answering his rather marked inquiries after
her health, found that there was something
requiring her immediate attention in the
domestic quarter of Gaythorne Hall. After
the usual civilities had been interchanged,
Mr. Oldfield proceeded :

I have come to see you in a new character,
Mr. Wharton. I am come as a suitor
for your niece's hand. I dare say you have
long observed that my attentions to her
were rather more marked than are those of
mere neighbourly friendliness. I have asked
her brother's consent, and now I am come
to ask yours.'

And what did Jack say ? ' asked the
Squire eagerly.

He has given me his consent'

Has he, by Jove ! I was not so sure
about him. You have mine, my boy. I
have long looked on the match as likely
to come off; though, of course, I could
neither make ; nor meddle. I wish you all
success.'

It is very good of you to say so, I am
sure, sir.'

Mr. Oldlield never forgot what was respectful
to his elders ; and the Squire's
warmth was a contrast to his nephew's
chilly coldness. He began to think that
Miss Wharton was his. He had a staunch
ally in her uncle, that was clear.

I am deuced glad things have come to
this point, Oldfield. You see Jack holds
strong views ; even to the advocacy of the
Charter. Of course I do not approve of
them ; and so I let him know. But that
does not affect him much. And of course
Edith takes her opinions from him ; and is
a high-spirited, strong-willed girl — though
for all that an excellent girl ; as I know well.
And I have always had a fear that she
might be thrown in the way of some of his
reforming acquaintances, and become entangled
with some one of whom I cannot
approve. It will put my mind at rest to
know that all is settled ; and that she is in
the hands of some one I can trust.'

I trust I shall prove worthy of your
good opinion of me. I can assure you, Miss
Wharton's many good qualities are not lost
upon me. As to her high spirit, I think I
like her the better for it.'

Possibly so ; though if it prompts her to
say " no " the first time you ask her, it may
not seem so admirable. But you are not
the man who would be deterred from asking
a lady a second time ; if she happened not
exactly to know her mind at the first
asking.' Mr. Oldfield winced here ; he was
by no means deficient in perseverance, indeed
possessed a great deal of that quality ;
but this particular exercise of it involved his
vanity. He was not the man to take * No '
from a lady with a good grace. His mind
was rapidly surveying the position, when
the Squire went on, ' Faint heart never won
fair lady,' I fear. And I don't think my
niece will be any exception to the rule. If
she did not say yes at first, I think, when
she came to think it over, she would change
her mind. She has got plenty of good

sense as well as a high spirit, has Edie.
And common sense and high-spiritedness
are not always seen together in girls ; at
least in my experience

This turn of the conversation favoured the
suitor, — to use the language of greyhound
coursing ; and gave him an opportunity fora
complimentary remark.

Miss Wharton's good sense has always
impressed me. She has many attractions.'

Quite right ; and if all goes well she
will have those canal shares altogether. If
you make a match of it, I will give them
up. I know they are safe with you.' Could
any uncle be more gracious to the suitor
who seeks the hand of his niece ? Mr. Old-held
showed his gratefulness with dignity ;
and all was pleasant and agreeable.

The Squire quickly after this, assuming
the topic to have been exhausted, turned to
other matters.

1 tell you what it is, Oldfield, we landed
proprietors must stick well together, and
keep a good front to the enemy. There

must be no division in our ranks, and no
faint-heartiness. We seem likely to see
some troublous times. The bad harvest
has sent up the price of wheat, and bread
is dear. If it were not for the Corn Laws,
I do not see how the farmers could pay their
rent. And the league forming against the
Corn Laws will try to make a stir. Confound
those manufacturing fellows, they only want
to get cheap bread in order to pull down wages.
Cutting thongs out of other people's hides.
It is clear enough what they are after.'

I think there can be no question about
that, Mr. Wharton.'

I should think not. They will agitate
and upset people's minds, now when the bad
harvests are telling. And that abomination
the Charter " is laying hold of all those
who do not possess the franchise We landowners
will have to stand by each other in
the coming trials. Fortunately the Duke is
well. I have no faith in Lord Melbourne,
if a revolutionary epoch set in. But the
Duke is to be relied on.'

'The Duke possesses the entire confidence
of the country ; and he has allan
old soldier's dislike of lawlessness and
turbulence.'

That he has ; and a soldier likes order
and discipline. If we should have any
rioting, such as there was in the winter of
1831-32, when excitement and dear bread
were present together, it will be well to
have a man of decision at the head of affairs.
It wil set an example to the country.'

We are not far from Sheffield, which has
always been a town prone to excitement
and disaster, and at times to violence.'

That old rhyming steel-merchant, Eben
Elliott, does them a lot of harm, with
his rhymes and his songs. I wish we could
get him into gaol, like Lovett, out of the
way of further mischief. What has he todo
with the nation, setting class against
class, and putting words into the mouths of
the dissatisfied, that they would never find
for themselves ? Such men do far more
mischief than the torchlight processions,

VOL. I. s

which without their songs would do very
little harm. But they listen to wild harangues,
and then they sing their songs, till
their evils seem twice as big as they really
are ; and they fan themselves to fury.'

That is quite true, sir.'

I wish we had a few more of their
leaders laid by the heels out of the way.
We must keep them in check at the sessions.
I know I can count on your loyal cooperation.
We sit on the bench together. I
hope soon to see us in closer relationship.
But be careful ; young fillies are apt to be
skittish. If girls don't know their minds,
they are sure to be awkward. But you can
always ask them again. Good-bye.'

CHAPTER XL

THE CHARTER.

What was this Charter which seemed to
be so disturbing at this time ?

It was an organized attempt at parliamentary
reform ; an attempt to give the
people a greater voice in the law-making
of the country. From the time of the
Plantagenet Kings it had become customary
for the King to summon advisers from
various parts of his dominions : indeed the
Parliaments which Edward I. ' gathered at
the close of his reign are absolutely
identical with those which still sit at
St. Stephen's (' History of the English
People,' J. R. Green). And so matters had
remained. The King's writs called members
from places which, once populous and of

S 2

repute, had in many instances died down,
till Old Sarum had no longer an inhabitant
or a house left, any more than Persepolis
; yet it still was represented in
Parliament. Ludgershall in Wiltshire had
one owner and one member ; the owner
elected himself. Another place had seven
electors ; and so on, and so on, till more
than half the House of Commons consisted
of the nominees of lords and squires.
These effete constituencies had become
known as ' rotten boroughs.' In one of
the struggles against the iniquitous ministries
of the early years of George III.,
Lord Chatham advocated a scheme of
parliamentary reform. On January 22nd,
1 770, he said in the House of Lords, ' The
boroughs of this country have properly
enough been called the " rotten parts " of
the Constitution ' ; and the Saxon adjective
remained linked to the boroughs till 1832.
Why did it take more than half a century
to do away with such obvious abuse ? A
retrospect may tell us !

Chatham's scheme was to infuse new blood
into Parliament by adding one more to the
members of each county. In 1780 the
electors of Westminster appointed a Committee
to consider the matter of the election
of members of Parliament. Charles James
Fox, the great AVhig leader, was one of
the chairmen of this committee. They
recommended the following programme :

1. Annual Parliaments.

2. Universal Suffrage.

3. Equal Voting Districts.

4. No Property Qualification.

5. Voting by Ballot.

6. Payment op Members.

In the same year the Duke of Richmond
introduced a Bill into the House of
Lords in favour of Annual Parliaments,
and giving a vote to every man not contaminated
by crime, nor incapacitated by
want of reason. Three years later Colonel
Sherman wrote his famous letter in which
he declared, ^ The subject of parliamentary
reform is that which, above all others, most
deserves the attention of the public,' and

advocated the before-named changes. But
the French Revolution arrested all reform.
Many Englishmen espoused the cause of
the French Revolutionists ; the alarm spread.
Patriotism bore down reform, and nothing
was done. But reform was not killed
outright. In 1792, the 'Society of the
Friends of the People ' was established by
Charles Grey, Esq. ; who forty years afterwards
was the Earl Grey of the Reformed
Parliament.

In 1795 the Society published a declaration
that there should be ' no condition of
life in which the right of voting might not
be acquired by labour, by industry, by
talents.' But the deadly struggle with
Napoleon kept England too engaged for
any question of internal reform. So low
indeed had reform sunk that in 1816 Lord
(then Mr.) Brougham said it was ' opposed
by some, deserted by others, and espoused
by persons whose conduct excited no small
degree of disgust out of doors.' But a
little later on the people took it up,

especially in the North ; and the writings
of William Cobbett were largely read in
South Lancashire and the North Midlands.
Cobbett's Weekly Political Register ' was
a single sheet of octavo, and cost ,
which placed it out of the
reach of the poor. At the end of 1815
he brought out * The Twopenny Register,'
and swiftly every cottager knew his name.
Hampden ' Clubs sprang up everywhere,
while the Sunday schools were means of
teaching men to read, and so becoming
readers and speakers. Poetry became common,
which, if rude, still appealed to the
heart. The programme of that time was
as follows : ' All males over eighteen years
of age who paid taxes were to have a vote ;
Annual Parliaments ; every 20,000 of the
people to have a member : no placeman
or pensioner to sit in Parliament.' All
who have read that very interesting little
book, ' Passages from the Life of a Radical,'
by Samuel Bamford, know how the people
were taken up with the question of reform.

A large meeting in Manchester, on August
16th, 1819, was suddenly attacked by
the Yeomanry, and some scores were
wounded and a number killed. Bamford
suffered imprisonment in Lincoln gaol for
his part in the affair, as the virtual leader
of the Middleton men; while the grand jury
threw out the bill against the men who
caused ' the Peterloo massacre ' ; while the
Prince Regent thanked them for their
promptitude. The Six Acts were passed,
and the consequence of all this was — ' It
filled the working class with a fierce
contempt and hatred of every one wearing
2f a decent coat' Class hatred became
rife, and the interests of the people and
their rulers clashed till the clang went
throughout the land. The Prince Regent
had a disgraceful contention with his
wife ; and the latter found her supporters
amidst the ranks of the reformers, and
her famous advocates in Penman and
Brougham, — the latter the very cynosure
(jf the Reform party. Yet when the

Eeform Bill did ultimately pass what was
the result ? As regards the counties, the
franchise was restricted to the old forty-shilling
freeholder of the days of the
Edwards and the Henrys, and the fifty-pound
a year tenant. The result was not
very satisfactory : it may be put in the
words of the clerk in the village in which
the writer was reared. He often used to
point to the absurdity of the franchise so :
Look round the village : there is the
curate, the doctor, and the schoolmaster,
next to the vicar the best educated men in
the village, and not one of them a vote ;
while the parish clerk, because he has an
old tumbledown cottage and garden of his
own, has a vote.'

This state of affairs was obviously
absurd, and reformers still agitated for
reform. They had learned a lesson which
they were not likely to forget. In the
Catholic Emancipation, in the Eeform Bill
itself, they had seen that their rulers
had yielded not to the justice of a demand.

but to the vigour with which the demand
was made. If there was agitation enough,
and force enough to render resistance to
the law possible, — and the threat of the
latter was made, — they yielded. A threat of
resort to violence alone could secure justice.
That was conceded to clamour which was
never allowed to mere right.

In the opening of the first Parliament
of the Queen, an amendment to the Address
to the Crown was made by a radical member,
to the effect that the Ballot and shorter
Parliaments were desirable. It received a
very limited support. Lord John Russell,
the then Home Secretary, announced that
it was not the intention of the Government
to deal any further with reform ; a speech
which procured for him the nickname of
Finality John.' He said to do so was to
commit a breach of faith with those who
allowed the Bill to be carried on the understanding
that the reform question should
rest where it was put in 1832. The great
mass of reformers regarded this as a

distinct breach of faith with them. A
number of the radical members, including
Mr. Roebuck and the famous Irish repeater,
Dan O'Connell, met the London Working
Men's association, and ' the Charter a name
given to the projected Reform Bill by
the latter, was drawn up by Wm. Lovett ;
who was to have had the cooperation of
Mr. Roebuck, but the latter was too much
engaged. The six points of the Charter
were the old recommendations of the Westminster
Committee, under Charles James
Fox, in 1780; except — Manhood Suffrage
came before Annual Parliaments. The
Charter's six points were :

1. Manhood Suffrage.

2. Annual Parliaments.

3. Vote by Ballot.

4. Abolition of Property Qualification.

5. Payment of Members.

6. Equal Electoral Districts.

The " property qualification " consisted of
landed property to the extent of £500 per
annum ; the consequence of which was that
every member of Parliament was, by this

fact, more or less linked with the cause
of the land and the landowners. Annual
Parliaments, it was contended, would do
away with all the bribery and corruption
involved in Septennial Parliaments ; as it
would be impossible for any one to go to
such expense yearly.

It was a very reasonable proposition
itself, and already some of the points have
been gained, as, for instance, the abolition
of the property qualification, and the
ballot ; while every new reform has lowered
the franchise ; and the redistribution of
seats is proceeding in the direction taken
in the Charter of equal electoral districts.
The payment of members and annual
elections will come ; as the principle is
recognized that to be a member of Parliament
is not an honour, and, too often, a
sinecure for some local magnate, but a
serious occupation dealing with the vessel
of the State — with national interests. But
if the Charter in itself was a very innocent
affair, the movement was fraught with

dangerous elements. At once class hatreds,
class interests, and all the dissatisfied
elements in the country took sides. From
a mere political movement amongst those
who were sincerely interested in the subject
of parliamentary reform, it soon became a
rolling stream, involving every opponent
of the existing Government — honest or dishonest.
The decision of ' Finality John '
awoke a national hurricane, some of the
effects of which will be seen in these pages.
There were soon two great divisions of the
Chartists — the ' moral force ' men, who
trusted to ' Truth and Reason ; ' and the
'physical force' men, who were prepared to
resort to violence. And hunger soon brought
violence. The winter of 1837-38 was a
severe one, and corn kept steadily rising.
Trade was bad, and wages low. A cry arose
from the hungry, who joined the Chartists
for the simple reason that they were 'against
the Government.' What says a Chartist
pamphlet of this time ? ' The first edition
of the Charter was published in 1838. It

may be well to state that such was the
respect entertained by great numbers of the
middle classes in favour of the exertions
of the Working Men's Associations in the
great work of political and social reform at
that period, that the first meeting called
in London in support of the Peoples'
Charter, was called by requisition of the
electors of Westminster, and hoi den in
Palace Yard, the High Bailiff presiding.
We regret, however, to state that all these
growing promises of good, tending to the
union of the two classes in favour of reform,
were frustrated by the blustering and fighting
projects of the physical force party,
who had hitherto been engaged in the
Anti-Poor Law agitation.' That is, the
reformers were joined by the insubordinate
elements of society, and, most unfortunately,
by the mass of ignorance, idleness, and
rowdyism, which had hitherto fought against
the new Poor Law. And the rise in the
price of bread from bad harvests, simultaneously
with a fall in wages from bad

trade, brought want to bear on this seething
mass of misery and insubordination ; and
threats of violence were freely used at their
meetings. Of course some of the wilder
and less discreet reformers fanned the passions
of the rabble, with the design to
frighten the Government into yielding to
their demands. Torch-light meetings where
held, to which many went armed ; pikes
were made by the hundred by village
blacksmiths; and in some districts, especially
over the manufacturing area of the North,
firearms were freely purchased. Violence,
too, did here and there take the form of
riot ; as in Newport, near the Welsh coal
region ; in Birmingham, and elsewhere ;
while a diabolical plot to burn down
Shefiield was set on foot in the winter
of 1839-40, of which somewhat more will
be seen further on. Wild terror seized
upon a large portion of the community,
which added to the general national anxiety.
The Government trusted to its soldiers ; the
physical force party furbished up their

f pikes and cleaned their guns. ; It is very
difficult for us, living in peace and security,
to conceive the condition of society at that
time. There was reform in the air ; and
many believed that the passing of the
Charter would be followed by the repeal
of the Corn Laws, and all the other laws
which pressed unfairly or hardly upon the
masses. But, as usual, it was hunger which
bred violence. From the passing of the
Eeform Bill till the time of want there
was no rioting and bloodshed. The return
of want brought violence in its train.
After the series of bad harvests passed
away, the Chartists held meetings and
conventions ; but there was none of the
wild schemes then which marked the
times of famine. It was dien they were
hemming ' the work-people of the North

/ became wolfish.

What sayeth our great contemporary
historian of those terrible times ? ' Wide
and almost universal discontent among
the working-classes in town and country,

still helped to swell the Chartist ranks.
The weavers and stockings in some of
the manufacturing towns were miserably poor.
Wages were low everywhere. In the agricultural
districts the complaints against the
operation of the new Poor Law were
vehement and passionate ; and although
they were unjust in principle, and sustained
by monstrous exaggerations of statement,
they were none the less potent as recruiting
agents for Chartism. There was also a
profound distrust of the middle class and
their leaders. It is clear that at that time ?
the Chartists, who represented the bulk of
the artisan class in most of the large towns,
did to their very hearts believe that England
was ruled for the benefit of aristocrats and
millionnaires, who were absolutely indifferent
to the sufferings of the poor. It is equally
clear that most of what were called the
ruling class did really believe the English
working men who joined the Chartist movement
to be a race of fierce, unmanageable, and
selfish communists, who, if they were allowed

VOL. T. T

their own way for a moment, would prove
themselves determined to overthrow throne,
altar, and all established securities of society.
An ignorant panic prevailed on both sides.'
Yes : and a very real panic existed in the
breasts of the timid, and certainly among
the female element, in the middle and upper
classes.

Of course it cannot be denied that a
number among the Chartists were wild
demagogues fond of hearing their own
voices ; not very particular about what
they said, provided they carried their
hearers with them ; and far from averse
from a row A more limited number
talked open sedition and handled their
weapons in private.

The Government were embarrassed, and
Lord Melbourne was not the man adapted
to disturbed times. Though the Duke of
Wellington was opposed to the Government,
the country placed its confidence in him to
maintain order if the riotous feeling broke
out into open civil war. The Tories taunted

the Whigs with having begot Chartism by
the agitation for reform. Macaulay put
their argument so — ' The country is not ina
satisfactory state. There is much recklessness,
much turbulence, much craving for
political change ; and the cause of these evils
is the policy of the Whigs. They rose to
power by agitation in 1830; they retained
power by means of agitation through the
tempestuous months which followed ; they
carried the Reform Bill by means of agitation
; expelled from office, they forced themselves
in again by means of agitation, and
now we are paying the penalty of their
misconduct. Chartism is the natural offspring
of Whigs. From those who caused
the evil we cannot expect the remedy. The
first thing to be done is to dismiss
them, and to call to power men who, not
having instigated the people to commit
excesses, can, without incurring the charge
of inconsistency, enforce the laws.' Such
indeed forms a complete confession of
faith in the matter for men like Squire

T 2

Wharton, who were quite honest in their
belief.

The determination of the Whio^ Government,
as expressed by ' Finally John led
to a counter-manifestation by the reforming
party which plunged the country into disorder,
aggravated by the general distress
from scarcity of food. A man who remembers
this time well told this story to the
writer : — ' I was living in Bucks then ; we
had a pretty big garden, and a pig, with a
side of bacon always hanging up. The loaf
was fourteen pence, and we could not afford
bread, it was too dear ; so we put a piece
of fat bacon in the pot, and a cabbage, and
then a lot of potatoes, and boiled them all
together. And so we did without bread.'
But how about those who did not have the
pig, and a big garden ? There was a substratum
of hunger on which the agitator
could work, and did work with success. An
empty stomach inclines a man to listen to
an argument which promises to fill it,
which would never touch him when his

stomach was fairly full. Wild harangues
consequently were readily and greedily
hearkened to. Machinery was fast coming
into use, while the population was equally
rapidly increasing. There was a large unemployed
body of youths, rash, foolish,
ready to follow any unwise counsel. Nor
did the unwise counsel always proceed from
honest reformers. Their opponents had
hired traitors in their ranks, urging violence,
advocating the appeal to force, keeping up
the general state of terror. There were paid
agitators going about telling the people that
the new Poor Law was a system of legalized
murder, and that children were being slowly
tortured to death by the mill-owners.
Charges and counter-charges, hired agitators
and mad physical force Chartists, all were
at work on a people almost frenzied. The
manufacturing class pointed to the Corn
Laws as the main cause of the troubles of
the times ; while the landed interest was
equally confident that the mill-owners only
wished the repeal of the Corn Laws to pull

down wages. Looking round everywhere,
the true reformer saw in improved laws the
only cure for the unhealthy social condition.
With the Charter all would be put right.
The masses groaned under the tyranny of
the upper ten thousand, and speech was
found for them in words like these : —

Here too, Queen, thy woe-worn people feel
The load they bear is more than they can bear !
Beneath it twenty million workers reel !
While fifty thousand idlers rob and glare,
And mock the sufferings which they yet may share.'

Their misery may have made them unjust
; but the masses were penetrated through
and through with the belief that Government
was all against the many, and in
favour of the few.

But it would be unfair to represent the
Chartists as everywhere tending to violence.
In certain towns, Birmingham, and some in
the north, undoubtedly rioting went on,
and property was destroyed ; or the house
of an obnoxious magistrate was sacked, or
burned down ; or midnight meetings were

held by torchlight, to which many went
armed, probably with no more serious intent
than a boyish delight in the possession of a
weapon. Much depended, doubtless, on
local leaders and the prominent members of
the Radical associations which were scattered
all over the land, and which took up the
Charter in all its entirety and in all earnestness.
At most of the places the reformers
confined themselves to peaceful means of
attaining their ends — at most shouting
and marching in procession, singing hymns
and rhymes of their own. Indeed the
Chartists possessed a literature of their
own in this respect. Thomas Cooper tells
us how the weavers and stockings of
Leicester behaved. He secured a room,
the Shakesperian room, and organized a
Sunday-school for men and boys who were
at work all the week. Those who knew a
little willingly taught those who knew less,
and the room was filled morning and evening.
Their classes bore fancy names, as
the ' Algerian Sidney ' class, the ' John

Hampden ' class, and the ' William Tell '
class. Many became teetotallers, and
pledged themselves to abstain from all
drink till the ' People's Charter ' became
the law of the land. Then they got onto
holding their meetings on one or two
week-days in the evening, after work-hours.
Some of them with a poetical turn composed
songs, while Cooper gave lectures on
interesting and instructive topics. They
had two newspapers of their own. When
work grew slack, in the summer evenings
he would lead the poverty-stricken stockings
out into the roads outside the town, and
into the neighbouring villages, singing and
marching along — quite peaceably. From
natural pulpits of rock sermons were
delivered to the assembled crowds, just
as in outdoor camp-meetings, such as
Wesley called together. On having nothing
to do, the poor stockings would gather
round his house in an evening, and he
would make them a speech, or form them
into a procession, and start them off, singing,

' The Lion of Freedom lias come from
his den or

Spread, spread the Charter —
Spread the Charter through the land !
Let Britons bold and brave join hand in hand.'

He says, ' Our singing through the streets
in the fine evenings, often accompanied
with shouts for the Charter, had no harm
in it, though many of the shop-keepers
would shut up their shops in real or affected
terror. This only caused our men to laugh,
since they all knew there was no thought
of injuring anybody.' And more or less
the same was the case over the whole area,
from the valley of the Trent away to and
across the Scotch border to the Tay. Over
the whole manufacturing area all was ferment
; the one subject of conversation was
the Charter or the Corn Law repeal.

It was not simply a few poor ragged
Chartists at Leicester who were expecting
a change. It was expected in all the industrial
regions. Agitation under the influence
of the powerful League was rife all over

the midland and the northern counties.
Manufacturers declared things could not goon
much longer as they were. They began
to threaten they would close their mills ;
or, as the Tories interpreted these threats,
to try to precipitate a revolution.' Hopes
ran high then which were never realized.
Leaders were not, however, all good, clear-headed
men like Cooper. The great leader,
Feargus O'Connor, the editor of the great
Chartist newspaper, ' The Northern Star,'
was a hot-headed, fiery Irishman, fond of a
row of any kind ; and as ready to go in fora
battle of fists as for a war of words.
Chartist conventions were held, and some
very foolish propositions were made. But
it was amidst the young, excitable town
populations, the sons of immature parents,
that riots obtained. Over the face of the
country the advocates of the people's Charter
were intelligent artisans, like Jim
Woodcock, serious, earnest men, who firmly
believed that in parliamentary reform was to
be found the remedy, the panacea for all

hardships and all wrongs. Unfortunately,
however, the riots, the excesses of these
town populations filled people's minds with
terror. There was the ^ ignorant panic,' and
all people who loved order, and especially
all timid persons who lived in dread of
lawlessness, exaggerated the deeds and intentions
of a body of men who were, as a
rule, honest, hard-handed artisans, who were
engaged in seeking their rights. Such menas
these were rather the backbone of the
working-classes than the scum of society —
men too who were in advance of their time,
many of whom have survived to see one bit
after another of their end attained. The
constant tendency of legislation has gone in
the direction of the Charter, only piecemeal
and not en masse. We look back with
surprise blended with horror at times so
near to us, — yet so far away.

At this time, however, it was terribly
earnest, when the hard times of
famine in a bread taxed epoch were
added to political excitement ; then came

a period of great social disturbance and

suffering.

And still they pass, and shade on shade
Deepens their woe-marked path along;
But Thou, God, art strong t3 aid :
Ay, and in Thee the weak are strong.'

Free thought might be rampant among
the Chartists in some areas ; but their poetry
in many cases indicated a sound, healthy,
living faith in Providence. A strange weird
time in our history is the epoch of the
Chartist agitation.

This chapter may to many readers seem
dry and outside the story. But without a
sufficient comprehension of the precise facts
the reader will scarcely follow the plot, or
conceive its realism. Acquaintance with
what was then going on will enable the
more careful reader to grasp the whole more
completely. It will be a bad day for
fiction when careful readers no longer open
the pages of a novel ; though no doubt
much of modern fiction is unknown to the
better class of readers.

CHAPTER XII.

YES OR NO ?

Stephen Oldfield pondered carefully
over what the Squire had said to him, and
especially his last remark about girls being
skittish when they did not know their own
minds. He was sincerely anxious to secure
Miss Wharton's acceptance of him for
various reasons. No one could know the
girl without perceiving her sterling worth.
She possessed, too, much self-respect — so
much that she would never forget herself.
There was no fear of her ever committing
herself ; her mother's lessons had sunk too
deeply into a mind naturally fitted to receive
them, and retain them. This weighed
potently with so prudent and circumspect
a personage as Stephen Oldfield, a county

magistrate, who was very likely one day
to be pricked for sheriff, to whom the idea
of conjugal folly was especially distasteful.
Cupid in this case sat on a firm stool of common
sense ; and in his love-making even
the prudent man allows his judgment to
weigh with him. Beyond all this he had a
genuine admiration for the beautiful blonde,
the high-spirited girl. Indeed, he liked her
all the better for the district-visiting, as an
evidence of individuality ; though he was
anxious to put a stop to it, in what he
veritably believed to be the interests of the
girl herself.

But, on the other hand, he could not
bear the idea of rejection. His vanity
dreaded any such mortification, and his
self-pride recoiled from the possibility of
such a humiliation. Then hope came in
with the flattering suggestion that Miss
Wharton was no flirt ; she had now for
some time past permitted of attentions too
marked to allow of any mistake about them.
Hose and fear, love and prudence, chased

each other over his mental processes — one
day one being in the ascendant, another
day another. The oscillations were almost
rhythmic. A day of hope was almost always
followed by one of doubt. In this he shared
the lot of all lovers ; except those who are
swept away on a flood-tide of complacent
conceit, without a question or a doubt ; often
to be rudely dispelled, however, at last.
Time wore on, and the opportunity seemed
never to offer itself. Miss Oldfield shared
in all her brother's hopes and fears, and
was almost as anxious about the result as
himself. She was very desirous of seeing
Edith Wharton her sister-in-law. She had
even decided to accept her as the future mistress
of Orton Hall, and to become a practical
cypher where she now for years had ruled
no easy decision for a woman ; especially
when she means honestly to abide by it.

As to Miss Wharton herself, it is not
easy to describe her state of mind. That
Mr. Oldfield would some day make her a
formal proposal she knew well ; and never

attempted to disguise the fact from herself.
She was no flirt : she was an honest, truthful
girl, free from any desire to trifle with
a man's feelings ; who lived before flirting
had become regarded as a legitimate pastime
for men and maidens, — and perhaps widows
too. She had no low motives of seeing
how far she could bring her suitor under
her influence, to fling his love away when
the time of offering it came ; no callous
delight in torturing a man who is weak
enough to admire her, such as some girls
indulge in. She was too old-fashioned, as
well as too honourable, to calmly calculate
that Mr. Oldfield was one string to her bow,
who could be utilized if no more attractive
string came to hand. She liked him ; he
had never done anything to forfeit her
regard ; his assumption of some shadowy
authority over her, and her actions, had
never done more than slightly chafe at
times ; while his attentions were not disagreeable,
at least as a rule. Yet her feelings
were vague and chaotic.

Perhaps she felt it maidenly to calculate
upon an offer which had not been made.
Possibly she felt that it would be time
to consider the question seriously when it
seemed imminent. It is certain that she
had not systematically studied the males
of her acquaintance, and weighed each carefully
in her mental balance, and had each
ticketed with his precise value down to
pennyweights, ready against an emergency ;
as it is said is not unknown to the present
practical generation. She knew she was
good-looking. It was impossible that a lady
so neat in her attire, so particular about
her appearance, could consult her mirror so
rigorously, and not knows her own features ;
and what they were like. But she had
never subjected them to any definite appraisement
for the matrimonial market.
Further, she had been deeply impressed
with what she had seen, and become familiar
with in company with Mrs. Pryor. Her
mind was in no mood to contemplate matrimony
in a light and airy manner as a

VOL. I. u

woman's ultimate destiny. Life had looked
a little too serious to her of recent times
to approach so grave a subject in a spirit
of levity. She had indeed rather been
inclined to put the subject away from her.
The condition of the times was such that
a proposal was not likely to be made to
her by Mr. Oldfield, she thought ; that is,
if she thought about the subject at allas
perhaps she did, but, if so, very occasionally.
She did not know what motives were
prompting that gentleman to take action,
out of the best of feelings towards her ; if
not quite disinterestedly !

However the eventful moment came, and
rather in the nature of a surprise to each.
Mr. Oldfield called at Fowrass Grange one
day, and found Miss Wharton alone. She
had been busy at the Grange Farm, and
having laid aside her outdoor wraps was
clad in a simple grey linsey-woolsey dress,
perfectly plain ; which set off her fine and
rather stately figure to advantage. The
exertion she had undergone had lent a little

colour to her usually pale cheek, which
became her well. She carried herself with
her usual stateliness, but her step seemed
even more springy than was habitual to it.
Her healthy vigorous womanhood was no
less obvious than her personal charms. Mr.
Oldfield gazed upon her with an admiration
which, unnoticed by its object, made the
pulsations of his heart plainly felt by
him.

The usual conventional conversation
having been discharged, Mr. Oldfield felt
he must take the momentous plunge. ' I
was wishful to see you alone, Miss Wharton.
I have something important to say to you ;
important to me ; and to you too, I venture
to think.'

I shall be glad to listen to what you
have to say,' was the ready reply. For she
scarcely thought anything more involved
than some social affair on which he wished
to take her opinion without consulting her
brother about the matter ; and so wished
to see her done. Had she anticipated a

u 2

proposal, her tones might have been less
possessed and calm.

This looked like, or at least sounded like,
encouragement ; and in times of tension,
when hope and doubt are struggling for
mastery, the ear is very sensitive to a
tone.

I am glad you can listen to me. The
matter is one which has occupied my mind.
You must be aware of your attractions, your
charms. Miss Wharton ! ' The announcement
came upon her as a surprise carrying
with it a full consciousness of its import. She
gave a perceptible start, but did not break
the brief silence. Mr. Oldiield went on :
Nor can you, I venture to think, bo
unaware of the state of my feelings towards
you. They have been manifest for sometime,
so as to be unmistakable.' This was
rather cold blooded love-making ; but Mr.
Old field became painfully aware of his
stature, and realized that there was no
courting that grand Albumen-maiden in
the manner in which these must have been

courted, wooed, and won by their Norse
warrior-suitors, who put an arm round
them, firm and strong, the muscles hardened
by toil and warfare ; their natural
boldness of mind developed by 'a warlike
career. Perhaps, for once, he would
have liked to have added a cubit to his
stature. In an emergency he fell back
instinctively on his habitual caution. He
hesitated.

Miss Wharton looked calm and composed ;
but it cannot be said that she felt either.
Her first offer is a momentous matter to
a girl ; even when she has made up her
mind to say " Yes." But in this instance
the lady had no such prejudged of the
case in her mind. There was much to
be said in favour of Mr. Oldfield ; and she
knew her uncle would be very glad if
she accepted him. She felt a momentary
chilliness, as if a cold draught of air
had suddenly fallen upon her — a slight
nervousness, in fact, as she answered :

I had not thought of them in that

light. I always looked upon you as an
intimate friend.'

This was quite true as regards the last
statement. Was the first quite true ? A
stern moralist might raise some doubts ;
but the writer believes that the verdict
of his lady-readers will give the lady the
benefit of the doubt. In the whirl of a
proposal it is impossible to dot every * i '
and cross every * t.' Mr. Oldfield realized
that his position was a doubtful one.

I have felt for some time past that
1 should like to stand on some nearer
relationship than that of a friend, Miss
Wharton. I have examined my own feelings,
and find that my feeling towards you
is a warmer one — indeed is that of love
itself"

Here he ventured to take her hand,
which felt cold and marbly. It lay impassive
in his, listless, and without its
usual firm touch, for a moment ; and then
was gently, but firmly withdrawn.

I have further noted your behaviour,

and I have dared to think that the feelmo[
was returned. May I ask if it is so ? '

This last was said with a passionate
emphasis, unlike the usual guarded accents
of the speaker. Miss Wharton was moved.

I wish you had not thought so ! ' she
replied.

Why ? '

Because I fear you have made a
mistake.'

This was said very quietly and slowly ;
the speaker experiencing a slight shiver.

'Mistake! Miss Wharton. It is impossible.
I have watched you carefully.
I cannot be mistaken ! '

I fear you are,' she said gravely.

Do not say so ; please do not say so ; it
is impossible, Miss Wharton ; you cannot
imagine what my feelings are towards you,
when you speak so coldly. No ; I cannot
be mistaken. I have carefully watched your
every word, its emphasis, and every action
and gesture. Surely I cannot be mistaken ! '
The energy with which this was uttered

made Miss Wharton look at her suitor with
a more intense scrutiny. She saw how
terribly in earnest he was. His eyes were
dilated as he rivetted his gaze upon her ;
they almost seemed to speak in their
expectancy. His features were set ; the
long upper lip was compressed, yet seemed
to quiver faintly. His whole attitude was
that of a man at the utmost point of
tension. She could not remain unaffected
by the sight. Her sympathies were distinctly
aroused ; her pity for him grew strong
within her. But, with these, other feelings
were stirred. Hers was not the nature to
throw away the past and the future at the
dictate of the present, however imperative.
It was not that emotional, impulsive nature,
to be swept away in a current of feeling
over which her judgment could exercise
no control. Her will was not powerless ;
though the strain upon it was painful to
bear. She spoke very quietly, as she
said :

My feelings towards you are those of a

friend — a sincere friend. But, Mr. Old field,
friendship is not love ! '

But friendship may grow into love ! '
he gasped desperately ; ' your friendliness
will grow into something more ; I feel a conviction
of it, Miss Wharton. You cannot
have inquired of your own heart — search it
assail — this cannot be true.' A hurricane of
emotion passed over the little gentleman,
so unlike his wonted gravity ; he seemed
positively shaken with his emotion.

Miss Wharton felt the position becoming
intensely painful. It cut her to the heart
to see her old friend so troubled, when a
word of hers could put him at ease. It was
only a word; but that word she could not
speak. The feeling within her grew stronger
and stronger ; that to say ' yes ' to end a
painful scene was a sacrifice which could
not be made, it would not be fair to either.
With a mighty effort, she answered :

Mr. Oldfield, it distresses me very much
to see you ; to hear you I am so sorry this
has happened. Could not the mistake

have been prevented ? Why have I not
foreseen this ; and so have prevented it ? '

Do not say so, Miss Wharton ; do not
say that. Why should it not be as I wish ?
Why can you not love me ? Oh, tell me
that ^ '

The intense emotion with which these
words were uttered told of the amount of
earnestness which underlay the habitual
reserve.

My feelings are not such as to warrant
my saying that they are love. They are
friendship ; but nothing more.'

Could you not think of it in time ?
Think it over, Miss Wharton. I have taken
you by surprise. I will wait till another
time — till you have considered the matter.'

The eager gaze, the tremulous tones, the
tight clutch on her hand, testified to the
speaker's earnestness.

I fear it is useless. You ask what will
make no change. Time will not change
friendliness to love.'

She looked at him firmly, but kindly.

You have not given your love to another
? ' he asked hoarsely, with intense
suspense.

I have not,' was the steady response ; as
if the speaker were glad to assuage the
terrible agony which it went to her heart
to witness.

Thank heaven for that, Miss Wharton.
I have hope — indeed I have.' This one
gleam of comfort was like a flash of sunlight
through a rift in a black bank of cloud.
Its momentary comfort soothed the agitated
suitor, and he continued : * I can live in
hope ; I will wait with patience.' He
seemed bowed and broken with the trial to
which his self-command had just been exposed.
He felt as if rest were at hand.
You will listen to me at another time.
You do not know how complete is my love
for you.'

What was Miss Wharton to do ? — the
position was most embarrassing. To inflict
pain upon Mr. Oldfield was the last thing
in her thoughts. She would willingly save

him pain. She was suffering herself. She
knew that. But she also realized that her
suffering was as nothing to his. Her heart
was not a hard one ; it was full of sympathy
for suffering. She halted, she hesitated
; she felt she ought not to leave him
under a false impression; she ought to let
him know precisely her position. No change
of feeling was to be looked for ; she felt it
was her duty to say so. But she did not
say it. Her womanly pity for the man so
utterly humbled before her ; her remembrance
of the many kindnesses she had
received at his hands ; perhaps the subtle
flattery of love to which it is said a woman
can never be utterly deaf, or insensible,
pleaded for him. In the conflict within her
she felt unable to destroy his last hope. It
may have been weakness — contemptible
weakness. It may have been positively
wrong. Woman must be her judge. Man
can find valid extenuating circumstances
for her conduct. After a pause, she replied :
r will think it over.'

How I thank you from the bottom of
my heart ! You will think it over. How
good of you ! ' The reaction came, and from
the depths of despair his hope bounded
upwards. ' I may hope, then 1 '

But Miss Wharton had no intention to
deliberately deceive. Her answer had been
wrested from her by the terrible strain on
her feelings. It was said rather as an
escape from a position that was growing
intolerable, than as encouragement to Mr.
Oldfield to persevere. She saw the error,
and tried to amend it.

I will think it over, as you request ; but
I cannot say that there is much prospect
of my decision being altered. I must be
truthful to you, Mr. Oldfield.'

Here once more the ordinary calmer,
more rational, less intense, feelings were
beginning to take the place of the high-strung
emotion which had held a complete,
if brief, sway over both. The usurpation of
passion was yielding to less absorbing considerations.
Mr. Oldfield became conscious

of the alteration — the change. It favoured
him. The significance of hesitation under
circumstances of this nature is universally-recognized.
Hope will whisper through the
narrowest chink.

You are always truthful, Miss Oldfield.
It is your very truthfulness which has made
you distrust your own feelings at the present.
You will find, as you examine yourself,
that your feelings are warmer than you
yourself can all at once realize. I feel a
strong trust that time will work for me

The tones of his voice told of returning
confidence ; hope was gaining the ascendant.
Miss Wharton felt this was really unwarranted.
In the rapid self-communing of the
past few minutes she could find no feeling
in her heart she could call love. But she
could not dash his rising hopes utterly to
the ground. She permitted him to go on
without a check ; as she ought not to have
done, doubtless ; but then she was young,
very inexperienced, — and this was her
first offer. She was thinking of the poor

man's suffering at the immediate present.
She was not thinking of how her conduct
would look when she came to inspect it
after a distinct lapse of time, — when the
emotions had calmed down.

Do not be too certain of that, Mr. Old-fields
was all she managed to say.

But I do feel so. I am sure you will seethe
matter as I do, Edith. May I not call
you Edith, Miss Wharton, in future ? "

This was very natural: but it flashed
across the girl's mind that this was a familiarity
that could only give rise to erroneous
and false impressions ; could only lead others
to believe that their relations were other
than they really were. She saw the danger,
and replied :

I have no special objection to your doing
so. But do you think it desirable to make
any change at present ? '

This allusion to the future again struck
him ; and he concluded it augured well for
him. Everything referring to the future
seemed to be in his favour.

I will not be in haste to use the privilege,'
he replied. * But may I not think of you
as Edith ? ' This was a still further decline
towards strictly conventional love-making ;
and Miss Wharton felt it to be so, clearly
and positively.

I can exercise no control over your
thoughts, Mr. Oldfield. But I must ask you
not to let your thoughts pass your lips.
May I in turn ask this ? "

You may indeed. I thank you sincerely
for your permission. I shall still think of
you as possibly mine. Do you know, Miss
Wharton, I have already ascertained the
views of your family on this matter ? '
Miss Wharton again started. This was
new to her indeed. She felt somewhat
angry at the announcement ; and yet
it was only what she might have expected.


You surprise me,' she said, rather
haughtily. The tone struck him. She
was indignant evidently, and resented this
action. He saw the tide of feeling was

turning against him ; and he tried to
retrieve his error. So he continued :

I felt it my duty to gain the permission
of your brother and your uncle; to ascertain
if my proposition would meet with
their approval, before I spoke to you
on the momentous subject Here Mr.
Oldfield was taking the vulpine track
habitual to him. Miss Wharton saw clearly
how by so doing, and having gained their
consent, he had practically their sanction ;
and that in declining his proposal she placed
herself in a certain antagonism to her
family. She felt as if he had stolen a
march upon her. Her temper was none
of the mildest : and she fired up as these
thoughts flashed through her mind like
lightning; as thoughts will in times of
intense feeling.

'You may have secured their consent ;
but you have not yet gained mine. You
understand that ! '

He did understand indeed the words, and
the tone in which they were uttered. His

VOL. I. X

faculties, never dull, were sharpened by the
emergency. He saw she was angry.

I could not have done otherwise, Miss
Wharton. I could not have spoken to
you without having first ascertained if
such action would be agreeable to your
relatives.' Miss Wharton felt that he had
reason upon his side in this ; and a reaction
set in, based on the feeling that
she might have been unjust in the suspicion
which prompted her harsh remark.

'You were quite right, I admit. But it
does not follow that I must yield to the
wishes of my brother and my uncle.'

I never hinted at such a thing, I assure
you. I merely wished you to understand
that my present action is no momentary
impulse ; but the result of deliberate thought,
Miss Wharton. Do not misunderstand me.'

His appeal to the generous element in
her nature was successful ; and Mr. Oldfielcl
observed the effect, and continued :

If you knew. Miss Wharton — Edith !
all that has gone on in my mind ; all the

thought that has told me how my love for
you has become a part of my existence,
you would not put my love away from
you.'

I have hot put it away from me, Mr.
Oldfield. I have told you that my feelings
are those of friendship ; not of love. Our
feelings are not at beck and call. They do
not obey us : we have to obey them. If
your feelings have induced you to offer
your hand ; mine tell me I cannot accept it.'

But you have promised to think the
subject over. I may speak to you again
at some future day.'

I have promised. And you may do so.
But I have told you, have warned you,
that I do not anticipate any change in
my feelings.'

Here he suddenly seized her hand once
more ; and, before she could withdraw it, he
had imprinted on it a kiss. The unexpected
act sent a thrill through her ; and yet it
was not a thrill of delight.

I must go now, Mr. Oldfield,' she said

X 2

firmly ; the tone telling him that the
interview was ended.

Good-bye, Edith he said. She did not
reprove him for using her name. Afterwards
she thought she ought to have
done so.

Mr. Oldfield left Fowrass Grange with
many thoughts and feelings surging through
his mind. He felt mortified that he had
not been successful. But his wounded
pride sought solace in the promise that
Miss Wharton had given him to think the
matter over, and that he might speak to
her again. Her uncle had told him he
might not be successful the first time of
asking ; he must try again. But his self
pride told him that he would not relish
failure a second time. He had not been
flatly refused. He might call her ^ Edith.'
He had gained something. He had broken
the ice, and she knew the position. Yes ;
arid he might some day speak to her again.
Still the position was far from satisfactory.

It had not been a long scene; probably

it had only occupied a few minutes. But
it already seemed to have saturated his
past for years back. Counted by his
emotions the interview might have extended
over several hours. He felt wearied,
as if he had gone through a long struggle.
His mind seemed exhausted. He could
come to no conclusion ; yet the subject
occupied his mind to the exclusion of all
other topics. When he reached home, his
sister's keen eye took in the circumstances
in a moment. Her eagerness to know the
facts overcame her habitual deference.

'You have proposed to Miss Wharton,
Stephen. What did she say ? ' she exclaimed.

She said she would think the matter
over.'

Was that all ? I fear she is a trifler.
Yet I never thought of her in that light.
You surprise me.'

He did not feel inclined, at that time at
least, to enter into any details. ^'

As to Miss Wharton, she felt bruised by
the episode. It had been a greater trial to

her than she realized while the scene was
being enacted. After she had sat down
and thought it all over, she felt wounded;
and yet she could not well tell in what
her sense of injury consisted. Mr. Oldfield
had testified his regard for her in the
strongest manner that a man can testify
his regard ; he had offered her his hand.
She had rather liked than disliked him.
Certainly she did not despise him : the
fatal feeling for a lover. Yet as certainly
she did not look up to him. There was
not that respect which often precedes, and
is easily transformed into love. Then she
felt that he had rather taken advantage
of her in alluding to the permission
he had gained from her uncle and her
brother. How could her decision be explained
to them ? What would they think
when they came to find out that no engagement
existed between them ? It was a
very awkward dilemma, she felt. What
could she say the next time Mr. Oldfield
spoke to her ? The future seemed no more

attractive than the present. Would she
ever like Mr. Oldiield more than she then
did 1 She feared not. And then the image
of another rose up in her mind — his tall
figure, his earnest mien. If it had been he
that had asked her to wait — to think ; what
would her answer have been ? Aye, what
would it have been ? Who knows !

And so Mr. Oldfield had made his long-deferred
proposal to Miss Wharton ; and
she had not accepted him. What had been
gained ? Very little ! He was stung at
not being accepted. She smarted with the
sense that her action would be construed
into opposition to the wishes of her family.
She could not speak to her brother, she
thought ; but on further reflection she felt
she must. What would her brother say ?
When he came in she went up to him, and
nestling her head on his breast, she said :

CD '

John, Mr. Oldfield has proposed to me.'
He held her firmly, and gazed at her
with a searching look.
And the result was ? '

I have not accepted him.'

He folded her in his arms and kissed
her. It was evident he was not angry
with her.

Such, then, was the position of affairs
betwixt the Old fields and the Wharton,
and of the Wharton towards their uncle ;
when the catastrophe of Tom Earnshaw's
murder came upon them all, and changed
the face of affairs profoundly.

END OF VOL. L

-J

LI E) RAFIY

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

F8a%^

IJ^nJt?T-^"^^'"^ this material ^ responsible
for its return to the library from

llti'^.n T^' ^°"°^'^ °n or before th"
latest Date stamped below.

n«f«, muMlo.l«v .md umterltolns .1 b«>la .r. ~.
•or disciplinary action •■■•d -^ . . "^Mooi

lO RENEW CAll Telephone CENTER, M3.,400

UHIV»S,Ty OP ,U,NO,S l,»«v -. ,, ,„

MAY 1 2 1993

^ZTZ'^i:'"'^-^'^^^'^^"^^^^^^^

BY

JOHN M. FOTHERGILL

'Tis greatly wise to talk with our past hours,
And ask them what report they bore to heaven,
And how they might have borne more welcome news.'

Young.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LON'DO:^r :
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET,
1884.

All rights reserved.

CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

I. IN Hawthorne HALL

II. THE FIRST JAR

III. THE RESULTS OF FROST

IV. THE RESCUE
V. A NEW MOVEMENT

VI. MIXED MOTIVES

VII. A Dinner-party .

VIII. OVER THE MOORS .

IX. MORAL FORCE CHARTISTS

X. OTHER CHARTISTS .

XI. EVENTS MOVE ON .

XII. THE PAST WILL NOT BE BURIED

PAGE


27


79

104

129

154

180

dog

231

258

284

CHAPTER I.

IN Hawthorne HALL.

Hls failure to discover the murderer of
Tom Earnshaw, and his firm conviction
that the dastardly deed was perpetrated by
some of the dangerous elements of society,
known then as ' physical force ' Chartists,
embittered Squire Wharton against the
movement in its entirety. He was opposed
to it by nature. A patrician by descent, his
sympathies were with the few ; and not with
the many. He honestly believed in his
heart that the people would be much better
off and happier under rulers selected for
them by existing social arrangements, than

VOL. II. B

if legislated for by their own repress natives.
He looked upon this general craving for a
voice in the making of the laws by which
they were governed, pretty much as a schoolmaster
would regard a demand on the part
of his scholars to have some say in the
regulations by which he ruled them : a sort
of boyish craze for something they had no
business with. The people ought to do as
they were told ! It was a simple arrangement
; much better for them, if they only
would believe it, than anything they could
possibly devise for themselves. Then, again,
as an old soldier he hated turbulence ; and
the union of the violent ' physical force '
Chartists, — all the dissatisfied idlers and
ruffians who hated the new Poor Law, the
chargeable labourers ' of the old Poor Law,
to the ' moral force ' Chartists, only served
to damn the others in his eyes. That, as
Jim Woodcock reminded him, they had no
love for this addition to their ranks as
reformers, weighed little with him by the
side of the fact, that the Charter movement

had contrived to attract to it, and so to
give some cohesion to them, the scattered
elements of dissatisfaction over the country.
He lived near Sheffield and Bartisley on the
one hand ; and not very far from Manchester
and the eastern fringe of the cotton-districts
on the other. Over the moors, which lay
between these and Hallamshire (as this area
of Yorkshire is often termed), the wilder
spirits of each area could pass by night ; and
so find shelter when wanted by the police
for some deed of violence. It was easy
when necessary to cross the moors under the
shelter of night, and all trace of their existence
was lost. This facility encouraged the
class who profited by the natural advantages
for concealment offered by these circumstances
; and that class was a large one.
This the Squire well knew, as an owner of
pheasant-preserves. The idle fellow, or the
lawless ruffian, is always a poacher at heart.
To drink at low public-houses in the day,
and then to poach at night has an attraction
for a certain section of the proletariat

B 2

which seems all too powerful for their capacities
for self-restraint. Where there are a
number of resident gentry all of whom are
game preservers, in the neighbourhood of
towns where violence is common and little
condemned by the local opinion, a feud is
sure to exist ; — born of mutual injury, of
punishment for offences, and revenge induced
thereby. Sheffield always had an
evil reputation for deeds of violence, which
seemed to excite comparatively little public
indignation. Tom Earnshavv was a faithful
gamekeeper, who not only resented the
spoiling of his master's preserves ; but had
an instinctive dislike of the class who
furnished poachers, and of the lawless, useless
lives they led. That he had fallen a
victim to the revenge of some one whom he
had been instrumental in bringing to punishment,
was the generally accepted belief of
the whole country-side.

With the Squire the conviction was so
strong that Tom had been sacrificed to the
revenge of some of these ' physical force '

men, and was but an instance of what they
were prepared to do, that his antagonism to
the whole Chartist movement was intensified.
The torchlight meetings and processions
which formed a part of the demonstrations
of the Chartist rabble of the
towns, were common in Sheffield and the
towns lying near to it. Many of the
younger fellows carried pikes ; and some no
doubt brandished firearms, which weapons
could not be exhibited in daylight. The
terror caused by the exaggerated alarms
which were propagated on every side, about
these torchlight gatherings, was intense. All
respectable timid people were nearly beside
themselves with fear. This terror greatly
gratified the youngsters who formed the
great bulk of these gatherings, and processions
; and encouraged them to continue their
practices. Calmer and more judicious persons
saw that these foolish meetings greatly
added to the alarm, that really had valid
grounds for its existence ; and that consequently
it was well to put a check upon

them. In the middle of December, 1838,
these torchlight demonstrations were forbidden.
Squire Wharton had felt all a
magistrate's dislike to such demonstrations ;
and, as an old soldier, held them in the
utmost contempt as factors in putting any
pressure on the Government.

A pack of silly lads,' he said one day to
his housekeeper, as she arranged the cushion
for his gouty foot ; an attack of gout having
fastened on him ; ' led by men who are old
enough to know better ; but who don't !
What do they expect to come of it ? Nobody
is frightened — well, nobody ought to
be frightened. I am sure none of mine are,
at least. Are you frightened, Mrs. AUonby ? '
he would ask.

Well, no, sir, not frightened ; but of
course, sir, I don't approve of them. I
often say to Mary — " We needn't be afraid ;
master only laughs at them." But when we
hear the tales that come into the servants'
hall, we don't like the idea of being out
after dark,'

And a very good thing for Mary, too ;
going out after dark is a very imprudent
practice for a good-looking girl like her.
So far as she is concerned, she may be
thankful for the Chartists.'

^ Mary's a steady girl, sir,' replied Mrs.
Allonby, jealous for her niece's reputation ;
she does not go tramping out at nights
like the girls at Satanstoe ; who won't leave
the young fellows alone, if the men would
let them alone.'

That's your opinion, Mrs. Allonby, about
the relation of the sexes at Satanstoe, is it ? '
Mrs. Allonby was puzzled with the phraseology
employed — ' the relation of the sexes '
sounded foreign to her ears. So she went
back to the original topic.

There are wild stories about as to what's
beinor done. It's said that down at Satans-toe
some of the colliers have been getting
pikes ready ; and one has been seen casting
bullets, it's reported. It's like some of us
are frightened.'

Casting bullets ; has he indeed ? He

would be wise to throw them away when he
has cast them. Bullets indeed ! I suppose
he thinks people will be scared by bullets.
Well they may if they know little about
them. But if the 32nd were only here
now, they would soon let them see how
little they care about bullets. But they are
in Canada. Never mind : there are plenty
as good in England.'

'But the Chartists say, sir, the soldiers
are with them. That when the time comes
the soldiers will side with them.'

'Then they tell a lie, Mrs. Allonby,

whoever says so. It's a false calumny ! A
British soldier obeys his officers. He knows
that the officers understand what they are
doing : and he obeys orders. Don't tell
me any such nonsense ! '

Mrs. Allonby went in great respect of the
Squire, and even the familiarity which
must necessarily obtain under such circumstances
as existed at Gaythorne Hall, never
materially lessened it. The Squire was not
given to swearing ; as a Wharton, he rather

looked down upon it ; — however prevalent
the custom of profane swearing might still
be among acquires. "Whenever he did swear
it was always to give emphasis to what he
was saying, and it was not his custom to be
thus emphatic. Consequently, when he did
swear, Mrs. AUonby perfectly comprehended
the significance of the act. The charge of
disloyalty in the troops fired the old soldier
in the Squire.

I'm sure I'm glad to hear it, sir. But
there is a many ^vho say that if it is not
true, it is very likely all the same. The
soldiers are working folks themselves ; and
they hold their own opinions.'

Stuff and rubbish, I tell you ! ' This was
still more emphatic, for Squire Wharton was
accustomed to treat his housekeeper with
respect. He did not wish to disparage her
opinions ; he merely wished to assuage her
alarms. He felt such alarm was unbecoming
in the household of an ex-officer magistrate.

Now, Mrs. Allonby, there is no need to
be afraid at all. Don't believe half the

Stories you hear; and only half of those
that you do believe. It's part of their plan
to set these stories about. But they shall
not say that they are believed at Gaythorne
Hall. So I beg of you put them aside as
idle talk. Discourage such tales as much
as you can, Mrs. Allonby. Make them
understand I give no credence to these
stories. They won't frighten me into
yielding anything to fear.'

But then you see, sir, we can't forget
about poor Tom Earnshaw. It is only a
week or two since he was found murdered.'

To be sure ; to be sure. Of course you
naturally cannot forget that. Poor Tom 1
The reward has brought out nothing. I
suppose his end will be held up as a warning.
Poor honest fellow ! They would not have
scared him with all their bluster. Tom
would just have kept his eye on them
And they knew it ; and that's why they
shot him, the cowardly assassins ! My blood
boils to think of that dastardly deed ! Who
is supposed to have done it, Mrs. Allonby ?

What does report say ? Has Bulman heard
anything ? '

The tale that is going is that it was the
work of some Sheffield fellows ; who bore
him a grudge.'

Sheffield men bore him a grudge ! How
is that ? '

Well, a year or two since, there were some
Sheffield men transported for poaching on the
Stanhope estates : and Tom, if you remember,
sir, said that he saw some of these very Sheffield
men out in this direction that evening ;
and this upset the alibi they were setting up,
that they were at home that night. The
Stanhope keepers might have been mistaken
in the dark. And they say it was Tom's
evidence that got the men transported.

Oh yes. I remember about it. A good
many threats were made at the time about
what they would do. Tom told me what
they said, laughing, and saying they would
have to catch him asleep before they could
do what they threatened. And they have
watched him all this time ? '

Yes. It seems that is what Dan Apple-yard
believes. He swears it was never
done by any Satanstoe men

Well, he is like to know about it if it
was done by Satanstoe men. I am glad it
was not any of them. But they are not
above suspicion. I wish we could find out
who did it.'

Tunstall says it makes him afraid sometimes
when he is out at night, when he
thinks about poor Tom.'

Well, if they have any grudge at him,
I think the men that did for Tom will soon
dispose of Tunstall.'

I'm sure I hope not, sir. You don't
think there is any fear of it, do you, sir ? '

None at all. No more does Tunstall.
He's a plucky fellow enough. I merely
meant that if they could do for Tom Earn-shaw,
— who was a wide-awake fellow, they
would have no difficulty with Tunstall if
they were so minded. But he is safe
enough '

Here the conversation was interrupted

by a loud knocking at the front door. Mrs.
AUonby took her departure at once without
a hint. The old Squire often had a talk
with his trusty housekeeper ; but he had no
mind to have the fact generally known.

Gay thorn e Hall was a pleasant place
when looked at from a distance. It was
situated on the slope of the rising ground
running up from the rich alluvial plain
of the Don to the moors above Brimstone.
The slope faced eastwards, and caught the
rising sun ; and consequently turned its back
upon the west, so that in the winter evenings
it was cold and sombre. But the many
fires took away from any feeling of chilliness
which might thus be engendered.
Within it was cosy and comfortable.

The house itself was a rather plain structure,
dating back to the Stuartss. There
was nothing mediaeval about it ; no Elizabethan
battlements which might be utilized
for defence in case of attack. It was too
far away from the Scottish border to require
battlements ; nor was there any moat

or other military work around it. It was
a solid, two-story building, w^itli attics and
dormer windows, standing out from its red-tiled
roof. It faced south-east, and looked
down the rich slope where the tall chimneys
of Wybrow might on a clear day be seen
in the distance. It was a substantial building,
if perfectly plain. It was almost entirely
covered with green foliage : there was
ivy in abundance, a magnolia, some Gloire
de Dijon roses, some pink monthly roses,
and at the south-eastern corner variegated
ivy, whose leaves set off the other foliage
to advantage. Away into the slope of the
hill stretched the domestic portion of the
building — the offices and the stables. In
front was an extensive lawn, with flowerbeds
and evergreens. One of its main
features was its rosary, which had a great
local reputation. The locality was rather
high for the fragrant shrub : but watchful
attention had protected the trees, so that
the winter frosts had little effect upon them.
It was surrounded by a belt of evergreens

to break the blasts. As soon as the leaves
began to fall the standards were swathed
in straw, and some refuse from the stables
piled around the stem so as to keep the
roots warm. When spring came the winter
envelopes were removed, the ground gently
stirred over the roots, and the rosary put
on its summer aspect. Consequently this
rosary flourished, and every one liked to
take a stroll through it with its scented
perfume, and its lovely and varied roses.
Despite the altitude, a monkey-puzzle was
to be seen here and there. An acacia struggled
up at intervals ; and, strange to say,
at one point of the drive was a southerly
product, — a sumach itself. The drive,
running: out into the main road, went
through a dense row of lime-trees, which
gave a grateful shade in summer ; and also
made the drive intensely dark on cloudy
nights.

o

Within, Gaythorne Hall was as plain and
substantial as was its exterior. To the
northern edge of its front stood the diningroom,

and behind that a library or study,
whose few old-fashioned vellum bound
volumes looked as if they were rarely
disturbed,— which constituted the Squire's
favourite sitting-room. Both these rooms
were dark and sombre, from the oak panels
which covered the walls. The use of oak
panels by Cardinal Wolsey at Hampton
Court Palace had led to their extensive
use ; and Gaythorne Hall shared in the
fashion. The oak was darkened by time
and the smoke from the fire, which had
often been laid with peat from the moors ;
and peat-smoke it is which gives the rich
hue to old oak furniture. But the peat-smoke
was a thing of the past. The
Satanstoe collieries had put an end to
peat-fires. But the dark oak panels told
their own story ; and further testified to
the bees-wax and turpentine and the
elbow-polish which had been unsparingly
lavished upon them. In the ruddy glow
of the firelight, and the moderated flame
of the lamp, the study looked both picturesque

and comfortable ; while the polished
dark surfaces of the panels in the diningroom
reflected the silver, of which Gay-thorn
Hall had an ample share. Silver
dishes looked well against the dark background
; and when lighted up for dinner,
with a good log on the fire, so as not to
give out much heat, and the massive silver
candlesticks, the room looked striking, and
even imposing. Over that solid dining-table
the Wharton of the past had drank
the health of the exiled Stuartss. 'Hereto
the King ! ' (over the water — indicated
by passing the wine-glass, or goblet over
any water-jug near at hand) was drank
as a religious ceremony. Gatherings had
been held here when the Scotch upheld the
claims of the Stuartss in arms ; but these
Wharton escaped the fate which overtook
the main branch of the family. When
claret became scarce in the struggle with
Napoleon, the port of Portugal came into
vogue ; and the Squire's father had laid
in a great stock, which Squire Charles had

VOL. IT. c

heavily mulcted. The room looked like
solid comfort ; and the impression so made
tallied with the facts.

The drawing-room occupied the southern
aspect of the front, and was a bright, airy
room ; partly from the amount of sunlight
which found its way into it from its position,
partly from the style in which it was
furnished. Its furniture consisted of sofa
and chairs, the latter of the spindle-legged
pattern, of rosewood upholstered in blue
satin damask. There were also several
occasional chairs, elaborately carved with
spiral legs, which were covered with handsome
needle or bead-work, the execution of
the late Mrs. Wharton. There where also
other evidences of that lady's skill with her
needle in the form of footstools, cushions,
and a fire-screen — a group of tiger lilies
worked in chenille on canvas — a very
clever piece of work. The windows were
hung with handsome blue satin damask
curtains, headed with a solid gilded cornice.
There were only one or two ornaments upon

the mantel-piece, but they were in harmony
with the rest of the room. Over the mantelpiece
rose a tall mirror. In one window
stood a buhl-and-marqueterie table ; while
opposite the windows stood a Chippendale
cabinet filled with Indian work, and other
curiosities the Squire had brought from
Canada.

This room was the object of the most
solicitous care on the part of Mrs. AUonby,
though it was rarely used ; as the Squire
disliked it, and never entered it when he
could avoid doing so. When lady visitors
called they were shown into it with much
ceremony, as if they ought to be as much
impressed with it as were the occupants of
Gaythorne Hall ; the Squire alone excepted.

But such visitors were few. Ceremonial
calls had scarcely found their way into the
his, and the people who visited Squire
Wharton came to see him because they
wished to see him ; not to leave a card devoutly
hoping that he was not at home.
His niece always shunned the room, and

C 2

made her way into the study without ado ;
except when she had argued with herself as
she came up the drive that she really must
see the drawing-room, else Mrs. AUonby
would be so disappointed. After such
resolve she would, with a sense of duty,
look into the forsaken room, and compliment
Mrs. Allonby upon the attention paid
to it ; which was but an act of justice.
Miss Oldfield always took scrupulous care
to carefully inspect the room and give her
share of admiration to it, and the care bestowed
upon it. Other ladies knew the old
housekeeper's foibles, and remembered to
gratify her.

Behind these front rooms were a multiplicity
of other rooms. Immediately behind
the drawing-room was a cosy little room
looking south. This had been a sort of
boudoir in old Mrs. Wharton's day; but
Squire Charles gave it up to the old housekeeper,
and when Mrs. Allonby succeeded
to her, the room became hers. Here she
spent a good deal of her spare time ; knitting

vigorously, and bestowing much good
advice, and affording much instruction to
her niece, Mary Jessop, a good-looking girl,
with a round face, dark eyes, black wavy
hair, and a high-coloured complexion.
Mary had been adopted by her aunt, and, it
was understood, had to inherit all her
savings ; that is, provided she married
according to her aunt's wishes. Such prospects,
in addition to her good looks and her
steady conduct, made Mary the object of
many attentions on the part of the young
men of the neighbourhood ; though she was
still but very young.

The next most important personage at
Gaythorne Hall was Bulman, the Squire's
valet. If he had a Christian name it was
unknown. Had Bulman been able to write,
no doubt some indication of the existence
of a Christian name would have been furnished
by his signature occasionally ; but
Bulman's accomplishments were not of a
literary character. He could read freely
enough when he had print to deal with ;

and he could make out the address of a
letter — especially the Squire's, by the J. P.
after the name— though not always successfully
; but there his powers ended. He had
been the Squire's servant in Canada while
a private in his regiment ; and a more
devoted servant never existed. His fidelity
induced the Squire to take him with him to
England on his return ; and as his friends
lived far away in Devonshire, Bulman never
went to see them, but kept resolutely to
Gaythorne Hall. The Squire had become
so thoroughly habituated to Bulman's attendance
that it had become a matter of
course to him ; and what he would have
done without Bulman was as little a matter
of conjecture with him as was that of the
presence of the sun itself.

Bulman was rarely ill. His habits were
active ; for hours in the day he was left to
himself, but when the dinner hour drew
nigh, he reappeared with mathematical
certainty. He was a middle-sized, firmly-built
man, who kept up his soldierly bearing

; and ' the Squire's man,' as he was
designated, was a well-known figure in
Brigstone. All the gentry around had a
word for him, for all respected him ; and
though he did stand behind their chair at
dinner, that matter did not affect them
materially. A first-rate waiter he was too ;
as all knew.

It was held among the gossips of Brig-stone
that Bulman and Mrs. Allonby would
make a match of it, despite their disparity
in years, (for she was nearly ten years his
senior,) if anything happened to the Squire ;
but for such speculation there was no
warrant. Bulman quickly took in the
position of Mrs. Allonby when he came to
Gay thorn e Hall ; and, comprehending it,
never forgot it. Consequently they got on
well together, each respecting the other ;
and the subordinate domestics recognized
their respective positions ; and as much domestic
peace obtained at Gaythorne Hall in
its internal arrangements as was compatible
with human nature and its susceptibilities.

Of the latter there was an abundance ;
some thrifty managers might have thought
a super-abundance ; but they contrived to
keep out of each other's way, and consequently
no excess was felt as a matter of
experience. All looked up to the Squire
with a respect which almost amounted to
awe. He was ever kind and thoughtful ;
but when it became necessary to be stern
he cited like the ex-soldier he was. Bul-man
had a tale or two to tell of prompt
action in Canada which added to this
impression.

There was a genial sense of ease and
plenty in the Hall which was to become
a contrast to the want surging around it,
as the winter went on ; and the pinch of
dear food was telling on the working-classes.
Some of the famishing Chartists of the
riotous order used to talk of firing the place
some night ; but they scarcely meant it ;
it was a vague threat, the outcome of the
plenty of the servants' hall, and of the contrast
of their ill-furnished larders. Bulman

smiled contemptuously when the threats
reached his ears. ' It is easier said than
done, they'll find was all he said. One
peculiarity there was about Bulman, and
that was, his speech was entirely free from
any northern accent. The women of the
place always said, * Bulman speaks like the
gentle folks there's.'

When the Squire's birthday came round
it was kept in good old-fashioned style
in the servants' hall. There was plenty of
beef and ale, and when Bulman gave *the
Squire's health,' the response, ' With all my

J— — 9 izzi

heart,' rang out musically, and with
genuine feeling. Then ' Mr. John and
Miss Edith,' followed, and again rang out
With all my heart.' After that they
sang 'A fine old English gentleman,' in
good old-fashioned style ; the doors being
left open for the Squire to hear the mirth.
But all was within reason ; and the festivity

never degenerated into revelry. Bulman
took care of that.

From all of which it will be seen that
the housekeeping at Gaythorne Hall was
conducted on the liberal scale which had
always obtained there. All were happy
and comfortable, or were so as far as that
could be done by kindly thoughtfulness ;
and there was not one of the numerous
household who would not have gone great
lengths in the way of devotion to their
master, whom they loved and revered.

CHAPTER 11.

THE FIRST JAR.

The front door opened at the summons
of the knocker, and Bulman let in Mr. John
Wharton ; who, after asking kindly how all
of them were, turned from the entrance-hall
into his uncle's study.

Glad to see thee, Jack,' was the Squire's
hearty greeting.

Thank you, uncle ; how are you ? Only
pretty well, I fear. Your old enemy has
been paying you a visit ! '

That he has. Nothing brings on the
gout with me so certainly as any trouble.
That affair of Earnshaw's has upset me
terribly. I feel I am getting an old man ! '

Don't say that, uncle. You're only a

little over sixty. I am sure I wish you may
live other twenty years.'

Thank you, Jack. I know you mean
it. And it's not every man in our positions
who could say such a thing, — and find the
other believe it ; but I do, I assure you.
Only I don't want to linger on an old doting
hulk to watch you growing old, — waiting
for what must be yours. I don't want
that ! '

You are always most generous, uncle ;
but don't let us talk of the time when you
shall have passed away from Gaythorne
Hall. Is the gout any better ? '

A trifle. Mr. Roebuck says he thinks
I shall have a longish turn of it this time.
And, faith ! I think he will turn out to
be right.'

I don't suppose he will fret much about
that; as long as he comes to see you. Don't
you think it might be well to see some one
else as well ? To get Grinder from Sheffield
to meet him here ? '

Not if I keep my faculties, Jack ! One

doctor can give me medicine quite nasty
enough ; I don't know what two would do ;
and I'd rather not think of it. The gout
and one doctor, Jack, you will find are
quite enough at once ; when you come to
try the experiment.'

It is an experiment I have no wish to
try, I can assure you. If ever I get the
gout, it will not be from any fault of my
own.'

I believe you. If gluttony and wine-ribbing
bring gout, as is said.'

I don't think you got it that way,
uncle.'

Well, perhaps not ; but I have taken
no great pains to avoid it. You may stick
to claret, Jack. But 1820 port has a charm
about it. I am afraid I shall have to
Jet through what there is of it, else it will
be wasted ; and that will mean a good deal
of gout.' The old Squire was no hard
drinker, but he loved his port ; and surveyed
his gouty foot with that sweet consciousness
of guilt which has been a source of much

comfort to many persons when they were
reaping as they had sowed. ' I suppose it
is very shocking to talk so, but 1 am
not very afraid of the gout.'

If you were, it would be the only thing
you are afraid of, uncle.'

No, Jack, there is one thing I always
have been afraid of, — and I hope always
will be afraid of. Jack.'

Whatever is that, uncle ? '

Afraid of not doing my duty, my
boy.'

That's it ! I could not think what it
was.'

I hope no Wharton will ever be afraid
of anything but that. They may act
wrongly, but it must be from bad judgment
: never from a bad motive. We maybe
unwise at times, but never wicked.
That is the character of the Wharton.'

Do you think it held quite good of the
famous election-carrying Wharton ? There
are some rather doubtful actions in his life,
I fear.'

There were some things hard to excuse
by our lights. He lived in an age for
which great allowances must be made.
Charles 11. set a bad example ; and a
bad example is easily copied. We must
take that into consideration. He was a
remarkable man, though.'

I think the character of the W barons
of the past has been such that we can
look back without qualms. I hope we
shall not degenerate.' Jack stopped suddenly,
arrested by the consciousness of the
fact that his Chartist leanings were an
offence to his uncle ; who regarded him as
having fallen from his natural height in
adopting views so unpalatable to patricians ;
and who grieved over him as a sincere
Churchman might grieve over a son, or
nephew, who had lapsed into dissent. Indeed,
in the old Squire's eyes radicalism
was very little better than Methodism
itself, for he was a staunch Churchman.

I hope not. Jack ; but you know there
are some matters on which we do not see

things alike.' He knew quite well what
his uncle meant. * I don't mean to say
that you have not to have your own
opinions. God forbid. But you see in
poor Earnshaw's case what the Chartist
movement really means. '^ It is a child
that is stained with the blood of its mother."
I forget who said that ; but it is true !
The Whigs advanced to violence to get
reform ; and the Chartists are treading in
the same steps. The demand for reform
has one leg planted on violence, and the
other on agitation. The agitation covers
the other.'

But the real serious reformers among
the Chartists utterly disapprove of the
"physical force" men. Ask old Jim
Woodcock what he has to say about
it!'

Old Jim Woodcock is a Chartist ; and
Dan Appleyard is a Chartist ; and more
lawless fellows than Dan are Chartists.
For that matter the offscourings of the
country everywhere are Chartists. And

mob law will carry the day. Indeed if
there be any law left at all ; mob or
other.'

That the Chartist movement is cloo^ored
by the riotous element joining it, is a fact ;
and a very unfortunate fact. Further, however
reasonable the real reformers maybe,
they are overwhelmed in the towns
by the excitable young fellows whose
minds run on physical force and pikes.
There is no place where that is better
seen than in Sheffield. More's the pity.'

It is rumoured that it was probably
some Sheffield ruffian that murdered Tom
Earnshaw in that dastardly way. I told
Jim Woodcock that assassination was not
the way to reform. I gave him a bit of
my mind.'

And how did Jim take it 1 '

He turned on me firmly and respectfully
till I was obliged to apologize to the
old man.'

'That was like you, uncle. Ever the
same. But you see, Jim, as one Chartist,

VOL. II. D

could not hinder another man who happens
to have joined the Chartist movement, from
murdering Earnshaw as a matter of private
revenge.'

May be. But if this kind of violence
has to be tolerated by the better men for
the sake of *' the cause ; " I think the
cause had better be abandoned altogether.'

I don't quite see that, uncle. I do
not see why men like Jim Woodcock, who
would vote as conscientiously as you or myself,
should be deprived of their right to a
voice in the councils of the nation, because
a lawless set of fellows will break the law.'

But if you enfranchise one you must
five a vote to the other. If the one will
make a good use of it, it is quite as certain
the other will make a bad use of it. There
is a positive objection to the scheme in
that. The fellow that murdered Earnshaw
would have as much voice in the election
of a member as I have myself. I don't
think that agreeable, or, for that matter,
desirable.'

John Wharton felt that his uncle had an
argument there which could not well be got
over. But as the essence of the Charter
was the recognition of the equal rights of
man, its advocates were bound to be logical ;
though the clearer-sighted of them had
no affection for their ruffian coadjutors.

The older reformers recognized that
factor, and provided against it by not asking
the franchise for those " incapacitated
by nature for want of reason, or by law
from the commission of crime." The real
reformers do not wish to be loaded with a
dead-weight of ruffianism, that will always
try to drag them down ; and certainly
always hamper them.'

Then why don't they shake themselves
loose from these political associates ? If
they dislike them so much ! '

Because they cannot very well do soit
seems.'

Well, it would speak well for them if
they tried. But the whole thing is nothing
more than a cloak for lawlessness. Under

D 2

the cover of agitation, revolution is
brooding.'

I cannot think so. Agitation is the
very thing to prevent revolution. Let the
people agitate their grievances, and then
there will be no July barricades, and revolution
such as sent Charles X. out of France
in 1830. "The Charter and Liberty" was
the cry before the revolution culminated.
If we had had George IV. on the throne
much longer, the spirit of incense against
the Government would have been driven
in the direction of revolution in England. '

That would never have happened. The
Duke would have taken care of that. The
army would have seen to that.'

And England been ruled by a military
despotism ; and King George have sat on a
throne of bayonets.'

This was a decidedly exasperating'remark ;
and one John Wharton would not have
uttered had he had time to think over the
matter.

I never expected to hear a Wharton speak

of his king and crown like that. But now
when there is only a young girl on the
throne sedition is fairly safe.' The ring
of scorn was very distinct in the tones in
which this taunt was uttered.

Reform is not sedition, uncle. The
people have a right to discuss their rights ;
no matter whether a girl or a grown man
sits on the throne of England ; ' was the
answer very slowly enunciated, telling of
inward anger. It was clear both speakers
were beginning to throw feeling into their
speech. They presented the spectacle of two
perfectly honest persons hopelessly opposed
to each other in thought and feeling.

We are not to call things by their right
names because they sound unpleasant ! Then
we may as well give up the argument at
once. If we have to pick nice words only,
it would be like fiditino: a battle with
muskets loaded with scented paper instead
of bullets. That is not my style of warfare.
But I am old-fashioned.'

This was said in a less offensive tone, and

John Wharton perceived that his uncle was
determined not to yield a point, and yet the
contention was clearly distasteful to him.
He felt that in their respective positions it
was obviously his duty to change the topic,
since compromise was evidently out of question.
Yet he did not think it well to go
too far afield for the new topic.

" Tenipora mutantur nos et murmur in
ills!' But what do you say to the new movement
which has sprung up in antagonism
to the Charter ? '

What is that ? '

Have you not seen in the papers an
account of a meeting of Free-traders at Manchester,
at a dinner given to Dr. Bowing, to
agitate against the Corn Laws ? '

No I haven't ; and I am not delighted
to hear of it now. Some other scheme on
the part of the manufacturers. 111 be bound.
They want cheap bread, to lower wages.
It is nothing else but selfishness. Another
forti of opposition to the Government ; an
attack on the landed interest.'

It is a purely Anti-Corn Law Association.
It is to have nothing to do with any political
matters but its own. It will have nothing
to do with the Charter.'

There is some sense in that, anyhow.
They can see the Charter will come to no
good. But the movement is hostile to the
landowners, and you will be one some day ;
why, are to some extent now. I hope you will
keep clear of that movement, Jack. Your
Chartist views are against you, you know,
with the Lord-lieutenant. If it had not
been for them you would have been a
magistrate before now. It is a great pity
you are not on the bench ; we want some
younger men, like Oldfield.'

But I cannot allow my personal interests
to lead me away from my duty as a man.
All laws are made for the benefit of the
people ; and the more people are benefited
by them the better the laws, I take it.'

And therefore you think the multitude
are to be preferred to the aristocracy. The
few have led the many in the past ; and look

what England has become ! What has done
so wel] in the past has a claim to our consideration.
It is a good thing to let well alone.'
But the Corn Laws are of recent origin.
It does not seem to me fair to tax the
people in so terrible a manner in order to
protect the land.'

But the land bears the burdens. It
always has done. Rent took the place of
military service in the old days. And in
the long war with Napoleon, the land had
to find the soldiers, and the money for them
too. The Corn Laws protect the land, and
so the farmers can pay their rent.'

But it is very hard for a poor man to
see his children crying with hunger when
his wages will not allow him to buy the
taxed bread.'

What is the tax on corn at present ? '
It is only a trifle. Corn is so dear.'
Very well, it is not the tax that makes
bread dear. What is a duty of one shilling
a quarter on corn ? How much dearer does
that make a quartern loaf ? '

It does not make one loaf appreciably
dearer. But it is reducing the country to
starvation all the same.'

How do you make that out 1 '

Because the corn-duty deters the foreign
wheat-growers from growing wheat for the
English market. They never know what
the demand may be ; nor what the duty
will be.'

And we are to benefit the foreign growers
at the expense of the English farmers ? Is
that your argument ? '

That is not so much the question, uncle,
as how our suffering poor are to be fed.
When wages were good, and harvests
were good, there was no pinch in spite of
the speculations of the corn-merchants.
But want is at the bottom of the disquiet
around us.'

Want has been felt before. It is the
seditious crew of agitators who fan the
passions of the people ; till they feel their
hunger all the keener. You can't agitate to
regulate the weather. Bad harvests depend

upon bad seasons. The farmers and the
landowners can't help that. Can they *? '

Certainly not

But the manufacturers can help the bad
wages. They have overstocked the markets ;
they have taken advantage of machinery,
and overdone the markets. That is their
fault. You cannot deny that ! '

But no one proposes to tax inventions in
order to protect the hand workers.'

No ; the manufacturer knows his own
interest too well for that. He does not
want to check the inventors of labour-saving
machines. Not he. That is not his game.
He wants to lower the price of food, so that
the labourer's wages may go so much further.
He knows which side his bread is buttered
on. He tells us free-trade would open
foreign markets to his goods. That is what
he wants with the removal of the corn tax.'

He certainly does not affect not to have
a personal interest in the doing away of the
corn-laws. He says free-trade would help
him in these days of slack trade. If the

United States could exchange their corn,
on fair terms, for English manufactures,
then corn would come in freely, and the
workman have a cheap loaf; while the
manufacturer would do more trade and
could pay more in wages.'

Ay, that is his specious way of putting
it. But don't you see the land would suffer
all the same ; the land would be worth so
much less.'

Then let the land grow something else
than corn.'

That is all very well for you who grow
no corn. Your land is suited for grazing ;
and EUwood is a capital judge of lean stock.
He knows what will fatten readily, and so
pay you. It's Ellwood's judgment that makes
the Grange Farm pay. That's what it is.'

I do not deny that without indo-ment in

,/ Jo

the purchase of stock no grazing farm could
pay. But that does not imply that the
English farmer should m on plouo^hino- his
land, because he does not know what else todo
with it.'

But his lease binds him down to a
certain plan of culture ; tells him what todo.
He has his land on these terms.'

Then alter the leases and let him do ashe
likes with the land; provided he pays his
rent, and keeps his land in good condition.'

This was a terribly destructive doctrine.
The landowners had found it desirable to
lay down certain courses of crops in their
leases for the guidance of tenants ; and
perhaps when the landlord's agent was far
ahead of the agriculturist in knowledge,
it was a good plan for all ; but it is clear
that a rigid course of crops irrespective of
seasons and weather must entail a certain
element of unfitness in some seasons. The
existence of the corn-laws encouraged such
paternal guidance, which smacked of feudal
times. The whole scheme of legislation
was to protect the land ; both those who
owned it, and those who tilled it.

Do away with the terms of leases ? Is
that the next move in contemplation ? I
think we are coming to a pretty pass. Todo

away with the corn-laws ! to help the
foreign grower ! A cheap loaf to eke out
bad wages ; and the abolition of courses in
leases to follow ; and, to crown all, mob-law
! Ton my word. Jack, this is queer
talk in Gaythorne Hall ; such talk as I
never expected to hear. And what do you
think has to come of us all if these views
are taking hold of the country ? ' The
Squire recoiled at the prospect, which certainly
had no charms for him. ' And then
the railways coming ; horse-breeding will
be knocked on the head. A farmer had a
brood mare or two, and a good coach horse
at five years old was worth thirty pounds :
it left him a fair profit. Now soon there
will be neither coach-horse nor 
wanted ; only hunters. The
ordinary farmer will never breed hunters
to a profit. They cannot all turn graziers
as you are, even if they could judge stock.
I don't see what is to become of the land ;
that I don't.'

The Squire was growing angry again.

It is just the old story over again ;
that balancing of the interests of class
against class, that has been the bane of the
land. The wiseacres of the fifteenth century
put a tax on foreign corn to encourage corn-growing,
and help the agricultural labourer
against the wool-grower ; who employed
comparatively few field-hands. Then they
taxed wool for exportation, to encourage
the clothier. Then wool accumulated,
and there was bad trade. The wool-o;rovver
could not pay his rent ; and landlords
being legislators they tinkered at the laws
again. This mending and tinkering never
succeeded ; the land has never prospered
when swaddled in this way. Propped up
and bolstered by time-serving legislation,
the land was badly cultivated. If it was
left to itself, it would flourish far better.'

This severe and, to the Squire, hostile
criticism of the wisdom of his ancestors,
directly impugned the whole of paternal
legislation, and of the capacity of the few
to legislate for the many. It smelled of the

Charter and universal suffrage ; and the
smell was most offensive in the nostrils of
a Tory squire. He could say little : but
perhaps on that very account he felt the
more.

To think it should come to this ! Oh,
Jack, are these the views of the next Squire
of Gaythorne Hall ? '

The tones were those of sorrow rather
than anger. The Squire's benign features
had lost their kindly look, and taken on
an aspect of sternness. A species of horror
had seized upon him.

His nephew had said what he felt, and he
could not retreat from what he had said.
He had spoken his mind ; he could not
withdraw a word that he had said. Great
as was his love for his uncle ; his respect
for him ; unwilling as he was to give him
pain ; he could not unsay what he had said.

I am sorry to grieve you, uncle ; but a
man has his convictions.'

Yes, Jack ; and your convictions are not
mine. I cannot think what the country

will come to if the next generation of
country squires take to thinking as you do ;
the country will go to wreck and ruin.'

I sincerely trust not, uncle. I am not
so afraid of the consequences of public
reform

Well, I am afraid of them. I said
before, a Wharton should never be afraid of
anything but not doing his duty. But I
have grave fears as to the consequences of
this agitation. We shall see some dreadful
catastrophe happen, I fear. If there is
another bad harvest next year there is no
saying what may happen.'

His nephew felt a strong inclination to
answer that the best thing to be done was
to abolish the corn-laws ; so that if a short
harvest did come, then there would not be
famine. But he saw his uncle was hurt;
and so, by a strong exercise of will, he
refrained from saying what he felt sorely
tempted to say.

For the sake of the country at large, I
sincerely trust we will not have a bad

livest aorain soon. There will be terrible
misery ; and, what is more, what misery
leads to, — if our next harvest is no better
than the last.'

We are in agreement there, Jack,' said the
Squire, in tones telling of his recovery of his
temper ; which he had been very near losing.

What do you think Edie will do about
Oldfield, Jack, if he was to ask her again ?
I hope her answer is not final '( '

I am sure I cannot say, uncle. I don't
think she has any strong feeling about him.
She seems friendly enough. But, you know,
she is not the girl to marry on a mere feeling
of friendliness. She is in no haste to be
married, I fancy.'

I wish it were settled. Jack. If she
was married to a safe, steady-going fellow
like Oldfield, I should feel easy about her
future.'

What do you mean, uncle ? '

Why, 1 mean this : Oldfield is a man we
know ; a man in a good position ; a steady,
trustworthy fellow, who would take care of

Volet. E

lier. There is a sense of fitness in the
match.'

I do not feel such confidence in Oldfiekl
myself. He is very sagacious about criticizing
other people, and showing how they
made their mistakes ; but he may make a
mistake himself some day. He has put his
foot deep into that Wybrow Bank business.
If bad harvests come he may find his foot
further in than is pleasant.'

I think he is all right. The Bank pays
well, he tells me.'

But you would have nothing to do with
it yourself, when it was started.'

Ah, that was quite a personal matter ;
I could not stand Waddington. A Wharton
is apt to be touchy ; and dien we met he
carried things with such a high hand, that I
could have nothing to do with him. My
touchiness has kept a lot of money out of
my pocket. I know that.'

If anything went wrong with Waddington,
or Mortlake, the two largest shareholders,
Oldfield might find himself in an awkward

fix. He and the others might find themselves
with their fingers badly burned.'

1 don't think there is much likelihood
of that happening. There is a risk, no
doubt, but not a valid one, of things going
wrong. But Oldfield is a man of stability
in every way. You see, Edie is a bit like
yourself, Jack. She does not hold on to
the safe lines of the past. She will act for
herself. We have seen that in the district
visiting. Now, if she was married to Old-field
she would be safe. He would see she
followed the regular rules of other women.'

Perhaps Edie is not so anxious to be
reined in, uncle.'

Possibly not ; but it would be a comfort
to me to know she was settled. You see
your tastes and ways run off from what has
been the rule with the Wharton. You
make new friends, and Edie is only young.
If she was to take a fancy to one of your
Piratical friends, she might be headstrong,
and marry him. And this might not be a
good connection for the family. If she was

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF

iron n r%\J

married to Oldfield such a thing would be
out of the question

Jack felt all that was implied in this
speech : all the distrust of his views in this
danger of his sister marrying some one of
like views. It involved, too, the suggestion
that Edith might forget what was due to
the Wharton family. He was angered at
his uncle ; and yet he felt the view was
the only one the old Squire could be
expected to hold. He could see that
clearly enough.

I can see what you mean, uncle,' he
answered. ' But I think we can trust Edie.
We have unfortunately not been able to see
many things in the same light this morning,
uncle ; we are not usually so unfortunate.
I hope next time our talk will be
more harmonious. Good morning, uncle ;
I hope the gout will be better soon.'

With this John Wharton took his departure,
saying, ' Gout makes him crusty ! '
The old Squire moved his gouty foot about
uneasily, and looked steadily into the fire.

Harmony indeed ! It seems to me we
get further away from it all along the line ;
and not nearer. Jack evidently does not
care about Oldfield for a brother-in-law.
Edie weill be taking a fancy to some of
those Radical friends of Jack's before long,
or I am mistaken. It will be a deuced pity
if she does. I wish she was Mrs. Oldfield,
and an end made of it.'

CHAPTER III.

THE RESULTS OF FROST.

Early in January, 1839, a great hurricane
occurred in which some of the new steam-packets
beginning to run across the Atlantic
from the Mersey, were wrecked ; and much
damage was done on land. Shortly after
that frost came, and held his ground till all
around Brigstone was ice-bound.

There is something wonderfully exhilarating
about a continued frost, especially if it
be accompanied by bright weather. Whether
it is that some deep-buried feelings handed
down from our old Norse ancestors come to
the surface then ; some old-world sympathy
with its surroundings getting uppermost ; ora
suspension of ordinary occupations leads
to the adoption of some substitute with the

high animal spirits engendered by bright
cold, or what ; certain it is that a spell of
frost seems to start a new life all its own.
Comforters, mittens, mufFatees, straw bands
round the legs, winter apparel belonging to
all classes, according to their means and
condition, appear with a profusion which
strikes one forcibly. The urchins turn out
in force, the iron rims of the wooden-soled
clogs enabling them to slide upon the ice
with the greatest facility. How carefully
does each little fellow nurse his ' callers,' as
these iron rims are locally designated, when
the time of frost comes near ; so as to have
a fine smooth surface, free from any projecting
nail-heads, with which to glide easily
o\^er the glassy surface of the frozen water ;
and how great is his chagrin if by any
accident the iron rim becomes injured so as
to need repair, with its resultant rough
surface ! New clogs are much prized at any
other time ; but are decidedly at a discount
when Jack Frost puts in an appearance.
And at high-lying Brigstone the frost was

apt to take a firm hold, and to continue for
some time. Slides were made on whelp the
urchins followed one another with ceaseless
activity. Boys rarely act in unison, or in
order, without much ado and no little noise ;
but whether shouting possesses less of its
charms when the air is cold, or that inexplicable
something born of frost comes into
play with them or not, slides seem to
possess some wonderful disciplinary power.
The little fellows arrange themselves in
order with marvellous readiness. A little
run to gain the requisite impetus, and away
goes the aspirant to sliding-fate, balancing
himself cautiously as he glides over the
slippery slide. Many an unsuccessful essay
ends m a fall, which is rarely severe enough
to cause more than a disturbing sense of
failure. Hour after hour flies away, and
meal-times are cut down to the minimum
of time. A few hasty mouthfuls are all
that can be taken, in order to lose as little
as possible of the precious sliding. As soon
as day dawns some of the most adventurous

spirits are seen inspecting the condition of
the slides with a critical eye. When darkness
falls, most unwillingly are the slides
abandoned for a warm meal, and then bed :
for slides are sleepy things. Good housewives
meet the strain upon the meal-hours
by lavish quantities of toffy. And what
North-country boy was ever happier than
when he possessed at once a good long slide
and a good store of toflPy in his pockets, within
easy reach of his listened fingers ? Not
even snow, with its rough charm of snowballing,
can compare with the slide for its
complete captivation of the boyish mind.
When there is ice, snow is voted a nuisance ;
and a snowball just landed in the neck is
not refreshing; when the alee of sliding is at
its height ; and a quarrel is felt to be inconvenient
and out of place ; for ice, somehow,
among its other physical effects, seems to
lessen the pugnacity of small boys, while
snow takes the direction of bloody noses.

The great scene of activity for the
junior members of the village community of

Brigs tone, at this time, was the long dam
above the grist-mill. Here slides were formed
on the surface of the dam ; while the smallest
or more timid children sat or stood on the
edges ; looking on with a sense of envy at
the prowess or the courage of those wh(j
sliced along with balanced bodies and upheld
hands. Girls do not show to advantage
upon the ice ; and in this, their unfitness
for boyish sports is once more manifested.
Whether from timidity, natural
awkwardness, or the effect of ice upon the
female mind, girls make a maximum of
shouting to a minimum of sliding, constantly
falling. Even when two boys take
each a hand, and drag her with her iron-shod
clogs along the slide, a girl cuts no
figure, either imposing or becoming. It is
only when skates are reached that the female
prowess on ice is shown to advantage.

Clad in furs, their hands buried deep in a
warm muff, the gay Viennese girls glide
wistfully and gracefully over the ice ; many
expert skaters, unrivalled unless it be by

the Canadians. The ' inside edge,' the ' outside
edge ' figure cutting,' all the accomplishments
of the adept, are to be seen
among the female as well as the male skaters
on the eidaaf herein near the Ring. Wonderful
feats of agility are performed by
the more famous or ambitious youths ; and
who can recall his experiences on the ice
there without smiling at the remembrance
of some youth narrowly escaping a fall,
which might have resulted in breaking his
neck, — drawing himself up and looking
around for the meed of admiration at his
feat ? What human figures are more graceful,
or what movements so easy, as those of
a trio of Viennese girls, hand in hand,
gliding swiftly over the rink 1 Constant
long frosts make them experts ; as frost
makes experts elsewhere.

Skating was not a common accomplishment
at Brigstone, and consequently the
popular interest of the juveniles centred in
slides. For these the long dam of the mill
was the scene of their activity and their

energies. The large weir above the clam
was the attraction rather of the adults.
Here the few who possessed the art of
skating disported themselves ; while the
bulk present were mere onlookers.

The weir was a considerable pool, some
hundred yards across, and some hundred
and fifty from the dam at the bottom to
the sedges at the top ; the feeding-stream
being but a narrow streak. It lay east and
west ; while its southern shore consisted of
a wood chiefly of oak, with a few firs and
alders near the edoje. The northern shore
was fairly clear of trees, except a clump of
alders. The southern shore sloped sharply
down to the waters-edge ; and consequently
betwixt the bank and its trees the sun was
cut off from the weir, until it had worked
round somewhat to the west. Until then
the pool was dark and sombre, with scarcely
a human being on its surface. But after
midday a skater or two appeared as the sun
got on the icy surface. Onlookers gathered,
creeping down through the wood, lining the

rocks on the southern shore near the dam,
or clustering on the dam itself. The sluice
(or ' shuttle ' as it is locally called) was
held fast in the grip of Jack Frost ; but
formed a temptation to many of the men
to try their strength, by seeing if they could
move it. When the weir was frozen it was
an event at Brigstone ; certainly a sort of
afternoon half holiday for the men of all
conditions. Of course the other sex would
be present too ; and much genial good-natured
laughter told of the enjoyment of
the unwonted scene of persons on the
weir-pool.

Among those present one afternoon were
John Wharton and his sister. The latter
was an accomplished skater ; and nothing
impressed the good folks of Brigstone nnjre
with the sense of that lady's superiority to
those of her sex around her, than her proficiency
on the ice, where all others were so
inconspicuous. Mrs. Pry or did not skate ;
nor as a Rector's wife had she any desire
to acquire this particular accomplishment.

One other lady only was there on the pool
who could skate. The attention of the
onlookers was divided between these two
unfamiliar objects, viz., ladies skating.
Their local pride was touched to see that
Miss Wharton was unquestionably the more
proficient skater of the two.

John Wharton skated well too ; for he
had skated over most of the Netherlands atone
time or another. He loved to practise
the ' Dutch-roll,' leaving behind him the
palliser-like lines on the ice which reminded
him of the Dutch women skating to market ;
contrasting strongly with the divergent
finish of the stroke found in ordinary
skating.

There were several other gentlemen on
skates, and among them George Ashworth,
the surveyor, who used to visit at Fowrass
G-range some time before ; when surveying
the projected route of the Manchester and
Shefiield railway. He, too, was an expert
on the ice, and very graceful his tall, lithe
figure looked as he sped along. He had

learned to skate in the Fens, where speed is
the great end aimed at. Men, famous local
skaters, from other parts of England, strive
in vain with the feu-skaters as they fly past
Rowland on the broad surface of the Welland
; and soon cease striving, hopeless of
success. His great power and high spirit
were never more conspicuous than upon
the ice, and he could easily distance any
other skater on the weir-pool. He and
John Wharton greeted each other most
cordially when they met again ; while Miss
Wharton was as friendly as of yore, her
greeting being quite unembarrassed by any
troublesome remembrance of former days.
It was purely and genuinely friendly. As to
George Ash worth, he thought Miss Wharton
all the handsomer for the lapse of time, in
her completer womanliness. Four years of
earnest life had but developed her loveliness.
A tall, graceful, active figure she
looked in her warm dark dress, and her
sealskin hat and muff. The exercise and
the cold had together called up some colour

on her ordinarily pale features. He addressed
her as Miss Wharton ; in some doubt,
however, as to whether she might not have
changed her name. It was scarcely likely
that she had become Mrs. Oldfield, without
his being aware of it ; but he had been
away surveying for a time in the West of
England, and this might have occurred in
his absence. ' You are a competent skater,
I observe,' he said in complimentary tones.
A rather rare female accomplishment up
here, I should think.'

To judge from those present you are
quite right. The other lady is evidently
a beginner. But she promises well.'
Yours is no recent acquisition then ? '
Oh no. I used to skate when a little
girl.'

Do you get much practice up here ? '
Not much. One just gets to feel at
home on the ice when it is gone. And a
second frost sufficient for skating rarely
comes ; and when it does, it is gone directly.
It is rather chilly standing ; I will take

another turn.' And so Miss Wharton left
the group, and went scudding away at great
speed. George Ashworth looked after her
with a long steady look. His dark eye dilated
as he watched the graceful figure. What he
may have thought it is impossible to say ;
but his remark, ' I beg your pardon,' to an
observation from John Wharton, told that
his ear had not caught the words.

I asked if you remembered our old
evening chats at Fowrass Grange ? ' repeated
John Wharton.

I should think I do. \Vhat enjoyable
evenings they were, to be sure. How I
used to think over them when alone in the
West, surveying for a line to Gloucester.'

That is how you have been engaged
since we lost sight of you ? My sister from
time to time used to ask me, " Do you ever
hear anything of Mr. Ashworth now ? " But
I was never able to give her an affirmative
answer.'

George Ashworth felt a sudden thump,
not very violent, but unmistakable, over

VOL. II. F

that area where most men wear their
watches. Why did Miss Wharton ask after
him ? Did she too look back upon those
evenings ? if so, with what feelings ? He
would have liked to have asked if Miss
Wharton was engaged to Mr. Oldfield ; but
felt he could not ask her brother. Their
position would not warrant that. Such an
inquiry would have been highly improper.
Still he did wonder.

Shall we take a turn round the weir ? '

asked John Wharton, ' for the wind is keen.'

By all means.' They set off, and skated

easily over the pond, round and round,

chatting freely.

This is better than standing still. I
wonder how the crowd keep warm ? '

Don't you see ? they keep together. A
crowd can keep itself warm. Are you
interested in the Anti-Corn Law movement
at all ? Do you think of attending the
meeting at Sheffield on the 28th, in answer
to the Manchester meeting ? ' asked Ash-worth,
rather eagerly.

Then you have not lost any of your old
political fervour. Have you taken any side
with the Chartists ? '

^ I have had something: else to do. Of
course my sympathies are with them. But
the scheme is too visionary for my matter-of-fact
mind. I like this agitation about
the Corn Laws : they are an unmitigated
evil. I think the move of Bowing and
Cobden a most practical one. They restrict
their programme to the repeal of these laws,
and will have nothing to do with the Charter.
These hard times are in their favour too.'

They were circling round, talking eagerly,
and interchanging views ; but George Ash-worth's
eyes were never far away from the
graceful dark figure of Miss Wharton, as
she too pursued her own way on the ice.
She amused herself by some special performances,
after which she struck off ina
round of the weir. At the eastern end,
where the feeder came in the pool, it was
fringed with sedges ; and here was a spring,
so that the ice was thin. But the fact was

F 2

barely known, and Miss Wharton was in
ignorance of it. A light youth had skated
much nearer the line of sedges than John
Wharton and his friend had gone. Ash-worth
noticed that the ice looked thin, but
paid no special attention to the fact. Miss
Wharton followed the marks of this skater,
and when nearing the sedges she turned to
keep clear of them. Unluckily a twig had
become embedded in the ice, and her skate
cutting into it, she was tripped, and staggered
forward to recover herself ; the ice gave way,
and she disappeared. A cry arose from the
crowd.

Miss Wharton's i' th' water. T' ice les
broke.'

Ashworth had been following the girl's
movements with a persistency only broken
by a remark made just then by her brother,
which took off his attention. The cry struck
his ear ; looking up, he saw she had disappeared,
and there was a hole in the ice.
The situation flashed itself upon him — rather
than was the subject of conscious thought.

He struck off without any attempt at explanation,
and shot for the broken place. When
John Wharton looked up to see why his
companion had so abruptly left him, he
saw him with his long fen-stroke making
for the sedges. At the same moment he
realized the meaning of the cry, and saw
what had happened. He struck out too ;
but had not gone far when he saw Ash worth
putting down the heels of his skates partly
to arrest his speed, partly to break the ice,
and, an instant after, go in through it. It
was clear he was trying to save the girl.
For a moment Wharton's intellect seemed
paralyzed by his horror at the danger
which his sister was in ; but it regained its
sway as he saw Ashworth's head rise above
the water : it was not so deep as to take
x\shworth in over his head. Then the head
went down a little, and as he got near he
saw Ash worth groping about, and then his
sister's head appear. He turned as he
neared the spot so as not to break more ice ;
and his own plunging in was unnecessary,

for Ashworth was the taller of the two,
despite John Wharton's stature.

You've got her safe, Ashworth ? ' he
asked .

Yes, I have her safe. Get a ladder, or
something to put across the hole.'

Ashworth's experience in the fens told
him what to do in a case of this kind.

Get a ladder ! ' Wharton shouted to the
crowd on the dam, and away broke several
of the men.

To Joe Hague's for a see ' (north
country for a ladder) was the cry taken
up.

Or a plank shouted another.

Away they went with willing Yorkshire
hearts and sturdy Yorkshire legs.

Joe Hague, the carpenter, was working
away steadily in his shop to make up for
his son's being at the weir to see the skating.
He was surprised by the in-rush of
several men panting for breath, two seizing
a ladder, while the other two got a plank
off the rack, without attempting to ask

leave. Among the rest was Lis own son
Tom, who, familiar with all the details of
the place, made for a pole sawn up to form
the two sides of a ladder. He seized one
half, and on his father's shouting,

What's ta groan to do wi' th' pole,
Tom?'

Miss Wharton's i' th' water,' was all the
reply vouchsafed. ' Tek' loud o' tether
end,' he said to a companion, and away
they went.

Old Joe went to help the others to get
a ladder.

It'll be handier nur a plank. Tom '11
git th' pole across th' hole, an' then yo'
can git th' ladder across. Away wi' yo.
Lose no time, for goodness' sake.'

They lost no time in hurrying off with
the ladder ; but Tom and his co-worker
were half-way back with the half-pole
before they could get out of the yard with
the ladder. As they were hurrying out
they saw Mr. and Mrs. Pryor driving towards
them.

What is the matter ? ' asked the Rector.

'Miss Wharton's thro' th' ice,' was the
curt reply ; and they hastened away with
the ladder.

There's been an accident, Agnes. Let
us drive on. We may be able to drive
her home. Probably there is no conveyance
at hand.'

So saying he touched up the pony, and
drove away to that point of the road nearest
the weir. The highway wT.nt around somewhat,
but they were soon there.

Take the reins while I go to the weir,'
said the Rector ; handing the reins to his
wife with an unceremoniousness very unusual
with him.

In the mean time the greatest excitement
prevailed at the weir. Some, not knowing
what to do, had made for the sluice, with
the idea of drawing off the water in the
weir, and so lowering it. Even if the
sluice would have moved under their
strenuous efforts, the outflow would have
been perfectly inoperative.

'Up wi' th' shuttle,' was one cry: and
right willingly they set to work at their
useless effort.

John Wharton kept the crowd back,
shouting in stentorian tones :

Keep back. Keep where you are.
Don't crowd on the ice ; or you may come
in, and make bad worse.'

One or two of the better-dressed helped
him to keep order. The light-weight whose
thoughtless career had led to the disaster
kept hovering about.

Keep up, sir,' he said to Ash worth.
They are coming with a ladder. They
will be here soon,' he cried.

George Ash worth was keeping up
courageously, but the cold of the water
was chilling him rapidly. He had scarcely
time to gather his wits together when he
went into the water overhead. As soon
as he got his head above water, he dashed
off the muddy water from his eyes and
looked about him. The two immersions
had stirred up the mud, and the water was

thick, and obscured the view. Groping
about he caught hold of Miss Wharton's
dress, and pulling, drew her from underneath
the ice, her face blanched with fright.
She seemed to have lost consciousness, and
struggled violently. He felt that he stood
on the soft bottom of the pool, and that
the water was up to his neck. He could
hold her above the water, he saw ; for
his wits were quick, and he had been
present at an ice-accident before. So when
John Wharton came near him he was holding
Miss Wharton with her head above the
water. He was quite self-possessed, and
having answered Wharton's inquiry, turned
his attention to his soir burden ; she was
gasping for breath, and deliriously struggling,
for she had drawn in a quantity of
water while under the ice. He grasped
her firmly to prevent her getting from
him ; and, as her clothes were soaking in
the water, she grew heavier and heavier.
His standing ground was uncertain, and
his skates cut into the soft bottom of the

weir. He had to shift his feet frequently
to prevent his mouth and nose getting
under the black water around him ; but
the burden gave him energy. Somehow,
he was never clear how, it seemed to him
that his feelings towards Miss Wharton
were warmer, stronger, more intense than
he had ever dreamt of, as he held her from
sinking into the dark muddy water. This
feeling lent him an accession of energy.
Having breathed once or twice freely, her
consciousness seemed to be returning.

Oh, where am I ? ' she gasped.

You're safe. Keep quiet.'

Who is it ? Where am I ? ' she cried,
and commenced struggling again; evidently
realizing; she was in cano-er, but without
any definite idea of its nature.

She nearly escaped his grasp, and, as it
was, drew his face below the water ; but by
a strenuous effort he maintained both his
grip and his standing-ground.

He was beginning to feel the strain on
him when a loud shout coming; from the

crowd, gave him encouragement to hold on.
Then John Wharton and the light-weight
skater might have been seen making away
from the crowd, and hurrying over the weir
to the scene of the accident. Approaching,
John Wharton cried :

Do you see the pole, Ash worth ? '

Yes,' was the reply.

Then we will push it towards you. Lift
the end so as to get it over the ice on the
other side.'

The pole was pushed towards him, and
he gave the end the desired lift, while
Wharton and his helper pushed it well over
the broken eds^es of the ice.

Hurry ! ' shouted Wharton. ' Now you
can rest on the pole.'

And Ashworth got one arm over the
pole, and supported himself and his
burden.

The ladder is coming directly. Can you
hold on now ? '

^ Famously I '

Then hold on a bit longer ; ' and so

saying, John Wharton went back to the
lower end of the weir.

Ashworth now had time to pay more
attention to his helpless burden. He was
no longer afraid of her struggles forcing
both under water ; so he tried to recall her
consciousness.

Miss Wharton ! ' he said, in deep
tones.

What ? ' cried the girl wildly.

Don't you know me ? '

No. Who are you ? What are you
doing ? '

It might not have been very easy for her
to have recognized George Ashworth just
then, even if she had been in full possession
of her faculties. The black muddy water
rendered him unrecognizable ; especially to
her disordered mind, still palsied by the
shock.

I am George Ashworth. I am holding
you up from drowning.'

*From drowning'? I am in the water ?
And she stared with wide-open eyes at him,

her blanched face discoloured by the dirty
water.

You are safe now.'

Am I ? But oh, it is so cold ! ' she said
slowly and with difficulty. ' Are you not
cold '? ' she asked wearily.

Rather. But help is at hand. Here is
your brother coming with a ladder.'

She turned in the direction indicated, and
then, her eyes closing, her head dropped
upon his shoulder.

The situation was most uncomfortable in
every way : how was it then that George
Ash worth felt as if he would not exchange
his position for any other upon earth ?

CHAPTER IV.

THE RESCUE.

He was soon, however, again to use his
utmost energies; the ladder was brought
along the ice by two men who relieved the
others who brought it, for they were out of
breath with their exertions. Under John
Wharton's directions they got it near the
broken place, when he said :

Now, put it down, and both of you push
it endwise across the hole. Keep it on the
other side of them, away from the pole.'

They did so : and George Ash worth
found that he could rest on the ladder on
one side, and upon the pole on the other.

Can you hold on any longer ? ' asked
John Wharton.

I think so ; but I am getting chilled.'

Though they had thus got a ladder across
on one side, and the pole on the other, there
remained the difficulty of getting at them
immersed in the water. John Wharton
had his skates on, he therefore could not
stand upon the ladder. Ashworth saw the
difficulty, and cried :

Let one of the men creep along the
ladder.'

One of the men then crept along the
ladder, until he reached Mr. Ashworth.

'Take hold,' the latter said. *Take
firm hold, now ; ' as he raised the unconscious
form until the man had caught the
upper portion of her jacket.

Now pull ; ' and as the man did so,
Ashworth made an immense effort to lift
her, and she was got out upon the ice.

Now then, draw her along a yard or
two.'

The man did as he was bid ; and soon Miss
Wharton, wet, bedraggled, unconscious, but
safe, was once more on strong ice.

Her brother felt a huge spasm of satisfaction

on being able to look upon her again ;
but now came the turn of her preserver.

The man again crept out along the ladder
until he could catch hold of George Ash-worth's
hand.

Giv' me yer hand,' he said.

But George Ashworth found this by no
means so easy to do. He was supporting
himself by an arm each over the ladder and
the pole. He tried to reach out a hand ;
but he could scarcely move.

'' You're numbed wi' th' could, I reckon,'
said the man. ' I'll get loud of yor coit-collar.'


So saying, he stretched himself out along
the ladder, and catching firm hold of the
coat-collar, he pulled with all his might.
Ashworth's clothes were soaked with water,
which made him heavy even in the water.
When the attempt was made to raise him
out of it, the weight told. The effort
failed.

Can't yo mek' an effort ? ' asked the
man.

VOL. II. G

'I'm afraid I can't was the reply. 'I'm
stiff with cold.'

'So yo er' like : but wait. I'll tek'
another grip.'

So setting himself firmly on the ladder,
he shouted to his companion :

Loud th' see sticky, Tim ; else I can't
loud my grip.'

His mate caught good hold of the ladder.

'Noo then, sir. Come along,' he said to
Ashworth, who did what he could to hel).
After a strenuous effort the man dre\v him
forward on to the ladder. He saw, however,
that he was too benumbed to make any
further effort, and stopped.

Get me on the ladder, and then pull it
away,' he got out feebly.

The man got him on the ladder, and
said :

You're out o' th' hole now. Can yo
stop their, sir, if I love ye to yersen ? '

Yes ; pull away.'

The man crept back to the sound ice, and,
joining his mate, the two pulled hard on the

ladder, and drew it and Ashworth away
from the broken ice.

In the mean time the Rector had had
Miss Wharton taken away to the pony-carriage,
and driven off to Fowrass Grange
by Mrs. Pry or. He himself went again to
the weir, and found Mr. Ashworth the
object of the most solicitous care. He was
cold and almost speechless, and grew colder
each moment.

Has any one anything warm ? ' asked
the Rector. A well-dressed man offered his
task of brandy. The Rector took the flask,
and poured some of the fluid betwixt the
chattering teeth. The strong man whose
courage and energy had so recently been the
admiration of al], was now helpless enough
himself.

Take him up to the Rectory, and put him
to bed,' was the next idea of the Rector.
He will soonest come round in a warm
bed. Just fasten him to the ladder, and
then four of you can bear him alon gr.'
Four willing: bearers were readily found,

G 2

and soon the exhausted man was borne
away.

The Rector then turned to John Wharton,
who was getting off his skates as rapidly as
possible.

Mrs. Pryor is driving your sister home ;
I think she is all right, except the ducking.
Ashworth is being taken to my house to be
put to bed. It has been a narrow affair.'

If Ashworth had not plunged in after
her she must have been drowned. The
water was up to his chin, and she must
have gone down over-head. Even I could
not have saved her.'

It was a most providential thing there
was so tall a man at hand. Stature is a
blessing at times ; ' said the Rector, in tones
as if thinking aloud. ' You will at once go
after your sister, and I will look after Mr.
Ashworth.'

But that looks so selfish after his
(courageous act. It will look as if I did
not properly estimate the value of his
services ; and the risk he ran. If the water

had been a little deeper, both must have
perished

I fear so. We have much to be thankful
for in the result. I will explain to him.'
So the Rector left John Wharton, and turned
to the ladder and its burden. The water
dripped from the prostrate form, as the
men hurried along with their awkward
burden. The Rector overtook them, and
asked.

Are you very cold, Mr. Ashworth ? '

Rather,' was the reply through the
chattering teeth. The Rector took off his
overcoat, and threw it over him. Then
encouraging the bearers to farther efforts,
he said :

You will soon be in a warm bed. I will
hasten on and tell them to get it ready.'
So he set off at a brisk pace. By this
time Brimstone was alive like a swarm of

o

bees, with the news that Miss Wharton
had ozone through the ice. Children had
carried the news home, and it had spread
from house to house. Several women had

rushed to Joe Hague, to learn if Joe could
tell them anything.

Nay, what I know naught abaft it.
They j must corned for th' see : an' Tom ran
off wi' a pole. That's o' I know.' No
information could Joe afford. But when
they saw the Rector hurrying along, they
asked curtly :

Is Miss Wharton sease ? '
She is,' was the equally curt reply :
the Rector could not stop to explain.

Then they saw the men with the ladder
and its burden.

Wheat is that you've gotten on th'
see ? ' they asked.

Mr. Ash worth, wheat saved her fra'
drooping.'

Bless him ! I whose he's na worse,' was
the kindly comment. 'The bonniest lass
far an' wide.' The bearers went on without
delay, and soon got to the Rectory.
Here the nearly frozen man was quickly
put to bed, with a warm bottle to his feet,
and considerable hot fluid internally.

The crowd at the weir were all excitement
; and one man saw his way to a
guerdon by carrying the news of the
accident and the rescue to Gaythorne Hall.
Squire Wharton would be glad to know
his niece was safe. The rest were all on the
move ; some venturing up towards the hole.

Eh, leak at th' hole i' th' ice. An' th'
black water. Eh, but it wor a narrow
chance,' was the comment of the visitors to
that part of the weir.

Keep away, else you may break in too,'
was the advice of a gentleman in the
crowd ; advice not very readily taken.
Everywhere the talk was of the accident,
and the brave rescue ; Mr. Ashworth's
courage being greatly admired.

He wor so sharp over it too. He
nivver waited a minute. It'll not be th'
first accident he's bin in, I'se warrant,' said
one elderly man. ' It's many a year sin
their's bm an accident i' th' weir. I can
just remember ane afar. Sum chiltern
were drowned.'

He is a grand tall chap, else he nivver
cud hav kep his heed boon th' water.'

It wor a rare coud job, 111 be bun,'
said another.

I wonder what Squire Oldfield '11 say
to this job ? ' asked another of speculative
turn.

Aye, it's a spoke i' his wheel, or I'm
mistaken,' was the comment of one vinegar-faced
old dame, who had come to see the
skating ; her curiosity having over-mastered
her acquisitiveness, and led her away from
her spinning-wheel — and who all the while
grudged the time she was wasting,

He'll be i' noa hurry to ask ester th'
gentleman 'at saved her.'

Such and such like was the conversation
which went on till the income of darkness
drove all home, to talk the subject over
more leisurely by a warm fireside.

John Wharton soon got to Fowrass
Grange, and ascertained that his sister was
warm in bed, and comfortable ; though of
course still excitable.

What a noble man Mr. Ashworth is ! '
she said to her brother. ' If it had not been
for him I must have been drowned.'

I am afraid that would have been the
case, Edie. There was not another man in
the crowd of his inches. His head was
barely above the water.'

How good of him ! I can't get my ideas
clear about what happened.'

Well, don't bother about it now. Keep
quiet ; that is the best thing, is it not, Mrs.
Pryor ? '

Most certainly. What has become of
Mr. Ashworth ? — was that not the name of
the gentleman who saved her ? ' asked Mrs.
Pryor.

He was carried off on the ladder to the
Rectory, under the supervision of your
husband.'

I hope you thanked him for me, John.
I quite forgot, they hurried me away. I
am ashamed of myself.'

The Rector said he would see to all that ;
he sent me here to see after you.'

But will not that look as if we did not
appreciate Mr. Asiiworth's services ? '

'I represented that, but it was no use.
I think now you are all right, I will step
over to the Hall, and tell uncle. He will
be anxious to know ail.'

Give him my love, Jack ! and tell him I
feel all right, only a little nervous.'

'I will carry your message safely. Will
you sit with her while I am away, Mrs.
Pry or ? '

Certainly. I will not leave her till you
come back.'

As John Wharton walked over from Morass
Grange to Gaythorne Hall, the events of
the day came up vividly before him. Their
anticipation of a pleasant afternoon s skating
; their utter freedom from the anticipation
of any accident ; the sudden emergency,
and his sister's providential escape ; his
accidental rencontre with George Ash worth ;
the resumption of their old acquaintanceship
under such startling circumstances :
all passed through the brain, — the thoughts

following each other like coursers in a race.
One thing was very clear : if it had not been
for Ashworth's stature and capacity, his sister
must have been drowned. If he could not
have stood on the bottom of the Weir, no
man could have kept himself up ; let alone
another person, with the water soaking into
his clothes, and the cold benumbing him.
All this went backwards and forwards in
his mind, and then came the thought leaping
suddenly into his consciousness :

Ashworth and Edie always got on well
together, and she is not the girl to owe her
life to a man, and forget him. I think I
can see a new complication springing up
that will upset Oldfield's calculations. It
is scarcely my business ; but I would sooner
have a manly fellow like Ashworth for a
brother-in-law than a little, proper, formal
fellow like Oldfield. But I must neither
make nor meddle. Uncle Edward will not
look at the matter in my light. I may
make myself sure about that.'

When he arrived at the Hall it was clear

that news of the event had got there before
him.

How is Miss Edith ? ' asked Bulman,
as he opened the door.

Then you have heard what has happened
? '

Yes ; as soon as Miss Edith was safe, a
man came hot-foot to the Hall to tell your
uncle.'

How very considerate of him ; considerate
in every way ! How is my uncle ? '

A little excited, sir.'

With that John Wharton was shown into
his uncle's sanctum.

Well, Jack, tHis has been an eventful
day. How is Edie '? '

She is comfortable in bed,, thank you.
I left her under Mrs. Pryor's safe supervision.
She sent her love to you ; and told
me to tell you she felt all right, only a
little nervous.'

She is a brave girl, Edie ; but she has
had a narrow escape. Who is the gentleman
that saved her ? The messenger was

not quite sure. He said he was a stranger
to these parts.'

He is George Ashworth, a surveyor.
He was in the neighbourhood few years
ago, — surveying the Manchester and Sheffield
line ; we saw something of him at
that time. He came occasionally to Fowrass
Grano-e in an evenings.'

Humph,' said the Squire. Somehow
the information did not seem particularly
acceptable to him. ' Then he is not quite
a stranger ? What sort of a man is he ?
Can I invite him to dinner '^ '

I should think so, uncle. His father is
a Lincolnshire clergyman.'

The old Squire seemed greatly puzzled.

you see, Jack, it is rather a difficult
matter to decide upon. One does not want
to seem indifferent in a matter of this kind ;
and yet one does not want to receive the
man with open arms, without knowing something
about him. The Wharton do not
take up with anybody.'

From what I have seen of Ashworth, I

should think he would look upon an invitation
to dine with you as rather a formal
acknowledgment of your recognition of his
services. I don't think he would care for
that.'

People have not been in the custom of
holding an invitation to Gaythorne Hall
cheap ; the Wharton s have never been
promiscuous in their guests. I suppose I
can hardly send him a cheque ; that would
not do.'

The Squire was evidently a little nettled.

That most certainly would not do ! '

Then 1 suppose he must have the captive
of his spear and his bovv^ : that is what
it will end in. Edie is just the sort of
romantic girl to throw herself away upon
the man who has saved her life. '

I don't know that you could call it
throwing herself away in this case.'

Then I suppose you would have no
objections to her doing so.' This was said
with a very manifest amount of temper.

If you haven't, I have. She is too fine

ji girl to be allowed to dispose of herself
as she likes. Others have a right to be
consulted in the matter.'

But, uncle, I do not think Edie is in
such a desperate hurry to get married.
Why should we discuss that subject ; today
of all days, when she has been so near
another destiny ? '

Right, my boy. But you must have a
glass of port ; we cannot allow the occasion
to pass dry-mouthed. Bulman shall uncork
a bottle of 1820, and you shall help
me to drink it. Gout, or no gout.'

How about the gout ? '

I am ever so much better : but gout
or not, I am not going to be scared off a
glass of port, when my own brother's
daughter, — my only niece, Edie, has had so
narrow an escape.'

The modern reader will perhaps be
shocked at such a heathen way of setting
up an Ebenezer ; but then they must
remember the sort of man Squire Wharton
was, and the times.

I really do not think, uncle, I could do
so with a good conscience. 1 do not think
it would do your gout any good.'

Never you mind, Jack ; I bear the gout,
not you ! Only mind this : we've got to
finish the bottle. The less you drink, the
more I must. You must do your fair share
under these circumstances.'

'I wish my share fell to a man who
appreciated it more.'

Well, you're no drinker, Jack. Your
worst enemy could not charge you with
drinking. But to-day remember the occasion.
I have sent up word to the Black
Swan and the Stanhope Arms to draw a
kilderkin of ale each free. I think it a good
old-fashioned plan of letting your poorer
neighbours share with you in your rejoicing.
They enjoy it the more that they
have it among themselves.'

It was very kind of you to do so. I
dare say many of them have tasted little
all these hard times. But you see only the
men benefit by this.'

That's true ; but their wives will be
glad to see them merry.'

The teetotal reader must really forgive
the old Squire. It was not thought improper
for a man to be a little under the
influence of alcohol in his rejoicing, in
Anglo-saxon history, up to a period posterior
to the times here described.

There has not been much merriment
about lately, certainly. I hope none will
drink too much.'

That will be as it happens. Those who
like ale and do not like paying for it, generally
show their hand when there is a free
cask running. Some fellows, steady as a
rule, yield to the temptation. Here comes
Bulman.'

The bottle was left, and the Squire induced
his unwilling ally to join him with
some difficulty.

Come, Jack, don't hang back. We
must drink Edie's health.'

Such was the scene at Gaythorne Hall in
the Squire's sanctum. His generosity to

VOL. II. H

himself and nephew, and to his poorer
neighbours in Brigstone, was extended to
the servants' hall, where some excellent
home-brewed ale was drank to sundry
healths, and sundry songs, under the supervision
of Bulman.

Up in Brigstone the ale flowed freely ;
and even old Jim Woodcock felt he " must
drink a mug of ale " to Miss Wharton's
health at her uncle's expense ; it would not
be neighbourly to abstain from doing so ;
though Jim's rule was to drink at his own
expense, — a matter on which he was very
particular. Perhaps the female sex were
not so entirely excluded from the festivities
as John Wharton had supposed ; a quantity
of ale, hot and spiced, was served out in the
kitchens of the two taverns, and discreetly
and moderately tasted out of tea-cups — to
keep up the proper feminine method of
drinking — by some of the wives and daughters
of those who were sitting billing the
ale-cup in the front parlours. But all was
propriety ; for women are not usually seen

now, and certainly were not seen then, in
ale-houses in the country.

How and under what circumstances the
news of the accident and the rescue reached
Orton Hall, and how it was received by its
inmates, is not on record. Next day Stephen
and Miss Oldfield drove over to Fowrass
Grange, and inquired most solicitously about
Miss Wharton's condition. John Wharton
received them, and informed them that
Miss Wharton was pretty well, but was still
in bed ; it being thought best for her to
remain there, as she still felt a little excited.
Miss Oldfield was very impressive about the
desirability of her taking every care for a
day or two. John Wharton thought it was
not a matter for wonder that Miss Oldfield
was in general good repute among her sex
for kindliness and thoughtfulness.

At the Rectory they all spent a very
pleasant evening, for after an hour or two
in bed, George Ashworth thought he would
like to come down-stairs for a little ; though
his host forbade his thinking of leaving the

H 2

house. Later in the evening Mrs. Pry or
brought word that she left Miss Wharton
comfortable in bed, and recovering from the
shock.

What were the thoughts of the two chief
actors in the recent incident ?

It is needless to say their thoughts ran
mainly on the danger they had shared
together : of that close identity of interests
which they had divided between them in
the dark icy water of the weir-pool. Miss
Wharton fully realized that without George
Ashworth's help she would never have
emerged from the water a living being ;
that she would have met a watery grave.
By a fortunate accident, George Ashworth
had escaped sharing her fate. Had the
water been deeper, or his stature less, he
must have perished with her, in the attempt
to save her. He had run a terrible risk,
clearly, in adventuring his own life in the
attempt to save hers ; and had been successful
! She owed her life to him. He was
indeed a gallant gentleman, she felt.

George Ash worth's memory recalled with
the utmost fidelity every incident, even the
most minute, of that experience in the weir-pool.
He thought of Miss Wharton's pale,
discoloured features ; of the weight of her
unconscious form ; of her delirious stru^sfle.
when he was compelled to hold her firmly.
He felt he would go through it twenty
times over, if he might only so hold her in
his arms again. It was a delicious memory.
Was it a wild hope that he felt surging up
in him, that some day, perhaps, he might
be able to hold her in his arms aerain ?

o

What did she think, he wondered ?

Each of them recognized the impression
made by a brief but memorable experience.
They had been together only some ten
minutes ; but already the event seemed
indelibly engraved on the life-history of
each. Neither could ever forget that time,
no matter how brief, when they had been
thrown together, isolated from all human
contact ; with an experience they shared
between them alone, outside the rest of the

world. When they looked back it was
there : when they thought of the future it
was there. The impression could never be
effaced. Come what might, they felt they
could never forget that momentous time.
All their future would carry this impression
with it. As the great sage says :

After the tossing half-forgetfulness of
the first sleep that follows such an event,
it comes upon us afresh, as a surprise, at
waking ; in a few moments it is old again
old as eternity.'

These are the brief, impressive moments
which leave their imprint on lives ; there
is no more escape from them than that the
body can desert its shadow. As the sage
continues, he says :

Did you ever happen to see that most
soft-spoken and velvet-handed steam-engine
at the Mint ? The smooth piston slides
backwards and forwards as a lady may slip
her delicate finger in and out of a ring.
The engine lays oue of its fingers calmly,
but firmly, upon a bit of metal ; it is a coin

now, and will remember that touch, and tell
a new race about it, when the date upon it
is crusted over with twenty centuries.'

The engine of destiny had left its stamp
upon the life-histories of George Shorthand
Edith Wharton in that brief experience,
that ten minutes' immersion in the weir-pool
; while Old Death with his scythe was
hovering over them !

CHAPTER V.

A NEW MOVEMENT.

For a day or two Miss Wharton remained
slightly nervous after her immersion and
her escape from death in the weir, but
soon she was riding about again on ' Daisy,'
eagerly welcomed by all. North country
folks are not given to outward demonstrations
of class-respect ; but the cap was
readily doffed, or the old-fashioned curtsey
dropped, on her approach.

God bless yo, Miss ! Glad to see yo
well again ! ' was the greeting which met heron
all sides ; testifying to her popularity
with the people around Fowrass Grange. Of
course her first ride was to visit her uncle,
who was overjoyed to see her after her
narrow escape. But his welcome steered

clear of all but the barest reference to her
preserver. Edith Wharton, ^Yoman as she
was, saw what that attitude in her uncle
meant ; it said plainly enough : 'I do not
wish to see any one come betwixt Mr.
Oldfield and you ; ' but whether his attitude
served his cause, or not, may be open
to question.

As to George Ashworth, he called at
Fowrass Grange the day after the accident,
and found John Wharton at home. He
inquired after Miss Wharton, who was in
bed. Her brother went up to her, and
came back with this message :

Tell Mr. Ashworth I am well ; and
thank him for me for saving my life.
Perhaps before long I may have an opportunity
of thanking him myself.' It was
brief, and to the point. Yet it was deliciously
sweet to Ashworth's eager ear, in
that it referred to the future — to their meeting
again. She evidently hoped they would
see each other again. A feather will tell
which way the wind blows. This reference

to the future, slight as it was, fell on Ash-worth's
ear like a faint distant sound of
music only caught by the most attentive
listener.

I am glad to have had the opportunity
of being of service to her,' was his remark.
Seemingly to get rid of the subject as
quickly as might be, he changed the conversation.


Are you going to attend the meeting at
Sheffield on the 28th, Mr. Wharton ?'

The Anti - Corn Law meeting, you
mean ? '

Yes. It is called in response to the
meetings at Manchester.'

I shall certainly be there. Have you
any idea of the plan of the new movement ?
It has no connection with the Charter,
has it ? '

None whatever. It will have nothing
to do with the Chartist, or any other movement.
Its sole object is the repeal of the
Corn Laws. And for this end it has its
own programme of agitation.'

Have you any idea what proposals will
come before the meeting ?'

I fancy the proposition put will be to
agitate the subject by meetings and lectures,
expounding the facts of the case, and
pointing out the injurious effects of the
Corn Laws ; to have the subject thoroughly
ventilated so that the voice of the people
will call for their repeal.'

It seems a most reasonable line to take.
I suppose the Chartists will support the
movement ? "

I do not know how that may be. The
Chartists may support the Anti-Corn Law
League ; but the League will have nothing
to do with the Charter, that is certain.
Villiers and Cobden are too clear-sighted to
risk their movement by any compromise
with the Chartists.'

I think it might be well to carry something
or tangible, as well as to advocate
reform. But the landowners will fight
desperately.'

That is anticipated, and the measures to

be taken will be proportioned to the
opposition looked for.'

I am glad there is no mistake about the
magnitude of what is to be undertaken.
Shall you be there ? '

I hope so. If I can manage it, I will :
good-bye.'

George Ashworth left Fowrass Grange
with a joyous heart. Miss Wharton had
expressed the hope of seeing him again.
John Wharton's sympathy with the new
movement offered a good prospect of his
being able to keep up his connection with
Fowrass Granite. He carried himself erect ;
his head thrown back, his shoulders square,
his eye looking forward eagerly, as if peering
into the future ; and looking down the
Adsta, at the end a tall, lithe, female figure
could be faintly discerned ; his step was
elastic and his demeanour buoyant. Hopefulness
was manifested in every line of his
figure, in every movement.

When the 28th arrived, John Wharton
could be seen to mount his powerful steed,

equipped for a cold ride. He wore bis cord
breeches, and riding-boots of stout leather ;
and a short riding overcoat of thick navy
cloth. He looked a country gentleman
every inch of him, as he settled down into
the saddle easily, and rode off. There was
nothing about him to indicate any sympathy
with a movement directed straight at the
class to which he clearly belonged. Luke
Ellwood gazed after him as he rode
away.

she's off to th' meeting' at Sheffield.
When th' manufacturers see he's joined
them, they'll begin to think th' landowners
are coming' over to them. But he'll be th'
only one their. That's my opinion. It's a
good thing for all on us that th' Grange is
a grazing farm.' Whereupon Luke turned
away to mind his own duties.

John Wharton enjoyed his ride. Who is
there that has been familiar with the circumstances,
who does not look back with
pleasure to a ride in the morning before the
frost has well trot off the roads, even where

exposed to the sun ? — the bracing air ; the
ring of his horse's shoes on the hard, icebound
road ; the firm feeling of his horse
under him, the animal apparently enjoying
all as much as his rider. A snort or two
testified to the horse's opinion. His rider
was too familiar with the scene to be
especially impressed. He merely looked
round, and remarked to himself that it was
a fine winter day, and it was very unlikely
the meeting would be interfered with by the
elements.

Come, Hawk,' he said to his horse after
awhile, ' you must step out directly. We
must be in Sheffield before the hour is over.'
Hawk apparently comprehended what was
said — as horses often do — and by another
snort testified his willingness to increase his
pace. As the tall powerful horse with its
equally well-built rider rode into the town
of Sheffield, their appearance attracted the
attention of the gathering crowds.

He'll be wun o' th' country magistrates
coming' to tek' a not ov' th' meeting, I

o-uess,' was the remark of one of the
beholders.

It's nut th' first day he an' th' herse
hav' been out together, I'se warrant, by
th' luik o' them,' said another.

As indifferent to these remarks and the
attention he attracted, as complete unconsciousness
of both could make him, John
Wharton rode to his hostelry ; his attention
being taken up with the character of the
people he saw gathering together for the
occasion. They consisted of well-to-do
looking men, probably mill-owners and
manufacturers, with a large admixture of
mill-hands, grinders, operatives, and artisans
of the better class. The rough element of
the Chartist movement was conspicuous by
its absence. He noted this fact, and thought
it of good omen.

Soon he reappeared, the traces of travelling
having been carefully removed from
his boots and outer garments, presenting
all the appearance of a gentleman, clad as
became his position, and the season. His

tall figure could easily be followed amongst
the shorter crowd around him. He had not
gone far before he encountered a gentleman
whom he knew.

Why, Wharton, you here ? ' his acquaintance
asked.

Certainly. Why not ^ '

Why not ? Why you are a landowner,
and a farmer; the heir to considerable
estates ; and here at an An ti Corn Law
meeting ! ' Turning to a fine grey-haired
gentleman with whom he was conversing,
he said :

'May I have the pleasure of introducing
Mr. John Wharton to you, Mr.
Carlyon ? '

Glad to make your acquaintance, Mr.
Wharton ; from what our common friend
here says you could scarcely be expected to
come here, — unless it is to take a note of
what goes on.'

I am not only proposing to take a note
of the proceedings, but I am decidedly
inclined to take a part.'

Not against us, I hope said Mr.
Carlyon, rather eagerly.

No ; with you, to be sure ! Class
interests are strong ; and so ara individual
interests ; but national interests are stronger
still. I shall need no conversion on the
matter of the injurious effects of these Corn
Laws; "the bread-tax" they call it in
Sheffield.'

I am delighted to hear you say so. I
hope we will have a good meeting. Will
you walk on with us ? ' They turned ; the
common friend feeling that he had served
the part of an intermediary, and was of no
farther use. He was not a man given to
take offence ; and having introduced two
men to each other who seemed likely to
get on well, he had a pleasant feeling of
having done a good turn ; and was not
inclined to force himself upon their notice.
He was gratified to see how genially they
took to each other.

Before long they neared the Town Hall,
to find that as the day was fine without

VOL. II. I

any threatening of rain or snow, and the
gathering large, it had been proposed and
carried to hold the meeting in Paradise
Square. So all made for the Square where
it was understood Colonel Baronet Thompson
was already in his place. The Square was
thronged, and John Wharton's speculations
as to the whereabouts of the Chartists,
moral and physical force both, where solved
by seeing a Chartist banner, or two, surrounded
by a dense band of these reformers
in one corner of the Square.

There are the Chartists, Mr, Carlyon.'

Ah ! so I see. This looks as if they
were going to take some line of their own.'

The Corn Law agitators are going to
keep clear of the Chartists, I hear ? '

They must, you see. It would be utter
ruin to their cause to be mixed up with
men who have been riotous here and there ;
and who, whether they like it or not, have
drawn into their ranks all the seditious
elements over the country > here and elsewhere.
They cannot be successful except

by holding aloof completely from any
questionable agitation. Villiers and Cobden
mean to stick to their last. Corn Law
Repeal, pure and simple, is their programme.
You will soon hear it expounded.'

It was not long before a clear, powerful,
and withal pleasant voice was heard ringing
over the large assemblage. This was
the gist of what was said :

It is not necessary to formally introduce
the subject of the injurious effects of
the Corn Laws to the people of Sheffield.
Under your illustrious townsman, Mr.
Ebenezer Elliott, an " Anti - Bread Tax
Society " has long existed in this town.
The agitation for the Reform Bill overwhelmed
it, and drew it from its special
object. It got caught in the current of
the stream of the Reform Agitation ; and
it is a lesson to us to avoid the same fate.
Another " Anti-Corn Law Association " has
been in existence some time in London, of
which your townsman, Mr. Roebuck, is a
member, as well as other illustrious persons.

I 2

They have tried to induce the Government
to promise they will attend to the Corn
Laws ; and the answer has been made them,
that before the Government will do anything
they must be convinced that the
voice of the people is in favour of the
repeal of these laws. What does this mean ?
It means that the Government knows that
the House of Commons consists largely of
landowners ; and that, by the property
qualification, every member must have an
interest in the land : while the House of
Lords are distinctly landowners. Until
the voice of the people declares in accents
unmistakable and emphatic, that it is
opposed to these laws, nothing can or will
be attempted by the Government. This is
the mocking answer of the Prime Minister.
Manchester has accepted this challenge, and
proposes to arouse the attention of the
people on the subject. A committee has
been formed there who are determined to
agitate the question ; to sift the facts ; to
put them before the public ; and thus to

test the national feeling on the subject. It
has seemed to them that the time has come
when the subject must be dealt with. So
long as we had good harvests the land
could produce what the population required.
But the failure of the harvests has sent up
the price of wheat to eighty shillings per
quarter. There are many more mouths to
feed than there used to be ; the area of
land under cultivation remains about the
same ; where are the extra mouths to get
bread ? How are the empty stomachs to
be filled ? There are foreign countries
which could meet this new demand ; but
the landowner bars the way, and steps in
betwixt the hungry millions and the foreign
corn-grower, who would only be too glad
to feed them, by the Corn Laws which
stand in the way. Sheffield knows what
dear bread means in bad times. It means
want, hunger, famine ! ' Here broke out a
round of general applause in which the
Chartist group joined heartily.

To keep up the landowners' rents the

people must starve. Further, the manufacturers
cannot give the help they willingly
would ; because these Corn Laws cripple
them too. The upholders of these Laws
argue that the manufacturers have a personal
interest in the repeal of these Lawes.
Who denies it ! But it does not follow
that their reason is that with cheap bread
they could lower wages, as is asserted. If
these Laws which restrict commerce were
repealed, the manufacturers could pay more
wages, and employ more hands ; and thus
the workmen would benefit as well as their
employers. It would be better for everyone,
all round. I will show you why. We
put a tax on imported corn, and thus handicap
the foreign corn-grower. He never is
sure of what is before him. Even when
corn is low he could sell here to a profit if
he could get our market price. But as the
price falls the duty rises ; and when he has
paid the duty there is not enough left to
pay him. What is the result ? Instead of
borrowing corn for the English market on the

chance of a bad harvest, the foreigner takes
to manufactures. They cannot pay for our
manufactures with corn, so they manufacture
themselves. If they could exchange
their corn for our goods, the manufacturer
could employ more hands, and pay
better wages ; while the loaf would be
cheaper.' Here came another burst of
cheering.

It is a question —-ave the landowners
of England to carry the day against all
other classes, and all other interests ? Have
the employers of labour to be crippled,
and the employed to hunger, in order
to keep up rents ? Is it setting class
against class to point out how all other
classes have to suffer, in order that the
landowner may thrive ? I think not ! The
arguments are on our side, and wee mean to
circulate them thoroughly. We propose to
have a newspaper ; three lecturers to go about
the country ; and to spread tracts and
pamphlets far and wide ; in the firm conviction
that a proper knowledge of the

facts will guide the nation in its decision.
To do this will cost money ; and we propose
to provide that money. We say with
Cobden : " Let us invest part of our
property, in order to save the rest from
confiscation." We must part with some in
order to save the ret>t. " For all will go if
things do not take a change." He then put
formally to the meeting a proposition in
accordance with the views expressed in the
speech.

The proposition was seconded by another
speaker, who said : ' I endorse every word
that has been said ; but I should like to
point out this fact, that in consequence of
cheaper food, the foreign manufacturer can
work with smaller wages than we can ; and
so is enabled to compete with us. If the
price of corn was fairly equal in their
country and ours, they could not compete
with us. It would be better for them, as
well as for us, if they could sell us corn,
and with the money buy our goods. But
they never know what to look for. The

English corn-merchant can run down prices
when corn is coming in freely, and so run
up the duty ; and then having thus checked
the import, run the price up again. Our
troubles are aggravated by systematic
gambling in corn. We have entered upon
bad times ; we have had a short harvest ; and
that, coming upon the top of slack trade,
has made food very dear, while there is
little money to buy it with ; and unless we
can get relief by the repeal of the Can
Laws, we must all look out for much
privation. I beg to second the motion.'
The crowd cheered lustily.

Just at this moment, a tall figure arose
from among the Chartist group, mounting
a chair that had been brought in readiness ;
and, in loud stentorian tones, a Chartist
speaker proposed an amendment to the proposition.
He adduced the usual Chartist
arguments in favour of reform, and then
proceeded to argue : ' The Corn Laws are
bad, we all admit. They are the outcome
of class legislation, and intended to protect

the interests of the landed party, which
furnishes most of our law-makers. But
they are not the only bad laws ; nor the
only laws which need repealing. Why
waste time over a part instead of holding
together to carry the whole ? If we had
the Charter, then we could soon get rid of
all the bad laws.' Here the group of
Chartists cheered loudly. A voice was
heard from the other side of the Square :
Better get a part, than get nothing in
trying for too much,' in the lulls of the
cheering. This was the essence of the
antagonism betwixt the reformers who
looked to the Charter to put all right, and
the Anti-Corn Law agitator, who aimed atone
particular object ; and would not be
diverted therefrom.

At last, when the noise had abated,
another speaker mounted the chair, and
inveighed against the new movement asa
purely selfish action on the part of the
manufacturers ; and calculated to cause
division amidst the ranks of reformers. He

condemned it, and seconded the amendment
put before the meeting, to the effect
that the meeting was in favour of the
Charter, and would support the Chartist
agitation ; and was not in favour of the
restricted Anti-Corn Law agitation. The
Chartists again cheered ; but it became
clearer and more apparent than before, that
they formed only a decided minority of the
meeting ; though Sheffield was a stronghold
of Chartism.

The amendment was put to the vote, and
the president of the meeting counted the
hands held up. Plenty from all sides of
the Square followed the count ; there was
no mistake as to the number of hands hell
up. At first the impression was to the
effect that the number was so large it must
amount to a majority of those present.
But when the original motion was put, the
number of hands was at once seen to be
greater. The count was carefully made ;
and it was found that, in reality, there was
a majority of two to one in favour of the

original motion for attacking the Corn Laws
by appeal to public opinion. Time Chartists
were quite taken by surprise, and could
scarcely believe their eyes and ears ; but it
was impossible to mistake the conclusion.
They were dumb foundered thereat.

The crowd gradually dispersed, and eager
conversation ruled everywhere. Mr. Carlyon
said to John Wharton :

What do you say to the result ? '

I am considerably surprised thereat.'

How has it come about ? '

It is quite clear that there is a great
party of free-traders in the country, who do
not go the length of the Charter. Also, I
fancy, that a section of the reformers would
rather try for a distinct and feasible object,
like the repeal of the obnoxious Corn Laws,
than try for an ideal which has little
prospect of attainment.'

Quite right. Besides, it is more like the
English character to strive for an attainable
concrete something, than to seek an idea
more like a French revolution. I have

never supported the Charter ; for I could
not believe in its ever being carried.'

I have felt compelled to support it on
principle. The principle is right ; but the
practice may have less to recommend it.
These physical force fellows injure it by
their appeal to violence. I cannot uphold
threats. Still I hold the principle to be
right. Like you, I have my doubts as to
the possibility of carrying the Charter.
This movement has more promise in it,'
replied John Wharton.

Violence will be met by force. The
Whigs would like more violence at heart ;
and then they could put down the whole
movement. " Finality John," and Lord
Melbourne, and one or two more have pronounced
against Reform ; and would like to
stamp out the movement. But they have
not the same objection to the Corn Law
repeal. If the distress keeps on increasing,
Finality John" will pretty certainly be
ready to try the repeal of the Corn Tax.'

You think so ? '

'Decidedly. The Conservative party are
never likely to espouse the repeal of laws
which serve them well ; as being more distinctly
landowners than the Whigs. The
fixed determination to have nothing to do
with the Chartists, to enter upon no political
subjects except the Corn Laws, and the Corn
Laws solely; and their disavowal of anything
but peaceful means for the carrying
of their end : these two great principles of
the Corn Law repealers will embarrass the
Government. The arguments they have
used against the Chartist movement will
scarcely meet the present occasion.'

Such and such-like were the conversations
held everywhere. The one given above
may serve as a specimen of the views of
the more moderate repealers ; but more
forcible views were expressed by others.
The Chartists were highly chagrined by
the vote ; and vented their rage in furious
threats, which the wilder section were not
at all unlikely to put into execution. At
such a time the prudent counsels of the

more moderate party were not likely to be
either acceptable or heeded.

I must say good-bye, Mr. Carlyon. I
see a gentleman I must speak to said John
Wharton, who had caught sight of George
Ashworth's lofty figure towering over the
crowd.

Good-bye, Mr. Wharton. I am very
glad to have made your acquaintance. I
can now say that I have met a landowner
at an Anti-Corn Law meeting, when any
strong assertion is made in my presence
about the attitude of the landowners.'

Please do not hold me up as a traitor to
my class. That would not be pleasant.'

I understand you and the old gentleman
nodded kindly, as much as to say — 'I
shall not hold you up in any unfavourable
light ' — ' I hope we shall meet again. 1
come to Buxton in the summer months.
John Wharton, Esq., Landowner and Corn
Law Repeater, near Sheffield. Will that
find you if I write to you ? '

I hardly think that will do ; though it

might find me. There is my card ; goodbye.'


John Wharton made his way towards
George Ash worth, and shaking hands cordially,
they went off together. The inquiries
after Miss Wharton were necessarily brief;
but it was welcome news to Ashworth that
Miss Wharton had quite recovered from the
effects of her accident : and he sent a brief
message to her to that effect. He thought
for a moment perhaps she might have sent
a word to him ; but soon he saw that was
out of the question, if it were only for the
reason that she could not know that he was
to be present at the meeting. Both were
full of the meeting, the arguments, the
result of the count, and the petition to be
sent up to Parliament as the outcome of
the meeting, for the repeal of the obnoxious
laws. In five days the petition was sent
off to London, bearing no less than thirteen
thousand signatures.

Such was the response Sheffield gave to
the movement over the moors at Manchester.

CHAPTER VI.

MIXED MOTIVES.

Ix the good years of ample harvests and
thriving trade which preceded the times
here spoken of, a bank had been established
at Wybrow. The two great promoters of
the bank were a Mr. Waddington, a manufacturer
; and a Mr. Mortlake, a wealthy
corn-merchant. Both had some spare
capital which they wished to make remunerative;
and they agreed to start a
bank. They were very select in their
choice of shareholders ; and only men of
local position were asked to take up scriptures.
Indeed it was an honour as well asa
clear pecuniary advantage to be permitted
to join the Wybrow Bank. Squire Wharton
had been asked to join in the scheme, but,

VOL. II. K

as he explained before, Mr. Haddington's
high-handed behaviour had roused his
Wharton touchiness, and he had held aloof ;
to his loss, as he said. Stephen Oldfield
had also been invited to join in the venture,
and had gladly taken shares. He had
a comfortable property ; but he had had to
clear off a mortgage, which, together with
his keeping up appearances, had prevented
his possessing much capital. This, however,
was no great difficulty, as the first call was
only fifty shillings oji the hundred-pound
share. So he took five hundred shares ;
and deposited twelve hundred and fifty
pounds ; io large sum for him.

The scheme of the promoters was as
follows : — They would start with a guaranteed
capital of such amount as would secure
the confidence of the people around Wy-brow.
By having local landowners to take
shares the utmost certainty was secured
as to this confidence. Instead of subscribing
all the capital at once, which would be
very difficult to raise, and might much of it

lie idle, they adopted the plan of scrip-shares,
the usual one, by which a small deposit only
was paid up at once ; and the rest could he
called upon if required. It is an alluring
prospect, because the small sum paid up is
often not exceeded ; unless, perhaps, by a
second call equal in amount to the first.
Even with this second call Mr. Oldfield
would be getting the advantages of a fifty
thousand pounds investment with an outlay
of two thousand five hundred Impounds. It
is not the money actually paid up, but the
magic of the guaranteed capital which
draws the profits. With the guarantee in
the form of shareholders of means and
position, the people readily deposited their
money with the bank. The depositors got
two and a half per cent, for their money ;
which was lent out again at five per cent.
The shareholders drew two and a half percent.,
less working expenses, on the money
deposited with them. They did not work
with their own paid up money, but with
the money deposited at the bank ; the

K 2

depositors being safe with the guaranteed
capital. By prudence and good management
the concern was humanly certain to pay.
The Wybrow Bank commanded the confidence
of the locality, and soon was a prosperous,
thriving concern. Those who had
not been invited to take shares, held themselves
as aggrieved in being: shut out
from the golden harvest the harvesters were

o

reaping.

Stephen Oldfield found his shares in the
Wybrow Bank a very pleasant addition to
his income. Not only did they make housekeeping
easy, but the additional income
allowed him to indulge in pleasing visions
for the future. He had seen how the
investment would make Hus his firstborn,
and Bus his brother, with any little sisters
which Providence might send him when
he married, welcome and welcomed. There
would be no straitness, no res augusta dorni.
There would be plenty for all ; and if more
was needed a like venture would procure
the desired means. There was scarcely a

sufficient element of risk about the concern
to entitle it to be called a venture. Mr.
Oldfield always treated Messrs. Waddington
and Mortlake with that courtesy all readily
extend to men who have put money into
their pockets — and, what is more, may some
day put greater sums into their pockets.
The country gentleman could treat a manufacturer
and a corn-merchant as belonging
to his order under these especial circumstances.
Once a year Mr. Oldfield invited
his CO-shareholders to dine with him at
Orton Hall. When so met, they regarded
themselves as the benefactors of the district ;
and not only did they themselves think so,
but their neighbours shared the opinion
with them. The Wybrow Bank was spoken
of with respect ; both by those who deposited
their savings with it, and by those wIkj
borrowed from it. The country folks preferred
to keep their spare cash with people
of whom they knew something. Borrowers
were glad to get the money somewhere ;
and potential borrowers were civil and

respectful to capitalists to whom they might
one clay have to apply. The few shareholders
were greeted with respect on all
hands. Stephen Oldfield certainly enjoyed
his position at once as Squire of Orton Hall,
and one of the shareholders of the prosperous
Wybrow Bank. These shareholders kept
themselves familiar with the main proceedings
ot the bank, and knew what was
going on. No sum of any importance was
lent out without the subject coming before
their notice. They constituted a board of
directors, to which the bank-manager had
to submit his operations. This was a
great matter with depositors, who felt the
utmost security in the bank ; as they knew
til at a careful scrutiny was exercised, and
no advances made without the requisite
security. No borrower must appear without
his surety to be bound for him. The
Wybrow Bank was inexorable on that head.
The genera] impression abroad was, that
this bank made no bad debts. But with a
trustworthy surety with him, the borrower

was accommodated with the utmost readiness,
and politely too withal.

There was no limited liability in the
matter ; each shareholder was liable to the
full extent of his fortune. The depositors
could never come to grief. The borrowers
knew they were on the right side. It was
just this question of unlimited liability which
made the success of the bank a matter of
paramount interest to the shareholders. It
was only in case of a heavy loss that any
further call might become necessary ; and
a heavy loss was not very likely with such
men as steered the Wybrow Bank. Mr.
Waddington was well known as a prosperous
manufacturer, with several good investments.
Mr. Mortlake's operations were of
some magnitude, and he too was held ' a
safe man.' The two other shareholders
were men of property, residing on the other
side of Wybrow. The private property of
these five shareholders was a guarantee
which could not be called in question ; a
trustworthy surety for the bank. When

John Wharton alluded to Stephen Oldfield's
having his foot deep in the Wybrow Bank,
he referred to this unlimited liability incase
things went wrong. Oldfield's estates
were worth more than fifty thousand
pounds ; though that would be a heavy
charge on them. But if anything did go
seriously wrong, he was liable as long asa
penny remained unpaid to the last
farthing that he possessed. But the danger
was speculative rather than real.

When the bad harvest came, the deposits
from the farming element ceased to expand ;
indeed showed a marked tendency to become
stationary. If bad times continued, these
balances would shrink ; and then farmers
would be borrowers rather than depositors.
This was recognized, and the bank made
its arrangements accordingly. Amongst the
rest their inquiry into the validity of a
borrower's surety became very searching.
The people held this as a proof of the
prudence of the management.

As the spring of 1839 wore on, wheat

kept up to that price that foreign corn came
in with a very small duty ; and without
such imports, bread would have been at
famine prices. But, though corn was so
high, the harvest had been such a poor
one the farmers were short of money.
Many went to the Wybrow Bank for
advances against the spring sowing, and
though accompanied by good sureties could
not be accommodated. To increase the
working capital the prospect of a new call
was mooted. This was a grave matter. Five
per cent, on money advanced would not
allow money well invested to be withdrawn
by the bank. To put on a mortgage at
four per cent, to lend at five, left one percent.,
which would not meet the legal
expenses so incurred until several years had
passed. If any rumours of the bank being
straitened for funds got about, the lessening
stream of deposits might disappear, and a
drain of withdrawals set in.

Merit is other people's opinion of you,'
said Talleyrand ; and advances had been

made to some friends of the two chief promoters
securities which it was found were
not readily negotiable ; and there was a real
pinch. A further call on the shareholders
was unavoidable. They kept the fact to
themselves ; but the money had to be
raised. Mr. Stephen Oldfield had always
been an acute and ready critic of the
actions of others ; but when he came to
have to take action himself, he found it
neither so easy nor so simple as he had
always assumed. It was impossible to
press the persons to whom these advances
had been made. But if it turned out
that the securities, after all, were valueless ?
A cold shiver of anticipation ran down his
back. For the first time he surveyed the
dark side of his connection with the Wybrow
Bank. He did not know what other
schemes the two promoters might be mixed
up with. If anything went wrong with
the bank, Orton Hall might have to go !
The thought was terrible ; for a time it paralyzed
him. Instead of the pleasing visions

which the Wyhrow Bank had hitherto
called up in him, he now saw a distinct if
distant danger looming up.

The vulpine element was not wanting in
Mr. Oldfieid's character, nor did it lie very
far below the surface. He was responsible
to the last penny of what he possessed —
stock, lock, and barrel.' There was no
mistake about that. It might be well to
be prepared for the worst, in case the worst
did happen. Various schemes floated
through his brain ; even to raising a heavy
mortgage upon his estate, and investing it
somewhere in some one else's name. But
that was a very serious matter. Some
other plan than that surely must be feasible.
Then came other thoughts ; and
among them the remembrance of what
Squire Wharton said about the canal-shares
which would come to his niece. If she
married him, he would give them up ; even
if the old settlement was not in existence,
the Squire would act as if it was. Edith
Wharton now had two aspects for him.

Of course the young lady-reader will be
inclined to pour out the vials of her wrath
as well as her scorn upon such a caitiff
lover ; but if she herself be possessed of a
fortune in esse, or even in posse, she may have
occasion to find it, as well as herself, may
have attractions even for some very nice
and very honourable gentleman. Men do
not marry for money, they ' go where
money is.' So it will not be fair to the
prim little gentleman to judge him too
severely.

With these canal shares settled strictly
upon herself — it would look well in making
the arrangements to be scrupulously careful
on this head — their income would break
his fall ; if a fall should become imminent.
There was still such an income as would
keep the wolf from the door, — even if the
door should not be so imposing in solid
oaken grandeur as the front-door of Or ton
Hall. Under the influence of the new train
of thought which had taken possession of
him, Mr. Oldfield began to think seriously

al)out Miss AVharton. They had not seen
so much of the Wharton during the spring,
he remembered. They had* not been fortunate
in finding them at home ; then the
Wharton had not called so frequently.
How was it ? John Wharton had joined the
Anti-Corn Law agitation, and his uncle had
been very angry about it. How had he
heard this ? It must have been at the
sessions, or somewhere. It was like John
AVharton, a quixotic fellow, who did as he
pleased, and did not consult his uncle ashe
ought to do. But when he became his
brother-in law he would be on the old
Squire's side, he would find. Yes ; but
the little gentleman realized — I am not his
brother-in-law yet ! Then his thoughts
went to Miss Wharton, and to the proposal
he had made her in the year before. She
had not definitely refused him ; she had
allowed him to call her by her Christian
name. In this frame of mind he found
himself discounting that permission. To
take an arithmetical view of such a permission

indicated how utterly the lover
had become for the time the man of
business. She had not forbidden him
from asking her again to become his wife.
Then the escape from drowning came upon
him so suddenly as to make him start.
Yes, by the way, what had become of the
gallant preserver ? Had he been heard of
lately ? How he would have liked to have
stood in his place ; then came the corroding
thought of his own stature ! It had been
a question of inches. Had he been there
they only could have perished together.
That would not have been a happy ending !
Mr. Oldfield was not in the habit of regarding
himself as an object of commiseration
on account of his straitened proportions ;
but now a twinge of envy went through
him. Rad he been as tall as Mr. Ash worth
he could have done the same. But he was
not a son of Anak ; nor could thought
add a cubit to his stature. Had this
gigantic fellow got in the way of his
prospects ? Edith Wharton was just the

girl to hold an exasperated estimate of the
value of the service rendered to her. What
was it, after all ? Standing ten minutes in
water holding up a lovely girl. That the
water was cold and muddy was nothing.
But young women had these fancies.
Suppose John Wharton liked Ash worth
better than himself : what then ? Only
that it was another instance of Wharton's
bad taste. Still it would favour the other
candidate for Miss Wharton's hand. Of
course he was a candidate ; no one would
disdain that chance. He thought sufficiently
highly of Miss Wharton and her attractions
to understand his rival's admiring
her. Rival, indeed ! Why of course he
would be. Had that personage been heard
of at Fowrass Grange since the episode on
the ice ? An angry burning pang of jealousy
shot through him. Hei would ask .Maria.

At lunch lie led the conversation up to
Fowrass Grange.

We have not seen much of the Wharton
lately,' he remarked in an wolf-hand way.

No ; v/e have not : I wonder how it is ? '
was the reply.

They have not been at home when we
have called, I think.'

No ; nor have they found us at home,
1 remember. It is odd.'

I wonder how they are. Have you
heard anything of them, Maria, lately ? '

No ; I only heard some one say that John
Wharton seemed to be making a great
friend of the man who saved his sister's
life. They are both Radicals.'

Was that all ? ' he inquired, with a distinct
emphasis in the tone. His sister at once
surmised what was in her brother's mind.

He seems to have been at the Grange
several times,' was the guarded answer.

Mr. Oldfield had a curious and singular
practice. He detested flies, and was in the
habit of dropping coins upon them. He
had become exceedingly expert from practice
; and noting the exact position of a fly
upon the table would calculate its place, and
drop a coin upon the unsuspecting insect

with great, indeed almost unerring, precision.
He seemed suddenly to become conscious
that there were several of these winged
and segmented intruders upon the table.
Taking a sovereign from his purse he proceeded
to exercise his skill upon the unfortunate
diptercB ; and soon several motionless
black objects testified to his expertness
and adroitness. His sister did not like the
practice, but she kept her opinion to herself.
She saw her brother was absorbed
in thought by the abandon with which he
gave himself to his repulsive sport : yet it
was evident that it was not the muscidm
who were the objects of his absorption.
After the remaining flies had seemed to
become conscious of the danger veritably
overhanging them, and maintained a safe
distance, — an intellectual process which Mr.
Romanes would maintain is not beyond
their powers, he replaced the coin in his
purse. After a little more thought he
remarked :

Maria, I think it desirable to brinor

VOL. II. L

matters to a final issue betwixt myself and
Miss Wharton. She must know her mind
by now.' His sister listened in amazement :
she had no idea of the thoughts which had
that morning occupied and exercised her
brother's mind.

Within a week or so Mr. Oldfield had
carried out his purpose. It fell out in this
way. He met Miss Wharton coming down
the lawn from Gaythorne Hall. Her tall,
erect figure came suddenly upon him from
behind a curve in the evergreens. Taken
suddenly, he raised his hat, greeted her, and
asked if he might turn back with her. The
permission was granted, though it could not
be said in very encouraging accents. After
some commonplaces he entered upon the
particular topic.

You remember our interview some
months ago, Edith — ' here the girl winced
slightly. He noted the movement, slight
as it was, and went on : ' It was then you
accorded to me the privilege of calling you
by your Christian name ; a great privilege

1 regard it. I then told you the state of
my feelings towards you ; and though you
woukl not yiekl to my persuasions at that
time, you gave me permission to address
you again — at some future time — on the
subject.'

That is so,' was the curt encouraging
reply. Tt was quite clear from the manner
of each that their attitude was distinctly
different from what it was on the first
occasion. There seemed less of passionate
affection in the suitor's speech ; less of
sympathy on the part of the lady. Altogether
there was a stiffness — a mannerism
in each, which boded no good to the suit.

After further examination of my feelings
I find them unaltered. I find my love
for you, Edith, not only undiminished, but
strengthened, by the lapse of time.' This
was not very loving, and yet the little
man was doing his best. ' Allow me,' he
said, opening the gate for them. Miss
Wharton instinctively compared the little
piece of formality with another man she

L 2

knew ; the comparison was not to the advantage
of her (companion. Cupid might
have been seen, — if the natural eye could
have seen him, unbending his bow, and
fastening up his quiver. * I have hoped,
indeed I have, Edith,' he said in a more
eager tone, ' that you would turn a more
complaisant ear to my pleading than you
did before. I have hoped that my love
would be returned this time. Have you
an answer for me ? ' He looked at her
beseechingly.

When I gave you permission to address
me again, I held out no hope to you that
my decision would be other than as before.
I too have examined my feelings towards
you ; and I cannot find any change in
them.'

Do not say so. Do not tell me that. I
cannot believe you, Edith ! *

I am sorry if you cannot believe me. I
trust your disbelief will not entail our
entering upon this subject again, Mr.
Oldfield.'

I cannot think you mean what you say.
You are saying so to try me : to test me : to
see if my love for you is strong enough to
bear repeated rebuffs.'

I am deeply sorry if you will persist in
regarding my answer in that light. I see
no prospect of any change in my feelings.
Why do you persist in pursuing a course
which is so painful to both of us ? ' This
indicated a distinct departure from her
former attitude ; then she seemed willing
to do all she could to spare him pain : now
she seemed less tender, less considerate —
even aggressive.

Because I cannot help it. When a man
loves a woman heart and soul, he cannot
believe she will never return his love, — if hebe
patient.'

I am afraid in this case, Mr. Oldfield,
the patience will not prevail.' A host of
suspicions swept through his mind like a
hurricane ; why should she be thus certain
that time would work no change ? As he
looked at the beautiful girl, his sense of

loss was intensified. For the moment the
lower motives of his action were completely
in abeyance — out of sight entirely. His
lover's wish to possess the beauteous girl
was entirely in the ascendant ; and a bitterness
like the bitterness of death seized upon
him. In his ag^onv he continued :

When I spoke to you before, in answer
to my question, you told me that your
feelings were not engaged elsewhere ; can
you say so now I '

In hesitate victoria ' is the Wharton motto.
Miss Wharton was in this respect a Wharton,

intensified by her Marston blood. She

flushed, and was silent.

You cannot say so now ; I see it ! '

Here his voice changed with his feelings.

You have given your heart to another.

You have played fast and loose with me.

Coquette ! I never thought to call you so.'
Miss Wharton was an honest, sincere,

truthful girl, and this taunt stung her.

She was not sufficiently experienced in

proposals to be able to soothe the bruised

mind of an successful suitor, as one well
versed in the art.

'I do not know by what right you
address me in this way, Mr. Oldfield. We
have been old friends — close friends ; and
when you offered me your hand before, I
declined it. If I gave you permission to
address me again, I told you to look for
no change in my feelings. I now tell you
that such change has not come over me. I
decline your offer finally. I request you
never to address me again on the subject.'
It was evident Miss Wharton was stung by
the reproach flung at her. ' And another
thing I must request of you : and that is,
that you do not address me by my Christian
name. To permit that would be to allow
an unwarranted relation between us to
deceive others ; to put us, or rather keep
us, in a false position ' Every word was
like the torture of the Need Indian, felt, and
felt distinctly. Amidst his general sense of
suffering every touch was discerned. Overall
was a sense of humiliation. He had

offered Miss Wharton his hand, and this
time it had been spurned. Yet what was
to be done ? Social propriety is a great
refuge in time of trouble. It was felt so
now. Mr. Oldfield raised his hat.

Miss Wharton, your wishes shall be
attended to. I have the honour to wish
you good morning,' was the brief speech
which passed his lips ; It his heart was
burning within him.

Each turned to leave the scene, — each
absorbed in thought. Edith AVharton felt
a sense of relief at having cut for ever the
ties betwixt Stephen Oldfield and herself;
ties which had begun to gall her. Her
uncle would be wroth, she knew. Her
brother would not grieve. And some one
else I What difference would this make
betwixt George Ashworth and herself ? Here
she found her mind wandering into the
regions of the unknown.

Stephen Oldfield raged inwardly. He
cursed his own precipitation in bringing up
his suit again so soon, instead of letting

time work for him. ' But,' said reason, ' has
time been working for you lately ? It
appears not ! Before, her feelings were not
otherwise engaged : now it seems they are.
Your chance has been sliding away for
some time. Inevitably too. It was as well
to put yourself out of suspense.' There was
a crumb of comfort to be got out of that.
Then came the business aspect. How about
the possible Ijreak-down of the Wybrow
bank ? Where are the canal-shares which
were to have broken the fall ? Gone like
last winter's snows ; as little to return. As
these thoughts crossed his mind, sone
imp, riding on the gentle breeze, hissed
Failed ' into his ear.

Failed ! ' Yes, he had failed in his courtship.
And failure seemed to spread itself
over the future from the horizon to the
zenith ; like a black thunder-cloud coming
up fast on a summer's day. He felt a grim
foreboding that this was the commencement
of disaster.

CHAPTER VII,

A Dinner-party.

This final rejection of Mr. Lichfield led
to certain other incidents ; and before long
it was known that Miss Wharton was
engaged to be married to her preserver,
Mr. Ashworth. Under the circumstances,
that gentleman did not feel himself called
upon to consult the Squire in the matter ;
and when John Wharton informed his
uncle of the fact, it is needless to say the
Squire was far from overjoyed.

She is of age, and of course can please
herself. Girls generally will ! But I did
think Edie would have had some consideration
for her old uncle. I suppose
Ashworth asked you ? '

He did : and I gave him my consent to
propose to her cheerfully enough.'

I dare say you did. He would be glad
enough of that. I suppose my consent was
unnecessary.' Then after a pause, during
which the old Squire seemed to be fanning
his wrath, he continued :

I don't approve of the man ; and I will
not hand over the canal-shares, as I offered
to do if she accepted Oldfield. I can please
myself, and I will too.'

'You are quite entitled to do that, uncle.'

Yes ; and I will too. In the absence of
the original settlement, I can dispose of the
shares as I like. I will not withdraw the
allowance I make Edie. I will not show
ill-temper at my own niece ; but she might
have consulted me ! '

It is very good of you to promise to
continue the allowance. They will have to
practise some economy.'

That I dare say. If she would have
taken Oldfield, she could have lived like a
Wharton. As she makes her bed, so she
must lie. I will continue the allowance ;
but I will promise nothing about the whole

stock. That is mine ; and I will do as 1
like with it.'

John Wharton saw his uncle was nettled
at the engagement : and suspected that his
sister's reason for not consulting him on the
subject was, that she had her own reasons
for abstaining from so doing; probably
believing that he would withhold his consent.
If she had made up her mind to accept
George Ashworth, it was just as well not to
offend her uncle by asking him about it ;
and then acting contrary to his wishes. So
he tried to keep the peace as much as
possible.

I think she acted deliberately in refusing
Oldfield.'

Very likely. And her liking for this
other fellow had a good deal to do with it,
I'll be bound. If he had not got in the
way, all would have been well. I wish you
both had been up here that afternoon when
the ice gave way. I saw what would
happen ; but I did not think Edie would
have acted independently of her uncle in a

matter so important as this. I am grieved
very grieved about it.'

That the old Squire was greatly hurt
was at once obvious and intelligible. But
as it is neither a legal requirement nor a
customary practice for girls to marry only
those of whom their relatives approve,
in so acting Edith Wharton only did what
is common enough. The old Squire was a
trifle unreasonable in his complaint ; and yet
one must sympathize with him. When his
niece went to see him the next day, his
ill-humour had not vanished.

And so you are engaged to be married,
Edie ? And never let your old uncle
know about it ! I did not expect that ! '

'Dear uncle, I did not wish to wound
you. I knew you did not like George
Ash worth. I owe him my life. And I
have promised him my hand. I cannot
take back my pledged word ; as a Wharton.'

No ; you cannot. But I wish you had
not given your word. Come, give your old
uncle a kiss. I wish it had been some no

else. My congratulations are not very
warm, I fear.' The matter was got over ;
but the old Squire was far from satisfied
about it all the same. As he proposed to
continue the yearly allowance, he felt himself
entitled to make all inquiries into
Ash worth's family, his antecedents, and his
prospects. Mr. Chad wick, his man of business,
gained all the desired particulars. There
was nothing wrong ; yet the Squire did not
profess to be pleased with the match.

It is scarcely befitting a Wharton,' he
would conclude, adding : ' I wish the fellow
had not been one of those radical-reforming
Chartists. One cannot give up one's views
as well as one's niece. I suppose I must
learn to put up with him.'

The spring went on, and was very cold
and dry. The price of wheat had fallen to
seventy shillings a quarter, making the duty
according to the sliding-scale over ten shillings
a quarter. The Anti-Corn Law agitation
was going on briskly. The rival
movement of the Chartists had been 

by some want of union in their
ranks. The delegate representing Sheffield
had resigned his post in consequence
thereof.

The landowners in turn had been taking
steps for the protection of their own interests
; and Squire Wharton had determined
to give a dinner-party, and then the position
of affairs could be thoroughly discussed.
It came off about the end of May.

It was not a large gathering. There were
present : Canon Wordsworth, Squire Oldfield,
mr. Pry or, John Wharton ; two other local
landowners and magistrates, Messrs Moor-house
and Broadhurst ; and a clergyman,
Mr. Ripley, of Tory instincts and sluggish
liver. A small, comfortable dinner-party,
not too numerous for the conversation to
become divided.

It has been a fine dry spring for farming
operations,* was the remark of the Canon,
who took a great interest in mundane
matters, as they sat down at the table.

It has kept dry rather too long. I am

afraid we must make up our minds to a
short hay-crop. " Plenty of rain in May,
and plenty of corn and hay," is the old
adasje. I am afraid straw will be short unless
the weather alters,' rejoined Mr. Poorhouse.

It does not matter so much about the
straw if the corn in the ear is there.
Drought never brought dearth in England,
you know,' said Mr. Broadhurst.

We seem to have an adage to apply
whichever way things turn,' observed Mr.
Oldfield.

Yes. It is curious,' remarked the little
Tory clergyman. 'But it brings comfort
with it. I hope there will be a better
harvest than there was last year.'

Why ? Is the man who farms your
glebe behind with his rent, Eipley ? '

A slight laugh went round the table, as
Eipley was given to complaining.

No. But he may be if there is another
short harvest ; whether it be from a scanty
yield, or bad weather. It does not matter.'

You are only like the rest of us, Ripley.

We must share and share alike, you know
said Mr. Pryor.

You can have your share and mine too
of bad times,' was the retort ; which created
some amusement, none enjoying it more
than the provoker.

It is very generous of you, I am sure,
Ripley,' was the genial answer.

Do you think we will have another bad
yield ? ' asked Mr. Oldfield of the company
at large. ' No, thank you, Bulman, that is
a beautiful trout, but it is too much. You
have helped me too liberally, Mr. Wharton.
It is a pity to cut it ; let me have a smaller
fish, please.'

I think you miorht manacle a trout like
that, if you tried hard. But, however,
I'll accommodate you.'

Where did you kill these trout.
Jack ? '

In the Don.'

I suppose the May-fly is on the water
now,' asked the Canon.

It has just come on ; the cold dry

VOL. IL M

season has kept it back. It is a bad fishing
season

I suppose the poachers have cleared out
the streams pretty well remarked Mr.
Broad hurst. * They would be sure to do
that — these Chartist fellows Nothing would
please them better than robbing a trout-stream.


And so getting a slap at their oppressors,
the landowners said John Wharton.

If they did nothing more than rob the
trout-streams, we need not mind. But
they are plotting more objectionable measures
by far. I am afraid we will have
some trouble before long ; especially if corn
is dear next winter.'

They are a bad set in Sheffield, I fear,
remarked the host. ' They are always ready
for some violence there ; but the yeomanry
will keep them in check.'

Yes. The yeomanry can be thoroughly
relied upon. They know their own interests,
and can be depended upon. Though
I do not olive much credence to the talk

about the soldiers sympathizing with the
people,' was the Canon's opinion.

I sincerely trust there may be no occasion
to need the services of either said the
Rector. ' It is hard to be poor.'

Yes : that it is,' put in Mr. Ripley, ina
tone which left no question about his
views.

Even with a comfortable roof over your
head, and a sufficiency of food,' John
Wharton observed. ' x4nd therefore a great
deal harder for those who have neither.'

Come now. Let us have none of your
reforming views at your uncle's table,
John,' the Canon said good-naturedly.
You may air them elsewhere. Unless you
are s:oino; to abandon them ! I think,
Wharton, we should get him on the commission
of the peace ; that would secure
him. '

I don't know ; he's a headstrong
fellow.'

Do you mean he has a strong head ? '
asked the Rector. ' If it were not for his

M 2

modesty I should be apt to give him a
certificate of character in that respect.'

'It is very kind, but I think we will
dispense with your friendly offer for the
present ; ' said the host.

What are your Anti-Corn Law friends
going to do, John ? ' pursued the Canon.

Get the Corn Laws repealed if they
can ! '

I suppose so. What are they doing ? '

'They have got out a newspaper of
their own, with some rather appropriate
texts on it. Have you seen it ? ' asked Mr.
Poorhouse.

Yes. I think them blasphemous the
way they are used,' said Mr. Eipley.

No ; I don't think you can call them
more than irreverent,' was Mr. Pryor's
comment.

What are they ? ' asked the Canon.

One is — '' The bread of the needy is his
life ; he that deprived him thereof is a
man of blood ! " It is to the point anyhow,'
explained Mr. Pryor.

Then we assembled here are mostly men
of blood in the eyes of the needy ! Complimentary,
to say the least of it. Anything
more ? '

'The other is — "He that withholds
corn, the people shall curse him." I wonder
what Mortlake would say to that ! He is
holding for a rise,' the Eector continued.

These operations of the corn-merchants
enrage the people. They can always keep
corn up above a fair market price said
John AVharton.

Mr. Oldfield felt it became him to uphold
the character of a shareholder in the
Wybrow Bank, so he explained :

Mortlake is no worse than the other
corn-merchants ; only he is bolder.'

And no better,' replied the Eector. * I
should not be at all surprised to find his
house sacked by the mob, or fired, some of
these days. There are some rough fellows
about Barney.'

Then they must be kept in order,' said
the Canon, in authoritative tones, feeling

like a magistrate. * We cannot permit
lawlessness and riot. They may threaten
to burn my house ; but that will not frighten
me.'

They are holding a number of meetings
at Sheffield and elsewhere. It is a good
thing those torchlight gatherings were put
down. But I fear we will have trouble,
when the shorter days come. I feel a little
anxiety,' remarked Mr. Broadhurst.

'There is a mutinous spirit abroad, 1
fear,' said the Canon. ' What do you think
of the complications in Canada, Wharton ?
You know the colony well. What do you
say about Lord Durham's proposal ? '

'It is a bold scheme, but I do not think
it can be carried out ; and if it were there
would always be discontent among some.
They are too near the States for peace.
The Canadians are loyal in their way ; but
it is only a threat on the part of their
neighbours to annex them which brings it
to a white heat. Then they are loyal
enough. They stood well by the royal

troops in the old days ; and would again,
I quite believe. The insurrection was far
from general.'

Durham seems quite to take the view
that the people are right in demanding
control over their own affairs ; that is, their
internal affairs, as compared to imperial
affairs,' said Mr. Ripley ; 'but I do not hold
with him.'

It is this confounded reforming spirit
that is abroad. The people must know
better than their rulers ! It was well the
insurrection was put down so soon.'

The United States behaved well in the
matter. If they had supported the insurgents
Toronto might have fallen,' said Mr. Pryor.

They could not act otherwise without
giving occasion for war, that I see,' Mr.
Oldfield put in.

What caused the outbreak ? ' asked Mr.
Moorhouse. ' I forget now.' It was more

o

probable he never knew ; but no one was
rude enough to suggest such a correction, of
course.

They would not pay the charges of the
Civil Government, which had got into
arrears, unless they had free elections and
legislators chosen by themselves. The
Home Government would not yield all
their demands, and civil war broke out.
The loyalist settlers rallied to the Government,
and the insurgents were suppressed
explained their host.

'Lord Durham thinks that a federation
of the several provinces into a dominion
with complete internal control over themselves,
desirable. In fact, admits their
claims,' said the Canon. ' It seems a great
matter.'

Lord Durham is only acting as one
might expect. He was the real soul
of the Eeform party. Without him
his father-inlaw Grey would never have
engaged in the struggle,' John Wharton
remarked.

He was the man to send out, according
to the tenets of the Whig Government ;
only it is not certain that his recommendations

will be accepted. What then 1 '
inquired the Rector of Brigstone.

It does not seem likely that he can hold
on if his own party will not adopt his
scheme. It will be rather hard on him if
they don't,' was the Canon's opinion.

Then let something else be done. But
what has that something to be ? ' asked Mr.
Moorhouse in a vague way.

'Put them down and leave them suggested
Mr. Ripley.

But Brougham thinks they were put
down only too thoroughly.'

Do you think he was right, Pry or 1 '

Well, to condemn men without a trial is
scarcely the English idea of justice.'

It may not be law, but it is justice; if
you mean being right served,' the Squire
remarked.

The Government may not stay in office
long,' put in Mr. Moorhouse.

I think Peel will succeed next time informing
a Ministry. It was a queer thing
about the Bed-chamber question.'

But he was right,' broke in Mr. Ripley.

Well ; but Lady Sunderland and Lady
Rialto continued in the bed-chamber of
Queen Anne, after their husbands had been
dismissed from office,' put in John Wharton.

The precedent scarcely applies here.
Queen Anne was a woman of mature years.
Our present Queen is but a girl,' explained
the Canon.

There was nothing said about the conduct
of the ladies, I think. It was a mere
matter of principle with Peel ? '

You are right there. Pry or. But it was
a harsh proceeding to insist upon her giving
up her private friends,' said John Wharton.

The Queen ought to yield on matters of
that kind,' observed Mr. Moorhouse, who
belonged to the extreme wings of the Tories ;
at that time by no means loyal, and dreadfully
jealous of Lord Melbourne's influence
with the Queen. ' It is not proper for the
Queen to take sides in politics.

But has she taken a side ? ' broke in the
Squire hotly. * She had a right to keep

trusted friends around her ; even if they
were Whigs.'

I think the point might very well have
been yielded interposed the Canon, in the
interests of harmony. ' However, if Peel
gets into power at the next general election
it will matter little.'

Here the table was cleared, and as a
consequence the conversation was interrupted,
The cloth was removed, and the
decanters were placed before the host. There
were port and sherry, of course, and some

claret. The Canon observed :

You still keep to the claret, Wharton.
T thought it had almost entirely gone out.
Port is the wine for a Yorkshire man ! '

So I think. But nephew Jack does not
care about it. He has learned to drink
claret in his visits to the continent. He
will scarcely touch port.'

Perhaps he will take to it in time ? '

I wish I saw some signs of it. I have a
good stock of '20 port in the cellar ; and I
have laid down some '34. It is the best

vintage since '20 ; though '28 was not a bad
wine. It will take me some years to get
through it. And you know I would not
like to think of it being wasted. This
troublesome gout compels me to be careful.'
The old Squire spoke as he felt ; that this
really was a minor trial in life. The Canon
thoroughly sympathized with him : and a
mutual respect for port wine is a bond of
union no water-drinker can ever comprehend.
So he remarked :

Well, if he does not drink it himself, he
will always have a glass of good port for his
friends. Gaythorne Hall must never be
without a glass of good port.'

Here the Canon looked into space ; as if
he was trying to conjecture such a contingency,
and failing to realize it.

I hope it may be a long time before I
am consulted in the matter. I am sure
uncle wears well ; don't you thinly so ? '

Very prettily said, for an heir-at-law.
He is a good Wharton, Squire, for all he is
tinctured with these new-fangled notions.'

Yes ; it is a pity. But I hope he will
never forget himself so far as to let the
stock of port run low. I could not like to
think of that.' Radicalism might possibly
be overlooked ; but that port should be
neglected was inconceivable !

I hope there will always be some for me
when I call,' went on the Canon.

To love port wine, and to be a judge of
it ; and, further, to be rather proud thereof,
was neither sin nor weakness, at that day, in
an ecclesiastic.

I hope so too,' was the heir's rejoinder.

The other gentlemen had been discussing
the proposed postal changes, and had not
quite agreed in their views ; Mr. Moorhouse
feeling quite sure that a penny stamp would
never cover the expense, and that the Postoffice
must be a loser by the change. The
Rector of Brimstone argued in favour of it.

It will be a great boon to the poor.
The rich can write freely : the rich without
cost ; but the poor, especially in these hard
times, are precluded from communicating

with each other : that is, unless they resort
to some manoeuvre. A while ago I was
going round the parish, when I saw the
postman call at a cottage, and hand a letter
to the woman occupying it. After looking
at it awhile carefully, she shook her head
and handed it back. ' ' I cannot afford the
money," was her reason. I was just coming
out of the next cottage, and, hearing this,
1 inquired into the circumstances ; thinking
I might pay the postage of it for her if it
was of importance. " No thank you, sir,"
she said. " It is from my brother ; he is a
soldier in Ireland. There is nothing in the
letter. We agreed to write to each other ;
and if there was anything in the letter
there was to be a cross in the top right-hand
corner, and then the postage was to be
paid. He is all right ; there was no cross."
You see, the Post-Office loses on a number
of letters.'

It was a very clever dodge,' remarked
Mr. Ripley, who had found letter-writing a
luxury beyond his means ; except when he

could get some franks, which was not
often.

It is a pity that the people should be
reduced to such subterfuges,' continued the
Eector.

Would you be in favour of doing away
with franking ? Don't you think it ouo^ht
to have been retained ? A member of
Parliament has to write lots of letters as a
member ; surely the postage of these should
not come out of his own pocket ? ' remarked
Mr. Broadhurst.

It would be a lesser evil than the old
one of taxing the people and letting off the
peers,' was the Rector's reply.

You are always with the people,' Mr.
Oldfield remarked, in a tone as if Mr. Pryor
was to side with his own class always, as he
did himself.

Won't you take some \\rine ? ' asked their
host ; and all settled down to their wine after
dinner in a grave, serious, business-like manner,
— befitting the solemnity of the occasion.

The conversation wandered backwards

and forwards, now to national topics, now
to local affairs, and brought out considerable
diversity of opinions ; it being very clear
from the opinions expressed to which side
of the political parties the speaker leaned.
It was a point of honour to retain family
opinions as to politics at that time : and
each man swore by his own political organ.
Of course ' The Sheffield Independent ' was
perused by all of them on account of its
local interest, but without reference to its
views ; but otherwise the rule held good.
The good dinner and the port had loosened
the tongue of each. Then cigars went
round ; for the Squire had never laid aside
his practices as a soldier entirely ; but only
John Wharton and Mr. Broadhurst availed
themselves of the opportunity.

The conversation wandered once more to
Canada, and to the attack on the big house
at St. Denis, where the insurgents beat off
the attack.

It was a foolish thing not to wait for
the guns to come up : but they despised

the insurgents, that was the mistake. There
was some warm work with the Americans,
many of whom were rather backwoodsmen
than regular soldiers, — in the war on the
lakes. Some of the men who had served
under the Duke admitted that. At Niagara
Falls we had a very brisk encounter. We
were lying below the Falls when the Americans
came on in full feather about the
Chippewa affair. It was in 1814 ; a lovely
July evening after sunset ; the sky was
beautifully clear, and the moon on the
wane. We were so near the cataract that
it could be heard above the roar of battle.
There was some cover on our left wing, and
the enemy took advantage of it to make a
flank movement. Nothing but seasoned
troops could have stood such an attack.
As it was, the enemy gained the field for a
time ; but we recovered it after the surprise
was over. It was a near thing though.
While Jessop was taking us in flank on the
Queenstown road under shelter of the cover,
another man was creeping up in front under

VOL. II. N

the slope until he was near enough the
battery to shoot down the gunners. They
are good shots, these backwoodsmen, and
picked them off just at the nick of
time : it was well planned. They gained
the guns, and I thought the day would go
against us. But we quickly rallied from
the surprise, and turned on them. They
could not stand the charge when it came to
hand-to-hand work. We drove them off,
and recaptured all the guns but one ; they
managed to get it away. They could fight
as well as we could, and they were up to a
lot of clever moves ; but when we got near
with the bayonet they did not care so much
about it. They claimed the day ; but we
had a better right to it. I will never forget
looking up the wounded while the roar of
the Falls nearly deafened us. It warms up
an old soldier's blood to think of those
days.'

The old Squire paused as Bulman came
in with the coffee.

Ah, do you remember Niagara Falls —
the fight I meaD , Bulman ? '

I am not likely to forget it, sir,' was the
brief, soldier like answer.

You were behind looking after my traps
when the men fell back ; and was afraid I
was killed.'

I was, sir. I thought you were.'

Master and man alike remembered the
fray.

After some further conversation the
guests took their departure ; and Gaythorne
Hall relapsed into its wonted quiet.

X 2

CHAPTER VIII.

OVER THE MOORS.

When John Wharton left Mr. Carlyon
after the Sheffield meeting in January, it
was arranged that the latter would inform
him when he had come to take up his
summer residence at Buxton. A letter had
been received giving John Wharton a
cordial invitation to visit him there. Peak
Cottage could provide entertainment for
man and beast, if he would ride over and
stay a few days. The invitation was
readily accepted ; as John Wharton was
desirous of resuming his acquaintance with
the handsome old gentleman, with whom
h<^ found himself in such accord. It was
decided that the visit should come off in
the latter part of July. He had not left

his sister for so long a time, since the
death of their mother ; and was anxious
lest she should be lonely in his absence.

Do not think of me, John. You are
such a stay-at-home bird ; you never get
away. I shall do very well, I can assure
you. I am anxious to know what the
Carlyons are like. My curiosity is
aroused.'

Edith Wharton had given herself more
completely to house-keeping matters since
her engagement. ' We are going to be poor
people, who practise economy. We must
make everything go the furthest. So I
must start, and learn to be economical.
Not that we are very extravagant in our
house-keeping, Jack. Are we ? '

'Wickedly wasteful, Edie. Our way of
going on is simply reprehensible. I think
I shall have to ask Mr. Pryor to rebuke us
from the pulpit, as an example to our
neighbours of what should not be. What
do you say to that ? '

Go away, and don't talk such nonsense.'

Go away ; that is precisely what I am
going to do ! I suppose in my absence you
will practise economy with a vengeance,
and half-starve yourself. I am afraid
Ash worth will not be at hand, to see to
your goings-on.'

And if he was, I do not think he would
come here in your absence. We are not so
head-endears in love that we forget what
is proper. I wonder if you will see any one
you will fancy. If you are left alone you
will need a woman's care ; that is my
belief.'

That is an aspect of my visit that has
not struck me before.'

That is very likely. The stupendous
male intellect soars above these little
matters of e very-day life ; which a woman
never overlooks. You are going to meet
your fate, as the people here put it ; see if
you don't ? '

I will try to bear the subject in mind,
Edie. You won't be lonely ? '

No, thank you, brother mine, I shall

manage very well. Unless the Chartists
come out. But they will not attack
Fowrass Grange. That is certain enough.
One useful outcome of your radicalism
anyhow ! '

So one fine morning early, while the
larks were soaring and singing, John
Wharton rode out of the gate, and went
slowly westward, up the hill-side to the
moors ; having Featherbed Moss on his left.
It was a lovely morning, with the remains
of the mist rising as the sun's rays dissolved
it. The road swept upwards amidst
purple heather and pale green bracken,
with deeper-shaded mosses on the black
peaty soil. The walls were of freestone,
bounding the road, for thorn fences do not
thrive on the summits of the back-bone of
England. Then, here and there, were little
white-washed farm-houses with their tiny
farm-buildings ; the characteristic moorland
farm-steady. The short, firm-leaved bilberry
lined the road sides ; while now and
again a small stunted birch could be seen.

Out of the heather sprang at intervals the
lusty grouse, with sharp whirr of wings,
and short sharp cry. The rider held a
loose rein, and Hawk cast his head about
freely with a repeated snort ; an invitation
to his rider to tighten his rein, and let him
increase his speed. But his rider seemed
too absorbed ; or in no mood to push his
horse up the rising ground. ' Patience,
Hawk, it is very pleasant. Don't be in a
hurry ; you shall go faster after a while.'
The horse seemed to catch the gist of the
speech sufficiently to realize that his rider
was not inclined to get on faster. Having
made the ascent, his rider gathered up the
reins and trotted over the summit. The
horse enjoyed the more rapid pace, and
unwillingly obeyed the rein, when the road
began to slope.

'It is a pity to miss this view, Hawk,'
said the rider as he drew up.

It was a fine sight indeed. From the
purple-clad moors he looked away over a
pleasant agricultural district at his feet.

There were pastures with cattle and sheep,
lazily grazing as if the edge of their morning
appetite was gone. Patches of corn,
green, but short with the dry weather, were
scattered about ; while fields of pale green
dotted with hay-cocks were numerous.
Beyond this belt were high chimneys, and
masses of houses pretty plentifully strewn
about ; for the district is one of the most
populous of the cotton areas.

These crowded towns are very sensitive
to the price of bread,' was the thought
that came up in his mind. ' Coal not faraway,
a handy seaboard, and a prolific
population to fill those mills with lissom -
handed workers; this district' is admirably
suited to be the cotton-factory of the world.
I wonder what determined these weaving
industries in rooting themselves along these
hill-sides. It must have been the waterpower.
There is a plenteous rainfall on
these hills, and tumbling rivulets adapted
to water-wheels ; faith ravines admitting of
being readily dammed. That must have

had a deal to do with it. The facilities for
water-power must be the solution of the
problem. It is the same case with the
west-land clothiers clustered round the
Mentis Hills. And now steam is enabling
the mill-owners to push into the plain,
overspreading it by degrees. How different
is it all from the old days ! When black
forests ran into bogs and morasses. When
the ground I now stand on was the haunt
of the wolf, the wild boar, the stag, and
even the wild ox itself The badger found
a shelter in the crevices of the rocks;
while the eagle built on the crags. Perhaps
even the beaver was not altogether
extinct. When here and there could
be seen a cleared space with the old
Saxon village in its centre surrounded by
its protective trees ; the huts of the ceorls
encircling the atheling's Grange in its
cluster of sycamores, or willows, peopled by
rooks. When their population increased,
it was but clearing another patch of wood,
or taking in a plot from the pasture around.

The problem was a simple one at that day.
Then as the country became settled and
cleared, enterprising men went out and
built here a house and there a house, till
the country became studded with isolated
farm-houses. There was no pressure on
our producing powers then. Indeed atone
time corn was exported ; notably when
Spain had a sharp pinch in the time of
Philip, before the Armada time. But those
tall chimneys, and the industrial hordes
around them, have turned the scale. If
they grow, and the land cannot wax, then
bread must be got somehow ; and those
abominable Corn Laws stand in the way.'
Here his thoughts went away from the
scene to Mr. Carlyon, and what they should
talk about.

Hawk, relieved by his trot, stepped steadily
down the slope, and the scene gradually
drew in as horse and rider made the descent.

Here and there were clumps of bramble,
then a tuft or two of the prickly shield-fern
; after that a patch of yellow gorse.

The road wound round the base of the hill,
and then turned south to Glossop. It was
a new country for John Wharton ; so he
decided to put Hawk up for an hour or
two, and have a look about the place. He
saw an old coaching inn, and dismounted.
Handing his reins to an ostler, he turned
into the hostelry, and was struck with the
change in the speech of the people. He
understood it perfectly ; though the pronunciation
of many words was considerably
different from that of Hallamshire. This
marked alteration in the speech on crossing
a mountain-ridge is commonly met with in
the north of England. Up to Orton in
Westmoreland, the speech is that of Lancashire
; beyond its Scar it is that of
Cumberland. The talk ran on the doings
of the Chartists ; the course taken by the
Anti-Corn Law agitators ; the opinions of
Lord John Russell inclining to the repeal
of the Laws, or at least to a fixed duty
to enable the foreign grower to know what
he was doing ; on the slackness of trade ;

the prospects of the hay-crop ; and local
matters. Then he sauntered through the
town, inspected the churchyard, noted the
prevalence of local names on the headstones ;
and conducted himself like any other intelligent
person in a new locality. Then
he had some light refreshment, and mounting
Hawk, continued his journey southwards.


He rode away until the Derbyshire hills
loomed up on his left. Little rivulets came
tumbling down from the hills with water as
clear as crystal. The hedgerows were thick
and luxuriant ; consisting largely of tall
hazels, destitute of the sign of a nut, interspersed
with blackthorn. Here and therein
a sheltered nook, under the hedge, were
tufts of the broad-leaved harts-tongue, and,
scattered about, a wake-robin or two ; further
on there were clumps of the shield-fern,
no longer the hardy prickly variety of
the higher ground, but the ordinary variety,
or again of the buckler-fern. The bracken
had gone. Then after a turn in the road

came hazels of less luxuriant growth, with
plentiful clusters of nuts ; promising grand
field-days for the youngsters of the neighbourhood.
Soon he saw ahead of him an
old building of mediaeval origin ; indeed
what once had been a moaned grange. But
the moat had disappeared, though the old
high solid walls still remained unshaken.
Behind them a stout resistance could have
been made ; and possibly enough had been
made in the old days of King and Commonwealth.
On the left a park with many old
Scotch firs sloped up towards the hills, at
no great distance. The park-walls also
were hio^h and stout. The road crossing
the stream ran betwixt the park-wall and
the outer walls of the grange ; dark, wet,
and dank were these walls, and the road.
The whole place had been built with strict
regard to warlike purposes, and barred the
highway very effectually. The old walls
were covered with a tiny moss, while their
tops were fringed with the polypody. Ina
corner could be seen the unwholesome-looking

hemlock with its deep-green leaves,
and its smooth stems spotted with livid
markings. On the right the road opened
and showed a railed front, a badly-kept
lawn, and an old house with wings, built
of freestone ; but overspread with lichen till
it looked grey and venerable. Opposite
was a large gate opening into the park ; and,
beyond it, a clear pebbly stream, with no
bridge, but a row of stepping-stones, regular
and evidently well-trodden. Then came
the high, damp walls again, and after that
a gate across the road. Beyond this lay
a village with a large green ; the sward of
which was better kept by the geese pasturing
on it, than the lawn of the mansion.
Numerous geese were grazing about, while
ducks where plentiful in the stream. Round
some of the houses were several fowls,
mainly game fowls with their lordly Sultans,
black-reds, and duck-wings. ' A little surreptitious
cock-fighting goes on here evidently,
was the thought which passed through the
traveller's mind. Conspicuous was the

Harrow Inn ; and close to it a saw and
grist mill on the stream. Along the left of
the village ran the mill-race ; while the
village green was cut up by the overflowing
streams. A quiet scene it was, for all where
out in the hay-fields. A little further on
stood the Blue Bell without a sign of life
in it. After that was the mill-dam, and a
slight distance beyond a bridge spanning
the stream. It too was grey with lichen ;
while little tufts of the tiny bladder-fern
grew out of the crevices between the stones.
A heavy, substantial, solid bridge it was,
intended to withstand the torrent when
swollen by winter rains. But the stream
was dwarfed by the dry summer ; and the
]pig boulders in its bed were yellow and
dry. Looking over the ledge of the bridge
lie spied a black trout, wary from experience,
making for a safe retreat beneath a
massive stone. A less safe retreat would
long ago have yielded up the lean bull-nosed
trout to some enterprising and covetous
depredator. Reining up his horse.

John Wharton looked down the village,
and thought how utterly rural and distinctly
agricultural the village looked ; yet
almost within ear shot of the machinery, the
hum of spindles of the huge cotton-mills.

Riding on he encountered a cart-load of
hay, fragrant and sweet, drawn steadily
along by a sleepy horse ; while by the cart
strode a man in his shirt-sleeves, hot and
perspiring with his efforts in the hatfield.
The hedges were thick and scrambling,
protected by outlying masses of gorse or
bramble ; every now and then a spray of
the dark purple flowers of the deadly nightshade
might be seen intertwined with the
prickly branches of the sloe-thorn. Then
came the sweet odour of the honey-suckle
(so dear to the hearts of small children),
with its curious flowers, unique of their
kind. By a turn in the road one of the
Peak mountains came into view, bare and
brown with its dry, sunburnt grass. The
road now was deeply cut into the ground,
and some feet of bank existed before the

VOL. II. O

hedgerow began. Ferns and mosses, ground-ivy,
and herb-robert grew freely. Amidst
this wealth of green carpet could be seen,
here and there, little tufts of spleenwort.
John Wharton could not help contrasting
the luxuriance of this undergrowth with the
comparative bareness of the hedgerows at
Brigstone. But he missed the holly fences,
which were so common at home ; and also
the tall spikes of the purple fox-glove. The
road now became level, and Hawk seemed
to think that a trot would be agreeable, so
communicating his wishes to his rider — as
horses can — he set off at a round pace until
Black Edge came into sight on the right of
the road. The road now began to slope
upwards, with the Peak Forest on the left.
Soon the mountain aspect began to obtain,
and inquiry of a wayfarer told John Wharton
he was nearing his destination.

His mind now left the hedgerows as his
eye took in the widening scene. Hills
grew up as he mounted the slope. A wide
expanse opened out — the high ground of

Buxton with the Peak mountains in the
distance. Sheep were seen plentifully scattered
over the scanty herbage, — the short
grass sheep love so well. Here and there
was a shaggy pony ; while a few Irish cattle
with the white streak along the back-bone
were in sight, grazing industriously without
a disturbing suspicion of the butcher's knife.
Soon the houses of Buxton came in sight,
and John Wharton had to make several
inquiries before he could arrive at the
desired information, viz. the whereabouts of
Peak Cottage.

Who lives their ? ' asked one man evidently
anxious to aid the stranger.

Mr. Carlyon. A fine-looking, white-haired
old gentleman. Tall and stout.'

*Th' ould gentleman that distributes th'
trac's about the Corn Laws.' John Wharton
thought it highly probable that if there was
one gentleman only who disseminated views
opposed to the Corn Laws at Buxton, that
individual would in all probability be Hugh
Carlyon.



Yes ; that is the gentleman. How are
the tracts received ? '

Oh, th' folk care little about them.
They just tek them to please him, and his
bonnie daughter. They are a gradely pair !
His loose is just round to the left ; the
name's on th' gate-post.'

Thanking the man for his civility and
his information, the traveller turned to the
left ; and soon came upon a handsome house,
with a well-kept, if small, lawn, and mullions
windows, over which trailed a slight
evergreen — a double kerria with yellow
Powers, few and sparse, the season being late
for it. There was an air of newness, of wealth,
and of thrift, blended, about the premises.

As John Wharton drew up at the gate a
handsome young lady came to the window,
but quickly started back ; not before the
stranger had seen enough to corroborate his
informant's opinion about Miss Carlyon's
appearance. His thoughts, however, had not
wandered more than a second or two before
Mr. Carlyon was to be seen opening the

front-door, and hastening to the gate to give
his visitor an old-fashioned, hearty welcome.

Glad to see you, landowner and reformer
! ' he exclaimed. After shaking
hands cordially : ' Have you had a pleasant
ride ? You have a powerful horse,' he said.
His eye wandered over Hawk's proportions
with the keen scrutiny of a man who loves
horseflesh. ' About as useful a horse as I
have seen fur some time. I'll call the
groom, and have him put up. There is
plenty of room, and he won't be miserable
at Buxton ; whatever you may be. There
is going to be a Chartist meeting on
Friday : that will be an attraction for you,
at any rate.'

Got up for the occasion, I suppose ? '

'Not exactly; as they did not know you
were coming. Have you anything beyond
the waterproof ? ' pointing to a roll strapped
to the saddle in front.

There is a little thing or two wrapped
in it. One cannot take a large wardrobe
with one on horseback.'

Not very well. Now dismount. Your
horse sniffs the groom in an inquiring
manner. Is he quiet ? '

Perfectly ; but Hawk does not take up
with people off-hand. He likes to make up
his mind about them.'

He and Tom will get on famously, I
doubt not. Come in and let me look after
you. We are old-fashioned, and dine in
the middle of the day ; but there will be
cold meat, or something. I remember
some potted trout at breakfast. We'll find
you enough.'

My wants are not extensive. Don't let
me give you any trouble.'

My daughter knew of your coming.
She is a pretty good housewife. Let me
introduce you to her.'

The introduction was made, and it was
announced that tea would soon be ready.

Have a glass of wine till tea is ready. You
must want something after your journey.'

Not any, I thank you. I take very
little wine.'

'How's that?'

Because I do not care about it. A little
claret is all I take, as a rule.'

Well, we have some, fortunately. May,
see there is some claret got out. You find
us here in a very plain way. We only
have the house furnished for the summer,
and it does not make too much work for
the housekeeper in winter. It's no use
making work, you know.'

John Wharton looked around him. He
was in the dining-room, — the main living
room. The furniture was plain, substantial
mahogany, covered with black horse-hair :
a sofa, two arm-chairs, a few ordinary
chairs.

Perhaps you would like a wash. Come
along, and I will show you your bed-room.'

Mr. Carlyon led the way. Again the
furniture was plain.

You will find us in the drawing-room.'

So saying, Mr. Carlyon left his guest,
who looked at his waterproof with its
scanty contents.

Rather short of linen, I am afraid.
Perhaps I can buy some. Nice pleasant
girl, Miss Carson : keeps the house neat.
I wonder if she is to be my " fate, " as Edie
put it ? Well, I shall accept it without
grumbling: if such has to be the end of it.
Wonder if she has any brothers or sisters ? '

Whether he thought wondering or inquiring
the more practical solution of the problem
may be settled by the fact that he
^as not long in finding his way into the
drawing-room.

Here he found Mr. Carlyon and his
daughter.

You are not a large family, Mr. Carlyon,'
he said, curious to know the facts.

No : there are only my daughter and
myself. We do not require a large establishment
; and I hate a lot of servants
getting into each other's way, — running over
each other professing to wait on me. Weare
very comfortable for the summer

While he was speaking, John Wharton
ran his eye over the room. It also had no

superfluous furniture : what there was consisted
of walnut covered with a pretty light
chintz. There were a few pieces of needlework
here and there.

You share in your papa's views about
politics, Miss Carlyon ? '

I ? yes. How do you know ? '

I had to ask for Peak Cottage ; and my
informant inquired if I meant the gentleman
and his daughter who give away tracts
on the Corn Laws. I thought that must be
your papa, at any rate.'

How curious ! That was his description
of us. You see, papa, how we are known.'

I see no objection to the description, do
you ? '

Certainly not. One likes to know how
other people — as one's neighbours, for
instance — regard one.'

While this dialogue was proceeding, John
Wharton looked at Miss Carlyon. She was
tall, slight, with good features and a clear
complexion. Her hair, like her eyes, was
dark brown, and drawn away from her face

and wreathed in plaits on the top of her
head. Her brow was lofty ; her eyebrows
well marked, but forming only a thin line ;
her nose was shapely, straight, with a delicate
outline ; her ears thin and shell-like ;
her mouth small, with a slightly full underlip
; teeth small but well-formed ; the chin
light. It was a bright, engaging, and
attractive face, which looked happy ; though
a slight frown came over it at times, telling
of a hasty temperament. The head was
small and distinctly oval, and the same
might be said of the face. The hands were
shapely, but rather large hands. They
looked competent hands ; not afraid of
work evidently. The long fingers told of
artistic power ; and Miss Carlyon could
handle a pencil as well as a needle, — and that
she certainly could wield. She looked as if
she could form opinions of her own, and, having
formed them, hold and maintain them.

"Are you merely an Anti-Corn Law
repeater, or have you wider sympathies,
Miss Carlyon ? '

What do you mean by " wider sympathies,"
Mr. Wharton ? I do not quite
understand you.'

Are you a reformer ? Do you wish to
see the people properly represented in
Parliament '? '

Do you mean, am I a Chartist '? '

Yes ; if you choose to put it that way.'

Then I am very doubtful about my
position. You see I am a woman ; and, as
such, timid. And the tales one hears and
reads about, of armed gatherings, and pikes,
and cats, — whatever these last are, — make
one a little afraid.'

You fear violence ! You may say so
without laying yourself open to the charge
of cowardice. It is the ill-luck of the
Chartist movement to have attracted to it
all the insubordinate elements of society.
But that does not affect the principle of
the movement.'

I cannot follow you properly. I know
little about the principle. Papa says it is
an impracticable project. And some very

good people I know denounce it as rebellion
under disguise, and say the Chartists are
infidels.'

Oh, that is what the Pharisees say.'

Pharisees ! I did not know there were
any Pharisees now.'

They do not go by that name. But
the nature of the beast is the same, — whatever
name it bears.'

It was quite clear that an element of
danger to the harmony of Peak Cottage
was being introduced in these plain-spoken
words. Ladies do not like their friends,
who are respectability, to be spoken of
as Pharisees ; and Miss Carlyon was inclined
to feel a little shocked, though no Miss
Nancy. Mr. Carlyon thought it well to
interrupt the conversation.

Is tea ready, my dear ? Perhaps Mr.
Wharton will have no objection to have a
drive with us in the evening ? There are
some sights at Buxton which you must
see. What do you say ? '

I shall be delighted.'

So tea was served with some savoury
cold morsels, suited to the appetite of a
man who has had a long ride on a hot
July day. Miss Carlyon was, as a housewife,
all her father had said for her.

Soon the open carriage and a pair of
horses were waiting at the gate ; and, taking
their seats, the trio drove round by the
Crescent, then to Poole's Hole Cavern, and
after that to the Diamond Hill (the ' Buxton
diamonds,' viz. quartz crystals), and the
• Lover's Leap.' The conversation kept
clear of any dangerous topics, and all were
pleased with each other.

CHAPTER IX.

Moral FORCE CHARTISTS.

Next day an excursion was made to the
Cat and Fiddle,' on the Macclesfield road.
This famous hostelry is the highest inhabited
house in England ; being higher than
the little ale-house at the top of Kirkstone
Pass, betwixt Amalekite and Paternal, in
the lake country. It was proposed that
they should all go in the carriage ; but
John Wharton pleaded that Hawk would
rather be out of doors than remain in the
stable all day. So he rode beside the
carriage. It was another beautiful day,
and the breeze tempered the heat. The
horses were put up while the three had a
stroll. The conversation was animated.
After a while Miss Carlyon said :

Mr. Wharton, if you will not talk of
Pharisees' and use such very plain
Saxon, I should like to hear a little more
of the principle of the Charter. I feel
interested.'

I am delighted to hear you say so.
But I must, in turn, request you to refrain
from calling God-fearing people " infidels ; "
that is a little strong, don't you think ? '

I was only repeating what I heard. It
was very stupid of me. But we will avoid
strong language in future ! '

Here is a little bank and a pleasant
view. Let us sit ; and I will expound
this matter to you.'

They sat down, and John Wharton gave
Miss Carlyon a sketch of the whole movement
in accordance with what has been laid
down in Chapter XL, Vol. L ; and therefore
need not be repeated. With feminine
ardour she protested she thought the movement
a good one. Her father admitted
the arguments, but explained :

It IS not the principle I object to ; it

is the magnitude of the demand. They can
never get it all ; and they will not take
a piece at a time. We attack the Corn
Laws and nothing else : and we will get their
repeal after a while. The points of the
Charter will come piecemeal, I believe, intime.
But I have no faith in it as it stands
at present.'

I quite admit what you say. But if the
principle is right, I think we are justified in
fighting for it ; fighting peacefully, of course.'

Ay ; but there is the rub ! You have got
a fighting element in your ranks.'

That is true, I am sorry to say. And
none regret it more than the moral-force
Chartists themselves.'

Will you speak at the meeting, Mr.
Wharton ? I should like to hear you expound
your views in public,' broke in Miss
Carlyon.

I am no public speaker by habit ; but I
am willing to try.'

It is curious how young love can show
itself Here is Miss Carlyon, who is no

impulsive romantic young lady, asking John
Wharton to speak in public ; and he is
equally ready to oblige her !

If you do said Mr. Carlyon, ' I wish you
would put the arguments so as to contrast
the movement with what was said and done
by the advocates of the Eeform Bill in 1831.'

On Mr. Macaulay's line ; will that do ? '

Capitally ; he is a staunch Whig. You
could not do better.'

After their return Mr. Carlyon took John
Wharton to the workshop of a leading
Chartist, Frank Cheadle, a master carpenter ;
who was glad to see so unwonted a supporter
of the Charter; and, without any
prompting, asked him if he would say a few
words at the meeting.

We talk among ourselves you see, sir,
till we pretty well know what each other
has to say. We should be glad of a new
speaker ; he would give us some new
arguments.'

Mr. Carlyon thinks it would be well to
take some of the arguments of the Whirr

VOL. IL P

advocates of the Reform Bill, and apply
them to the present time. What do you
say to that line ? '

I think it a very good one. It will do
famously.'

'The meeting is tomorrow (Friday) at
seven in the evening ? '

Yes ; we are all working-folk ; we never
meet till the day's-work's done. We waste
no time over politics ; whatever our
opponents may say of us.'

The gentlemen turned away, and Frank
Cheadle gleefully announced to his fellow-chartists
that evening, that a stranger, a
gentleman ' from over Sheffield way,' who
was a landowner, was going to speak at
their meetings.

We nun ha' th' band wi' us, we're like,'
said one of a musical turn, and this was
carried unanimously without a dissentient
voice. They would show the gentleman
such honours as lay in their power.

The evening came, and the meeting was
held on an open space near Cheadle's shop.

A solid block of wood was put ready for the
speakers to mount in turn. The news that
the strange gentleman staying with Mr.
Carlyon would speak, had been bruited
abroad ; and attracted a number of persons
who under ordinary circumstances would
have held aloof from the Chartist movement,
as from an unclean thing. The real
Chartists consisted of an inner rinof of
earnest, sober, thoughtful men, mechanics
and the like. Two or three musical instruments
were to be seen. When Mr. and
Miss Carlyon had joined the group with
their guest, Frank Cheadle mounted the
block, and spoke as follows :

You all know my views, so I need not
repeat them here. We must have meetings
in order to keep the pot boiling ; and the
Chartist pot must boil like other pots, else
them as doesn't like it, will swear it' s not
warm. (Here a laugh went round the
crowd.) Well, whether we are at boiling
point or not, we're warm anyhow ! We
believe that the country needs reform ; and

p 2

if we can get other folks to believe with us
we'll win. We are constantly told that we
have had enough of reform. That's what
they say that are represented in Parliament.
We are not ; and we want to be ! When
we are represented, then perhaps we will
be satisfied to rest and be thankful too.
We working men helped the Whigs to
carry the Eeform Bill ; believing that when
there was wider representation, the middle
class would help us in turn to get representation.
But, as ye all know, we have not
had faith kept with us. We want narration ;
that's all we want ! That the excesses of
the '* physical force" men, or maybe I
should call them "lads," i' the great towns
have brought discredit upon us all, must be
admitted : and right sorry we true reformers
all are that such is the case. But the
principle is sound, I say ; and there is a
gentleman going to address us who is not
ashamed to join the people in trying to get
their rights. Them as say that " the Chartists
" are the " narrow cloth," and the

Government the '' broad doth " folks maybe
right i' the main ; but there's exceptions
even to that rule. I won't detain you
longer, and will ask the gentleman to come
forward.'

There was a brief pause, and it seemed to
the musical element appropriate and befit
tin s^ the occasion to indulge in a little of
their favourite exercise. So they struck up
one of Bramwich's hymns, of which this is
the last verse :

All men are equal in His sight,
The bond, the free, the black, the white :
He made them all, — them freedom gave ;
God made the man — man made the slave ! '

This was sung fervently ; and though the
crowd was a rather humble one there was
little of ' slavery ' in their holding an open
meeting undisturbed by ' their gory oppressors
; ' as some of the Chartists were in the
habit of terming the authorities.

After the music ceased John Wharton
walked quietly up to the block, and took
his stand upon it. He looked round from

his elevation, and nodding to Mr. Carlyon
(possibly Miss Carlyon was included), he
began in clear tones :

'Friends, I should like to draw your
attention to some points in connection with
the demand for further Reform, known as
*' the Charter," and the Chartist movement.
Let us follow the arguments used by Mr.
Macaulay in the debates which preceded
the passing of the Reform Bill, which he
said was "this second Bill of Rights, this
greater Charter of the Liberties of England,"
and see how they apply to the present case.
If they were sound, as regards the middle
classes, then enfranchised, I cannot see why
they are not sound as regards the classes
still left without the franchise. The working
classes have been allowed to sit at a
Barmecide feast : they helped, and very
materially, these middle classes to the
franchise; and then were left unaided to
clamour for their enfranchisement in turn.
That the Reformed Parliament has achieved
many great and most desirable legislative

measures — has indeed manifested a great and
wholesome activity — is, to my mind, an
argument for further extension of the
franchise ; not for standing still. (Loud
applause.)

But to return to the arguments used by
a staunch Whig, a AVhig of Whigs, "the
people's friends." He said the voice of
great events was proclaiming to us reform,
that we might preserve. It was because
the French aristocracy resisted reform in
1783, that they were unable to resist revolution
in 1789. It was because they clung
too long to odious exemptions and distinctions,
that they were at last unable to save
their lands, their mansions, their heads.
They would not endure Turgot, the King's
minister ; and they had to endure Robespierre
and the guillotine. To extend the
franchise was, in 1831, held to be robbery
of those who already possessed it. Representation,
it was stated, belonged to the
land and its owners ; rather than to the
people. How did he dispose of this statement?

"You tell the people that it is as
unjust to disfranchise a great lord's nomine
as to confiscate his estate.
Take heed that you do not succeed in
convincing weak and ignorant minds that
there is no more injustice in confiscating his
estate than in disfranchising his borough."
He told them not to " bind together two
totally different things. Foolish minds
will do so, and their weakness and folly
bear their appropriate fruit." Their boroughs
have been disfranchised, and their argument
has recoiled upon them. A considerable
class in the nation would have no
objection to confiscate their property ; buta
larger, a wiser, and stronger class, forbid
their doing so. These speeches have led
the discontented classes to talk of confiscation.
This has been the direct outcome
of their own feeble arguments against
reform. But it has not been enough that
they have stirred up folly and wickedness
by their speeches ; they 'have done worse.
They have sent out by design agitators to

mislead the people, to lure them on the
course of wickedness and crime. Have not
Chartist speakers inciting to violence been
found to have really been Government
emissaries and spies ? And then the
passions of the people are blamed for it all.
It stirs one's blood within one's veins to
know of such devices, — such infamous
artifices !

Then it is argued that if the franchise
is este need, common, incapable, coarse men
will be returned to Parliament. Let us
see how Mr. Macaulay meets this assertion
that none but mob-orators, — men that are
willing to pay the basest court to the
multitude, will have any chance of being
returned. He asked them to look at
Nottingham — with a franchise lower than
that proposed by the advocates of the
Reform Bill, — where they would see two
distinguished men, not connected with the
town at all, its representatives in the
House of Commons. Look at leicester,
he said, where every man paying *' scot and

lot " has a vote. Who are the members for
Leicester ? A Tory baronet, and a manufacturer
linked with other counties. Look
at Northampton with a franchise lower
even than " scot and lot " ; were the members
for Northampton slaves of the mob ? Who
have been the members for Westminster
and Southwark ? Have they been above
or below the average members of Parliament
? From Mr. Fox to Sir Samuel
Romilly, who never even showed himself
upon the hustings ; have they been mob-orators
? Where is the validity of that
argument ? Well may Lovett and Collins
write from Warwick gaol : "The candidates
who have been elected by the multitude by
a show of hands have been better qualified
for their respective notices, both intellectually
and morally, than those who were subsequently
elected by the privileged class of
voters." I do not see how the arguments
apply less now than they did then.

Then it was argued that it was not wise
to yield before popular commotion. What

did he point out ? Why, that the whole
history of England was the history of
Government giving way before a people
that is constantly advancing. Charles I.
only tried to rule like Henry VIII., but
the Englishmen of 1640 were not the
Englishmen of 1540. He forgot the
advance that had been made ; and he lost
his head as the consequence of his forge t-
fulness. The Government of Louis XVI.
was a milder, better Government than that
of Louis XIV. ; but Louis XIV. was " the
grand monarch," while Louis XVI. perished
on the scaffold. Changes in society must
be followed by changes in the Government.
Yes, he said : *' You may make the change
tedious, you may make it violent, you may
even make it bloody ; but avert it you
cannot." Despite the opposition of the
Lords and borough-owners the Reform Bill
was passed. (Applause.)

Then as now it was pleaded : " Would
you alter the representative system in such
agitated times ? " What was the Whigs'

answer ? " Reformers are compelled to legislate
in times of excitement because bigots
will not legislate in times of tranquillity."
We are compelled to move fast because
they would not move at all. If any bad
consequences should follow from the haste
and excitement, let those be held answerable
who, when there was no need of
haste, when there existed no excitement,
refused to listen to any project of reform ;
nay, who made it an argument against
reform that the public mind was not excited.
Half the logic of misgovernment
lies in this one sophistical dilemma : If
the people are turbulent they are unfit for
liberty ; if they are quiet they do not want
liberty." Now, if these arguments were
valid in 1831, in favour of reform; I cannot
see how they have lost their weight in
eight short years, and are not equally valid
now ? (More and louder applause.)

That the opponents of reform gave way
at last before the arguments used, and
beyond and behind these arguments the

popular will, is a matter of history. Weare
now told to rest and be thankful ; that
there should be no national disquiet.

'ewe ought to wait," says " Finality John."
(Laughter.) Again, let us see what was the
Whig argument then. Is delay no evil ?
Is prolonged excitement no evil ? Is it no
evil that the heart of a great people should
be made sick by deferred hope ? We allow
that many of the changes that have been
made are improvements. Have there been
no improvements made by the reformed
parliament ? Improvements enough to
warrant more reform, I hold. Whenever
orreat interests are at stake there will be
much excitement ; and wherever there is
much excitement there will be some extravagance.
Is this less true now than it
was eiofht years ag-o ? Have we not foolish
agitators now who tell the working-classes
much that is to be deplored ? And if the
masses are ignorant and easily misled,
whose fault is it ? Is it all their own ?
They are what their situation has made

them : ignorant from want of leisure ; irritable
from the sense of distress. That they
should be deluded by impudent assertions
and gross sophisms ; that, suffering cruel
privations, they should give ready credence
to promises of relief ; that, never having
investigated the nature and operations of
Government, they should expect impossibilities
from it, and should reproach it for
not performing impossibilities : all this is
]perfectly natural. It was " perfectly
natural " then : but do these very Whigs
allow it to be " perfectly natural " now ?

" Pain and sorrow can make us very
querulous and very unreasonable," it was
pleaded then. Have the people no pain,
no sorrow now ? When want is stalking
about ; when the Leicester weaver can only
earn four-shillings-and-sixpence a week, and
wheat is seventy shillings the quarter ! The
landed interest protects itself by legislative
measures which make bread dearer for the
starving people ; and then expects that they
should be free from a sense of wrongs ? I

am connected with the landed interest ; but
that does not blind me to a sense of right
and wrong. I am not surprised that when
the land is thus protected by legislation, a
certain portion of the ignorant starving
masses should clamour for a return to the
old Poor Law ; that they should threaten
to resort to violence ; that indeed in some
quarters they should have been tempted to
violence. It is much to be deplored that
they should have been tempted to resort to
violence ; violence does no good, but much
harm. But if the Government would do
something to relieve the starving man it
would pacify him. If they would let him
have bread at a price bearing some reasonable
proportion to his wages, it would allay
much of the general discontent. That at
least the Government might do. The
people are quite as important as the land.
If the people could see the Government
trying to help, in their trouble, then they in
turn would become more reasonable. That
they will still seek their rights is certain.

They v»dll not abandon the Charter when
the Anti-Corn Law League has done away
with the tax on bread ; but the bread-tax
is a terrible burden on a starving people !

It has been asserted that the people will
indemnify themselves by illegal excesses for
the want of legal privileges. There have
been riots, chiefly by crowds maddened by
hunger ; and there may be more in the
future. It is because our rulers have no
sympathy with the people ; no discernment
of the signs of the times ; no share in their
hunger ; that the masses are raging, and in
revolt even. The demagogue would have
no audience but for the just indignation
excited among the multitude by the insolence
of the enemies of reform : and the last
hope of the enemies of reform lies in the
uneasiness that is excited among all who
have anything to lose, by the ravings of the
demagogue. Yes ; and I ask, while my
cheek burns with shame, — Englishman as I
am, — how many of these demagogues are
Government agents ?

Have the early reformers or Chartists
either advocated or used violence at their
meetings ? Was there any rioting when
the first Chartist meeting was held in
London, in February 1837 ? AVe must
seek redress by legal means. Reform is
not revolution. Revolution does not
belong to the order-loving people of
England : they seek reform by constitutional
measures. We seek what they
sought in 1831, namely, a peaceful, — a
lawful reform. The natural distribution
of power, and the legal distribution of
power, are not in proportion to each other.
They should be ! It is dangerous, they
say, to give power to the people who are
unfit to make a wise, or prudent use of
it. Are the people of England less fit for
self-government than the people of Switzerland,
or the United States ? Yet none of
those terrible results which are so confidently
prophesied for England in the
event of farther reform, and extension of
the franchise, have yet happened to either

VOL. IT. Q

of these free countries. I do not believe
Englishmen less fit to govern themselves
than these two nations. I utterly
disbelieve it. I feel sure these fears are
groundless. (Cheers.) In conclusion, 1 say
that I do not see what has occurred to alter
arguments which were valid in 1831, and
render them of no weight now. It maybe
may inability to recognize some essential
difference betwixt then and now ; but I
see none. Our reasons are as sound as
those of the Whig reformers ; and our proceedings
oucrht to be the same, viz. an
appeal to reason, to justice. No pike-heads
and fire-raising. " Peace, law, and order ; "
that must be our motto ! An Englishman
has a right, — a free Englishman, that is
neither felon nor pauper, — has a right to a
voice in the making of the laws that govern
him ; as it was with our Saxon ancestors,
when they first came to our shores ; and all
the powers under heaven cannot prevent his
having such voice sooner or later. Was
earth made for the few, or the many ? Is

it reasonable that the few shall make the
laws for the many ? Whither have the
deeds of the reformed parliament pointed ?
are questions to be asked. Not to rest :
but to more reform, I say ! But let us
attain our ends by legal means ; or not
at all ! ' (Loud applause.)

The band then struck up, while the crowd
sang :

Then rouse, my boys, and fight the foe ;

Your arms are truth and reason ;
Ye'll let the Whigs and Tories know

That Union is not treason.
Ye Lords, oppose us if you can.

Your own doom you seek after;
With, or without you we will stand,

Until you give the Charter.'

After which ' groans for " Finality John " '
were given ; and the sounds where not
unlike those of a ranters' meeting, when a
conviction of sin was felt by a multitude
who had suddenly awakened to a living
belief in the fact that they had souls to be
saved. Then ' three cheers for the speaker ; '
after which the meeting broke up. The

Q 2

opinions expressed by the speaker were
eagerly discussed by various members of the
Chartist body.

Do ye say he comes from Sheffield way ?
I thought the "physical force" men were
Strong their. He's no "physical force"
man, I reckon. He wound Macaulay up to
a tidy tune. The arguments of 1831 won't
suit 1839. The Whig Government is about
worn out with what it has achieved. It's
time for new blood, I say. The Charter we
must lev', and if the Whigs won't give us
it ; why, we will see what the Tories can
do. It's like they'll win i' the next 'lection,'
was the comment of a sturdy quarry-mason.

That's the kind o' talk we want more
on. None o' yer nonsense about " pikes
an' fighting," or even " the sacred month,"
and such-like rubbish,' said a blacksmith.

John Wharton joined Mr. and Miss
Carlyon, slightly excited by his unwonted
exercise.

'You hit it off capitally. Just enough,
and not too much,' said the old gentleman.

1 am afraid I have not been doing you
justice, Mr. Wharton. You quite exceeded
my expectations,' Miss Carlyon said.

Then your expectations had not gone
very high, I fear ? '

On the contrary. I formed rather lofty
expectations ; but I had no idea you were
such an accomplished speaker. You quite
impressed your audience, I could not help
observing,'

Miss Carlyon may not have been a very
competent, or even impartial, critic ; but
Holm Wharton felt just then what many
another man has experienced, viz. that
the approbation of a lady is sweeter and
more acceptable to the palate, than the
like approval from any number of male
lips, when something has been done.

Stump oratory on such a dry subject as
political reform ' is a curious mode of
courtship ; yet little Cupid was fluttering
over that block, and shot a barbed arrow
right into Miss Carlyon's heart.

When she made her complimentary speech

the little joker took aim again. No one
heard the twang of his bow-string, no eye
caught sight of the arrow in its flight ;
but it transfixed John Wharton : but the
feathered shaft could not be seen projecting
by the side of the heavy lapel of his coat on
the left side. It was evidently deeply
buried.

Eros, God of love ! what sport thou
makes with human hearts !

CHAPTER X.

OTHER CHARTISTS.

Next morning a change in the weather
seemed threatening, and the Carlyons felt
it no want of hospitality to speed the
parting guest.

Can you not manage to find your way
here ao-ain before the season closes, now
that you have found us out ? ' asked Mr.
Carlyon, cheerily.

And he mio^ht bring Miss Wharton
with him, papa, I am sure,' continued Miss
Carleton.

Eio^ht, my dear. Can you not promise
to bring your sister too ? Say about the
first week in September. Come, promise
me V

There was no doubt about the genuineness
of the invitation ; and as he, personally,
had no objection to keep up his familiarity
with the Carlyons, John Wharton promised
to see what could be done.

Hawk was eager to be off, so amidst
friendly ' adieus ' the stranger turned homewards.
He moved on more rapidly than
he had travelled on his outward journey, as
clouds were gathering. Hawk was ready
for a rest at Glossop, after which he set off
with a sturdy determination to get home
as speedily as possible. The rain began
to descend as they reached the summit of
the moors, and soon came down heavily.
Fortunately they had the rain on their
back, else it would have been very disagreeable.


We must ride for it. Hawk. You can
have a good rest tomorrow : ' his horse
seemed to understand perfectly what the
rider said, and was not long in turning
into the yard at Fowrass Grange. Luke
Ell wood was on the watch for the pair,

and when lie heard the horse's footsteps
went out gleefully to meet them.

•' We've brought a change i' th' weather
wi' ye, sir,' was the greeting. ' Th' rain
will suit us well ; but i'll do th' corn na
good.' So saying he helped his master to
dismount.

All well, Luke ? '

Ay ; very thing,' was the equally
curt reply ; for it was no time for parleying.


After a hasty greeting with his sister,
John Wharton divested himself of his be-splashed
riding attire ; and settled down fora
quiet evening as the rain fell in an unbroken
downpour. Miss Wharton listened
eagerly to all details about the Carlyons ;
and the speech.

Why, Jack,' she said, ' whatever induced
you to make that speech ? Uncle will not
like it.'

To tell the truth, I was not thinking of
him at the time. Perhaps he will not hear
of it.'

T hope he will not ; for I am sure he
woukl be annoyed.'

Dear uncle, I am afraid my views are
unpalatable to him ; but I cannot help
that.'

We need not vex him more than we
can help. What did the Carlyons say to
your speech, Jack ? '

'They were pleased with it.'

Miss Carlyon. Did she say anything ? '

Yes ; she complimented me on it.'

I told you how it would be.'

Nonsense ! women always detect courtship,
if two unmarried people get on well
together. They want me to visit them
again, and to take you with me. Do you
think you could ride there in a day ? The
distance would not be too much for Daisy.'

I shall have to consider some other
matters than Daisy. Inviting me looks
significant. Miss Carlyon is smitten, Jack ! '

Go away with you. You are so fond of
your brother you think every other woman
ought to be equally so. That's nonsense ! '

So she should be too ; if she has any
taste,' said Miss Wharton, turning away to
the door in pursuance of some domestic object ;
adding to herself when out : ' A man never
sees a thing till it hits him on the bridge of
his nose. The gentleman's sister is to
be brought on the scene, that the ladies
may take the measure of each other. Yes ; it
looks like a match ! I hope I shall like
Miss Carl von. T should like to see the dear
old boy happily married. Then I could
leave him with a good conscience.'

The rain came down steadily till a flood
of unusual height was the result : and the
consequence of the weather was damage to
the corn crops, and a rise in the price of
corn.

The Chartists of Sheffield had been active
all this time, holding meetings of their own
constantly ; while disturbing the peaceful
meetings of the Corn Law agitators, and
indeed making themselves felt everywhere.
They had become aggressive even ; and at
their meetings, which were held nightly.

the names of the tradesmen of the town
who subscribed to their funds were read
over, as well as the names of those who
declined to do so. The latest idea of the
advanced Chartists was to fix a ' sacred
month ' to be devoted to meetings and
demonstrations. August was the month
fixed upon as being on the whole the most
convenient. Then the members of Parliament
could give an account of their actions
during the past session ; and be returned
again, or rejected, according to their
stewardship. The elections were to beheld
then ; and indeed it was to be the
political month par-excellence. On August
6th they held a meeting in Paradise Square,
at which the following resolution was
carried :

That this meeting, while we believe that
nothing less than an universal stand can
get the Charter, we believe that this town
and district are not yet sufficiently organized
for the adoption of the " sacred month ; "
but nevertheless we wait the decision of

the General Convention, and pledge ourselves
to adopt and carry out all measures
UNCONDITIONALLY recommended by them
for securing the people's Charter.'

There was more than mere defiance of the
authorities in their meetings, and after the
meetings and processions almost unbroken,
and occupying the whole of the i2fch, the
magistrates issued a proclamation forbidding
such meetings. Two men who had made
themselves very conspicuous by their conduct
were apprehended, and brought before
the magistrates. The consequence was
that there was a serious riot on the 13th,
and the military were called to the aid of
the police ; and many persons were injured
though no one was killed, and some scores
of rioters were apprehended. The town
was almost in a state of siege. The working
classes were by no means all bitten
by Chartism, and some thousands offered
themselves as special constables, and their
services were accepted. The chief portion
of the troops were called away to Macclesfield,

where matters were even worse, so
the yeomanry were called out. Between
the yeomanry and the agitators no love
was lost. Force was being met by force.

On the Sunday following these events,
the Chartists took a new departure, and
attended the parish church, having requested
the Vicar to preach from a particular
text. He announced that next
Sunday he should do so. When the time
came he did as requested. The text chosen
was the fifth chapter of St. James, up to
the eleventh verse. For the convenience
of readers who may not be familiar with
St. James, or who may not have the
reference at hand, it may be well to give
it in its entirety.

1 Go to now, ye rich men, weep and
howl for your miseries that shall come
upon you.

2 Your riches are corrupted, and your
(garments are motheaten.

3 Your gold and silver is cankered ; and
the rust of them shall be a witness against

you, and shall eat your flesh as it were
fire. Ye have heaped treasure together
for the last days.

4 Behold, the hire of the labourers who
have reaped down your fields, which is of
you kept back by fraud, crieth : and the
cries of thei which have reaped are entered
into the ears of the Lord of sabaoth.

5 Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth,
and been wanton ; ye have nourished your
hearts, as in a day of slaughter.

6 Ye have condemned and killed the
just ; and h^ doth not resist you.

7 Be patient therefore, brethren, unto
the coming of the Lord. Behold, the
husbandman waited for the precious fruit
of the earth, and hath long patience for it,
until he receive the early and latter rain.

8 Be ye also patient ; stablish your
hearts : for the coming of the Lord draweth
nigh.

9 Grudge not one against another,
brethren, lest ye be condemned : behold,
the judge standeth before the door.

10 Take, my brethren, the prophets,
who have spoken in the name of the Lord,
for an example of suffering affliction, and
of patience.

11 Behold, we count them happy which
endure. Ye have heard of the patience of
Job, and have seen the end of the Lord ;
that the Lord is very pitiful, and of tender
mercy.'

How the sermon progressed ; or what
might be the objects of the Vicar in preaching
from such a text may have been ; certain
it is that with the town seething in unquiet
and views running high in conflict, it could
only add to the commotion. On the third
Sunday there was such a disturbance that
the Vicar and Churchwardens applied to
the magistrates ' to claim the protection of
the law against a recurrence of the painful
scene which happened in the parish church
on Sunday ; ' the outcome of the presence
of the Chartists. The magistrates complied
with the request, and on the next Sunday
armed policemen were placed at the gates

of the churchyard, and in the church itself,
in order to prevent any rioting or disturbance
; and were successful in keeping the
peace. This may to some extent have been
due to the fact that on the day after the
application to the magistrates, the Chartists
had held another ' silent ' meeting in
Paradise Square ; had been dispersed by the
police and the military ; had assembled again
at Doctor's Field ; and being again-dispersed,
but not without much stone-throwing, in
which numbers were severely injured,
though none were killed. Over thirty prisoners
were taken. A few of these were sent
to York, but admitted to bail ; while others
had to enter into recognizance, and find
sureties to keep the peace.

But even then the defiance of the authorities
on the part of the ' physical force '
Chartists was pronounced. An Irishman
who had attended a seditious meeting had
declared among other threats that ' if any
magistrate dared issue a warrant against
himself or his brothers, he would assassinate

VOL. II. R

him by day or night ; ' and also with asking
the meeting — ' Is there a man amongst you
who cannot make a blade that will draw
blood ? ' He was committed for trial at
York Castle. These remarks testify what a
wild spirit of lawlessness had taken hold of
a section of the Chartists.

The natural consequence of such a spirit
was of course equally energetic action by
those opposed to them. A large number of
the more prominent advocates of violence
were bound over to keep the peace, and so
rendered quiet. The authorities also were
firm in their determination to put down the
meetings. A great meeting was to be held
at Sky Edge ; but on the Chartists becoming
aware of the fact that ball-cartridge
had been served out to the troops who
would have to disperse them, it was thought
prudent not to hold it. Held in check by
the firm attitude of the authorities, the
Chartists made themselves less conspicuous ;
but many feared they were all the more
plotting mischief in secret.

The early part of the year had been
n usually dry ; but after midsummer a
huge took place in the weather, and
August was wet ; while the rainfall of september
was very heavy, amounting to
Most thirteen inches ; in October the rain
continued, and towards the latter portion
f the month heavy rains fell for several
.says without intermission. The effects of
such weather upon the harvest were disastrous.
It was deficient both in quantity
,nd quality ; and though the bad quality
:kept the prices from rising very high, the
[duty, which on November 1st was eighteen
shillings and eighteen per quarter, presented
the entrance of foreign corn of
)better quality.

At Brigstone the rain kept the harvesting
)operations back ; and in the middle of October
the harvest was progressing but slowly.
Che consequence was the prospects for the
coming winter were exceedingly gloomy :
md all were full of apprehension as to what
Around happen.

R 2

The Anti-Corn Law agitators were distinctly
peaceful : an attitude which irritated
the physical force Chartists into fierce
opposition to them. The food outlook
roused both parties. The league against
the Corn Laws redoubled its efforts
The violent element of the Chartists spread
terror over the land by their threats, and
their general attitude.

The country was in consequence nearly
beside itself with terror. Villages of a
purely agricultural character like Brigstone,
under the immediate eye of a magistrate of
character and decision, were comparatively
undisturbed : but even there the contagion
of the alarm caused much internal uneasiness.
At Wybrow there had been meetings
in which much sedition had been talked,
and many wild threats uttered. In Barnsley
there had been scenes like those described
occurring at Sheffield ; where the Chartist,
or insubordinate element had perpetrated
several outrages.

In calling this lawlessness by the name of

Chartism, it must be clearly kept in mind
that under the cloak of Chartist meetings
and processions, many of the criminal class
contrived to pursue their nefarious practices.
Many of the more violent agitators and
preachers of sedition were, it is sad and
also shameful to have to confess, the paid
agents of the ruling powers.

A Totter belonging to the Protectionist
party has described the Chartists as brawling
for the rights of man ; while the Anti-Corn
Law League preached a cheap-bread crusade.
And under the cover of those who were
in earnest, the rabble element of society
carried on war against the property-holder
of all kinds. While admitting this, there
was more of violence than of plunder
in the riotous doings of that unhappy
time.

In Birmingham, even so early as in July,
there had been grave riots ; in which not
only had much glass been broken, but warehouses
had been pillaged and their contents
piled up in the streets, and set on fire, to

make bonfires ; while in other instances
houses had been fired.

One class had been the special object of
the hatred of these riotous crowds, and
these were the corn-merchants. These were
especially obnoxious to all the agitators ;
whether mere Anti-Corn Law people, or
full-fledged physical-force Chartists. The
character of the harvest had set these
merchants to work speculating ; and no one
was more energetic than Mr. Mortlake, one
of the promoters of the Wybrow Bank.
Threats had been uttered against him ; and
it became pretty certain that an attempt
would be made to mark the feeling against
him, sooner or later. He himself professed
to hold the Chartists and their threats in
the utmost contempt. He refused to remove
his wife and children from his Wybrow
residence, or even to take measures for their
protection.

Why should I make any special preparations
? I am quite confident in the power
of the authorities to protect me. Let them

attack my house if they think fit to do so.
As long as Canon Wordsworth is on the
bench I am confident the majesty of the
law will be maintained.' The consequence
of this being that the intending rioters were
infuriated by the taunting remark, and
more determined than ever to make Mr.
Mortlake feel their displeasure ; while Canon
Wordsworth became an object of their detestation
from being thus held as a rod in
terror over their heads. They hated the
Canon as an uncompromising upholder of
law and rule. Muttered threats were thrown
out, that he was not safe from their vengeance
if they chose to march out to his
house.

The backward state of the harvest, and
the inferior quality of the corn from the
bad weather, had caused wheat to run up
in price, so that on October 1st it stood
at seventy-five shillings and sixpence per
quarter. An arrangement was made by
some of the fiercer spirits in Sheffield and
Barnsley, that they should go over one

night and head the Wybrow Chartists in
an attack on Mr. Mortlake's house. The
Wybrow police were by themselves utterly
unequal to any fight or resistance against
a mob ; which mob was pretty certain to be
armed with bludgeons, if not with more
dangerous weapons. The secret was well
kept ; and one night, as darkness fell, a
crowd seemed insensibly to gather round
a rallying-point. Sundry men were found
to wear crape masks, and it was clear some
serious mischief was afoot. Others were
seen with considerable-sized bundles, which
really consisted of oakum, which would
burn fiercely. At a given signal the mob
moved off towards Mr. Mortlake's house,
where the lighted windows made a ready
mark. The first intimation to the inhabitants
of danger to them brewing was a volley
of stones, smashing the windows of the
front of the house ; followed instantaneously
by loud defiant cheers from the crowd. The
utmost dismay and alarm seized upon the
inmates. Mr. Mortlake was not at home,

if he had been, he could have done nothing.
Mrs. Mortlake and the domestics, amidst fran -
tic cries of ' Rioters ! ' ' The Chartists are onus
! ' ' Murder ! ' ' Police ! ' seized the children
aud fled from the back of the house shouting
and screaming ; while the poor frightened
children cried lustily in their alarm. Another
volley of stones followed, and then the front
door was forced open. Tip. men in crape
masks brought forward their bundles of
tarred tow ; and placing them in the hall
lighted the mass, flinging upon it chairs
and things which would burn readily. The
draught fanned the flames and carried them
up-stairs ; and in a very short time the
house was ablaze from ground-floor to attic.
Tt was a villa residence standing in its own
grounds ; and therefore its burning entailed
an imaginary rather than a real danger of
spreading to the adjacent houses. But to
the inmates of these houses the danger
seemed real enough ; and after snatching
up such valuables as were portable, they
fled from the scene.

The police were soon attracted to the spot,
andcould see the masked leaders leaping about
exulting in their fiendish act, shouting and
conducting themselves more like so many
Red Indians than Englishmen. The light
of the blazing house made every object
clear and distinct ; but at such distance as
was deemed prudent the policemen could
not distinguish any of the leaders of the
outrage. The mob behind howled, and
shouted encouragement to those actually
engaged in firing the house ; and kept
together so as to prevent the police from
getting nearer the actual offenders. The
town was in an uproar, and the people
nearly frantic. The authorities were powerless
to act with such force as they had at
command ; and messengers were despatched
to Shefiield and Barnsley for aid. Some of
the more courageous of the special constables
came forward, and it was determined
to attempt an attack on the ring-leaders.
But the oro^anizers of the outrage knew their
work too, and the attempts were baffled.

No efforts to reach the men who were
wanted could pierce the negative resistance
of the crowd ; and as the roof fell in,
and there was a momentary loss of light
after the sparks had burnt out, the masked
men disappeared. Sympathizers in the
crowd kept them aware of the whereabouts
of the police and the special constables ;
and soon it was understood they had
escaped. Of course in the darkness each
man could readily cast away his mask,
and then there existed nothing to identify
him with the act of arson. Some of
the crowd had no great objection to betaken,
knowing they had horne no active
part in the deed, and so could not be
severely punished ; thus a number of
prisoners were made. Rain soon came
down heavily, and did away with any
possible risk of the fire spreading. It also
dispersed the crowd : and soon a heap of
blackened ruins, with a red flame here and
there, spluttering with the falling rain, and
a deserted space around it, was all that

met the eye. When the forces came up
from Barnsley and Sheffield, all was over.
Under the cover of the darkness and the
rain, all traces of the perpetrators of the
outrage were lost ; and in the well-washed
roads next morning there remained no footprint
to guide the police towards the whereabouts
of the men they wanted. The
Chartists had wreaked their vengeance upon
Mr. Mortlake.

Next day a feeling of exasperation existed
throughout Wybrow. The public were
seized with that ferocity which is produced
by fear, as well as desire for revenge. The
deed was evidently carefully planned, and
deliberately carried out ; and as such deserving
of severe reprobation. When the
magistrates assembled next morning they
were fully impressed with the imperative
necessity for such action as would be
deterrent against the repetition of such
outrage. Canon Wordsworth and Squire
Wharton were strongly of this opinion ;
while Squire Old field naturally resented the

injury done to his fellow-shareholder in
the bank.

The half-dozen prisoners seemed inclined
to regard their night's residence within the
lock-up as part of the freak ; and fully-expected
that when no evidence tending to
connect them with the act of arson was
forthcoming, they would be discharged.
But they very soon found out the magistrates
were in no humour to look at the
matter in that light. The Canon as chairman
commenced by expressing his regret
that such an outrage had been perpetrated
at Wybrow ; and that it was a most serious
offence, which must be dealt with in such a
manner as would show the seditious persons
of the neighbourhood that such acts could
not be regarded as trivial, but were grave
breaches of the peace. Squire Wharton
looked unusually stern, — an ominous indication
for the culprits.

The evidence was then taken ; first, that
of Mr. Mortlake, who deposed that many
threats had been made of what would be

done to him, and how he disregarded them ;
trusting in the power of the law to protect
him and his property : which last evidently
told upon the chairman aud Squire
Wharton. Then the superintendent of the
police described the stealthy manner in
which the mob assembled ; and their superior
numbers, before any suspicion was excited
as to what was contemplated. How the
actual offenders wore crape masks ; and how
the crowd interposed so as to prevent them
reaching the chief actors ; and also how
they kept these actors aware of the whereabouts
of the police and special constables.
It was abundantly clear that the crowd
thoroughly sympathized with the actual
fire-raisers ; and did all that lay in their
power to impede the police. The prisoners
admitted being present in the crowd ; but
pleaded they were only onlookers, and had
taken no part in the outrage. They fully
expected that under these circumstances
they would be remanded for a week, for
further evidence : which would not be forthcoming,

and then be discharged : they
posing as heroes during the time of the
remand. They were quickly undeceived,
however. When the magistrates returned
from considering their decision, the chairman,
looking very serious, addressed the
culprits as follows :

We have given due and full consideration
to the matter before coming to any
conclusion. The offence is much more
serious than the prisoners seem to realize.
It is an offence of very great magnitude ;
and must be dealt with accordingly. In
these troublous times when there is a spirit
of lawlessness abroad, we feel that we
cannot deal with such an outrage as arson
at the sessions. The prisoners must be
tried before her Majesty's Judges, when
the subject will be thoroughly sifted.
The prisoners will then be tried by Judges
who are perfectly impartial, and free from
any local feeling. Under a recent Act of
Parliament, the prisoners will have the
advantage of being able to engage counsel

to defend them ; and who will be able
to defend them, — who will be equal to
making the most of any evidence which
they may be able to bring forward in their
defence. We do this in order to show the
prisoners that we have no wish to press
hardly upon them.'

The whole of them were then committed
to York Castle, to be tried at the next
gaol delivery, — the Winter Assizes.

The decision overwhelmed the prisoners
and their friends. Two months must
elapse before the Assizes came off, thus
making sure of a term of imprisonment
for them. Bail was promptly refused.
There would be the loss of time, — a
heavy fine ; and, what was much more,
there would be the cost of the defence,
solicitors, counsel's fees, and the expense
attendant upon getting together, and
keeping for the requisite time at York,
the necessary witnesses.

The Canon had professed the utmost
desire to do justice to the prisoners, and

yet the course taken entailed a very heavy
punishment — even if they should be discharged
at the Assizes. The magistrates
had set an example of retaliation ; and the
Chartists and their sympathizers were
enraged at the decision, and vowed vengeance
in turn.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XL

EVENTS MOVE ON.

The weather was not very propitious for
the proposed visit of John \^ barton and his
sister to the Carlyons ; but it was determined
to carry it out if it were possible.
Pressing letters had been received from Mr.
Carlyon, urging them to take advantage of
any break in the rain to pay the visit.

Luke EUwood took especial pains over
Daisy, that she might look well, and bear
the journey without exhaustion. It appeared
to Luke that Buxton lay so faraway
that it seemed quite a long excursion ;
too far for Daisy in one day, even with
Miss Wharton's weight upon her back.

Pair little nag,' he would say ; ' it's a lang

journey for thee. I hope who'll not be vary
tired : ' and when Daisy snuffed about for a
crust in Luke's pocket, he said : ' I wonder
if there's be anybody that will give thee a
crust where thou's o-anmno; till. I's feared
not.' A fear on the kindly Luke's part which
was quite groundless.

Warned by his previous experience, John
AVharton had a small box of necessary articles
of attire sent forward to Peak Cottage
by the carrier, in readiness for their visit.
If they did get caught in the wet on their
journey it would not so much matter then.

The desired break came ; and the two set
off early one morning, and rode very quietly
away to the summit of the moors, quickened
their pace over them, and then made the
descent quietly down to Glossop. John
pointed out to his sister the various objects
which he had noted on his previous ride.
Miss Wharton enjoyed her ride very much ;
and the exertion brought a pleasing pink
flush to her pale cheek. As before, a rest
was made at Glossop ; but, encumbered with

lier heavy riding-habit, Miss Wharton took
a very cursory glance around the neighbourhood
of the hostelry. As they reached the
slopes of the Derbyshire hills she was struck
with the profuse vegetation, and the wealth
of the ground plants.

Look, John, there is a perfect vegetable
carpet. See how freely the harts-tongues
flourish ! I have never seen anything like
it : even at Stanmore — at least that I
remember.'

^^'Then when they came to the old Grange,
and her brother pointed out how well it
and the park-walls were designed for defensive
military purposes, she was much
impressed.

I should think the people residing here
are in no fear of the Chartists ? '

I should think they have no reason to
be afraid. The Chartists in rural districts
are not of the violent order : they wish todo
all peacefully, and stick by the laws.'

I am sure I wish all of them would do
the same ! '

When they passed the gate and came to
the village green, the overflow channels,
almost dry on his previous visit, were seen
to be running full with water.

I wonder how my friend the hull-nosed
trout is by this time. Fat and plump, I
doubt not, if some angler has not caught
him. The weather has been in his favour,
anyhow,' John Wharton explained, as they
rode over the bridge. It continued fine
till they reached Buxton, but there were
evidences of rain being about to fall.

Their greeting was most cordial ; and
both Mr. and Miss Carlyon were most
solicitous in their care of Miss Wharton.
Everything was ready for them ; and, having
removed all traces of their travel, they sat
down to an appetising meal.

*I hope you have not forgotten your
appetite, Miss Wharton. I am old-fashioned ;
and in my day it was always thought a
good sign when a long ride sharpened the
appetite instead of taking it away,' said
Mr. Carlyon.

Miss Wharton thanked him warmly, and
said she would let her actions speak for
themselves.

Miss Carlyon and her guest soon got on
good terms ; and after tea sat at the window
deeply immersed in a very serious feminine
conversation, — in which matters domestic
and articles of attire were alternately the
topics. It was quite obvious that no difficulties
would arise from differences so far
as the ladies were concerned.

It was soon clear to Miss Wharton that
the Carlyons were gentlefolks, though they
preferred to live in their quiet way.

You got a speech out of my brother
when here before. 1 was so surprised when
he told me. He has never shown any
inclination to speak in public ; I did not
think it was in his line.'

He spoke very fluently and easily, I
assure you ; and was listened to with the
greatest attention. We have had many
inquiries about him since then. He made
quite an impression. Papa says he handled

the matter very ably. I cannot presume
to judge of that ; but what he said seemed
to me very convincing.'

Miss Wharton was delighted to hear her
brother so spoken of; no more acceptable
flattery could possibly have been offered to
her. Whether the object of the praise was
altogether unconscious of what was said of
him or not, may not be affirmed ; although
to all appearance he was immersed in talking
politics to Mr. Carlyon.

Two or three days passed very pleasantly,
the weather permitting of excursions being
made to several places of interest. Miss
Carlyon rode well, and having succeeded in
getting a pair of horses and the requisite
riding gear, the Carlyons rode out with their
guests. Naturally Mr. Carlyon waited
upon Miss Wharton, leaving John Wharton
to attend to Miss Carlyon. Mr. Carlyon
admired Daisy very much, and said Mr.
Wharton showed excellent judgment in
horseflesh.

'It is a good point about a man to be a

good judge of a horse. It shows he can
think for himself. Horsey men are a bad
lot in my experience ; too much horse is
dangerous. But I like a man who knows
a horse when he sees it,' was the old
gentleman's comment.

Before the visit was over, Mr. Wharton
had asked Mr. Carlyon's permission to pay
his attentions to Miss Carlyon ; with an old-fashioned
sense of propriety. The consent
was somewhat reluctantly given.

It is not from any objection to you, Mr.
Wharton, let that be clearly understood ;
for, from what I have seen and heard of
you, no man would wish a more eligible
suitor for his daughter's hand,' explained
the old gentleman ; ' but from a selfish
consideration. She is all I have. I lost
Mrs. Carlyon ten years ago : it was a great
trial to me. She left me with May and a
son, as fine a young fellow as you would
wish to see. He would join the army ;
though I myself am rather a man of peace.
His mother pleaded for him after she fell

ill, and I could not refuse her. He came
in his uniform to take a last farewell of her,
as she wanted to see him in it. And a
gallant young fellow he looked too in his
scarlet coat and gold lace. But unfortunately
he was sent to Ireland, and got a
violent cold when on duty chasing Dan
O'Connell's followers, which ended in inflammation
of the lune's. T went at once
on hearing the news ; but I was too late :
he was dead when I got there.' Here the
old gentleman was silent from emotion fora
moment or two. ' Since then May has
been everything to me : and a better
daughter no father was ever blessed with.
But I must not be selfish ; I must be
thankful if I find a son-in-law who will not
be a s transfer to me, and with whom I have
much in common. I give you my permission
to do so ; but I will say nothing to
her. If you gain May's consent, you have
mine.'

This was readily agreed upon ; and John
Wharton knew that he had an ally, if a

silent one, in Mr. Carlton. He had great
hopes of success with the lady.

The barometer rose one day, and it
was agreed next morning to take their departure.
The day before had been continuously
vet, so they hoped for a fine day. It
would be very wet under foot ; but that
mattered little as they were going home.
The farewell was very earnest ; and Miss
Wharton thought she noticed Miss Carlton's
hand remained rather long in her brother's.

As they rode down the slope from Buxton,
Miss Wharton said :

Jack, it is getting serious.'

What do you mean, Edie ? '

'The attachment between you and Miss
Carlyon is evidently mutual ; and I don't
think Mr. Carlyon opposed to the match.'

Would you have any objection '? '

I ? Certainly none. She is a right
down good girl, with a cultivated mind.
She would make you an excellent wife. I
have never yet met a girl so likely to make
you a good wife.'

I am very glad to hear you say so, Edie.
I have spoken to Mr. Carlyon, and he has
no objection to me

'Then it is as good as settled. I should
like to go a little faster, please.'

Having reached the flat, they rode steadily
on ; John Wharton trotting, while Daisy
cantered by Hawk's side.

When they arrived at Glossop they were
well bespattered. The rain had come down
again ; but it was clearly a shower only,
as they had watched the big black cloud
gathering nearer and nearer. It blew over ;
and they set out, feeling pretty safe from
rain for the rest of the journey. When
Luke came out to take Daisy, he said :

Why pair little nag thou's o' mud !
And ye are garbled, Miss ! '

This last word rather puzzled Miss Wharton
; but she judged it was one of Luke's
northern words for splashed.

After she had dismounted, he continued :

Hev they treated thee wheel, Daisy ?
Thou shall be cleaned, and lev some clean

straw' and a gude warm mash to-meet at
bed-time, that thou shall.'

The groom looked rather carefully at
Hawk ; and thought that a good hard job was
before him, to make up for a day or two of
idleness, before the horse and his riding-gear
would be presentable.

When it became time to lock up the
stables, the groom gave Hawk his usual
feed; while Luke brought the promised
warm mash for Daisy.

Their now,' he said to her, ' that'll keep
thee warm after thy lang journey. Thought
a good nag ! I wasn't see thee badly, or ail
owt, for anything. Dost ti' like it ? Now
then, here's a cake to finish wi' ; ' with this
he produced a sweet cake.

Luke and Annas were thrifty folks ; but
they had been much exercised about Daisy,
and feared she would not be well looked
after : and Annas had been baking bread,
and made a little cake with a dash of sugar
in it, which she determined Luke should
give her at bed-time. Luke was delighted

at the considerate act. In answer to her
inquiry how Daisy had received her offering,
Luke said :

Th' little nag can do ought but speak.
She liked at me sea knowingly ester she
hed extend cake, as much as to say, " I'm
back hame, and I'm o^lad on't ! " '

Next day the two Wharton went over to
Gaythorne Hall to see the Squire, and tell
him how they had enjoyed their visit. He
was glad to see them, and to know they
were well. He showed a good deal of
curiosity about Miss Carlyon.

Is she a nice girl, Edie ? ' he asked.

Uncommonly nice and sensible, uncle.
And well-informed. I like her.'

VV^ell-informed, is she ? I suppose she
shares her father's tastes, and reads a good
deal ? I hear he is a strong Anti-Corn Law
leaguer. I suppose she is so, too ? '

I think she is, uncle. But they do not
obtrude their views on their guests.'

Well, that is a good thing. How does
Jack set on with Miss Carlyon ? ' the old

gentleman asked quietly, with a shrewd
look upon his face.

Very well. They are good friends.'

Then I see what it will end in.'

Here John Wharton felt himself colouring
very unpleasantly ; and as it was clear his
uncle noticed him reddening, the blush
grew more pronounced.

You need not say anything, Jack I can
see. Well, I suppose it is the Marston
blood, — but both to take up with reformers !
It's hard on an old uncle that has no
children of his own, and loves you both as
well as if you were his own.'

It was useless to say anything. But the
old Squire seemed troubled.

After a pause the conversation turned on
what was going on in the neighbourhood.

I fear we are going to have worse
times than ever, Jack. These physical-force
scoundrels are acting very unpleasantly at
Sheffield ; and things must be worse elsewhere
: the troops were called to Macclesfield.
Did you hear anything of what was

doing there when at Buxton? It's not far
from Macclesfield.'

Not more than you would see in " The
Times." There is a high ridge of mountains
betwixt Buxton and Macclesfield. The
silk-trade is in a very bad way, I believe.
We must look out for disturbances this
winter, I fear.'

I have been thinking Edie would be as
well out of the way for a month or two.'

'I am not afraid, uncle, I can assure
you.'

But I am for you. I am going to write
to Cousin Barbara to take you till Easter.
It will make a nice change for you.'

But will it be convenient for her, uncle ?
She is getting old ; and it may put her
about ? '

If she is getting old it will be well to
have you to wait on her. I shall write
tomorrow. What do you say, Jack ? '

I do not think there is any danger of
Fowrass Grange being attacked.'

Perhaps not. But it seems you are not

SO sure about Gaythorne Hall. They may
try to burn the old man out ; but I don't
think an old soldier likely to be afraid of a
lot of rebels. I have not forgotten the
smell of gunpowder. We have a few firearms
on the premises ; and Bulman looks to
them, and the ammunition too. We'll give
them a warm welcome when they come.'

I sincerely trust there may be no occasion
to resort to Bulman's preparations.
But of course lawlessness must be put down
with a strong hand said John Wharton ;
o-lad to keep the conversation away from
Buxton and Miss Carlyon.

The Squire communicated with the Lady
Barbara Saville, who was delighted at the
prospect of seeing her handsome young
kinswoman again. She would be very glad
to take her till Easter ; or longer, if she could
stay. The preparations for her visit were
being pushed forward when the burning of
Mr. Mortlake's house, and the threats uttered
against Canon Wordsworth, caused them to
be hastened vigorously.

The Chartists were exceedingly angry
with the way the Wybrow rioters had been
disposed of. The Bill allowing counsel to
prisoners had only been passed a year or two
before. Previous to that Act the prisoners
would have had to defend themselves ; and
that, in this case with willing witnesses at
hand, they could easily have done. But to
have to take these witnesses to York, to
keep them there, and pay counsel ; the
more the facts dawned upon them, the more
they felt they had been out-manoeuvred by
the bench : and the more savage they became.
Meetings of Chartists were quite
common despite the orders of the magistrates
against them ; and one day a large
force came out from Barnsley and joined
the Wybrow Chartists : and a movement
was made towards the Canon's residence, a
little distance from Wybrow. ' Let's warmth'
owt priest.' ' We'll fire 'un.' ' Th' owt
hanse '11 burn like shaven's.' 'We'll teach
'im what a magistrate sud be.' ' We'll put
'im to th' cost of another hanse.' Such

VOL. II. T

were the cries from the crowd as they
surged along on their fiendish errand.
Friendly messengers hastened to the Canon's
to tell him what was on foot. The old
man s blood was soon up ; and sending otf
emissaries to bring the yeomanry from
Sheffield, he rode down to meet the rioters,
and read the Riot Act. This firm attitude
cowed many ; while others began to see that
the consequences might be very disagreeable.

You foolish fellows, turn back, I say !
You cannot master the rest of England, you
Chartists. The best men among you utterly
detest such proceedings. Go back, I say.'
He spoke in loud, clear tones. ' Go back, I
say ; and not a man among you shall be
prosecuted.'

The promise affected the less courageous
and the more sensible, — or rather least reckless
of the crowd ; and a backward movement
was commenced. The more desperate
of the leaders found themselves being deserted
; and the Canon, scanning them carefully,
thus addressed the knot of desperadoes :

We will shoot you down if you attack
my house. There are fire-arms in readiness,
and the attempt will cost some of you your
lives. Some of the rest will be wounded,
and taken prisoners, — to be tried, and transported.
I can swear to several of you.
Now just turn back with the rest. It
will be better for you.' Sullenly and
sulkily the remainder turned, and followed
the main body. The Canon's firm
demeanour saved his house ; and, what was
more, saved bloodshed, and long terms
of imprisonment for many of the foolish
men.

But the moral effect of such a demonstration
was tremendous. The alarm of all
classes was intensified. A meditated attack
might not be so successfully averted another
time. The whole country-side was beside
itself with terror. It was possible that an
attempt might be made on Gaythorne Hall ;
for it was generally held by the Chartists
that Squire Wharton had had a great deal
to do with the decision of the bench.

T 2

Th' Canon would nivver lev' dared to
due as he did, if Squire Wharton hadn't
backed him.'

That was the view taken by most of
those familiar with the circumstances.
And the feeling of irritation against the
Squire ran strong through the Chartist
ranks.

Th' Squire hen t forgotten th' murder
of Tom Earnshaw last winter. He bears
malice, th' Squire. He could find out
nought ester his reward, and he wanted
to pay off an ould score. That's what
meade him due as he did.'

There was no inherent improbability in
the supposition ; and though the Squire
scoffed at the threats uttered, and Bulman
rather looked forward to a siege, so that
all his preparations might not be labour in
vain, it was thought very desirable to
get Miss Wharton away to the South ;
where Chartism was, at that time at least,
less lawless. A rick or two might be
burned here and there, but nothing more.

There was none of that violence on a large
scale which attached to the youthful mobs
of the manufacturing towns.

At last the morning came for Miss
Wharton's departure. She was to take
the coach at Sheffield for Birmingham ;
stay all night at the latter town ; and then
proceed by the London and Birmingham
Railway, — now opened through its entire
length. Her brother would accompany
her to Birmingham, and see her off in
the train. This would give him an opportunity
of seeing the working of the line ;
about which many and diverse opinions
were held. A carriage was to come from
Sheffield for the travellers. He was dressed
in the high-collared, stiff coat of the period,
which o^ave a certain character to its
wearer. The hat was allied to the coat ;
it was high and stout, with a substantial
brim. Miss Wharton wore a dark dress
of linsey-woolsey, and over it a red frieze
cloak lined vv^ith white silk, over that a
sable boa, with cuffs and muff to match ;

with a beaver hat bearing in front the
three feathers of the Prince of Wales : the
attire then fashionable. A very handsome,
high-bred, well-dressed young lady she
looked. Indeed the pair would have attracted
attention in Pall Mall itself. They
left shortly after daybreak ; caught the coach
at Sheffield at about ten o'clock ; and got
into Birmingham some hours after darkness
had set in.

Next morning John Wharton saw his
sister off safely ; Lady Barbara's carriage
would meet her at Watford.

He spent the day in Birmingham, and
left for Sheffield next morning. He found
the Chartists of Birmingham in a very
restless mood ; and the anticipation of rioting
in the winter very strong. Already
some serious outrages had been perpetrated,
and people were full of apprehension. He
could not help feeling very anxious about
the outlook. He said to himself — ' It is
hunger we have to fear. If the masses
could be fed there would be no riots. From

the beginning there have been bread-riots ;
and taxed bread will lead to rioting again.
Soon after the Corn Law was passed there
were bread-riots ; in the winter of '31-32
the Bristol bread-riots were followed by
rick-burning and fire-raising ; and it seems
only too probable that similar riots will
come in the winter, after the bad harvest.'
He had heard a speaker argue strongly fora
return to the old Poor Law ; his child
was dying at home, and might live if the
necessary articles could be procured for it ;
but his wages, such as they were, would not
allow him to provide for it what it needed ;
and the law would not permit of out-door
relief. The case was undoubtedly a hard
one. Perhaps, he thought, if we knew
something more of the inner life of these
rioters, we might be able to make some
excuse for their wild deeds.

On the return journey the conversation
ran mainly on the Chartists and their
doings, or the proceedings of the Anti-Corn
Law League. One passenger in the coach

stated that a rumour was current in
Birmingham, before he left, that Lord
Brougham had been killed by a carriage
accident on Penrith Beacon, a few miles
from Brougham Hall. But the news was
received very calmly. A few years earlier
the event would have been regarded as a
truly national affair. The figure of Lord
Brougham, — so prominent from the time of
the trial of Queen Caroline to the Reform
Bill, and in some of the measures carried
by the Reformed Parliament, — had recently
receded very markedly. Instead of figuring
before the public, and looked up to almost
as much as the Monarch, or the Duke
himself, he had been living in retirement
in the North. Few believed the rumour.

However, the next morning, obituary
notices appeared in a number of the leading
London dailies, leaving no doubt about the
matter.

Quickly followed a contradiction ; and it
seemed the old practical joker had set the
rumour going to see what the press would

have to say about him. Whether the
results were to his mind or not, may be
questioned. The effect was to set the
tide of public feeling further against him.
A few days later John Wharton was at
Gaythorne Hall, seeing his uncle, and telling
him how Edith was getting on, when he
pulled out a journal.

'There is the "Spectator" uncle : there
is something in it you would like to see.'

I don't think so.'

Well, look ! Do you see these lines about
Lord Brougham J *

The seditious old demagogue ! After
this last freak I should think people are
done with him. What are they ? Oh, I see ; '
and he proceeded to read them.

'WHY DID YOU DIET

Oh, why did you die. Lord Brougham, Lord Brougham i
At this time of all others, Lord Brougham, Lord

Brougham !
When but just to sustain a new part you had learned.
And you revelled in praise you once would have

spurned ;
When time of its Terrors had Obloquy shorn,
And you grew sleek and fat on royalty's scorn :

When, too, pleasure the path of your downfall had

smoothed.
When enlivened by rakes, and by dowagers soothed ;
Oh ! Why did you die 1

But why did you not die. Lord Brougham, Lord

Brougham,
Some five summers ago, Lord Brougham, Lord

Brougham ?
When your path it was straight, and your honour was

bright.
And the spirit of nations rejoiced in your si^^ht ;
When each despot with fear at your eloquence shook,
And you had not been retained to bespatt r the Duke ;
]S"or for Tory applause you had bartered your fame,
Nor your country had robbed of another great name ;
Why didn't you die?

But now choose your own time, Lord Brougham, Lord

Brougham ;
You may die when you please, Lord Brougham, Lord

Brougham !
For your life now belongs to its holder alone :
And Lord Brougham may do what he likes with his

own.
Come the blow when it may, we have learned to

support
The sharp pang that has once been inflicted in sport ;
And the day shall by England unheeded pass b) ,
Nor the ready tear drop from Montgomery's eye,
When you really do die, when you really do die.'

Capital ! served the aged trickptcr
right ! There was always too much of the

actor about Brougham, to my mind. I
don't think the fellow over honest.'

Well, this cannot raise him in public
estimation.'

And yet the reforming party were
simply crazy about him once. It is a
lesson you can lay to heart, Jack 1 '

In the afternoon the Squire was talking
confidentially to Mrs. AUonby, and, among
other things, he said :

It is a great trial to me to have to see my
nephew and my niece both going in radical
directions. Miss Edith engaged to a man
who holds with the Chartists : and Mr. Jack
taking up with the daughter of Mr. Carlyon
the Anti-Corn Law man. I fear it is a
judgment upon me. I ought to have
thrown the past behind me, and married
boldly. I fear I decided wrongly.'

Why had the old Squire not married ?
and what was it to which he referred 1
Something evidently known to Mrs. Allonby
as well as himself. A close secret clearly.

CHAPTER XII.

THE PAST WILL NOT BE BURIED.

Ix the autumn of 1799, a carriage and
pair might be seen standing in one of the
streets which run off English Street, in
the border city,' waiting at a door. In
it were two officers of the garrison, who
had evidently lunched. They where in high
spirits, a little boisterous, but not intoxicated.
There was nothing: about them
incompatible with the social regulations of
the times ; when to be a trifle excited
after a meal provoked no censorious comment.
They were well-bred, gentlemanly
young fellows ; officers, a little indifferent
to the opinion of civilians, — and disposed
to do as they liked in some matters where
probably their conduct would have been

more guarded had they lived in the immediate
neighbourhood of their respective
families. A little indiscretion upon the
part of garrison officers was not severely
criticized at Carlisle, and was condoned
as a part of the warrior's life ; for making
love when not engao-ed in fighting seemed
then — perhaps since, certainly up to that
time — the soldier's natural occupation and
amusement. They did not wait to the
point of impatience before they were joined
by two girls; young like themselves, and
also in full high spirits. Two tall, good-looking
girls they were, of that light order
which is found in garrison towns ; possibly
not unknown elsewhere. There was nothing
unusual about their appearance ; they were
well-behaved, and even modest-looking.
There was nothing of the fastness of the
demi-monde about them ; probably they
were dressmakers, or seamstresses. They
took their seats quietly, pretty much as a
matter-of-course ; as if they were quite
familiar with this kind of proceeding, and

betrayed no consciousness that there was
anything unusual, or gravely improper, in
what they were doing. It was quite clear
that public opinion did not criticize such
proceedings very harshly, nor was very
censorious about such things, — provided a
decent behaviour was maintained.

The carriage went away down the hill
across the long bridge over the Eden, and
breaking into a gallop the horses went at
Stanwix Hill, and were half way up it before
they settled down into a sober walk. It
was a bright afternoon ; and the sun shone
clearly away over the castle with its old
square tower, and embrasures, — keeping
watch and ward over one great entrance
to the Scottish marches. The cathedral
stood out boldly ; and behind it and to the
west could be seen the high grounds leading
up to Caldbeck Fells, and over that again
the towering mass of Skiddaw ; whose ' red
glare waked the burghers of Carlisle,' in the
days of old ; and was to do it again before
long — when Napoleon's design of invading

England was to rouse the island as the
Armada roused it of yore. Probably the
occupants of the carriage thought little of
these historical associations, and of their
surroundings ; probably never even spoke of
Simmons Willie, and the hole in Carlisle
Castle walls, where Buccleuch dug him out
one stormy night ; while inside they were
busy erecting the gallows for him. Hard
rough border fellows ; but they knew something
of mutual dependence, man on man ;
before sociology was thought of as a science.
Passing the clean white houses of Stanwix,
with the Scottish hills in front, Roxburgh
on one side, and Dumfries on the other,
they entered the long straight road which
led to the Scottish border. It was
the road from Carlisle to Gretna Green,
then and still more after notorious for
runaway matches. Once over the border
the blacksmith soon made them one ; before
the pursuant parents, — the angry father, or
guardian of the fair one, could interfere,
if the historical associations of the locality

did not engage the attention of the occupants
of the carriage, it is pretty certain
that the postilion's mind was reviewing the
many numerous flights and pursuits in
which he had borne a part in past days.
The sympathies of ' the road ' were all
with the expectant lovers. The fast horses
were told off for the fugitives ; while the
slow pairs were retained for the pursuers.
Runaway pairs for Gretna were a distinct
feature of the Bush Hotel at Carlisle in
the days of old. Tired and panting, the
horses put in at Penrith, laboured up
Botchergate, reeking with their efforts, but
well aware that their task was over. No
time was lost to speed the young folks to
Gretna, to marry in haste ; too often to
repent at leisure ! The postilion's features
might be seen breaking into a smile as they
passed the crest of the ridge, and he recognized
a bank up which he drove the carriage
of a pursuing party ; when he discerned ahead
of him an accident to the carriage of the
runaways. The old gentleman got out and

stormed, and raged, and swore wickedly
as he saw the others creeping away ; while
his own vehicle was hopelessly disabled by
the accident. He accused the postilion of
complicity, and declared he would have
him indicted for conspiracy ; he would sue
him ; in fact, he did not know what he
would, or would not, do to him. All the
time the postilion, affecting the greatest
concern for his vehicle, kept looking it
over, surveying the situation, doing anything,
indeed, to kill time ; or that could
furnish an excuse for delay in attempting
to get the carriage on the road again.
He laughed aloud as he remembered how,
when they had got started again, they had
not reached the Esk before they met the
runaways, — having been irrevocably made
one, returning at a leisurely pace. There
was no longer need for haste. The paternal
auger would need time for it to blow
over : while repentance did not set in
till a much later period.

Experience had taught the hotel-keepers

VOL. IT. U

that they could trust the generosity of the
bridegroom in the matter of any damage
to vehicles overturned, or otherwise injured,
in his service. There was no need to have
from these Eomeos a promise in writing
to repair, or make good all damages. They
were always ready to pay all out of the
fortune of the lady upon whom they had
conferred the honour of wifehood. Such
were his thoughts evidently. It was from
the top of Stanwix brow that the postilion
of the runaways looked back to seek for the
pursuers ; if they were not on Eden bridge,
they would not arrive at Gretna till the
ceremony was concluded.

These runaway marriages led to some
further irregularities. To be married at
Gretna grew to be not uncommonly a sort
of freak, — never seriously intended as marriage
bv either of the contraction parties.
Persons whose relations where rather those
of ' spiritual husbands and wives ' than
those of 'lawful husbands and wives,' not
unfrequently went through a ceremony

over the border, — which was held at least
as some extenuation of their unsanctified
union.

Such alliances not rarely ended in mutual
desire for separation ; while the parties earl
contracted new and lasting ties. Nor was
any divorce, or formal arrangement, required
in the dissolving of these fleeting ties. If
the parties were mutually satisfied ; then an
ordinary marriage succeeded the irregular
one, and all was well. But if the association
was found to become distasteful intime,
the whilom man and wife each went
their own way, unmolested by the other.
Many of the border-marriages were never
meant to be lasting. It was never understood
that either party should look upon
the affair in a serious light.

Consequently, when the carriage had
driven over the Esk, and was nearing
the little rivulet which forms the actual
boundary-line betwixt England and Scotland,
the idea was started of undergoing a
mock-union at Gretna ; and the proposal

u 2

met with ready acceptance. Many an
officer at Carlisle Castle had undergone a
Scottish marriage in this thoughtless manner
; nor had any practical inconvenience
been experienced afterwards in consequence
thereof. When the officer went with his
regiment elsewhere, the nymph sought
another lord ; and never thought of troubling
him in any way, or interfering with any
ties he might subsequently contract. The
marriage-tie has different associations in the
northern kingdom than in its southern
neighbour; and the relations of the sexes
where somewhat mixed along the border.

The girls were delighted at the proposition
; and turning their rings with the
plain portion to the back of the hand, the
requisite golden circle was readily improvised.
It would be a capital lark. As
the gentle ascent from the little Sark was
made, the practical joke was decided upon.
When they drove up to the little inn the
landlord met them.

*Yere brocht a fine day with ye the

day, captain ! ' he remarked. (No officer
was ever of lower rank than ' Captain,'
when out on a merry-making expedition.)
'And my teddy, too, I see. Gude afternoon,
eddies,' he continued.

You are a little premature, Sandy. We
shall require the services of your neighbour
before the ladies can claim us. I dare say
he will not keep us waiting long,' said one.

Marry, will he not. He'll fasten ye in
less time than he can turn a horse shoe.
Ye'll sure be back married folks. Forsooth,
will ye put up the horses ? — they'll no' object
to a rest.'

'Yes; you may as well take out the
horses,' replied the officers. ' We will stay
an hour or two, and drive back in the
moonlight. It is the harvest-moon, Sandy,
eh?'

Weel, yes ; it lurks rather a moonlight
job athegither, to my mind,' was the canny
response. 'Maun I whistle "Haste to the
wedding " for ye ? Though whistling's
no' much of a practice o' mine. You'll

win throw' the job wi'out music, I'll warrant
ye he went on. People contracting
irregular marriages are not likely to
resent some familiarity from a complaisant
Boniface.

So they turned away to the blacksmith's
shop at the end of the inn ; so well known,
and so well remembered, by many a couple.
The blacksmith's shop stood at the northern
end of the inn ; and forms now the 
of a handsome country house.
The smith, Andrew Jardine, was in no way
surprised at two couples presenting themselves
at his shop as the altar of Hymen,
where lie officiated as high priest. He
thought he had seldom seen two better-looking
couples together before in the whole
of his long experience.

While maun I mary first ? ' he inquired.

A fair-haired man with a dark girl came
forward.

Just gie me your names, please ? '

Edward AVharton ' ; and ' Lilian Anderson
' were the respective answers.

Ye tek this woman to be your wedded
wife ? '

Certainly, I do,' said the officer.

And ye tek this maun for your wedded
husband ; do ye, my wench ? '

I do,' was the reply ; the girl being
abashed by the rude address of the officiating
priest ; who readily detected that the
whole was a freak, and that nothing serious
was contemplated.

Then I pronounce ye one ! ' he answered.
You'll hae your marriage-lines, of course ? '
Not well seeing how to refuse the document,
the girl waited until the old smith
had written a few lines ; a certificate of the
marriage, in fact.

It was mor-3 to get rid of the thing
than anything else, that the bride put the
slip of dingy paper into her purse. As to
the bridegroom, he looked upon the matter
as a useless formality. He liked the
girl, was fond of her : but as to his wife,
he would as soon have dreamt of marrying
one of the post-horses. He was a

patrician, and would only marry in his own
order.

The other couple were soon disposed of;
and Andrew took a fee which made him
sorry that he had made so free with one
of the girls. He, however, refrained from
giving them his blessing ; a part of the
ceremony he never omitted when the matter
lookit business,' as he called it.

They're braw young folks,' was his comment.
^ I wonder hoo soon they'll forget
auld Andrew Jardine, and Gretna ? '

Returning to the inn they had some
claret ; Sandie pronouncing, with a keen
eye to his own interests, that nothing else
was good enough for such an occasion.

Whiskey's well enough for th' ordinary'
couples. But for the likes of you, gentlemen,
nothing but claret's becoming'. We've
no' a day like this very day,' he persisted ;
affecting to regard the affair as serious, and
the ceremony as valid.

The girls enjoyed the fun ; the respective
couples behaved and spoke to each other as

if the marriage was a reality ; and laughed
at the strange sound of the ' Mrs ; and
thought it was a good joke. In fact, there
was merely the folly and frolic of the
optimism of youth. Little did any one of
the four think then that the echo of that
laughter would be distinctly heard in the
far-away years of the distant future.

In the falling evening, after the sun had
set behind CrifFel Fell, the horses were put
to again, and the party drove back to
Carlisle ; every one feeling that they had
had a pleasant excursion. Nor did these
brides remind their lords of the wedding
ceremony except in joke. When Lilian
Anderson was designated ' Mrs. "Wharton,'
sometimes she was pleased, at other times
cross, according to her mood. In a little
time the incident seemed to have slipped
out of the memory of all concerned in it ;
as much from the parties who formed the
chief actors, as the high priest who officiated
; unless it was when Lilian encountered
the little slip of paper, her marriage-lines,

in the recesses of her little box of
treasures.

Lilian's father was a shepherd in the
Bewcasde Fells ; more ' having ' and less
scrupulous than their neighbours, the Newcastle
people, were said to be. Such was
their reputation ; and when, by an accident,
the canny shepherd heard of the mock-wedding,
he had no hesitation in setting
to see what could be made of it. So he
put himself into communication with young
Wharton, who then became aware that he
had committed a very foolish act. In vain
the girl tried her best to persuade her father
to abandon his purpose, for she knew Lieutenant
Wharton was not the man to make
any terms with him : he would not be
dissuaded. So the young lieutenant applied
for leave of absence, procured it ; then said
good-bye to Lilian and ' the merrier city ; '
and before long news reached the garrison,
and from thence spread outwards, that
Lieutenant Wharton had exchanged into a
regiment going out to Canada. The Newcastle

man chafed ; he had taken nothing
by his persistence except to place an ugly
obstacle in the way of his daughter being
properly married, by attaching importance
to old Andrew Jardine's marriage certificate.
Lilian fretted, and became very unhappy ;
probably in this result, the obstacle to her
being legally married some day was the
smallest factor.

It was a few years after Mr. Charles
Wharton, the eldest brother of the family,
had. come to the estates, that a tall woman
of the working-class, of respectable appearance,
though her clothes were stained with
travel, knocked at the servants' entrance of
Gaythorne Hall. Mrs. Allonby was then
parlour-maid, and happening to be in the
way when the knock was heard, answered
the door.

Is this Squire Wharton's ? ' the stranger
asked.

After an affirmative answer, she inquired :

Is Lieutenant Edward at home ? '

The tones were rather faltering. Mary

Allonby was a quick-witted girl, with a full
share of feminine curiosity in her composition.
She knew there was a drop of wild blood in
the Wharton, and the Lieutenant was said
to share in the inheritance. A good-looking
woman of the lower orders asking for him
roused her suspicions.

Come in this way,' she said, showing the
traveller into a room rarely used. * Where
do you come from ? '

I come fra Carlisle,' was the response.
I knew the Lieutenant when he was at the
Castle there. I've been unfortunate ; and
1 ken the Lieutenant would help me if he
knew ; for the days of auld lang syne.'

Mary Allonby recognized the accent ;
for her father came from the north, and
retained much of his northern twang. She
got the visitor some food, and gained her
confidence. Before long she was in possession
of the whole story ; and saw for herself
the bit of faded paper which Lilian regarded
rather as a voucher for the accuracy of her
story, than as giving her any claim upon

the Lieutenant. She preferred no legal
claim ; she came simply as a suitor, hoping
help from his generosity.

Mary knew well enough that the Lieutenant
would have listened to the tale had
he been at home, and befriended the
woman ; though if any positive claim had
been made upon him he would have fiercely
resented it.

When the stranger learned that he was
still in Canada, she became greatly distressed
and disturbed. What little money
she had, had been expended on the way ;
and she had hoped to have heard that the
Lieutenant was in England, where a letter
would find him in a few days. She had no
voucher of character to enable her to get
work ; even if she would have cared to
remain in the neighbourhood of Gaythorne
Hall, where her connection with the Lieutenant
would be sure to get out.

This turn of the conversation showed
Mary that the woman's story was a true
one. She had no design to extort money

from the family, and evidently wanted her
errand to be kept a secret. Mary took a
resolve, — partly the outcome of good feeling,
partly from self-interest. The Squire would
never live to be an old man like his father ;
his life was not compatible with old age :
he was a bachelor, and likely to remain
one ; the Lieutenant would some day be
Squire. It was worth the risk.

So she took two pounds out of her
savings, and gave them to her visitor so
that she might make her way back to
Carlisle. The gratitude of the woman was
boundless.

Mary showed her out without being seen.
No one would be likely to ask questions ;
and the traveller was not likely to answer
them., if they did. The secret was safe.

How could she let the Lieutenant know ?
She dared not write a letter. The postoffice
at Brigstone would soon detect the
letter ; and surmises would be conjectured
of anything but a pleasing character.

There was no hurry. At last she saw

her way. Squire Charles was a careless
personage, and a bad correspondent. He
disliked the bother of writing letters, and
sealing them up. All the house knew when he
was o;oinor to write a letter to the Lieutenant.

Mary bided her time. One day he announced
his intention of writings a letter.
She got the butler out of the way. When
the sealing came there was no wax : the
Squire would not wait, so he rang the bell,
and told Mary to seal the letter for him.
She knew well enough why the sealing-wax
was not at hand ; and when the letter was
dispatched, her own little missive lay safe
inside it.

When the Lieutenant received his
brother's letter, he found within a slip, on
which was written :

Honoured Sir,

• Lilian Anderson was here the
other day. She was in want of money, so
I gave her two pounds. Hoping you are
well, as this leaves us all here,

I am, yours respectfully,

'Mary Allonby.'

He was thunderstruck. The girl had
been at Gaythorne Hall asking for him :
and in want too ! The letter was terribly
meagre, he felt. What was her object ?
As was natural, his apprehensions suggested
the worst. Mary had advanced her two
pounds out of her own money. There
must have been some strong reason for her
to do that : for she would know that he
could not send it to her without exciting
suspicion, and setting inquiries on foot.
He could not write to her for further
particulars. He felt in a maze of doubt,
from which he could not extricate himself.
There must, too, have been some strong
pressure on Lilian to have carried her to
Gaythorne Hall.

He felt wretched about it. It was clear
that freak at Gretna was to hang like a
millstone round his neck for the rest of his
life. He could not well institute inquiries
at Carlisle ; that would be as good as
acknowledging there was something in the
marriage. He cursed the thoughtlessness

which prompted the foolish freak. Many
a time as he was on the banks of the
Saguenay river, along the shores of the
great lakes, in the solitude of a Canadian
forest, the remembrance of that luckless
afternoon, — that journey across the Scotch
border, rose up before him. The bitterness
of the memory waxed as time wore on ; and
his imagination wove a whole network of
conjectures around the visit to Gaythorrue
Hall. Had he something tangible to deal
with, he felt it would be less irksome.
Had some definite action been taken ; had
Lilian asserted that she was his wife, then
he could take positive action. All he knew
was that she was in poverty ; and had gone
all the way into South Yorkshire to inquire
after him ; that Mary AUonby had advanced
two pounds on his account. What had
made the girl do that? He could not
write !

The thing became the hate noir of his
existence. He welcomed the war which
broke out ; amidst the cares, the occupation

VOL. IL X

of active warfare, he felt a distraction from
these absorbing thoughts. He was naturally
courageous ; his private trouble made him
even reckless. And Lieutenant Wharton
was conspicuous for fearlessness where all
were brave.

At last his brother's death made it
necessary to return to England ; and, with
the hearty good wishes of his comrades,
Captain Wharton set out for England, to
doff his uniform and take his position as an
English Squire. He found Mary Allonby
occupying the place of housekeeper : a post
which the death of the old occupant of the
position had made vacant; and Squire
Charles hated new faces. As soon as convenient
he asked the particulars of Lilian's
visit : he was told all. It was clear there
was no claim preferred ; but it was not
equally clear that some claim might not
be preferred now that he was at home, and
the owner of the Wharton property. The
garrison at Carlisle, though not the regiment
in which he served there, would furnish

a means of gaining information about him,
if any one was determined to know. Lilian,
like himself, must be approaching middle
age ; she must be five-ands thirty. What
was she doing ? He would willingly make
provision for her. It was evident that her
visit to Gaythorne Hall had no sinister
intent. She did not mean to harass, or
annoy him : that was obvious. What was
it, then ? His doubts and anxieties were
scarcely lessened. Was Lilian still single ?
That he could not ascertain without raising
awkward suggestions, and a certain amount
of admission that she had a claim upon
him.

Squire Wharton, as he was now termed,
found, like many another man, that the tie
lightly and thoughtlessly contracted, when
held as no tie, might grow to be a fetter
as years roll on. He had been a warrior,
and knew will :

The sound of a kiss is not so loud as
that of a cannon, but its echo lasts a deal
longer.'

X 2

So it does !

Consequently he remained single. Unmarried,
he was safe from anything more
than mere annoyance ; but if he married,
the aspect of matters was profoundly altered.
He would be liable to be worried beyond
endurance. Even a charge of bigamy might
possibly be preferred against him. The
Squire shrank from the prospect ; and
abjured all thought of matrimony.

Mrs. Allonby, however, had made her place'
secure during the natural lifetime of the
Squire and herself. She had made a good
investment of her two pounds. Besides,
she held the Squire's secret !

END OF VOL. II.

CA

■^*i>

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was borrowed on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
TO RENEW CALL TELEPHONE CENTER, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

MAY 1 2 1993

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. L162

OF THE

UN IVLR5ITY

Of ILLINOIS

F&ZZg

BY

JOHN M. FOTHEKGILL

'Tis greatly wise to talk with our past hours,
And ask them what report they bore to heaven,
[And how they might have borne more welcome news.

Young.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT Marlborough STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

CI.AY And TAYLOR, PRINTERS

F?2£
v,3

t

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER I.
LIFE AT Stanhope.

Edith Wharton found her time pass very
pleasantly at Stanmore. The Lady Barbara
was garrulous and gossipy. The latter she had
always been : the former grew more marked
as age advanced. She was a kindly old lady,
and her criticisms were never bitter. Her
young kinswoman found amidst her chatter
a great deal of interesting matter to which
she gave a ready ear. Court news always
possess a fascination for the female mind ;
and, though a reformer, Edith Wharton
listened to her relative's gossip with genuine
abandon. Then at times family matters

VOL. III. B

came up for discussion, and Lady Barbara
did not make any attempt to conceal the
fact that Edith's engagement was by no
means acceptable to her; she held it
beneath what a Wharton, — still more when
related to a Saville, — should aspire to.
Still she was not in any way acrid about it.
She shook her head white as driven snow,
in a decided manner, very different from its
growing persistent unsteadiness, as she said :
Your brother is allowing you to throw
yourself away : he ought to be more considerate,
my dear. A Wharton ! What does
cousin Edward say to it ? I, for my part,
solemnly protest against such a sacrifice ; '
and the old lady looked as if penetrated
with a sense of poignant regret which rather
tended to provoke her kinswoman's risible

faculties,

Is it so very dreadful, Lady Barbara ?

I do not think so ! '

'Perhaps you do not, my dear. I am

sure it would be very dreadful if you did.

I think girls should marry in their own

station. It is most befitting. An aunt of
mine always declared that the marriages
where the sensible friends on both sides
approved wore best. I think she was
right.'

But George Ash worth has a good position,
and will improve it, Lady Barbara,'
said Edith, with a ring of confidence in
her tones.

I am glad to hear it, my dear ; I am
sure it will make things pleasant if he
does. You know success in life is a great
things ! ' and the dodderinoj head wandered
sententiously.

So I have always been given to understand.
All families were made by somebody.
Even those that came over with
the Conqueror. Some of the men who
founded our oldest families that date from
then, were not gentlemen.'

My dear, the Conqueror would have none
but gentlemen around him, I am sure ! '

Well, as it was a desperate venture, I
dare say he was glad to get whom he could.

B 2

Some of the great Norman barons were
against his venture.'

Were they indeed ? You must read a
good deal, Edith. Reading was not so
much in vogue when I was young. There
are more books now.' The Lady Barbara
certainly did not convey the impression
of having at any time been much of a
student ; still less a bookworm. ' We were
more domesticated then. We had a book
of recipes that we knew very well. And
then we made all the things in it ourselves,
to see what they were like. Then came
Dr. Kitchener's " Cook's Oracle." George
Wynstay said he would rather have a wife
who could see he had a good dinner, than
one who could explain the foreign news to
him. Poor George ! '

Who was he, Lady Barbara ? '
He was the gentleman I was engaged
to be married to, my dear. A fine, handsome
; but hasty - tempered fellow. He
quarrelled with a friend at cards, and high
words passed, and so they agreed to fight

it out ; and poor George was shot at the
second fire. He fell mortally wounded,
and could just pull out his locket with a
curl of my hair in it, and kiss the curl,
which dropped into his blood. He died ;
and I never accepted any other offer. I had
some good offers : for I was a good-looking,
good-tempered girl, and the gentlemen
were fond of me ; but I refused them.
And so you see T am a solitary old maid.'

Don't say that, Lady Barbara ; you have
troops of friends. And every one is so fond
of you.'

Yes ; I have always kept up a large
circle of friends : good people too. It does
not do to forget what is due to your family.
The Seville are a good family. So are
the Wharton too.' Then she seemed to
slightly wander ; as if following a train of
thought without being fully conscious of
it. ' Good families hold together : even
if they do fight at election times, and
nearly beororar each other. But that is
due to politics. Very expensive things

elections used to be : especially in the north.
But except such occasions, good families
stick together. I can remember when the
Queen Caroline trial was on, the nobility
rallied around the Crown. The Radicals
found the money for the Queen to annoy
the Royal House. Times were troublous
then. The upper ten thousand had to
hold together. The Grand Jury threw
out the Bill against the authors of the
Peterloo affair. The county families felt
they must stand together.'

Do you allude to the massacre in Manchester,
Lady Barbara ? ' asked Edith, breaking
in on the old lady's train of thought.

'Yes, in 1819, when the lower classes
were striving to get the upper hand of the
Government ; and we all expected to be
murdered. If the authorities had not been
firm there would have been a revolution
then.' Edith thought this was a somewhat
different version of the story to the one
which she was accustomed to hear ; but she
did not choose to contradict the old lady.

And now the same times are coming again.
The Reformed Parliament has much to
answer for, my dear. The people have far
too much power, and they cannot use it
properly. You see what has been done
lately ; and T am sure Lord Melbourne himself
is no great reformer. They have
allowed prisoners to have counsel to defend
them. The villains now will all get off.
There was nothing of that kind in the old
days. It's putting a premium upon crime ;
that is what my brother says. Lord Horn-castle
is a Tory, you know, my dear ; and
he does not like these things. And then
what will we do if a war with France came
on ? — why we should have no sailors to man
the fleet since they have done away with
the press-gang. I don't wonder if they are
having insurrections all over when they relax
the bonds of society as they are doing. It
is the encouragement the Whig Parliament
has given to the people that is at the bottom
of this Chartist movement. Sir James
Graham called the present Government

a Chartist Government ; " and my brother
says he is right about it. It is very
sad to think that the people should take
advantage of there being a girl on the
throne to try to subvert it. It is very
mean of them ! '

Edith listened quietly to an expression
of opinion so widely different from all she
had been taught, and thought herself; but
the old lady was evidently quite serious in
what she said. The reference to the Queen
furnished an opportunity of changing the
conversation ; and as she did not agree with
her patrician kinswoman, and yet did not
wish to hurt her feelings, she availed herself
of it.

Have you seen the Queen, Lady Barbara
? ' she asked, somewhat eagerly.

No, my dear, I have never seen her.
Her mother brought her up in great seclusion
; and very few people knew anything of
her before she came to the throne. And I
am too old to go to Court again. I don't
think I could stand the fatigue of being

presented again. And old women are not
wanted, — even at a drawing-room. They
are only in the way.'

Is it fatiguing to go to receptions ? '
asked Edith, to whom the whole subject
was novel.

Very trying indeed, my dear. There
are so many present ; there is often a rush ;
and it lasts for some time. I always was in
bed the next day after them.'

Then it must be very trying to the
Queen to receive so many people ? '

Yes, my dear, royalty has its tasks.
But the Queen is most amiable, I am told,
and bears herself very graciously to all.
She never complains.'

I am afraid I should though when I got
tired ! '

But if you were in her place you would
have to conceal any such feelings. T was
always glad T was not a Queen when I went
to the drawing-rooms.'

She is rather pretty too, is she not ? '

She is more than rather pretty. She is

certainly good-looking. You have not seen
the picture of her I have. Have you ? '

Yes. Is it said to be like her ? '

Very, I am told.'

May I look at it again ? ' said Edith,
getting up to go for it in another room.

Certainly, my dear. Take it down, and
bring it here. I have not had a good look
at it for some time. She is a little older,
and more womanly now, I suppose.'

The print was brought, and the old lady
gazed attentively at it ; Edith standing by
her side.

You see she is in an arm-chair covered
with white satin ; in a pale grey watered
silk, with a full plain skirt and wide sleeves
drawn close at the wrists ; and a large lace
collar over it. And her apron, too, black
satin, with festoons of flowers worked upon
it in silk.'

She has no rings on. How is that ? '
commented Edith.

She has no need of any ring yet, my
dear ; she is not engaged.'

But she is going to be soon ? '

So it is rumoured

She has a pleasant, intelligent face, and
a good forehead said Edith ; whose criticism
rather scandalized the old lady from its
freedom.

It is a very royal face altogether, my
dear,' replied the old spinster, with as much
asperity as she could command ; but the
tone was thrown away.

She has pretty, regular features ; but the
position is stiff. She looks too much as if
she was sitting for her portrait, and had
been saying, " Papa, prunes and prisms," till
the lips seem to carry a " p " on them still.'

I am very shocked, Edith, to hear you
speak so. It must have been a great trial
to have had to sit for her portrait. You
don't seem to think of that.' (Here Edith
thought that Lady Barbara seemed to think
more of the hardships of royalty than of its
allurements.) ' She had to bear the gaze
of her subjects as she sat. I am certain it
was very trying.'

What is the building in the background
? '

That is the east end of St. George's
Chapel at Windsor. You see she is sitting
out in the open, on a terrace paved with
marble. Her bonnet has fallen off, and the
bird of paradise looks as if it was coming
loose.'

So it does. Is that a letter in her
hand ? '

It looks more like a letter than a
despatch, I think.'

A despatch, Lady Barbara ? '

Yes, my dear ; the Queen has to read a
great many important despatches, and hasa
great deal to do. Those who know her
well, say she gives great attention to the
different documents submitted to her. Lady
Sunderland speaks most enthusiastically of
her devotion to business.'

Then she sets a very good example, I
am sure,' remarked Edith, with a frankness
that rather jarred on the patrician lady.

She is most exemplary,' was the response,

in a tone of reproof; while the head
nodded away with the tremulous shake of
age. ' But we must be moving, Edith, the
days are short, and I want to drive over to
Pinner this afternoon. It is quite lunchtime,
I am sure.'

The faculties of the old lady were apparently
unimpaired by age as regards
meal times, for just then the bell rang
announcing that this repast was furnished.

There is the bell ; ' and the aged organism
seemed suddenly to develop an amount of
latent energy which would have seemed a
physical impossibility a moment or two
before.

After lunch. Lady Barbara's massive old
carriage, with its rumble at the back, drove
round in front of Thirlmere Lodge, and
drew up at the front-door : the ladies took
their seats, and the equipage drove off,
startling the ducks on the pond in front.
Past the church they drove, and westward
past Bentley Priory.

There is some talk of the Dowager

Queen Adelaide coming here, I hear remarked
the old lady. ' She is very delicate.
I am afraid it will be too cold for her up
here. It is very sad her lungs are so weak.
And the speaker looked sympathetic ; though
she could and did boast that she ' was no
friend to the doctors,' as she put it. ' I
hope Sir James Clark will be prudent,' she
continued. ' He has written on climates, I
am told ; but I am not sure if he knows
Harrow Weald in March. These fashionable
physicians who are so wise about foreign
places, are not always so well up about
places at home. I am afraid she will find
it cold in the east winds. However, she
has not come yet.'

While Edith was politely listening to the
old lady's monologue — for she rather spoke
aloud to herself than addressed her companion
— her eye was rambling over a quiet,
placid scene, rendered historical by its
associations with Lord Byron ; and at that
time Lord Byron was a common topic of
conversation.

How clearly Harrow stands out to-day ! '
she said after a pause. ' Lord Byron often
thought of this quiet English scenery when
away in Greece. The tomb he was so fond
of lying on when musing stood on the west
of the church, did it not ? '

Yes ; just at the edge of the churchyard
at the top of the hill. Strangers go to see
it, I am told.'

On a summer afternoon it must have
been a very pleasant landscape bounded by
the higher ground in Buckinghamshire.
We see the outline of it well from here.'

There is Ruislip Park over there, and
beyond lies Uxbridge, and the river Cone ;
but we cannot see Windsor,' was the
answer.

The Lady Barbara was not by any means
straitlaced ; but, as a spinster advanced in
years, she was not disposed to look favourably
upon Lord Byron ; while her companion
was at the age when his poetry was highly
esteemed, though she had not dipped, even
surreptitiously, into the pages of the then

much debated ' Don Juan.' The conversation
might have taken the direction of
the poet and his works more distinctly, but
just then the road began to dip, and the
landscape was lost to view.

When they came to the railway the old
lady broke out :

'I've never been in a train, and I hope
I never shall'

It is difficult for us now to realize the
antipathy with which railroads were then
regarded by the Conservative element of
society ; and Conservative the Lady Barbara
was without compromise.

'It is a pleasant method of travelling, I
can assure you,' Edith explained.

Well, it may be, but I won't try; it ;
dead or alive. I am goiDor to be buried
at Stanmore when my time comes ; there
I've lived, and there I'll be buried,' said
the Lady Barbara with unwonted emphasis.
I hope that will not be soon,' said her
companion.

It cannot be long. Young may and

old must. It won't be much trouble, I
hope. I am old enough to die easy.'

To this observation Edith made no
answer ; her attention had not been turned
to the comparative ease, or difficulty, by
which the act of dying was accomplished
by either young or old ; but suddenly
the weir-pool and the accident on the ice
flashed into her mind, and she lay back
in the corner of the carriage occupied with
her thoughts. The two remained silent
till the carriage drew up in front of an
old mansion. Lord Whistleton's residence ;
an old Tory peer, with a wife and numerous
offspring. This was Lady Barbara's
goal ; so they entered, and Edith was introduced
to the patrician Whistletons, who
surveyed her critically, and apparently with
approval.

The conversation was at first of the
usually conventional character ; and Miss
Wharton was asked if she knew the South,
and London, and such like questions, which
she answered. It happened that a young

VOL. III. C

male Whistled was at home, albeit the
day was so fine ; who seemed very favourably
disposed towards their fair visitor. He
wore a high-collared coat, a flowered silk
waistcoat, and white gaiters. He was indeed
a dandy, — as the young man whose
existence centred in his garments, was
then termed. He had a retreating forehead,
an aquiline nose, and a heavy chin
with thick, coarse lips. He seemed to
assume that his attentions must be welcome
; but Miss Wharton had some difficulty
in concealing her aversion. She did not
like the face, and early crow's-feet about
the eye did not impress her favourably.
She knew quite well the distinction betwixt
crow's-feet due to exposure where the
eyelids are half closed to protect the eye
against the weather, — and the crow's-feet
where the eyes are half-closed to shield
the eye, — as an organ of expression, — from
betraying what is going on in the brain
behind it.

The honourable Cecil Whistleton was a

young man of whose future she did not

augur well. Politeness constrained her to

give him her attention, though his range

of topics was limited, and his vocabulary

decidedly not extensive. She was relieved

at last by the conversation turning to the

subject of the ' Bed-chamber Question,' then

a distinctly * burning question.'

In order to follow it with interest the

reader must know that the honos reio-n of the

Whig Government was coming to its close.

Lord Melbourne had been saved from defeat

on a Parliamentary trial of strength by

a majority so trifling as to reveal the

precarious position in which the ministry

stood, and they resigned. The Duke of

Wellington advised the Queen to send for

Sir Robert Peel. He gathered a Cabinet

about him ; but a difficulty arose, namely, in

the household appointments. The Queen

had been surrounded of course by ladies

belonging to the Whigs, who had been

in power for some years previous to her

accession to the Throne.

c 2

Sir Kobert pointed out that these ladies
should be changed. The Queen had, after
due consideration, answered that such a
course was ' contrary to usage, and repugnant
to her feelings,' and declined to yield.

Sir Robert held to the view, that such a
course should be adopted, and the project of
his forming a ministry fell to the ground.

The subject attracted the liveliest attention
throughout the country ; and though Sir
Robert may have been quite right in
principle, precedent, and, still more, sentiment,
were against him. The time was
drawing nigh when an appeal to the
country was to settle the question whether
the Whigs should remain in power, or give
way to a Tory administration. Both sides
were marshalling their forces ; and the
reforming party, despairing of getting anything
from the Whigs and ' Finality John,'
were ready to try the Tories, and see what
they would do for them. By their aid
the Tories were likely to be lifted into
office. The ' Bedchamber Question' was thus

dragged into the arena of practical politics
at a time when feeling ran high. The Lady
Barbara and the Whistletons were firm,
unquestioning Tories, and looked at the
matter through Tory spectacles ; and withall
their devotion to the Crown, at that
particular epoch in their history, the Tories
gave their faction the supremacy over their
loyalty. The Lady Barbara's loyalty remained
unshaken, while Lord Whistleton
felt strongly.

'Peel was perfectly justified in what he
did. It was a matter of principle. The
Queen has been surrounded by nothing but
Whigs, until she is practically a Whig herself,'
was the opinion of the dissatisfied peer.

But I thought the Queen held no views
on politics,' put in the Lady Barbara.

Nor should she. The day is past when
the monarch can choose his ministers. The
late King found that out. Peel could not
form a ministry in the teeth of the country
then. It was seen then that the majority
of the House of Commons was the sole

foundation of a ministry. If the country
dictates the officers of the Crown, and
the Queen is guided by her ministers ;
why should it not determine the official
ladies of her household ? I can't see any
difference ! '

But the Queen surely has a right to
choose her private friends ? ' pleaded Lady
Barbara.

How are they her private friends ? A
girl brought up in seclusion, knowing no
one practically but her mother, ascends a
Throne. She falls into the hands of the
Ladies of the Household who are in office.
She learns to think as they do ; they are
Whigs ; and of course she must be a Whig.
It is clear enough ! '

The Lace y Barbara was unequal to any
conflict with a peer whose views were so
pronounced, so she tried a diversion.

The Duchess of Sutherland and the
Marchioness of Normandy are ladies of
spotless life. Their conduct has always
been most exemplary. They are proper

persons to associate with a young girl, such
as the Queen is.'

That is not the point, my dear Lady
Barbara said the peer impatiently. ' It is
the principle. The monarch should have
no politics. He, or she, acts through the
ministry.'

The Lady Barbara collapsed ; her amount
of contending power was exhausted. Not so
her companion, however, who had heard the
subject thoroughly discussed by her brother
and Mr. Carlyon. Young Whistleton had
bored her by his dogmatism in his small
talk : no opinion which did not coincide
with his own was worthy of any consideration
; it must be ignored. Miss Wharton
was not, he found, an unquestioning convert
; and now she felt a like feeling rising
up in her mind about the youth's progenitor.
The pompous peer seemed to sit upon the
poor old lady ; so Edith determined to do
battle on her behalf, and rushed into the
lists.

Had not the Queen a precedent for

acting as she did ? And precedent has
always been respected in English politics.'
The peer turned his gaze upon the audacious
young person, as if to see whether she was
a young lady really, or only the semblance
of one. Despite his crushing air Edith felt
no uneasiness, and went on : * Lady Sunderland
and Lady Milton retained their
offices under Queen Anne for a considerable
time after their husbands went out of
office. That is a precedent. And since
then, when their male relatives have gone
out of office, the ladies of the household
have remained about the Queen, while the
House of Hanover has been on the throne.'
It is not certain that the speaker did not
enjoy to a certain extent the consternation
which her remark produced. What she
said had appeared in the press at the time,
and afterwards ; but except the Court news,
which the ladies read scrupulously, and the
sporting matter, which the young male
Whistleton read equally scrupulously, the
peer himself was the only reader of the

newspapers. He chose to ignore these
items, and the rest were in Stygian darkness
on the subject. But that their* papa
should be contradicted, or opposed on any
subject connected with politics, was outside
their experience altogether. That the
contradiction should come from a young
lady was all the more astounding. As
to the peer himself, he was almost rendered
speechless ; he managed, however, to
say:

Queen Anne was of mature years ; but
the present Queen is only a girl, with unformed
views. The cases are not parallel ; '
and this he uttered in lofty tones, — as if the
matter was one on which a young lady had
no right to hold opinions.

A chill fell over the conversation, and
the visitors soon took their departure. The
Lady Barbara was little less surprised than
the Whistle tons at Miss Wharton's venture -
sameness. After they had driven out of
the grounds she observed :

Lord Whistleton does not like to be

opposers, and before his own family, Edith.
I fear you have offended him.'

Then I must take the consequences.
He ought not to have spoken to you, Lady
Barbara, in such an overbearing manner.'

The Lady Barbara relapsed into silence
again. She was proud of her kinswoman's
knowledge and courage ; and yet, she
thought, it was not what girls did when
she was a girl.

CHAPTER ir.

THE CHARTIST PLOT.

As the shorter days, with their longer
nights, drew on, the more violent section
of the Chartists plotted mischief. The
purchase of gunpowder, and of fire-arms,
chiefly pistols, which could be carried about
concealed under the clothes, and the
casting of bullets, went on briskly in all
directions. Pike-heads were forged, and
cats ' were made in great quantities. A
cat is a ball of iron with protruding spikes,
so made that however it fell on the ground
a spike stood up. These cats were intended
to be scattered about when a cavalry charge
was to be made ; so that the horses stepping
upon them would come down with their
riders, and, further, be so lamed as to be

useless. They also made hand-grenades, or
rockets, which being ignited and thrust
through a window, would explode and blow
the roof off. Daggers too were made, or
purchased ; and altogether these preparations
told of a determination to resort to
physical force for the carrying of their ends.
Plans were laid to attack the barracks at
various places, and so keep up an uneasy
feeling among the military ; which they
probably would have succeeded in doing
had any less firm and trustworthy soldier
than Sir Charles Napier been in command
of the troops in the north of England.
Calmly and without perturbation he took
his measures to prevent outbreak and outrage.
Minor provocations he allowed to
pass unheeded ; but whenever there was a
gathering too numerous for the police to
disperse, the military were called out ; and
in no instance was anything like real resistance
offered to the soldiery. The old
General showed the agitators that he was
in no way afraid of them, or their doings ;

that he looked upon their preparations with
a measure of contempt, and in so doing
held them quietly in cheek.

Their policy was to create alarm, and to
burn and destroy property rather than to
take life ; and they succeeded, too, in their
design in spreading terror. If the old
General would not be alarmed, the bulk of
society was ; and the magistrates as a body
were nearly beside themselves with panic.
Canon Wordsworth, a divine, and Squire
Wharton, an old soldier, were, however,
conspicuous instances to the contrary.
Everywhere the demand was for soldiers ;
but Sir Charles Napier had his own ideas.

It is not decent to have the law upheld
by soldiers at every turns he said ; and
urged the necessity for paid magistrates, and
more policemen. And when the timorous
and fearful demanded ' vigorous measures,'
which meant the apprehension and hanging
of a number of the leaders, he opposed them,
saying, ' Would hanging a dozen leaders
feed the people ? '

Old Charley ' was a poor man, and felt
for the starving masses, as his memoirs
testify. As a soldier his duty was to
prevent rioting and bloodshed, and he did
it thoroughly ; but all through this time it
is clear he had much sympathy with the
suffering, famishing people. He made his
head-quarters at Nottingham ; but had some
thoughts of placing himself at Chester, so
as to be nearer the Welsh border. Amidst
these excitable Celts Chartism ran high ;
and a firm but gentle hand was especially
needed at this time in Wales.

This was seen by the most serious riot of
this unsettled period occurring at Newport,
in Monmouthshire. The excitable population
of the extensive South Wales coalfield
were all Chartists — of different shades of
colour true — to a man. They were led by
a man named John Frost, a borough magistrate
of Newport, who had on several occasions
used violent language, especially in
the spring before, at Pontypool. Lord John
Russell was greatly blamed for not removing

him from the bench at that time : and if
some such measure had been adopted the
riots which followed might have been
avoided. Frost was a very extraordinary
man, judging from his career. Originally
a tailor, he became a printer, and as such
underwent a trial for libel ; after that he
was imprisoned for concealing property from
his creditors, and finally was made a bankrupt.
He, somehow, contrived to keep his
past very quiet, and rose to be a magistrate
in a new career. One Henry Vincent, a
Chartist lecturer, of good character, was ri
prison for his conduct, and it was determined
to rescue him. But the scheme
grew into an attack on the town itself.
It was arranged that the Chartists were to
muster in three divisions, and from different
points march upon the town, while the
inhabitants were asleep. The attack was
planned for Sunday night, the 3rd of
November. Owing to a delay he did not
march into the town till after daylight.
Only a part of his force assembled ; but

still he marched into Newport with over
five thousand men, walking five abreast
and armed with fire-arms, pikes, and their
coal-picks, an ugly weapon. The mayor,
a Mr. Phillips, had been lethargic in his
preparations, and met them with some
special constables and thirty soldiers. These
placed themselves in the Estate Inn in
the market-place ; and when the insurgents
reached this point they demanded that the
force should surrender. Their demand not
being complied with the Chartists fired a
volley at the house ; and the bullet-holes
can still be seen in the woodwork of the
inn. At the same moment the door was
broken in, and the rioters were pouring
down the passage when the officer in command
of the soldiers gave the order to fire.
The mayor, with two of the soldiers, each
opened one of the three windows in the
front amidst a shower of slugs, by which he
and others were wounded ; through these
windows the military poured in a raking fire
upon the mob, who dispersed in all directions,

eight or ten being killed, and fifty
or sixty being wounded. Frost, with two
others, Williams and Jones, were tried for
high treason, and condemned to death for
this ; but escaped with transportation for
life.

With such an example before them, it
was no wonder that the inhabitants of other
towns, where the Chartists mustered strong,
were wild with alarm at the threats uttered,
and the preparations made for outbreaks.
Sheffield was especially excited ; and not
without reason. The Chartists there were
exceedingly turbulent, and held meetings
on Sky Edge, under violent and desperate
leaders. They possessed considerable organization
; and formed 'classes ' on the Wesleyan
plan, who met in the houses of their respective
leaders. They had also a general
assembly-room, where their ordinary meetings
were held in winter, and a council-room.
Warlike material was collected ina
considerable quantity ; and the scheme
was, that on an appointed night these classes

VOL. IIL D

should assemble, each under its leader,
armed of course to the utmost, to march
on the different gun-shops, to pillage them,
and further arm themselves with their contents
; and, after that, some of the more
daring were to seize the Town-hall. When
the military were called out and the barracks
were empty, another party was to
fire them. Certain other places were to be
simultaneously fired to add to the confusion
; and in order to prevent the magistrates
living near the town from taking
action, their houses and the houses of the
neighbouring gentry, were also to be set on
fire. It was a carefully-planned, as well
as thoroughly diabolical scheme. General
Napier had a well-ordered series of pickets
in and around the town ; and of these the
Chartists had a perfect plan, and had sentries
of their own watching these pickets.

Similar plots existed elsewhere ; but the
Sheffield scheme was the one most nearly
carried into execution. There was no
resident magistrate in Sheffield ; and the

Chartists calculated largely upon indecision
on the part of the authorities when
the time for action came. They designed to
take possession of the town and burn it ; as
John de Eyvill and his rebel followers had
done some six hundred years before.

It was not likely that such an extensive
and elaborate plan could be constructed
without some inkling of what was going
on coming to the ears of the authorities.
Sir Charles Napier was often on the spot ;
and at the cavalry barracks Colonel Martin
was at the head of the 1st Dragoons — a
most efficient officer. They took their
measures calmly, so as not to gratify the
malcontents by any show of alarm or excitement.
But in the town itself the wildest
terror obtained. The people knew enough
to be aware that a plot was being laid ; but
of what its details were they were in ignorance.
As usual, the more the ignorance, the
greater the terror. As usual, also, the plots
of the Chartists were betrayed by some of
those in their ranks who were not prepared

D 2

to go the length of outrage and bloodshed.
And so it was at Sheffield.

As the time drew nigh the landlord of an
inn at Eotherham, where the Chartists held
their meetings, was visited by the Superintendent
of Police, who had information that
the outbreak was near at hand. He was
one of those Chartists who shrank from the
extreme when violence was nigh ; and he
admitted that there was a Chartist organization
afoot in Eotherham, which was incommunication
with the larger organization
in Sheffield. And further, that the Sheffield
leaders often met in Eotherham in order to
avoid the suspicions of the Sheffield police
by too many meetings there. He urged, in
extenuation of their plot, their disappointment
and despair of achieving their ends
by peaceable means ; and that he and some
others had opposed resort to violence by
every argument in their power : but in
vain. From a mere vague design it
matured into a well-concerted scheme for
the destruction of the town.

At this lapse of time, albeit not much
more than half a century, it is difficult for
us to see what good end the Chartists hoped
to attain by such resort to violence. They
must have seen that such a wicked deed
would set the whole mass of right thinking or
persons against them ; alike those that sympathised
with their views of reform, and
those who did not. To us now it seems
an impracticable idea altogether — their
efforts to give themselves the franchise ; a
wild, chimerical scheme ; and their methods
of seeking it about as ill-advised as any
that could be chosen. They placed themselves
in a strictly Israelitish position,
with their hand against every man's, and,
still more, every man's hand against them.
All owners of property naturally were
opposed to them ; all occupiers of houses
who possessed goods and chattels ; all
thinking persons, who could see that riot,
arson, and pillage were scarcely convincing
arguments ; and that the class of men who
could advocate such measures were not

exactly the best men to correct the abuses
of which they complained. It was not a
means full of promise of their wisdom and
prudence, when they did come to have a
voice in the councils of the nation. They
could not endow themselves with political
power; and such schemes were not calculated
to persuade others to allow them it.
They set themselves into opposition against
the whole of the rest of the people of
England ; and numerous as the Chartists
were, they were but a small proportion of
the population. The moral-force Chartists,
by prudence, by appeal to reason, might
have attained something of what they
sought : but soon the movement was
heavily handicapped, and ultimately it
failed ; as we must admit it deserved to
fail. The Anti-Corn Law League drained
the Chartist movement of a large proportion
of its best elements.

So the rational section of the Chartists
shrank from the scheme advocated by the
extreme section ; and found themselves

taking their place by the authorities and
the supporters of order. After having once
explained the Chartist plans to the police,
the publican kept the Superintendent informed
of their further proceedings. As
soon as the plot had assumed a definite
shape, the Superintendent took down the
details in writing, in order to convince the
authorities that it was necessary to take
counter-measures. The opponents of the
Chartists and the Corn Law Leaguers
readily offered themselves as special constables
to aid the police and the military
in maintaining order. Thus armed with
proof of what was going on, the Superintendent
communicated in person with the
two most important magistrates in the
neighbourhood of Sheffield. The gist of
the statement made was as follows, and it
meant nothing less than insurrection and
civil war : — Delegates from other large
towns in the West Riding, including
Huddersfield on the border of Lancashire,
and in close communication with the cotton

district, came to Rotherham to meet the
Sheffield men ; and a general rising was
contemplated. First, they would seize
Sheffield, and make it the head-quarters of
the rebels. The houses and places of
business of obnoxious persons were to be
sacked, and then fired — as an example to
others. Such was the first step in revolt.
Excited and alarmed as all in the district
were at the time, the plot seemed too
wild, too atrocious to be credible ; and
at first these magistrates were incredulous.
By this time the landlord had become the
object of suspicion on the part of the other
Chartists, and they kept their plans from
him as much as possible. The Superintendent
pointed out to him that it had
become necessary for the protection of the
town to ascertain where the Chartists had
their depots of arms. There was nothing
for it but for the informant to regain the
confidence of his associates ; so he professed
to have become converted to the doctrine
of physical force, and would himself lead

one hundred and fifty men, when the time
for action came. It was only his horror
of the crime they were plotting, which
enabled this man to make up his mind
to betray his co-conspirators ; it is
stated, upon good authority, that he
wrestled long with himself before he could
screw himself up to the treachery which
alone could save the horrors of civil war
based on arson. After this avowal, confidence
in him was restored, and he was
admitted into all their plans. On the
second week in January he attended several
sworn councils, and on Friday the 10th
he reported to the Superintendent that
the plot was ripe for execution ; and that
on the following night and Sunday morning
the attempt to take possession of the
town would be made. On Saturday afternoon
a final meeting was to be held. The
leading local magistrate, and the Superintendent
of Police, waited anxiously, hour
after hour, till past seven in the evening
for his return ; and began to fear that

something had gone wrong ; that his courage
had failed at the last minute ; or that
his associates had formed some suspicions
of him. At last he came with the desired
information. The different ' classes ' were
to meet at the houses of their leaders at
ten o'clock that night ; having armed themselves,
they were to proceed to empty the
gun-smiths' shops, and then rally to their
respective points, — all of which where carefully
specified.

The crisis had come at last, and action
must be taken, and fortunately was
promptly taken. Of what importance
prompt action at this critical moment was
is a matter on which opinions may differ ;
but it seems to have been of national importance
even. Had the Chartists been
successful in their attempt upon Sheffield,
probably the result would have been a perfect
blaze of revolt through Lancashire and
Yorkshire, with risings in Wales, and in the
Midlands. Indeed, how near civil war the
country was at that particular period of its

history, despite Sir Charles Napier's nonchalance,
will probably never be known.
But fortunately the plot was exploded ;
and the potential consequential results of
course did not follow.

Leaving the Superintendent to take
measures for arresting the gathering of the
Rotherham contingent, who were to pillage
the gun-shops to add to their arms, and
then push on to Sheffield ; the magistrate
mounted his horse, and galloped to
Sheffield to put the authorities on the
alert. It must have been an anxious, if
not a very long ride. The rider felt within
him the full assurance that if any Chartists
so much as suspected his errand, his life
would be instantly and remorselessly sacrificed.
He got safely into the town about
ten o'clock ; and found the authorities with
their special constables, the police, and the
military on the alert, but without definite
information. This last the rider brought,
and it was acted upon without delay.
Bodies of men were sent out to the different

points where the Chartists were to meet ;
a step which took them aback considerably,
as by this they were to a great extent
prevented from arming themselves, let alone
attacking the gun-shops ; and further, they
must have felt that, somehow or other, the
authorities had become apprised of their
plan of action. While this was being done
the leaders were arrested. The chief constable,
his assistant, and two policemen,
proceeded without delay to Eyre Lane,
where the leader, Samuel Robbery, lodged.
This desperado was not a Sheffield man ; in
appearance like a gipsy, and a new-comer
to the place. Having secured his wife, and
leaving her in charge of the police, the
constable and his assistant rushed into the
bed-room, where they found Robbery resting
in his bed, — probably revolving his
diabolical schemes. The room was simply
an arsenal of arms, but before he could
seize any one of them he himself was pinned.
A desperate struggle took place ; but two
to one told, and the rebel was captured

and secured. This was the first thins: to
be done, and it was done effectually. A
search showed the house to be crammed
with arms aud ammunition, all of which
was at once confiscated.

While this was going on in Eyre Lane,
like measures were in progress elsewhere.
Three of the other leaders were secured,
and lodged safely in prison ; while the
places where the different classes were to
meet in order to arm and march off, were
visited ; and the arms and other warlike
implements safely taken care of. The
Chartists gathering to their rendezvous, to
their dismay found their depots in the
hands of the authorities, and their arms
put out of their reach. This threw the
conspirators into confusion and dismay ;
while the arrest of their leaders deprived
them of those to whom they looked for
direction and guidance. Without arms,
without leaders, the mob sv^^ayed hither
and thither ; and the conviction that the
plot had failed settled down upon them ;

SO that many of those who had armed
themselves, got away, and either hid their
weapons or threw them away altogether ;
and quantities of their arms were found
next day in the dams of the town, or on
Crookes' moor. So utterly disconcerted
were the plotters by the collapse of their
plan that there was nothing like any
serious fighting. Sir Charles Napier records
the fact that not a man faced the
Dragoons. The 'cats' seemed never to
have been used ; probably being still in
the different depots then in the custody
of the authorities. Some shots were fired,
and a few policemen were wounded ; as
also some others, including a dissenting
preacher, probably one of the special constables
who had volunteered for the preservation
of order. Not one death occurred,
at least directly, as the outcome of this
truly formidable conspiracy. Had it not
been for the behaviour of that Eotherham
publican, and the confidence inspired by
the arrangements made by Colonel Martin

and the authorities, much blood must have
been shed. Had the excitable crowd
secured their arms, and strewn the ' cats '
so that the Dragoons would have been
powerless to act, probably the Chartists,
being armed, would have overpowered the
police and special constables, and seized
the town. But being at once deprived of
arms and leaders, the rebels became a mere
crowd, — helpless and incapable of concerted
action.

Whatever may be the feelings with which
the man who betrays his comrades may be
regarded, the thanks of society are distinctly
due to the man who, after much
inward contention, brought himself to reveal
this diabolical plot to the authorities ;
who, by the information so afforded, were
able to frustrate it.

But if the Chartists were baffled by the
collapse of their plot, they were by no
means impotent to revenge themselves.
And the magistrate, who rode to Sheffield,
bound the authorities under a solemn

promise not to reveal his name ; and it was
not till long afterwards, when he had left
the neighbourhood, and Chartism had practically
died out, that his name was revealed
to a grateful public. If they could not
capture the town there were still desperate
men in their ranks who would take vengeance
upon individuals for the part they
might have taken in thwarting their designs.
But as to united action, it was impossible.
Their leaders were in the Town-hall, it is
true : but they were there as prisoners in
the safe custody of the police ; not as
tribunes giving orders to their rank and file
to burn and to destroy.

The excitement in the town was intense
as the danger which had been so narrowly
escaped was realized. Had the plot not
been frustrated, probably the flames of
burning houses would have been ascending
to the sky, lighting up the luckless town, and
showing the conspirators their way to fresh
outrages. Day would have dawned upon a
mass of smoking cinders here and there ;

other places where buildings were in the act
of burning : a terrified population beside
themselves with fear, in dread of their houses
following, either by design or by the accident
of the flames spreading ; conscious of
wholesale robbery going on, of the town
being in the hands of a wild and undisciplined
crowd of ruffians and their associates.
Instead of that, when the morning ot
Sunday dawned order was maintained ; the
authorities had complete command of the
town ; and the Chartists, after all their
threats and their preparations, were defeated,
and their plot exploded. And
what is more, exploded harmlessly, — the
injured persons being so few. It must
have been an enormous relief to the people
when the day broke to see and to realize
that the danger was past, and that they
were safe.

To the Chartists, however, all was humiliation
and disaster. Rage, blind and impotent,
took hold of some ; dismay and a
dread of the consequences settled down on

VOL. III. E

others. There were no rendezvous where
they could meet, there were no leaders to
direct their classes ; all was confusion and
anarchy. It is much to the credit of these
misguided fellows that no private action
was taken, and that no isolated incendiarism
followed. This tells that the conspirators
had an end at which they aimed, and that
the capture of the town was regarded as
but the means to an end ; the houses which
were to be sacked or burnt, or both, were
not to be taken indiscriminately ; but were
selected as belonging to those who had
rendered themselves specially obnoxious to
the Chartist movement. Plunder and
robbery were not the aim of this conspiracy
; the plot to seize Sheffield, mad,
crazy, wicked, foolish as it was, was not
merely a raid on property ; the worst
opponent of the Chartists cannot maintain
that. But all the same, outrage, arson,
and revolt were the means by which the
physical - force Chartists hoped to attain
their ends. And if such means were justifiable,

those who looked upon the movement
with disfavour could readily urge
that the Chartists where not a desirable
addition to the list of voters ; and the facts
warranted them in their attitude.

And thus the foolish, misguided, physical-force
Chartists damaged the cause they
had at heart ; and exhibited one more
instance of the wisdom of fools being
fraught with disaster. No moral - force
Chartists could possibly be found to extenuate
such wicked folly. They simply
played into the hands of their opponents ;
that was the result of their elaborate plot.

In conclusion it may be stated that no
charge has been brought against the
Government for inciting this plot by paid
emissaries ; it was entirely their own doing
upon the part of the wilder section of the
Chartists. Whatever may have been done
by paid sedition-mongers elsewhere, the
Chartist plot to seize Sheffield was entirely
their own, — deliberately planned by them
as the first move in a widespread rebellion.

E 2
UNIVERSITY Of

ILLINOIS LIBRARY

CHAPTER III.

ESAU HAS HIS BIRTHRIGHT.

In" order to fully understand the times
here spoken of, to comprehend the motives
as well as the actions of the Chartists, — tous
alike almost unaccountable, — it may be
well to take a brief general survey of the
condition of the people then.

The passing of the Reform Act of 1832
had been followed by times of general prosperity
; which greatly favoured the activity
of the reformed parliament in dealing with
many most important matters. Much had
been done of cardinal importance. The
Deo:ro had been freed ; the white slave at
home had been legislated for, kindly and
wisely. The spirit of pauperism had been
felled, though not killed, by the new poor

law — which forbade relief to able-bodied
persons. Time philanthropy of Lord Ashley
had relaxed the bonds which pressed so
hardly upon the feebler portion of our
industrial toilers in mills and factories.
The energy of the Whig Parliament was,
however, becoming exhausted by the mighty
work which it had achieved. Palsy was
coming over it ; it was dying, — and its
vigour was declining as life faded out.
Bad times, deficient harvests, and depressed
trade were telling upon the national prosperity.
Want, naked and hideously repulsive
in its nakedness, was stalking about ;
the people were wretched, and consequently
where utterly discontented. Discontent and
misery led to turbulence ; and it, again, to
violence. The half-starved masses turned
their wrath against the Government. A
spirit of lawlessness was abroad. The
Government would not help them, they
said. How far Government could help
they did not know. But one thing they
did know. The tax on corn made bread

clear, and an empty stomach made the
sense of hunger felt. And it was felt, as
the follo\Yin<y sketch tells.

o

Then came a change like that in
Pharaoh's dream. The thin ears had
blighted the full ears ; the lean kine had
devoured the fat kine ; the days of plenty
were over, and the days of dearth had
arrived. In 1841 the capitalist was doubtless
distressed. But will anybody tell me
that the capitalist was the only sufferer, or
the chief sufferer ? Have we forgotten what
was the condition of the working people in
that unhappy year ? kSo visible was the
misery of the manufacturing towns, that a
man of sensibility could hardly bear to pass
through them. Everywhere he found filth
and nakedness and plaintive voices, and
wasted forms and haggard faces. Politicians
who had been thought alarmists began
to tremble for the very foundations of
society. First the mills were put on short
time ; then they ceased to work at alL
Then went to the pledge the scanty property

of the artisan ; first his little luxuries, then
his comforts, then his necessaries. The hovels
were stripped till they were as bare as the wigwam
of a Do2j-ribbed Indian. Alone amidst
the general misery, the shop with the three
golden balls prospered, and was crammed
from cellar to garret with the clocks and
the tables, and the kettles and the blankets,
and the bibles of the poor. I remember
well the effect which was produced in
London by the unwonted sight of the huge
pieces of cannon which were going northward
to overawe the starving population of
Lancashire.' (This was written by the
man who was at that very time a Cabinet
minister, the Secretary for War.) Cannon
was the remedy then for starvation in the
opinion of the Government ; not bread ! It
was not as in the olden time, when a general
famine prevailed, and Jacob said to his sons,
Behold, I have heard that there is corn in
Egypt : get you down thither, and buy for
us from thence ; that we may live, and not
die.' The starving masses were maddened

by the fact that they were not free to go
abroad, and buy the food on which they
might live, and not die. The Corn Laws
sternly forbade such purchase. The tax on
bread made hunger all the more intolerable.
The interests of the landed classes and of
the cultivators of land where too strong even
for famine. The poverty-stricken workman
looked at his little loaf; and thought
bitterly how much of the price he paid for
it was due to the Corn Laws.

And how much had the artisan to expend
on taxed bread ? The Leicester stocking

o

weaver's wao^es amounted to four shillings
and sixpence a week. Poor fellow, the
tax on bread was a terrible reality to him !
A London working tailor would earn ' nine
shillings and sixpence clear.' Yes ; but by
what means ? ' And this it would be almost
impossible for me to do if I did not work
long over-hours. I am obliged to keep my
wife continually at work helping me, in order
to live,' he said. With taxed bread, to live
on these wages meant barely to exist. For

most, * sixteen or eighteen hours of skilled
labour in a stifling and foetid clamber '
brought from six shillings and sixpence
to seven shillings a week.

AVhat said a prominent worker in the
Anti-Corn Law agitation of the southern
field-hand. 'If there be one view of the
question which stimulates me to harder
work in this cause than another, it is the
fearful sufferings which I know to exist
amongst the rural labourers in almost every
part of the kingdom. How can they be
men under the circumstances in which they
live ? During the period of their growing
up to manhood they are employed at odd
jobs about the farmyard, for wages which
are merely those of little children in Lancashire.*
Every man who marries is considered
an enemy to the parish ; every
child who is born into the world, instead
of being a subject of rejoicing to its parents

This was spoken in Dec. 1845, when affairs had
improved in Lancashire ; not at the time when the
cannon were "oinf^ North as the cure for starvation.

and the community, is considered as an
intruder come to compete for the little
work, and the small quantity of food which
is left to the population. And then comes
toil, year after year, long years of labour
with little remuneration ; but perhaps at
sixty or seventy a gift of twenty shillings
and a coat, or of two pounds from the
Agricultural Society, because they have
brought up a large family, and have not
committed that worst of all sins, taken
money from the parochial rates. One of
their own poets has well expressed their
condition :

"A blessed prospect —
To slave while there is strength — in age the workhouse
;
A parish shell at last, and the little bell
Tolled hastily for a pauper's funeral." '

Such were the conditions of these hard
times. No wonder they were disturbed
times ; that open violence, rioting, and
incendiarism were practised far and wide.
The speaking classes speak and debate

each for itself; the great dumb, deep-buried
class lies like an Enceladus, who in his
pain, if he will complain of it, has to
produce an earthquake.' Carlyle well might
say this. How many buildings from Nottingham
Castle downwards went up inflames
after the rejection of the Eeform
Bill by the House of Lords in 1831? Had
the mob not learned the dangerous lesson,
that violence may help to attain an end ?
Intimidation lay crouching behind violence.
The masses knew it ; yes, and the landed
classes knew that the masses knew it I
Violence had been, and was a factor in
reform. It cannot be denied ; however one
would like to think otherwise.

And when all this misery, and all that
misery leads to, existed over the length and
the breadth of the land, dien bread was
so heavily taxed, did the starving classes
always meet with sympathy ? Whatever
they were led to do in their craziness bred
of hunger, this is what Lord Ashley said
of them on the 7th of June, 1842, when

pleading for the little children toiling in
the coal-mines. * The British people are
the noblest and the most easily governed of
any on the face of the earth. Their fortitude
and obedience under the severest
privation sufficiently prove it.' Yet cannon
were the device of the Whig Government.
What were the devices suggested by some
of the well-to-do people at that terrible
time ? A sleek dignitary of the Church
pointed out the swede-turnips, the mongols
of the fields, the food of the cattle,
for the starving people. There is a ghastliness
about this which is only exceeded by
the advice of the Hereditary Earl Marshal
of England, who recommended to the people
perishing of hunger, what ? — ' a draught of
hot water with a pinch of curry powder in
it.' Is it any wonder that, goaded by such
cynical suggestions, — their sufferings thus
insulted, — the starving mob were ready to
fire the mansions of those who turned a
deaf, incredulous ear to their sufferings?
To follow facts, or at least some indies

table records of facts, it may be well to
now look at some physical outcomes of the
Corn Laws. In the ' Report of Her Majesty's
Principal Secretary of State for the Home
Department, on the Sanitary Condition of
the Labouring Population of Great Britain
in 1842,' is to be found this startling statement.
' Whenever the adult population
of a physically depressed district, such as
Manchester, is brought out on any public
occasion, the preponderance of youths in
the crowd is apt to strike those who have
seen assemblages of the working population
in districts more favourably situated. In
the course of some inquiries under the Constabulary
Force Commission, reference was
made to the meetings held by torchlight in
the neighbourhood of Manchester. It was
reported that the bulk consisted of mere
boys ; and that there were scarcely any men
of mature ao^e amongst them. Those of are
and experience, it was stated, generally
disapproved of the proceedings of the meetings,
as injurious to the working classes

themselves. The older men, we were
assured by their employers, were above
the influence of the anarchical fallacies
which appeared to sway these assemblages.'
Further, when calling out special constables,
the gloomy fact became apparent ' that
men of mature age and strength were but
as ' a group against a large crowd, and that
for any social influence they were equally
weak.' What does this tell us ? It tells
us that the duration of life was short
among the labouring population after years
of taxed food. There were few old men ;
comparatively few middle-aged men. The
bulk of these assemblages were ' mere boys ; '
and the proportion of elder men too small
to influence or leaven the mass. 'The
predominance of a young and violent
majority was general' This short duration
of life led to ' premature widowhood and
'orphanage,' which constantly fed the pauper
class.

Such was the physical result ; but there
is yet another matter to be mentioned, a

deeper depth still, which will throw a flood
of light upon these emotional crowds ; whose
passions were often fanned by a lurid eloquence
till they led to deeds of violence.
The Report speaks of the children as being
of an inferior organization, and goes on to say
of these physically deteriorated products of
an epoch of Corn Laws, ' as a class they are
comparatively irritable and bad-tempered

And what said Charles Kingsley of the
physical deterioration of the bread-taxed
epoch ? ' How different-looking the young
ones are from their fathers, and still more
their grandfathers ! Look at three or four
old grammes talking together there. For
all their being shrunk with age and weather,
you won't see such fine-grown men anywhere
else in this booth' (Yeas).

Here we see what bad legislation had
resulted in. Foolish legislators had sown
the wind ; and in time they reaped the
whirlwind. Class legislation, against which
the Chartist leaders so bitterly inveighed,
had protected the land and its interests ;

certainly, but at what cost ? At the price
of the physical, and psychical deterioration
of the people. It was a terrible price !
They had produced by their law-craft a
population short-lived and bad-tempered.
Chronic want, the growth of the population,
which caused two million more mouths to
clamour for bread, while the acreage of
England remained the same, had produced
their inevitable results. Then came bad
harvests. And what happened then ? The
home-produce was stinted ; the inexorable,
adamant Corn Laws stood betwixt the
famishing people and the corn-fields of the
rest of the globe. AVhat said a leading
Corn Law agitator ? ' Multitudes have died
of hunger in the United Kingdom since we
first asked the Government to repeal the
Corn Law ; and although the great and the
powerful may not regard those who suffer
mutely and die in silence, yet the recording
angel will note down their patient endurance,
and the heavy guilt of those by whom
they have been sacrificed.' It is seen from

the testimony of the various authorities
quoted, that the mass of the people bore
their privations in silence, and with patience.
The youthful mobs of the towns broke out
into rioting ; but can we feel surprised at
that?

The growth of the population, unrelieved
by emigration, furnished crowds of youths of
inferior bodily and mental configuration ; and
these listened greedily to the demagogue and
the agitator who promised them relief from
their sufferings. Do these times, after this
review of the facts, seem to us so utterly crazy
and insane, as they certainly do appear on
a superficial consideration of them ?

Beyond making bread dear as a direct
result of their existence, the Corn Laws had
indirect results of a deplorable character.
The corn-growers of the plains of Russia, of
the fertile valleys of the Mississippi basin,
were deterred from growing wheat for the
English market by these same Corn Laws.
They did not know what to do with the
sliding scale,' — that tax which grew larger

VOL. III. F

as wheat was cheaper, and fell as wheat
grew dearer. If England had a short crop,
and wheat went up in price, then they would
have a market that would pay them well.
But if England had a good harvest, their
corn was thrown on their hands. For instance,
in 1834 only two hundred and
ninety-four quarters of wheat were imported
into England; while in 1835, a
time of plenty, the amount was only one
hundred and forty one quarters, while the
price was so low, that when the duty was
paid there was practically nothing left for
the importer. But as a series of bad
harvests followed, the amount of imported
corn rose to nearly three million (2,702,848)
quarters ; then the grower was well repaid.
But who could foresee such results ? When
the day of demand came the supply was
short ; because the effect of an iniquitous
law was to deter the foreign grower from
looking to England as a market for his
surplus production.

That was one result. Another was the

speculation in corn which went on in
England itself. The wealth accumulated
by the corn-dealers of England was not
all of it the result of honest commercial
enterprise ; but some of it of gambling,
raising the prices by artifices of a very
doubtful nature, all tending to make bread
dearer for the masses.

And these masses knew all these facts.
These poor half - hungered people, cut off
from the purchase of bread from abroad,
with short harvests at home, and speculating
corn merchants ; maddened by want,
goaded on by empty stomachs ; their feelings
outraged by the cynical indifference
with which their sufferings were regarded
by many of those from whom they might
fairly have looked for compassion ; their
passions fanned by fiery orators whose eloquence
appealed to sympathetic hearers,
among whom were government-paid agents,
sham demao:oo:ues, who found for their
employers and paymasters an excuse for
their attitude in the menaces, the threats

F 2

of a starving people ; what wonder if this
people were almost mad I

The leading Chartists were many of them
thoughtful men of culture ; men who wrote
good prose, and often no mean poetry.
Bamford, who furnishes us with so vivid a
picture of the reformers who were massacred
at Peterloo on August 19th, 1819, was a
Lancashire silk weaver. John Bramwich,
a well-known contributor to the ' Shakespearian
Chartist Hymn-book,' was a 
; William Jones, another contributor,
was a glove-hand ; William Lovett,
who drafted the Charter, was a cabinetmaker;
John Collins, (his companion in
Warwick Gaol,) was a tool-maker. Thomas
Cooper, yet among us, a Baptist minister,
was brought up a shoemaker, he tells us in
his autobiography ; which so faithfully reflects
the condition of the people of the times
here spoken of. The leading Chartists were
thoughtful men of the people ; and of the
deputations sent up to the Houses of Parliament,
the newspapers of that day describe

the deputies as respectable, decently-attired
working-men, 'looking very much in earnest
Whatever outbreaks may have occurred
amongst the youthful population of the
taro-er towns ; there was no disorder, no lawlessness,
no breach of the peace of any kind,
at least that the writer has been able to find,
among the Chartist deputies. No doubt in
1848, when revolution was rampant over
Europe, when thrones were tottering ; when
kings and heirs-apparents were fleeing from
their high places to England for refuge ; it
was deemed prudent by that uncompromising
opponent of all reform, that illustrious
warrior, the ' Great Duke,' desirable, in the
interests of order, to take all precautions
against anv lawlessness ; but though those
precautions were taken, they proved, if not
uncalled-for, at least under the circumstances
unneeded ; for all was peace !

Had their rulers done anything to help
the masses to be wiser or better '? It was
not till 1835 that any part of the national
income could be set apart for the purposes

of education, and then it was given grudgingly.
' A small fraction of the revenue of
one day some £30,000, was at last voted
towards some education for the children of
the poor. The Chartist leaders cried out
for education for the people as strenuously
as they demanded political power. Lovett
and Collins while in Warwick Gaol drew up
a scheme of education which presents a
curious resemblance to the aims of the
school-boards of to-day. Lord Brougham
lent his eloquence to the cause of education ;
and in one of his impassioned harangues he
said to the Duke of Wellington, who was no
friend to popular movements, ' I am perfectly
satisfied that there will be no unconstitutional
attack on the liberties of the
people. These are not the times for such
an attempt. There have been periods when
the country heard with dismay that the
soldier was abroad. This is not the case
now. Let the soldier be ever so much
abroad, in the present day he can do
nothing. There is another person abroad —

a less important person — in the eyes of some
an insignificant person — whose labours had
tended to produce this state of things, — the
schoolmaster is abroad.' Indeed one cheering
matter amidst the gloom of this dark period
was the faith the Chartist leaders had in the
schoolmaster. If the people were to have a
voice in the making of the laws, it was
clearly recognized that the people should
be educated to use that power wisely. It
was no dream of the rule of ignorance, of an
uneducated rabble ; but of men fitted to
wield the franchise, — and to make a good,
not a bad use of it !

The Government had no answer for these
wants, these aspirations, but coercion ;
cannon for hunger, and special constables
for anarchy. A certain party were willing
to do something for the amelioration of
the severity of the Corn Laws ; but a
powerful section were uncompromisingly
opposed to it. Sir Kobert Peel's ultimate
conversion to their repeal cost him his
place, his power, his position. On his

filial resignation he concluded his speech
with the following eloquent peroration :

It may be that I shall leave a name
sometimes remembered with expressions of
good-will in the abodes of those whose lot
it is to labour, and to earn their daily
bread by the sweat of their brow, when
they shall recruit their exhausted strength
with abundant and untaxed food, the
sweeter because it is no longer leavened
with the sense of injustice.'

It was this ' sense of injustice ' * which
made the taxed bread so bitter. The
Corn Laws stood out prominently as the
centre-piece of their wrongs ; the empty
stomach was the piece de resistance of their
argument.

The abolition of the Corn Laws saw the
last of the appeal to violence. When
hunger was appeased, political passions

' The lot of the multitude is under the happiest
circumstances a hard one. They bear it without
complaining, if they see they are not unjustly treated.
It is injustice only which gives to suffering its venom
and its poignancy.'

were calmed. Constitutional measures were
then alone sought ; and there is no longer
any fear of our ' being within a measurable
distance of civil war.' The masses, however,
were far different from those Chartists
who have made themselves prominent by
their writings. They were more inclined
to follow the fiery counsels of agitators, of
leaders like Feargus O'Connor, the editor
of their o;reat oro^an ' The Northern Star ; '
whose experience of prison endeared him
to the multitude. The physical - force
Chartists followed such leaders ; and even
strong-minded men were drawn into the
current. The Corn Law repealers dealt
with a concrete fact ; unswervingly pursued
their aim, and succeeded. The advocates
of the Charter were in favour of more
rapid and sweeping changes ; which would
involve, as a matter of course, the repeal of
the obnoxious Corn-laws. In his retrospect
Cooper says, ' Men far more experienced
than my poor self thought that
Chartism would succeed before Corn Law

Repeal ; that a great change was at hand,
and that the change woukl not be Free Trade,
but a great enlargement of the franchise,
and the accompanying political demands
embodied in the People's Charter. If they
could secure their Charter prosperity, peace
and good will among men would follow.
And if leaders of recognized position would
not put themselves at their head, they
would work out their own cause with such
leaders as they could find to hand. How
were they to attain their ends ? ' ' These
twenty-four million labouring men, if their
affairs remain unregulated, chaotic, will
burn ricks and mills ; reduce us, themselves,
and the world into ashes and ruin.
Simply, their affairs cannot remain unregulated,
chaotic ; but must be regulated,
brought into some kind of order.' Yes,
shrewd old man of insight, Tom Carlyle !
clearly something must be done ! Fortunately
the Corn Laws were repealed intime,
people did eat untaxed bread ; the
Corn Law agitation had engaged the attention

of the more practically - minded
Chartists. More food appeased the people,
and allayed their wolfish instincts. The
full stomach brought with it its wonted
sense of peacefulness. The anarchy born
of starvation died down before the cheap
untaxed loaf.

Enough has been said here to demonstrate
to the reader unfamiliar with these
terrible times, the actual state of the
people ; ' the great dumb deep-buried class
conscious of wrong, and like a blind giant
striking hazardous blows ; but still doing
something ! They were very convulsive,
unorganized writings, the riots of this
unhappy time. Delirious workings doubtless
; but the people were penetrated with
a ' sense of injustice,' and their writings
were those of the trodden worm. ' The
poor have got into their heads in these
days a strange confused fancy, maybe,
but still a deep and fierce one, that they
haven't got what they call their rights '
kingsley). They wanted relief ; they sought

some remedy for their inward pain. They
were willing to listen to any one who even
sympathized with their sufferings. The
times begot a class of eloquent orators,
quite unique. These orators went straight
to the hearts of their hearers ; they knew
how to strike the chords of sympathy.
This chapter may fittingly conclude with
the final peroration of a speech made to a
hungry crowd by a well - known South
Yorkshire philanthropist and orator, the
late Richard (' Dick ' as he was familiarly
called) Ostler, Esq.

Where shall we look for justice ? Shall
I go to the House of Commons ? I have
been there. They will do nothing for us !
Shall I go to the House of Lords ? I have
been there too. They will do nothing !
Shall I go to the throne ? I have been
there also. There is no help for us there !
Shall I go to the throne of God in heaven ?
Yes ; I have been there too ; and God
Almighty has assured me that He will be
avenged on our cruel oppressors ! '

Want and famine were dire facts ; and
the speakers of that time were fiery orators.
Amidst all this misery, no wonder there
was a certain proportion of lawlessness ;
and that wicked schemes were plotted,
especially among the juvenile passionate
town-populations. How could it be otherwise
?

CHAPTER lY.

AFTER THE STORM.

The news of the dangerous plot, and of
its failure spread over the neighbourhood
like wild-fire. John Wharton was an early
riser, and, hearing of it, determined to tell
his uncle as soon as possible. He was so
thankful that his sister was out of the way,
not only safe from harm, but out of the
circle of terror ; for all peacefully-disposed
persons were dreadfully alarmed, and not
without reason, at what they heard. And
this plot to seize Sheffield was an unmistakable
proof of what the Chartists were
capable of doing.

The old Squire listened to the report
with eager attention, the old military spirit
in him being evidently awakened.

It is a mercy the plot got nipped as
it did. If the authorities had not got
information from somewhere, and were thus
enabled to take their measures accordingly,
for that is what is evident, there would have
been a terrible scene.'

^ It seems the leaders were seized, and
also the depots of arms, from what I heard

Well, if they could not get at their arms,
and their leaders were in custody, no
wonder they did nothing. More disciplined
masses than the Chartists might have been
rendered powerless under those circumstances.
I shall drive down to the petty
sessions. Jack, tomorrow morning. Will
you go down with me ? It will be a sight
worth seeing.'

I should rather like to see what the
leaders are like. They are in custody ; so
we shall see them,'

Next morning the Squire's carriage pulled
up at Fowrass Grange, and John Wharton
took his seat beside his uncle.

What a mercy it is, Jack,' said the latter.

that we got Edie out of the way of all this ;
I am so glad. We shall have to be very-stern
with these villains for this last deed.'

There was a great muster of the magistrates
of the district at the Town Hall at
Sheffield on that Monday morning ; as the
Sunday had permitted news of the event to
spread thoroughly over the district. The old
Canon was there, looking as if he was in
grim earnest.

Glad to see you, Wharton,' was his
greeting of the Squire. 'Brought Jack
with you to see what these reformers, he
favours, have been doing, — and how they
are fitting themselves for the exercise of
the franchise. Young folks, you see, have
hot heads. Good morning, Oldfield,' said
the Canon, turning away so as not to offer
John Wharton any opportunity of making
any remark or answer ; which indeed he
was in no mood to make on that morning.
His heart was too full of sorrow at
the wicked folly that had been planned,
and of the discredit it would bring upon

the whole body of reformers indiscriminately,
to say much. There was a bustling
energy among the magistrates which told
that they were in serious earnest. ' It
is monstrous to think that such schemes
should be set on foot. I am glad to hear
that the chief conspirator is not a native
of Sheffield continued the Canon.

Soon the magistrates tools their places
on the bench ; and the Canon, as the senior
magistrate of the district, having taken up
his position as chairman, addressed a few
words to his brother magistrates about the
importance of the business before them.
The police then brought out the prisoners,
and placed them in the dock. All eyes
were directed to Holbury, a stalwart, dark-complexioned,
gipsy-looking fellow, — who
carried himself with the most complete
assurance. He looked round upon the
court with a keen glance, and without
betraying the slightest evidence of any
sense of shame at his position. He scanned
the bench carefully, as if measuring the

VOL. III. G

members individually, and determining
upon his course of cod duct. After him
came his wife, and then followed several
of the leaders of the conspiracy. They
were not a common-looking group by any
means ; and though not evoking much
admiration, it was clear they were very different
from the ordinary class of criminals.
After having answered to their names,
they were then formally indicted for high-treason.
They listened to the charge with
great composure. After the first excitement
of seeing the prisoners had been
allayed, John Wharton looked on the
table in the centre of the court-room, which
was literally covered with guns, pistols,
cartridges, fire-balls, hand-grenades, cats,
pikes, daggers, and other offensive weapons
prepared for their proposed exploit. If
anything had been wanting to convince
him of the reality of the danger which
had happily been averted, it was this collection
of weapons ; together with the undaunted
demeanour of the prisoners. This

was a curious comment on the thirst after
the franchise ; and a contrast with the
gathering he had addressed a few months
before at Buxton . ' These are the sort of wild
fanatics who will ruin the cause ! as old
Jim Woodcock asserts,' he said to himself.
Yet he could not help a feeling of admiration
for the manner in which Holbury
bore himself. He evidently was not in the
very least embarrassed ; indeed he seemed
proud of his position. He was an enthusiast
; and however mistaken his aim, his
action was taken in all sincerity. To this
doubtless was due his ascendancy over his
followers. His wife preserved an outward
calm at least ; and seemed rather wishful
to avoid any attention or notice she might
attract, than influenced by any stronger
feeling. The other prisoners were Shefiield
men ; well known to the authorities as
having taken part in the disturbances at
the parish church in the preceding August,
and been conspicuous in the gatherings at
Sky Edge. They were somewhat uneasy

G 2

at the sight of so many magistrates. The
police closed round the dock, and mustered
in force around the Town-hall to prevent
any attempt at a rescue by the friends of
the prisoners ; who might be inclined to
make the attempt if the slightest prospect
of its being likely to be successful offered
itself. There had long been an antagonism
betwixt these men and the police ; and the
latter were determined when they had got
the wolf by the ears to hold him. After
the first long look around the court the
prisoners maintained an impassive attitude ;
except Holbury, who manifested a great
deal of that hardihood which has been
found in the gipsy character. He scowled
with beetling brows at the police-officer
who first gave evidence. After a time the
son of one of the prisoners in the dock
gave his evidence. His appearance provoked
very decided expressions of opinion
from Holbury, ir. words as well as by his
features. ' Coward ! ' * Traitor ! ' ' Chicken-hearted
! ' were some of the epithets he flung

at his renovate associate : the last telling
of familiarity with cock-fighting. The
police tried to induce him to keep quiet,
but with very little success. At last the
Canon interposed.

Samuel Holbury, will you try to conduct
yourself with propriety,' he said.
The prisoner scoffed at him. ' You can
do as you like ; but I think you will find
it to your interest to conduct yourself with
propriety. You can do neither yourself
nor your fellow-prisoners any good by your
present behaviour.'

The rebuke caused him to restrain himself
for a while ; and he listened with
attentive interest to the witness, as he
revealed the details of the plot. He had
been a leader of one of the classes, and was
of course perfectly familiar with every item
of the whole scheme. The magistrates
listened with equal attention ; as it became
more and more evident that the plot was
one of the most serious nature. The
danger that Sheffield had so narrowly

escaped was indeed of the gravest character.
All had been planned most carefully : and
had the rioters been able to get at their
arms, and had the advantage of their
leaders, it was not at all unlikely that they
would have overpowered the authorities ;
despite their preparations, and the admirable
arrangements of Colonel Martin under
the supervision of Sir Charles Napier.
After this evidence had been tendered the
Canon addressed the prisoners.

*You Samuel Holbury, and the others,'
naming each separately, 'have been evidently
guilty of a most serious crime. You
have laid a plot to secure the Town-hall
and the Tontine ; to defeat the authorities ;
and then to fire several buildings. You
have committed the crime of high-treason ;
and were ready to have added to this
arson, injury to Her Majesty's lieges, and
probably the crime of murder itself. For
this end you have provided ample means
in the weapons of various kinds which lie
before us. It is a most wicked and damnable

conspiracy, and it will be our duty
to see that the matter is most thoroughly
investigated.'

Holbury seemed to derive intense satisfaction
from this testimony to the completeness
and character of the scheme which
he had mainly devised : the Canon observing:
this continued —

o

You Samuel Holbury seem incapable
of understanding the enormity of the crime
you contemplated. Had your scheme not
been betrayed and your plans intercepted,
much bloodshed must have been inevitable.
Men who serve their Queen and their
country must have fallen in the discharge
of their duty ; and many of your misguided
companions must also have fallen victims
to the wild passions in which you and your
accomplices have indulged. Further, it is
to be feared that many innocent persons
must have been injured, and even killed,
had your wicked plot been successful and
been carried into execution. The crime of
which you have been guilty will in all

human probability cost you your life. I
am thankful that the duty of trying you
will not devolve upon me, but upon Her
Majesty's judges at the next assizes at
York. That you will then meet with a fair
trial and receive a just sentence, I entertain
no doubt. Our duty merely extends to such
an examination of the circumstances as will
justify us in sending you all for trial ; and
after we have consulted together we will
decide as to what our course of action maybe.
I merely now wish to remind you of
the grave position in which you stand, — by
your own lawless acts you must remember.'

Holbury took the old Canon's remarks
with a sense of propriety which for the time
restrained his natural hardihood.

After this the bench retired, and had
a long consultation. It was clear to all
that a terrible catastrophe had been very
narrowly escaped ; and that if the plot had
not been betrayed, a terrible misfortune to
the town of Sheffield must have befallen it.
In the face of such danger, and the fact

that like risings liacl been set afoot elsewhere,
the magistrates felt they must act
with promptitude and decision ; and yet not
be carried away by any feeling of alarm, or
fear of the conspirators. It was decided to
remand the prisoners for a day or two, in
order to take further evidence against them,
before sending them to York for trial.
The Canon, as the chairman, addressed the
prisoners.

We have gravely deliberated upon the
evidence against you ; and in order to avoid
any appearance of precipitation or haste,
have decided to remand you for further
evidence : if in the mean time you have
any statement to make, or anything to say
for yourselves, we shall be glad to hear it

Anything to say for ourselves ! ' burst
out Holbury ; ' I don't think we have, as
matters stand. We are prisoners, and you
are judges. We are at your mercy : had
things been different wee might have been
in your place, and you in ours. AVe
believe in physical force, do we 1 and so

do you ! Class-legislation has placed you
where you are. If we had succeeded ; class
legislation, and all that comes of it, would
have been swept away. You, the upper
classes, make laws for yourselves, and us
too. We think we could make better laws
for ourselves. We have asked to be allowed
to have a part in the law-making, and have
been denied. We determined to have our
rights, and take them by force ; when we
found we could not .get them in any other
way. We have failed. Force you condemn
! Look round this court. Is not
your power propped up by force ? You
do not use force ; oh no ! You have no
cannon, no muskets, no bayonets, no
dragoons to support you. You have no
police, no myrmidons, no manacles, no
Bastile, no dungeons to prop up your
ungodly power. If it had not been for
the miserable, contemptible treachery of
one of ourselves, we might have been
sitting there, the tribunes of a free people ;
and you have been in the dock to answer

for your administration of iniquitous laws.
Yes ; it is now as ever —

"The simple rule, the good old plan,
That he shall take who has the power,
And he shall keep who can."

We have not had the power to take ;
you have kept your power. Do as you
like. Treachery has betrayed us. Instead
of the leader of a free people, I am a
prisoner in the hands of my enemies. Do
as you please.'

The effect of this explosion of feeling,
betraying the natural hardihood of the
man, upon the court generally was great.
It told, perhaps more clearly than any other
expression could have done, the aspect of
their conduct which obtained with the conspirators
themselves. They had asked for
their share in the election of the legislature ;
and their demand had been refused. They
had then agitated for the attainment of
their end ; and this had been unsuccessful.
Then they had resolved to resort to force ;
and had been foiled by the betrayal of their

plans by one of themselves. The authorities
held the country in subjection by force ;
and they were going to see what force on
their side could do. They were not rioters ;
they were rebels. The iniquity of their
conduct from the Canon's point of view
did not strike them, — looking from their
point of view. They, to themselves, were
patriots striking a blow for their country ;
who had been worsted by the forces of
arbitrary power. William Tell, Robert
Bruce, George Washington were rebels
till success made them patriots. It was
entirely a question of success, or nonsuccess.
Had the plot been successful,
Samuel Holbury might have been sitting
in judgment upon them ; and they would
have been in the dock to answer for their
conduct in the past. The attempt had
failed : and Holbury was evidently ready
to take the punishment which must inevitably
follow failure. The magistrates
listened to him without interruption ; there
was something about the man which commanded

respect ; and bis courage and bearing
^r under the circumstances marked bim
out as a man naturally fitted to command
bis fellow-men. Still be was a criminal
judged by every standard but bis own.

Remove the prisoners the Canon said
very quietly to the police. It was impossible
to say anything to Holbury. Whatever
satisfaction be might derive from ibis
outburst, no attention could be paid to it.
Tbe judge could not cbafi*er with the
prisoner as to the precise enormity of ibis
offence.

Squire Wharton remarked after the
prisoners bad left the dock — ■

*I think it is just as well for everybody
that that fellow is under lock and key.'

He seems a hardened villain,' was the
comment of Stephen Oldfield.

He evidently bas the courage of ibis
convictions,' said the Canon. ' A man of
that kind is simply a firebrand ; and amidst
such combustible elements as these physical
Chartists, is full of danger. A few

men like him are enough to put the
country-side in a blaze

I should think after the collapse of their
plot and the capture of their leaders, especially
that audacious fellow, the Chartists
will keep quiet for a time,' observed a
magistrate, in whom evidently the wish was
father to the thought.

The effect of the speech outside the court
was to cause the greatest delight to his
associates, who admired the boldness of
vindicating their action and defying the
magistracy. Though the plot had failed —
failed, it must be remembered, from no
inherent weakness in its construction, or
lack of courage in its framer — the latter
had borne himself with a certain native
majesty which could not be gainsaid. The
feeling in the town ran high ; and the
greatest excitement had prevailed in it
from the discovery of the plot on Saturday
night. The Chartists as a body were filled
with impotent rage, and blind fury against
the man who had betrayed them. Suspicion

had fallen upon the Rotherham
publican, from the fact that precautionary
measures had been taken at Rotherham
before anything had been done in Sheffield
itself. The authorities put him at once
under the protection of an armed guard,
until the Secretary of State had been
communicated with. After the great service
he had rendered, the Government
became responsible for his safety. Occupation
in his own business, that of a stove-grate
fitter, was found for him elsewhere,
in the south of England ; where his intelligence
and skill in his craft enabled him to
make a new position under an assumed
name. After some time he was recognized
by a wandering workman, who had known
him at Rotherham ; and his removal elsewhere
became necessary. Government once
more provided a safe retreat for him, and
after this second removal all trace of him
was lost ; and those Chartists who would
most certainly have wreaked their revenge
upon him (the informer's doom), were

effectually baffled in their dream of vengeance.


Those who had taken an active part in
the discovery of the plot kept their share
of it as much as possible to themselves ; and
allowed the credit of their actions to be
assumed by any boaster that pleased.
Chartism, though foiled and defeated, was
much too dangerous still to be trifled with.
Indeed among the officials at Sheffield
themselves the details of the discovery were
not known for a considerable time. There
was a secret, that was known, but no more ;
and it was only long afterwards, when
danger was no longer to be apprehended
from the Chartists, that the facts oozed out.
The salary of the chief constable of Sheffield
was augmented ; and, in the ensuing May,
Colonel Martin was presented with a piece
of plate, in acknowledgment of the services
rendered by him and his dragoons.

The prisoners where re-examined, and
ultimately Mary Holbury was discharged ;
but her husband and several others were

committed to York Castle to take their trial
for high treason. They were all convicted ;
and, had a life been taken, would doubtless
have been executed : but, as it was, they
were only sentenced to varying periods of
imprisonment ; and to find sureties for their
good behaviour for some time afterwards.
Not only were they thus punished, but
they were kept safely out of the way of
further mischief.

Though the Shefiield rising ended incomplete
discomfiture and disaster, the
spirit of the physical-force Chartists was by
no means broken. While the examination
of the prisoners at Sheffield was in progress,
an attempt was made to fire the military
barracks at Barnsley ; which was defeated
by the activity of the lieutenant of the
Dragoons in charge there. At Bradford a
rising was planned ; but it too failed by
the betrayal of the scheme by one of the
conspirators, whose better feelings overcame
him when the critical time arrived. Had
the Sheffield plot been successful, and the

VOL. in. H

intrepid Holbury been at the head of the
rising, with Sheffield for his head-quarters,
the movement would have spread rapidly,
in all probability ; and history would have
had to record a parallel to Jack Cade and
Wat Tyler, and the Peasant War. That
the hot-headed physical-force Chartists
could have prevailed against the rest of
society is incredible : but a great deal of
blood might have been shed before order
was restored ; and, what is more, the country
would have been still further plunged into
a time of terror, — which was quite bad
enough as it was.

As the Squire and his nephew drove
home the Squire was inclined to be communicative.


I tell you, Jack, if that plot had not
been betrayed, there would have been a
most serious state of affairs. I do not
believe order could have been restored until
Sir Charles Napier had marched on Sheffield
at the head of the forces under his command.
The Guards would have had to be

brought up from London before he could
have suppressed the outbreak. It would
have spread rapidly. One cannot tell what
is going on elsewhere ; but it is clear a
very serious plot was on foot at Sheffield.
That Holbury is no ordinary man ; and with
him for a leader incalculable mischief might
have been wrought before it could have been
suppressed. But he is pretty safe, I think.
He weill not do any more mischief. That
is a comfort.'

He put the conduct of the conspirators
in a light that has never struck me before.
He posed as a patriot ; and did it well too.
It was no acting ; bat a piece of genuine
melodrama. I little expected such an episode
when I agreed to accompany you to
the sessions.'

Melodrama be hanged ! I tell you he is
a most dangerous fellow. Naturally fitted
for a ringleader ; and, though he had failed
utterly, he was in no way broken down ; but
was as undaunted as ever. He held immense
influence over the rest, I'll be bound.'

H 2

I quite agree with you ; his influence
would be almost unbounded. And his
courage is unquestionable. If he had
succeeded I could fancy him as a tribune
judging the bench in the dock.'

'Impudent scoundrel, to dare to say what
he did ! The old Canon was wise to take
no notice of his speech. I saw in the paper
to-day that those other rioters, Frost and
Williams, are on trial for that affair at
Newport last November. They will be
hanged, sure enough ! '

I don't think there will be much miscarriage
of justice if Frost were hanged. I
think there is far more excuse for a
man like Holbury, who is evidently an
enthusiast for his class, and in earnest ;
than for Frost, who ought to have known
that there was not the faintest prospect
of success ; and that rioting would end
in the gallows. And a magistrate, too,
setting the example of outrage and law-breaking
! '

Yes ; I wish the Home Secretary would

have dealt with him last spring. It would
have been much better than letting him
go on.'

I don't think " Finality John " has much
action left in him. I think the ministry is
becoming decrepit with age.'

I wish to heaven Peel was in power ;
and then a firm Government would deal
with this seething mass of lawlessness. It
was quite evident from what that fellow
said to-day, they calculate a good deal on
the want of energy in the Government, as
one part of their plan.'

I could not help laughing at what
Chapter said to-day about suspending the
Habeas Corpus Act, and proclaiming martial
law. I thought it showed that he was
desperately frightened.'

Martial law and old Charley will never
get on together. That is all nonsense, and
out of the question. Now that Holbury
is safe by the heels there will be a lull in
their agitation. I wish old Elliott and
some of those leading Corn Law agitators

were laid by the heels too. It would be a
good day for Sheffield.'

There is not much prospect of old
Ebenezer and his colleagues giving the
police an opportunity of apprehending
them. Their weapons are discussion,
reason, petitions to Parliament, and other
peaceful measures. There is no man in
the Riding more opposed to these violent
measures than Ebenezer. The Corn Law
Leaguers almost to a man are special
constables.'

So it seems ; but I like them none the
better for that. If ever they do get .free
trade, — which for one I don't believe, and
what's more, I hope I will never live to see
that day, — it will be the ruin of the landed
interest in England. I tell you the Corn
Law fellows are far more deadly enemies tous
than those fellows, with their guns and
pikes, that we saw to-day; even with Holbury
at their head ! '

John Wharton maintained a purely negative
attitude in relation to this last remark.

Chapter V.

TWISTED STRANDS.

Another outcome of the bad harvests of
recent years was the increased importation
of foreign corn. In the good times the
importation was practically nil ; but as one
deficient harvest followed another the importation
of corn developed into a large
trade. The ' sliding scale,' referred to before,
made the duty fall as the price rose ;
and inversely as the price fell the duty
rose. It was therefore the interests of
corn-merchants to impede the introduction
of foreign wheat. The average price of
wheat in Sheffield market, on the 7th of
January, 1840, was sixty-seven shillings and
nine pence per quarter ; on the 4th of
February it had fallen to fifty-five shillings

and sentence per quarter. What had
caused wheat to fall so markedly in a few
weeks ?

The operation of some speculative corn
dealers ! The operations of some of the
great firms were not only colossal, but
highly speculative. Some of their transactions
were gambling rather than true
business. It had been determined to do a
big thing.' Suddenly the price of corn
was forced down by simultaneous action
in distant places. The amount of foreign
corn for import either actually en route, or
ready for shipping at different corn-shipping
ports, was unquestionably large ; but the
amount was greatly magnified. Corn fell ;
smaller merchants, and men not possessed
of much capital, grew alarmed, and readily
sold out at the low prices, — fearing worse
things in the future. The speculating
operators bought heavily at the reduced
rates during the panic. Two ends were
thus attained. A quantity of wheat was
bought cheap in the country, to the ruin

of many small merchants. The import
trade received a severe blow. Instead of
the high price the importers anticipated?
with a small duty ; they were suddenly confronted
with a comparatively low market-rate,
and a correspondingly high duty.
This was a substantial check to the corn
importers. The operators bought the
foreign corn cheap ; and soon prices went
up to the old point, so that on April 7th
wheat had risen to sixty-five shillings and
sentence per quarter. The speculators
made a goodly sum out of the operation ;
and helped to farther disorganize the confused
condition of the corn trade. For
every one but themselves the game was
injurious ; and such gambling transactions
were one of the many objections raised
to the Corn Laws. The speculation increased
the activity of the Anti-Corn Law
agitators.

One of the smaller corn-merchants, who
was caught in this net, was Mr. Mortlake,
one of the promoters of the Wybrow Bank.

He speculated on a fairly extensive scale,
like others of his own calibre ; but this
operations were trifling compared to what
the great Liverpool houses could do, and
just had done. The speculation took him
completely by surprise. He had studied
the subject according to his lights ; and
thought it probable a rise in the price of
wheat was certain. In such belief he had
bought largely. He had been a good deal
bothered and worried to get his family
disposed of after the burning of his house ;
and perhaps had not given the subject the
calm deliberate thought necessary to successful
speculative operations. And if he had
been able to do so, he might not have been
awake to the intended coup of the Liverpool
firms. Possibly, too, he was anxious to realize
some ready money to meet the expenses
necessary to the formation of a new" household.
Be that as it may ; he was caught in
the swirl of the speculation, — where he
drifted like a cork in a stream. He might
perhaps have drifted out ultimately without

much loss had he been able to hold on ; but
that he could not do.

The Wybrow Bank had suffered by the
bad times. Many depositors had ceased
to bring money to the bank ; for such
deposits usually represent surplus profits,
or savings, and both these were cut down.
The farmers could only just make ends
meet ; and not always that. Consequently
the profits of the local tradesmen were
small ; and neither class could bring much
to the bank. Then came the day of withdrawals
; people found they must take
out their savings, their money in the bank,
to rub honor with. Instead of being a
flourishing concern, repaying well its shareholders,
the Wybrow Bank was growing
needy. A further call had been made ;
and only the absolute necessity for such a
step could have induced the shareholders
to take it. To his great chagrin, Stephen
Oldfield had had to lay a mortgage once
more on his estate ; a matter he took sorely
to heart. There was no help for it :

and it had to be done. The receipts from
the bank had fallen off; and altogether
Mr. Oldfield found himself shorter of
money than he had ever anticipated he
should be. Wybrow Bank had lost its
roseate hue. As the bad times continued,
the prospect of the bank, coming to ruin
loomed up more and more strongly ; and the
shareholders saw before them a black cloud
rising like a wall. Stephen Oldfield and
the two other resident shareholders, landed
proprietors, had become very uneasy,
as their property was tangible. Messrs.
Waddington and Mortlake, having each a
business to attend to, had other matters
to distract their attention. When Mr.
Mortlake s house was fired, the deed procured
him much sympathy : and though
sympathy is always marked off from business,
the divorce is not invariably so complete
and thorough as is usually assumed. Mr.
Mortlake had always received accommodation
from the bank in his transactions, as
corn was a stable article on which money

could be safely lent ; and, so far such friendliness
had been profitable to both sides.
Some of Mr. Mortlake's investments had
not been paying of late, and his resort to
the bank had become more frequent.
Indeed, a certain amount of the capital
of the Eyebrow Bank had been practically
invested in Mr. Mortlake's business.

Acting in the belief that a rise in the
price of wheat was all but certain, he had
determined to buy on an extensive scale ;
and applied to the bank accordingly. His
request was complied with, and the money
was raised by borrowing upon some securities
lying in the bank. By this means he
had bought a good many thousand quarters ;
and stood to win, as he firmly believed, a
considerable sum, — which would be very
acceptable to him. What was his horror,
then, to see the price of wheat turn downwards
; a few shillings a quarter at first !
He could have got out of his venture at a
comparatively small loss at first ; but he
held on, thinking that a turn in the tide

was at hand. But the ebb went steadily
on ; while the prospect of a rise within
a reasonable time grew fainter. The bank
which had advanced the money to the
Wybrow Bank had become suspicious of
the worth of the securities lodged with
them, and urged the repayment of the loan.
Mr. Mortlake had to sell ; and twelve
shillings a quarter multiplied by some
thousands amounted to a considerable sum.
The bank was in difficulties.

Stephen Oldfield had been busy as a
magistrate in the Sheffield affair, and had
not ozone to the bank for some time.
Consequently, Mr. Mortlake, with Mr.
Waddington's co-operation, had been able
to take these steps, to which the habitual
prudence of Mr. Oldfield might have raised
objections. When he received an intimation
that a meeting of the shareholders was
called for a certain day, he had a presentiment
of evil which settled down upon him.
He wished sincerely and genuinely that he
had remained content with his patrimonial

acres, and had eschewed all attempts to
increase his means. But it was too late !

What had seemed so delightfully simple
had developed a complexity very trying.
To start a bank ; to give the depositors
two-and-a-half per cent, for their money,
and lend it out on good security at five
per cent., and pocket the difference : was
there ever a more straightforward tempting
matter put before a country gentleman
with a landed property ? They were all
men of capacity ; and their united efforts
would guarantee the validity of the security
they should accept ; and then there could
be no mistake. But though men who
inherit estates are usually fair business men,
from their being thrown thereby in contact
with business, this knowledge has its limits.
In estimating the value of a security in
some instances they had been guided
perforce by the business men, Messrs.
Waddington and Mortlake.

And it so happened, as it will and does
in man's glorified state, that sentiment

gets into business ; greatly, doubtless at
times, to the detriment of the latter. Mr.
Wadding ton had strongly advocated an
advance, in the prosperous days of the bank,
on some securities of which he professed
special knowledge, — as a friend of his own
was concerned in it. Mr. Mortlake took
his view, and the other three were guided
by them. The advance was made, and the
securities were accepted in return. When
the shareholders met it was found that these
very securities were the subject of the distrust
of the other bank. Mr. Waddington's
friendliness to his friend was valid at
Wybrow ; but was quite inoperative with
the other bank's managers.

The Wybrow bankers were brought face
to face with a very awkward, and very
disagreeable matter. They could not charge
Mr. Waddington with ignorance, or deception.
His familiarity with all business
matters prevented the first supposition
being accepted. As to the second, why
should he practise a deception which would

cost himself more than any one else ? Mr.
Waddington, too, was a man who could not
lightly be taken to task : certainly none of
the other four men knew how to start to
question him on the matter. As to himself,
he took up this position :

'When I urged that the bank should
invest a portion of its spare capital in this
particular manner, I had excellent reasons
for believing that we would, in doing so,
advance the interests of the bank. I was
myself the largest shareholder ; and if there
was any risk, I took my share of it. We
have had no reason to question the value
of the security ; but it seems the managers
of the other bank are not satisfied about it.
What is to be done in the matter ? We
must try some other bank, is my suggestion,
and see if they will be satisfied with the
validity of the security. Perhaps they will
take it off" our hands ; and if so, the temporary
relief so afforded will be of the greatest
service to us. That we are in need of
some more working capital is quite clear ;

VOL. in. I

but it is not so clear how it is to Le
acquired.'

Mr. Waddington was an astute man
in his way. He vindicated the original
transaction ; he seemed quite sanguine that
the objections entertained to the security
at one place, would not be raised elsewhere.
He spoke hopefully of handing over the
security to some other investors ; of thus
having a balance in hand which would be
most acceptable. Then there was the
veiled threat that there was need of money,
which must be raised somehow. The three
landed proprietors saw their tangible estates
being mortgaged still further ; and even the
auctioneer's hammer was becoming visible.
Mr. Waddington had a business beyond his
property and investments. So had Mr.
Mortlake. The latter was very quiet. Of
course his recent experiences had depressed
him. It was useless to reproach him in
the matter : he had had a heavy loss.
And so on, and so on. Mr. Oldfield, feeling
that matters were getting more and more

mixed up, until he saw his way out of the
matter less and less clearly at each step.
He felt uncomfortably near to ruin ; and
yet the way of escape was not open to him.
He could dimly see the fallacy of Mr.
Waddington's speech; the utter unsoundness
of his assumption that the objections
taken to the disputed security were without
any foundation. But ^w^hat was he to do ?
AY hat were they all to do ? Mr. Waddington
and Mr. Mortlake seemed to entertain
a hopeful view. The other two local
landowners were as puzzled as himself
apparently. None of these had anything
to suggest ; and in the absence of any
suggestion, what Mr. Waddington proposed
had best be carried out.

It was the ordinary experience of mankind.
There is a difficulty to be met ; and
if one man makes a proposition as to how
it should be met, and no one else has
anything better to propose — unless the
difficulty can be disposed of altogether,
there is no alternative. Now in such

I 2

emergency, negative talent is worthless.
Actual active intelligence is alone of any
value. Stephen Oldfield's talents were
certainly of a negative order ; and therefore
impotent in the present emergency. In
his criticisms of the acts of others he found
a solution of a difficulty never far to seek.
But no awkward difficulty would insist
upon presenting itself and stop the proposed
action in such case. In this matter,
however, his schemes seemed blocked by
some disagreeable matter interfering therewith,
cropping up, whichever way he turned.
He who was great at criticism found action
impossible. It was very horrible to be
fettered. He was bound hand and foot
in a mesh woven around him : which he had
neither strength to break ; nor cunning
enough to get out of. At first, when difficulties
about the bank loomed up, he
determined to sell his shares and get rid
of the thing. This was a clear road out
of the difficulty. But when he started to
carry out his design he found that a purchaser

was not so easily acquired ; and,
worse, that the responsibility of ownership
clings for some time to the whilom owner.
He might sell the shares, though that did
not seem very feasible ; but he was liable
for some time after the actual ownership
had ceased. If such responsibility still
attached to him it would be better to hold
on to them, and look after matters himself.
So he gave that hope up. He had taken
the shares for better, or worse ; and no
divorce from them was possible. It was
like ill-fated matrimony. At the beginning
the mate is a treasure ; but as time wings
on the once coveted object becomes one
of deep aversion. How lucky he thought
himself at one time in being admitted to
a share of the blessings of the bank ! Now
the bliss had turned to woe. It was very
hard, he felt.

How far Stephen Oldfield felt himself a
fool may be questioned. He was not in
the habit of looking at himself from that
point of view. In fact he knew, was certain,

perfectly certain and satisfied, that he was
not a fool. Was lie not always pointed to
as a most prudent person, remarkable for
his years ? Did. not his brother-magistrates,
his seniors, listen attentively to him, and
exhibit deference to his opinion ? Most
certainly they did : as they would to anybody
else, who had the last vote, — often,
under certain circumstances, the casting
vote. It was a very material matter, the
vote, — not the voter! But self-satisfaction is
a quality which is rarely hypercritical. Mr.
Oldfield did not blame himself for having
put out his foot too far to readily get it
back : for having been incautious, or imprudent.
Waddington and Mortlake were
men who knew what they were doing.
When they offered to share a prize with
him : a perfectly safe thing : why, he had
accepted the gilded plum ! What could
have made Waddington mistaken, — if mistaken
he was, — about the value of the
security on which that advance had originally
been made ? His intellect could

propound no solution. It was a hugely
disagreeable state to be in, he knew that.
Yet even he could see no way out ! A sense
of helplessness pervaded him: a feeling
especially distasteful to him.

A day or two went over without any
intimation that the bank had succeeded in
finding some other bank which would take
the security off their hands ; and the
Wybrow shareholders had each their own
thoughts. There was an air of uneasiness
about the premises which was oppressive
to those occupying them : and this seemed
to communicate itself to the people of the
town. How things leak out it is not always
possible to say ; but bad news always find
an underground passage somehow. Events
are known throughout the bazaars of India
almost as soon as they are known to the
Authorities themselves ; sometimes indeed
it would seem before the latter know of
them. So it is elsewhere : news, especially
bad news, seem to . permeate the air. And
a feeling seemed to grow up insidiously at

Wybrow that something was wrong at the
bank : though what that something was
no one was prepared to say. With such a
feeling abroad, sprang up the desire to withdraw
their deposits, to make themselves
sure, upon the part of the more timorous
and apprehensive. But then to do this was
to show distrust where some important
personages were concerned ; and that, too,
was difficult for persons of a timorous disposition.
A state of tension was thus setup,
fed by rumours and fanned by fears;
a state eminently calculated to end in panic.
Stephen Oldfield communed with his
own thoughts ; and did not find them either
lively, or pleasant companions. He did not
take his sister into his confidence further
than to say :

Maria, I am afraid we are having
some trouble at the bank." She instinctively
thought of Mr. Mortlake's loss, which
had become known to the outside world.

But Mr. Mortlake's loss will not affect
the bank, Stephen, will it ? '

Not directly, my dear. But in these
times it is difficult to see the end of thiDss
always.'

No more accurate statement could have
been made ; and the words represented
Stephen Oldfield's mental position precisely.
And this Wybrow Bank affair was one of
those things whose condition was shrouded
in mystery — mystery which he, at least,
could not penetrate ; however much he gave
his mind to the topic.

If there came a difficulty, it might be
necessary to pay up the whole of the
shares ; and, then, would fully paid-up
shares meet the emergency ? It was impossible
to say. The whole of his estate
could not carry more than the mortgage
which would thus be entailed, if such a
result came about. He would be a Squire
in name only ; a veritable Lapland, possessing
the shadow without the substance.

This was a dreadful prospect ; something
which he never dreamt of when entering
into the banking business. He began to

wonder however he had been drawn into
the thing ; forgetting, in his then state of
mind, the delight he experienced at being-able
to get into it when the opportunity
offered. But a more horrible thought
entered into his mind. Suppose the fully
paid shares should not meet the demands
upon the bank, — what then ? There was
unlimited liability : he was in this case
liable to the extent of everything he possessed
— to the suit he stood in. It might
not be enough to be prepared to let Orton
Hall ; to live on nothing, practically, in
order to be able to keep the property
together, and possibly some day be able
to clear off some of the mortgage on it.
This was trying enough in all conscience
to a man bred and brought up a squire.
But it might be that he would be stript
of everything ; and be in the eyes of the
world, as well as in reality, a beggar. That
was a terrible prospect. To stand well in
the eyes of the world had been to Stephen
Oldfield what standing in the sight of his

Maker is to a man of stronger mould and
firmer convictions. To lose the world's
good opinion was to him the severest ordeal
of all. To be pitied — that was very hard
to bear ! To be held a fool, who did not
know what he was doing — that was intolerable
! And yet it might happen that his
conduct might come to be a topic of conversation,
discussed by the commonest persons,
and judged by the meanest intellects.
He had elected to be a prosperous, farseeing
person ; and how were his aspirations
to end ? Ruin and disaster the reward
of all his thought, his plans, his scheming.
Was there nothing to be done ? Was he
simply impotent, powerless, incapable of
doing anything to avert the ruin which
hung impending over him ?

Some long, weary, leaden-footed days
wore on ; suspense was almost more trying
than the worst. Would the worst come ?
Another meeting was held at the bank ; and
it seemed that the security would not be
accepted by any bankers to which it had

been offered. It represented a large sum ;
an overwhelming sum in the then condition
of the bank. Could they tide on by a
violent effort ; or must the bank close ?
The three landed shareholders looked each
other in the face, but said no word. Mr.
Waddington seemed to bear the matter
more buoyantly. (Perhaps the real value
of the security was not such a surprise
to him.) He seemed sanguine that something
could be done. Mr. Mortlake looked
grave. These two had businesses by which
they could live if the worst came to the
worst ; they could not be so completely
ruined as the other three. They had something
op at least to sustain them. There are
depths, — and lower depths.

It was quite clear from the statements
made as to the position of the bank, that
its affairs were desperate. A local bank
failure was no unwonted episode of that
time ; but this fact carried no consolation
with it to the five men who sat in the
Wybrow Bank parlour. The joyous meetings

of the past were lost in the instant,
present sense of misery. Whether to give
up at once, or stagger on, was the question.
And it was decided, — and the only thing
that was decided upon, — not to take the
final step that day at least. The depositors
must be paid so long as the estate
of one shareholder could furnish a penny.
Whether they got their money at once,
or after some delay in realizing the estate,
was but a matter of time — to the depositors,
that is ; not to the shareholders. They
parted in gloom. The April promise had
ended in grim, chill disaster.

Stephen Oldfield drove home behind his
red roan horses for the last time a squire,
he felt. Yet what little shreds of dignity,
with tags of position, remained he clung
to desperately — he had little else to cling
to ! All his visions had passed away. The
hope of being one day pricked for Sheriff
had vanished, leaving no trace behind it.
Dark gloomy disaster lay before him, like
a black, fathomless, boundless ocean, whose

other shore was hidden from view. What
was the other shore beyond ? He could
not tell. The completeness of his ruin
seemed to overwhelm the little man as he
sat back in the corner of his carriage. His
prim neatness of appearance was still there ;
but the expression of the proper figure was
altered. It was that of a broken man.

When he got out his footman was awkward
; and the irritable Squire, — the strain
upon him being more than he could bear,
admonished him with an asperity which
surprised the man : for Squire Oldfield was
all urbanity to his dependents.

I shan't want you much longer,' he
said.

In a day or two the meaning of this
was more clear to the discomfited footman.
It was known that Wybrow Bank
had closed, insolvent ; and that Mr. Waddington
had fled, leaving his affairs in the
utmost confusion ; but it was believed he
was utterly bankrupt, — penniless.

The Bank failure had merely been the

last straw that broke the camel's back.
He had been speculating, and lost ; and
then tried blindly to retrieve himself, and
lost again. His mills and property had
been mortgaged up to the hilt for sometime.
He had practically no assets to
meet his liabilities ; nothing to meet his
share of the bank debts. This meant
absolute ruin for the other shareholders.

Stephen Oldfield realized the fact that
he was a beggar, utterly penniless, on the
face of the earth. But from no fault of
his own, he said to himself !

Chapter YI.

A SUDDEN BLIGHT.

Who that lias possessed a plot of garden-ground,
and taken an interest in its cultivation,
does not know, in anticipation at
least, the effects of a sharp night of frost ?
The frozen dew nips the budding shoots ;
and if the garden be exposed to the rays
of the rising sun, the thawing of the rime
is followed by their destruction. In the
potato-beds the young shoots and leaves
are black and dead. The result is a sudden
blight. After a time, if the season is propitious,
a second growth follows, and perhaps
the effects of the frost are forgotten
in time.

Edith Wharton and George Ashworth
were soon to realize the blight to which

the effects of ta sharp frosty night are analogous.
They corresponded, — certainly not
as lovers do now with all the facilities
offered by the Postmaster General's admirable
arrangements, two posts daily, with
the telegraph when desired, — by letters
twice a week ; but these were the well-known
letters of a pre-penny-postal epoch.

Letters then were serious, thoughtful
compositions ; not the scrap hastily written,
poorly expressed, and betraying a most
restricted vocabulary (indicating a poverty
of expression which is simply nationally
disgraceful), such as they have now too
largely become. Whether this decay in
the art of letter writing is due to the innovation
brought out by Rowland Hill, or
not, is perhaps rather a matter for a debating
society, than calling for a verdict
here. The bulky epistle was carefully
folded and sealed, after the sheet was
closed — in a time when envelopes had not
as yeb come into being.

The large quarto sheet was folded up,

VOL. III. K

sealed, directed, and carried on it, in indelible
characters, the stamp of the post-office ;
which had at least the advantage of putting
its date out of question. But on January
10, 1840, the present penny stamp came
into existence. A black stamp on a white
ground ; but precisely the same ' Queen's
head,' — as the stamp for long was termed,
as is found now. From the preceding
July, a twopenny stamp had been paving
the way to this great social reform. The
postal arrangements had been undergoing
a considerable modification from the reduction
of the stamp duty on newspapers,
and the consequent increase in their
numbers.

At last, after many genuine doubts as
to the practicability of the scheme by those
in authority, the ' penny post ' was carried ;
and a great boon it was found to be. At
Thirlmere Lodge the new stamp and the
increase in the amount of correspondence
consequent thereupon, had made it a most
important event.

We live in times of changes. Old-fashioned
folks, like myself, feel doubtful
about all this change. People seem getting
dissatisfied with everything that has been.
I hope it will all turn out well. But I feel
doubts at times,' said old Lady Barbara,
her white head nodding, and her tones
telling of age. She scarcely looked like a
trustworthy prophetess. The kindly simple
old soul had an old-world dread of the
unknown.

It is very nice to find that letter-writing
is not so expensive as it was,' replied Miss
Wharton.

Yes ; when people decide to marry on
small means, I suppose they must look to
the pounds, shillings, and pence side of
every subject. That is the result of marrying
a poor man.'

'But the Queen is doing the same thing !
George has a better income than Prince
Albert has, Lady Barbara.' This was an
awkward poser for the old lady, blocking
the further progress of the conversation in

K 2

that direction. The Lady Barbara went off
hastily on a side issue.

It is a very good thing, in my opinion,
that she is married and settled. There was
no certainty about the court while she was
single.'

Whatever do you mean, Lady Barbara ? '
asked her companion eagerly.

Well, I mean that when the Queen is
married, and has a husband of her own,
the court will be more composed.'

You are quite enigmatical this morning,'
rejoined her companion. ' T cannot tell
to what you allude.' The fact was the old
lady was so suddenly pulled up, when
intending to read a homily on the questionable
advantages of Cupid not ascertaining
whether his victims have a balance at his
banker's or not before shooting his arrows,
that her faculties were seriously shaken,
and she did not recover herself readily.

'Dear me, 1 suppose I am going dotard.'

Nothing of the kind, dear Lady Barbara ;
it is my stupidity. I am afraid I am

rather stupid this morning,' Edith said
soothingly.

I am getting an old woman, I know.
But it is well the Queen is married ; it
prevents scandals at court anyhow.' Edith
listened in amazement ; not a breath of
scandal had she ever heard of the young
Queen.

But there. never have been any scandals,
Lady Barbara.'

Not about the Queen, my dear ; but
about the court It was very sad, you
know. And a young unmarried Queen at
the head of it. The Duchess of Kent
did her best. That is well-known.' Edith
Wharton listened in utter ignorance of
what was the subject of the old lady's
allusions.

You have heard about that sad affair of
the late Lady Flora Hastings, my dear ? '

Edith had not : for her uncle never
mentioned the matter in her presence, and
her brother had put away ' The Spectator '
that week when a letter on the subject

appeared, in order that his sister might not
see it. She therefore had no idea what the
old lady was going to say.

No, I have not. AVhat about her ? ' was
the reply.

It is a very sad affair. I never had so
much faith in Sir James Clark after that.
The Lady Flora was one of the Queen's
ladies-inviting, you know ; only she was
attached to the Duchess of Kent. She was
not very well, and some of the ladies said
ill-natured things about her. Ladies will
talk, you know, Edith, at court just as elsewhere.
It was rumoured that she was
privately married ; or ought to have been,
you know. It was very unkind. They
never consulted the Duchess of Kent : and
when she came to know about it she was
very angry indeed ; very angry.' Miss
Wharton began to feel that this really
Alas a curious subject for conversation
betwixt two single ladies ; but what could
she do ? She had asked Lady Barbara to
tell her. And the old spinster had unhesitatingly

complied with her request. So
she sat quietly and said nothing. ' There
were two ladies — T will not mention names
now, for it was nothing to their credit — who
gained the Queen's ear, and poisoned her
mind ; so she sent an abrupt message to
the poor lady. Sir James Clark ought to
have acted more prudently, I think. Well,
it caused a grave scandal ; which was
specially objectionable with a girl-que en.
They ought to have been so particular in
that case. But they were not, I think
the ladies prevailed over him : but, however,
they were disappointed. Then poor
Lady Flora grew worse, and died. And
then the public mind was so excited, an
examination was made, and it was found
her liver was greatly enlarged. That was
all the occasion for the scandal. The
Duchess of Kent mioiit well be ano'rv.
But I think Sir James Clark a weak man
to have done as he did.' The Lady Barbara
was very sceptical about the then fashionable
baronet ; whose indiscretion brought

on him the severe censure of though ful,
prudent persons. Though it cannot be
averred that the Lady Barbara belonged to
either class on that particular morning at
least. 'Then her family, who had been
very much hurt, took the opportunity of
clearing her character ; and they did so in
the press. But it was very hard upon
them to have to drag such family matters
into the newspapers. I am glad there is
no likelihood ot* such a thing happening

adam.

I sincerely trust not was the grave
reply of her companion. ' It is a horrible
story, Lady Barbara. Surely it cannot be
true.' Edith Wharton, as a right-minded
young woman, felt keenly the whole
national indignity of such an episode at
the court of a girl - Queen of England.
What a disgraceful thing of those two
older ladies ! Is it publicly known who
they are V

Perfectly so. The whole story is not
only true ; but it is no secret.*

Then I think it is a pity that they
could not have been flogged at the tail of
the hangman's cart ; like 'titus Oates and
other infamous villains were in the old
days. They richly deserved such a punishment
! '

But they were ladies of high position at
court, my dear ! '

The more shame for them then ; for
they might have known better. If they
had been ordinary women it would have
been bad enough. But for ladies of high
position at court, I think it infinitely more
disgraceful ! '

Old Lady Barbara listened. This made
still more clear the difference with which
she and her young kinswoman often looked
at the same thing. She felt that ladies at
court ought not to be treated as common
mortals. Yet Edith evidently regarded
their position as an aggravation of their
offence. She wished she had not said anything
about the subject ; a conclusion
which it mio'ht have been well for her to

have arrived at before, instead of merely
after her recital. While as to Edith, she
thrilled with indignation to think that such
an incident had occurred at the court of a
girl-Queen ; and that the whole scandal was
as unwarrantable as it was baseless. Her
speech but faintly represented what she
felt on the matter.

The Lady Barbara was very fond of court
news, and court gossip ; and especially anything
that tended to demonstrate the magnificence
of the court. This of course was
most natural, though it occasioned her
visitor some amusement at times. She had
written Mrs. Pryor some account of the
royal wedding, supplementing the details
which appeared in the newspapers ; and one
matter the old lady was very anxious
should be prominently brought forward in
the letter, and that was this — viz. that the
Queen's wedding-dress bore upon it one
thousand pounds' worth of Honiton lace.
The female reader can make a note of this ;
a matter which would greatly gratify the late

Lady Barbara Saville, if she were ^ worthy
to know.'

Edith Wharton waited anxiously for the
postman one morning ; and when he came
bringing the expected missive, she retired
with it to her own apartment. George
Ashworth had given her to understand that
his father, the old clergyman, farmed his
own glebe ; and by so doing had added considerably
to his income, and been thus
enabled to start his children in the world.
Further, that the late bad harvests had told
seriously upon the old gentleman's finances ;
and that he had had to raise some money,
for which his son had become bond for
him. This he had made Edith thoroughly
understand as a matter of common honesty
towards her ; pointing out how if things
went further wrong, instead of improving?
this might come to affect themselves ; as he
could not marry with a load of debt on him.
Edith had approved of his conduct as being
right and proper, and such being the case, if
things went wrong they must abide by the

facts, and wait ; and dismissed the matter.
Gnome Ash worth admired her for so looking
at the subject ; but had qualms of conscience
as to how far the engagement could be
allowed to stand, if misfortune should overtake
his father and him. In his last letter
he had expressed his fear that things were
going wrong in Lincolnshire ; and Edith
with natural anxiety awaited eagerly the
arrival of his next letter. When she
opened it, she read as follows :

•' My dearest Edith,

T fear this letter will not be
pleasant reading for you, for I can tell you
it is a difficult letter to write ; but I know
you, and will put the matter plainly before
yourself. You know how my father worked
hard farming his glebe as well as looking
to his parish, in order to be able to do more
for his family ; how I got the benefit of
this ; and how I, in turn, when difficulties
overtook him, became bond for him for a
sum of money. I told you that if things,
instead of improving, went further wrong,

I must pay the money ; and that while
this remained unpaid our marriage would
have to wait. You, like the brave girl you
are, at once accepted the situation ; and
deciding to wait, would not discuss the
matter further.

I am sorry to say the stroke has come.
Another bad harvest has dispelled the hope
that he might be able to improve his
position. He is unable to pay the sum
for which I am his bond ; and, of course,
I must. I can see no prospect in the
present state of affairs of my being able
to pay off principal, and interest, under
three years ; even while practising the
utmost economy. I am not afraid of the
ordeal, or mistrusting the utility of the
lesson it will teach me ; but I must start
with my hands free.' (Here Edith started
as she read.) ' By this I mean I must
stand alone. This seems a harsh thing to
say ; but I cannot allow our engagement
to continue under the circumstances. Your
uncle did not approve of your engagement,
and objected to my position as being
inferior to that of the Whartoiis ; and looking

at the matter from his point of view he
was right. Now that I am not in a
position to marry (for that is what it
amounts to practically), your uncle will
naturally raise further objections ; and
these objections will be valid. You will,
I am sure, see the necessity of my taking
this step ; and though in your generosity
of disposition you will decline to agree
to it, I must ask you to see the matter in
my light.' (Here Edith felt a lump in her
throat which was rarely there.) ' You
must not think that in making this request
I am not fully sensible of the great store
I place in your affection. This request is
the measure of my love ; not the evidence
of its being: wanting. I cannot in common
fairness ask you to remain bound to a man
who, for three years at the least estimate,
cannot be in a position to marry. To do
that would be to take a mean advantage
of your affection : and that I cannot do.
If we should meet again after I am once
more in a position to ask your hand,
then our enofas^ement mio;ht be renewed :
but at present it had better, indeed must,
cease. It is a hm wrench : but I must

for the last time, possibly, sign myself,
with unwavering: love,

Ever yours affectionately,

George Ashworth.'

Edith sat with the letter in her hand ;
while thoughts of all and every kind went
madly rushing through her mind. To have
her engagement broken off thus abruptly
was a great shock to her. What did it
mean ? Did George Ashworth think she
could not wait three years ? He little knew
her ! It was not fair and just to her. AYhat
did she care about waiting ? It was a right
and proper thing that he should do something
for his father in return for what
his father did for him. The step had her
sanction. She had said they would wait.
Why should he think it necessary to release
her from the engagement ? She wished for
no release. Then came surging up one of
those devilish suggestions which are always
ready to thrust themselves forward when
the judgment is shaken by emotion ; and

which, once adopted, are so difficult to eject
from their tenure. Did he wish to be free ?
Was that the reason he wished the engagement
broken off? Was it that he might be
free ; and perhaps marry some one who was
in the actual possession of money ? Surely
that was not his real purpose !

Edith Wharton in her ordinary moods
would have rejected such a suspicion at
once, as unworthy of herself as well as of
her lover. But she was utterly shaken to
her mental foundations ; and was swayed by
her different feelings like a reed in the
wind. Her natural strength of character
yielded to the emotional storm for a
moment, and she exclaimed :

That is all a woman's love is worth — a
fair-weather article, to be put aside when
a storm blows ! Because a difficulty arises,
the engagement must be broken off! And
for my sake too ! That is a precious
pretext ! Women are always to be utilized \
played fast and loose with, to be the sport
of circumstances. But I will not ! '

Here she felt lie must break down ; and
did the wisest, the most natural, and therefore
the very best tiling a woman could
do under the circumstances, viz. — had a
good cry.

It is thought to be a sign of weakness, a
thing to be ashamed of, for a woman to
cry. It is heroic to resist the inclination :
not to give way ! Perhaps it may be. No
woman with self-respect would weep over a
trivial matter ; but not to cry at grave
times is refusing to accept the plan Providence
has provided — to be wiser than Nature t
So women with a false pride decline to adopt
Nature's provision, and so steel their hearts
with dry eyes ; but such attitude is often
nothing but utter folly. As the tears flow
Nature reasserts herself, and the thoughts
flow into ordinary healthy and normal
channels. It is sincerely to be hoped that
a truer estimate of the value of a good cry
will obtain in the future. Stony-eyed
misery is a terrible thing ! It is rarely justin
its mental operations : often wholly and

VOL. III. L

utterly unjust. And then its impress
remains ; carrying with it its consequences
often far-reaching.

So she cried, and the tears fell fast. She
felt ashamed of herself; blamed herself for
her weakness ; felt thankful she was alone ;
that no human eye could see her in her
hour of weakness. But somehow she felt
her thoughts getting clearer. The horrible
suspicions that had seized her melted away,
dissolved in her tears. She came into her
right mind, and thanked God for it. An
hour after the break down she felt once more
calm and equable ; and looked back upon
her suspicion as a species of temporary
insanity.

But she felt as if this emotional storm
had shaken her, and that she was still
unstrung. She would not answer the letter
at once ; she would sleep on it, or at least
would allow a night to elapse. It was no
use to take Lady Barbara into her confidence
; she could get no helpful counsel from
her ; probably only a lecture upon the

imperative necessity of breaking off the
engagement under the circumstances ; as
certainly ordinary engagements would be
terminated when one of the contracting
parties was incapacitated from marrying.
But she felt that their engagement was not
of that character ; but something approaching
the German engagement — almost as sacred
as marriage itself.

She took a turn down the meadows
looking towards Harrow, the pale wintry
sunlight soothing her agreeably. The
evidences of emotion passed away from her
features ; and before she returned her face
wore its wonted calm, and slightly haughty
expression. She went over the whole
subject carefully, concluding :

Well, I cannot see how George could
have acted otherwise ; being the manly
fellow he is. " True love never did run
smooth," says the old adage ; and I suppose
we are to be no exception to the rule.
Why should we ? True love can stand a
strain under which its counterfeit would

L 2

give way. Let us see if we can stand the
test ; I am not afraid of myself.'

So she came in, and met the Lady Barbara
as if nothing unwonted had occurred ; and
bore herself as other brave women do, — who
often under heavy hearts carry an outward
air of calm.

She slept little that night ; not that her
mind was at unrest, for her mind was made
up ; but it was as the seething of the sea
after a storm — it takes the waters sometime
to settle. Next morning she sat down
to her desk, and made answer to her lover
as follows : —

My Dearest George,

Your letters are always welcome ;
and this one is no exception to the rule. I
am very, very sorry to hear of your father's
misfortune. But even that cloud has its
silver lining ; for it shows me my own
George in his true light, ready to share
his father's burden. And because this will
make him poor for a year or two he wishes
his engagement broken ! At first I was

stupid, and felt all sorts of unworthy suspicions
and misgivings about this ; until
I had a good cry, which cleared my mind,
and swept all these nasty cobwebs away.
Now I see the thing quite clearly, without
any broken light over it, distorting it out
of form. You feel, from your point of view,
that because you are prevented from being
able to marry for a time, I ought to be free.
Quite proper ! But, on the other hand,
what could be the good of this to me ?
I — at least I hope so — am not going to
spend the interval in looking about to see
if some other man, who is in a position to
marry, will take pity upon me ; and ask me
to be his wife. I do not think, if free,
I should look about for another image to
put up in a vacant niche of my affections ;
and take you down to make way for him.
That is scarcely a flattering view to take
of me, I must say. And just when you,
showing another instance of the nobility
of your character, and going to be poor,
and need some loving affection to lean
on — as you men do, and it is no use your
denying it — I am to stand coldly aloof;
until you have got through all your

difficulties, and all is pleasant and prosperous,
when I am to warm to you again. That
may be conventionally proper behaviour ;
but I am not a slave to conventionality.
You offer me my freedom ; I refuse to
accept it. Instead of giving yon up, I am
all the prouder of you for this. Is poverty
a vice ; or a crime ? Now, if you really
mean that in the line of conduct you have
marked out for yourself I am to be a
hindrance to you — a millstone round your
neck, of which you must be rid or it will
sink you, I must ask you to prove it tome.
Only, as Jack puts it, it must be
evidence which would convince a jury ;
and in this case, moreover, the jury is
feminine. Unless you can adduce argument,
do not attempt to convince ; I am
proof against anything else. I have made
up my mind, and you know " when a
woman will, she will, you may depend on't ;
and when she won't, she won't, and there's
an end on't." I won't give up the engagement
on my side.

We are getting on very well here. The
Court gossip, and the Queen's marriage are
the topics of conversation wherever we

go. By the way, I completely upset Lady
Barbara a day or two ago ; she was starting
a homily on the subject of poverty and
matrimony, — levelled at my wilful head ;
when I pointed out that the Queen was
marrying a poor man. Poor old lady ! it
so upset her she lost her head, and told
me some dreadful scandal ; but I don't
think she quite knew what she was talking
about, and I hope it was not true. I am
getting rather tired of this do-nothing life ;
and as the Chartists seem inclined just at
present to let other folks live in peace,
I am hoping that ere long it may be safe
to allow me to return. I want to get back
into the old groove, reading and housekeeping,
and looking after the poor. This
aristocratic life is not exactly congenial
to me. I suppose it is the taint of the
Marston blood, as dear Uncle Edward
thinks, though he is too polite to call ita
taint in our hearing.
With ever waxing love,
I remain,

Yours ever and ever,
Edith.

'Pes. Was not the water cold in the

Weir-pool about a year ago ? Ugh ! it
makes me shiver to think of it.'

When this letter reached George Ash worth
he read it eagerly ; its strongly written
square characters, (the sort of handwriting
a lady like Edith Wharton mostly writes,)
coming out boldly to the eye. As he came
to her conclusion not to give up her engagement,
the page grew rather misty, and a
keen observer could have seen that his eyes
looked moist ; then he pressed his lips
firmly on the letter ; after that exclaiming :
'This will make the time seem shorter,
and the ordeal lighter and easier to bear.
Jacob wrought long years for Rachel ; and
Rachel was not to be compared to Edie.
I can do no more ; except put the matter
to her brother. That I must do.' He
then read the letter over again. ' Just as
might be expected. That is rather severe,
though, about another image to fill a vacant
niche in her affections. And yet, after all,
unless she does do that, a girl might as well

keep to her engagement as break it. It is
an affection a man may be proud of. I am
so glad my conduct meets with her approval.
The dear girl ! ' Then he read the rest of
the letter. * I wonder what scandal the
old gossip had blundered into he said to
himself. But the matter passed quickly
out of his mind. When he read the postscript,
always an important matter in a
lady's letter, he again kissed the letter —
remember he was still a young man and
very much in love, and had just been
through an anxious time, and his mind had
been relieved — and folding it up gently
with the most solicitous care, he said to
himself, ' A girl like that is worth the winning.
I shall be under a load of indebtedness
to that thin ice all the days of my
life ! '

CHAPTER Vir.

CUPID REASONS.

George Ashwoeth took an early opportunity
of consulting John AVharton, putting
the matter clearly before him. The latter's
opinion was to this effect : —

You have done what a straightforward,
honourable man ought to do ; you cannot
do anything more. My sister chooses to
take her own view of the subject ; and, it
seems to me, she is mistress of the situation.
You must wait : that is all ! It is not
likely that Edie will change her mind ; and
if she does not choose to abandon the
engagement, she cannot well be forced todo
so.'

George Ashworth felt as if he did not
wish to force her to any such end ; only he

certainly did wish to behave as well as he
knew how.

I am sure I do not wish to do anything
of the kind, I can tell you. But I do
wish to act above-board in the matter.'

That you have done : and should anything
untoward come out of this no one can
level a reproach at you, Ash worth.'

This was very satisfactory, and the two
parted on a perfect understanding. John
AVharton was pleased at Ashworth's acting
as he had done ; and yet, all the same,
he felt an inward satisfaction in the line his
sister had taken.

Edith is not a girl on the look-out for
somebody to marry. Ashworth is the best
fellow I know ; and I had rather she waited
till he can marry than that she should have
given him up. But I don't think Uncle
Edward and I will agree on that point.'

John Wharton had his own love-affair on
his mind : and straightforwardness and perfect
openness recommended themselves to
him all the more for it. He had a difficulty

hanging over him which had exercised him
no little, and that was — how far would
May Carlyon go about leaving her father ?
The old text often came up into his mind.
Therefore shall a man leave his father and
mother, and cling to his wife ; and they
shall be one flesh.' But then it was not so
clear that a woman should equally leave
father and mother to give herself unreservedly
and with complete abandon to her
husband. And there was a north-country
saying which also often crossed his
thoughts : ' My son is my son till he
takes him a wife : but my daughter is my
daughter all the days of her life.' And the
old Roman law to boot. How far could he
ask her, if she accepted him, to leave that
dear old gentleman to whom she was so
fondly attached. He must see !

The district having become settled, and
the fear of the Chartists somewhat allayed,
it was thought desirable'^that Edith Wharton
might return. The old Squire and his
nephew were sitting together discussing

the subject one day, when the Squire suddenly,
as if a new thought had struck him,
remarked :

What is Ash worth going to do about
this engagement, Jack ? I hear that his
father has come to grief, and that his son
is bound with him. He will be in no
position to marry for years. Certainly nota
Wharton, now, I think ! '

He wrote to Edie, and wished the
engagement broken off,' was the reply ; it
was a guarded answer, as John Wharton
did not wish to say more on the subject
than he could help.

Well, that was the right thing of him,
anyhow,' said the Squire ; evidently glad
to hear that things were going his way,
and that Ashworth had seen the true
position of matters.

And of course Edie agreed to this, and
released him from it ? '

Well, I am afraid that is what she did
not do.'

What she did not do ! Why, what

else could she do if the man asked
her?'

She always decides for herself, you
know.'

Yes. I know that ! '

Well, she refused to give him up. She
was quite firm about it.'

Some quixotic tom-foolery, or another,
I'll be bound. I don't wish to fly out
about my own niece. But, 'pon my word,
petticoats are not a preservative against
folly. What did you do ? '

What could I do about it ? She is of
age ; and knows her own mind. Ashworth
spoke to me. I told him he had acted
like a gentleman ; but I did not see how
Edie could be forced to give way.'

In other words, you rather approved
of her decision.' The nephew, knowing
this to be true, gave no sign. ' I do not
approve of it. You see this shows the
danger of throwing young persons together.
If she had not met Ashworth this could
not have happened.' This was an undeniable

proposition ; but John Wharton did
not feel inclined to anger his uncle by
pointing this out. So he tried another
line. ' Ash worth is a good fellow from
all I see and hear of him ; and if the girl
thinks he is worth waiting; for, I don't
see what can be done.'

The old Squire saw one thing and replied
; ' I will not countenance the affair
after this. I think she ought to have agreed
to his offer. I shall tell her so ; ' his manner
evidencing a good deal of testiness. * When
will she be back again ? '

'I thought of going to see her next
week ; and bring her home.'

'Do you? Oh, I see that girl Carlyon
is in the South. Kill two birds with one
stone, I see. I suppose you will be engaged
to her next : and then I am landed
into a pretty nest of Radicals for a loyal
old Tory Squire, between the pair of you.
Well, I shall submit to the inevitable when
the inevitable comes — but not till then,
mind that 1 '

At the appointed time, John Wharton
left for his journey southwards, and getting
down at Pinner, went on to Stanmore ; and
saw his sister, and the Lady Barbara. He
found them both well ; his sister ready to
return, while the old lady seemed inclined
to keep her. He explained that he would
come back for her in about a week's time.

What are you going to do in the meantime
? Something of your own in hand ?
Some courtship, I suppose,' said Lady
Barbara ; with that readiness the old always
manifest to scent courting and love-making
in the acts of their juniors.

John Wharton answered without any
attempt at concealment.

You have guessed rightly ; ' at which
the old lady was greatly delighted ; being so
impressed with a sense of her own cleverness.

Who is she, may I inquire ? '

You may ; she is the only child of a
retired banker, named Carlyon.'

That looks like money ! ' and the aged
head nodded with some excitement.

Mr. Carlyon is a wealthy man, I believe ;
though I do not know that that fact had
much to do with it,' he answered; and
perfectly honestly.

" Don't marry for money, but go where
money is ; " that was the advice given
when I was young. Where does she
reside '? '

Up the water from Southampton. I
am going down the new railway. I have
never been down in that direction before.'

Next morning he left Nine Elms by a
mid-day train, timed to reach Southampton
before nightfall. He observed the country
narrowly, the thick belt of fir-trees past
Weybridge and Woking ; and then the
Downs, with the black pigs in the fields.
Also the water-meadows betwixt the Downs,
so characteristic of Hampshire. Then came
Winchester, a sleepy old cathedral town,
giving little idea of its importance under
the Norman Kings. At last Southampton
was reached ; and Mr. Carlyon met his
guest at the station.

VOL. IIL M

Glad to see you : got any other traps ?
Anything on the carriage outside there ? '
pointing to the luggage piled on the top
of the carriage under a tarpaulin ; the
method of disposing of it in the early days
of railways, before luggage-vans came into
fashion.

No ; thank you, this is all. And you
both are well ? '

Quite well, thank you. Here is the
carriage. Home, Thomas ! ' and they took
their seats.

The evening darkness was coming on,
and John Wharton could see little on the
way. The conversation was cheerily kept
up ; and in a little time they reached Mr.
Carlyon's house. Miss Carlyon welcomed
them heartily; her father she was always
glad to see, and as to the guest, possibly
she suspected his errand, and was not loath
to see him. They enjoyed a simple meal ;
and after an animated conversation, which
included the Chartist plot at Sheffield, they
retired to rest. Next morning Mr. Carlyon

had some business in Southampton ; and
left his daughter and their guest to their
own devices. This was certainly giving
the suitor a fair field ; and walking along
Southampton Water with a gentle breeze
blowing, and the rippling water dancing in
the sunlight, John Wharton made an offer
to Miss Carlyon, — who seemed in no way
flurried thereat. What he said, and what
she answered, it boots not to relate ; it
was simply an offer ending : ' I may add
that 1 have your father's consent to my
suit'

The answer was in the affirmative, concluding
: ' I have a stipulation to make
about my father, however. I could not
leave him.'

John Wharton had the natural objection
any man feels, in the abstract, as to living
with his wife's father : but felt the scruple
to be one which must be taken into consideration,
and dealt with.

I have foreseen that,' he remarked.

You see I cannot leave him ; that is

M 2

impossible. Can you take me with my
father too V

I think I could, if I tried. He is not at
all insupportable.'

May Carlyon flashed out a look of delight
as she added :

then there is my hand on it;' with an
outspoken frankness, decidedly unconventional,
and taking it, John Wharton and
she pledged themselves to each other with
the usual ceremonial. They sauntered
along, with thorough enjoyment of that
unrestricted intercourse an engagement
permits ; and were forgetful of the flight
of time, till at last taking out his watch the
happy man ' exclaimed :

Why, bless me, May, your father will be
back and waiting for lunch.'

I dare say he will guess the state of
afiliirs. I fancy he will understand why
we are not home ; which we must be soon,
though ! ' So like a pair of lovers, whose
path was free from thorns, they hastened
back at a pace very different from what it

Eat been before. Mr. Carlyon was in the
garden on the look-out for them.

Well, my dear ; I hope you and Mr.
Wharton have enjoyed your walk ; you are
rather late.'

'Yes, papa. We have had some rather
important matters to discuss.'

And have you settled them satisfactorily?'
asked the old gentleman rather eagerly.
He knew May had always declared she
would never leave him ; and he, too, consequently
had felt some anxiety as to the
result.

I think so, papa,' was the reply, given
with an evident air of self consciousness ;
and, kissing him. May Carlyon hastened to
the door, to get herself ready for lunch.

My daughter has accepted you,' remarked
the old gentleman, simply. 'And we are
to get on together as best we can, I conclude
? '

I said I thought we could, for my part ! '
I am very glad of it. You cannot tell
how glad. I felt I must not stand in the

way of my daughter s happiness ; and yet I
could not let her go away from me.' The
old gentleman was evidently speaking under
great emotion. * May is a good girl ; and
I don't think her love for her husband will
clash with her love for her father. She has
enough of love in her for both of us.' The
voice ceased ; but the movements of the lips
continued, telling that the white-headed
father was communing with himself. After
a while he spoke, saying : ' May God's
blessing attend upon it I '

It had evidently been a trial to him as to
how the affair might end. They turned
together into the house, and sat down to
lunch ; each of the three too full of thought
to be talkative. It was a very prosaic
affair : but none the less real for all that.
It was one of those engagements against
which no one on either side, — however
determined to assert the relatives' right to
say a word on a family matter, — could raise
the faintest suspicion of an objection. It
was in that sense, an everyday affair ; and

yet to those involved in it, it was not quite
free from complication. Mr. Carlyon was
a man of marked character. John Wharton
also possessed individuality. Neither were
men, whom a woman, even a clever woman,
could manage very readily. May Carlyon
was not a colourless chameleon taking the
hue of anything upon which she rested.
The problem before her was not one whose
solution could be entered upon rashly.

At last the silence was broken by Mr.
Carlyon, who had evidently been in deep
thought :

It seems to me,' he said, ' that when
people have to live together under the same
roof it is well to see that the building is
bio: enough to allow them to get out of
each other's way, when so disposed.' The
bearing of this remark not being readily
apparent, his daughter asked :

Whatever do you mean, papa ? '

That when you and I lived together by
ourselves, a little house sufficed for us. But
wee cannot continue this after your marriage.

Mr. Wharton has been accustomed to his
house ; just as I have to mine. And it is
but right that this should be considered.
There are times when a man must have
his privacy.'

John "Wharton said nothing ; he waited to
see what the old gentleman was going to
suggest. But Mr. Carlyon paused, so his
daughter went on :

Certainly, papa, and a woman too, allow
me to observe. A lady wants a boudoir.'

So I was thinking, my dear. It is
quite clear we must have a new residence ;
our present houses will be too small.'

Then what will you do, papa ? '

Get a new one, my dear ; there is no
other way out of it.'

But will not a number of servants be a
trial r

Perhaps so. But we need not have a
superabundance. What do you say, Mr.
Wharton ? '

The subject is worthy of consideration.
We need not avoid each other ; because it is

possible there may be times when sadi may
wish to be alone

Precisely so,' replied Mr. Carlyon.
Then we may regard the matter as settled.'

But where are we going to settle, papa,
in this new residence ? '

May, my dear, puns are not to be
encourage-ed,' remarked the old gentleman
sententiously ; and Miss Carlyon, knowing
her father's views on the subject, looked
meekly contrite. Lunch being concluded,
they all turned out for a stroll in the afternoon
sun.

That is the New Forest across the water,
I suppose ? ' asked John Wharton.

'It is,' replied Miss Carlyon. 'The
Conqueror loved the tall deer as if he were
their father. But it was a cruel deed to
evict the poor people who lived on this
area.'

There are residents in the forest ; and
always have been, are there not 1 '

Oh yes. It is said down here that
the family of the charcoal-burner, Turkish,

who found the body of William Rufus and
carted it to Winchester, is residing on the
same ground to this day at Minsted-in-the-
Forest

That looks like tenacity anyhow. What
kind of folk are the working-class here,
Mr. Carlyon?'

A quiet, easy-going set. They are
called '* Hampshire Hogs." Very different
from the active-minded mill-hands of the
north.'

I suppose there is comparatively little
of the political excitement here that there
is in the north ? '

'There is no suspicion of any plot to
burn down Southampton, I am glad to
say,' was the comment of Miss Carlyon.

How do you know ? ' asked her lover.
I don't suppose they would take you
specially into their confidence if they intended
anything of the kind.'

Thank you ; but the folks around here
repose considerable confidence in me, I
would have you know. I am looked upon

as a person of great experience, and of
extensive travel.'

Are you indeed ? Then they do not
wander far afield, the people here '? '

'Not afield, perhaps; but Southampton
is a port of some dignity, I may observe.'

Miss Carlyon's heart was gay that day.
The one difficulty which had hung over
her, and oppressed her, had been happily
disposed of. Her father looked at her with
an air of gravity ; but she only took his
arm, and fixed on him a look so full of
affection, that the expression could not be
maintained. That the two indulged in any
manifestations of affection in the presence of
a third person, showed how completely that
third person had become one of themselves.
John Wharton observed this, and saying
nothing, reflected that a good daughter
always made a good wife. * There is a
good deal of truth underlying these old
sayings. I suppose they represent the
accumulated experience of the race,' he
said to himself. And again a silence fell

upon the trio. It was a pleasant, friendly
silence ; not that silence which tells of discord,
which is as ominous as the stillness
which precedes the thunderstorm.

What a busy port Southampton would
be if we could only get rid of the Corn
Laws,' remarked Mr. Carlyon, his thoughts
reverting to the chief topic of interest to
him. ' Do you think any progress is being
made at present ? ' The subject had not
been omitted from their conversation the
previous evening, but it cropped up again,
and was not tabooed.

I think a distinct advance was made
at the meeting at Manchester in January.'

The Corn Law Gala, you mean 1 '

*Yes, on January 13th. They fully
endorsed the conclusion of the League at
the meeting at Bolton on Dec. 5th, viz. to
send up to Parliament members who are
pledged to support the abolition of the
Corn Laws. That will secure the discussion
of the matter in the House. There will
be no chance of its being burked under

these circumstances. Cobden would make
a very good Anti-Corn Law member.'

He certainly shows great mastery of
his subject ; and handles it well in his
addresses here and there. They were not
very ready to hear him down here in
Hampshire, — though he is a Hampshireman.'


" A prophet is not without honour save
in his own country," I suppose ? ' put in
Miss Carlyon.

Well, now I won't be certain if he
belongs to Hampshire, but if he does not,
he is very near it. He is not a Lancashire
man, anyway. But be that as it may,
he could not get a bed after a lecture in
one Hampshire town. The people do not
take up the subject as they do in the
manufacturing towns.'

I suppose the prosperity of the farmer
and the landlord means good wages for
the labourers ? They look to their own
interests.'

No doubt they do ; but, after all, the

wages they get are so small that they can
only just keep body and soul together.'

I have heard the wages are much lower
in the southern counties, than in the north.
Is it so ? '

Most certainly. Plenty of men work
here for seven or eight shillings a week all
the year round ; with something extra at
hay-time, and harvest.'

Then the farmers do not pay high wages
out of their tax-protected corn-crops ? '

I fancy a Yorkshireman would think the
wages quite enough for the work. They do
not get much done in a day. Weighed by
results, I should think the farmer stands
pretty much the same in the north, as in the
south in the matter of wages.'

They must live on scanty fare on those
wares. A Yorkshireman would not care
about it.'

Is the Yorkshireman a good trencherman,
may I ask 1 ' said Miss Carlyon
mischievously.

He bears that reputation, I believe,' was

the reply ; ' but, like other people, he maybe
belied.'

A north-country farmer feeds his field -
hands at his own table, does he not 1 ' asked
Mr. Carlyon.

In busy times he does usually. " Work
goes in at t' mouth," is a north-country
adage. So he feeds his labourers as he does
his horses ; he gives them something extra
at busy times. He knows if he does not
he cannot get the same amount of work
out of them.'

It is very horrid to look upon your
fellow creatures like horses, namely, from
the point of view of how much work can
be got out of them ! ' was Miss Carlyon's
indignant comment.

The gentlemen did not take up this
aspect of the subject. Political economy
and Christian doctrines do not always run,
on strictly parallel lines.

The subject of a sufficiency of food is a
very serious one,' said Mr. Carlyon after a
while. * ^' Give us this day our daily bread "

is part of our most solemn prayer : it does
seem hard to tax it

So they think in Lancashire and Yorkshire
amidst the industrial hordes who are
divorced from the land, except so far as the
loaf is concerned.'

I am glad, however, that the League
are taking up a definite position as to the
Chartists. It seems that at the Manchester
meeting, *' they were angrily bent upon
showing the Chartists that they can carry
their point without them, or even in spite
of them," as one of the papers puts it.'

That abominable plot to fire Sheffield
has widened far the gulf between the
two sections of agitators. The Anti-Corn
Law League continued their agitation, and
sent up a numerously-signed petition to
Parliament from Shefiield, while the examinations
of the Chartists were in progress.
They have disavowed the Chartists entirely

Well, that was desirable in every way.
If they had given countenance to the
Chartists after the Sheffield plot came out,

they would have forfeited the respect of all
right-thinking persons. The Chartists must
go one way ; and the Corn Law repealers
another. That is clear ! '

I think you are right there. The
Chartists will be the sufferers, though.'

Certainly. The Corn Law repealers can
keep clear of the Chartists : but the '' moral-force
" Chartists cannot cut themselves
adrift from the "physical-force" section,
however much they may disapprove of
them, and their doings.'

Unfortunately not, I fear.'

I sympathize with the " moral-force "
section, you know : though I fear they seek
after an impracticable ideal. That is my
opinion.'

That this was Mr. Carlyon's opinion his
guest had long known ; but he had none
of that readiness to inform a speaker that
he had heard him utter the same opinions
before, which some people have, — mainly to
illustrate how sharp they are to remember
about it ; nor if he had been bitten with

VOL. HI. N

this conceit would he have said so just
then.

The Corn Law League has a definite
object to aim at, a realizable ideal — the
repeal of these obnoxious laws.'

We saw a good instance of one of the
evils of these laws lately with us,' remarked
John Wharton ; ' the gambling aspect of
them.'

How was that ? ' inquired Mr. Carlyon.

One of the shareholders of the Wybrow
Bank, near us, was a corn-merchant. He
got caught in the speculative operations of
a great Liverpool house. Corn fell twelve
shillings suddenly. He had been accommodated
by the bank, which seems to have
been in a shaky condition ; and to do so
they pledged a security with another bank,
which the latter, after a second and careful
examination, rejected. The money had to
be repaid ; he had to sell at the market
price ; and one thing led to another, till
the bank suspended payment.'

Mr. Carlyon listened most attentively ;

and as a whilom banker took in all the
details readily.

Then there had been something doubtful
about the security, in the first place. Advances
to a friend of the manager, I suspect,'
was his criticism.

Something of that kind, I suppose.
However, the great promoter of the bank
has disappeared. He has left nothing behind
him but his debts, I am told ; and
the other shareholders will be beggared.
There are three considerable properties belonging
to old families in the market inconsequence.
That is a serious matter in
so limited an area. One of the ruined men
was a near neighbour of ours — Stephen
Oldfield, of Orton Hall.'

The man you used to talk of as a
pretentious, pompous little man ; who proposed
to your sister ? ' asked Miss Carlyon.

The same. He is utterly ruined. Orton
Hall must go to the hammer.'

How dreadful for him and his sister ! he
had a sister living with him ? ' she continued.

N 2

I am sure I do not know whatever will
become of them. She has a small income of
her own secured on the estate. But he is
absolutely penniless, I fear. Everything
is swept away.'

Where the liability is unlimited everything
must go as long as one shareholder
possesses a penny remarked the old banker.
When a man goes into banking he has to
know who his coadjutors are, I can tell
you ! '

The stroll came to a close, and after
dinner the old gentleman said :

Are those nice properties that have to
be sold ? '

Very ; especially Oldfield's,' was the
answer.

Is Orton Hall a spacious building 1 ' was
the next interrogatory.

Why do you ask so particularly, papa ? '
asked Miss Carlyon.

Because we must look out for a more
extensive residence. And in these times
these estates will sell very reasonably. It

might be a good investment, as well as
suiting us to purchase Orton Hall Estate.'

The old gentleman spoke in a very
business tone of the matter. May Carrion
felt eager ; while John Wharton thought
of the whirligigs of fate, and tried to fancy
Mr. Cariyon the owner of Orton Hall, —
the old banker coming to reside in the
hall of an old county family ruined by
amateur banking.

What would his uncle say to having
Mr. Cariyon as his neighbour at Orton
Hall ? Would the two agree ? He did
not feel sure. Yet with their different
views on politics they had much in common
; certainly their dispositions.'

His uncle would like May Cariyon, he
felt sure.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE IMPOSSIBLE.

Before John Wharton took his departure,
some further matters were discussed in
connection with the engagement. Among
others he explained the circumstances of
his sister's engagement ; and the difficulties
which encompassed George Ashworth, and
his sister's decision.

That was just what I should have expected
of your sister under such circumstances.
Having given herself to a man,
she is not going to change her mind,' said
May Carlyon.

I quite approved of the step myself.
Ashworth is a real good fellow.'

It was quite right of him to offer to
give up the engagement. Both behaved
splendidly, in my opinion ; ' she continued.

Old Mr. Carlyon listened to what was said
in silence ; whether he gave any attention
to the matter or not, was not obvious.

It affects us, you see, May, in this way.
I, of course, could not marry and leave my
sister alone. That would be impossible ;
and Edith is not the girl to play the role
of companion to either her uncle or the
Lady Barbara ; she has got views and
opinions of her own ; troublesome matters
for a companion, I conceive. She could
not well go and live somewhere by herself
So we may regard the matter as affecting
us, in so far that our marriage must wait
upon theirs.'

Certainly. Until George Ashworth can
free himself from debt, he cannot marry.
Your sister decides to hold to the engagement
; she cannot, then, marry until George
Ashworth is able to marry ; and you cannot
marry until your sister is settled. That is
the position.'

Logically argued. May. That is a perfect
syllogisms

A what ? '

A syllogism consists of three propositions,
the third resting upon the first two. Our
marriage waits upon the two premises which
precede it.'

Thank you. I am logical then as well
as reasonable. The last I know I am ! '

It is a good thing to have your own
approval ; and in this case it is justified.
many girls might think it very hard that
their marriage should depend upon a contingency,
and resent it. I am very glad
you are so reasonable in the matter.'

I may be ready to marry when a man
worth the having asks me ; but all the
same I am in no hurry ; I can wait if he
can wait.'

John Wharton bowed at the compliment
so frankly expressed, — as a gentleman under
such circumstances should.

I am sorry, Mr. Carlyon,' he said, * that
our marriage should have to be subject to
such a contingency ; but you see the facts,'
turning to the old gentleman.

It seems to me that Mr. Ashworth and
your sister are acting as self-respecting
persons should. And unless we could
wish them to act otherwise, we must be
guided by them. It is more the sentiment
than the reality of your marriage having
to wait on others, which makes it a trial.
May can wait, I know ; and I don't think
any slight put upon my daughter in making
her marriage wait upon somebody else
under the circumstances. Nor does she, I
think. If you two get tired of waiting,
perhaps it will be possible to help the other

two.'

May looked at the kindly-hearted old
gentleman with a glance so full of affection,
that her lover could not help admiring her
all the more for it. The last sentence,
however, caused him to remark :

That is a benevolent way of looking at
the subject, Mr. Carlyon ; but I fear it will
be impracticable. I am glad we have come
to a thorough understanding of the situation
at once, so that no further explanations

or discussions may be necessary. It is
much better to have such matters thrashed
out with the spoken word, than to have to
resort to letters, which are unsatisfactory.
(And who that has ever had to enter into
an explanation by letter does not agree to
this. A something is left out which requires
another letter ; and in that the bulk
of the first letter is of course omitted ; and
then other letters follow, making confusion
worse confounded. Explanations are essentially
verbal matters.) ' Our letters will be
free from complications ; only I can tell you
how things go on.'

May usually reads me her letters, or
most of them. I shall be glad to hear how
the affair goes on. But I may be your way
before long. I should like to look at Orton
Hall when it comes into the market. So
we may be in the north earlier than usual
this summer. If anything occurs, will you
let me know ? You can put a slip into
May's letter.'

Having; come to a thorough understanding

on these various matters, John Wharton
took his departure, with a keen consciousness
that he was an enoraored man ; and now
walked under the burden of another's happiness
upon his shoulders. There is a sense
of pride — the pride of responsibility — which
is realized by a man (that is if he be a man
other than in name), which endows him with
some self-importance when a woman has
entrusted her future to him. It may not
add a cubit to his stature, but it adds
something: he is the taller and the more
erect for it. John Wharton was a tall,
stalwart man ; but now he seemed as if he
had undergone military drill for a month,
he was so ' well set up.' And his elation
was both natural and justifiable. May
Carlyon was all that such a man sought ina
wife — and when a man finds that, he may
well feel satisfied — clear-headed, sensible,
well-informed, affectionate, and thoughtful ;
he said to himself, as he rolled along the
South Western Railway, with its almost
unbroken view of the country.

And old Mr. Carlyon : if he had to live
with a father-in-law, as it seemed he would
do — well, he could not wish any other.
Not even his Uncle Edward, he thought ;
and he, too, was an amiable man. It was
a very prosaic, humdrum sort of a courtship,
without a scintilla of romance in it,
he felt ; nor did he crave for any. There
was enough of that element in his sister's
engagement, he thought, to serve for one
family.

Very happy, very contented, very much
inclined to thank Providence for its mercies,
indeed bounties, he bore with resignation
the tedious progress of the train ; for even
at that early period the languor which has
become established upon the South Western
Railway Company was beginning to manifest
itself.

At last Nine Elms was reached ; and
driving to an old tavern of repute at
Covent Garden, John Wharton took a
couple of days to himself in London. It
was arranged that his sister would join him

at Pinner Station. When the hour at last
arrived for Edith Wharton to leave her
kinswoman, the Lady Barbara broke down.
She was getting old, frail, and doting, she
asserted ; and could never expect to see
her guest again. The leave-taking was
very affectionate ; and Edith was truly
sorry to leave the old lady so lonely, —
who had so enjoyed her society, and made
all so pleasant for her. The white head
nodded to her as the carriage drove out
of the gates, and Edith felt that she should
never see Thirlmere Lodge again; nor the
duck-pond in front ; nor the old massive
oaken pound round the corner, which she
had so often examined curiously ; Dor walk
down those meadows sloping towards Harrow
in which she used to stroll : and especially
that walk the morning she received George
Ashworth's letter. As the carriage rolled
along over Harrow Weald, she took her
last look at the peaceful scene, with Harrow
church in front of her. Then she thought
of her brother, and what he had been

doing ; for lie had only written a brief
letter to her, saying that May had accepted
his offer. He would have much to tell
her of their southern home, so different
from Buxton in every way. Busy with
such thoughts, the distance to the station
seemed shorter than usual ; and she was
surprised when the carriage drew up at
the railway station. Soon the train came
in sight, and her brother's head could be
seen out of a window.

Dear old Jack,' she said to herself,
how happy he does look ! I wonder
whether he has been thinking of May
Carlyon or myself, that makes him look
so radiant ? ' It was not often Edith
Wharton dropped into slang, but she found
she had made a slight slid this time. ' I
don't think that quite the correct word,
but it will pass for once.'

The greeting was most cordial ; and after
Miss "Wharton's luggage had been carefully
packed on the top of the carriage, and the
train had started, the two settled down

to a good solid conversation. In Lady
Barbara's presence a little reticence, albeit
it was little, was desirable on the old lady's
account, as well as their own; but now
they talked with perfect freedom, and
without interruption. Edith was very
desirous of knowing all that went on at
the Carlyons', with feminine persistency
and attention to detail. When her brother
came to the point of the duration of the
engagement, and what it depended upon,
she listened very eagerly.

How very nicely they took it, Jack !
That was a consequence of my decision
that I admit escaped me ; though I do not
think it would have altered it. One girl
does not care to have her marriage wait
upon another girl, I can assure you. Some
girls would be very touchy about such a
thing. But May Carlyon is not an ordinary
girl, else my brother Jack would
not have fallen in love with her,' she
said.

Jack looked appreciative. When he

repeated to her Mr. Carlyon's remark,
Edith said :

Dear old gentleman ! It was kind of
him ! Of course he could not help George ;
but it is very nice that he showed he was
willing to try. A girl does not wish to
make her affairs troublesome to other
people. Uncle Edward will be wroth with
me ; I've made up my mind to that. But
it would have been decidedly unpleasant
if the Carlyons had objected to my course.
It is an immense relief to me to know that
they take it in that light. I shall never
be able to tell them how thankful I am
to them.' Then after a pause : ' I trust
things will go well with George ; and that
you will not have a very long engagement
on our account.'

May so thoroughly approved of what
you had done ; and Mr. Carlyon said he
could not have wished either of you to
have done otherwise ; and they are so
happy together. I do not think the
waiting will be very irksome, Edie.'

Bat there is yourself, Jack. You have
to wait too ! '

Well, as your brother, I think I may be
put out of court in the matter. Ashworth
is my friend ; and it was through me you
got to know him. I must take the consequences
of my own doings. My waiting
need cause you no concern.'

You are a good brother. It is not every
brother would put things that way.'

Then if he did not, I think he ought to.
He would not be worthy of his sister : that
is, if she was anything like mine. If all
women were like you and May Carlyon,
Edith, things would be much easier for men
than they often are.'

After which reflection both kept silence
for some time. Edith mused on her position
; and felt that after the Carlyons had
taken up this attitude, she could meet her
uncle, and anything he might say, with more
composure.

And Uncle Edward was delighted to
see his niece, whom he welcomed most

VOL. III.

affectionately : inquiring after Lady Barbara
quite effusively.

Tiaie will be telling on ber as well as
on myself be remarked. ' Are ber faculties
unimpaired ? '

Only a very little. Sbe forgets words
and names, and says things over again ; but
not very markedly. Sbe reads the newspapers,
and listens to gossip as willingly as
ever.'

And behaves as people wbo are not as
young as they once were, are apt to do,
Edie. That is the story. I see.'

I did not mean you, uncle, in what I
said,' sbe explained.

But it applies all the same, better it is
Cousin Barbara or myself. You got about a
good deal ; and bad no Chartists to threaten
to burn you out there, bad you ? '

No ; we went to bed without apprehension.
I often thought of } ou all bere : bow
uneasy you must bave been.'

I don't think we were. Bulman made
bis preparations, and was rather disappointed

1 think, that they were never put to the
test. One cannot sympathize much with
him. To an old soldier it comes pretty
much as a matter of course ; but it is just
as well not to have two or three misguided
fellows weltering in their blood on your
lawn. xVnd that is what it would have
come to, if the villains had made a raid on
Gaythorne Hall. It was a great comfort
to know that you were safe out of the
way.'

When I read in the papers about the
plot to burn Sheffield I was so anxious
about you, uncle ; only I felt that they had
caught the ringleaders. I wonder if it was

o o

one of them that murdered poor Tom
Earnshaw ? '

Like enough. Men dio could plot such
a piece of diabolical wickedness would
think nothing of shooting a gamekeeper.
I wish I could bring the villains to justice.
And now, Jack,' said the Squire, abruptly
changing the topic by design, ' how did you
get on ? How did the old Radical receive



you ? And, what's more, what did his
daughter say ? Is she willing to take the
name of Wharton ? '

She sees no objection.'

No objection to the name of "Wharton.
I should think not indeed. Or no objection
to you either : a likely young fellow like
you. When is it to come off? '

*That is not settled. It will not be at
present.' John AVharton did not feel inclined
to enlighten the old gentleman as to
why ; and thought it was as well to let that
hare sit.

An engagement, is it. AVell, perhaps it
is as well. You have nowhere to live.
What are you going to do about a house 1 '

We were talking of that ; and I mentioned
that there were three estates coming
to the hammer from the Wybrow Bank
business. I said Orton Hall was a nice
property

I should think it was, too. Did you
give him any idea what it would cost ? '

'Not exactly. I told him that Oldfield

was a shareholder to the extent of fifty
thousand pounds ; but that if he could have
got off with that, he might have managed
to keep the property, in name at least.'
'Then he must be well off, at any

rate.'

I have not the slightest idea of what he
is worth; but he possesses ample means,
that is certain.'

'And the crop-eared Whig thinks of
being my neighbour at Orton Hall, does
he ? ' went on the Squire ; evidently not displeased
at the idea of Mr. Carlyon being a
man of means. ' The Anti-Corn Law Circulatory,
will be a novel sight at Orton Hall.
I should think the freeholder will be drawings
up some new leases with his tenants,
forbidding them to plough. That would be

consistent.'

'And a very good thing for some of
them, if he did so. The courses laid down
in their leases give them no option, however
the seasons may be. If they were bound
down to green crops it would be a gam

to them.' This was heresy to the Squire,
who answered hotly :

The courses are all right ; they regulate
the tillage. It is all the weather. No
foresight can always calculate the weather.
If it were not for the courses in his lease
the farmer often would not know what
to do.'

John Wharton had his own opinions as
well as the old Squire. It was a burning
question between them, so he let the
subject drop.

*Mr. Carlyon would make a pleasant
neighbour, I am sure.'

It would suit you very well, no doubt ;
you would not have to journey far when
you washed to see your lady-love ; but I
might not feel the same attraction,' remarked
the Squire ; whose ebullition of
feeling on the question of courses had
scarcely had time to die away. ' One does
not care to see opinions changing in one's
own family ; nor find oneself with neighbours
changing too. The true Tory is dwindling

away I am sorry for Oldfield from every
point of view.'

Mr. Carlyon thinks that there must
have been some understanding between
Waddington and the parties to whom the
money was advanced on the doubtful security.
Your suspicions of Waddington were
justified.'

I don't know that I had any suspicions
of the man exactly ; he was too imposing
for me. It's well, as things turn out, that
I would have nothing to do with the thing ;
though 1 did not always think so.'

Have you seen Oldfield lately, uncle ?
I have not come across him for some
weeks.'

I saw him a few days ago. He bears
up wonderfully. He is anxious to get
something' to do. He is a well-informed

o

man, and knows French well. I should
think he could get a secretary's place.
Just the sort of man for a busy peer.
The Stanhope or the Worthless ought to
be able to find him something. He wants

to see Orton Hall disposed of before lie
goes away.'

That is very natural. Have you any
idea when the sale may be likely to take
place : soon or not ? '

It will take a few weeks, I believe, from
what he said. It must be a terrible blow
to him.'

That it certainly must. Still it is less
intolerable than if it had been brought on
by folly ; as is so often the case.'

Oldfield is not a character of that kind.
I, speaking as a magistrate and a neighbour,
think his going away will be found a loss
to the locality. Good working magistrate
he made always.'

The Squire had no modern notions of
deserting a friend because he had gone
to the wall : he had always been partial
to Oldfield.

When the conversation turned to Orton
Hall, Miss Wharton disappeared : knowing;
that there were several matters of
purely feminine interest, which Mrs. AUonby

would wish to slow her after her absence.
There was some Berlin wool-work of her
own doing; and a sampler Mary Jessop
had worked — a very elaborate affair ; which
was destined to be framed and kept as
an evidence of her skill with her needle.
There were also some white fuschias in
bloom, which the gardener had forced for
her in the hot-house, of which she was very
proud ; and which she felt sure Miss Edith
would like to see. To all of these Miss
Wharton paid her tribute of admiration.

Did you enjoy yourself i' the south,
Miss ? ' asked the old housekeeper. ' Has
the Lady Barbara a good establishment ^ '

I enjoyed myself thoroughly. It was
such a change. There is a great deal of
society at Stanmore.'

*Is there now. I've alius heard that
there is so much more going on i' the
south. Unless it be the Chartists. Every
night we thought we might be murdered
in our beds. There's a many round here
'full never git over their fright as long as

they live.' Just then Mrs. Allonby's
account of the Chartists, from the point
of view of an alarmed elderly female of
no very wide range of thought, was interrupted
by an inquiry for Miss Edith ;
as her brother was going.

Mrs. Allonby glad to see you back,
Edie ? ' her uncle asked, on her reappearance.
' I thought she would be. Good-bye,
niece mine. Come and see your old uncle
again soon.'

The old Squire was so delighted to see his
niece again after her long absence, that he
did not feel disposed to mar the enjoyment
by any reference to her engagement ; upon
which, however, he had made up his mind
to speak to her. Brother and sister both
felt relieved that the visit had passed off
without the subject being mentioned.

Early in May Mr. Carlyon had come
to Sheffield ; from whence he had driven
over, and surveyed Orton Hall and the
adjacent property. He and his daughter
both liked the quiet, old-fashioned furniture

and fittings, and the lifelike arrangements
of Miss Oldfield. The house contained the
whole of the accommodation that was
required for the composite family which
would occupy it, — in all probability. The
situation was not too exposed for Mr.
Carlyon, who suffered from rheumatism, as
it lay away from the moors into the valley
of the Don. The property was a very
desirable one, and had been well cared for.
On the whole, it was a promising investment
; and in May weather certainly an
attractive residence. Mr. Carlyon had all
valued — the interior of Orton Hall, as well
as the land — with the intention of making a
bid for the whole together as it stood ; a
measure which had Mr. Oldfield's approbation.
Under the circumstances, however,
it was felt that it would be necessary to put
the property up to auction, at least, to see
if a larger sum could be obtained. The
step, highly painful to Mr. Oldfield, was
taken with all formalities ; but without the
desired result. It was withdrawn from the

hammer, and next day sold privately to
Mr. Carlyon. It was generally expected
that a larger sum would have been offered ;
but probably the hard times prevented this.
As to Mr. Carlyon, he was in no way
opposed to the property being put up to
auction ; as the result showed his offer was
really above what might be called the
market price. He, though prudent in money
matters, had no wish to take advantage
which some might think unfair. That the
property would rise in value with better
seasons was evident to all. By taking the
furniture and all en bloc, there was no
trouble with the house ; which merely
required to be well taken care of. The
impression made upon all connected with
the transaction by Mr. Carlyon was most
satisfactory ; and though a Liberal and a
free-trader, the county families of the
neighbourhood decided to call upon the
Carlyons on the earliest opportunity. The
relation of John Wharton to the Carlyons
was of course no secret.

Th' owl Squire full be better suited
this time than he wor abeaut th' young
lady, I reckon. The new master o' Orton
Hall 's a gooi'd mon fra what I hear. Th'
country-side toises nought by th' change.
Tho' its hard on Mr. Owldfield to part
wi' th' ould place that's bin sa lang i'
th' family.' Such was the verdict of the
country people about the match.

Mr. Carlyon all this time was exercised
greatly in his mind about George Ash worth's
affairs. It was no mere prying curiosity ;
but a sincere, kindly-hearted desire to see
if he could in any way help him. He
knew the ways of procuring trustworthy
information about people ; and all he learnt
about the old clergyman was to his credit.
He was well-respected in his parish; and
had never allowed the cultivation of his
o-lebe to interfere with his duties proper:
and the greatest sympathy was expressed
about him on all sides. He had suffered
from bad seasons ; and it had seemed that
if he could farm a little higher the results

would be remunerative. So some money
had been raised for this end, for which his
son George had become bond for him ; but
the consecutive bad seasons had rendered
all in vain. A compromise had been made
with his creditors ; and George took upon
himself the payment of this particular sum.
He had no funds of his own to meet it,
as all he could save had regularly been
sent home. He would pay principal and
interest, if allowed time ; and as there was
nothing to be gained by putting pressure
upon him, this was agreed to. But the
times made themselves felt upon his
income ; and several years must elapse in
all probability before he could pay off the
debt. Throughout the whole transaction
the Ashworths behaved with scrupulous
honour ; and it was known the old Vicar
and his family practised the strictest
economy. Everything they could do to
mend matters was done ungrudgingly.

Old Mr. Carlyon said to himself, often
and often : ^ The Ashworths are good people

in every sense of the word ; and it is a pure
misfortune. I have enough and to spare :
and would never miss what would free
them from much hardship. But how am I
to do it ? I cannot put myself forward and
pay off the debt ; that would never do.
Nor can I send them a sum anonymously.
They are not in the position of life for
that to be done. And they are not the
people who would accept such aid. They
are manfully meeting the difficulty ; each
doing his, and her best : and would resent
interference. It appears, too, that George
is working hard and living most carefully
to clear off the debt. I wish I could help
them. I have the will and the power : and
yet I can do nothing.' And a sense of his
powerlessness oppressed him. As matters
stood, it was clear that some time must
elapse before Miss Wharton could be
married ; and nothing could be done. The
present owner of Orton Hall was as impotent
to do anything to help others ; as
its late owner had been powerless to help

himself. A legal mesh held one : a social
mesh the other. In no way could Mr.
Carlyon help the Ash worths : much as he
should have liked to have been able to do
something.

CHAPTER IX.

THE MARCH OF TIME.

Mr. Carlyon was oppressed with his
sense of helplessness in the matter of George
Ashworth, and his embarrassments. Nor
was his anxiety in any way mitigated by
the courageous manner in which he toiled
away, and the brave demeanour of Miss
Wharton ; who never betrayed the slightest
vacillation in her purpose, but cheerfully
looked forward to better times. She was
not alone in watchfully looking forward
to these better times, — which were always
coming, aud yet held aloof. It was not
merely George Ashworth and Edith Wharton
who waited upon better times, and John
Wharton and May Carlyon, who waited
upon them, who were on the outlook. The

VOL. III. P

whole country was groaning under the
burden of bad trade and short harvests.
The condition of affairs in the north has
been given before : the huge cannon going
northwards to overawe the famishing crowds
in Lancashire ; the state of the houses * with
the golden balls ' crammed from cellar to attic
with the pledged property of the labouring
classes. It was a time of grinding
misery; and yet a time of deep historical
interest. The attitude of the different
parties in the State at the time has a
psychological value. The attitude of the
staunch Tory of which Squire Wharton
was a typical instance, was that of strict
Conservatism.

As a magistrate, I am opposed to all
sedition, all organized opposition to the
Government, no matter whether it is a
Chartists meeting with pikes, or free traders
v^ith tracts and pamphlets ; as a landowner,
I am opposed to free trade, which will ruin
the landed interests. And as an owner of
canal-shares, I am opposed to the introduction

of railways. You may call the
last two selfish reasons. But I only have
my share in the welfare of the country.
It is a question of what the real welfare
of the country is. Railways may open up
the resources of the country, and bring the
producers more in contact with the consumers
; and so benefit both. But I can see
that canal property, which has been such a
boon to the country, will be depreciated.
Then as to cheap food, the Anti-Corn Law
Leaguers are the manufacturers mainly ;
what do they want ? It is their hope of
lowering wages by getting cheaper food —
that is their game. It is clear enough :
cutting* their thongs out of other men's
hides ! That is what it is. A Lancashire
millowner wants to pay lower wages; and
so he tries to lower my rents. The country
will not be any richer for that. The money
will only go from my pocket into his. It
is no advantage to the country.

That is the ground-work of the cheap-bread
crusade. And then, they object to

P 2

our defending our own interests ! As if
we were to be such fools as not to Lave
the sense to resist spoliation. And then,
as to those reformers ! The good old laws
under which England has prospered for
centuries, they are not good enough for
these new men, — who want to have laws
that will favour themselves a little more ;
a biQ^g^er share of the national cake. That
is what the Chartists are after, brawling
for the rights of man. What does that
mean, — the right of one man to share what
another man has got ? levy likely ; why
cannot they work for their own ? If I have
Gaythorne Hall, some Wharton once worked
to get it ; and because my ancestors worked
when theirs idled, I have to share what
has come down to me with my fellow-men !
All 1 can say is, I don't see it ! And the
moral-force Chartists leaving their physical-force
brethren ; it is only like rats leaving
a drowning ship. They see clearly enough
that the physical-force Chartists are no
match for all the rest of society. Those

Sheffield fellows found that out pretty
smartly. But their aim is all the same ; they
want to destroy the landowners' interests.
That section of the Chartists which believe in
suasion have joined the League ; and what
are these law-abiding Chartists ? Nothing
more than the descendants of the old republican
party pledged to pull down the
aristocracy ! It is all one web ! But we
can look after ourselves.'

Such was the old Squire's view of
the state of affairs. To him, and to
hundreds more, in all sincerity, and from
no mere selfish motives, the following
passage from an article in the ' Quarterly
Review,' — denouncing; the Corn Law agitation,
and indeed all agitations indiscriminately,
— for the first quarter of 1843, may be
regarded as a confession of faith. The
article, which was strictly Conservative,
ended thus :

'No man of common sense can hesitate,
we say, to pronounce the existence of such
associations disgraceful to our national

character, and wholly incompatible with
the internal peace and commercial prosperity
of the country — or, in the highest
meaning of the word, the safety of the
State.'

That is putting the matter in its true
light,' said the Squire to Canon Wordsworth
one day ; when the latter had called,
and the conversation had taken the direction
indicated in the Squire's soliloquy. The
policy of the Tory party was clearly tolet
matters alone. Yet a curious alliance
was not long in showing itself, viz. the
union of the reforming party and the Tories
against the "Whigs. Despairing of getting
anything by the latter, it determined to
see what could be got from their opponents.

It was not long before the Whig ministry
fell, worn out by what it had accomplished,
and full of years ; its character having
altered entirely, with its early energy transformed
into the lethargy of age. In May
1841, Sir Robert Peel moved 'That Her
Majesty's Ministers do not sufficiently

possess the confidence of the House of
Commons to enable them to carry through
the House measures which they deem of
essential importance to the public welfare ;
and that their continuance in office under
such circumstances is at variance with the
spirit of the Constitution.' This was clear
and unmistakable. The voting gave the
Government 311 ; their opponents 312.
The great Whig Ministry had gradually
crumbled away ; and in June, Lord John
Russell gave notice that the Ministry had
determined to appeal to the country. Never
perhaps at any period of our history had
more interest attended an appeal to the
country. The nation was seething in unrest.
Agitation and counter-agitation had
been at work everywhere ; but more distinctly
in the towns. The struggle was
one of great intensity. Both sides had
long seen what was coming ; and had girded
up their loins accordingly. Amidst the
strife of parties the Free-traders hoped to
make themselves felt; not by their arguments

merely, but by their votes also. The
Chartists possessing no votes, as a rule,
made themselves exceedingly conspicuous
at the hustings, with their show of hands.
It was maintained, after the election was
over, that the members chosen by the show
of hands at the hustings were better candidates
than those ultimately elected by the
voters.

The tactics of the Corn Law Leaguers are
interesting to us even now. Mr. Carlyon
had some business in London, and induced
John "Wharton to accompany him ; as the
time would allow them to see something
of the elections then in progress. Sir
Kobert Peel, who would certainly be Prime
Minister if the Tories won the day, had not
yet become a convert to Free Trade ; and,
like the Duke of Wellington, was a staunch
upholder of Corn Laws in some form. He
was consequently at that time the object of
the fiercest denunciation among the Corn
Law repealers. The tactics of these agitators
were well calculated to impress the public

mind. The appeal was made to the eye
as well as to the ear. Debates, discussions,
speeches, tracts, pamphlets, and processions,
were the arms they adopted. Powerful
speakers, following on the lines laid down
by Richard Cobden, put the facts clearly
before their audiences. Tracts and pamphlets
were scattered broadcast, repeating
the arguments advanced by the speakers,
and keeping them in mind. The processions
were of a curious character. !Mr. Carlyon
and John Wharton met one of them in the
streets. First came a brass band, and then
a number of banners, inscribed with various
mottos. One bore the sentence then constantly
quoted — ' Give us this day our
daily bread ; ' while another was as follows :
' The bread of the needy is his life ; he
that deprived him thereof is a man of
blood ; ' a third in red letters upon a blue
ground — ' He that withholds corn, the
people shall curse him.' Still more effective
were two banners : upon one of which was a
lean, starved, gaunt face, representing the

man famishing on taxed bread ; while the
other had on it a broad, full-fed, smiling
face, that of a man who ate untaxed bread.
Immediately behind followed two curious
objects, — two loaves of bread mounted upon
poles, and borne high aloft over the heads
of the crowd. The one was a small, dwarfed
loaf — the ' Sir Robert Peel loaf ; ' the other
was a handsome, good-sized loaf — it was the
Lord John Russell loaf.' The last seemed
to excite considerable amusement among
the onlookers, as the procession went past.

That's the way to put the arguments
into them ! ' said old Mr. Carlyon with
glee. ' That appeals to the stomach. A
sensitive place with an Englishman ! '

Almost as sensitive as his trousers
And, as it happens, both are touched
in this case,' replied his companion.

The same tactics obtained all over the
country ; the ' League ' and its supporters
subscribing most liberally towards the very
heavy expenses of their organization. The
proposition made in December 1839, was

carried out ; and members pledged to support
the repeal of the Corn Laws in the
House of Commons were put forward whenever
there was any prospect of success.
Cobden, who had proved his oratorical and
convincing power on many a mass-meeting,
was sent up to the House — to repeat there
what he had over and over again urged on
many a platform. His clear, unmistakable
arguments ; his hard common sense ; his
capacity to make clear the most complicated
subjects, and to sweep away fallacies ;
admirably fitted him for the task he undertook.
But with all this, the Free Traders
were nowhere. Sir Robert Peel was
victorious with a strong majority. And
not a single word could be got out of the
Government as to what they meant to do.
The belief that the terrible condition into
which the country was plunged was due to
a great extent to the Corn Laws, did not
touch the new men in power.

In the manufacturing districts the distress
had been most severe for a considerable

time. Many employers had failed ; mills
were shut up ; the poor-rates were enormously
increased ; and Government was
called upon to supply that aid for the
relief of the distress, which was beyond the
management of the local administrators of
the Poor Law. The working-people, upon
the whole, bore their privations with patience
and fortitude ; but in many places the
Chartists were busy stirring them up to
demand higher wages than the capitalists
could afford out of their reduced means ;
although the workmen perfectly well knew
that their employers were fast sinking into
ruin. Strikes were unavailing and then
came riots. Sir James Graham, the Home
Secretary', encountered the crisis with decision
and firmness. The system of railroads
had enabled him to send troops
rapidly to any scene of outrage ; and their
appearance was sufficient in any case to
effect the restoration of tranquillity, without
a repetition of such sanguinary collisions as
those of Manchester and Bristol at a past

time.' Such was still the condition of
affairs in the manufacturing districts until
July 1842, when some improvement in
trade set in ; fortunately soon followed by
brisk demands, and full time for the hands.
Harvests improved ; and the country became
once more prosperous, after its terribly long
ordeal of want.

The fate of the Corn Law agitation in the
new House was unfortunate. When the
day came that the House would consider
the subject the greatest excitement prevailed.
No less than six hundred delegates,
from the different Corn Law Reveal Associations
throughout the country, marched
in procession to Palace Yard ; where they
took up their stand, crying, * Total Repeal ! '
or ' Fixed Duty ! ' and ^ No Sliding Scale ! '
as the members passed by ; and affording all
the support they could to their champions
inside the House. For many long nights
the different propositions were debated ;
but neither ' Total Repeal,' nor ' A Fixed
Duty' could be carried. But an abiding

impression was made, and even upon that
very Parliament, as time showed.

The history of the Chartist movement is
shrouded in deeper gloom. The excesses
of the more violent partisans for reform
not only roused the anger of their opponents,
but drove away many of the best
men from their own ranks. Feargus
O'Connor was sent to York Castle, in the
middle of May 1840, to undergo eighteen
months' imprisonment ; but the temporary
removal of this firebrand did little to
appease the excitement of the more violent
Chartists. Want, bad times, low wages,
taxed bread, the hopelessness of any relief
from the Tory Ministry, whipped on these
unfortunate enthusiasts to excesses which
made the name of Chartist a terror to all
peaceful people. The most monarchical
propositions were put forward in a savage
sense of despair. At one of their convocations
it was seriously proposed to make
a run on all the savings' banks ; to stop all
labour throughout the land, and to throw

the whole industrial class bodily upon the
resources of the other classes. In Nottingham
and Leicester the wildest schemes
were propounded, and a war of classes was
imminent. Long and furiously the strife
raged. Nor were all the propositions of
the Corn Law agitators at this time as
peaceful as they were at the commencement
of the movement. Finding themselves
powerless in the House, the agitation grew
outside it. Even they proposed that the
mills should only run half-time, and so
drive the hands to the ' landlord-paid poor
rates ; ' and a violent tone pervaded their discussions.
No wonder the starving Chartists
in towns were desperate ; and, wild with
despair — ready for any proposition which
promised relief. Feargus O'Connor had
come out of York Castle, after his imprisonment,
to add to the existing tumult ;
and a Welsh Chartist woman had commemorated
the event by the composition
of a well-known hymn :

The Lion of Freedom is come from his den ;
We'll rally around him again and again '

and they did too. Whenever there was a
contention going on Feargus O'Connor must
be in it ; and descriptions have been
furnished to us of his leading charges on
the Tory lambs at nomination and election
days. He was a thorough Irishman,
of huge frame, aud powerful baritone voice,
which gave him a decided advantage in
addressing crowds. He had much native
humour, and had a keen eye for character.
Imprisonment had in no wise tamed him,
and he emerged from York Castle as
headstrong as ever. When the time for
action came, he led his followers into the
thick of the crowd, hitting right and left
with his large fists, ' flooring his opponents
like ninepins ; ' or, borne down by overwhelming
numbers, his red head soon made
its re-appearance, and he was quickly fighting
as furiously as ever. Under such leaders
no good could come of the agitation, — unless
it was to harden the hearts of the rest of
society.

Still the Chartists struggled on, and Mr.

Tom Buncombe, the member for Finsbury,
supported by Mr. Oakley, undertook to
present a petition to the House of Commons.
On the 2nd of May, 1842, a long
procession of Chartists could be seen
moving towards the Parliament House ; and
escorting sixteen chosen men bearing a large
petition to the House. The folding-doors
of the House of Commons even were too
small, and the petition had to be unrolled
to admit of its being introduced into the
House. Unrolled, it covered a great portion
of the floor, and was higher than the table.
Then followed a remarkable debate, in
which Mr. Macaulay played a prominent,
though opinions may differ as to whether
it was a very creditable part, or not. He
had been a member of the late Whig
Government ; and had earned for himself
much obloquy for his advocacy of the
ballot ; while he was also in favour of doing
away with the property qualification for
Members of the House. From such a man
the assassin's stroke was scarcely to be
VOL. III. Q

expected ; and yet the Chartists declared
that his was the hand that gave the blow
so fatal to them. If there was a section of
the Chartists who advocated violence, and
did their best to demonstrate their unfitness
for any power ; there was also a large
body of the lower middle-class and wage-class
who were also Chartists, respectable,
decent, law-abiding folk, — many of them
indeed favourable specimens of their class.
It was hardly honest to them when, after
reviewing the six points of the Charter, and
coming to the question of the land, and
how it had been acquired by its possessors,
he continued : ' If it be admitted that on
the institution of property the well-being
of society depends, it follows, surely,
that it would be madness to give supreme
power in the State to a class which would
not be likely to respect that institution.
And if this be conceded, it seems to me to
follow that it would be madness to grant
the prayer of the petition. I entertain
no hope that, if we place the government

of the kingdom in the hands of the majority
of the males of one-and-twenty, told by the
head, the institution of property will be
respected. If I am asked why I entertain
no such hope, I answer, because the hundreds
of thousands of males of twenty-one
who have signed the petition tell me to
entertain no such hope ; because they tell
me if I trust them with power, the first
use which they will make of it will be
to plunder every man in the kingdom who
has a good coat to his back, and a good
roof over his head.' This was grave ; but
what follows was an appeal to the terrors
which could be excited in men who had
some solid grounds for alarm, — but which
surely were scarcely justified by the facts
of the case. ' What could follow but one
vast spoliation ? One vast spoliation !
That would be bad enough. That would
be the greatest calamity that ever fell on
our country. Yet would that a single
vast spoliation were the worst ! No, Sir ;
in the lowest deep there would be a lower

Q 2

deep. The first spoliation would not bethe
last. How could it? All the causes
which had produced the first spoliation
would still operate. They would operate
more powerfully than before. The distress
would be far greater than before. The fences
which now protect property would all have
been broken through, levelled, swept away.
The new proprietors would have no title
to show to anything that they held, but
recent robbery. With what face, then, could
they complain of being robbed ? What would
be the end of these things ? Our experience,
God be praised, does not enable us
to predict it with certainty. We can only
guess. My guess is, that we should see
something more horrible than can be
imagined — something like the siege of
Jerusalem on a far larger scale. There
would be many millions of human beings
crowded in a narrow space, deprived of
all their resources, which alone had made
it possible for them to exist in so narrow
a space ; trade gone, manufactures gone,

credit gone. What could they do but
fio-ht for the mere sustenance of nature,
and tear each other to pieces ; till famine,
and pestilence following in the train of
famine, came to turn the terrible commotion
into a more terrible repose ? The best
event, the very best event that I can anticipate
— and what must the state of things
be if an Englishman and a Whig calls such
an event the very best ? — the very best
event, I say, that I can anticipate, is that
out of such confusion, a strong military
despotism may arise ; and that the sword,
firmly grasped by some rough hand, may
give a sort of protection to the miserable
wreck of all that immense prosperity and
glory. But as to the noble institutions
under which our country has made such
progress in liberty, in wealth, in knowledge,
in arts, do not deceive yourself into
the belief that we should ever see them
aofain — we should never see them ao-ain. We
should not deserve to see them. All those
nations which envy our greatness would

insult our downfall, — a downfall which
would be all our own work, — and the history
of our calamities would be told thus :
England had institutions which, though
imperfect, yet contained within themselves
the remedying every imperfection ; those
institutions her legislators wantonly and
madly threw away ; nor could they urge
in their excuse the wretched plea that they
were deceived by false promises, for in the
very petition, with the prayer of which
they were weak enough to comply, they
were told in the plainest terms that public
ruin would be the effect of their compliance.'
The vote went against the Charter by 287
votes to 49. Yet Macaulay had been
taunted with being a Chartist because he
advocated the ballot !

Never again was the Charter advocated
on the floor of the House of Commons.
With the revolutionary year of 1848, when
thrones were toppling in Europe, many
anarchists came over to England to rouse
the Chartists. By this time starvation was

gone, and the hungry stomach was not
involved. Chartism had slumbered while
the agitation for the repeal of the Corn Laws
had absorbed public attention, — until the
events of 1848 on the Continent roused it.

The division of the land ; and the union
of the people and the soil, divorced by the
sword of feudalism ; so that large properties
should be divided into small peasant-proprietorship
: was the dream of the Chartists.
Now they decided to get up a mightier
petition than either that of 1842 or even of
1839. Feargus O'Connor, the editor of the
Chartist organ, ' The Northern Star,' was now
one of the members for Nottingham, and
would present to the House the monster
petition which had received over 5,700,000
signatures. Myriads of Chartists, and other
opponents of existing Governments, were to
assemble in London ; and Feargus was to
present the petition, backed by his legions.
The arrangements made by the Duke of
Wellington prevented any great meeting ;
the much-anticipated 10th of April passed

off without any disorder ; and Feargus presented
his petition to the House after
ignobly receiving it from a cart.

Chartism lingered on : but the scheme for
the division of the land quietly died out, —
after some practical experiments which did
not tend to show that the scheme was a
very practicable one. Here and there in
the rural districts, years afterwards, was to
be found an intelligent artisan, fluent of
speech, — often to an extent which exercised
the wits of his rustic neighbours ; a good
workman ; a sensible and self-respecting
man ; who was pointed out as ' a Chartist.*
In such myriad ripple ts did the wave of
Chartism break at last : each a centre for
political discussion, and the instruction of
his hearers. Through these fragments of
Chartism reform has been kept alive ; and
wild as many of the different points of the
Charter had been considered in past time,
many of them are now conceded ; and even
annual parliaments may be the rule in the
next century.

Old Jim Woodcock grieved deeply over
the vote in the House of Commons.

Aye, so it was, and so it will be. T
remember 1819, and Peterloo. As Bam
ford says in his book : " The drilling of the
reformers was only to enable them to march
orderly, and refute the statement that they
were a disorderly crowd ;" there was "nothing
more than an expertness and order in moving
in bodies ; " and yet we were really
dangerous conspirators, to be ridden down
without mercy by the yeomanry. And
Bamford was two years in Lincoln jail for
what he did, when the Judge that tried him
said : " With respect to Bamford, all that
has been proved in his speech was a recommendation
to peace and order." And now,
because we ask for our share of political
power ; and that the land and the people
shall once more be united ; what does the
Whig say ? — " a vast spoliation ! " Perhaps
we have just as good right to believe that
it would be better for the country if primogeniture
was done away with ; and a man

could buy a bit of ground as easy as he
can buy a cow, 'as was once the case: as
they have to believe that " the institution
of property " is the backbone of the country.
And then having divided the land, we
would go on from bad to worse ; till we
divided what some had left with those that
had nothing, — till we all died of starvation.
What rest ' (here he left his English proper
for the vernacular), 'what rest les that
levin' Whig creature' to say that because a
man hen t a black broad claith coot t' his
back, he's a thief ? Maybe if we did tek'
what they lev' fra some o' them, we wad
only be taking back what some oald- world
river take fra some of our loan soaks i' th'
bypast time. I'm nuit over sure abaft
that ! We working' soak may all clam
together for what the old Whigs care. I'm
dune wi' them ! Th' carry best event, he
could guess ? Th' verra worst, I think, wad
be roar like th' fact : th' levin' scoundrel.
I wor vexed wi' him : him o' all th' men
their ! '

CHAPTER X.

TRIED AND WORSTED.

When the state of Mr. Waddington's
affairs became known, Stephen Oldfield
realized that Orton Hall could not remain
his — even in name. It had been in the
possession of the Oldfields for generations ;
and when he came to the estate, the main
aim of his life was to clear off the mortgage
which remained on it after his father s
affairs were settled ; no large amount, but
still it was there ; and then by prudence
and thoughtfulness to improve the property
until it was one of the most eligible, if not
among the largest, in the wide-spread
county. And this, too, he had steadily
been succeeding: in doings. He was a brood,
indeed liberal, landlord, where he saw the

tenant was doing his best ; and encouraged
his tenants to improve their farms. He was
well-informed, having kept up his culture
after leaving school. No ' superior gamekeeper
Squire as he was apt to say of some
of the Squires around him, was he.

He was freely conversant with the French
tongue ; and he and Miss Oldfield made it a
rule to converse in French an hour or two
at least every week. When he saw the
time coming that he would be placed on
the list of magistrates, he invested in Burn's
'Justice of the Peace,' and one or two other
less ponderous legal works ; and made himself
acquainted with something more than
the mere routine of the sessions, and
nodding acquiescence to whatever the clerk
to the magistrates chose to say.

No noodle, Oldfield,' his neighbour
Canon Wordsworth would say sometimes ;
good, useful, working magistrate for a
youngster. Sees something more in being
a mao-state than sticking; J.P. after his
name, and driving up to the Quarter

Sessions.' He was all this ; and a steady-going
fellow to boot. Whenever a young Squire
of Hallamshire had been sowing a few wild
oats, the example of Stephen Oldfield was
held up to him, as what he ought to strive
to be ; a matter ^v^hich did not tend to make
Oldfield popular with his less thoughtful
fellow-Squires ; who pronounced him a
prig,' and a ' sobersides.' Still he was a
prudent and prosperous man ; and might
have remained one, — had he but adhered
to the lines that circumstances had laid
down for him.

It was when he ventured to form his own
opinion, and act for himself in matters
outside his life as a country Squire, that he
saw the mistake he had made. How he
came to make it he could not, after the
crash, ever explain satisfactorily to himself.
All seemed so clear, so devoid of difficulties
which could not be provided against, that
the spirit of suspicion could find no standing-ground,
or niche, on which to rest. It was
Waddington who was to blame, clearly. If

Waddington had but been honest and
straightforward, all would have been well.
He had been the dupe of a knave. His
confidence in man had been exploitered : it
was a scurvy trick to play ! Waddington
might involve himself, if he chose ; but it was
hard, both hard and unfair, to inveigle his
neighbours in his own meshes. ' Wharton
would have nothing to do with him, I
remember ; but he always said that was
because his Wharton touchiness could not
tolerate Waddington's manner ; and that it
had kept him out of a good thing. Confound
the thing ! I wish I had done as Wharton
did. And then one could not sell out the
shares when the bank was doing so well.'
Here he fell off into musing and meditation.
He had been caught in the whirlpool of a
speculator. His pride in his acumen was
touched ; but his pride in his personal
integrity remained unimpaired. He had
been a victim ; he was not personally to
blame for the misfortune which had swept
over him like a thunderstorm.

I

Then came the question of what he must
do in the future. He must earn a living
somehow; that was clear. He discussed
the matter over with his neighbour, Squire
Wharton, who had always been a sincere
friend.

That's the way to set about it, Oldfield.
Find something to do : that will keep your
mind more at rest than anything else. I
am afraid I can do little for you now ; I am
out of the world. In my day of moving
about, a nobleman would have been glad —
deuced glad, I can tell you — to have had
the chance of a man like you as a confidential
secretary. A gentleman of your
parts was a treasure ; I can assure you.
But I know nobody now ; I am practically
out of the world. But there are the
Worthless, and the Stanhope, and the
Fitzwilliams ; they must know of someone
who would be glad of you.'

When in trouble, and the way forward
is broken and obscured by clouds, the
human mind expands under advice which

is acceptable; just as it contracts under
the opposite conditions, and dislikes the
proffered of unpalatable advice — of far more
real worth often.

The unknown has less difficulties than
the known — until it becomes the known.
The distant mountain has a smooth, unbroken
outline : while the crags of the
mountain near at hand are plainly visible ;
and the difficulty of scaling them immense,
if surmountable at all. If a mountain-ridge
must be climbed ; let the ascent, then, be
one with unbroken declivities, — devoid of
beetling crags. A long, tiresome journey
to the distant mountain reveals the same
difficulties, as had to be encountered in the
one near at hand ; and the climber is only
wearied by his journey, while the ascent
has still to be made. ' Distance lends
enchantment to the view.' Certainly ; but
as the distance lessens, the illusion is
gradually dispelled ; until the enchantment
vanishes with the distance. How much
more is the enchantment ; when some one,

presumably acquainted with the reality of
the distant mountain, declares that to climb
it is comparatively easy !

The Squire was perfectly sincere in wreathe
told his neighbour ; and vet he was not
really familiar with the distant mountain.
Application was made to the leading families
in the Wybrow district. All of the heads
of the families had met Oldfield at the
sessions, and the county balls ; some had
seen more of him. All professed regret
at hearing of his misfortune ; knew him
favourably ; would be delighted to be of
service to him ; all correct and true, — but
nothing came of it ; in all probability because
they did not just at that time know anyone
with such a want. The hope of something
of this kind, which, though a position
of dependency, was free from many of the
drawbacks of being dependent upon another,
kept up Mr. Oldfield s spirits ; while the
demands upon his time of attending to
applications to purchase Orton Hall engaged
his immediate attention : and so time passed

VOL. III. R

by. Mr. Carlyon offered to allow him
and Miss Oldfield to remain in Orton Hall
so long as was convenient, which was very
kind ; but he could not pay his servants
with thanks, or feed them on air I He
must go, that was clear. Miss Oldfield
went away to live economically with some
humble friends at a distance. As to himself;
he accepted Squire Wharton's invitation
to make Gaythorne Hall his home, until the
desired something should turn up. 'It could
not be long,' said the sanguine Squire.

But day after day passed by, and no
intimation of anything came to hand.
Morning after morning the postman called,
and went away again ; and yet left no
missive to tell the expectant man that there
was an opening for him. The Squire was
cheery and hopeful, and was sure ' the
longest lane had a turning ; ' but the turn in
Stephen Oldfield's affairs did not show
any readiness to manifest itself; indeed it
seemed perversely to keep away. His
position was far from an agreeable one.

The Squire treated him like a near relative,
but with a certain deferential courtesy in
addition ; so that he might not experience
any inward feeling of being either unwelcome,
or disregarded. The Squire was a
perfect Bayard in a matter of that kind.
Nor did the domestic portion of Gaythorne
Hall forget the respect due to a gentleman
who had seen better days ; and who, in those
happier days, had been well known to all of
them. To his credit, it must be said, that
Oldfield was always considerate towards
those beneath him, and ever mindful of
their feelings. How far this arose from a
species of vanity which made him anxious
to have the good opinion of all ; or it was
a mannerism which he chose to affect ; or
arose from an unmixed native delicacy of
disposition ; is a matter which probably no
one of his acquaintance had accurately
weighed. The fact, however, remained.
Bulman always behaved as if Mr. Oldfield
was an honoured guest ; and Mrs. Allonby
recognized his love of authority, and his

II 2

manner when a visitor and calJcr, and sLe
was ever deferential. There was nothing in
his surroundings to chafe ; and yet he hegnn
to find Gaythorne Hall irksome, and to wish
himself away. Despite the consideration of
every one, he felt he was dependent upon another's
bounty. He saw nothing before him
but dependence in some form ; but he wished
it to be a dependence which was not bounty.
He wished to do something in return ; at
Gaythorne Hall he could do nothing for the
Squire that had not been done by some one
before. He must be doing something, he
felt. One day he said so to his host ; who
listened attentively to what he propounded.
Well, perhaps now, if you were up in
town, and called upon the people, it would
keep them in mind of you. Letters are apt
to get forgotten. I even find that, who have
not much to distract me ; and in town, withall
the different demands upon their time,
and the distractions, a subject may be overlooked
from no want of kindliness, or friendliness.
But do not act precipitately : you

are heartily welcome to stay here as long as
you like : do not forget that. Give me
your company a little longer, I may not
be able to see much more of you for a longtime,
if once you get away; your career may
take you away from this Neighbourhood.
Wait a little longer,' urged the Squire.

So Mr. Oldfield waited ; but nothing
came. * Hope deferred maketh the heartsick,'
and so he found. His altered position
made itself felt in many ways. Outside
Squire Wharton's grounds the greetings of
his old neighbours jarred upon him. They
accosted him with their usual deference : but
their sympathy was rude, and not always
considerate ; and he felt this keenly. It
was not that the feeling was not there ; it
was not exhibited with tact. They where
a rude, though not uncouth, folk ; and their
kindliness, which seemed all right and
becoming to themselves, was to the broken
Squire like a rough touch on a bruised
surface. That they meant no offence was
certain ; but he felt the pain all the same.

He experienced all this ; and it deepened
this determination to try his fortune away
from the neighbourhood of Wybrow. He
thought of entering the Church ; and had
consulted Mr. Pryor about the time, and
the expense involved. He found it was
not practicable. Theological colleges there
were at that time ; but modest as the expense
to be incurred, there were expenses
which must be met. In a more recent time
the head of a theological college, in addressing
a gathering of cabman, informed them
that if any of them desired to enter the
ranks of the Church he would be glad to
afford them the requisite facilities, — taking
their notes of hand for the expenses, to be
repaid him when they had gained a remunerative
position, or charge. No such
blended compound of business-capitalist
and recruitino;-serQreant for the Church
militant was then above the horizon ; and
if he had been, it is not at all certain Mr.
Oldfield would have closed with his terms.
So the prospect of entering the Church died

out after a feeble flicker. Nor did the
colonies possess then the attraction they
now command. Hard-working mechanics,
farm-labourers, and small industrial farmers
were beginning to find a new home in
Canada, after Lord Durham's rule there ;
but there was nothing there for a gentleman
to do. The time was anterior to the discovery
of the Californian and Australian
gold-fields ; and it is not likely the ex-squire
would have hurried to them, had
they been open to him. He could not
emigrate as a stock-driver. What was he
to do ? His mind was sorely exercised by
the dilemma in which he was placed. The
idea of applying to Mr. Carlyon to see if
he had influence enough to secure him a
post in some place of business, had flitted
across his mind ; but then his acquaintance
with the Carlyon s was through John
Wharton. That path was blocked. And
Edith Wharton ! — the train of thought so
started brought her into his mind. Had
she been disposed to listen to his overtures,

her dower would have been sufficient for
the wants of both. Had her decision only
been different ; how different other things
might have been ! If he was now a poor
man, George Ashworth was little better.
He felt a sting of wounded pride as he
mused upon her preference. The workings
of the female mind he felt to be wondrous ;
and to him, as a bachelor, inexplicable. He
would dismiss the thought, and so he did;
but no more genial, or attractive thoughts
took their place. His indecision was, however,
dispelled for him by an accidental
rencontre. One day when walking out he
met in the road a cattle-dealer, whom he
knew by sight ; and to whose greeting he
had returned a distant dignified nod intimes
past. Now, however, the man reined
up his nag, and spoke.

Mr. Oldfield,' he said, ' Tve bin thinking'
abaft yo an* yor finding someawt to do.
Hev' ye na thought o' starting' bean an
auctioneer 1 Y ore weel kenned i' th' district.
Yor friends would rally abaft yo, Fse

warrant. It's well worth turning' over i'
yor mind. I hope my speekkin so free is
no offence.'

The ex-squire was unbounded. The man
spoke civilly enough ; and evidently meant
kindly. But this was what the country-side
said about him. The man observed his consternation
; but misinterpreting it went on :

It's a kind o' surprise to yo, I see !
Yo hadn't thought o' that afore, mebbe.
But it's a good business for a man that's
respected as yo are.'

The cattle-dealer had clearly thought the
matter over from his own point of view ;
which was widely different from the ex-squire's.
As a man respected in the neighbourhood,
a career as an auctioneer was
open to him. He felt his withers wrung ;
and yet possibly a rough fellow like the
cattle-dealer thought the position of an
auctioneer so far above his own as to be
worthy of the consideration of a decayed
gentleman. ' I suppose some one will be
sugrorestins^ to me to take the Crown at

Wybrow next. It is to let he said to
himself. ' I can stand this no longer. I
must try my fortune in town.' He told
his old friend, and host the next day that
he must be taking some more active steps
to ore something to do than he had hitherto

O O

done. The Squire was sorry to let him go,
but had no valid reason to offer against his
departure ; so it was arranged that in a
couple of days he should leave to see what
Fortune had in her bag for him.

The old Squire wrung his hand affectionately
on the doorstep; and thrust a note into
his hand, as the carriage-door closed. When
the carriage had driven off he found it was
a £50 note. His first impulse was to return
it ; but he could not well order the
carriage to go back, there was not too much
time to catch the coach at Sheffield ; so he
placed it, with his wonted carefulness in
money matters, in his pocket-book ; determining
to return it with suitable thanks the
first convenient opportunity. He lay back in
the carriage, buried in thought. Ere lone

they readied the point in the road where
he had met the cattle-dealer ; and his coarse
though kindly advice, in its homely phrase,
rose up vivid as an outline of flame in his
mind.

I can come here no more ; at least till
times have altered with me. The rude
kindness of this uncultured people would
be intolerable. If I have to make a new
career it must be in another sphere.'

On arriving in London he put up at
an hotel in Co vent Garden ; as he did in
olden times, when a gentleman up from the
country. This he felt he must do in order
to appear properly in the eyes of his acquaintances,
upon whom he would call to jog their
memories. All received him politely ; one
or two dio knew something; of him, invited
him to dinner, 'to talk the matter over';
but he found only the burden of having
to sustain a conversation which interested
him not. What could he say about the
last new piece ; the most recent prima-donna
; or the great pictures on view ? He

had no funds to throw away on such
matters, in order to be able to take a share
in the chatter of a dinner-table. He had
not even any knowledge of the fashionable
preachers. Sunday came but once a week,
and he had only just come up to town.
After the ladies had retired, he found that
the presence of a third person prevented
that conversation between himself and his
host which he had anticipated ; and it was
all time spent in vain. It was cruel, he
thought, to be so treated ; and the third
person's presence might have been obviated.
Certainly, Stephen Oldfield, if your affairs
were as absorbing to other people in the
huge metropolis as they undoubtedly are
to yourself ! He found soon that he must
be economical — his funds were behoof

o

seriously tapped. He had first intended
to return Squire AVharton his note ; then
he had thought it better to keep it in case
of need ; then he began to see how fortunate
it was he had it. He removed to
quiet apartments in a back street ; he

could have his letters addressed to him atone
of the many places where a stationer
permitted this for a small fee. Then he
began to study the subject of where to dine
at little cost. Thrifty and careful as he
had habitually been, he found it very
trying to practise economy, — not as a fine
art, but as a stark necessity. Brought upas
he had been, his new life was all the
more repulsive to him from the lack of
familiarity. His father had been rather
profuse, and brought up his children as a
gentleman should do ; — a training about
as unfortunate as it well could be for his
son, dien the howl of poverty was beginning
to be painfully distinct and clear.
The people he encountered were as objectionable
as they were new to him. His
surroundings indeed were utterly distasteful
to him. If he bad been brought up meanly,
hardly, in a modest house, he might have put
up with them as something not quite unknown
to him. To a man of the humbler
classes coming up to London to seek his

fortune there is no particular hardship in
mixing with needy persons ; they expect
nothing else. But to a ruined man, who had
held a good social position, this new life was
simply intolerable. And what prospect had
he of anything better before him ? He
had bowed his pride so far as to answer
some advertisements ; and this new experience
was not encourasfinof. In bad times
there are more seeking places than there
are places for : and his chances of getting
anything to do were growing more and more
remote ; while his little store of cash — let
him husband it ever so thriftily — grew daily
less and less. He was fast reaching some
crisis in his history — that was clear. He
must soon do something : what must that
something be ?

In the days of his prosperity he had been
left trustee for the orphan-daughter, the
only child of a friend of his school-days.
She was just old enough to be sent to a
school where such children were well cared
for, and had been happy. He had occasionally

visited her when in town ; for the
school was only some three hours by coach
from London. He had seen her since
he had come up to town. She was budding
out into a graceful girl ; whose features
reminded him strongly of her father, when
they where schoolfellows together. He had
deemed it unsafe to invest her money in
the Wybrow Bank, as a matter of common
prudence ; and had invested it in his own
name in the funds. It paid less interest ;
but it was safe. The ward must go without
the difference. One day the idea of
utilizing this money thrust itself upon his
consciousness ; and, do what he would, he
could not banish it. As poverty fastened
its fangs upon him he found the fact of this
money being within his reach more constantly
occupying his thoughts. What
could he do with it ? Could he invest it in
some business ; and devoting his time to the
business — make something for himself as well
as for her. By so doing he could pay her
the same sum yearly, and maintain himself.

Circumstances favoured this argument ; and
at last it seemed to him to be his duty to do
this. He would work hard and make something
for the girl, in addition to what washers,
as a return for making use of her money.
He would speak to her about it, and gain her
consent. Then it was borne in upon him
that she might wish to talk it over with those
in charge of her ; a girl would be pretty sure
to do this ; he could not ask her about the
matter, and then bind her over not to speak
of it to others ; that was like extortion her
assent. And so he wavered ; and yet went on
with his project. He was yielding to temptation
; and yet all the while he was wishful
to do only what was honest. It might be a
questionable act to deal surreptitiously with
trust-money ; but he was going to make a
good use of it. Having long pondered over
the subject until the decision to utilize this
trust-money had taken deliberate shape, he
gave orders to have the stock sold out ; and
lodged the money in a bank in his own name.
Now another hideous idea suggested itself.

If he did succeed in establishing himself
somewhere in business, the creditors, or
those winding up the Wybrow Bank, would
take proceedings against him ; and, in order
to save what he had, he must explain how
he became possessed of funds ; and all would
come out. Why had he not thought of it
before selling out the stock ? He was
staggered by the new thought.

He was in a horrible dilemma : what
was he to do ? It is in these times of
emergency that character is tested. Just
as the test of gun-barrels is sharp, swift,
but decisive ; so a great emergency will
test a character to its foundations, and
reveal its native material, and the workmanship.
And now came the time when
Stephen Oldfield's character was to be put
to a crucial test ! He had made the acquaintance
of actual poverty ; and it was
decidedly unattractive. He had mixed
with persons of culture and refinement ina
good social sphere, and he found the ways
of needy people anything but to his liking.

VOL. III. s

His whole training had been to fit him
for a social success : and, behold, he was a
failure ! Had he had to bear the ordinary
tests of a man in his position, as a country
squire, he could have undergone them
successfully, he felt sure. But the test he
had now to encounter he felt to far exceed
his powers. A poor, wretched struggle for
the bare sustenance of life ; for any return
to the dreams of a secretaryship was as
out of the question he felt as a return to
Orton Hall itself. Even to seek help from
Mr. Carlyon, and to get a subordinate post
in a place of business, seemed a vanishing
prospect : if he took such a place he could
not prevent his new associates learning
the secret of his past. He wrestled with
temptation once and again, and though he
did not yield, he felt he had not conquered ;
and he began to dread the conflict. Froude
has a most thoughtful passage ; in speaking
of the different species of virtue and describing
them and contrasting them, he goes onto
say — ' Further, if we leave out these

refinements, and content ourselves with the
most popular conceptions of morality, there
is this immeasurable difficulty — so great,
yet so little considered — that goodness is
positive as well as negative ; and consists
in the active accomplishment of certain
things which we are bound to do, as well
as in the abstaining from thing-s which
wee are bound not to do. And here the
warp and woof vary in shade and pattern.
Many a man, with the help of circumstances,
may pick his way clear through
life, having never violated one prohibitive
commandment, and yet at last be fit only
for the place of the unprofitable servant, —
he may not have committed either sin or
crime, yet never have felt the pulsation of
a single unselfish emotion. Another, meanwhile,
shall have been hurried by an impulsive
nature into fault after fault — shall
have been reckless, improvident, perhaps
profligate, yet be fitter after all for the
kingdom of heaven than the Pharisee.'
Had Stephen Oldfield remained satisfied

S 2

with being a substantial Yorkshire landowner
; and had no higher temptation than
spending more money than he could conveniently
afford in the year of his Shrievalty ;
he might have passed through life with a
spotless reputation. But circumstances,
which at one time at least were within his
control, had determined another lot for him.
Just as he was struggling with temptation
and yielding, he again found a determining
factor he did not contemplate. A row got
up in the house in which he lodged in
the night, and a scuffle ensued ; and words
and blows were interchanged, and a great
tumult resulted ; which tried him sorely.
His temperament was timorous as well as
sensitive, and hated such scenes : yet if he
was to be poor he must of necessity often
encounter them. His real lack of moral
backbone came out at last. He went to
the bank, drew out the money, and left
his native land for ever. There was no one
to stop him : every trace of him would be
lost before any suspicion could be excited.

And the orphan girl ? He tried not to
think of her !

He got aboard a steamer for Antwerp ;
he sauntered along through Holland, seeking
in new scenery a refuge from his thoughts.
All trace of him was soon lost, had any one
been on his trail. He allowed his beard
to grow, which formed a pretty complete
disguise; and settled down in Bruges, — a
solitary Englishman. Here he strove to
bury his past.

CHAPTER XL

THE RIFT IN THE CLOUD.

When Edith Wharton returned home
from Stanmore she soon resumed her okl
habits ; reading, — and not reading, as is too
often the case, something pleasant to peruse,
but something which carried information
with it ; attending to her household affairs ;
and looking after the poor. She and Mrs.
Pryor had still continued their district-visiting
under the Eector s supervision ; butin
the winter, and alone, Mrs. Pryor had
followed her husband's counsel, and abandoned
it, till a suitable season. With the
advent of the spring they resumed their
labours ; and right welcome they were in
many a cottage. Miss AVharton now had
largely lost her girlishness, and was a mature

woman, with a bearing distinctly majestic.
Her experience had brought out her native
character; and this development revealed
itself in her bearing, and her carriage.

Ah, but shoo is a grand young teddy ! '
remarked old Hannah, whose faith in a
drop of gin and laudanum had startled
Miss Wharton in her early days of visiting
the poor. ' Shoo do carry lessen gradely ;
shoo do. Shoo reminds me o' her mother ;
only th' young teddy 's grander very
way than her mother wor. It's a fine
thin or to be i' th' Sooth.' The distress
which was so keenly felt in the manufacturing
districts did not press so heavily
on the agricultural districts. With them
there was poverty, but not famine. Still
there was enough of the pinch to make
many of them thankful for the material
relief which was thus afforded to them.
The ladies often bewailed their inability todo
more than their limited means permitted.
After leaving; a cottage where the
faces of its inmates were pale and thin,

and the housewife's gown was carefully
patched and darned, all telling of want of
means, Miss Wharton said :

I really think I must sell " Daisy ; "
the money would do these poor people so
much good ; and I am strong enough to
walk where I want to ofo.'

I am afraid your uncle would not like
you to do that, my dear,' replied Mrs.
Pryor. 'You know the old gentleman is
very proud of the position of the Wharton,
and jealous of the name.'

'Dear old uncle, so he is. But I can
only ask him, and hear what he has to say.'

Accordingly, it was not long before the
question was put to him, and it was
promptly answered. Whether the old
Squire had been upset by something which
had occurred, or he was suffering from
gouty pains, or what, he put on an asperity
he had never exhibited towards his niece
at any previous time.

Edith, my dear ! ' he commenced, ' I
have long wished to have some talk with

you. I wish to impress upon you that it is
necessary for all — ladies as much as men —
to pay some regard to their family ; to whom
they owe a duty. You have chosen to take
your own way about your engagement ;
and even when your lover gave you the
opportunity of breaking it off — he behaved
very properly there, I admit — you refused
to release him. I never approved of the
enoraorement from the first ; and when his
inability to keep you as a Wharton should
be kept, became apparent to him, he
abandoned all claim to your hand, I
understand, you refused to break off the
engagement. It is a trial to me to know
that my niece should be deciding on a
future position very different from the one
I had anticipated : but to that I must
submit myself. But to part with your
horse, and no longer be able to ride about
as befits your position, I cannot entertain
the suggestion, so pray put it away
from you ; and let me hear no more of
it.'

Edith listened with surprise to hear her
uncle express himself so decidedly, and felt
every word smite her. Her proud beauty
looked the haughtier at first ; but soon it
was evident that the rebuke, for such it
was, was too keen for her high-spirited and
sensitive nature. A tear came suddenly to
her eye, and she felt a fulness in her throat,
which, with a great effort, she gulped down,
while her anguish was visible in her features.
For a moment she could not command
herself to speak after he had concluded
his remark ; at last she said slowly :

Dear Uncle Edward, you have always
been a good and kind uncle to me, and it
grieves me to act against your wishes ; butin
so grave a matter as an engagement, a
girl must be allowed to consult her own
judgment. I am sorry you do not approve
my choice ; but it has been made deliberately,
and I cannot change it, even for you,
much as I owe you. But as to the other
matter, I think you have a right to ask me
to consult your wishes, and I will keep

Daisy.' It was a simple speech, and yet
it cost Edith Wharton a mighty effort
to utter it. Her feelings ran high ; first,
her profound regard for her uncle, and her
desire not to displease him ; second, her
fealty to the man she had chosen ; they
contended for mastery, and in this tumult
of emotion speech was embarrassed. Consequently
her answer was not a happy one ;
it wounded her uncle, she could see ; while
she was anxious above all things to avoid
doing so. There was an assertiveness of
her right of action, which, natural enough
in a young woman of her culture and vigour
of thought, was far from agreeable to an
old-fashioned Squire ; who held that a lady
should marry according to the wishes of her
family rather than her own preferences.
Had she been less perturbed her speech
might have been softened ; and afterwards
she regretted that her speech had not been
less harsh. Her uncle never desired anything
but what he firmly believed was for
her good ; and she ought to have made

allowances for him, she said to herself — too
late to be of any avail.

The old Squire did not know what was
going on in his niece's mind ; he only heard
her spoken words, and they angered him
grievously.

You can oblige me about a horse, Edie,
because you think I have a right to be
consulted in such a matter ; but you could
not consult me about your engagement.'
The Squire was evidently deeply hurt.
She saw that ; and feeling that her self-command
was going, kissing her uncle
■ she bade him ' good morning ; ' and hastened
out of the room, — to yield to a burst of
weeping. Her uncle did not observe her
emotion, and hastily concluded that she
was in a temper ; as she had an infirmity
of that nature, he knew. It was one of
those unfortunate occurrences which can
only be regretted, — for they can scarcely
ever be rectified. When a difference is
founded upon an idea of the mental attitude
of another in those times which mark

departures in conduct, it is next to impossible
to bridge over the solution in continuity :
the impression remains, and each time the
subject is thought about the impression is
engraved deeper, instead of being effaced.
Edith saw the wrong impression she had
made ; and, bitterly as she grieved over it,
she could see no way of correcting it. She
took an early opportunity of riding up to
Gaythorne Hall on Daisy ; but when her
uncle came to the door to speak to her,
there was a reserve about him he had never
exhibited to her before ; and which she felt
keenly. His admiration of Daisy seemed
to her to carry some soupqon of reproach in
it ; and when she rode away she felt deeply
pained at the estrangement which had
sprung up betwixt her uncle and herself.
The inability to recall the spoken word ;
the impossibility of explanation in the presence
of an air of distance, forced themselves
upon her ; and she was very wretched.
It was evident that her uncle thought she
was wilful and headstrong; and yet she

knew well what her decision had cost her.
Her uncle, who had been almost a father to
her, had been wounded by her conduct ; yet
she could not explain all to him. There
exists in many persons a mixture of pride
and shyness, which blended produces a
hauteur, that forms a species of fence which
keeps others at a distance ; and when this
exists on both sides it requires something
little short of a miracle to break the ice.
In Edith AVharton and her uncle alike this
blended condition was pronounced ; and
the breach between them remained, — giving
a restraint to both when in each other's
presence. Such a condition is not uncommonly
met with ; and is fraught with future
misunderstandings, and from those again
further estrangement. The course of truelove
never runs smooth ! However, in
the face of no opportunity of healing the
breach offering itself, Edith Wharton waited
patiently.

After Mr. Carlyon and his daughter May
came to reside at Or ton Hall, the Pryors

called upon them, and the acquaintance
soon deepened into a solid friendship.
There was so much common ground belonging
to both, that this can readily be
understood. Mr. Carlyon went heartily
into the Eector's philanthropic schemes ;
and it was not long before a small but suitable
school-house was built at Satanstoe ;
and the schoolmaster, (of whom Lord
Brougham had spoken so hopefully,) was
introduced as a civilizing agent amonof the
colliers ; and formed an important adjunct
to the Rector's efforts to improve the
backward hamlet. Mr. Carlyon endowed
the school with land to an amount that
secured the schoolmaster a practical independence
of the natives ; without which
his authority would have been about as
valid as a shadow. Whenever there was
a really deserving case of distress the Rector
was always sure of some aid from Orton
Hall. Miss Carlyon and Mrs. Pryor found
further a feminine common ground, which
rapidly cemented their friendship ; and

this was domestic economy, or otherwise,
in a homelier phrase, housekeeping. Their
views coinciding on this essential subject,
the ladies found much genuine pleasure in
each other s society ; while Edith Wharton
listened with the liveliest interest to all
that was said, from the best method of
boiling a ham up to clear-starching.

Little experiences from their visiting
escaped the two ladies when at Or ton Hall
from time to time, and Miss Carlyon begged
to be permitted to join them in their
visiting. After consultation with her
father, and his sanction being obtained, she
was admitted to the alliance ; and a very
helpful auxiliary she was found. Her
purse was better lined than those of her
coUaboratrices ; a fact which the Yorkshire
mind of Brigstone quickly realized ; but
the meditated raids upon it by some of
the more self-seeking part of the community
were foiled by her shrewd good sense.

My, bud shoo knows what's what, tho'
shoo do come fra th' Sooth. You'll non

git over leur in a hurry,' was the ornament
of one matron who had made up her mind
to utilize Miss Carlyon ; but had found it
easier said than done, as she expressed it.

A useful life it was, and not lacking inhuman
interest ; and Edith Wharton waited
till the advent of better times with patience
and courage ; and helped George Ash worth
to endure his lot with sweet comfort and
consolation ; her letters telling him of her
occupation, and her steadfastness. And a
long trial it was. The bad times told on
him, and limited his earnings ; and so, to
keep up his payments, he stinted himself
still further. In one of her letters Edith
had asked him to pay them a visit at
Fowrass Grange, and make the acquaintance
of the Carlyons, — who wished to know
him. In answer to this portion of her
letter he replied : * As to coming to see
you at present I simply am not in a position
to come. My best coat is so threadbare
I am scarcely fit for polite society ;
and I see no prospect for a couple of

VOL. III. T

months of anything better. I must have,
if only for business purposes, a new suit
for the winter ; and if the Carlyons are
still in the North when it has become a
fact, I shall be glad to pay you a visit.'
Her lover's cheerful way of regarding his
poverty always made Edith proud of him ;
and when the subject was next mentioned,
she explained :

George has not got a coat fit to appear
in ; but when he does become presentable,
he will pay us a visit.'

It was a warm summer day ; and as the
highbred girl, in all her beauty, spoke thus,
the eye instinctively wandered to her own
attire. She would gladly have practised a
stricter economy than she did ; but she
knew her Uncle Edward expected her to
dress in a manner becoming her station ; and
she complied with his wishes — rather than
consulted her own tastes in the matter of
her dress. It consisted of a substantial
black silk, over which she wore the pelerine
of lace then fashionable. Her hat was of

straw, with the three feathers then still
more fashionable, from the expectation of
an heir to the throne. There was nothing
about her to indicate that she was likely to
feel proud of her lover's poverty ; and yet
there was a light in her golden irides that
made them indeed look shot with sunbeams.

Mr. and May Carlyon, with all their
substantial comfort around them, looked at
the speaker ; and saw that the bareness o f
his wardrobe was not grievous to George
Ashworth's sweetheart.

His duty to his either will cover a
threadbare coat,' said the old gentleman
pleasantly : and then he looked grave. He
was thinking of the strict social lines by
which he was precluded from putting an
end to George Ashworth's trial. He had
brought his influence to bear wherever he
could, and that meant extensively, to aid
the young surveyor ; and lived in the hope
of being of more service to him in the
future. And in those days when schemes
of railroads were afoot, despite the times, a

T 2

capitalist had it in his power to help a
surveyor ; and help considerably. And Mr.
Carlyon did his best.

The old Squire had called upon his new-neighbours,
like others of the local gentry,
for they were pleased to have such neighbours
; and the two old gentlemen got on
better than might, a priori, have been
expected from the diversity of their views
on some important, and at that time burning
questions. The alliance was quite as
good as the old Squire even could have
expected; for the Carlyons were a good
family, and though Mr. Carlyon, as a banker,
was a commercial man, banking stood at
the head of the list of businesses. And
wealth is not usually regarded as a drawback
to its possessors ; even in countries
professedly Christian ! And when the
Squire reflected that the Carlyons were
involved in his niece's conduct in the
matter of her engagement, his resentment
was fanned. He did not relish the
idea of an appropriate marriage being

deferred to what he regarded as self-willed
caprice.

It was very far from pleasant for Edith
Wharton to feel, as time wore on, that she
was a species of family marplot, and a
hindrance. To a girl of her disposition,
such a position was more irksome, more
severely trying, than a more material ordeal
would have been. But when she thought
the matter over, what could she do ? She
could no more help the bad harvests, and
dull trade, than could any other unit of the
myriads who felt them keenly. She had
determined upon a course of action ; and
having done so, after due deliberation, it
was unnecessary to reconsider her decision.
She felt her position acutely all the same.
It was little consolation that she said to
herself such trials are good for the development
of character ; and the result is good.
But a result of fine issues, though a grand
thing to contemplate, is not a perfect solace
for the weary hours which have to be passed
before the accomplishment is possible. The

estrangement which had sprung up betwixt
herself and her uncle added much to her
internal disquiet ; and though her face wore
its wonted calm, an uneasy soul lay behind
it. Her conduct was right and proper in the
main was her great defence to herself ; that
her speech to her uncle was unfortunate,
was a fact of which she was acutely sensible.
And a change came over Squire Wharton
after the flight of Stephen Oldfield. The
circumstances under which it took place
grieved the old Squire very severely. He
had always thought well of him as a lad,
and been friendly to him as a man ; he
would willingly have seen him more closely
connected with the Wharton, and was distinctly
disappointed when his niece declined
his suit. When misfortune overtook him,
Gaythorne Hall had been his home as long
as he cared to stay. He had applauded
OldfielcVs attempts to find something to do ;
and now, what 1 All he could do was to
bewail the hard fortune which had driven
him to an act of dishonesty; had sent him

somewhere an exile from his native land,
as a fraudulent trustee. Where he might
he, or what he might be doing, no one
knew. Not a trace of him remained. For
some time rumour was engaged with the
fact that nothing was heard of him ; but
that was nothing. After a time came a
letter for him, which was returned through
the post-office. Then came a letter to his
solicitors, asking for the money owing on
account of his ward. Inquiry elicited the
facts that the trust-money had disappeared ;
and the trustee with it. It was impossible
any longer for the most sceptical to question
what had occurred. The Squire not only
grieved over the occurrence, — but his faith
in humanity seemed to have suffered a
severe shake therefrom; while his confidence
in his own power to judge character
correctly had been rudely staggered. He,
too, suffered much internal disquiet which
had a bad effect upon his health. He
fell into a low form of gout, which rendered
him irritable and depressed, and

consequently a trial to all around him. He
did not seem able to shake the attack off,
as he had done on previous occasions.
He began to take a gloomy view of himself,
and asserted that he was breaking up.
And the old Squire was not the only person
of that way of thinking. The old doctor,
the Rector, his own man of business, all
concurred that he seemed as if it were
only a matter of time with him. He did
not like being left alone, and had Mrs.
Allonby with him for hours ; pouring his
troubles into her ear, — with a lack of his
wonted reserve. In health the old Squire
would never have broached his family
affairs, or discussed the conduct of other
members of his family with any one in
his service. But in the long winter evenings,
when left alone, he had nothing todo,
for he was not well enough to read,
as had been his practice, and fell into
the habit of talking to Mrs. Allonby.
Gradually, bit by bit, by slow degrees, he
grew more and more confidential. Had

he had any conjecture, when he commenced,
the length to which his confidence would
ultimately reach, he would scarcely have
believed it. But we grow weak mentally
after prolonged bodily infirmity. In the
presence of others the old Squire ' pulled
himself together,' as he termed it, and
seemed to have lost little of his mental
vigour. But it was far otherwise when
in privacy. The mind forms grooves or
channels in which it runs habitually, and
broods over unpleasant topics ; indeed
dwells upon such disagreeable matters to
the exclusion of healthier and more desirable
subjects of thought. It is in these
hours of weakness that the mind rests
upon its wrongs, its hardships, and its
trials. The Squire grieved over Oldfield's
lapse into crime, — crime of an unusual
degree of baseness ; then he dwelt on his
lonely condition, for the Carlyons had gone
south ; the Rector had many demands
upon his time ; and though his nephew
and niece spent much of the day with

him, they even could not be with him
in the evenings. Mrs. Allonby was his
only companion for hours habitually in
the evenings. The Squire used to refer to
his nephew's engagement, and wished he
and Miss Carlyon would get married in his
own lifetime. This of course led up to
the reason of the delay, and Miss Wharton's
conduct ; which her uncle regarded as
stubbornness.

It is the Marston blood in her,' he would
conclude ; and Mrs. Allonby would assent to
the conclusion heartily. She quite shared
her master's objection to the engagement as
unworthy of the Wharton connection ; and
grew to be very angry at Miss Wharton
causing her uncle so much disquietude.
That the latter did not know of it made no
difference. The restraint which now existed
between the Squire and his niece was an
effectual barrier to any explanation or understanding
; and, like many another family
difficulty, this dragged on without any prospect
of a satisfactory solution. No improvement

took place in the Squire's health
during the cold spring winds ; and Mrs.
Allons was beginning to feel the effects of
her long nursing-experience upon her own
health. She was not so strong as she once
was ; and had beo^un to indulge somewhat in
stimulants to keep her up in the evenings.
Not that she was intemperate : all her life
she had been very abstemious, but when the
tax of nursing came upon her she felt at
times the need of * something ' : and this
something was alcoholic. Not that she
ever went to any excess ; but she found a
little spirits and water comforting in the
evening, and as a nightcap. Probably this
had a somewhat injurious effect upon her;
but of this she was ignorant. As the
old Squire sat alone with his housekeeper,
he began to discuss his will ; for, like a
true, old-fashioned north-countryman, he
deferred that step till the time seemed
approaching when it was becoming imperative,
and could no longer be delayed.
Miss Wharton's engagement had now

existed some years, and though George
Ash worth had paid off a considerable portion
of the debt for which he was responsible ;
it was understood some time longer would
be essential to the complete discharge of
the whole sum. Consequently the Squire's
irritation in no way abated. He never
referred to the matter in her presence ; but
gained his information from John, when
alone. Consequently, when dwelling upon
the matter, his anger against his niece waxed
sterner ; and he determined to take measures
to punish her. He would not leave her the
canal-shares : he made up his mind to that.
He had the power to deal with them in the
absence of the original settlement ; and he
would exercise his right. He would leave
them to John Wharton's eldest girl — for,
of course there would be a family, no one
for a moment questioned that — her father
to have the advantage of them during her
minority. The yearly allowance he made
his niece was to be continued during her
lifetime. The Squire was not utterly

vindictive : but Asliworth never was to
benefit by the Wharton connection ; he was
determined upon that. His niece should be
placed beyond the possibility of absolute
want ; but nothing more. She had pleased
herself about her choice ; and her uncle was
determined he would please himself in the
disposition of his effects. He had even
begun to decide upon having a draught
copy of his will drawn up for perusal. But
though he had decided upon what he would
do, the decision was not made without many
a regret that he was acting as he did ; he
was driven to it by his niece's obstinacy :
he would infinitely rather act otherwise,
but he had no choice, — he said to himself.
How much he disliked what he was about
to do was evident ; yet he went on with his
purpose without wavering from the main
issue. One day he thought his conduct
harsh: another day he felt quite justified
about what he was going to do ; it was right,
and his duty to the name of Wharton. His
views changed daily, accordingly as he felt ;

as an invalid is ever swayed by subjective
sensations.

Mrs. Allonby was in the habit of lingering
a little while in her own room after
leaving the Squire for the night, and talking
to her niece, Mary Jessop. She in turn
talked confidentially of the Squire's difficulties
; and how hard it was for him to see
his niece so wilful after all his kindness to her
in past times, and even then, ill as he was.

It's a thousand pities,' she said, ' to see
til' ould gentleman so put about. He frets
till he makes himself ill. If Miss Edith was
engaged to some one he approved of, it
would put his mind at ease ; and he'd get
well. Her conduct is most wilful. It's the
Marston blood, Mary, th' ould Squire alius
says ; and I think he is right. I remember
her mother well. She was a fine, well setup
woman ; quite a lady, and far-learned, by
what I alius understood. The Squire was
very fond of her company ; they and the
two chiltern used to chatter away i' French
I could nivver mak' out what they said.

But she was a woman who had a will of
her own, and knew it. She never liked
me, I knew.'

How was that ? ' asked her niece,
curiously.

I don't know. She was alius kind tome

when th' ould housekeeper was here ;

but whether she thought I was to' young

for the place, or she aroused the Squire

thought too much o' me, or she wanted

some one else of her own choosing to be

housekeeper here ; I nivver could mak' out

rightly. I used to keep out of her way.

But I paid her out for it. I had my

revenge. There's a many things you may

do if you bide your time, and watch your

chance. She little suspected what I had

done for her and hers. It's time for ye

to go to bed, Mary; girls should alius be

i' bed in good time. Get me my cannel,

while I put these things away.'

Such was the gist of her conversation
before she went to bed many a night. For
she, too, found her mind running in grooves.

like her master's. Mental attitudes are
infective ; as the Convulsionaires of the
middle ages demonstrate. And perhaps
Chartism was not altogether without such
mental contagiousness. For a few days
she seemed far from well ; the wind had
kept in the east, and the old Squire felt
worse, and required more attention ; which
his housekeeper willingly gave him, despite
her own infirmities. Bulman was most
attentive, and slept in the Squire's dressing-room,
and waited on him in the night ; but
no one but Mrs. Allonby would he have
with him in the evening when inclined to
talk confidentially. One night she seemed
very concerned about the Squire's trouble,
and talked loser than usual to her niece.
At last she sent her to bed, and followed
herself. Next morning, however, when
Mary Jessop carried her up her morning
cup of tea, — which she had begun to find
necessary in order to dress herself readily,
she found the bed had never been disturbed.
Wherever had her aunt gone ? she could

not conceive. Her alarm soon communicated
itself to the rest of the household, and
a search was made throughout the house.
At last she was discovered in a spare bedroom,
scarcely ever used, and containing
some old-fashioned furniture. Among the
rest was an ancient bureau ; the drawers
were filled with linen, little in use, while
the upper portion was never used. But
now it stood open, showing its little drawers
and pigeon-holes, all empty. Little attention
was given to the fact just then ; fur
Mrs. Allonby lay upon the floor unconscious,
speechless, with her right side
paralyzed. The candle, placed on the
top of the bureau, had burnt itself out.
How long she had been there no one could
conjecture ; but probably all night. She
could, of course, tell nothing ; for though
she lingered a day or two, she never spoke,
or indeed seemed to regain any consciousness
whatever. In her hand was found an old
dusty, discoloured parchment document.
When Bulman came to look at it, he saw it

VOL. III. u

was an article of value, and took charge of it.
The old Squire was so shocked at the event
that he kept his bed, and seemed very ill
indeed : so ill, that he gave instructions for
his lawyer to be sent for ; and gave him a
sketch of how he wished his will to be framed.

As the man of law was taking his
departure, Bulman told him how Mrs.
Allonby had been found on the floor with an
old deed in her hand. He asked to see it.

Why, bless me,' he said, ' this is the
original settlement of his mother. Miss
Eolieston ; that was lost when Squire Charles
died ! Let me see where it has been.'

Bulman led him to the room, and opening
the lid of the bureau, which had been closed
down ; explained how it was found.

It's been hid there somewhere. There
is often a secret drawer, or hiding-place in
these old things. They were fond of concealment
in the old days. I wonder what
the secret here is.'

After making a careful search without
avail, the man of law said :

Fetch me a stick, Bulman ! '

The latter complied ; and with the stick
the astute lawyer measured the depth of the
bureau ; then measured that of the pigeon-holes.
There was a difference of an .


Depend upon it, these pigeon-holes take
out ; I have seen that kind of thing before,'
he said; and taking hold of the thing by
two of the partitions, he pulled gently, and
the whole piece came out. Placing the deed
at the back, he replaced the framework.
There it is ! That document has been
lying there since 1816. That was when it
was missed. I have often heard old Mr.
Wordsworth talk about it ; and how mysteriously
it disappeared. It was a severe blow
to the reputation of the firm of Jeffcock and
Wordsworth, he always made out. Well, to
be sure ; and here it is at last ! I wonder
whatever made old Mrs. Allonby hide it so
safely ; and still more what has made her
look it out now ? '

He thought the matter over carefully after

o ^

U 2

he got back to his office ; and at last bringing
his fist down upon his desk, he exclaimed :

Depend upon it, she has not wanted
Mrs. Francis's children to benefit by these
shares. Whatever could be her motive ?
Some woman's matter, I'll be bound. She
has had some grudge against Mrs. Francis ;
whatever it was. And now when the
Squire is about making his will, she gets it
out. I know the old Squire did not approve
of his niece's engagement ; and the instructions
in his will about the disposal of these
shares, tell that he was going to act as if
this document had gone for ever. Depend
upon it, she went for it to destroy it ; and
then the Squire's will would have stood
good. Queer thing a woman's mind ! The
discovery will alter that portion of the will.
I must wait a day or two till the Squire is
better before I tell it to him. There will be
no harm in my telling John Wharton though,
without delay ! '

And this conjecture is all the light that
was ever thrown on the mysterious subject.

CHAPTER Nil

THE NEW RUBBER.

When John Wharton heard of the recovery
of the long-lost settlement, his
surprise was attended by a Houston of
delight, — which can easily be understood.
He was glad his sister was now in a position
to marry : and that meant his own marriage.
He had behaved admirably, and so had May
Carlyon during the period of trial, and bore
it patiently ; all the same they were not
sorry when they heard that the time of
waiting was over.

When the solicitor deemed it prudent to
acquaint the Squire with the discovery of
the long-lost document, he listened very
calmly. His first question was :

Am I not responsible to my niece for the

whole of the income of the shares for six
years back ? '

Yes ; that is the law.'

Then how am 1 to raise the money ? I
had begun to think the settlement gone forever
; and I have been liberal about my rents
these hard times. I don't think T have the
money.'

'Oh we will see about that We will
not decide upon anything just now, but
wait till you are a little stronger.'

I was wrong not to have given up the
shares ; at least at the time my niece came
of age. I ought to have done that. No
good has come of my holding them ; and
not mine all the time ! I have been keeping
Edie out of her own. God knows, I had
no suspicion that the deed was in existence ! '

The poor old gentleman was most contrite,
and anxious to make amends for what he
had done. By the light of the recovery
of the deed, he read Mrs. Allonby's agreement
with him about the disposal of these
shares differently from what he had hitherto

done. He remembered that his sister-in-law
did not seem very delighted at his retaining
Mrs AUonbyin her position of housekeeper;
and that Mrs. AUouby kept out of the way
when Mrs. Francis was about, — though she
showed every attention to the children.
He now thought that some ill-feeling must
have prompted her to make away with the
deed at the time. Rut that all these years
she should have known of the existence of
the settlement, and concealed the fact, gave
the old gentleman another aspect of Mrs.
Allonby's character from the one he had
always held.

She must have had some want of principle
about her, that she kept well out of
sight. To think of letting me use the
money as my own, when she knew different.
And knowing about the deed, to say nothing
when I talked about my will ! ' The
old Squire realized that there are some
things in the female mind inscrutable to
the male intelligence : a discovery most
men make, sooner or later.

How the Squire met his niece may be
best told by a passage from one of her
letters to George Ashworth, announcing
the recovery of the settlement, — and the
effect this would have upon themselves.

When I went up to his room he was
in his arm-chair, looking very thin and
worn ; but saying that he felt better. When
he came to tell me how sorry he was that
all these years he had kept me out of my
own, he quite broke down. Dear old
uncle, I never saw him break down before ;
he actually cried, and said he would make
what amends he could. That this was a
judgment on him, though how I failed to
see ; I was so sorry for him. He explained
that he had been liberal to his farmers in
these hard times, and that his amount at
his bankers was consequently small. But
he wrote me a cheque for £1000, saying:
That will start you in housekeeping, Edie."
His hand shook so he could scarcely fill
it up and sign it. But he looked so
pleased when he had done ; and said it

was a load off his mind. After he was
more composed he said : " Edie, T am due
you the balance of the income for six years
back, legally ; but, morally, I am due you
more than that : I will see what I can do.
Rio;ht is ricrht ! I am not goings to defraud
my own niece. That would not be a
Wharton." He really seemed relieved.'

From which it will be seen that Squire
Wharton was what a Wharton ought to
be. And the clearing up of the matter,
combined with a change in the weather,
produced the very best effect upon the
genial, kindly Squire ; who soon grew strong,
and able to get about. Then he drove out
in his carriage ; and talked of putting it
down, in order to economize, and pay his
niece what was due to her. But it is needless
to say that urgent remonstrances where
made to this.

I will ask Carlyon about it when he
comes north ; ' and so the matter waited
for awhile. When the two met, the old
Squire propounded the difficulty to the

old banker, explaining : ' You see, if I leave
Edie the money as a charge on the property,
it is taking so much from Jack. It's only
robbing Peter to pay Paul. I should like
to save it. I spent her money ; I ought to
make it up.' The old banker allowed the
Squire to exhaust his list of arguments ;
knowing full well how useless it would be
to suggest anything till the Squire had
got to the length of his tether. When this
was reached, and the Squire's final conclusion
was : * I am getting old now ; and
shall not go much from home ; I do not
want my carriage and horses. If I do
away with them I can clear off the money
in three or four years, if I live as long.'
The old banker took up the conversation : —
I do not think that that would be quite
prudent, Mr. Wharton : I am sure you need
the carriage for the exercise your health
requires. You see you cannot well walk
much ; and exercise is good. Ask the
doctor. It will never hurt your nephew
what his sister gets. I am sure he will

approve of your making the money a charge
on the estate. I am sure that is what he
would like, and it is what my daughter
would like ; and, I may add, what I myself
would like. Providence has been very
bountiful to me. I am well endowed with
this world's goods. Your nephew is anxious
that all my property should be strictly
secured to my daughter : which is very
honourable of him. It will be more
probably than he has any idea of ; and if
there is a charge on the Wharton property
to his sister, he will not find it burdensome.'

And then the two kind-hearted old
gentlemen had a confidential conversation
on ways and means ; and how they wished
to provide for those that came after them ;
which brought out the good, unselfish
qualities of each, and made them fast friends
for life.

As the old Squire enjoyed the homeward
drive in his carriage, he thought :

How uncommon nicely Carlyon put the
matter : and, after all. I should get on

badly without my carriage. I have been
accustomed to it so long, I should miss it
sorely. And yet, after all, it seems as if
it was Carlyon's carriage, and not mine.'

Here he winced a little : the pride of
the AVhartons was touched. When his
nephew came to hear of how the two had
settled the difficulty, he said to his fiancee :
He is a wonderful man for getting things
his own way, that good old father of yours.
He must have felt his way marvellously to
get round Uncle Edward as he did. It
would have been a pity to have allowed
him to put down his carriage ; and so
utterly unnecessary too ! It was astute
of him to get my uncle's promise to keep
it : he will not break his promise, that is
certain.' So that matter was all arran-ed
most amicably : and preparations were
pushed forward for the double marriage
to take place soon. George Ash worth had
not got his new coat in time to see the
Carlyons, and it had got a little worn
before he came to visit Orton Hall ; but

nobody seemed to notice it. When he
was introduced to the Carlyons the impression
made was mutual. He and Edith
Wharton looked not only a very handsome
couple ; but there was something uncommon,
even distinguished, about them. After they
had left, May Carlyon said :

I don't wonder at her refusing to give
him up. He is a man a girl may well be
ready to wait for. And as to his keeping
John and myself waiting, I am sure 1 am
o-lad enouo'li to have waited to get such a
brother-in-law.'

I am very glad, my dear, to hear you
say so. He is a very able, clear-sighted man,
who sees his way wonderfully,' replied her
father. ' I think it will be a good investment
for me to advance him some money ;
and it would be of great advantage to him
to be able to command some at present.
Only how must I go about it ? '

And the old banker's opinion was fully
justified. They came to an understanding
and George Ashwoith took a step forward

hit a very critical time. His views were in
advance of the other members of the firm,
so that a dissolution of partnership was
agreed upon ; and thus with his hands free
he started an office of his own, and gathered
around liii a competent staff; and work
came in fact as soon as times took a turn.
What with his own capacities and Mr.
Carlyon's co-operation, he soon gained a
prominent position ; and when a year or two
after this the great development of railways
came about, there was no man in greater
demand than George Ash worth. If he had
a long acquaintance with economy, he also
came into intimate terms with affluence ;
and men that knew him said he deserved
all he got.

The wedding was an event for Brigstone.
The Rector got another cleric to help him
through the ceremony ; while Mrs. Pryor
had the church decorated with evergreens
and flowers. So many carriages and pairs,
private and hired, had never been seen in
Brigstone before. The brides were dressed

precisely alike, except the flowers in their
hair. Edith Wharton wore myrtle leaves
with the orange wreath in her golden tresses :
while May Carlyle had jasmine flowers
with it, contrasting with her darker locks.
The dresses were of white satin ; and two
tall handsome brides they where. Nor were
the bridegrooms inferior to them. Squire
Wharton looked quite young and active for
his years, despite his staff", when he gave his
niece away. Mr. Carlyon was as quiet and
composed as usual. The ceremony soon was
over ; and when the brides signed their
maiden names for the last time, they had
no mi si vinous.

And times did change. A demand sprang
up for manufactured goods ; and the rusty
spindles and idle looms of Lancashire were
once more spinning and weaving, — with
clatter and life around the mills. The
harvest of 1842 was a bounteous one, and
the earth smiled with abundance for all.
The harvest weather was propitious ; and as
old Squire Wharton watched the harvest

operations he repeated Lis favourite line,

Over the waving corn the lusty reapers bend.'
There were no questions after this as to
food ; there was enough and to spare, and
what was more, there was the money to
purchase it. Wages were good ; and though
the wilder section of the Chartists still practised
arson here and there, and perpetrated
an occasional outrage, — the full stomach
told upon them, and they quieted down.

The country recovered from the terror
which had oppressed it ; though the dread
of the Chartists did not clear away entirely
for years. The Chartists ceased to attract
the attention they once excited ; and the
Anti-Corn agitation took hold of the public
mind. Improving trade enabled the manufacturers
to subscribe liberally to the funds
of the movement, and the agitation was
vigorous and energetic. Ebenezer Elliott's
well-known hymn —

Free trade, like religion, hath doctrines of love,
And the promise of plenty and health ;

It proclaims, while the angels look down from above,
The marriage of Labour and Wealth ' —

was sung far and wide wherever the crusading
lecturers went. And the returning
prosperity made them welcome wherever a
long chimney could be seen. After a long,
arduous struggle their efforts were crowned
with success ; and no tax on bread any
longer dwarfed the growing children of
Great Britain. What effect the removal
of the Corn Laws has had upon the physique,
as well as the morals of the people,
may be gathered from a passage in the
preface to * Yeast ' written by the Rev.
Charles Kingsley, — the ' Parson Lot ' of the
Chartists of a later day. The effects of
free trade, he wrote, were palpable. ' The
politician who wishes to know the effect on
agricultural life of that wise and just measure,
may find it in Mr. Grey of Milton's answer
to the French Government. The country
parson will not need to seek so far. He
will see it (if he be an observant man) in
the faces and figures of his school-children.
He will see a rosier, fatter, bigger-boned
race growing up, which bids fair to

VOL. IIL X

surpass in bulk the puny and ill-fed generation
of 1815-45, and equal perhaps in thew
and sinew to the men who saved Europe
in the old French war.' Such was Canon
Kingsley's opinion, and it is one which
must command the respect of all. What
was the effect of a sufficiency of food upon
the starving populations of towns, requires
not to be told.

To return to Brigstone. The Squire felt
very lonely in Gaythorne Hall while his
nephew and his niece were away on their
wedding tours. John and May Wharton
went to visit together scenes to which he
often referred in his conversation, to wit, the
towns of the Low Countries. George and
Edith Ashworth went into the West of
England, where some work was going on
which required his personal supervision.
The old Squire found in Mr. Carlyon a
neighbour whose society, — the Corn Law
agitation notwithstanding, — he thoroughly
enjoyed : while the Eector and Mrs. Pry or
often visited him. Still he wished for some

society at home — some one to whom he could
talk his mind ; but it must be no menial,
he was clear about that. Mrs. Pryor corresponded
with Miss Oldfield, and one day,
in a letter, spoke of the Squire's wishes.
To her surprise, she received this reply :
Tell the good old Squire that I am looking
out for a place. I find the tax of my
ward upon my slender funds more than
I can bear, and must look out for something.
I should be glad to come to Gay-thorn
Hall. There would be many things
which will call up sorrowful memories ; but
I must try not to think of them. If he
will take me, it would help me in a duty
I owe to one who has many claims upon
me.' She broached the matter to the
Squire ; and when he heard the latter
portion of her letter, he decided at once
to close with her offer.

She is a brave girl trying her best to
compensate her brother's injury. 1 shall be
delighted to help her ; and it is a godsend
to me.' So Maria Oldfield once more came

X 2

into the circle which centred in Gaythorne
Hall : and found her position on the whole
much pleasant than she anticipated. Yet
when she drove out with the Squire, and
her eye took in familiar scenes, she must
have had many bitter memories. But these
she kept to herself.

Whatever had become of her brother was
never known for certain. Once when John
Wharton and his wife were standing in the
Grand Place of Bruges under the tall belfry,
listening to the chimes, he saw a figure
emerge from the Cafe Suisse, which struck
him as that of Stephen Oldfield. He said
nothing to his wife ; but on asking in the
cafe who the man was whom he had noticed,
he was told it was a 'Mr. Grey, an Englishman.
A very reserved man, who took
an occasional pupil, more for amusement
than the money he so procured. That he
was respected by all who knew him ; and
that he was a very well-informed man,
especially in all matters political.' That

was all. Probably Mr. Grey and Stephen
Oldfield were one.

Years rolled on prosperously and peacefully
with all ; the old Squire seeming to
take a new lease of life under his new
domestic surroundings. Little folks came
to visit him, little grand-nephews and nieces,
always welcome. Miss Oldfield seemed to
delight in them even more than the Squire
himself. Old Mr. Carlyon still visited
Buxton in the summer, and wore well ;
leaving all public life permanently when
the repeal of the Corn Laws was secured.
The children were also fond of going over to
Fowrass Grange, and seeing Daisy with a
foal at her foot.

Take care, barns,' Luke would say, ' an'
don't hurt th' foal, an' then Daisy won't
hurt you. She's as wise as a body ; an' knows
rest an' wrong as weel as we do morsels.'


Whenever Mrs. Ashworth came to the
Grange she always took Daisy a biscuit,

and she and her whilom steed were on
the most affectionate terms. Whenever she
placed one of the children on Daisy's back,
the little nag seemed quite proud.

Luke Ell wood soon farmed the Grange
Farm, and was once again a substantial
farmer. Fowrass Grange was let to a quiet
couple, friends of Mr. Carlyon. A peaceful
sylvan scene it is now, — telling nothing of
the stories which have been described in
these pages.

Samuel Holbury died in York Castle
before his term of imprisonment expired.
Before he died he stated that the man who
murdered Tom Earnshaw was a gipsy mate
of his, who owed Tom a grudge. He was
an old poacher, who easily took his shotgun
in two, and placed the stock in one
big pocket and the barrel in another ; and
was the plague of all the gamekeepers
around. Tom had caught him ; and after
leaving the prison the poacher waited for
his revenge. He found it ; and himself died

a violent death in the riot at Newport ;
after which Holbury could reveal the facts.
Dan Appleyard was cleared of all the
suspicion which had hung around him,
much to his self-satisfaction.

Old Jim Woodcock still toiled away, and
made shoes for the little Wharton s ; but his
back was bowing when he last had a chat
with ' Mr. John as he termed him : and in
the ensuing winter Jim went over to the
majority with an attack of bronchitis.

John Wharton and Mr. Carlyon got on
very well together at Orton Hall ; and when
his sister and George Ashworth came to
visit them, the old hall rang with youthful
voices, — while their seniors talked over old
times.

At other times the gathering was at
Gaythorne Hall ; and after learning to know
George Ashworth, the old Squire gave it
as his deliberate opinion one day to
himself: 'Edie always had a good head,
and knew what she was doing. Egad !

Ashworth is a fine fellow. I don't wonder
that she would not give him up. Women
sometimes see their way clearer than those
who imagine they ought to think for them.'
Which showed great liberality in an old
bachelor, and an old-fashioned Tory Squire.

THE END.

CLAY AND TAYLOR, Printers, BUiNOAV, sUiiOLK.

Hues & BLACKETT'S

STANDARD LIBRARY.

LONDON:

13, GREAT Marlborough STREET, W

&

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OP

POPULAR MODERN WORKS.

ILLUSTRATED BY

Sir John Gilbert, J. E. Millais, Holman Hunt, Birket Foster,

John Leech, John Tenniel, J. Laslett Foot, etc.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 6s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking.
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in its
present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommendations
of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being well
illustrated and elegantly bound." — Morning Post.

IL— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"The now and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and
this his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

This story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum,

IIL— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is its
reverent and serious spirit." — Quarterly Review.

"Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The 'Realities of Eastern
Tr-uvel ' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest;
while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in his
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how much he enjoyed these reliefs from
the ennui of every-day liie."— Globe.

IV.— Nathaniel

JULIA KAVANAGH.

"'Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her which
are as individual as they are elegant. We should not soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place ' Nathalie ' high among
books of its class." — Athenaeum.

v.— A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These thoughts are good and humane. They are thoughts we would wish women to
think : they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and daughters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark the
progress of opinion, and indicate a higher tone of character, and a juster estimate of
woman's position." — Athenaeum.

-'This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit"— J/o;«i«j/ Pest.

VI.— ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

' Adam G-raeme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland ' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed"— J/on«»(7
Most.

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimens of light literature that ever
have been written." — Messenger.

Vii— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Some and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Woman
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
and geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented ic Papal domination."
Athenaeum.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Craik. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to
say, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The
reader, having read the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal. The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English." —
Athenaeum.

' A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class. The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand ; the events are dramatically set forth : the descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned; moreover, the work has an object — a clearly
defined moral— most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core"— Morning Most.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

"A book which has afforded us no slight gratification. " — Athenaeum.

From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very
pleasant reading." — Spectator.

•' A more agreeable and entertaining book has not been published since Boswell produced
his reminiscences of Johnson." — Observer.

XI.— MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " THE VALLEY OP A HUNDRED FIRES,"

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness in the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often found." — Athenaeum.

Nil— THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

BY SAM SLICK,

A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not have a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists he describes.
All who wish to form a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a new
country, unlike England in some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book"—
John Bull.

XIII.— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT Prince.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

"Eliot Warburton's active and productive genius is amply exemplified in the present
book. We have seldom met with any work in which the realities of history and the
poetry of fiction were more happily interwoven." — Illustrated News.

XIV.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS
OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OF ARMS.

"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting book, whether we should
have regard to its excellent plan or its not less excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with the
pith of ail their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on factor
what, at least, has been handed down for truth by long tradition — and the romance
of reality far exceeds the romance of Sections"— Standard.

XV.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. 'The Laird of Norlaw' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — sunday Times.

'The Laird of Norlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modern novels." — Observer.

XVL— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

BY MRS. G. Bretton.

"Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a part of the Italian peninsula which is the
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, uneia;c
grated, and full of opportune instruction." — The limes.

"Mis. Bretton's book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended. It
is impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well as the subject The work
is engaging, because real'' — Alienum.

Evil— NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax'
one of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about these
tales which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of fiction"' — Morning Post.

Xvii— LIFE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET, QUEEN OF
NAVARRE.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
it to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of Miss
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her story of the life of Jeanne D'Albret,
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Morning Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

"If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between 'John Halifax' and'
'The Cantons.' " — Standard.
"The spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and good." — Athenaeum.
This is in every sense a charming novel." — Messenger.

XX.— THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

"This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
of singular and highly romantic stories." — John Bull.

"A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the reader's
attention. The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Colleen
Bawn."— /ZZiwfraied News.

XXL— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAYANAGH.

"'Adfele' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter burns brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

' Adele' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
John Bull.

"raddle' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It ia a very clever
fossils"— Daily News.

Xxii— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These 'Studies ' are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling;?
for all things good and beautiful." — Morning Post.

"These 'Studies from Life ' are remarkable for gi-aphic power and observation. The
Dock will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished d.-aih.ov.'"— Saturday Review.

Xxii.— Grandmother's MONEY.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

We commend ' Grandmother's Money ' to readers in search of a good novel. The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting." — Athenaeum.

Xxii.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN Corny Jefferson.

A book to be read and re-read; fit for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library." — Lancet.

"This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jeffrey
has. out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course, gives increased value
to this very readable 'bQQ^"'—Athen(euin.

XXV.— NO CHURCH.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"ewe advise all who have the opportunity to read this book. It is well worth the
Btu dy. ' ' — A thence.
"A work of great originality, merit, and power." — Standard.

Xxii.— MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive.
' ' — A thence.

'• A charming tale, charmingly told." — Standard.

'■'■ All lover of a good novel will hail with delight another of Mrs. Craika charming
stories"— /o/j/i Bull.

XXVII.— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching story.
It is a vigorous novel." — Times.

'this story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The characters
are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a pood novel,
there is that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches." — Daily News.

XXVIII.— LES Miserable.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
Authorised Copyright English Translation.

The merits of ' Les Miserable ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius." — Quarterly Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as
'Barbara's History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquisite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This is high praise of a work of art
and so we intend it." — The Times.

XXX.— LIFE OF THE REV. Edward IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

A good book on a most interesting theme"— Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's Life ' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation." — Saturday Review.

XXXL—ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

"This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well as
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading." — Athenaeum.

' St. Olave's ' belongs to a lofty order of Action. It is a good novel, but it is something
more. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded'' — Morning Post.

Xxxi— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize. These
Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour"— /'os^.

Xxxii— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's own." — Times.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAG DONALD, LL.D.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

"A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie'— Fall Mall Gazette.

XXXV.— AGNES.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works"— Athenaeum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there
are always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. 'Agnes ' is
a story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers." — Morning Post.

Xxxvi— A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselves the
better for the efiorV— Spectator.

"A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble book." — Morning Post.

"'A Noble Life' is remarkable for the high types of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a story of powerful and pathetic interest."
—Daily News.

XXXVII.— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON.

"A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and well"— tunes.
"We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr,
Dixon's very interesting hook"— Saturday Review.

Xxxvii— ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"robert Falconer' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a book to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings." — Athenaeum.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'The "Woman's Kingdom' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories." — Athenaeum.

' The "Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters are
masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax." — Morning Post.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole work
sparkles with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

XLI.— DAVID ELGINBROD.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers." — Times.

XLII.— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags'' — Post

"'A Brave Lady' thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, and her
history deserves to stand foremost among the author's works." — Daibj Telegraph.

XLIII.— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

"A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist." — Daily News.

Xlii.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

"This is one of the most amusing books that wo ever read.' — Standard.
'The Americans at Home" will not be less popular than any of Judge Halliburton's
previous works." — Morning Post.

XLV.— THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, in their touching grace
and simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
novels. Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that which opens the
series, ' The Unkind "Word.' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed iu
the few delicate touches by which this successful love-story is sketched out." — The Echo.

Xlvi— A ROSE IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

Xliii.— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.

"This story presents a number of vivid and very charming pictures Indeed, the whole
book is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good of
its ^ind.''''— Saturday Review.

XLYIIL— Phoebe, JUNIOR.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to 'Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn"— Academy.

XLIX.— LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

"A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.

This book ia well written, and of thrilling interest." — Academy.

L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAO DONALD, LL.D.

' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius"— PaZZ Mall Gazette.

This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike"— ^i/iencewm.

LL— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF *' JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English"— T'/ir; Times.

■ There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome." — Athenaeum

■ This story is charmingly told"— T/je Queen.

LII.— Lord Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it. There is plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the \)o6k."—Athenceum.

Liii-IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"In ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story is
a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret
Maitland"— rjHzes.

JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS,
Each in One Volume Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

"This is a very good and a very interesting work. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman, and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and written
with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass freely from
hand to hand as a gift-book in many households"— £'j-a;nn!fr.

' The story is very interesting. The attachment between John Half ax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic Hfe, and the growing up of their
children, and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and to-aching'— Atheism.

The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and this
his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one of
nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thorough y English bona
The work abounds in incident, and is full of graphic power and true pathos. It is a book
that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

"A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a young lady
may thank the author for means of doing so." — Examiner.

"These thoughts are worthy of the earnest and enlightened mind, the all-embracing
charity, and the well-earned reputation of the author of 'John Halifax'" — StcnularJ.

"This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit." — Post.

A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

We are always glad to welcome this author. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to say, but
to express it in language effective and vigorous, m 'A Life for a Life' she is fortunate
in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect. The reader, having read
the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion) to return and read
again many pages and passages with greater pleasure than on a first perusal. The whole
book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy ; and in addition to its other merits, it is
written in good careful English." — Athenaeum.

NOTHING NEW.

'Nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax'
one of the most popular works of the day." — Post.

The reader will find these narratives fully calculated to remind him of that truth and
energy of human portraiture, that spell over human affections and emotions, which have
stamped this author one of the first novelists of our day." — John Bull.

THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

'the "Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories. The novelist's lesson is given with admirable force
and sweetness." — Athenaeum

'• ' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The character
are masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax." — Post.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

These Studies are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feehu;;
for all things good and beautiful"— Poss.

[continued on next page.]

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

(continued.)

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

"A more charming story, to our taste, has rarely been written. Within the compass
of a single volume the writer has hit off a circle of varied characters, all true to nature —
Bone true to the highest nature — and she has entangled them in a story which keeps ua
in suspense till its knot is happily and gracefully resolved ; while, at the same time, a
pathetic interest is sustained by an art of which it would be difficult to analyze the secret.
It is a choice gift to be able thus to render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths
with such a searching sagacity, and to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the
writer's own. Even if tried by the standard of the Archbishop of York, we should expect
that even he would pronounce 'Christian's Mistake ' a novel without a fault." — The Ties.

This is a story good to have from the circulating library, but better to have from one's
bookseller, for it deserves a place in that little collection of clever and wholesome stones
that forms o»'* of the comforts of a well-appointed home"— Examiner.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

"A good, wholesome book, as pleasant to read as it is instructive." — Athenaeum.
This work is written with the same true-hearted earnestness as ' John Halifax,'
spirit of the whole book is excellent " — Examiner.
"A charming tale charmingly told"— Standard.

A NOBLE LIFE.

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax ' speaks out
of a generous heart the purest truths of life." — Examiner.

"Few men, and no women, will read a 'Noble Life' without finding themselves the
totter." — Spectator.

A story of powerful and pathetic interest." — Daily News.

A BRAVE LADY.

A very good novel, showing a tender sympathy with human nature, and permeated
ty a pure and noble spirit." — Examiner.

A most charming stovy.'^—Stayidard.

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of tha
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment B-dga."— Post.

HANNAH.

"A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a

successful novelist." — Daili/ ives.

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle cf readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

THE UNKIND WORD,

"The author o? ' John Halifax ' has written many fascinating stories, but we can call to
mind nothing From her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful sketches in
this work. Such a character as Jessie stands out from a crowd of heroines as the type of
Ail that is truly noble, pure, and womanly." — United Service Magazine.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

« • Toun^ Mrs. Jardine' is a pretty story, wri ten in pure English."-n« 2'^™«- ^^

•• TbPrTis much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome '-alienum.

A book that als shoim read. Whilst it is quite the equal of any of its predecessors

in Elevation of thought and style, it is perhaps their superior in interest of plot and

drfSc intensity The characters are admirably delineated, and the dialogue is natural

*ud clear. "morning Post.

Hurst and Blackett, Publishers, 13, Great Marlborough Street.

'SAM SLICK, THE CLOCMAKER.'

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS.

Each in One Volume, Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"We enjoy our old friend's company with unabated relish. This work is a rattling
miscellany of sharp sayings, stories, and hard hits. It is full of fun and fancy." — Athenaeum.

Since Sam's first work he has written nothing so fresh, racy, and genuinely humorous as
this. Every line of it tells in tome way or other — instructively, satirically, jocosely, or
wittily. Admiration of Sam's mature talents, and laughter at his droll yarns, constantly
alternate as with inhaling avidity we peruse the work. The Clockmaker proves himself
the fastest time-killer a-going." — Observer.

WISE SAWS AND MODERN INSTANCES.

This delightful book will be the most popular, as beyond doubt it is the best, of all the
author's admirable works " — Standard.

"The book before us will be read and laughed over. Its quaint and racy dialect will
please some readers — its abundance of yarns will amuse others. There is something to
suit readers of every humour." — Athenaeum.

"The humour of Sam Slick is inexhaustible. He is ever and everywhere a welcome
visitor ; smiles greet his approach, and wit and wisdom hang upon his tongue. We promise
our readers a great treat from the perusal of these ' Wise Saws,' which contain a,
world of practical wisdom, and a treasury of the richest fun." — Morning Post.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

By common consent this work is regarded as one of the raciest, truest to life, most
humorous, and most interesting works which have proceeded from the prolific pen of its
author. We all know what shrewdness of observation, what power of graphic description,
what natural resources of drollery, and what a happy method of hitting off the
broader characteristics of the life he reviews, belong to Judge Haliburton. We have all
those qualities here ; but they are balanced by a serious literary purpose, and are employed
in the communication of information respecting certain phases of colonial experience
which impart to the work an element of sober utility"— ,SM«(^ay Times.

TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

"No man has done more than the facetious Judge Haliburton, through the mouth of the
inimitable ' Sam,' to make the old parent country recognise and appreciate her queer
transatlantic progeny. His present collection of comic stories and laughable traits is a
budget of fun, full of rich specimens of American humour'" — Globe.

Yankees, portrayed in its raciest aspect, constitutes the contents of these superlatively
entertaining sketches. The work embraces the most varied topics — political parties,
religious eccentricities, the flights of literature, and the absurdities of pretenders to learning,
all come in for their share of satire ; while we have specimens of genuine American
exaggerations and graphic pictures of social and domestic life as it is. The work will
have a wide circulation'" — John Bull.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

"In this highly entertaining work we are treated to another cargo of capital stories
from the inexhaustible store of our Yankee friend. In the volume before us he dishes up,
with his accustomed humour and terseness of style, a vast number of tales, none more
entertaining than another, and all of them graphically illustrative of the ways and manners
of brother Jonathan. The anomalies of American law, the extraordinary adventures
incident to life in the backwoods, and, above all, the peculiarities of American society, are
variously, powerfully, and, for the most part, amusingly exemplified." — John Bull.

In the picturesque delineation of character, and the felicitous portraiture of national
features, no writer equals Judge Haliburton, and the subjects embraced in the present
delightful book call forth, in new and vigorous exercise, his peculiar powers. 'The
Americans at Home ' will not be less popular than any of his previous works.' — Post.

LONDON : Hurst AND Blackett, PUBLISHERS.

M1^S. Oliphant.

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS.

Each in One Volume, Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

' Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Mainland' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed." — Morning
Post.

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags"— Sunday Times.

'the Laird of Norlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modem novels." — Observer.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

"In 'It was a Lover and his Lass.' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story is
a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the sale of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret
Maitland." — Times.

AGNES.

'agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — AfhenoBum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there are
always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. ' Agnes ' is a story
whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all rea.deTs."— Morning Post.

A ROSE IN JUNE,

"'A Rose in June' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' " — Times.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably ^v&yf a."— Academy.

LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

"A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

"A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's Life' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation"— ^afwrday Review.

LONDON : Huss AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

GEORGE MAC DONALD, LLD.

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS.

Each in One Volume, Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, price 6s.

ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

"A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie." — Pall Mall Gazette.

"The whole story is one of surpassing excellence and beauty." — Daily News.

This book is full of good thought and good writing. Dr. Mac Donald looks in his stories
more to the souls of men and women than to their social outside. He reads life and
Nature like a true ^poeV— Examiner.

ROBERT FALCONER.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a work to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings'— Athenaeum.

"This story abounds in exquisite specimens of the word-painting in which Dr. Mac
Donald excels, charming transcripts of Nature, full of light, air, and colour"— Saturday
Review.

Tfiis noble story displays to the best advantage all the powers of Dr. Mac Donald's
genius." — Illustrated London New.

• Robert Falconer ' is the noblest work of Action that Dr. Mac Donald has yet produced."
— British Quarterly Review.

"The dialogues in 'Robert Falconer' are so finely blended with humour and pathos as
to make them in themselves an intellectual treat to which the reader returns again and
again. "■ — Spectator,

DAVID ELGINBROD.

A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers." — Times.

"There are many beautiful passages and descriptions in this book. The characters are
extremely well drawn." — Athenaeum.

"A clever novel. The incidents are exciting, and the interest is maintained to the
close. It may be doubted if Sir Walter Scott himself ever painted a Scotch fireside with
more truth than Dr. Mac Dona.ld."—Mor;ung Post.

"David Elginbrod is the finest character we have met in fiction for many a day. The
descriptions of natural scenery are vivid, truthful, and artistic; the general reflections are
those of a refined, thoughtful, and poetical philosopher, and the whole moral atmosphere
of the book is lofty, pure, and invigorating"— (??o6e.

SIR Gibber

Sir Gibbie ' is a hook of genial"— Pall Mall Gazette.

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike. There are many powerful scenes, and the portraits will stay long in our
memory." — Athenaeum.

' Sir Gibbie ' is unquestionably a book of genius. It abounds in humour, pathos,
insight into character, and happy touches of description"— Crap/jec.

'sir Gibbie' contains some of the most charming writing the author has yet produced.
" — Scotsman.

"sir Gibbie' is one of the most touching and beautiful stories that has been written
for many years. It is not a novel to be idly read and laid aside ; it la a grand work, to be
kept near at hand, and studied and thought over." — Morning Post.

LONDON : Hues AND Blackett, PUBLISHERS.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

A woman's thoughts

ABOUT WOMEN.
A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
NOTHING NEW.
MISTRESS AND MAID.
THE woman's KINGDOM.

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

A NOBLE LIFE.

HANNAH.

THE UNKIND WORD.

A BRAVE LADY.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

YOUNG Mils. JARDINE.

WORKS hy GEORGE MAC DONALD, LED.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

DAVID ELGINBROD.
ROBERT FALCONER.

ALEC FORBES.
SIR GIBBIE.

WORKS hy MRS. Oliphant.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS

LASS
THE LAIRD OF Norland
ROSE IN JUNE.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSS-gray.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

AGNES.

THE LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

WORKS hy the AUTHOR of 'SAM SLICK:

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN

NATURE.
WISE SAWS AND MODERN

INSTANCES.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE

IN A COLONY.
TRAITS OF AMERICAN

HUMOUR.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

LONDON: HURST AND BLACKETT.

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —
1849. By the Count H. mandeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

Contents :— Birth and Childhood— Private Soldier— The Coronation— The Camp
at Bologna— Austerlitz— Poland — In Spain— Erica— 1814 and 1815— The
Hundred Days — Country Life — Ee volution of July — The Duchess de Berry —
Legitimist Tactics — Politics — Duel — Landing in Africa — The Sicback — The
Treaty of the Tanna— Abdel-Kader— The Brossard Trial— System of War in
Africa — Political Orator — Military Orator — Governor-general — Medea and
Milianah — Tackdempt and Said— Ch^lif and Ourens6iis — Tones and Orleans
The Small— Delays and Biskra— The Battle of Isle— Return to France
Bou-Maza and the Dahra — Sidi-ibrahim — The Five Months' Campaign —
Abdel-Kader in the South — Kabylia — Final Departure — Departure from
Algiers — D'Aumale — Arab Offices — Soldiers— Colonisation — Revolution of
1848— Provisional Government— Tbe Days of June— Presidential Elections —
The Army of the Alps— The Assembly— Death.

"Marshal Bureau, Duke of Isle, was certainly a more remarkable man than
nine out of ten who have been the idol of a biographer, and his career is fertile in
episodes or incidents characteristic of the times, and throwing light on history." —
Quarterly Review.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.
"With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

"A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest,
and is able to tell her readers a good deal of the present condition and prospects
of the people who inhabit the country." — St. James's Gazette.

"Every lover of Greece must hail with pleasure each new book of travels in
that country which tends to increase the interest ef English people in Greece, and
spreads the knowledge that it is not only delightful, but quite safe, to travel there.
Miss Smith's 'Glimpses ' are lively and pleasant." — Academy.

"These 'Glimpses of Greek Life and Scenery ' are presented to us in a very
bright and sensible fashion. It is a very agreeable and instructive book. The
chapter on the language and character of the modern Greeks is well with reading
for the sound judgment and knowledge of the subject which it displays." —
Pall Mall Gazette.

BETWEEN TWO OCEANS; or, Sketches of

American Travel. By Iza Duffus Hardy. Demy 8vo. 15s.

"This is one of the pleasantness works of the kind that has lately appeared. Miss
Hardy is to be congratulated on the freshness and general brightness which characterise
her description of men and manners, cities and plains." — Morning Post.

"A very entertaining volume, consisting of graphic sketches of American
travel. Miss Hardy possesses a considerable share of the faculty of observation
and a keen sense of humour." — Globe.

Miss Hardy manages to impart freshness to a well-worn theme, and her book
is bright and readable from first to last. Her description of Mormon life is admirable,
faithful, and unconventional. The chapters devoted to South Carolina
and Georgia are especially good, and those colorado and California reflect
both the scenery and the life"— British Quarterly ,



NEW Works— Continued.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"
Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully
succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout"' — Morning Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power
and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating'' — Scotsman.

'• This is the work of a man full of thought upon a number of highly important
subjects, and of strong convictions strongly enunciated, which no one can read
without benefit." — Morning Advertiser.

Mr. Greg's speculative works are always worth study, and this certainly not
the least of them. It is a powerful and instructive book for the doubter to read,
and the author has given us many discussions of great subtlety and depth'" —
Spectator.

SIBERIAN PICTURES. By Ludwig Niemojowski.

Edited, from the Polish, by Major Szulczewski. 2 vols 21s.

"This book contains a good deal of interesting matter. M. Niemojowski's description
of Siberian game and the hunting of it is clearly valuable, and shows
that he really has lived among the people. His work is not without interest to
biographers, for it deals with almost every race that inhabits Siberia — tongues
and Tartars, Samoyedes and Sticks, the Burials of Lake Baikal, and the
Gilliacks of the Pacific coasts"— Sat urdav Review.

Major Szulczewski has done a service by translating from the Polish the interesting
account which Mr. Niemojowski lias given of the dreary land in which
he spent so many years of exile. The book contains a number of very interesting
^Xov'\es." —Athenian.

"This book contains by far the most exhaustive and reliable account which has
yet been given in English of Siberia"' — British Quarterly Remeio.

REMINISCENCES OF MILITARY SERVICE

WITH THE 93rd SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS. By
Surgeon-general Munro, jM.D., C.B., Formerly Surgeon of the
Regiment. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"This is a book of interesting recollections of active military campaigning life.
It is told in a frank, simple, and unpretentious manner." — Illustrated London Neics.

"This book is not only bright and lively, but thoroughly good-natured. What
makes these reminiscences exceptionally readable is the amount of illustrative
anecdote with which they are interspersed. The author has a keen appreciation
of humour, with the knack of recalling appropriate stories"' — Saturday Review.

"There is much in these interesting reminiscences that will gratify while it
pains the reader. A book like this, which portrays the horrors and not merely
the showy side of war, has distinct usefulness. Dr. Munro recounts many incidents
with pardonable pride." — Pcdl Mall Gazette.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford: As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.

These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Mitford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention." — Daily Telegraph.

"In this singular and probably unique book Miss Mitford is painted, not in
letters of her own nor in letters written of her, but in letters addressed to her;
and a true idea is thus conveyed of her talent, her disposition, and of the impression
she made upon her friends. It seldom happens that anyone, however distinguished,
receives such a number of letters well worth reading as were addressed
to Miss Mitford ; and the letters from her correspondents are not only from interesting
persons, but are in themselves interesting.' — St. James's Gazette.

NEW Works— Continued,

THE REAL LORD BYRON : New Views of the

Poet's Life. By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " A Book
about Doctors," &c. 2 vols, demy 8vo. 303.

Mr. Jeaffreson comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature. Almost every chapter contains material
which may be fairly called new, and the book differs from many biographies of
Byron in one very important point — it is scrupulously just to every person concerned,
the facts dealt with being placed before the reader in a judicial spirit Mr.
.Jeaffreson had a specific work to do, and he has done it fully, conclusively, and
well ; and it may reasonably be anticipated that these volumes will be regarded
with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English-poets"— The Thanes.

'• Mr. Jeaffreson has produced a work that throws a flood of new light on the
most critical periods of Byron's life, and that every future critic of modem
English poetry will have to read and re-read." — Athenaeum.

"Everybody will read these volumes, many for the sake of the great poet,
whose biography forms the subject, and others simply on account of the extraordinary
amount of interesting gossip which it contains about the famous personages
who flourished in the days of our grandfathers. It is a very able book
admirably written, and evidently entirely unprejudiced." — Morning Post.

"This is a masterly performance, and one of the most important contributions
to literary biography published for many years. Mr. Jeaffreson writes not only
like a student, but a man of the world, and his entire analysis of the relation between
Byron and his wife is admirable." — The World.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS; or, London

UNDER THE First Georges, 1714 — 1760, By J. Fitzgerald
MoLLOT. Second Edition. Yds. 1 and 2. Crown 8vo, 21s.
Wel written, full of anecdotes, and with its facts admirably grouped, this excellent
work will prove of the greatest value to all who desire to know what manner
of men the first Electors of Hanover who came here really were. Pictures of
Court life so drawn cannot fail to be very instructive. Some of the word pictures
are wonderfully well drawn "'—LaUij Telegraph.

VOLS. m. and IV. of COURT LIFE BELOW

STAIRS ; or, London Under the Last Georges, 1760 — 1830.

By J. Fitzgerald ]Molloy. Second Edition. 21s. Completing

the Work.
"The reigns of George the Third and George the Fourth are no less interesting
and instructive than those of George the First and George the Second. Mr.
Molloy's style is bright and fluent, picturesque and animated, and he tells his
stories with unquestionable skill and vivacity'" — Athenaeum.

"These last two volumes of Mr. Molloy's 'Court Life Below Stairs' are likely
to attain as much popularity as the first two did. The narrative is fluent and
amusing, and is far more instructive than nine-tenths of the novels which are
published nowadays"— .S^ James's Gazette,

GRIFFIN, AHOY ! A Yacht Cruise to the Levant,

and Wanderings in Egypt, Syria. The Holy Land, Greece, and
Italy in 1881. By General E. H. Maxwell, C.B. One vol.
demy sto, With Illustrations. 15s.
The cruise of the Griffin affords bright and amusing reading from its beginning
to its end. General Maxwell writes in a frank and easy style —Morning Post.

WITH THE CONNAUGHT RANGERS in Quarters,

Camp, and on Leave. By General E. H. Maxvc^ell, C.B.,
Author of " Griffin, Ahoy I" 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.

"A warm welcome may be presaged for General Maxwell's new work. It is an
eminently readable book, quite apart from the special attraction it must possess for
all who are, or who have been, connected with the gallant seth." — Daily telegraph.

"When General Maxwell made his debut in that capital book, 'Griffin, Ahoy'
we expressed a hope that we should soon meet him again. This expectation is
now fulfilled, and again we have to congratulate the author on a distinct success.
Scarcely a page in his volume but has its little anecdote, and these stories have a
real touch of humour in theme'— (?/o&e.

NEW Works— Continued,

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.

2 vols, large post 8vo. With Portrait. 24s.
"This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called tho ' Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, Ruhenstein, Dr. von Billow,
Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit. He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of our native artists: Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mac-barren,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Barnett, Mr. HuUah, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The
volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenaeum.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

"Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subject." — Saturday Review.

MY OLD PLAYGROUND REVISITED ; A Tour

IN Italy in the Spring of 1881. By Benjamin E. Kennedy.

Second Edition ivith Appendix. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With Illustrations,
by the Author. 6s.

It is no small merit of Mr. Kennedy that he has rendered an account of a
journey over such familiar ground as that lying between London and Naples remarkably
readable. These pages are full of really useful information, and travellers
'going South' cannot do better than take Mr. Kennedy's experiences as
their rule of conduct." — Morning Post.

' My Old Playground Revisited ' will repay perusal. It is written with the
ease that comes of long experience"— G'rap/n'c.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol, small 4to. 5s.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissively
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly find even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the life. "—jgnitsA
Quarterly Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Craik's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance"— ^f^./ames's Gazette.

MEMOIRS OF QUEEN HORTENSE, MOTHER

OF NAPOLEON III. Cheaper Edition, in 1 vol, 6s.

"A biography of the beautiful and unhappy Queen, more satisfactory than any
we have yet met with." — Daily News.

LODGERS PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE riFTT-THIED EDITION FOR 1884 IS NOW READY.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

A Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood RoyaL

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed, Wee can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the subject." — Spectator.

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the d&j."— Post.

The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage. It is the standard
authority on the Buhiect."— Standard.

THE Brandies.

By the Right Hon. A. J. B. Beresford Hope, M.P.,

Author of " Strictly Tied Up."

"In 'The Brandies' we have a sequel to Mr. Beresford Hope's clever novel of

Strictly Tied Up,' and we may add that it is a decided improvement on his

maiden effort. Mr. Hope writes of political life and the vicissitudes of parties

with the knowledge and experience of a veteran politician. The novel is one

which will repay careful reading." — Times.

'The Brandies ' has all the charm of its predecessor. The great attraction
of the novel is the easy, conversational, knowledgeable tone of it ; the sketching
from the life, and yet not so close to the life as to be malicious, men, women,
periods, and events, to all of which intelligent readers can fit a name. The political
and social sketches will naturally excite the chief interest among readers
who will be attracted by the author's name and experience." — Spectator.

SOPHY:

OR THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE.

By Violet Fane,

Author of "Denzil Place," &c.

*' ' Sophy ' is the clever and original work of a clever woman. Its merits are of
a strikingly unusual kind. It is charged throughout with the strongest human
interest. It is, in a word, a novel that will make its mark"— Form.

"A clever, amusing, and interesting story, well worth reading"— Pos

This novel is as amusing, piquant, droll, and suggestive as it can be. It overflows
with humour, nor are there wanting touches of genuine feeling. To considerable
imaginative power, the writer joins keen observation." — Daily News.

' Sophy' throughout displays accurate knowledge of widely differing forms of
character, and remarkable breadth of view. It is one of the few current novels
that may not impossibly stand the test of times"— Graphic.

MY LORD AND MY LADY.

By Mrs. Forrester,
Author of "Viva," " Mignon," &c.

This novel will take a high place among the successes of the season. It is as
fresh a novel as it is interesting, as attractive as it is realistically true, as full of
novelty of presentment as it is of close study and observation of Hie"— World.

"A love story of considerable interest. The novel is full of surprises, and will
serve to while away a leisure hour most agreeably"— Z>aj72/ Telegraph.

A very capital novel. The great charm about it is that Mrs. Forrester is quite
at home in the society which she describes. It is a book to vea,d."— Standard.

"Mrs. Forrester's style is so fresh and graphic that the reader is kept under its
spell from first to last"— /'osi.

HIS LITTLE .MOTHER: and Other Tales.

By the Author of '' John Halifax, Gentleman."

This is an interesting book, written in a pleasant manner, and full of shrewd
observation and kindly feeling. It is a book that will be read with interest, and
that cannot be lightly forgotten"— .Si. James's Gazette.

"The Author of 'John Halifax' always writes with grace and feeling, and
never more so than in the present volume.' — Morning Post.

"this Little Mother' is one of those pathetic stories which the author tells
better than anybody else's"— Jo/m Bull.

This book is written with all Mrs. Craik's grace of style, the chief charm of
which, after all, is its simplicity'— Glasgow Herald.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

MR. NOBODY. By Mrs. John Kent Spender,

Author of " Godwin's Ordeal," " Both in the Wrong," &c. 3 vols.

This is a novel out of the common. There are some bright and lively scenes.
The principal character, the waif who became the millionaire, is a fine conception
in many respects, and is well worked up"" — .S''. Janus's Gazette.

"Mrs. Spencer novels do not show any falling off in merit. They are quite
readable and by no means ill written, while the author appears to take considerable
pains with their construction." — Saturday Review.

SAM'S SWEETHEART. By Helen Matters,

Author of " Coming' thro' the Rye," " Cherry Ripe !" " Land o' the

Leal," &c. Second Edition. 3 vols.
"A new novel by Miss Matters is a great treat." — Athenaeum.
' Samos Sweetheart ' is clever and amusing. It is superior to its predecessors
from the same pen : the plot is closer, and better constructed." — Graphic

JUNE. By Mrs. Forrester, Author of "Viva,"

avignon," " My Lord and My Lady," &c. Third Edition. 3 vols.
"june' is as clever as any of Mrs. Forrester's novels. There is closer observation
and better writing than the author has hitherto put into her books." —
The World.

A CHRISTMAS ROSE. By Mrs. Randolph,

Author of " Gentianella," &c. 3 vols.
"We can strongly recommend ills. Randolph new novel. It is decidedly the
best of all her works, and may be read with the greatest pleasure." — Court Journal.

IN THE WEST Countries. By the Author of

Queene," " Miss Daisy Dimity," &c. 3 vols.
"This is a very well-written tale, full ot pleasing pictures of family life, and
vivid descriptions of that most beautiful of English counties, Devonshire. In
every way Miss Crommelin has the right to be considered an agreeable novelist,
whose works are deserving of much praise." — Morning Post.

Pearls. .By Miss Bentham-Edwards, Author of

Kitty," " Bridget," &c. 3 vols.
' Pearls ' can be safely trusted to teach nothing but what is good, even to its
most youthful readers. It is written with a certain measure of elegance and
ease'" — Morning Post.

HER SAILOR LOVE. By Mrs. Macquoid, Author

of " Patty," " Diane," &c. 3 vols.
This is a good business-like novel of the homely sort. There is a great deal
in the story to awaken interest, and not a little to afford pleasure and entertainments'"
— Illustrated London News.

THE SENIOR Hangman. By the Author of

St. Olave's," " Janita's Cross," &c. 3 vols.
"This well-written story deserves the popularity assured to anything written
by the author of ' St. Olave's.' There is not a page in the whole novel which fails
to command attention or to repay it"" — Daily Telegraph.

ONE FALSE, BOTH FAIR. By John Berwick

Haywood, Author of "Lady Flavian," ttc. 3 vols.
This novel is entertaining from first to last. The authors style is bright and
easy, and he has remarkable ability in the delineation of character'— i/orwinyPos^.

DI Facets : A Year of Her Life. By C. L.

PiRKis, Author of " A Very Opal," &c. 3 vols.
"This novel is thrillingly interesting from beginning to end, and is exceptionally
good in tone, style, and executions — Standard.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

VENUS' DOVES. By Ida Ashworth Taylor.

3 vols.

Hawthorne HALL. By John M. Fothergill.

3 vols. (In June.)

KEEP TROTH. By Walter L. Bicknell, Mea.

3 vols.

THE MAN SHE CARED FOR. By Few. Robinson,

Author of " Gnindmotlior's ^luney," &c. 3 vols.
"A genuinely pleasant tale. The interest accumulates as the story proceeds.
It contains fiome puR^npes and some delineations of character which may compare
with Mr. Kubiusun'B most successful work"' — At/icnTuiiu

THE MASTER OF ABERFELDIE. By James

Grant, Author of " The Romance of War," itc. 3 vols.
"The graphic picture of the battle of Telel-Kebir, which Mr. Grant gives in his
novel, augments the effect of u romance which bears witness to the author's
powers. " — at. James's Quzdie.

WE TWO. By Edna Lyell, Author of '^ Donovan,"

&c. 3 vols.
A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it i.s, it is now and then
brightened by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better
than a novel." — Morning Post.

OMNLV Vanity : A Tale of Society. By Mrs.

FoRuiiSTKU, Author of '' Viva," (tc. Third Edition. vol. 10s Gd.
This book is pleasant and well meant. Hero and there are some good touches :
Sir Ralph is a man worth reading about." — Academy.

THE PITY OF IT. By Mrs. U. E. Smith, Author

of " It Might have Been," " Tit fur Tat," &c. 3 vols.

*• A bright story. The principal character is fresh and lovable. The plot is
well worked out in all its details'" — Morum Post. ^

A very readable story. There ia plenty of movement and mystery in the
latter part of the book." — Daihj Ttlcjraji/i.

DAWN. By H. Rider Haggard. 3 vols.

"This novel is well written, it has considerable interest of plot, and the author
shows not a little ability in character-drawing." — Academy.

"Mr. Haggard writes with a flowing pen, and succeeds in maintaining the
reader's interest. The plot is very skilfully developed, and many of the scenes
are powerfully realised. ' — Scotsman.

A BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK. By Mrs. Po^VER

O'Donogiiue, Author of " Ladies on Horseback," &c. 3 vols.

This story has a great deal of real pathos, and is interesting as a study of
H iberian cha racer. " ' — -I their m.

"There is great cleverness in this novel. The plot is good and the studies of
character excellent" — Scotsman.

TO HAVE AND TO HOLD. By Sarah Streamer

Author of " The Fate of a Year," &c. 3 vols.
"This novel is strong and romantic It is a tale of real life, with incidents of
80 stirring a nature that they cannot fail to arrest attention"— hominy Post.
