A LION AMONG THE LADIES.

A NOVEL.

BY

PHILIP GASKELL,

AUTHOR OF "the SENIOR MAJOR," ETC.

A lion among ladies is a most dreadful thing; for there
is not a more fearful wild fowl than your lion living."

Midsummer Night's Dream.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

F. y. WHITE & CO.,

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

18 8 8.

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

i

CONTENTS.

S

The Adjutant gives Advice, .

Guy Leycester of " Ours,"

A Dark Horse,

Guy Leycester to the Rescue,

An Affair of " Ancient History,"

A Repentant Prodigal, .

The Major shows a Cloven Foot,

Lady Gregorie is Up in Arms,

Miss Vidal puts Herself forward

Past, but not Forgotten,

The Adjutant falls in Love, .

Out of Evil Good may spring.

The Major feels His Way, .

PAGE



























Nov ready, in One Vol. , the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY ; or, Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange
Winter. Author of 'Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s.; also picture
boards, 2s.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By the same

Author. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts. Bart. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE OUTSIDER. A Sporting Novel. By Hawley Smart. New

Edition. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs

Edward Kennard. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By the same Author. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing

O't.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Author of ' The

Right Sort.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Author of

A North Country Maid,' etc. (Sixth Edition.) Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE BOND OF WEDLOCK. By Mrs Campbell Praed. Author of

Nadine.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Soutliainptoii Street, Strand,

London, WtC.

CHAPTER I.

THE ADJUTANT GIVES ADVICE.

OW, look here, my boy, tlii&
kind of thing won't do. I've
been a good deal longer in
the Service than you have, and have
seen more than one young fellow come
to grief, and that simply because he has
been a fool, and wouldn't take advice.
Now if you don't pull up in time, it

VOL. I. A

^dll be a case, either of exchanging into
what you chaps call a red regiment, or
of making tracks for the Colonies."

The utterer of this premonishment was
an officer dressed in the uniform of the
First Battalion of the Chalkshire Rifles,
and the locality in which he spoke was
his own room, in the field-officers' quarters
of the Broadmere Barracks. Captain 
— for so the officer was named
had, during two years been Adjutant
of the regiment, and was known as one
of its smartest as well as steadiest
officers. He was a general favourite,
especially with the junior officers of the
battalion, for though sufficiently well
favoured, he was no " beauty man," — no
Lion amongst the ladies " (such as
was Guy Leycester of "Ours), whose attractions
threw into the shade those of

the younger soldiers who naturally aspired
to producing a sensation amongst
the fair sex. A " sharp fellow," too, as
they all agreed, was old "Elphy,*' and
*' one who could put men up to a dodge
or two when he chose," was the involuntary
compliment paid by these thoughtless
boys to the experienced man of the
world who, taking pity on them for
their youth and folly, gave them good
advice, and was not extreme to mark
what was done by them amiss.

The second Lieutenant, with whom
Rowley Elphinstone was good-naturedly
holding colloquy, had been endowed by
nature with a handsome face, and a
slim, graceful figure; but, although good
enough to look at, Alfred Durant was,
at the age of twenty, decidedly, in the
matter of sense and experience, below

the average of his fellow subs. He was
the only son of a doting and widowed
mother, and as he had not been allowed
to gain the teaching of worldly knowledge
which a public school affords, the
unlucky young man too often laid himself
open, by reason of the simplicity
and ignorance which he displayed, to
the merciless chaffing of his comrades.

The Broadmere Barracks stood, even
as they stand now, upon an eminence
of some considerable height. The view
from that height is extensive, and not
devoid of attraction. The country in
the midst of which the town of Broad -
mere stands, cannot claim for itself the
merit of being beautified by woodland
scenery. No meadows, rich in their lush
grasses, and not a single cultivated field,
meet the eyes of the two men who.

seated near an open window in Captain
Elphinstone's barrack-room, are looking
out upon a land of "rock and fell,"
upon precipitous and barren headlands,
and on a mere or loch, along the shores
of which there is no fringe of wooded
verdure to refresh the eye, and reflect
on breezeless days, their leafy beauties
upon the water's bosom.

Situated in what may almost be called
a northern county, the town of Broad-mere
owes it present prosperous existence
to the discovery — in the towering headlands
before mentioned — of valuable minerals.
The extensive coal mines which
were worked in a neighbouring county
tended greatly to the lucrative development
of the mineral trade. Capital
flowed with astonishing rapidity into
Broadmere. From an insignificant village,

it grew in a few years to be a
mighty town, and, with its dimensions,
wickedness, as a natural consequence, increased
also. In process of time, therefore,
and because of the crimes and misdemeanours
which, as the result of its
size, multiplied exceedingly, the presence
of soldiers in the big manufacturing
city of Broadmere was imperatively called
for ; and thus it came about that extensive
barracks were, on an eminence outside
the town, erected, and that in those
barracks Captain Eowley Elpbinstone,
and his subaltern Alfred Durant, were,
one morning in early spring, holding
somewhat serious converse. They were
seated, the older man in a luxurious armchair,
and the younger on the broad
cushioned seat of the one large window that
gave-sight and air to the barrack-room.

"Look here, my boy," the Captain was
saying, " I hate to see a young fellow of
your age making a downright ass of
himself; and, as I said before, if you
go on as you've begun, imitating chaps
who have double and treble your means,
and ten times your experience, take my
word for it, you'll come to grief"

Young Durant, over whose boyish
cheek a blush had stolen, had to pull
himself together before replying to his
mentor's warnings ; then he said, a trifle
sheepishly, —

I don't know who you mean. Captain.
I was not aware of having imitated
anybody. I have given ladies a few
flowers, and ridden out early " (this
with an exaggeration of the celestial
rosy red with which his beardless face
had been, to his credit, tinged) "a few

times with the same lady, while other
men — Guy Leycester, for instance, who's
got no end of tiles flying, gives women
lots of splendid jewellery. I saw a
bracelet that he had ordered for Mrs
Denham, that couldn't have cost less
than twenty sons., and what I send to
Lady Gregorie — the flowers, I mean —
only stand me in a pound or so."

At the mention of Guy Leycester's
name, a frown of mingled pain and
anger had contracted the Captain's brow.
He and the brother officer whose misdoings
had thus been, without *' malice
prepense," alluded to, had for years been
the closest and most attached of friends.
A few years senior to Guy, and gifted
with far more strength of mind and
steadiness of purpose than nature had bestowed
upon the younger man, Eowley

Elphinstone had welcomed with joy into
the ranks of his own regiment the lad
whom he had known from boyhood
as brave, lovable, and true. A more
intimate knowledge, however, of his
friend, when the latter had progressed
from youth to manhood, served somewhat
to modify Rowley's satisfaction
in the appointment of his nidus Achates
to the Chalkshire Rifle Regiment. It
was to no diminution of the admirable
qualities with which the older man had
credited the young subaltern that this
result was due, for these, to Rowley
Elphinstone's thinking, remained intact ;
but there were other proclivities — other
tastes and tendencies, which were to the
manner born in Guy, and the rapid
development of which filled the mind
of his watchful friend with ever-growing

anxiety. The characters of regiments
differ from each other as much
as do the idiosyncrasies of individuals,
and the one which the Chalkshire Rifles
had long since earned for itself, was
that of being *' fast," " smart," and
'dashing." The Colonel, Sir Wilfred
Gregorie, was a man of fortune, whose
pride was in the regiment he commanded,
and it pleased him that his
officers should be possessed both of liberal
means, and a talent such as he himself
evinced, for expenditure and show. He
objected, he had been heard to say, to
having fellows in the regiment who had
not money enough to do it credit, and
thence it followed that too many foolish
youths followed not only their own
inclinations, but the example set them
by the Colonel, and plunged into the

various extravagances which lead eventually
to ruin.

Guy Leycester's early antecedents were
not such as to render him proof against
the manifold temptations which, as a
handsome, popular young soldier, beset
his path. His mother, Lady Alicia Leycester,
was a fine lady, a woman of the
world, and one of the most careless of
mothers ; whilst his father, an admiral
and a K.C.B., had always, during his sixty
years of honourable existence, lived in the
blessed belief that no son of his, could,
by such disgraceful acts as he was told
were daily perpetrated by young men of
family, bring this grey hairs in shame
and sorrow to the grave. To what extent,
and in what a disastrous fashion,
the fine old sailor deceived himself,
remains hereafter to be seen. I have

already hinted at Elphinstone's distress
of mind as the inborn propensities of the
youth whom he had loved as a brother
only too rapidly made themselves apparent
; and when the weak-minded lad whose
fall into the depths of debt and ill-doing
the kind-hearted Captain was endeavouring
to avert, quoted Guy Leycester s unprincipled
conduct as being in some sort
an excuse, Rowley Elphinstone's indignation
was only equalled by his regret. It
was terrible to reflect that this boy — this
child — in the old days that were gone
by — of his affections, should now, through
means partly of his very attractiveness,
have become a snare, and an occasion of
falling to the young and inexperienced
amongst his fellows. It was this latter
feeling which induced him to say, with a
severity of manner to which the youngsters

of the regiment were totally unaccustomed,
and to which Als Durant
listened with a certain amount of awe, —
I am sorry that you have thought it
necessary to mention any names, and to
accuse absent persons of acts of which
they may or may not have been guilty.
As regards your own conduct, I confess-that
it recalls to my mind that of a
young and simple-minded boy-officer of
hussars, who, on being advised by his
good-natured Colonel to refrain from paying
openly-marked attentions to a married
lady, replied, ' But, sir, if I didn't pay
them openly, no one would know that I
pay them at all.' The object of a lad of
your age, when he sends flowers to a lady,
and in other ways endeavours to show
to the world that he adores her, is in
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred the

gratification of his own vanity, and his
reward usually, and very justly, consists
of ridicule on the part of lookers-on at
his egregious folly. By the way, my
dear boy, I must, whilst talking of ladies
generally, caution you against mentioning
any by name. In this respect you would
do W'cll to imitate the example of such
men as Captain Leycester. With men of
the world — gentlemen, I should say — of
his sort, the names of the women of their
acquaintance are never allowed, in connection
with attentions paid to them, to
pass their lips ; and when a few more
years have rolled over your head, you
will perhaps acknowledge the wisdom —
to say nothing of its being a case where
a man's honour is concerned — of following
my advice in this matter."

Well, old fellow, you've had a wigging,
I expect," said a young brother officer
of Durant's, who chanced to meet that
somewhat crestfallen youth in the corridor
leading to the mess-room. " The
Adjutant's been trying his hand at making
a good boy of you, eh ? Do you
feel like the sort of thing % — renouncing;
the devil and all his works, and living
henceforth in the odour of sanctity ? "

There was nothing said about sanctity,"
answered Als, as he affectionately
linked his arm within that of his brother
sub. " Old Elphinstone doesn't set up for
being a saint. What he preaches against
is running in debt ; but I should like to
know how a fellow who has no more byway
of an allowance than a miserable two
hundred a year, can help doing that."

So spoke (and, I grieve to say, without

one twinge of remorse for his ingratitude)
the lad who, only one short year before
had listened with words of heartfelt, and
eager protest to the unselfish plans of his
widowed mother, and two young and
pretty sisters, for their only brother's
fancied good. With what more than
readiness had they vied with each other
in the sacrifice of some daily luxury and
comfort — or, as indeed it might almost be
called, some 'necessity" — in order to render
possible the object of their dear one's
ambition ; and now, alas ! this only son
of a widow, this child of many prayers,
was being carried rapidly away by the
force of evil example, and had more than
begun to tread the downward path which
leads to ruin, and perchance disgrace !

GUY Leicester OF " OURS."

Within a mile of Broadmere Barracks
is a handsome square
and in that square there
stands a gorgeously - furnished house,
which its owner, a wealthy retired merchant
in coals and iron, had, as a great
favour (according to his own showing),
consented to let, during the stay of
the Rifles in Broadmere, to the Colonel
of the regiment. The rent demanded,
and without much shilly-shallying on
Sir Wilfred's part, agreed to, was ex-vol.

I. B

extravagantly high, for, in the opinion of
the owner, who had expended many of
his hard - earned thousands in gilding
and ornamentation, the mansion was a
Tery temple of magnificence and beauty.
Lady Gregorie, however, thought otherwise.
Her tastes, although fully as expensive
as those of the Broadmere
tradesman, were infinitely simpler ; and
after taking possession of her new
abode, many days were expended by
her in hiding away not a few splendid
specimens of Broadmere elegance, and
substituting for them many really pretty
things, as well as more tasteful decorations,
of her own choosing.

I assure you the drawing-rooms
were too hastily dreadful when first
we took possession," the Colonel's handsome
wife would say to her afternoon

visitors, " and even now it is only just
possible to live in them ; " and her ladyship,
looking lovely in one of Worth's
most simple yet most costly tea-gowns,
leant back in an arm-chair which
Pillow had sent from his London repository,
and felt that the hundreds she
had expended in newly modelling lor
temporary home had not been thrown
away in vain.

Sir Wilfred was both proud and fond
of his wife. She was very ornamental,
entirely to be trusted, and easy to live
with. He enjoyed seeing the admiration
she inspired, and thought it good fun
when the boys of the regiment fell
down — metaphorically speaking — at her
feet and worshipped her. The Colonel
was one of the last men living to see
with complacency, jewels, which were

the gifts of aspirants to her favour,
adorning the neck and arms of his
wife ; but the case of offerings at
beauty's shrine made in the guise of
flowers by his boy officers, was another
affair altogether ; and while his wife
accepted with an amused smile these
juvenile tributes to her beauty, he
could afford to look on unmoved at
play so innocent of harm. He had in
his salad days been guilty of many
such follies, and it never occurred to
him that more than one of the foolish
young fellows who paid their ^n% or
ten shillings — as the case might be — for
the flowers which decorated his fair
wife's drawing-room, might be the gifts
of spendthrifts who did not possess five
shillings which they could legitimately
call their own.

On the morning following the day
when Captain Elphinstone had bestowed
the rarely-appreciated gift of good advice
upon Alfred Durant, Sir Wilfred,
on entering his wife's boudoir, found
her engaged in the pleasant occupation
of arranging in vases a profusion
of various coloured roses. They
lay on the table before her, "thick as
leaves in Vallombrosa," crimson, pale
yellow, pink, and ivory white, whilst
her delicate, slim hand moved lightly
amongst the blossoms, picking and choosing
those which seemed to her, best
suited to be grouped together.

'' Oh, I say ! " exclaimed the Colonel,
as he sauntered towards the table. "You
have been well supplied to-day. Which
of the pet idiots sent you these ? "

Without ceasing from her occupation,

and with an air of perfect unconcern,
Lady Gregorie answered the question
put to her.

The idiot at present in question,"
she said, " is young Durant, and I am
going to tell him not to spend his
money so foolishly again. These roses
must have cost a fortune."

Which he has not, and never will
have," said the Colonel. " Between ourselves,
Flo, young Durant and his chum
Fuller are going rapidly to the bad,
and the sooner the finale comes, the
better for them. Durant is in debt
right and left to the trades-people, and
both he and Fuller are in with the
money-lenders. They are no credit to the
regiment, and the sooner they are out
of it, the better I shall be pleased."

Florence Gregorie, although vain and

a flirt, is not devoid of kindly feelings.
She is sorry for young Durant,
and lifting a pair of dark, languid eyes
to the Colonel's face, makes a feeble
effort in favour of the condemned one.

^' I'm distressed, dear, at what you
tell me," she says calmly. " Durant is
a nice boy."

The greatest muff I ever happened
to come across," breaks in Sir Wilfred.

I daresay ; but I know something,
through the Leonard, about his people,
and his mother and sisters will be in
despair if he comes to grief. They have
pinched themselves in all sorts of ways
for what they thought his good ; and,
after all, as I said before, he is nice,
and a gentleman, which — from what I
have heard you say — young Fuller is
not."

On the contrary, he is an unmitigated
snob, and Durant must have
deuced bad taste to get so intimate
with him. There are subs of a better
sort in the regiment with whom he
might have made friends."

Ah, but he is so young ! Not
twenty, and to have been got hold
of already by the Jews ! Couldn't you,
dear Wilfred," persists Flora, 'give him
a few words of advice ? "

The Colonel, a fine soldier-like looking
man, of a little over forty years of
age, is standing with his hands in his
pockets, and his back to the fireless
grate. At his wife's last words he
breaks into a laugh.

'* Couldn't I," he, with sarcastic humour
asks, " read, like old Gladstone, the
lessons in St Andrew's Church on Sunday

? No, no ; I leave the lecturing
department to Elphinstone. He has
taken more than one turn at Durant,
and might as well have talked to the
winds. If a young fellow is bent on
going to the devil, go he will, and
there's no use in trying to stop him."

Lady Gregorie, with a little sigh of
regret, resumed her occupation. She had
got accustomed to the attentions of Als
Durant, and would miss, she thought,
his good-looking, boyish face from among
her visitors. The roses, too, with which
her fingers were toying were his gift,
and she felt unwilling to abandon his
cause as hopeless.

I think you are hard upon him,
dear Wil," she said ; " so much harder,
too, than you are upon others who
have not half his excuse for being extravagant,

and in debt. Look at Guy
Leycester. From what I have been
told, he owes hundreds of pounds, where
Durant has only run in debt for shillings."


The utterance of Guy Leycester's name,
called up an angry flush on Sir Wilfred's
cheek. He had never felt any real
jealousy of his handsome wife's admirers ;
but there had been a time — passed away
now, and wellnigh forgotten — when he
had not seen without some slight sensations
of annoyance, betrayals in the
tactics of Captain Guy Leycester of a
desire to add the Colonel's admired wife
to the number of those who, according
to report, had loved him "not
wisely but too well." But in addition
to this cause, if cause indeed it were,
for the evident annoyance which the

mention of Guy Leycester's name by
his pretty, thoughtless Florence gave
to Sir Wilfred, there was the circumstance
that — reckless spendthrift, and
unprincipled Lothario though the junior
Captain was known to be — his Colonel
had less than no wish that he (the
offender) should be driven by stress
of circumstances to leave the regiment.
Leycester's good looks and birth, his air
of high breeding, and his great and
universal popularity, had concurred to
render him — as a wag had once been
heard to remark — the " show man " of
the Chalkshire Kisses. It was true,
feared the Colonel — who, after all, possessed
only a very partial knowledge
of the truth — that Guy's utter ruin was
only an affair of time. His debts
gambling ones included, had been several

times paid by the Admiral ; but even
parental endurance has its limits, whilst
the holders of the prodigal's hill had
never evinced any signs of waiting with
kindly forbearance for the better times
to which their sanguine creditor was
in the habit of alluding. Nor were the
*' rascally " London tradesmen, whose name
was legion, and who had been guilty
of the self-seeking folly of giving fashionable
Lady Alicia Leycester's fashionable
son almost unlimited credit, less
backward (now that the young officer
seemed near the end of his tether),
than were the money-lenders, in pressing
their claims for payment.

It is scarcely surprising that the Colonel,
who was well aware that Guy Leycester's
embarrassments must have exceeded
by a hundredfold those of all

the regimental youngsters put together,
should — when his wife mentioned Captain
Leycester's name as that of one
not undeserving of rebuke — have both
looked and felt uncomfortable. His
reply betrayed to Florence — who was
well acquainted with her husband's weaknesses
— that the subject of Guy's well-known
impecuniosity was one which
had better, in her Colonel's presence,
be avoided.

** Leycester," he said, '* is the kind of
man who, besides being a first-rate soldier,
any regiment would regret to lose. If he
should go a cropper, as the boys say,
it would bring a certain amount of discredit
on the Corps, and I for one sincerely
hope, if it were only for Lady Alicia
and the Admiral's sake, that he will be
able to keep his head above water."

In that hope Lady Gregorie perfectly
coincided. She, however, prudently forbore
to impart to Sir Wilfred her cordial
agreement with his wishes. Guy Leycester
had earned for himself, amongst
quiet-going husbands, a reputation which
had naturally the effect of preventing
prudent young wives from speaking out
boldly in his praise ; and Florence Gregory
differed in nothing from the immense
majority of her sex, who both
liked and admired this enfant gate
des dames. His manner to all women,
from the highest to the lowest, was
marked with the thoroughbred courtesy
which disclosed the innate chivalry of
his nature ; and then he was so handsome,
and carried his six-feet-two of
manly height with an air so distinguished
and graceful, that the unstudied

attitudes, and even walk, of much-admired
Guy Leycester, were by many an
aspiring subaltern, frequently, but wholly
without success, made matter for imitation.
He was not at any time, a man
of many words ; neither had much care
and money been in his boyhood and
youth expended on his education ; but
his knowledge of the world was considerable,
whilst a natural tact, and the
companionship outside the barrack gates
of good society conversationalists, had bestowed
on him the gift of small talk,
and that " touch-and-go " fashion of
handling social matters which in the
world so often does duty for " agreeableness."
As regarded the women with
whom, in their various grades, he had,
or been supposed to have had, relations,
the reticence of Guy Leycester was so

strict, and, I may add, so singular, that,
but for his prestige and popularity,
he would undoubtedly have incurred
amongst his juniors a certain amount of
ridicule — ridicule svh rosa, be it understood,
for Guy was not one with whom
even men of his own age permitted
themselves to be unduly and obnoxious
familiar. Excepting in the one
admirable proclivity, of his chivalrous
respect for the weaker sex, a worse example
for young officers could not well,
in any regiment in the Service be found.
None were ignorant of the patent facts
of his immorality, his want of principle,
and the verge of ruin on which, through
his own misdoings, Captain Guy Leicester
stood, and yet he was, by the commanding
officer of his battalion, caressed
and made much of; whilst even the rank

and file, carried away by the charm of
his manner, and the innate generosity
of the spendthrift's nature, followed the
example of their officers, and would have
gone through fire and water to do him
service, and to prove their confidence in
him as a first-rate soldier, and as the
soldiers' friend."

VOL. I.

A DARK HORSE.

Shortly after the conversation
between the Colonel and his
wife which was recorded in
the last chapter, the junior Major of the
Chalkshire Rifles was compelled, through
the pressure of long-continued ill-health,
to leave the Service. From some cause,
into which it is needless to enter, promotion
did not go in the regiment, an
exchange from another corps being
effected by one Major Brereton, who was
without delay gazetted to fill the place

of the invalided veteran. The complacent
of the grey-headed and much-respected
old field-officer had spent the greater
portion of his military career in India.
His experience had been chiefly gained
in out quarters, but he had seen some
service, and had earned in a slight degree,
a reputation as a soldier. When the
name of Major Louis Brereton was first mentioned
in the mess-room of the Kisses, as
that of the man whom the young soldiers
were to welcome as one of their field-officers,
the antecedents as well as character
of the latter became, not unnaturally,
the subject of much conjectural talk.

He's evidently what you may calla
dark horse," remarked a would-be
facetious lieutenant, Cardew by name ;
** and men who have been a long time
in India are always nuisances."

Fancy," remarked young Durant, who
was lounging lazily in a rocking-chair,
his shell-jacket open, for the day was
warm, and with an unpaid-for shilling
cigar between his beardless lips, "the
cheek of a fellow exchanging from a
red regiment into ours ! "

The lad's days in the crack Rifle
regiment were, as he well knew, all but
numbered, but this small display of
esprit de corps sounded well, and cost
him no trouble.

The surgeon of the battalion — a quiet
man, and prosy, but withal somewhat
addicted to gossip — now put in his word.
Laying down the " Army and Navy
Gazette," over the pages of which he
had been poring, he said slowly, and
after the manner of one who is ransacking
the storehouses of his memory, —

I recollect that when I was in India,
there was a story about a mad dog, in
which a young fellow of the name of
Brereton was mixed up. Three men
were dining together, when a dog belonging
to one of them went mad, and
tried to bite. The one of the three who
was nearest the door was Brereton sit
needn't, you know, have been this man,
besides, the thing happened a long time
ago), and he thinking, I suppose, that
self-preservation was the first law of
nature, rushed from the room, closing
and locking the door behind him."

What a coward ! " " What an infernal
cad ! " were amongst the expletives
which, after listening to this brief anecdote,
were heard in varied tones from
the much disgusted audience.

And what became of the other

men 1 " asked more than one sympathiser
with the victims of a brutal act
of selfishness.

"Oh, as well as I can remember,"
replied Dr Braintree, " one of them
killed the brute with his sword, but not
before the other had been bitten, and he,
poor fellow, died of rabies."

I hope to G — ," exclaimed one of the
youngsters present, "that the man who
is taking old Nugent's place is not the
Brereton of whom you heard in India.
One couldn't stand a man in our regiment
who has such a story as that attached
to his name."

"Now I come to think of it," resumed
the surgeon, who was a prudent man,
and always preferred being on the safe
side, "I rather think that the hero of
this story was a civilian ; and what

makes it the more likely is, that he told
the anecdote himself, boasting of his
own cleverness in taking care of his own
person first, whereas his conduct in
the matter would have got him kicked
out of any decent regiment in the
Service."

At that moment a senior Lieutenant,
who had served on the 
staff in India, came sauntering
into the room, and the story of the
mad dog, as connected with one Bretton,
was eagerly, and with sundry comments
thereupon, repeated to him.

Did you ever hear of it ? " was the
question which, in various forms, was
asked him on all sides.

No ; and I wasn't likely to," responded
the Honourable Richard de
Silvertop, better known in the regiment

as Dicky Dollars. " The affair
happened most likely up the country,
and before I joined. I recollect the
name in India, but that had something
to do with a woman."

I daresay — most affairs have," remarked
the doctor sententiously ; and
then, flattering himself that he had made
a telling, as well as an original hit, he
took advantage of the same to effect
what he considered a " good exit " from
the room.

Shortly after this, an event occurred
which caused no small amount of sensation,
not only in the Chalkshire Regiment,
but in the big town of Broad-mere
itself. The two impecunious sub-lieutenants.
Messieurs Durant and Fuller,
were reported one day as " missing without
leave " from their respective quarters.

It had long been apparent to lookers-on
that the departure from the regiment
of these two hopeful youths would not
be long delayed, but it had occurred to
no one, from the Colonel downwards,
to imagine that in either case their
retirement would have been effected in
other than a normal and legitimate
fashion ; and now to the disgrace of
themselves and their relations, they had
gone away like thieves in the night,
carrying away with them every article
of marketable value of which they had
contrived on " tick " to obtain possession.
The town of Broadmere, many of
whose wealthiest shopkeepers had been
victimised by the absconding officers,
was unpleasantly startled when the news
from the barracks spread through the
streets. In addition to the losses which

the jewellers, tailors, gunsmitlis, etc. etc.,
had sustained, their faith in the military
generally was shaken, and they almost
vowed within themselves that they would
never more give " credit " to an officer.

The shame and anger felt by the
Colonel, as well as by the regiment
generally, at the manner in which the
straddling " had been carried out, was
intense. It was a case (as even the
young fellows who had not for a
lengthened period paid for a single article
they possessed, declared) of utter
swindling, for the culprits had made a
clean sweep of every valuable thing,
including a brand new sixty-guinea dogcart,
in which they had driven off — no
one as yet knew where.

But if great was the consternation of
the trades-people and money-lenders when

the moonlight flitting of the graceless
young offenders became known, what
can be said of the grief of the widowed
mother of Alfred Durant, when she, with
her sorrowing daughters, read in the
newspaper a short paragraph containing
an account — the reverse of merciful —
of her boy's and his companion's misconduct.
She was scarcely likely, poor
soul, to have been apprised in a more
considerate and less painful manner of
the heavy calamity which had befallen
her family, for, living as she and her
girls had — from motives of economy —
done for some time past, in a distant part
of Cornwall, and possessing in her son's
regiment neither friend, nor even acquaintance,
there existed no one in the
outer world, save that son himself, who
would have been either able or willing to

impart to her the fearful news of his
disgrace. Alfred's letters to his home —
angels' visits, from their preciousness in
his mother's eyes as he well knew them
to be — had of late grown rarer and
more rare. He had been so good when
first he joined, this youngest born, for
whom she had sacrificed so much, had
written to her every week, describing,
with the frankness of a schoolboy, before
the mother's love within his heart had
grown cold and scant, the small events,
as well as the more important circumstances,
by which his new life was
characterised, that Mrs Durant had been
rendered happy in the belief that her
Alfred's " home affections " would never
in his heart and memory be disjoined from
the interest in his new vocation which
it was only natural that he should take.

But in this belief she was fated to be
disappointed. The time — and that only
too soon — arrived, when many weeks together
were allowed to elapse without
any signs of his existence being given
by the absent one. It was in vain that
his sisters, seeing, although she uttered
no words of complaint, the mother's
cheek grow pale and thin, and signs
breaking health betraying themselves
in her languid movements, wrote imploring
him, by the love they had always
borne their boy, to cheer his mother's
failing spirits by a letter. The lad,
ashamed and self-reproachful, made na
sign, and thus it followed that it was
only by mere chance that the truth, in
all its startling nakedness, became known
to the anxious watchers in their faraway
Cornish home.

Worse, far worse than her direst anticipations,
was the reality, as, in all its
complicated horrors, it became fully apparent
to the already much-tried mother.
she had been prepared for debt, and had
even, in the secret recesses of her own
mind, been alive to the possibility that
some *' dreadful creature " — one of those
harpies who make victims of unsuspecting
youth, and drag them down into
perdition — had seized, body and soul,
upon her boy : but here was worse than
this. And Mrs Durant, who was a
soldier's widow, and whose father had
died fighting bravely in far-away Afghanistan
for England's glory, felt to the
very quick the bitter disgrace which her
boy's conduct had brought upon the
name he bore. Then came the awful
question — awful in that there was no

one to answer it — of where had he gone ?
Dread visions of the hiding-places to
which the lad, in his despair, might betake
himself, filled the mother's brain.
She pictured to herself the horror of
the disgrace which he must be enduring,
and could, in the anguish of her
own heart, have put to him the patriot
poet's touching question, —

Where will you bury your shame %
Where, in what desolate place,
Hide the lost wreck of a name
Broken and stained by disgrace ?

One night, and one only, did Mrs
Durant spend in sleepless cogitation on
the steps which, in order to find
her boy, it behoved her to take, and
then she informed her girls that she
intended, on that very day, to start
by an early train to Broadmere. The

poor young creatures, who had spent
the silent hours in tears, and in vain
conjectures as to what would happen
next, protested vehemently against their
mother's project.

'' You cannot do it, mother ! " cried
Helen, the elder of the two, and the
most decided in speech and character.
*' Think how little strength you have,
and how that only yesterday you had
to come out of church because you felt
so faint and weak."

Oh, that was because good Mr
Everett's sermon was so long, and he
said such terrible things ; besides," continued
the unhappy lady, " the shadow of
this dreadful misfortune may have been
hanging over me. I am better to-day,
and, dear children, I cannot rest quiet
without knowing something of our boy.

He may belli, I tremble to think of

it all ! — in even some worse trouble

than we know of, and it is not for his

own mother to desert him now."

No, no ! we feel that, dearest,'^

pleaded the fair young spokeswoman ;

whilst dark-eyed Mary could only cling

round her parent's waist, and sob out

her sorrow on the frail shoulder which

was so ill-fitted to bear another load of

care. "But cannot I — who am young

and strong — undertake, instead of you,

this long and trying journey ? Surely

I am old enough at nineteen to travel

alone, and see strangers, and make

inquiries about poor Al£ Do let me

go, mother. Tell me all I have to do,

and I will obey your instructions ta

the letter."

But to this plan Mrs Durant would
VOL. I. D

not listen for a moment. There were
reasons — some of which she could not
even hint at to her girls — why one
so young and ignorant of the world's
wickedness as was Helen, could not, in
this momentous crisis of a young lad's
life, be employed as a parent's substitute.
She, that pure-minded and virtuous
mother, might — who could foretell
events ? — be forced by cruel circumstances
to follow the prodigal to the
haunts of vice, and do battle for his possession
with the lost ones of her sex ;
and therefore it was that she must go
forth alone, armed only with the weapons
of maternal love, and the undying
patience of which, in a parent's heart,
there exists such an endless store.

The journey from Penzance to Broad-mere
is a long, and, to an invalid, a

trying one, but the strong excitement
under which the widow laboured, together
with a certain amount, unknown
to herself, of the blessed gift of hope,
enabled her to bear up bravely under
the burden which had been laid upon
her. As might have been expected, and
as her anxious daughters had foretold,
the inexperienced traveller met in her
progress with contretemps without end.
Long and innumerable were the waiting
at junctions, and many the mistakes
into which an imperfect education in
the mysteries of " Bradshaw " caused her
to fall ; in short, it too soon became
patent to her bewildered mind, that had
she taken the advice of Mr Everard,
their village clergyman, and gone to the
north via London, both time and money
would have been eventually saved.

U, OF ILL Uri.

It was eleven o'clock in the morning
after her departure from, home, that Mrs
Durant, after a weary night of all but
ceaseless travel, found herself suddenly
hustled from her Train, and removed,
she scarcely knew how, or by whom
(for her head was in a whirl, and her
perceptions of time and distance hopelessly
confused), into a carriage, which,
to her dismay, proved to be a smoking
one. This startling event occurred when
she was only some ten miles from
Broadmere, the Train to which she had
been transferred being a junction one,
and used chiefly for the convenience of
the military, and the conveyance of
mineral ore to and from the city of
Broadmere. The widow, rightly judging
from the strong smell of tobacco which
pervaded the compartment, that she had

involuntarily intruded where individuals
of her sex are the reverse of welcome,
immediately, in her feeble, ladylike voice,
commenced an apology for her mistake
to the only other occupant of the carriage.
He — a tall, distinguished-looking
man — Guy Leycester, to wit — had on her
entrance thrown his lately - lighted cigar
from the window, and he now, in the
courteous, almost caressing manner with
which he was in the habit of addressing
the softer sex, apologised in his
turn for the inconvenience to which he
feared that his fellow-passenger was being
put.

One feels positively ashamed," he
said, "of having helped to produce an
atmosphere in which no lady can breathe
with comfort ; " and then noticing her
hansard looks, he added kindly, "I am

afraid you are suffering from the oppression.
Shall I open this window a little
wider for you % "

Thank you ; it is not that," she
faltered; 'but if you would kindly tell
me how far we are from Broadmere,
and — and — from the barracks."

We shall be there in ten minutes,"
was the reply. "The barracks come first,
and if — it is my regiment that is quartered
there — T can be of any use to
you—"

Oh ! you can, or, at least, perhaps you
may be 1 " the poor mother, who, at sight
of one of her son's late brother-officers,
lost her small remains of self-control,
ejaculated. " I have come to ask, — to
find out, if I can, what has become of
my unhappy son ; for I am Alfred
Durant's mother ; and oh, he was once

honourable and good, and if — " but here
tears, which she strove hard to suppress,
choked her utterance, and her slight
frame shook with the violence of her
emotion.

Guy Leycester was greatly distressed
by the sight of a grief so real and so
irrepressible. He would have given
much to console the sorrowing mother
with intelligence, however slight, of her
young scamp's " whereabouts ; but unhappily
his ignorance in that respect
was as great as her own, he could only
therefore speak to her in the soothing
tones best suited to her state of mind,
and entreat her to compose herself.

''I have no doubt," he said, "that
one or other of our young fellows will
be able to give you some information
about your son. In the meantime, I

advise you to let me take you to a
clean little inn, which stands about a
mile from the barracks, and there you
had better stay till I send one of our
fellows to you. I daresay it will be
Elphinstone, the Adjutant. He is as good
a chap as ever lived, and always took
an interest in Durant. Ah, here weare
! Now let us see after your traps,"
and then gathering together the very
limited " plunder " which his fellow-traveller
tearfully informed him constituted
her individual possessions, he, with
as much respect (to quote the widow's
later words) as if she had been a
duchess, offered her his arm, and bearing
in his other hand her small black
leather travelling-bag, escorted her from
the Station to the Dragon Inn. The
landlady, a neatly-dressed, kindly-faced

woman, emerged from her own precincts
to meet the somewhat incongruous-looking
pair, with one of whom at least,
she could boast of being in some degree
what might be called, slightly acquainted.

Captain Leycester, on being curtseyed
to by stout Mrs Purlings, raised his hat
with as much outward respect as he
would have paid to Eoyalty had it
chanced to appear before him in the
flesh, and said, in his courteous fashion, —

Would you kindly allow this lady,
who is very tired after a long journey,
the use of a sitting-room, and — there
may probably be more apartments required
— for a few hours ? A friend —
Captain Elphinstone, from the barracks —
will possibly call before long ; but in
the meanwhile, I am sure that you will
make the lady as comfortable as you can."

Certainly, Captain, certainly," responded
the hostess of the Dragon
cheerfully. *' There is the upstairs front
parlour, with a fire ready laid for lighting
; and if the lady will step this
way — Mind your at, Captain. Our
doorway's low for such tall army gentlemen
as you."

All right," laughed Guy, as he
shook hands with his new acquaintance,
and advised her, in the simple, matter-of-fact
manner which was calculated to
check any possible suspicion on the
landlady's part of the travellers identity,
to have some breakfast, and lie down
for an hour or two to rest.

Rest ! Ah, word thrice blessed to
the ear ! When — the weary woman
asked herself — would she know the quiet
joy of it again % It is easy for lookers-on

at human trials and heart tortures to
cry Peace ! Peace ! to the afflicted ones
but as long (and that will be for aye)
as "the wicked are like the troubled
sea, whose waters cast forth mire and
dirt," so long will sinless mothers weep
tears of blood over the *' thankless children
" who have brought upon their
declining years, sorrows which are more
hard to bear than even death itself.
In its full bitterness did Mrs Durant,
when at last the kindly, officious landlady
left her to her own thoughts
realise the truth that for her there was
no peace." She had been fully alive
to the sympathetic delicacy of feeling
which had prompted Captain Leycester to
abstain, in Mrs Purlings' hearing, from
mentioning the name of Durant ; but
oh ! the shame of reflecting — which in

the solitude of the little inn's best room
she could not but do — that the honoured
name of her dead husband was now so
indelibly stained by disgrace that the
honest mistress of that humble inn
might, if she knew all, flout and sneer
at her 1 And then, to her dismay, the
unhappy woman suddenly recollected
that on the lid of her one small box,
the address, " Mrs Durant, passenger
to Broadmere," had been in Mary's
large legible hand inscribed. Poor girls !
not as yet had they had time to realise
the truth that " Als 's extravagance " had
changed for them the whole course and
current of their lives. The *' little mother"
who, before these troubles came, had
been gay and light-hearted almost as
themselves, would perforce henceforward
go on her way with lowered head, and

a step which in its heaviness betrayed
the fact that for her, the zest of life, and
the sunshine thereof, were for ever passed
away. But this truth was not, as I before
said, as yet patent to the widow's
daughters. There would be money difficulties,
of course, and more parings
away from the few comforts which Alfs-
frequent demands upon the family purse
had left to them ; later on, too, would
necessarily come the hard - to - answer
question, of what the prodigal was todo
next ? They — id est, that impoverished
widow's household — had it not in their
power to help him farther ; no fatted
calf had they to kill, nor rich robe to-put
upon his shoulders : they could only
weep tender tears upon his neck, and
tell him that from the bottom of their
hearts he was forgiven !

GUY Leicester TO THE RESCUE.

Hist Mrs Durant, seated before
her almost untasted breakfast,
was picturing to herself
hier small luggage box, covered with black
American cloth, and betraying on its
humble yet shining surface that it belonged
to one who bore the same name
ins that of the "swindler" Durant, Mrs
Purlings, taking note in the entrance -
passage of the address, had already made
up her mind that the lady in the well-worn
black cashmere and scanty silk

mantle, who was occupying, pro tern., her,
best front parlour, was no other than
the parent of the missing sub-lieutenant.
She — the hostess — was a kind-hearted
woman, and had had more trouble with
her own boys than she had ever told to
the father of her gamins; but she had
buried — as the saying in her class is —
that worthy paterfamilias now, and the
sons, God bless 'em ! had been good to
her on the whole. So, reasoning from
analogy, she decided that the poor lady
upstairs might take comfort from the
experiences of a mother who, like herself,
had given birth to unruly prodigals.
Acting on this amiable impulse, Mrs Purlingss
ascended the narrow, well-worn
stairs, and, having knocked softly at her
guest's door, she received a low-voiced
permission to enter.

Now it had been this good woman's
purpose to, in the most consoling
fashion, but nevertheless without delay
or circumlocution, touch upon the discovery
she had made. It required, however,
but one glance at the gentle face
of the unmistakably impecunious lady,
and a few words from her educated
voice, to demonstrate to the well-intentioned
visitor the inexpediency of entering,
without due preparation, on the
subject of which her limited intellect
was for the moment charged. Under
these circumstances, a simple inquiry
after the traveller's health was, by the
intruder, substituted ; and, approaching
nearer to the table on which the
tea service had been arranged, she said,
in the melancholy tones which, in
the worthy creature's opinion, were best

adapted to the display of sympathy
and compassion, —

Why, dear hears, you've never
touched your breakfast ! It isn't to your
liking, I am afraid ; and yet the tea's
about the best as can be got in Broad-mere.
Would a fresh egg tempt you
now'm, do you think ? or a slice, cut
very thin, of some bleed edge bone of
beef?"

Nothing, thank you. Everything is
very nice," replied Mrs Durant feebly.
I believe that I am too tired to eat.
Rest and quiet are what 1 want the
most."

Ah ! poor lady, I know well enough
what you must be feeling," rejoined Mrs
Purlings dolefully; 'for when I've been
in trouble myself, I've been that put
about by people coming bothering with

VOL. I. E

their accounts and their inquiries, that
I haven't known which way to turn myself.
But, as I used to say, there's no
good comes of forgetting ; things right
themselves in the end — leastways they
did with me, and so they will with
you'd, if you keep up a good heart.
Why, my boy Joe was at one time
about as troublesome a young customer
as you'd ever come across, and now,
thank God ! he's as steady as the town
clock, and has taken to the butchering
line of business, as handy, for all the
world, as if he had been bred to the
trade from a baby."

Mrs Durant listened in absolute silence
to the landlady's exordium. That she
herself stood revealed to that loquacious
personage, as well as to the entire
household, as the mother of the absconding

officer, she at once perceived, and the
torture she endured at having her bleeding
wounds thus roughly handled, is
easier to imagine than to describe. In
what manner she would have responded to
this kindly-meant effort at consolation,
cannot however now be known, as at
that identical moment one of the employees
of the establishment gave notice
holding, meanwhile, the door ajar in
her hand — that a *officer" from the
barracks was waiting below to see the
lady who had come by the morning Train.
Ask him to come up, please ; and "
(addressing the landlady), "thank you
very much for coming to see me," said
Mrs Durant hurriedly. She was one of
those rarely unselfish beings to whom the
feelings of others are things of moment,
things, in short, which even those

who are themselves in trouble are not
justified in trampling upon and ignoring ;
and therefore it was that, whilst the clatter
of spurs and sword upon the stairs set
her heart beating wildly, she did not
forget, though Mrs Purlings' words had
sorely tried her, that the intention of her
tormentor had been kind and Christian-like.
It is not necessary — seeing that the
course of our story, and the amount of
matter which it contains alike require
us to " keep moving " — to minutely particularise
the interview which, between
Captain Eowley Elphinstone and the
grieving mother of his former subaltern,
took place. He was very gentle with
her, breaking as tenderly as he could,
the news that the two misguided boys —
as to her, he charitably styled the culprits
— were, instead of seeking with tears

a secluded place in which to repent
them of their sins, " living like fighting
cocks," or — to quote Captain Elphinstone's
own words — " spending a short time at
the Louvre Hotel in Paris."

No sooner did the poor mother realise
this startling truth, than she announced
her intention of starting off immediately
to the Continent.

I must bring him home at once,
Captain Elphinstone," she said. "He
cannot resist temptation. Poor unhappy
boy ! he is so weak — so easily led ! —
not really wicked," looking very wistfully
into the kind face of her new
friend ; " you do not think that of him,
I hope ? And yet — if anyone has more
reason than another to have an ill
opinion of him, it is you, for I have
not now to learn how good you have

always been to him, and how little he
has profited by your advice."

"Poor fellow, he has been his own
worst enemy," rejoined Eowley. " But as
regards this journey to Paris, you must
not think of it. Your own health — if
it were nothing else — should put the idea
out of the question."

Oh ! " she cried, " when it is a
question of saving Alfred, there is no
fear of my breaking down. I am
stronger than I look, and when once I
have him under my care again — "

But the question is, my dear Mrs
Durant," interrupted Elphinstone, and ashe
spoke the anxious woman noted the
added seriousness of his voice and manner,
'whether you can with prudence
and — and — safety bring your son to
England."

With safety ? — I do not understand.
Is he — can he be in any danger ? " asked
the now effectually frightened woman.
** He is so young — only twenty ! Oh !
Captain Elphinstone, what reason have I
has he — badly as he has behaved — to
fear?"

*' I cannot tell you — I know so little
of — of — these things," her interlocutor
said compassionately ; ** but perhaps if
you were to see a lawyer — " *

** Oh, then there is something still
worse to hear ! " she, with growing agitation,
ejaculated. " He — my boy — has — ■
no — no — not forged ! " (and as she uttered
the fearful word, a strong shudder ran
visibly through her frame). "His father's
son can never have sunk into such depths
of crime as that''

"You are right, dear madam, and I —

with the best intentions — have causelessly
frightened you. Your son's fault is comparatively
a venial one ; nevertheless it
unhappily, possibly places him within the
power of the law. What he has done is
this. Finding that the circumstance of his
being still under age stood in the way
of his obtaining money from a certain
Jew diamond merchant, he, in an unguarded
moment, and being goaded on
by his necessities, took an oath that he
had passed the age of twenty-one. The
money-lender was probably well aware of
the deception, but what cared he ? He
had got the poor boy into his toils,
and—"

He, the good-natured apologist for the
errors of the widow's son, would probably,
in his anger against the class under discussion,
have added a few more sentences

to his diatribe, but a slight, rustling
sound caused him to look up from the
table on which his eyes had been unconsciously
fixed, and he perceived, to his
surprise and consternation, that Mrs
Durant had quietly fallen back, in a dead
faint, upon the shining horse-hair sofa.
An energetic pull at the bell-rope was
almost immediately followed by the hurried
entrance of the landlady, and under
her direction, measures for the recovery
of the sufferer were, without a moment's
delay, undertaken. Addressing herself to
the chambermaid, who, together with
sundry other members of the establishment,
were showing their faces in the
doorway, Mrs Purlings, in tones of suppressed
energy, exclaimed, —

"Eun, Lizzie, for some brandy. Here,
take the key of my cupboard ; and

bring the vinegar cruet along with
you. Poor dear lady," this to Elphin-
stone, who had been employed in
tenderly placing the unconscious head
upon the slippery pillow of the couch,
"I guessed how it would be when she
wouldn't take anything to her breakfast ;
she wouldn't let on, poor soul, not a
word, about her troubles, for all I left
everything at sixes and sevens downstairs
to try and cheer her up a bit."

"You had far better have let her
alone," retorted Captain Eowley savagely ;
"and, Mrs Purlings, I must beg of you,"
he went on, with some severity, as he
drew on his gloves, "not — when this lady
recovers — to say anything, — to ask her
any questions, I mean, about her private
concerns. Dr Braintree, our surgeon,
will, I hope, be here in a few minutes,

and he will, I am sure, insist upon the
same thing, namely, perfect rest, and
freedom from intrusion."

Mrs Purlings, feeling considerably aggrieved,
had, during the delivery of this
speech, been busying herself, not, however,
as yet with any perceptible result,
in the restoration to consciousness of the
patient. Mrs Durant had, it is true,
opened her eyes, but only for a moment ;
with a slight quiver of the lids, they
had closed again, and she now lay as
still, and almost as breathless, as a corpse.
The failure of her simple remedies was
beginning to have a crushing effect upon
Mrs Purlings' spirits, and it was with
feelings of intense relief that she hailed
the entrance of the regimental doctor.

We can't bring her too no how, doctor,"
she was beginning ; but Dr Braintree

cut short her flood of words by taking
the management of the case into his own
hands.

He had seen much practice, that
middle-aged medico, who had now under
his care not only an ailing body but a
mind diseased, and he proved himself
equal to the occasion. That his patient
was none other than the mother of the
erring absentee was now an open secret ;
and, moreover, Captain Elphinstone had
related to the surgeon the particulars of
his interview with Mrs Durant.

She evidently feels the disgrace
acutely," the Adjutant wound up by saying
; " and I would have given much to
avoid telling her the worst, but there
was no alternative. She was bent on
going to Paris, and bringing the young
scapegrace home, and that, as you are

aware, might have ended rather awkwardly.
I hope, doctor, that you will
find there is nothing serious the matter,
for the poor thing is quite by herself
here, aud the Dragon Inn is not precisely
a pleasant locality for a lady under
an attack of illness to remain in."

Pleasant, however, or otherwise as the
Dragon might be, it soon became apparent
to Dr Braintree's experienced eyes
that, even without taking a too desponding
view of the case, a considerable time
must perforce elapse before Mrs Durant
would be enabled to leave her present
uncongenial quarters. There were, in the
surgeon's opinion, certain diagnostics in
his patient's case which clearly pointed
to the eventuality of brain, or at least of
nervous, fever supervening on the attack
of syncope ; and if this fear should unhappily

be realised, what more unsuitable
place in which to be laid up than a
third-rate inn — let that inn be ever so
clean, and even comfortable, in its way —
could there be found ? As for the sufferer
herself, she, on recovering from her
prolonged attack of faintness, appeared,
happily perhaps for herself, altogether
unconscious either of where she was, or of
the events which had lately taken place.
Her eyes had assumed a fixed and bewildered
look, whilst the power of speech
seemed temporarily to have deserted her.
From time to time she made what were
evidently painful efforts to speak distinctly,
but the few words she was able
to articulate, fell, in what may be called
nonsense sentences from her trembling
lips, and comprehending apparently that
so it was, the helpless creature, with a

mournful shake of her drooping head,
would desist from further efforts to make
herself understood.

To the little inn's best bedroom the
poor mother had been carried by tender
hands, and there, on a big old-fashioned
four - poster, which filled up two - thirds
of the small apartment, she lay with
widely-opened eyes, and with the fire of
incipient fever burning in her veins. Her
condition, both of mind and body, occasioned
much sympathy amongst the kindhearted
soldiers who were cognisant of her
illness and of its cause ; and many and
anxious were the inquiries that were daily
made concerning her state. Amongst the
most constant of the visitors to the
little inn was the Colonel's wife. Lady
Gregorie " knew," as the saying is, through
the medium of mutual friends, of Mrs

Durant and her family ; but scil incidental
and vicarious acquaintance was not
needed in order to induce Sir Wilfred's
kind-hearted wife to befriend, as far as
lay in lier power, the forlorn stranger
who lay — it might be, near her end —
almost within the barrack gates. It was
by Florence Gregorie that the suggestion
of writing to Mrs Durant's "people" was
first mooted ; but it was Eowley Elph in-stone
who, in his capacity of quondam
friend and mentor of the absent lad,
took upon himself the task of writing
such a letter to Miss Durant as
would prepare her for the chances of
still worse intelligence on the morrow.
He made no attempt to disguise his
opinion that Mrs Durant ought to have,
at this juncture, a near relation by her
side. 'ewe are doing for her what little

we can," the Adjutant wrote, "but, being
comparative strangers, we are, I may
almost say, working in the dark."

That will fetch the young lady," said
Rowley to himself, as he fixed a stamp on
the letter, and pressed it down securely
with his doubled fist. '' From what the
mother said, I take her to be a good
sort. Wanted to come and look up Master
Als herself, poor girl ! "Well, I for one
shall be deuced glad when the young
woman turns up," he, still soliloquising
in a dreamy fashion, added, when his
lucubrations were cut short by the entrance
of a visitor.

Hallo ! old chap," he, addressing the
unexpected intruder, exclaimed. *why
you are a second Sir Boyle Roche's bird,
in two places at once. I heard that you
were ofi* for one of your runs up

VOL. I. F

to town to-day, and now, here you
are."

Yes, here I am, as you say," rejoined
Guy Leycester, as he carelessly
threw his length of limb into a comfortable
barrack lounging-chair, " and here —
not exactly in this room, so cheer up
again, old fellow — I mean to remain, till
such time as you and I shall have
hit upon some plan for getting that
poor woman out of the Dragon's
jaws."

Elphinstone had left his writing-chair,
and was standing on that meet spot
for an English gentleman's meditations,
namely, the rug before an empty fire-grate.
With something akin to triumph
in that he too had been occupying himself
in the widow's concerns, he pointed
to the letter, stamped, and bearing the

address, in his big, masculine handwriting,
of Miss Helen Durant.

1 hope," he said, " that we shall soon
have better advice as to how to act. I
have had a talk with Lady Gregorie,
and, partly at her suggestion, I have
written to Miss Durant."

"Who will, I conclude, come to her
mother without delay ; but in the meanwhile,
as old Braintree says, every hour
that Mrs Durant spends in that beastly
hole is driving another nail into her coffin."

Oh, come ! The poor old Dragon is
not so bad as that comes to. Lady Gregory
went yesterday to see Mrs Durant,
and was quite struck with the cleanliness
and niceness of her bedroom."

I wonder if the fair Florence were
to visit the place in the evening, whether
she would be equally enchanted with the

odour of stale bird's-eye, and the row and
rattle of the billiard balls. Mrs Purlings
does her best, good old soul, to keep the
house quiet, but she has her customers
to consider, and one can't expect her to
quarrel with Hodge and Tommy Atkins
for the sake of a poor lady who is
probably about to do her the ill service
of dying in her house."

But what is the alternative ? What,
in your opinion, can be done \ " Elphin-
stone, a trifle impatiently, asks.

Well, it strikes me that Brain tree's
advice must be followed, and that Mrs
Durant must be moved as soon as possible
into a private house."

Yes, but what house ? A Broadmere
lodging would be almost worse, I expect,
even than the Dragon — "

'' Ah, but I'm not thinking; of that

abominable thing — a lodging ! It's the
Shanty we want to have the sick woman
taken to — "

"The Shanty! Mrs Denham's house!
You surely cannot mean it ! "

"Indeed I do; and pray — may I
ask — why not ? "

*' Why ? Upon my word now — Well,
if you come to ask me — "

"I do ask you, and, what is more,"
he, with one of the smiles, half cynical
and half caressing, which were characteristic
of his weak, but handsome mouth,
added, "I expect to have an answer."

"Well, for one thing," the Adjutant,
finding himself fairly driven into a corner,
said, " the Shanty is such a little place — "

Granted ; just big enough for two,
and no more; but as Denham and his
wife have gone for six weeks to the Ei-vera,

and as IVe telegraphed to Mra to
lend me the Shanty whilst they are away,
it has been arranged between Braintree
and me — at least not exactly arranged,
till we had talked it over with you — that
he should see to the migration of Mrs
Durant at once. They have left two
servants in the house — one a dear old
woman who was Mrs Denham's nurse —
so that will be all right ; and if the
daughter comes, which I conclude she
will do, it will be at any rate better for
her than putting up at a pothouse."

After this explanation, what farther objection
could Captain Edmonstone even
venture to hint at against a plan which
in some respects was very decidedly recommendable
? He was on more intimate
terms with Guy Leycester than was any
other officer in the regiment, yet even

he could not bring himself to disclose to
his friend the real reason for his objection
to that friend's proposal. The truth
was, that if only Mrs Durant had been
in question, if there had been no young
lady, by name ** Helen," to whom he had
just been taking upon himself to write a
letter of advice, Eowley Elphinstone would
probably not have been stirred by a certain
dim sense of the indecorum involved
therein, to object to Guy's plan of proceeding.
But there did, as he well knew,
exist a Helen — a girl whom he pictured
to himself as pure and unstained as snow,
who might in a very few hours be
on her way to Broadmere ; and — strive
as he might against the feeling — he could
not, without a sensation of repugnance,
picture to himself that girl as an inmate
of Mrs Denham's house.

AN" AFFAIR OF '* ANCIENT History."

HE news that one Louis Bretton
was gazetted as Major of
the Chalkshire Kisses, was certainly
— by one person at least who had
an interest in the Corps — not looked upon
with favourable eyes. Lady Gregorie —
now a woman of some seven-and-twenty
years — had, in her early and romantic
girlhood, been so unfortunate as to make
acquaintance with the man whose very
flame — seeing that a decade had slipped,
by since she had heard it — had almost

escaped her memory. It was in the
first-class compartment of a Belgian express
Train that Florence Maynard, travelling
after her school holidays, with
an elderly and confidential English maid,
back to her Pension at Bruges, met, and
was politely accosted by a good-looking

and gentlemanlike-mannered young Eng-

•
irishman. That Englishman was no other

than Louis Brereton. Florence, with her
fresh young beauty, and her bright
untutored talk, at once attracted his
admiration. Throughout a journey of several
successive hours, during the greater
part of which the duenna slept the sleep
of the just, Mr Brereton, then a lieutenant
in a Line Eegiment, and travelling
to Bruxelles, on leave to visit his
parents, did not permit his attentions to
his pretty fellow-traveller to flag. And

Florence ? Well, as is the wont of her
sex and age, she was pleased with being
made much of, and as much bewildered
as enchanted by the first compliments to
her beauty which in her young and
secluded life had as yet saluted her ears.
The story — totally innocent of harm as
regarded its child heroine, as it doubtless
was — of her adventure with Louis Bretton,
was, however, destined to bring forth
evil fruit. The man, being vicious to the
core, and the object of his convoitise
being only a simple, unsuspicious girl,
the consequences of this chance meeting
may be easily guessed. Brereton found
no difficulty in discovering the locality of
the English maiden's temporary home.
Bruges is, as all the world knows, a dull
and ancient city, but it is easy of access
from the gay little Belgian capital, and

not a few were the trips taken by the
enterprising British officer from the Boulevard
de Waterloo to the banks of the
dismal-looking canal over which looked
the prison-like windows of the Pension
de St Agathe. On the low wall that
skirted the canal, Mr Brereton would, for
hours at a time, seat himself, thereby — ashe
fondly hoped — not only working on
the young lady's feelings, but succeeding
in " compromising " the pupil (who — ashe
had taken the trouble to ascertain—
was to a certain extent an heiress), and
thus compelling her parents to receive
him as a suitor for her hand. These
manoeuvres — silly and in bad taste although
they were — would not of themselves
have been productive of much
injury to the carefully-guarded pupil, had
it not been that Brereton was clever

enough to induce the inexperienced girl
to commit herself by writing to him.
They were but two in number, those
foolish little notes in which she assured
her well-loved Louis of her undying devotion,
but, short and simple in their
childish ignorance as they were, those
eagerly entreated for billet doux were
destined to work the writer much trouble
in the days which were to come.

The following letter, written by Lady
Gregorie immediately after she had become
aware that Louis Brereton was
about again to play a part (an odious
one, possibly), in her present prosperous
life, will afford ample proof of the condition
of mind into which the writer of
the letters had been — without preparation
— thrown. It was addressed to one
Emily Vidal, a former schoolfellow of

Lady Gregorie's, and her confidante in
the silly open-air flirtation which ten
years previously had been carried on between
the military heiress hunter and
his intended victim. Miss Yidal was two
years older than her friend, and in experience
of the world, and knowledge of
mankind, had been — when the pair first
became acquainted — ten years in advance
of Florence. It was this superiority in
worldly knowledge which threw pretty,
simple-minded " Flo " into the arms, as
it were, of her far less personally attractive,
but very astute fellow-pupil. Emily
Vidal — the daughter of a decayed gentleman
(if gentleman indeed he ever had
been) was quick, on Florence Maynard's
first appearance at the Pension, to perceive
the " advantage " which from a
friendship with the well-born and well-endowed

new pensionnaire, might be
"sucked." She was an adroit flatterer,
not being — to borrow a culinary phrase —
too " heavy a hand " with the condiments,
but administering them in homeopathic
doses, and with a discretion that
was worthy of an older head. Florence —
as might have been expected — fell at once
under the spell. It was pleasant to be worshipped,
and seeing that the possession of
a sweetheart is — when the secret of that
possession is confined to a girl's own breast
of comparatively small value — she lost
no time in opening out her pure young
heart for the inspection and vivisection of
her clearer-sighted, and sympathising friend.
Of late years — that is to say, since her
marriage, which had taken place four
years previously. Lady Gregorie had seen
Qot from choice but from necessity,

comparatively little of Emily Vidal. The
fortunes of the latter had, during that
period, undergone a change for the worse.
Heavy turf and sundry horse-breeding
losses, together with an expenditure far
beyond his means, had reduced Mr Vidal,
"eve, to the condition of an impecunious
man, and his four still unmarried daughters,
of whom Emily was the youngest, were
left, with a gouty father and an habitually
querulous mother, to " dree their weird "
somewhere in the direction of that comparatively
cheap and populous district
known in the Directory as Maidaa Vale.
To this young woman — one who, as I
need hardly say, did not bear the reverses
of fortune with the contented
mind which, according to Holy Writ, is
a continual feast — Lady Gregorie wrote
as follows : —

My dearest Em, — I fear you may-have
thought me unkind in not having
sooner answered your last letter, but the
delay has not, I assure you, been owing
to forgetfulness. T have been wanting to
name a time for your promised visit, but
for various reasons have found doing so
difficult. I am not, of course, quite my
own mistress, and although Wilfred, I
am happy to say, continues to be kindness
itself, yet even the best of men are
kittle cattle," and I really think they
sometimes positively enjoy putting spokes
in one's wheels. Just now, however, I am
happy to say, there are no spokes, and I
am at full liberty to write that Tuesday in
next week will suit us beautifully to receive
you. You must come prepared for a
little — I wish for your sake it were more
dissipation. We — the Chalkshires —

give a ball on the twentieth, and the
Town, another — where we may expect to
have great fun — on the Tuesday following.
You will find poor Molyneux shyer than
ever, but he will be a different man before
you have been here a week. And, by
the way, who do you think has turned
up again ? Why that wretch Louis Bretton
! He has dropped into the vacant
Regimental ' majority,' and I could almost
wish — only it would be too wicked
that it was the grand general majority
instead, that he had joined. I am terribly
afraid that he means mischief, and,
if so, you who are so much more clever
than I am in such matters, must help me
to circumvent him. As you know, I had
never heard a syllable either of or from
the man since, until a short time before

my marriage, he wrote those odious hints
VOL. I. G

about the letters. You advised me then
to take no notice of his impertinence,
and I am sure that you were right ; and
oh ! I was so in hopes that he had forgotten
me altogether. But how can one
ever be sure ? During five years I heard
nothing of him, and then one day, when
I least expected it, I was startled almost
to death by the sight of his handwriting !
I can never tell you how I dread the
prospect of seeing him ; and Wilfred too,
who is so quick to notice everything that
passes ! It is enough to drive one wild.
Still, I may be disquieting myself in
vain. Miracles may sometimes happen,
and there exists the possibility that this
miserable cad — for so he certainly did
deserve to be called — may have become
metamorphosed into a gentleman. Come
without fail, dear, and tell me whether or

not you think the nature of the man is
unchanged, and ever believe me affectionately
yours, Florence Gregorie."

The young person to whom this urgent
appeal for aid is addressed, had, when the
letter is put into her hands, just been
thinking — without, it must be owned,
very kindly feelings — of the writer thereof.
She — Emily — is seated with two of
her elder sisters in the small back 
of the shabby Portsdown Road
house in which the retired stockbroker
has found a shelter. The three *' girls" —
the youngest of whom is within a year
of her thirtieth birthday — are busily engaged
in altering, planning, and contriving
sundry well-worn evening dresses into
an appearance calculated to deceive the
general public into the belief that the

said dresses have only just left the
milliner's hands.

The eldest of the three is plain, but
clever, a good mimic, and an excellent
hand at making herself generally agreeable
; whilst the second — a faded beauty
has adopted the pensive style of attractiveness,
which style, seeing that her conversational
powers are limited, suits her,
as the saying is, '* down to the ground."
With the exception of a little occasional
jealousy in regard to Emily, whose intimacy
with Lady Gregorie they have
never been permitted to share, the sisters
live together in harmony. The mention
however, of the Chalkshire Eifles, and of
"Em's" highly - placed friend, rarely fails
to kindle a certain spark which is the
reverse of sisterly love in the breasts of
the older spinsters, and thus it follows,

that when Miss Emily, in a would-be
careless fashion, announces the fact that
lier letter is from Lady Gregorie, and
that it contains an invitation to Royalty
Square for the following week, Miss Vidal
finds no difficulty in supplementing the
communication with a few bitter and
well-chosen words.

*' It is so very long since you have
heard from I^ady Gregorie," she, looking
up from h.&Y frilling, says, "that I hardly
imagine you will even think of going to
Broadmere."

I shall not only think of going, but
go'' Em, with a considerable display of
spirit, rejoins ; " and, what is more, I
shall coax Mrs Marshall into letting me
have two dresses on tick."

On tick ! " breaks in the beauty.
*' What an expression ! Eeally, Em, when

you even talk about going amongst soldiers,
slang comes so naturally to you
that one feels positively shocked."

Does one ? I think it rather nice,"
retorts her junior, "and I call Flo no
end of a brick for asking me. There are
two balls — "

And you've neglected Mrs Allen's
Restorer ' frightfully, lately. I saw two
grey hairs at the top of your head no
later than this morning."

This cruel shaft is levelled by the
clever sister, and proves effectual in driving
her antagonist, almost in tears, from
the room. But ah ! if those (for the
nonce) unkind relations could have seen
into the envied one's heart, they would
have found there, small cause for jealous-grudging
; for Emily Vidal is quite sharp
enough to understand that she owes her

present invitation to Broadmere solely to
the fact that the getting of Louis
Brereton to the Rifles has terribly alarmed
her friend.

What a fool she must think me ! "
the matured candidate for matrimony
says to herself " Ou pent etre plus
fine que les autres, mats pas plus fine
que toutes les autres, and I for one can
see very clearly through Milady Flo's
little game. She thinks I may know
of some dodge by which those idiotic
letters may be got out of Brereton, and
she expects to blind me to her only real
motive, by writing of balls and parties !
That Sir Wilfred does not like me she
knows as well as I do, and yet, there
again, she flatters herself that she throws
dust into my eyes ! However, we sh aP.
see what we shall see, and in the meanwhile

I must lose no time in trying
to talk over Mrs Marshall about my

dresses."

Before the arrival of Miss Vidal in
Eoyalty Square, three events of some
garrison importance had taken place.
Major Brereton had made his somewhat
tardy appearance on the scene ; Mrs Durant
had, under careful military and medical
supervision, been safely removed to
the Shanty ; and her daughter Helen had
been met at the little Junction Station
by Eowley Elphinstone, and duly escorted
by that chivalrous soldier to her
mother's present abode. There was at
first sight nothing in the appearance of
the pale, agitated girl whose powers of
speech seemed to have temporarily deserted
her, to enhance the interest which
the Eegiment generally, and Eowley 

in especial, were so obviously
taking in the misfortunes of the Durant
family. Helen, in her plain black dress,
and with a veil shrouding her white and
trembling lips from the gaze of the curious,
was remarkable for nothing save
her rather unusual height, and the gracefulness
of her walk and carriage. In response
to Captain Elphinstone's whispered
information that Mrs Durant was rather
better than worse, she could only bow
her head in silence ; and then, taking his
offered arm, she was led by him to the
carriage that was in readiness to receive
her.

A REPENTANT PRODIGAL.

T last ! And I feel assured that
your patient must be really
better, or I should not now
have the long-hoped-for pleasure of seeing
you."

It is Rowley Elphinstone who speaks.
His tones are low and gentle, and he
holds, during the half minute which suffices
for their utterance, the two small
hands of Helen Durant between his own.
He has not seen her since the day — now
nearly a week ago — when he escorted the

agitated girl, in a Station fly, to Mrs-dunham's
small, yet luxurious, ned d
terre; but Helen has not now to learn
how zealously both he and others of
her new friends had been employed in
her sick mother's service, and her heart
is brimming over with gratitude towards-the
kindly visitor, to whom she is now
able to express, for the first time, 'her
gratitude in spoken words.

Looking up with bright yet tearful
eyes into the soldier's face, she says, —

Yes, thanks to God, and to all here
who have been so good to us ! the worst,
Dr Braintree assures us, is over, and my
dear mother will be, we hope, quite herself
again. But I tremble when I think of
Alfred's coming, and of what the effect on.
her may be. He — the doctor — advised my
telling her that he was sent for, and that

someone bad gone to bring him back,
but oh, Captain Elphinstone, supposing
that he should not come ! He must feel
so ashamed, so conscious-stricken."

Yes ; but he must remember that the
mother who longed to see him was at the
point of death, and that she had ever
been to him — Well, what only a mother
can be. No, you need not fear that
your brother will prove refractory. He is
good at heart, I think, and, besides, the
friend who has volunteered to bring him
back, is one to whom it would not be
easy for him to say 'No'"

Then who is it that has gone ? "
Helen, feeling not a little surprised at
this piece of information, asks ? "I
thought it was a — a confidential servant,
perhaps, and I longed to say how kind
I thought the friend who had sent

him to Paris, had been ; and now you
tell me — "

That the emissary in question who,
by the way " (Elphinstone, with a smile,
broke in), " is simply his own emissary
- — is no other than a certain erratic Captain
of ours, by name Guy Leycester, who
having for the moment no job on hand,
set off post haste to Paris, in order to
bring back your brother."

Helen Durant, on hearing the name of
Leycester, clasps her small white hands
together in positive dismay.

''Oh, Captain Elphinstone!" she exclaims,
" what shall we do ? How can
we ever hope to repay such kindness?
It is owing to Captain Leycester that weare
here, in these delightful rooms ; not
but what the beauty of them troubles
me greatly : it would be so dreadful if

anything were to be broken. But, of
-course, leaving the 'Dragon' was a great
blessing. Dr Braintree says that mother
never would have recovered there, so that,
under Providence, we owe her life to
him. But — but — oh ! there is more yet
to speak of. There is," she continues,
flushing hotly as the word escapes her
lips, " the money that all this has cost.
Where has it come from ? I had only
just enough for my journey here, and
that was lent me by our clergyman, Mr
Everard, with whom my sister Mary is
.staying whilst we are away ; and mother
will, I know, fret dreadfully until she
can sell out Trust money, in order to
pay all the debts which Alfred's misconduct
has entailed upon us."

There is in her young face an expression
of such deep despondency, that

Elphinstone — moved with compassion for
her poverty and helplessness — can no
longer resist the impulse to throw himself
on the couch beside her, and entreat
her to consider him henceforth as a
friend for life.

*' Do not talk of fretting," he says
soothingly. " Yours was a case of what
I may almost call a brother soldier's
trouble ; and we were all glad to do our
part in helping. Thank God ! there is
plenty of what the Germans call ,
in the Rifle Corps ; and the
debts of a fellow who has worn the
teen uniform shall never — as long as we
san help it — be brought up in judgment
against him."

The conflicting feelings of shame and
gratitude which are warring in Helen's
breast absolutely forbid for the moment

any attempt on her part to enter into the
question of her obligations. She can only
press in silence the hand which Eowley
still holds imprisoned, and then, after
murmuring indistinctly something about
being wanted in her mother's room, she
leaves her soldier friend, to think over
what has passed.

Helen Durant — worn although she was
with anxiety and sleeplessness — had,
during that short half hour's colloquy,
struck Eowley Elphinstone as being rarely
lovely, and it was with some amount of
trepidation that he remembered how large
a proportion of the girl's gratitude was
due to his friend. Helen was not one — ashe
could plainly see — by whom such an
obligation was at all likely to be repudiated
; and Elphinstone, who perhaps set
an undue value — as compared to his own —

on Guy's attractions, had already begun to
fear the effect which the latter's chivalrous
conduct might produce upon Miss
Durant. It was true that Guy was not
in a position — even should his tastes incline
that way — to marry, and, moreover —
on principle, as he himself said — he never
if he could help it — either talked to,
or danced with, "girls"; but, notwithstanding
these reassuring facts, Elphin-
stone could not bring himself to feel
satisfied with the aspect of affairs. Helen
was, in his opinion, so especially charming,
and if she should look up with those
pathetic eyes of hers into Guy's handsome
face, and thank him in her gentle
voice for all his kindly help, how could
he — so Elphinstone, with incipient envy
of his friend's advantages, asked himself
choose but love her?

VOL. I. H

The friendly but troublesome office of
endeavouring to restore young Durant to
the safe custody of his mother, devolved
upon Gay in this wise. A fellow feeling
rendered the latter acutely sympathetic as
regarded the state of mind in which the
truant at the present moment probably
found himself. He entertained more than
one vivid recollection of scenes with the
Admiral, when he — the prodigal son — had
been — to borrow his owt expression — blown
up sky high for the venial (?) sin of ordering
jewellery, etc., for which he could not
afford to pay ; and he could well understand
that, under the circumstances, the
defaulter would very decidedly " funk "
the meeting with his people which was
in the present instance, deemed advisable.
'* I call it a deuced hard case," Captain
Guy would sometimes, in his languid way.

remark, 'that I never can have a sixpence
of my own, without some officious
fellow writing to say it's his." Now, seeing
that Admiral Leycester was one of
the most scrupulously honourable of men,
and that he considered the non-payment
of a tradesman's bill in precisely the same
light as the shuffling off of a debt — so-called
— of honour, the frequent money disagreements
between father and son need
to the reader be the cause of no surprise
whatever.

On the occasion when the two Captains
who were chiefly interested in Mrs
Durant's troubles had met together to consult
as to the best means to be adopted
for the withdrawal from Paris of the
widow's son, Guy Leycester had given
voice to the following somewhat remarkable
opinion : —

"Look here, old man," he said impressively.
"A fellow who, when he is telegraphed
to, that his mother is dying and
has asked for him, makes no sign, is not
to be talked into doing the right thing, by
even so respectable an old duffer as your
man Cumberbatch. Now if I go — '

You go ! Good Lord ! " And at the
bare idea of this modern instance of
the blind leading the blind," Eowley —
after giving vent in four impressive
words to his amazement — fell back, with
an explosion of laughter, into his chair.

'well. And why shouldn't I do as
well, or better than anyone else ? 
would only prose at the youngster,
and you wouldn't do much better;
whereas I shall stand no nonsense. I,,
shall just take him by the scruff of the
neck, and say, 'Come along, old chap.

You've had your fling, and now you
must take the consequences;' and Fl
answer for it that he'll follow me."

Like a dog, eh ? "

"No, like a sheep to the slaughter, ora
whipped cur, or any other miserable
and degraded thing. I pity him from
my soul, poor devil ! but — having compassion
also on myself — I must repeat, what
indeed I have said before, that when a
chap is up a tree, it is a jolly lounge for
him not to be handicapped with a father.
But now about the money. It won't come
to much, but I must ask you to lend me
enough to clear the young fellow out of
Paris, and bring us both safe back. T
won't spend a farthing more than I can
help out there, but I literally have not
got a rap."

"Your normal condition, dear old

(chap." Elphinstone, laying his hand
kindly on his brother officer's shoulder,
said. He had risen from his chair, and
was about to seat himself at his writing-table,
when he turned round, and, with
a slightly suggestive smile, added, — " But
how about Paris ? — Paris which you know
as well, or better than you do your
London, and where — "

'^ I shall turn neither to the right
hand nor to the left. The image of that
poor delirious mother will be ever before
me, and till such time as I can bring
this young reprobate to her side, I shall
know neither peace nor rest."

It was always a matter of some difficulty
to decide whether, when Guy
Leycester happened to be in a rather
grandiloquent mood, he spoke in jest or
earnest. Elphinstone, however, was sufficiently

acquainted with his friend's inner
nature to be certain that in the present
instance he was thoroughly to be trusted.
Guy was, in truth, kind-hearted to the
verge of weakness. The impulse to give
was as strong within him as the craze
for gambling, and the passion (as the old
Admiral had once described it) of appropriating
to himself possessions which
rightfully belonged to others. Strange,
perhaps, to say, all young and innocent
things turned with affection aud confidence
to Guy. Bashful children raised
their heads, and smiled responsive to his
pleasant greeting ; while as for dogs, there
was not, from the pet fox-terrier with
his jingling bells, to the big St Bernard,
merciful in his strength and greatness,
that was not, on a first introduction,
ready to hail Guy Leycester as a friend.

He experienced little difficulty in finding
the widow's graceless son, towards whom
he felt anything but mercifully inclined.
Some little time indeed elapsed before
he gave the now thoroughly 
lad, the relief of hearing that
the worst item in his heavy list of
transgressions would — thanks to Captain
Elphin stone's exertions — never now be
brought up in judgment against him. Ashe
(Guy) had expected would be the
case, the crestfallen young fellow made no
effort at resistance ; an amount of pusillanimity
for which his bear-leader heartily
despised him. Leycester's nature was
essentially combative, and it was chiefly
owing to Alfred's display of defile submission
that the older man could not
bring himself to enter into conversation
with his evidently miserable charge. The

'* fellow feeling" (or, I should rather say,
the similarity of some of his tastes with
those of the delinquent) which should
have rendered him "wondrous kind," was
neutralised, if not indeed extinguished,
by the fact that the sins of his junior
having *' found him out," that weak vessel
was meekly reaping the fruits of his misconduct.


Then, too, it must be remembered that
Guy's stock in hand of compassion had
been already largely drawn upon : the
object of that sympathy being the chief
victim — as Guy considered Mrs Durant
to be — of the culprit's transgressions.
That gentle creature had been, both by
Elphinstone and the doctor, spoken of to
him as a patient sufferer brought to the
brink of the grave by reason of this
*' young ruffian's " ingratitude, and selfish

sponging on his mother's slender resources
; and Guy, albeit he did not go
the length of thanking God that he was
not " even as that sinner," could nevertheless,
he flattered himself, hold his own
in comparison with the widow's son, inasmuch
as never since he had entered the
army, had he applied to Lady Alicia for assistance
in his needs. To be sure, the said
Lady Alicia was not the kind of woman
likely to make sacrifices for a son ; that,
however, was beside the question, the
fact remaining the same, viz., that not
even in his sorest straits, and when ruin
in biggest letters was staring him in the
face, had he asked the women of his
family to, even by the slightest of loans,
assist him in his distress.

It was not until the long journey was
drawing to a close, that Leycester, noticing

the increasing agitation as well as
deadly pallor of his companion, began to
show symptoms of relenting. The intense
anxiety and nervousness under which the
unhappy lad was suffering, were evidenced
by the trembling of his hands, and the
quiver of the lip, on which not the
faintest down suggestive of approaching
manhood was as yet traceable. He looked
so young to be a sinner ! — so young to
have already tasted of the bitter cup
which follows on detected guilt, that Guy,
when the Train stopped at the Junction
Station, good-naturedly brought him, from
a neighbouring wayside " public," a wine-blissful
of British brandy.

Here, boy," he said kindly, " drink a
mouthful of this nectar, and keep your
pecker up. If your mother were worse,
you would have heard of it ; and you

mustn't go, you know, with a face a
yard long, into her room."

*' Thank you ; I know ; of course I do,"
murmured the culprit. " But it isn't
only that; it's the trouble — the — "

Exactly, but you had better not talk
of it now. We shall be at Broadmere
directly. Ah 1 there is old Elphinstone,
and a young lady — your sister, of course
so pull yourself together and be a
man."

THE MAJOR SHOWS A CLOVEN FOOT.

HE first impression made " by
Major Brereton on his hitherto
unknown brother-officers was
not a favourable one. Guy Leycester at
once, and without taking the trouble to
even whisper his opinion, pronounced him
to be a 'cad."

If I don't mistake," he said, " he's
the very man who some years ago, left
on purpose, it was said — a woman's
letter in the blotting-book belonging to
his bachelor's room, at Lord Wellington's,

where he had been staying. The husband
— who was to succeed him en garqoii
in the room — found it, and there was the
devil's own row. But it was hushed up
somehow. I think," musingly, "I'll mention
Lord Wellington's name some day,
just to see how the fellow looks. If he
turns out to be the same man, we must
get rid of him, you know, some way or
other. The woman who wrote the letter
had money of her own, I fancy, and they
wanted to make it out a case for divorce;
but that cock wouldn't fight, and so the —
By Jove ! I was going to say their names
are living together, and let us hope, in
harmony still."

Meanwhile the object of these remarks
had met Lady Gregorie and her friend
out riding, and had at once, and in the
most free and easy manner, claimed acquaintance

with the ladies as a former
intimate.

I hope," the Major, addressing Sir Wilfred's
wife, said, " that you differ from
the popularly-received opinion, that once
in every seven years everything and everybody
undergoes a change. It is more
than seven years. Lady Gregorie, since
you and I had the pleasure of meeting,
and I am delighted to see that any change
in you — in your appearance, that is to
say — is decidedly to your advantage."

Lady Gregorie had been at first too
much startled by Major Brereton's unexpected
appearance and address to answer
him ; but she was no coward, and
ner anger at his familiar compliment
getting the better of her discretion, she
suddenly checked her horse, and said, —

'major Brereton, I cannot say that /, at

least, look back with any pleasure to the
silly conduct — when I was a mere child
at school — to which you refer ; nor can
you, 1 imagine, as a gentleman, think
with any satisfaction of the advantage
which you then took of my youth and
inexperience. I have no wish to injure
you, but you must be aware that if the
past were known — "

Neither Sir Wilfred Gregorie nor his
wife would have quite such an easy time
of it as, I am happy to think, is the
case with them now. But, I ask. you —
and you also, Miss Vidal — why, in Heaven's
name, should the past be known % Weare
old friends, we three, — knew one
another years ago at Bruges, and, being
old friends, what so natural as that I
should come and call, and that you and
Miss Vidal should receive me — I will not

say with open arms, but with as much
cordiality as you are in the habit of displaying
towards the generality of your
husband's brother officers ? "

He looked at her scrutinisingly as he
spoke, and ah ! how bitterly did Florence
at that moment regret her cowardly folly
in that she had not, when first she heard
the name of Brereton, made a clean breast
of it to her husband.

'' It cannot be," she faltered. " 1 have
said nothing to Sir Wilfred of — of my Belgian
school days, and he would think it so
strange, your seeming to be intimate with
rae.

*' But I would not seem intimate," smiled

Brereton. " You may trust me entirely. I

would not for the world get you into a scrape.

Miss Yidal, you have stood our friend before,

and I expect that you will help us now."
VOL. I. I

He raised his hat (for he was out of
Inform) as he spoke, and, touching his
horse lightly with his whip, rode briskly
away. He had, he flattered himself, executed
his initiatory movement skilfully
and well. The important fact that the
Colonel of the regiment was as yet entirely
in the dark as regarded a not
"unimportant episode in his wife's early
history, had now become an established
fact, and therefore, in the course which lay
before him, there was more plain sailing
than he had previously ventured to anticipate.
Lady Gregorie was an uncommonly
handsome woman, handsomer ten times
over than she had been in her bread-and-butter
days, when he, seated on the chilly
stone rampart of the Bruges canal, played
Romeo to the Juliet of the English Meet ;
and, in his mind's eye, the Major, although

the first glory of his youth had departed,
and the 'wild freshness of morning" no
longer stirred the thinning curls that had
once adorned his head, foresaw in the
dim future, certain potentialities which, ashe
rode along the quiet lanes, brought a
smile of anticipated triumph to his lip.
The unlooked-for presence of Miss Vidal
on the scene of action, was not altogether
satisfactory to the Major. A far more
'knowing card" was she than the handsome,
unsuspicious woman who, as a girl,
he had found ductile as wax within his
hands. Ten years, or nearly so, had
elapsed since he had made that notable
discovery ; and one glance at the fair
Emily's discontented countenance, and features
pinched by the wearing sickness of
hope deferred, was sufficient to convince
him that she who had been quick-witted

then, was even more quick-witted now.
To checkmate both these women — neither
party being in the secret of his little game
must be now his object. The task would
not be an easy one, but Louis Brereton,
calling to mind sundry passages in his
earlier career, told himself that it was one
to which his powers were not inadequate.

Yes," he said to himself complacently,
*'I ought to be able to do it, and, what is
more, I will. Failure is a word which in
this case shall have for me no meaning."

"Whilst thoughts such as these were
whirling through the busy brain of the
newly-gazetted Major, the two women
whose future fates — in so far as they were
intermingled with his own — formed the
subjects of his lucubrations, were, in no
spirit of charity, giving voice to their
opinions regarding him.

Oh, Em ! " Lady Gregorie, as soon as
they were out of the man's hearing, exclaimed,
" what shall we do ? He is so
awfully familiar ; and oh 1 how old and
ugly he has grown ! I should not have
known him if he had not spoken tome.


Should not you ? " rejoined her companion.
" Well, I cannot say that I perceive
much difference ; but then I never
thought him so wonderfully handsome as
you did."

'* 1 was a goose, and made a swan of
the wretch," said poor Florence, whilst
tears of mortification welled up to her
eyelids. " I read once, in one of Lord
Lytton's novels, and I can feel now how
true the saying is, that * There is no
anguish like the memory of an error of
which we feel ashamed.' And I am so

ashamed of having even fancied — child
although I was, and ignorant — that I
cared for Brereton ; and now he will
come, in his detestably off-hand way, and
will try to make it appear that weare
old friends."

Well, dear, and so, for the matter of
that, you are," Miss Vidal says sweetly,
'and of course Sir Wilfred, until it is
explained, will think it odd. If I were
in your place, I would contrive to receive
him at first without witnesses, and then
you could complain afterwards of him, or
at least mention to the Colonel, that you
think his manner objectionable, and that
he will be no credit to the regiment.
You know the sort of thing to say."

*' Exactly; but then, you know, Wilfred
must, sooner or later, see us together;
and I am afraid he would never think it

possible that any man, however little he
might be accustomed to good society,
could, on so short an acquaintance, speak
to any lady, let alone his Colonel's wife,
in the way he 5po^e to me just now. Oh,
Em, dear, I am dreadfully frightened I
and I do so wish that I had been brave
enough to tell my husband everything
from the first. He would not have
minded anything then, but now all his
old prejudices against what he calls ' girls'
schools ' will revive, and he will jump at
all sorts of untrue conclusions."

"It is probably those stupid letters
that have done all the mischief," said
Emily, as, with her small 'patte de velours
she gently stroked the glossy neck of
the Colonel's second charger. " You seethe
wretch has unfortunately something
that he could show — "

"Oh ! " cried Florence, letting, in her
alarm, the reins fall from her hand, upon
her lap, " you do not really think — even
if he has kept the silly things — that he
would dare to show them % "

Not if it is to his own interest to
keep them back. But there is one thing,
dear Flo, that you must ever bear in
mind, namely, that you must be beyond
measure careful not to make an enemy of
Louis Brereton. ' Hell,' so some poet has
written, 'has no fury like a woman
scorned,' but, in my opinion, a man who
is foiled, is capable of winning for himself
a still hotter place, down below, than
we can earn. You must not — however indignant
you may feel — say anything either
of or to him which may wound his vanity,
and incite in him a spirit of revenge. If
I mistake not, our friend has a nasty

temper of his own, and, for my part, if
I were in your place, I would let the
sleeping dog lie."

How gladly would I follow your advice
; but my fear is that he will not
let this poor dog " (touching her breast
lightly with her gauntleted hand) " rest
in peace. Ah, if he only would, how
thankful I should be ! And what is it
that he can possibly hope to gain by tormenting
me ? Cannot you, dear Em, try
to make him see the cruelty — when I am
so happy — of working mischief between
Wilfred and me."

The simplicity of this suggestion amuses
Emily. She, however, betrays no sign of
her inward sensations, but says, with an
open-heartiness of manner which completely
hoodwinks her friend, —

My poor dear, I only wish that I

could help you. It must be so dreadful
to feel oneself in a man's power. Still,
there is one thing — I hardly like to propose
it, however, and one could scarcely
expect that Major Brereton would give
in to the plan — "

But what is it ? " Florence asked impetuously.
'' Tell me what it is, and
then I can be in some sort a judge of
whether my husband is likely to be —
well, I fear that I must say the word —
deceived by it."

Miss Vidal hesitated for a moment, and
then said deprecatingly, —

"My idea is, I daresay, a foolish one,
but it flashed across me that I might —
or rather that we together might — lead
Sir Wilfred to think that I, and not you,
was the heroine of the Bruges adventure.
I have not thought about details, and I

daresay you will deem the notion too
absurd for consideration."

Not at all, dear, and I feel most
grateful for your thought of immolating
yourself in my favour ; but I do not think
that Sir Wilfred—"

Could be induced to credit the story.
I have no doubt that you are right,"
Miss Vidal said, and her tones, although
her cheeks had slightly flushed, were still
sympathising and affectionate. " Sir Wilfred
is not very likely to believe that
any man in his senses, who had been
given two girls to choose from, would
select the one who happened to be ugly."

"Now, Em, dear, that is really unkind,"
Lady Gregorie, almost with tears exclaimed.
"You did not let me finish my
sentence — and the idea of calling yourself
ugly ! What I meant to say was this,

that if, as I fear, this horrid man is benton
compromising me, he is not likely to
act so as to turn Sir Wilfred's attention
in your direction. You see what I mean,
dear, don't you ? " added poor Florence,
who little dreamt that by a few ,
but vanity-wounding words
she had done more injury to her cause
than any terms of endearment, any acts
of kindness, could thenceforth effectually
cancel.

Of course I understand, dear Flo. Pray
do not think I was silly enough to mind,"
said Em urbanely. 'but look, there is
Freddy ! And riding Captain Leycester's
horse too ! Now if I were Sir Wilfred,
that is the man I should be jealous, of,
and not such a poor creature as Louis
Brereton."

The two equestrians have arrived within

a few yards of the Colonel's temporary
residence in Royalty Square, and the first
object which meets their view is a beautiful
boy — Sir Wilfred's only son — who is
perched (his bare, four-year-old legs only
reaching half way to the termination of
the saddle-flaps) on a tall chesnut horse,
which a brother officer, on leave between
returns, has put at the temporary disposal
of Guy Leycester. That good-natured
soldier, having come to the Square in
order to pay a visit to the Colonel's wife,
had been pounced upon by her son and
heir, and so coaxed and wheedled that he
had dismounted, and placed the delighted
boy in his place upon the saddle. The
child's hand — for it was not without
trepidation that he felt the horse move
onwards beneath his feather weight —
was holding tightly by the collar of his-friend's

coat, whilst the latter led the
tall charger carefully along the silent
road. But in spite of these precautions
against an accident, Lady Gregorie's maternal
fears were excited by the scene
she witnessed.

Oh, Captain Leycester," she exclaimed,
** is he safe ? Is the horse certain not
to plunge or shy ? "

"Not at all certain," answered Guy
imperturbably ; " but if he does, Freddy
means to sit him — don't you, Freddy ? —
like a man."

But he might fall. Thank you very
much for taking care, but — Freddy, darling,
won't you come on mother's horse ?
You are so fond of Hotspur, you know,
and you can give him a piece of sugar
when we go in."

But even this tempting bribe proved

ineffectual in luring Master Freddy from
the proud position which he felt himself
to be filling. Lifting up his shrill treble
in defiance, he said boldly, —

Me don't like riding two on a horse.
Make him gee-up, Captain Leycester,"
and the young rebel knocked his little
fat legs against the saddle flaps with as
much self-assurance as if he were ridings
a steeplechase for a wager.

*' Naughty boy," said the mother fondly,
and the dispute seemed likely to bea
prolonged one, when fortunately Sir
Wilfred Gregorie suddenly appeared upon
the scene. He took in the situation at
a glance, and with a terse question addressed
to the child of, 'what are you
doing up there, young shaver ? " speedily
brought down the delinquent from his
vantage ground.

I hope he has not been boring you
too much," said the Colonel, addressing,
with the cordiality of an equal, the
officer amongst his subordinates with
whom he was most intimate, and who
was preparing, after saying a few conventional
words to the ladies, to remount
his horse. " He is a good little chap
when he is kept in order, but he is safe
to turn out ill, with Lady Gregorie as
Commander-in-chief. "

'don't believe him, Captain Leycester,"
laughed Florence, as her husband lifted
her from the saddle, *' and do come in
and have some tea. I am sorry that
Freddy was so troublesome, but it is almost
your own fault, for being so good
to him."

As a matter of course, Guy protested
that the trouble was a pleasure ; and then.

having offered a polite excuse for not joining
Lady Gregorie's tea-party, he, with
a graceful salute to the ladies, rode
away.

Well," said Emily, as she and her
hostess ascended the stairs together, '* I
repeat what I said before, that if I were
a husband, I should be jealous of Guy
Leycester."

There is safety — let us hope — in multitudes,"
was Florence Gregorie's careless
reply. " There is always some
new married lady being talked of as
Captain Leycester's mnannorata of the
hour. The last is one Mrs Mansfield,
whom he calls his aunt, but who, it is
thought, is no more relation to him than
is the Queen of the Sandwich Islands.
However, the fable amuses him perhaps,
and does no one else any harm."

VOL. I. K

LADY Gregory IS UP IN A EMS.

»T'S my belief that old Eowley
is caught at last," said Captain
Bolderoo, one afternoon
to a pleasant little gathering of ladies
who, at an " afternoon " given by the wife
of a Broadmere notability, were discussing
the small local topics of the hour. The
Officer in question was — as a fetcher and
carrier of gossip, an individual whose
society was much appreciated by the fair
sex ; nor did the fact that he had earned
(in part owing to the feminine nature of

his tastes, but also on account of his
baptismal appellation of Francis) the sobriquet
in the regiment of " Miss Fanny,"
in any degree tend to diminish the
warmth of the welcome which in feminine
circles was accorded to him. The number
of those of his sex who either find
pleasure, or affect to do so, in the mild
pastimes known as afternoon tea, is sufficiently
limited, to account, in a great
degree, for Captain Boldero'^s popularity.

"Oh, not really!" exclaimed a rather
pretty woman, the wife of the lately-appointed
Broadmere Barrack - master.
■" Surely a girl like Miss Durant — "

I mentioned no names," put in Miss
Fanny sententiously, " and I must enter
my protest against being quoted as an
authority in the matter."

Oh, we all know who the lady is,

so you need not be so cautious," broke
in a cheery-looking spinster, who, having
no matrimonial designs either on her
own account or on that of others to disturb
her mind, could venture to speak it
plainly; "and," she added, with a laugh,
there is nothings libellous in the accusation,
unless it is suggested that Captain
Elphinstone means nothing serious by his
attentions to the young lady in question."
I don't believe a word of it," said
the wife of a rich Broadmere mine-owner
whose daughters would have 'fortunes" of
their own, and whose dinner invitations
to the well-to-do and popular infantry
captain had neither been few nor far between
; " and I shall not do so till I see
in the papers that he is actually married.
Captain Elphinstone has, we know,,
been talked about for so many girls."

*not owing, I think, to any fault of
Lis," put in Miss Stanford ; but what
she may have been about to add was intercepted
by Captain Bolderoo, who, albeit
a frequent sower of strife, was nevertheless
anxious for the maintenance of " peace
within the borders ; " and he felt at the
present juncture no small degree of alarm
lest his voice should be drowned by the
excited clamour of female obstructionists.

Well, well," he said soothingly, and
addressing himself more especially to the
sceptical parent of three pleasing and not
portionless girls, " there may be no truth
in the reports that are flying about.
Elphinstone is not, one would think, the
kind of man to marry an obscure girl,
whose brother — but we need not, perhaps,
mention him — poor fellow, is certainly no
credit to any family ; but then, you see,

Lady Gregorie has taken these Durants up
so violently, and the girl is striking-looking
— not exactly beautiful, perhaps, but
yesterday, when I saw her in Lady
Gregorie's carriage, and with Elphinstone
sitting opposite to them, and looking —
Well, as men do look when they are in
love — into her eyes, it struck me that
the young lady was very fair to see."

And so you at once decided that he
was what you call caught f sneered Mrs
Mansfield, the wife of the Barrack-master,
the milk of human kindness in whose
system had become *' turned " by the
neglect ou Lady Gregorie's part to enter
with her into the bonds of friendship.
If that is all from which you draw
your conclusions — "

Not conclusions — say suspicions, please,"
said Captain Bolderoo sweetly, " which that

drive caused me to entertain. Its object
evidently was to inspect that pretty
honeymoon-suggesting old house called Ivy
Combe—"

I know," interrupted more than one
voice. " A dear old place, not far from
the Junction Station."

"Exactly. Well, Ivy Combe is to be
let."

"And you forthwith made up your
mind that Captain Elphinstone took his
bride-elect to that secluded cottage in
order that she might decide on its merits
as a future residence ! Eeally, Captain
Bolderoo," laughed Mrs Mansfield, " you are
easily carried away by your imagination."

Well, time will show whether or not
I am wrong in my conjectures," rejoined
Captain Bolderoo. " In the event, however,
of Elphinstone having at last found his

fate, you, and indeed all of us who are
interested in his welfare, will be glad to
learn that this is not a case of entanglement.
It has been stated on good
authority that, during the reign of William
the Fourth, one Lady Emily Durant
held some appointment in the Royal
Household, and that — "

Oh," said the Broadmere Society
Queen, " most families can, in an emergency,
contrive to rake up from their
family histories some big name or other,
in order to give a colouring to the idea
that they themselves have a right to
figure among the aristocracy. I conclude
that it is Lady Gregorie who has set
this idea going. She must feel rather
ashamed of patronising such very obscure
people — to say nothing worse of them — as
these Durants."

The utter absurdity of this hist suggestion
was so palpable, that Captain
Bolderoo, although ready enough as a rule
to say flattering things of the Colonel's
wife, felt that in this instance to take
up the cudgels in her defence would
expose himself to needless ridicule. Under
these circumstances, and taking into
consideration the fact that he had
already worked up his audience into a
state of excitement which rendered more
than one of their number deaf to the
voice of reason, he deemed it expedient
to take his departure, leaving the drop
of poison which he had administered, todo
its unfailing work. He was not an
ill-natured man, and to do any human
creature a really " ill turn" was as far as
possible from his intentions, but nature
had cast his inner being in a small

mould, and it was that being's plague to
crave for the trifling excitements which
are to be found in the society of tattling-loving
women, and in the puerile satisfaction
of being the first to hint at a
piece of startling news.

That Lady Gregorie had, what in
everyday parlance is called '' taken a
fancy " to Helen Durant, was perfectly
true, and, previous to the unwelcome appearance
of Major Brereton upon the sunlit
stage of her happy life, she showed,
in many a kind and womanly fashion,
the interest which she took in the gentle
yet eminently helpful girl, whose misfortunes
had given rise to so much general
as well as individual sympathy. As the
days ran on into weeks, and Captain
Elphiustone's visits to the Shanty grew
more frequent. Lady Gregorie's interest

in the case increased ; and when the idea
that such an advancement in life as an
union with a man so in every way
eligible as the much-sought-after Captain
was possible for Helen had once entered
the pretty head of kind-hearted, volatile
Florence, the latter determined to assist,
as far as lay in her power, in bringing
about a consummation so eminently desirable.
It was true that in so acting
she would be setting at defiance her
husband's often openly - expressed wish
to keep the Officers of his regiment untrammelled
by the bonds of wedlock :
true also was it that in a general way
she, as the pretty and admired wife
of the Colonel, not only enjoyed, but
looked upon as a right, the attentions of
her husband's military subordinates ; but
Captain Elphinstone. not only in his character

of an excellent parti, hut as being,
both in temperament and habits, a man
standing out alone amongst the butterflies
and danglers of the hour, was one
whose innocent gallantries she could, as
regarded her own feelings, easily dispense
with. On the other hand, and — quoad
her husband's fancy to keep his officers,
after the example of the Zulu king's
young warriors, unhampered by domestic
ties, Lady Gregorie (excellent wife although
she was) looked upon the notion as a
mere fad, and went her own quiet, but
effectual way to work, in order to circumvent
Sir Wilfred's autocratic wish.

"Of course it would be different if
Rowley Elphinstone were such an one as
Guy," she said one day to her friend Emily
Vidal. "If he were in the habit now, of
making love to girls, I should be very

careful — kind as he has been to the Duraiits
not to throw dear Nellie in his way."

•'Of course," responded Em, as she peered
(for the friends were driving in Florence
Gregorie's Victoria) through the deep
fringe of her parasol at her companion.
It is not Guy Leycester's vocation to
make victims of any but married women. '^

"Oh," rejoined Florence, with a laugh
so light and careless that any further
chaffing was, as regarded the " Lion's "
relations with his Colonel's wife, felt by
Miss Yidal to be out of place, " 1 am not
at all sure that poor Guy is not sometimes
more to be pitied than the ladies
who are supposed to be his prey. However,
I can quite enter into Captain
Elphinstone's dislike to this occupation
by the Durants of Mrs Denham's house.
He has suggested that pretty Ivy Combe

Cottage was a place to which they might
go. The man who farms the land which
lies about it, is living there with his wife,
but as Captain Elphinstone has heard that
three or four of the rooms could be made
comfortable for lodgers, he and I, and possibly
Miss Durant, may drive there some
afternoon and see what the place is like."

I think," suggested Em, after a pause,
during which she was endeavouring to makeup
her mind as to the amount of plain
speaking on which she could venture with
her friend, "that you would perhaps act
wisely in not allowing Major Brereton to see
you on apparently familiar terms with other
men. It would perhaps exasperate him, —
render him less easy to manage. He hints
at being — or having been — in love with you."

"I do not understand you," Florence
broke in haughtily. " What you seem to

imply is really too sickening. Major Bretton
is a low wretch, for whom horse whipping
is too good ; and you talk to me
^ of his love, — his love for me, Colonel Gregory's
wife," and as she said the words,
the angry toss of her small head went
near to jerking one of Mrs Heath's newest
things in hats into the carriage - road.
** I should like," setting her pearly teeth
viciously together, " to see him flogged ! "

*' I can understand your feeling," Miss
Yidal, with much amiability of manner,
rejoined ; " but as that is a pleasure which
you are not likely to enjoy, I recommend
you — for your own good solely, dear
Florence — to be prudent."

Lady Gregorie vouchsafed no answer
to this remark, and during the remainder
of the drive silence reigned between the
so-called friends.

MISS VIDAL PUTS HERSELF FORWARD.

T is early in the afternoon.
Luncheon is over in the
Eoyalty Square " mansion,"
and the two ladies — Freddy having been
captured by the head-nurse for the purpose
of a walk round the Square — are
left in peace to talk over their coming
gaieties, their dresses, and their anxieties.
In Lady Gregorie's mind, the latter have
for the moment greatly the preponderance,
a circumstance which is rendered
evident by a slight pucker in her low,

classic forehead, and by her tone of voice
as she says, — ■

I hope, dear Em, that you have not
quite set your heart on going to this
tiresome garden-party on Thursday. That
horrid man is certain to be there, and I
cannot endure the thought of meeting
him. If you do not mind, T will write
an excuse to Lady Indiscarra."

But, dear Flo, you have no excuse,"
breaks in Miss Vidal eagerly ; " and, besides,
what is the use of putting off the
evil day ? The sooner it is over, and
Sir Wilfred has seen you and Major
Brereton together, the better. My advice
is altogether disinterested, for you can
hardly hate the idea of seeing the man
more than I do ; but there is nothing
more foolish than being afraid, excepting,
perhaps, showing that you are so. What

VOL. I. L

you must do is to look your prettiest,
and — which is of still more consequence —
your j oldest ; for if you display a degage
air, he must see that you have what the
Irish call a ' strong back,' and then he
will be afraid to carry the war into the
enemy's country."

Lady Gregorie shakes her head mournfully
as she murmurs, —

I don't believe in his being afraid.
He would not have dared to address meas
he did the other day if he hadn't
felt that he had me completely in his
power."

'' Which, of course, as long as he has
the letters, you are ; but his holding
them in terrorem over you is such a
thoroughly ungentlemanly act that he
will not, I feel persuaded, do anything
very outrageous. Our object must be to

get the letters from him ; and perhaps, if
we go to Lady Indiscarra's party, I may
have an opportunity of speaking to him
without witnesses, and finding out the
price he puts upon them."

Before her departure for the garden-party,
to which Emily Vidal insisted that
her hostess should, in her society, betake
herself, the anxious woman summoned
courage to ask her husband his opinion
of the latest addition to the Corps.

*' Do you think he's nice ? " she asked.
He is an ugly man, certainly."

Deuced ugly. But not a bad soldier
I should say. Hardly a gentleman though.
But why do you ask ? He is not an afternoon
tea-party man. We have enough of
these already, without him. By-the-way,
I met Elphinstone walking out with that
pretty Miss Durant, this morning, so I suppose

we shall have another married man
in the regiment soon. What a bore it is 1
I wish the women would let them alone — "

*' Or that they would let the women
alone," amended Florence, with her pretty
smile. " You should not have set the
example, you wicked Wil, if you did not
mean it to be followed ! The Colonel,
though, I suppose, like the King, can dono
wrong."

Not in his wife's eyes, I hope," Sir
Wilfred, patting her fair cheek affectionately,
rejoined. " But if we are to go to
this garden-party is it not time to be getting
yourself up ? Your friend Miss Vidal
has, I suspect, been hard at work at it
for an hour past ; and, Flo, between ourselves,"
added the Colonel, as he knocked
the ashes from his cigarette, " I don't
think she pays, when all's done, for the

trouble. I never saw a girl more gone
off than your friend. She was never what
one could call good-looking, but now she is
positively plain. I cannot, for the life of
me, see what you can find to like in her."

*' One does not like one's friends only
for their looks, I hope ! " said Lady Gregory,
as she gathered together her working
materials, preparatory to leaving the
room. " She is very warm-hearted and
affectionate — "

"Is she really, do you think?" the
Colonel says lazily. " AVell, do you know
that she rather gives me the idea of a
snake in the grass. I have a creepy feel
when she comes near me."

Ah, that is because you do not admire
her. As for me, I agree with the
copy-book that it is better to be good
than pretty."

I never could understand why women
should not be both," remarked her husband.


Now, you bad man ! " she retorted,
stopping behind him, and laying her two
hands lovingly on his broad shoulders,
'you know that you like them better
when they are just the very least bit in
the world, bad."

Nonsense ! Go and dress, child," he
said impressively, whereupon her ladyship
tripped away in double quick time to do
his bidding.

Champion Hill — the beautiful family
place from which Lord Indiscarra had not
yet, by the smoke and wickedness of the big
neighbouring town, been driven to more
remote quarters — is situated at the distance
of about seven miles from the Barracks, and
had long been spoken of admiringly by the

surrounding neighbourhood as the very
place of all others for a garden-party. Circumstances
had, however, been hitherto
against that pleasant form of festivity
being enjoyed at the Hill. There had
been a long minority, an impecunious and
withal strait-laced dowager had set her
face, resolutely against youthful friskiness,
and, to crown all, Irish rents had been so
badly paid, that Lady Indiscarra had been
advised to shut up the family mansion
in England, and vegetate for a few years
in the sister isle. But things were altered
now. The young lord had attained his
majority, and an education at Eton and
Oxford having confirmed his preference for
English life, the O'Flynn family — consisting
of the dowager, with her two sons
and three daughters — shook the bog earth
of their native land from off their feet.

and settled themselves permanently at
Champion Hill,

As the two well-bred cobs which drew
the Colonel's sociable dashed rapidly along
the country lanes towards their destination,
they passed many carriages and
horsemen who were evidently, from the
gala dresses of the ladies, about to share
in the amusements which, according to
report, had been plentifully provided for
their entertainment at the Hill. Amongst
those — who trotted by, and raised their
hats to the ladies as they passed — was, on
his well-broken charger, Major Brereton.
Lady Gregorie would have given half
her diamonds — and they, by the way,
would have realised no unimportant sum —
could she have succeeded in looking, when
her enemy took the liberty of saluting
her, perfectly calm and unconcerned ; but


she was no actress, and the flush which

mantled her cheeks was quickly succeeded

ley so deadly a pallor that Sir Wilfred,

from his place in front of the two ladies,

saw and noticed the change.

What is the matter, Flo ? You are
not ill, are you ? " he asked ; and felt nota
little relieved — for Lady Gregorie's
health was at that time giving some
cause for uneasiness — when Miss Vidal,
coming to the rescue, said, —

"It must be that dreadful tankard.
Take my eau-de-cologne, dear. Eeally
people who have such horrid-smelling
works should be obliged to keep them
at a distance from the highroad."

The explanation thus promptly given
appeared for the moment to satisfy Sir
Wilfred, but a turn in the road unfortunately
brought the Major again in view.

and as on this occasion his bow was emphasised
b}^ a somewhat familiar smirk,
the anger of his superior officer was
roused, and he said, with some heat, —

"What the devil does the fellow mean
by grinning like that ? I don't know
him except officially, and I don't intend
to. Perhaps, however," he, addressing Miss
Vidal, added more calmly, " the man maybe
an acquaintance of yours, and, if so,
I beg your pardon for my involuntary
rudeness."

Finding herself thus appealed to, Em,
who for reasons of her own had secretly
favoured the notion of taking upon herself
the part of Juliet which had been
originally played by her friend, blush -
ingle pleaded guilty to a portion at least
of the " soft impeachment."

'' Major Brereton," she said, "is an old

friend of my father's ; but I never liked
him, and when I heard that an officer of
his name was gazetted to your Regiment, I
was in hopes — which, of course, was very
stupid of me — that he was not the man
I knew. I was more vexed than I can
tell you when I found he was the same,
for I felt sure that neither you nor Flo
would like him. There is no harm in
him, I believe — "

I daresay not ; but you must excuse
me for saying that I do not think him
very well worth talking about," interrupted
Sir Wilfred, who was always
annoyed when Miss Vidal either spoke of,
or addressed his wife as "Flo." "I beg,
however, that you will not think it
necessary to ignore your old acquaintance
because you do not happen to beat
home. There is, as you say, no harm,.

doubtless, in Major Brereton ; and now, as
the Lodge gates of the Hill are in sight,
we will talk, if you please, of something
more agreeable."

*' I told you how it would be," said
Florence, when the greetings which Lady
Indiscarra stood at the door to receive
were over, and she — Lady Gregorie —
could whisper a few confidential words
in her friend's ear. " Wilfred only half
believes your story, and he will now
be dreadfully on the watch. There will be
wheels within wheels. He will find from
Major Brereton that he never knew Mr
Vidal, and — oh ! why was it necessary to
enter into all those particulars ? "

Because I was taken aback, and
thought of nothing but helping you. If
you could have seen your own face — so
wan, so haggard — you would not wonder

now that I was frightened at the thought
of what might happen next."

Forgive me, dear, I was ungrateful
and unjust ; but the constant fear in
which I live is so terribly trying, that
sometimes I really hardly know what I
say or do."

T know it. I can understand how
you are suffering, and I would do anything
in my power to put an end to
your worries. If you think it advisable,
dear, I will talk — confidentially, of course
to the man, to-day. He is no fool, and
must be well aware that to compromise
you with Sir Wilfred would be the most
stupid thing that he could do. A case,
you know, of killing the goose — I mean,
of course, letting the cat out of the bag
that lays the golden eggs."

But what eggs ? 1 do not understand,

and never shall, I suppose, what
his object in keeping those letters can
be."

Probably nothing more — but that, you
may say, is bad enough — than to make
people fancy that he has a right to seem
familiar with you. However, I will try
and find out to-day what his motive is,
and when that is ascertained, we shall
know better how to act."

PAST, BUT NOT FORGOTTEN.

)T is gratifying to think, Miss
Vidal, that you do not intend
keeping me at arms'
length, as her ladyship seems disposed
to do. She refused just now to be introduced
to me. I saw the whole thing
from behind a lilly bush near which
she was standing. That nice boy Indies
offered to present me to her. I
didn't say a word about having known
her before, and she owes me one, I
think, for that. Well, what do you
think happened ? "

I can't guess, but I am sure that
she did not mean to be disagreeable."

"Not mean — I like that, when she-turned
away as proud as a queen, and
toi him point blank that she did not
wish to know any more of the officers."

I think you must have misunderstood
her," Em says deprecatingly. *' Lady Gregory
is the last person in the world
to give herself airs."

"Lady Gregorie ! " repeats the Major
bitterly. "And it used to be Flo and
Louis ! "

But that was long ago, you know,,
and when a girl is married, things are
so different."

"Yes, when the husband is present;
but at other times, I don't see why she
should not be Flo again to me. I was
very fond of her, you know."

Past, did riot Forgotten. 177

I daresay, and you have had time to
get fond of twenty girls since then," said
Em, who was beginning to be disgusted
with the man's impertinence and folly.
"But the truth is, that my friend is so
worried and annoyed, owing to her own
silly imprudence in not having told Sir
Wilfred of your previous acquaintance — "

'' Acquaintance indeed I It was something
more than that, I reckon."

"Very little, if anything. I was, if
you remember, present whenever you met,
and," she added, laughing, "if you call
your interviews with Florence courting, all
I can say is that I do not."

*what do you say to the letters?
They, at least, are something more than
mere civility notes."

I suppose they are. Girls of sixteen
are tolerably certain, when they do write,

VOL. I. M

to write nonsense. You have destroyed
them, I suppose, long ago ? "

Indeed I have not. They are precious
to me as the apple of my eye.
But for them, it would seem like a
dream that Florence ever loved me."

"Well you had better think of it asa
dream, and give them up. Lady Gregory
has already, as you know, asked for
them in vain ; and now I ask you if
you think it is quite honourable and —
and gentlemanlike to keep them against
her wish ? It is, I warn you, a dangerous
thing to do, for Lady Gregorie is
a very impulsive person, and if she frets
much longer over this business, I should
not be surprised if she were to tell the
whole story to Sir Wilfred. You had
better, therefore, follow my advice, and
keep the stupid affair quiet."

Past but not Forgotten. 179

The walk in which these two former
acquaintances are holding this secret confabulation
runs parallel with a thick yew
hedge. It — the walk, id est — is carpeted
with closely-mown turf, and from it there
is a slope to a narrow but swiftly running
river in which small brown trout
abound, and across which a pretty rustic
bridge has, long years before, been
thrown. Over the rail of this bridge king
ivy tendrils hang, and dwarf ferns have
sown themselves plentifully in the interstices
of the stone work. At intervals
along the walk, snug recesses have been
clipped, and in each of those recesses
there has been placed a seat. Into one
of these the Major and his companion,
at this juncture in their conversation,
place themselves, and he, after a few
minutes given to thought, says, —

"You, or rather Lady Gregorie, should
have the letters at once, if it were in
my power to let her have them, but unfortunately
they are no longer in my
hands — "

** Impossible I I cannot believe it ! "
exclaims Miss Vidal excitedly. " For your
own sake, if not for hers, I feel sure that
you would not allow another person to
have possession of those thoughtlessly-written
effusions."

It is by a mere accident," he rejoins,
'that I no longer have them. They got
mixed up — owing to my abominable 
some other papers which
were consigned for safe keeping to my
solicitor. Unfortunately he — the lawyer —
is, like too many of his trade, a man
without any sense of honour. He has
lately sent me in a bill of costs which is

too shamefully exorbitant for me even to
dream of paying it ; and because I refuse
to do so, lie has kept my papers — a not
uncommon dodge with rascals of his description
— until such time as I — a very
unlikely thing to happen — pay him his
nefarious demand."

During the delivery of this speech,
Major Brereton kept his eyes fixed upon
the ground. He held his walking-cane
between his knees, and with it was making
sundry digs at the daisies which were
cropping up on the turf in front of him.
The man was not entirely dead to self-respect,
and if he had caught sight of
the expression — that of scornful unbelief
which curled his companion's lip, methinks
that the fact of being " found
out " would have awakened even his
hardened conscience to regret.

There is, to my mind, no more convincing
proof of the moral superiority, in
some respects, of women to men, than the
fact that the former feel more surprised
and shocked at the lapses from honour of
the stronger sex than is, as a rule, the case
with men when weaker vessels prove themselves
capable of disloyal acts. Emily Vidal
was no ingenue. She had heard from her
childhood instances of the " dodges " of
which men are capable who are either in
what are called difficulties, or who are
bent, at all costs, on enriching themselves
; and she had long ere this gauged
the extent of chicanery of which Major
Brereton, in the furtherance of his own
ends, was capable. As regarded the "rascally
lawyer," whose name was not permitted
to transpire, Em shrewdly suspected
that he existed solely in the

Major's imagination. The man was probably
in want of money, and not being
able to screw his courage to the sticking-point
of demanding payment on his own
account, he summoned from the depths of
his fancy a stalking-horse, on the shoulders
of which he had saddled his treacherous
and unmanly scheme. Miss Vidal's
anger at the ruse was so great that she
made no attempt to conceal from him the
fact that he was unmasked.

From what you have just said," she
remarked calmly, " I gather that a sum of
money paid to you by Lady Gregorie would
ensure the delivering up of her letters."

You are mistaken," he answered
calmly. '' I repeat again, that nothing
would give me greater pleasure than to
comply with your friend's request, but
unhappily the power to do so does not

lie with me. This villain of a lawyer
has got me under his thumb, and under
it I expect that he will keep me."

"But," said Miss Yidal, after a pause,
during which she looked carefully to the
right hand and the left, in order to ascertain
that no one was within earshot,
supposing that Lady Gregorie should
be inclined to give money for the papers
which you withhold, what is the price
that would be demanded ? "

*'AVell," mused the Major, "I am afraid
that less than four hundred pounds would
not , induce my rascal to loose his hold
over me.- You see the bill of costs
has been running on for years, and if
one only writes half-a-dozen words to
an attorney, there is six-and-eightpence
gone at once."

*the sum is certainly a large one,"

said Em, *' and one which I am afraid that
Lady Gregorie would not find it easy to
pay. Perhaps, however, if you will tell
me the lawyer's name, I may come to
better terms with him."

"Not likely, I am afraid. However,
I will send you his name and address, and
you can make what you can of him."

In the meantime," Emily, rising hus
riedly from her seat, said, " I must ask
you to refrain from doing anything which
could possibly annoy or compromise Lady
Gregorie. Sir Wilfred" (and here a blush
of genuine shame suffused her cheeks),
has been led to believe that I, and not
his wife, was the object of attraction to you,
at Bruges. The deception has not been, as
you may suppose, an agreeable one for me."

Nor for me either, by Jove ! " the
Major, with a coarse laugh, broke in ;

and the Colonel must be a greater duffer
than I took him to be, to believe anything
so improbable. However," he continued,
as he sauntered side by side with
his companion towards a less - secluded
portion of the grounds, " I pledge myself,
remember, to nothing, excepting the
sending back of the letters."

'• Under cover to me — "

Exactly, under cover to you," he,
looking searchingly into the girl's eyes,
repeated ; " and now had we not better
return to the festive scene ? Even in
our character of happily re-united lovers,
we have, already, I think, indulged in
almost too long a Ute-a-tete.'"

Thanks to Lady Gregorie's popularity,
as well as to her own ingenious devices,
she contrived, during the continuance of
the garden-party, to effectually avoid

any compromising conversation with her
enemy. She had noted, with an anxious
heart, the lengthened dialogue which
between him and Emily Vidal had taken
place ; and had persuaded the Colonel —
who, indeed, was nothing loth — to leave
the scene of gaiety earlier than the majority
of the visitors to the " Hill," her
object in doing so being to ascertain
from her friend the result of her tete-tete
with Major Brereton.

Well, dear, what have you got to tell
me ? " the harassed woman says anxiously,
when in her friend's dressing-room the
two at length find themselves alone.

Not much, I fear, that you will
think satisfactory," replied Em, as she
removed her hat, and leant back luxuriously
in a low arm-chair ; whilst Florence,

who was tired and ill at ease, " lay-down
in her loveliness " on the pretty
chintz-covered sofa that stood at the foot
of Emily's virgin couch ; " and now," the
skilful diplomatist said, '' I will give you
a true and correct account — as far as I can
remember what passed — of my mission."

The tale did not take long in the
telling thereof, and when the climax
was reached, Lady Gregorie, clasping her
hands in dismay, ejaculated, —

'* But this money ! oh, whence am I
to procure it ? I would give it gladly
if I had it, but now I see no hope of
escape from the tormentor's toils."

And if you could, I confess that I
should hate to see you pay all that
money to a villain," said Em. '' Still, "
after a pause, " perhaps anything would
be better than fretting yourself ill."

*' But when there is no alternative,
what is the use, dear, of thinking which
way is the best or worst ? I can no
more give Major Brereton four hundred
pounds than I can four thousand."

Excepting by — but no, I will not say
what I was going to ; you would think
the idea too wild — too impossible."

Whilst, on the contrary, I may consider
it very tame and feasible," smiled Florence.
*' At animate, tell me what the idea is, and
let me decide upon its merits myself."

Well you must not scold me if I am
wrong, but I think I have heard you talk
of certain diamonds which, because they
are set in an old-fashioned way, you never
wear. Now, could you not — as it is such
an object with you to get back your
letters — raise some money on the jewels ? "

Without really parting with them ?

Oh, if I only could ! I believe that they
are worth much more than four hundred
pounds ; and if you could inquire for me at
Salters' what he would give me for them,
it would be so good of you. Of course, my
name must not appear — that would be too
fatal ; but he does not know you by sight."
'' He might therefore think that I had
stolen them," laughed Em. " But I will
if you really wish it — run the risk. As
you say, anything, perhaps, is better
than living on thorns in this way. K\j
animate, too, asking Salters the question
can do no harm. I should like to seethe
diamonds ; and if we were to brighten
them up a little, the jeweller might be
inclined to give more. But to be
obliged in the end, perhaps, to sell them,
and for such a wretch too ! for I really
do believe him capable of anything."

Perhaps if Lady Gregorie had been
possessed of the same mania for precious
stones which impels so many women to
sacrifice their name and fame to the acquirement
of brilliant gauds wherewith
to adorn their persons, she would not so
readily have given in to the notion which
her friend had mooted ; but she did not
happen to be one of those weak specimens
of her sex whose happiness can either be
increased or lessened by the consciousness
of being envied. The diamonds of which
she had spoken to Emily Vidal, had lain
unnoticed in her jewel-case for years.
The setting was rococo, and the sum required
for re-setting them would, she felt,
be more profitably spent in other ways,
and therefore it was that with a light
heart she ran to her room for the faded
leather cases in which reposed on their

yellowed white satin beds her little-prized
trinkets.

They were pronounced — and justly so —
by the spectatress to be " splendid 1 " and
then the rubbing of them up, by the aid
of rouge powder, commenced. It was
agreed between the conspirators that
during their drive on the following day,
Emily — with a case containing an exquisite
riviere of brilliant, and a smaller
one, in which a sparkling pendant with a
large diamond in the centre reposed
safely in her velvet handbag, should
leave the carriage and proceed on
foot to the jeweller's shop. No word
regarding the possible purchase on his
part of the property was to be said to
him, his appraisement thereof being all
that he was called upon to give. Mr
Salter after a careful examination of the

gems, pronounced the value of the riviere
to be four hundred and ten pounds, and
that of the pendant one hundred and
eighty pounds. They were stones of the
first water, he said, and hardly to be
surpassed in beauty and value.

Whilst the jeweller still held in his
hand the diamond riviere, the demon of
acquisitiveness entered into Emily Yidal's
breast ! For a few moments she did battle
against the foe, but he was too strong for
her, and by the time she reached the carriage,
his victory was no longer doubtful.

What luck ! " she almost hysterically
exclaimed, as she threw the cases into
Lady Gregorie's lap. "Mr Salter says that
the value of the vv^hole is fully four thousand
pounds, and that the stones would
fetch that sum in the market any day."

VOL. I. N

THE ADJUTANT FALLS IN LOVE.

IF there be truth in the saying
that in every inhabited house
there lurks a skeleton, with
equal veracity may it be said that in
every household there will be found
materials — slight or plentiful as the case
may be— for a romance. Within a radius
of a mile from Broadmere Barracks there
where located three households, in each of
which there existed elements of mischief
which were capable, under circumstances
easily to be imagined, of being worked

up into a " story." At the Shanty,
within whose walls Mrs Durant had been
slowly recovering from the attack of
brain fever which had laid her low,
Eowley Elphinstone's visits of inquiry
after the invalid, had, he hoped, not
been so frequent as to give occasion
amongst the gossips for remark. Owing
to the combined facts that he was popularly
supposed to be rich enough to
marry, and also that Nature as well as
Fortune had been generous to him, Captain
Elphinstone had, from the time when
he first, as a beardless second lieutenant,
joined the Chalkshire Rifle corps, found
himself rather a marked man amongst
the many pleasant-mannered and good-looking
young fellows who like himself
wore the dark-green uniform of the
"sharp-shooters." He had, in point of

fact — being rather heavily handicapped
not only with "filthy lucre," but with
relations o^alore whose titles figured
in Debrett — suffered not a little from
the kindly-meant attentions of anxious
mothers, and girls on the look-out — poor
things — for an establishment. It is not
every day — as my readers will, I think, be
ready to admit — that a young officer, good-looking,
pleasant-mannered, and withal
wealthy to the tune of three thousand
pounds per annum, sheds his beams, like
those of a veritable Prince Charming, on
the middle-class society of a country
town ; but when he does so, the effect is
naturally electrical. All things considered,
Eowley Elphinstone was a prize which, in
order to obtain, not a few young women
had not shrunk from making some sacrifices
of self-respect to obtain, — sacrifices

which, he — his nature being a chivalrous
one, and his respect for the fair sex
great — regretted to find them capable of
organising. The " chaff " — as regarded
his successes — which from some of his
brother-officers he was doomed to undergo,
offended rather than gratified him ; indeed
owing, as he believed he did, the said
successes to his wealth alone, any allusions
to them became, after a short time,
positively distasteful to his feelings.

"I wish to Heaven," he said, one day
after mess, to Lieutenant Cardew, a
young gentleman who, being the son of
a poor clergyman, did not come in for
many of the sweet looks which were
lavished on his superior officer, "that you
would find something besides girls to
talk about. It's always the same thing
with you fellows. ' Maria ' has given you

a flower, or ' Gertrude ' has allowed you
to keep her boot-lace — "

But here a roar of laughter interrupted
hero.

"As if girls used boot-laces !" exclaimed
several voices at once ; whilst one youngster,
who was apparently given to taking a
more practical view of the subject in question
than the rest, ventured to suggest buttons
as the medium by which young ladies'
boots were made fast above their insteps.

Silvertop " alias Dicky Dollars) " has
one, I know," said the boy. " A round
black thing, and he is thinking — at least
so he told me once — of having it set asa
tie pin, don't you know ? "

'' Bosh ! " exclaimed the blushing victim
of this cruel slander. " I never showed
3'ou anything of the kind. If I were
Elphinstone now — "

Oh, by Jove ! stop that," Eowley
was beginning, but Dicky proved for
the moment absolutely irrepressible. His
father. Lord Silvertop, had made — at least
so it was popularly supposed — his " pile "
during the american war. Many a business
man, clever in the contracting line,
had been enabled to turn not a few
almighty dollars " — honest or dishonest
according to circumstances — in the fight,
so-called, for freedom ; but although his
lordship was known to be wealthy, and
Dicky was an only son, yet Nature
having bestowed on him one of those
chubby, roseate countenances which are
apt to recall to the mind of a looker-on
images of prize babies, and of calves
ready fatted for a prodigal's return,
romantic sensations in his regard were
apt, even in the breasts of the most

designing of the sex, to be nipped in the
bud. In addition to this misfortune — for
as a misfortune poor Dicky's rubicund
face might fairly be considered — it was
his fate to be always more or less in
love, and it was therefore with an air of
genuine feeling that he said to Eowley, —

Upon my soul and honour, old man,
I'd give — No, on second thoughts, I
don't know what I wouldn't give, if the
girls would only make love to me for
one half-hour as they do to you."

'* Nonsense! Man alive, it isn't the
girls, poor things, but their mothers ; and
I, for ones don't blame them. They know
that when paterfamilias goes to kingdom
come, his unmarried daughters will probably
have little enough to keep body
and soul together on, and so — "

They spend their time in angling for

husbands for them ! And they set to work
too, in such a barefaced way ! I verily
believe that if you, Elphinstone, simple
as you sit there, were to give out that
you preferred walking on your head, half
the mothers in Broadmere would declare
that their daughters had a strong objection
to progressing in any other way."

I tell you what it is," put in Guy
Leycester lazily (he was leaning his six feet
two inches of handsome manhood against
the wall, and taking occasional pulls at as
good a cigar as could be obtained for
"love " — id est, on tick, by one of the most
inveterate smokers in the British army),
I consider it a do and a sell, for a fellow
say like you, Dicky, with no end of tinto
come into a regiment like ours. Why
we haven't a chance. You dwarf us all."

But here another roar of laughter broke

in upon the speaker's remonstrance. They
were "tickled by a straw," those foolish
young fellows, and the comparison as regarded
height between Leycester and the
somewhat stumpy form of his brother-officer,
struck them as a superior stroke
of wit. In the midst of the machinations,
Elphin stone made his escape, unnoticed,
from the room. He had, in fact, an appointment
to keep, and not for the sake
of a whole " rosebud garden of girls "
would he have failed in his troth. It
was to an afternoon tea that he was
bound, and taking into consideration the
circumstance that Rowley's distaste for
that institution had almost passed into a
proverb, it was only an act of common
prudence on his part to abstain from
divulging the reason of his abrupt departure.
He felt less than no call to explain,

even to his friend Grimy, that, just
as '^ one star differs from another sun in
glory," so, making due allowance for
difference of dimensions, may one early
tea-party stand aloof from others in interest
and attraction. It was a very
small affair, that reunion which Rowley

Elphin stone would not, for any reward

•
which could be offered to him, have failed

to assist at. He himself was the only
invited guest, the giver of the entertainment
being no other than Helen Durant.
The occasion of the festivity was the
anticipated meeting — the first since the
poor lady's illness — of Rowley and Mrs
Durant. Helen had begged hard that
Als might be allowed to make one of the
little party, but her mother had deemed
it prudent to refuse.

The poor boy feels so dreadfully disgraced,"

she said ; " and Captain Elphin-
stone may not see his shamefacedness in
the same light that we do. His being
under such deep obligations to our friend,
will naturally make him feel shyer than
ever ; and although you and I, darling,
see nothing in our boy's tears to be
ashamed of, yet he himself, poor fellow,
would, I know, be ready to sink into the
earth if he found that, whilst thanking
Captain Elphinstone for his kindness, it
was impossible to drive them back."

Perhaps you are right, dear mother,"
Helen, after a few more minutes' thought,
rejoined. . "At the same time, I feel
sure that Captain Elphinstone would
never judge anyone — especially a fellow-creature
who is down — either unjustly or
uncharitably. And now, darling mother,
you must rest quietly till Captain Elphin-

stone comes ; and, above all things, let us
beware of thanking him too much. You
see, he has not yet made absolutely sure
of obtaining the post in Canada which he
hopes to succeed in getting for Als, and
if it should end in nothing, he will bethe
more vexed at having raised our expectations
in vain. I do not mean the
interview to be a long one," Helen, gts
she carefully arranged the white Shetland
shawl upon the invalid's shoulders,
added. '' You must not tire yourself just
when you are getting better. Ah ! there
is a ring at the bell. Now, mother dear,
you must try to think that you have
known Captain Elphinstone a long, longtime
; " and in truth, when the tall soldier
in undress uniform entered the pretty
drawing-room of the Shanty, the girl's
manner to him was — without being either

gushing or forward — almost like that of
an old friend. But for the pretty blush,
indeed, which rose suddenly to her
cheeks, Captain Elphinstone might have
been justified in thinking that she felt
for him only as a sister.

I have been telling mother," Miss
Durant, when the introduction was over,
said, "that she is not to talk, but to
listen. I have promised her that wee
will make ourselves very pleasant — "

'lavas not that rather a rash vow on
your part % " interrupted Eowley, with a
laugh. " I can answer for one of the
two succeeding in the task, but as for
the other, it will, I fear, be but a lame
attempt after all. However, I am happy
to say, that in default of being either
playful or jocose, I have brought your
brother's appointment to the post he

covets, in my hand. I am afraid he will
find the climate rather trying — " he was
continuing, but an expressive glance from
Helens large blue eyes warned him that
he was treading on dangerous ground.
"It is a thousand times better, of course,"
he, taking warning by the look, went
on, " than the tropics, or anywhere near
them, and I have known young fellows
to have far better health in that part of
Canada than they had at home. In the
first place, there is little or no wind — "

"Which is a great advantage," Mrs
Durant, plucking up courage, said. " But,
whether my boy likes the climate or
not, we cannot be too grateful to you
for your kind and generous help. Nellie
said," she continued, looking tenderly up
at the tall girl who was hanging over her
chair, 'that I was not to thank you — "

'' Oh, mother," remonstrated the girl,
I only warned you not to say too
much, because disappointment and regret
are so hard to bear ; but we do thank
you now with all our hearts, and I hope
that Alfred—"

"Oh, when he leads a wholesome out-of-door
life, away from bad examples, I
haven't a doubt of his doing well. I
need not ask you if he can ride, for
I never saw a spirited English lad who
couldn't; and, besides, we had experience
of his powers that way on one occasion.
A dealer brought a vicious brute one day
to the Barracks, in hopes of selling him.
There was no mistaking the animal's
character. He showed the whites of his
eyes — "

"And put back his ears, I suppose —
just as Silverface used to do, don't you

remember, Nellie ? in poor papa's time.
But Alfred never was afraid of riding
him. I used to be dreadfully frightened,
but he always came back safe."

"As he did when he rode the dealer's
nag, which other fellows were afraid to
mount. He'll make a capital mounted
police officer," continued Eowley encouragingly
— for there were tears in the
widow's eyes, and he lived in mortal
dread of a breakdown — '^ and I have one
or two old friends out there who will
help him to keep straight."

We shall miss the luxuries of this
delightful house," Helen, being anxious
to give an enlivening turn to the conversation,
said. "In a few days I hope that
my mother will be well enough to move
to the hotel—"

"I hope so, but not to the Dragon,

VOL. I. O

surely," interposed Eowley. " The landlady
is a capital woman, but the place is too
noisy — too rowdy altogether. Now the
Eoyal Hotel — the one which is at a
stone's throw of the Colonel's house — would
suit Mrs Durant a thousand times better."

*rit is quieter, I have no doubt,"
Helen said seriously, " but I am afraid —
well, that the expense would be beyond
our means. It is a horrid thing to talk
of money, and always makes mother ill,
but it is better, I think, to tell the truth.
The Royal Hotel looks very comfortable
and nice, but we have lived too long already
at other people's expense, and till my
uncle, who is mother s trustee, comes from
abroad, wee must, I fear, remain insolvent."

She strove her utmost to speak lightly,
and as though the burden of obligation
were not lying heavily on her girlish

breast, but Elphinstone saw that it was
only through a brave effort that her
tears were kept from falling, and he
longed — as only a strong man who has
never wasted his heart's best affections
on frivolous and unworthy objects can
long — to kiss away the rising tears, and
bid her, within the shelter of his loving
arms, forget the sordid, romance-destroying
cares of life. She was, he felt, so true,
so free from guile, — so guiltless of any
scheming or self-seeking thought; and
then, although she was not, strictly
speaking, beautiful —

He felt that she was more,
One of those women, women dread,
Men fatally adore."

For a few passing moments his heart
bounded with unwonted quickness within
his breast ; then, remembering the caution

whispered to him by Helen — to refrain, in
her mother's presence, from agitating topics,
he said, with well-assumed composure, —

*' If you would not think me officious,
I would inquire the price at the Eoyal
for bed and board for two ladies, who
probably do not consume more food than
sparrows. I daresay the difference between
the charges there, and those at the other
hotels, is not very great. I have generally
found them pretty much the same allover
the world. The o^ood old ' Dragoon ' is
not, of course, without its faults, but as
the Denhams are coming home so soon — "

It seems ungracious to say so," interrupted
Helen, with a sigh, " especially after
having been so very comfortable, and Captain
Leycester having been so kind, but I
almost wish that we had never come here."

For a second or two he looked into

her soft eyes searchingly. Could it be
that the breath of scandal had tainted
her pure ears with whispers of the truth,
and that she, with an unblushing front
(although a pang in that Guy Leicester's
name had not escaped slander had wrung
her heart), had alluded to this by many
suspected liaison. The doubt — momentary
as the lightning's flash — needed but tie
mute query of the honest eyes, to be set
at rest, and Eowley felt ashamed of the
suspicion that the Una who stood before
him in her virgin purity had either
heard the rumour which coupled Guy
Leycester's name with that of Mr Den-ham's
wife, or, having heard, had understood
it. He had fallen — whilst thinking
of his access of stupidity — into a brief
reverie, from which he was aroused by
hearing Helen say gently to her patient, —

"Mother, dear, you must not mind if I
treat you like a baby and carry you off
now. It is not difficult to keep this sick
mother of mine in order," she said, with
a smile, to Eowley. "When she is well
best autre chose'' she added, as the
frail but still pretty little woman clung
confidingly to the strong arm of her
stately daughter, and together the pair
moved slowly towards the door, which
Captain Elphinstone held open for their
egress. " Don't go quite directly," the
younger woman, as they passed their
visitor, said simply ; "I will come back
when my-mother is on her sofa again."

*pray do," rejoined Elphinstone; "and
I hope you will be able to tell me that
Mrs Durant is not likely to suffer from
her exertions."

OUT OF EVIL GOOD MAY Seeing.

Trust that the effort which
Mrs Durant has just made,
has done her no harm ? "
Captain Elphinstone, standing, Englishman
like, with his back to the fireless
grate, asks of Helen on her return.

No, indeed. On the contrary, I
think that seeing you has done her
good," the girl replies. " She cried a
little, and the tears relieved her. I often
wish that I had inherited the power of
weeping. Tears seem in some sort to
wash a dry grief away."

'' They may seem to, but they do not
really soften sorrow," Elphinstone rejoins.
My dear Miss Durant, you should not wish
for tears. To indulge in grief, as people call
it, is a mistake, and one which no one who
had ever really felt it, would be liable to
fall into. Life at your age should be all
sunshine, and if — may I go on ? I have
been longing, watching for an opportunity
of asking you one question, but I have
seen no sis^n — no look of encouragement."

And here the strong man, standing
with his hands in his trousers' pockets,
and with no betraying evidence of emotion
in his stern, handsome face, fairly
breaks down, and waits — with an inward
agitation which would have better become
a no vice' — for the reply of the blushing
girl beside him. She finds it hard to
speak, hard to find a fitting answer to

words so ambiguous as those which have
been just addressed to her. She had
never thought of Rowley Elphinstone as
of a possible admirer ; and although she
could not be ignorant of the fact that
Nature had noX, —quoad personal advantages
— treated her in a niggardly fashion,
no man had as yet shown signs of coveting
her for his own. And yet for all that
so it is, her female instinct tells her that
the question of which Captain Elphin-
stone has made mention, is one which
involves the happiness or otherwise of her
whole future life, and this being the
case, and understanding also that her
reply must be waited for by her companion
with some sensations of anxiety, she
summons courage to say, in a tone that is
half-playful and half-redolent of shyness, —
What have I ever done or said to

make a friend so kind as you are think
twice before asking me any question,
however unusual it may be ? "

Rowley's laugh at her reply causes
them both to feel more at ease, so much
so indeed, that when the former, without
betraying any consciousness of manner,
suggests that the question on the tapis
may as well be settled in a sitting asa
standing position, Helen has nearly
recovered from the momentary confusion
into which she had been thrown.

My question is quite an e very-day
one," the soldier, drawing his chair very
close to that of Helen, says. *' It is one
which is asked, I should imagine, many
times in every day that passes, for it is
simply this — Will you be my wife ? "

The triteness of the language in which
this all-important query is put, together

with the total absence of elaboration by
which the demand is characterised, adds
greatly to the startling effect on Helen
of the proposal itself. It is strange,
but the words had no sooner passed her
admirer's lips than the Bible text of
"Let your answer be yea or nay, for
whatsoever is more than this cometh of
evil," recur repeatedly to her mind. Th
extreme curtness of the terms in which
the aspirant for her hand couched his
appeal, is probably the cause of the singular
persistence wherewith the Scripture
words keep sounding in her ears. The
untiring repetition, added to the state
of agitation into which the demand has
in itself thrown her, has a bewildering
effect upon her brain : she, however, is
sufficiently herself to feel that in this
especial instance, the Biblical counsel

must not be too literally followed.
Nevertheless her answer comes with difficulty,
and is as follows.

How can I answer you, Captain Elph-
iii stone ? I have known you so short a time,
and you have loaded us with obligations — "

"Ah 1 that is the devil — I beg you a
thousand pardons — I mean the evil of it.
You may think — and I, for one, cannot
blame you if you do — that I am presuming
on some trifling help — which it has
cost me nothing to give — in order to
bring forward some claim to your regard.
But you would be quite wrong."

"I am sure I should be," the girl says
eagerly, adding, almost with tears in her
large grey eyes, — "Oh, Captain Elphiustone,
how could you think so meanly of me ? "

/ think meanly of you ! Good
heavens ! I who know you to be the

sweetest, — the most perfect of God's
creatures ! Dear Miss Durant, my fate
for life is in your hands. I am not so
idiotic as to try and make you believe
that I — a man who has passed his thirtieth
year — have never fancied myself in
love before, but I can truly say that you
are the first of your sex to whom I
have given my heart, — the first, moreover,
whom I have wished to make my wife.
You have known me but a short time,
you say — and that is true, but you have
perhaps seen me often enough to guess,
at least, whether in time you might learn
to return my love. Tell me, can you
give me hope, or must I, like the lover
in the ballad, ' to the greenwood go — a
lone and banished man ' % "

He smiles as he quotes the words, and
Helen to whom the ballad of the "Nut-brown

Maid " is familiar, blushes deeply as the recollection
of its finale crosses her mind.

To add to her confusion, she remembers
that only a few days previously she and
Captain Elphinstone had talked together of
the famous old-world poem, and that they
had differed in opinion as regarded the
amount of wrong which it was advisable,
or indeed possible (when that wrong was inflicted
by a lover) for a woman to submit to.

I draw the line at jealousy," Elphin-
stone had said. " A girl who really and
truly loved, could never bear with equanimity
to be told by her sweetheart that
he had found a maid fairer than ever she
was. No, no, the thing is out of nature,
and impossible to the last degree."

Helen clearly recollected how merrily she
had at the time laughed at his vehemence,
saying playfully, as she did so, —

O CD

have happened more than three centuries
ago ; " and then, suddenly calling to mind
that the subject of conversation might
possibly be classed among those which
are popularly known as " delicate," she
had hastened to give it a less slippery
turn. The fact that the story of the
Early " and his lady-love ended — for
all the world like any modern three volume
novel — in a marriage between the
respective parties, had not escaped Helen
Durant's memory ; and happening, as was
now the case with her, to lift for a moment
her dark lashes to her questioner's face,
it flashed across her brain — and that with
a force of conviction which almost took
away her breath — that existence for her,
were she never to see again the man whose
visits and whose kindly sympathy had

during the last few weeks contributed so
greatly to her happiness and comfort,
would be well-nigh valueless. The change
which this sudden conviction wrought in
her countenance must have struck Eowley
as being of good omen, for his utterance
of the simple monosyllable *' Well ? " had
in it a ring of hopefulness.

"Well," the girl, with an effort to becalm,
repeats, " I would answer you at
once, only I would like first " — and she
stops, blushing painfully, for a pair of
dark questioning eyes are very near to
hers, and there is that even in the muscular
hand that is nervously twisting his
heavy moustache, which conveys to her
mind a sense of power which fascinates
whilst it well-nigh frightens her.

What would you like first ? " he says
gently. "But do not — j^ray do not keep

me in suspense. I am a big fellow," he
adds, with a smile, " to look at, but you
have me in your power, and, as you are
Totally great, you must be merciful."

The softness of his words and manner
reassure her, and this time she succeeds
in giving utterance to the sentence which
she had commenced.

I think," she said timidly, " that yo\i
should know me better before — before
you think so highly of me. In the first
place, I am not young. I should by this
time have gone through three, if not four,
seasons if I had been a London girl."

Which, thank Heaven, you are not ! "
ejaculates Elphinstone fervently. But
Helen, without noticing the interruption,
continues, — " I am more than twenty-one
two years older than Alfred, and I have
never been to school— never been taught

VOL. I. P

anything, and you might find me very
stupid. Then there is poor Als — "

And what of him, poor lad ? He
has, as most of us have done, sown his
wild oats, but, unfortunately for him, the
work was not done prudently and by
stealth. He had the misfortune — and a
great one it is — to be found out : however,
all that is done and over. He will,
I am sure, take warning by the past,
and refrain in future from any acts of
folly such as those which you have had
to deplore. With regard to the reasons
which you give why I should think
twice before undertaking the task of entreating
you to be my wife, I can only
say that your reasons are all in favour
of my determination to, if possible, succeed.
To begin with then, I share to the
full my sex's horror of a young ladies'

school. I have no weakness for highly-educated
girls, and I consider that if you
had been a year less in age than twenty-one,
you would have been too young forme.
In my opinion, ten years is exactly
the amount of difference in age which
ought to exist between husband and wife.
And now, having answered all your objections,
I shall return to my question, and
ask you, not whether you will be my
wife, but whether you think that you
will ever learn to love me."

She held her breath hard for a moment,
and then looking up bravely into his handsome,
determined face, she said quietly, —

'' I can — I know that I can ! I think
if I were never to see you again, that I
should break my heart."

Then he took her into his arms, and covered
her sweet blushing face with fervent kisses.

My darling," he said, as the girl
blushingly freed herself from his embrace,
you must forgive me. It is so long
since I have touched a woman's lips with
mine ; and the taste is very sweet. You
do not know how I have hungered for
you. I longed to speak, yet dared not.
I feared that the very thought of love would
startle you into a refusal of my prayer ;
and now that in your angel's breast I
have discovered a warm and passionate
heart, I must endeavour not to frighten
you with the exuberance of my joy."

His arm is round her waist, for he has
thrown himself on the couch beside her,
and he is feasting his imagination on the
shy happiness which he fancies is traceable
beneath her lowered lids, when she,
looking down upon the small hands that
are clasped upon her lap, says, —

I cannot think what sudden impulse it
was that made me speak so boldly. I
ought, I suppose, to feel ashamed of my
behaviour just now. You would respect
me more, perhaps, if I had not said ' yes '
so quickly."

I doubt it, sweetest," he, pressing her
more closely to his heart, replies. "You
had looked long enough the beautiful
statue which I now know you are not ;
and do you think it gives me no happiness
to find that touch of mine has warmed
my Galatea into life ? But now," he said,
looking hurriedly at his watch, *'I must
leave, you darling, till tomorrow, for I
have an appointment which has to be
kept, with the Colonel. You must tell me
though, before I go, whether you think I
can speak to your mother tomorrow of
our engagement. She looks so weak and

delicate, and I hardly know yet — she is
so different from some other mothers I
have known — whether our news will give
her joy or sorrow."

I must prepare her gently," Helen
says, " for she is sadly nervous, to hear
that for the first time in my life I have
acted without asking her advice ; but she
likes you so much, and you have been so
good, that I feel sure she will forgive me — "

'* She must, for 1 shall love her like a
son ; " and having so said, the Adjutant
(his sweetheart the while looking on with
the pride of another Andromache at the
proceedings of her soldier lover) buckled
on the sword which on his entrance
he had deposited in a corner, and, after
a true lover's au revoir to his betrothed,
he went his way, the click-clack of his
spurs sounding, after he had closed the

door, like a pleasant omen in the ears of
the happy girl he had left behind him.
And if she in her glad surprise was
happy, how much the more reason had
Elphinstone, in that he had not only
found his ideal, but had secured to himself
the prize, to rejoice over his success.
He had, during his frequent visits of inquiry
at the Shanty, taken every opportunity
of studying Helen's character and
disposition, and he had found in them no
flaw. The widow and her daughters had
lived for years in close and economical
retirement. Their acquaintances had been
few and harmless, whilst the girls had,
owing to the remoteness of their dwelling
from the haunts of men, been saved from
the contamination of sensational novel
reading. But there were other causes,
still more potent, according to Eowley's

thinking, than these, for the self congratulation
which filled his breast. His
Helen's form was exquisitely moulded — a
fact which her well-fitting dresses sufficiently
disclosed — and it gladdened her
lover's heart to think that the lovely
arms and perfect bust of his affianced
wife had never yet, save when '' robed
and crowned with chastity," and draped
with womanly decorum, been gazed upon
by mortal man. The somewhat singular
manner in which Helen had received his
proposals had been also very satisfactory
to Eowley ; for he had found but little
trouble in convincing himself of what was
indeed the fact, namely, that, unguessed
at by the innocent girl herself, he had
been, since his first introduction, gradually
finding a resting-place in the deep recesses
of her heart.

THE MAJOR FEELS HIS WAY.

ELL, Flo, I am sorry to sey
that you are in for being
on visiting terra with Major
Brereton. Wellington has written, asking
me to be civil to him. He is some
distant connection, it appears, of Lady

C 's, so I have asked him to dinner

on Thursday. The party will be a large
one, so you need only just be civil to
him, and there will be an end of it."

An end of it indeed ! " repeated Florence
to herself, when Sir Wilfred, after

giving his wife this unwelcome piece of
intelligence, left her to her own reflections.
" Oh, how I wish there would be,
and that Wilfred was not so dreadfully
watchful and keen-sighted 1 Disliking the
man as he does, he will be all the
more on the qui vive, and ready to see
anything in the wretch's manner which
is calculated to give offence ; and oh"!
what shall I do if Brereton should
take it into his head to be impertinently
familiar ? "

Sir Wilfred Gregorie was a man of
small stature — his height scarcely reaching
to five feet nine inches — but he held
his well-poised head with such an aristocratic
air, his manner of speech was so
decided and incisive, and his eye — with
its look of keen penetration — seemed so
formed — like that of Jove — to " threaten

and command," that no one ever dreamt
of making comparisons to his disadvantage,
between the Colonel and any one
of his six-feet high subordinates, of whom
there were several in the battalion.
Florence Gregorie loved her husband
dearly, but even her " perfect love "
could not succeed in casting out the fear
in which she stood of him.

Amongst those who were invited to
meet Major Brereton was Guy Leicester.
The two men happened almost at
the same moment to be ushered into the
room at the door of which Lady Gregory
was stationed to receive her guests ;
and she — being on the watch for possible
coming events — was struck by the peculiar
expression of Guy's countenance, as he
made his graceful salaam. It was a look,
as he fixed his eyes on her pale and

slightly-agitated face — in which were
combined the elements both of hang-er
and compassion, the former feeling being —
as he fancied — directed against Major
Brereton, as he (the Major), whilst retaining
his position near the mistress of
the house, made repeated and conspicuous
efforts to draw her into conversation.
This, however, the party being a large
one, was not easily done, the task being
rendered still more difficult by Lady
Gregorie's persistent endeavours to keep
him at a distance. At length, after the
men had joined the ladies in the drawing
- room, the perseverance of Major
Brereton was crowned with success. He
had been amongst the first to enter, and
Lady Gregorie chancing to be for the
moment alone, he approached, and in a
low voice accosted her.

"At last I see you, Florence," he
whispered, "but it is by chance and not
by favour. You know how much I have
longed to talk to you. I have sent
messages to you by your friend, and you
have treated both them and me with
scorn, and now — "

"Now I can hear no more," Florence
retorted. Her face was pale to the lips,
with anger and deadly fear, as she, in
the same low tone, replied, " You can say
anything you wish to Miss Vidal, and I
will send an answer to what you ask ;
bat, for God's sake, leave me now ! You
do not seem to understand," she, with
increasing agitation added, " that my
husband would kill you if he saw you
speaking to me like this."

There was an ugly sneer upon his face
as he saw her preparing to move away.

and his last words came with a sibilant
sound from between his clenched teeth.

"Well, if your lawful possessor should
take such an idea into his head, he shall
know before I die that lie was not his
wife's first love."

Fortunately for Lady Gregorie, Sir
Wilfred had been detained by a button-holding
bore at the further end of an
adjoining room, and had been thus prevented
from being a witness of the extraordinary
emotion betrayed by his wife
during the short conversation with Major
Brereton, which that enemy to her peace
forced her to undergo ; but there was one
Guy Leycester, to wit — who, during the
continuance of the scene, had placed himself,
in so far as he could venture so todo,
between his Colonel's wife and danger,
and who, having noted the agonised expression

of the harassed woman's face,
had mentally vowed to be her champion.

'* You are tired, Lady Gregorie," hein
the languidly-deferential manner which
women found so charming, said. " It
must have been that awfully hot sun at
you the Inspection to-day, which knocked
up."

I daresay ; my head aches frightfully,"
she rejoined, and looked so on the point
of falling, that Guy drew a chair towards
her, and, seating himself near to it, said,
in a voice which long practice rendered
indistinct to all save the person especially
addressed, —

You have been bored by the man
who has just left you. He is a cad of
the worst description, and as I happen to
know something of his antecedents, I
might be able — with your permission, of

course — to save you from further annoy -
ance. It is a subject into which I could
not enter now, but if I were to see you
alone — "

"Or with Emily Vidal ? "Would not
that be better ? " suggested Florence hurriedly.
" She is my friend, and very
clever. Yes, you are right ; Major Bretton
lias been worrying me, but I cannot
allow you," she added, looking with
lovely, pleading eyes into his face, " to
get into trouble on my account."

His thin lip curled scornfully as he rebutted
the idea which Lady Gregorie's
words suggested.

I think," he said, " that in this case
I can hold my own. However, as you
will not, or cannot — being en puissance
de mari — grant my request, I — for the
reason partly that I owe the man a

grudge — shall take an opportunity on my
own account of having it out with him.
You may trust me entirely, for I will be
on my guard against any idiotic notions
which people may take into their heads
about yourself." And Guy, having so
said, lounged away to talk to the pretty
wife of a rich Broadmere ironmaster, who
evidently fully appreciated the honour he
was doing her.

Meanwhile Major Brereton had, out of
hearing of the rest of the guests, taken
possession of a chair, which Miss Vidal
had cleverly contrived to keep vacant for
him.

*' You have had, I fear, rather a stormy
interview," said the young lady playfully.
1 almost wonder that you ran the risk.
Sir Wilfred is not the kind of man to
take things coolly, and her ladyship's

VOL. I. Q

countenance as you talked to her was
very betraying. I was thankful that the
Colonel was otherwise employed, and did
not see how white and terrified she
looked."

Major Brereton made no comment on
this exordium. For reasons best known
to himself, he could not afford to waste
time on purposeless discussions regarding
a woman's nervous agitation. His opportunities
for consulting Miss Vidal on the
subject of ways and means were few, and
had to be taken advantage of, therefore he
said, in a veiled tone, and tentatively, —

"Money is a thing one hates to talk
about. Miss Vidal, and I am sure you
will agree with me that it never ought to
be mixed up with sentiment. I am sorry,
of course, to have distressed Florence, but
my rascal of a lawyer — "

Yes ; I know all that," Em said impatiently,
for the man's roguery and scheming
disgusted her, even while she was
tacitly acting as an intermediary in an
affair which she had been quick-witted
to at once perceive was shady in the
extreme.

There followed, after the girl's unceremonious
interruption, a dialogue between
the pair, in which the affair of the
diamonds was fully discussed. The worth
of those which were to be put into Major
Brereton's possession was. Miss Yidal informed
him, four hundred pounds ; and
they (the jewels) would, she said, be
placed in a certain spot, the locality of
which she made clear to him, provided
always that Lady Gregorie's letters, which
he had been entrusted to bring with him,
were given in the first place into her

(Emily's) safe custody. Now this arrangement
was far from being altogether satisfactory
to Br ere ton. He would have greatly
preferred ascertaining for himself the value
of the jewels before the letters — which he
looked upon in the light of bank notes —
left his hands ; on. two points, however,
Miss Vidal showed herself absolutely determined
not to yield. She would first
obtain possession of the letters, and she
hould not be made a caspar of by
Brereton. The diamonds should be purloined
— as she boldly called the transaction
— by himself. His would be the benefit,
she urged, and it was only right that
he should incur the risk.

For a short while he deliberated, turning
over in his mind the pros and cons
of the case, and then — repeating to himself
more than once the popular truism

of " nothing venture nothing have " — he
elected to deliver up Lady Gregorie's
letters.

They are short," he said, with a sneer,
as he took them from the breast-pocket
of his regimental jacket, " but very sweet,
and you may tell her, with my love,
that I was sorry to part with them."

With these words he left her, aid
Emily, clutching the closed envelope in
her hand, forgot, for a few moments, the
expediency of opening it. She had been
bewildered by the rapid occurrence of
events which had lately taken place.
The conduct of her male coadjutor — which,
after all, was scarcely more shameful than
her own — filled her with horror, and she
forgot for a moment the extreme probability
that he would have been unable to
resist the temptation of keeping back one

of the letters as a reserve fund in the
event of future pecuniary difficulties.
This supplementary act of meanness he
had not, however, been guilty of, and Em,
as, from her quiet position near a heavy
portiere, she watched the movements of
the man who she knew to be so consummate
a rascal, wondered greatly at
the careless ease with which he moved
from group to group, now admiring the
bouquet of a pretty, laughing girl, and
anon complimenting a married performer
on the beauty of the song with which she
had just been favouring the company.
At length he approached the door, and
in another moment would — Emily tremblingly
told herself — be within a few yards
of the big open-mouthed pot-pourra jar
in which he had been told to seek his
treasure. As she pictured to herself his

stealthy progress down the stairs, her
heart beat almost to suffocation within
her bodice. It was in vain she told herself
that it was for Florence's sake that
she had taken a part in this vile transaction.
Conscience was making of her a
sorry coward, and her fear lest one of
the servants at least — if not one of the
Colonel's guests — might witness the mani's
proceedings, grew to fever heat.

But she need not have been alarmed.
The upstairs company were too busy
listening to, and increasing the busy hum
of men and women, to attend to the
unpopular Major's proceedings, whilst the
domestics below were probably feasting
on the remains of the excellent dinner
which had been provided for their "betters."
The door had closed upon the
guilty man, to whose example her own

fall was, she told herself, due, and not a
sound, intently as she listened, had met
her ears. Then an idea — born of her
great relief from nervous strain — occurred
to her. It was not too late — in her case
for repentance ; she might, whilst placing
the recovered letters in her friend's hands,
whisper to her at the same time the welcome
news that all her diamonds had
not passed into the enemy's possession.

"It was a foolish trick of mine' she
might say, " to frighten you. The riviere
was worth — so Mr Salter said — the money,
and here is your 'pendant, worth two hundred
pounds, come back to you, and you
must forgive me for my childish trick."

For a short while after coming to this
almost resolve to act uprightly. Miss
Yidal felt happier than she had done
for days ; but then came a reaction.

There was a milliner's, to say nothing of
a boot maker's, bill to pay, and Em's
allowance for toilette expenses had already
been in a great measure forestalled. Mr
Vidal— a man who never denied himself
an enjoyment which his limited means
permitted him to indulge in — was apt
to turn very rusty when his timid, and
often-ailing wife ventured to beg a-few
pounds of him for the adornment of her
girls; and Emily lived in dread of the
family scene which his discovery of the
truth concerning her extravagance might
occasion. The two hundred pounds which
lay almost within her grasp, would be to
her a blessing beyond price, whilst Florence
would never miss the sum which
would set her (Emily) free from daily
and nightly care and worry. The deed
would be a terribly dishonourable one—

the girl did not shut her eyes to that
fact — but then her need was great, and
Florence would — the girl felt convinced —
if she were made acquainted with that
need, come at once to her friend's relief.
It was too soon, however, even if
Em could have brought herself to act a
beggar's part, to seek the assistance of
the rich and generous woman she was
about to wrong, and therefore it fell
about that the girl, after a fierce inward
battle with her better self, yielded to
the sin that was besetting; her !

The sight of Lady Gregorie's joy when
she received the letters, and the warmth
of her grateful expressions to the friend
who had so successfully carried out the
hateful task which she had undertaken,
reconciled Emily in some degree to herself
Surely, she thought, some recompense

was due to her for the zeal which
ill the service of her hostess she had
displayed. Her stolen interviews with
Major Brereton were not only odious
but might have given rise to scandal.
All this risk she had incurred, and — on
the principle that the labourer is worthy
of his hire — she deserved — she strove
hard to convince herself — a proportional
reward.

On the following morning, Guy Leicester
and Major Brereton happened, greatly
to the satisfaction of the former, to
come across each other. It was in the
yard of a horse-dealer and livery stable-keeper
in Broadmere that the accidental
meeting took place. A charger, which
neither of the men had much idea of
purchasing, was to be sold by auction
in the yard ; and after the sale was over,

Leycester, when well out of hearing of
the hangers-on, said to Major Brereton, —

Can you give me a few minutes' conversation,
Major, outside, before we return
to barracks ? There is a trifling
subject which I should like to discuss
with you."

All right ! " was the apparently 
reply, and then the two
men, one of whom was conscious of
undergoing a certain amount of inward
trepidation, walked away together.

I think it best," said Guy, " to do a
disagreeable thing — if one has it to do —
at once. A kid hates swallowing a dose
of nasty physic, but the longer he holds
his nose over it, the more he will set
himself against it. Now, the lorn and
the short of this matter is, that last
week, at that confounded garden-party.

I was at the other side of the thick
yew-hedge whilst you and Miss Vidal
were holding a palaver, and I heard
every word you both said."

Which was a cursed mean thing todo,
and I wonder you like to own to it,"
rejoined his companion imperturbably.

** Well, perhaps it was, but that's
neither here nor there. I heard a lady's
name mentioned, and as it seemed to me
that you have her in a fix, it occurred
to me to try and get her out of it. It
appears that you have got possession of
this lady's letters — we won't mention
names, if you please, just now — and that
you won't give them up without a consideration
in the shape of money. Now,
I don't know whether you understand
French, but this comes under the head
of what they call over there change,

and renders you liable to an action for
felony."

Brereton, although he was, at Guy's
opening words, taken terribly aback, had
now, to a certain extent, contrived to
pull himself together, and had made up
his mind that a bold denial of facts
would be his best and safest plan. Miss
Vidal, in the event of matters coming to
an issue, could be, he thought, safely
depended on as a witness in his favour,
and therefore he said, with an assumption
of injured innocence, by which Guy was
not in the least deceived, —

*' I have not an idea of what you are
talking. Some fellow — the thing is not
uncommon — may have been written toby
a woman, and, if he happens to be
hard up, which is also a case of common
occurrence, he may have been tempted

to do a confounded blackguard thing, and
go in for what is called, as I have heard,
hush - money ; but why you should take
it into your head that I am the scoundrel
whose conversation you took the
trouble to listen to, I can't for the life
of me conceive. Anyway, your assumption
that I am capable of acting like a
scoundrel is an affront — I might alios
say an insult — which, in my opinion,
calls on your part for an apology, and
an apology I therefore demand from
you."

The tone taken by the Major is so
insolent in its firm denial of what Guy is
perfectly convinced are simple facts, that
for a moment he feels at a loss how to
proceed. Brereton's voice is, however, a
peculiar one, and, moreover. Lady Gregory's
agitation whilst subjected to his

evidently unwelcome attentions, is, together
with her admission to him (Grey
that she has suffered annoyance at
Brereton's hands, additional proof, if any
were wanting, that the man has uttered
falsehoods. After a second or two, therefore,
given to reflection, he says, with
decision, —

I decline. Major Brereton, to offer you
any apology until I am well convinced
that I have made a mistake. Such, at
present, is so far from being the case
that I shall wish you ' Good-morning ; ' "
and so saying. Captain Guy, in his accustomed
graceful fashion, touches his forage
cap with his riding-whip, and lounges
slowly away towards the barracks.

END OF VOL. I.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

3 0112 045852172

2ioa Moats Udiea w a moist dreadful throes;
utero is not «> more fearful wild fowl that roof

^1

A NOVEL.

BY

PHILIP GASKELL,

AUTHOR OF "the SENIOR MAJOR," ETC.

A lion among ladies is a most dreadful thing ; for there
is not a more fearful wild fowl than your li<ni living."

Midsummer Night's Bream?

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

18 88.

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

v-It

CONTENTS.

I. May Durant meets with Approval,
II. May, the Lion Tamer,
III. The Colonel's Wife is in a Fix,
TV. Florence is given a Chance,
V. A Mother at Bay,
VI. A Woman without Sin,
VII. An Unequal Match,
VIII. May Durant cries 'mea culpa" .
IX. Em proves Herself a Friend indeed,

X. No Place for Repentance,
XI. Sans Adieu,

PAGE















Nov ready ^ in One Vol. , the Seventh Edition of

ARMY SOCIETY ; or, Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange
Winter. Author of ' Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also picture
boards, 2s.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By the same

Author. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE OUTSIDER. A Sporting Novel. By Hawley Smart. New

Edition. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs

Edward Kennard. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By the same Author. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander. Author of 'The Wooing

O't.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Author of ' The

Right Sort.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Author of

A North Country Maid,' etc. (Sixth Edition.) Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE BOND OF WEDLOCK. By Mrs Campbell Praed. Author of

Nadine.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

F. Y. WHITE & Co., 31 Southampton Street, Strand,
London, "W.C.

Chapter I.

MAY Durant MEETS WITH Approval.

HE announcement of Captain
Elphinstone's marriage engagement
was received on nearly all
sides by marks of disapprobation. His
choice of an obscure country girl — one who
had only a certain amount of good looks to
recommend her — was considered by the com-vol.

II.

unity at large as something approaching
to an offence in regard to those who,
having failed to draw the matrimonial
prize, had found themselves hopelessly
distanced by an outsider. If Captain
Elphinstone's affianced wife had been endowed
with either rank, or high standing
in the world of fashion, the affront would
doubtless have been less keenly felt ; but,
as matters stood, Miss Durant could not,
for the present, at least, hope to be pardoned
for the success which she had all
unconsciously achieved.

It is the month of July — the weather
is intensely hot, and Mrs Durant, who
is still weak, and easily effected by atmospheric
changes, is thankful for her escape
from the small rooms and stuffy prettiness
of the Shanty's circumscribed and
overfilled space. Ivy Combe, the airy

cottage in which she and Helen have —
thanks to Captain Elphin stone's exertions —
found a refuge, did indeed, on all accounts,
strike the new-comers in the light of a
blessed change. It was so still, so peaceful,
and the honeysuckles which clustered
round the porch sent forth a perfume
that was as the breath of heaven,
when compared with the odour of stale
pot-pourra and pungent ^xn^Wmg- sachets
which clung round the furniture of the .
Shanty. This hour is a witching one,
for the stillness of night is beginning; to
steal softly over the senses, and only a
faint rustling of the leaves, as some restless
bird stirs upon its perch, breaks in
upon the silence which, to lovers, is so
highly prized a boon. Rowley Elphin-
stone and the girl in whom he every hour
discovers — as is the wont of woman worshippers,

some fresh and gracious gift,
are seated side by side in the rustic porch.
The quiet around them is so profound,
that Helen's lover, whose heart is beating
wildly within his breast, is half afraid
that his shy and gentle sweetheart will
hear, and feel alarmed by, the fierce throbs
which are causing his breath to come
thick and laboured from his lungs. Helen,
although she has passed her twentieth
year, and is beginning to understand what
woman's love may mean, is as ignorant asa
child of the very existence of the waves
of passion which surge so tumultuously
(especially in such hours as those which
are passing now) in the breast of a man
over whom love has for the moment
gained the mastery ; there is something
almost alarming to Elphinstone in the
death-like stillness by which he is encompassed.

His fear lest he should be involuntarily
driven to breathe into the
loved one's ear far warmer words than
any to which she had as yet listened
is great, he therefore breaks the spell by
saying irrelevantly, and in a voice that
sounds curiously tremulous, —

Tell me something more, darling,
about your sister. I am so glad that
she is coming to join us here. She
must have missed you sorely in that,
dull Cornish home. But I think
you told me that May — what a pretty,
spring-like name it is — "

*' Yes, but it is not really hers,"
Helen, in her low murmuring tones rejoins.
" She was christened Mary, and
I hardly know when the name was converted
into May. Perhaps it was because
she is herself so like a blossom of the

Spring. When you see her, you will
understand ; she is so bright — so pretty."
** Too bright and too pretty, I feel
sure, to waste her sweetness in the
desert air of Cornwall," put in Eowley,
who, being still under the influence of
the atmosphere and the hour, was, as
it were, talking for talking's sake. " I
wish, my sweet one," he added, and
his arm, as he spoke the tender words,
stole round the loved one's waist,
*' that you could persuade your mother
to make this charming old place her
home. As long as we live, my Nellie,
it will be associated with the happiest
moments of our lives — I, at least," he
continued, drawing a long breath, which
sounded to Helen's ears too much akin
to a sigh, " shall never forget the
happy week which I have passed with

you amongst the trees and flowers
here."

And do you think," she, half reproachfully,
asked, " that my memory
of this time will be shorter than yours ?
Ah, no ! I shall always dearly love Ivy
Combe. My only fear has been that
I have been too happy. And without
May, moreover, which is so strange.
Dear little May I She is better than I
am, — much less selfish. She could not .
have forgotten, as I have done, the
contrast — the difference between our
lives."

*' Darling, she will understand many
things better," Eowley said tenderly,
when she has learned what it is to love
and to be loved ; " and as the word
escaped his lips, the spell of close proximity,
and the influence of the sweet

warm summer night, was again at
work, and lie gathered, with a close
and passionate pressure, the now half-frightened
girl to his wildly - beating
heart.

It was very vague and indistinct, that
sudden fear of hers which caused her
to draw herself from her lover's embrace,
and to say, in a voice the quaver in
which at once recalled him to his
senses, —

'* It is growing very late, I fear, and
mother will lie awake for me to say
good-night. Let us go in doors." And
rising as she spoke, she led the way
into the house.

When, two days after this trifling
episode, Mary Durant arrived at Ivy
Combe, her brother-in-law elect was the
first to pronounce her 'charming."

Helen, whose respect for his opinions was
unbounded — expressed in no measured
terms her delight that the sister whom
she so dearly loved, should have obtained
favour in his sight.

I am so glad you think her nice,"
she said to her lover, as he, standing
at the open window by her side, watched
with her the pretty, girlish form which,
flitting about like some gay butterfly
among the flowers, turned ever and
anon her graceful head with something
of a coquettish glance towards those
whose eyes where fixed admiringly upon
her movements. '* She is so glad, dear
child," continued Helen, "to be again
with me and mother, and yet she has
never complained, — never written to us
that she was wearied to death of the
Vicarage, in which we were so cruel as to

leave her. Mr Everett is a good man,
aud his wife is a perfect pattern of what
a Caress ought to be ; but I can understand
now how terribly May must have
been bored with the dull routine of life
under their roof."

A laugh — light but suggestive — broke,
as he listened, from the lips of Eowley
Elphinstone. From the little that he
had as yet seen of May, he was quite
ready to endorse the belief which Helen
had just expressed ; for charming, as
well as exquisitely pretty, as he acknowledged
the sister of his own pure love
to be, he detected, with the eye of experience,
certain dangerous potentialities
for mischief in the girl, to whom he
could not, when speaking of her to
Nellie, deny the sweetly-sounding praise
of being "very nice."

Meanwhile May, for by her pet name
we prefer to call her, repaid with
interest the encomiums which Rowley
Elphinstone bestowed upon her. He belonged
in every way to a type of man
of which this country-raised girl possessed
not the very faintest previous
knowledge ; and the wonder with which
she at first regarded him was almost
equal to her admiration. Helen's written
descriptions of the friend who had acted
the part of special Providence for herself
and her family, had by no means prepared
the younger sister for the reality
which awaited her, nor had even the
announcement by Helen that she had
been proposed to by, and had accepted,
Captain Elphinstone as her future husband
been accompanied by any details
regarding his appearance and manners.

which, were calculated to effectually raise
that now all important personage above
the unromantic circle of the " commonplace."
The temperament of the younger
girl was in many respects the reverse
of that which Nature had bestowed upon
her sister. In kindness and generosity
of heart and mind, they were not unequally
matched, but in May, the possession
of these qualities lay more upon
the surface of things than was the case
with Helen. The latter was, taking
her youth into consideration, singularly
self-contained and undemonstrative. To
strangers she conveyed the idea that
her nature was a cold one, and it was
only the quicker sighted, and those who
deemed her idiosyncrasy worthy of study,
who could be said to enjoy the privilege
of making acquaintance with her inner

self. May, on the contrary, was endowed
with neither the wish nor the power
to conceal, whether by silence or bywords,
the thoughts with which her
heart and mind were full. Hitherto
no evil, either to herself or others, had
resulted from the unguarded outspokenness
of this impulsive maiden, or from
the indulgence in her every whim which
from her very infancy had been the
course pursued towards her. In the
comparative solitude of her Cornish home
she had been safe from the complications
which, especially in the case of a
character such as hers, are fraught with
danger ; but now, Life, with its stern
realities, its temptations, its perils and
its joys, was for the first time opening
out before her ; and the girl, like a child
playing at the edge of a precipice, saw

nothing: but the flowers with which
the brow of the yawning gulf was
masked.

Amongst the earliest visitors to whom
May Durant was introduced, were Lady
Greg-ore and Miss Vidal. The distance
of Ivy Combe from the barracks was
by the carriage road about nine miles,
but there was a nearer way for horsemen,
along some pretty footpaths, and
through pleasant grass fields to the
little Junction Station, four miles from
which Ivy Combe, a perfect nest of
verdure, became visible to the passers-by.
On the afternoon of the day when
Lady Gregorie in her victoria drove, in
order, as Miss Vidal said, to pay a
visit of inspection to the cottage, two
officers in the undress uniform of the
Chalkshire Eifles might have been seen

riding slowly towards the selfsame
bourn. The men were none other

than Guy Leycester and his subaltern
Lieutenant Cardew, the end and object
of whose ride being also that of calling
on the lately-installed inhabitants of
the quasi farmhouse.

What a bore this turning up of a
new Durant girl is," Leycester, as he
slaps to its death a horse-fly which is
ravening on the glossy neck of his •
steed, lazily remarks. " The first one,
Elphinstone's fiancee, gave one no
trouble ; she didn't, from the beginning
I could see that plainly — either expect
or want to be spooned."

And then she was so awfully cold,
don't you know," put in the younger
man. " Fancy now, asking a girl like
that for a flower."

"Or a kiss, or any trifle of that
kind," Guy, with a languid smile, suggests.
'upon my word, Cardew, I
almost envy you young fellows when
I see the way you carry on. Ready !
Present ! Fire ! That's your sort of
motto. You go at your flirtations with
a will, — fancy yourselves intensely sentimental,
and, while perfectly aware that
your little affair will come to nothing,
the enjoyment you get out of it seems
to be intense."

Cardew vouchsafes no response to
this chaffing tirade, but, after a few
minutes' silence, says, —

I wonder what makes you hate
talking to girls so much."

Well, for one thing," rejoins his
companion, 'rit is this; either they know
nothing — which makes them hang very

heavy on hand ; or it is the other way —
which is simply disgusting. There are,
to my thinking, few creatures more
offensive than girls who have made of
mankind the reverse of a 'proper' study.
It is odious enough when they dress
and talk like men, but when they force
upon us the conviction that they have
nothing, as regards our inner life, to
learn, I, for one, hold them absolutely
in abhorrence."

But," asks the younger man, who
seemed resolved to get, if possible, to
the root of the matter, " did you never,
when you were quite young, fall in
love?"

Well," rejoins Guy, " I cannot say
that the Cling in love, after your
fashion, ever, as far back as I can remember,
either came in my way, or

VOL. II. B

strongly recommended itself to my fancy.
Mind I do not say that your plan of
proceeding is not probably the best and
safest ; and sometimes, when I think of
the advice of a crafty old godfather of
mine, and of the warnings which he
gave me, I almost wish that I had not
neglected them."

But what were the warnings ? What
did he say ? " inquires Cardew, who, like
all the youngsters, looked upon Guy asa
very treasury of worldly wisdom.

Well, he simply told me to study,
and inwardly digest certain Chapters in
the book of Ecclesiastes. They are not,
as the old gentleman said, exactly calculated
for family reading, say at morning
or evening prayer time, for instance,
but they are wonderful for their wisdom ;
and I only wish — but here we are at

the Combe. What a lovely place it is !
And if I could envy any man who is
about to barter away his liberty, that
man would be Elphinstone, whose courting
lines have fallen in such pleasant
as these."

MAY, THE LION TAMER.

iT would be hard to decide what
was in May Durant, the especial
charm which rendered her
in the eje& of all men so wonderfully
sweet and winning. Her beauty assuredly
was both great and incontestible,
but that alone, seeing that other young
creatures have lashes as long and dark,
teeth as white and perfect, and a complexion
as pure and delicate, would not
be sufficient to account for the charm
which she, all unconsciously, exercised

over those with whom she came in
contact. Perhaps it was to the atmosphere
of brightness which surrounded
her that this child of Nature was in
part indebted for the interest which she
rarely, if ever, failed to excite. A
"blythe spirit" truly was she, and one
who, like the lark to which Shelley
sang and listened, could hardly, by the
imagination of her fellow-beings, escape
being looked upon as a creature differing
greatly from what is vulgarly termed
the common run.

Hail to thee blythe spirit ! Girl thou never wert,"

was an apostrophe which Guy Leycester,
strong in his prejudice against the young
ladies of his country, in silence addressed
to bonnie May Durant, when, offering,

without a vestige of shyness, her small
hand for his acceptance, she said, —

'' I am so glad to see you. I have
wished so much to say something of
what I feel for your great kindness to
poor AfFy and to us."

What kindness ? I do not understand,"
said Guy, whilst the air of almost
stupid ignorance which he summoned to
his features, called forth a peal of rippling
laughter from May.

"Oh!" she said, "that is ridiculous.
As if you did not know what I mean.
But you will let me be grateful, won't
you ? Rowley told me that you would
think it a nuisance to be thanked, but — "

"Well, it is a nuisance, or rather would
be, from anyone else — to be thanked for
doing nothing," interrupted Guy.

"But you did do something," persisted

the girl. "You stood by us in our
troubles. You went all the way to Paris
to find poor AfFy, and bring him back
to mother — "

In other words, I was bored to death
in barracks, and Elphinstone, like the
good fellow that he is, paid all my
expenses, and sent me on a jolly lark,
rejoicing."

Oh ! " exclaimed May, lifting her
beautiful, fearless eyes to the face of .
her interlocutor, *' I do not say that I
think you are as good as Eowley — but
then he is perfect, and we cannot " —
this with a small spice of coquetry, which
in Leycester's eyes gave her an added
charm — " all be that."

The Durants and their visitors are
sitting and standing on the not 
lawn which stretches in front

of the house. Over their heads, and
affording them efficient shelter from the
beams of the afternoon sun, stretch the
branches of an old and far-spreading
cellar tree ; and whilst the tea which
has been ordered, is in preparation, more
than one amongst the group is, though
apparently wholly engaged in talking and
in listening, mentally occupied in making
comments on those around them. This
is especially the case with Rowley .
He is gifted with very keen
powers of perception, and the meeting
between Guy and his future sister-in-law
has both amused and slightly alarmed
him. If Leycester should, for the first
time since he has grown to man's estate,
be fascinated by other charms than those
which older and more experienced women
have hitherto had for him, what hope

would there be, he told himself, for May.
Great as is his own regard for his
brother officer, Rowley is keenly alive to
the dangerous nature of his faults. Of
fixed principles of action he possesses
none, but is liable to be carried away
on the path of evil-doing by every fierce
temptation by which he happens to be
assailed. The very softness and tenderness
of his heart are against his standing
uprightly ; for if sweet May should learn
to love him (and what, Rowley asks
himself, is more terribly probable),
Guy is not the man, however much he
may desire to follow the dictates of
honour, to leave her uncomforted, —
"to her sorrow." These thoughts flash
through his mind whilst the girl in her
simple muslin dress is helping his own
Helen to perform the duties of hostess

at the tea-table which the tidy parlour-maid
— an importation from Devonshire —
has made ready under the cedar boughs.
How widely different, yet both . how
rarely lovely, are the daughters of the
pale, delicate-looking woman who, without
a thought of coming danger, is enjoying,
with all a convalescent's keen
appreciation of present pleasure, the scene
of which she is the quiet spectator.

Guy Leycester, to whose errors Mrs
Durant is, by reason of his past kindness
to her son, entirely blind, is, with his
arm on the back of her chair, stooping
his tall head to the level of hers, and
saying, in the caressing voice which
women find so charming, that he. is
glad to see her installed at the Cottage.

"It would be delightful," he adds,
if wee could keep you here altogether.

Cornwall is so awfully far away, and
Elphinstone says that the owner of this
pretty place wishes to sell it now."

*but how is a widow as poor as
I am, likely to profit by this change
in his intentions ? " smiled Mrs Durant.
He asks, I hear, three thousand
pounds ; now if it were a case of
twenty peace instead of so many shillings,
I might feel justified in turning
the matter over in my mind."

*now, mother, what are you talking
of?" asked May, who, as she flitted past
with a small jug of cream for Lady
Gregorie's tea, overheard Mrs Durant's
last words. "You are never, you know,
to talk about money. It is a perfectly
hateful thing 1 Is it not, Captain
Leycester ? It makes people quarrel
when they would otherwise be peace-bible

; and besides, dear — " this to the
mother, whose tenderly admiring eyes
were fixed upon her child's bright
face, ** your headaches are always worse
after you have gone through— as you
call it — your accounts. Now, Captain
Leycester, don't you, as well as mother,
dislike the trouble of counting up your
money ? "

"Can't say," laughed Guy, "for I
don't possess any to count up."

"Really? I am almost glad, for it
makes you more like us, as friends
ought to be. I think — "

"But you don't object to Elphin-
stone being rich, do you ? I thought
he was your standard of perfection."

"Ah, yes, so he is. I forgot; and
I consider Nellie to be the luckiest
girl in the whole world ; but still —

Oh, Miss Yidal, let me take your cup ! "
cried May, as she darted forward a step
or two to prevent Lady Gregorie's companion
from undergoing the trouble of
carrying her cup and saucer to the
tea-table. That Em showed less than
no appreciation of the attention, was a
circumstance which entirely escaped the
younger girl's observation.

After that day, Guy came very frequently
to Ivy Combe, so frequently,
indeed, that Mrs Durant, simple-minded
as she was, and strongly biassed in
his favour, began to feel, on May's
account, slightly disturbed and anxious.
The good-natured activity which he had
displayed when her boy was in sore
trouble, had been so often dwelt upon
with grateful satisfaction by the widow,
that, as if by common, but tacit consent,

she had been kept in ignorance of
not a few particulars concerning his position
and conduct which to have known
might have been instrumental in saving
the unsuspecting woman from many an
after pang. That he was far from being,
as was the case of her much-loved
Rowley, an excellent matrimonial parti,
she was well aware, and rumour that the
most popular man in the Chalkshire
Rifles was not altogether free from debt
had reached her ears ; but as a set-off
to these disquieting rumours concerning
one whose admiration for her fair young
daughter was unmistakable, there was
that not only in Captain Leycester's
birth and position but in his general
bearing, which struck the widow as so
many guarantees against his being really
a sufferer from straitened means. The

plain gold ring which he wore upon
his little finger, and the chain which
secured his exquisitely-beautiful hunting
watch, were so massive ; and then in
the matter of gloves, he, when out of
uniform, showed himself so regardless
of expense, that his very appearance,
guiltless as he was of the slightest approach
to swagger, might, so thought
Mrs Durant in her happy but dangerous
ignorance of the world and of man •
kind, be taken as a living contradiction
of the reports concerning Guy which
were spread abroad.

Whilst watching with true motherly
tenderness the progress of May's love
idyll, the only bugbear of which the
mother stood in dread was a long engagement
for her child. It was so more
than probable that Captain Leycester's

people would object to his marriage with
a portionless girl ; and then there would
be for May the weary time of waiting, of
separation, and possibly — for men were
not always constant — of doubt. This
fear gave rise to many conflicts in the
widow's mind. It was, she thought, perhaps
her duty to speak either to Mayor
to their now almost daily guest, on
the subject of which her heart was full ;
but the gift of moral courage had been
denied to her, and then they seemed so
happy, those two, that she shrank from
disturbing, by her nervous questionings,
the joyous current of their lives. From
this preamble it will be seen that Mrs
Durant anticipated for her darling none
of those far more crushing evils which,
had her experience been greater, must
have stared her in the face. Her confidence

in Guy's honour was unbounded ;
and, after all, what, this foolishly romantic
parent asked herself, was comparative poverty
when it was shared by a loving and
faithful husband ? Her own experience of
married life with the excellent clergyman
with whom her lot had been joined, had
sufficiently proved to her that an income
of five hundred a year was quite sufficient
to marry on, and be contented
with ; and she could not bring herself
to believe that eventually, when Captain
Leycester showed a serious disposition to
"settle down," his family would stand in
the way of his happiness. Poor Mrs
Durant ! She little knew how small a
chance there was that either Lady Alicia
or the Admiral would draw their purse-strings
in their son's behalf!

But although a tiresome amount of
VOL, II. c

delay and waiting was the worst form
which her fears for May assumed, Mrs
Durant resolved — delicate as was the
matter in hand — to feel her way with
her future son-in-law on the subject of
his brother-officer's attentions to her girl.
The month of August was now tolerably
far advanced, and Helen's marriage was
fixed for the first week in September.
Engrossed as he naturally was by the
daily interest and excitement by which
his life was filled, Elphinstone's thoughts
had been a good deal, if not altogether,
diverted from matters with which Helen
and the approaching ceremony were not
intimately connected. He was very fond
of May, and for Helen's sake, as well asher
own, would have made every effort,
had he observed the peril in which she
stood, to save her from impending harm ;

but, kind man, and unselfish albeit he
was, his present happiness so entirely
engrossed his thoughts that, as I before
said. May and her interests were for
the time forgotten. It was not often
that Mrs Durant could reckon on an
opportunity of seeing Eowley Elphinstone
alone, but one morning, whilst Helen
was engaged in " trying on " one of the
dresses of which her trousseau was to
be composed, the widow, with a slight *
tremor in her voice, for this taking upon
herself to interfere in the gaff-aires de
coeur of her grown-up daughter was an
act from which her sensitive nature
caused her to recoil, asked the bridegroom-elect
to walk with her round the garden,
and listen patiently whilst she asked him
for his advice.

'certainly, dear mother," he replied

(he always at Helen's request, called Mrs
Durant " mother," now). "It is a delicious
day, and a stroll will do you good."
Whereupon, the small, frail woman,
leaning upon his strong right arm,
stepped with him out of the porch upon
the lawn.

THE COLONELS WIFE IS IN A FIX.

UT, Wilfred, dear, I thought
you would agree with me
that diamonds by daylight
are in wretched taste. Besides, the setting
of mine is so terribly old fashioned !
I could not wear them as they are."

"Probably not, but nothing can be
easier than having them reset. I should
like to have a look at them. Augustine
has them in her charge, of course. If I
ring for Symonds, he can tell her what
we want."

A Yeomanry Ball, in which the Colonel
is interested, is about to take place ina
neighbouring county, and Sir Wilfred
G-regorie, who is proud of his wife's
beauty, has decided that she shall wear
the diamonds which, although he has
seen them but once, he knows to be of
the first water, on the occasion. Lady
Gregorie's sensations, when he made his
wishes known, may be easier imagined
than described. She, as we already know,
not only dearly loved, but feared her
husband, whilst she valued his good opinion
as a treasure beyond all price. Guiltless
though she was of even an unworthy
thought, she trembled now, less through
fear of his anger than from the miserable
certainty that were the truth to become
known to him she would thereafter become
a lowered creature in his sight. By some

process of thought, which it is unnecessary
to analyse, she had become cognisant of
the fact that, neither in the matter
of truthfulness, nor of reticence of conduct
did her sex in general stand high in
the opinion of her husband, and that she
was herself an exception to this rule had
also, in some inscrutable way, become
patent to her. She had noticed more
than once that when in her presence, the
tone of the conversation had become a.
trifle over free. Sir Wilfred had, with
no apparent intention, given it a more
decorous turn ; and that he desired to
keep the purity of his wife's mind free
from the faintest breath of contamination,
was evidenced by his habit, in the
familiar intercourse of domestic life, of
steering clear of any subjects save
those which the most delicate-minded

of lier sex could listen to without a
blush.

As I before said, the idea of falling
from the high place which in her husband's
estimation she was conscious of
holding, gave exquisite pain to Florence ;
whilst so great also was her fear of
his just anger when the truth should
become known to him, that her response
to his last suggestion was, owing to
the tremor in her voice, scarcely audible.

"I rather think," she said, "that
Augustine is out, so that I had better
go for them myself."

And go, with trembling limbs, and
a wildly-beating heart, she did, but
not in the first instance to her own
room. In this terrible emergency, she
felt the want of companionship, of
support, and, above all, of advice as to

how, in this terrible crisis, it behoved
her to act.

Oh, Em ! " she cried, as the door
closed upon her frantic entrance, "what,
in Heaven's name, shall we do ? Sir
Wilfred has asked to see the diamonds.
He says that I must wear them at the
Yeomanry Ball, and he will not — oh, I
see that he will not, be put off ! "

She has thrown herself on a chair,
her rich velvet tea - gown (for five •
o'clock is near at hand, and visitors
are expected) being all crumpled up
under her failing limbs, and she is
wringing her white hands together in
the extremity of her fear. Emily pauses
in the act of adorning herself, and,
partly on her own account, and partly,
for she is not altogether destitute
of feeling, because the sio^ht of her

friend's unmistakable agony of mind
awakens a sense of compassion in her
heart, she says excitedly, —

You poor thing, how terrible ! But
we must devise some means of escape.
Cannot you say that Augustine, who
has the key, is not in the house ? and
meanwhile, if Brereton is in barracks,
and has not yet parted with the
diamonds, he may be induced to lend
them for a week or two. I could
perhaps go out this evening — "

But you must go directly, dear, if
any good is to be done ! " cried Lady
Gregorie vehemently (for Em's suggestion
had raised her from the depths
of despair to the higher regions - of
hope). " If there is to be any chance
of saving me, not a moment must be
lost. I must return at once to Wilfred

with my story about Augustine, and
we dare not lose a chance of finding
that dreadful man at home."

"It is but a poor one, I am afraid,"
Emily Yidal says crossly, for she enjoys
the laisser aller of Lady Gregorie's teas,
and feels by no means inclined to
accept the alternative of a walk in the
direction of the barracks, for the bare
chance of falling in with Major Brereton.
"A week has, you know, gone by
since he took the diamonds, and he is
not the kind of man to let in such a
matter the grass grow under his feet.
On second thoughts, too, dear Flo, I
consider that it would hardly be prudent
on my part to seek the man out. I
could write him a note, asking him
where to meet me."

But the time 1 Think of how much

the doing what you say would take ! "
Florence exclaims distractedly. *' And
Augustine, who never stays out long !
Oh ! " she cries, springing from her
seat, and walking about like one demented,
" if Wilfred were ever to know
of my wickedness — my falsehoods — my
utter baseness, I hope, oh, how I hope,
that I should die!"

• " Nonsense ; it is no question of dying,"
practical Em says stoutly. " Men
are the most easy creatures in life to
deceive, if you only understand how todo
it. Now you must just go downstairs,
and look pretty, and unconcerned.
You are so sorry, you must say, that
Augustine is out, and you have been
kept all this time by trying in vain to
open the drawer in which your jewels
are locked up. Sir Wilfred will not

suspect you ; and in the meanwhile I
will write a few lines to Major Bretton,
asking him to afternoon tea tomorrow."


But Sir Wilfred will never believe,"
said Florence, " that Augustine, who so
rarely leaves the house, has been
away — "

Oh, if you have so little gumption
that you cannot make your husband believe
anything you like, you deserve to,
have him down upon you," Emily, in
her off-handed manner, was beginning,
when Lady Gregorie, with the hurried
exclamation of ''I must not waste time
here ! He will begin to wonder what is
keeping me so long," rushed impetuously
from the room.

Under the influence of fear, miracles
have ere now been worked ; and Florence,

stimulated by her dread of discovery,
found in herself powers of dissimulation
of which she had before
been ignorant. Sir Wilfred was too
essentially a manly character for suspicion
to find ready admission to his
mind. There was nothing in the temporary
absence of Augustine calculated
to excite either his surprise or his
curiosity. He had noticed nothing
unusual in his wife's manner, and was,
in point of fact, in no hurry to inspect
the jewels, the mere mention of which
had blanched Lady Gregorie's cheek,
and sent her trembling from his presence.
The quiescent fashion in which
he accepted the reason given for delay,
caused a hope to spring up in the delinquent's
breast that the fad, as Emily
called it, of seeing his wife in her

'* brave rie," had passed from his mind.
This hope, however, proved illusory, for
on that very evening, whilst his wife's
beautiful hair was being arranged according
to the latest fashion, by Augustine's
skilful fingers, the Colonel, addressing
the latter from the adjoining room,
requested her to bring the diamonds
which were in her charge to the .


'' Parfaitement, Monsieur le Colonel's
responded the abigail ; and if, whilst
continuing her task of adornment, she
noticed the sudden shiver which at the
order even had thrilled through hero

o

lady's veins, Mademoiselle Augustine was
too essentially a Frenchwoman for any
notice to be taken by her of a circumstance
so trivial.

Lady Gregorie, assuming an appearance

of composure which she was very
far from feeling, instructed her maid
to wait until she had herself finished
dressing, before she (Augustine) set about
obeying Sir Wilfred's behests.

There is no occasion for haste," she
said, in French. '* The Colonel wishes me
to have the diamonds reset for the
ball on the 20th of August ; and even
if you bring them after dinner, it will
be soon enough ; " and having so said,
the harassed woman descended with
tottering footsteps the stairs on which
she had been hitherto accustomed to
tread with so light a heart. Poor terror-stricken
creature ! it had seemed to her
that the delay of an hour would be
something gained ; but even that short
respite was denied to her, for scarcely
had ten minutes since her entrance into

the drawing-room elapsed, when Augustine,
rushing in with the speed of electricity,
exclaimed in the high-pitched
voice which, especially in moments of
excitement, is characteristic of her countrywomen,
—

O/i, Monsieur le Colonel! Quel malheur
! lis ne sont plus la, les diamonds
de Madame ! Et cependant, je les ai
vu il y a une semaine, dans le tiroir
de la commode ! Et sans doute, acres ,
que Meet Vestal a demande ma che
pour — "

But at this juncture Sir Wilfred,
whose knowledge of the French language
was limited, lost patience, and broke in
upon the waiting-woman's harangue, —

For God's sake," he said to his
wife, " tell me what the infernal chatterer
means. And, child, don't, pray,

VOL. II. D

look so white and scared about it.
Why, even if the diamonds are missing
which I imagine to be the case — the
loss need not affect you. What did she
say though, Augustine, about Miss Vidal ?
Ah, here comes the young lady herself,"
he added, as Em, dressed in a becoming
demi toilette, entered the room,
and possibly she may be able to
explain matters to her own and Augustine's
satisfaction."

"It is about the diamonds we are
talking, dear," Lady Gregorie, in a faltering
voice, and answering the girl's glance
of appeal, said, '' Augustine tells us that
she has not seen them since the day
when we tried — don't you remember % —
to brighten them up with rouge powder."

** But, surely," said Em, who probably
was of the great Statesman's opinion

that there is nothing like audacity
for carrying a much-worried individual
through a difficulty, '' surely Augustine
must have locked the cases up. I left
them on the table in the corridor,
close to her room, and if she had only
used her eyes, she must have seen the
cases as she passed along."

To describe the storm of words which
at this — as she considered it — implied accusation
poured like a torrent from Augustine's
lips would be impossible, and it required
all the authority, together with the
long experience in command which was
possessed by the Colonel, to reduce to
silence the desperately indignant woman.
Outwardly calm was he, as when in the
heat of battle he had in his clear, ringing
voice given to his men the command of
Forward, Riflemen, %nd drive them from

y, OF ILL LH

the guns ! " but inwardly the fire of wrath
was kindling. More than one circumstance
connected with the scene was, somewhat
ludicrously, perhaps, provocative of
ignition. Symonds the butler — an old
soldier whose belief in his master's infallibility
was as unshakable as that of the
most zealous pervert who ever " went
over " — as the saying is — to Some, had
already made his entree with the solemn
and all-important announcement that dinner
was on the table ; and the Colonel,
who preferred, even in the eyes of his
major-domo, to be recognised as a hero,
and whose dislike to being kept waiting
for his dinner was thoroughly British in
its intensity, was rendered acutely sensible
to the annoyance of being forced to listen
to the vociferous rancour of Augustine's
sharp tongue.

The rush of the torrent fairly for a
few moments overpowered him, nor was
it till the indignant Frenchwoman paused
for breath, that he, with a choleric expletive
of " Confound you, woman, hold
your tongue ! " took her by the shoulder,
and fairly expelled her from the room.

As, with Miss Vidal on his arm, the
autocratic Colonel proceeded to the diningroom,
his bosom's lord was far from
sitting lightly on its throne. The
melancholy facts that the soup was
cold and the turbot overlooked, did not
tend to the recovery of his temper ; and
then it cannot be denied that the scene
of which he had just been the witness
had left an unpleasant impression on his
mind. As regarded the diamonds, their
possible loss did not for the moment
greatly trouble him, but there was in

the entire transaction, as well as in the
demeanour of all concerned, an element
of mystery, which rendered him uncomfortable.
Being essentially a well-bred
man, he did his utmost to conceal from
his wife's guest the fact that he was
mentally discomposed. Em had never
been a favourite of his ; as a rule, indeed,
men are, I am inclined to think, apt
to take a prejudice against the friends
of their wives' unmarried days. Silly,
though probably innocent, secrets may
have been mutually imparted by the
girls, secrets of which the future husbands
know nothing, and which may
contain the germs of future mischief.
In the case of Emily Vidal, Sir Wilfred
entertained, however, no such suspicion.
He could not, if questioned on the subject,
have given any reason for the slight

prejudice which he entertained against
her ; but now, as she sat smiling and
prattling at his right hand, the contrast
between her unusual animation and the
pallid looks and unaccustomed silence of
his wife, struck him as suggestive of
collusion. The bare idea that so it was,
brought a frown of anger to his brow ;
and yet his imagination had carried him
but a short distance into the realms of
possible eventualities. Florence had been
of late, it might be, over extravagant in
her expenditure. Women who dress well
must, he told himself, necessarily spend
a good deal of money on their toilettes,
and his wife, frightened at the magnitude
of her milliner's bill, had, perhaps (he had
heard of the like doings before), raised
money upon her trinkets, in order to escape
from her pecuniary embarrassments.

The suspicion, especially in the case of
a proud man, and one who had hitherto
placed unbounded trust in the straightforward
openness of his wife's character,
was quite sufficient to account, not only
for the gloom which suddenly crept over
Sir Wilfred's countenance, but for the
heavy frown with which his brows were
knit ; and Lady Gregorie, as she from
time to time cast furtive glances across
the e])ergne at his troubled, moody face,
shuddered at the thoughts which might
even now be passing through his mind.

FLORENCE IS GIVEN A CHANCE.

expect.

OW, Florence, all I ask of you
is to speak out, and surely
that is not too much to
If you have — to borrow a slang
expression — put those confounded diamonds
up the spout," Sir Wilfred adds
lightly, for he is desirous of encouraging
his wife to be open and aboveboard
with him, "tell me so at Once.
It is not a particularly nice thing todo,
but women are weak vessels, and I
can quite understand — "

"But, Wilfred, I never dreamt, I could
not, of doing such a thing," Lady
Gregorie breaks in eagerly. " I have nota
single very big bill to pay, and, if I
had, I should ask you for the money, and
not the miserable pawnbrokers."

I believe you, dear ; now, don't begin
to cry," the Colonel, perceiving with
alarm that a dainty white cambric handkerchief
is about to be brought into play ;
and just tell me, there can be no difficulty
about that, what you had the
diamonds out for, and when and where
you saw them last?"

The long and tedious evening has
come to an end at last. Miss Vidal,
after singing a French romance or two,
had pleaded fatigue, and retired to her
own room, and now Sir Wilfred, finding
himself tete-tete with his wife, was endeavouring

to obtain from her an elucidation
of the mystery by which the loss
of the jewels was at present surrounded.
His last questions left her for a few
moments mute, but at length the stern
necessity of the case drew from hera
hesitating and unsatisfactory-sounding
reply.

Emily and I were speaking of my
dress for the Dartford Ball," she said,
'' and the diamonds having been spoken
of, she expressed a wish to see them.
They looked dull, she said, and wanted
cleaning sadly, so we set to work to rub
them up. When we had made them as
bright as we could, she took them away,
and I never saw them afterwards."

You concluded, of course," the Colonel
said, " that she put them back into
their proper place, and locked them

np ? By the way, about the key, what
do you suppose she did with that ? I
wish that I had thought of asking
her."

But, dear Wilfred, how could you ?
It would look so odd, — as if — as if —
you thought that she had taken the
jewels herself."

"And, by Jove!" broke out Sir Wilfred,
as he sprang from his seat, and
commenced walking up and down the
room, '*if she does not give a clearer
account of the affair, I almost think I
shall do so. The matter must not rest
as it is ; and if things do not appear
more satisfactory tomorrow, T shall put
it in the hands of the police. Augustine
is evidently furious at the idea that she
is being unjustly suspected."

Which is so stupid of her ! " exclaimed

Florence ; ** but I have always
noticed that when anything is lost, or
mislaid, servants immediately take the
initiative, and declare that they had
nothing to do with the matter."

Which I, for one, do not wonder at.
They have not much besides their characters
to carry them through life, and,
as a matter of course, they stand up
for them. Now if Miss Vidal— "

Oh ! Wilfred, you seem to imply .
that she is as likely as a maid-servant
to take what does not belong to here's

I imply nothing, my dear Florence,
but I must say, seeing that she was
the last person in whose hands the
ornaments were known to be, that her
behaviour was rather singular."

Because she did not at once fly
out like Augustine, and protest her

innocence ! Is that what you mean % As
if she could for a moment imagine
that she was suspected of being a
thief!"

"But she has not been suspected," the
Colonel said, more mildly. " Far be it
from me to throw an unmerited slur upon
any human being, to whatever class that
being might belong ; but, my dear child,
you must, I think, agree with me, that
to leave this affair unsifted would be worse
than a mistake. Am I not right in this,
my dear ? " added the Colonel, looking, ashe
spoke, with wistful, tender eyes into
his wife's troubled face.

And Florence ? Did it not, whilst
thus kindly questioned, occur to that
poor trembler that now, if ever, was the
moment for confession, that now, before
circumstances compelled her to be truthful

— would be the blessed time when her
sacrifice to Principle might be accepted,
and the wrath of her husband turned
away ? Alas ! for her, poor soul, that
we are compelled to answer in the negative.
Moral cowardice — a defect which
is too often joined to the dangerous one
of Impulsiveness — barred the way to her
right doing ! During a few swiftly-passing
seconds the idea of confession, darting
with lightning speed through her brain, .
set every pulse within her body wildly
thrilling, but, a moment later, reaction
with equal velocity set in, and, terrified
at the thought of the danger she had
escaped, she could have thanked her Godin
that she had not been led by her
fears into an admission of her girlish
folly.

I have said that Sir Wilfred Gregorie

was a man not given to jealousy, and
that the trust he placed in his wife's
rectitude and sense of honour was far
from . being easily shaken ; it was probably,
therefore, owing to that confidence,
that her reply, when, a few moments
later, she uttered it, in no way tended
to increase his perplexity. She had
striven her hardest, and that with some
success, to say with composure of voice
and manner, —

I think that you are perfectly right,
dear. To suspect an innocent person
would be dreadful. Still I wish, oh, so
much, dear Wil, that you could bring
yourself to think better of poor Em.
She is very warm-hearted, and has been
a true friend to me — "

"A girl friend, my child, who probably
you would have been better without.

But you look tired, and there is
no need to discuss Miss Em's merits so
late in the night as this. Tell Augustine,
with my compliments, that I consider her
an angel of probity, and trustworthiness."
And having so said, the master of the
house lit his cigar in the outer hall,
and proceeded, according to his nightly
custom, to take a few turns in the
Square, previous to retiring to rest.

Early on the following morning, Florence
Gregorie, after a sleepless night,
wrapped herself in a pretty blue cashmere
'peignoir, and fled along the
corridor to her friend's room. Em,
lying prone — as the novelists say —
upon her bed, was aroused from a late
sleep by the sudden entrance of her
hostess, and without making any effort
to suppress a yawn, inquired, in a

VOL, II, E

slightly aggrieved tone, what was the
matter.

Something very terrible you may be
sure, or I should not have disturbed
you," said Lady Gregorie apologetically.
She was not a woman given to take
offence lightly, but the absence of sympathy
in her guest's tone struck unpleasantly
on her own overwrought
nerves, and for a passing moment the
warm-hearted " friend of her girlhood
appeared to the unhappy woman in
something approaching to her real
colours.

Miss Vidal perceived her mistake,
and hastened to rectify it.

Dear Flo, what an idea ! " she cried.
Think of your apologising to me /
I had had a bad night, and was cross
and sleepy, I suppose; but 1 am wide

awake now, so tell me what has
happened, for I am dying to
know."

Sir Wilfred is actually going — if
indeed he has not already gone — to
see the Inspector of Police at Broad-mere
about what he calls the robbery !
What do you think of that?"

Why, that he could not do a
safer thing for us. They will, of
course, find out nothing, and it will'
end by their declaring that it is what
they call a ' house affair,' which means
that the burglary has been done by
discharged servants, who must, of course,
be well acquainted with the house, and
with the habits of the inmates."

But, Em, such an idea may lead to
innocent persons being suspected of
the crime, and that would be too

wicked ! " exclaimed Florence. " And oh,
Em, if you did but know how very
near I was last night to telling the
whole truth to Wilfred ! I shall, I
know, some day when he is especially
kind, for I have done nothing really
bad ; and, after all, he could but kill
me.

'' Which you know he wouldn't do,"
Em, springing up in her bed, vehemently
ejaculates. " But what about
others ? What about me ? Oh, you are
too selfish ! You forget how I have
helped you, — stood by you ! "

But there is nothing he would think
wrong in that," said Florence soothingly ;
and I am sure that Sir Wilfred would
see only kindness in what you have
done for me. If I should ever summon
courage to own to him how false I

have been, 1 promise you, dear, that
my husband shall never think evil of
you."

He shall never think evil of you''
repeated Miss Vidal to herself, and oh !
how sharply the generous words struck
on the nerves, if not on the conscience,
of the woman who knew herself to bea
thief! Fear of detection, however,
spoke far more strongly in her guilty
breast than did any feeling either of"
gratitude or remorse. If, whispered selfish
terror, in her ear, Florence should,
in a moment of idiotic weakness, make
a clean breast of it to her husband,
detection of her own share in the crime
would almost to a certainty follow,
and therefore it was that she used all
the eloquence of which she was mistress,
to dissuade her friend from yielding.

in this case, to a wise and praiseworthy
impulse.

"You must not do it," she urged.
For your own sake, I entreat you not
to put jealous fears into Sir Wilfred's
head. Promise me, dearest Flo, never
to do that which could not fail to
bring trouble upon us both. Think,
too, of the position in which your confession
would place Major Brereton. I
do not say that he in the slightest degree
deserves consideration, for the man
is neither more nor less than a villain,
still, having caught him in a net, and
having received that for which you
bargained, you cannot surely, in common
justice, take any steps likely to tend
to his punishment and ruin."

'* I do not, of course, wish to have
him punished," Florence rejoined ; " but

I am so certain that were Sir Wilfred
to learn the truth, he would take no
single step either towards the recovery
of the property, or the conviction of
the thief, that no consideration for
Major Brereton would hinder me from
speaking out."

"But for my sake, dear," pleaded
Em. "Remember what I should feel
at the thought of Sir Wilfred being
cognisant of the part which, for your
sake, I have taken in this matter. Oh,
Florence, promise me that you will
keep our secret. If you do not, I
shall never know another happy moment,
but shall always be thinking that Sir
Wilfred dislikes and despises me, even
more than I feel sure he does at
present."

For a long time, and with the accompaniment

of many tears, Miss Vidal
persisted in her entreaties, but on this
occasion, at least, Lady Gregorie showed
herself capable of firmness. She entertained,
almost unknown to herself, an
internal conviction that until she made
confession of her fault, she would be
as one tossed on the restless sea of
anxiety and trouble. Her " harbour
lights " were the gleams which she saw
across the heaving waves of cowardly
irresolution, and those lights she could
only reach when, like the Pilgrim of old,
she had cast down her burden, and stood
free and repentant and before her Judge.
''No, 1 cannot promise," she repeated
firmly. "I may at any moment find
myself driven by impulse to free myself
from this load of guilt, and that
impulse it will, I know, be wholly out

of my power to disobey. I repeat
though, Em, my solemn word of honour,
that you shall be held by Sir Wilfred
as totally free from blame. It would
be indeed hard were you, because of an
act of kindness so purely disinterested
as was yours towards myself, to become,
iu the very slightest degree, a sufferer."

A MOTHER AT BAY.

ELL, what is the matter,
dear Mrs Durant ? You
look worried. Has the

wedding-dress," asked the bridegroom-elect,
with his genial smile, and looking
kindly down at the fragile form of
Nellie's "little mother," 'come suddenly
to grief? or has — "

Oh, no ; it has nothing to do with
the trousseau, dear Eowley, and I daresay
that you will think me foolish

for being worried, but Captain Leycester
comes here very often — "

Ah ! " ejaculated Elphinstone, " I
should have thought of that. I have
been too remiss, — too selfishly absorbed
in my own happiness, and now — but
tell me, you do not think — you do
not fear, that May is beginning to
like him — "

Beginning 1 Oh, no. She, dear child,
does not as yet, I am sure, understand
her own feelings ; but that she
will learn to love him I feel sure — "

*'To love him I Good God! What
a terrible surprise ! It is so contrary
both to Guy's habits as well as
principles to make love to girls, that
what you tell me seems impossible."

Ah, but remember, Eowley, how
handsome he is, and how very very

charming. And why, tell me, should
you be so dismayed about it ? Captain
Leycester is so good — so honourable.
Surely you cannot in any way
distrust him — "

She had stopped suddenly in her
walk, and with an expression bordering
on alarm upon her gentle matronly
face, was looking up with eager questioning
gaze into that of her companion.
He, with his dark eyes apparently
fixed upon the movements of an
erratic butterfly which was disporting
itself amongst the tiger lilies, remained
for a few moments silent ; then hesitatingly,
and as if the utterance of what
he had to say occasioned him some
mental discomfort.

Dear mother, I hardly know how to
answer you. Guy is the best and dearest

fellow in the world, but, where your
sex, dear, are concerned, he is not, I
fear, to be trusted."

"But what is it that you fear?" the
mother, in increased trepidation, asked.
Surely " — blushing like a girl at her
own temerity — " he would not harm my
child ? "

Not intentionally : of that you may
feel assured. If you have guessed
rightly, which I trust in Heaven is not-the
case, and that dear little May cares
for him, he has, probably, become insensibly
attracted to her, and — "

Well, dear Eowley, if there is love
on both sides, and he is honourable and
true, all will come right, we may hope,
in time. They may have to wait, which
is, for a young girl, dreary work ; but,
after all," continued the widow, as memories

of days gone by, when her young lover
whispered to her in the twilight of the
happy times that were to come, crowded
round her, and filled her eyes with tears,
there is no season in a woman's life to
which, in after days, she can look back,
which is so utterly without alloy as that
of courtship."

I almost believe it," was Elphin-
stone's response ; " but, to make that
season a really happy one, there must be
Hope in the distance, and a prospect,
near or far, as the case may be, that the
loving couple will come together at last ;
and here — ah, dear mother ! the truth
must be told — I see no hope at all."

"Oh! do not say so. My poor May!
And she is so happy now ! She was
always bright ; but now — I do not know
in what the change consists, only that

sometimes I think that she has grown
more womanly and serious, and then
again she will be in the wildest spirits !
But, Rowley, tell me, I entreat you, your
reasons for feeling so sure that nothing
good can come of an intimacy which I
suppose I ought never to have permitted.
But I did not know ; he had been so
kind to my poor boy, and I could not
have borne to see a cloud on May's
sunny face."

*' Do not blame yourself, dear mother,"
said the kind-hearted soldier, as he
pressed within his own the trembling
hand that rested on his arm. " I am
the one who deserves your anger, and
you must not, by your self-reproaches,
heap coals of fire on my head. I
ought to have been more wide-awake,
but, as I said before, I have been so

selfishly engrossed by my own happiness,
that I forgot to warn you of
the clanger which May might possibly be
incurring. I cannot, however, believe
that Leycester has been so unprincipled
as to — what shall I call it ? — actually
deceive the child. That he is hopelessly
and irretrievably in debt is well known.
His people neither can nor will assist
him further, and then — "

Ah, do not hesitate ; I am stronger
than you think, and it is better for
May's sake that I should know all — "

"May be so, but, all the same, I feel
like a brute for torturing you so. Guy,
too, who is one of my most attached
friends, how little he thinks that, at this
moment, I am occupied in opening your
eyes to truths — as I fear they are —
which you never before, I conclude,

heard of. For instance, about the
Shanty '— "

What of it ? We were very comfortable
there, and I know that it was
owing to Captain Leycester's kindness
that I was taken, during my illness, to
Mr Denham's house — "

'' To which, had there existed any
alternative to your doing so, you never
should have gone," interrupted Elphin-
stone. " Mrs Denham is — Well, a
pretty woman, and her husband is, by
all accounts, a brute. She has been more
talked about, in regard to her intimacy
with Guy, than she probably deserves ;
but then, you know," this with a half
smile, which was not wholly devoid of
cynicism, "people cannot be always conversing
about the weather."

That is true," said the widow

VOL. II. F

sorrowfully, " and therefore we may
hope — may not we ? — that this poor lady
has been more sinned against than
sinning. Besides, if Guy is for the first
time in his life strongly and deeply
attached to a good, pure girl, a girl
too, who is so lovable as May, he maybe
cured, do not you think so ? " (looking
wistfully into the soldier's pitying
eyes) '*of his past follies."

Who can say ? I, for one, should be
afraid to answer for him. Indeed, indeed,
dear Mrs Durant," he continued,
speaking with more decision than he had
hitherto demonstrated, " you must take
courage, and do battle at once against
the enemy. If you wish it, I will speak
to Guy on the subject. As May's future
brother-in-law, I have a sort of right to
interfere, but I shall hate to use it ; and

yet, knowing as I do that he, poor fellow,
is a gambler to the core, he could
hardly expect me to remain passive."

He had told her the worst now, and
the unhappy mother literally shivered
and shrunk under the blow. She had
borne up bravely against the previous
reasons by which Elphinstone had endeavoured
to prove to her that her darling's
hopes of happiness must of necessity
be nipped in the bud. Her spirit'
was a sanguine one, and it was in her
nature to hope the best. Some happy
accident, some favourable turn of Fortune's
wheel, might remedy the evil,
great albeit it was — of impecuniosity,
for does not the proverb say, that tout
arrive, d qui salt attended She
could not, moreover, bring herself to believe
that if there had been anything

really wrong " between Mrs Denham
and Captain Leycester, that the latter
could have been instrumental in securing
for her use and comfort the little
Shanty " where she had found the quiet
and hen Sure which had so largely contributed
to her recovery. She had not
now for the first time to learn how
prone are the gossips who in every community
exist, to throw stones at their
neighbours, and to see, instead of good
harm in everything. Yes she was, if not
wholly, yet in some degree, prepared to
cling to the hope that the course of
May's love, even though it should not
run exactly " smooth," need not thus
early suffer shipwreck ; but Eowley's
last words had struck at the root of all
her fond imaginings. Hesitation was
now for this poor mother at an end ;

with a man possessed of the demon of
play, she could not trust the future of
her child ; and so urgent seemed to her
the peril into which that child had by
her own carelessness been thrown, that as
she hastily moved towards the porch, she
said, with almost passionate eagerness, —

I will warn poor May at once. I
will do all I can to save her. Oh 1
how could I be so blind — so wicked ? "

Do not be in a hurry. Let me
speak first to Leycester. You will be
ill again, if you undertake this painful
task. Or perhaps — what do you think \
Nellie might help us a little in this
difficulty."

"No, no, dear Rowley," Mrs Durant said
resolutely. "It is only to her mother
that a girl like our May - blossom could
confide. Poor darling ! How happy she

is ! Listen. It is one of his favourite
songs that she is singing — ' Love's
Young Dream.' A dream from which
I — her mother, who would save her if
possible from even the shadow of a
grief, am fated to awaken her."

With a noiseless footstep Mrs
Durant entered the little sitting-room
in which May, with her back to the
door, was carolling, in her fresh young
voice, and little dreaming of evil to
come, the blythesome words : —

Oh, there's nothing half so sweet on earth as
Love's young dream."

The timid footfall as her mother crossed
the room was neither heard nor heeded
by the girl, whose soul was for the
moment in the joyous music which her
rosy lips were breathing, and it was

not until a gentle hand was placed
upon her shoulder, that she turned her
head towards the door.

Naughty mother ! " she cried gaily,
and resting for a moment her soft
cheek against her parent's loving hand.
What have you and Rowley been talking
about all this time ? Nellie will be
jealous if he trusts you with too many
of his secrets. Besides, it is bad for
you to be out so long in this hot

sun."

"It is cool here, darling, and we can
talk quietly. Nellie is getting ready
to ride with Captain Elphinstone."

'* Captain Elphinstone indeed ! What
a way to speak of him ? Your own
son-in-law almost ! But, dear, now I
look at you closely, I see that you
seem pale and troubled. What is it,

darling ? Nothing about AfFy, I trust.
Eowley has not been frightening you
about our boy ? "

May had drawn the evidently agitated
woman to the sofa, and, seated by her
side, was looking anxiously into the careworn
face of the mother whose life was
to her children a very precious thing.
They had been so near to losing her, that
now, more than ever, is her value felt.
But now that the moment for action
had arrived, the widow's courage almost
fails her. It struck her well-nigh as an
act of sacrilege to tear away the veil
which hid from eyes profane the most
secret and dearly-cherished feelings of
her child, and so, catching at any pretext
for gaining time, she with an unsuccessful
effort at composure, said —

No, darling, there is nothing wrong.

Nothing with regard to dear Taffy,
that need make us uneasy. It was
partly of Captain Leicester that Eowley
was speaking to me. I was saying
that he came here very often ; for,
dear child, as you have just reminded
me, Rowley is all but a near relation
now, and as he is such an intimate
friend of Captain Leycester's, I
thought—"

Oh, mother," interrupted the girl'
excitedly, whilst a crimson blush suffused
her cheeks. " What did you think ?
And what have you been saying ? I
must go to Rowley. He may imagine —
Oh, I do not know what he may not
imagine, and I should die if he were to
speak to Guy — "

"To Guy! Oh, my child," broke in
Mrs Durant, whose fears were wrought

up to a climax by the child's evident
excitement, and by the circumstance of
her speaking thus familiarly of Captain
Leycester, " has it come to this
with you ? And you, my darling,
to have told me nothing ! I have had
my fears, but that you should have
become so intimate with Captain Leycester
as to speak of him as ' Guy ' is
too terrible, and makes me bitterly
feel what a wicked, careless mother I
have been."

At the sight of her parent's distress —
for the tears were now dropping fast
and all united away down the widow's
careworn cheeks — May, gliding to the
floor, rested her small curly head
against the self reproachful woman's knee,
and whilst suppressing with difficulty
her rising sobs, murmured shyly, —

*you must not blame yourself, dear.
You could not, good and kind as he
has been to us, tell him not to come ;
and as he did come, how could I help
loving him ? "

"And he has told you — oh, May,
how secret you have been ! — that he
cares for you ? And — ah ! I could not
have believed it of my child, my little
girl who I believed to be so true and
honest — you have listened to, and believed
in him."

I believe that he loves me," the
girl says proudly ; '' and only that he
made me promise to say nothing yet
of — of what had passed, you should
have known all directly."

At this frank announcement, Mrs
Durant gives utterance to a hardly-suppressed
groan.

"Oh," she exclaims, "did not you — do
you not now see how wrongly, how dishonourably
he has acted ? "

May, who is twisting round her small
fingers the edging of her mother's
apron, keeps her downcast eyes fixed
on that employment, whilst she says
slowly, —

Do not call him dishonourable,
mother. He — began to care for me
before he knew it, and then — "

But, child," Mrs Durant, taking advantage
of the girl's hesitation, exclaims,
have you ever thought how this dangerous
folly is to end ? "

To end ! I do not understand. Why
should it end ? Cannot we always care
for one another ? I shall never change,
and as for Guy — "Well, I feel as sure
of him as I do of myself."

"And you have known him only three
weeks ! " Mrs Durant, in the extremity of
her surprise, ejaculates. " And has it
never occurred to you, my poor child,
that he may be as little worthy of your
love as he is able, for various reasons, to
marry ? He is terribly in debt, — is addicted
to the fatal vice of gambling."

I know it : he has told me all his
faults."

All ? Impossible ! There are things
events in this life, errors which he
may, perhaps, have inadvertently fallen
into, which a man, let him be ever so
heartless and unprincipled, cannot tell
to a pure-minded girl like you. Captain
Leycester has become entangled —
at least so it is everywhere said, in
an affair, but no — I cannot explain it
to you."

Do not try, dear," May, as she fondly
caresses her mother's hand, rejoins. " You
are fond of Guy yourself, and I am
sure — " she in her pretty, half-playful
way continues, '* that if you had been in
my place, you would have trusted, and
felt for him as I do."

Perhaps : 1 cannot say ; but I feel
convinced that I could not have deceived
the mother who loved me, — the mother
who had never been hard and unforgiving
to her children. Oh, May, my
darling, you will never know — never
at least until — But listen ! There is
a ring ! And oh, T cannot see anyone
!

Not even if it should be Guy ? "
cried May, as, rising from her kneeling
posture, she endeavoured to arrest her
mother's progress towards the door.

'* You cannot say * Not at home ' to
him."

I must. No, no — do you remain
here. I will take Captain Leycester into
the garden, and say to him what is in
my mind."

There was in the poor lady's voice
and manner an air of decision and of
authority to which May was totally unaccustomed,
and under the spell of which
she at once succumbed. Mrs Durant
hurried from the room, and the need of
protection for her child lending hera
fictitious courage, she closed the
door behind her, and accosting Guy,
whose ring at the bell it proved
to be, she said kindly, but with a
dignity of demeanour that was new to
her, —

Captain Leycester, 1 must receive

A Lion among the Ladies.

you in the garden to-day. Our space is,
as you are aware, limited, and my
daughter is at present occupied in the
drawing-room."

A WOMAN WITHOUT SIN.

,N a small room, prettily, but
rather too cumbrously furnished,
a room which opened
by means of glass windows into a
tiny garden tolerably well stocked with
flowers, there sat one morning, a few
weeks previously to the conversation
between Mrs Durant and her daughter
which I have just recorded, one of
the comparatively few women who, acting
solely upon principle, had been able
to make a successful stand against

VOL. II. G

Gny Leycester's well-practised powers
of fascination. There was a time, but
that was over now, when he had tried
his hardest to make a fatal impression
upon this woman, whose husband was
a sensual brute, and whose life was
one long trial. He (Gruy) had never
known how fierce had been that woman's
struggle against temptation, nor how
bitterly she in her saddest moments,
and when the sense of duty to her
husband and her God momentarily slept,
regretted the passionate love which she
had found strength to resist.

It was the first early spring morning
of the year. The sun shone brightly
on the delicate green of the opening
foliage, and the delicious scent of the
sweetbread leaves was wafted in from a
low hedge which skirted her small garden.

Near to the open window of Mrs
Denham's cottage, its solitary occupant
was sitting, whilst feeling, as indeed often,
on similar mornings, is the case with
her, more than usually depressed and
broken-spirited. The very perfume of the
sweetbread, together with that of a bunch
of violets which Guy Leycester had
sent to her that morning, seemed to
add to her secret sense of melancholy ;
and as she sat at her window, book
in hand, but with her eyes fixed
on vacancy, she — like the way-worn
traveller in life's highway whom
Keble, in his "Christian Year," has
immortalised, could almost in her desolate
heart have breathed the wish tint
her 'weariness were death."

Suddenly, the reverie into which
she had fallen was broken by the sound

of coming footsteps, and in a moment
she being one of the many women
to whom the exigencies of daily life
had taught the art of feigning — the
cloud had vanished from her face, and,
with a gracious smile, she held out to
Guy Leycester a welcoming hand.

How good of you," she said, " to
remember my birthday, and to send me
such a huge bouquet of delicious violets !
Ah, me ! I am thirty-seven to day, and
ought to feel too old, if not too wise,
to value such birthday presents as anything
more than a banal civility. It is
stupid, and worse than stupid," she, after
a short pause, added, " to feel young
when one is old. I call it absolutely revolting
; " and Mrs Denham, having given
voice to this opinion, leant back in her
chair, looking as little revolting as it is

possible for a fair woman with a figure
as yet untouched by Time and with her
still abundant hair shining golden in the
sunlight, to appear. The world had been,
after its wont, very hard upon this
brave struggler against temptation ; her
intimacy with a man so notorious for
his powers of fascination as Guy Leycester,
having doubtless given rise to
many of the rumours which were rife
concerning her. He was still, notwithstanding
the fact that in respect to her
his relations are simply those of friendship,
a frequent visitor to the " Shanty."
He had accepted his defeat with a regret
which was not altogether divested of
palliation, for, alas ! at an early period
of his intimacy with the Denhams, Guy
had been driven by stress of circumstances
to borrow money of a mana

fact unknown at that time to Gruy), by
whom the woman whose beauty and grace
formed his own chief attraction to the
Shanty," was neglected and ill-treated.
Eichard Denham, whose ostensible business
was stockbroking, was generally supposed
to be a wealthy man, but on that score
his debtor, after a short period, entertained
misgivings. Hints, savouring of a
desire for repayment, which, to a proud
spirit such as Guy (in a certain sense)
possessed, were terribly irritating, broke
from time to time, and generally when, to
borrow his own expression, the man "had
spliced the main brace," from the business
stockbroker's lips, and at such times Guy,
fretted by the galling chain of debt, was
troubled with a longing to escape to the
uttermost parts of the earth, rather
than enter the " Shanty's " doors again.

The sense of obligation embittered even
the pleasure which he took in Gertrude
Denham's society, for to pay either
principal or interest was for him alike
impossible ; whilst her husband's familiarity,
and vulgar airs of patronage
towards himself were almost more than
he could endure with patience. The
present of a valuable bracelet (which, as
I need not say, was bought "on tick")
to Mrs Denham, lessened for a time his*
sense of disgust at the position in regard
to his creditor in which he stood ; could
he, however, have even faintly surmised
the injury which the bestowal of that
gift, together with sundry others of an
equally compromising description, would
have wrought to Mrs Denham's reputation,
he would, methinks, have endured
with greater patience the mortifications

and annoyances which his own reckless
course of folly and extravagance had
entailed upon his head.

To Gertrude Denham, her enforced
acceptance of those gifts had given pain
unspeakable. Well aware was she not
alone of the debt which Guy had incurred
to her husband, but of the fact that
the valuable trinkets, so fraudulently, in
her opinion, obtained, were regarded ley
Richard Denham in the light of payment
on account, for moneys owing.

Not take the things !— I like that," he
had, in answer to his wife's remonstrances,
said angrily. ** I hope he will fork out
some more of Messrs Han worth & Co's
jewellery, for it seems little likely that I
shall see any actual cash from our impecunious
friend's pockets. This is the result
of being good-natured. Teaches one to be

on guard in future against such slippery
chaps as your good-looking, soft-wandering
military men. Call themselves gentlemen,
indeed ! Fellows who haven't a rap
that they can call their own ; " and Mr
Denham, wholly ignoring the circumstance
that but for his possessing a charming
and greatly to be pitied wife, he
would have been, by 'gentlemen," long
ago universally tabooed as too '' unmitigated
a snob " for them to associate with,
flung himself into the only comfortable
arm-chair which the little drawing-room
contained, and between two puffs of a
strongly-perfumed cigar, desired his wife
to invite on the following day 'that
swindling chap " Leycester to dinner.

The day on which for the first time Mrs
Denham is introduced in person to the
reader, preceded by about a month the

eventful one when Mrs Durant, the half
distracted mother of a prodigal young
soldier son, was seized with serious illness
at the '' Dragon " Hotel, Broad mere. On
that occasion she, as has already been
chronicled, was removed, at the suggestion
of Guy Leycester, to the " villa residence
" of the Denhams, the impecunious
Captain's obligations to Mr Den-ham
being in a great degree, and infinitely
to his debtor's satisfaction, wiped
away by the tolerably high rent, paid,
sui rosa, by Eowley Elphinstone for the
suffering widow's benefit.

But, seeing that I am anxious todo
full justice to the character of a
woman of whom it might be truly said,
that she was far more sinned against
than sinning, I will — before following
the regular course of my story — venture

to devote a small portion of my space to
the dialogue between Guy Leycester and
the woman whose love he had once
eagerly desired to win. The latter had,
as the reader may possibly remember,
greeted the former aspirant for her
favour with an exordium in which she
bitterly excused herself for the worse
than folly in that she, at the mature
age of thirty-seven, felt that a warm
and tender heart was still throbbing •
in her breast. " It is so stupid," she
said, "if not absolutely revolting, to feel
young when one is old." And Guy, in
his chivalrous haste to justify her in her
own eyes, took in his own the slender
hand that rested on the arm of her chair,
and pressed it lightly to his lips.

"What nonsense!" he said. "You are
one of the women, of whom there are

so few, who will always be young. You
are kind and good, patient and uncomplaining,
whilst, for your own welfare,
and that of others also, possibly, yours
is not one of those passionately emotional
natures which, like the sword wearing
out the scabbard, produce so terribly
wearing an effect both upon a woman's
looks and spirits."

Poor Gertrude ! How little did the
utterer of those coldly-sympathising
words suspect that in the veins of the
woman beside him, a very storm of
crushed-down emotion was at that moment
raging. In the allusion which she
had made to her age, she had spoken
quite spontaneously, and without any
thought of the possible consequences of
her self-abnegation ; and the thrill of
passionate feeling which at the touch

of Guy's lips ran through every fibre of
her frame, condemned her in her own
sight as a guilty and a shameless
woman. She had scarcely realised till
now how dear to her heart was this
unprincipled and dangerously-attractive
man ; so dear indeed was he, that she
in her heart of hearts, and notwithstanding
her strong resolve to act uprightly,
found herself (and that to her
own alarm) bitterly regretting the misconceptions
regarding her temperament
and proclivities which her conduct towards
himself had given birth to in Guy
Leycester's mind. Happily, however, for
her future peace of conscience, her companions
whom the vivid blush which
mantled the perfect oval of her face
passed unnoticed, spoke again, and the
quiet tones of his voice, the voice of a

man whose love for her was dead — recalled
her to herself, and stilled the
tumult which had begun to surge within
her breast.

This is the first opportunity," he
said, " that I have been able to find
of telling you how awfully I regret
having troubled you with that bracelet.
You understand it all, I know, and will
forgive me for having made use of this
only method which I could devise of
paying off* a portion of this accursed —
I beg your pardon for the word — debt
which I have incurred to Mr Denham."

Yes, I know — I understand," she, ina
faltering voice, rejoined. " The sense
of obligation to him must be one which
you feel acutely I told you in my
note that I could not help myself He
would not allow me to send it back,

and I only hope that he will not force
me to wear it."

I am not without a suspicion,"
laughed Guy, " that he will dispose of
the wretched thing in Paris. He hinted
to me — one of those horrible hints
which will some day drive me to self-murder
— that he has important business
in Paris, only ' want of tin, old fellow,'
he said (and oh, Mrs Denham, you
have heard the kind of thing before, and
I am sure must pity me), ' keeps me
boxed up here.' Is it not an awful grind ?
The worst punishment, upon my soul, that
my sins have ever night down upon
my head, is that of owing money to
such a man as Denham."

'' I know — it is very sad, very hard to
bear ; but I ought not to forget, and how"
I wish I could, that the man who acts

with so little delicacy towards you is
my husband! But, Guy — Captain leicester,
I mean — "

No ! Call me Guy. It sounds so
kind and sisterly."

Well then, Guy, and ' dear Guy,' if
you will, for you know that I have your
best interests at heart, will you try —
I know that it is difficult — to refrain
from abusing him to me ? It is my
duty not to listen to you."

I don't see that at all. We are both
sufferers from the same cause, and, judging
from my own feelings, it must be a
satisfaction to you to hear me speak my
mind. However, I can for the moment
spare you from any more struggles between
duty and disinclination, for I am
off to London on business of a painful
nature, to wit, renewing an overdue

bill — I have a few Jews to deal with,
but, by Jove ! I prefer this one, all the
same, to one Christian creditor we wot of.
You shake your head. Well, I daresay
I am wrong, I generally am, you know,
but you will wish me God speed, will
not you ? — on my odious errand,"

Indeed I will — of that you may be
sure," Mrs Denham, who with difficulty
restrains her tears, replies. " You have
no more sincere well-wisher than I, who
am so powerless to in any way assist
you."

Then Guy, with a conscience which
sorely reproaches him for the injury
which his evil deeds have already done
to a friend so self-sacrificing and true,
hurries, with a silent pressure of her
hand, from the room and from the
house.

VOL. II. H

AN UNEQUAL MATCH.

^^T SO happened that at the luncheon
hour of the day on
which Guy's sin in regard to
May Durant had found him out, the conversation
at the mess table turned almost
entirely, as was indeed not surprising,
on the Royalty Square Robbery. The
fact that it was committed on the day
of the Colonel's dinner-party, was nota
little commented on, and much good-humoured
chaff was sent flying about on
the occasion.

'* Does anyone remember who was the
first of our fellows to leave ? " asked young
Cardew, who was rather proud of his skill
in the noble art of tormenting.

Couldn't say," remarked another young
fellow. " I only know that I was not the
last. If those deuced clever boobies, the
police-detectives, try to bring the theft
home to one of us, I shall plead impecuniosity,
and impending bankruptcy, as
being slightly in favour of my innocence."

■' Whilst I," said the first speaker,
whose father was an Earl and Lord
Lieutenant of his county — " am willing
to take my Bible oath that I was never
in a pop shop in my life."

"If I remember rightly," said Leycester,
who during the perpetration of
these would-be lively jokes had remained
silent, and apparently absorbed in thought.

you, Major Brerefcon, left the Colonel's
house at a rather remarkably early hour.
Perhaps you can tell us whether you
at that time saw any suspicious-looking
persons loitering about the passages.
One person, it seems, gives a wonderfully
clear account of where the diamonds
were left. That person little
thought, of course, that anyone would
have the audacity to take them from
the table on which they had been placed."
Major Brereton had paid no apparent
heed to the question addressed to
him by Guy, his attention being, to
all appearance, absorbed in the act of
peeling and cutting in pieces the orange
which was on the plate before him.
Captain Leycester had, however, no intent
tion of allowing the man who was, he
felt morally certain, implicated in a nefarious

scheme, to escape, if he (Gruy) had
the power to prevent it, from any of
the consequences of his wickedness. On
the subject of the diamond robbery, the
Major should — Leycester was determined
be forced to commit himself by giving
voice to an opinion.

It appears," he said, " from one
person's account, that the careless laying
down of the jewel-cases took place
very shortly before the guests were
expected. The time, therefore, which
must have elapsed between the doing
so, and your departure, Major, must
have been very short."

"You are perhaps not aware," interrupted
Brereton, who at this quasi implication
had become very red in the
face, whilst his voice sounded harsh
and hard, "that there are two ways of

leaving Sir Wilfred's house. There is
the one through the inner hall, which
leads, I imagine, to the downstairs servants'
rooms ; and there is another
namely the one through the vestibule,
which I took that evening. Someone
well acquainted with the house probably
planned the robbery. According
to the police, this description of theft
is almost always to be traced to discharged
servants."

Now it was to the last degree improbable
that the actual words of the well-known
French aphorism of qui excuse s accuse
should at that moment have flashed
across the brains of any one of the
men present on this occasion ; nevertheless,
there was a prevailing feeling
amongst the listeners that the words
of the unpopular Major implied a certain

desire to exonerate himself from
a latent and invidious charge. A silence,
which was felt by everyone to
be awkward and uncomfortable, followed,
and remained unbroken till
Leycester, still speaking in the tone
which had struck those present as what
may be called playfully aggressive, said, —

I wonder how many of us will be
subpoenaed as witnesses. If I am one
of them, I shall certainly put in a good
word for Ma'mselle Augustine. She is a
jolly little thing, and knows no more,
I am convinced, about the robbery than
you or I do. Major."

The slightly bantering tone in which
the words were said, was so at variance
with Guy Leycester's usual demeanour
towards the superior officer, who, as
it was well known, he greatly disliked,

that the wonder at what was passing
grew stronger ; nor was it decreased
when Guy said quietly, —

I have a fancy that I shouldn't
make a bad detective. The idea about
a woman being at the bottom of everything
isn't half a bad one, and, in this
case. I should certainly act upon it"

Why, you don't mean to say,"
began Dicky Dollars, "that you think
Miss—"

'' My dear boy," broke in Guy, " you
are forgetting one of the most important
of our unwritten laws. Ladies'
names are to be held sacred from even
an allusion to them. A good rule —
don't you think so, Major? If you
have anything to say against it, now
is your time."

There was no mistake about the

matter now. Provocation on the part
of Guy was, in the opinion of everyone
who had heard his words, and
noticed the unconcealed insolence of
his manner, clearly intended ; it occasioned,
therefore, some surprise that
Major Brereton, instead of indulging in
an angry outbreak, said, in a manner
which, in its well-guarded calm, had in
it something of dignity, —

"I am at a loss to understand your .
meaning, Captain Leycester, or to comprehend
why I am supposed capable of
differing from a rule which I should
imagine every gentleman must agree in
thinking an excellent one. As regards
this mysterious robbery, too, you are
pleased to adopt a tone which I cannot
but think peculiar, and as I should
feel glad to be enlightened as to your

meaning, perhaps you will do me the
favour to come, after mess this evening,
to my room. The subject is not a
pleasant one," he added, rising from his
chair, and taking his forage cap from
the side-table, "but if you imagine I can
assist the authorities in throwing a light
upon it, I shall be happy to do my
best in the matter."

"What the deuce does the man
mean ? " was the question which, by
not a few tongues, and by some inquiring
eyes, was asked, when Major
Brereton, pale to the lips with suppressed
passion, had left the room.

God knows ! " Leycester carelessly responded.
"The man has got diamonds
on his stupid brain, I think. However,
T must go, I suppose, at the time he
names, and hear what he has to say.

In the meanwhile, who," inquired this
incorrigible gambler, "is for a go at
nap or poker ? "

Guy Leycester had, on the whole,
rather enjoyed the preliminary passage-alarms
with his superior officer which had
taken place. He would, he told himself,
greatly amuse the ladies at Ivy
Cottage by the idea, one which he
would declare was gaining ground, that
more than one of the officers was likely
to be " run in " by the police, as being
implicated in the robbery of Lady Gregory's
diamonds. He was, in short,
when he reached the cottage, in more
than usually high spirits, and consequently
was but ill-prepared for the sight
of Mrs Durant's agitated face, and for
the dignity of manner with which she

gave him to understand that his hopes
of seeing May would, on this occasion,
be, by her mother's wish and will, rendered
abortive. That the coming interview
would be both a serious and a
trying one, he shrewdly suspected ; nor
did Mrs Durant long delay the moment
when his worst fears would be realised.
The deadly peril in which her darling
stood had kindled within her gentle
breast an amount of another which those
who knew her best would have believed
her incapable of feeling, and it is with
eyes which were almost literally aflame
with wrath, that she, without any preliminary
remark, said, —

Captain Leycester, how is it that you
can dare to look me in the face ? Did
you think that I had no heart, — no
courage ? Or did you hope that I should

always remain so blind and stupid as
not to see how cruelly and wickedly you
have been tampering with the happiness
of my child ? "

Leycester was struck, for the moment,
speechless. They were alone, those two, in
the pretty, sheltered garden in which he
has so often strolled, unreproved by this
now indignant parent, and where he had
realised for the first time, and to the
full, the happiness of a pure as well asa
passionate love. This species of solitude
d deux had been very sweet to
him then, and in days gone by the
sound of an approaching footfall would
have stirred him to such exceeding wrath
that it would only have been by a
vigorous effort of self-repression that he
could have refrained from uttering aloud
the " strong; lano;uao^e " which would

have been on the tip of his tongue to
speak. But things were altered now,
and he — the bold and self-reliant soldier,
the " Lion amongst the ladies," who had
so long, " rejoicing in his strength " —
trod his triumphant way, stood disarmed,
and all but trembling, before one frail,
defenceless woman, the while he would
have gladly given a year of his ill-spent,
worthless life for the sudden appearance
on the battle-ground of even a child,
whose presence on the scene might prove
a welcome hindrance to the ordeal which
he was suddenly called upon to undergo.
Escape, however, from the punishment
which his own acts of self-indulgence had
entailed upon him was impossible : reply
to Mrs Durant's exordium he must, but
it was in a voice which almost faltered
that he said, —

How hardly you think of me ! but
I am more sorry than surprised. Still —
you, her mother, you who so well know
how beautiful, how perfect in every way
she is, might see in the great love I
bear to your sweet May some shadow
of excuse for conduct which you blame
so angrily. I have made no attempt to
hide my feelings. From the moment
when my eyes first rested on May's
lovely face, a deeper, truer love than I
had ever felt before seemed to wake up
in my heart, and — oh ! why did you not
then, whilst the evil — if so you deem it,
was only beginning, nip it in the bud ?
I should have been the only sufferer
then—"

Whereas now it is my child, — my
innocent darling, who, before she knew
you, scarcely understood the meaning of

the fatal word — love who is made the
sacrifice to your selfishness, your unprincipled
disregard of the consequences to
her future life, of your wrong-doing ;
and, oh. Captain Leycester, it is both
cowardly and cruel on your part to lay
the blame of all this misery upon nie !
I saw, of course, that you admired my
child, but until I had spoken to her — "

Oh, then you have talked to May
of this ! And she has told you, doubtless,
for she is the soul of truth — that
I have been so happy as to gain her
love?"

"Yes, I have learned thus much from
the lips which, as you justly say, cannot
lie, but which nevertheless have been
taught by you that in the deception of
silence there is no sin. There is for you no
possible excuse. You have taken ad vantage

of my liking, — my gratitude towards
you for bygone acts of kindness, to
worm your way into the affections of a
young girl, a child almost, both in age
and experience, and whilst exacting from
her a promise of secrecy, you were perfectly
well aware that for you, marriage
with a penniless girl was to the last
degree impossible — "

'for the present — Yes," he, after a
pause, rejoined ; " but, poor in purse as I .
am at present — "

'rand loaded with debt—"

And loaded, as you truly say, with

debt, there may be a good time coming

for me. I have a rich old uncle, a

bachelor, who I feel certain would — if he

saw on my part symptoms of a real

intention to (as he phrases it) ' reform,'

help me on in life. If you would only
VOL. II. I

sanction my engagement to May, I would
write to my uncle — "

"But I cannot sanction it! Oh,
Captain Leycester," exclaimed the already
softened woman, as she sank upon
a garden bench, and betrayed by the
emotion which she strove in vain to conceal,
the fact that her interlocutor had
not in her case lost the gift of fascination
which by women in general was found
so irresistible — '' Oh, Captain Leycester,
I could not — even if there were no
other reasons against the plan which
you propose — give my daughter to a
gambler."

'*Ah ! " he retorted bitterly. " So you
have been told of this sin also, amongst
the pleasant ones which have been
brought up in array against me. Yes, I
own that I have played — not from love

of excitement, but in the hope sometimes
of— well releasing myself from some pressing
difficulty. I am not a hardened
gamester, and if a hope were held out
to me — Dear Mrs Durant, do, I entreat
you, try to think kindly of my follies.
If I had had a mother such as you, I
should have been a better man, — one less
utterly unworthy — as you now, and that
justly, consider me to be, of a sweet and
pure girl's love. If you will only believe
that it is not too late, and that with a
little hope to live upon I could be a
different being — if you would believe in
my sincere repentance, and in my deep
sorrow for having deceived you — "

'' Oh ! what is your deception," the poor
mother, clasping almost convulsively her
thin hands together, said, " that I should
not forgive it ? Your sin against me is

that you have taught cunning and
trickery to my child. Oh, it is too
hard — too cruel ! Never before has she
had a thought — a wish, concealed from
me. I have been so tender — so indulgent,
that, ah me ! she might, and
would, but for you, have trusted me.
No, for the wickedness of teaching my
darling, my sweet May blossom, to mistrust
and deceive her mother, I do not,
and I never can, forgive you."

"As you will," Guy said despondingly.
"It is in your power to make us both
miserable, but 1 did not think that it
was in you to be so hard."

I am not hard, God help me ! "
exclaimed the widow, " but my duty
towards my fatherless child compels me
to be firm. You were so good in the
early days. Captain Leycester, both tome

and to my boy, that it pains me to
say that your visits here must cease."

But," interrupted Guy, '' I may be
allowed to see May once more, — to bid
her good-bye, — to promise — "

No, no ; that cannot be. She must
not even see you go. There is a way
by the farm stables which I will show
you ; and I will tell May that it is for
her good and happiness that I do this
thing. Come quickly, and save her, poor,
child, the bitter pain of parting."

The words had scarcely left her lips
when another figure appeared upon the
scene, the figure of a tall, slight girl,
golden-haired, and with her large blue
eyes, glancing with a look of eager inquiry,
now at her lover's excited countenance,
and again at the agitated and
tearful one of his companion. Guy was

the first to break the silence which followed
on the entrance, by the door-window,
of his sweetheart.

*may, my darling," he said, "come to
my aid. Try and persuade your mother
that she will not do well to part us.
Tell her—"

'^ Captain Leycester," broke in Mrs
Durant, and her voice sounded to her
daughter's ears very strange and harsh,
nothing that May can say has the
power to alter my decision. I speak in
the name of her dead father, and by
the authority which he delegated to me,
T say to you, his child," resting, as she
spoke, her shaking hand upon her daughter's
arm, " that you must give up this
man. All must henceforth be over between
you."

"But, mother," pleaded May, whilst

a blush, which was almost painful in
its intensity, surged suddenly over her
face and throat, " I know — I quite
understand that we — that Guy, I mean,
can never ask me to be his wife, but
why should we, for that reason, be
made unhappy ? We would never talk
would we, Guy ? " looking up with
burning cheeks and wistful eyes into
her sweetheart's moody face, " of love
again. Only let him come as usual,,
mother, and I will never, whilst I live,
have a secret from you again."

During this simple yet passionate
appeal, Guy Leycester had seemed absorbed
in the process of digging, with
the ferrule of his walking-stick, a self-sown
weed from out the gravel walk
on which he stood. His eyes, when he
did raise them, were fixed on May,

who, too much absorbed by her own
troubles to notice the growing pallor
of her mother's face, was painfully
startled when Mrs Durant, leaning helplessly
forward, clutched at Guy's arm
to save herself from falling.

"Let us go indoors, May," she faltered;
*this trial has been too much
for me," and having so said, she
quietly fainted away in the arms of the
stalwart soldier with whom she had
been doing fierce battle — poor weak
mother — for the right.

MAY DURANT CRIES '' MEA CULPA.'

lO carry the unconscious woman
up a short flight of stairs to
her own bedroom, was for
Guy an easy task. The widow was of
small stature, and, even when in health,
slight and delicate of frame. Since her
illness she had more than once alarmed
her daughters b}^- attacks of faintness
similar to that by which she was now
seized. May was therefore, although
greatly distressed, not wholly taken
by surprise when Leycester, supporting

the fragile form upon his arm, said
hurriedly, —

I can carry her : should she not betaken
to her room ? She is so light,
poor thing, and I could carry double
her weight with ease."

May, who had been chafing her
mother's cold hands in hers, gladly
agreed to her lover's proposal.

"Oh, yes, dear Guy," she cried. "You
can help us ! Poor darling mother !
Her room is not far away, and once
quietly on her bed, she will soon recover."


Whilst she was yet speaking, he had
lifted his burden as easily as though
she had been a child, and, guided by
May, speedily found himself in a pretty
apartment, which, limited as was the
accommodation which the quasi farmhouse

afforded, was held sacred by Mrs
Durant's daughters to her use alone.

'' Shall I go at once for Brathwaite ? "
whispered Guy, who being totally unused
to the witnessing of illness in
any form, drew direful conclusions from
the sight of Mrs Durant's deathlike
pallor.

May, who was already busily employed
in administering restoratives,
eagerly declined the offer.

'rit is nothing to be alarmed at,"
sb.e said. "It is agitation and over
excitement that have made her ill ; and
oh — " she, with a flood of self-reproachful
tears, continued, "it is all my
fault ! Poor mother ! I feel now how
wicked I have been ! But, Gruy," she
whispered in alarm (for Mrs Durant
was beginning to show signs of returning

consciousness) " she must not see
you here. Go," almost, in her haste,
pushing him from the door. " I will
come and tell you when she is better ; "
and then, greatly to her relief, he left
her to her ministrations.

Thirty minutes elapsed — minutes,
which to Guy, in his anxiety and suspense,
seemed lengthening into hours,
before May, looking very pale and
troubled, came, according to her promise,
with news of the invalid.

She is better," the girl said, " but
oh ! so weak and sorrowful ! I would
not let her say a word about the — the —
past ; and she promised that she would
try to sleep. She thinks, poor darling,
that you have left the house ; so, Guy,
dear, you must go at once. I cannot

deceive her any more, especially now,
when she is so weak and ill. She understands
too — I am quite sure she does —
that I have made her a promise to — give
you up, and whilst she trusts me so
entirely how can I again be false to her ? "

But, May, my darling, you have
surely made no such promise ? " Guy
eagerly exclaimed, and as he spoke he
strove to draw her towards him, and
kissed, not for the first time, the sweet
lips, whose carnation hue had faded
since last he had pressed them with his
own. But the girl held back from his
embrace.

Dear Guy," she said, and her voice
sounded to his ears very sad and
changed, " I have, in my heart,
promised — and my mother feels that soit
is — never to act again ungratefully

and slyly. From henceforth there shall
be no concealments on my part from
my mother."

"I do not understand you ! " Guy, with
an angry light in his eyes, exclaimed.
Do you renounce my love, and would
you have me believe that, after giving
me yours, you can so readily, and in one
short hour, take it back ? "

No, no, I cannot. Do not think it.
Before my mother spoke to you, I told
her that I loved you, that I should
never change, that all I cared for was to
go on as we have been going on — seeing
each other so happily ! For we were
happy, were we not, Guy ? " she asked,
and looking the while with such a winning
wistfulness into his eyes that her
lover for the moment lost his head and,
abruptly clasping her closely in his arms,

pressed passionate kisses, not on her lips
alone, but on her shining hair, and on
the soft white pillar of her girlish
throat.

She was terribly frightened ; an awful
fear that he had gone suddenly mad possessed
her, and with a scream, which was
unmistakably the result of intense alarm,
she tore herself from his embrace. For a
second or two Guy's breath also well-nigh
failed him for fear that May's cry
might have reached her mother's ears, and
then — but happily he was, to borrow a
French expression, quite pour la peur,
and therefore all that remained for him
to do was to quiet his sweetheart's fears,
and endeavour to recover her (as he
greatly feared) lost confidence.

My poor little child," he said tenderly,
" you must forgive me. I have not

been myself since the dread of losing you
has been brought before me. Nay, darling,
do not shrink from me : I will not
offend again ; and if you will only say
that you forgive me for my rough wooing,
T will leave you now, trusting — may
I not do so, dearest ? — that you will plead
our cause, and spare me the misery of
too severe a banishment."

May had by this time in a great
degree recovered her composure, and was
even ready to take blame to herself for
her folly in that so loud a scream had
escaped her lips.

1 must have grown very selfish,"
she said, "or I should have thought
of poor mother, and how frightened she
would have been if she had heard me ;
but, Guy, dear, you will go now, for
my sake stay no longer. Your being

still in the house makes me feel so
dreadfully false and guilty."

Guy, before making any reply to
this reiterated entreaty, looked at his
watch, and, startled by the lateness of
the hour, took up his hat and stick,
saying as he did so, —

"I am going, my darling, but you
must not imagine, nor must you allow
your mother to hope, that she has seen
the last of me. You have twined yourself
too closely round my heart's chords
for me to live without you now. Butin
the meantime, you shall not be tormented
either with my presence or my
kisses. I have been a fool to love
you so madly, but the deed is done,
and I ought, but cannot, accept the
consequences."

They were his last words, and almost

VOL. II. K

before the agitated otI had realised the
fact that he had left her, she heard
the house-door close behind him. Fora
few moments she stood like one
stupefied, and then slowly and very
sadly she stole to her mother's room,
and listening outside the door, strove
to ascertain whether or not the sufferer
slept.

Now, seeing that Captain Leycester
is the hero ostensibly of this veracious
story, I record with regret the fact that
his reflections as he wended his way
barrack wards were of an almost entirely
egotistical character. The consequences
to himself of Mrs Durant's untoward
intervention chiefly occupied his mind ;
the only too probable results to poor
May of his reckless and unprincipled

conduct never having, as yet, in the
slightest degree come home to him.
And yet he loved her — truly as well as
passionately, and with what might be
deemed (taking into account the manner
of man he was) with a pure and not
wholly sensual love. The idea of giving
her up was one which he could
not bring; himself for a single moment
to entertain, and so entirely did sundry
projects for carrying out his wishes
take possession of his thoughts, that
it was not until the sight of Major
Brereton's sullen face at the mess dinner
reminded him of that gentleman's existence,
that speculations regarding the outcome
of his approaching interview with
his superior officer flashed across his
brain.

The first to leave the unusually dull

mushroom dinner was the here noire of
the regiment, and his absence was felt
by all present as an immediate relief
from gene.

"By Jove!" exclaimed Captain ,
whose approaching marriage
rendered his presence at the mess dinners
a circumstance of rather rare
occurrence, " what a nuisance that
sort of fellow is. And he is the sort
that will stick, too, I am afraid. A
chap with a skin as thick as that of a
rhinoceros, is deuced difficult to get rid
of"

Think so ? " said Guy Leycester
carelessly, adding, as he plucked a
second grape from the portion to which
he had helped himself, — " Now I don't
exactly agree with you. At least, if
he does, as you say, stick, it won't

be for want of my doing my best to
make him loosen his hold."

And you are going to have a goat
him, I expect, to-night," suggested
Lieutenant Cardew. *but I advise
you to look out for squalls. The brute
has a nasty temper.

Thanks ; I'll humour him ; and that
he mayn't have an excuse for getting
his dander up, I won't keep him any
longer waiting."

He left the mushroom, after delivering
himself of this — to his listeners —
somewhat puzzling speech, and made his
way to the field-officers' quarters, whereas
he had expected, his adversary was
ready to receive him. The words with
which the latter greeted his visitor were
not conciliatory.

I can't understand, Captain Leycester,"

he said, ^' what excuse you can
give for your conduct this morning, but
I am, nevertheless, willing to afford you
an opportunity of offering me one."

And supposing that I have no intention
of making one, and have only this
to say, that if you do not immediately
take steps to leave the Eegiment, I shall
expose you to the world as one of the
most infamous scoundrels that exists in
it."

Leycester, as he thus candidly spoke
his mind, looked his adversary calmly in
the face. He expected, in response for
his daring words, either a sudden blow,
or a burst of furious invective. Neither,
however, was forthcoming, and instead,
Brereton's reply was not devoid of a
quiet authority, as he said, —

Before descending to auy further

abuse, it would perhaps be as well to
explain your reasons for this violent and
inexcusable attack. Of what do you
accuse me ? "

"Of stealing Lady Gregorie's diamonds,
and of — "

Pardon me, you are going to fast.
The jewel case which is missing from Sir
Wilfred's house certainly contained an ornament
which was given to me by a lady
in return for a service which it was in
my power to render her ; and 1 confess
myself at a loss to understand how
this transaction can be construed into an
act of fraud."

"You forget," said Guy, who was
rapidly becoming dangerously angry, for
the line of defence adopted by his antagonist
had thrown him off his guard,
that I overheard your conversation with

Miss Vidal, and could swear to your having
named the very sum for which you
would part with the letters which you
were base enough to retain. Oh ! there
is ample proof — "

Proof indeed ! " Brereton said contemptuously
; " I like that ! The word
of an out-at-elbows gambler, — of a man
who — "

But these were his last words. Before
he could complete the sentence
he had begun, the blood of a long
line of stainless ancestry had surged
up hotly into Guy Leicester brain,
and his clenched hand was upraised
to strike.

'take that, you infernal liar!" he
exclaimed ; and then a heavy blow, dealt
right between the eyes, felled Louis
Brereton to the ground, and there — like

one dead, with the blood streaming
from his face — he lay.

Guy's first impulse, and it was one
which, happily, on all accounts, he did
not hesitate to obey, was to ring the
bell ; and then, with a feeling of intense
self anger, he knelt beside the
inanimate form of his superior officer,
and, raising the head of his victim,
endeavoured to ascertain the extent of
the injury that he had inflicted.

To his dismay, he discovered that*
the damage done was greater than he
had imagined it to be, for in falling,
the Major, who was a heavy man, and
had been hit standing, had struck his
head against the solid pediment of a
card table, and blood, in no small
quantity, was oozing from the wound.

"Eun, uS quick as you can go, for

Dr Brathwaite ! " Leycester cried to the
soldier servant, when that functionary
opened the door of the room, and
stood aghast at the spectacle which
met his eyes. " Don't be an hour,
you fool ! Say the Major has had a
fall, and that the doctor must come at
once ! "

Left alone with the unconscious man,
Guy could do nothing, after searching
in vain for brandy or any other possible
restorative, but reproach himself bitterly
for the folly which he had committed.
He had, ever since the conversation
between Miss Vidal and the Major
which he had happened to overhear,
been determined to obtain, if possible,
for Lady Gregorie, the restitution of
her letters : on the day following the
famous dinner-party he had called at

I

Eoyalty Square, and had seen, or at
least imagined that he had done so, a
something of renewed brightness in the
expression of his hostess's face, which
led him to believe that the cause of
her uneasiness was removed. The mysterious
disappearance of the diamonds,
coupled with the extremely bad opinion
which he had, with reason, formed of
Brereton, and the fact that the cloud
of anxiety no longer hovered over Lady
Gregorie's fair brow, wrought in Guy's
mind the conviction that the purloiner
of the jewels was no other than the
Major himself That such a man should
remain, to the disgrace of the regiment,
in the Chalkshire Eifles, was an anomaly
to which Guy did not feel inclined
to submit, and therefore he
resolved to place before the culprit the

choice between exposure of his conduct,
and the sending in, without explanation
on his part, of his papers. What was
the result of this proceeding wee already
know — Major Brereton lay stunned and
apparently lifeless on the floor ; and the
chances of keeping Lady Gregorie's name
from being mixed up in the affair were
reduced, to Guy's extreme regret, to
a minimum.

Oh, here you are at last, Baths
! Thank God, you've come I I
couldn't have stood the suspense much
longer. Now see, will you, whether I've
killed that man or not ? "

Guy pointed, as he spoke, to the
spot, half hidden by a table, on which
lay, as yet unperceived by the newcomer,
a human form, in what appeared
to be the immobility of death. In

another moment the doctor was at
work, nor was it long before he was
enabled to give an answer to Captain
Leycester's question.

It's a nasty crack at the back of
the head, but he'll get over it, never
fear. Why, man ! you must have given
him a blow that would have felled an
ox. The Major will have two black
eyes, I reckon, for a month to come."

They had between them lifted the
injured man on a camp bed, and the
doctor was busily engaged in cutting
away the short rings of hair from the
wounded head, when Guy suddenly exclaimed,
—

I must be off now, Doctor, to the
Colonel. I suppose he will put me
under arrest ; but that is but a small
portion of the annoyance this act of

mine will cause. I can do you no good
here."

That's true enough ; but you can
send an ambulance at once, for we must
get him to the hospital without delay.
Yes, you had better be off, for he will
be opening his eyes presently, and I
shouldn't say that the poor fellow would
be exactly overjoyed at seeing your face
so soon again."

EM PROVES HEilSELE A FRIEND INDEED.

,v^j^^^|HE news, greatly exaggerated, of
course, of Captain Leycester's
assault on the Major, spread
like wildfire through the town and barracks.
On the following morning, long
before Guy could obtain speech of Sir
Wilfred, the latter had been credibly
informed that Major Brereton was dead,
and that Captain Leycester, the officer
by whom he had been " assassinated,"
had " made his escape." Without putting
anything like entire faith in this very

improbable story, the Colonel, having
ascertained that there existed some foundation
for the report, felt not a little
uneasy in his mind. Private business
had, early in the day after the occurrence,
taken him into the town, and on
his return home he had been greeted by
the intelligence that Captain Leycester
had, during his absence, called upon
him twice.

And, dear Wilfred," exclaimed Lady
Gregorie, who had been impatient waiting
her husband's return, " I am sure
he has come to explain everything satisfactorily.
Mr Cardew, who has been
here, told me that Major Brereton is
really not very much hurt. Captain
Leycester, it is supposed, knocked him
down."

And you consider that satisfactory,

do you ? I do not, let me tell you ;
and he will have to be put under arrest,"

'under arrest! Oh, Wilfred! And
there is the bell again ! Now do not,
pray, be hard upon him," she, as her husband
was leaving the room, added ; but
he took no notice of her appeal, leaving
her to meditate tremblingly on the possible
consequences to herself which, from
Guy's rash interposition, might arise.

Meanwhile the "satisfactory account"
of the transaction to which the sanguine'
nature of Florence had caused her to
allude, was clearly not yet forthcoming.

"We had a row, Colonel," Guy, in
answer to Sir Wilfred's questions, said
calmly. " The fellow was insolent, and I
lost my temper. I plead guilty to
knocking him down, and I don't believe
there is a man in the regiment
VOL. II. L

who would not have done the same
thing."

Very likely ; the fellow is a cad, and
doubtless deserved what he got ; but the
row must have had a beginning, and,
from what I hear, something that was
said about those damned jewels set the
ball a-rolling. There was a talk, was
there not, at mess about them ? "

** Yes ; but nothing of any consequence
was said. There was some stupid chaffing
amongst the youngsters, and Major
Brereton, who does not seem able to
understand a joke, asked me, before he
left, to come to his room — which I did."

*rand you then and there knocked
him down ! Now, Leycester, I ask you,
as a man not wholly devoid of commonsense,
whether you expect me to believe
this ? I can't, of course, force you to

say what passed, but you would, I
think, do wisely to reflect that at the
Court-martial which, as you are aware,
must follow on this business, you will
be obliged to reveal the entire facts.
It is my duty, as you must also know,
to place you under arrest."

"Certainly, Colonel, and I shall await
your further orders in my barrack-room.
In the meantime, I am expecting an
answer from the Horse Guards relative
to an offer on my part to join the.
troops in the Soudan."

Really ! Well, we shall be sorry to
lose you, but that fine fellow Gordon
has need of every good soldier we can
send out to him. So," he, after a rather
lengthened pause, continued, "you have
nothing more to say, have you, Leicester,
about this stupid quarrel of yours ? "

'' Nothing, sir," answered Guy, as he
rose from the chair on which Sir Wilfred
had on his entrance motioned him
to be seated, *' excepting that I thank
you for sour kind consideration, and
would gladly, if I could, obey you in
this matter."

After the departure of his contumacious
subordinate, Sir Wilfred remained
during many minutes plunged
in extremely puzzling reflections. He
entertained no doubt whatever that the
quarrel between the two officers had for
its cause the robbery of his wife's jewels ;
and almost equally certain did he feel
that Leycester believed the thief to be
no other than the man on whom he
had inflicted condign and possibly well-merited
punishment. As regarded Guy's
obstinate reticence on the subject, the

Colonel, knowing well the chivalrous
nature of the ne'er-do-weel, could only-account
for it by the supposition that
a woman's name was implicated in the
affair. It was probably only an exemplification
of the old adage, — Cherchez
la femme, etc., etc.; but then — and during
a passing moment Sir Wilfred's heart
almost ceased to beat, for, who, he asked
himself, was the woman ? And where
was she to be sought ? In that fearful
moment there darted through his brain
the memory of his wife's sudden pallor
when Augustine, rushing into the room,
proclaimed the fact that the jewels were
not in their accustomed place ; and besides
these there were other, and equally
suggestive, facts which, now that suspicion
had once found an opening in the
husband's normally trustful mind, came

crowding in — most unwelcome visitors,
through the aperture. And yet, strongly-corroborative
of Lady Gregorie's previous
acquaintance with Brereton as were some
of Sir "Wilfred's unearthed reminiscences,
he could not brins; himself to associate
her with a single unworthy thought or
act. She had probably, supposing his
vague surmises to have been correct,
been in all likelihood screening some
other woman (and who could say that
the woman in question was not Emily
Vidal ?) from exposure and from disgrace.
The doing so was, he told himself, an
act which was eminently characteristic
of his wife's generous and impulsive
temperament. She was, however, incapable,
as he fondly believed, of systematic
deception, and at a word from him,
she would, he felt certain, disclose the

truth. In the meantime, the thought that
another man — preux chevalier albeit
that other might be — was keeping watch
and ward over his wife's good name, was
as gall and wormwood to this high-hearted
soldier, and the expression of his face
as he re-entered his wife's presence, was
ill calculated to re-assure and give her
courage.

Since he had left her, she had moved
neither hand nor foot, but had sat, as
one paralysed by a great dread, on the
couch whence she had risen to plead
with her husband for the man who had,
as she felt well convinced, sinned from
generous motives in her cause. That
Guy Leycester would breathe no word
capable of implicating her in this dark
business, she was as certain as of the fact
that she, the most miserable of women,

was awaiting in horrible inaction her
coming doom. It was the loss of her
husband's love and trust that she, without
any inward comment as to how that
loss was to be brought about, vaguely
dreaded ; for her own devotion, strong
and entire although it was — did not,
as we already know, suffice to cast out
fear, and the thought of confronting him
in his wrath, crushed down to its very
depths such spirit as she possessed. To
her he had hitherto been (stern and
severe as to others he was said to be)
gentleness itself, and a change from that
gentleness to words of anger and suspicion
would be to her as a sentence of death.

Her suspense was not of long duration,
but short as had been Guy's interview
with his Colonel, the time had seemed
endless to her. At length the sound of

hastily-approaching footsteps smote upon
her ears, and as he entered, she, looking
up into a face which troubled thoughts
had rendered stern, became at once convinced
that the moment she had so long
dreaded was at hand, and that the signal
for her well-merited punishment had struck.
Her husband's voice as he addressed her,
bad, as she too truly felt, lost its accustomed
ring, and it was with a rapidly-beating
heart that she listened to his

opening

words.

o

'* Florence," he said — not unkindly, butin
a tone of unwonted seriousness, — " I
have lately both seen and heard much
which I fail to understand, and I have
come to you with the hope that you
will be able to make these matters clear
to me. Circumstances, which it is not
necessary to explain, have compelled me

to suspect that before Major Brereton
joined the regiment you had had some
previous acquaintance with him, and
that you were therefore not wholly unaware
of the fact that his character asa
gentleman and a man of honour did
not stand especially high. I need not
tell you," he continued, and but for the
thick moustache which concealed the working
of his features, Florence would have
perceived that the lip of the proud and
sensitive soldier literally trembled with
emotion, " that the mere thought of
your having a secret knowledge of this
fellow is to the last degree distasteful
to me ; nor can I bring myself to believe
for a single moment that your name
will ever be mentioned in connection
with — with a meeting between Captain
Leycester and Major Brereton which has

just taken place, and may unfortunately
lead to serious consequences. I am
equally convinced that a probable concealment
of facts is all with which I shall
have to reproach you, and that if
there should have been wrong-doing,
the fault has not been yours, but that
of another, whose guilt you have, from
kindly motives, endeavoured to conceal.
Am I right, dear % " he, in a softer tone,
added, " and will you in this affair come
if you can — to my assistance ? "

Poor Florence ! Now was the moment,
could she but have realised the truth, to
have thrown herself upon her husband's
mercy, and confessed to him, not only her
girlish folly, but the share which she
had had in bribing her enemy to silence.
The knowledge that she had been more
weak than wicked, more sinned against

than sinning, ought to have given her
courage ; but her dread of incurring her
husband's displeasure — or what to her
would have been a still heavier calamity
— the loss of his love and trust, held
her tongue tied : so paralyzing, indeed,
was the effect upon her nerves of this
agonising fear that, but for the opportune
entrance of Emily Vidal, she would,
despite the innate truthfulness of her
nature, have given utterance to so direct
and compromising a denial of facts that
she could never again hope to be, by
her husband at least, believed.

Em, who had by this time become
acquainted with the passage-alarms
which between Guy and his superior
officer had taken place, approached the
room with an air of jauntiness and m-
souciance which was strongly at variance

A\ith her real feelings. For the first
time since she had entered with Major
Brereton upon what may be truly called
a nefarious conspiracy, she began to be
seriously alarmed for the possible consequences
to herself of the misdeeds of
which she had been guilty ; and believing
Lady Gregorie to be alone in the
drawing-room, she (Em) was intruding
on her friend's solitude for the purpose
of again impressing upon the latter's
mind the absolute necessity of denying
all knowledge, whether in early or in
later days, of the Major and his doings.
Her purpose was to repeat once more
the old arguments in favour of non-confession
to Sir Wilfred of the follies of
which his wife, in her early girlhood,
had been guilty ; but the plans of this
dangerous counsellor were, at the sight of

the Colonel in his wife's room, suddenly-changed.
She took in the situation at a
glance. Sir Wilfred, with true marital
sternness, was questioning his wife as to
her previous knowledge of Louis Bretton,
whilst Florence, pale and trembling,
was apparently on the verge of falling
on her knees, and by confession making
atonement for her sin. In a moment
Em decided on her course of action.
She would immolate herself, rather than
her friend should suffer. She would
throw herself on Sir Wilfred's generosity,
would confess her fault, and denounce
Major Brereton as the heartless villain
by whom she had been ruined and
betrayed.

As a first step in the performance of
this little comedy, she, with a semi-tragic
air, threw herself on the couch

beside Lady Gregorie, and, placing her
arm round the agitated woman, exclaimed
excitedly, —

Darling Flo, compose yourself. You
shall no longer suffer for my wrongdoing,
for I have resolved that Sir Wilfred
should, at last, learn the entire
truth." Then addressing the Colonel, she
continued, with downcast eyes, and well-acted
diffidence, — " It is a terrible elinor,
this revealing of my own bitter wrongs,
but I have been so cruelly — so unpardonably,
selfish, that no punishment can be
too heavy for me. I have permitted my
dearest friend to suffer for my sins, and
this after her generous kindness in parting
with her jewels, in order to screen
my reputation from obloquy and shame."

Sir Wilfred had, until now, listened
apparently unmoved by Miss Vidal's exordium,

but at this point in her revelations
he suddenly exclaimed, —

Do you mean to tell me that Major
Brereton is the thief ? By heavens ! if
this is so, the affair must be looked into
at once ! "

And then, without taking any further
heed either of his wife, who appeared
on the point of fainting, or of the guest
who had just played such a leading part
in his domestic drama, Sir Wilfred left
the two ladies to their reflections.

NO PLACE FOE REPENTANCE.

HEN Guy Leycester left the Colonel's
house, many circumstances
concurred to render him
a most unhappy man. In the first place,
he who prided himself on his soldier-like
conduct and demeanour, had, by striking
his superior officer, committed a breach
of discipline, and shown himself thereby
capable of conduct " unworthy of an officer
and a gentleman." Whatever happened
to " that brute Brereton " (for thus, in

his rase at his own shortcomings, did

M

VOL. IL

Guy mentally apostrophise his fallen foe),
a Court-martial, generally a long and
tedious affair, must of necessity take
place ; and there were cogent reasons,
independently of his keen desire to strike
a blow for Gordon, why seas should
without delay roll between him and
England. He had, under the heavy
pressure of pecuniary embarrassments,
applied to the Horse Guards for leave
to exchange into a regiment that was
serving in the Soudan. The answer had
been long in coming, and in the meantime,
the "love at first sight," for such
it might be truly called, which had entered
into his heart for the beautiful
maiden of seventeen whose affections he
had won, had with such rapidity grown
and strengthened that the mere sight of
a big official letter from the War Office,

as the said letter, after his interview
with Sir Wilfred, met his eyes, filled
him with dismay unspeakable. For a
moment or two the courage to ascertain
without delay, his fate, utterly failed him.
He felt, so contradictory were his wishes
on the subject, positively bewildered ;
for whilst the desperate condition of his
finances urged him to hope that his offer
of taking service in the Soudan would
be accepted, his passionate love for May
Durant caused him to dread, even as
might a possible sentence of death, the
realisation of his, at one time, ardent
desire. And, to do him only justice, it
was not solely of himself that in this
dire emergency he thought ; the blow of
separation, and of his departure to join
the noble army of martyrs who were
fighting their desperate way to rescue a

doomed Hero, would, he felt certain, befor
May a terrible one ; and it was this
belief which, for a passing second or two,
actually unnerved the man who had more
than once faced, without the quickening
of a single pulse, the dangers of a battlefield.


At length, and with a strong effort of
will, he tore open the letter which bore
on its broad face the to him ominous
words, " On Her Majesty's Service,"
and then suspense was over, and the
"worst," as he (being just then well
inclined to give up "all for love") considered
it, stared him in the face.
Happily his was not a despondent
nature, and so after half-an-hour or
thereabouts, during which time he indulged
in very sorrowful lucubrations,
he came almost to the conclusion that

possibly good might spring out of the
evil which had at first appeared so
great. He would, provided always that
he escaped the dangers of war and
fever, obtain kudos during the Soudanese
campaign, and consequently promotion.
Success," he reminded himself, was generally
the " reward of the successful ; " and
if he could only make a good beginning,
and follow up that beginning by keeping
well to the front, he might, he thought,
eventually look forward to the attainment
of the rich reward he coveted,
the reward, namely, of Mary Durant's
hand in marriage.

The satisfaction, however, which this
view of the situation afforded him, was
not of long duration. The heart of his
lovely May was not, as full well he
knew, the only one which in a woman's

breast would throb with pain when the
news came that he was by his own
desire destined to share the dangers of
the inglorious war which was then raging
in the Soudan. Gertrude Denham —
strive as she would to conceal from the
man she loved the fact that to resist
and to treat him coldly had been for
her a triumph over human passion which
only a strong sense of duty had enabled
her to achieve — had nevertheless
not quite succeeded in extinguishing his
belief that, in what he considered to be
her cold and highly unsatisfactory fashion,
she was '' fond " of him. To give pain
to any woman, especially when that
woman chanced to be one to whom he
had once made love, was a task from
the performance of which Guy's kindly
nature shrank, and he justly surmised

Gertrude Denham would probably — seeing
that she was destitute of home happiness
and comfort — feel even greater sorrow at
the prospect of his departure than would
May. She was older too, and the " Spring"
which in early youth enables a grief-stricken
girl to throw off the burden of
her woes, is weakened at least, if not
broken past repair in the organisation
of a woman whose misfortune it is to
have outlived Hope. But it was not
alone his repugnance to witnessing the
signs of suffering on his kind friend's
face which rendered the very memory of
the " Shanty " a source of annoyance and
of deep remorse to Guy. His debt to
Eichard Denham (although it had been,
by reason of the weekly rent paid
during Mrs Durant's occupancy of that
gentleman's house, diminished by one

half) amounted to at least two hundred
pounds. It was his only debt, so called,
of honour, and as such it weighed
terribly upon his mind. Not in like
fashion, I regret to say, did this as yet
unrepentant prodigal reflect upon the
unpaid tradesmen's bills, whose name
was Legion, which he would leave
behind him. I am indeed of opinion,
painful as to me, his historian, is the
expression of this opinion, that Guy
Leycester, in common with many another
military as well as civil spendthrift, had
come to look upon the tradesmen, whom
he in fact defrauded, as his natural
enemies. They bored him to death,
*' the brutes," by their incessant and
impertinent demands for payment, and,
this being the case, the notion of their
approaching discomfiture was not for him

without its ag-agreeable side. But, as I before
said, a debt of honour — a debt, moreover,
to a soi-disant friend of whose hospitalities
he had partaken, and whose wife
(ah ! there the shoe pinched hardest, for
Leycester could not conceal from himself
the painful truth that Dame Rumour had,
and that not without some excuse for
her intervention, coupled his name calumniously
with that of Richard Denham's
still handsome soiiffre-douleur) — was a
very different affair. He little imagined,
when he hit upon what he considered to
be an ingenious device for paying off a
portion of his debt to the husband, that
he had, by giving presents of jewellery to
the wife, given a handle to the scandal-mongers
to filch away her hitherto stainless
reputation. It was only lately that
this disastrous effect of his evil-doing

had become known to him, and his deep
regret in that he had been the occasion
to her of so cruel and unjust a wrong,
troubled his awakening conscience not a
little. It was, he told himself, his first
duty, before the news of his exchange
should reach her from other quarters, to
inform her of his approaching departure,
and pour out to her, in deep contrition,
his knowledge of the injury which his
sin had wrought her.

To see Gertrude Denham without an
hour's delay became under these circumstances
his most ardent wish, and
he accordingly wrote an urgent appeal to
the Colonel for permission to leave temporarily
and on parole the barrack-room
to which he had been consigned. That
there was a lady in the case he did
not hesitate to hint, and that being a

plea which the Chief was, as Guy well
knew, the last man living to disregard,
the leave applied for was without hesitation
granted.

As he wended his way towards the
Shanty," Guy, for the first time in his
life, experienced that loathing of his
own acts which a man who has a
heart to feel can hardly fail to experience
when he has by his own
faults and follies brought sorrow and
trouble upon another. There is no
greater fallacy than that which lurks in
the saying that a man who is extravagant
and devoid of principle is no
one's enemy but his own. For the sins
of such an one (a popular member of
society, you may be sure, or such an
excuse would not be pleaded in his
behalf) are for a surety often visited

on the guiltless ; and Guy Leycester, ashe
dwelt in thought upon his own
powerlessness to remedy the mischief he
had wrought, felt, at his interview
with the woman whose already sorrowful
life he had succeeded in embittering,
his courage to impart to her an
added grief will-nigh desert him.

On arriving at the " Shanty," the room
into which he was shown, and where he
awaited the mistress of the house, was
tenantless, and for a few minutes he
remained standing with his back to the
door, and gazing, lost in moody thought,
from the open window. How should
he address her ? How break to her
the tidings that her only friend (for,
alas ! not a few of those of her own
sex had forsaken her) would soon leave
her in her worse than desolate life,

unprotected and forlorn ? As he was
thus painfully ruminating on the situation,
Gertrude, with the smile with
which she always greeted his presence,
entered the room, and after they had
shaken hands, Guy could imagine no
better conversational opening than the
following question : —

Have you heard the strange story,
in which I have unfortunately got myself
mixed up, about Lady Gregorie's
diamonds ? A thousand pounds' worth ©f
jewels have been stolen, it is said,
from the house. The Colonel saw the
Inspector of Police about it at once,
but those stupid detectives never hit
the right nail on the head, and they
insisted that the robbery must have
been effected through the connivance of
a servant in the house. But now, tell

me, what have you heard ? or have
you been told anything about the
matter ? "

'indeed, No," was the reply, spoken
in the slightly - depressed tone which
a long course of worry and anxiety
had rendered almost habitual to the
speaker, and to which Guy had become
accustomed. "My life is now a very
solitary one, for I have but few visitors ;
and as during the past week Mr Den-ham
has been absent from home, there
has been no one to inform me of what
is going on. I am very sorry though,
for what you tell me. Poor Lady
Gregorie ! I hope her jewels will be
recovered. But have the police no
clue, — no suspicion as to who the
thief may be ? "

"Well, yes. They have been clever

enough to suggest Lady Gregorie's maid,
for no other reason than because she is
a foreigner. Sir Wilfred takes it very
quietly, but Lady G-. seems very much
worried. I met her driving just now
with Miss Vidal, who looked as jolly as
if someone had presented her with a
jparure of brilliant. In my opinion,
the fair Em is a decidedly objectionable
young person."

"She did not strike me as being
very nice," Mrs Denham rejoins. " But
what a charming girl Miss Durant is.
I wonder if it is true that she and
Captain Elphinstone are engaged."

'* True as gospel, and if marriages
ever do turn out well, theirs promises
to do so. The Colonel won't be particularly
pleased. He hates fellows in
the regiment marrying, and if I were

not thinking of a change myself, I
should be rather of his opinion."

He is sitting in front of her, and
leaning on the sword which is between
his knees. His tall figure is bending
forward, and his eyes are fixed upon
the carpet. Well he knows that the
soft-hearted woman to whom his last
ominously - sounding words have been
said, will be terribly startled by the
news, however vague, which they suggest
; nor is he deceived in his expectation,
for Gertrude, in a tone which
sufficiently betrays her alarm, exclaims, —

A change I What are you speaking
of? Are you tired of your old regiment?
Surely you are not thinking
of deserting your many friends ? "

"Not until I have got rid of my one
enemy," Guy, speaking half to himself,

says calmly ; but Gertrude, whose fears
have in some vague and indescribable,
but doubtless truly feminine fashion,
become excited, perceives something in
his tone which fills her with forebodings,
and, great as is her hidden desire to
discover what is passing in his mind,
she, although shrinking from asking for
an explanation of his mysterious words,
repeats still more eagerly than before
her previous question.

Tell me, I entreat of you, what is
the change you are meditating ? You
do not know, dear Guy — how should
you, a brave, independent man — understand
what the suspense will be tome."


How seriously you take it," Guy, with
rather a forced laugh, rejoins. " What
would you say now if I were thinking

VOL. II. N

of enjoying a little sport with the big
game in Africa % "

*' Ah ! " cried Mrs Denham, and there
was in her voice a ring of such passionate
pain that its memory clung to Guy in
after days like a reproach, " I see it all !
I understand what you mean ! You are
going to join the army in the Soudan !
You—"

How hastily you women jump at
conclusions," Gruy, in some dismay at
sight of her agitation, exclaims. And
then, like the moral coward which in truth
he is, he adds cheerily, — " The expected, as
we all know, rarely comes to pass, and
I confess that just at present I see no
other way of escape from my friends,
the Jews, than exchange into a red regiment.
Of course I should hate it ; but
I have not come to bother you with

my affairs. At least " (correcting himself),
not with those with which you are
unconnected. As you have always known
of that miserable debt of mine to Denham,
I can speak of it to you, and can tell
you that at this moment, when, God
knows, I am bothered to death by those
confounded Jews, and a hundred other
things besides, the harm which, owing
to that wretched debt, I have done to
you is what annoys and vexes me the
most. When I bought you those trifling
presents — "

Oh, Guy," interrupted Gertrude hurriedly,
" you must not — indeed you
must not, call them presents. They
belong, do not be angry with me, dear,
for saying this, to the jeweller of whom
you ordered them. There are times, and
this is one of them, when the distinction

between Right and Wrong strikes one as
so very clearly marked, that to be silent
regarding them is almost impossible. I
have been made to appear in public with
what I consider the badges of shame upon
my neck and arms ; and since I have been
told that the fact of their having been
given to me by you has been noised
abroad, I have understood — God help me !
why I have been, by my female acquaintances,
cruelly shunned, and treated as
though I were a sinner."

The words had come tremblingly from
her pallid lips, and when she had ceased
speaking, she covers her face with her
hands, and allows the tears which she
had striven to repress, to fall unnoticed
from between her fingers.

The sight of her emotion, together
with his own consciousness of being

utterly unable to protect and aid her,
fills Guy's breast with the most poignant
sensations of remorse, and the
only relief to his wrathful and self-reproachful
feelings which he finds
available, is the lavishing of hard words
against the "accursed" female gossips
and slanderers who had dared to throw
stones at a woman so pure and blameless
as is the object of their attacks.

But you shall not be left to their
tender mercies," he wound up by saying.
" There are some good and true
women left, thank God ! in the world,
and when the truth becomes known
to them — "

But, dear Guy, it cannot — must not
be known," put in Mrs Denham sadly.
** Think of the disgrace (forgive me for
the word) which the knowledge of it

would entail on all concerned. Your
thoughtless action might be condoned,
for to you., and such as you, many
things are forgiven ; but my husband
is not like you, popular and well-considered.
He would sink lower than
ever in public estimation, if the world
were to know in what manner a portion
of your debt to him was paid. No,
no, dear Guy, I cannot allow your generous
wish to champion me, to lead
you possibly into further trouble. I
must accept my punishment for the
weakness with which I yielded to my
husband's commands, and then — Well,
perhaps I was worse than weak, for I
was aware how heavily your debt to
him weighed upon your mind, and I was
glad of the opportunity which was afforded
me of making things more easy to you."

I know ; you have always been so
kind and good ; and if you, dear friend,
will allow me, in one single instance
only, to divulge the entire truth, you
would take, in some measure, the burden
of having injured you from my
mind. Mrs Durant is the most genere
and the most charitable of
women, and her daughter Helen, who
is so soon to marry Elphinstone, is
Lady Gregorie's friend, and with them
on your side you may laugh to scorn
the spiteful scandal-mongers who have
presumed to look askance at you. Tell
me, then, whether I may enlist these
kindly women in your cause % May I
say — "

Dear Guy," interrupted Mrs Denham,
you must not think me ungrateful if
I remind you that the advocacy of a

man, especially of one who like yourself
has — but I need not particularise,"
she, with her winning smile, continued,
only I wish to say that a woman's
good name, when it has been filched
away — "

Cannot be restored to her through
the efforts of the man to whom she has
given the only good advice that it has
ever been his lot to listen to ! The man,
who, when be had ceased to have faith
either in God or women, found, since
she became his friend, his belief in
both restored — can Ms testimony be of
no avail with such listeners as Mrs
Durant and Lady Gregorie to induce
the world to know you as you are,
and to hold you in as much high and
true respect as I myself do ? "

He spoke warmly, tenderly even, but

his words, kind as they were, fell coldly
on Gertrude's ear. When a woman is
yearning for love, when her whole soul
is going out in passionate longing towards
the man whose hand is on her
arm, and whose eyes are looking pleadingly
into hers, it is cruel mockery to
speak to her of " high respect." In her
heart she had asked for bread (id est
love), which to her was truly as the
staff of life, and she had been given
instead — a stone !

The sigh which preluded this poor
woman's answer to Guy's appeal, was one
which bespoke, as did indeed her words,
an utter weariness of life.

As you will," she said. ** To me it
matters little what the world says of
one so insignificant as I am. Still, the
friendship of so good, so kind a woman

as you describe Mrs Durant to be, is a
boon not to be despised, and — but we
have talked enough about my unworthy
self, tell me now about your own plans.
You spoke of change, but if that change
means leaving Broadmere, you cannot
expect me to be glad of it. This is
selfishness on my part, 1 own, but you
who have seen enough of my most unhappy
home, will not be too hard upon
me. I have so few friends, so very few
who are so kind as to sympathise with
me in the trials of my daily life."

It has been said that Guy Leycester
was a moral coward, and his response to
Mrs Denham's piteous exordium proves the
correctness of the accusation. He could
not screw up his courage to the point
of announcing to Mrs Denham the fact
that his speedy departure for the Soudan

was, humanly speaking, a fait accompli.
As would have been the case with many
self-indulgent persons, he dreaded the
effect upon his own nerves which the
sight of her sorrow, and possibly her
tears, were calculated to produce. By
sparing her the shock of an abrupt disclosure
of the worst, discomfort to his
feelings would be in a great measure
avoided, and it was with this end in
view that he said, —

The change I spoke of as possible,
is one which would take me out of the
way of my confounded duns, and at
the same time enable me to do what
little I can in aid of the courageous
soldier Gordon, who has been left soong
by the Government to his fate.
His cause is indeed a sacred one," he,
keeping his eyes averted from his companion,

continues, "and so, all things
considered, I wrote some little time ago
to the Horse Guards, offering myself
as a volunteer. If the answer should bea
favourable one " — and here his speech
and manner appear confused, whilst his
hands are actively employed in the
apparently uncalled-for labour of burnishing
the hilt of his sword — '' you
shall be told of it at once. And you
will wish me God speed, will you not,
dear friend, and tell me that you think
I am only, as an English soldier, going
to do my duty ? "

She can make no answer to his incoherent
questions, for, seeing that she has,
for the time being, forgotten alike the rules
of conventionality and the concealment of
her own passionate love for Guy, which
she has so long and so successfully prac-

I

tired. The sight of her uncontrolled and
evidently uncontrollable sorrow is infinitely
distressing to the man who is
deceiving her. In the hope of checking
the flow of her tears, he whispers to her
the cruelly deluding words, —

After all, my services may not be
accepted ; but tomorrow the official reply
must come, and I will lose no time in
telling you the result."

With this crumb of comfort, — this
feeble straw of hope on which to cling,
the man, who, excepting to a woman,
would sooner die than give utterance to
a falsehood, leaves the frail creature who
is weak enough to worship him, a prey
to fears which her reason is powerless to
subdue. As the door closes upon a form
which, in her eyes, is the perfection of
manly symmetry and strength, imagination,

that integrant portion of most
human idiosyncrasies, and one which
plays, whether for good or evil, for
many of us an important part, quickly
commences, in the case of Gertrude Den-ham,
its tormenting work. She pictures
to herself the horrors of a battle-field,
a battle-field in which Guy is at one
moment fighting for dear life amongst
the brave and fanatical foe whose spears
are levelled against the dear one's throat,
whilst in a second the scene changes,
and he is lying stark and cold upon the
ground, with unclosed eyes staring upwards
to the tropic sky, and with blood,
which by cruel Death has been congealed,
stiffening the uniform in which he had
gone so bravely to his doom.

She seems to know by intuition, not
that he has deceived her, in her eyes he

is too noble of nature to play a trickster's
part — but that the request which
he has made to the authorities will be
granted, and that she wall be left, as,
in her despair, she deems it, alone.
Truly a miserable being is this blameless
woman to whom strength to resist
the assaults of fierce temptation had
been given, but who has failed to find
in her virtue its promised reward !

SANS ADIEU.

v/i'jo.T was with a very lowering
\U vi; brow, and a mind burdened
^*^ ' with annoyance and care, that
Sir Wilfred Gregorie awaited in his own
private sanctum the advent of Guy
Leycester, to whom he had a second
time that day despatched a messenger
requiring his attendance. The information
obtained from Miss Yidal left no
doubt on the Colonel's mind in regard
to the identity of Major Brereton with
the purloiner of the diamonds. The

discovery was not, in a public point of
view, without its satisfactory side, butin
so far as Sir Wilfred was concerned,
it contained elements not only of worry
but of alarm. He had not been able,
frank and outspoken as had been, to
all appearance, Miss Yidal's volunteered
confession, to entirely disconnect his
wife from what he did not hesitate to
call that " damnably shady diamond
business." He, being a man of some
experience in such matters, had his
own ideas as regarded not only women's
proclivities but their histrionic powers ;
and although he had hitherto, as the
reader is already aware, regarded Florence
as the one woman in a thousand
who could be trusted, he had not, I
repeat, been able to entirely divest himself,
in her case, of doubt.

VOL. II.

The police authorities were, as he
well knew, actively employed in the
search after a clue by means of which
the guilty man might be brought to
justice. Sir Wilfred, who would from
the beginning have gladly allowed the
affair to slide, was now more than ever
desirous that public suspicion should
not be directed towards Brereton. On
Lady Gregorie's account, and because
of his fear that her name might be
ever so slightly alluded to in connection
with the theft, he felt extreme reluctance
to put a summary stop to the
investigations which were in progress.
Deductions, the results of which it was
terrible to contemplate, might, he feared,
be drawn from his sudden interference
with the course of justice. The interview
with Gruy Leycester which he was

momentarily expecting, would, so hoped
the Colonel, throw some light upon this
still dark and mysterious subject. In
the meantime, intelligence had reached
him that Brereton's injuries were proving
far less serious than they had at first
appeared to be ; and this report did not
fail, if only on Leycester's account, to
give satisfaction to Sir Wilfred.

o

So," he said, with an attempt at

cheerfulness which he was far from

•

feeling, when the prisoner on parole,
looking moody, and ill at ease, entered
the room, "you will not have to stand
your trial for either murder or manslaughter
this time. Your very respectable
victim is, as you have probably
heard, going on as well as can be expected
; but sit down, my dear fellow,
and let us talk this wretched business

out. Miss Vidal has denounced him,
and, as I believe, with perfect truth,
as the rascal who stole the diamonds.
Now—"

"My dear Colonel, forgive me for
interrupting you!" exclaimed Guy, "but
I cannot enter with you into the subject
of my altercation with Major
Brereton. I have the worst possible
opinion of him, it is true — "

And you, of course, think it certain
that there is a woman at the bottom
of the business ? "

The speaker's eyes were, during this
interrogative remark, fixed in somewhat
embarrassing fashion on Guy Leycester's
handsome face, but the effect produced
on the recalcitrant Captain by this proceeding
was one which (whilst it confirmed
the Colonel's impression that

his companion could, 'ran' he would,"
say much) was the reverse of that
for which the older man had hoped.
A deep flush rose for a moment to
Guy's bronzed forehead, as he said,
with a quiet smile, —

I should imagine so, for they are
certainly at the bottom of most of
the mischief that is done in the world ; "
and then, having the fear of further
questionings before his eyes, he added, —
And now may I ask you to do me
the great kindness of extending my
parole till tomorrow ? "

Certainly, my dear Leycester, and I
only wish that this farce of a Court-martial
could be dispensed with. The
idea of a man being tried for punching
the head of such a scoundrel as this
Brereton ! I wish to Heaven that he

had never thought of exchanging into
the Rifles ; " and as he gave voice
to this aspiration, the cloud which had
gathered there grew darker on the
Colonel's brow.

I am due at Ivy Combe to-day,"
Guy said, "for I have not yet told them
by the way, I ought to have mentioned
this first to you. Colonel — that
I had an answer this morning to my
application for an exchange, and I
must make immediate preparations for
departure."

"Really? Well, I wish you joy,
and, moreover, I have little doubt now
that, under all the circumstances, the
Court-martial will be cancelled."

For which mercy I shall cry ' Oh,
be joyful!' but as I wish to see the
Durants and Elphinstone before the

exchange gets wind, perhaps you will
allow me to take my leave ? "

This request, however, the Colonel
did not immediately accede to. He was
essentially a man of action, and,
partly, perhaps, from a tolerably long
habit of command, suspense of any
kind was to him an almost unendurable
annoyance. His temper also was
an irascible one, and the affair of the diamond
robbery, which had now been for
some time on the tapis, had, to a greater
degree than he was himself aware,
irritated and troubled him. The bare
idea that through her friendship with
Miss Yidal, and through that alone,
the name of his wife might, in connection
with that of Brereton, get
noised abroad, was sufficient to send
the hot blood of the gallant soldier

at boiling point through his veins.
And then — alas ! for the proud man s
peace of mind — the evasive reply vouchsafed
by Guy was so far from satisfactory
to his questioner, that old
doubts, and half suspicions would perforce
intrude upon the latter's anxious
brain.

He, the Colonel, was still gazing
with his curiously-penetrating glance into
the dark grey eyes of his Captain,
the chief's intention being to extract
from them, at least, if not from his
interlocutor's carefully - padlocked tongue,
some of the light of which he was in
search. He was leaning back in an
apparently careless fashion in his armchair,
but his tones were slow and
decisive as he said, —

''I may as well tell you that Miss

Vidal did not limit her confidence to
the accusation which stir brought against
Major Brereton, but that she frankly
and without reserve denounced herself
as the woman to screen whose reputation
the bribe of the jewels was
offered to, or demanded by (she did
not say which), the scoundrel by whom
they were appropriated. And now,"
continued the Colonel, whose eyes had
not for a single second been diverted
from Guy's somewhat troubled countenance,
" will you tell me, on your
honour, and as man to man, whether
you believe that this young woman
spoke the truth ? "

Thus appealed to, Guy found it
utterly impossible to do otherwise than
answer as his conscience dictated. He
had already, during this short interview,

began to fear that suspicion regarding
Lady Gregorie's possible share
in the jewel transaction had already
entered into the Colonel's mind, and,
if that were the case, his Chief was
not the kind of man (a peculiarity
of which Guy was well aware) to
allow such a suspicion to slide, without
due investigation, away. His reply
was, therefore, brief and to the point.
He did not, he confessed, put any
faith in Miss Vidal's declaration ; and
having so said, and no response having
followed on his statement, he felt
himself at liberty to take his leave.

Remember me, will you, to Mrs
Durant and her daughters," said the
Colonel, as the men shook hands.
Lady Gregorie was talking of calling
on them to-day, but I think that

this detestable business has put the
idea out of her head."

It was with an unmistakable sense of
relief that Guy found himself safe from
the dangers of any further examination.
His nature was as chivalrous as it was
impulsive, nevertheless, more than once,
as he took his rapid way to the cottage,
he was troubled with a passing regret
in that he had taken upon his shoulders
the duty of championing Lady Gregorie's
wrongs. These reflections were, however,
but of short duration, for other and far
deeper cares were occupying his mind
and heart. There loomed before him the
terrible necessity of imparting to the girl
he loved the change which by his own
act was about to be effected in his fortunes.
He was not mistaken in his

belief that the blow would be to this
tender-hearted, inexperienced girl a very
heavy one. She had — under the influence
of her mother's tenderness, her mother's
authority, and pleadings — spoken brave
words, and declared her determination to
follow, unmoved by his entreaties, the
path of duty ; but this passing triumph of
filial affection over the passionate yearnings
of a heart which had throbbed
responsive to a lover's kiss, could not, as
Guy felt well assured, continue. Nor did
he entertain any fear that he would be
denied an interview with his sweetheart.
He was far from feeling in the submissive
mood which had induced him, on
the occasion of his last visit, to meet
Mrs Durant's reproaches in a chastened
spirit ; on the contrary, he felt equal to
any emergency, and not even young

Lochinvar himself was better inclined or
fit than he to do battle for his ladylove.


Anyone at home ? " he asked of the
trim parlour-maid who, on hearing his
ring, opened the door of Ivy Cottage to
the visitor.

'' Yes, sir. Miss May is in the ,
but Mrs Durant has walked to
the village, and Miss Helen and the
Casein are away a - horseback somewheres."


"All right. You needn't show me in,"
said Guy, and then, three strides (Love's
"bower" being on the ground floor)
brought him into the presence of the
worshipped one.

"My darling!" he cried. "Thank God
you are alone ; " and then, taking time
by the forelock, for Mrs Durant's thrice-blessed

absence might not be of long
duration, he kissed again and again the
sweet, blushing face, which certainly did
not turn aside from his caresses.

Darling child ! My own angel 1 " he
murmured between each lengthened pressure
of his lips to hers, " tell me that
you are glad to have me with you once
again. I have so much to say to you, —
to ask of you — "

"Is it that I will be true to you ?
will love you always, let who will tell
me to forget you ? Oh, Guy, will you
ever forgive me for what I said to you ?
I thought, but it isn't true, that I
could bear to part with you ; but I
cannot — No, I cannot I If you were to
leave me, or to care for anyone but me,
I hope that I should die ; " and as she
spoke, she pressed with such clinging

trustfulness her dainty head to his broad
breast, that Guy, sweet although it was
to feel himself so loved, could almost
have found it in his heart to wish, so
greatly did he shrink from the ordeal
that was before him, that his eyes had
never rested on the girl whose heart he
was about, with cruel words, to stab.

My poor little girl," he said tenderly,
whilst he stroked with protecting fondness
the bright golden head which rested
in lovely disarray against his heart, " you
care for me too much. I am not worthy
of such love as yours, for I have deceived
you, dear one. I have kept from
you a secret which you ought to have
earlier learned, and now I am afraid — "

Afraid ! " repeated the girl scornfully,
as with a sudden movement she lifted
her head from its resting-place. " You

afraid I " and she laughed ironically. " I
believe that you fear nothing in life or —
or death, except to tell me that you
have been false to me. It is, I think,
because you are so brave that I first
began to love you, so do not — or rather
do tell me why you said that you were
afraid, and then stopped so quickly as
if — as if it were almost true."

"And it is true, my dear one, — true
that I, who would gladly make your life
all sunshine, am forced to grieve you. For
we must part, my May-blossom. Only
for a time though," he added quickly ;
"so do not look, my darling, so like a
little wounded dove. I am going for a
short while to a place where I hope to
obtain promotion and honours ; and then,
perhaps — and oh, my sweet one, it
takes my breath away even to think of

such happiness ! — I may be allowed to
hope that we shall not always be kept
apart."

May had listened in agitated silence
to the concluding portion of this short
but not especially lucid harangue ; it is,
however, doubtful whether any portion
of it, with the exception of that which
announced the dismal fact that she and
her lover must of necessity be torn
asunder, came clearly home to her understanding.
It was with a sensation akin
to despair, therefore, that she in broken
sentences entreated to be told more. And
it was with eyes brimming over with
tears that she implored poor harassed
Guy to promise, if indeed he loved her,
that he would not be many days away.

The hours seem so long without you,
dear," she said, as with her slender fingers

VOL. II. P

she lovingly stroked the hand that rested
on its owner's sword hilt. '' And, oh,
I have been so frightened ! Ever since
mother spoke to you, and to me too,
about our not caring for each other anymore,
I have been so unhappy ! But you
will care, won't you, dear ? and you will
not let them send you a long way off,
so that you may forget to think of me ?
Oh, mother is very cruel ! She means
to be kind, but if she makes you leave
me, she will break my heart."

The child's pitiful appeals, as they fell
brokenly from her quivering lips, went
straight to Guy's Leycester's heart. The
trial which his darling was fated to
undergo was one for which she was totally
unprepared, and for a few moments,
the lover by whose hand the blow was
to be dealt her, fairly lost the nerve

which was requisite for the task. At
last, with his arm round her slender
waist, and with her fair head pillowed
on his breast, he whispered, —

My sweet one, you must not think
that your mother is being unkind to
you. It is only I that you must
blame. Nay, listen to me, whilst I tell
you, darling, how this thing has happened.
You know — for I have kept
none of my worries from you — that I
am one of the poorest beggars under
the sun. My debts, too, are more in
number than the hairs of my head, so
some time ago — it was before I loved
you, you may be sure of that, my
darling — I got so disgusted with the
confounded harpies who beset me, that I
applied to the Horse Guards for permission
to exchange into another regiment."

My poor Guy, how dreadful for you,
who dislike the red colour so much."

Exactly ; I am a perfect mad bull
in that respect, but what was a fellow
to do ? Well, the answer was long
in coming, but," drawing a deep breath,
I got it this morning, and in less
than a week I shall have to go."

'but where to? Oh, Guy, tell me
everything. Do not keep me in suspense.
Is it — I will try to be brave,
indeed I will — to Egypt ? and will you
be away very long ? "

Poor child ! she was striving her
utmost to keep back her tears ; and to
Guy there was something intensely
touching in her utter ignorance of the
fact that he was about to depart on
a distant service, where dangers of
various kinds awaited him. She was

only seventeen, and in some respects
was even younger than her years, for
Mrs Durant had never permitted her
girls to indulge in a promiscuous reading
of the daily papers, and consequently
May was as ignorant of the
minor details of war and politics, as
she was behindhand in the gossip and
scandal of the day. That there had
been fighting in Egypt she was aware,
and she was also familiar with 'the
fact that the gallant soldier Gordon
was shut up at a place called Khartoum,
to which he had gone with the
hope of doing good ; but of the little
army of martyrs which was on its
hard-fought way to rescue him, and of
the fierce struggles against disease and
battle which it was that little army's
lot to wage, May entertained but a

vague and indistinct idea. Mrs Durant
strongly objected, as regarded the mental
aliment of young people, to anything
approaching to sensation or excitement.
All Illustrated description, whether realistic
or drawn from the imagination, of
a fiercely - contested battle-field, and of
the "immense slaughter" (generally with
much national pride announced) of a
naked and comparatively defenceless
foe, were therefore by Mrs Durant
carefully kept from the eyes of her
young daughters ; and thus it chanced
that May's conceptions of the perils
which by going, as she called it, to
Africa, her sweetheart might possibly
incur, differed very widely from the
reality.

That this was the case, was a source
of much self-congratulation to Guy. It

enabled him to avoid altogether any
allusion to the Soudan, whilst he could,
with an apparently light heart, speak
of his own coming departure as though
it were a start on a pleasure trip, from
which he would be certain to return in
greatly improved circumstances, to the
darling girl whom he was forced to leave
behind him. These rose-coloured anticipations
were not unfrequently, as the
reader will easily believe, interrupted
after a fashion which brought so bright
a carnation to May's usually white rose
complexion, so that, when Mrs Durant,
after the lapse of an hour, stepped noiselessly
through the open window into the
presence of the lovers, she saw good
reason to wish that she had remained
at home.

Now, mother dear, you must not

scold us ! " exclaimed May, as she hastily
sprang from Guy's encircling arm. '' He
is going away for a long time, and I
thought that you would not mind our
talking once more, together."

Is this true, Captain Leycester ? "
asked Mrs Durant gravely ; and then,
without waiting for the young man's
answer, and ignoring altogether his offered
hand, she requested her daughter to leave
her alone with her unwelcome visitor.

May for a moment both looked, and
felt rebellious ; but there was an expression
— so new as to be almost startling —
on her mother's gentle face, that compelled
the unwilling girl to obedience,
and with a loving, lingering look at her
sweetheart, she left the room. Then Guy,
feeling shamefaced and humbled in presence
of the widowed mother whose trust

he had betrayed, opened out to her
his half-despairing heart. He told her
that, dreading the sight of May's sorrow
and alarm, he had concealed from her
the fact that he was bound in all haste
for the seat of war, whence he might
never — he reminded her — return.

'* But if I do — if I should gain promotion,
and come back a wiser and a
better man than is the heavily-burdened
one who has come to say farewell to you
to-day, weill you be merciful, and promise
that May shall be my wife one day."

His voice — always, to women, gentle
and caressing — took in its pleadings so
touching a tone, that Mrs Durant, with
whom he had always been a favourite,
forgave him in her heart, upon the spot.
More au courant, too, than was her
daughter of what was going on in the

world, the mere mention of the word
Soudan was sufficient to daunt her spirit
with a sense of fear ; and the feeling that
she might never see his face again, rendered
her, towards this attractive sinner,
very merciful, although that so it was,
she prudently abstained from giving
voice.

I am glad," she said, " that you
have kept from May the knowledge of
what would, I fear, render her for a
time, very unhappy. She is so young,
that we may hope she will not fret
long after your departure ; but should
she do so, and if, on your return,
you should be of the same mind — "

Oh, Mrs Durant ! " cried Guy impetuously,
" can you doubt it ? If
you could only look into my heart,
and see what May is to me, you would

never think that I couhi forget her.
Why, if I ever do any good with my
life, it is to her and her love that
I shall owe it. She is so good — so
pure — "

"And also so young and inexperienced,
that by a man of honour — for
such you, of course, consider yourself
to be — her purity and goodness should
have been held as sacred gifts ; but,"
she continued, whilst noting the flush
of anger that deepened on Guy Leycester's
cheek, and the impatient tapping
of his boot upon the carpet,
we have talked over this before.
What is past and done cannot be undone,
but the present, and possibly the
future, remain to us, and in their course
you may, supposing your words to be
something more than empty boastings,

make some reparation for the wrong
which you have done."

'try me! only try me — " Guy was
eagerly beginning, but with her upraised
hand she stopped him.

Hush ! What I shall require of
you is a hard thing, and you had better
be silent till you learn its nature.
You must not see my child again."

Not see her ! Impossible ! Oh, Mrs
Durant, do not be so hard ! "

It may seem cruel, but — the future
being so uncertain, and the child being
so young — can you wonder that my
hope and object is that she should forget
the past ? "

"" And have you no compassion, — no
feeling for me ? Why, May's forgetfulness
would simply mean my ruin —
body and soul."

I trust not ; and believe me that
I do feel for you, and that I forgive
you freely for the perhaps irreparable
misfortune which you have brought upon
my child ; but, for her sake, I must save
her from what must of necessity be an
emotional and trying scene. It will be
easy for you, after you have left me
to-day, to imagine some valid reason
for the avoidance of a farewell interview
; or you may lay the blame-where
it is due, on me. May will not
be angry with her mother long, for
hers is a forgiving nature, and she will
understand that I have acted in this
matter for her good. And now, dear
Captain Leycester, pardon me for saying
that I think you had better shake hands
with me, and go your ways."

*' What ! Leave without a hope — for

I hardly expect a promise — that I may
win your daughter yet ? Dear Mrs
Durant, tell me, at least, that you will
not take part against me. We may
never meet again — "

Ah, that is it ! " the widow, with
a cry of mental pain, broke in, — " that
is what the child — God help her ! — may
have to suffer. Ah ! how hard life is !
And to begin the cruellest of its woes
so early, breaks my heart for May."

Let us hope," said Guy bitterly,
as, in compliance with Mrs Durant's
request, he rose to go, and held fora
moment her cold, shaking hand in
his, '' that if it should please God,
as the parsons say, to cut short in
the Soudan the few and evil days of
my pilgrimage, the memory of the man
who loved her will not haunt your

daughter long. She is, as you say,
young, and should she shed a tear over
my memory, you will be there to warn
her that to remember me is a mistake. '^
They were his last words, and Mrs
Durant, as she watched his tall form
disappear quickly amongst the trees,
grieved inwardly in that she had allowed
him to depart uncomforted on
what would only too probably prove
to be an errand of death."

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

.3 0112 0458521™

AMONG

The Ladies

BY

Philip Gaskell

**A U6& mmo&tf UMm ia a most dreadful t
tor there Ifi not n mor feftiftal wild fowl than yov.r

I


■mm^

^.

^K^i^:%-

h.A^^>.



VOL. III. a

A NOVEL.

BY

PHILIP GASKELL,

aDthob of "the senior major," etc.

A lion among ladies is a most dreadful thing ; for there
is not a more fearful wild fowl than your lion living."

Midsummer NiyhCs Dream.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON :

F. V. WHITE & CO.,

31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1888.

COLSTON AND COMPANY

PRINTERS

CONTENTS.

CHAP.
I.

II.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

XI.

Now ready, in One Vol. , the Seventh Edition oj

ARMY SOCIETY ; or, Life in a Garrison Town. By John Strange
Winter. Author of ' Booties' Baby.' Cloth gilt, 6s. ; also picture
boards, 2s.

GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton. By the same

Author, Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

IN THE SHIRES. By Sir Randal H. Roberts, Bart. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE OUTSIDER. A Sporting Novel. By Hawley Smart. New

Edition. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE GIRL IN THE BROWN HABIT. A Sporting Novel. By Mrs

Edward Kennard. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
STRAIGHT AS A DIE. By the same Author. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
BY WOMAN'S WIT. By Mrs Alexander, Author of 'The Wooing

O't.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
KILLED IN THE OPEN. By Mrs Edward Kennard. Author of ' The

Right Sort.' Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
IN A GRASS COUNTRY. By Mrs H. Loveth-Cameron. Author of

A North Country Maid,' etc. (Sixth Edition.) Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.
THE BOND OF WEDLOCK. By Mrs Campbell Praed. Author of

Nadine.' Cloth gilt, 3s, 6d.

F. V. WHITE & Co., 31 Sontliaiiiptoii Street, Strand,
London, W.C.

Chapter I.

SIR Wilfred ASKS A QUESTION.

^^lE Wilfred's first impulse
after Guy Leycester's departure
was to seek his wife, and once
more endeavour to obtain from her some
solution of the mystery which in his
opinion still shrouded the affair of the
diamond robbery. To his annoyance, and

VOL. III.

somewhat also to his surprise, he found,
after his short absence, the drawing-room
empty. " Her ladyship had walked
out," a footman, on being interrogated,
replied ; and the Colonel, feeling restless
and impatient, proceeded forthwith to
imitate her example.

In the near neighbourhood of the
barracks, he, having bent his steps in
that direction, chanced to fall in with
Captain Elphinstone and Guy Leycester.
They were apparently engaged in earnest
conversation — so earnest indeed that it
was not till Sir Wilfred was within a
yard of them that they noticed his
approach.

What ! back already, Leycester ? " exclaimed
the Colonel, as the three men
stood together near the barrack gate,
but out of hearing of the sentry on

duty. " I fancied there was metal
more attractive at Ivy Cottage than
your short visit implies ; but perhaps
you have come to learn how the interesting
patient whom you so nearly sent
to kingdom come is going on."

Confound the fellow ! " answered Guy
surlily, for Sir Wilfred's chaffing remark
regarding May Durant had struck upon
a sensitive chord ; " he isn't worth thinking
about — "

"That's true, poor devil," put in
Elphinstone ; " but, all the same, that
blow on the head was no joke, and if
erysipelas (as as one time Braithwaite
feared would be the case) had set in, you
would have been perhaps tried for manslaughter,
old man, and most probably
convicted too, which, as you must allow,
would have been no joke. I dislike the

fellow as much as you do, but, for your
sake, I wanted to see how he was, as
the Yankees say, getting along, and that
is the reason why I did not refuse to
go when he sent for me."

^'By Jove!" exclaimed Sir "Wilfred, "I
doubt your going, if you had known as
much about the man as Leycester and
I do. The fact is — only as I don't wish
the story to become generally known,
I trust to you two fellows to keep it to
yourselves — that Brereton is the man who
stole the diamonds."

'' Not really ! By Heavens, what a
frightful idea ! Why we have been associating
with him as if he were a gentleman
— "

'well," interrupted the Colonel, "wee
are not the first persons who have entertained
a robber unawares. Do you remember

the convict who used to hob
and nob in the Isle of Wight with the
Colonel of Volunteers, and accompany
her ladyship, his wife, upon the fiddle ?
We must, to a certain degree, take our
chance in this world as to what class our
intimates may belong ; but, Leycester, it
would, I think, be advisable, seeing that
I am due elsewhere, to enlighten Elphin-
stone on the subject of Major Brereton's
offence. His guilt was not revealed tome
in confidence, and therefore — on the
principle that a little knowledge is a
dangerous thing — I recommend to you
this course of proceeding."

''He spoke to me," said Elphinstone,
as the Colonel, with a slight military
salute, moved away, " of applying for
sick leave — "

"Which is, of course, preparatory to

sending in his papers," rejoined Leycester,
who then, taking his brother
Captain's arm, walked him away to a
spot better fitted for confidential intercourse
than was the one in which they
had been previously discoursing.

It is unnecessary to repeat the conversation
which then and there, in reference
to Miss Vidal's communication
concerning Major Brereton, took place.
Of its substance the reader is already
aware, and also of the fact (one of which
Eowley Elphinstone had been previously
ignorant) that Guy's more than suspicion
of the Major's guilt had caused the
quarrel from the effects of which the
latter was still suffering.

And now, my dear fellow," said Helen
Durant's betrothed, and his voice as he
uttered the short exordium was lowered.

and his manner slightly suggestive of
hesitation, " I have something on your,
or rather on our, account to say to you :
May Durant, whose brother and protector
I hope so soon to be — "

Oh, for God's sake, Rowley," broke
in Guy, " do not speak to me of her !
Mrs Durant has more than once told
me, in womanly words, but the name
does not affect the thing, that I have
behaved like a scoundrel. She may not
be very far wrong, but you, at least,
might find excuses for me. You are a
rich man, so that in falling in love you
have not behaved like a villain."

My dear boy, you cannot compare
the cases," interrupted Elphinstone. " I
can afford the expensive luxury of a
wife, and you cannot; and, therefore, your
having engaged the affections of a girl so

young and so ignorant of the world as
is May, cannot, I think, and as even
you must feel, be justified."

'' Perhaps not," Guy gloomily responded
; " but you reason as if our
hearts and impulses invariably led us todo
the right and proper thing, whereas
my experience tells me that the contrary
is the case."

Granted ; but for May's sake, should
you not have endeavoured to conquer
those impulses ? You have, for her, poor
child, sown the seeds of much future
sorrow — "

On the contrary," Guy said doggedly,
she has been happier since — since I
have known her, than she had ever been
before ; but do not let us talk about
her, Rowley. The decree that I am not
to see her again has gone forth, and

the subject is to me, as you may suppose,
too painful to be discussed."

I quite understand that it must lee,
nor should I have alluded to it but fora
request of Mrs Durant's that I would
do so."

Oh ! Mrs Durant asked you, did she ?
to speak to me about her daughter."

Yes. She wished you to be told
that personally she likes you much — "

It is extremely kind of her to say
so," Leycester grimly rejoins.

Indeed, my dear Guy, you are a
favourite with all of us."

I am awfully grateful to you all."

And she — Mrs Durant — promises that
if May should take to heart your leaving
without bidding her good-bye, she shall
be informed of the truth — namely, that
your doing so was greatly d contre coeur,

and that you only acted in obedience to
her mother's wishes. I assure you that
we regret, as much as you can do, that
insuperable objections to any engagement
on your part with May not only now,
but must, I fear, always exist."

But why, I ask, must they always
exist ? I may — as other men have done
get on."

And you may — forgive me, my dear
boy, for alluding to anything so melancholy,
but — "

1 may go off," interpolated Leycester,
and the smile which curled his handsome
lip was not devoid of bitterness. " You
are right there, but I must take my
chance with the rest. In the meantime,
let me beg of you to say no more to me
about this scoundrelly conduct of mine.
1 have been a fool, and, in your opinion,

something worse ; but I am having my
punishment, and I would much prefer
taking it in my own way."

It had been sorely against his will
that Rowley Elphinstone lead undertaken
the commission which Mrs Durant
had given him to execute. His own
position as a happy and prosperous
lover militated — as a man of delicate
sensibilities could not fail to understand —
against the success of his mission : moreover,
the wound was, in poor Guy's case,
too recent for even the tenderest hand
to probe its depths, without inflicting
added suffering. Elphinstone possessed a
heart that was almost womanly in its
tenderness and power to sympathise with
the griefs of others, and being himself
very deeply in love, his pity for Guy's
sorrows was far greater than he

chose to express in words. There came,
however, a clay — and that all too soon —
when lie sorely regretted that the last
words which on the subject of Guy's shortcomings
he had addressed to his friend
had not been dictated more by the feelings
of his heart than by the reasonings
of his head.

It was with a slow and lagging step
that Sir Wilfred Gregorie, after leaving
his two interlocutors, proceeded on his
return to his home. Deep in his inner
man there existed, unknown to himself, a
vague and to him totally unaccustomed
sensation of fear. It was so new to him
to feel, even in the very slightest degree,
suspicious of his wife, that, conscious ashe
was that his conversation with her
might throw what to him would be an

odious light oji a ghastly subject, he for
the first time in his life failed to view
with pleasure (as Florence came forward
in the drawing-room to meet him), the
lovely face of his possibly erring wife.

Florence," he began, not unkindly,
but the agitated woman felt that the
tones of his voice were strangely stern
and cold, "I have come to question you.
Sit down," he added, as he took a chair
in front of her sofa, " for you are looking
pale and worried, which is not surprising,
considering the confidence with
which your friend bliss Vidal kindly
honoured us. Even previous to that
confession on her part of Major Bretton's
guilt and of her own, I had seen
and heard much that puzzled me, and
it is to be enlightened on these subjects
that I have come to you now.

Had you — before Major Brereton joined
the Regiment — ever spoken to the
man ? It is terrible to think that your
name may possibly be, in the very slightest
degree mixed up in this atrocious
business ; and if such a misfortune should
occur — " but at that moment Lady Gregory's
face, which had hitherto been partially
hidden by the large fan she held,
became — through the fall from her hand
of the temporary shield, fully exposed to
view, and the expression of terror that
was plainly written on her countenance
there, went near to rousing the demon
of suspicion in her husband's breast.
Perfectly colourless, save for two crimson
patches which, in ghastly contrast to their
wanness, seemed, as it were, 'painted on
her quivering cheeks, was the face of the
painfully agitated woman. So changed,

indeed, was in a few short moments her
appearance, that Sir Wilfred, had it not
been for the fiercer passion that, namely,
of jealous suspicion which was at work
within him, could hardly have viewed the
sudden alteration without alarm. As it
was, a sensation nearly akin to bewilderment
— and one which to his well-balanced
nerves was as new as it was strange —
crept over him, and this feeling was not
decreased, when the innocent yet 
woman flung herself with
a piteous cry at his feet.

Could, he asked himself, his short
search be over ? And could this cowering
creature on whose awful transformation
he was gazing be "the woman" whose
sin had found her out ? It was in
answer to this unspoken question that he
heard himself exclaim (for the words

seemed to break from him without his
own volition), —

"Oh, my God! Florence, tell me in
mercy that it is not true ! I have trusted
you so entirely, — have believed in your
purity as I have believed in Gospel truth,
and to doubt you now will, I think, drive
me mad ! "

But you need not doubt me; indeed,
indeed, you may trust me still," she,
emboldened by his softened tone, found
courage enough to sav. ** 1 have been
weak and foolish, but, with the exception
of deceiving you — ^^^y, hear me out,
dear ; hear me take God to witness
that of no act of my life have I reason
to feel ashamed. I wish — oh, how 1
wish, that you could look into my heart,
for I feel sure that you would believe
me then."

But you have owned that you
deceived me ? "

Yes ; because 1 was silly, and afraid
of your displeasure, when, if I had
only confided to you the truth — "

'• Confide it to me now then," he
said sternly, " and make amends, if you
cain, for the crime and misery which
you have caused."

It was under these inauspicious circumstances,
and with the austere words
which I have just quoted ringing in
her ears, that poor Florence related,
as best she could, and with perfect
truthfulness, the story of her girlish
folly.

And Sir Wilfred, although he suffered
as only a proud man could under the
infliction, was unable, as he looked into
her candid eyes, to do other than believe

VOL. III. B

her. He remained perfectly silent
during the narration, which Lady
Gregorie, in her haste and alarm, cut
short, and when it was over, he said,
with apparent composure, —

'rand the letters'? I should like to
see them. We shall have paid dearly
enough for their possession. I do not
allude to the diamond loss — that I look
upon as nothing — but, as proof to me of
your truthfulness, Florence, I hope that
you have them in safe keeping."

Now Lady Gregorie, weak as in
many respects she had proved herself
to be, was not altogether devoid of
spirit. Now, too, that the worst was
over, some power of self-assertion returned
to her. Sir Wilfred's demand
for proofs of her innocence angered
her, and drawing up her small head

proudly, she said, not without some
trepidation, and a considerable amount
of remorse for her impulsive folly, —

"I am very sorry. I wish you could
see them, but — and oh, do not be
angry Wilfred ! — I was so ashamed of
them, and so glad to get them back,
that I threw the hateful things into
the fire. If you wish to know what
were the idiotic words I wrote, you
can ask Emily Vidal — for she saw me
write them — whether all I have told
you is not true."

"Thank you for suggesting so admirable
a reference respecting your character
as this convenient friend would doubtless
be," the Colonel, looking anything
but grateful, rejoined.

**Ah! now you are speaking unkindly
of poor Em. How can I make you

believe that she has acted throughout
from motives of the purest kindness ? "

Do you call it pure kindness on the
part of a girl older and more experienced
than herself to assist a mere
child to correspond clandestinely with a
scoundrel ? No, Florence, I will endeavour
to forget your juvenile folly, and
even the want of confidence which you
have shown towards myself, but as regards
your friend, you must give her to
understand that she can no longer be a
guest of mine."

But how can I tell her that she is
to go ? I promised her that you would
be convinced, when I had told you all,
that she, at least, is blameless."

You may tell her, if you like, that
I am less credulous than you expected
to find me," said Sir Wilfred ; and he was

preparing to leave the room, when Florence,
approaching nearer, said, in a tone
that was rendered pathetic by the tearfulness
of its entreaty, —

But you will not hurry her away ?
You will give her time to write to
London and prepare her relations for
her return ? Wilfred, dear," she added,
gaining courage from his silence, and
venturing to lay upon his arm a timidly-detaining
hand, " it is not like you to
be so hard, so unforgiving towards a
girl whose only fault it is that she has
shown herself too blindly faithful towards
your wife."

Poor Florence ! Had she expended
her last sleepless night in search after
the most expedient fashion in which to
appease the anger of her husband, she
could hardly have hit upon one less

likely to succeed. The idea that any
act on the part of his wife could have
been of so shady a character as to
call, in her behalf, for the exercise of
Miss Vidal's powers as a confidante and
scapegoat, was as gall and wormwood
to the proud spirit of the indignant
husband, and his reply was in accordance
with his feelings.

Let her telegraph to her friends
that there is scarlet fever, or diphtheria,
whichever complaint she most fancies,
in the house ; only bear in mind that
not another night must she sleep under
my roof"

The uselessness of further striving in
her friend's cause being now thoroughly
apparent, Florence ventured to murmura
few words in her own behalf.

And you do forgive me ? And you

will trust me as you did before ? " she
said meekly.

Her small hands were clasped in
prayer, and her face was very lovely in
its deep humility, yet her husband's
only response to her petition was simply
the uncompromising words, —

I will strive my utmost to forget."

WAE TO THE KNIFE.

^=g§^^ Florence Gregory was the
of a stronof- minded

reverse

woman, and consequently the
task of informing her friend that, according
to Sir Wilfred's fiat, she, the
hitherto apparently welcome guest,
must perforce take her departure from
Royalty Square, was, to her thinking,
anything but an enviable one. Her
nature partook essentially of clinging
elements, and although the good opinion
which of Em's principles and feelings she

had entertained had been of late sensibly
modified, the idea of giving that young
person pain, greatly distressed her.
There was, however, no possible means
of escape from the ordeal that was
imposed upon her, and it was therefore
with a heavy heart that she knocked
at her friend's door, and listened to the
"Come in" which, to her appeal for
admittance, was the prompt response.

She found Miss Vidal busily engaged
in the, to her, congenial task of altering
and improving a favourite dinner-dress,
in order that it might meet the requirements
of a ballroom, and the sight
of her occupation did not tend to decrease
the perturbation of Lady Gregorie's
spirits. She remembered, with a pang,
that the preparations on which Em was
engaged had in view a certain all-important

festivity which, m the shape of a
County Town Ball, was to be given in
honour of a Eoyal Prince ; and that to
the said ball Miss Vidal, under the
chaperonage of her friend, looked forward
with eager anticipations of pleasure
to being present. That these anticipations
of enjoyment must inevitably
now be crushed, struck a chill on her
entrance into Flo's kind heart a chill
that increased in intensity when her
guest, making way for her amongst
the mass of dismantled finery with
which the chairs and sofa were laden,
said, with an embarrassed smile, —

*' I hope you won't be hurt, dear Flo,
by the transmogrification which your
kind present is undergoing. It was so
awfully sweet of you to give me this
dress, that it goes to my heart to make

a change iu it ; but 1 could think of no
other way of making myself fit to be
seen on the twenty-ninth, save the utilising
of your lovely gift. You will forgive
me ? " she added caressingly ; " but I
need not ask, seeing that you are always
goodness itself to your poor hard-up
friend."

These trusting words went nigh to
bringing tears of remorse to the eyes of
Florence Gregorie. A sense of guilt in
that by her had been accepted the cruel
task of inflicting dire disappointment on
her friend, rendered her for a few
moments silent. Nor was it until Em,
surprised by her visitor's silence, made a
tender inquiry after her health, that the
latter said gently, —

"Thanks, dear. No, I am quite well.
It is sorrow which makes me look, as I

suppose I do — deplorable ; for I have
come on a wretched errand, and can only-hope
you will believe that, in obeying
my husband's commands, I do what is
most distasteful to myself Sir Wilfred
is, as you know, a very determined man,
and when he told me that — oh, dear Em,
I cannot bear to say it ! " and with tears
gathering in her eyes, Lady Gregorie
found her power of speech temporarily
desert her.

Now in the matter of patience, the
store possessed by Emily Yidal was far
from being a goodly one, and therefore it
is not surprising that when, at the very
moment of an evidently important crisis,
the strength of Lady Gregorie's feelings
stood in the way of an expected denouement,
the young lady's temper should
have risen within her at the delay. Fora

passing moment her habitual caution,
and the rules of expediency which she
had laid down for herself, were forgotten,
and she said, in a voice which absolutely,
from its abnormal sound, startled her
hostess, —

Nonsense ! What is there that you
cannot say to me ? Have I not taken
all your past peccadilloes upon myself?
And, in order to save you from the
anger of your stupidly jealous husband,
have I not allowed him to think that I
and not his wife had fallen under the
spell of Major Breve ton's attractions ?
Surely, after such sacrifices on my part
as these, you can find no difficulty in
speaking openly to me. What is it, pray,
that Sir Wilfred has shown himself to be
so determined about ? Does he, or do
you, wish me to humble myself still further

? However, dear Flo, great as is
my affection for yon, I inst tell yon
honestly that I will not own to having
originated the idea of the diamond
bribery."

Nor," exclaimed Florence impetuously,
for the tone taken by her quondam
friend was one which her spirit was too
high to brook with patience, ** will
the doing so be required of you. Sir
Wilfred, I regret to say, has bidden
me to tell you that your visit, which
has afforded me so much pleasure, must
come to an end, and that — "

I am to go at once. Is that what
your hospitable autocrat requires of me ?
If so, you may tell him from me that
I will not submit to such an indignity.
I must have time to prepare
my people for my leaving Broadmere.

Surely, if he has any gentlemanly feeling,
he will not send me out of his
house as if I were a scullery-maid
who had forfeited her character. However,
before discussing that matter, perhaps
you will give me some information
as to what led to the resolution
on Sir Wilfred's part of which you
have just given me notice ? "

Lady Gregorie, being, unfortunately
for herself, possessed of a highly-emotional
temperament, had been too much
hurt and surprised by the behaviour of
her guest, to regain immediately her
wonted calmness of speech. For Miss
Vidal's question, moreover, she was unprepared,
and she therefore waited fora
few moments to recover herself, ere
she said, with as much composure as
she could assume, —

It was after an interview with Captain
Leycester that Sir Wilfred questioned
me so closely regarding our former
acquaintance with Major Brereton that
I could not do otherwise than answer
truthfully the interrogations which he
put to me. I hope you will believe
that, both on your account and my own,
I suffered much in speaking openly of
the painful facts regarding which I was
so closely questioned ; but what could I
do ? there was nothing for me but to
tell the truth."

And did you make no effort," cried
Em excitedly, " to save me from this
bitter humiliation? Did you allow that
courteous husband of yours to treat me
without a remonstrance on your part
as a woman whom he could with
impunity outrage and insult ? "

Indeed, dear Em, I was not so ungrateful.
I reminded Wilfred of your
generous act in taking my follies upon
yourself, and entreated him not to inflict
such severe pain either upon you or
upon me as he seemed resolved on
doing."

And what was his reply ? " demanded
Miss Vidal, as, with an air of studied
calmness, she confronted the woman
befriend as she truly felt no longer) whose
superior social position had long been
to her a source of envy, and from whose
house she was about to be banished in
disgrace. " Your pleadings," she continued
bitterly, "could not have been
very earnest ones, since they had no
effect upon Sir Wilfred's resolve concerning
me ; while, as regards yourself, I
conclude that, after making due confessor.
III. c

sion of your faults, you are restored
to favour, and may hereafter flirt with
impunity with any of the good-looking
young fellows who send you bouquets
of hothouse flowers, and worship you
as a divinity."

This last taunt proved too much for
Lady Gregorie's patience to endure with
calmness. The sense, too, of her own
powerlessness (the mute evidence of
her innocence having been destroyed)
to reinstate herself in her husband's
good opinion, lent added poison to the
bitter words which had flowed so unexpectedly
from Emily Yidal's tongue, and
it was consequently with a thoroughly
aroused sense of injustice that she said
angrily,—

'you have no right, Em, to speak
to me in this disrespectful manner. I

have always, as you must well know,
been ready to prove myself your
friend—"

"Always," sneered Em, "when you
were in a scrape, and where in want of
a cleverer head than your own to help
you out of it. So much, at animate, I
am willing; to acknowledge."

I am sorry that your memory is so
short," retorted Florence, whose indignation
was naturally increased by every
fresh proof of her guest's ingratitude
which issued from that young person's
lips. For almost every article of furniture
which the room contained bore witness
(in the shape of rich silks and costly
laces) to the fact of " benefits forgotten
" now of Lady Gregorie's generosity
towards her impecunious friend ;
nor did that friend find it altogether

easy, whilst standing in the midst of
those surroundings, to carry herself with
a bold and unblushing front before the
woman whom she had beo^un to hate.
That *' they ne'er pardon who have done
the wrong," is a truth of which few who
have had personal experience of the
heart's "desperate wickedness" can entertain
any doubt ; and Florence did not,
perhaps, form a too uncharitable judgment
of Miss Vidal's feelings towards
herself, when she added, with icy coldness
of manner, " But, until you have
succeeded in drawing a veil over the
past, perhaps you will not be sorry to
hear that my chances of domestic happiness
are effectually blighted. The destruction
of those horrible letters was a
fatal step. Without them, I have no
chance of persuading Sir Wilfred of my

innocence, and I must live henceforward
under the shadow of his suspicion and
displeasure."

It had been far, poor woman, from her
intention, when she commenced her indignant
protest, to lay bare, as she had
done, her most sacred and hidden griefs
to the inspection of her companion ; but,
like all impulsive and tender-hearted
women, the sympathy of her kind was as
necessary to her as the air she breathed.
It had hitherto been her wont, when a
crumpled rose leaf (rare occurrence ! for
her life was a singularly happy one)
chafed the moral cuticle of the Colonel's
light-hearted wife, to repose in Em's
sympathising breast her passing troubles,
and it was as much from force of habit
as from the rush of self-pity which
surged within her, that the imprudence of

which she had been guilty was owing.
The voice, always gentle and low, of the
unhappy wife, had trembled audibly as
she made her plaint, and her distress of
mind was so evident, that Em, possibly
gathering for herself hope for the future
from the sorrows of her friend, changed
her tactics, and, in a more conciliatory
tone, remarked : —

"The destruction of the letters was
certainly a foolish act on your part ; still,
I cannot but hope that your assurances,
backed by mine, will have weight with
Sir Wilfred. You will try your influence
again, will you not, dear Flo ? Only
fancy the shame, the disgrace, of being
turned in this summary fashion out of
doors ! And then there are my own
people ! What may they not imagine has
happened to cause a scandal so every way

frightful ? They are particularly hard up
too just now, moreover, for my father,
who, as I have told you, is never contented
to remain long in one place, has
taken it into his head to give up the
Maidaa Vale house, and remove his family
to the scene of his horse-breeding. These
moves of his are absolutely ruinous, and
if I am to be, as a climax, thrown back
unexpectedly on their hands, the row
will be something awful to contemplate.
Could you not gain even a fortnight's
reprieve for me, dear Flo ? " she added
coaxingly, "if it could be only until after
the Town Hall affair, which they know at
home that I have looked forward to so awfully,
I should be eternally grateful. You
will plead again for me, won't you, dear ? "
and, greatly to Lady Gregorie's distress,
she sank upon her knees, and looked up

with imploring eyes into those of the
visitor into whose ears she had lately
poured spiteful and insulting words.

The silent head-shake with which her
entreaty was met did not prove immediately
effectual, emphatic although it
was, in checking the torrent of Miss
Vidal's words. That young person had
long since been of the opinion — one
which she had read in some English
translation of a French novel — that "the
impossible is always possible for those
who wait and hope," and therefore, fortified
by this conviction, she still, whilst
holding Lady Gregorie's small shaking
hands in her own more muscular fingers,
continued her eager solicitations for a
respite.

"You cannot really mean," she said
imploringly, " that, as your silence

seems to imply, I am to go at once ?
Think, dear, of the ignominy I should
have to undergo. How could I face
your servants ? How bear up against
the contempt and ridicule which
I should read in their faces ; and
how—"

Oh, Em ! " exclaimed Florence pityingly,
whilst the tears streamed from
her eyes, and she pressed with the
warmth of returning affection Em's hands
between her own, " do not, I pray
you, continue to torture both yourself
and me with these unavailing entreaties.
You have not now to learn how unchangeable
are at times Sir Wilfred's
resolves ; and I dare not — I really dare
not — in this case act contrary to his
wishes. So now, my poor Em," she continued,
as her companion sprang to her

feet and threw herself, unmindful of
the finery she was crushing, on a
chair, " let us consult together as to
what is best to be done. The time
allowed to us is unfortunately terribly
short ; but as Sir Wilfred suggested telegraphing
— "

Sir Wilfred suggested I " almost
screamed Miss Vidal, as she pushed away
her chair, and confronted her gentle
visitor with furious looks. " And am I
expected," she continued, in a voice
that was absolutely hoarse with passion,
'Ho obey the commands of a man who
is, I must take the liberty of saying,
no gentleman, or he would never
dare to treat a lady who is temporarily
under his protection as he is treating
me ? — for I conclude, from your
mention of a telegraphic message, that

I am expected to leave Broadmere tonight."


Exactly," rejoined Florence coldly,
for she was again, in consequence of Em's
impertinent remarks concerning Sir Wilfred,
undero-oinf]^ one of those mental
reactions against her former friend to
which, from the commencement of their
somewhat stormy interview, she had been
liable. It was, in fact, high time, considering
the state of mind into which
both ladies were wrought, that the closure
of the debate should be put in force.
Miss Vidal, being of a combative nature,
would gladly have had what she called
her *say" out; but Florence was very
differently constituted, and her agitation
and sorrow having culminated ina
severe headache, she ardently longed
for such rest of mind as in the

quiet of her own room she could hope to
enjoy.

Notwithstanding the occasional weaknesses
of character of which in these pages
Lady Gregorie has given proofs, she was
quite capable, when circumstances compelled
her to exertion, of making herself
both respected and obeyed. This power
she exerted now. Gently, but nevertheless
very firmly, she gave Miss Vidal to
understand that immediate steps for her
departure from Royalty Square must betaken
; and Em, although in her heart
she hated, as only an envious and
slighted woman knows how to hate, the ci-devant
friend whose generous kindness had
never failed her, busied herself mutely
and sullenly in the work of preparation.
Acting on Sir Wilfred's suggestion, a telegram
announcing her advent was despatched

to Sussex Road, Maidaa Yale ;
and Em, after partaking of an early but
substantial dinner, was conveyed by Lady
Gregorie in her victoria in time for the
6*30 train from Broadmere Station to
London.

Do not think of me with unkindness,
dear," said kind-hearted Florence,
as the carriage in which the quondam
friends had, in days gone by, taken
many a pleasant drive, bowled away from
the Square, and truthfully, as Em concluded,
from the sneering comments
of the " pampered menials " who watched
its departure. " Gladly would I have
stood between you and this miserable
mode of leaving us ; but there are
times — "

Oh, never mind," interrupted Miss
Vidal pettishly. " The less said about

the past the better, only it will act asa
warning to me never in future to take
anybody's part. As for you, if you
can feel happy after the way you have
sacrificed me to your own selfish interests,
all I can say is that I wish you joy of
your want of heart."

Hush ! " whispered Florence, in a
shocked and eager tone. "Do not talk
so loud. The coachman will hear you,
and — But here we are, thank Heaven ! at
the Station, and I need no longer listen
to your unkind and most unjust reproaches."


The parting was, as may be supposed,
as cold on both sides as parting could
well be, and a few minutes later Em
was left to reflect, in bitterness of spirit,
on the " ais " and " ohs ! " of wonder with
which on her return she would be

greeted ; whilst Florence reflected, with
the heaviest heart she had ever yet
known, on the grievous, and, as she
feared, irremediable loss of her husband's
love and trust.

^s^?:,

EM THROWS LIGHT ON THE MATTER.

^^51 HE train from Broadmere by
which Emily Vidal was expected
did not as a rule reach
London till twelve o'clock at night,
yet, late as was the hour, and although
for economy's sake the motto of " early
to bed" was habitually practised in
the Vidal household, every member of
the family, stirred by the general curiosity
to learn the cause of Em's unexpected
return, was up and in readiness
to receive her. Mrs Vidal, a faded and

over-worried woman, one of whose worst
misfortunes in life it had been that her
great-grandmother was the daughter of a
Marquis, insisted on the keeping up in
their impoverished establishment a very
faint imitation of what she believed to
be one of the daily habits of the " great."
For instance, half-an-hour previous to
the "laying" by a "house-parlour-maid"
of an often-used dinner-cloth, the feeble
tinkle of a bell was at the hour of
seven p.m. heard, and forthwith the
females of the family disappeared to
their respective toilettes thence shortly
to reappear in other, although probably
in shabbier garments than those
lor which they had been exchanged.
The head of the household, a good-tempered,
devil-may-care individual, whose

career in a cavalry regiment had been
VOL. III. D

cut short by debt, and who had since
carried on a precarious and not very
creditable existence as a *' gentleman
rider," was — a not unfrequent habit of
his — absent from home. His breeding
establishment in the neighbourhood of
Aldershot — albeit it was not carried on
in an extensive scale — called for constant
supervision, and this was the
more necessary, seeing that Captain
Yidal, as he elected to be called, had
lately taken to himself that not always
desirable business agent popularly known
as a partner ; this fact also, together
with the approaching migration of the
family to Heather Lodge, was far from
lessening the appearance of discomfort
and untidiness in the midst of which it
was the normal habit of the Vidal family
to live and move and have their being.

Well, we are a disreputable-looking
lot," remarked the eldest girl, whose name
was Hilda, and who had taken possession
of a rocking-chair, the appearance
of which was (from long usage) so
much against it, that it had been pronounced
in family conclave to be not
worth the expense which sending it to
Heather Lodge would entail ; " and,
mother," she shouted, for the maternal
parent was a sufferer from deafness, an
affliction which, on the part of her
daughters, called for considerable vocal
exertion, " do try and go to sleep. You
will know about Emily soon enough ;
and if you don't get something of a
night's rest, you will never be able tomorrow
for the bother of flitting."

The Vitals were on the whole both

•J

a good-natured anil an attached family,

U. OF ILL I '^'

and, seeing that Mrs Yidal was one of
the most tiresome and exacting of human
beings, it may be counted for righteousness
in her daughters, that, when ineffectually
endeavouring to beat into their
parent's " good ear " facts with which
it was advisable that she should become
acquainted, they rarely, on discovering
that the case was hopeless, were guilty
of losing their tempers. Even Emily,
who was the least patient of the quartette,
would strive, to the best of her
ability, to hide her natural irritation
when Mrs Vidal, with the tautology
which is one of the most trying infirmities
of old age, enlarged, as was her
wont, on the greatness of her maternal
descent, and boasted of the cousins
who, in very truth, proved distant ones
to her. As regarded Captain Vidal,

his wife's deafness troubled him not
at all. He had long since arrived at
the philosophical conclusion that "what
can't be cured must be endured," and
therefore, when Mrs Vidal's unfortunate
purity rendered her incapable of
catching the meaning of his words, it
was his wont to turn over the task of
making her understand to one of his
daughters (Linda, the third girl, by-preference)
with the cheerful-sounding
parental order of —

You tell your mother what I mean,
Lin," and forthwith that young person,
whose place at table was at Mrs Vidal's
side, and who was well accustomed to
the duty which had devolved upon her,
shouted into the ear of the afflicted one
some wholly unimportant remark, which
the lady of the house, jealous of her

wifely privileges, had, from the motion of
her husband's lips, and the direction of
his small, beady eyes, rightly decided
that he had addressed to her.

And this was the household to which
Emily Yidal, after her lengthened visit in
Eoyalty Square — a visit during which she
had indulged to her heart's content in
the luxuries which to the wealthy are as
the mere necessaries of life — was momentarily
expected to return. But for the
element of curiosity which it had aroused,
the receipt of Emily's telegram would
hardly have awakened in the breasts of
her sisters any sensation of pleasure.
Linda, the only one of the four who had
never experienced the gnawing pangs of
envy in that Em had been, by means of
Lady Gregorie's friendship, exalted above
her fellows, was conscious of a certain

amount of nervous tremor when the time
when Emily's coming would, by the ring
of a cabman at the door, be announced.
Linda's health had never been strong-and
being of an imaginative turn of
mind, she had conjured up reasons for
her sister's sudden return, which had
rendered her hast night a sleepless one,
and caused her to listen, as though in a
dream, to the loudly-spoken suggestions
of her elders regarding the possible
reasons for Em's abrupt return.

What in the world can it be ? " exclaimed
for the hundredth time since the
arrival of the telegram, the oldest and
most inquisitive of the waiting ones ;
whilst Bertha, the beauty of the family,
threw out a hint which Miss Yidnl, eager
for a sensation, immediately took up and
mentally commented upon.

"1 wonder," Bertha said, "whether her
coming back can have anything to do
with papa's new partner, Major Brereton.
He was, you know, in the Chalkshire
Rifles, and — "

But at that moment a cab — not a
hansom, for Em's "plunder" was far
too bulky for conveyance in even the
roomiest of those far preferable vehicles —
drew up drowsily to the door, and a
loud ring at the bell from a breathless
runner," announced the fact that Miss
Emily Vidal had arrived.

She looked, on her entrance, very wan
and weary, and as the girls pressed forward
to bestow upon her a sisterly
embrace, her response to their greetings
was the reverse of fervent. On seeing,
by the light of a solitary and ill-burning
lamp, that her mother had not yet retired

to rest, a deeper shade of annoyance
passed over Emily's face. There was no
help for her now. Late as was the hour,
and weary as were both her head and
limbs, she must now give voice to the
fictitious reason for her return which,
during the journey, she had concocted ;
and, in her present condition of mind
and feeling, she positively shrank from the
ordeal of shouting into her mother's ear
the falsehood which, when still unspoken,
had not struck her as being so very black.
Mrs Vidal was the first to enter into
the subject which, during twelve mortal
hours, had absorbed the interests of the
assembled family. She was wide awake
now, and ready to be put an courant
of the event, whatever it might be,
which had restored the long-absent Emily
to the bosom of her family.

Well, my dear," the old lady said
briskly, for the forty winks during which
no sound broke the spell of her slumbers
had tended greatly to her refreshment,
*• here you are again ! And after such a
surprise too ! I declare I never was more
startled than when I read your telegram.
They are nasty things at all times, but
when it comes to their telling you nothing
at all, but just what makes you
worry, worry, worry for something more,
I, for one, had rather have been without
one.

Em had drawn a rush-bottomed chair
close to her mothers side, and having
brought her pallid lips into near contact
with the old lady's cap-frill, she spoke —
for the benefit of the family in general —
as follows : —

You would hardly have thanked me

for sending you a longer telegram, for
it is a case of threatened scarlet fever
which has brought me away, and —
oh, you needn't be frightened, I am
quite safe not to do mischief. Little
Freddie, the idol in Royalty Square, had
a slight attack of fever, owing to drinking
cold water when he was hot, and
the first doctor who was called in having
suggested scarlet fever, I thought it
best, as the house is not large, and
illness takes a great deal of room, to
say that I would return home."

Aud they were selfish enough to let
you come away, and bring their fever tous
! " exclaimed Hilda angrily. " I never
heard anything so atrocious. I never
thought much of your dear Lady Gregory,
but I could not have believed anything
so bad of her as this."

I don't see anything bad in it ! " Em
said stoutly. '* Probably, although she
was too well-bred to say so, Florence
considered me selfish for proposing to
leave her in her trouble. She could
hardly press me to remain in an infected
house, but I could see that she
was hurt ; for when a second doctor, the
regimental one, came, and pronounced the
child's ailment to be nothing worse than
chicken pock, she did not urge • me to
remain. She was, however, she said, very
sorry for it all, and asked me to come
and see them again when they were
settled at St Margaret's."

Now seeing that Em's reputation for
truthfulness did not stand especially high
in her family, her explanation was taken
cuifn grand salts by those to whom it was
addressed, and, but for the lateness of

the hour, it is probable that Hilda, who
clearly loved to talk a matter out, would
have indulged in further questionings regarding
the subject on hand ; but a remark
from Em that she was " awfully
tired," induced her to put off till the
morrow any allusion which she had previously
been on the point of making to
her father's recently-adopted partner.

On the following morning, an opening
for the introduction of Major Bretton's
name into the domestic councils
was unexpectedly made by Emily herself.
The latter, finding herself the first,
after her eldest sister's appearance,
to enter the breakfast-room, said irritably


"What in the world is the reason of
this sudden change ? Surely for people as
poor as we are, London is the best place ?

We shall know no one at Heather
Lodge but racing men and bookmakers ;
besides, the expense of moving will be
awful."

We shall know papa's new partner,
I suppose," suggested Hilda. " He is a
Major Brereton ; and as he has only just
left the Chalkshire Rifles, you probably
met him at Broadmere ? "

Hilda, who had inherited the sharp
black eyes of her sporting parent, kept
them fixed, as she waited for an answer,
on her sister's face ; and when the latter,
with a rise of colour which she would
have given much to conceal, replied,
with an attempt at insouciance, — *soh,
yes, I knew him slightly. They did
not like him in Royalty Square, so
he was not often asked there," the
crafty questioner felt well assured that

between Major Brereton and Em there
had been " passages " which, for the nonce
at least, it did not suit Miss Emily's
book to enter upon.

MRS Dunham Writes A LETTER.

^^UY's preparations for departure
kept him so fully employed
that several days elapsed before
he found time to pay his promised
visit to the " Shanty." Meanwhile, the
idea that no court-martial would be held
on Guy Leycester began to gain ground.
He had, it could not be denied, committed
a grave breach of discipline, but
then the provocation to do so had been
great. Major Br ere ton's character as a
black sheep was becoming rapidly unfolded.

Captain Leycester's interest at
the Horse Guards was great, and he
had volunteered for service abroad.
Under these especial circumstances,
therefore, his sword, was, with an
admonition," restored to him, and he
was once more a free man.

Free ! Yes, but to do what in life
he most dreads, is, he knows, the
first use which Duty demands him to
make of liberty ; for the truth must
now, in all its entirety, be told to
Gertrude, and his heart sinks within
him at the bare thought of what, in
the coming interview, both he and she
are fated to undergo.

The husband of Gertrude Denham
was not, as has already been hinted,
an especially amiable man, and it had

VOL. III. E

been with a certain amount of satisfaction
that he had brought home to
his wife the news of Captain Leycester's
arrest. Although the time when
he had loved Gertrude Annesley had
long since passed away, he was still
capable of feeling jealous of the man
against whose attractions he felt persuaded
she was not wholly proof, and
it was with much exaggeration that he
informed her of the heavy blow which
Guy had dealt to his adversary, and of
the danger of death, for as such he described
it, in which the wounded man
was lying.

It will be a case of manslaughter
against Leycester, if the man dies," he
said ; and Mrs Denham's state of mind
as she listened to this surmise, is
easier to imagine than to describe. Her

distress and anxiety, were, however,
not of long duration. The report that
Major Brereton's injuries were not likely
to cause much sorrow to any friends
whom he might happen to possess,
speedily got abroad. Suspicions also
of his inculpation in regard to the
diamond robbery began to be whispered
about, and these rumours were
soon followed by the release of Guy
Leycester from durance vile.

Gertrude's joy, when again she looked
upon the face of the man she loved,
was checked by the expression of sadness
which was so plainly visible on
his countenance.

"Oh, Guy," she cried, "what a most
miserable week we have gone through !
And now — now I fear that there is
some fresh trouble. Is it so ? Tell me

quickly, for I cannot bear that you
should have anxieties which I do not
share."

"Dear Gertrude," he answered gently,
I wish — oh, how I wish — that you were
less good and kind. For my anxieties
are all for you, — you whom I have
dragged into a sort of partnership with
my miserable debts, — you whom I must
leave — "

'leave'' she repeated, with a short
sharp cry of anguish. " Oh ! what
shall I do ? What good will my life
do me if you go away ? My husband
said something which I fancied meant
but I thought that it was only to
torment me — that you were going to
exchange. And where are you going ?
and when ? You spoke once of the
Soudan, but I cannot believe that you

could be so cruel. Guy, dearest, I am
only your friend, I know, but I think
that I deserve your confidence. Is
there any truth in the report that Miss
Malcolm has — oh, I cannot bear to think
of it ! She is very rich, but you would
not be happy with her — "

Nor have I any intention of trying
to be so," Guy rejoined. " No, dear, I
am not thinking of such a very desperate
step as that ; I have only, as I before
told you, volunteered, by way of variety,
for the Soudan — "

And are you really going there ?
Oh ! Guy," and she sank back, pale asa
corpse, in her chair, " it sounds tome
like death — "

Whilst to me," he, endeavouring to
speak lightly, said, "it sounds only like
deliverance. If it were not for you, —

you, dear, generous woman, I should
feel nought but joy. It is the knowledge
that I have been the means of
causing the voice of slander to be busy
with your name, which weighs upon
my conscience, and causes me to obey
the call of duty with a heavy heart.
If I should not return — "

If you do not return," she said,
speaking with closed eyes, and like one
in a dream, " my death will make
everything smooth and easy. For I
cannot live without sometimes seeing
you. My home is too miserable, and
I feel that my trials are greater than
I can bear."

Do not speak so despondingly dear,"
said Guy ; and as he pressed her two
cold hands in his, it comforted for a
moment this poor weak woman to feel

that in that lengthened pressure there
was something closer than a mere
friendly feeling. " You must look at
the bright side of things, and hope
that I may come back to you a wiser
and a better man."

She was silent, passing over in mental
review the many dangers to which
the man for whom she had sacrificed so
much was about in that cruel Soudan war,
to be exposed. On the increased home
misery which she would herself, were
his precious life to be cut short, incur,
she coukl not choose but dwell, and
now that she was about to lose the
support and comfort of his daily visits,
her own loss of self-respect in that she
had allowed herself not only to love,
but to betray her feelings towards one
whom to dote on was a sin, filled

her with the deepest shame. And if
he should share the fate of the many
brave men whose bones lay buried in
that distant land, what, save bitterest
remorse for the past, would be henceforth
her portion ? Whilst for him — for
the dear one who might be cut off in
his sinful, thoughtless youth, what could
she dare to hope? During the period
when her love for Guy Leycester had
been growing into a passion, the
strength of which she found it difficult
to conceal, she had, without much difficulty,
succeeded in banishing from her
mind all thoughts of that other world
to which, in the days when she had
been conscious of no guilty imaginings,
her musings had so often tended. She
had been wont, in that season of comparative
innocence, to turn for comfort

to the blessed hopes held out in Holy
Writ to those who in this dark world
are troubled and sore smitten ; and
now, when her fears for Guy grew
black within her, the thought of his unfitness
to meet his Judge gave her courage
to say abruptly, but with nevertheless
a strange solemnity of manner, —

Guy, dear, do you ever — forgive
me for asking you such a question —
remember that there is another world
than this ? Do you ever ask of God
to forgive your sins ? It would be so
terrible to die unpardoned, and we
have all — I especially — need of forgiveness
; " and as, in broken accents,
she breathed her timid warning, she
passed her hand caressingly over the
brown, closely-cut hair of the hitherto
thoughtless soldier, whose handsome

head, for he was seated on a stool
beside her, was bending low over
her knees.

Guy's sensations on hearing these
startling questions were the reverse
of enviable. In common with, I
greatly fear, the majority of men of
his age and class, he had as completely
forgotten the existence of an
All-seeing God as if he had never in
his boyish days been taught the awful
truth that the commission of evil deeds
will not go unpunished. But he could
not confess this fact to Gertrude, neither
could he own to her that were he to
look closely into his inmost mind, he
would find there but little of the faith
in prayer which in her was so strong
and comforting.

His silence, the result, not, as she

feared, of annoyance, but of a sense of
the false position in which he found
himself, greatly distressed his companion,
but, having ventured so far to
probe his conscience, she would not
yield weakly to her fears, but said, in
her soft, pleading voice, —

Will you promise me one thing,
Guy?"

"Anything," he answered eagerly.
Only tell me what I can do to give
you pleasure."

Promise me then," she said, and the
tears, as she breathed her prayer fell
down her colourless cheeks like rain,
that if you should be in deadly peril,
you will say in your heart one fervent
prayer to God for mercy. Promise me
this, dear, and then I too may hope,
when I have obtained, through repentance,

pardon for my past sins, to meet you
again in heaven."

Mechanically, and as though acting in
simple obedience to a wish of hers, he
gave the required promise, but if the
trusting woman could have looked into
his heart, she would have read there a
protest against the concession he had
made ; for Guy told himself (nor can
we deny that he spoke, to his inner
consciousness, the truth) that Prayer
delayed until the hour of peril comes,
is the action of a coward, and that,
being such, can be of little avail to the
petitioner. Not, however, for any consideration
that could be offered him, did
he feel able to increase poor Mrs Den-ham's
too evident unhappiness by a confession
that his faith was less steadfast
than her own, and therefore he, after

giving the required promise, limited himself
to saying, with heartfelt fervour, —

God bless you, dear, you have been,
and are still, my guardian angel. If I
had had a different mother, — one who
had talked to me as you have done, I
might, perhaps, have been less of a
curse both to myself and others. People
talk of a fellow being no one's enemy
but his own, but my experience tells
me that a man cannot avoid, whilst
making an utter fool and selfish monster
of himself, dragging others into the
pitfalls which are yawning to engulf
him."

"Poor fellow!" Mrs Denham, with a
vigorous endeavour to recover herself, exclaimed.
" You must follow the advice
which you have given to me, and hope
for better things. You are still so young.

that — " but interrupting herself, for she
dreaded a renewal of agitation which she
was powerless to check, she added, —
'' But tell me you will not go immediately.
There must be so much for you
to do—"

Ah, there you are mistaken. If /
am not in light marching order, I do
not know who is. To-morrow I must
run up to town to see my people, and
show myself to the authorities ; but I
shall return the day after, and report
progress to you."

Gertrude's heart sank within her, but
she did her utmost to seem brave, as
she said tremulously, —

"Then this is not good-bye. I shall
see you again, shall I not ? before you
leave me quite."

*' Of course you will," was Guy's 

answer. " This is only an
cm revoir dear friend ; and we will say
it now, for I have to see the Colonel, and
there are letters which I am obliged to
write."

And so it came about that the parting
of those two who were destined never in
life to meet again, was, in appearance, as
calm and unemotional as though they
had been about to see each other on the
morrow, and discuss, with no fear of impending
evil hanging over their heads,
the topics of the day and hour. But
this is forestalling events which must
now, in their regular course, be narrated.

After Guy Leycester's departure, Mrs
Denham kept her spirits from sinking to
zero with the hope, that on the following
day but two he might be able to spare
her a few minutes of his now valuable

time ; but the weary hours sped by, and
he who had become, to her own exceeding
sorrow and remorse, the very sunshine
of her life, came not. Then arrived
for her the weary night, during the long
watches of which her inward and ceaseless
cry was, — " Would God it were morning
! " and then the heavy sleep of
utter exhaustion, from which she awoke
to find a letter lying on the coverlet.
It had been opened by her husband,
and in it she read these few but terrible
words : —

It grieves me to write that I cannot
return to Broadmere. The troopship sails
in two days, and I must be on the spot.
Once more, farewell, and may God bless
you. — Yours ever truly,

"Guy Leycester."

It was well for Gertrude Denham that
at that crisis in her life the eyes of a
husband jealous for the honour of his
name were constantly upon her ; for self-control
became for the half-brokenhearted
woman a matter of absolute necessity.
Eichard Denham was essentially a bully,
and was well skilled in the art of ingeniously
tormenting. Envy of Guy's great and
universal popularity was rife within him.
It was, he constantly reminded himself,
a popularity and also a consideration so
wholly undeserved, and one which he, who
had always conducted himself as a man
of honour and a gentleman — he who, small
as was his income, had kept himself clear
from debt, had utterly failed to win.

And now the man had gone, — gone to
win, perhaps, more golden opinions from
his fellow-men — and gone, it might be

VOL. III. F

to die ! Meanwhile, the tyrant husband,
keeping, as I before said, his eye
upon his wife, amused himself by talking
in her presence, with affected concern, of
the perils and privations, the sickness and
the hardships, of England's little '* army
of martyrs," and of watching on her mobile
face the effects of his carefully-chosen
words.

Truly thankful during those slowly
passing and most miserable days was
Gertrude in that she had not by any weak
yielding on her part to Temptation added
to the long array of guilt which she
greatly feared stood repented of, against
the man she loved. Of the lot of the two
women who, for widely - different causes,
had been deprived of the torturing consolation
of farewell words with the departing
soldier, that of Gertrude Denham was infinitely

the most pitiable. Her life was a
worse than solitary one, whereas May, the
darling of her home, was surrounded by
loving hearts, and by those who strove
by every means in their power to turn
her thoughts from dwelling; on the absent
one. And again, Gertrude had never told
her love. For her there existed no precious
memories of tender love-passages. The
"touch of a" now 'vanished hand" had
never caressed her shining hair, or been
allowed to linger with sweet seductiveness
within her own ; whereas May, child almost
though she was, could luxuriate in fancy
on not a few ecstatic memories. For her
there had been, as also for her lover, —

Hearts beating,
At meeting ;
Tears starting,
At parting."

And something akin to the self-congratulatory
feeling that " Come what might
she had been blest," supported her spirits
during the first trying period of separation.
Happily also for Gruy's child sweetheart,
she was still in the early springtime
of existence. The blessed sap of
Hope was rising in her veins, and acting
as a tonic to strengthen her nerves for
whatever added sorrow Fate might have
in store for her ; but for Gertrude Den-ham
there was no such tonic possible.
In the case of a childless woman, and a
wife unloving as she is unloved, the future
of the bereaved one (supposing always,
as was indeed the case with Gertrude),
she sets no value on the beauty and the
charm of manner which Time has left
untouched, is dark indeed.

A profound student of female nature

has, as the result of his experience, left
behind him the often-quoted axiom, that
Le remords est ne de Abandon et lion
pas de la faster Now Gertrude had
neither sinned nor had she suffered the
mortification of being abandoned ; and
yet her remorse for the past was keen
indeed. She sorrowed in that she had
never allowed the man whose slightest
touch set her pulses throbbing, to know
how dear he was. He had gone, possibly
to his death, and to the end he
had believed her to be cold of heart,
and regardful of his love ; and now a
great lonHno; seized her that he should
at last learn the truth. In this world,
the chances were that they two would
never meet again; and so the weak, impulsive
woman told herself that there could
be no sin in pouring out to him on paper

the story of her love, and of the fierce
battles against the temptations of her
own heart which she had waged. She
had begun her letter calmly, and with
something approaching to womanly reticence
and dignity ; but the subject, her
heart being so deeply engaged in it, was
an all-engrossing one, and lo I

"Each word she wrote, Love turned to fire."

Far was the unhappy writer from
surmising that other eyes besides those
of the man to whom she wrote would
read her soul's outpourings, but so, alas
for her ! it chanced. There came a
time, and that speedily, when the letter
which Gertrude Denham had in her
dreary solitude written to the man for
whose sake she had uncomplainingly
suffered wrong, fell into unfriendly

hands. When the heart of the chivalrous
soldier who would have championed
her innocence to the death had ceased
to beat, his sisters, true to the instincts
of a posthumous jealousy which, when
experienced in seasons of affliction, it
seems difficult to understand, had opened
the letter which had told him of poor
Gertrude's love, and from its pages had
chosen not only to draw conclusions which
were unfavourable to her character, but
had openly declared their belief in her unworthiness.
It needed but this last drop
to fill to the brim the unhappy woman's
cup of misery ; but the stern necessity
of keeping from her husband's knowledge
the fact that Guy Leycester had been
more to her than the mere acquaintance
which, in the presence of her tyrant,
he had seemed to be, enabled her, outwardly

at least, to bear her cross
without any betrayal of her inward
suffering. Truly her heart, and that
alone, knew its bitterness, and of joy
there was in future for Gertrude Denham
none in which a stranger could intermeddle
!

HOW THE LION DIED.

N the midst of Death, weare
in Life." During every
moment as it swiftly passes
by a human soul returns to Him who
gave it, and the feeble wail of a newly-born
infant breaks upon its mother's
ear. Whether the joining in wedlock of,
it is to be hoped, some happy pairs, is
an event of as frequent occurrence as
are those of births and deaths, I am
not prepared to say, the above slightly
tampered with quotation being simply

the result of reflections on a scene of
gaiety to which I am about to introduce
the reader, the said scene of gaiety
being in striking contrast to that which?
in far-away Soudan, is being enacted.

The departure of Guy Leycester to the
seat of war, and the grief, not loudly
expressed, but nevertheless very deep
and real, of the girl he left behind him,
did not, as a matter of course, delay
the preparations for Helen Durant's marriage.
It was true that from the scene
of one of the most cruel and indefensible
of England's little wars, disastrous telegraphic
intelligence might at any moment
arrive, — true also was it that May's gentle
heart was often racked with direst forebodings,
and that her eyes, darkened
by their long curled lashes, frequently
showed signs of recent tears, yet, on the

whole, the excitement attendant on the
wedding arrangements produced a sensible
improvement in her spirits.

As Helen's only bridesmaid, her own
dress became an object of interest only
secondary to that which she took in
Nellie's bridal costume, and the question
of whether her " nun's veiling "
costume should be relieved by pink or
blue was discussed by her with an
amount of animation from which Mrs
Durant drew cheerful auguries for the
future.

'' I really think," the pretty young
creature said, as she, with her golden
head on one side, and her dark blue
eyes fixed upon the rival colours,
endeavoured to arrive at a conclusion,
*' that pink will be the most effective.
What do you think, Elphy ? " she continued,

addressing her brother-in-law
elect. " Which shall I look best in —
pink or blue ? "

Blue, decidedly," was the uncompromising
reply. " It has long been an
accepted fact that pink for girls of your
colouring is inadmissible. Fair ones with
golden locks must content themselves
with blue ; and be thankful," he added,
with a smile, as he laid a brotherly
hand on the young girl's shoulder,
that there is such a shade to set off
their attractions."

He had no sooner spoken than he felt
that there ran through the slender frame
on which his strong hand lightly rested,
a shiver, which was suggestive of internal
emotion. Then the sweet carnation
lips quivered, and those who watched and
loved the girl, remembered that in the

days gone by, when Guy Leycester was
expected, May invariably contrived either
to clothe herself in a cerulean-hued costume,
or to bind her golden hair with a
11 band of the colour which her sweetheart
most admired.

"Do you think she is as far as ever
from forgetting him ? " asked Mrs Durant,
in a low, and deeply feeling voice, when
the girl, unable to control her growing
emotion, had silently left the room.
Even I recollected poor Guy's especial
liking for blue ; nor had I forgotten the
pretty ' maiden snood,' as he used to call
it, of pale blue riband, which, since he
went away, she has never worn ; and now
Well, poor child, I do not pretend to
understand her, and she was once," with
a melancholy smile, " as easy to be read
as a child's hornbook ! "

"And so she will be again, dear
mother," rejoined Elphinstone consolingly;
she is going through a painful experience,
but her youth is all in favour of
the trial to which my thoughtlessness has
exposed her, tending rather to her eventual
good than to her injury. If I did
not believe this, I should reproach myself
still more severely than I do for
not having taken better care of my
little sister."

"Well, we must hope the best,"
rejoined the widow sadly, " but, in the
meantime, I tremble to think of what
the consequences might be to May if
bad news of Captain Leycester were to
arrive. As it is, she frets, I fear, when
she is alone, at never hearing anything
about him."

Still," said Elphinstone, who had

caught sight of a white dress among
the garden shrubs, and was preparing to
join the lady of his love, " you think
I am right, do not you, in making no
allusion, in her presence, to Guy's
letters ? "

'certainly. The less she dwells upon
his memory the better. It seems a hard
probation for her to go through, but, after
all, to hear Captain Leycester's account
to you of the dreadful unhealthiness of
the camp at Suakim, and of the terrible
chances of fever which our poor soldiers
run there, would only make her more
unhappy."

Yes ; what with the constantly-recurring
night attacks, and the way the
Arabs have of burying their dead only
a few inches beneath the surface of the
soil, our poor fellows are too heavily

handicapped by contingent circumstances
for a very large proportion of them to
have a chance of fighting; their battles
over again."

Poor fellows indeed," responded Mrs
Durant, who, being a woman of strong
religious convictions, was frequently nota
little shocked by an absence of those
convictions in her daughter's fiance.
We can only give them the benefit
of our prayers, and trust that Providence
will w^atcli over them by night
and by day, and that both in their
goings-out and their comings-in, their feet
will not be suffered to slip."

Eowley Elphinstone allowed the widow's
last remark to pass unanswered. A better
and a more conscientious man than
he did not, in the ranks of the British
army, exist, but Faith had, in his idiosyncrasy,

its limits, and, after the fashion
of the First Napoleon, who professed a
belief that Providence was always on the
side of les gros battalions, he placed
more reliance on a General who knew his
business, and kept a good look-out, than
on the longest prayers against battle and
murder and sudden death that ever were
breathed by man or woman.

The wedding was to be a very quiet
one. Mrs Durant had, owing alike to
the shortness of her purse, and her present
disinclination for society, given little
encouragement to callers at the cottage
to repeat their visits, and, consequently,
the invited guests consisted almost entirely
of the clergyman of the parish
whose office it was to make ' one flesh
of pretty Helen Durant and her soldier
lover, and of a few of the latter's inti-

VOL. III. (i

mates in the regiment ; the Colonel and
his wife standing, of course, first and
foremost amongst the military whose presence
on the occasion was requested.

I wish, dear Nell, that there were
more people coming to admire you,"
said May to her sister, when, on the occasion
of a dress rehearsal, she stood admiringly
by Helen's side before the cheval
glass. "But there will be the band, and
the soldiers of Elphy's company lining
the aisle, which will be nice ; " and May
could hardly suppress a tear, as her
thoughts flew back to the goodliest
soldier of them all, who, instead of playing
the part of groomsman to his friend
(a role which on the programme had been
his to perform), might even now belying
stark and cold upon the battle-field.

I wonder," said Helen, who read

her sister's thoughts as in a book, and
who lost not a moment in changing the
conversation to a topic less suggestive
than that of military bands and officers
in the dark-green uniform of their Corps,
whose expected attendance at the approaching
ceremony had had the effect
of filling May's sapphire eyes with tears,
" I wonder why Lady Gregorie does
not say more positively whether or not
she and Sir Wilfred will be present tomorrow.
Her answer is so puzzling ; and
I feel sure that she wished to accept
our invitation."

Perhaps — " May was beginning, and
then stopped suddenly, for she recollected
that it was Guy who had laughed
with her over the Colonel's dislike to
encouraging matrimony amongst his officers
; and although since her lover's

departure a fortnight had elapsed, and
albeit she had forgiven her mother for
the part which the latter had played in
defrauding her of a last farewell, the
child could not as yet bring herself to
speak lightly of the lover she had lost.
Perhaps," she said, whilst her colour
came and went, " it is Sir Wilfred who,
for some reason or other, objects. Elphy
says that he has grown rather martinet-wish
(whatever that may mean) lately, and,
if so, and if he does not feel in the
humour to be pleased, he had better
remain away."

By this sample of little May's state
of mind, it will be seen that she did not
feel altogether in charity with the Colonel,
whose dislike to his officers taking to
themselves wives had become a matter
of notoriety. Great allowances were at

this time made, and that especially by
her mother, for the waywardness which
the poor child was at this trying period
of her young life given to display ; but
when, after much entreaty, permission was
at length given to her to add a few lines
to one of Eowley Elphinstone's frequent
letters to his late brother officer, a fit
of hysterics followed on the reaction of
joy which May after writing her tender
words to her absent lover experienced,
Mrs Durant bitterly repented of the concession
she had made. There came, however,
a time, and that shortly, when the
memory that Guy had, before the end was
reached, received the loving words which
she had indited, did good work in reconciling
the bride-elect to the inevitable.
We must not, however, anticipate
events which all too quickly sent a thrill

of horror throughout the length and
breadth of England.

The wedding at Ivy Cottage was pronounced
by all present to have been a
"very pretty" one, and to have gone off
remarkably well. The church in which
the ceremony took place was old, and,
like the cottage, ivy-clad. Its interior
also was prettily adorned with flowers,
for the proclivities of the Incumbent were
Eitualistic, and he therefore considered it
his bounden duty to spare the assistants
not one syllable of the marriage service.
It was, perhaps, as well, taking this circumstance
into consideration, that during
a portion of the ceremony the thoughts
of the bridesmaid had been more with her
own soldier love in the Soudan than even
with the darling sister by whom, until
of late, her every feeling had been shared.

When the ceremony was over, and the
bridal party had returned to the refreshment
of a very simple breakfast, the
rector, Mr Manners, congratulated Mrs
Durant in that the wedding had not
been a weeping one.

Everyone behaved beautifully," he
said, " which," and here he bowed courteously
to the bride, "is, I hope, a
happy omen for the future."

Oh, you need not praise Helen,"
laughed May ; " she is constitutionally,
as the doctors say, dry eyed. As for me,
I was only kept from tears by my fear
of doing damage to the lovely satin train
that lay in waves at my feet. There is
nothing like ' setting a resolution ' (you
remember dear old nurse's words, don't
you, mother X) ; well, I set a resolution,
and I never shed a tear."

And you have your reward," the
rector said gallantly, "in looking so fresh
and bright ; for, notwithstanding all that
poets have said in praise of * th' unanswerable
tear,' there can be no doubt
that beauty is not, as a rule, at its best
when in the melting mood."

He did his utmost, that worthy, 
" man of God," to make
the long hour which the breakfast, and
the usual compliments of the occasion,
occupied, pass off pleasantly ; but in the
hearts of the chief actors on the stage,
there existed an element of sadness which
it was beyond his power to reach. The
bride, dearly as she loved the man to
whom her vows had just been plighted,
fully realised, as her eyes fell upon the
saddened faces of her mother and sister,
the blank which her absence would occasion

in their little circle. She pictured
them to herself as (when the carriage
wheels which bore her away could be no
longer heard) shedding unavailing tears
for her loss ; and Helen, one of the least
selfish of mortals, could almost have reproached
herself in that she had had the
heart to bring this added sorrow on
their heads. Who amongst my readers
is either so fortunate or so heartless as
not to have experienced the strange mixture
of feelings which, when the moment
of an inevitable separation draws near,
prompts those who must of necessity be
left behind alternately to long for and
to dread the coming climax ? It was
with antagonistic sensations such as these
that the about to be bereaved ones, who
were making brave efforts to seem bright
and happy, mentally contemplated the

dismal void which Helen's approaching
departure would leave in their loving
trio. They were trying moments.
Moments which novo they would gladly
shorten, and which, anon, they would be
thankful, at almost any cost, to prolong.
It came at last, that painful parting,
and then, for Nature could no longer be
withstood, very plentiful were the tears
which the woman who was to be taken
away shed upon the tender bosoms of
those who must perforce be left to
grind at Life's weary mill without her.
The scene was cut short by the bridegroom,
who, at the risk, as he whispered
to May, of being called a "brute,"
hurried his wife away.

*' Come, darling, or we shall be late
for the Train," he said ; and then he too
having: affectionately kissed his newly-made

relations, the play was played out,
the curtain fell, and two poor tired
actresses were left alone in the "banquet
hall " to mourn for one who was, as
May, in the bitterness of her first sorrow
said, "as good as dead" to them.

Poor little May! sorrow had, in truth,
deeply shadowed the life which had
once been so bright. She had had a
lover, and such a lover I One in a
thousand in his vocation, was the man
who had won her heart, and left her
mourning. A kind of military prestige
had in the sunny days of Guy's brief
courtship surrounded her. There was
not a soldier of Captain Leycester's
company who, when he saw the lady
of their officer's choice pass by, abstained
from saluting her ; for, as I
have before said, the men, with the

keen instinct which enables soldiers to
recognise a gentleman when they see
him, both loved and revered their Captain.
Their sorrow had been great when,
driven by stress of circumstances, he left
the old regiment, and betook himself, in
search of glory, to the Soudan. Take
him for all in all, they would never, they,
with saddened faces, told each other,
look upon his like again.

But the pretty smiles with which the
** Captain's sweetheart " used to reward
the men's salutes were never seen upon
her sweet face now, and the sentimentally
inclined amongst those gallant
warriors were wont, with hushed voices,
to speculate amongst themselves as to
how, if the Captain never came back
alive, his young lady would bear the
news.

And all too soon it came — that dreadful
telegram, which told to anxious, waiting
England that, through causes which
it is needless here to explain, British
blood had been shed like water, and that
it was owing to British valour, and to
that alone, that a disaster only equalled
by the massacre at Isandula had not been
repeated on the sandy soil, and amongst
the thick bushes of the Soudan.

It is the evening of the day when
the disastrous telegram reached Broad-mere,
and every face at mess is shrouded
in gloom, for the name of the quondam
comrade, who had (despite his faults, or,
it may perhaps be said, in part because
of them) been dear to all, was foremost
in the list of heroes dio had
given their lives to save their country's

honour. Of course, the intelligence being
telegraphic, but few particulars of the
Action were given, but enough transpired
to enable the officers to make
a pretty shrewd guess that " someone
had blundered " strangely. When the
fuller details of the case became in
some degree known, the wrath of these
men of war was for a time unappeasable,
and Eowley Elphinstone, who had
returned from his brief honeymoon, was
the most eager of all in his condemnation
of the tactics in the Soudan which
had brought the brave army to that terrible
pass.

There will probably be a Court-martial,"
said Elphinstone ; *' but who
will be run in it is impossible to
say."

Someone most likely deserves to be

shot," put in another Captain, whose name
was Leigh, but whose voice, excepting
on especial occasions, was rarely heard.
*' But I shouldn't wonder if, as so often
happens, he meets with reward instead."

What ! after committing what seems
to be the terrible blunder of camping
in a thick jungle, and with a bush
higher than a man's head, all round !
Why, the veriest boy ensign would have
known his business better ! " rejoined
Elphinstone, who, smarting severely under
the double loss of British prestige and
of his friend, struck so sharp a blow
upon the mess - table that the glasses
fairy shook upon the board.

*' By heavens ! what a scene it must
have been ! " exclaimed the Colonel.
The sudden cry of ' Stand to your
arms, men ! Stand to your arms ! '

when hundreds, perhaps, of the poor
fellows had no arms within their reach ;
and then the rush of countless Arabs
upon the little camp ! Ah — Well, if
those fine fellows the Marines and the
49th Eegiment hadn't succeeded, by dint
of sheer discipline and pluck, in forming
a Square, there would probably not
have been a British soldier left to tell
the tale."

And what wonderful chaps, by Jove,
those Arabs were to fight ! Even the
women and children seem to have gone
to the death for their country and their
faith. I wish to God," continued Captain
Leigh, whose ugly but sensible face was
flushed with excitement, " that someone
would correct those people who take a
delight in running down these splendid
fellows, and talking of them as if they

were mere savages. Depend upon it, it
is a base and shameful thing to run
down a brave enemy, who took us all
we knew to beat them."

I warrant," said Elphinstone, and his
lip quivered as he spoke, " that old Guy
was in the thickest of the fight. His
lungs were run through, you see, by an
Arab spear, whilst he was rescuing a
Marine from being trampled on by the
overpowering rush of the Arab force.
Well, he died the death he would have
chosen, and now — "

'' Let us drink," said Sir Wilfred,
whose voice was hoarse from emotion,
to the memory of as brave a man,
and as good a soldier, as ever wore
a sword."

Then, all standing, and in solemn
silence, those who had been Guy Ley-vol.
III. H

chester's comrades in life, drank to his
memory in death. Slowly and sadly
then they laid their glasses down, and
left the dead hero enshrined in the
hearts of those who, when he was
amongst them, had to a man been
proud to call him " friend."

On May Durant's grief, when the
news that her lover had died a soldier's
death was gently broken to her, it is
best to draw a veil. Her sorrow was,
as is the case with all deep afflictions,
silent and uncomplaining, nor was she
stricken down by one of those convenient
fevers which novelists have
ever at hand as a means, painful, it is
true, and intensely trying to the spirits
of the heroine's friends, of saving the
reason of that young person from

succumbing to the blow which had
been dealt her. Amongst other blessings,
May enjoyed that of being a
thoroughly healthy girl. Born and bredin
the country, she had yet to learn
by experience that the fearful and
wonderful threads called nerves (and
which, by the way, are so closely allied
to " feelings ") exist in almost every
human frame. Hysterical weakness was
to the bereaved girl totally unknown,
and although, during the early days of
her great sorrow, she firmly believed
in the reality of her wish to die, yet
Time did by degrees its allotted work,
and before twelve months had elapsed
since her lover's death. May had begun
to recognise the fact that Life had still
something in it that was worth the
livings for. This recognition arose, of

course, in a great measure from the circumstance
that the period when Guy
Leycester's charm of manner and ardent
wooing had opened for her the gates of
Paradise had been but short. The time
during which his image had filled her
heart with love's sweet rapture had
not been long enough to tougher the
fibres with which he had begun to
entwine himself round her heart, and
therefore as the days and weeks and
months wore on the said fibres relaxed
by degrees their hold, alike upon her
fancy and upon her feelings.

Mrs Elphinstone's return too produced
after a while a beneficial effect upon her
spirits. The honeymoon of the "happy
pair " had been cut short in consequence
of the heartbreaking news which
had reached them from the seat of war.

There was no enjoyment for Helen whilst
those she loved were in such deep grief
at home, and Captain Elphin stone hungered
(albeit he was taking his full of
life's sweetest joys) to find himself with
the brother soldiers of whose sympathy
with his sorrow he felt so well assured.

The first tears which May, after the
blow which had been dealt her, fell
from her eyes, when they, on her brother-in-law's
return, lighted on the dark green
uniform which had once been, in their
little drawing-room, a familiar and an
ever welcome sight. The suggestion that
he should not make his appearance in
mufti emanated from Elphinstone, who
said, when Helen expressed a fear that
the sight of the well-known regimentals
miofht be too o;reat an ordeal for her
sister to go through with safety, —

Don't be alarmed, dear ; what May
wants is rousing, and if the old uniform
can startle her into the relief which a
flood of tears would bring, I for one
shall consider that it has done excellent
work."

And the result proved that he was
right. May's burst of weeping relieved
the oppression of her heart, and for the
first time since her sore bereavement, she
found courage to utter her dead lover's
name. And from that day she appeared
to find consolation in talking of him,
and in listening to the praises of his
bravery, and to the expression of deep
regret which his early death had called
forth. Early in the autumn the route
for a change of quarters came, and
when it was known that the Chalkshire
Eifles were ordered to the Southern

coast, great was the satisfaction felt hy
Mrs Durant, for Dr Brathwaite had
ordered change to the seaside for May,
and sanguine were the hopes entertained
by those who loved her that the
Kentish breezes, together with novel
sights and sounds, would tend to the
recovery of this " stricken deer's " mental
health. During the autumn and winter,
May and her mother were the promised
guests of the newly-married pair. Captain
Elphinstone was, as I have said, a
rich man, and they had therefore a
large house on the South Parade, so
that May could sit at her window facing
the sea, and watch the ever-changing
surface of the broad expanse of water.
And then there was the ever - moving
scene which along the gay Parade was
caused by the passing carriages and the

prettily-dressed maidens escorted, for the
most part, by gallant soldiers of the
Hampshire Eifles, who looked, as probably
was the case, as though love
whispers, tender as they were ephemeral,
were issuing from their lips.

And May Durant, seeing that it is
not in human nature to be always
fretting over past sorrows, awoke after
a while to a sense that existence might
yet become for her a pleasant thing.
She could never, she assured herself,
love again as she had loved the hero
sweetheart who lay buried in the
desert sand, but still — Well, to beloved
is very pleasant, and May, as
she watched the young girls smiling
on their soldier attendants as they
passed along the thronged parade,
heaved a sigh — was it one of harmless

envy ? at the sight, and loathed
herself in that for a passing moment
the possibility of being, in the days
that were to come, ever false to the
memory of her first love flashed across
her brain.

CHARITY NEVER Falleth.

FEW clays after the receipt
of the fearful intelligence from
Hasten, Lady Gregorie was
surprised by the visit of an old
acquaintance, who had formerly been
engaged in doing three months' duty asa
curate at Broadmere. The Reverend
Edward Warburton, who was a distant
connection of the Gregorian, was in
more respects than one a very young
man, and the curacy of St Gabriel's had
been his first charge. He had entered

upon that charge with the best intentions,
but his zeal in the cause in
which he put the most unbounded
faith, had not unfrequently landed him
ahead of discretion. In common with
many another juvenile apostle who had
done successful battle against temptation,
Mr War burton showed marked
intolerance towards those whose conduct
had in the slightest degree laid
them open to suspicion.

In this respect he but followed the
example of his Rector, who, in his
lack of Christian charity, had even gone
the length of visiting; Gertrude Den-ham
in her home, and threatening her
that unless she confessed and repented
her of her past sins, he would not allow
of her presence at the Communion
table. This cruel and unjustifiable act,

when it came to Lady Gregorie's ears,
roused within her breast an amount
of indignation which she did not
attempt to repress, and had It not
chanced that at the period of its
occurrence the Curate was absent on
leave, she would, notwithstanding that
her own domestic troubles were at that
time weighing down her spirits, have
given him the full benefit of her opinion
regarding Mrs Denham's wrongs.
However, ce qui est differed nest pas
perdue, and, as if in verification of
the proverb, Mr Warburton had not
been many minutes in Lady Gregorie's
presence when she poured forth upon
his head the vials of her wrath.

I hope," she said, with an effort
at calmness, although her fair cheeks
flushed as she fired the first shot in

defence of her injured sex, " that rumour
said more than the truth when it accused
you of being: one with the Rector in
the insult which he offered to Mrs
Denham."

As Lady Gregorie's quick-sighted grey
eyes took stock, from beneath their long
lashes, of the Curate's few personal advantages,
she made up her mind that
had he been a more attractive-looking
man, his judgments of others might be
less severe than was reported to be the
case. It was easy, Florence mentally
decided, to be virtuous, when the individual
who goes in for impeccability possesses
light-hued, fish-like eyes, and the
general effect of whose appearance is ill-calculated
to win for him favour in the
eyes of womankind. Lady Gregorie flattered
herself (and that not without

reason) that in such matters she was
competent to give an opinion, and thus
it chanced that, when on renewing her
acquaintance with the Reverend Edward
Warburton, she made up her mind that
he more closely resembled a somewhat
ill-conditioned Woman Catholic priest thana
straightforward English gentleman ; and
it was this idea which encouraged her,
ordained minister of the Gospel albeit
her guest could claim to be, to visit
him with the rod of her displeasure.

The Curate had taken a seat in front
of the sofa which was occupied by his
hostess. He had placed his broad-brimmed
soft felt hat upon the knees
of his somewhat well-worn nether garments,
and the expression of his closely-shaven
cheeks might be taken for that
of one in whose breast a struggle for

supremacy between the worship of Mammon
and that of the Power under whose
banner he had enrolled himself, was
taking place. Lady Gregorie was a
beauty, and, in his opinion, a fine lady,
whom he preferred not to offend. Sir
Wilfred also was the patron of three
more, or less, desirable Livings, but, on
the other hand, it was an object with
him to keep on good terms with his
present Rector, and to preserve, in Lady
Gregorie's eyes, a character for consistency,
and for an earnest desire to improve
the morals of the Parish in which
his present lot was cast. Under the pressure
of these contending elements, it behoved
him to be cautious, so, after a
pause, he said, —

I certainly agree with Dr Rogers in
thinking that when a lady — a parishioner,

either in Mrs Denham's or in any other
station in life, has given occasion for evil
reports of her conduct to be spread
abroad, that it is the duty of her clergyman
to give her warning of her
danger."

And to accompany that warning with
a threat! Oh, Mr Warburton ! " continued
his excited interlocutor, 'was
it on a mere suspicion of wrong-doing
that Dr Rogers — a man, and therefore
one who ought to be the protector,
instead of the persecutor, of the weak —
threw that monstrous stone at the unhappy
wife of a bad and unkind husband
? Do tell me," she, with increasing
excitement continued, whilst the slender
hands which rested on her lap were
tightly clasped, " whether you clergymen
ever remember the example of Him

who was born and died to show us
what in this short life should be our
rule of duty ? There was something
more than ill-natured gossip regarding
the three erring women whom we read
of in the Scriptures, and yet when
the sinning ones were brought before
Him for judgment, had He aught but
forgiving vrords for those whom the
verdict of their fellow-sinners had pronounced,
and perhaps justly so, to be
guilty, and deserving of punishment ?
I am not acquainted with Mrs Denham
myself, for I believe that she lives a
kind of hermit's life, but the death of
poor Captain Leycester must have deeply
grieved her, and as one who must
acutely feel his loss, she has my
deepest sympathy."

I was not aware," said Mr War-vol.
III. I

burton demurely, " that Mrs Denham
and Captain Leycester were related."

"Nor indeed, I imagine, were they,"
rejoined Florence quietly. " But do you
think it quite impossible for a woman,
one whose misfortune it is to have
a brutal husband, to become warmly
attached to a man who sympathises
with her, and yet be pure in fa t
as unmanned snow ? "

The Curate's smile of incredulity whilst
listening to Lady Gregorie's question
was sorely trying to her patience, and
still greater was her indignation when
he said, slowly and superciliously, —

I think you must admit, Lady
Greg:orie, that the instances of which
you speak are rare. Of course, there
ray exist such cases — "

And, in those cases, would it not be

more Christianity," interrupted Florence
hotly, " to give the suspected one the
benefit of the doubt ? We will not,
however, continue this discussion ; only,"
she added, with a smile which was one
of her chief attractions, " I shall insist,
as a penance on your venturing to disagree
with me, on your reading aloud
(you have a talent, I know, for recitation)
a few lines from one of my
favourite poets."

As she spoke, she took from a table
near her a beautifully-bound volume,
and having turned over a few of its
leaves, she presented the book open to
her companion. " You know the lines I
daresay," she added, as he took it from
her hand ; " but they are so sweet that I can
never hear them too often. Begin, please,
at the words, 'Who made the heart'"

Now it did not chance that Mr Warburton
had, in the course of his studies,
made himself acquainted with the
works of Burns, so that when, after
rising to receive the book, he glanced
at the open page and saw that the
verses which he was desired to read
were addressed '' To the Unco Guide," his
pale cheek flushed, and he prepared, unwillingly
enough, to perform his allotted
task. He could perceive, however, no
means of escape, and therefore began,
with a somewhat faltering voice, to read
his own condemnation : —

' Who made the heart, 'tis He alone

Decidedly can try us.
He knows each chord — its various tone,

Each spring its various bias ;
Then at the balance let's be mute,

We never can adjust it ;
What's done we partly may compute.

But know not what's resisted.' "

"Thanks, very much," said Lady Gregory
sweetly, when the Curate, with a
heightened colour, had creed his weird,
and closed the book from which he had
been slowly reading. " You have not,
I see, lost your pleasant talent for recitation,
and I am sorry that our approaching
departure for St Margaret's will deprive
us of a more frequent pleasure of
taking advantage of your gift."

She shook hands with the discomfited
man as she said the flattering words, and
he left her gentle presence, a wiser, and
it is to be hoped, a better man.

For the sorrow of Gertrude Denham,
in whose lot the reader may perchance
feel a passing interest, the whirligig of
Time brought with it its revenge. On
first, by means of the Public Press, learning

that the man she loved was amongst
the slain, the intelligence seemed to turn
her into stone ; and once again it was
only the intense fear under which she
laboured lest her husband should suspect
the truth, which compelled her to self-command.
But although one overpowering
passion, namely, that of Fear, crushed
down, to outward appearance, the emotions
of dull despair, the effects of the
shock she had received became daily
more visible in the health as well as in
the personal appearance of this most unhappy
though guiltless woman. There was
visible in her countenance the wan and
weary look which is only observable in
those whose hope of happiness in this
life is utterly at an end ; the remains
of youthful beauty had faded from her
face, and her days were spent in preparation

for the release from suffering
which could not, she felt persuaded,
be long delayed. The fulfilment of these
hopes, for hopes in truth they were,
would probably not have been for any
considerable time put off, but for an
event which, soon after the disaster in
the Soudan, changed the tenor of Gertrude
Denham's life. This event was
the sudden death, in a fit of apoplexy, of
her husband. The shock to Gertrude,
whose sense of religion was strong, and
whose faith in Scripture truths was
firmly fixed as though written by a pen
of iron upon a rock, was very great.
It was terrible to believe, as believe
she did, that for the selfish profligate
who m life had denied the existence
of a God, there could, in the world
to which he had been summoned, exist

nought save a future of eternal punishment.
For a woman so gentle and
tender of heart as was Gertrude, the
belief in such a creed as this strikes
in the light of an anomaly. That the
dogma was one which, from her earliest
childhood, had been familiar to her,
could alone account for the pertinacity
with which, as an article of faith,
she clung to it; and yet, whilst the
shock she received was yet recent, a
still small voice seemed to whisper in
her ear that the God whom Christians
are so frequently, in Holy Writ, enjoined
to love, could not be the unjust
tyrant which, in the opinion of many
of His creatures. He is held to be ;
and it was with the faint hope of receiving
comfort from his ministrations
that she, on the day previous to the

funeral, requested the favour of a visit
at her house from the clergyman of
her parish. Now the Reverend Mark
Truman was an anti-Eitualist of the
most marked proclivities, and consequently
the interview between him and
his bereaved parishioner led to no satisfactory
results. Mr Truman, who was
a thin, ascetic-looking man, with a cast
in his eye, and who could, " an he
would," have boasted of one of the
longest aud straightest of clerical backs,
held out to her no shadow of hope
that her quondam tyrant would escape
the punishment due to his transgressions.
This very decided declaration of
faith produced, as I before said, a
very depressing effect upon Gertrude's
spirits ; nevertheless she, after a while,
began to realise the fact that there

was blessed peace in the house now
that the voice, which for her had been
far often er raised in curses than in
kindness, was no longer heard within
its walls. She was, to borrow a conventional
term, tolerably '* well left,"
for the soul of Richard Denham had
been so suddenly required of him, that
the drawing up on his part of a last
will and testament was rendered impossible.
The money of which Gertrude
thus became possessed was sufficient
not only for her own needs but
for the works of charity to which
she thenceforth intended to devote herself,
and as there existed old family
ties which drew her to the pleasant
garrison town in which the Chalkshire
Eifles were for the present quartered,
she betook herself to the southern

watering-place, in which, for the remainder
of her days, she hoped to
sojourn.

It was by the dying bed of a woman
who had been a sinner, that Gertrude
Denham and the mother of the girl
whom Guy Leycester had loved, first
met. The widows were both clad in
mourning garments, and on the countenances
of each were to be read traces
of recent sorrow. One marked difference,
however, between the two, might by a
keen observer of diagnostics have been
remarked ; for whereas the expression
borne by the younger woman's still
attractive face was that of utter despondency,
there could, on her fellow-mourner's
gentle features, be traced a
chastened cheerfulness which at once
fascinated her fellow worker in a deed

of charity. The acquaintance thus unexpectedly
commenced, soon ripened into
intimacy, for, even if Mrs Durant had
doubted the truth, which was indeed
not the case, of Guy Leycester's assurance
that his relations with Mrs Denham
had not exceeded the bounds of friendship,
the more she saw of Gertrude the
more thorough became her conviction
that the friend whom she had learned
to love had passed unscathed through
the fiery ordeal of temptation.

And in time, better consequences still
arose than this from the friendship which
grew up between the widows ; for,
through Mrs Durant's influence and
example, Gertrude gradually abjured the
gloomy tenets in the belief in which
she had been brought up. It could
never in after days be said of her that

she was an habitually cheerful woman.
In her life there had been so little sunshine
that the blossoms of early Springtime
had been too effectually nipped in
the bud for sweet flowers ever to
enliven her path again, still, amongst
the poor and the suffering, she was an
indefatigable and a glad seeming worker ;
and very thankful was she that, in the
face of apparently insurmountable difficulties,
and although the tongues of
scandal had been busy with her name,
good women, and notably amongst
these were Helen Elphinstone and Lady
Gregorie, did not withhold from her
the right hand of friendship. It was
pleasant to be cared for by those to
whom Guy Leycester had been dear ;
but there were times and seasons when,
in her lonely cottage by the sea, the

memory of many an early sorrow would
wring her heart with unavailing grief.
Times, too, there were, when the image
of the dead hero whose remains lay
mouldering' in the arid sands of the
Soudan, would rise up before her, and
fill her eyes with tears ; and on those
occasions, when " the burden that was
laid upon her seemed greater than she
could bear," her thoughts would involuntarily
return to some old lines which
long; ao;o, and in a half forgotten volume,
she had read : —

Had some good Angel op'd the book of Providence,
And let me read my Fate ;
My heart had broke when I beheld the sum of ills
Which one by one I have endured."

ON THE Battle-field.

VER since the affair of the
diamond robbery, Sir Wilfred
Gregorie had been an altered
man. If it be true — as true it doubtless
is — that "to be wroth with those we
love doth work like madness in the
brain," it is equally certain that a condition
of uncertainty, one which scarcely
permits of any mental outbreak, but
which nevertheless is a haunting evil,
acts as a perpetual blister on the
nerves. The Colonel was not angry, as

the saying is, with his wife, neither did
he suspect her of any act which could
be considered worse than folly, but the
consciousness that a cloud had come between
him and his once entirely-trusted
Florence, was ever present with him. At
the beginning, it had seemed no bigger
than a man's hand, but the little rift
had, by slow and imperceptible degrees,
become wider, and " the pitied speck
upon the garnered fruit " had spread.

Under these circumstances, it is not
surprising that Sir Wilfred's temper,
which had never been his strong point,
should have been slightly influenced by
the present almost sunless atmosphere
of his home, and that he should have
shown signs, if not, as Captain Elphin-
stone had hinted, of a "martinet" like
tendency, but that he should have grown

fussy " and difficult to please. He had
become cognisant of the fact that Bretton's
possession of the missing diamonds
had been noised abroad, and the terrible
idea that comments affecting his
wife might, in consequence of his refusal
to prosecute, have been made, did
not tend to the improvement of his
temper. Although his nature was, as a
rule, little prone to " pry into abuses,"
the fact that the letters, which, ashe
had been assured, contained nothing
more reprehensible than words of childish
folly, had been so immediately destroyed,
vas constantly, and that in no
agreeable fashion, recurring to his mind ;
and thus it unfortunately fell about
that, in spite of his wife's efforts to
give him pleasure, better times had not
as yet begun to dawn for the now often

VOL. III. K

dejected partner of the Colonel's life.
That clear-sighted individual had, as I
have before said, placed unlimited faith
in his wife's purity of thought and
action, but the pride and reserve
which formed the salient points of his
thoroughly manly character, were sorely
wounded whenever the idea crossed his
mind (and the occurrence was not a
rare one), that his wife and the " unmitigated
snob " who so richly deserved
a horse-whipping, had had at more than
one period of their mutual lives, a secretin
common ; and it was this reflection
which lent a coldness to his manner towards
his wife, from which she deeply,
although uncomplainingly, suffered.

"He will never be the same to me
again," she moaned to herself; and
indeed, when weeks passed away, and

she still missed the loving words and
much - prized caresses of her autocrat,
there seemed good reason to fear that
the cold austerity of the Colonel's demeanour
towards his wife might become
a chronic and enduring evil. Often
and bitterly did Florence lament her
folly in that she had wantonly destroyed
the harmless letters which would,
she believed, have carried conviction of
her truthfulness to her husband's mind ;
but regrets were, she told herself, but
vain and profitless things, and she
therefore could only trust to Time, and
to her own unfailing gentleness and
patience, for the recovery of the loving
confidence which, in her cowardly folly,
she had thrown away.

Something she hoped from the change,
which was now near at hand, of

the quarters of the Elles. Everything
at Broaclmere must, Florence told herself,
remind her husband of the worries
which he had gone through. But at
St Margaret's all would be different.
That horrid Major Brereton would be
forgotten, and the cloud which the
sorrows and the miseries of the last
few months had thrown over her once
happy life would pass away as a dream
that is told. These hopes, however, did
not seem, for the present at least, likely
to be realised. In her new home on the
South Parade, a home which flowers and
sunshine, together with every luxury that
wealth could procure for her delectation,
were given her to enjoy, the "skeleton'*
still grinned hastily from its cupboard,
and "things," in the Colonel's household,
were far from being "what they seemed."

To outward appearance, there ^'as no
sign or symptom of the existence,
in that well-conducted household, of a
familiar spirit, which, odious and uninvited,
sat at the Colonel's board, and,
as " the canker galls the infants of
the Spring," nipped in the bud each
dawning hope of better things to come.

It was in their joint ownership in
little Freddie that, during that darkened
period of her life, Florence trusted most
that a more sunny future might eventually
open out before her. There
came, however, a moment when even
this pillar of hope was rudely shaken, and
when the joyous shout of the happy
child sounded no longer in her ears,
as the harbinger of future happiness.
It was soon after their arrival at St
Margaret's, and before the final arrange-merits

for the comfort of the occupants
of the new home had been completed,
that the edifice to which she had
so confidently clung, began to crumble
away.

On one especial morning it happened
that, owing to the dilatoriness of the
workmen who were engaged in papering
the Colonel's study, he had found
it necessary to write his letters, and get
through sundry other head work in the
diningroom. The breakfast service had
been cleared away, and Florence had
given orders that Sir Wilfred was not
to be disturbed, when over - indulged
Freddie, escaping from his nurse's control,
made a noisy inroad into the
room. He was in all the glory of his
first sailors suit, and, whip in hand,
was, in exuberant spirits, anticipating the

delight of his first ride, since Donald,
the Shetland pony, had arrived from
Broadmere. With the happy freedom
from fear of consequences which is the
lot, until he is old enough to become a
nuisance, of an only and over-indulged
boy, Freddie, oblivious of the respect
which is a father's rightful due, suddenly,
and without warning given, sprang from
behind backs " upon his parent's shoulders,
and commenced taking playful liberties
with his ears. Unfortunately, the time for
indulgence in that species of light-hearted
onslaught was ill-chosen ; the Colonel's
attention was fully occupied by knotty
military business, and therefore there
may be some excuse for the oath, nota
very bitter one, after all, which, in a
moment of irritation, he launched at the
innocent head of his heir-apparent. Unhappily

Florence, who at the news of
her son's escapade had hurried to the
room, caught the anathema as it flew
from her husband's lips, and the sting
of it pierced her to the heart. With a
cry like that of some hunted animal,
she seized the bewildered little fellow
in her arms, and having deposited him
in the safe custody of old Wylie, the
stud-groom, she fled to her own room,
and there indulged in the bitterest tears
that had ever fallen from her eyes.

If he had any love remaining forme,"
she moaned, "he could not have
been so furious. My poor little darling !
Thank God, the child is too young to
understand the meaning of those awful
words, ' Confound you ! ' But to shout
at the poor little fellow so that the
servants could hear that he no longer

cared for either his wife or child, was
too cruel, — too humiliating, and I can
never — no never whilst I live," she repeated
to herself, as, with her small
teeth clenched, she walked to and fro
the room, "feel the same for him

adam.

After this occurrence, the relations
between the husband and wife became
still more what, in newspaper language,
is called "strained." Florence could not
forgive the insulting words, as she
mentally termed them, which had been,
in a moment of irritation, hurled at her
darling. She had, in fact, by dint of
long dwelling upon melancholy convictions
regarding her future, grown morbid
in her views of existing things. Absorbed
with one idea, and that a lugubrious
one, she hugged to her memory

the provocation of an unintentional
slight, and, in consequence of this
tenacity on her part, the conviction
that her husband had totally ceased
to love her, took absolute possession
of the unhappy woman's mind.
It followed, in this unfortunate state of
things, that the once gay spirits and
the pleasant smiles, in the absence of
which even a woman so pretty as was
Florence runs the risk of losing her
popularity, no longer enlivened Sir Wilfred
Gregorie's home, and thence it
chanced that the sight of her gloomy
countenance caused that gallant soldier's
sense of personal injury to increase day
by day in magnitude and bitterness.

The change of quarters from Broad-mere
to St Margaret's wrought little if

any improvement in the domestic relations
of the Colonel and his wife : it happened,
however, that soon after their installation
in the South Parade " mansion "
which had been made ready for their
reception, an event occurred which, affecting
as it did the wellbeing of the
Chalkshire Eifles at large, did more
particularly concern that of Sir Wilfred
Greoforie's wife. The event was no
other than the bestowal on Dr Brathwaite
the highly-valued surgeon of the regiment,
of a Staff medical appointment in
Ireland. Great and universal was the
regret felt by the corps at his removal
from amongst them ; and when it was
announced that his successor was, comparatively
speaking, quite a young man,
the wives of the regiment shook their
heads, and foretold amongst themselves

not a few of the evils which, when a
doctor is unmarried and under forty, were
safe, in their opinion, to ensue.

By Lady Gregorie, who, since the commencement
of her domestic troubles, had
developed a tendency to nervousness, and
to causeless fears to which she had
hitherto been a stranger, the departure
of the clever kindly doctor to whom,
as a " family man," she could, without
reserve, open out the budget (not
alone of her real, but of her imaginary
troubles), was sorely lamented over. Never
again, she declared, could another doctor
take the place which Surgeon Brathwaite,
rough as was his exterior, and plain
though he was in speech, had occupied
in her esteem. It was in vain she heard
that Edgar Cranston, the young man
who had been appointed to succeed him,

was in every way worthy of the post ;
her objections (they being the result of
foolish foregone conclusions) were not,
by force of reasoning, to be overcome,
and it was therefore left to the newcomer
to work his way, if such a
thing were feasible, into her good graces.
The newly-appointed medico was the
fourth son of a poor Scotch baronet, and,
in that he had not yet attained his
thirty-second year, there was some excuse
for the accusation of over-youthfulness
which had been brought against
him. But although young in years, he
was old in experience ; he had worked
hard and successfully in the profession
he had chosen, and, three years previously,
his father's interest at the Horse
Guards had obtained for him the appointment
of Surgeon to a regiment

which was on active service in Egypt.
At the moment of the terrible "surprise,"
and during the consequent massacre
in the zareba, he had taken both
an active and an heroic part. Although
belonging to a non-fighting branch of
the service, he had, when every strong
right arm was needed for that Army's
rescue, fought a brave hand-to-hand
battle with the desperate fanatics who,
naked and utterly fearless, swarmed
in their thousands to the attack. It
was during the fiercest of the fray that
a Marine, lying wounded and helpless on
the ground, would infallibly have "lost
the number of his mess," had not
Surgeon Cranston, planting himself suddenly
across the soldier's body, received
through the fleshy part of his left arm
the thrust of an Arab's spear. With the

right he fired the last shot in his revolver
at the naked breast of the assailant, and
then was just in time to catch, as it
fell heavily to earth, the falling body
of an officer, Guy Leycester by name,
who had but a short time previously
joined the regiment in which he (Edgar
Cranston) served.

In the thickest of that dreadful battlefield,
where the fight raged hottest, and
the red blood of friend and foe co-mingled,
ran in a continuous stream, there
might the tall form of Guy Leycester be
seen making effectual head against the
countless numbers by which the little
army of martyrs was being assailed.
But, as the reader has already learnt, he
fell at last ! Fell, just as the Square, which
he had so well aided to re-form, stood
firm, as British infantry Squares alone can

stand ; and within that impregnable fortress
one of England's bravest soldiers
yielded up his breath.

By the magnificent form of one of the
finest men in the British army knelt
Edgar Cranston, and as he watched with
tearful eyes the last faint struggles of
the dying man for breath, the Surgeon,
although he mentally acknowledged the
truth of the philosopher's axiom, that
whilst War slays its thousands, Peace
does to death its tens of thousands,"
could nevertheless have cursed the mad
ambitions of the few which on the
many brings such fearful suffering and
slaughter.

For the brave work he did that day,
Edgar Cranston was rewarded by the
decoration of the Victoria Cross ; but it
was through little short of a miracle that

he lived to be gratified by its possession.
His wound, neglected at first, assumed,
in the uncongenial climate of Southern
Africa, a serious aspect ; then fever supervened,
and his only chance of life lay in
his removal to the floating hospital in
which, during several weeks, he lay unconscious.
At length, weak and helpless
as a child, he was invalided home, a home
which, at one time, he had never hoped
to see again. Youth, however, and an
excellent constitution, being in his favour,
he, sooner by far than could have been
expected, recovered both his health and
spirits. His exchange into the Chalk-shire
Eifles, an object on which his
mind was set, followed soon after, and
it need hardly be said that by Guy
Leycester's former comrades, the man
who, as he lay a-dying, had ministered

VOL. Ill, L

to their hero, was received with open
arms.

Without being, strictly speaking, handsome,
Edgar Cranston, with his blue
eyes, auburn hair, and cheerful, kindly
expression of countenance, was in the
habit of meeting, from the dangerous
sex, quite as much admiration as was
good for him ; but he was not conceited,
and, moreover, he saw, soon after he
joined the Eifles, one who, from the
moment when his eyes beheld her,
became his ideal, his safeguard, and the
lady, albeit, she guessed it not, of his
love.

ONLY A DOCTOR.

HIS unpretending story of mine
is enriched, as my readers may
possibly have noticed, with the
presence of three heroines at the very
least. The number is, I confess, an unusual
one, and, moreover, I have to
tender my apologies in that no single
one of that number can put forward
the slightest claim to strong-mindedness.
No shred even from the mantle of a
Becky Sharp has fallen upon any one of

them, they must therefore trust almost
entirely to their virtues and their misfortunes
for any passing interest which
they may have been able to inspire.

When last we caught a glimpse of
poor little May Durant, she was watching,
from her sunny window which had
a view on the St Margaret's Parade,
the gaily-dressed and happy-looking
girls who, escorted by one or more
members of the male sex (soldiers in
uniform for the most part), were taking
sauntering 'constitutional" to and fro the
crowded promenade. She was very young,
poor child, and may surely be forgiven
if a great longing to be also happy
surged up, as she gazed, within her
breast. In the spring time of life, a
maiden's fancy will turn, and that not
always lightly, to thoughts of love ; nor

do those thoughts occur less often, and
with less intensity, when the said maiden
has already known the joy of loving and
being beloved ; on the contrary, the longing
for the

Touch of a vanished hand,
And the sound of a voice that is still,"

is not unfrequently the forerunner of
dreams, unbidden and often sorely
regretted, of another being, different,
it may be, as possible from the first
love of her heart, but whose image
will persist, even whilst she is wrapped
in slumber, in obtruding itself upon
her fancy.

Second marriages have, by some woman
cynic, been characterised as " the
triumph of hope over experience," but, in
my opinion, the most frequent amongst
the causes of such ventures, is the hope

of finding again a protector and a friend.
It fell once to my lot (and gladly would
I have been excused the task) to break
to a middle-aged widow the terrible news
of her husband's unexpected death. She
had been during many years the devoted
wife of a sickly, asthmatical invalid, who,
during a short absence of his wife's to
visit a dying mother, had suddenly succumbed
to a sharp attack of breathlessness.
It so happened that I was the
only available friend by whom the short
railway journey could be performed, and
the sad intelligence imparted to the
widow, and therefore I, with an unwilling
mind, proceeded on my mission. As the
Train in which I was seated sped along,
I beguiled the time by reflecting in what
terms I should first address my sorrowing
friend. It was impossible — that fact was

very certain — to repeat to her in form of
consolation the remark which the brother
of the deceased, a gouty bachelor of fifty-five,
had, previous to my departure,
whispered in my ear, the remark, namely,
that poor Ned's death was a happy
release ; and seeing that no more feasible
plan did, in the course of a long hour
and a half, occur to me, I had to trust
to a chance inspiration for success in my
lugubrious undertaking.

Happily for me, the length of my face,
together with my unexpected presence in
her mother's house, told my tale, and
rendered speech unnecessary. " Oh ! "
exclaimed the stricken woman, "he is
gone, and I was not with him," and as
she spoke, the tears fell in torrents from
her eyes. What were the words which I,
in my poor attempts at consolation, murmured,

I have, of course, forgotten, but
my mental relief was great when she, a
fine, buxom woman still, dried her eyes,
and gave utterance between her sobs to
the following, in m}^ humble opinion,
very sensible words : — " I am," she said,
calmly but very sadly, " most unfortunately
situated in regard to widowhood.
If I were a young woman, I might intime
look forward to the possibility of
marrying again, or if I were old, the hope
of ere long finding rest in the grave
would buoy up my spirits, but I am,
unhappily, a hale woman of fifty-three,
with just enough money to enable
me to live respectably, so what remains
for me but a life of solitude and
regret ? "

Paul, the Woman citizen, whose insight
into the weaknesses of human nature was

decidedly keen, makes mention of " threescore
years " as the period of life when
a widow may reasonably be expected to
have " put on the old ionian'' and have
therefore become qualified to perform correctly
the serious duties of life. That
there are exceptions to this rule most of
us will, I think, be willing to allow; notwithstanding
which difference of opinion,
few will, I imagine, be likely to question
the wisdom of the preacher in that he
enjoined his disciple Timothy to refuse
the enrolment of "younger widows" in
the band of holy women who were joined
together for the performance of good
works. The reason given against the enrolment
of these youthful mourners was,
as those amongst my readers who have
searched the Scriptures, must be aware,
that they, not having as yet outlived the

follies and blamable frivolities of their
sex, would probably marry again, and
thus render themselves unfit for the pious
labours which would be required at their
hands.

*' But," my readers may possibly exclaim,
" whence this discussion quoad
widows, seeing that pretty May Durant
is no husbandless bride, but simply a
young girl who having once fondly loved,
is surely at liberty to love again ? "

True, oh sagacious critic ; but she has
already, in her short life, gone through
experiences which justify the bestowing
on her " brevet rank " as a widow. And,
moreover, who can deny that the maiden
who finds consolation in the possession
of a second love is not generally popular
with novel readers ? They are apt to
require of her a constancy which they

themselves, if tempted, might not have
been able to practise. It is, according
to these romance-reading young ladies, the
duty of the affected one, even when playing
with reluctance her part in society, to
coldly, and with weeping eyes, turn from
the gaze of surrounding lovers, for her
heart is, or, at least ought to be,

In the land where her young hero sleeps."

Amongst those novel readers and
others by whom this opinion is held,
may be reckoned first and foremost
little May herself. To describe with
any degree of truthfulness the amount
of self-disgust, nay, even of loathing,
which she underwent when first the
idea that she might possibly love again
occurred to her, would be impossible ;
and the existence of this feeling on her

part was by her family so fully recognised
that they abstained from any
premature attempts to draw her from
the atmosphere of gloom in which it
pleased her to envelop herself. By
slow degrees, however, a change was
effected, and great was Mrs Durant's
joy, when May, on her return one
morning from a quiet walk up the
Castle Hill, looked more like herself
than she had done for months. She
had met, and been introduced by her
sister to Edgar Cranston !

Now it cannot be denied that the
girl's thoughts had of late often turned
towards the man whose presence by
Guy Leycester's bed of death had given
him, Cranston, an interest in her mind
and thoughts superior to that which,
as she believed, she could ever feel

for mortal ran again. On that bloodstained
battle-field, where countless
hordes of Arabs were mingled in wild
confusion with British soldiers fis^htinof
hand to hand and inch by inch for
life and for their country's honour,
Edgar Cranston knelt beside the stricken
hero. His eyes were the last on which
those of the dying man bad rested,
and amidst the terrific roar of battle
the feeble moan of the parting spirit
had reached his ears ! There came a
time, but that was yet afar ofi", when,
questioned closely by the girl who by
that noble soldier had been left behind,
Cranston had allowed her to believe
that the sweetly-sounding name of the
girl he loved had been breathed by Guy's
pallid lips.

Was it a pious fraud, or had that

ardent sympathiser really taught himself
to credit the fact which he asserted
? If the former, may we not
venture to hope that the sternest
sticklers for truth at any price will,
for the sake of the excellence of the
motive, mercifully condone the sin.

It was not until many months had,
after May's introduction to Edgar
Cranston, ran their course, that the
following conversation between Mrs
Durant and her daughter Helen took
place. The countenances of both ladies
were, if not precisely anxious, nevertheless
laden with an expression which
foretokened a somewhat momentous disquisition.
They were seated in Mrs
Elphinstone's luxuriously fitted-up ,
the perfume of rare flowers filled

the air, whilst from below, a sweet, fresh
voice, the voice of May Durant, as she
sang with exquisite pathos Ruth's tender
appeal to Naomi, sounded faintly on
the ear.

'dear child! How glad I am that
at last she can sing to us again ! They
are only sad songs as yet, but let us
hope that the time may come when
more cheerful sounds will break from
her lips."

"Yes," rejoined Helen, after a short
pause, and speaking as it were, under
protest, " it is sweet to hear her dear
voice again ; but, mother darling, we
must not, anxious as we of course are
that May should recover her spirits,
shut our eyes to the real facts of the
case. Mr Cranston is in love with the
dear child, and that she should in time

return his affection, seems a terribly likely
thing."

Mrs Durant, albeit by nature one of
the simplest-minded and least suspicious
of human beings, was more sorry than
surprised by her daughter's exordium.
She had seen enough of human nature
to be aware that, even as " circumstances
alter cases," so do the proclivities
of human beings become modified,
and that not always for the better,
by any organic change in their condition.
She was, in short, too wise a
woman to expect perfection. " The
faultless monster that the world ne'er
saw," was a lusiis natures in which she
put no faith, and therefore it was that,
whilst still recognising in her daughter
Helen the virtues of personal humility
and absence of ambition, she was not

unprepared for tokens, on Mrs Elphin-
stone's part, of opposition to Edgar
Cranston's possible suit.

Notwithstanding the 'prestige which the
latter, from various causes, enjoyed, it
could not be denied that his position in
life was, in the opinion of the worldly-minded,
inferior to that which Helen herself
occupied. Her elevation to wealth
and social rank had to a certain extent
told on the character of Mrs Elphinstone.
She was ambitious for her sister, and
possibly foresaw in that sister's union
with Mr Cranston a certain loss of
'* caste " for herself She desired with all
her heart that May might once more
as became her age and temperament —
be happy, but, having herself learned
to thoroughly enjoy the blessings
which wealth can bestow, she did

VOL. III. M

not figure to herself the possibility
of her young sister being able to exist
in comfort on the comparatively slender
income of which an assistant
regimental surgeon was probably the recipient.


Mrs Durant, although her views on
the question differed from those which
Helen not altogether secretly entertained,
had, from the moment that Mr
Cranston's attentions became marked,
resolved to remain neutral ; her regard,
however, for the young army doctor
was too sincere, and her desire for
May's happiness too fervent, for the
golden virtue of silence to be practicable
for her now, and she therefore
said, laying aside her needlework
as she did so — a proof, in
Mrs Elphinstone's opinion that on

this occasion her dear mother intended
business, —

"Dear Nellie, I have not, any more
than have you, shut my eyes to what
may, in consequence of Mr Cranston's
attentions, follow for our darling, but
I cannot agree with you in thinking
that, could she be brought to love
him, the result would be for her an
unfortunate one."

Of course, if she really loved him,
that would alter the case," Helen, after
a short period given to reflection, replied
; *but, dear mother, surely she
cannot care for him ! Think of the
difference ! Compare him with poor Guy
so handsome, so distinguished-looking—



"Yes," sighed Mrs Durant, "he was
all that, and in those respects Edgar

Cranston cannot vie with our poor friend :
but do you reckon the winning of the
Victoria Cross as nothing ; and, moreover,
although he may be less tall, I daresay,
by a few inches than was Captain Leycester,
his air and manners are those
of a well-bred gentleman, and his features
and expression — "

Are good as good can be — I grant
all that," interrupted Helen ; " yet there
remains the fact that he is only a
doctor, and only a doctor is not good
enough for May."

Mrs Durant was silent for a few
moments, and then slowly repeated her
daughter's words, " ' Only a doctor.' Then,
my Nellie," continued the agitated woman,
"am I to believe that the gifts of high
principle, of a sense of honour so keen
that he would shrink from debt as from

an act of fraud, are as nothing in your
sight ? Have you overlooked his gentleness,
his patience, with that most tiresome
of women, his mother, and the
example of self - sacrifice which, were he
to die, he would, in his care of Lady
Cranston, leave behind him ? "

*^ Say no more, mother," said Helen
penitently. " You are right, and I
was wrong in suggesting a comparison
between Mr Cranston and poor Guy.
He, the dear friend who has passed
away, must, in] many respects, fatally
lose by being placed side by side with
your favourite ; and indeed, when I look
at Mrs Denham's still beautiful face,
so sad yet so resigned, I can understand
the terrible mischief which such
a man as Guy (a man in whose nature
good and evil were so strangely mingled)

can, in his generation, do, I cannot
but admit that the happiness of
any woman who had thrown in her
lot with his would rest on a very
weak foundation indeed."

OLD AS THE HILLS.

^^T was impossible for any lover
to be more fully alive than
was Edgar Cranston to the
difficulties that stood in the way of
his success. It was no being of mortal
mould whose influence he had to combat,
no rival who might by some happy
chance fall from the lofty pedestal on
which the fancy of his lady had
placed him, had he, in this struggle,
to contend with, for the man whose
image was stamped upon her heart lay

in his grave, and the dead can do no

wronsr.

When first the young surgeon became
aware that he loved, with his whole
heart and soul, the child-bride of Guy
Leycester, whose death had left her
mourning, his consternation was as great
as was the self-abhorrence of May when
she discovered that in her heart of hearts
she was false to the memory of her
first love. She was so far — Edgar felt —
above him ! Not in rank, or wealth, or
social position, for was not he, alike by
birth, by education, and by profession — a
gentleman ? And what more, or what
greater thing, could he be ? But the
girl whom he ventured to adore was,
in his imagination, a far higher thing
than this. She was, in his eyes, ennobled,
nay, even sanctified, by the waters

of affliction which had gone over her
soul and purified it from earthly dross.
May's beauty was precisely of the
kind that assimilated with the idea
taken by Edgar Cranston of her temperament
and proclivities. '* Divinely fair "
was she, with deep grey eyes shaded
by dark lashes, and abundant hair of
a pale golden hue, whilst so fragile
of form was she that, but for the fact
that she rarely suffered in health, the
exceeding delicacy of her appearance
could hardly have failed to awaken
anxiety in the breasts of those who
loved her. The style of loveliness
which had fallen to May Durant's share
was precisely the kind which, whilst it
suited the fastidiousness of taste that
was inherent in Cranston, rather encouraged
than was antagonistic to the

timid fashion of his wooing. May,
in her white garments, with just a
touch here and there of sombre black,
looked, in her lover's eyes, so purely
and exquisitely ethereal, that even to
touch the hem of her garment struck
him as an act, well nigh, of sacrilege.

In the eyes of lookers-on, no change
whatever did, in the course of several
months, take place in the relations between
May Durant and the man who
worshipped her. Time, however, "irresistible
" and never idle Time, was meanwhile
doing his slow but certain work. When
in two young hearts (hearts, be it understood,
for whom opportunities for analysing
each other's feelings are neither few
nor far between) Love has found an
entrance, the moment when the over-full
cup will brim over, and when from the

passion-filled breast the lips will speak,
cannot be far away.

From sundry signs and tokens, signs
which probably only by a lover's watchful
eye could have been perceived, Edgar
Cranston had began to gather hope that
the thoughts of the beloved one were not
now so wholly engrossed by her dead
lover as had hitherto seemed the case.
On one occasion, when he, having calledon
Mrs Elphinstone, had chanced to find
Miss Durant alone,, the latter had, on
his entrance, blushed so suddenly and
viddly that for a few moments an
** awkward " silence reigned between the
two. Nor had this been all, for when, on
taking leave, he had, for the first time,
ventured on the slightest pressure of her
hand, he had fancied (could it be only
fancy, and was Hope telling him one of

those fond and flattering tales by which
lovers are so often perilously beguiled?)
that the half-suggestive lingering of his
hand in hers had not been utterly without
response.

It was about a week after this important
occurrence, for important in the
lovers eyes it was, that an event
occurred which, although tragical in itself,
had the effect of hurrying on a
denouement of which some amongst May's
best wishers had begun to despair.
A private belonging to the Chalkshire
Eifles had, in a fit, it was supposed, of
mad drunkenness, fired one night at his
sergeant, and shot him dead. The victim
was a married man, and the father of
^N^ children. He bore an excellent character,
and the despair of his young wife
was so great that fears for her reason

were at the first entertained by the
military doctors by whom she was attended.
As may be supposed, the sympathy
and compassion which her case
elicited were very great, and everything
which might tend to alleviate her grief
was by the officers of the regiment and
their wives lavishly offered to the widow.
Now May Durant and the unhappy
woman whose life had been thus suddenly
rendered desolate, chanced to be
old acquaintances. Captain Elphinstone's
pretty sister-inlaw loved little children
dearly, and one of Sergeant Godfrey's
flock, a chubby small girl of three, had
been taken by the young lady under
her especial protection. It had so happened
that Bessie, who was rather a
spoilt child, had, on an occasion when
she was suffering from a rather severe

attack of measles, obstinately refused
to swallow the medicine which had
been prescribed for her.

Oh, Miss May, whatever shall we
do ? " the anxious mother exclaimed,
when Miss Durant, having heard of
the child's illness, had called to inquire
after her little friend. " Here's Bessie
that naughty she won't open her mouth
to take the doctor's physic, and he says
as the measles may take a bad turn if
the fever aunt kep' down."

** But the naughty fever will be
kept down," May, seating herself by
the bedside, and speaking in her soft,
coaxing way, whispered to the refractory
patient. " Bessie and I will keep him
down between us. Bessie is going to
be a brave girl, and if she fights a
good fight, why, we shall see tomorrow

what reward she will have. But first,"
she added, as the patient raised her
head from the pillow, and displayed
signs of returning sense, " let me see
if this stuff is so very nasty after all ; "
and so saying. May, having put her
rosy lips to the medicine cup, continued
her attempts at persuasion.

To that task, one which happily
proved successful, we will leave her,
and return to the heart-stricken woman,
who, surrounded by her orphan children,
could, in the first shock of her bereavement,
see in their possession less than
no sources of consolation. It is wintertime,
and she is seated by a fire which,
through neglect, has burned low in the
hearth, a cup of untasted tea is on the
small deal table beside her chair, and
the little ones, of whom three-year-old

Bessie is the third in age, are
standing about in various abnormal
attitudes, and with countenances in
which wonder and curiosity are plainly
visible. By the poor widow's side, and
holding her toil-hardened hand closely
pressed within her own, sits May
Durant. She has been listening, during
a slowly-passing hour, with a tender
patience that is born of her own
experience in sorrow, to Mrs Godfrey's
tautological failings over her loss. The
stereotyped arguments to which those
who attempt to reason away despair
are driven to resort, had proved, soft
and sympathising as had been the words
and intonation of the speaker, utterly
unavailing ; the widow, like Rachel of
old, refused to be comforted, and May,
after repeating for the twentieth time

the comforting assurance that the fact
of Sergeant Godfrey having been so
exemplary a husband and father would
ensure for him and the mother of his
children a happy meeting in the world
beyond the grave, was about to make
preparations for her departure, when
the door opened noiselessly, and Edgar
Cranston, with an almost silent footfall,
entered the dimly-lighted room.

The short winter twilight had already
began to overshadow the scene, and,
as I have already said, the fire in the
little room was beginning to burn low, so
that it was only by a lover's instinct
that Cranston recognised the tall fissure,
which on his entrance rose to meet him,
as that of May Durant. He took her
offered hand in silence, and then, without
addressing her, spoke in pleasant-vol.

III. N

sounding words to the bereaved one.
And she — Well ! she, poor soul, under the
influence of his very presence, brightened
up in a manner that, to May, whose
efforts at consolation had been so unavailing,
seemed to border on the miraculous.
Truly it is good, when the
voice of a man is gentle as well as
firm, to listen to its accents ! There
is, to feeble women, encouragement to
suffer bravely, in the mere propinquity
of one stronger, both physically and
mentally, than themselves, and thus it
was that when Edgar Cranston spoke to
the Sergeant's widow of her husband's
courage in battle, of the medals that he
had won, and of the certainty that the
children of so good a soldier would not,
by a grateful country, be forgotten, the
mourner's sobs were hushed, and the

future of her life looked less utterly-dark
and dreary.

And for May Durant the spell of the
soldier-surgeon's presence worked scarcely
less powerfully. In the semi-obscurity,
the slight and militarily erect figure, clad
in the dark ofreen uniform of his regiment,
brought to her mind with such
strange vividness the form of the lover
she had lost, that for a few moments
she stood motionless, whilst a constriction
in her throat — the glohus hystericus to
which sensitive natures are subject —
caused her to feel infinitely relieved in
that she was for the nonce not called
upon to speak. In silence she listened
to the brave words in which the man
who had supported in death the dear
head of her soldier-lover, brought comfort
to the widow's heart ; but when,

after a short pause, he turned towards
her, and, in a pleasant, unemotional
voice, said, — " Is it not rather late, Miss
Durant, for you to be so far from
home ? " the power to reply absolutely
failed her, and a sensation of faintness,
the result partly of nervous tremor,
caused her to fall back upon the chair
from which she had risen.

At that moment, a sudden light,
the result of some matches which the
widow's eldest hope had thrown upon
the well-nigh expiring embers, revealed
to Cranston the fact of May's deathlike
pallor.

Good God ! " he exclaimed, " you are
ill — fainting. It is the closeness of the
room ; " and opening wide the window
near which she was seated, he, with
fingers which were none of the steadiest.

unfastened her sealskin jacket, and
allowed the fresh air to play over her
face and throat ; then when she began
to recover, he said gently, but in a
voice which quavered slightly, —

"You are over-exerting yourself. Let
me take you into the air," and, encircling
her waist with his arm, he drew
her towards the open door.

She made no attempt to withdraw
herself from his supporting arm, but,
after one or two long-drawn breaths,
murmured a few broken sentences.

"My sister was to send the carriage.
Is it very late ? I feel so weak — " and
then, letting her fair head lean against
his shoulder, a flood of tears came to her
relief.

He was only human, that poor young
doctor who had worshipped so long

his idol from afar. She had been to
him only as an angel until then ; but
now — now when she lay resentfully in
his embrace, when the close contact
with her exquisite form filled his veins
with the fire of a man's fierce passion,
is it surprising that he should have
lost his head % For lose it he did —
temporarily at least, but in no mild
measure ; for the kiss which he in his
ecstatic madness pressed upon May's ripe
lips, was no timid caress, — no hastily-stolen
pleasure, but the long, deep
draught of a thirsty man who, having
performed a long journey through an
arid wilderness, cannot bring himself to
take from his lips the cup which is to
him as nectar.

And May, what, during that moment
when the flood-gates of her lover's passion

were opened, was her young heart
saying ? Was it fear of the growing
obscurity, or dread of a return of the
strange faintness from which she was
recovering, that caused her to remain a
willing prisoner in the strong arms of
her sweetheart ?

To these queries we must — modest
young maiden although May doubtless
was — answer in the negative; for the
spell that held her there was, albeit
she knew it not, also of Passion's weaving,
and —

■o;

The languor of a soul too richly blest
Kept her a willing captive in her lover's clasp."

I will not attempt to excuse her. The

night was closing in, and, for they had

walked slowly down the hill on which

the barracks are situated, she is virtually

alone with a man who has just
ventured on as outrageous a liberty as
can well be taken by a wooer ; but
what will you ? as the French, in their
smoother-sounding language, say. For
months the poor child had, unsuspected
in its full intensity by herself, been
pining for a love which would call back
to her the days dien Passion's language
spoke to her in every look of Guy's, and
when kisses, fond as his, would awake
her from the cold reality of her daily
life.

And now, as Edgar Cranston, half-remorseful,
but with the blissful memory
of that stolen kiss still present with
him, and with May's little hand held
closely within his arm, has found words
wherewith to tell his tale, she listens as
though entranced.

"Have I been too bold, sweet May?"
he said. " If so, you must forgive me.
It is so long since I began to love you,
and when a hope, slight as it was,
sprang up in my heart that you might
learn to care for me, the joy was too
much, and I, being but a weak and
erring mortal, yielded to temptation."

It was my fault," she murmured.
*' I was frightened ; and you have been
always good to me."

Good to you, my angel ! Ah, my
love, my darling, who would not be
good to one so pure and gentle ? Say,
will you trust your life's happiness in
my hands '{ Do you think that you
can learn to love me ? "

She did not answer him in words,
but the pressure of her gentle fingers
on his arm told him that he had not

asked in vain, and the soldier-surgeon,
who had won his laurels on the battlefield,
but whose courage had waxed faint
in the presence of the girl he loved,
grew of a sudden so recklessly brave
that, under cover of the darkness, and
the absence of passers-by, he drew her
once more within the shelter of his
breast, and covered her sweet face with
kisses.

A NOBLE DEED.

"^"^^ AM SO glad you have grown
to think Mr Cranston nice
and clever, as we do. Singleton
and I quite swear by him ; but
T felt sure that you would be of our
opinion in time."

It is Lady Adela Singleton, the recently
married wife of one of the
Chalkshire Captains, who, seated one
sunny forenoon on a bench on the
Parade, has given to her friend and
present companion, Lady Gregorie, the

benefit of her opinions regarding the
Scotch doctor's merits. The Colonel's
wife, whose attention is engrossed by
little Freddie's unwonted pallor, and by
his somewhat languid attitude as he
leans against her knee, does not immediately
reply, and therefore Lady Adela,
whose tongue is rarely, on ordinary
occasions, silent, continues her panegyric
thus : —

Singleton says that if he had ever
so severe an illness, and the worst
possible hunting accident, he would have
no other doctor than Mr Cranston. He
is so prompt. Jack says, so self-reliant.
And you, I am sure you trust him,
dear Lady Gregorie ? You think him
clever, don't you ? "

Yes ; he is clever, of course, and
very nice, and gentleman-like, but I

was so fond of our old doctor, that I
hardly think I shall ever like another
quite as well."

At that moment a child's voice, that
of Freddie, broke in, sharp and querulous,
on the dialogue, and the little fellow,
in his sailor's suit, leant more heavily
than before against his mother.

Oh, Massey ! " the plaintive voice
sobbed out, " my throat hurts me ; and
so does my head," and the boy, tossing
aside the straw hat, on which might
be read by every passer-by the grandiloquent
word " Majestic," rested his sunny
curls, in languid fashion, on the soft
velvet of his mother's lap, and his breath
came short and panting.

In wild alarm, Lady Gregorie would
have lifted him in her arms, but her
strength failed her ; and then, rising

quickly from the bench, she, with a
supporting arm passed round the child,
beckoned frantically to an elderly Bath-chair
attendant, who, together with his
empty vehicle, was happily within hail,
to approach.

"Shall I run for Mr Cranston?"
asked Lady Adela, who, perceiving that
little Freddie could not, for some as
yet unexplained reason, stand alone,
rightly concluded that he must be ill ;
I saw his trap just now at Mrs
Winters' door ; " and the energetic young
woman, without waiting to be thanked,
hurried off at once on her important
quest.

AVith the assistance of the elderly
chairman, Florence, although shaking with
nervous trepidation, contrived to settle
her boy comfortably in the, to him, unaccustomed

vehicle, and he, momentarily
aroused by the novelty of the situation
from the stupor of approaching
illness, smiled wanly in his mother's
bent down face, as the words, " Make
the gee go faster," came brokenly from
his lips.

The Colonel from his study window
noted the abnormal procession, and understanding
at once that something was
the matter, his was the hand which,
before the bell could be runcf, flung;
open the house door, and Ms the arms
which, lifting the now unconscious child
from the chair, carried him, with the
tender care that is inspired by love
and fear combined, up the broad staircase
to his bed. Then with a catch
in the voice that was usually so clear
and resonant, he said to the poor

mother, who hung like one bereft of
sense over her darling, —

When did this happen ? Have you
sent for Cranston ? "

'' Yes — but he may be out ; and this —
this — Ah ! there is no time," she gasped,
to lose — is — I feel terribly afraid —
diphtheria."

At the sound of that dreaded word,
Sir Wilfred, with the object of seeking
in any and every direction for medical
help, rushed from the room ; but on
the stairs he found himself, to his great
joy, face to face with Edgar Cranston.


Well, what is the matter with the little
chap ? " the latter was, in his cheery
way, beginning, when, catching sight of
Sir Wilfred's serious countenance, he felt
instinctively that the cheerfulness which

as a rule, he, in cases of mild sickness,
advocated, was just now out of place.

Come this way. We are horribly-frightened,"
said the Colonel. " My wife
thinks that it is," and the strong man
shuddered inwardly as he pronounced
the word, " diphtheria."

Let us hope otherwise," said the
Surgeon, in a low voice, as he followed
his host to the sick child's room. " It
is probably only a slight case of throat
inflammation, and Lady Gregorie's alarm
may, after all, be causeless."

On his entrance, Florence sprang from
the bedside towards him, and, laying her
hand on his arm, entreated him, in passionate
accents, to cure her boy. " He
will die," she cried, " if you do not save
him, and he is all I have." Then the
Colonel's stern voice spoke out.

VOL. III. o

Compose yourself, Florence," he said,
"and instead of this wild raving, allow
Mr Cranston to see what ails the child.
Sit down, and try not to be a fool."

He did not mean to be unkind, but
he felt the necessity of checking the
hysterical display of his wife's feelings ;
and then a man who is striving: his utmost
to control his own strong emotions,
may be forgiven the passing outburst of
impatience which a woman's exhibition of
weakness causes him to experience. After
this crushing, but doubtless salutary, rebuke,
poor Florence subsided into agonising
silence. Her cup was indeed full
now to overflowing, the relief even of
tears was denied to her ; by what was
perhaps the dying bed of her child his
father could have the heart to speak
harshly to her, and now her only wish

was to lie down by Freddie's side, in the
rest and quiet of the grave.

Meanwhile Edgar Cranston was, with
a Octave face, and concentrated attention,
examining the diagnostics of his
patient's malady. How anxiously they
watched him, those two, whose only child,
a frail blossom of but a few years old,
was fighting; a hard battle for existence
with the reaper Death ! And when he,
the man on whose fiat the hopes and
fears of those poor parents were hanging,
raised himself from his stooping
posture, and in a quiet tone asked Lady
Gregorie a common-place question, part
of the weight upon their hearts seemed
taken off, for not as yet were they
to hear the sentence which it might
be the doctors painful duty to pronounce.


'when did the child first complain
of his throat ? " he inquired.

Yesterday," faltered Florence ; " but
I gave him one of Dr Brathwaite's
little powders, and in the evening
he seemed better. He could breathe
quite freely then, and I never thought
that—"

There was anything serious the
matter. I quite understand. These
cases always come on suddenly. There
may, possibly — do not be alarmed, for
I only speak of a problematical event —
arise the necessity for a slight operation,
and, in that case, I should be
glad, if you have no objection, to ask
either Mr Gilchrist or Dr Kendall to
be present."

"Certainly, certainly," replied Sir Wilfred,
whose alarm, at the mere mention

of an operation, had increased tenfold,
and he was preparing to give the necessary
orders for the attendance in hot
haste of additional medical aid, when
the face of the little sufferer, who, with
the exception of his somewhat laboured
respiration, had not hitherto exhibited
any of the worst and most fatal symptoms
of his awful malady, suddenly
became almost of a purple hue, and
the struggle for breath, and consequently
for life, was fearful to witness. For this
terrible emergency, the army surgeon
was happily not unprepared. Several
cases of diphtheria had recently appeared
in the town, and two of Dr Gilchrist's
patients had fallen victims to a disease
which seldom spares those on whom it
has fixed its fangs. Edgar Cranston
had hitherto been more fortunate, but.

knowing, as full well he did, that there
is often a crisis in the malady, when the
performance of a dangerous operation can
alone give the sufferer a chance for life,
such contingencies as the present did not
find him wanting. In a moment his
surgical case was opened, and, choosing a
sharp bistoury, he, with a steady and un-shrinking
hand, skilfully plunged it into
the trachea. In a moment the breathing
was relieved, the risk of suffocation disappeared,
and danger was, for the present,
warded off.

His next move, one which he performs
with surprising celerity, is to
insert into the wound a silver tube
through which the respiration of the
little fellow who is being thus snatched
from death comes softly as that of an
unweaned child, and the mother, on her

knees beside the bed (in the coverlet
of which she has, during the operation,
hidden her face), offers up a fervent
thanksgiving to God for the great
mercy which has been vouchsafed to
her.

But, alas ! all is not yet over, for
scarcely has Sir Wilfred ceased from expressing
to the operator his gratitude
and joy, and whilst that operator himself
is still feeling, although his outward
calm is undisturbed, somewhat unhinged
by the demand which had been suddenly
made upon his skill and self-command, a
farther and more trying call is made
upon his courage. Whilst looking about,
preparatory to taking his departure, for
his hat, he is painfully struck by a
change which in his little patient lie perceives
; once more the child is struggling

for breath, and symptoms of suffocation
are again imminent. Not for a second
does Edgar hesitate, either as regards
the cause of this unexpected relapse, or
as to the only course, which, in order to
save that precious life, remains to betaken.
Being well acquainted with every
phase and characteristic of the dangerous
complaint which he has been called upon
to combat, Cranston immediately realises
the circumstance that a piece of false
membrane (no uncommon case) has made
its way into the tube, and blocked it
up ! For this evil there exists but one
remedy, a desperate one, as the young
surgeon, with his professional acumen,
fully realises, and that remedy consists in
the sucking from the tube, by a stander-by,
the substance which has lodged in it.
The chances are, as he is thoroughly

aware, a thousand to one against the
survival of the individual by whom this
truly heroic act of self-sacrifice has been
performed, and he may, perhaps, be forgiven
if the thought flashes across his
mind that perhaps the father of this
idolised child may take upon himself
the perilous duty, from which weak
human nature shrinks appalled. The
notion, however, lasts but a moment ; Sir
Wilfred is both too ignorant and too
paralysed by alarm to interfere, and so,
with a glance full of tender pity at
the kneeling mother, and another at the
man, standing erect with folded arms,
but with agony depicted on every feature
of his death pale face, the soldier-surgeon,
without a thought of self,
applies his mouth to the tube, and,
by the act of inhalation, draws away

the obnoxious element, and thus, for
the second time, by his skill and
courage, saves the life of the Colonel's
son.

UENVOI,

5^T is early spring at St margaret.
The sun is shining
brightly, and the air is perfumed
with the breath of violets and
wall-powers. The band of the Chalk-shire
Rifles is playing lively music on
the Parade, whilst gaily-dressed girls and
lively matrons are chatting, laughing,
and, it may be, tell it not in Gath,
flirting and spreading scandal.

On one of the benches is seated
Florence Gregory, whilst by her side.

and whispering quietly in response to
the animated converse of the Colonel's
wife, is May Durant. It is the eve of
the girl's wedding-day, and although she
is happy, she feels sad.

'now, May, dear," Lady Gregorie is
saying, " remember this ; Edgar Cranston
has not a fault in the world, and
if you do anything to make him unhappy,
I will never forgive you."

A low girlish laugh is May's first
response to her friend's threat, then she
says feelingly, —

I trust that I do not need a warning.
My chief object will be to please him, and
my best hope is that I may succeed."

But you must not be disappointed,
dear, if you do not ; for men, even the
very best, are sometimes difficult to, what
is called, * get on with ; '" and Lady Gregory

sighed as she remembered how
many months had passed since she had
striven, and altogether, she felt, in vain,
to win back her husband's love and
trust.

In the terribly trying days during the
slow passing of which little Freddie
fought his way back to vigorous life,
and also whilst to anxious watchers by
his side it seemed as though only by a
miracle the man who had hazarded his
own existence to save their child could
escape the consequences of his noble
deed, the mutual anxiety of the Colonel
and his wife effected between them a
certain amount of rapprochement. Most
of the time which Florence could spare
from attendance on her boy was passed
by her in Edgar Cranston's room ; the
room from which, laid low by a consuming

fever, it seemed next to impossible
that its occupant could ever issue
forth alive. But, happily for the many
who loved him, but more especially for
the peace of mind of those for whose
sake he had been willing to lay down
his life, that life was not, as yet, at
least, required of him. Youth, together
with a constitution which had never been
unduly tried, at length carried him
through, and it is needless to add that
from thenceforth he had no truer and
more devoted friends than those who
were powerless, strong as was their will,
to repay in full the debt of gratitude
which they owed to him.

Two months have now elapsed since
Edgar Cranston's convalescence has become
thoroughly confirmed, and the
state of things between Sir Wilfred and

Lady Gregorie have returned to very
much their normal groove. Freddie is
once more the " picture," as his nurse
boasts, of health, and his mother's nerves
are often now severely tried by the
sight of her treasure caracoling on his
Shetland pony by the side of her
husband's charger. Sir Wilfred laughs
at her fears, and at her entreaties that
he will at least employ a leading-rein,
in order to lessen the danger for her
darling. He will not have the child
made a molly-coddle of, he says, and
Florence, more than ever convinced that
his heart is closed against her, subsides
into a distressful silence, which he,
manlike, mistakes for sulks.

For, alas ! it is only too true that
the love which he had felt for his fair
wife was beginning to be undermined

by the coldness of her demeanour towards
her lord, a coldness which he,
on his part, attributed to diminished
affection for himself. Could he but have
looked into the warm and tender heart
of the woman who bore his name, he
would have recognised his error, and,
let us hope, have hastened to repair it.

It is, as I have said, the eve of
May Durant's wedding-day, and Lady
Gregorie, after listening to the farewell
notes of 'god save the Queen" from
the regimental band, has returned home
for the afternoon tea, at which ceremony
the Colonel occasionally, whilst smoking
his cigarette, puts in an appearance.
On the afternoon in question, he, with
an open newspaper in his hand, lounges
into the pretty morning-room, and is

at once accosted by Florence with the
remark that Alfred Durant, who has
returned from Canada in order to be best
man to his brother-in-law elect, is, she
thinks, greatly improved in appearance.

Can't say that I see much difference
! " growled the Colonel, who had
neither forgotten nor forgiven the disgrace,
as he, owing to strong esprit de
corps, considered it, which the lad had
formerly brought upon the regiment.

"May is delighted that you are going
to give her away," continued Florence,
who, for her husband appeared to be
in no amiable temper, was doing her
best to enliven him by her remarks.

Is she ? She is thankful for small

mercies. She is a good girl, though,

I believe, but marriage is such au awful

lottery, that I wish I bad something
VOL. III. p

better to bestow upon the grand young
fellow who is going to rush upon his
fate tomorrow."

The words are not encouraging, and
the tears, which in those days are only
too easily summoned from their " briny
depths," are with difficulty, by the
mortified wife, suppressed ; whilst the
Colonel, whose momentary irritability is
possibly soothed by a mild B.-and-S.,
and also by the excellence of the cigarette
in which he is indulging, is running
his eye over the columns of the French
Figaro; whilst his wife, with her tea
and toast untasted before her, is looking,
with flushed cheeks, and an expression of
extreme surprise upon her pretty face,
fixedly on the first column of the
Morning Post. She has, in a great
measure, lost the habit of communicating

her surprises to the Colonel, but on this
occasion her astonishment is so great
that it momentarily breaks down the
barrier of reserve, and she exclaims
aloud, —

Oh, Wilfred ! there is such a wonderful
marriage in the papers ! Major
Brereton to Miss Emily Vidal. How
can she have done such a thing ! She
must know what he is — a common
thief—"

' Birds of a feather flock together,' "
said the Colonel quietly. "And now
that your friend has so prosperously
established herself in life, I can venture
to give you a piece of information
which, through regard for your feelings,
I have hitherto withheld from you.
The police, in the course of their
officious investigations into that confounded

diamond robbery, made the discovery
that Miss Vidal had her share in
the plunder. I never wish to hear the
affair mentioned again, and I only tell
you this, in order that you may be
more careful in future as to your choice
of friends."

Lady Gregorie's dismay on hearing
that Em had acted in a manner so
treacherous and so *slow," was very
great ; there was, however, a sternness
in Sir Wilfred's manner which entirely
quelled her rising inclination to take
the part of the accused. It grieved
her much that he should leave her
before she had called up courage to
say a word in her friend's defence ; nor
were her regrets for her lack of moral
courage lessened, when, later in the
day, she received the following laconic

epistle from Major Brereton's newly-married
wife : —

"My dear Flo," so that unabashed
young person wrote, " I have not above
a moment to spare, but that moment
I dedicate to your service. You may
remember that when I delivered up to
you your dearly-purchased letters, you
rashly threw them, as you imagined, into
the flames. I was, however, lucky
enough to have my wits about me,
and seeing that the papers had fallen
rather short of the burning wood, I
rescued them from the grate, before
there had been done to them any more
mischief than that of getting slightly
scorched ; and I now, in the hope that
the reading of them will do you good
service with your cross-grained Colonel,

return the precious remains to your safekeeping.


"You will doubtless see amongst the
marriages the announcement of mine
to Major Brereton ; wish me joy, there's
a good child, and believe me, yours
affectionately, Emily Bretton."

Lady Gregorie's delight at this unexpected
piece of good fortune was so
intense that she overlooked the familiarity
of the terms in which the
ci-devant friend, whom she now more
than half believed to be a robber,
ventured to address her.

Ah ! he will forgive me now,"
she said to herself, whilst reading the
only slightly-singed notes, and realising
to the full, the childishness and folly of
their contents. " He will leave off

being stiff and cold to me, and I shall
be a happy woman once again ! "

Never before, even in her honeymoon's
earliest days, had she listened so eagerly for
the music of his " footstep on the stairs "
as now she did ; and when at last, he, with
the frown upon his brow which she had
learned to dread, entered the room, she flew
to him, and placed the rescued fragments
of Time, and fire-stained paper in his hands.

'* Head these," she cried excitedly ; "almost
every word is there ! Emily Vidal
has sent them to me. Here is her letter;
and oh, Wilfred, won't you believe now
that she is not wholly bad ? She
felt sure that seeing the notes would
make you forgive me at last, and so
she snatched them from the fire."

With her small hands clasped tightly
on her husband's arm, Florence watches,

as she reads, the dark brow relax ; and
when she sees a smile creep over the
stern lips which a drooping moustache
does not wholly hide, she says, less
timidly than before, while her brown
eyes glance up into his masterful face, —

They are not so very wicked, are
they, dear ? "

"Wicked!" he repeated, with a laugh,
which, if she had not been so overwhelmingly
happy, would have rather provoked
his wife. 'why, you foolish little
woman, I never read such childish nonsense
in my life. And you actually
gave six hundred pounds, or whatever
it was, for this rubbish ? Forgive me
for laughing," he adds, as he winds his
arm round his wife's slender waist, " but
it really has been such a storm in . a
teacup, that I cannot help it."

He had watched the gathering of tears
in the pleading eyes of his wife, and
dreading, after the fashion of his sex,
the scene which to his thinking imminent,
he has spoken in a light and
jesting tone; but the kiss which he
presses on the carnation-hued lips that
are so near his own, speaks volumes,
not only of forgiveness of the past, but
of a love which Florence whispers to
her happy heart will last till Death shall
them part.

May's wedding-day arose bright and
cloudless, and the child bride, as she
stood with her "second love" before the
altar, was haunted by no self-reproachful
memories of her first sweetheart. Time
and Nature had played well their parts,
and she was happy.

Sir Wilfred responded gracefully to

VOL. III.

the question of "Who giveth this woman
to be married to this man ? " and his
parting good wishes to the bridegroom
were, owing to his renewed belief in
his own sweet wife, uttered with peculiar
hopefulness and zest. He was still of
opinion that young army men had better
steer clear of matrimony, but nemfio mortality
omnibus horns spit, and if his
dear friend ( Vanstone should be so fortunate
as to find in pretty May a second
Florence, why Life, Sir Wilfred told himself,
might yet for that best fellow in
the world, possess its charms.

THE END.

COLSTON AND COMPANY, PRINTERS, Edinburgh.

Ja5SP^

University OF ILLIN0I8-UHBANA



2 045852198
