^m^
^

a

l,\^

Each in Three Volumes.

THE CAPTAINS' ROOM. By Walter Besant.

KIT : a Memory. By James Pain.

VAL STRANGE. By David Christie Murray.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon.

GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.

DUST. By Julian Hawthorne.

WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.

Chatty & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

3 Siorg

BY

CHARLES GH^BON

AUTHOR OF 'robin GRAY* 'THE GOLDEN SHAFT' 'a Heart's PROBLEM'

'queen of the meadow' 'the braes of yarrow' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

Chatty & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



T/tc y^S^U of translation n rcscrxcd ]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

My Friend
THOMAS EDWARD WEBB, M.D.

In grateful recognition

of much IV ell-timed Kindness and advice
and in 'pleasant memory of
•^ many genial hours

%



CONTENTS

OP

THE First Volume:

CHAPTER PACK

I. The Past is Dead. The Future — ? . . 1

II. 'Thou sh.\lt not Love or Hate' . . .17

III. KiGHT OR Wrong-VI

IV. The Whole State of the Case . .47
V. On Board the 'Eucalyptus' . . . (32

VI. The Hand of Destiny I^ Kid Gloves . 70

VII. At Derewood Grange 94

VIII. With the Deist Intentions 105

IX. Isis Iloi'E 114

X. Her Despair 130

XL Again on Board the 'Eucalyptus ' . . . 148

XII. The Duckpond by Moonlight. . .104

XIII. A Problem to Solve 175

CHAPTER PAGE

XIV. Ruth Writes again 189

XV. The Man who Speculates is Lost . . . 197

XVI. Ruth's Last Notes 206

XVII. Love's Requiem 224

Xvi. Does she Love him ? 241

XIX. The News brought Home . . . . . 257

XX. Mr. Rapier is puzzled 271

XXI. A Young Toxicologist 286

XXII. Only One Objection 305

XXIII. Spoken at last 322

CHAPTEE I.

THE PAST IS DEAD. THE FUTURE

A MAX and a woman out at the end of the lone
pier of Soutbend-on-Sea. Their names were
Stephen Meredith and Euth Clark.

To be out at the end of this pier is as good
as being at sea. Some people would think it
better than being at sea ; there is no unpleasant
motion to disturb digestion or upset the equilibrium
of the body ; and that stomach must be
of the diseased squeamish kind which, under
these conditions, prevents the enjoyment of the
fresh breeze and the murmur and plash of the

VOL. I. B

water. The air was sharp, but not unpleasantly
so ; the long black line of the pier melted
in the distance as it reached toward the land,
where the few lights of the town were only
dimly visible. The tide was out, and the large
space which was left uncovered looked like
a huge fantastic chessboard, with its beds of
mussels mingling with pools which were turned
into silver shields by the moonlight ; the
stranded boats of many sizes were the men of
the game, waiting to be moved.

In the offing where sundry black masses
huddled together ; the initiated knew them to
be Dutch craft, laden with eels for Billingsgate.

The man and woman were gazing along the
silver roadway, and watching the distant Noiit
light appearing and disappearing. The sea, to
some lookers on, is only ' a great extent of
water,' subject to winds and tides and a vast
source of profit and loss ; to others it is always
full of strange suggestions of hope and despair,

fascination and terror. Stephen Meredith and
Ruth Clark belonged to the latter class of sea-gazers.


They were in absolute solitude. The cabin,
which serves as a refreshment room in the
season, and the residence of some one having
duties in connection with the pier, was closed.
A man had suddenly appeared, like a pantomime
goblin, from the depths of the lower
platform ; but he was nothing more terrible
than a sailor who had come from one c»f the
outlying vessels with a small boat to take his
skipper home when that worthy had finished
his evening's amusement ashore.

Good evening,' said this kindly goblin,
vaguely, seeing the two occupants of the pier,
and good-naturedly sauntered landward, his
heavy boots making a dull hollow soit on
the wooden road.

Then they were alone. The light shimmered
along the silver roadway — glittering laughter.

fancy might have called it — and the water was
lapping round the feet of the pier with a low,
crooning sound.

They were painfully conscious of being
alone, for their hearts, which had been so close
that they seemed one, had come to an abrupt
halt, when they started and drew back from
each other — dumb, bewildered, quivering — not
knowing or able to think about what was to
happen next.

The woman was perfectly calm ; the man
was trying to appear so. He was resting over
the rails. She was standing erect and dark as

Fate except her face, which was clear in the

moonlight ; his face was shadowed by his hat,
and both were looking out upon the same
silvery roadway, which came laughing to their
feet.

He, an ordinary enough mortal, in a dark
Chesterfield overcoat and low-crowned felt hat,
no muffler and no gloves ; thick, short, black

whiskers, beard, and moustache. She, a tall,
graceful figure, dressed in perfect fashion — that
is, the fashion which impresses you with the
feeling that the woman is beautifully dressed
without suggesting one thought of colour,
material, or shape. Man or woman, you can
never describe the dress of such a person
in a milliner's sense ^wq minutes after you
have been privileged to look upon him or
her.

Euth Clark always dressed plainly because
she liked it; and she was unaffectedly plain
because she had no sense of a desire to attract
attention by her simplicity of attire. The face
on which the moon was shining was pale
as with much anxious thought ; irregular in
feature, but in form and expression it displayed
a beauty whose light outshone the moon's — that
of good heart and intellect. It was an honest
face.

When he lifted his head to look at her, his

seemed to be an honest face too ; and altlioiigh
there was an inflection of impatience in his
voice as he spoke, there was sincerity in the
tone. The very irritation in it would have told
a sympathetic ear that he loved her.

There's a droll question, Euth ; why is it
that mere flirtation is always sweet and that
love is bitter ? '

The question was flung at her in a reckless,
devil-may-care way, as if he would not be
altogether sorry if it did hurt her, although he
did not really want to do so. She answered it
quite gravely, but with a shade of mocking
severity on her lip —

I suppose it is because one is froth and
the other is the body, which, like all substantial
things, you know, is charged with a certain
percentage of acid.'

She was so placid and so precise in that
answer.

^ Oh ! '

The man stopped himself, got up, walked
as far as the lifeboat, and came back.

Do you know what I was going to say ? '
he asked, with forced calmness. ' I was going
to say that this sort of thing cannot go on — I
was going to say — damn it, do you wish to
part ? '

The moon was shining through the white
mist on the faces of both. The water was
murmuring a hushaby to the feet of the pier ;
the silver, path across the water still lay before
them, and the distant light of the More was
appearing and disappearing.

She answered very deliberately , but evidently
with a great effort to conceal her emotion —

'Yes.'

Don't be ridiculous — if you can help it,'
was his sharp rejoinder ; * you know that we
cannot part.'

I know that we do not wish to part, but it
must be.'

'Why?'

She did not answer. He took another turn
to the lifeboat and back. It was not merely
that he was fond of her — that she was the kind
of woman to attract attention and probably serve
very well as the mistress of a household, but
he believed that she loved him. He knew that
he loved her, and his conviction was that his
life would be a truer and a better one if she
were by his side than it could be if she were
elsewhere.

He planted himself before her.
You have not told me why ? You say I
am not a fool, Faith. Yeiy well ; few people
are able to make sure in their own minds on
that point. But of this I am sure — that mad,
stupid, and unreasonable as my love for you
may be, it is the spring from which I draw
strength, hope, and life. Do you believe
me?'

She did not answer.

At least you owe me some fuller explanation,'
he went on, speaking rapidly, ' than you
have given me in simply stating that it is your
wish that we should part. I cannot believe
that you are afraid of what difficulties we may
have to meet ; and until you tell me with your
own lips that it is so, I will not believe that you
do not care for me.'

If I were to tell you that I did not care
for you,' she said in a low distressed tone,
would that satisfy you ? Would you be content
then to go your way through the world
and forget me ? '

If I believed you, I should hate you,' he
replied, with a short laugh, which assured herby
the very bitterness of its sincerity that he
had no notion of believing her, and therefore
was not likely to hate her. He drew her arm
through his own and pressed it close to him.
Now, this is some nonsense, louth, kindly
meant, I have no doubt ; but we must get rid

of it. Come, take a turn, and then see if you
can tell me what it all means.'

She walked with him, clinging to his arm,
and yet there was an occasional startled lookin
her eyes as if she wanted to fly away from
him.

I wish you would not insist. I have told
you that circumstances have arisen which
render it necessary for me to break off our
engagement. I have thought it over — you
cannot understand with what cruel pain ! — and
I can find no alternative in order to be just to
you and myself. I can find no other way of
proving how much I care for you. I am decided,
and have no more to say.'

But this is not fair to me. I have a right
to know your reasons for deciding to act in this
strange way.'

'You would not think my reasons were
sufficient — you would feel bound to repudiate
them.'

That is the strongest argument of all
why you should not be permitted to act upon
them without giving me a chance of convincing
you that you are doing wrong, or of being convinced
myself that you are doing right. I know
that my position is an embarrassing one ; that
at present my income is small and is heavily
taxed by my mother and sisters ; but we considered
all these things before, and they are no
more in our way now than they were a month
af?o.'

There was a movement on her part as if the
breeze had given her a sudden chill. He drew
her under the shelter of the lifeboat, and she
tightened her scarf.

It is getting cold ; we must go back. I
know that you are vexed with me, and I am
sorry ; but it cannot be helped. I know that
my conduct is strange ; some day you will
perhaps understand it and forgive it — when you
are quite calm and have overcome the feeling

of disappointment with which you must regard
me at present. You think, of course, that you
cannot get over it, but you will soon do that,
and you will be grateful to me. And you
will be happy. Now let us go.'

No, not yet. If you are determined to
pursue this stubborn and mysterious way of
yours, you must first answer — have you found
another lover ? '

You know I have not.'

That was her only reproach ; but the suspicion
had more effect in disturbing the calmness
she had succeeded in preserving up to
this point than anything he had previously
said.

Forgive the question ; but think of what
you are doing, and you will own that it is not
unnatural. You cast aside all that has passed
between us. You bid me return your letters.
You tell me that mine are lying ready for meat
Kemerton. And you give me no better

reason for this change than that you think it
should be made for my sake. I say that there
can be nothing to account for such a change,
except the discovery on your part that you
never have really cared for me, and that you
are simply anxious to be free. What other
reason can there be ? You would not hesitate
to explain it if there were any other.'

'Think what you will, Stephen, I believe I
am acting the truest and kindest part in leaving
you. I wish we could have spoken quietly
about it. I would have liked to remember the
last evening we spent alone together, as one on
which I proved my love for you in doing this
thing ; and you proved your love for me by
trusting the tenderness of my motives. That
cannot be, it seems, and we need not talk more
about it.'

I will not regard this as final. There is
only one way in which you can make me alter,
and you are not able to adopt it. Until you

do SO I shall persist in my belief that you are
acting under the influence of some foolish
whim, and that you will come back to yourself
and to me.'

You are mistaken. My resolution cannot
be altered. The past is dead.'

And the future ? '

And in the future our ways must be very
different from what we once expected them
to be.'

He could not comprehend the situation. ^
Had there been passion of any kind in her
words or manner; had he committed some
error of which she had a right to complain,
then it would have been easy to understand it.
But here was no complaint, no anger, only
deep sorrow, and yet no visible reason for the
suffering she was inflicting on herself and on
him. This was no petty quarrel ; she was
acting from the calm conviction that what she
was doing was right and unavoidable. He

knew the strong, earnest nature of the woman,
and after the first outburst of impatience
and indignation he, too, became pale and
cain.

So be it, Eutli ; I shall dispute the matter
no more with you to-night. But in virtue of
our love, and of the hopes which it still inspires
in me at least, I claim the right to seek the
motives which have moved you to this cruel
resolve, and then to act for you and for myself
as 1 may think best.'

As you will.'

She did not tell him that long before he
could discover her motives she would be far
beyond the reach of his influence. She had
barely hinted at the long, bitter struggle with
herself through which she had arrived at the
conclusion that they must part ; and that she
must not give him another opportunity to tempt
her to change her mind. She could not answer
for herself, she loved him so ! The trial had

been already almost too* much for her. And
there was the terrible lonely future before her.

Then they turned their backs upon that
silver roadway which seemed to have been
inviting them to follow its pleasant course, and
in silence they traversed the long black line of
the pier through the white mist to the land.

You will be at Kemerton tomorrow
night ? ' she said, as they were parting.

Yes, unless there is a message from Mr.
Dottridge telling me that I am not wanted.
You know we can never be sure of his
humour.'

CHAPTEE IJ.

'THOU SHALT NOT LOVE OH HATE.'

Entering the room from the well-lighted hall
was like passing suddenly into a fog where a
single torch is illuminating one small circle.
The upper part of the room was in darkness,
and only the writing table was lit by the large,
thickly-shaded lamp.

Euth Clark was seated at this table, and
the upper part of her face was in shadow,
whilst the mouth and chin were fully displayed.
That mouth was one which could be stern as
well as tender. She had raised the pen to her
lips signifying to the man who had just entered
that he was to be silent. The man had already
closed the door, and he waited.

VOL. I. c

A low voice was heard dictating; Euth's
pen travelled rapidly over the paper. Her
knowledge of the speaker's ways enabled her
without apparent difficulty to separate all the
parenthetical observations from the matter she
was required to write.

These things I wish to have carefully noted
now (was that Stephen ? He is to wait) lest
anything should prevent me from preparing the
fuller statement which has been (take a seat)
unfortunately already too long delayed. I have
several times attempted to prepare this statement.,
hut have been unable to overcome my reluctance
or repugnance to approach the subject. But as
my faithful friend '

The voice stopped for a moment as if the
speaker were debating something with himself.
Then—

I think that is the simplest way of putting
it. . . . But as my faithful friend Ruth Clark.,
is about to leave me on a long voyage., and as I

feel that there is no one else to whom I am so
likely to confide these matters I make this effort
now. Is that correctly put ? '

I think you' meaning is quite clear.'
There was something eerie in that dark
room, with its one circle of light, and the voice
of the invisible speaker dictating his last wishes.
During the pauses he made, there was perfect
stillness in the place. There where none of the
customary signs of its being a sick chamber,
for as soon as one's eyes became accustomed to
the kind of fog, they discovered that everything
was orderly. The furniture was plain but rich
in material, and constructed chiefly for the
comfort of the body. The prevailing colour
was a sombre brown, scarcely relieved by the
few pictures, and the lighter shades of the
curtains and other hangings. A closed stove
regulated the temperature, but concealed the
cheerful glow of the fire.
c2

The speaker was Humphrey Dottridge ; the
place was Kemerton Park, Dunthorpe.

He was seated behind a urge screen, in
order to shield his eyes from the light, ashe
liked to dispense, as much as possible,
with the green shade which usually guarded
them.

The pause was long. Euth sat motionless,
ready to catch the first words that were uttered ;
Stephen Meredith was resting on the back of a
chair, watching her with curious, inquiring eyes,
and apparently taking little interest in the words
of his cousin from the moment he had heard
that Euth was about to leave Kemerton on a
long voyage.

She had not told him that when they were
on the pier at Southend, and yet it must have
been in her mind all the time she had been
speaking. Why ? What was there to conceal
from him ?

Again the voice, and this time there was

something pathetically self-reproachful in its
tone —

'I am afraid 1 shall have to stop again,
Pith. I thought it possible to go on in
Stephen's presence, and have been trying, but
it is no use.'

Would you like Mr. Meredith to leave us
for a little ? '

'That would not make any difference now.
Besides, 1 would rather he heard me, for you
know he has more to do with the matter than
lie at present suspects.'

But if my presence interferes with you,
what is the use of my staying ? ' said Meredith,
coldly.

Stay, please ; this is only a ridiculous
sentiment which has no particular association
with you, and I wish to overcome it. . /
am desirous that Dahlia Whiicomhe should he
treated in every respect as my daughter (Euth's
pen went on again) ; and have made such

provision for her as that relationship might
require of me. 1 do this on account of her
mother, for the unhappiness of whose life 1
hold myself greatly to blame. That will
do.'

The latter words were spoken in an exhausted
tone, and silence ensued.

By-and-by the screen was gently thrust
aside and Mr. Dottridge showed himself.

A man of average height, wearing a thick,
grey dressing-gown. So far as the iron-grey
whiskers, beard, and moustache, and the eye-shade
he had now put on, permitted them to
be seen, the features were regular but pinched
from the effects of illness.

He went slowly to the writing-table, and
signed his name.

The rest must be done another time. Will
you witness the signature, Stephen. . . . Thank
you. Now we can sit down and talk over our
affairs.'

Mr, Bottridge resumed his seat behind the
screen, and Meredith took a chair close by him.
Ruth proceeded methodically to fold the papers
and place them in a deed box which lay beside
her, and a sense of stillness for a few minutes
pervaded the [place again.

I had two objects in asking you to come
to me this evening, Stephen,' said Mr. Dottridge,
and the first can be easily disposed of, as it
was to speak about myself.'

^ I thought that was always the most 
subject a man could have to speak
about,' commented Meredith, carelessly, for his
thoughts were full of Euth and the long
voyage.

Undoubtedly, and I do not pretend that it
is of less importance to me than it is to other
men ; but I can control the length of the debate
upon it. So I can promise it shall be a short
one.'

I am quite at your service ; and first, I

should like to know what was the result of the
consultation of your physicians to-day.'

And that was the first thing I was going
to tell you. The doctors have decided that I
may live for years '

That is good news ! ' exclaimed Meredith,
warmly.

You have not heard the " but." But the
condition is that I am not to be subjected to
any sudden excitement, and that I must not
even lose my temper ! I smile at the difficult
nature of the condition even to a man as
phlegmatic as a Dutchman ; to me — a nervous,
irritable creature, as you know — the idea of
fulfilling it for any length of time is absurd.'

But your doctors may be mistaken as to
the extreme precariousness of your case.'

I wish to hope that they are mistaken ;
but they have assured me that the symptoms
cannot be misconstrued. Therefore, knowing
that any trifling incident which may quicken

the licart's action is almost certain to prove
instantly fatal, I have arranged my affairs. I
shall do what can be done to preserve myself;
but it is a droll fate to know that one exists
only on condition of remaining insensible equally
to joy and sorrow.'

Mr. Dottridge repeated all this calmly,
and as if he were talking of some acquaintance
whose case interested him, rather than of
himself.

Meredith was silent. It is always difficult
to reply to a friend who tells you that he has
settled his worldly affairs and has now nothing
to do but await his summons ; it is most difficult
when you know that there is a probability of
you: deriving some advantage from his departure.
To be cheery and hoped of days yet in store
is apt to be taken for hypocrisy ; and to refer
to the ' Higher Hope ' is decidedly suggestive of
speeding the parting guest.

Meredith knew that he had something? to

expect on the death of his cousin ; and their
relationship, although not unfriendly, had not
been cordial. Therefore he found it particularly
awkward to speak at this moment.

Mr. Dottridge was either too much absorbed
in speculations on his own position to
heed the silence, or he understood it and
passed on. Certainly considerations of others'
conduct can have small importance in the eyes
of a man living under that most terrible form
of the sword of Damocles — the knowledge that
any emotion of pain or joy can only be indulged
in under the penalty of death. That
was the position of Humphrey Dottridge, and
so far he had accepted it calmly enough.
Reckoned by years he was only in middle life,
at the period when healthy men are said to be
in their prime ; he had money, and he had a
fair share of the capacities requisite for enjoying
it wisely. But this doom had been pronounced
: — ' You must neither love nor hate.

The moment j^ou swerve from the dull straight
course of physical routine and mental equanimity,
you die I ' It was doubtful whether or
not the conscious necessity of avoiding agitation
might not provoke it.

'You see I must maintain perfect indifference
about everything,' he went on, ' and it is
not an agreeable life to look forward to ; but
this will enable you to understand why I do
not attempt to discuss any of my arrangements
with you. The papers already prepared will
explain everything, and Mr. Bassnett will communicate
with you. So much for my first
object in sending for you ; now for the second
yourself.'

Meredith felt more sympathy for his rich
cousin than he had ever done before. Their
natures were in many respects dissimilar — that
fact and accident had kept them much apart ;
their meetings on pleasure had been of the
formal kind, and their meetings on business

had been always painful to Meredith on account
of the state in which his father's misfortunes
had left the affairs of the family. But
he was conscious that whatever was unpleasant
in these interviews had been due rather to his
own sensitive way of looking at things than to
intentional unkindness on the part of his cousin.

I have nothing satisfactory to tell you
about myself, and it seems to me that it would
be the best course to leave everything to Mr.
Bassnett.'

You need not be afraid of disturbing me
by anything you may have to say on that
score ; I think the worst is known to me.
Your speculations in Australian wool have
turned out badly, and the land improvements
have not yet yielded any result. That is the
worst.'

That is the worst at present.'

Then things will mend if you can wait
long enough.'

Yes, but the waiting is the difficulty.
There are your '

Mr. Dottridge raised his hand, checking
the reference to the obstacle which he knew
was in Meredith's minds

ought to know that 3'ou need have
no uneasiness about that. It is more your
father's affair than yours, and I have devised
a plan which will enable you to arrange everything
satisfactorily. On that head see Bass-next,
and understand that we are not to speak
of it again. Now, let us turn to what I hope
is a more agreeable subject. You know Dahlia
Whitcombe returns tomorrow.'

Yes ; my mother told me.'

Then she has also told you that, as I wish
the girl to have the pleasures which are suitable
to her years, and which she cannot have here
owing to my peculiar condition, I have asked
Mrs. Meredith to act as her guardian, and to
give her a home at Derewood.'

The people at home are all delighted with
the idea,' observed Meredith, in a tone which
suggested that the prospect did not inspire him
with any special delight.

You have no objection, I hope ? '

Oh, no ! not an objection exactly. I should
be glad to have her as a guest, but I cannot
profess any relish for taking her in as a lodger.'

I trust you will regard her as a friend and
relative,' said Mr. Dottridge very deliberately,
after what you heard me dictating this evening.'


That brought Stephen straight to the subject
which had been uppermost in his thoughts
all the time. Euth's place at the writing table
was now vacant.

Be it as you please. I understand the
necessity for the arrangement, and Miss Whit-combe
shall be made welcome.'

Thank you, Stephen. I know she will be
happy with you.'

I shall do my best not to get in her way.
Now will you explain one thing which has
puzzled me very much to night ? As you
spoke of it so quietly, I conclude there can be
no danger of disturbing you by referring to it
again. Why is Euth Clark going away, and
where is she going to ? '

There was a long pause, but there was not
the slightest movement to indicate that Llr.
Dottridge was distressed by the question, but
his voice was somewhat colder than it had
been as he replied : —

I am unable to explain her reasons forgoing
away, but I am satisfied that they are
good ones. I believe her destination is Australia,
and you can understand that her determination
is a grievous trial to me.'

That was all Mr. Dottridge had to say on
the subject, and Stephen's impatience made
him glad to be able to leave the room almost
immediately.

CHAPTER TIL

RIGHT OR WRONG?

Stephen's purpose was to inquire at once for
Euth ; but he was spared that trouble. Brasses
was waiting for him.

Brassey was Mr. Dottridge's butler and
confidential servant, and in his plain black suit,
with his thin white hair, trim whiskers, and
sedate manner would have been mistaken for a
guest by any stranger, but for the art he had
acquired by long training of letting you understand
at once without servility that he was
your respectful servant.

This is a note for you, sir, and Miss Clark
desired me to give it to you myself.'

Here in the wide old-fashioned hall there
was plenty of light from the big lamp swinging
in the centre of the ceiling, and the smaller
lamps in sconces on the inner walls. It was
one of the master's hobbies that, although he
was obliged to remain in darkness, there should
be light enough for everybody else outside his
rooms.

Stephen read the lines —

Grant me this favour — do not ask to seeme
to-night ; I am not able to stand another
interview.

Believe me, yours truly,

'E. C

He noted that the * yours truly,' w^ilh the
truly ' twice underlined, had been inserted as
an afterthought ; the position of the words and
the colour of the ink told him that. Also he
noted that she signed her initials instead of
Euth ' as had been her custom. He became

VuL. I. D

slightly pale, and his brows drew together
forming two upright wrinkles.

Is there anyone in the parlour ? ' he asked,
and his voice was quite steady.

No, sir ; but Mr. Eapier and Mr. Bassnett
are in the billiard room. There will only be
your three selves at dinner, I understand, as
Miss Clark is not coming down.'

Come here, Brassey ; I want j^ou to take a
message to her,' said Stephen, as he passed into
the parlour.

On a side table he found writing materials.

I shall wait here for half an hour. Tell
me when this ridiculous mystery is to end, if
not to-night. The absurdity of it makes me
impatient.

Yours, always the same,

'Stephen.'

Brassey observed the young man with a
kindly paternal interest, but he took the note

from him and retired without any sign of a desire
to intrude upon his confidence. According
to his own way of thinking he had no need
to seek confidence, for the whole thing was as
plain as a stain on silver to him. He knew that
they were lovers.

They've been having a tiff somehow — how
is a puzzle to me,' was the old man's reflection,
for it beats all my skill to make out how anybody
could contrive to quarrel with Miss Clark
bar a sweetheart. Glad they took me to help
them make it up instead of one of the maids.
I can hold my tongue, I hope.*

Stephen knew that he was made of irritable
stuff, and when left alone his inclination was
to take a quick march iq) and down the room
to keep himself calm ; but on second thoughts
he concluded that he would succeed best by
remaining fixed in one position ; so he put one
hand in his pocket, a foot on the fender, rested
his elbow on the high, massive mantelpiece.

and glared into the fire, on which a huge log
was burning with many-coloured flames. Here,
too, there were brightness and cheeriness, in
marked contrast with the sombre arrangements
of the master's room.

Looking into the bright fire, Stephen made
a brave effort to grasp the whole position of
affairs, and those playful flames seemed to help
him to see faces and events.

There was he, the inheritor of a small
property and large encumbrances, his mother
and a band of girls to support, and a younger
brother to set up in a profession. He was the
descendant of a yeoman family having traditions
of which he was proud, and he desired to maintain
his place in the county. He could work
and had worked. He was a fairly good farmer,
and would have been successful if it had not
been for his passion for scientific experiments
in everything pertaining to agriculture. And
he had a secret hankering after bold speculation.

although generally in matters about which he
knew something, as wool and foreign cattle.
The gambling spirit of the father, which had
been a source of much trouble, had appeared
in the son, but happily in the direction of business
speculation.

Knowing the position of his affairs he had
avoided matrimony — the fact of his being constantly
surrounded by girls helped him to do
that, no doubt — until he had seen Euth Clark.
Then after a good trial of what his own feelings
meant, and after he had tested hers as he
thought, he said to himself simply, * I have
found my mate,' and set himself to discuss ways
and means with her : She calmly considering
how everything might be best arranged for
everybody, and almost leaving herself out of
her proper place in the count : He impetuously
urging that they should take the future bravely
in their hands, and trust to honest endeavour
on both sides to bring all things right.

But she was so unlike other women ; strong,
self-recant, without that affectation of mannish -
ness which makes the ' advanced ' woman only
coarse ; tender without gush, and wise without
beings too conscious of it. She could do unpleasant
things in the kindliest way, and
Stephen owned that she was more frequently
right than he. But she had not been right in
delaying the announcement of their engagement,
he believed, and he was sure of it now that she
wished to break it off altogether without giving
any definite reason — for he did not even think
that his recent losses could have anything to do
With it. That was a reason for postponing the
marriage perhaps ; but nothing more.

He knew that she had nothing, and he preferred
that it should be so. She was a protegee
of Mr. Dottridge, but he did not expect her to
receive much from him ; that had always been
well understood. She had received an exceptionally
good education, which she had improved

upon by ardent study. Her parents were dead ;
she had no relatives with whom she corresponded
; she was free to choose her own
course in life, and she had chosen.

Stephen was content. She was Euth and
that was all he cared about. With or without
fortune he was confident that there was a happy
future before them.

He knew that his mother and sisters disapproved
of his attachment ; but on a subject
of this kind he had no intention of consulting
them. They would have preferred Dottridge's
adopted daughter (some said his real daughter),
Dahha Whitcombe, who would have a considerable
fortune. And Dahlia was a nice enough
creature, in spite of being ' a perfect beauty,' as
some people called her, and certainly perfectly
aware of her attractions. But although he
liked her, she had never touched his thoughts
as a probable wife except to produce a smile at
the ideas women had of making matches anyhow.

Euth was on another plane in his
thought and altogether in his heart.

But Euth sometimes vexed and bewildered
him ; then she had only to be what he called
herself for a few minutes and he forgot the
vexation and bewilderment. This time she
was passing all bounds as he thought, and he
was resolved to brins; matters to a crisis.

At first, when she had spoken of breaking
off their secret engagement, he regarded it as a
jest ; the next time, as most unkind, but still a
jest. The third time, when they met at Southend
whither she had been despatched on some
mission by Mr. Dottridge — there could no
longer be any doubt that she was in earnest.
The announcement of the voyage she was
about to take showed that she intended to put
space between them to complete the separation.


For what purpose was this done? The
thing must be made clear to him ; upon that

he was resolved. To-morrow he would proclaim
their secret engagement and declare
himself ready to fulfil it. If she chose then
to say that she did not now care enough for
him to risk her happiness in his keeping, there
would be nothing for him to do but to retire
and master his disappointment as quickly as
possible. But as long as she continued to say
that she cared for him — only for him, and
could never care for another — he would be a
dishonourable scoundrel to release her until he
knew that there was another reason for separation
than the only one he could conceive, and
which he had been assured did not exist.

Separation ! Good Lord ! — and she had
said it so quietly ! Could it be possible that
she had any sense of the meaning of what she
was doing to him — wrecking his whole life ? It
was impossible. There was some contemptible
secret at the bottom of it, or, as he believed,
some whimsical notion of duty, or — and this he

could not believe — she did not and never had
really cared for him.

He had held himself fixed in his place all
the time, glaring at the fire, seeing the faces of
those he vas thinking about ; but his brain
was wrought to a wild state of excitement,
although his body remained still.

Mister Meredith ! '

That was the third time Brassey had
spoken. Stephen started at the sound when it
at last penetrated his ears. It seemed to him
as if hours had elapsed since Brassey had left
him. He snatched the note from the salver,
and as the man retired, he read —

There really is no mystery. I wish to go
away. I have decided it is best for me to go
away. What I said to you at Southend is final.
That is all. I am sorry you are grieved ; I
cannot see you to-night. It depends upon
yourself whether or not I ever see you again.'

That is all.' Yes, that was all ! It was

heartlessly cruel to herself, or to him — which?
Was it in nature that any human being could
so inspire another with life, and joy, and hope,
and love, and then so calmly take it all away ?
Blow it out, so to say, as we blow out the light,
when it has served our purpose ?

He was quiet now and cold ; standing
quite still, holding that paper in his hand in a
dazed way, wondering about it all. The
greatest calamity that he had thought could
happen to him had befallen him, and he did not
seem to feel anything at the moment except a
sort of dull aching about his head and stomach.

Then what did all those joyful hours and
days that they had lived together mean ? The
sunshine that her presence always made ; the
glorious pictures they had painted of the bright
future together ; the strange thrill of unspeakable
happiness which the touch of her hand
communicated to him, which the touch of no
other hand had ever done before, or could ever

do again ; what did it all mean since at a
breath she could destroy it all ? Surely there
was something terribly wrong here in himself orin
her. What was it ?

In a chamber almost directly over his head
was Euth Clark. She was looking sallow and
ill, and she sat rigidly in a chair, one arm resting
on the table, the other lying listlessly on
her lap, Stephen's note under her hand.

Her eyes were heavy and swollen, but
showed no sign of tears. They seemed to be
looking at some roughly tied packet of letters
this letters, but the vision was entirely turned
inward.

Was this thing that she was doing right ?
Was it best for him that they should separate ?
So it had seemed to be when she had been
wrestling with herself over it, and had finally
determined upon it. He would soon recover
from the loss of her. Soon cease to miss her ;

forget their love (ah, that was hard to think
about !), and be happy. Perhaps he would
remember her kindly when he knew how much
he had gained through her sacrifice. Perhaps
he would even think that she had suffered
something in turning away from that bright
course which they had hoped to walk together.
May be then, too, he would remember that
silvery roadway which the moonlight made on
the waters at Southend, and faintly guess how
it had seemed to her distracted thought to be
taunting her, and tempting her to take the
bright way with him, no matter what quicksands
lay beyond. And she had resisted it
for his sake, and thought that she was right !

But now, when she had struck the blow
which must make him turn from her in contempt,
she was filled with doubt. The spectre
which had hovered over the bright path and
helped her to remain fii'm — the spectre of the
possible change in him if, wedding her now, he

should learn hereafter how much he had lost by
doing so — forsook her. She saw him faithful
and brave to the last. She, only, faithless in
her doubt.

That spectre was more terrible than the
other. Then was this thing that she was doing
right .^

The dull sound of the muffled gong
announced dinner. Stephen was roused from
his trance.

Dinner ! — of course, and Bassnett — Bass-next,
the lawyer, who knew everything, was to
be there ! Why, what an utter ass he had
been, wasting precious time when he had only
to step across the hall and shake hands with
the very man who was commissioned to explain
the whole business to him ! What a fool he
was !

The dull boom of the muffled gong sounded
a second time, and to Euth Clark's ears it was
like a funeral knell.

CHAPTEE lY.

THE WHOLE STATE OF THE CASE.

There was really no necessity for constraint in
the dining-room, for it was at some distance
from Mr. Dottridge's rooms, and the doors
were padded so that when closed sounds were
kept well within the walls of the apartment in
which they were made. Although aware of
this fact, the peculiar circumstances under
which they met caused the three gentlemen to
speak at first in subdued tones. There was no
host, but in some mysterious way Brassey
placed Stephen at the head of the table, as if it
were quite a matter of course that he should
be there; and Mr. Bassnett and Mr. Eapier,

also as if it were a matter of course, took the
chairs arranged for them on each side of him.

Everything was at first said and done in
the same subdued manner as that observed ina
house where the preliminaries of a funeral
are being arranged ; the servants moved about
with noiseless steps, changing dishes without
clatter, and Brassey even succeeded in uncorking
the champagne without noise. The conversation
was fitful, and no one seemed to be able
to start a subject of the slightest interest to the
others. The reason was simple — because they
avoided the subject which was of interest to
them all, and uppermost in their thoughts,
namely, the affairs of Humphrey Dottridge.

Percival Bassnett, of Bassnett, Hawley, and
Smart, Serjeant's Inn, solicitors, was about
fifty-five in years, but, being a well-knit, active
man, of standish complexion, always neatly
dressed, and generally in shooting coat or
reefer, no one would have supposed that he

was more than forty. In Serjeant's Inn he
liked to be regarded as a shrewd, and rather
sharp man of business, and such he really was.
Outside Serjeant's Inn he liked to be regarded
as a prosperous country gentleman, and so he
was. He had a handsome place in the country ;
he went annually to the north to shoot, and
sometimes as far as Norway to shoot. He was
a man of strong constitution and clear head ;
one to be trusted implicitly with the most
private family affairs, and admired for his
success in his profession. He seldom failed to
carry to a successful issue any case which he
took in hand ; but then he was very careful
about the nature of the cases he undertook.


He ate his dinner and took his wine with
relish ; leisurely, as if he recognised the duty
he owed to his digestion, the respect he owed
to good victuals, and the importance of the
meal in the economy of Hfe.

VOL. I. E

Lewis Eapier was a tall, handsome man,
with short, thick, glossy black hair and moustache.
Soft oval face, bright blue eyes, and
an expression of thorough content with himself
and everything else. He looked as if he had
never known care, and had somewhat of a
military bearing — frank, firm, and stalwart.
Little was known about him, except that he
was a particular friend of the proprietor of
Kemerton. It was vaguely understood that he
had been formerly in the army, that he had atone
time held a high command under the
Sultan, and that he was a sleeping partner in
some city firm. He had chambers in Albemarle
Street, and his permanent address was
the Cosmos Club, St. James's Street. He had
been for some time such a frequent guest at
Kemerton that he was quite at home there,
and the apartment he occupied during his visits
was spoken of by the domestics as Mr. Eapier's
room.

He, too, ate and drank with relish, but in
the easy fashion of a man who, blessed with a
good digestion, could afford to dispense with
any nice discrimination as to the quality or
cooking of his food. In the matter of wine and
cigars, however, he was fastidious, and would
rather go without them than touch an inferior
brand of either of these luxuries. This idiosyncrasy
was known to his friends ; it made some
uncomfortable and amused others. He was
apparently quite unconscious of disturbing or
amusing them in this respect.

Stephen scarcely spoke at all during
dinner.

You seem dull, Meredith,' said Eapier,
good-naturedly, trying to rouse him.

You know how things are here — you
cannot expect me to be merry.'

There was an unconscious satire in the
words and manner, and Rapier was surprised.


e2

I did not mean that I expected you to be
merry, for of course one is always sad when a
relative's Hfe is in danger.'

The sneer was as Stephen thought very
marked. He answered it in the right way, by
a frank acknowledgment of his own lack of
courtesy.

I beg your pardon, Eapier. I know that
I am churlish just now, but the cause of it has
nothing to do with my cousin. I intended to
speak to Bassnett alone after dinner ; but there
is no reason why you should not hear me, and
you shall. Then you will understand why I
am so much out of humour.'

You are in earnest about it, whatever it
is,' rejoined the other, sorry for having disturbed
him ; ' and I wish you had not taken
my chaff so seriously.'

All right. Wait a little and don't mind
me.'

When the servants had retired Stephen

began at once, scarcely waiting for his friends
to fill their glasses.

I know your sensible objection, Bassnett,
to speak of business out of business hours ;
but the information I am about to ask for is
not exactly of a business nature, although I
expect you to be able to give it to me because
of your professional connection with my
cousin.'

Bassnett was sipping his Poniard very
deliberately, and eying Stephen with an expression
of friendly curiosity.

My dear Meredith,' he said, with a kind of
dry cordiality, ' you ought to know that you
should never ask a lawyer to give you information
he has acquired in his professional capacity.
If he is an honest man he will tell you at once
that he cannot do it ; if he is a hypocrite he
will pretend that he has not got it ; and if he
is a rogue he will make a bargain with you
for it.'

No breach of confidence can be involved
in an answer to my question. Besides, so far
as business is concerned, my cousin has told me
that you have instructions to explain everything.'


Certainly — everything that it is necessary
for you to know — and you can have the explanation
as soon as you please. But you will
have to come to Sergeant's Inn.'

This was said with a smile at Stephen's
evident impatience, and the latter did not
observe the qualification as to the extent of
what he was to be told.

'I did not expect you to enter into my
affairs to-night. All I want to know is — Why
is Miss Clark not only leaving Kemerton but
England ? '

Bless my soul ! how should I know ?' exclaimed
Mr. Bassnett, astounded by the nature
of the question, and the importance which
Stephen attached to it.

I thought that in discussing affairs you
might have learned the reasons for this sudden
determination on her part,' urged Stephen,
disappointed to find the lawyer ignorant as
himself.

It never occurred to me to suppose that
there was any other reason than that she wished
to go. She has an uncle out in Australia ; and
she wants to join him, and Mr. Dottridge thinks
that the change would be good for her health
you know she has not been in the best
possible physical condition for some time past.
There is nothing singular in all that ; and no
reason why you should not have the fullest
information I can afford. On my word, from
the way you introduced the subject, I thought
you were going to demand nothing less than a
fill statement of the contents of my client's
private will and trust deeds.'

Mr. Bassnett laughed heartily but not
loudly. He was greatly relieved to find that

the important information required from him
was of such a commonplace character.

Stephen saw how Lightly he regarded the
subject, and if it had not been that he felt how
foolish he would look in the eyes of a practical
man like Bassnett, he would have told him there,
and in the presence of Eapier, why the matter
was of so much importance to him.

Eapier had remained perfectly quiet throughout
this short passage between the lawyer and
Stephen ; there had been a momentary smile
on his face as he watched the latter's growing
expression of dismay. He understood perfectly
well why Stephen was so anxious.

You have bewildered Bassnett, and as you
don't mind me listening, Meredith, perhaps you
will not mind me putting in a word. I think I
can help you.'

Stephen turned to him with eager eyes, in
which there was no hope.
• ^ How? 'this huskily.)

By being impudent to you if you will
permit me,' answered Eapier, with a kindly
laugh.

Be as impudent as you like, if you can

help me

'Look here, Bassnett, earn six-and-eight
at once — tell me how to tell a man he is an

egotistical fool without hurting his feelings, and

laying myself open to an action for libel ? '

Good ; hand over the six-and-eight — my
terms are cash,' answered the lawyer, taking
a cigar.

Very well, give me the tip.'

With pleasure. The way to avoid doing
the things you refer to is — to hold your
tongue. Now I shall take a light in heu of
the fee

*Here you are,' and Eapier passed the
vesta to him.

I am waiting for you, Eapier,' said Stephen
He knew that all this by-play was meant kindly,

not offensively, but at that moment he could not
appreciate it.

You don't mind Bassnett hearing ? *

Of course not ; go on.'

Well — ' Eapier paused on the word and
smoked meditatively. * Well, the whole state
of the case is this : You have got a particular —
I must give it the real word, Meredith, for you
are in earnest — you have got a particular affection
for the lady, and you cannot understand
why she should wish to leave England when
you want her to remain. I can.'

What is it .^ That is what I want to make
out,' cried Stephen eagerly.

To an outsider the thing is very simple, if
only a few of the facts of the case are known.
She is a woman of considerable acuteness, very
resolute in doing what she believes to be the
right thing, and very quick to see what the
right thing is. In the present case, she likes
you well enough to wish to get out of your way,

as she feels that she does not like you well
enough to risk the self-reproach that she had
interfered with your prospects.'

Stephen's eyes dropped contemptuously to
the table, and his fingers tapped the glass
which he had forgotten to fill when he passed
the wine.

Well, what do you think of my reading of
the riddle which seems to have perplexed you
so much ? ' inquired Eapier, calmly.

I think it is excellent,' was the sarcastic
reply ; ' you have got quicker eyes than Bassnett
to understand me, but you do not understand
her.'

I am nearer the mark than you wall
believe at present. By-and-by you will tell me
that I was right.'

I wish I could make out what you two
fellows are wrangling about ? I see Meredith
is in a temper, and you are trying to persuade
him that Miss Clark is not in love with him,'

said the lawyer, helping himself to wine, and
making an effort to change the subject of conversation.
' I must say that I should take it
for granted that the lady knew her own mind
best, and that she shows very plainly what it is
when she decides upon going to the other end
of the world — that is to say, I think she can
have no very strong attachment to this end of
it. Now, who says billiards ? '

I am going home to-night, so you will
excuse me,' said Stephen, rising gladly.
Thanks to you both, although you have not
been able to give me the information I wanted

I shall do my best to satisfy you when you
come to Sergeant's Inn,' said Bassnett, * but on
this subject I have told you all I know.'

Eapier accompanied Stephen to the door
where a groom was waiting with the latter 's
horse. As they passed along the hall he took
this arm familiarly, and whispered confidently in
his ear —

I am going to make you my enemy for
life, Meredith — at any rate I shall run the risk
of doing so.'

Don't do it then.'

I must. I know your feelings for Miss
Clark, and respect them. I respect her and
admire her. I believe she is doing you a real
kindness — she means it so I am certain. She
has learned that Dottridge leaves you nothing,
and she does not want to encumber you with a
penniless wife. That is why she is going
away.'

Nonsense,' returned Stephen as he mounted.

Was that a friend or an enemy ? — was the
question which occupied him as he rode home.

CHAPTER V.

ON BOARD THE 'EUCALYPTUS.'

The first week in December is not a pleasant
season in wtiicli to sail for the antipodes : so at
least think those who are unaccustomed to the
sea. But good or bad season ships go and
come, and stout-hearted seamen tell you that
they must take the weather as they find it, just
as landsmen have to do : moreover, they prefer
the sea at any time to London in a fog.

The Eucalyptus, first-class copper, for Sydney
bound, was lying off* Greenhithe, her cargo
complete, her compasses adjusted, and ready
for sea. She carried few passengers — twenty in
the steerage and four in the cabin. They were

all on board except one — a lady who was to
occupy the chief cabin next to the captain's.
The lady was Euth Clark.

I hope she has not missed the train,' said
the Captain, looking shoreward. ' The tug is
ready, and our time is up.'

I suppose as she is the particular friend of
the owner she fancies she can do as she likes
with us,' said Captain Mackay's wife ; and there
was an indication in her tone that if the lady
had any such fancy she would speedily discover
her mistake.

The Captain was a burly Scot, with a round,
ruddy, jovial face, and merry, twinkling little
eyes. He had spent all his life at sea, beginning
his career in his father's fishing smack at
Arbroath, and chanonnc^ into a sea-o^oinc; vessel
when he was fourteen. He had rapidly risen
to be master, and had been for ten years
commander of the Eucalyptus.

His wife was a little stout woman, who

insisted upon accompanying him on every
voyage, in spite of the fact that she was a bad
sailor, and had to spend in her cabin the
greater part of the time she was at sea. But
she had no children, she was fond of her ' goodman,'
and would not be persuaded to remain
on shore. She was not an ill-natured woman.
but she did not like lady passengers. They
always made such a fuss, she said, and the
Captain was far too attentive to them. They
could make him do anything they liked if they
pretended to be ever so little out of sorts. In
fact it would never do to leave him to their
mercy.

There she comes,* said the Captain, with a
satisfied smile, as he put down his glass.
You'll find her a real nice quiet lady, Betsy ;
and, mind, her principal reason for coming
with us is because you are on board. So be
guide till her.'

A small boat came alongside. Euth 

the ladder, followed by Stephen
Meredith.

She was received by the captain and his
wife — the latter taking a fancy to her at once,
and conducting her to her cabin with many
expressions of goodwill and pleasure in having
such a companion for the voyage.

Stephen interchanged a few words with the
Captain, who told him that they were to weigh
anchor immediately, and that, as he had
directed, arrangements had been made for his
return with the tug when she parted with the
ship. Then the Captain turned to his many
duties, and Stephen stood on the deck near the
cabin staircase waiting for Euth. The other
passengers were busy taking final leave of the
friends who had delayed going on shore till the
last moment, for the privilege of returning with
the tug had not been taken advantage of by
anyone except Stephen.

He was pale and tired looking, as if he had

VOL. I. F

not slept for several nights, but he was calm.
It was the calmness, however, of one who
submits to a fate he cannot control although he
believes it to be a cruel one, and would alter it
if he could.

When Euth, in her warm grey travelling
dress, rejoined him, they walked in silence to
the stern of the ship.

There was great bustle going on, a loud
mingling of many tones of voices, a creaking of
windlasses, the panting of the tug, the shouts
and cheers of those in the small boats, answered
by those on board, as the huge vessel began
slowly to move away from her mooring-place.
There was an effort on both sides to inspire the
cheers with the gladness of hope, but the effort
was damped by the consciousness of the many
probabilities that they would never see each
other's face again.

Euth heard these sounds and felt their full
meaning. She saw the faces and knew how

forced the smiles were, and excused those
whose maudlin grief showed that they had
been seeking comfort from the wrong quarter.

Do you hear that ? ' said Stephen, bitterly.
A very little while, and it will be our
turn.'

Yes,' she replied in a low voice, looking
dreamily at the boats which were dropping
away from the ship ; handkerchiefs waving and
oars lingering, that the last look might be as
long as possible.

She, too, was pale, but the features were
fixed in such a mould of determination that the
expression seemed hard. The thing was to be
done ; it was her own doing, and she, at any
rate, must not add to his distress by showing
any signs of the regret, the misery, and the
loneliness that filled her heart. No ; she was
going to be brisk and resolute. He shoidd
depart with the conviction that she was a
callous, unfeeling creature, rather than that he

F 2

should think of her as one who had been forced
into exile.

The whole thing is so sudden that I cannot
realise it,' he muttered, looking down into the
water. ' I suppose it was kindly meant on
your part to conceal all your arrangements
• until almost the eve of your sailing ; but at
present I cannot be grateful.'

Why .^ Do you still think that if you had
known sooner you would have been able to
dissuade me ? '

Yes ; I think it is possible, for I do not
yet see the necessity for this voyage.'

He called it a voyage although she regarded
it as exile. He had only become partially reconciled
to the movement by the belief that the
separation was to be temporary.

She did not answer immediately ; those
boats and figures in them were like shadows in
the river mist now. Then —

Yes — I believed you might have made me

do wrong and give up this voyage,' she said
softly ; ' that was why my resolution was concealed
from you till the last moment. I wished
to spare you pain.'

I am satisfied of that.'

And you are content now, Stephen ? '

She placed her hand on his arm, and presently
he took the hand between both his own.

I don't want to make this parting more
unhappy for you than it need be,' he said.
making a strong effort to speak cheerfully. ' I
am content so far that this journey, which at
first appeared to me such mad folly on your
part, or a proof that your love had been all
along a mistake, if not a falsehood — I am content
to think that it is only the doorway to our
happiness. You have promised that in a year
you will come back to me, or I may go to
you.'

That is our bargain, and I go all the
happier that we have made it.'

So be it, then ; in a year, you will be with
me, and that prospect will help me to make
good use of the time. When we next join
hands you shall own that this test of our love
was not needed.'

Do not let us talk of that any more,' she
said hastily, for she feared the effect his earnest
voice might have upon her ; clearly she found
it difficult to speak calmly ; there was such a
lump in her throat.

No, we have said our say, and I ought to
be trying to comfort you. But I cannot, Euth ;
for the idea is always coming back to me that
if you had only told me a couple of months
sooner, or if you had waited a few months
longer, I could have gone with you.'

Stephen, you promised that if I consented
to your coming so far with me you would not
attempt to go over those things again,' she said
in a subdued voice, and with much agitation.

There — forgive me,' he rejoined, resignedly.

' I have done. You are having your
own way in this : you have told me that it is a
test of yourself and of me, without which you
could not be assured of our future happiness.
I say it is a cruel test, but I submit. At the
same time I cannot help asking myself, would
you have required this test if your heart had
been all mine, as you once made me believe it
was '

'Oh, Stephen!'

^ There, again, forgive me. What an ungracious
brute I am, and I wanted to make our
parting hour as cheery as may be. This is a
fine way to carry out my intention. And yet
I don't see what I can do. To pretend to be
merry is worse than being openly miserable.'

I do not expect you to be merry. I
should very likely be more unhappy in remembering
that you were glad to part with me
than I shall be in remembering even your
reproaches.'

No more reproaches, then, my daring. I
part with you believing that your heart is all
mine, that this separation is only a painful,
brief necessity, and comforted by my faith in
you and in the bright future when you will
come back to me, and we shall live happy ever
after, as the story books say.'

There was a kind of mingled playfulness
and bitterness in all this, which relieved and
yet distressed her.

It is difficult to be cheery under the circumstances.
I wonder how it will be when
you are really away from me, and I am left
alone with these strangers.'

Oh, you will soon make friends of them,
and you will have pleasant enough times if the
weather is good ; and if it is bad you will have
no time to think of me.'

As he made out that picture he emitted
something that was nearer to a laugh than any
sound he had made during the day.

And you ? ' she said, smiling and raising
her eyes to his face.

As for me, I shall be eating a hearty
dinner this evening, taking some furious
exercise tomorrow, and flirting with somebody
in a week ! '

Euth thought, ' With Dahlia Whitcombe,'
and she said —

I will not mind what you do if you are
well and happy.'

You are most liberal, and I shall do my
best to profit by you* generosity ; only, do not
measure my license to you in the same free
spirit.'

If you mean to substitute sarcasm for
reproach I shall begin to lament that we did
not part at Dunthorpe Station.'

Or perhaps to wish that we had never met.'

She looked at him and saw that he was
smiling fondly ; evidently he did not think that,
but she answered him seriously.

It is possible that it might have been
better for us both.'

He squeezed her arm tightly, and would
have stopped her mouth with a kiss if some of
the passengers had not come aft at that
moment.

They were miserable, and yet happy in
being together in spite of the ever-present consciousness
of the rapidity with which their hour
of parting was drawing near.

He had done all he could to prevent her
going away ; but the arrangements had been
completed before he had heard anything about
it, and Euth was not to be moved from her
purpose. When it had been suggested to him
that her chief reason for going was her anxiety
to prevent him from being encumbered with a
penniless wife, he had asked her if that were so.
She had told him — certainly, that had much todo
with her determination. He protested
against the idea, and she answered, quietly —

Very well ; if you are so sure that you will
never regret your union with me, you can
prove it to me by letting me go for one
year.'

For two if you like — no, that's nonsense,'
he cried, checking himself. But he agreed to
the test, and he was left little time for reflection
or renewed persuasion. He seemed to have
scarcely drawn breath between the time when
he first heard of her proposed journey, and the
day on which he found himself with her onboard
the Eucalyptus.

The Captain came up to them with a
friendly warning that Mr. Meredith would soon
have to go on board the tug, unless he
intended to keep them company as far as
Sydney.

I have a great mind to do so,' said Stephen,
asking himself why should he not? He was
there with all that he cared for most in the
world. Why should he not go with her ?

She helped him out of that folly : there
were duties to others which could not be cast
aside.

I had almost forgotten — here is a note
which Mr. Eapier asked me to give you.'

I do not like him,' she said, ' and do not
know why he should write to me.'

It is only to say good-bye, I suppose. I
know you are prejudiced against him ; but he
is a good fellow and your friend.'

The signal came : the tug was about to castoff.
They kissed there on the deck — a sad
kiss, and it did not matter who saw. Then
in a moment it seemed that he was on board
the tug, steaming back landward, and the
ship with sails spread was gliding away to
sea.

How soon the little steamer became a
speck to her watching it from the big ship !
How soon the big ship became a speck to him !
He waved a handkerchief as long as she was

in sight, and she waved the letter he had placed
in her hand.

He clenched his teeth and frowned as the
vessel melted into the clouds, crying bitterly to
himself, ' Why should this parting be ? Thank
God, it will soon end. A year is a short time
in a busy life, and our happiness will be the
greater for this trial of our faith.'

Her eyes were dim very soon, and lie
pressed her feverish brow against the bulwark.
Then she heard footsteps near, and with a
mechanical effort to hide her emotion she
carelessly opened the note that was in her
hand. This was what she read : —

You will see me sooner than you expect.
It will be a surprise for you, and a pleasant
one, I hope.

Lewis Eapier.'

This was puzzling, but she was too full of
other thoughts to attempt to make out the
meaning of the words.

'Miss Clark,' said somebody behind her,
and she seemed to know the voice.

She turned slowly, and saw Lewis Eapier
smiling at her.

CHAPTEE VI.

THE HAND OF DESTINY IN KID GLOVES

The surprise was so great that she could only
stare at him for a few moments without a
thought of speech.

A round fur cap, a tight-fitting overcoat
with fur collar and facings, the tall, gracefully
muscular figure, the handsome face, lit by the
bright blue eyes and adorned by the thick,
well-trimmed black moustache, and the whole
circumstance of the man's unexpected appearance
combined to make it impressive, as well
as startling.

You are astonished and not pleased,' he
said, evidently enjoying her amazement ; and
yet there was a note of sadness in his voice.

She continued to look at him, but made no
reply. There was nothing like fear in .her expression
; it was simply that of amazement
slowly developing into one of curiosity.

What are you thinking about ? ' he inquired,
still smiling.

Yanderdecken.' was the droll response.

The Flying Dutchman ! Well, he is not a
bad prototype for me. If I remember the
legend at all correctly, he was a man doomed
for his sins to the weird fate of having to make
a constant but futile attempt to weather a
storm, but permitted at long intervals to visit
the earth in search of the one thing that would
break the spell which was upon him — that was
the love of a true woman. . . . There are
many Vanderdeckens in the world, many poor
wretches condemned to be perpetually fighting
with the storms of life, and few have the good
fortune to find the charm which breaks the
spell. Shall I be amongst the lucky ones.^ '

Do you deserve to be ? ' she asked coldly,
the while her fingers were deliberately tearing
his note into fragments.

Who can answer such a problem as that
for himself? Of course I think I do. You
and others may not agree with me ; and even
if I succeeded in obtaining the treasure, you
might still deny that I deserved it. There
would be very little love in the world if it were
to be meted out according to desert.'

She held the fragments of paper on the
palm of her hand over the bulwark and the
wind swept them away — all except one piece
which fell upon the deck. She carefully picked
it up and cast it overboard.

He watched her closely as she did this, and
although he could divine nothing from her
calm and thoughtful face, the action told him a
great deal.

You are annoyed that you should have

VOL. I. G

been waving your adieu to Stephen Meredith
with my note in your hand ? '

I am.'

There is a kind of satire in it ; but he will
never know anything about it, and so will
suisse nothing in consequence of the sign of my
coming being the signal of his farewell.'

'It was unfortunate that he should have
been the bearer of it,' she said, looking in
the direction in which the tug had disappeared.


I did not mean any petty cruelty to him
in asking him to be my messenger ; I wanted
you to feel that he and I are friends.'

Friends ? '

Yes, and good ones, I believe. Are you
superstitious ? '

I think not.'

I am ; and in your own act of using that
paper to signal farewell to him I can see my
own future.'

Most people who see their own future only
see what they wish it to be.'

This so quietly that the undercurrent of
contempt was scarcely perceptible, even to
Lewis Eapier, who was gifted with special
sensitiveness to every change of tone. An
soliman harp could not answer the modulations
of the breeze more quickly than he detected
the variations of feeling in others toward him.
What he did notice he did not heed.

True, and I do not profess to see anything
but what I wish. I know that things will
happen which will not be agreeable, but whilst
it is in our power we need not dwell upon
them further than to take such precautions
against them as common sense may suggest.
When I said that I could see my future I
meant my future in relation to you.'

To me ! ' she exclaimed, turning upon
him with open contempt and something like
anger. Then, checking herself, she added

coldly ; ' There can be no possible relationship
between your future and mine.'

There was no passion, no ill-temper on his
face or in his voice ; there was rather a suggestion
of regret that what he prophesied must be
as he said —

You are my fate, my destiny, or whatever
we may call that which wee can't help,
don't like, and yet must submit to ; and I am
yours. Dreadful nonsense this — is it not?
And you would be glad to get away from me ?
Well, you shall — for a time ; but meanwhile,
suppose we take a turn along the deck, and
when you are more reconciled to my presence
we can try to understand each other.'

She drew back.

Mr. Eapier, I am not well, and I am
much distressed. You know that I do not like
you, and you are aware that your appearance
here is as unpleasant as it is surprising. I
certainly would not have come by this ship if I

had known that you also were to be a
passenger. That is frank enough.'

You always were frank, and I hope you
have found me the same. You msh me to
leave you. I shall do so, because I know that
by-and-by you will call me to your aid.'

Eidiculous ! '

May-be — as it seems at present. Come
and, as we walk, I shall explain.'

He offered his arm, and she thrust her
hands into the pockets of her ulster. But she
walked beside him.

The wind was moderate, and the vessel was
making its way lazily.

I am not a passenger,' he proceeded.

I am glad of that. But ! '

But how am I to be disposed of ? ' he said,
with a slight laugh, completing her exclamation.
Easily enough. I came on board desiring to
be the last friend who should speak to you on
this side of the world, and with a very feeble

hope that, after we had talked together, your
course might be changed. I waited in the
mate's cabin, and came out when you were
alone. Now, as to getting away — look.'

He pointed to a speck on the water.

That thing is a yacht : one of the fastest
sailers afloat. It is waiting your commands.'

What nonsense is this, Mr. Eapier .^ '

No nonsense at all. It is simply this : I
have made very complete arrangements, as you
must perceive, to '

To annoy me, apparently.'

'No, — to do whatever you please. That
yacht will take me back to London alone ; or
will take us both wherever your fancy pleases
to rove.'

She looked at the speck on the water ; she
looked at him. She put out her hand and
touched him on the shoulder ; then she looked
pack again along the track of the vessel.
There was no land in sight ; only sea and sky.

and that faint line which marked dimly for a
little way the course they had steered

I am not dreaming. It is real — I am onboard
the Eucalyptus ; Stephen has gone home,
and you are with me. What does it all
mean ? '

She spoke in the self-questioning way of one
waking from a dream so vivid that it cannot be
immediately distinguished from reality, and she
passed her hand over her eyes to clear her
vision.

It is not intended to mean anything that
should be disagreeable to you.'

You can easily prove that ! '

You mean of course by leaving you. Very
well, I am prepared to do even that ; but first
I want you to listen to me for, say, ten
minutes.'

'I am at your mercy, and I suppose you
may speak for twenty minutes if you are so
disposed.'

He took out his watch and held it with the
face towards her.

You can stop me when I pass my
time.'

Go on.'

Very well. Take my arm so that your
fellow-passengers may not think we are quarrelling.'


She obeyed without thinking, and instantly
became conscious that she had made a mistake
in yielding even in this trifling matter to his
command ; for it was a command, and the
reference to the passengers a mere pretext.
He acted on the principle of the mesmerist, and
obtained submission to his will by the firm
assertion of it.

I wish you to feel in the first place that I
have divined the real meaning of your self-banishment.
You are going away in order
that Stephen Meredith may marry Dahlia Whit-combe,
and so obtain the fortune which Mr.

Dottridge designs for them in that event.
That is correct ? '

I cannot see what you have to do with the
motives of my conduct ? '

I have everything to do with them, for by

ho wing you that I understand them I expect you

to learn to understand me, and in time — if not

at once — be content with your fate ; that is me.'

She withdrew her arm from his and looked
straight in his face.

In many ways I have had reason to admire
your judgment and discretion. I do not discover
either in your present conduct. Supposing
I could care for you — and you know that is
impossible — why should you desire to marry a
poor woman when you have so many opportunities
to secure one who has a fortune ? '

Because I prefer you, and think you have
a fortune — in yourself. I am aware it is foolish,
and it is the one foolish thing I have done in
the course of my life which cannot be mended.

But, you see, there is no accounting for these
eccentricities of nature. My time is getting
short, and you will excuse the if I am a little
rough in the way I put things. Although you
are going away with what is really a kind,
generous motive, you are sustained by the hope
by the belief that Meredith will remain true ;
and that when he learns what Dottridge's
arrangement is he will refuse Dahlia and wait
for you. That is what you expect. Own it, to
yourself if not to me.'

J have no answer,' she said wearied, and
again she glanced backward.

I do not require any ; but I wish you
could get rid of the thought or hope. He will
marry Dahlia Whitcombe ; he will cherish
kindly memories of you — probably he will
name one of their children after you — and he
will have an easy, comfortable life. You know
he could not have that with you, for he is too
feeble to withstand the stings of poverty,

knowing that he might have been rich but for
you. You know all that and you cannot trust
him.'

Are you nearly done ? ' she asked with
clenched teeth.

'Yes, but I have two minutes yet, and I
wish to tell you that Meredith is absolutely
ruined, and that, unless by the help of Dahlia
Whitcombe, he cannot remain at Derewood
Grange for six months longer. He does not
himself yet know how complete is his ruin.
His mother does, and she is Dahlia's friend.
With these circumstances combined the result
is inevitable.'

She bowed her head, and he did not see
how her lips trembled ; he could not hear the
cry which passed through her brain. He was
surprised by the quietness of her response and
the nature of it.

Thank you, Mr. Eapier ; you have done
me the greatest kindness that one friend could

do to another in setting these matters clearly
before me. I am glad that the parting is over,
and now I shall look back without regret since
I know the importance of the service I have
rendered him. Thank you again.'

I thought it would do you good to have
matters plainly stated; and you see my little
surprise has not been altogether unpleasant.'

I am obliged to you ; that is all I can say.'

I wish you could speak a little less coldly
to me. However, I can wait, for I know that
your feelings will change towards me when you
have learnt to think a little less about him.
One thing more ; although Dottridge has not
done for you what he ought to have done, and
what I believe at one time he intended todo
'

Stop, sir. You must not speak one word
about Mr. Dottridge. You know him well —
in some respects, better perhaps than I do ; butin
this instance you do not understand him orme.

He has been kind and generous, and has
done everything I could wish or permit. Let
that suffice.'

It is enough. Now for the question which
all this leads to. There is the yacht : Do noisome
with me, or do you remain on board the
Eucalyptus ? '

I remain here. Farewell ^ '

No, not farewell in the sense in which you
are using the word. This is only a brief goodbye.'


He pressed her hand fervently. She could
not speak any more, but hurried down to her
cabin.

An hour later, when she returned to the
deck, Lewis Eapier was no longer on board the
vessel.

CHAPTEE VIL

AT DEEEWOOT) GRANGE.

A PLAIN white house with a roof of red tiles
the red toned down by age into a warm
sober hue and varied by patches of lichen. A
squat, substantial building which in sunshine or
rain, in summer or winter, filled the eye with a
sense of ' home.' That was Derewood Grange.
In front there was a considerable lawn surrounded
by orchard ground ; at the back there
were more orchard, a large kitchen garden,
forcing-houses, and vineries. The stable, cow-house,
barn, piastres, and other farm buildings,
formed a square at one corner of the kitchen
garden, and within two hundred yards of the

house ; for Derewood Grange had been erected
at a time when the proprietors were proud of
their cattle and their occupation as farmers.
The nearness of the duck-pond had no suggestive
terror of damp, for the Meredith of past generations
believed and the present generation had
grown up in the faith that there was no finer
specimen of an English country house to be
found anywhere. The difficulties of which
they all had had some experience only rendered
the place more dear to them. There was
nothing new-fangled about the appearance
of house or grounds outside, although Mrs.
Meredith and her daughters had contrived to
introduce a few modern improvements to the
interior. There was, however, a vast difference
in the system of cultivating the land, and the
number of new machines Stephen had about
the place, either on trial or in permanent use,
bewildered the old labourers and made Dick
Smalley, who had been born here and begun

service under the grandfather of the present
master, a melancholy prophet of certain ruin.

Hands don't count for aught nowadays,'
was his constant growl, ' and I repose afore long
there won't be no work for man or woman todo.
I've seen as many as fifty folk in the fields
at harvest, where now there ain't modern ten, or
maybe a dozen. What are we going to do if
all the work is to be done by them machines ? '

Dick shook his head and pottered about,
finding that there was plenty for him to do,
whatever he might think of the work done by
others.

It was night when Stephen reached Dun-thorpe
Station, and as he had not been certain
of the time of his return, he had told Dick that
he would walk home — the distance was under
three miles. He was, therefore, somewhat
surprised to see the Grange dog-cart waiting at
the door.

An explanation was immediately provided

by his brother ' Jim ' — a sturdy little fellow of
sixteen, fill of fun and vanity. Everybody
called him ' Jim,' and his figure seemed to be
made for the name : he called himself — James
Austin Meredith, and insisted upon being so
described by everyone over whom he had any
authority.

Hallo ! you have turned up Steve ! DahUa
said you would. She'd a parcel coming from
London — new bonnet I suppose — and she got
me to drive her over for it. Then as this was
the last train, we thought we'd wait a minute
and see if you came by it. She said you
would ; I bet tuppence you wouldn't, and I've
lost. Lend us a bob, like a good chap, so that
I may pay my debt of honour. Thanks — you
can score it up against me. Here she is.'

Dahlia came forward from the parcel
office.

It has not come, and it is so vexing to
have brought you all this way for nothing, Jim.'

VOL. I. H

What a whopper ! ' was Jim's mental
exclamation as he saw her blushing greeting of
Stephen. He said aloud : ' You've won tup-once,
that's something, isn't it ? '

And we have met Stephen, which is much
more satisfactory,' she said, laughing.

To you, I daresay,' cried Jim, unsympathetically,
as he pocketed his shilling without
having paid the ' tuppence,' as he had no
change. ' I want my supper, so let us start.
I drive, and you two can spoon as much as you
like ; I won't hear or see. For another bob,
Steve, I'd walk home, and leave you the trap
to yourselves.'

He made a malicious pretence of whispering
the last sentence, and so gave it greater
emphasis.

I am in no joking humour, Jim, and you
may have to walk home without a bribe if you
don't take care.'

Temper ! ' said the lad, with a short

whistle, as he took his seat and the reins. He
continued to mutter to himself, whilst his
brother was assisting Miss Whitcombe, and
arranging the rugs. ' Don't believe there was
any bonnet at all. Only a dodge to catch
Steve, and to look as if it was quite by accident.
Eeady, you people ? Then off we go.'

He made the whip play about the horse's
ears, and they passed out of the dim lights of
the station into the white, misty atmosphere of
a December night.

Dahlia Whitcombe was a handsome girl, of
average height, plump and well-developed.
She had a fair, round face, soft sympathetic
mouth and big eyes, which seemed to be ina
perpetual state of surprise. She would have
been taken by any painter as a model for
wondering innocence. But the one fact upon
which she particularly prided herself was that
she could say with truth ' I am not a fool'

She was one of those creatures who seem

to be always gushing forward to ' a first love.'
This is really the first and only one ! But she
had written and said the same thing a dozen
times before. To some extent she believed in
the theory herself; all that had previously
happened had been mere fancies. This one
was the real love : there was no necessity to
speak about by-gone odd kisses and embraces
and protestations.

'I am glad we met you,' she said to
Stephen when they had got comfortably
seated ; and there was a kindliness in her voice
for which the man was grateful. 'You must
be tired after such a long journey.'

I have not thought about the journey,' he
said softly ; ' but I do feel tired and depressed.
I think seeing a friend off to Australia is very
like attending a funeral.'

Dahlia had many pretty ways : she could
shudder very prettily, and she did so now. It
was not a marked movement ; it was just

enough to show the gentle tremor that was
passing over her, and it suggested a deal of
feeling.

Poor Euth,' she sighed, as if speaking to
herself rather than to him. ' I wish she could
have been persuaded to remain with us.'

I wish so too,' he ejaculated earnestly.

It is strange how determined she was,'
continued Dahlia, looking dreamily into his
face, and dim as the Aught was he could catch
the expression of yearning sympathy that was in
her eyes. ' Did she remain quite firm to the
last ? '

Yes ; nothing could move her.'

His voice was husky, and he turned his face
away from his companion.

I never knew anybody who had such a
determined way as Euth, and yet I cannot
think of her as what people call a strong-minded
woman — she was so gentle in all her
ways.'

She was indeed. Do you notice how weare
talking about her — as if she were dead ! '

Dahlia again shuddered very prettily.

It is so like that,' she replied in an undertone.
' When I said to her — " But you will
come back soon," she only kissed me, and then
after a little while whispered to me, " I do not
think I shall ever come back, Dahlia," and
although we were standing in the drawing-room,
with the fire burning very brightly, I felt
as if I had been kneeling by the death bed of
somebody I was very fond of. I told her so,
and she laughed at me, and told me I was a
sentimental, foolish creature. But you feel it
is Hke that, do you not ? '

At times, I do ; but then I know it is not
quite so bad as that. I know that she will
come back, and I hope and believe that we
shall all have many merry days together in
spite of the unpleasant appearance of things at
present.'

Do you think it will be so ? ' she cried
eagerly. ' I am glad you are able to think
that, and I hope it may be, with all my heart.'

She put out her dainty little hand, and
Stephen took it in his, clasping it gratefully.
These were the first words of real sympathy he
had heard in regard to Euth, and they made
a deep impression upon Iii. The first kind
hand . which touches us in the moments of
acutest pain seems always the gentlest. His
mother had not concealed the fact that she was
glad Euth was going away, although she had
said nothing harsh about her. His eldest sister
Harriet; — the bright sympathetic ' Hat,' as she
was called, the friend, confidante, and counsellor
of the whole family — was away from home.
The other girls were not in his confidence, and
although they knew quite well how much he
was disturbed by Euth's departure, they were
sufficiently under the control of their mother
to think it wise to offer him no consolation.

So it came about that Dahlia was his first
comforter in his sorrow, and he, who had
always hitherto regarded her as a somewhat
selfish and decidedly frivolous girl, was able to
say to his mother when he entered the Grange
that night —

'Dahha is wonderfully improved. I am
glad she met me at the station, though I didn't
like the sight of her at first. She has done mea
great deal of good.'

I always told you that she was a good
girl,' said the mother calmly, thinking of the
heiress and gratified by Stephen's appreciation
of her.

CHAPTER VIII.

WITH THE BEST INTENTIONS!

There was not the slightest doubt in Mrs.
Meredith's mind that Dahha was a suitable and
even a desirable partner for her son ; she had
never had the slightest doubt of it from the
moment she heard that the lady was to be
regarded in every way as the daughter of
Humphrey Dottridge, and was to inherit ^ considerable
fortune. He had told her so himself,
and had laid much emphasis on his
desire that she should become Stephen's wife.

Notwithstanding their relationship, Mrs.
Meredith knew very little about her late
husband's nephew. His ways had been always

if not mysterious, at any rate reticent about his
private affairs. She knew vaguely that in
various gigantic financial speculations he had
amassed much wealth ; but what' the amount
might be she had no idea ; and the vagueness
of the rumours regarding it tended to magnify
its extent in her eyes. She saw enough and
heard enough, however, to be awed by a sense
of its vastness, and she had good reasons for
wishing that as much as possible of it might
find its way to Derewood Grange. Restricted
means and ^nq girls to provide for are conditions
which would set any judicious mother
thinking about her rich relations.

But in addition to the fact that she was an
heiress, Mrs. Meredith was moved by the conviction
that Dahlia was fond of her son, and the
girls were all fond of her. She had been displeased
when she became aware of Stephen's infatuation
for Euth Clark — a ' penniless dependent,'
as she called her — but was careful not to irritate

him by saying too much on the subject.
She was now in high glee at the course events
had taken, and was confident that her
y wishes and Mr. Dottridge's would be fulfilled.
And here was the proof of it ; on the very
first night after Euth had been definitely disposed
of, Stephen had uttered the first kind
words which had passed his lips about Dahha
for some time.

Mrs. Meredith was not exactly a schemer,
but she would do a good deal to serve her
own purposes, especially when convinced that
in serving them she was really advancing
the interests of others. She was a little, stout,
bright-eyed woman of active brain and habits,
always doing something for somebody's good ;
and even when she did make mistakes, as
would sometimes happen, she could console herself
with that most agreeable of all reflections,
that she had done everything with the best
intentions.

So when Dahlia came to say good-night —

You are looking very well, child,' she said,
smiling cheerfully ; ' and I have something to
tell you — Stephen was very pleased that you
met him at the station to-night.'

Oh ! ' and the exclamation of pleasure
was expressed in the eyes as well as by the
mouth.

I told you he would be, and, you little
goose, you very nearly missed the opportunity
of pleasing him ! — if I had not remembered
about that bonnet coming from town!'

At this reference to the bonnet, a comical
smile overspread the faces of both — an innocent
kind of smile, although — if the comparison
were not somewhat coarse when applied to two
ladies who really meant no harm — it might be
described as the kind of smile which two confederates
engaged in the confidence trick interchange
when they see their dupe is successfully
hoaxed.

I am very glad I went— he was very nice
and kind, but I wish it could have been done
without the bonnet. Jim said it was all a
pretence, and if he should find it out ! You
know how angry he gets about anything of that
sort.'

But, my dear, you are • going to get a
bonnet, and Stephen shall drive you to the
station himself, so that he may see you receive
it, if you like. You need not trouble yourself
all the same ; Stephen will not give the matter
a thought. Jim is only a boy, and likes to say
things which tantalize you girls.'

Dahlia smoothed her plump soft hands one
upon the other, and looked thoughtfully into
the fire. Her thoughts were pleasant ones, for
the happy light was still upon her face. Then
very deliberately she said —

I think it would have been better to have
told him frankly that I went to the station
because I hoped to meet him, and because

I hoped to see how he looked after the
parting.'

She said this not as one who was regretting
having performed cleverly a piece of petty deception
— she was, indeed, a little proud of her
skill in this respect — but as one who begins
to think that the plain simple truth might
have been more profitable.

'I have no doubt he would have said
"Thank you, you are very kind," and not
spoken another word to you all the way
home.'

Do you think he would have done
that?' she asked, still thinking, and a shade
of seriousness coming over her pretty face
now.

'I am sure of it.'

Then you believe he cared for her a great
deal, and he can never care for me in the same
way ? . I am sorry for that. I wanted to
think that he could care for nobody in the

world like me. I wish he had gone with her
it is cruel to be obliged to marry him or
become a beggar. I don't think I can do it
unless he pretends to care for me. . I
might be content with even that, but he won't
do it. I wish I was dead.'

She covered her face with one hand to hide
the tears which sprang to her eyes — tears of
vexation and wounded vanity.

In her manner there was a curious mingling
of childish anxiety to possess a coveted toy
which at present belonged to another, of
woman's jealousy, and of affection for the man ;
whilst there was a strong undercurrent of irritation
at the thought of the consequences to
herself if she failed to win him. She was
clever enough to know that, although she was
very showy in her appearance and accomplishments,
she was not very useful, and would find
the world hard indeed to deal with if she should
ever be compelled to attempt to earn her own

living by real work of any kind. She had a great
dread of poverty, although she never had had
any personal experience of it. She had never
known what it was to have to consider the
value of a shilling — or a sovereign for that
matter — and she did not want to be obliged to
begin the experiment now.

Mrs. Meredith was sometimes puzzled to
make out the real feelings of this girl, and she
was a little puzzled in that way just now.
But she placed her hand in a motherly way
on her shoulder, and said good-naturedly —

You are talking very foolishly, Dahha, and
I think you must have got too much excited
over your drive with Stephen. I do not know
how much he cared for Euth Clark, but she will
be at the other end of the world in a few weeks,
and you are here. I never heard of a man
who kept on loving a person at that distance
when he had a kind and faithful sweetheart
beside him. Take my word for it — be kind to

him, and he will soon care more for you than
he ever did for her.'

You know I will be kind to him — I can't
help it. But how are we to know how soon
she may return ? '

Mr. Eapier will be here in a day or two and
tell us all about it. Stephen thought he was
to be the last to see Euth ; but Mr. Eapier said
that was a mistake, as he was to be the last.
You know what a droll creature that man is —
he always does what he says, and that is why
he puzzles people so much. Now take a good
sleep, and you will be better in the morning.
Good-night.'

VOL. I.

CHAPTEE IX.

HIS HOPE.

But Mrs. Meredith did not understand what
substantial food hope is for lovers. They can
exist upon it alone for periods ranging from
five minutes to five years. The length of the
period is regulated by the graduation of the
degrees of imaginary and real liking of which
the love is compounded. Only true love
attains the longer period, and then other
considerations must be taken into account ;
chief amongst these is the one that the hope
nourishment must be used by both sides.
When that is the case, then the more opposition
is brought to bear against the love the
more sustaining does the food prove.

Stephen was well supplied with the nourishing
food called hope ; he had such a stock that
he could stand a siege of twelve years instead
of twelve months. But there was just that
one small mouse in the granary — she had
said she would come back if he proved true !
That implied a doubt of him, and so he knew
in a vague way that she could not be sustained
by the boundless hope which kept him up.

If he proved ti'ue !

What a foolish suggestion for her to make
what an unworthy doubt — this came with
a touch of pain — what a cruel thing for her to
say !

But she had been much troubled in her
mind during the last few months, poor girl !
She loved him, he was sure of that. She had
said she would come back, ard Euth never
broke a promise.

That was enough for him — it ought to be
enough, and he had his part to do in order to
I 2

make her glad to come. He had to buckle to
his work manfully, and clear his feet of all the
difficulties which hampered them. That could
be done ; no man who is really willing to work
can be overcome by fortune. He boldly
accepts her worst buffets and then cries —

You have done your worst for that bout.
Now I am ready to begin again.'

And he begins again and conquers.
That was Stephen's theory of life. He had
need of the hardihood which such a theory
implies, for when he went into his affairs and
the legacy of debt which had been left him, he
found things more involved than he, in his
worst fits of depression, had thought they
were. In some of these fits, indeed, the faith
in his own theory was severely tested ; for it
seemed to require a greater power of endurance
than he possessed to keep matters straight at
Derewood Grange.

At such times he was grateful for the

soothing presence of Dahlia. She did not in
any way obtrude her sympathy upon him ; but,
somehow, she seemed to be always suggesting
the cheery words —

Courage ! You will overcome all these
worries. You will do it for Euth's sake.'

That was really helpful to the man ; and
he found himself taking more interest in the
future of this girl than at one time he thought
possible. The fact was that his sense of relief
in finding that she was aware of his feelings for
Ruth, and appreciated them, gave him much
delight. His mother and sisters might speculate
as much as they pleased about uniting
him to Dahlia against his will, as long as Dahlia
herself had no idea of that kind and was his
true friend and Euth's.

So much he expressed to Mr. Bassnett
when he saw him about his affairs in accordance
with the last instructions of his cousin. Mr.
Bassnett, of course, had made a formal appointment

in a note signed in the name of the firm,
because in all business transactions Mr. Bassnett
was most particular to observe the strictest
formality even with his private friends — it
saved so many misunderstandings, and at once
removed any impression a client might have
that friendly feelings could affect his judgment
of the case in hand.

He could not prevent a friend from referring
to matters which were not directly connected
with business, but he seldom pronounced
an opinion on such subjects : and yet
he always left the impression of having given
you the best possible advice which a man of
experience and your friend could offer under
the circumstances.

In the present instance he examined
Stephen's face carefully, and there was a peculiar
smile on his own as he did so.

Yes ; I always thought Miss Whitcombe a
bright, clever sort of girl,' he said as he

watched Stephen ; ' and if all goes well she will
have a comfortable little fortune to bring to the
man who marries her. At present I think all
will go well.'

There was a significance in the intonation of
the last sentence which Stephen did not observe.

I sincerely hope it will,' was his earnest
observation. ' I think she deserves that all
should go well with her.'

I am sure it will if you like to help her,'
said the lawyer laughingly.

And I am sure that I shall be ready to do
anything in my power to help her,' was
Stephen's innocent response. ' From the way
you speak, Bassnett, it seems as if you knew
some way in which I could help her. Should
that be the case, tell me, for there cannot be
any one more willing to do it.'

Oh, I have no doubt you will find out the
way when the occasion arises. Meanwhile, we
must go to your own business.'

I beg your pardon. Bassnett ; I ought to
know your ways by this time, and here have I
been chattering about things which we ought
to have discussed at home. Well, the affairs
are bad : Dottridge said he had made arrangements
to tide me over the present mess, and
you would explain, as he is forbidden to enter
into details himself.'

'Well, luckily, there is at this moment
nothing very harassing for you to hear or me
explain. Your last speculations involved a
clear loss of three thousand. That is not a big
sum to look at in figures, but it is not easy to
find when you want it. I have known men of
much more considerable property than you
possess — men of ancient title and family, who
have had to go through the court for a sum
like that. Of course, it only represents the last
straw.'

And the last straw would break me, but
for Dottridge.'

Exactly ; his instructions are that all your
present engagements are to be met, and that for
one year you are to be allowed to act as freely
as if Derewood did not owe any man a penny.'

Ah, he knows that one year will suffice to
set me on my feet.'

'I did not ask him what he knew,' said the
lawyer, complacently, ' or why he acted as he
is doing. He is a strange man, placed in a very
peculiar position, and I must say between ourselves
that he is acting very well for all parties.
But he means to be a little hard on you.'

In what way ? '

At the end of the year he says you must
be prepared to meet your engagements yourself.
Of course, if he is alive that will not be
of much consequence, but you know his condition
and '

Why, in this Dottridge gives me the
strongest proof of friendship,' cried Stephen
warmly. ' He knows what a bitter pill it is forme

to swallow the necessity to make these
arrangements, and he understands that at the
end of the year I should sell up everything
rather than have to renew them — or seek the
renewal of them — I ought to say. Dottridge
is a strange fellow, but he never showed
kindlier feeling to me than in making that
condition.'

Mr. Bassnett pulled the end of his long,
thin moustache, and for once in his life was
really embarrassed.

I am glad you think so. I feel convinced
that he means to act in the most kindly spirit
towards you, and that in the final arrangements
he has made he has almost thrust a fortune
upon you.'

What is it you mean ? ' exclaimed Stephen
in much amazement.

Now, there you put me in an awkward
position.'

Then do not answer.'

Exactly ; I was not goitis^ I0 answer ; but
at the same time it is awkward when one thinks
that a simple reply would be useful, to be
obliged to say you cannot give it. Of all the
things I dislike, it is to have to deal with two
people who really mean to be kindly to each
other, and who are yet playing a game at hide
and seek.'

I do not understand.'

There is no need you should. I forgot
for a moment that we were in Sergeant's Inn.
Give me a breath — there, that will do, and here
we are again. Now, attention.'

Stephen was amused as well as interested
by the momentary confusion of a man he had
never seen in the slightest state of mental
bewilderment before.

Go ahead, Bassnett, and please do not be
afraid of offending me.'

There is no probability of that, I hope,'
said the lawyer, now laughing at himself;

there is nothing for me to do but to tell you

plainly there are some conditions in Mr.

Dottridge's settlements which I am not at
liberty to explain to you ; but as they are
known to another person, and suspected by
others, I have no doubt you will discover them
before the time arrives when I am permitted to
state them to you.'

I have no wish to pry into my cousin's
arrangements, and so I can only inquire when
you will be at liberty to reveal the nature of
the reserved conditions.'

On the death of Mr. Dottridge, or on the
return of Miss Clark to England, and the
announcement that the date of your marriage
with her is fixed.'

I can understand the first part of the condition
under which my cousin's wishes are to be
revealed to me in their full extent,' said Stephen
thoughtfully ; ' but what on earth my marriage
with Miss Clark can have to do with any intentions



he has in regard to our family is beyond
my comprehension.'

'And on that subject my mouth is closed
whether you speak to me as client or friend.
Truth to tell, I do not understand it quite
myself; but I do in part and suspect the rest.
To you my suspicion would appear simply
suggestive that I was showing marked symptoms
of softening of the brain. To a man of
law like myself, accustomed to all sorts of
mental and moral vagaries on the part of
clients, my suspicion would appear feasible and
reasonable enough to make him act cautiously
in saying or doing anything which might
prejudice the interests of hiscHent or his friend.
Dottridge stands in both positions towards me
and so do you. May I offer you advice apart
from business ? '

To be sure you may, and I shall thank you
for it.'

On the whole I believe you would thank

me more-if you understood matters as well as I
do. However, this is the counsel I offer ; goon
as you would do if you had no expectations
for yourself or your family from any rich
relations. That is all.'

I mean to do so, and thank you as I said I
would for the counsel. T know you mean
more than you can say. I have the more
reason to be grateful that you have gone so far
out of your usual course as to confirm me in my
own decision as to what I am to do and ought
to do.'

Spoken like a true man, arid I do believe
you will have a good time of it yet whichever
way things go. In any case I shall always be
ready to act for you in any matter of business,
and still more ready to do what it is permitted
me to do as your friend.'

'I believe you, Bassnett, although '

He paused. Bassnett, smiling, finished the
sentence for him —

Although I am a lawyer is what you
would have said.'

No ; you are wrong, for once : although
you are Dottridge's and Eapier's friend, is what
I would have said.*

They are both clever men, and Eapier is
first-rate company. I do not see why my
friendless with them should interfere with
any regard I may have for you.'

Forget that speech — it was the result of
some passing sense of spleen, carelessly spoken.
I could not give myself a reason for it. On the
other hand, I have every reason to be grateful
to my cousin, and I have no reason to think ill
of Eapier.'

Ah, if we could all forget the careless
words we speak what a happy world it would
be ! But it is not difficult to forget what does
not concern ourselves, so you have my promise
not to remember your slip.'

One question more, and I shall be off. Will

Dottridge be able to see any of us again before
he leaves Kemerton ? '

As soon as the doctors have decided when
he may move, you shall be informed. Cannes
or Nice v^ill be the place he goes to, but
nothing on that head is definitely fixed yet.
The one thing that is fixed, is his desire that
you should all cease to think of him as a living
person. You know that this is not entirely the
result of eccentricity, although none of us can
know all the motives which actuate lira.'

This living death seems to me more unfortunate
for himself than for others. However, if
we cannot forget our own careless words, there
is one thing we can forget — our friends.'

But not our enemies, you might have
added.'

We can forget them, too, I suppose, sometimes
; but we do sometimes recollect a wrong
more keenly than a benefit. This is a nice
way to waste your time, Bassnett,' Stephen

went on, his face brightening as lie roused
himself from the abstracted manner in which he
had been speaking during the last few moments.
I have only half an hour to catch up an unprotected
female who has been placed under
my care for the journey to town and back.'

Miss Whitcombe, I presume.'

'Yes; she had something to do in town,
and my mother said as I was coming she could
dispense with her escort.'

'I daresay the lady thought so too. Mrs.
Meredith is a very sensible woman. Give her
my regards. I shall see you all next week.'

When Stephen went away, Mr. Bassnett
leaned back in his chair, smiling thoughtfully
and paring his nails.

Dottridge will have his wish,' was his reflection.
' Meredith will marry Dahlia Wliit-
combe.'

VOL. I. £

CHAPTEE X.

HER DESPAIR.

The election of Stephen as Dahlia's special
escort had been arranged simply enough. Mrs.
Meredith and her ward had some millinery and
dressmaking business of importance to transact
in town, and as Stephen happened to be going
to London about the time, his mother fixed that
they should all go together. On the morning
of the appointed day Mrs. Meredith found that
she could not go without much inconvenience,
but there was no reason why Dahha should
postpone the journey, as Stephen could take
care of her.

It would not enter into the head of any

ordinary being that there could be any objection
to such an arrangement as that, and it certainly
did not enter into Stephen's. Nothing
could be simpler: they would travel together,
and, whilst he was at Sergeant's Inn, she could
attend to her dressmaking business, and then
they could return together. That would be so
nice !— always provided, as Dahlia suggested,
that Stephen had no other engagement besides
that with Mr. Bassnett. He had none, and so it
came about that they travelled alone together.
There had been a white mist over the
marshy parts of Essex as they came along in
the morning. There was a fog in London, but
it was not so bad in the early part of the day
as to impede traffic to any considerable extent.
By the time Stephen went to find his companion
at the dressmaker's in Lamb's Conduit
Street, the fog had become so dense that cabs
and all other vehicles moved slowly and with
difficulty.

I was half afraid you would never find mein
this darkness,' she said, laughing, ' and was
almost sorry I had not arranged to go for you.'

'Why, what difference could that have
made ? Can you find your way through a
London fog better than I under the guardianship
of an experienced cabby ? '

She was a little confused ; then, with
brightening face —

It might have saved time, you know, as
we should have been so much nearer the
station.'

Of course. I did not think of that. But
we'll manage to get along somehow.'

I hope we may,' she replied, with
unnecessary glee, as she took her seat in the
cab.

The horse could only move at a walking
pace, and long before they reached Liverpool
Street, Stephen began to fear that they would
be too late for the last train. But they were

in time enough — the train before the last had
not yet started. After much trouble, they,
found the right platform and the right train,
under the guidance of a good-natured porter,
who took them for a young couple likely to
prefer their own company, and accordingly
secured an empty compartment for them.

Then they tried to draw breath ; but that
was almost impossible in the thick atmosphere.
Then they tried to look at each other, and they
found it almost impossible to see one another's
faces without drawing very close together;
and that might have resulted in something like
explosions of small fog signals, but for the
brotherly relationship which existed between
the two.

He muffled her up very carefully, and
insisted upon her keeping her mouth well
covered with a soft woollen shawl.

He was rather annoyed by the delay and
the discomfort of their position.

She enjoyed it all intensely as if it were a
huge joke which somebody had played upon
them ; and his little attentions and anxieties on
her account made her almost exclaim aloud, ' I
wish there was a fog every day and we were
travelling in it ! ' But she modified the
expression to —

I rather enjoy the fun of all this — only I
hope you will not get cross, Stephen.'

I am afraid I am cross already. There is
no saying when we shall get away from here
or when we may reach Dunthorpe, and I am
hungry ! '

Oh, dear ! that is dreadful. So am I ! '

That makes it all the worse, for I should
be afraid to adventure into that Egyptian darkness,
lest I should never find you again.'

And would you be sorry ? '

Well, I should not like to have it said that
I had lost you in a fog — it would be so absurd.
However, I shall try.'

No, no, don't leave me — get one of the
porters to bring us something.'

But the difficulty is to see a porter.'

Shout ! '

Happy thought — woman's wit for ever.'

Stephen shouted, and about the tenth
repetition brought their good-natured friend to
the window. He procured sandwiches and
coffee for them.

Dahlia was in ecstasies.

This is real fun — I am so glad I came out
to-day ! — a pic-nic in a fog is a splendid idea.'

It will not be such good fun if we have to
remain here all night. How long will it be
before we start ? '

Don't know, sir.'

Has there been an accident on the line ? '

Yes, sir ; goods train broke down and the
hne is being cleared.'

Can't you find out how long we shall have
to wait .? '

There was no answer.

Whilst speaking Stephen had given the
cups and saucers and a tip to the man, and he
had disappeared. No doubt the rigorous
silence imposed upon railway servants as to
causes of delay and their probable duration,
made him glad to escape the necessity of inventing
further evasive answers.

As usual this irritating reserve increased
the impatience of the passengers, elicited loud
exclamations of indignation all along the
train, and the confusion of voices sounding
through the darkness might have suggested
that this was the actual scene of the accident.

At last the train started, after much clatter
of feet along the platform, with brief flashes of
something which the passengers understood to
be lanterns of the guards and porters. But
dark as it had been inside the station, as soon
as the train had crawled out of it, the feeble
lamps in the carriages seemed to be almost

extinguished. A single glowworm on a dark
marsh would have given as much light.

Crawl — whistle — stop — much puffing and
groaning of the engine and another crawl for
what seemed to those anxious to get home only
a few yards at a time : — that represented the
progress of the train ; and it stopped so much
more frequently between stations than at them
that people were utterly at a loss to know
where they were, and on that head, too, they
had difficulty in obtaining information.

Stephen had fastened the rugs round
Dahlia's knees and his own, for they had not
provided themselves with wraps enough to enable
them to be independent of each other on such a
night as this, and she complained of feeling very
cold. They were obliged to sit close together.

'I suppose you are wishing that you had
not gone up to town to-day ? ' said Stephen
after a long silence.

Not at all ; I am enjoying it ; but I have

felt a little frightened once or twice. I was
thinking of that accident the other day, where
the two trains smashed into each other in the
tunnel, and the people were crushed together,

and oh! it was dreadful, and we seem to

be in a tunnel all the way

She crept closer to him, shivering with cold
and fear.

This does not seem very like enjoyment,'
he replied, putting his arm round her to draw a
shawl more tightly across her shoulders.

Then, as she continued to shiver, he held the
shawl in its place.

Into ; but that shivering is only the cold and
the fog having their effect upon me.'

They are certainly most depressing influences,
and I wish we were safe at Dunthorpe
with a cheery fire before us.'

You are feeling it worse than I do ; you
have not spoken a word for half an hour until
now.'

I am not the blithest companion you might
have had and ought to have had, Dahha ; but
that cannot be helped.'

Who said that anybody wanted to help it ? '
she cried, with an air of coquettishness in spite
of the fog and cold.

'Not you — you are too good-natured to
complain. But I cannot help feeling how much
more bearable the journey might have been
made by anyone who was in a better mood
than myself.'

But I know that you have many things to
disturb your mind just now, and indeed I do
feel your taking so much trouble with me as
the greatest proof of your kindness. I know
that you are sad, but you have not been ungracious
to me in consequence.'

I should be sorry if I had been so ; you
may be sure that I would like to do everything
m my power to make you happy.'

Thank you, Stephen,' she said, in a low

voice, and eyes beaming with pleasure as she
touched his hand in token of her gratitude,
because he could not see how it was expressed
on her face.

I am glad you are content,' he proceeded,
laughing amusedly, ' for during the last half
hour or so I have been conscious of passing
through a particularly bad fit of the blues ; and
when wakened from it was afraid that, instead
of helping you to bear up, or bear through, this
disagreeable journey, I had been making you
miserable as well as myself.'

I did not think so. But ' (this with sympathetic
hesitation) 'can you not talk to me
about your vexations ? Talking even to people
who can't quite understand you often affords
relief.'

There is nothing particular to talk about,'
he rejoined somewhat wearied, but evidently
pleased by her sympathy. ' My conversation
with Basset to-day was satisfactory so far, but

It revealed a deplorable state of affairs. Even
at the last my father did not tell me everything
about our position. I suppose he did not like
to let me know the worst, and no doubt he
hoped to live long enough to make things better
before they came into my hands.'

But you will set everything right, Stephen ;
you are young and strong, and — so clever ! '

Well, I'm not old, and have a good deal of
strength, but as to the cleverness I'm not quite
so sure. However, I mean to make a big try for
for the sake of others as well as myself.'

There was a long pause, and he could feel
the girl shivering still beside him ; and then
through the darkness came the low voice —
decidedly a sweet voice, and there was something
plaintive in the tone —

You mean for Euth's sake.'

'Yes, for hers most of all. I have been
thinking of her a good deal in this horrible night,
thinking of her out at sea, in fog, in storm —

may be shipwrecked, who knows ? — and feeling
some bitterness that she should have been able
to go away, and feeling at the same time how
glad I would have been to have been with her
in the fiercest storm that ever blew.'

There was another long pause — a pause
which made both conscious that somehow a note
of discord had been struck between them.

Presently he felt her head resting on his
breast, and he knew that she was crying.

Why, what is the matter. Dahlia ? ' he
exclaimed in alarm.

There was no answer ; but now she was
quivering in the effort to suppress convulsive sobs.
The train was groping its way slowly along
through the darkness of the fog.

In heaven's name, what is it ? Tell me
can I help you ? '

With a short cry she flung herself from him.
Her emotion had passed beyond her control,
and she knelt with her face buried in the

cushions of the opposite seat, trying to smother
her sobs of despair.

He was for a few moments so bewildered
that he did not know exactly what to do.
Then he stooped to lift her up. At first she
seemed to shrink from his touch, but, yielding,
he with his arm round her waist raised her, and
again her head rested on his shoulder. She
did not speak, and he did not disturb her by
immediately repeating his wondering inquiry,
but endeavoured to soothe her by gently
clasping her hand whilst he looked down
gravely at her.

And the train slowly groped its way through
the darkness.

At length she disengaged herself and said
petulantly, as she wiped the tears from her
cheeks —

I am sorry to have made such a fool of
myself Yes, I wish I had not come today
No, I don't. I'm glad I came, for

it shows me that it is hopeless to — to
Please, Stephen, forgive this nonsense. I don't
think I am well, and what you were saying
made me think of something that put me out,
and so — and so I have behaved in this silly
way. Do please forgive me.'

There were such curious variations of
manner and tone in these exclamations —
petulance, anger with him and with herself,
graduating into shame for having allowed her
emotions to get so much the better of her —
that Stephen was utterly perplexed. His
mother had been a little puzzled by a somewhat
similar outburst, but he was helplessly so.

'I wish you would sit down. Dahlia,' he
said, kindly, ' and try to explain it all to me.
You yourself said a little while ago that talking
often gave relief, and surely you can talk
to me.'

I don't know that I can,' she began
fiercely, and, instantly checking herself, went on

in a subdued, agitated voice: 'If I were to
speak, Stephen, I should vex you, and I
don't want to do that more than I have done
already.'

How should it vex me ? I shall be sorry,
no doubt, to learn that there is something
troubling you which I cannot help to relieve,
but not vexed.'

'You will be — for what you have been
saying has made me angry with Euth.'

She uttered the last three words defiantly,
like a child who says something very bold, and
is prepared for a scolding.

'Angry with her — why.^' he queried in
simple astonishment.

She was surprised by his calmness, and
spoke next with more gentleness and a kind of
timid hesitation, as if fearful of the pain she was
about to give.

Because — because she has gone away from
you.'

VOL. I L

There she did hit him very hard indeed ;
but he answered quietly —

She had some good reasons for going ; and
in any case we could not be married at
once

There could be no reason to justify her for
leaving you at such a time as this she cried,
passionately. 'There can be no reasons to
separate two people who are really in love
unless there is doubt in one of them. You
know it — you are forced to own it to yourself
she ought to have been here with you now,
helping you to fight through these botheration,
instead of deserting you at the time when you
most needed her help. There ! — I have said it
and you are vexed with me, and I am miserable,
and wish my tongue had been cut out
before I did say it ! '

Then she sobbed hysterically, and wanted to
draw away from him. He held her in his arms,
and patted her on the head, as a father might

have done with a child who was in a fit of
passion.

There, there, you have got excited, Dahlia ;
but I know that all you have said has been out
of kindness for me. Our sister Hat might have
said the same had she known as much of my
feelings for Euth as you do. We won't talk
any more about this, and I shall forget that you
are angry with her, as you will yourself as soon
as you are better.'

So with kindly words he soothed her, and all
symptoms of hysteria gradually disappeared.

And the train groped its way slowly through
the darkness, and at last into Dunthorp« Station.

l2

CHAPTER XI.

AGAIN ON BOARD THE 'EUCALYPTUS.'

My poor Stephen, you do not know yourself,
I think, and I am sure you do not know
me, Ruth Clark.

Tins is only our third day out at sea, and
I am writing more for the satisfaction of my
own mind than with any expectation that you
will ever see this note-book. Therefore you
may be sure that I shall speak with as much
honesty as one is capable of showing even to
one's self the moment a pen is taken in hand.
As soon as one begins to set down thoughts in
writing, in spite of every effort to the contrary,
there is a consciousness of dressing for company.

I believe that I am speaking my mind with
absolute truth, but I am aware of this effect of
penmanship, and will do my best to avoid its
influence.

First, then, let me tell you the reasons for
my leaving England.

My chief reason for doing so was because
I knew that by this act I could confer a sortie
on you. I also knew that you would not
accept that reason, and therefore refused to tell
you imtil the time had elapsed when you
would either possess the fortune or have proved
that I had made a mistake. Then, in the
latter event, it was and is my intention to return
and try to make you happy.

The fortune is Dahha Whitcombe.

The way in which that comes about is
simple. It is one of Mr. Dottridge's strange
clauses in his strange settlements. I was permitted
to know the contents of most of them,
but not of all. This clause was one of those I

was permitted to know, for a reason which you
will learn presently.

He gives to Dahha twenty thousand
pounds on condition that she becomes your
wife within one year from the date of my sailing
from England. Unless you marry her you
receive nothing from him ; and what provision
he may have made for her if you should not
do so was one of the things I was not permitted
to know.

She is aware of the arrangement ; but she,
like the few others who know it, is strictly forbidden
to make you acquainted with it.

'You are only to know that she is an
heiress, and free to make her choice amongst
the suitors who may offer. Every exertion is
to be made to prevent you from having any
suspicion that her fortune is dependent upon
winning you from me within a year.

He believes, and I think, she will succeed.

I did object to the test because I knew you

SO well. I know you to be kind, affectionate,
and good to all who show you kindness. I
know she will do that, and you may be won by
her sympathy. You will have a beautiful,
sympathetic woman beside you. You will
think of me as the woman who went away from
you because you were in difficulties, and who
told you that you could do better without than
with her. Of course you did not understand
the full meaning of her words, and, therefore,
would accept them literally. In doing so you
would think that she considered your position
as it affected herself She was thinking of you
apart from herself The bitter struggle she
went through before she made this sacrifice —
for it was a great sacrifice to her — you will
never know.

'You will only remember me as the-one
who refused to give you a full explanation of
my conduct ; as one who is silent to you, who
has gone to the other side of the world for no

ostensible reason that could justify her desertion
of you when you pressed her so hard to stay ;
and the tender woman by your side will replace
me (for though it is great heresy, I believe
love does change if circumstances seem to
give it warrant).

During the later weeks of my stay at home,
especially during that night on the pier at
Southend and the night following at Kemerton,
you gave me a deeper impression of the strength
of your character than you had ever done
before.

I believed it possible that Dahlia would
fail, and I dared not speak.

" Why was that ? " you will ask, when you
cried to me again and again to tell all, to explain
all. The answer is : —

" Because of my relationship to Mr. Dot-bridge
! "

What that relationship is I shall now set
down as plainly as I can.

You know that my father, although only
a captain in the navy, had saved a little money.
He had been a friend almost from boyhood of
Mr. Dottridge, who induced him to adventure
all he possessed in some speculation. He lost
it all ; and he died a few months after becoming
aware of his ruin.

Mr. Dottridge at once pledged himself to
take care of me, and to provide for my future.
His first act was to take me into his house, and
all the care and all the attendance which were
given to Dahha during her brief residences at
Kemerton in her school vacations were given tome.


']\Ir. Dottridge became ill. I helped to
nurse him ; he liked me best of all the nurses.
He soon found that I made an excellent assistant
in his correspondence ; and he sometimes
even consulted me in business matters.

At length he declared that I must be his
confidential secretary ; and gradually he trusted

me more and more, not only in regard to the
following out of his instructions correctly, butin
my judgment as to the particular direction
of some affairs. I became in short his friend
and confidante.

I was glad to be useful to him, for I liked
him much. He had taken the place of my
father, and showed me all the kindness — I
ought to say even the tenderness — which I remembered
to have received from him.

He was early made aware of your attachment
to me, and he discovered mine to you.
At first he entirely approved of our attachment,
and once or twice spoke of helping
us on in the world. Gradually there appeared
a change in this approval, although his kindness
to me increased rather than diminished.


About this time his health began to fail
more and more, the blindness came upon him,
and he was confined entirely to his room. He

found himself more and more dependent upon
my assistance.

One day, whilst reading to him, he suddenly
called to me in a voice which, at the moment,
seemed strange to me —

" Stop, Euth, I want to speak to you upon
some business of more importance than usual.
That is to say, of more importance to me than
any you have yet had to do with."

" Yes," I said, wondering what it could befor
I had thought myself so entirely in his confidence
that there seemed to be nothing for him
to tell me.

After a few minutes' silence he began :

" Dahlia is now twenty, and I wish to
settle her in life. Stephen Meredith is very
hard up, and I wish to help him for his own
sake and his father's. Can you suggest any
means by which the two things can be combined
? "

I was somewhat agitated, and could not
understand why. My reply was made as
deliberately as I could make it : "I think you
can have no difficulty in making some settlement
upon Dahlia, which will enable her to
face the world as an independent woman. As
regards Stephen Meredith, I can say nothing,
for you know my "

He interrupted me.

" Your love for him you would say, but
of course you will not. On that head you will
only say that I know your particular interest
in him. I do. But I have noted Stephen's
conduct for some little time past ; and I think
that I know of some one who has more interest
in you than he can possibly have."

I was so much puzzled by this statement
that I remained silent. He had spoken in such
a tone that I could not doubt he meant by
some one," himself. But what it could have
to do with you I could not understand. I laid

down the book I had been reading, and
waited.

" You make no answer. Well, then, I
must speak more plainly. Euth, come here."

I went to him behind the screen, and he
took my hand.

Still, I did not speak, for a very wild idea
was dawning upon me. He went on —

" You believe that he loves you. So do
I. But his is a love that may change ; he is
young, and although an admirable, good
hearted, honest fellow, another woman than
you might attract his attention if you were only
absent for a time."

'' I do not believe it," I said warmly, and
I took my hand away from him angrily.

He did not resent my anger in the slightest
degree. He spoke quite quietly.

" I did not think you would believe it — at
first. But when you come to think of it calmly
you may believe it possible."

'impossible," I said, still warmly (and
please do not think that in telling you all this I
am trying to magnify my own faith).

" Just so, but take time, for what I have
got to tell you is of much importance to
Stephen. I suppose you will tell me that your
love, we must call it — for him cannot change.
But suppose also I were to tell you that
Stephen — who you know is in difficulties out of
which. I cannot see his way, unless he has help
from some quarter — could obtain a fortune at
once if you were not in his way, would you tell
me that your liking for him was of such a kind
as to permit you to stand in his way ? *'

" J do not understand."

" You are a sensible woman ; you have
proved yourself so again and again. You
know that worldly affairs have a great deal todo
with worldly happiness. Love is an admirable
adjunct to life, but is not its food. You
can understand that to a young man love is

more a passion than a faith. Passions are
brief-heed, and are got over again and again by
both men and women. Stephen is a young
man, and if you were not here he would give
his love to another. I do not say this in any
disparagement of him ; I am only speaking from
my experience of human nature. You do not
understand me yet."

" No." But I fear that in saying this I
was not telling the whole truth, for I did begin
to comprehend.

" Then I must be more explicit. In the
settlements which are about to be prepared I
have given twenty thousand to Dahlia if
Stephen marries her, and I give nothing to him
if he does not. I do not wish to disguise my
selfish motives in thus trying to force the two
together, but I do not think there is anything
wrong in them. She is pretty and smart, and
will make exactly the sort of mistress for
Derewood Grange who will please him. But

lie is selfish, and therefore I mean to leave the
money so that she does not get it unless she
gets him. A wicked thing to do, is it not ? I
do not think it is, for it is bringing two people
together who, I believe, will suit each other,
and providing them with the means of living
fairly well. By the same deed I relieve
Stephen of all the mortgages on his place.
Now, why do you think I do that, and do it in
that way?"

" I do not know," I said, coldly, as he
told me, but I was trembling and scarcely
conscious of how I spoke or what I said,
unless it is because you wish to separate me
from him."

" That is precisely what I wish to do.
And why I wish to do it is because — now do
not be startled, Euth, or get into a passion — I
am speaking and acting after long deliberation ;
the reason why I do it is because I want you
for myself."

I did not start, or turn pale, or shrink
from him. I stood quite cold, my head aching
with the bewilderment of the proposition now
made to me. I could not speak.

I know you will blame me, Stephen, and
think me cruel ; but you. will not think so long
if you remember the nature of the problem set
to me. I was to give up you and leave you a
fortune, or keep you at the cost of the
fortune.

" Well, what do you think of the proposal
? " he inquired, after a little time.

" I think it is very cruel to us all," I
answered.

" It is not so in my estimation, for it is
kindly meant."

*' It may be and yet be cruel."

" Do not answer me just now positively.
Wait for a week or a month if you like — but
not longer than that — and then answer me."

I waited for a month, and the agony of it

VOL. I. M

I shall never forget. Then I told him that even
for your sake I could not accept his hand,
giatefiil as I was to him, or that of any man
except yours ; but I would consent to break off
my engagement with you for your sake.
When I did so I would leave the country, and
as I had an uncle in Australia, I would go
there and find some work to occupy me, which
would enable me to overcome the pain —
nothing can ever make me forget it — of the
loss of happiness which I sustained for your
gain.

'' Gt) then," he said, " and within a year
from the date of your leaving England Stephen
will be married to Dahha."

He spoke bitterly, and I do not wonder,
for I know that he felt deeply.

So it came about that he made the settlement
in the strange way that I have described
to you. Then came your pleading and my
love pleaded with you. My love also enabled

me to hold to my engagement to go away ;
but I was under no bond not to return, and,
therefore, I consented to be with you again at
the end of a year, if you were still faithful.

I know you will say all this was only a
proof of my doubt of you ; if you knew what I
have suffered and am suffering, you would own
that it is a proof of my love.

Now, you understand why I left you, and
why my conduct has been so strange. When
I said that I wished to go, I spoke truly. I
did and do wish to go for your sake. But, oh,
how gladly shall I return ! — for if I do, it will
be to you, and you and I will know that neither
fortune nor time can alter our feelings to each
other.'

M 2

CHAPTEE XII.

THE DUCKPOND BY MOONLIGHT.

Dahlia's conduct struck everyone in the house
as peculiar on the day after her journey to
London with Stephen — she was so shy and
modest. She, who was something of a romp
in her gaiety, whose merry voice — and it was
a musical voice — sounded above the voices
of all the others, was now silent and subdued.
She moved about with downcast looks, and
was strangely timid whenever Stephen was
near.

She seemed almost afraid to lift her eyes
when he was by ; but when he turned away
they followed him with a pathetic, longing
gaze.

The mother and the girls noted all this, and
were very curious to know the meaning of it.
To Mrs, Meredith she was singularly gentle and
affectionate ; but when that lady inquired what
had happened to account for this sudden
change, she implored her not to ask at present.
Mrs. Meredith was a clever woman, as Mr.
Bassnett said, and discreetly held her tongue.

To the girls Dahlia was unusually tender ;
but when amongst them she spoke little, and
that only by fits and starts. She was very
much abstracted, sighing often, as it seemed
unconsciously, but occasionally detecting herself
she would look vexed, as if ashamed of her
folly. Then she would make an effort to be
gay as usual. But it was quite evident that
the effort was a great strain, and gradually she
would subside again into silence and sighs.

The sentimental young ladies, aware of her
attachment to their brother, sympathised with
her and whispered amongst themselves —

Stephen has been unkind to her yesterday.
How nasty of him ! '

Jim, having asked her to join him in several
amusements, and received a very sweet ' No '
to all his proposals, summed the whole thing
up to his own satisfaction. With the sage
experience of his years, inspired by his contempt
for womankind in general, and for
sentimental ones in particular, he thus declared
- — to himself, for he knew that his sisters would
only scold him if he said it to them —

She's trying it on. What an ass Stephen is
not to see it ! I can see it with half an eye.
She won't come to skate, won't she ! Oh, we'll
see when he asks her ! '

And he went off to skate by himself.

In the evening Stephen went into the
library before the lamps were lit. He heard
the rustle of a woman's dress, and he knew
that it was Dahlia by the perfume — for it
was one of her weaknesses to use the most

sickly-sweet scents — and he spoke in some
surprise —

Why are you here in the dark, Dahlia ? '

She did not answer, and she was evidently
trying to make her escape without speaking,
but was stopped by the entrance of a servant
who had followed his master with lights. Then
she drew back, turning her face away from
Stephen.

What is the matter ? ' he asked when they
were alone.

I am so sorry, Stephen — I am so ashamed
about last night,' she said timidly.

Then she hurried away, but not before he
saw the tears in her eyes, and he knew she had
gone to shut herself up in her room to have
what women call ' a good cry.'

He was distressed about her as day by
day went by and there was no return to her
usual bright, coquettish manner. She seemed
to be always pleased when he spoke to her,

but she carefully avoided being alone with
him.

When this subdued, melancholy state had
continued for a week, his mother spoke to
him.

That girl will fall into a sickness if she
goes on much longer in this way. She does
not eat, and keeps herself shut up in the
house — it would make anybody ill. I wish we
could do something for her, Stephen, for I am
getting most anxious about her. But she will
do nothing for us, although I believe she
would go out if you were to ask her. I wish
you would, to please me.'

He had not thought of that ; and, as he had
a feeling that her present state was partly due
to her notion that she had offended him, he
was ready to take this means of satisfying her
that she had not. So he did ask her that
evening at dinner, and on the spot a skating
party was arranged for the following day.

They went out — three of the girls and Jim
with them.

They were all very merry on the ice, and
on the way home ; the colour returned to
DahUa's cheeks, and from that day she rapidly
recovered her former bathe ways.

I am glad to see you yourself again,' said
Mrs. Meredith cheerily, and with a significant
smile, ' I think there is some one else who is
pleased too.'

Do you think so ? ' exclaimed Dahlia,
eagerly.

I am sure of it. Now, I want you to
look your best to-night, because Mr. Eapier is
coming, and as he is the only one who is permitted
to see Mr. Dottridge, I want him to take
back as good a report of you as possible.'

I'll try,' was the response. ' But not for
Mr. Eapier's sake,' she mentally added.

The evening was clear, dry, and bright.

The full moon made the orchard a picture in
black and white, and the trees cast fantastic
shadows on the ground. The duckpond became
a brilliant little lake, in which there were
curious silhouettes of surrounding objects.

Two of the figures reflected in the pond
were those of a tall man and a lady. They
had halted as if to look at the other shadows,
as well as their own perhaps. But they were
not lovers, for the lady was saying somewhat
petulantly —

Why did you ask me to come out here,
Mr. Eapier, and ask me, too, in such a way
that I could not refuse ? '

Because it was such a beautiful night.
Miss Whitcombe,' answered Lewis Eapier,
laughing.

If there was no other reason, let us return
to the house at once.'

Ah, you are angry because you are afraid
that Meredith may be displeased. Is that so ? *

I do not care for moonlight walks,' she
answered evasively.

He was studying her face as well as he
could by the light of the moon. The face was
very pretty but pale in the moonlight. He
could learn nothing from it, however, except
that she was frowning.

There, I shall not keep you long,' he said,
but I thought you would be pleased to see an
old friend, and would like to have a few
moments' conversation alone with him. I have
another reason for asking you to come, but
before telling you I want to remove that
frown.'

I don't think you can.*

Wrong. I am quite sure it will go when
I tell you that by appearing to coquet with me,
Meredith may be piqued into saj^ng something
that will please you.'

The frown disappeared.

I thought so,' continued Rapier, sarcastically.

' Now I can tell you what I really
wished you to come out for. Mr. Dottridge
is going away shortly for an indefinite period,
very likely to die. You know his wishes regarding
yourself? '

Yes ; too well,' she responded, bitterly.

Then — will you answer frankly — have you
hope now of obtaining your fortune ? '

I cannot say.'

She was much agitated, and her head was
bowed. He spoke earnestly, and in a low
voice.

You know how anxious I am for your
welfare ; you know that I am your true friend
still, although you have so lightly turned away
from one you once '

Stop ; do not speak of that,' she said, as
if she were half-frightened. ' It was folly, and
you know the conditions under which I am
here.'

You call it folly ; you did not do so then.'

'Oh, be silent ! ' she pleaded piteously ;
there is some one coming. Let us walk on.'

Very well,' he said calmly, ' we shall say
no more of that for the present. I do not
excuse the strange conditions Dottridge has
made ; but I am anxious to know that in obeying
them you are happy and have some prospect
of winning your fortune.'

I am happy,' was the hurried answer,
and I believe there is every prospect
Oh, it is cruel to force me to say this ! '

I would not like to think that I was cruel
I who am doing my best to serve you.'

I was afraid you would get cold, Dahlia,'
said the quiet voice of Stephen as he came
up to them, ' and I have brought a shawl for
you.'

Dahha bit her lips with chagrin. She was
not taken by surprise, for the sound of the
footsteps on the hard, crisp ground had warned
her of his approach. Her chagrin was due to

disappointment, for she had been impressed at
once by the probability that her strange
friend's manoeuvre would prove successful, and
that Stephen would be piqued — perhaps even a
little jealous — on account of her moonlight
ramble with Mr. Eapier. She would have
been pleased if he had spoken coldly; she
would have been delighted had he displayed
passion, or anything else, to indicate that his
feelings for her differed from those he had
towards other women.

But no! he came to her for the plain
commonplace reason that he was ' afraid she
would get cold ! ' A grandmother would have
done as much.

You are so very kind, Stephen,' she said
with sarcastic politeness and suppressed passion,
as she allowed him to place the shawl round
her.

CHAPTER XIII.

A PROBLEM TO SOLVE.

There was a smile on Rapier's face and this
question in his mind —

Is he acting ? if so, it is very well done.
Or, is he indifferent as to whether she flirts or
loves ? if so, my little arrangement with Mrs.
Meredith has only succeeded in bringing him
after us to prove to her that his regard is only
that of a brother. . . . But no, a brother
would not put on her shawl so carefully.
She must feel that and be satisfied for the
present.'

Both DahHa and Rapier were somewhat
out in their estimate of Stephen's motives. He

was not indifferent as to her conduct, and when
his mother had suggested that he should take
a shawl to her, as she had gone out with Mr.
Eapier too thinly cloaked for the season,
and the time she was staying, he was not
pleased.

But there was not a shade of jealousy in his
displeasure.

I do not like her or any of the girls receiving
attention from Mr. Eapier,' he had said
hastily, and went out immediately.

That was misinterpreted by his mother,
of course, and she was glad that this strange
friend of the family had come to speed the
wooing.

But what he meant was this : with every
disposition to like Eapier, he had always experienced
a feeling of repulsion when near him,
although the man had in every way endeavoured
to prove himself a friend. He remembered
the strong doubt of him which crossed

his mind that night when, as he was leaving
Kemerton, Eapier suggested that it was pure
selfishness which induced Euth to go away.

As if she could be selfish! He would
trust her on that score at any rate ; whatever
her motive for this cruel separation might be
selfishness had nothing to do with it. He
would have felt contempt for his nearest friend
if he had suggested such a thing. It will be
noted that, Hke all true lovers, as time and
space increased between them, his ideal Euth
became nobler and more beautiful than ever.

Then he remembered Euth's warning to
beware of this man, and he had profound faith
in her keen insight into character. To crown
all, DahHa was, as he understood, an heiress,
and Eapier was a man professedly poor, and of
whom nothing more was known than that he
was a friend of Mr. Dottridge, to whom he had
been useful in various confidential and important
matters of business.

VOL. T. N

All these things made Stephen feel displeased
that she should be showing this man
anything more than ordinary courtesy.

You read poetry, Meredith ? ' said Eapier,

gaily.

'Yes, sometimes,' was the dry response,
when I find it in an agricultural almanac'

Eapier laughed so heartily that it was
almost infectious ; and it certainly had the
effect of dispelling the cloud of awkwardness
which for a moment overhung the party.

Ah, if that is all, I am afraid you will not
be able to understand the — what shall I call
it ? — sentimental nonsense of Miss Whitcombe
and myself. We came out to enjoy the effects
of the moonlight, and we have been trying to
exaggerate the duckpond into a lake. You
come with your confounded common sense in
the shape of a shawl and — whew ! away goes
poetry, and we immediately begin to think of
influenzas and rheumatism.'

And a very good thing for yourself if you
happen to think of them before they arrive.
But we seldom do that. What a pity it is that
we are so proud when we overcome an illness,
and have not the slightest regard for the ill we
escape.'

Natural ingratitude of mankind,' said
Eapier, with mock solemnity. ' A friend lends
you five shillings, and you think nothing of it :
he refuses to lend it, and you think a great deal
of it.'

Well, I think a good deal about colds and
rheumatics,' said Dahlia, with one of her pretty
shudders, ' and, if you please, I should like to
go indoors.'

Can you not be tempted to walk down as
far as the river ? The willows at the foot of
the meadow must present a charming effect in
this light,' said Eapier.

But she knew that he was trying to bait

N 2

Stephen, and had no real desire for her to go
She certainly had none herself.

I don't like willows even by moonlight,
and beside a river,' she replied coldly ; ' they
always suggest misfortune of some kind to me.
Besides, you think I should go in, Stephen, do
you not ? '

Decidedly, unless you prepare yourself fora
good swinging walk. Dawdling about hers
in the orchard may be pretty and poetical, but
it is not healthy.'

What a prosaic beggar you are ! ' exclaimed
Eapier, laughing.

They escorted DahUa to the house. At the
door Eapier, who had been chattering merrily
all the way, turned to Stephen.

'Suppose we take a turn and a cigar together
? I have no notion of sleep yet, and I
suppose the ladies will be pleased to dispense
with our attendance as it is so late.'

All right, come along,' said Stephen somewhat

irritably, for he felt that Eapier was not
being treated as a guest ought to be, and yet
he could not help himself; so he made an
effort to show that he wished to make him
comfortable.

Try one of these Partakes. I got them asa
special favour from a man who professes to
have special knowledge of tobaccos, and he
assured me they are the best things of the
kind that can be procured.'

They passed round the orchard and down
the meadow towards the river. It was certainly
a good cigar Eapier had given him, and
Stephen enjoyed* it. At the same time he
wished that it had come from the hand of anyone
else. His dislike for the man increased
rapidly from the moment they had been standing
together beside Dahlia at the duckpond ;
and the curious fancy crossed his mind that
if Eapier wanted to administer poison to anybody,
it would be done with the same flourish

and assurances as those with which he had
given him the cigar. He smoked viciously,
not enjoying the tobacco at all now, but
wondering how he should deal with this man.

I wanted to have a little chat with you
alone, Meredith,' said Eapier, after they had
been walking and smoking some time in
silence.

Well, here we are. You cannot be
more alone with me than you are at present.'

Eapier smoked meditatively, and looked at
the moon as if he were seeking from it some
inspiration as to the right course to pursue.
Then emitting a great whiff and holding his
cigar daintily between his fingers, poised in the
air —

Will you pardon me what is really a most,
impertinent question ? *

If I can answer the question I shall do so,'
replied Stephen, cautiously. He did not like
the opening of his companion's address.

I am going to be quite frank with you,
and I hope you will be the same with me.
The question is about Miss Whitcombe.'

Eapier paused, took another whiff, and
looked at his companion with the air of one
who has said something profound, and expects
respectful acknowledgment of it.

The subject is agreeable enough,' was all
Stephen said,

*• Undoubtedly, and under ordinary circumstances
I should have no difficulty in speaking
of her — under any circumstances I can have no
difficulty in praising her. Pretty, witty, and
good-tempered, I believe, she deserves a good
husband.'

I quite agree with you on that subject,'
said Stephen coldly, as he glanced sideways at
the man, wondering what he was, driving at.

Very well, now comes the question for
which I have apologised in advance — I never
like to poach on a friend's ground or I would

not trouble you with it. Miss Whitcombe must
have many wooers, and I ask you frankly, is
there any probability of you becoming one of
them ? '

Stephen threw away his cigar, halted and
turned to his companion.

Frankness begets frankness,' he said,
sharply, ' and therefore I will answer you. I
believe you know enough of my affairs to
understand that there is not the slightest probability
of my seeking Dahha's hand. But
this you do not know — that whatever influence
I have with the girl I shall use against your
suit if you think of entering the lists.'

Here is what Eapier thought —

Good ; he is in a temper, and claims the
position of protector. He has warmer feeling
for her than he thinks himself.'

This is what he said —

Thank you, Meredith, but I did not mean
to offend you, and I did not say that I intended

to enter the lists for her hand, although I think
it is well worth winning. However, if I should
be tempted to try my fortune in that direction,
I shall know what to expect from you. In the
meanwhile we need not quarrel about impossibilities.'


I hope there may be no need to quarrel
at all.'

I am glad to hear you say so, for just now
I had an uncomfortable feeling that we were
approaching something of the kind. What
o'clock is it with you ? I make it twenty to
twelve.'

You are a little fast ; it is only half-past
eleven.'

Well, by the time we reach the house I
dare say it will be midnight, and then I shall
be at liberty to give you some news which will
surprise you.'

When they entered the library it was still
ten minutes from the hour, according to the

clock on the mantelpiece. Stephen was surprised
to find that his mother had not yet gone
to bed, and he was still more surprised to find
that she was waiting for them by arrangement
with Eapier. The latter chatted with the lady
about trifles, and did not by word or look indicate
that he had anything important to communicate.
Even whilst the clock was striking
he continued to talk about the prospects of the
weather. But when the last stroke sounded,
he stopped, and his manner changed.

I am free to speak now, although I am
certainly making use of my liberty at the very
earliest moment. There is nothing very serious
in what I have to tell you ; it is only to make
you acquainted with another of Mr. Dottridge's
freaks.'

What has he been doing now ? ' inquired
Stephen carelessly ; but his mother looked
anxious.

Making away with himself.*

What ? ' exclaimed mother and son,
startled.

You need not be alarmed ; I only mean
that he has secretly left Kemerton, and even I
was not permitted to know whither he was
bound.'

When did he go ? ' inquired Mrs. Meredith.


In the beginning of December, immediately
after he had completed his business
arrangements with Bassnett.'

He is a most singular man. I can scarcely
realise that all these weeks, whilst we have
been thinking of him shut up in his room at
Kemerton, he has been away,' continued the
lady, quite as much amazed as if she had heard
that her mysterious relative had committed
suicide.

Yes ; he wished to have no leave-takings,
he said, and he made me promise not to make
known his absence before to-day. He wants

to disappear from the world and to be regarded
as one dead.'

It is a strange wish,' said Stephen, thoughtfully,
' for a man so wealthy and successful.*

They did not know that he lacked the
crown of wealth and success — Love.

CHAPTEE XIV.

RUTH WRITES AGAIN.

I DID not know how much I should feel this
separation from you, Stephen, and from my
home until the second week after we sailed.
The pain seemed to be bad enough at the time,
but the excitement of it all helped me to bear
it. When the excitement and bustle were over,
the pain became agony. If you could have
found me during that second week you would
not have required to speak more than one
persuading word to make me stay at home.
When I say home I do not mean Kemerton ;
to the exile the word means England.

Day and night my thoughts were with

you, but I could not write although I tried it
several times. I always saw you standing on
the shore, looking after the ship and frowning
at me for my desertion.

That was very hard to bear, and it was
the more hard to bear knowing that a few
words would have removed the cloud, and
caused you to pity me and not be angry with
me. But I could not speak these words and
for a whole year you must continue to think

of me as cruel, capricious, and faithless

That is wrong. I am sure you were not thinking
of me so unkindly. You are hoping, as I
am hoping, and at the end of the year we shall
meet, and you will have proved to me, to Mr.
Dottridge, and everyone, that neither time nor
space can take your heart from me.

'Thinking that way made me feel better.
I seemed to grow stronger as soon as I had
cast out from my mind all doubt of you. I
know that the test is a severe one ; but I am

sure now that you will stand it nobly. The
only thing that disturbs me is the conviction
that I am unworthy of such a love as yours.
But I will try with all my might to make you
happy when we join hands again.

I must try to get away from myself a little
and tell you about what is going on around
me. The Captain has been very kind, and
does everything to make me comfortable. His
wife is very anxious to do what she can forme,
but she is seldom able to be out of her
cabin. She tells me that it is the same with
her on every voyage, and yet she persists in
accompanying her husband. He says it is an
unfortunate mania, and not to be cured. I like
her all the more for it, because she must be
very fond of him to endure this discomfort for
the simple purpose of being with him.

I am sure Captain Mackay admires her for
it himself, for he is very good-natured, and
although he pretends to make fun of her for

insisting upon going through what he calls
'' this needless tribulation," year after year,
there is something in the way — a very quiet
way — in which he attends to her wants that
proves to me he is very fond of her and proud
of her devotion.

'For myself, I have found, much to my
relief, that I am an excellent sailor. The sea
has been like a friend and companion to me.
I delight in watching the huge waves come
sweeping towards me ; they are like great
giants against whom this big ship — looking like
a dwarf in comparison with them — is doing
battle. Every time one of these giants comes
rolling towards her I feel my heart and breath
stop, and then, as the good ship lifts her head
and glides over it, I experience a wild sensation
of joy as if I myself had done something noble.

I have seen little of my fellow-passengers
in the cabin. There are only three : two
gentlemen in consumption ordered to make the

voyage to Australia as a last chance of restoration.
I wonder why they could not have been
sent out before it became a last resort. The
third gentleman would have interested you
very much. He is a sheep farmer, and has
been to England making arrangements about
the transport of tinned mutton. He is remarkably
intelligent about sheep, but has little to
say on any other subject ; and indeed I am not
in the mood to find out the best qualities of anyone
with whom I may come in contact.

There is one of the steerage passengers
who interests me very much, because I have
seen so little of him ! He is always on deck
Ashen I come up and always disappears below
the moment he sees me. I do not think this is
on account of anything dreadful in my appearance,
but it is a curious circumstance that
whenever I come up he goes down.

I have made friends with all the other
steerage passengers, and especially with a

VOL. I. O

woman, who, with three children, is going out
to her husband, a baker, in Sydney. She tells
me that the man who has interested me by his
droll conduct has a private berth in the steerage,
and that he seems to be a particular friend
of the Captain, who often visits him. He
sleeps all day and is up all night, so that the
other passengers see very little of him. No
doubt that is why his ways have seemed to me
so peculiar.

I do not yet feel quite sure that I am in
my right senses ; the event is so utterly bewildering,
and — painful is the only word I can
find to express my meaning without exaggeration.
But the embarrassment to me cannot be
exaggerated. And yet he pledges himself not
to come near me, not even to show himself on
deck during the remainder of the passage if
that is my will.

'I do lot know what to say, but perhaps I



may gain steadiness by setting down here the
particulars of the whole occurrence.

We have been passing through a series of
heavy gales. On Monday evening a great wave
swept over the vessel, it stove in what they call
the booby hatch, broke down part of the bulwark
at one side, caught me in its terrible
embrace, and slung me along with irresistible
strength. I would certainly have been carried
overboard, but I got jammed against the cabin
railing, and someone caught me by the arm and
held me securely, so that the next wave passed
without doing me any more harm than increasing
the wetness of my clothes.

I lost consciousness, however, and when I
came to myself, I asked the captain where my
preserver was. I remember now how awkward
he looked, but I did not think of it at the
time.

" It was just one of the steerage folk
that happened to be at hand. He does not
o 2

expect any reward, so you need not trouble
yourself about him."

" I had no thought of giving him any
other reward than my thanks."

" Ah, weel, they'll keep till he gets better ;
at this minute he is clean knocked up wi' the
worry and excitement o' the thing. Be patient,
and he'll come to you. He's a stout and honest
chappie, but he has got an awful cooking."

I became feverish and was for a couple of
days unable to rise. The good Captain had
occupied much of his time in seeking information
about the man who had saved me. At
least so he said, and I concluded that, as he had
to seek information about him, the man could
not be such an intimate friend as the baker's
Avise had led me to believe.

At last I was able to be on deck again, and
the Captain, after some hesitation, led forward
my preserver.

The man was Mr. Dottridge ! '

CHAPTEE XV.

THE MAN WHO SPECULATES IS LOST.

Mrs. Meredith had a few words in private
with Mr. Eapier before he left Derewood
Grange. It was in the morning after breakfast
when Stephen had gone with the veterinary
surgeon to examine a valuable bullock which
was threatened with the plague. This had
been a source of great anxiety to him, for if the
plague should seize upon his unusually large
stock of cattle, the loss would involve almost
immediate ruin.

Mrs. Meredith was able to speak freely to
Mr. Eapier : first, because she regarded him asa
sort of agent of Mr. Dottridge, and believed he

knew more about that gentleman's arrangements
than anyone else : secondly, because he
thoroughly understood the real state of
Stephen's affairs ; and lastly, because — without
any distinct conspiracy between them — he had
become her firm ally in her endeavour to bring
about a marriage between her son and Dahlia
Whitcombe.

They were in the library. Eapier was
speaking with that air of perfect frankness
which usually disposed people in his favour.

I do not think you need disturb yourself in
the least, Mrs. Meredith, and if you will leave
things to run their own course I am satisfied
you will have your wish.'

I am glad you think so ; but it is now
more than two months since Euth went away,
and although he does not speak of her I know
that he is constantly thinking of her.'

Very likely, and I admire him for it ; but
he is also thinking about Miss Whitcombe.

She has decidedly a very tender regard for him
anybody can see that.'

'But he does not see it, and I am really
most anxious about the poor girl ; for his indifference
has hurt her a great deal, and I am
sure that a final disappointment would cause her
serious injury.'

Oh, she would survive ! ' said Eapier reassuringly,
and smiling as he thought of Dahlia's
character as he understood it ; ' that is, she
would survive the loss of him ; the loss of the
fortune is another affair.'

You do her injustice, Mr. Eapier ; for I am
greatly deceived if she is thinking of the fortune
at all now.'

She will make the better wife, then ; and
she is the more worthy of your son. But what
is of importance to you in the meanwhile is that
she cares so much for him, and that he is interested
in her. He is concerned about her
future, as he gave me very plainly to understand

when we were in the meadow last night ; he is
even speculating about the sort of person who
would make a suitable husband for her, and,
you know, once the thoughts are turned in that
direction the man who speculates is lost. Be
patient, do not interfere, and I prophesy that
all will go well.'

'I hope you may prove a true prophet
said Mrs. Meredith, a little doubtfully ; ' but I
wish matters could be hastened.'

His embarrassments may help to do that.
I don't like to be a bearer of ill tidings, but
I may tell you in confidence that I know
he has some very serious difficulties before
him.'

I am aware of that,' said the mother
sighing ; ' and now that Mr. Dottridge is away
I do not see what we are to do. I hope you
will be with us soon again.'

You must invite me, and of course
you can always summon me by note or by

telegram addressed to the Cosmos, if you
should happen to require my assistance in
any way. You know how glad I always am
to serve you.*

When the prophet Eapier was taking leave
of Dahlia he whispered —

I wish you would tell me what you would
like for a wedding present.'

Certainly — your card with P.P.C. on it,'
she answered coldly.

Cruel,' he exclaimed, smiling reproachfully,
and he went away.

There was no doubt that so far as friendship
was concerned, Eapier was correct in
saying that Stephen was interested in Dahlia.
He had apparently quite forgotten what had occurred
that foggy night in the train, and she did
nothing to remind him of it ; but there was
something subdued in her manner now which
pleased him.

Without giving him the slightest sense of

obtrusiveness she was always near him whenever
he wanted anything, and, without his being
conscious of any special change in their relationship,
she gradually obtained the place of
intimate companion and friend, to whom he
spoke freely of whatever gave him pleasure or
worried him.

He found her sympathy and hopefulness
more and more helpful to him as day by day
his embarrassments increased. What he had
dreaded took place; the plague broke out
amongst the cattle, and the whole stock had to
be destroyed. Then foot-and-mouth disease
attacked the sheep, and about the middle of
spring Stephen Meredith found himself face to
face with absolute ruin.

But the worst blow of all came in a telegram
from Mr. Bassnett. It was short but terrible in
its brevity.

From P. Bassnett^ To Stephen Meredith

Sergeants Inn. Derewood Grange,

Dunthorpe.

News just received. The ' Eucalyptus ' a
complete wreck. Only the first mate with two
of the crew and three steerage passengers saved.
Shall telegraph the moment any further news
arrives,

Stephen stood quite still with the paper in
his hand. His face became sickly white ; but he
felt nothing for the first few moments — he was
stunned.

'For heaven's sake, Stephen, what is the
matter ? ' cried the mother.

He made no, reply, but a curious, mocking,
bitter smile gradually overspread his face, and
distorted the features as with acute pain.

Can you not speak ? ' almost shrieked
the mother, frightened by his look and his
silence.

Dahlia stepped softly up to him and took

the paper from his nerveless hand. The blood
left her cheeks, and her eyes started wildly
when she read it.

'The ship is wrecked — Euth is drowned,'
she said in a low voice that was full of terror,
for she felt as if in some mysterious way she
were guilty of murder.

She had wished that Euth might never come
back to England ; she had thought of the
dangers of the sea, and she had sometimes
vaguely tried to imagine what would happen if
the Eucalyptus should be wrecked. These
thoughts came back to her now with bitter
reproach ; she trembled with shame and
remorse. The sight of his dumb agony frightened
her, and yet she could not take her eyes
away from him.

The ship wrecked — Euth drowned,' echoed
Mrs. Meredith bewilderedly. ' What does it all
mean? I don't understand. Who says that
she is drowned.'

Still silence, but that hideous smile gradually
disappeared.

Poor Stephen ! ' moaned Dahlia at last, and
at that moment with the vision in her mind's
eye of Euth's dead form floating upon the great
sea, and with Stephen so cold and motionless
before her, she would have been willing to
change places with the woman who had hitherto
seemed to be the only barrier between her and
happiness.

CHAPTEE XVI. ^
ruth's last notes.

It is three weeks since I have been able to
write anything, and during nearly all that time
it seemed as if I should never be able to use
the pen again. The storms through which we
have passed have been to me terrible, and the
captain tells me that he has not experienced
such severe weather for nearly twenty years.
The ship is greatly disabled, and it is impossible
that it could pass safely through such
another series of gales.

'There is a lull to-day, and although the
sea is still rolling high and angrily, I can
manage to jot down a sentence at intervals. I
make the effort to write even in this fragmentary

way, because I am most anxious to record
what has occurred. Death has been and is
still so near to us all that I cannot shut my
eyes to the possibility of never reaching land.
There is another possibility, however — that the
box in which I shall place this book may be
washed ashore or picked up by some ship more
fortunate than ours ; and with this faint hope I
strive to write.

It comforts and strengthens me to imagine
that if the worst happens, you may learn,
Stephen, at some remote time how abiding my
love has been to you.

The captain was smiling as if he had only
taken part in some good-natured joke when he
brought Mr. Dottridge forward to me.

" You see you have more friends on board
than you kenned," he said, and turned away,
leaving us alone together.

My amazement was so great that I could

not speak, although it seemed to me in my
bewilderment as if I had called his name aloud
many times. The mere fact of his presence
there was so extraordinary that I did not at
first pay any attention to the change in his
appearance

*When I had last seen him at Kemerton
he was an invalid, scarcely able to venture
unaided from one part of the house to another ;
surrounded by every luxury and carefully
guarded against the least disturbance. Here
he was now in plain, homely garments, standing
firmly on the deck, and apparently well
able to take care of himself. His face had
lost much of its sallowness ; his eyes were clear
and unaffected by the light, which used to
cause them so much pain. Had not the
serious nature of his long illness been known
to me I never would have suspected that this
man had walked out from the gateway of the
grave.

He looked ten — nay, twenty years —
younger than when I said good-bye to him in
his own room. Of course, the surroundings
and the darkness there might easily have
deceived anyone as to his real condition ; but
it could not have deceived me, as I was so
much with him. I knew that during the last
few months he had seemed to be gaining
strength rapidly in spite of the dreadful verdict
which the physicians finally pronounced. But
certainly the improvement was not so rapid as
to account for the change I saw in him
now.

If the time since I saw him last had been
in reality as long as my suffering meade it seem
to me, there could not have been a greater
difference between the man as he was then and
as he appeared now. The two consumptive
passengers were in comparison only subjects
for the undertaker ; he was a hale man, likely
to live many years.

VOL. I. p

^ He relieved me from my confusion and
amazement by speaking first.

I will do my best to set down accurately
all that occurred. I know you will resent
some of it, Stephen ; that you will tell me I
ought never to have placed myself in a position
where such passages were possible, and I know
that you are right. I ought not to have left
you, I ought not to have left England. But it
was done, and I would have been more than
human — certainly more than woman — if I had
not sympathised ^vith him.

" Try not to be angry with me, Euth," he
said, in such a low voice that with the wild
rushing sound of the waves, and the wind
whistling around us I could scarcely hear his
words. " I did not mean you to know that I
was on board. These gales, your accident and
repeated request to see the man who had
helped you, overcame my resolution. I could
not help coming when you sent for me so often,

although aware that you would be annoyed
and perhaps angry."

*why did you not tell me that you were
to sail in the Eucalyptus ? '* I asked, much
distressed by the position in which his presence
placed me. " I understood that you were
going to the South of France."

He looked at me reproachfully, and it was
impossible to avoid feeling that, somehow, I
deserved a rebuke for my ingratitude.

" You know that you would not have
sailed in the same ship with me," he answered
very quietly ; " and I did not think it necessary
that you should know I was here. My whole
object was to be near you, ready to help you if
any peril should arise ; to see you safely
landed, or — yes, I must speak it — or to go
down with you if ill befell the ship. . . .
You do not know ^vhat a fool I am about
you."

He spoke the last words bitterly, as if hep

2

would almost have been glad to have had other
feelings regarding me.

" When you knew that I would not sail
in the same ship," I said, trying to speak
resolutely, but without unkindness, " was it not
cruelly unjust to me to come on board by
stealth?"

" I can see nothing unjust in it, and
although you have used the word, I know you
cannot feel that there is anything cruel in it."

'* I wish it had not happened," was all
that I could say.

At that there came over his face an expression
which I had never seen before ; it
passed so quickly now that I cannot well
describe it, but there were in it feelings of pity
and vexation.

" My presence cannot interfere with any of
your prospects or hopes," he said, earnestly.
In any case you ought to be travelling under
my care, and you need not be afraid of anyone

being disturbed on that account, because what
has passed between us is still our secret ; and
besides there is absolutely nobody at home who
is acquainted with my whereabouts."

" Mr. Eapier ? " I suggested.

" Not even he, although he is aware that I
am not shut up at Kemerton as other people
suppose, and after a certain time he will be at
liberty to tell anyone who inquires that I am
away from home. My cabin was prepared as
for an intimate friend of mine who desired great
privacy. The people in the office were directed
to hold me responsible for all expenses, and
that of course satisfied them. As for Captain
Mackay, we were several days out at sea before
he was made aware that his eccentric passenger
was the owner of the ship."

" But how were you able to venture to do
this without having somebody with you ? " I
asked, bewildered by the account of all the
trouble he had taken.

"I cannot answer that, Euth, without touching
upon the subject which I know you wish to
avoid. I am afraid it cannot be avoided altogether.
Shall I speak ? " '

I knew quite well what he meant, Stephen,
but I do not know exactly what impulse it was
that made me say " yes " to his question. This
is one of the things which you will be vexed
with me for ; but if you had seen his pitiful
look and remembered the great kindness he had
shown me — remembered, too, that all he was
doing now was because he cared so much forme
— I think you would not blame me for wishing
to show him that I was not so ungrateful as
to be unable to trust him to speak freely.

I can trust him and myself too, for your
place in my thoughts can never be affected
except by one thing, and that is the impossible
event of your proving false to me.

" You gave me strength to act as I have
done," he said ; " but do not alarm yourself, I

shall not take advantage of your permission to
speak by saying more than is necessary to
enable you to understand why I am here.
When the doctors told me on what a feeble
thread my life depended I made, as you are
aware, such arrangements as a man on his
deathbed ought to make ; but I had no intention
of continuing mere existence under such
terrible conditions as those imposed on me.
No creature could shut out emotion of every
kind even with all the safeguards money and
will could provide. I had the money but not
the will — that was taken from me by you."

" I do not like to hear that," I said, turning
my face away, for it seemed as if he were
accusing me of doing something wrong. '' No
man needs to surrender his will to anyone."

*' You may as well say no man needs to
love. I was quite able to follow out my instructions
as far as to Hve without hating anybody
; but without love I could not, for that

had full possession of me when the doom was
pronounced. Once before — long ago — I had
thought myself so possessed ; with the passionate
imagination of youth I endowed a woman
with all the attributes of my ideal of what a
woman should be, and found myself bitterly
mistaken. There was a great blank after that,
and at length you came to teach me that love
is not a passion but a faith."

" How can you be sure that you are not
mistaken in me also ? "

" I cannot be sure — I have faith, and that
is all ; but such faith is everything. Men
moved by its spirit have toiled on through
hardships that would have been misery without
it ; and when the need came they have died
calmly for it. That is what I am prepared todo
now''

" What can you mean ? "

I ought not to have asked that ; I ought
to have stopped him at once ; but the idea had

come into my head that I should allow him to
speak on now, so that I might have the more
authority for insisting upon his pledge that he
would never again approach this subject.

" To live for you, if I can ; to die for you
if it must be," he replied simply. " Do not
think there is any ridiculous rhodomontade in
what I am saying, Euth ; it may sound farfetched,
but the meaning is plain. After our
first conversation about this matter you decided
to go to Australia. I determined not to interfere
beyond giving Stephen some inducement
to accept the happiness which was at his door
so that I might find my happiness too."

" I have already told you that you acted
cruelly to us all in the course you adopted," I
interrupted, feeling angry again,

" And I have already answered that I do
not think so, and did not mean to be so. If he
stands the test "

" He will stand the test, and if he can forgive

my unworthy doubt of him, I shall give
my whole life to the endeavour to make up for
the pain T have caused him."

He spoke so sadly in reply that I instantly
repented being so harsh with him.

" If he stands the test," was what he said,
I cannot say, and you would not have me say
that it will be a pleasant thing for me. But I
will step aside and do what may be in my
power to help to secure your happiness. As for
Dahlia, I shall make other arrangements for her ;
but they cannot be so satisfactory as the one I
have made for her now."

" Why, then, when you are prepared to be
so generous, Mr. Dottridge, why have you
risked compelling me to say that after we reach
land we must never meet again ? "

" What have I done to make you even
think of coming to such a cruel resolution .^ "

" You are here, on board this vessel with
me, and that fact, taken into account with my

having left Stephen without giving him full explanation,
may be and will be interpreted to
my disadvantage."

"'I will take care that no mistake of that
kind is made. Meanwhile I am here because
of my longing to be near you. What I said to
myself was that if the doctors were right, and
that the penalty for any sudden emotion on my
part was death, I would rather die near you,
watching over you, than in fretting anxiety
about you in my solitude at Kemerton. I
spoke to one of the doctors, and he said that if I
could stand the voyage it would be an excellent
thing for me, and he thought it possible that I
might entirely recover. He had known cases
in which a bold step, such as I proposed, had
proved completely successful. I think my case
is one of them ; for you see me now and you
remember what I seemed to be only a few
weeks ago'*

" I shall be glad if the voyage does you

good," I said, whilst trying to make up my mind
how to act under the circumstances.

" I believe it will restore me to sound
health, and at any rate I am near you, and for
that I would risk anything."

" Then let this be the last word between
us on that subject."

" Until the year is out, yes. Should you
wish it I will not come aft again until you send
for me, unless some danger compels me to seek
you."

To this I did not reply at the moment ;
but after thinking it out I told him that it was
nonsense to behave like two children sulking
with one another. It was a great pity he was
there, but beings there I should not be the cause
of making him a prisoner in his cabin. There
was no reason why we should not meet as
freely as we had done at Kemerton.

The look of joy which came into his face
when I told him this made me hasten to remind

him that the One subject was definitely
closed between us, and that any reference to it
again would send me at once to my cabin, from
which nothing would induce me to stir until we
reached land.

" I'll do exactly as you wish, Euth. I am
well content with this arrangement, for it is
much more than I expected when I came onboard,
and it makes me quite happy for the time
being."

He said this so meekly that it was almost
amusing ; he was like a youth promising obedience
to the stern commands of his guardian.
Certainly no one would have recognised in him
the master of Kemerton, the cool, clear-headed
speculator, and the leader in so many daring
commercial enterprises.

I sympathise deeply with him, and wish to
be kindly to him. There seems to be something
very hard in his fate — that in all the
affairs of the world he should have achieved

such great success — that the biggest prizes for
which men struggle and wear out their lives
should have been so early won by him, and he
denied the power to enjoy them. First his
health robbed him of the ordinary pleasures at
his command ; and now this hopeless affection
for me threatens to destroy his last chance of
deriving any benefit at all from his wonderful
prosperity.

I know that I may be kind to him ; for
he will neither misunderstand me nor attempt
to take the least advantage of my feelings for
him. Since our conversation he has been considerate
in every way ; gentle and simple in his
conduct towards me, ready to come and go at
the slightest sign.

• • • • »

I am glad now that he is with me ; I feel
less of an exile ; and it needed the reassuring
voice of an old friend to sustain me through
the terrors of these storms.

There is some great commotion going on
overhead now. There seems to be great rushing
about the deck and I hear loud voices.
The Captain warned me that I was to be prepared
for '

CHAPTEE XVII.
love's requiem.

Dahlia's piteous moan roused Stephen. He
turned slowly, and very quietly took the telegram
from her. He touched the fair head
softly with his hand, as if he would thank her
for her sympathy and say, ' Be of good cheer.'

Then he was moving silently from the room
when his mother clasped both her hands on his
arm.

Stephen, for God's sake, speak ! You look
so strange that you frighten me. This news
may not be true — it cannot be true, it is
too terrible ! It is only some wild rumour.
You know how often ships are reported lost
when they are only delayed at sea by some

accident, or contrary winds. Speak — say
something. You must not leave me like this ;
tell me what you think.'

This appeal compelled him to make an
effort to regain the power of speech, and he
said huskily —

I think it is true. . . . Don't be frightened,
mother, I want to be alone for a little while.
I'll be all right by-and-by.'

He went into the library and closed the
door.

Oh, how he loves her ! ' sobbed Dahlia, as
she sat down, crossed her pretty arms on the
table and hid her face on them. ' How he
loves her ! I'll never forget the look on his face
after he read the telegram.'

It was not a time at which Mrs. Meredith
could offer any consolation. She was too much
awe-stricken by the tidings of the calamity and
the effect it had on Stephen. She had been
glad indeed to get Euth out of the way, but

VOL. I. Q

she had never once thought of her being removed
by death. Although this unexpected
event at once rendered the fulfilment of her
wishes almost certain, she could not congratulate
herself or feel any satisfaction in it.

She was a good-natured woman and a fond
mother, notwithstanding the arts she practised
to make Stephen accept the wife she had chosen
for him rather than the one he had chosen for
himself, and she was at that moment really
grieved for Euth's sad fate.

The consternation amongst the girls was
for a little as great as if a member of the family
had been lost, and it showed how much Euth's
calm, firm, wise nature had made itself felt
even here, where the disposition was to dislike
her because she had won away the big brother
from them and fi'om their favourite friend.
When Jim heard the news — his mother told
him in the afternoon when he returned from
some sporting excursion — he looked angry and

was inclined to cry. Then he made one of the
most biting speeches Mrs. Meredith and the
girls had ever been doomed to hear.

I believe it's all your fault. She would
never have gone away if every one of you
hadn't been so spiteful to her about Stephen.'

And he banged out of the room, leaving
that sting in the minds of his mother and
sisters. They were all miserably conscious of
how they had shown their opposition to Euth,
as much by what they had not done as by
what they had done. The eldest sister, Hat,
was still absent, or she would have been excepted
from Jim's sweeping condemnation.

Dahlia did not hear it, for she was in her
room. Her door was locked and bolted as if
she dreaded an invasion, or needed the help
of bolts and bars to hide her own disturbed
thoughts and remorse.

After the first shock of horror and consternation
had passed, Stephen experienced nothing

q2

more than a dull sensation of utter stupidity
such as one feels when regaining consciousness
after a heavy fall. He found it impossible to
realise the position.

Euth had gone away ; Euth was lost at sea ;
Euth would never come back ; Euth was
dead ; he would never see her again !

These phrases were being sung in his brain
with monotonous iteration, and yet they produced
no wild agony, and did not seem to help
him to understand how it could be that Euth,
with whom he had parted only the other day ;
Euth, whose kiss was still warm upon his lips,
would never come back to him ! Yet she had
promised to come in a year, or whenever he
was in trouble, and she had never broken her
promise. This time she could n6t keep it ;
Death barred the way.

There was an instant of impatience as he
remembered how hard he had striven to
dissuade her from making this fatal voyage,

and how obstinately she had persisted in it.
But the impatience passed and then came the
recollection of her grave, sweet face, of the
tender eyes, the soft soothing voice, the gentle
touch of her hand, her earnest eagerness to be
helpful and useful to others — all the qualities
which had made him love her were recalled ;
everything that had made him at times irritable
or downright angry with her was forgotten.


The longing — the wild yearning for her
which rose within him produced actual physical
pain. And it was all so simple. She had
gone away in this vessel in spite of him — without
any necessity for doing so, without any
object of importance to serve for herself or
anyone else ; and here was the end of it :
Death !

Why could he not have held her back ?
Why had he had no strength of will or love to
make her stay ? If she had only waited for a

few weeks ! If she had only gone by another .
ship ! If he had only set her wishes at defiance
and openly claimed the right to control her
which she gave in professing to love him, all
might have been well now. If —

But what was the use of all this speculation
? She was gone ; the Eucalyptus was a
wreck, and Euth was drowned. There was no
more to be said.

But he could not thrust aside his vain
regrets. Countless arguments which he might
have used to stop her, and had not, crowded
upon his brain, torturing him. How differently
he would have acted, too, if he had not been at
the time worried and distressed by his cursed
financial difficulties ! How much bolder, how
much more determined he would have been !
Then he would have said —

No, you shall not go ; you are pledged tome
; you are mine. We shall be married tomorrow


And she would have yielded — he felt sure
of that ; but this cursed want of money had
tied his tongue and hands, and she was lost inconsequence.


It was horrible to sit brooding this way.
If there had been anything for him to do — if
he could be actively moving about something
on her account he would have felt better. The
grim thought flitted across his mind that he
would have found some reef if he might even
have had the poor satisfaction of seeing after
the arrangements for her funeral. But there
was absolutely nothing to do except sit
down and wait for confirmation of the cruel
tidings.

He started to his feet. Yes, there was one
thing he could do which might distract his attention
for a little. He could go to Bassnett and
see if by any chance further news had arrived.
He knew it was only a pretence to get into
action of some sort, for Bassnett was well

aware of his interest in Euth, and would not
delay a moment in forwarding information as it
arrived.

But lie took the next train to London, all
the same ; and with the result he expected.
Bassnett knew nothing more than had been
stated in his telegram. This bit of comfort was
offered him, however —

'The ship carried a valuable cargo,' said
the lawyer, in his dry but kindly way ; ' and
was heavily insured. The underwriters are as
anxious about her fate as you can be, and will
have the earliest information that can be procured.
They have promised to keep me
advised of whatever they learn, and you shall
have it as fast as the telegraph can take it to
you. Meanwhile a message has been sent to
Mr. Dottridge's agents in Sydney, and everything
is being done in our power to obtain
early details of the wreck.'

Stephen thanked him. Of course he had

been aware that he could not learn anything
more that day, and he was annoyed with himself
for the feeling of disappointment with
which he left Sergeant's Inn. The journey did
not relieve his depression in the least : the
bustle and noise of the London streets seemed
to make him the more acutely conscious of the
silence of the grave within his breast. He
would be glad to get into the country again —
the quietude there was more in harmony with
his mood, and so more likely to prove soothing.
Consolation he did not think of; there can be
no consolation to a man who feels that all he
prized in the world, all he lived for, has been
taken from him.

One sensible resolution he made as he satin
the train, that so far as it was in his power
he would go through the ordinary routine of
every-day life, showing as little as possible of
his anguish to the others. He knew that mere
mechanical submission to common-place duties

would help him more than anything else to
overcome his gloom.

So, much to the relief of Mrs. Meredith, he
was in his place at dinner. Dahlia was absent,
feeling too ill to leave her room. All were
very quiet. The shadow was upon them, but
no reference was made to the calamity which
caused it. Stephen did not think it was the
time to make an effort to pretend to be at ease,
and he could not have done so even if he
would.

After dinner he went into the library. By
instinctive recognition of the propriety of it, he
was allowed to go alone and to remain undisturbed.


I don't like to see Steve so down in the
mouth,' observed Jim to the family ; ' and I
had half a mind to propose a game at chess ;
but I don't believe he would know a king from
a pawn to-night. What can any fellow of
sense see in a woman to get into such a state

about her? Why if he had lost the Derby he
could not be worse. You won't catch me
mooning that way at any rate.'

Wait till your time comes, sir,' said Miss
Juliet (aged eighteen), severely.

Oh, I suppose you expect to have somebody
in fits some day, Tue. Well, he'll be a
fellow who has no sisters.'

I wish you would be quiet, James,' said
his mother gravely. She never called him Jim.
Stephen is very much upset, and I think you
ought to sympathise with him so far as not to
make any noise to-night.'

I don't suppose Steve wants me to be in
the dumps as well as himself, mammy. I
should say he will think you and Dahha enough
to bear him company in mourning ; but I
won't make any row. I have the whole of my
notes of the last anatomy lecture to write out,
and that will keep me quiet enough. What a
rum go? — the subject was the heart, and you

girls ought to have seen what a pretty sight
it was under the knife as it was shed this way
and '

Do be quiet, Jim,' cried the girls, in chorus.

Being in his first course of training for the
medical profession, Jim was proud of his
newly-acquired knowledge, and it was one of
his wicked joys to make his sisters' flesh creep
with highly coloured descriptions of the work
in the dissecting room, or with ghastly jokes
about drugs and how he could dispose of the
whole family without anybody being a bit the
wiser. They scarcely ever dared to venture
into his ' laboratory ' as he called his little
room at the top of the house, for it contained
several skeletons of animals, ranged on brackets
and shelves round the walls, and a human
skeleton shut up in a tall box something like a
small-sized old-fashioned sentry-box. Jim
called this his sentinel, declaring that it would
walk out and hug the first girl who entered to

disturb his things. But they had no desire to
intrude into his chamber of horrors as they
called his laboratory.

The smell is enough Juliet used to say,
from all those nasty chemicals you are for ever
messing with when you are not teasing us. I
wonder mamma does not stop you.'

Mind your own business,' Jim would reply,
and some wrangling, more or less good-natured,
would follow.

On the present occasion a look from his
mother, and some kindly remembrance of Ruth
and his brother stopped him.

Stephen had first tried to read, but amongst
all his favourite books he could not find one
which had the power of commanding his attention
for a couple of sentences. Then he took
his desk, resolved to seek comfort from Ruth
herself. Her letters were all in it. There
were not many of them, for they had been so

near each other that there had been few occasions
for correspondence.

He handled them almost reverently now,
and wished that there had been some truth in
modern spiritualism ; for if love could give a
title to hold communion with the dead, surely
he had the power to summon the spirit of Euth
to come to him then, that he might see her and
hear her voice again.

If that could only be ! There was no need
to concentrate his thoughts upon her in order
to work the charm, for she occupied them all.
There was no need to pray for it. His longing,
his yearning for any sign from her, formed the
most devout prayer that ever came from a
man's soul.

He was sitting with one of the letters open
before him, his back towards the door. There
was that strange quietude in the place which
comes when sorrow too deep for words has
fallen upon the heart.

Thinking about this spiritualism, wishing
that it had been true, and smiling sadly at its
vanity, he experienced a nervous thrill over
his whole frame, when a soft, cold hand was
laid tenderly on his. He did not look up immediately
; in spite of himself there rose a
vision of Euth standing beside him.

He turned slowly, and saw a white, fair
face with two wondering, sympathising, tearful
eyes, gazing earnestly upon him.

Why, Dahlia,' he said gently and smiling,
do you know you gave me a sort of start. I
was thinking about ghosts, and as I did not
hear you coming in, the foolish fancy crossed
my mind that perhaps you were one.'

I hope you are not vexed with me for
coming, Stephen,' she said, nervously and
tenderly ; ' but I could not rest. I could not
go to bed until I came to speak to you. I
know you are in sorrow and — oh, Stephen, I
wish I could comfort you even a very little ! '

She dropped on her knees beside his chair,
and hid her face on the arm of it, sobbing.

Poor Dahlia ! ' he said softly, resting his
hand on her head. ' You too are suffering.
Tell me what is the matter.'

CHAPTEE Xviii.

DOES SHE LOVE HIM?

Tell him what was the matter ! How quietly
he said it, and how kindly — just like one who
being in trouble himself is the quicker in his
sympathies with those of others, and the readier
to give an attentive ear to the outpourings of
their affliction.

He had no suspicion, then. He did . not
know what it was he requested her to do.
Otherwise he could never have asked her to
make confession of her love for himself What
dull stuff he must be made of, or how cruel he
must be ! No — she would not do him injustice.
It was his absorbing passion for Euth

VOL. I. R

which made him blind to the feelings of
others.

His loyalty irritated her to a degree that
she felt was very near the thin hne which
divides sanity and insanity. And yet it filled
her with a fierce and unreasonable desire to
win for herself the devotion he had given to
another. But she was acutely sensible that
such devotion was not easily won or often
found ; and she was stung by the thought that
when he spoke just now he showed that sofar
she had only obtained his pity.

Was it love which actuated her, or selfish
interest ? A combination of the two, probably
; she did not know, but it was what she
believed to be love now. She had no fixed
principles to guide her. She told fibs when
occasion seemed to require them, and told
them to herself more frequently than to others.
She meant no harm. She was swayed by the
impulse or passion of the moment to do what

might be right or wrong, and when it cooled
she was willing to direct its effect to her own
profit.

She had been told that unless she married
Stephen Meredith she would be left penniless.
That drove her forward into the action she had
taken. She had always liked him and was
therefore very willing to think of him as a
husband. Euth stood between them. But it
was only a joke to a born coquette to try to
oust another woman from a man's breast.

Stephen was unconscious of all her arts, but
her insidious flattery had its effect. He liked
to have her near him ; liked to talk to her
about his own troubles and especially about
Euth. Then the spirit of rivalry, the appearance
of which is the sign for the noble nature
to stand aside, goaded her forward until now,
what love she was capable of feeling was given
to him.

So, when Stephen spoke to her in that calm,

kindly way, which indicated how unconscious
he was of anything but close friendship between
them, she swallowed her sobs with a gulping
efibrt, which was more painful to the listener
than the sobs themselves. But she did not rise
or speak.

Tell me what is the matter. Dahlia,' he
repeated. ' You wish to comfort me : then
you could not find a better or surer way of
doing it than by showing me something I may
do to make you happy.'

How easily she could have answered him —
Love me ; that will make me happy all the
days of my life,' and she fervently believed it
would. But she could not say that yet. Her
heart thrilled with pleasure at his words, and
her thoughts darted into the future when she
might tell him in some way how he could
make her happy.

Stephen had no idea that he had already
done her so much good. He saw her suffering

and offered instant help. To his mind real
kindliness is shown by the helpful act done
promptly in the moment of need, not by the
act done in philosophical calmness after due
and methodical consideration of the rights and
wrongs of the case, and mathematical calculation
as to the proper time to step in. Those
moved by sympathetic impulse may often errand
suffer much personal discomfort in consequence,
but they are more frequently successful
in speaking the helpful word, or giving the
needed penny at the right moment, than those
who ' do good ' on studied principles.

Stephen had at any rate spoken the
most helpful words that could be found for
Dahlia.

When she had quite subdued her sobs she
lifted those innocent, inquiring eyes to his face,
as she said earnestly, and yet with a spice of
pretty timidity, as if half afraid the answer
might dispel her cherished hope —

Do you really wish very much to make me
to make me happy, Stephen ? '

I do indeed, and only want to know how
to set about it. There will be a comfort to mein
feeling able to do something for somebody.
This sense of utter helplessness and uselessness
is the hardest part of what I have to bear at
present.'

Ah, I am afraid you cannot do what is
needed to make me happy.'

I can try, at any rate, and am willing to
try, for your sake.'

For my sake ! ' she echoed with dreamy,
wondering joy, hungering on the words. Then,
more brightly, ' Will you try to overcome this
great sorrow which has befallen you ? Will
you try yourself to be happy ? '

A pause ; he rested his head back on the
chair and closed his eyes.

'How can I answer that's I know that
other people have suffered what was as great a

loss to them as mine is to me, and have survived
to enjoy the world and its ways. Very
likely I shall do the same '

Oh, yes ! ' she cried eagerly as he paused ;
time cures everything, and you will get over
this and look well and be happy again.'

I suppose so,' he replied slowly, meditating
; ' but I cannot tell how that may be brought
about. I do not know that I have yet suffered
the worst of my pain ; that will come as day
after day the fact is forced upon me that I can
never see her again. There is not a book or a
trifle in this room that she has touched that
will not remind me of it and renew my vain
regrets; there is not a pathway between this
and Kemerton every step in which will not
sadden me with memories of — but this is not
trying to comfort you, Dahlia ; this is selfish
indulgence of my own grief. Let us talk of
something else.'

We cannot talk of anything eke when

your mind is so full of one subject. I have
been very miserable all day too thinking of it.
I know it is no use ; I know we can do her no
good by being wretched ; but when I think of

you I am . Oh, I don't know what to

say, Stephen ; but I want to find some way of
cheering you \ '

You must give up trying for the present,'
he said, with a sad attempt to smile at her
childlike eagerness to comfort him. ' If you
cannot bear the sight of me I will try to keep
out of the way.'

You know that would be worst of all for
everybody to bear.'

Well, we must wait. I will do my best
not to distress you by my gloom ; but that is
all I can promise. There, Dahlia, will you be
content with that for the present .^ I shall remember
that you will be happy when you seeme
better, and maybe that will help me.'

Her head was bowed again : she did not

understand this man ; but she knew that she
was being drawn closer to him by this new
proof of the depth of his affections. And
what could she do to obtain the first place in
his thoughts now? What sacrifice could she
make that would compel him to feel how
entirely devoted she was to him no matter
what happened ? She was thoroughly in
earnest. She believed that she would do anything
for him, and at that moment the prospects
of Suttee would have had no terrors for
her.

There was one thing she could do, and
she knew it was what would please him —
besides it might be a protection to herself hereafter.
She could be honest to him ; she could
tell him the whole truth about how she first
came to wish him to be her husband ; and if
she told him now he would believe in the
reality of the change which had come over her ;
he would believe, what was true, that she was

ready to throw away the fortune if he would
only love her a little.

Afterwards — what could she say or do that
would convince him that all her tokens of love
were not mere pretences, practised upon him
because she feared to lose the money ? Above
all the conflicting thoughts and emotions which
disturbed her there was the constant cry —

Will he ever care for me ? Can he ever
care for me, or is his heart drowned with
Euth?'

His voice roused her from the long waking
dream.

'What are you brooding about .^ Something
unpleasant or you would look up. Can
you not trust me with whatever it is ? '

That decided her ; if she should obtain his
affection it should be honestly, and not because
she wanted the fortune.

She raised her head again, and rose to her
feet, resting her arm on the back of his chair so

that she child see his face, although he could
not see her.

You are right, Stephen, my thoughts were
not agreeable ones. I was trying to answer
this question. Suppose a person is obliged to
pledge herself to keep a secret the result of
which will be greatly to her advantage, and
suppose after keeping her pledge for some time
she thinks that it is wrong to keep it any
longer, and that it would be more to her advantage
to betray it — what should she do ? '

A casuist would settle that for you easily ;
he would say, calculate the proportions of the
relative advantage, and decide in favour of the
biggest.'

But what would you say ? '

Oh, my opinion is not worth much. But
I would say that, having accepted the trust
of a secret, you should regard it in the same
way as you would the trust of money, and
not part with it on any consideration, unless

authorised to do so by those who entrusted it
to you.'

But suppose that my fidelity to this awkward
trust should present the possibility of my
whole conduct being misunderstood by one of
the people most concerned and one for whom I
have a — a very great regard ? '

Stephen looked up at her curiously, and
sought aid from her face in understanding the
proposition.

You puzzle me. I am not clever in finding
out riddles — especially to-night. But I
should still say be true to your trust, and have
confidence in 'the person you allude to — be
sure that he or she vdll respect you more for
your fidelity than for your treachery, even if
that should be to his benefit.' '

That was a point of view from which she
had not regarded the question. She must be
silent then ; but if ever any misunderstanding
on this subject should arise between them in

the future, she could remind him that she had
been willing to sacrifice the fortune in order to
be perfectly honest with him. At the same
time it was perfectly clear to her that it was
better for his sake that she should not throw
away twenty thousand to gratify what was,
after all, only the vanity of showing that her
love was genuine.

It was one of her ways of proving to her
own satisfaction that she was * not a fool ' to
provide some ready explanation in the future
for present equivocation, as : — ' I would have
told you all about it if you would have
listened ; ' or 'I told you plainly enough but
you chose to put your own construction on my
words, and I was afraid to set you right, because
you would be so much annoyed.'

In doing this she had no deliberate plan
of deception in her mind, it was simply that she
had a genius of prevarication within her, and
could not help herself.

On this occasion, however, the better part of
her nature was in full power, and struggling with
the prevarication genius, and she made one last
attempt to obtain leave to speak.

I wish you could understand me, Stephen.
I want to tell you the secret that was entrusted
to me, because I want you to — I don't know
what to say. Maybe it will be best to say that
I want you to trust me, and that I do not care
about breaking my promise if I can only be
sure of that.'

He took both her hands in his, and, looking
earnestly in her eyes which now met his
frankly—

Then if you wish me to trust you, show me
that others may do so. Show me that others
may not, and how can you ask me to do it ? '

He spoke so earnestly that she knew he
had at least for that moment forgotten Euth-
It is not in ordinary human nature to feel
proud of a triumph over the dead ; but neither

is it possible for ordinary human nature not to
feel gratified when it has succeeded in achieving
an object much desired Whatever may be the
circumstances. She certainly did wish to
make Stephen forget the disaster, and she
had succeeded.

Very well, Stephen, I will be silent ; I will
do exactly as you say I ought to do, for
now '

She paused, and looked at him with those
big, innocent eyes, as if her whole soul were
flashing through them to him.

Well ? ' he asked kindly, helping her over
the pause.

I want to do everything just as you would
have me do it. Will you let me tell you when
I am in a difficulty, so that you may direct me ? '

Certainly my poor girl, if it will comfort
you — for you know I should be glad to do that.'

'And we may speak together about anything
that happens,' she went on, meditatively,

'just as if — just as if we were brother and
sister ? '

Of course, Dahlia, but you give me the impression
that just now you are not speaking tome
as a sister, or rather, I should say, that you
are not speaking to me quite frankly.'

That is true, Stephen,' she answered
dreamily ; ' I have not yet told you what is the
matter. I cannot now, but some day I will.'-

And she flitted from the room, leaving him
alone.

CHAPTEE XIX.

THE NEWS BROUGHT HOME.

The first few days seemed long in their
weariness : but Stephen was not permitted to
indulge his grief. The affairs of daily life
pressed heavily upon him, and many business
transactions demanded his constant and serious
attention.

His mother watched him with sad anxiety ;
he was so pale and worn that he appeared to
have grown ten years older in as many days.

You are killing yourself, Stephen,' she said,
as she watched him take a bundle of letters and
papers which had just been delivered and begin
mechanically to open them. ' Can you not
obtain even one day's rest ? '
VOL. I. s

Not at present, mother ; and it would be a
pity if I could. The worries which are crowding
upon me just now are my safeguard. I
don't think I could have kept my balance at all
if things had been all right at home.'

The enforced activity was undoubtedly
beneficial, and day by day he was conscious
that he was waiting with increasing resignation
for the details of the wreck. He had a morbid
craving to hear everything that could be told
of the unfortunate vessel and her passengers,
although he knew that the account would renew
his pain.

At last there came a brief message from Mr
Eassnett.

The first mate of the Eucalyptus arrived in
Liverpool to-day and will be here tomorrow.
Have fixed twelve noon as the hour of meeting
and will expect you. Eapier has just' called
and he says he knows the man, and we may
depend on a full and clear account from Mm.'

So, then, a few hours more and he would
see one who had been near her during the last
moments of that fatal voyage ; possibly this
man might have seen her when the cruel waves
carried her away.

He was impatient for the afternoon and
night to pass ; but he was not doomed to have
to wait so long. Lewis Eapier again proved
himself an active friend.

'Send trap to meet last train. Have
got McNeil, the mate, to come straight on,
and am bringing him down with me tonight.'


He is an extraordinary fellow, Eapier,' said
Stephen, handing the message to his mother
and Dahlia ; ' I don't care about him, and yet
he takes every opportunity of doing me a
good turn.'

I think a great deal of Mr. Eapier,' said
Mrs. Meredith, pleased that her favourite should
have done something to give her son satins

2

faction ; ' and I never could understand why
you were so indifferent to him.'

I don't know myself exactly ; but he has
certainly done me a real service this time. Do
you not think so, Dahlia .^ '

I suppose it will relieve you to know the
worst as quickly as possible,' she replied, but
without looking at him, for she had a strong
impression that it was not so much Eapier's
anxiety to serve Stephen which had moved him
in the matter, as his desire to remove at once
whatever lingering hope there might be of Euth
having escaped.

Stephen himself drove to the station. He
was there before the train was due ; and those
few minutes of delay seemed the longest he had
yet known. At last the lights of the train
Hashed in the deep cutting between the green
banks a mile off. On it came, puffing and
panting ; the lights of the station were turned
up : the porters moved slowly about, as if they

had just been roused from sleep ; the few passengers
looked indifferently along the line, and
no one seemed to be in a hurry. The train
came slowly into the station, bearing its message
of finite for Stephen.

Eapier alighted before the train stopped
and grasped the eagerly extended hand of his
friend.

I thought you would be here yourself,
Meredith,' he said, in a quiet, low voice. ' I
hope you don't think me meddlesome ; but I
know from your mother how anxious you have
been for the first definite tidings that could be
obtained. So, as soon as I learned that it was
McNeil who had arrived, I wired to him to
come along by the first train, and here we are.'

You have placed me under a heavier debt
than I am ever likely to wipe out. Thank you,
Eapier Is there any hope ? '

None. But here is McNeil ; he will tell
you himself He is very willing to do anything

for me, as I was able to give him a lift at a time
when he was in a corner. You will find him
an intelligent Scotchman, and you may depend
on getting from him a clear account of all that
happened.'

A smart, muscular young fellow, of about
twenty-five years, stepped forward.

I hope you are well, sir, but I'm doubting
that you'll no be muckle the better for seeing
me.'

Jump into the trap ; at any rate I can congratulate
you on having got safely back to land.
Will you drive, Rapiers That will leave me
free to talk to our friend.'

They got into the trap, the mate and Stephen
on the hind seat. It was strange that withall
his eagerness to hear this man's story, now
that he had him by his side, Stephen felt reluctant
to bid him speak. Designed as he was, and
foolish as he knew it to be to give one thought
to the possibility of Euth having survived the

wreck, he shrank from the subject as if so long
as he delayed the mate's report he still retained
something of the living Euth.

With a sense of great fear upon him, he put
his first question —

I suppose Mr. Eapier has told you to some
extent why I have such a special and painful
interest in the loss of your ship ? '

Ay, he mentioned that you were particular
about ]\iiss Clark. She was a fine lady and a
brave one. There are no mony like her ; for
when she kenned that it was a' by wi' us unless
we could get the boats launched and manage to
keep them afloat, she was as quiet as if she had
been gain to the kirk. Ay, sir, she was a
brave woman.'

Stephen noted the gentle emphasis that was
laid upon the ' was,' and bowed his head
After a little he spoke again very quietly —

Did you see her — at the end ? '

I was one of them that helped her into the

life-boat, and when it was stove in against the
side of the ship I saw her and the others in
the water.'

No use to ask more on that point : the
mate's few words brought the whole scene
vividly before him — the ship tossing about
amidst the great waves ; the attempt to launch
the boats as a last resort ; the calm, resolute face
of Euth as she obeyed orders, and helped others
to obey them ; then the crash of the boat and
the disappearance of those who had been
clutching at this straw of hope.

'You see, sir, it wasna just one storm we
had had to do wi', but twenty of them, one hard
after the other,' McNeil proceeded, 'and the
ship stood out against them grandly. Now and
again we had a sort of quiet day, and we did
what we could to patch up ; but it was nae use,
for we had hardly got time to draw breath
when another gale caught us, and we were war
than ever. Three days before that last storm

the skipper called us together, and a better
skipper never stood on deck.

" Now, lads and friends, you maun keep up
your hearts," he said, " for if you lose heart
there is little chance for any o' us. But it
would be wrong for me not to tell you that weare
in a bad way, and another storm like the
last will be a bad job for us."

There were twa pair creatures in consumption
that diana look as if they could have
lived many days at any rate, and they were the
only ones that made an outcry. Miss Clark
looked after them and got them quieted, and
there was a gentleman wi' her that helped her
in everything she did. She had been nearly
washed overboard a while before this, only he
gripped her in time, and they became great
friends after that.'

Who was he ? ' inquired Stephen.

Harrison, I think, was the name. He was
a droll billie, and had got a special cabin made

for himself in the steerage, and for a week or
twa never came out almost except at night ; but
after Miss Clark's accident he was aye about as
if he feared something might happen to her
again.'

And is he lost, too ? '

Ay, they gazed down thither so far as I
could see.'

That was what should have been my fate,'
was Stephen's thought, and he envied the
stranger who had taken his place by her side at
the time of direst need.

Three of our boats were carried away in
the second storm,' the mate went on ; ' but we
might have won through the worst of it if we
had not sprung a leak, and the last storm came
upon us before we could get it stopped. Then
the mainmast went and our rudder was broken,
so that there was no more chance of managing
the ship at all. The skipper told us to get the
boats ready. He was very particular about Miss

Clark and Mr. Harrison. They were to go with
the two consumptive gentlemen, two of the
steerage passengers and six of the crew in the
first boat launched. Everything was going right
with them when just as the lady had got in
there was a wave sent her against the side of
the ship, and the ship lurched over it, and it
was a' by wi' them.

We had no time for anything but to get
out the other boats, and everything was done
in good order. The skipper kept his place on
deck, telling us what to do as steadily as if he
was not thinking that his own hour had come.
He had a sore trial when his guide wife crawled
up beside him, and lay at his feet haudin' on to
a rain', and retiring to come wa' in the boat.

" No," she said, " if you bide here I bide
wi' you," and she would move.

" Weel, lads," he said, " you maun look
to yourself and no heed us. We are twa folk
that hae nae bairns, and we maun let the midwife

hae her ain way. . . . Pair Katie, you're
taking your last trip wi' me noon

saw them thither on the deck as we
put off, and it was against a' my notions of
what ought to be to leave them there, but we
could help yourself. We were a week in the
boat afore we were picked up, and I got back
to England as fast as I could.'

That was the whole story of the wreck, and
it seemed so very simple that it was difficult for
Stephen to realise that he was listening to the
last account he should ever hear of Euth.

Eapier had instinctive perceptions of the
right thing to do under the most trying circumstances,
which constituted a kind of genius.
Even when it was his own immediate profit
which was uppermost in the motive directing
his actions, he displayed so much consideration
for the feelings of others that it would not
have been easy to show in what way he had
taken any unfair advantage of them.

On the present occasion he knew that
silence on his part was the greatest kindness
he could show to Stephen, and from the
moment when he took the reins in hand he did
not open his lips until he pulled up at Dere-wood
Grange. Then he pressed Stephen's arm
as they entered the house, and whispered —

The worst is over, I hope, and you must
have been prepared for it. I wish I could
have brought you better cheer.'

You have done all that a friend could do
for me. Of course I was prepared as much asa
man can be for the confirmation of his worst
fears.'

The arrival of the mate caused much sensation
amongst the girls, and although his homely
appearance somewhat disappointed their expectations
of what this hero of the wreck would belike,
still he was the hero ; he had come out of
the storm, bearing its grim message of death for
their home and for the homes of his comrades.

As for Jim, his interest in all that McNeil had
seen and passed through rendered him oblivious
of his brother's sorrow for the time
being.

Mrs. Meredith, with the practical forethought
of a hospitable housewife, had supper
ready for the guests, and when it was over
Stephen left the mate to repeat his story to the
family.

Dahlia was the first to leave the drawing-room
; she was filled with strange terror by the
narrative of the wreck and Euth's fate, and as
she was slowly ascending the dimly lighted
staircase, she was startled by a quiet voice
suddenly speaking in her ear —

Your time has come now. Miss Whitcombe.
It will be your own fault if you are not mistress
of Derewood within three months.'

Before she had recovered from her fright
Eapier bowed and, smiling, passed swiftly down
the staircase.

CHAPTEE XX.

MR. RAPIER IS PUZZLED.

Next clay Mr. Eapier and the mate of the lost
Eucalyptus had to proceed to town by an early
train in order to keep the appointment with Mr.
Bassnett at noon. Stephen did not think it
necessary to accompany them, as he could learn
nothing father now.

He, however, drove them to the station.

I wish I could have stayed at Derewood
for a few days,' said Eapier, ' even my presence
might have been useful ; but the business I have
in hand cannot wait. You may expect me down
soon, though, unless you tell me not to come.'

He said this with the confident smile of
one who knew the answer he would receive.

You shall be always welcome, and perhaps
some day the Grange will be less gloomy than
it is at present.'

As the train was moving out of the station,
McNeil, who had been closely observing
Stephen, turned to his companion with an uncomfortable
expression of countenance.

'I'm mair than half sorry you garret me
promise no to tell him that I diana actually seethe
boat go down.'

What on earth good would that have
been ? ' exclaimed Eapier in profound astonishment
at this sudden exclamation of his friend.

I cinna ken,' replied McNeil, dryly, ' and
I cinna ken precisely what for you were so
pressing that I should mention it. Weakens
how he might hae been cheered up by a
wee bit hope.'

A hope that would only have kept him the
longer in the misery of suspense. You know
tiaat the boat must have gone down, and that no

human creature could live two minutes m a sea
which destroyed such a vessel as the Eucalyptus!


'We believe she gazed down,' replied the
mate cautiously and thoughtfully, ' but it was
amaist over dark for us to be sure in the confusion
what cam' o' her. It's just possible that
the wave might hae lifted her astern and clear
of the ship. There hae been greater wonders
nor that at sea, and ony way the pair soul
might hae had sic comfort as the hope could
hae given him.'

Have a smoke, McNeil , your nerves seem
to be a little unstrung by the wreck.'

It was a tussle, but it's yon pair chief that
I'm wae for.'

Eapier regarded him with admiration, as
they lit cigars and smoked vigorously.

'You are a good-natured fellow, McNeil,
and I would like you to understand why I did
not wish to hold oui any vague hopes to

VOL. I. T

him. You know that I am his friend, and you
could see that his family look upon me as their
friend too ? '

Ou ay, I could see that you were chief
wi' everybody ; but you were aye that wherever
I hae seen you.'

Well, then, these good friends of mine
are in some difficulty, and in order to put
things straight it is necessary that Meredith
should as quickly as possible give up thinking
about the poor lady you saw drowned. His
mother urged me to help them, and I know
that I am doing them the greatest service by
putting an end to his suspense at once.
Now put yourself in his place and tell me
frankly, would you not prefer to know the
worst at once rather than be kept on hoping
and hoping for weeks — months it would be
with him — only to find in the end that your
hopes were vain ? '

1 daresay I would like best to hear the

worst at once, if I was sure that it was the
worst.'

Eapier took the cigar from his mouth, and
looked curiously into the mate's puzzled face.

Do you mean to tell me that you believe
the boat can have escaped ? '
I could just say that.'
If you feel in your conscience that you
may say it, we will telegraph to Meredith from
the first station we stop at ; but if you cannot
say you believe it, 1 say you would be doing a
cruel thing to keep the whole family in useless
suspense.'

The gravity and earnestness of Eapier 's
manner satisfied the man that it would be
wrong to mention such faint hope as he himself
felt, as, of course, it would be exaggerated by
those who wished to believe in the possibility
of their friends being saved, and so do more
harm than good.

'Weel, I daresay it'll be best to say 


tiling about it, but the notion is in my head
that, considering we managed to waste through
till we were picked up, the other boat might
have done the same if it just got clear o' the
ship.'

Yes, but the " if " makes all the difference
to us. By the way, do you think that man
Harrison, who was so much with Miss Clark,
knew anything about the management of a
boat ? '

I canna tell ; I scarcely spoke enough
with him to be sure that he had ever been far
at sea or no ; but Harry Smith, our second
mate, was there, and he was a clever lad,
though he was a Cockney and cam' frae
Tapping.'

Oh ! he was there, and Smith was clever
enough to make you admire him in spite of his
being a Cockney ! ' exclaimed Mr. Eapier,
smiling at the man's prejudice, and evidently
for some reason of his own pleased by the information

that an experienced sailor had been
in charge of the lifeboat.

Ay, he was clever ; he was wrecked three
times afore.'

That ought to provide him with valuable
experience. I wish you could have told me
more about that passenger Harrison. Perhaps
they can enlighten me at the office.'

Maybe — I canna. But let me say noo,
Maister Eapier, there's a thing I want to be
perfectly clear atween you and me.'

Certainly — wdiat is it ? '

Just this : I'm no gain to tell that lee
again about seeing the lady in the water.
Everything else I said was true enough,
although I diana tell a' the truth as it seems tome
noo I was bound to do.'

This was spoken with an air of dogged
resolution, and the listener was aware that he
had an obstinate character to deal with. He
used the manner which is most persuasive

under any circumstances — that of frankness
and sincere belief in his own argument.

Surely your conscience may be at ease on
that score since you did see them in the water
when the wave went over them, and you lost
sight of the boat and all who were in it. That
was the case, as I understand your account
of it.'

Well, of course I did in a manner see
them in the water, but you garret me say it ina
way that put a different meaning' on it.'

McNeil spoke slowly as one who feels that
the argument he is compelled to yield to is
wrong, although he is unable to put it quite
right. The truth was that the annie Scot had
an uneasy feeling that somehow Eapier was
leading him blindfold into a false position.

Nonsense, what other meaning could he
put upon your words than that the boat went
down, as you own you believe it did ? What
are you so nice about ? You have done my

friend a greater service than you can guess,
and you have obliged me. I fancy that should
be worth taking into account. If our friends
should turn up again, then we shall all rejoice ;
if they don't, then our mourning will be the
sooner over.'

'That's true,' responded the man, still
bamboozled, but now half convinced that, all
things considered, he had done right in carrying
out the instructions of his benefactor ; ' and
I'm not forgetting that I'm owing you something,
sir.'

I had no particular intention to remind
you of that fact, but I'm pleased that you
remember it. Upon my word, McNeil, I
cannot understand your qualms of conscience,
for I cannot see where the "lee," as you call it,
comes in.'

Weel, weel, sir, least said soonest
mended, and we'd better, may-be, say nae mair
about it.*

That is my opinion.'

In Mr. Bassnett's office the mate gave his
report of the wreck in the presence of the
lawyer, who had full authority to act in every
matter for Mr. Dottridge during his absence,
and of Mr. Molyneux, the manager of the
shipping business of Dottridge & Co. Eapier
was present in the capacity of one of the
confidential agents of the absent chief.

The account given was substantially the
same as that to which Stephen Meredith had
listened on the previous evening, with the
addition of some particulars about the cargo
and nautical details of the winds and weather
which the ship had encountered. He had to
speak entirely from memory, as no log or
documents of any kind had been saved.

When the mate had retired to await further
orders, Eapier inquired —

Is any message about this affair to be
conveyed to Mr. Dottridge ? '

I thought you were aware that no
message of any kind is to be sent to him until
he himself communicates with me,' answered
the lawyer.

Eapier bowed in a deprecating way, as if
regretting that he had suggested anything that
was contrary to instructions.

I only thought that as our friend was so
deeply interested in Miss Clark, you might have
considered it advisable to inform him of her
fate.'

I might have thought so, too ; but his
injunction is positive and admits of no exceptions.
For that matter I could not make an
exception even if I desired, for unless you can
tell me where he is it would be impossible forme
to send a message.'
'Then he has not yet written even to

you?

Ko : he has made no sign that he is alive.'
Nor to you, Mi*. Molyneux ? '

I do not expect to hear from him. My
instructions are simply to accept Mr. Bassnett's
decision in all matters involving doubt or
dispute, as if it were his own,' was the shipping
manager's reply.

Mr. Molyneux was not disturbed either by
the strange conduct of Mr. Dottridge or the
loss of the Eucalyptus. The business under his
control was flourishing, and the ship had been
insured. Mr. Bassnett was interested on
account of Euth and Stephen ; for the rest, his
course had been clearly marked out for him,
and he had no thought of deviating from it.

But Eapier looked puzzled. As confidential
agent it was awkward to have no
means of communicating with his chief, for
although he also had been directed to apply to
Mr. Bassnett when he found counsel or further
instruction necessary, he could not subject himself
so absolutely to the letter of his commands
as the others were able to do.

After a pause —

Can you give me any information, Mr.
Molyneux, as to the passenger Harrison who
had the special state cabin prepared for him in
the steerage. Who was he? Where did he
come from .^ '

We know nothing about him, further than
that he was a very intimate friend of Mr.
Dottridge, and that everything he required was
to be done, no matter how much out of the
ordinary way of business his requests might be.
Our owner made himself directly responsible
for all expenses.'

Oh ! Mr. Dottridge gave him carte blanche.,
as it were, to do as he] pleased with the
vessel ? '

It was pretty much like that, and, of
course, his directions rendered it unnecessary
for us to make any inquiries.'

Do you know when this Mr. Harrison
went on board ? '

I believe some time during the night before
the vessel left Greenhithe.'

There was a flash of intelligence in Eapier's
eyes as if he were beginning to see light
through the darkness which had bothered
him.

Why are you so anxious about Mr. Harrison
? ' queried Bassnett.

An idea has occurred to me, but it is so
extravagant that I would rather say nothing
about it until I have obtained some better
assurance of its probable correctness than my
own vague surmises can give. We shall have
the other men here to-day or tomorrow, I
suppose, and they will help me.'

He abruptly took his leave, and as he was
driving to the Cosmos his chief thoughts took
this direction —

If that should be Dottridge he can never
survive the excitement of a shipwreck. Thus
I can count upon his legacy. . If Euth

should have been saved — the sooner that
marriage comes ofi the better. . If she
comes back and finds him married — humph !
her fortune is a good one, although she knows
nothing of it.'

CHAPTEE XXI.

A YOUNG TOXICOLOGIST.

The only change observable in Stephen was
that he appeared to work with even more
savage earnestness than he had been doing during
the previous weeks. Up early and down late,
finding a grim satisfaction in undertaking the
most disagreeable tasks : he even tried his hand
as an amateur butcher, and slaughtered some
of his condemned cattle. They were the
favourites of his stock that he chose should fall
under his own hand.

Brain and hands were incessantly at work.
The man was seeking distraction in thus desperately
overtaxing this mental and physical
strength. He had always felt extreme repugnance
to a thorough investigation of the disordered

accounts which had been left by his
father ; he went into the matters now with
fierce energy.

He felt no sickness now, as he discovered
day by day how very deep in the mire of debt
and difficulty the family was plunged. For
himself he was utterly indifferent, for he had
done with all care for fortune ; but he was still
conscious of severe pain on account of his
mother, his sisters, and brother. Well, he
would do his best for them : he must hive for
that, and by-and-by, perhaps, he would find
some gratification in it.

'How is it to end?' inquired the mother
anxiously and often.

One day she was startled by the answer,
given quietly and very gravely —

In a sale about the end of the year, unless
our harvest proves the most extraordinary one
that was ever known, and we reap gold instead
of wheat and corn.'

That was a terrible blow to the poor lady.

A sale ? — Oh, Stephen, it cannot be so bad
as that ! ' she exclaimed.

If I can avert it, I will,' he said, ' but the
prospect of my being able to do so is not
brilliant.'

There was a way in which he could easily
avert it if he would, thought Mrs. Meredith,
but she only said very gently —

I am sure you will, my poor boy, and I
believe you will succeed.'

I'll try, but do not be sanguine.'

At any rate I need not tell the girls yet.'

No, there is no need to darken their lives
sooner than we can help. A few months of
blissful ignorance may still be given to them.
They know enough already to prepare them in
some measure for the crash if it must come.
Let them be happy while they may.'

She was tempted to speak out at once and
remind him of what she had long wished, and

what she was able to assure him Dahlia wished
that he should accept the fortune which was
ready to drop into his hand if he would only-hold
it out. But she was afraid of exciting
him, for she had received a word of warning
on that subject from old Dr. Humphreys, of
Dunthorpe, who had been the medical attendant
and friend of the family since her first baby
was born.

He will work himself into a fever of some
sort if he doesn't take care. He looks quiet
enough, but he shows as plain symptoms of a
high state of nervous excitement as ever I saw.
You must try to keep his mind as tranquil as
you can.'

So she did not speak yet, but an opportunity
to speak to some purpose was provided for her
sooner than she could have anticipated.

Except that Dahlia was growing pale again
there was no outside change in her. She
exercised admirable self-control, and no one

VOL. I. u

guessed how she was ' being wrought, perplexed
in the extreme,' so that she was constantly
on the verge of hysteria. Whenever she
felt that the nerves were getting too strong for
her, she hid in her own room until she had overcome
them.

The girls had quite made up their minds
that now Stephen would, of course, marry
Dahlia.

She did not see the certainty of it at all,
and even Mrs. Meredith's assurances that it
must come to pass had lost the power to comfort
her. Eapier's words were constantly ringing
in her ears —

Your time has come ; it will be your own
fault if you are not mistress of Derewood within
three months.'

She with keener instinct knew that Stephen
was thinking less about her now than he had
been doing for a little while before the news of
the wreck had been confirmed by the mate.

Formerly her only question had been ' Can
I win him ? ' But she had been touched unawares
by a nobler sentiment, and now her
question was — ' Will he ever care for me ? Can
I ever make him care for me ? '

As she watched him day by day the dismal
answer thrust itself upon her —

No. he can never care for me — his heart
has gone down into the sea with her.'

She went into the library one day and saw
him with Euth's portrait in his hand, and some
of her letters open before him.

She went out again without speaking, and
he had been so much absorbed that he had not
observed her entrance or exit.

He had not spoken of Euth to anyone since
the visit of the mate, McNeil.

Dahlia's face became cold and hard for a

moment as she stood in the hall, her hand still

resting on the handle of the door. Then she

went quietly upstairs, but not to her own room.

Tj 2

She climbed to the top floor and knocked atone
of the doors.

Come in,' shouted Jim.

She entered the laboratory of the future
M.D., Farces., &c., &c. Dust and confusion
were the distinguishing characteristics of this
sanctum. Books, papers, bottles of chemicals,
apparatus for experiments, skeletons of cats,
puppies, mice, and one weasel, botanical and
geological specimens, littered the shelves which
occupied one side of the room and the deal
tables which were arranged in the best position
for the light.

Jim himself in an old coat, which Stephen
had called the coat of many colours — it was so
covered with stains and singes of various hues
was busy watching something he was heating
in a retort.

Hullo ! ' he exclaimed, ungraciously, when
he saw who was his visitor ; ' I thought it was

young Humphreys. He promised to come up
this afternoon. Ain't you afraid ? '

No, Doctor Jim,' she replied with a
pleasant smile. ' If you please, I want to consult
you.'

Gammon — you want me to do something
for you.'

I suppose people always do when they
consult a doctor ! '

There, you've made me spoil it again.'

Notwithstanding his contempt for the sex,
he was not beyond the reach of flattery, and it
was agreeable to anticipate his future dignity
and to hear himself called ' doctor.'

Spoil what ? '

Thereupon he became important and desirous
of displaying his knowledge, but was still unable
to avoid his sin of exaggeration or to overcome
his habit of talking nonsense when addressing any
of the girls — for Dahha was in his regard only
one of the sisterhood.'

You have made me spoil a beautiful experiment
for testing vegetable poisons,' he began
bombastically. ' You must understand that
the vegetable poisons are most difficult to
detect once they have passed into the animal
system and been absorbed by it. Now, I amon
the highway to a discovery which will be
just as good as the philosopher's stone to me,
for it will make my fortune, and your coming
in has upset my whole day's work.'
Oh, what a pity — I am so sorry ! '
Of course you are. That's what a woman
always says when she has put a fellow out,
and thinks it enough to make all square
again.'

But you can do it over again, I hope.'
I should think so, or I would open the
sentry box and order my sentinel to come out
and take possession of you.'

You might let me see you doing it.'

She spoke very sweetly and persuasively ;

but he only looked at her with an expression
of mock horror and amazement, as he exclaimed
—

\Vhat ! do serious work with a petticoat
beside me. . . . Well, I always thought you
had a little sense. Dahlia, but I give you up,
too, after that. Haven't you wondered why
we fellows don't want women to come pottering
into our learned profession ? '

I am sure I don't want to enter any
learned profession,' she said, demurely.

That counts one for you, and I am sure
you will understand me when I say that our
reason is because if they were to get in amongst
us it would be all larking and no learning — for,
you know, it is only a few fellows who are
proof against woman's wiles '

He looked as if he were convinced that he
was one of the select few.

I believe you would be proof against —
against the greatest beauty that ever lived.

But tell me about your experiments, Jim.
What is in these bottles — poisons ? *

She had come close to him, and pointed to
a row of bottles on the table.

'Some of them; but they are mostly
metallic poisons.'

And what is that one in the big bottle ? *

She pointed to a large bottle, on the label
of which was written in large letters, POISON.

Ah, that's the most deadly one of all,
only you have to take a considerable quantity
of it. They say thousands are killed by it
every year, and nobody is the wiser.'

Dear me ! And is it a vegetable one ? '

Yes.'

And — I am quite interested. Doctor, by all
the knowledge you are giving me — do people
who take it suffer much ? '

'That depends,' he answered, grinning.
Some people rather like it.'

'There is strychnine, I see, and aconite.

There has been a great deal in the papers
about them. Do they cause much pain ? '

Horrible — most of them do. But what
was it you came to consult me about ? I am
going over to Calthorpe, and want to start
soon.'

I had forgotten she said, lifting her hand
to her cheek ; ' you have made me forget it,
with your talk and experiments.'

Forget what ? '

The toothache. Can you give me anything
to relieve the pain ? '

Have it out,' was the unfeeling counsel.

I can't do that ; at any rate, I don't want
to do it if I can help it. Have you nothing
that will stop the pain ? Although it is not
troubling now as it was when I made up my
mind to break the rule and come up to your
den, I am afraid of it coming on again.'

You might try a little laudanum, or you
might rub some aconite on your cheek.'

Can you spare me some ? '

I can give you some of the laudanum ;
but mind you don't swallow it,' he added,
laughing, ' or you will get me into a scrape
may-be.'

Don't be afraid ; I shall be very careful.
Thank you so much. Dr. Jim. You shall be
my physician-ins chief after this day. I wish
you would let me come up and see some of
your experiments.'

I mean to put my sentinel on double duty
in future. Do you want him to come out
now P '

What a wicked creature you are, Jim ! '
she said, as she departed from the dusty
laboratory.

Jim shut up his books and started for Cal-thorpe.


One of the things which Mrs. Meredith
strongly reprehended was spoiling a good

dinner by keeping it waiting, and this was so
well known that her own people were pretty
punctual. Yet here they had been all waiting
for more than ten minutes, and Dahlia had
neither come down nor sent a message that she
was not coming.

Go up and tell Miss W'liitcombe that weare
waiting for her,' the good lady said at
length to a domestic.

Presently the latter returned and there was
a scared look on her face.

'I knocked four times, mum, and Miss
Whitcombe didn't answer, and the door is
locked on the inside.'

She did not say that she had peeped through
the keyhole as well as tried the door.

That is most extraordinary,' exclaimed
Mrs. Meredith ; ' she must be ill — perhaps
fainted. I will go myself.'

She went upstairs. In a few minutes a
bell rang violently. A servant ran up and

down again breathless with this message for

Stephen.

'You are wanted upstairs, sir, and the
ladies are to stay here until the missus comes
down.'

Stephen found his mother standing at
Dahha's door, clutching the handle to support
herself, her face pallid with fright.

For God's sake, Stephen, burst open the
door at once. Something has happened to her! '

He knew that the door was too strong to
be burst open by one man's strength. He procured
a hatchet, broke through the panel above
the lock, and was then able to turn the key.

When mother and son entered the room
they halted a moment, horror-stricken and dismayed.


Dahlia lay on the bed, breathing heavily,
at brief intervals moving slightly as if in pain,
and gasping. Her face was distorted and discoloured,
as if she were being suffocated.

Stephen unfastened her collar, and opened
her dress at the neck. Then he sponged her
face and head with cold water.

It is a fit of some kind. Tell Smalley to
saddle the mare. You take ofi' her things
and get her into bed, whilst I go for the
doctor.'

The mother uttered a short cry of alarm.

Stephen ! Stephen ! she has poisoned herself
! '

Good Lord ! what new trouble is this
come upon us ? ' he muttered, as he took the
bottle on which was a label with the word
POISON.'

What is it ? '

Mrs. Meredith was trembling, and her voice
shook as she put the question.

He smelt the bottle and drained a few
drops of the liquid it still contained on to his
tongue. Then he answered —

I cannot tell : it is some spirit ; but her

breath smells of laudanum. If Jim had been
at home he could have told us. Give her
plenty of milk — that can do no harm and mayo
good. I shall not be more than half an
hour gone. Get two of the girls up to help
you, and don't let the servants know more than
is necessary.'

He placed the bottle in a drawer and
started for Dunthorpe. Never had the mare
been ridden so hard before, but it bowed its
head with good will to the work. The dusty
road was becoming rapidly more and more
dark, but the rider had no time to spare for
any thoughts of danger.

Fortunately he found Dr. Humphreys at
home, and that good man, although he liked
his dinner and his placid siesta after it, in order
to save time mounted Stephen's mare and rode
off on it, whilst its owner followed fast in the
Doctor's gig.

When Stephen entered Dahha's room again

he was relieved by the report which Dr.
Humphreys had to give him.

You need not alarm yourself, as she is
coming round. Leave her to your mother and
me in the meanwhile. I will come down
shortly and report progress.'

Take this with you, Stephen,' said Mrs.
Meredith, handing him a sheet of note-paper
which had been folded, but not enclosed in an
envelope. ' We found it under the pillow
when we were putting her to bed. I know it
is intended for you.'

There was something almost stern in the
utterance of the last words as if she were
accusing him of being the cause of this misfortune.


He was for a moment perplexed when
alone in the library he read the contents of the
paper ; then astounded when he associated
them with his mother's words and manner.

The writing was in pencil.

/ can only live for you. As that may not
be, I wish to die.

Do not try to stop me or to save me. Be
kind to me in this at least, and grant my prayer.

/ love you and I die because you can never
care for me.'

What madness was this that was coming
upon him ? Euth dead ; Eiith who had gone
away, in spite of his prayers to stay with him
when he most needed the sustaining power of
her love !

And now, here under his own roof, Dahha
dying because he could not return her love !

Oh ! there was something monstrous in this
complication. It was too much for one poor
wretch to bear.

CHAPTEE XXII.

OIs^LY ONE OBJECTION.

It was rather late — eleven o'clock — when Jim
got home, and he was surprised to see so
many of the windows lighted. The whole
household was still afoot, and the youth entered
wondering what could have happened.

Juliet explained the cause — that Dahlia had
attempted to poison herself: and Jim grew
pale with fright as he cried —

Is she better ? Why didn't you send forme
? '

'The Doctor says she is better and believes
she is safe ; but he is still with her. I suppose
Steve thought it was better to bring the Doctor
than his brother, who, however clever he may

VOL. I. X

be, can scarcely have so much experience as a
physician of Dr. Humphrey's years.'

'Oh, I didn't mean that, Tue,' and, indeed,
there was not a gleam of vanity in his look or
voice. 'I only meant that perhaps I could
have told them what she had taken, and that
would have helped the doctor.'

And how could you have told ? ' exclaimed
the girl, opening her eyes wide in amazement
at his anxiety rather than at his professing
power to give assistance.

Jim groaned.

Because I believe she got it from me.'

From you ! Oh, Jim ! ' cried Juliet and
Constance together — Mary and Lavinia, being
the elders, were still with their mother in
attendance on the invalid.

Yes, and I'll be hanged if she dies. She
came to me this afternoon, wanting something
for the toothache, and I gave her, a little
laudanum — not enough to kill her, though ; but

if she took it all at once it might make her
sick.'

Eun and tell the Doctor now,' advised
Juliet.

A sudden thought struck the youth with
new fear.

Was she very bad ? '

Dreadful.'

'Then she must have gone to my room
and taken something else. She kept on asking
me about poisons all the time she was with
me. Won't I catch it from Steve ! — he has so
often scolded me for not locking the door.
Give me a candle.'

But he did not wait for his sister to get it.
He ran to the hall table, snatched up one and
mounted the stairs, bounding over three steps at
a time, followed by his two much alarmed sisters.

On the top landing, with trembling hands
he struck a match and ht the candle. Bursting
into his laboratory he went straight to the table
x2

on which stood the bottles Dahha had been so
curious about. He Hated them one by one and
laid down each with a gulp of relief that was
like a stifled sob.

By the time he came to the place where
the large bottle had stood his sisters were behind
him. The bottle was gone ; he stared at
its vacant place and the expression of terror
which had been on his countenance rapidly
developed like the transformation scene in a
pantomime from gloom to bright sunshine.

He laughed — instantly clapped his hand on
his mouth to suppress the sound. Then he
snapped his fingers and danced round the room
with joy.

Have you gone mad ? ' queried Juliet,
not knowing whether to be indignant with him
for keeping the joke whatever it was all to
himself, or to rejoice with him.

'Mad — mad as a March hare with joy.
Lie has been here, but she has taken the '

What are you stopping for ? '
Well, it will be best not to let the thing
go any farther. Besides professional etiquette
compels me to carry any information in the
first instance to the Doctor. But it's all right
Dahha wont die and I won't be handed.
Hooray ! May-be the scare she has got will do
her good. She has been looking considerably
blue for weeks past. Now, then, clear out. I
don't want you to be trying on any larks of
this kind ; but I'll take care not to leave the
door unlocked again. Eun, and tell mother
it's all right.'

She is still in Dahha's room.'
Oh, then the Doctor will tell her.'
After carefully locking the door, he gave the
light to his sisters and bounded down the stairs.
I want to see the Doctor immediately,' he
said, when his sister Lavinia opened the door of
the bedroom, ' and ask him to bring the bottle
that is labelled poison with him.'

Presently Dr. Humphreys came out and
Jim led him into an adjoining room.

'What is it, and why do you want this
bottle ? '

Jim's eyes brightened at sight of his lost
property.

I wanted to tell you that it's all right, sir.
She took that bottle from my room and '

Well, what did it contain .^ '

Jim lowered his voice.

I thought you would not wish anyone
besides ourselves to know? I have not said
anything to my sisters.'

That was right.'

There was nothing in it but a portion of
some spirit in which I had been preserving a
still-born puppy because it was so small. I
marked poison on it for a lark, because that's
what all good T.T.'s call spirits, and because I
have heard of tippling servants making free
with doctor's spirits.'

This is a great relief to my mind ; thank
you. What quantity do you think remained in
the bottle?'

About two gills.'

But she had opium besides.'

Jim repeated the story of the afternoon, and
the load of anxiety was entirely lifted from the
Doctor's shoulders,

This is a narrow escape,' he said, at last,
and it should be a warning to you throughout
your life, and I hope it will be one to the
foolish girl herself. Hum ! we had better say
nothing about the puppy ; she will be upset
enough when she comes round, and that would
only make her worse. Indeed, we had better
keep the secret between ourselves. I will
simply assure them that she is safe.'

'But Stephen will insist upon knowing.'

Of course you will tell him, but no one else.'

You can trust me, I won't. I suppose she
will be all right in a few hours.'

She will be out of immediate danger ; but
she will not be well for some time. I suspect
the poison she is suffering from is in the mind
and has little to do with the stuff which she took
from your den. However, we must pull her
through as quickly as we can.'

The Doctor now knew how to act ; and happily
the measures he had adopted were precisely
those which he would have used had he been
aware from the first of all the facts of the case.
Now he had only to prescribe profound tranquillity,
tonics, nourishing diet, and as soon as
convenient, a change of air.

He saw Stephen before leaving, and was
able to assure him of the patient's perfect
safety.

I should advise that the incident be kept
as quiet as possible,' said the good-natured old
Doctor, ' for every reference to it will be of necessity
painful to Miss Whitcombe, and retard
her recovery. It might even tempt her to

repeat the rash act, when the consequences
might be more serious than they are in this case,
thanks to the mistake she made as to the nature
of the stuff she was taking. I know it is difficult
to hide these things. Servants will talk,
and gossips do get hold of our private affairs
with most bewildering rapidity. However, you
must do your best to keep it from her ears.'

You may depend on that.'

The gig was waiting, but the Doctor
lingered as if he had something more to say,
and yet hesitated about doing so.

I am afraid you must give me the privilege
of an old friend to touch on a delicate subject,
Meredith.'

Go on.'

Then the counsel I would offer is that you
should not see her for a few days, when her
nerves will have recovered a little tone. Her
first utterance was your name ; and now that
she has come to herself she seems to be most

disturbed on account of what you may think of
her. Send some kind message, but don't goto
her unless she asks you to go. In that case
go at once. Now, good-night.'

Dahha's recovery seemed to be slow, more
because of her reluctance to quit her room than
because of actual weakness. She was afraid
almost of the daylight, and could not endure
anyone to be near her except the faithful nurses
Mrs. Meredith, Mary and Lavinia.

Stephen's messages were brought to her
regularly, and were her best medicine. By and
by as the spring days grew in brightness, and
buds, and leaves, and blossoms gladdened the
eyes and filled the heart with a sense of new
life, the Doctor suggested that Stephen should
ask to see the invalid.

From this Dahlia shrank, terrified. It was
Mrs. Meredith who brought the message, and
she would not have taken ' No ' for answer, even

if it had been spoken. But Dahlia, dressed ina
loose wrapper, and seated in a large chair by
the open window overlooking the garden, and,
with a long stretch of rich undulating landscape
beyond, only looked afraid of the ordeal.

But it must come sooner or later, child,'
said Mrs. Meredith, ' and you must feel that he
is anxious to see you after all that has passed.
Upon my word, I used to think he was unkind
to you, but the positions are reversed now.'

You know it is not that,' said Dahlia feebly,
her cheeks flushing.; ' you know how glad I
would be, but '

There, now, no more buts. The Doctor
says it would do you good to have a talk with
him now ; or with anyone who would afford a
change of conversation and so rouse you up.'

'Then, let me see anybody else first,' pleaded
the girl, and yet not meaning it.

What is the use of saying that ? You won't
see anybody else — you won't see Mr. Rapier,

who has been constant in his inquiries about
you.'

Does he know what happened ? '

No ; be at ease about that. No one but
ourselves is aware of anything more than that you
had a fit whilst dressing, and have had a fever.'

You have been very kind, all of you.'

Very well ; there is Stephen in the garden.
I am going to bring him in at once.'

Not yet, not yet ; give me a little time to
prepare myself.'

You will have time enough for I have a few
words to say to him before he comes in. I
wish he could see you just now ; you are
looking prettier than ever. Now you must not
deny me to-day, or I shall conclude that you no
longer wish to see him. There he is ; accustom
your eyes to the sight of him as we walk up and
down. Mary will stay till we come back.'

She looked from the window, and saw that
he was making up a bouquet of spring flowers.

She knew that they were for her. No longer
wish to see him ! How little they could understand
the wild craving there was within her to
touch his hand again and to hear his voice !

Presently she saw the mother and son together.
She knew that they were talking of
her, but she could not catch even the sound of
their voices.

This was what they were saying —

You are to come in to see Dahlia to-day,
Stephen,' were the mother's first words to him ;
but before you go in I want to have a few
plain words with you about her and yourself.
Let us walk up and down here.'

As you please, mother. What tyranny are
you going to practise now .^ for I know by your
face that you meditate something dreadful.'

Yes ; I am going to call to my aid the
tyrant common-sense ; but you know he is only
a tyrant to fools, he is the friend of sensible folk.'

I see, he is my tyrant and your friend.'

The mother knew that he, as well as Dahlia,
was recovering by his return to his old playful
way of speaking, which she had so long
missed.

It weill depend upon how you act now
whether he is your friend or tyrant.'

I would like to have him as a friend, for
we have much need of his help.'

I am glad to hear that, for it is just what
I think. Now, I am going to speak my mind
plainly, and once for all. The subject is your
marriage.'

He bowed his head on his chest.

We must have it out now, my poor boy,
and if I pain you I suffer myself with you,'
proceeded the mother affectionately. 'You
wanted to have Euth, and I did not like it ;
but I did not make much fuss about it. You
know that ? '

Yes.'

I wanted you to have Dahlia Whitcombe,

and you did not care about that arrangement ;
but I did not worry you by urging my plan
upon you, although I knew how devoted the
girl was to you.'

Yes.'

Ee pronounced the monosyllable mechanically,
as if his mother's delicate pause forced it
from him without his reflecting faculties having
anything to do with it.

I have none but kindly words to speak
of Euth, if we speak of her at all. I do not
think we should.'

'No.'

She is gone — you cannot mourn for her
always, and you owe something to Dahlia
Whitcombe for all she has suffered on your
account. I have not asked you how you were
affected by those lines she wrote when under
the belief that she was dying, but you cannot
be my son, Stephen, if your heart was not
wrung with pity and remorse.'

It was indeed.'

Then go to her now — make her happy —
make us all happy. It is in your power.'

Stephen lifted his head; he had returned
from dreamland to the practical world. His
eyes were clear ; his manner calm and deliberate.


'I have thought over the whole position
long and earnestly,' he said. ' I should be
glad to do anything in my power to make
Dahlia happy, and feel myself free to do it
now in the way you wish but for one objection.'

What is that ? ' she asked, eagerly, delighted
by his words, and satisfied beforehand that
whatever the objection might be she could
remove it.

Her money.'

Don't be a fool, Stephen ; who ever heard
of that being an objection to a pretty and good-heart
J girl ? Eidiculous ! '

No — not ridiculous. Everyone will say it

was for that I married her,' was his bitter exclamation.


The mother laid her hand gently on his
shoulder.

I understand you, so will all who know
you. Not one of them will say that or think
it ; and for those who do not know you will you
sacrifice her ? She at any rate does not think
it, and she has given you a terrible proof of it.'

Stephen took his mother's hand, and the
cloud which had for a moment darkened his
face cleared away as he looked at her.

You are right, mother, and I see commonsense
is to be my friend through your influence.
She has given me proof that her happiness is in
my hands. I will go to her and tell her I
accept the trust.'

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XXIII.

SPOKEN AT LAST.

She had seen them coming towards the house,
and knew that he would be in the room in a
moment.

Yet he was there beside her before she
thought he could have had had time to reach
the hall door. His hand was on her shoulder —
the blood was tingling in her cheeks, and throbbing
in her brain making her giddy. She was
trembling and yet she was warm ; she was
delirious and yet his touch soothed her.

He was going to speak ; instinct told her
what he was going to say, and she was half
afraid to hear it now that it was on his tongue.

I have been very blind, DahUa. . . . You

have been with me through this time of
bitterest trial, and have been my best comforter.
That makes you dear to me as no
other woman ever can be now.'

She clasped his hand, and her head rested
on his arm. She could not speak.

We are fellow sufferers, and I have been
unawares the cause of much pain to you. Do
you think you can forgive that in looking
forward to the years I shall devote to the
endeavour to make you happy ? '

A long, sweet pause, and then she with her
eyes closed, as if fearful that the ecstasy which
was thrilling through her would suddenly
change to pain if she dared to look up, or move,
or breathe, said softly —

Yes.'

Then he stooped and kissed her.

That was all. No need of explanation
between them. Everything was understood,
and she lay in his arms, his betrothed wife.
T 2

Neither quite realised the position yet ; but
both felt happy ; he because he experienced
that most delicious of all sensations — the knowledge
that he had been able to bring sunshine
into one sad life ; she because she loved him
passionately, and knew that he was now all her
own — her own more completely than he could
have been in her jealous eyes if she had won
him whilst Euth lived.

Suddenly she opened her eyes, and with a
scared look cried —

Oh, Stephen, I have been so wicked ! '
Hush,' he said, gently ; ' we have forgotten
all that. We shut our eyes upon the past, and
we two join hands to go out into the great
future in quest of the treasure happiness.'
Shall we find it, do you think ? '
Some say that it is never found in this
world ; others that we can only get glimpses of
it. Some again cry out that they possess it ;
others that they have never known it and never

hope to know it. The wiser people say that
happiness, like Vater, has one level, and everybody
has an equal share.'

I am very happy,' she said, closing her eyes
again as if to realise it the better.

I too am happy since you are so.'

Another pause, once more broken suddenly
by her —

And now you know what was the matter
with me that time you asked me, and you know
why I could not answer. I loved you, and was
miserable because I could not comfort you
enough.'

But, indeed, you did comfort me, Dahlia ;
and I have been always grateful to you.'

Ay, grateful, but there, I mustn't
speak of that. But we are to forget the pa^it
all the past, and some day you will perhaps
there again,' she cried, laughing at her own
joyous forgetfulness, ' how greedy I am ! You
will be angry with me, and be wearied with me,

because I will be so eager to have all your
life as part of mine.

And it shall be all yours now.'

The news went through the household as if
there had been a telephone at everybody's ear ;
and it sped almost as fast throughout the district
: Stephen Meredith and Dahlia Whitcombe
were to be married in June.

A good catch for him,' said the gossips,
and she has a tidy fortune, too. He is a lucky
fellow, young Meredith. I always knew it
would be a match.'

The Derewood girls were in ecstasies, and
immediately over head and ears in the agreeable
troubles of dressmaking and millinery.

Jim shrugged his shoulders and would have
nothing to say in the matter further than —

'I thought Steve was in for it, poor chap !
Well, she's a good sort.'

And that was a great admission for him
to make.

Both Stephen and Dahha agreed that the
wedding should be entirely private, and, much
to the chagrin of Juliet and Constance especially,
it was settled that there should be no guests
except Mr. Bassnett and Mr. Eapier, who were
both in a manner representatives of Dahlia's
adopted father, the still absent Mr. Dottiidge.
The latter had left full directions regarding
settlements so that Stephen was spared the
necessity of having to interfere in regard to
them. One-half the lady's fortune was secured
to herself and children — if any ; the other
half was left free for joint use of husband and
wife.

Dahlia was very busy, but what appeared
remarkable to everyone was that she showed
scarcely any interest in that most important
item of a woman's career, the bridal dress.
She insisted that it should be quite plain, and
that was all she cared about it.

Her private thought was that she would like
Stephen to feel from the beginning that although

she had been fond of dress she had, in
that respect as in others, greatly changed.

He was pleased ; for he did like simple and
plain attire for women as well as men. Tenth
was the model always in his mind's eye for dress
and everything else. Perhaps Dahlia remembered
that, for she was most anxious to please
him.

A bright sunny day in June, and the little
party drove quietly to the church. The old
vicar, Mr. Arnold, officiated. But, quiet as they
wished to be, there was a crowd of people from
the town and the surrounding hamlets to watch
the bridal party, and the children of the labourers
on the Derewood farms strewed flowers
along the bride's path.

At last the words which made them one
were spoken — nothing could part them now.

The crowd cheered as they passed from the
church to the carriages and as they drove
away.

On reaching Derewood Grange Mr. Bassnett,
whig was quite juvenile in his festive attire and
in the sunshine, offered formal congratulations
to the bride and bridegroom in the name of Mr.
Dottridge.

Although we know nothing about wherein
is,' said Bassnett, ' his arrangements are so
marvellously complete that he had even prepared
for this event. I have the greatest
pleasure in handing you this bit of good news,
Meredith, on this joyful occasion.'

Stephen opened the letter which was handed
to him and found that it was a formal intimation
from Bassnett that all the mortgages held
by Mr. Dottridge over the estates of Der(nvood
Grange were cancelled.

This was good news indeed. By one stroke
of the pen his cousin had made him an independent
man.

But how can I accept this from him ? ' he
exclaimed, in amazement.

By remembering that he is your relative,
and that you have married the lady he adopted
as his daughter,' answered the lawyer, cheerfully.
'It ought to help you to be all the
merrier on your marriage day.'

I told you that Dahha would bring good
fortune,' whispered Mrs. Meredith, with tears of
pride and joy in her eyes. ' No more thought
of a sale now, Stephen ! '

No, mother, but this seems almost too good
to be true.'

You must remember that Mr. Lottridge
owed something of his start in life to your
father.'

Then he has amply repaid it to the son.
But it is a strange business.'

Strange it might be, but it was only part of
the strange conduct of an eccentric man, and it
certainly made Stephen's heart lighter on this
bright day.

The usual ceremonials which are irksome

to everybody, except mothers-in-law and young
ladies, were observed with all due formality at
the luncheon. Mr. Bassnett proposed ' the
happy pair,' and wandered into such flowery
language as would have cost him every client
he had if he had been overheard.

Mr. Eapier was charming about the ladies
and the whole duty of man to marry. Juliet
declared she never had heard anyone speak ' so
beautiful ! '

To that Jim said ' Bosh ! Why don't he
marry himself when he thinks it such a fine
thing ? '

The yoimg misogynist was not to be reformed
even by the spectacle of a wedding.

When they had run the gauntlet of all the
old shoes in the house, and got fairly away,
Stephen placed his arm round Dahlia's waist,
whispering —

My wife.'

She was quite startled by this brief but

eloquent address — the most eloquent to which
she had ever listened.

We have begun our journey,' he went on,
'under very favourable conditions. We have
fortune in our hands and at our feet, and it
depends upon ourselves whether the journey is
a pleasant one or not. I cannot conjure up the
ghost of any shadow that might cross our
way.'

Nor can I,' was the gleeful, smiling response
; ' and we will try not to make one.
There cannot be one ; so long as we are true
to each other, nothing can hurt us.'

And we shall be true.'

That was a little second service ; and both
remembered it afterwards.

The shadow was closer to them than they
would have believed had a prophet told them.

They were going North, and their first halt
was made at York. In the hotel, whilst
Stephen was waiting for Dahlia to complete her

toilet for dinner, he picked up a newspaper,
with no intention to read, but merely from
habit. His eyes rested on this ]paragraph —

A melancholy relic of the ill-fated Eucalyptus
which foundered at sea some six months
ago, has been washed ashore. It is a wooden
box bearing this inscription : '' Euth Clark,
passenger to Sydney per Eucalyptus'' The
box has been forwarded to the accents of
Dottridge and Co. at Sydney, and will doubtless
be transmitted by their to England, to be
delivered to the friends of the unfortunate
lady.'

Stephen laid down the paper as his wife
entered the room.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

I.ONUON : PEIKTEI) BT

BPOTTISWOODE AMD CO., NEW-eTREBT Squalid

Ants PAItLlAilKAT BTBKET

MiWi^

""■*^

OF THL

University

or ILLINOIS

■ '^^^^^^M^:

^^^^^*

't\%"^^ll^^^^rm^<

:^^-

^P

«i£.

•JSS

Each in Three Volumes.

THE CAPTAINS' ROOM. By Walter Besant.

KIT : a Memory. By James Pain.

VAL STRANGE. By David Christie Murray.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon.

GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.

DUST. By Julian Hawthorne.

WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.

Chatty & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

3 fors

BY

CHARLES GIBBON

AUTHOR OF 'robin GRAY ' ' THE GOLDEN SHAFT* 'A HEART'S PROBLEM'

'queen of the meadow' 'the braes OF yarrow' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. 11.

Chatty & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[Tie right of translation is resei^cd'\

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

XXIV. Jealous ! Op what ? 1

XXV. The Year has passed . . . .21

XXVI. In the Bush •SS

XXVII. Is IT True? 53

xxviii. 'to beguile the time, look like the

Time' 65

XXIX. The Night Ride 78

XXX. A Passage at Arms 95

XXXI. In the Green Lane . . • .118

XXXII. The Holly Bush Ring 129

XXXIII. Purgatory 147

XXXIV. What Ought to be Done? . . . . 157

XXXV. What May be Done 173

CHAPTER PAGE

XXXVI. Mr. Rapier's Confidant . . . . 181

XXXVII. The Other Side 188

XXXVIII. Forbidden Ground 213

XXXIX. The State oe the Case . . . .220

XL. Love Lies Bleeding 242

XLI. Through the Night 250

XLII. Mad Thoughts 271

Chapter XXIV.

jealous! — OF WHAT?

It could not be said that he was a blithe bridegroom
; but he had been a contented one, and
quietly anxious to do everything that might
contribute to the bride's happiness. Throughout
the preparations for the marriage and
during the ceremony he had shown this in
many ways ; and Dahlia was pleased, being
hopeful — hopeful that he would forget all the
past, as she had expressed it to him, and come
to think that he had only loved once, and that
she had been as she was now the only mistress
of his affections.

VOL. IL B

That he would do his duty faithfully she
had never doubted ; indeed she had only
thought of it with a feeling of irritation. Duty
may be to the cold-blooded moralist the first
element of happiness — some say it is the sole
element of happiness — in the married state ;
but it represents merely a small part of the
requisites for true bliss to a passionate nature
such as Dahlia's. She craved for the absolute
devotion, the self-forgetfulness of a love all-absorbing
and all-sufficient to make a world of
its own.

She had said that she was greedy, and
there was no doubt about it.

Immediately on entering the room she observed
the change in his expression. She saw
him laying the paper down, as he thought
quite calmly, but she noted that he laid it
apart from the other papers, as if for future
reference.

She at once associated the two things — the

changed expression and the care of the paper.
There was something in it which had disturbed
him.

What was it ?

Now, she had made a number of good
resolutions on her wedding morning, and she
really intended to carry them out as became a
loyal, loving wife. She was never again to do
anything cunning, or ' clever,' or ' managing,'
as women euphonistically call outwitting a man.
She was never to ' pretend ' in any way ; and
above all, she was never to tell another fib in
the whole of her life, however good the motive
might seem to be.

But at this moment she found it was impossible
to act up to the letter of the law she
had laid down for her own guidance. She was
aware that having a doubt of something being
wrong she ought to have gone straight up to
him and put the question : —

What is the matter, Stephen .^ '
b2

But somehow she was afraid of what she
might hear, and she wanted him to be free
from all care on this day, and as far as it was
in her power she would not by any untimely
curiosity do anything to recall unpleasant or
painful topics, or to make him think twice
about them if they should obtrude themselves
upon him. So, she, with a good motive, broke
one of her good resolutions and pretended not
to have observed any change in him.

He, on his part, with an equally good
motive, was certainly not going to mar her
pleasure by referring to that paragraph at present.
But its sad associations haunted him.
He was not a good actor, and the effort he was
making by the light of tenderness to dispel the
shadow that was in his eyes was quite evident
to her.

It would have been better if they had
spoken ; the attempt to hide from each other
their feelings at this moment was as distinct a

sign of that want of perfect confidence which
works all the mischief in married life as if their
motives had been mean ones.

She was a better actor than he was, and his
vision was not so keen as hers. He thought
her quite happy and content. But the more
she observed him the more curious she became
about what he had been reading.

Then she made another slip. She found
an opportunity to go to the side table unobserved,
and mentally to register the name an
date of the paper, so that she might procure a
copy of it to study at her leisure. It was the
Evening News.'

They were to take a walk as it was a beautiful
moonlight night, and Dahlia wanted to see
what the city was like from the top of the
ancient wall. At the door she found that she
had forgotten a glove.

I'll run back for it,' said the dutiful bridegroom.


No, no, you would never find it. I will be
with you in a minute,' cried the merry bride,
and she slipped upstairs into the room where
they had dined.

She snatched up the paper and eagerly
scanned its columns. A dozen times her eyes
missed that little paragraph, but at last they
found it.

Ah — it was about her ! '

That was a spiteful cry, and there was an
angry flash in the bright eyes.

But she felt sick when she had read the

lines ' Poor Euth ! ' . . . And yet there

was a kind of satisfaction, too, in this additional
sign that she was gone. . . . Gone indeed from
this world, but would she ever go from his
mind ?

There was a sharp sting in that question,
and she was vexed with herself for feeling it.
Of course he would remember her and think
of her with kindly emotion, and she would

remember her too with all kindliness. She
could not be jealous of her now. It was impossible,
and it was ridiculous to fancy fora
moment that she could be jealous of the
dead.

She heard his step approaching and hastened
to meet him. The glove had been in
her hand all the time.

Were you getting impatient, Stephen ? I
have just found it.'

And she thought that was no fib, because
the ' it ' she meant was the paragraph ;
he, of course, understood by ' it ' — the
glove.

They had the broad way of the ancient
wall to themselves. Occasionally a straggling
pair of lovers passed them with lingering steps,
knowing that already they had outstayed the
girl's leave of absence from home, and yet with
fearful joy postponing the hour of parting.
Stephen and Dahlia could linger as long as they

pleased now; they were to be together till
death.

How still the city was : the great towers of
the Minster, looking white where the moonlight
fell upon them, and absolutely black in the
shadow, rose like majestic guardians of its peace
over the quaint, irregular roofs. For the
moment the sense of peace which prevailed was
not broken by the distant panting of railway
engines or their shrill whistle. The gentle Ouse
flowed sleepily through the city, here glistening
and trembling like quicksilver, there dark and,
as it seemed, motionless. At various points the
red glow of furnaces became pale beacons in
the moon's soft light.

All the world seemed far apart from these
two, wandering along their silent way, arm
linked in arm, life linked in life. They should
have been happy.

I wish we could always be like this, Step

alien,' said Dahlia, involuntarily tightening her
hold upon his arm. ' Always alone together —
away from everybody — with nothing and nobody
to think about but one another.'

She was childishly earnest, crying for the
moon.

What a wish,' he said, laughing gently, and
looking into her upturned face. ' You would
soon be tired of me, and I don't want that to
happen.'

It never will.' ' ^

I hope not ; but you don't know what a
gloomy creature like me can do to make the
brightest nature dull. Look at the river there,
how clear and gay it seems where it is free,
and how dismal it is where the shadows fall
on it.'

But you are not going to be dull any more,
sir,' she exclaimed playfully ; ' you are going to
be an active country squire, and do all sorts of

wonderful things with the land and the labourers
and the machinery, and all those sorts of things
you have been busying yourself about.'

Ah, but you see I could scarcely be the
active squire if we were to remain for ever on
the top of York walls in the moonlight. You
see work must come in if we are to have happiness.
I don't think Eve would have touched
that apple if she had had plenty of work on
her hands.'

There was a brief pause. Dahlia was thinking.
Although she had given vent to a highly
sentimental wish, quite appropriate to the scene
and the occasion, she was perfectly aware that
it was nonsense.

All the same it would be nice if we could
be always as we are just now,' she said, regretfully.
' But as that can't be, then we must find
our happiness in whatever way you think best.
We must work — work hard, Stephen, and you
must become a great man. Perhaps you will go

into Parliament, and who knows what you
might not do then ! '

Sit in a corner, be a good boy, and vote
with my party as I was bid,' he replied, laughing
at this flight of ambitious dreaming.

I am sure you would do nothing of the
sort. . I should not let you.'

What has put all this into your head ? '

You, Stephen, you ! I want you to be
more than other men. I want you to be something
great — to do something that will make
the world admire you as I do.'

Her eyes were flashing with the brilliance
of a passionate spirit — a brilliance that outshines
diamonds — and her cheeks were aglow
with enthusiasm.

He was stirred by her passion, by her belief
in him, and out there on the walls of York he
gave her a kiss that was more of a lover's than
any he had yet given her.

What an ambitious soul you are, Dahha,'

he said, ' and how disappointed you will be
when you find out what a very ordinary mortal
your man is

But I won't be disappointed. I know it
is in you, Stephen, and you will work — you will
let me share all your thoughts ? '

I shall do what is in me to satisfy you.'
And you promise that you will let me share
all your thoughts, whether they be sad or pleasant
ones ? '

Yes, the pleasant ones, certainly.'

And the unpleasant ones, too. I am not

what Mr. Eapier says most women are — fair in

fair weather and foul in foul. I want my share

of the bad as well as the good. Promise me. '

I promise.'

• Then there is a happy future before us.'
She was quite confident of it as she nestled
close under his arm. For the time being both
forgot the past, and were happy in their visions
of the future.

That was a night to remember, and both
did remember it longingly afterwards, and
Dahlia's childish cry, ' I wish we could always
be Hke this,' came back to him as the inspiration
of some prophetic instinct to which neither
had given sufficient heed at the right moment.
What schemes they formed, what dreams they
dreamed ! What reforms were to be wrought
first at Derewood and to radiate thence throughout
the whole of England. The agriculture
was to be improved ; the discontent of t]je
labourers was to be extinguished forever in the
prosperity which the reformation was to bring
to them !

There was a noble purpose for their lives,
and plenty of work for them to do even in the
attempt to accomplish it.

He had satisfaction in thinking of the practical
ways of carrying out their project ; she
was gleeful thinking of the honours which
would be heaped upon him, she sharing them.

He would go to Parliament ; he would make
great speeches ; everybody would be talking of
him ; he would be knighted, and ' Lady Meredith
' would sound charmingly.

And she had roused him to it all! She
had wakened the latent genius that she knew
was in him ; she had toiled with him up
the steep hill, without her he would have
been only a respectable country gentleman, a
useful man no doubt within the small range of
his immediate surroundings. She had made
him a public benefactor, and how proud she
would be of him !

How beautiful that castle in the air looked
to her, there in the moonlight ! Yes, there
was a happy future before them.

High festival was held at Derewood when
they returned. They were looking as well and
happy as a couple ought to look after their
honeymoon tour.

They had spent a few days in Edinburgh ;
they had done the Trossachs, and DahUa had
been in raptures with ' The Lady of the Lake,'
which she read for the first time under the
happiest circumstances, and considered it really
an excellent guide to the beautiful scenery.
Then they had sped on to Aberdeen and Bal-later.
There they rested for a week — if driving
through deep glens and climbing high mountains
from morning till night may be called
resting. Of course they went on Sunday to
Craigie Kirk, and the bride felt as proud as if
she had been presented at court when she satin
the presence of the Queen, the Prince and
Princess of Wales, and other members of the
royal family. She felt that she would go to
church every Sunday if she were living in that
neighbourhood. The service was so simple,
the sermon she was sure was splendid, although
she could not remember even what the text
was, she having been so busy studying the

dress of the Princess and watching the Queen
to see if she were attending to the minister

But a still greater glory was in store for
her. Driving back from Braemar — where they
had gone for lunch after leaving the kirk —
their driver suddenly pulled up at the side of
the road.

What are you stopping for ? ' inquired
Stephen.

Her Majesty,' was the response.

A single outsider came round the bend of
the road and passed them. Presently an open
carriage appeared, four ladies seated in it.

That's the Queen wi' the big straw hat
said the driver carelessly — as if the privilege of
seeing Her Majesty were one to which he was
too much accustomed to be greatly moved by
it, whilst he felt that it was one for which
these Southerners ought to be specially grateful
to him and remember when giving him his tip.

Stephen uncovered, and Dahlia bowed excitedly,

wondering all the time at the simplicity
and homeliness of the attire of the Queen of
this great country, and the Empress of India,
and quite bewildered to see how like she was
to any other good-natured, well-to-do matron.

Then, when the Queen in passing gave
them a bow and a pleasant smile all to themselves,
Dahlia felt that already her husband
had become a great man, and that she was
basking in the halo of his glory. She was sure
that her Majesty would recognise them when
they went to court — as they would do some
day — and regard them as old friends. With
the sunshine which the memory of these
honours made for her, they returned to Dere-wood.


In the days of Stephen's father the Grange
had been famous for its hospitality. The feasts
had been frequent, always merry and sometimes
hilarious. There was always a race, or a
coursing match, or a hunt going on somewhere,

VOL. II. c

to give occasion for a gathering of rollicking
spirits, and they led to other gatherings. At
his death a shadow fell upon the place,
Stephen would have nothing to do with races ;
he would not bet, and he found that he could
not afford to belong to the hunt. He had,
however, as much interest as the greatest
sportsman in thoroughbred horses ; he gave
special attention to cattle breeding and the
practical business of agriculture. But the
Grange was no longer a Liberty Hall.

Now the shadow had cleared away, and the
merriment of other days was revived, but
modified by the changes of time and seasons.

Mrs. Meredith is a charming lady and an
excellent hostess. She provides the best dinner
in the county, and Meredith really seems to
know something about wines and cigars.'

That was the verdict of Mr. Calthorpe, of
Calthorpe, a connoisseur in all matters pertaining
to the table.

She be a regular good 'un, the young
missus,' was the verdict of Achy, the postman,
who was, in his way, an authority as to the
character of the heads — and, indeed, of all the
members — of all the households within the
circuit of his rounds.

I always said the good times was coming
again,' observed old Dick Smalley cheerfully.
The company ain't quite so jolly, maybe, as
they used to be, and maybe they don't chuck
their suvrins about as some of 'em used to do ;
and the master ain't got the grit of the old man,
but he's a good sort. And the missus — there
bent the likes of her nowhere.'

Dick had been general factotum at Dere-wood
years before Stephen was born, and
therefore had a right to express an opinion as
to the condition of persons and things.

Amongst the congratulations which Dahlia
received on her installation as mistress of the
Grange, was one from Eapier. It was brief,
c 2

as all his epistolary communications were — she
had an antipathy to black and white, and never
wrote if he could speak, on the principle that
you can give so many meanings to a spoken
phrase, and so very few to a written one.

This was what he said ;

'No one can congratulate you more sincerely
than I do. No one can say more
heartily than 1 do, " may you live long and
prosper'*

What might have been I put aside, and
accept what is, cheerfully. I trust that you
will believe amongst the things that be is the
fact that I am always faithfully yours to command,


'Lewis Eapier.'

Pes. — burn this and all that I have ever
written to you.'

• She smiled at that injunction ; she had
burned every scrap of his writing and everybody
else's long ago.

Chapter XXV.

THE YEAR HAS PASSED.

A FINE crisp morning in December ; red
berries gleaming here and there in the black
hedges, and a thick sheet of hard snow sparkling
on the ground. The sun was like a red
ball, but there was a cold greyness in the
atmosphere.

Across a newly ploughed field, the furrows
of which were as high as the top of his stout
gaiters, tramped Stephen Meredith towards
the highway. Cutting across this field shortened
the distance to Dunthorpe by half a mile.

As he was unfastening the gate at the
corner of the field next the road, he saw

approaching him a rough-looking man whose
face was more than half covered by short,
bushy, black hair. His skin was so sun tanned
that he might have been a mulatto. His dress
and bearing at once proclaimed that he was a
seaman.

Morning, master ; mayhap you can tell
me the nearest way to Derewood Grange ? '

Stephen halted with his hand on the gate,
and it seemed as if somehow his heart missed a
beat. His thoughts had been far away from
the subject that morning, but the appearance
of this man had instantly recalled the Eucalyptus.


That is the Grange yonder among the
trees,' he replied, eying the man with much
interest and curiosity, ' The shortest way toit
is through the field, but if you follow the
road you will see the gate a little farther on.'

Thanked. I suppose there won't be any
harm in taking the shortest cut ? '

I dare say not ; but who is it you wish to
see at the house ? '

'The master — Meredith. Do you happen
to know him ? '

Meredith is my name, and I am supposed
to be the master. Where do you come
from ? '

Well, I come a long journey,' answered
the man somewhat suspiciously, ' and I'm
bound to give my message to no one but Mr.
Meredith himself. I'm from Australia.'

Were you one of the crew of the Eucalyptus?
asked Stephen huskily, and trembling
with excitement.

Aye, sir, I was.'

What boat did you get off in ? '

The first that was launched — the Hfe-
boat.'

My God — then you were with her — with
Miss Clark ? '

That's so, sir. How did you find that

out, for I'm certain there ain't another of
'em here.'

Never mind how — I know you. You are
Harry Smith, the second mate. Tell me, was
she saved ? Is she alive? '

The man was for the moment dumb in
presence of that great passion of anxiety, hope,
and fear.

Speak, speak.' he cried again before Smith
could open his mouth.

She was saved from the water, sir, and I
believe she's living.

'Thank God.'

Then silence fell upon the place. Stephen
rested on the gate. Although his eyes were
open they were blind to all that surrounded
him. He was giddy with wild joy, the light
dazed his brain and bewildered him, as the
eyes are dazed and blinded by looking full at
the sun at noon. He forgot everything but
the glad fact that she was saved.

Then utter darkness followed quickly, and
his soul sank in despair.

Ruth WAS ALIVE AND HE WAS MARRIED !

Surely there was a fire in his brain. Surely
there was a mistake somewhere ! Surely all
that had passed was a hideous nightmare. He
was not false to Euth !

He did not know how long he had been
standing there resting on the gate ; but at last
he became conscious of a friendly grasp on
his arm, and the sailor's voice sounding in his
ear.

Come, master, rouse up. What's the
matter?'

He saw the brown face with its bushy
black hair close to his own ; he heard the voice
repeating the question ; he looked round and
knew that it was no dream.

'Dahlia! — how will she bear this news?'
was his first thought. His second was that he
must keep her ignorant of it until he had himself

learned everything and had had time to
decide how to act.

He roused himself with a violent effort.

'Come with me,' he said, and at a rapid
pace he led the way to Dunthorpe.

Harry Smith accompanied him — he had no
doubt now that he had found the man for
whom he brought his message — and Stephen
did not speak until they were in a private room
at the King's Arms.

Tell the waiter if you want anything.
Then sit down and tell me all you know of
her.'

The sailor ordered some rum, and drank to
Mr. Meredith's health. Stephen stood waiting,
and almost afraid to speak.

D'you feel better now, sir ? Why don't
you try a drop yourself'

'Never mind me. Tell me about — Miss
Clark. Where is she ? '

I can't tell that exactly ; I parted with her

up country. She might have got away with
me, but she wouldn't leave one as had been a
good friend to her, cause he'd got hurt and
weren't able to come along with us. He was
one of the ruramest customers I ever come
across — Harrison by name.'

It was he who saved her from being
washed overboard some time before the wreck.'

That's so, sir. How do you come to
know ? '

Your first mate, McNeil, told us all about
what happened up to the point where you left
the ship, and your boat was supposed to have
been swamped.'

This removed the last shade of doubt the
man might have entertained as to Stephen's
identity.

We thought ourselves that it was all over.
However, we kept fast hold, the boat righted,
and we got clear away. But now as I know
there ain't any mistake that you are the gentleman

the lady made me promise to find afore I
rested after getting home, here's something for
you, sir. She hadn't no way of writing in the
bush, and she said, says she, " this '11 be a
token that he may trust you, and you will tell
him all that's come to us." " Aye aye, miss,"
says I, " if so be as I ever get home I'll tramp
the whole country till I find him." And here
you are.'

Smith had drawn from the depths of his
breast pocket a small packet wrapped in brown
paper.

'I put it into paper as soon as I got to
civilised parts,' he explained.

With trembling fingers Stephen opened the
packet. Within the paper was a piece of
merino — a fragment of a woman's dress —
bound with long grass, and it contained an opal
ring, and a lock of Euth's hair, cut from the
head with a sailor's knife.

He knew the hair — aye, so well ! And the

ring, too ; it was one he had given her, and he
remembered saying at the time :

If I were superstitious, Ruth, I should not
give you opals, for it is said they are always a
token of misfortune.'

What terrible testimony to the correctness
of the superstition the present case might bear.

He turned aside and touched the hair with
his lips ; but it was with a strange joy in which
there was a strong element of pain. This was
not a relic of the dead, but a sign from th
living Euth.

Smith was too busily and too agreeably
occupied to observe him, and having filled his
pipe and replenished his glass with grog, he
patiently awaited orders.

These tokens from Euth's own hand brought
him calmness, and he was able to' interrogate
the man quietly. The latter spoke with little
emotion ; he was apparently getting used to
being shipwrecked.

You see, sir, as I told you, that wave as
we thought had done for us, saved us. It took
us clean away from the ship, and we drove so
fast before the wind that when we got breath
and were able to look about we could see
nothing but the waves like mad dancing mountains
all around lis.

" Hold fast for your lives, and steady," says
I, but there was no need for it ; the fright kept
'em fixed like figure-heads to their places.

There wasn't anything to be done in such a
sea, oars and sails were no use. I got the tiller
and tried to turn it to the best account, but we
were banged about all night like a bit of down
in a gale, and could only trust to the boat holding
together.

In the morning the wind went down, and
we were able to see who was aboard. There
was the lady. Miss Clark, her friend, Mr. Harrison,
two gentlemen that were going out for
their health (poor souls, one was lying dead at

the bottom of the boat when my eye lighted on
him, and t'other went afore the next night was
out) ; and there was a Sydney man, who
worked with a will when we got a chance.
Then there was me and four of my mates. All
the provisions we had was a bag of biscuits and
a keg of water

'I shan't forget the look on them faces
as they came out of the darkness one by one
in the morning light. Never a one spoke.
They looked at me, and I couldn't give then;
any more comfort than by saying, " The boat's
a good 'un." All that day and all the next
night we were at the mercy of the waves, and
the boat was a good 'un. She held together
bravely.

But the silence of everybody was almost
harder to bear nor the storm.

'On the second morning the water was
quieter, and I thought we were in the right
track to be picked up. But we weren't. I

served out rations of the biscuits and water
regularly, and everyone took his share without
a word. Everyone behaved as well as if they'd
been aboard the ship and under the careen
himself.

The sea got quiet at last, and we were able
to use the oars ; but what good was that ? Our
only chance was to sight a vessel and be picked
up. Half a dozen times we saw a sail, but too
far off for any signal of ours to be seen.

" There's land ! " cried the lady on the
seventh morning, and land it was.

'We made straight for the nearest point,
and before dark we were ashore. But we
didn't seem much better off then, for there
wasn't a sight of any hut, or house, or any
living human creature anywhere.*

CHAPTEE XXVI.

IN THE BUSH.

Harry Smith paused at that point. He had
been passing in memory through all those
hardships and perils of the sea which his words
feebly indicated : they could not convey to the
listener the feeling of that tension of nerve
which makes man indifferent to sex and humanity
in his greedy desire of saving self.

He was a rough fellow, but a clever one,
as McNeil had owned, * although he was a
cockney,' and he had gone through a good
many trials at sea ; yet the mere remembrance
of that time when, after their seven days' buffeting
with the water, they touched land, made
him pause as if he felt his breath come short

VOL. II. D

as it had done at the moment when he stepped
on shore.

As he thought of it all he even pushed
aside his grog with a feeling of disgust, and
allowed his pipe to go out.

You think of it, sir,' he said, with teeth
set and eyes staring through the wall and into
space, where he saw, as in a panorama, every
incident repeated.

You think of it ; there we was landed,
eight of us, we didn't know where, and nothing
and nobody to give us a notion about the place !
Of course it was a comfort to feel our feet on
solid ground again, but we were stiff and sore,
half-starved and sick, so that after the first
minute or two our gratitude to the Almighty
for saving us from the water turned into something
uncommon like discontent with Him because
we had been put ashore only to be made
aware that we could be as badly off on the
land as out on the sea.'

Had you no instruments of any kind to
guide you ? ' inquired Stephen.

'We had nothing of any sort to help us
except the sun and the stars. We knew that
our course had been westerly, and that was all.
Howsoever, the first thing we had to do was to
settle ourselves for the night, and in the morning
we could have a look round. We hauled
our boat up and turned her on one side against
the wind. Luckily for us it wasn't cold, for
we had nothing but the clothes we stood in and
the boat's canvas for covering, and we made
shift well enough considering.

Miss Clark was like our own careen, now
we were ashore, and every one of us was doing
just what she told him like as though we'd signed
articles under her. She showed us where to
pitch the boat, and by getting the stern a little
bit athwart a lump of rock, she contrived to
have a sort of corner for herself that we called
her cabin. Harrison and 'the Sydney man
D 2

worked first rate. So did my mates — all bar
one, Tomkins by name. He was the only chap
that said a word wrong when we were on the
sea, and that was settled easy. He grumbled
about his share of the vittles, and I told him
we'd chuck him over to the fishes if he spoke
about it again.

" No, we won't waste him," said the Sydney
man, eyeing him all over as a butcher might
have done a calf.

'We knew what he meant, and so did
Tomkins, and there was no more grumbling
from him till we got ashore. Then the first
thing he does is to skulk up among the rocks
without giving us a hand in fixing our camp.

" Keep your eye on that man," says
Harrison ; " he means mischief to you."

But I wasn't afeared of him, and fancied
Sydney (that's what we called the Sydney man)
had more need to look out than me, if the chap
did mean any harm. It wasn't of no account

whether he did or no, for I didn't sleep that
night, and I don't believe the careen did either.
Anyway, when I was rising with the sun I saw
her up on the top of the highest rock, looking
seaward and landward. Harrison got up at
the same time as me, and he says :

" We ought to be using our legs. Smith,
or we'll get too stiff to move at all. Miss
Clark shames us by being the first on duty."

" She does hold out most wonderful," says
I. " Blest if I ever came across a woman with
such nerve and pluck afore — she's as good as
the boat."

And it's true, she was as good as the boat,
and did almost as much to save us. The next
thing Harrison says is :

" What have you left of our stores ? "

" Two rounds more of biscuit and one of
water, and it will be a bad job for us if we
don't happen on some sort o' fresh water soon."

" We'll have to join Miss Clark and see
what we can make of the place."

It was not cheery to look at. There was
plenty of rock about the beach ^ then there
was a great stretch of ground with all the grass
burned yellow and black, so that it looked like
sand, and might have been the Desert of Sahara
itself. Away beyond this yellow land-sea there
was a line of black that we guessed right
enough to be the borders of a forest.

" There ain't no use of us going into the
forest," say Harrison, and he looked down on
his luck, awl. " We'll have to keep by the
coast." '

That was right enough, for you must have
heard like me of the hard lines people have
had in the bush.

" There's a rule of the road the diggers
used to have," says I, " and that is when you
have lost your way in the bush turn your back
on the road you believe to be the right one,

and you'll land in your camp safe enough.
Now, as we all think we oughtn't to go into
the bush at all, that's just the part we ought
to steer for according to the diggers' rule."

" How far do you think it is ? " says he.

" A good day's tramp for us," says I,
considering the state we're in, not to speak of
the careen, and she must be mortal tired."

" Don't think about me," says she ; " I'll
do whatever you have to do. But look — isn't
that smoke rising above the trees .^ "

'Didn't our eyes follow that pretty hand,
and that long bone of a finger.

" Smoke it is," said Sydney, who came up
at that minute. " Like enough it's natives, and
as we are so hard run we'll have to take our
chance of finding them friends or foes."

There was nothing else for us to do, and
Sydney said as the natives weren't a bad sort if
you only rubbed them the right way. We took
the canvas and some of the tackle of the boat,

as they might come in handy on our travels, and
we set out across that horrid yellow land-sea.
We were a miserable pack, but a bit cheered
up as we started, for it was a kind of relief to
feel that our troubles were coming to an end,
one way or t'other. Any way we had to move
on, for without water we couldn't stop there to
wait for the chance of a sail.

We took our last drop of water afore starting,
and we had one round of biscuit left that
we meant to keep till evening, but it was given
out then, as it was easiest to carry when divided.
You should have seen how the careen stepped out !
Lord! you wouldn't have thought she'd been
brought up in luxury, and had never tramped
anywhere afore except for her own pleasure.
The sight of her stepping out so brave and
hopeful-like, put some go into us. We'd have
been shamed into putting on all our sail even if
we hadn't been comforted by the sight of her.

Tomkins slunk behind, and I saw the

beggar munching his last piece of biscuit afore
we were half across the plain.

" You shan't have none o' mine," thinks I
to myself, " and you ain't likely to get any from
our mates either."

The look of that forest changed as we got
nearer to it, getting more and more footsore.
The trees seemed to go right up into the sky,
and stood so close together that they made us
think as we had come to a great black wall at
the end of the world. But the sun getting down
behind the trees showed us that there were
openings in the wall, and there were streaks of
light through the blackness that our careen said
was just so many flashes of hope.

We had steered straight for the smoke that
had tempted us to go on ; but we had lost sight
of it long afore we came to the forest. We kept
on the same course, howsoever, and at last came
to the trees. They were a bit straggling at
first as if they were advance sentinels, but soon

they became thick enough, and we made a halt
to rest and calculate the bearings of the place.

We were preparing to squat in the long
grass when all of a sudden Harrison shouts —

'' I hear water ! "

And he banged through the bush, and out
of sight in a minute, as if he'd been born in the
woods. Next we heard him a hallooing like
mad, and we followed him — me and Sydney
going first to clear the way for the careen.
Through them bushes we came t(? a sight that
made our hearts jump.

There was a big dell, water running down
the face of the rocks and making a channel
through the trees — as pretty a stream as ever
man set eyes on. It was just like silver and
gold, for the sun was setting on it.

" We're too late," says Harrison, " but this
is where the fire was, and there's been a camp
here."

We saw the black and white ashes of what

had been a fire, and Harrison picked up one of
them tins they pack Australian beef and mutton
in. Sydney took it out of his hand, and he
looked as if he'd found a nugget of gold when
he smelt the can.

" Well," says he, " I knew that my mutton
was good, but I never knew till now that it was
the best that ever was upon this earth. This is
one of the tins of my own company, mates, and
it ain't long since it was opened — don't smell it
any of you, or it'll give you the gripes with
hunger, as it has done me."

But we did smell it, and it did give us the
gripes of hunger, as he said it would, and we all
of us drank gallons of water and ate ou biscuit
that is all except the careen and Tomkins ;
she was too busy with something in herself, and
he had nothing to^eat. I saw him a- drinking
of the blessed water, and a-eyeing of us, and I
snowed that he'd have snapped the bit out of
our mouths if he could. And somehow, sir

Lord forgive me, sir, but I'd taken such
a feeling against the man that I didn't pity him !
All the same his greedy look made my own bite
feel queer in my stomach, and I shut my eyes.

It couldn't have been more than a minute
v^hen I hears a shout from everybody.

'The matter was that Tomkins had been
trying to steal the careen's biscuit, and Harrison
had just caught him. So Tomkins up with a
stone and knocked him on the head. Next
minute Sydney had Tomkins by the throat down
on the ground, and looking blue in the face.

The careen was seeing to Harrison — he'd
got an ugly cut on the temple — but she found
time to notice what they were doing to Tomkins.


" Don't hurt him," says she. " It was
natural — he was hungry."

But we weren't going to take that soft
view of it, though we didn't lynch him as fora
minute we thought of doing — for you know

we had the boat's tackle handy. So Sydney-says
to him, speaking for all :

" You make tracks for yourself, young man,
and think it lucky that you haven't quite done
for our mate ; but count it luckier still that the
lady asks us' to have mercy on you. For my
own part, I think it would be the greatest
mercy to you if we were to pitch you head first
over that rock into the water — only it would
dirty the blessed water ! "

The cove slunk away from us looking as
black as poison, and he would have poisoned
every one if he could. We saw no more of
him, at any rate so long as I was there.

'What we had to do was to look after
Harrison, and that was enough for us. The
careen was there, and she says :

" Look here, friends, I know what it is to
you — life or death ; and when it comes to that
it is every man for himself — very well. You
want to follow the track of the people who

have been here. You see that Mr. Harrison
can't go . . . May be he will never be able to
move out of this place. That's a reason why I
should stay by him, but that is a reason also
why you should go on and leave us here.
Should you find help near, then you can send
for us ; if you don't — why then we must do
the best we can till death gives us relief. I
don't think he will suffer much ; and I know
that I will suffer less in dying here beside him
than I would if any of you were to stay here
and lose the chance of saving yourselves."

Now, sir, it sounds cruel, I dare say, but
when it comes to a question of life or death,
the best of us do things that seem cruel to you
who are sitting at home without feeling stomach
or brain tugging at you and crying for food
and life. We weren't able to carry him, or
we would have done it. She would not leave
him on no account . . . and so . . . welland

so we were obliged to leave them both
there in the forest.

But Sydney and me and our mates did
the best we could for them first. We made up
a sort of tent with the canvas, and we were
ready to go away when he kind of came to
himself.

Then came the worst of it all ; for he
calls out to us —

" For God's sake, lads, take her away
with you ! I'm done for, at any rate, and you
are doing murder if you allow her to stay herewith
me. . . . Take her away, I say, take her
back to England — back to Stephen Meredith
don't leave her here to die with me for the
great God's sake "

And then he couldn't speak any more,
for he fainted off, and we saw that the bandages
had come off his head, so that the blood
was running.

The careen tied up the wound again, and

says to us, quite as if she'd been in no danger
herself —

" You are not to mind him, friends. He
does not know what he is saying. Do as I tell
you. Save yourselves. Save us if you can."

^ We saw that she meant it, and we agreed.
Sydney says to her :

" If I live I'll come back as soon as we
catch hold of anybody that can give me food
for you. I'm doing you the best service in
leaving you."

" I know that," says she.

" And I'll do the same," says I.

" No," says she. " You'll be making your
way back to England. I want you to do
something that is more to me than if you came
back with food for us. I want you to take a
message home."

Then she took that ring from her finger,
and with my knife she cut that hair from her
head and that stuff out of the skirt of her

gown, and tied them with the grass as you see.
Then, says she,

" You are to find Stephen Meredith, at
Derewood Grange, near Dunthorpe, in Essex,
England. Tell him all that has happened, and
say that if I am alive I shall be home at the
end of the year."

I gave my promise, as you can guess I
would, and as soon as it was daylight we went
ofi* straight in the tracks of the people as had
been camping in the dell.

It was about noon when we came up with
them, for they were an exploring party of
engineers and surveyors from Melbourne, and
weren't moving fast, as they had to stop so
often. They gave us help and grub, willing as
could be ; and better than that, the chief of the
party knew Sydney, and was ready to do anything
for him. So without resting he went
back to the careen and Harrison. I went
down to the coast with four of the exploring

VOL. II. E

party, who had to take some reports back to
the Government office. I didn't think there
was any need for me to go back to the careen,
as I knew she was safe now. Then I got a
ship that was bound for Liverpool, as I was
told, but it took me to China instead, for they
were short of hands, and the mate finding I
wanted to get home told me a darned lie till
he got me safe out of port. Then from Shanghai
I made my way to Liverpool at last, barring
a few days with my own folk at Tapping. I
haven't put wolf any time till I found you, sir,
and told you the whole story as near as I
could.'

The curious jumble of generosity and
selfishness which this story revealed did not
strike Stephen at the time ; indeed there were
moments in the course of the narrative when
he became impatient to reach the end ; and
yet he was eager to have an account of every

step of the cruel way Euth had trodden;
eager to live it over with her even in this
man's rough account of her trials, and, half-unconsciously,
he was jealous of the man,
Harrison, who had throughout taken the place
he should have held in her life.

The one point he was eager about found
utterance as soon as the man paused.

Then you are sure that she was saved .^ '
he cried.

Harry Smith looked at him as if offended
by the question.

I wouldn't have come away if that hadn't
been certain. The party we Came up to were
Englishmen as snowed the way, and they
weren't likely to leave a fellow-countrywoman
and a wounded countryman to perish in the
bush. Besides, Sydney would have gone back
himself — as I would have done for the matter of
that.'

' I beg your pardon. Smith, but a consider

2

able time has passed since you left her, and we
have heard nothing.'

I daresay you will hear afore long. You
know, sir, you can't come from the other end
of the world in a day.'

CHAPTER XXVII.

IS IT TRUE?

Yes, he would hear soon. She would come
back and find him the husband of Dahlia
Whitcombe. What then? How could he
explain ? She must turn away from him, believing
that all his protestations of fidelity
had been false, or the fidelity of such brief
tenure as to be worthless

Something more terrible than death stood
between them now.

And what of poor Dahlia ?

This should have been good news — it should
have been joyful news to them all. They
should have been rejoicing and shouting thanks
for the safety of their friend, and here was he

thinking over it as if some new calamity had
befallen them ! This was unmanly, and unworthy
doubt of Euth. When she heard all
she would own that he had not been false.

There was only one course to pursue : Love
must give place to Duty. The marriage was
an unfortunate business for them all, and he
did not know who would suffer most.

There had been a blunder — it was torture
to think how cruel the blunder had been for
Dahlia, for Euth, and for himself. He must
take the blame to himself; but there was nothing
he could do to make their suffering less ;
his whole strength must be given to the effort
to avoid doing anything which might make it
more.

Then that first flood of joy at the mere fact
that she was saved, which had been stopped by
the consciousness of his own changed position,
burst through the barrier and resumed its
course.

Eutli was saved, and he was happy. Euth
lived, and he was glad !

He gave all needful directions for the comfort
of Harry Smith and hastened back to the
Grange. There when he had repeated the
wonderful story, eyes and mouths were wide
with amazement. Next came exclamations of
surprise and of a kind of admiration for the
heroine of so many perils.

How glad we shall all be to see her,' said
Dahlia, smiling, ' and you especially, Stephen— ^
how glad you must be ! f suppose you won't
condescend to speak to any ■ of us ordinary
mortals for days after she comes home, for of
course she will never think of staying out therein
that dreadful country.'

Dahlia was quite calm, and still smiling.
She was quite sincere in her congratulation, for
she was sustained by the confidence of possession.
She took the common-sense — some might call
them the common-place — views of the position ;

Euth was saved and that was lucky for her ;
but she was too late to regain her old lover.
Many old sweethearts were friends although
married to somebody else, and she had even
heard some so situated making jokes about the
old times without husbands or wives being at
all disturbed in consequence.

There was no reason why their case should
be different from that of others. So, at first
she experienced a sense of relief in learning
that Euth was alive, for it removed some remorseful
reflections from her mind, whilst it
could not alter the fact that Stephen was her
husband.

But are you sure it is true ? ' she asked
suddenly, while the girls were still loud in their
expressions of wonder.

There can be no doubt that she reached
the land, and that friendly aid was found in
good time to rescue her and her wounded companion.'


I have heard that impostors have found out
people who have lost friends at sea, and coming
in the disguise of sailors have got large sums of
money for giving false news of the safety of the
lost ones.'

This man is no impostor, Dahlia. He
might have invented any number of les, but
he could not invent this lock of hair or this
ring which I gave her.'

Oh, we did not know about them before.'

He had regarded themes treasures which
were not intended for general exhibition, and
Dahlia did not ask to see them now. There
was a scarcely perceptible shade of coldness in
the tone in which she referred to them.

Mrs. Meredith, senior, »h ad proposed shortly
after the marriage that she should remove with
three of the girls to a house in Dunthorpe, in
order that the young couple might not be
hampered by the presence of a mother-in-law.
The proposal was made vaguely and faintly.

and Dahlia would not hear of it. She made
only this condition — a very sensible one, too —
that there should be certain rooms in the house
which should be recognised as reserved for
Stephen and herself, and that they should be in
every way regarded as if they formed a separate
establishment.

She was glad now that she had made this
arrangement, for she felt that whatever might
happen she would have an ally at hand. There
was another ally she might summon if

But what should she want any ally for?
Not surely to plot against her husband ? Then
she recalled all her good resolutions and smiled
again, determining anew that she would keep
them.

All the same, she could not help a sense of
irritation at times as she saw the eagerness with
which he watched the coming of the post, and
listened to his daily report —

Bassnett has no news yet.'

She could not help a little bit of playful
banter that was more than half intended to
wound.

What a pretty romance it will be if Euth
should nurse that gentleman who saved her
from being washed overboard, till he gets welland
then marry him. That would be beautiful,
wouldn't it, Juliet ? '

Perfectly lovely,' was the romantic young
lady's response.

Stephen could not help wincing and being*
ashamed of himself for doing so. He thought
often about Harrison : had recognised from the
first that this stranger had occupied the place
which should have been his, and would have
been his if he had not been compelled by the
duties he owed to the others to stay in England
when Euth went away. This stranger had
been near to help her in danger, to share with
her all the privations of the tempest and escape,
and even to risk his life for her.

All this lie (Stephen) should have done, and
it had been left for another to do. She could
not but be grateful to the man who had done
it, and why should she not learn to love him
when she heard what had taken place at Dere
wood in her absence ?

He had thought of it seriously, and tried to
believe that he would be able to look upon the
event of Euth's marriage to this brave stranger
as one coming in the natural course of things
now, and one on which he had to offer her congratulations.


He had overcome the agony of thinking her
dead. . . . There were moments — when Dahlia
was petulant, unreasonable, gloomy, or giving
him one of those playful little stabs (which he
had only recently come to understand were
meant for stabs) — in which he felt that it was
easier to think of Euth dead than Euth married
to another.

The horrid selfishness of that feeling made

him run from himself and seek distraction in
working harder than ever, and in being more
attentive than ever to Dahha.

But she saw and understood. No, they
could not be like ordinary folk and take things
as they came in a calm, sensible way. She
had been jealous of Euth's memory. How was
she to endure the thought of Euth living !

She did what — not so long ago — she had
believed it impossible for her to do ; she suggested
that Mr. Eapier should be invited to
dinner. She had no plan ; no idea of any
plan ; the only motive for the suggestion
sprang from the idea that her former friend
might know something more about Euth than
Mr. Bassnett, or might say something which
would help her. She really could not explain
to herself the exact nature of the impulse which
made her say he should be invited.

It is a long time since we have seen him,'
said Stephen, ready to gratify any wish of hers ;

but I heard from Bassnett that he is on active
duty of some sort again, and has been away
from London a good deal lately. He may not
be able to come to us at present. However,
I'll write to the Cosmos.'

He wrote, and in two days came an answer;
on the evening of the fourth day came Eapier
himself.

I knew that you would want me,' he said
in a low voice to his hostess.

It was after dinner. She was seated at the
piano, and he was beside her making a pretence
of turning over the leaves of the music. Ashe
spoke her fingers struck the keys sharply,
and a grand bravura passage was suddenly
interpolated in the piece she was playing.

Why do you think I want you ? '

Because your husband happened to mention
in his note that it was you who had
reminded him of my existence.'

She continued playing for a few moments ;
then, carelessly,

Surely one may remember an old friend
without having any special need of his help ? '

Quite so. People often do remember old
friends merely because they have a vacant place
at dinner ; but you want something more. Tell
me what it is, frankly — if you can.'

It was not quite clear in what sense he used
the last three words. Again she played a few
moments before responding.

Do you know anything of this strange
story about Euth Clark ? ' she asked abruptly.
Is it true ? Is she alive ?'

He smiled ; he always admired his own
astuteness.

Surely her being alive or dead can be of
no consequence to you now ? '

He took infinite pains to separate two leaves
of the music which had stuck together, and he

contrived to see her face. She was staring
fixedly at the music, and her hips were tightly
closed.

'You cannot doubt your husband's faith,'
he proceeded, ' and you can trust her honour ? '

Is it true ? ' she repeated without looking
at him, but his question had stirred a buzzing
as of a hive of bees in her brain. ' You cannot
doubt your husband's faith, and you can trust
her honour ? '

It is true,' he said quietly, ' she has been
saved. More, she is now in London with the
gentleman who has been her chief companion
through all her trials. It is possible that she
may be at Kemerton tomorrow.'

Thank you.'

Dahlia finished the piece, and rose from the
piano.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

'TO BEGUILE THE TIME, LOOK LIKE THE Time'.

Lewis Rapier was never so much mistaken in
his calculations as to what another person would
do under given circumstances as he was in the
present case with regard to Dahlia. ' <

Yet this was one of his cynical theories — a
theory which experience had made one of his
firmest convictions.

It is remarkable,' he said to a friend who
had been complaining of a fair one's falsehood,
it is remarkable how often clever men in
general, and clever rogues in particular, are
outwitted by women. There are countless
instances of men going to the deuce for women
or on account of them ; but there are few

VOL. II. F

women doing the same for men — except in
fiction. The truth is that in the relations of
the sexes it is the men who are sentimental ;
women have a practical regard for the conveniences
and comforts of life. The youth thinks
of marriage in association with some being to
whom he shall devote all his energies, and who
will be the inspiration of his noblest efforts ;
the maiden thinks of it in its association with a
house and its belongings, and the impression it
will make upon her friends. Look at girls, as
children even playing at housekeeping — they
have miniature furniture, pots, pans, and tea
sets, and dolls, but the husband is left out of
count in the game, or is getting a scolding for
some misdemeanour.'

That is not what our books tell us.'

It is what experience tells us, only we are

afraid to own it. Romance in verse and prose

has taught us to look for quite the reverse of

this, but that is because it is the province of

romance to paint for us the ideal of womanhood
in its good and bad forms, and the ideal
of anything is always an exaggeration. The
average woman is no more a gentle Una than
she is a Delilah. But men go on believing in
Una ; vanity makes every fellow think he has
found her, and so makes him an easy victim to
unexpected deceit.'

I can't see much consolation in your
theory,' said his friend lugubriously. ^

Only the consolation of knowing that you
have so many fellow-sufferers. The lesson is,
keep your eyes always wide open when dealing
with women, and you will be the less likely to
be outwitted again.'

He implied, of course, that his eyes were
always wide open to all the wiles of womankind;
and so they were, but they did not
enable him to see through Dahlia's present
conduct.

When she rose from the piano he expected
p 2

her vexation to appear in some coldness to her
husband and indifference to his guests. At
least she would display ' sulks ' in some way.
All his experience of the petulant passion of
her nature justified him in anticipating this
course.

He was, therefore, at first surprised and
next interested in observing that she was even
more attentive than usual to Stephen, and all
that a genial hostess could be to her friends.
She was perfect.

A sudden access of attention means mischief,'
was his mental comment.

Two gentlemen besides Eapier were to
remain for the night, and when the other guests
had gone they adjourned with the host and
Jim to smoke.

Dahlia's countenance changed; the smiles
gave place to an expression of serious resolution.
Unobserved by the girls she beckoned
to Mrs. Meredith, senior, who followed her out

of the room and upstairs. Dahlia led the way
into her mother-in-law's parlour.

Then she spoke in a low, steady voice, her
lips, which appeared to have grown thin and
cold, scarcely parting to emit the words :

I want you to stay here till I come back.
I am going out.'

Out, Dahha ! and at this time of night ? '
exclaimed the astonished dowager.

'I shall not be more than an hour gone.
Stay here, and should Stephen ask for me, say
that I am with you talking about house affairs —
anything, only don't let him know I am gone.'

But, my dear child '

Don't ask me why, mother. There is no
harm— it concerns Stephen's happiness and mine.'

But you must take someone with you —
take me — take Smalley.'

'ivTo, no, there's no necessity. You need
not be in the least alarmed. I shall be back in
an hour.'

But if Stephen finds out ? '

'You must prevent that for the present.
By-and-by I will explain to you both why I
am going and where to.'

Do be persuaded to let Smalley accompany
you.'

'No. . . .' But Dahha paused, turning
something over in her mind. Then : ' Do you
think you and I could get Smalley to do something
for me that is intended for his master's
benefit, but which he must know nothing about
for a few hours ? '

He would do anything for you, I am sure,
child, only he would feel like me, that mystery
seldom means good, and never brings good to
anyone.*

Dahlia laughed, a hard, steely, little laugh
which made the listener feel more uncomfortable
than at first, and still more unwilling to
assent to this singular proceeding of her
daughter-in-law. She had been willing enough

to enter into a sort of conspiracy to bring
about her marriage with Stephen ; and she was
proud of the success which had been in every
way a benefit to them all. But she had a
decided objection to enter into another conspiracy
with the nature and object of which
she was entirely unacquainted.

You dear, stupid, kind-hearted, suspicious
old mother,' said Dahha, playfully, as she put
her hands on the dowager's shoulders, and
touched her brow with cold lips. ' You yourself
have told me that there must be confidences
between man and wife which they can share
with nobody — not even with parents. Now
this is one of them. What he does not know
I am doing to-night, he will know tomorrow
or next day, and thank me for doing for his
sake. Are you satisfied ? '

I wish I could understand,' pleaded the
puzzled mother.

^ But you can't understand — at present that

is. You may, however, know this, that what I
am going to do I would rather not do if I were
thinking only of myself; it is for his sake.
Now are you satisfied .^

I suppose I must be, and of course I know
that you care too much for him to do him any
harm intentionally. But you know, child, experience
has taught me that there is more mischief
worked between husband and wife by good
intentions, which are gone about in an underhand
way than by anything else in the world.'

Please don't scold to-night, mother, and
you'll find me very good tomorrow,' said the
humble young wife, prettily.

Ah, that tomorrow., child, is Satan's own
carriage, and those who ride in it never have a
happy journey. Had you not better stay at
home to night ? '

Dahlia's mood changed again, and she
stamped on the floor like a spoiled child in a
temper.

I am going,' she cried. ' If you will not
help me to do what I have to do quietly, then
so much the worse for Stephen, and so much
the worse for me.'

The mother was calmer now, and regarded
her with kindly interest as she said regretfully
:

You are asking me to do a very odd thing,
Dahlia, and I am sure Stephen will not be
pleased with the way you are setting about this
journey, no matter what good it may bring*
But as you are so earnest about it, and as I know
you cannot mean any harm, I will do what you
wish, and hope no ill may come of it.'

Thank you, thank you,' she said excitedly ;
remember he is not to know I am out of the
house.'

She hurried away to her dressing-room.
There she quickly changed her evening dress
for a warm walking robe ; over that she put a
dark ulster, and next put on a tweed travelling

hat, SO that at night she might have been mistaken
for a young lad.

She looked over the banisters ; there was
no one on the staircase, and she passed down
quickly. She had a plan ready if she should
meet any of the servants ; she was to say that
she was going to play a trick on the young
ladies ; and as she had been known in former
days to play all sorts of odd pranks, that explanation
would be sufficient to account for her
appearance in walking attire.

The excuse was not needed ; there was no
one in the hall. She passed the library door,
hearing sounds of laughter and smelling tobacco,
and entered the little room next to it
which she had appropriated as her boudoir.
She closed the door and locked it on the inside,
but instantly unlocked it.

If he should find it fastened inside he
might suspect something.'

The French window gave to the lawn. The

shutters were closed, and the alarm bell hung
in its place on the iron crossbow. That was fora
moment a little puzzling ; how to leave the
shutters unfastened without the fact being noticed
by anyone who entered.

The puzzle was promptly solved.

Grasping the tongue of the bell with one
hand, and the spring with the other she lifted
it from the socket and placed it on the table
without noise. The crossbow was removed in
the same cautious manner, the shutters were
opened and the window fastenings undone.
Then she drew the large heavy velvet curtains,
which had been a special fancy of her own,
close together, leaving space enough between
them and the window for her to stand.

No one within the room would have guessed
that the shutters were open without drawing
the curtains.

She passed out, closing the window carefully
after her, and latching it so that the wind might

not betray the unguarded window. Then she
paused to draw breath.

The night was bitterly cold, but her cheeks
were all aflame. The moon was in its second
quarter, and the frosted ground listened as if
strewn with diamonds.

I can walk to Kemerton in half an hour,'
she reflected. ' I could ride in half the time.
That would give me half an hour there, and
still allow me to be back before he is likely to
ask a second time for me.'

She walked with quick decisive steps
towards the stables. Some of the men were
still there, as the lights indicated. She could
not obtain any animal from the stables then
without making herself and her night excursion
known.

But she remembered that to make room for
the horses of the visitors a favourite Shetland
pony of hers had been removed to the cow-house.
She went straight to the place, which

had been closed for the night. One of the
doors, however, was only bolted.

Her shaggy friend knew the sound of its
mistress's voice, and gave a short neigh of recognition
when she spoke. She led it out by
the halter, round the barn and on to the road.

One of Dahha's real accomplishments was
that of good horsemanship, and she knew that
she could manage this pony easily with the
halter and her voice. When a child she had
often ridden a horse for pleasure round alva
field with no other harness than the halter ;
and she had no fear in trying her riding skill
in the same primitive fashion now that she was
a woman and had a serious object in view.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE NIGHT RIDE.

She brought the obedient Shetland up to a
field gate, then placed her foot on one of the
bars, and raised herself easily on to the pony's
bare back.

The animal really seemed to enjoy the fun
of it. As soon as he felt her on his back he
gave a flourish of his tail, a slight movement of
his hind legs to suggest that he was waiting for
orders ; then in obedience to an indicative
motion of the halter, and an authoritative
Away, my boy ! ' he started at once into an
easy canter which was a convenient speed and
a comfortable motion for a rider without a
saddle.

There were not many turnings in the road
to Kemerton : the distance was a little over
two miles. Her way lay between thick hedgerows
with trees at intervals — beech, elm,
chestnut, and willow. In the moonlight their
shadows interlaced across the path as if they
would bar the way of the adventurous lady.

But it was eleven o'clock and there was
nobody on the road. She might have been
the last of a plague-stricken country, riding
in quest of some companions for her solitude.


How bright the stars were this night !
Were they taking advantage of the half-lustre
of the moon to show what they could do
unaided ? How clearly cut the shadows on
the ground ! But how sad was the feeling
of everything around her, as if nature rebuked
the daring mightier, and challenged the
honesty of her purpose in being out there
when all honest folk were a-bed.

Her teeth were set ; lier eyes gazed steadily
forward ; the pony cantered on as if he enjoyed
this witch's frolic ; and Dahlia in her
passion was indifferent to the influences of
picturesque scenery or of atmosphere.

Then came the long line of beeches which
bordered Kemerton Park, and were, next to
the Green Lane, the pride of the estate. She
did not think of regarding the strange outlines
which the trees presented in this light. She
wanted to reach the house and to get back to
Derewood within the hour.

She did not want to disturb the lodge-keeper,
and, besides, she did not want the
lodgekeepcr to know that she was there.

What a capital pony that was, and how
steadily he kept up his pace ! He should
have an extra feed of corn for this.

So, she opened a gate leading into the
park itself, and boldly galloped across it.

The house came in view. There were

very few lights, and there was a general sense
of repose about * it which compelled her to
check the pony and pause. \

She had considered it all as she came
along ; it was of no use seeing Brassey, the
butler ; he was devoted to Euth. But Mrs.
Smith, the housekeeper, was jealous of
Brassey for foolish reasons— envy of his supremacy
with the master especially — and because
he was the humble servant of Euth, Mrs.
Smith was devoted to Dahlia, who was, she'
insisted, the proper mistress of the household.


It was Mrs. Smith Dahlia wanted to see.

But, as in the best considered plans, when
the moment for putting them into execution
comes there is discovered some trifling flaw
which may mar the whole work, so Dahlia
had to pause to consider the question whether
she should go to the hall door or to the servants'
door. Her appearance at that time of

VOL. II.

night would create surprise and speculation at
any rate ; by entering at the servants' door
she might bribe and persuade whoever she
saw to be silent for the present. But when
the visit came to be reported afterwards, as
she knew it must be, she would appear mean
indeed to slink into the house of the man who
was supposed to be her father, and who
accepted the responsibilities of that relationship
— to slink into his house as if she were an
outcast.

After tying the Shetland in the shrubbery,
so that her primitive harness might not excite
additional surprise, she went up to the principal
door.

She rang and knocked. After a little delay

the door was opened by a footman, who had

not yet succeeded in completely adjusting his

coat, which had been off for the night.

She stepped boldly into the hall.

I am sorry to disturb you so late, Cellars,

but I wish to see Mrs. Smith immediately. Do
you know if she is in her room ? '

The-man had been inclined to be sulky
with this late visitor, but as soon as he recognised
her he became respectful.

Yes, i'm, she is. Will you step into the
blue room, and I'll tell her ? '

No, thank you, Cellars ; I will go to her ;
but as I don't want to bother more of your
people than is necessary, will you wait here tolet
me out ? ' <

Certainly, i'm, certainly, with pleasure,'
answered the man, remembering past tips and
grateful for those to come.

DahHa was perfectly acquainted with the
way. She stepped quickly along the hall,
opened the door which communicated with
the servants' quarter, and, without knocking,
entered the housekeeper's room.

That important personage, although a good-natured
and kind-hearted being when she had

G 2

her own way, was most particular about the
observance of all the formalities and courtesies
of that somewhat vaguely defined circle which
she called ' the best society.' Therefore when
her privacy was thus abruptly invaded she
adjusted her glasses with much care in order to
have a good view of the bold intruder.

Bless me ! — Mrs. Meredith ! ' she exclaimed,
rising instantly ; ' what can have brought you
here so late ? Is there anything wrong at the
Grange ? '

Nothing wrong I am happy to say. Thank
you, I will not sit down. I came to inquire
about your visitor. Has she arrived yet and
when do you expect her ? '

Mrs. Smith was a woman of fair education,
who, when left a widow with one child and
quite unprovided for — her husband had been a
solicitor's clerk — managed to support herself
and to pay her son's way through school until
he was able to earn his own living. His early

death in a railway accident obliged the widow
to continue dependent on her own exertions
for a livelihood. By Mr. Basket's recommendation
she was appointed housekeeper nt
Kemerton, and there found an agreeable and
permanent home.

She had watched Dahha growing up from
childhood, and had taken a motherly interest
in her. She was in no way blind to the lady's
imperfections as child, girl, and woman ; but
she continued to be fond of her and ready to
serve her.

So now she divined at on-ce that there was
something more in this late visit than the mere
interest in the expected guest. She saw the
anxiety which Dahlia thought she was concealing
so cleverly.

I understood that nobody was to be told
about her coming,' said Mrs. Smith.

Oh, but of course it was not to be kept a
secret — especially from me.'

I suppose not, since you already know
about it. She has not come yet, but she is to
be here about ten o'clock tomorrow, and sofar
as I can make out she is to leave again very
soon. We only got notice from Mr. Dottridge
yesterday to have the rooms ready.'

Then he is coming back, too ? '

'Dear me, yes, haven't you heard that?
He is such a queer man ! Do you know where
he has been for the last twelve months ? '

'No.'

No more do we ; but he found Miss Clark
ill some foreign part, and brought her to London
when we all thought she was dead, and were
beginning to think the master dead too. Wasn't
it he who told you they were coming ? '

No, I have heard nothing from him, and I
do not wish to intrude upon him until he bids
me come. But I do want to see Euth as soon
as she arrives.'

Can I give her any message ? '

Yes ; tell her that I came to bid her welcome
the moment I heard of her coming, although
it was so late and . You say she is

to be here about ten tomorrow ? '

Maybe a little before. They are to drive
from Bishop's Stratford.'

Will you give me a sheet of paper and a
pen, Mrs. Smith ? '

The writing materials were supplied. Dahlia
had not expected to see Euth that night ; she
had only expected to learn the hour of her
arrival, and she had mentally composed,
amended, and improved what she was to write
many times before she took the pen in her
hand. So the lines were rapidly written.

Dear Euth, — You can understand how I
rejoice with so many others at your miraculous
escape. You can understand how much I have
to say to you, and how much I desire to see
you, the instant you arrive, before you see

ANYONE ELSE.

I ask you to meet me tomorrow at noon
at the Holly Bush ring in the Green Lane.
When we meet I will tell you why I ask you
to see me there rather than in the house — that
is, at first.

Do not fail, I implore you.

Your ever affectionate

'Dahlia Meredith.'

She folded this slowly and placed it in an
envelope, as if meditating till the last moment
whether or not there were any further inducement
she could add to make sure that Euth
would keep the appointment. She could think
of nothing else, and she closed the envelope.

You used to say, Mrs. Smith, that you
would always be ready to do me a good turn if
you could ? '

'And I say it again with all my heart,'
replied the old housekeeper warmly. 'I see
you are in anxiety about something, but, bless
us, I hope there is nothing particular the matter

that you need the help of anybody out of your
own house I '

Oh, nothing at all alarming,' said Dahlia
hastily and smiling reassuringly. ' I only want
you to promise to place this letter yourself
in Miss Clark's hands the moment she arrives,
and send some one to me with the answer
immediately.'

Mrs. Smith drew a long breath of relief.

Eh, deary, I am glad to hear it's no more
than that. For of course you know we were
all aware that Miss Clark and Mr. Meredith
were almost as good as '

Yes, yes, that is the old story,' interrupted
the young wife, impatiently ; ' I suppose these
things happen in most people's lives and are
got over somehow. You will do what I ask ? '

She shan't be ten minutes in the house
before she gets your letter, and I have somebody
started on the road post haste with the
answer.'

Thank you, very, very much. You cannot
imagine what a great kindness you are doing
me by this little service.'

I'm sure I wish it was more, so that you
might see how pleased I am to do it for you.
Won't you take a cup of tea before you go ?
The night is so cold.'

Nothing, thank you ; I have already stayed
longer than I intended. Good night, and
thanks again. . . . Yes, the night is cold,' she
added to herself with a slight shudder, as if
the fingers of the frost were touching her heart.

But she took leave of the housekeeper with
a smiling face, and the old lady parted with
her in the hall without a suspicion that the
mistress of the Grange had come hither unattended.
She would have been shocked indeed
had she known in what manner the
journey had been made.

Can I see you to your carriage, ma'am .^ '
inquired Cellars as he opened the door.

'You are to close the door after me immediately
she said, dropping something into
his hand.

He obeyed her.

She mounted the shaggy Shetland and rode
back as fast as she had come. Those stars up
there so clear and cold seemed to form into
letters and words, spelling out the sentence
which haunted her.

You cannot doubt your husband's faith,
and you can trust her honour.' ^

Could she?

To-morrow she would know. To-morrow
she would put them to the proof, and on the
result depended her happiness — and theirs ! '

Out of their own mouths she would-be
satisfied whether or not he was loyal ; if he
were so, then she did not mind much what
Euth might do or what became of her. The
test she was applying was a severe one, but
only the severest test could give her satisfaction.

She took the pony back to his place, and
again promised that he should have an extra
feed of corn to reward him for his faithful
services. There were none of the men about
the stables now, and all the lights were out.
But when she got to the front of the house she
was soon assured that the gentlemen were still
in the library. The window had been opened
to ventilate the room, and she could hear
Stephen's voice.

That was a relief ; she had managed everything
so cleverly and quickly that no one in the
house, except her mother-in-law would have
the least knowledge of her absence.

She entered the boudoir ; the heavy curtains
were drawn, and the lamp was burning low,
exactly as she had left them. Then, as she
proceeded cautiously to refasten the shutters
and replace the alarm-bell, she experienced an
uncomfortable, ' creepy ' sensation, such as a
thief might feel when on the point of completing

his crime and only one more trifling act
has to be personne in order to secure his
prize.

She was,, in fact becoming nervous. The
excitement and action of what she had had todo
out of doors had sustained her ; now that
she had accomplished her task and had only to
replace the bell, the fancy took possession of
her that there was someone in the darkened
room behind her, and that a hand was about to
grasp her shoulder.

This is absurd,' she muttered, making an
effort to overcome the feeling.

With a firm hand she replaced the bell and
walked boldly to the table. Having turned up
the lamp she glanced hastily round. Of course
there was no one in the room but herself, and
she gave a little contemptuous laugh at her
own foolish fancy.

She flung her hat and ulster on a chair in. a
corner, and took a seat on the couch, intending

to rest for a few moments to collect her thoughts,
in order that she might appear quite calm when
she rejoined Mrs. Meredith, the elder.

She was thankful that the adventure was
over, and that her absence not having been
discovered there would be no necessity to give
Stephen any explanation. She was exceedingly
glad of that, for she was determined that she
would not tell him any lies — if she could help it !

To this one of her good resolutions had
become modified.

She was startled by a sound like somebody
breathing softly behind the screen in front of
the fireplace.

CHAPTEE XXX.

A PASSAGE AT ARMS.

Her heart bounded in her throat ; but that was
only momentary ; for however much she might
quake at danger she could control herself when
actually face to face with it. Here she had
not much to fear : only some burglar she had
to confront — some fellow who had discovered
the unsecured window — and Stephen and his
friends were in the next room whilst the bell-pull
was within reach. She placed her hand
upon the latter safeguard.

Who is there ? ' she demanded resolutely.

She did not pull the bell for it flashed upon
her that if she gave the alarm she would be
obliged to explain how the window came to be

open. It might be possible to avoid this if she
could only get rid of the ruffian without calling
assistance. He could not yet have done much
mischief,

Don't be frightened — sit's only me,' said
the voice of Mr. Eapier from behind the
screen.

He came quietly out from his hiding-place,
and he was not smiling. That was an ominous
sign ; still more ominous, he-looked serious and
sympathetic. Whatever had been the feelings
with which she had regarded him formerly, she
did not like him now, and she hated him whenever
he assumed an air of sympathy.

She watched him with curious eyes as he
advanced quietly to her side. She did not rise ;
he remained standing, and the light of the lamp
fell full on their faces.

She was pale, and a little frightened ; her
eyes blinked as if the light were too much for
them.

Shall I put the shade on the lamp ? ' he
inquired considerately.

'Do not trouble yourself,' she answered,
ringing the bell as she rose.

Resentment at his intrusion had overcome
all other considerations.

I am sorry you have done that he said
coolly : ' it was unnecessary to make the servant
aware of your — escapade.'

There was no sneer in the word over which
he had hesitated, and he was undisturbed by
the summons of the servant, except on her
account. His manner was that of one who is
conscious of acting rightly and kindly under
peculiar circumstances.

It is necessary to let my husband know
that one of his guests has entered my room at
midnight uninvited.'

She was in a passion and with difficulty
subdued it to the semblance of calmness. She
did not even remember at the moment that

VOL. II. H

she was about to destroy her own plans completely.


When you direct the servant to request
your husband to come here — he is only in the
next room — I shall ask her at the same time to
desire his mother to accompany him.'

She was startled, and reminded of all that
she had been doing — all that she hoped to do.

What do you mean ? ' she asked huskily.

That I am here by her instructions to protect,
and here of my own will to assist you if
you will permit me.'

The servant knocked at the door.

It was Eapier who said 'Come in with
placid promptitude.

Dahlia swayed for a moment between her
determination to send for Stephen at once and
her anxiety not to upset her own schemes without
good reason.

Tell your master that I wish to see him at
once,' was what she had intended to say.

This was what she did say :

Tell Mrs. Meredith that I will be with her
in a few minutes.'

The servant retired, and the door was again
closed upon the two strange friends.

She had stooped to obey this man once
more. She was sorry that she had stooped;
she was ashamed of having done so. But it
was the last time, and so much depended on
her being able to carry her plans out to the
end as she had laid them ! The enforced submission
was humiliating, and that increased her
anger.

For the moment she could not speak. Her
mother-in-law had betrayed her, and that fact
added to her indignation. But for this
treachery all would have gone as she had
hoped and desired.

Poor Mrs. Meredith had been acting as she
thought most kindly and discreetly on Dahha's
behalf. She had been anxious about her,
H 2

anxious that her absence should not be discovered
; and, adopting Dahlia's own method
of construing a promise, believed that although
she had pledged herself not to let Stephen
know anything, she was not therefore bound to
be silent to everybody. >

So she had sent for Eapier, who had been
such a good friend to her and to Dahlia before
the marriage.

'You have acted most sensibly,' he said
approvingly, ' on everyone's account ; it is best
that no disturbance should be made. On the
face of it, you have every reason to be indignant
with me for being here without your
knowledge ; but permit me to explain '

I will not hear you,' she interrupted
angrily ; but changing her mind — ' Yes, I will.
What have you to say ? '

Only this : Mrs. Meredith desired me to
assist her in preventing your husband from discovering
that you had gone out at this late

hour — it is somewhat unusual, you know. She
was afraid that we would break up for the
night before you returned. I pledged myself
that they should not, and I have arranged the
party so that they are not likely to separate for
some time unless I set them free.'

Indeed ! ' (this with scornful indifference.)
Yes. I have set Carrill and Holcroft to
play Nap, Mr. Meredith to act as umpire, and
I have secretly made a wager with Carrill that
he will leave the room before he wins or loses,
ten pounds at sixpenny points. He is a stubborn
beggar, and I know that he will not rise
from his chair until he has won the wager or
I forfeit it. The expedient is simple, is it not ?
I assure you it is a completely successful one.
They have been playing now for half-an-hour,
and it will take them at least two hours more
to finish. So you are quite safe.'

I did not know that I was in any danger.

Is your explanation finished — I hope that will
not take so long as the game? '

There is only one thing more to add. I
promised Mrs. Meredith that I should wait
here for you and let you know that all was as
you wished.'

How did you know that this was the
place to wait for me ? ' she demanded sharply.

By a simple calculation : you wished to
leave the house and to return unobserved by anyone
; I remembered that the boudoir window
opened upon the lawn. I came here and
found as I expected everything cleverly arranged
for your re-entrance without giving
the servants any trouble. I have fulfilled my
promise ; your absence is known only to Mrs.
Meredith and myself.'

'I am extremely obliged.' (Oh, she was
so sarcastic ! — but writhing with vexation all
the time.) ' Is there anything more to detain
you?'

Nothing, unless you have anything to say
to me,' he answered slowly, after surveying
her face for an instant with much gravity.

I have something to say,' she burst out
indignantly, * and if it has to be repeated it
shall be by my husband.'

He bowed, and moved a chair towards her,
saying quietly :

You have been standing all this time —
now, please, do not be annoyed with me. I
really wish to be useful to you.'

And I do not require or desire your services,'
she retorted.

You said so before, and yet you sent forme,
and — I know that my coming has been of
use to you.'

She bit her lips, flushed and became pale.
This man sometimes inspired her with a kind
of superstitious awe of him ; he always hit the
truth so directly.

But she was not to turn back now. She

had made efforts to shake off his influence
before ; this time she would do it. The passion
within was strong as ever, but she spoke with
more self-command.

I wish this conversation to be our last on
a disagreeable subject,' she said. 'I do not
know what your purpose may be, but I want
you to understand clearly my position in regard
to you.'

I think I do understand it perfectly,' he
said coldly, and looking steadily into her eyes.
You once professed to — well, we shall say to
have a particular regard for me. Your lips,
your letters, declared that frequently, and you
changed your mind almost as frequently — in
fact whenever you found another who paid you
any special attention. But you were as fickle
to them as to me, only I bore with you more
patiently than they. I did not interfere. At
length came Stephen Meredith's turn, and your
own interests bound you to him.'

That is false she cried, unable to remain
silent any longer, although he had so adroitly
turned the position that she seemed to be the
culprit and he the accuser.

At first it was so ; that some stronger tie
grew within you afterwards, I believe, and on
that account I aided you to become his wife —
setting aside my own feelings and thinking
only 6f your happiness. Now that your object
is gained you would cast me out of your sight
that you might not be reminded of all this :
and yet you would have me obey your beck
whenever there arises any difficulty which you
think I can help you over.'

It was horribly true, and the man's cold,
clear voice, his merciless words, stung her
with bitter recollections of past follies.

She rested her hand on the back of the chair
which a little while ago he had offered her.

I thought — I understood — you promised
that all this was to be forgotten.'

I have no desire to remind you of it, and
would not, but that you yourself recall it.'

Since I have done so, then let me recall
more,' she said, reasserting herself, and remembering
the purpose which had caused her to
bring about this unfortunate recrimination.

Silence would be best, and it is in your
power to command it.'

I hope so — if it is not now it shall be in
the future. I must ask you to remember that
you found in me a foolish school girl. Your
friendship with Mr. Dottridge gave you frequent
opportunities of seeing me. Your attentions
flattered me, and at one time I did think
that I — liked you. It was because I had no
real love for you that I was fickle as you call
it. And you knew that my feelings were only
those of a giddy girl who had had no opportunity
of testing her own nature.'

Your protestations then were false from
the beginning ? '

False — but because I did not know what
they meant, not because I intended to be false.
You proposed a secret marriage; luckily I refused
to take that step and compelled you to
speak to my guardian.'

I did so.'

And then your conduct towards me
changed, and you agreed to sacrifice yourself
to my future well-being ! You were most generous
! Most considerate ! Do you think I do
not understand why you were so generous ? ' .

You ought to understand, for I explained
to you then what I have since proved, that my
regard for you was such that it enabled me to
place the consideration of your future before
and above any selfish ideas of my own. Besides,
you had told me with your charming
frankness that you no longer cared for me as
you used to io.'

There was a touch of contempt in voice
and look as she responded :

N,

That was not the true reason for your
ready change. When you spoke to Mr. Dot-bridge
you learned that my fortune depended
upon my marriage with Stephen Meredith —
that was the true reason for your generous
conduct ! '

It was blow for blow, but he was not in
the least disconcerted, only silent, regarding
her with an expression of admiration in his
eyes. He could afford to admire her cleverness,
his own position was so secure.
She went on : •

'You can annoy, perhaps pain my husband,
and make me miserable, by telling him
about my folly, and by showing him my
wretched, pitiful, silly letters. But you can
gain nothing by it, except the knowledge
that you have caused us suffering which you,
of your own accord, promised to spare us.
What then ? — our suffering can be only for a
time, and I shall myself be the first to tell him

everything. I would have told him before, but
that he desired me to be silent.'

And why should you disobey him now ?
Why should you imagine that I mean to break
my promise ? I have made no signs of an intention
to do so.'

You have made many signs : the threat is
always in your mind if not in your words.
You would not dare to take your place in this
room, to spy upon my actions, if it were not
that you believe you can insult me with im-^
purity because I fear what you might tell him.
You are mistaken : and once for all I warn you
that if you again presume to interfere in my
affairs, Mr. Meredith shall himself deal with
you as you deserve.'

Without a word he turned and walked
slowly towards the door.

She was conscious that in her excitement
she had expressed her defiance with unnecessary
and ineffective passion. His strange,

silent manner chilled her. She wanted to
know what he was going to do.

You understand ? ' she said impatiently, as
his hand was on the door.

I don't ; but I am going to ask Mr.
Meredith to help me,' he said quietly, and
paused.

Why are you going for him ! ' she exclaimed,
startled.

That he may hear your accusations, and
deal with me as I deserve.'

She did not speak. Surely it had become
suddenly very cold. Was it possible to bear
this extra strain .^ Would Stephen stand it at
the time when all his liking for her — she knew
it was not love yet — and his honour were about
to undergo the cruel ordeal of tomorrow?
What this man could say would pain him to
the quick ; sting him perhaps to the pitch of
frenzy in which he might speak the words she
dreaded to hear — that he could never care for

her now ; that he must hive in perpetual
regret for the haste which had caused him to
lose Euth.

That would kill her. But she would not
plead for any mercy at Eapier's hands.

After a pause, he :

Shall I go or stay ? You must speak the
one word or the other. . . . Your silence will
mean " go " to me.'

She saw Stephen's face as he listened to
this man, as he read the letters she had written
in those foolish days ; she saw his proud nature
writhing as he discovered that all the tenderness
she professed for him had been professed
for another, and he would not pause to consider
how different it all was, then and now.

Stay ! '

The word was a hysterical gasp.

'I am kinder to you than you are to yourself,'
he said, returning, and he seemed to be in
earnest. ' I have been your friend and mean

to be your friend. Therefore I have not and
never had the slightest intention of raking up
old stories which you wish to forget, and I
have no particular reason to remember. What
purpose could I serve by frightening you ? '

You have a purpose,' she said under her
breath. She checked herself there ; why
should she aggravate him by adding that she
knew he had designs of some kind upon Mr.
Dottridge's fortune, and required her aid in
some way to carry them into effect ?

'Whatever purposes I may have there is
nothing in them to harm or disturb you. You
will find out by-and-by that whatever I do will
be to your advantage.'

I want nothing from you.'

You do not know yet. But at any rate
let us get rid of this nonsensical fancy of yours
that I wish to threaten you. I am not a villain
in a melodrama, and I don't preserve a
woman's letters to use them against her when

she offends me. Your letters are all destroyed.'


Is that true ? ' she cried, her eyes flashing
with delight.

Perfectly true, but as you think so meanly
of me, my word cannot be much of a guarantee
to you. Such is the fact, however. There
may be one or two notes in my desk, and as
soon as I return to town they shall be hunted
up and sent to you. Unless you come and
search my den yourself I can give you no
better proof of the fact that your letters are
destroyed.*

There was a tinge of impatience in his
manner which was more convincing to her
than his mere assurance would have been.

I believe you, and I thank you,' she said
with real gratitude.

I am glad I am believed on that score.
Now, for another matter : are you still afraid
of my friendship ? Do you still repudiate it ? '

VOL. II. I

I never was afraid of it, and I have no
desire to reject it, since we understand the
conditions on which I can still call you
friend.'

They are understood perfectly ; and you
will find that you have more need of me than
you suspect. Your position is a troublesome
one, and I sympathise with you sincerely.*

'I do not want ' she began with an

irritable gesture of the hand.

You do not yet know what you may want.
Surely it is the part of a friend to warn you
not to do anything which may forfeit your
husband's esteem.'

That, sir, is my care.'

Certainly, but you may repeat the mistake
you have made to-night. You have been to
Kemerton making inquiries about Euth Clark ;
the time and manner in which you have done
this will suggest feelings on your part in regard
to her which may harm you in his thoughts.'

She knew that he was speaking wisely —
that he was only giving voice to her own
fears. But she said, with affected sarcasm :

What strange things you think, Mr.
Eapier ! '

'What strange things you do, Dahlia — I
beg your pardon — Mrs. Meredith. However,
I have warned you, and you will not find me
interfere again until you ask me. One thing
more I must say — there will be no real security
for your happiness until she is married.'

Ah ! If she were married ! Will she
ever marry ? '

He had struck the note which roused her
interest interest. He was right ; she would
not be assured of her happiness until Euth was
married or — dead.

I hope she will,' he replied. ' Would you
be glad ? '

I would give all I possess to bring it
about.'

i2

Then you would not refuse to help the
man who is wooing her with some prospect of
success ? '

There is nothing I would not try to do for
him!'

Then you will help me ? '

You ! ' she exclaimed, astounded. Among
all her suspicions of the motives which actuated
him, she had never thought of this one.

Yes, me ; but it is a secret as yet, only
Euth and now you know of my — ambition, we
will call it ; and I trust you will keep the secret
until you have permission to make it known.
You see I can trust you.'

And she is aware of your intention ? '

'Yes, and I have no doubt will in time
consent. Will you help me ? '

With all my heart and strength,' she answered
cordially, and she even regained a
degree of sprightliness.

Ah, we are allies and friends again, then,'

he said, smiling for the first time during the

interview, and taking her hand.

For this end, at any rate, we are allies.'
'I told you that whatever my purposes

were they were to your advantage. Should I

succeed in marrying her it will be the greatest

service I have ever done you.'

'Except in not marrying me. Goodnight.'


Mr. Eapier was content. He went into the

library to release his unconscious warders.

CHAPTEE XXXI.

IN THE Green LANE.

In all the county there was not a more picturesque
scene than the Green Lane of
Kemerton.

It had originally formed part of the cart
road to the Home Farm, but now the road
wound past it in another direction, and the green
lane was carpeted with grass. The opening
from the road was scarcely visible in the
summer time, for the hawthorn hedges grew
thick and high, and almost hid the wooden
gate, while drooping boughs of oak and beech
met over it. The high banks on each side of
the lane were overgrown with bramble, ground
ivy, periwinkle, and many varieties of fern, and

crowned with hedges which grew in unrestrained
kixury of verdure, while oaks and
elms, chestnuts, and beeches interlaced their
branches overhead. Entering by the leafy
archway, and standing in the dim mysterious
light, one might fancy oneself in some great
cathedral fashioned by Nature, or existing only
in Dreamland.

About half way through the lane the high
banks ceased, and the hedges curved gently
outwards, forming a semicircle on either side
Inner semicircles of holly bushes grew at the
edge of what seemed to be a natural hollow, in
which the turf was as smooth as that on a well-kept
lawn. Tradition ascribed the formation
of this ring to the fairies, but it had really
been the fanciful idea of a former mistress of
Kemerton. A fallen tree lay on one side, and
served as a seat for those who wished to linger
in the Holly Bush Eing; mosses and ferns
flourished round its sloping banks. The elm

that had replaced the fallen veteran was still so
young that its arms could not reach the great
chestnut over the way, and so it came to pass
that one side of the Holly Bush Eing was
shaded, while the other was bright in sunlight
or moonlight.

It had been a favourite resort of Dahha's
when at Kemerton, and she had had a rough
shelter constructed under the chestnut tree, in
which she spent many a summer afternoon
reading lazily or falling asleep, for it was cool
and restful there with the thick foliage gently
rustling overhead, and the drowsy hum of the
insects lulling one to slumber. There was an
invisible brooklet, too, that babbled stories to
the flowers. She had even had a gap cleverly
made in the hedge behind the Holly Bushes, so
that she might take a short way home through
the fields.

In the springtime the lane was bright and
merry with the gay twittering of the happy

birds, and the shadows flickering on the soft
green turf. Then the tender leaves were not
big enough to keep out the strong sun's rays
which darted in to kiss the modest flowers
hiding in the shady banks. When winter with
its relentless Puritanism had dismantled the
great cathedral, King Frost would often turn it
into a fairy palace by weaving a roof of snow ;
but the sun would melt it away, and there
remained only the framework traced clearly
against the sky in the moonlight. «

The old and unromantic were prosaic
enough to call the Green Lane a damp, cold-catching
place, and carefully avoided it in
winter and at eventide. On the day Dahlia
had fixed for the meeting, however, there was
no need to fear the damp, for the ground was
hard bound by the frost and the grass crunched
crisp beneath the feet of walkers. The dark
trunks of the trees rose on either side like
rough columns from their continuous pedestal

of bank and hedge, while the arching branches
were silvered by the hoar frost and glistened at
intervals in the morning sunshine. In the Holly
Bush Eing itself King Frost had been working
with a will, for the prickly leaves were cased
in silver and sparkling with diamonds, and the
red berries flushed a brighter red with exultation.


Into the Green Lane stepped Stephen Meredith
a little before noon. He was walking
briskly ; exercise in the keen bracing atmosphere
sent the blood dancing healthfully through his
veins, and made a glow on his cheeks, which
had been somewhat pale of late. The exhilarating
influence of the atmosphere caused him,
as he marched along, to whistle involuntarily
snatches of old country melodies for which he
had a fancy. He used to whistle always as he
walked through the fields before misfortune
had laid its hand so heavily on Derewood.

But the heaviest sorrow cannot keep its

perch steadily on healthy shoulders. A brisk
walk on such a day as this, with a gleam or
two of hope to help the winter sun to brighten
the landscape, and care is unhorsed, for the
time at least, whilst the nerves are strengthened
for future combat with him.

The cattle plague had been stamped out ;
the stock of Derewood was as large and as
notable as ever, the failure of the last year's
crop would probably be redeemed by the
bounty of the coming season. The threatened
ruin had been averted, and good luck appeared
to have come back to the place since Stephen's
marriage with ]gallia. There was much for
which he had to be grateful to her, and every
reason to try to forget — as he was trying with all
his might — the one great shadow which lay upon
his heart, and which no light could dispel.

Dahha had been looking prettier than ever
that morning, and, laughing, he had told her
that she had skipped back into childhood, and

he was afraid she was going to become the
romping girl who used to tease him by her
pranks and capers.

Do you really think that, Stephen ! ' she
cried, clapping her hands gleefully.

I don't think it — I am afraid of it,' was
the joking reply.

Then she came up to him with mock
solemnity and placed her hands on his
shoulders, gazing into his eyes with an earnestness
which even he, altogether off his guard,
could see was not assumed.

'Then, sir, be still more afraid, for I am
going to have a frolic this very day.'

Don't do anything desperate,' he said,
laughing at her whimsical manner.

I am not going to do it at all — you are todo
it ! '

Me ? How ? '

You are not to ask any questions ; you are
to obey — that is if you want to please me.'

And she pouted so prettily that he was
obliged to kiss her.

Of course I want to please you, and I am
ready to obey this mysterious command, even
if it be to go and fight the dragon of Wanted.'

Her quick wit caught at the suggestion, and
she felt the full force of the allegory, although
he had no suspicion of its existence.

It is a dragon you have to fight and kill,'
she said, still presenting to him that air of
whimsical solemnity she had assumed. ' Listen :
you are to go to the Holly Bush Eing, in the
Green Lane of Kemerton. There where the
fairies assemble at nights to hold high revel
and lurk all day unseen by the vulgar eyes of
man — there you are to present yourself this
day at fifteen minutes before noon precisely.
You are to take your stand where the old tree
lies — you remember how often you found me
there reading wicked books ? There you must
remain until you can see the queen of the fairies

in my green bower and hear what strange
things she has to tell yon.'

I suppose you are to meet me there. But
what has put this fancy into your head ? '

Eemember, no questions,' she said, holding
up her finger admonitory. ' Will you be a
good boy, and do as you are bid — to please
me?'

To be sure I will, and I can arrange to be
thereabout at the time you mention.'

You must not be thereabout — you must be
in the place I mean, precisely at the hour I
name.'

Very well,' he said, much amused by her
drollery, and concluding that she had made this
mysterious assignation with him only in order
that they might have a short ramble together in
the favourite haunt of her girlhood.

So about the appointed time he was tramping
up the Green Lane towards the Holly Bush
Eing, and whistling as he went.

The sun flashed through the bare branches
overhead, and their shadows made beautiful
patterns on the crisp turf. The banks and the
hedgerows completely screened from his view
the park on one side and the ploughed fields on
the other. An occasional gap revealed to him
a long stretch of green or ridges of red earth,
according to the side on which it opened.

He met no one, and on entering the famous
Holly Bush Eing he found nobody waiting.
He was a little after the precise moment she
had insisted upon, and he had expected to find
Dahlia seated on the fallen tree, prepared with
a playful scolding for his tardiness.

But there was no sign of her, and he began
to wonder if she had been only jesting all the
time and did not mean to come at all.

Had it been the first of April he would
have concluded at once that such was the case.
He seated himself for a few minutes od the
fallen tree and meditated in what manner he

could pay her out for keeping him waiting in
the cold. If he could only hear her coming he
might sHp behind one of the inner lines of holly
and suddenly rushing out upon her, pretend
to be a satyr seizing his favourite nymph in the
wood.

He rose to take a look up and down the
lane. He advanced towards the corner formed
where the semicircle sprung from the straight
line of the hedge, and he saw a lady descending
slowly into the hollow of the ring.

He halted : that was not Dahlia ; and yet
the outline of that graceful form in its quiet
black dress was familiar to him.

His heart seemed to stand still and he felt
giddy. Surely this was no deception of the
senses !

The lady was looking away from him, as if
her attention had been attracted by something
on the other side of the lane. She turned towards
him, and he recognised Euth.

CHAPTEE XXXII.

THE HOLLY BUSH RING.

They stood, these two old friends, with a look
of horror upon their faces. Their hearts gave
one wild bound, then stopped, and presently
began to beat again with that violence which i^
felt in throat and head.

Brought thus suddenly face to face at a spot
so well known to them, the old time flashed
back upon them — they lived in it again — they
were lovers again, but conscious of the heavy
shadow which lay over them.

It was a cruel moment, in which each lived
the past over again.

How bright it was with hope ; how brave
were his resolves ; how noble her devotion

VOL. n. K

They were to join hands, and so strive through
life together, taking the good with the bad, and
always content, sure that in calm or storm,
love was their mainstay. There would be frost,
of course, but spring and summer would come,
and with them the new life of the year, showing
that love had only been gathering strength to
prove itself more beautiful than ever.

Then the autumn, with its many colours and
its rich harvest, gathered in ; they, lovers still,
and still hand in hand, looking back upon an
honest life, happy in each other.

Ay, it was a pleasant time in which they had
dreamed this sweet dream.

Merciless memory brought next the bitter
reality. To Euth the bitter parting. Then to
him the story of her death, and his marriage :
to her, the terrible voyage in the Eucalyptus ;
the wreck ; the weary yearning to get home, to
him; and then the real death-stroke in the
tidings that he was married I

God forgive me,' she had cried, in the first
moment of wild despair. ' I think I could have
borne better to have heard that he was dead.'

And now they stood there in the Holly Bush
Eing with all these memories passing like an
electric panorama through their minds : friends
only they must be outwardly, but lovers in
heart.

After that first cruel moment his impulse
was to clasp her in his arms, to kiss her wildly
and cry out for joy that he was permitted to
see her safe again ; and hers was to sink upon
the ground and moan that she had not stayed
with the brave old captain and his wife, and so
have been spared this meeting.

But they did not obey their impulse.

He advanced slowly, and in the strange
stillness which seemed to have fallen on the
place the crunching sound which his steps made
on the frosty earth was loud and discordant in
their ears,

I 2

They could not speak, and their hands
trembled as* they met. He led her to the fallen
tree, and even m that moment of trial, the
mind mechanically attending to such a trifle of
courtesy, he threw his handkerchief on the
trunk, making a seat for her.

She was glad to sit down, for her limbs
were faint. She needed a rest, and, bowing
her head, she sought strength to bear this interview.


He stood looking at her, and trying to find
speech. At length, one word broke the spell
of silence :
'Euth!'

She could not help trembling at the sound
of his voice, it was so full of pain and love.

She rose, calm now, and looked earnestly
into his eyes. He took both hands into his
own, and kissed her. That was their welcome
and their parting as lovers, for as their lips met
they were conscious that it was for the last
time.

I did not expect to see you here, Stephen,'
she said, finding voice, too, now, and the sound
thrilled through him, filling him with sad longing,
as the music of an old familiar air fills the exile
with home-sickness and visions of his distant
friends. ' It was Dahlia I came to meet.'

You know all. . . . This is some foolish
fancy of hers — meaning in her good nature to
give us a pleasant surprise — I am afraid she
has caused us both unnecessary pain.'

It would have been better if we had be
prepared for this meeting,' Euth replied; adding
in a low voice, ' Better still, perhaps, if we had
never met again.'

Never met again ! — did you wish that,
Euth?'

At anv rate, we should not have met so
soon. I did not intend to see you until we had
both had time to realise the new position in
which we stand. We are friends now, Stephen
good, true friends.'

Yes, friends — only friends.'

He spoke with a manly effort to control
himself, and to accept the position calmly, as
she was doing.

We cannot hope to find it easy to do that
at first,' she went on ; 'we cannot hope to meet
at first without painful remembrances ; but by-and-by
we will have overcome them, and we
will have learned to be grateful.'

He could not stand that ; her voice was
faltering, and he knew that she was trying to
say what she did not feel in the vain hope of
comforting him.

Don't speak that way, Ruth,' he said, with
subdued passion in voice and look ; ' don't
speak that way. We have made a terrible
blunder of our lives. I want to do as you
would wish me to do — walk straight and faithfully
through the future as it is made for us,
different though it is from what we expected it
to be. But the blunder will not be mended by

trying to deceive ourselves. I cannot pretend
to be grateful. I never shall be. I curse the
day you vent away. I curse the day you returned
to find me separated from you. It was
a blunder. I will do my best to bear the consequences
honestly. But let there be no shamming
about it. I love you, Euth, now as ever.
I always will love you, and you only.'

Stephen, Stephen,' she cried, holding up
her hands and trying to stop him, ' this is
madness.'

I know it,' he answered, with bitter calmness,
' it is madness, and who knows where it
may end ? But, oh, Euth, it would be greater
madness to pretend that I do not love you, withall
my heart and soul. No woman can ever
hold your place in my life.'

A robin, which had been hopping from twig
to twig round the Eing, halting occasionally to
vent some louder note than usual of its plaintive
winter song, suddenly flew away as if

something behind the hedge had frightened it.
The light, cold breeze carried with it a sob
which had not come from Euth or Stephen.

They were both very pale, and again silent,
after his outburst of passionate truth. She
knew and felt that it was truth — felt it in herself,
although she restrained the words which
would have expressed the same fact that he had
proclaimed on his side

And no man can hold your place in my
life ! '

That was the cry which rang in her brain,
but she did not give it voice. What had been
in her eyes a noble self-sacrifice was transformed
into a crime, under the glare of his fiery
words.

What was the ghastly crime they had committed
? They had murdered Love ; and he
did not know yet how much greater her guilt
was than his. She stood appalled at it now.
When he came to know he would curse her

perhaps as he had cursed the day of their
separation.

She almost wished that he would do it at
once, so that in his contempt for her folly he
might cease to care for her. Ay, it would
have been well for them if she had not left the
ship.

With pale, trembling lips she spoke :

I have done wrong, Stephen — wrong in
going away, wrong in coming back. Forgive
me.'

Forgive me,' he answered, ' if you can.
Had I been faithful as you have been, we would
not be in this horrible position now.'

His self-accusation tortured her.

You are not to blame — you could not
know that I had escaped.'

You said that you would come back in a
year ; I should have waited. I should have
had faith in your pledge and waited, no matter
what proof was given to me that you were lost.

You have kept your word ; you have come
back and you find me false.'

No, no, Stephen, not that '

What else can we call it ? Shall I try to
excuse myself and tell you that, believing you
dead, I did not care what happened ? That is
true. T was told that it was in my power to
make one who had been a generous, devoted
friend happy. I was glad to be of some use
and and so it came about God
help us, Euth — I cannot help myself
Poor Dahlia ! '

That exclamation gave Euth strength, and
helped her to see what was to be done.

For her sake you must try — we must both
try — to think as little of the past as we can.
We must part now and — it is so hard to say it,
Stephen ! '

She almost broke down there, notwithstanding
the firm hold she was striving to keep on
her emotion.

'Say what?'

That we must not meet again ; at any
rate, not until years have enabled us to think
calmly of our blunder ; not until we are able
to clasp hands with the feeling that we are
true friends.'

Then this is our last meeting,' he said, ' for
that time can never come to me.'

I believe it will come to us both,' she went
on, earnestly; and with an effort to smile
through her tears : ' Who knows yet whether »
blunder has been made after all? The real
blunder is that I am alive, and I do not suppose
that you will say that you are sorry I escaped
from the wreck.'

You have not escaped it — you are in the
midst of the real wreck now,' he replied. ' I
doubt if either of us will see land again.'

We can do our best, and if we are to sink
let it be whilst trying our best to reach a safe
haven.'

She spoke bravely, and his eyes were fixed
upon her with tender admiration. He drew
her arm within his own, holding her hand.

I have said as much already ; I mean todo
my best to keep from sinking, but I know
that there is no land for me. My duty will be
done, I hope. There will be comfort in knowing
that you are alive — comfort in striving to
please you although we are parted.'

In that way you will help me, too.'

Then there will be comfort in thinking
that should trouble beset me you can still
counsel me, and that in time of need I can see
you.'

Do not speak of that.'

'No, not at present. But I am so bewildered
by all that has happened, I have not
yet asked you how it was that the news of your
loss travelled so fast and the news of your safety
so slowly.'

I cannot explain ; but it was no doubt

partly due to the speed with which ill news
always travels. Partly because we were so
long detained in the bush before we arrived at
a place from which we could send the good
news.'

Tell me about it,' he said, looking into her
face with sad yearning eyes.

You have heard what Smith had to tell
you, and there is little to add. The exploring
party we were fortunate enough to come upon
made every arrangement for us.'

What became of your wounded companion
? '

There was some hesitation in ]her manner,
but it was so brief that he did not observe it.

He was carried to a shepherd's shanty on
the nearest sheep run. There we remained
until our friends returned from their exploration.
By that time he had recovered, and we
accompanied them to Sydney. After seeing
my uncle I took passage for England.'

I suppose you left your friend Harrison at
the Antipodes ? '

No, he came home, too. But I must tell
you of all these things at another time, Stephen ;
I am not able to do it to-day.'

Then we are to meet again,' he cried joyfully,
and forgetting that he had ever heard the
name of Harrison or had ever felt any curiosity
regarding him.

I do not think we should,' was the answer,
and there was a weary look of sorrow on her
calm, white face, which instantly recalled to his
mind the cruel position in which they now
stood.

When did you arrive ? '

His voice was husky and his head bowed,
for the parting was near. He, too, felt that
they ought not to meet again at present.

Only this morning. I did not mean to
stir out of doors, and certainly not to see you
until you had been prepared to see me. Perhaps

it is as well that we have been taken by
surprise — it is well that it is over. Now we
must say good-bye.'

Not yet — I have so much to say — so much
to hear, Euth.'

I cannot speak any more,' she answered,
and the strength which had enabled her to
maintain a calm bearing throughout was fast
giving way.

I cannot leave you yet. I will walk as far
as the house.'

No, let us part here. Good-bye, Stephen.'

She spoke resolutely, and yet the voice was
tremulous, and the eyes were full of tears.
She knew that in a few minutes more she would
break down altogether.

'I cannot speak the word,' he answered,
distractedly. ' You forced it from me once —
I cannot speak it again.' Then, seeing the
piteous look which answered his reproach, he
added hastily, ' Forgive me, Euth, I am not

master of my thoughts or tongue. I did hold
up stoutly after you went away, for I knew
that you would come back, and you would find
me faithful. Then came the news of your
death — confirmed on every hand — and my
despair made me indifferent to everything. It
was no matter to me whether I married or not ;
and if I did it was little matter who should be
my wife. You return ; you find me false and
I am doubly so, for in my love for you I am
false to her. Why was no sign made to me
before it was too late ! '

Too weak to resist, too strong to submit to
his love, the pain of the struggle in the man's
heart was intensified by the consciousness of
honest purpose in all that he had done.

Not false or faithless ye Stephen, and the
future is still under your control.'

• There was a beauty in her sad, white face
as she spoke the earnest words in a low, firm
voice that made him pause.

'You are right,' he said, striving hard to
subdue his agitation ; ' the future is still under
our control. There, we'll do the best we can
with it. I will be calmer next time we meet ;
calmer and stronger the time after that ; and soit
will go on, until by-and-by I may be able to
take your hand without feeling the bitterness
of my loss. I do not say good-bye, only good-day,
for I expect to see you tomorrow. We
must not shun our danger, but face it boldly,
and so overcome it.'

Brave words ; but they are not wise who
fight unnecessary battles.

They clasped hands and parted. She going
back to Kemerton alone, he standing in the
Holly Bush Eing with eyes fixed upon the
ground until he knew that when he raised
them he would not see her and be tempted to
follow.

Then he sat down on the fallen tree, and
fancy endowed it with sympathetic symbolism ;

VOL. II. L

the tempest had torn it from its place and cast
it on the ground ; yet even in that position it
was not altogether useless. He, too, had been
torn by the tempest from his proper place, but
ne might be useful ; he could be true.

Poor Dahlia ! How was he to hide from
her what was so deeply impressed on his own
mind, that happiness could never be his apart
from Euth. Resignation to duty is a sorry
substitute for love.

CHAPTEE XXXIII.

PURGATORY.

Se did not return to the Grange until late that
afternoon.

Dahha, from a window, saw him approaching.
She had been watching for hours ^
She noted that his steps were short and quick,
that his head was bowed on his breast. She
did not go down to meet him.

Her eyes were swollen and the lids inflamed
; but she had not been crying. It
would have been well if that safety-valve of
the emotions had been opened for her. She
was very pale and restless.

How many years had she been waiting in
that room for him to come back ? She did not

t2

knew, but it seemed to her that they would
number a long lifetime ; that she had grown
old and haggard in face, and shrivelled in
person, whilst waiting, although measured by
the clock only a few hours had passed since
she had played that little bit of farce with him
this morning to carry out her practical joke !
Yet she had grown very old and ugly in the
interval — so ugly! She felt it in herself and
there was the mirror confirming it !

How could she expect him to care for her ?
He must despise such a poor frivolous creature.
she had some vague sense that the ugliness
which oppressed her so cruelly was, in her
thought and not her person.

She had been waiting — frenzied with jealousy
and full of dire imaginings at one moment ;
humble, trembling, and ashamed at another —
resolved to speak frankly to him ; to show him
that she could even sympathise with him for
his misfortune in having married one he could

not care for, and to tell him how hard she
would try to soothe the pain of his regret by
reminding him as little as possible of her existence.
She would follow in his steps, like Burt
Helen in the ballad, his devoted slave, grateful
for any kind look or smile that might be cast
to her. . . . She would be a pythoness, and
tear them both to pieces !

These strange fits of changing passion exhausted
and bewildered her, but one thought
predominated : she wanted to see him back
and speak to him.

Now he had come, and she did not go to
him.

She had seen them kiss ; she had heard
fragments of their conversation ; she had not
waited for the close of the interview ; she had
been too much afraid that the impulse to spring
out upon them would prove too strong for her,
and she had run away

She had heard that one terrible phrase, —

'No woman can ever hold your place in
my life ! '

Did anyone ever hear sentence of death
pronounced and forget it, although pardoned,
and permitted to live years afterwards ? Her
death sentence had been pronounced, and she
herself had arranged the trial.

Was he angry with her P Was he thinking
of her at all ? Would he accept her explanation
that she had only brought about the unexpected
meeting with the desire to afford him
'pleasure and to prove her confidence in him P
Or would he see the deeper motive and scorn
her ? Would he comprehend that she had
purposely schemed to take them unawares in
order to test them — to satisfy herself whether
his love for Euth was strong as ever ?

And she had been satisfied. Now, what
was the future to be for her ?

She sprang to her feet trembling as she
beard a footstep on the passage without ; then

a hand placed on the door. She knew it was
Stephen.

The door was locked and he could not
enter. She had bathed her face many times
during the last hour, but she hastened to do it
again. She shrank timidly behind the door as
she opened it for him.

He was as pale as herself, and very calm.
There was no angry scowl upon his face, no
fierce words of reproach on his lips ; but there
was a great sorrow in his whole presence. She
experienced that sense of awe with which
Mystery always fills the mind.

With the grave gentleness of a parent, who
is sympathising with the affliction of a child for
which he can offer no relief, he took her in his
arms and kissed her.

You should not have done this, Dahlia,'
were the only reproachful words he uttered.

She was astounded at first : his conduct
was so different from everything she had

imagined it would be : then like a child she
trembled, hid her face on his breast, and
sobbed.

Oh, Stephen, I did not mean to do any
harm.'

I am sure of that — I am sure of that,' he
answered, comfortingly. 'It is an unhappy
position for us all ; we must do what we can to
prevent it being made any worse.'

He had worked out the problem of how he
was to act, and the solution proved to be a
simple enough one in theory when stated
plainly ; but he could not shut his eyes to the
fact that it might be difficult for them all to act
their parts faithfully. This was the solution :

He was to be kinder than ever to Dahlia,
more tolerant of her faults, more watchful over
his own, and in that way make up as far as it
was in the power of man for the love he could
never give her.

Ruth should be as his sister : he would not

avoid meeting her, although he would not seek
her. Dahha and she should be friends, as they
had been before — but, closer and dearer friends
and in their friendship bury all thought of
rivalry. That was the course he had sketched
out for their future, and he believed they could
traverse it steadily ; for Euth was strong and
noble; Dahlia was affectionate and generous,
as she had shown in so many ways by her
interest in his affairs when there had seemed
no probability that she could ever be his wife.
For himself, he believed that his desire to be
worthy of the esteem of Euth would enable
him to do his part.

At any rate he could see no other way by
which they could have the least hope of
amending the miserable blunder which had
been made.

Therefore he had come to Dahlia, not to
chide her for the trick played upon him — a
much more dangerous trick on her own account

than she could have suspected, or she
would never have perpetrated it — but to show
her that he had encountered the shock and
survived it.

But, as the first sensation of wonder at his
calm bearing wore off, the woman-nature reasserted
itself within her. Looking up through
her tears and smiling coquettishly, she said : —

But you were pleased to see her, Stephen ?
You were glad to have her back again, and
you were not sorry — now, confess — you were
not really very sorry that you were able to see
her alone in such a nice trysting-place without
having little me in the way.'

This jesting manner of dealing with a subject
of such perilous importance to them all
jarred on his mind in spite of the plain course
which was so clearly defined before him.

I was glad to see her,' he replied, quietly ;
glad to have an opportunity of speaking to her
alone, for we had much to say to each other—

much more than we were able to say in the
time. There are many things which I should
like her to explain, but in the confusion of that
strange meeting I forgot all about them. However,
there will be plenty of opportunities to
satisfy our curiosity.'

Dahlia had been wiping her eyes whilst he
spoke, and now they looked at him in wide
astonishment.

Plenty of opportunities ! I thought she
was going away again almost immediately P '

I did not hear about that. But if she
intended to do so we cannot allow her. You
must ask her here, and if she is not to remain
at Kemerton we must get her to stay with us
for a few weeks.'

I ask her to stay with us ! '

Certainly, why not ? '

He was so sure of them — so sure of himself
that he saw nothing more incongruous in asking

Euth to stay with them than if he had said
one of his sisters.

Dahha's face underwent one of those rapid
changes which were common to her April
nature.

Of course — why not,' she said smiling and
drawing back from him. ' Now that we have
got hold of this strange lady of the sea we
must not let her go again. We must have her
here — I am sure mother and the girls will like
it, too. I shall write to her at once.'

CHAPTER XXXIV.

WHAT OUGHT TO BE DONE?

It is so easy to see what ought to be done
under the peculiar circumstances of a neighbour
; so difficult to do it when one's self is
placed under the conditions which demand
the right action.

Any sensible person — Mr. Basket for instance
— would have told Stephen that when
his emotions were so strongly roused by the
presence of Euth he was an idiot to go near
her. Any sensible person would have ridiculed
that notion of the higher nature that it
was nobler and wiser to meet danger than runaway
from it. But to the soldier engaged in
the combat only the result can decide whether

he has been truly brave or Kindly foolhardy.


Euth said as she was hurrying out of the
Green lane :

He is very brave — he is so strong. He
thinks me strong too, and I am so weak — I
am afraid of myself. . . . We cannot meet
without pain — we must not meet after what
he has said.'

She was not afraid to acknowledge herself
a coward. She was excited and nervous, and
not at all like the brave woman who had
inspired the hardy seamen of the Eucalyptus
with admiration of her courage and endurance.


Luckily she had drawn her veil closely
over her face before going into the house, for
Mr. Brassey met her and was uncomfortably
attentive. The good man did not know
how to show enough of the pleasure he felt
in seeing her safe at Kemerton. He regarded

her with as much pride as if she belonged to
him, and felt that he himself was dignified by
her wonderful travels and adventures.

Mr. Dottridge bade me say that he should
be glad to see you when you are at leisure,
Miss Clarke

She bowed and was passing on.

Mr. Dottridge has had lunch ; may I
bring something to you ? '

Nothing, thank you.*

Mr. Brassey shook his head with melancholy
disapproval as she went quickly upstairs.


In my considerable experience of life,' he
observed to himself, 'I never knew things
going right when vittles are not taken regular.
Vittles are the main spring of human nature's
clockwork, and when the hands don't point to
regular hours for regular meals there's something
wrong with the machinery.'

It had been Euth's intention to go straight

to her own room to rest and recover from the
agitation caused by the interview with Stephen,
but she had to pass the door of the study, and
the message Brassey had delivered being still
in her ears, she paused.

A moment's reflection : a quick resolve —
she would go to him at once. He should see
for himself what she had to suffer in returning
to Kemerton.

Mr. Dottridge was standing on the hearth-rug
before a cheery fire, reading a letter. He
was not the same man who had occupied that
room little more than a year ago. Although
the complexion was still sallow, and the cheeks
somewhat hollow, the long intellectual features
gave no special indication of ill-health.
His eyes were bright and no longer required
the protection of a shade.

As she entered he turned with a pleasant
smile, but when her veil was raised the smile
changed to an expression of anxiety.

Euth — what has happened ? ' he exclaimed.
The voice was a kindly one, with a
note of sadness in it as he added, ' You need
not answer. You have seen him. . I did
not think you were in such haste.'

She did not heed the reproach. Pallid,
and her heart so frozen that the genial atmosphere
of the room could not thaw it, she
stood for a brief space looking at him, trying
to regain command of her tongue, so that her
words might be uttered distinctly.

It was an accident,' she said at length, ina
low voice, as she handed him Dahlia's
letter.

He examined it curiously, and seemed
relieved at sight of the penmanship. When
he had read it, the smile began to appear on
his face again.

You have seen them both, then ? It was
a very sensible and clever arrangement of hers
to have the meeting at once, and get the awk-

VOL. II. M

hardness rubbed off quickly. I did not give
her credit for so much wit. Come, sit down
and tell me all that occurred. I see the meeting
has distressed you, whatever they may
have felt.'

You are mistaken,' she rejoined, advancing
nearer to him ; but she did not sit down ; ' I
did not see her — only him.'

He looked at the letter, and then at her.

Was it a trick of his ? '

No, he was not even aware that we had
arrived. He believed, as I do, that it was a
piece of thoughtless kindness on her part to
give us an agreeable surprise. It was unfortunate.'


There was silence.

She was again thinking how strange it was
that the reasons which a year ago appeared to
her so strong and complete for her leaving
England should now appear to have been so
utterly insufficient as to place her in the position

of one who had committed a great and irremediable
crime against three persons — Stephen
Meredith, Dahha Whitcombe, and herself.

True, accident had marred all her calculations.
Had Stephen married, knowing her to
be alive, she would then only have had to
carry out the plan with which she had started,
and congratulate herself upon having been able
by her own self-sacrifice to advance his fortunes
so materially. But there were the wreck
and the report of her death ; her return and
the declaration from his own hips that in spite
of their altered position his love was the same
as ever. That meant ruin to his life, misery
to herself and to others, unless she could find
some way of helping him to overcome what
was now worse than folly — worse than absolute
madness.

Had it not been for the wreck she would
have returned and found him waiting — she was
sure of that now, if she had ever doubted it—

and then no matter what poverty they might
have had to encounter, she would have hesitated
no longer to cost him the loss of the fortune
promised by his cousin. She would have devoted
all her life to him. But the accident of
the wreck had altered all that.

If she had only heard of the marriage
before she left Australia she would never have
returned to England, notwithstanding the appeals
of Mr. Dottridge and her desire to be
kind to him after all he had hazarded and done
on her account. Indeed that might have
served as another reason for her staying at the
Antipodes, although it was scarcely worth
counting, as she was conscious that he would
most probably have said, ' Very well — I shall
stay, too.'

No tidings of the event awaited her, however,
when she reached Sydney nine months
after sailing from Greenhithe. There was one
letter from Stephen — written shortly after her

departure — Ml of tender thoughts, high hopes,
and earnest longing for the period of banishment
to pass. There was another from Eapier,
written later, in his gayest and airiest style,
telling her amongst other trifles that the wooing
sped merrily, and that she must return
before the year was out if she did not wish to
be too late to prevent the match, which he was
confident would be made.

There were no letters for her after these.
She expected a telegram from Stephen upon
hearing Harry Smith's message, and there was
none. She proposed to telegraph the good
news of her safety, and Mr. Dottridge said,

Very well ; but this is scarcely holding to
the spirit of our compact. If you are to make
the trial a complete one, as I bargained it
should be, you ought to do no more than you
have already done. Unless your messenger
Smith has been very unfortunate he ought to
be in England now, and Meredith ought to
have had a message waiting for you.*

And there would have been had Smith
arrived.*

• Do as you will ; but if I could prevent you
sending the message, I would.'

Then she had hesitated for a little, not
liking to cause him any pain that might be
spared ; but in this instance there was no help
for it.

It would be cruel, as well as unjust, to
keep them in suspense. I must send the message.
Had you been at home what would you
have said of me if I had not taken the first
opportunity of letting you know of my safety? '

Very unpleasant things, no doubt. That
suggests a way to overcome my chief objection.
I do not want you to be communicating directly
with Stephen, and in the natural order of
things, had I been at home, you would have
sent the message to me, as your guardian, to
spread the news — because, you know, even the
richest people don't send different telegrams

where one will serve when they haVe to pay
half-a-guinea a word for them. Now, you are
not supposed to be aware of my absence from
home. So, address the telegram to me at
Kemerton ; that will serve your purpose as
well as if you sent it direct, and gratify me.'

But then it will not be opened.*

Of course it will. Eapier has charge of
all letters and telegrams at Kemerton — Bass-next
attends to the rest.'

I do not like Mr. Eapier. I should much
prefer that he had nothing to do with my
affairs.'

But in this case it is my affairs he is attending
to. Surely you will not permit that
prejudice to stand in the way of pleasing me.'

So the telegram was addressed to Humphrey
Dottridge, but neither Stephen nor Bass-next
had yet heard anything about it.

A reply was received from Eapier expressing
in his own and Mr. Dottridge's name great

joy at the good news, and hoping that her
friends might speedily have the happiness of
welcoming her home. Nothing was said about
Stephen and Dahlia, for the reason that the
sender desired Euth to return to England, and
was satisfied that she would not do so if assured
that his prophecy had been fulfilled. It
was not until they reached London that the
fact of the marriage was made known to her,
and Stephen's cry — ' Why was no sign made tome
before it was too late .^ ' — found an echo in
her brain. Why was it that he had not heard
that she lived ?

Could it be that Mr. Dottridge had for his
own purposes persuaded her to send the message
to Kemerton so that he might be able to
keep the news from Stephen until it was too
late?

She did not like the suspicion, and tried to
put it away from her ; but it would not be put
away. The ugly question kept constantly running

through all these other thoughts as she
stood there before the cheery fire, feeling so
cold and miserable.

He was thinking as he watched her face
earnestly :

Is this only the effect of temporary weakness,
or is this love for him so strong that she
cannot overcome it ? '

And he marvelled that the woman who had
displayed the mental vigour of a strong man —
aye, and the physical endurance of one, too,
when the occasion demanded it — should display
so much infirmity because an event had
happened which she had been in many ways
prepared to expect, and to which she at one
time professed herself willing to submit patiently
if it should happen.

But then she had in her heart believed that
it was impossible, and the circumstances which
had brought about this event were of such a
nature that her faith in Stephen was as unshaken
as his love for her was unchanged.

It will depend on yourself, Euth,' said
Mr. Dottridge, gently, ' whether or not this
unexpected meeting was unfortunate. You
have one satisfaction in it, that you would both
speak without premeditation, and any angry
words on either side will readily be forgiven on
reflection.'

'We did not speak in anger. It would
have been better if we had.'

Then what has distressed you so much ?
What was the result ? '

He spoke with timid eagerness. She regarded
him with cold, firm eyes.

The result has been to confirm me in what
I said to you long ago — that your plan was a
cruel and a wicked one for us all.'

I am sorry that you think so still. Selfish
it was, as I owned at the first, but nothing
more, as the result has proved, unless you
choose to make it so.'

The result is due to falsehood on the part
of some one.'

Falsehood ? '

Why was it that Stephen heard nothing of
the message from Sydney ? '

Heard nothing of the message ! ' he ejaculated,
amazed ; then . he frowned, and his expression
became stern as her own. ' I understand
your suspicion — it is natural. For the
moment I can only answer that I do not know.
But Eapier will be here to-night, and from him.
I shall demand a full explanation. The date
of the marriage, however, may show that the
arrival of the telegram could have been of no
consequence. The instructions it conveyed,
however, were that all friends were to be informed
of your safety.'

There was no doubting his sincerity ; heat
any rate, was innocent of any jugglery in
the matter of the telegram.

Forgive me,' she said, agitatedly ; ' I should

not have come to you at present, but I wished
you to judge for yourself whether or not you
can hope for any good to come of it if you
insist upon keeping me to my promise to stay
here three months. I do not know what todo
; I do not know what ought to be done ! '

You must sit down and try to cain yourself,
Euth,' he said, with all his usual gentleness
in addressing her, ' and I will try to show you
what may be done to mend whatever mistakes
have been made by me — by you, or by
others.'

CHAPTEE XXXV.

WHAT MAY BE DONE.

There are occasions in every life when things
appear very bad on the surface, provocative of
much anxiety and distress, but still apparently
conquerable by earnest endeavour, whilst at
the same time there is a strong under-current
of vague feeling — not thought — that here is
something on which depends the good or ill-fortune
of the future, and which we ourselves
are yet powerless to direct with certainty
aright. It is the same feeling as that experienced
by one in a boat at sea ; in storm
and darkness, steering as he believes towards
land and safety, and yet conscious that he maybe
driving fast towards destruction. We

never are conscious of the real crises of our
lives until they are past, and the happy or
unhappy inspiration of the moment has won
success or disaster.

So with Humphrey Dottridge, the man who
had been so old in worldly success and physical
and mental pain, and who was so young in
hope and renewed health. So with Euth
Clark, the woman who had been so wise in
her love and self-sacrifice, and who was, in the
miscarriage of her plans, so like a helpless
child in the midst of a heap of cherished but
broken toys. They knew that they had much
trouble to encounter, and what was visible
they could deal with ; but there was the vague
feeing which neither could shape into words that
much more depended on the course they should
at present adopt than they were able at the
moment to divine.

In this extremity they could only follow
the good old rule which has directed so many

Others to haven or to quicksand — accept what
they saw and ' make the best of it.' This was
how Mr. Dottridge began :

I do not believe any man was ever able to
give perfectly impartial advice in a matter
which affected his own dearest interests. At
any rate I will not pretend even to think that
1 am doing so, although I believe that your
happiness, Euth, holds the first place in all my
considerations. Of course, at the same time,
I believe, because I wish to believe, that your
happiness lies with me. So, we will start with
this clear understanding, that I am an honestly
selfish adviser.'

Euth was looking vacantly at the wall, and
scarcely seemed to hear him. She answered,
however, by repeating the bitter question.'

What ought to be done ? '

'You must prove to him that with this
marriage the nature of your regard for him

changed completely. There is nothing else you
require to do.'

'No — nothing else. But how can I do
that ? '

She spoke in a dull, mechanical way, her
eyes still fixed on the wall.

By accepting the position in a commonsense
way, as Dahlia is doing. I am puzzled
to make out how she came to be aware of your
coming ; it seems she was here late last night.
But this little pleasantry, as she evidently considers
it, of bringing you and her husband
together at once, and this letter which I received
about an hour ago, show that she has
perfect confidence in the good sense of both of
you. I have no doubt that you, at any rate,
will satisfy her that the confidence is not misplaced.'


She turned her eyes slowly to his face with
the expression of one who whilst thinking of
something else has heard the sound of words

without catching their purport, and is wondering
whit it may be.

I said that I would try to show you what
may be done,' he went on, ' and we have
settled that my advice cannot escape the
suspicion of selfishness. Let it be so. You
referred to your promise to stay here for three
months — do you wish after being here only a
few hours to withdraw it ? '

It will be best.'

I think not ; but I will not insist upon it
if you still resolve to leave Kemerton after you
have had a night to reflect on what you are
doing. Can you not see what your immediate
flight will mean to Stephen and to — his wife ? '

What ? '

I do not like to say it, Euth — the thought
of it is hard enough for me to bear. But your
flight will mean that, in spite of the altered
position of affairs, you still care too much for
him to see him happy with another woman.'

VOL. II. N

Her cheeks flushed, and the light of intelligence
gleamed in her eyes again. She
spoke firmly :

Yon cannot think that ; you know that I
wish them both to be happy — that I would do
anything in my power to make them so.'

You can prove it if you will.'

After what he has said his feelings still are
for me, — I prove my desire for their happiness
best by never crossing their path again. He
will forget me when I am away.'

Very likely ; but if you make it appear
that you take flight because they have destroyed
your happiness you supply reason
enough to embitter his life and Dahlia's — perhaps
even for him to follow you.'

Follow me .^ '

Yes — such things have happened, and may
in this case, unless you act firmly now. And
yet, no, he cannot be so mad.'

Mr. Dottridge did not complete that sentence

as he had intended, for as it was formed
in his mind it was ungenerous to the man who
was no longer his rivaL ' He cannot be so
mad as to throw aside everything for you,
because he does not care for you as I do
That was the original sentence.

What would you wish me to do ? ' inquired
Ruth, thoughtfully. She was saying to
herself, 'Whatever is most disagreeable to
myself is most likely to be the right thing todo
for others.'

I would wish you to continue here for a
few weeks, and longer if we find it serves our
purpose. Say nothing as to whether your stay
is to be permanent or not, but let us go on as
formerly, as if nothing unusual had occurred.
We can see the Meredith or not see them, as
you feel disposed, and my known eccentricities
will account for anything odd you may have todo
in declining invitations. You will remember
and I will remember that Dottridge is still an
n2

invalid, although Harrison may be well enough.
Can you do this ? '

I will try.*

And you will succeed, for you will be true
to yourself, and that is all I want. You will
see that your calm presence will do more to
help him to remember his duty and to make
us all happy than the foolish flight you proposed
could have done.'

If I could be sure of that ! ' she exclaimed,
and the brave spirit which shone in her eyes
proclaimed the woman's conquest of her own
emotions.

I am sure of it, and you soon will be. At
the worst we can go away should it be found
necessary. I say " we " because as your
guardian I am bound to take care of you. Now
go and rest.'

That was the only direct suggestion he had
made to his interest in proving what he wished
to prove, that the nature of her regard for
Stephen had changed.

CHAPTEE XXXVI.

MR. rapier's confidant.

Mr. Eapier was popularly supposed to be a
man who wore his heart upon his sleeve. He
was so genial with everybody, so pleasant in
his conversation, so ready to render those
trifling services to strangers in train, omnibus,
or steamer, which make enforced companionship
agreeable, that he picked up acquaintances
everywhere.

He was a favourite at the Cosmos, and he
made it a rule to be in the club some part of
every day ; when in town he might be said to
live at the club. At luncheon time he had
obtained a kind of prescriptive right to a seat
at the table in the bay-window looking down

St. James's Street. He was known to almost
every member, familiar with many, and yet if
anybody had been asked who and what he was
the answer would have been :

Can't say. He's a first-rate hand at whist,
and plays billiards like Cook and Roberts.
Must have private means, but fancy he has
something to do with some foreign Government.
He's a capital fellow.'

Beyond this vague idea of Lewis Eapier's
position nothing was known except that he had
been proposed to the club by a general and
seconded by a well-known physician who was
one of the committee.

But the question had been very rarely asked
formerly, and was never asked now. There
he was, a prominent part of the club, taking
much interest in new members, and helping to
make them feel at home in as short a space as
possible. Thus there were numbers who called
him their friend, and never thought of inquiring

into his private affairs. His apse was
another unquestioned mystery : everyone supposed
he was about thirty, and knew that he
must be forty-five at least — although he might
have been seventy if judged by events to which
he was able to refer as from personal experience.
He openly professed to enjoy the fun
of this mystery about his age, and would playfully
call himself ' the old man of the sea.'

Although he had many friends and acquaintances
Mr. Eapier had only one Confidant
; but to that one he trusted his inmost
thoughts and consulted him about every act of
his life. He found that Confidant in the mirror
of whatever room he happened to occupy, but
they held closest council in his chambers in
Duke Street.

There they were face to face at this moment
; he holding a small packet of letters in
his hand whilst he looked inquiringly at his
other self.

He was speaking very slowly, as if desirous
of impressing every word upon the understanding
of his interlocutor.

I have come up expressly to find these
letters. I return by an early train and place
them in her hands. They are all that I can
find, and as one of them would certainly be
disagreeable reading for Mr. Meredith she will
perhaps believe me. Whether or not, it is all
I can do to satisfy her; and it is enough to
make her trust me, seeing that the success of
my project will suit herself better than anything
else could do. She will stick to her
bargain, and play her part without prompting.
Helping me for her own interest she will give
me something of my old place of importance in
her thoughts.'

He paused to consider. He smiled hopefully,
and his Confidant smiled. He tapped the
packet with his finger, and went on.

The money is settled absolutely on herself.

Dottridge has no power to recall it. Well ?
Let us take everything into account ; do not
let us blink anything. Miss Euth knows nothing
of her little fortune, and I dare say if we
make a match of it he will increase the amount
in remembrance of my services.'

He turned the packet over in his hand
until he saw the Confidant nodding approvingly,
as if saying, ' Go on, you are doing fairly well.'

We are not to shirk anything, mind you ;
we are to look at the worst as well as the
best side of our prospects. The best general
always spends more thought on the points
where he may be beaten than on those where
victory is most probable.

'Miss Euth may prove obstinate, and, in
spite of the faithlessness of her swain, prefer
single cursedness to a union with even such an
eligible partner as you, my friend. Well?
What should happen then ? '

His expression became serious, and for a

moment his brows contracted, as if he were
looking at an enemy in fence and trying to
make out what his next move might be. The
countenance cleared again.

In that case, Stephen Meredith might find
an opportunity provided for him to take a
second wife. . . . Disagreeable? Certainly,
and no one would lament the necessity should
it arise more than you would, my friend. But
we cannot have everything perfectly smooth in
this world, and we can only hope for the
best. . . . Yes, she shall have the letters, and
I think Miss Ruth will not be so cruel as to
drive her from her home.'

He put the letters. in his pocket and looked
at his watch.

It is almost train time. There is only
one thing more we have to settle. What does
Dottridge mean by this mysterious trip to-australia
? Seems to have done him good,
too, in spite of the wreck. . . . Bassnett

knows nothing. Could it be only as a forlorn
hope of recovering health, and taking advantage
of her going at the same time, so that he
might be sure of a careful nurse on the
voyage ? But why then make such a profound
secret of it ? . . . It can't be that he is
in love with her himself ? '

Mr. Eapier laughed outright at the absurdity
of this idea.

Well, then, even if he is, it would only bea
question whether to help him forward on his
journey to the village churchyard and wait
to marry his widow. By Jove, that would
be excellent ! '

Much amused by this droll speculation,
Mr. Eapier took leave of his confidant, and
made his way to the Liverpool Street station to
take train back for Dunthorpe.

CHAPTEE XXXVII.

THE OTHER SIDE.

Stephen went away after Dahlia had given that
promise to write at once, and he did not understand
at the time the meaning of the smile and
the little hysterical laugh with which the words
were spoken. When one desires to do right
and has a fixed idea of how it is to be done, it
is most difficult to comprehend that another
person may see quite a different way of doing
it, and may misapprehend the motives which
have directed the choice of your method. This
result of conscientious conviction is often stigmatised
as ' pig-headdress.'

But ' pig-head redness ' or not, the motive
which actuated him was pure and brave and

noble. Love, the Angel directing thought and
action to their highest purposes, could never
become to him Love the Fiend leading, through
the perfumed paths of base selfish indulgence,
to misery. His love taught him to desire to
make Dahlia happy, even for Euth's sake. He
believed that he should attain that end most
directly by proving to her that his duty would
make him faithful to her because his love was
pure, and he wished to be worthy of it. The
result he could not and did not speculate upon
because that depended on DahHa herself, and
he trusted her to be inspired by his own spirit
not to cry for what was unattainable, but to
accept the inevitable and conform to its conditions.


'Poor fool,' the wise observer will exclaim,
' to think that human nature is not
more subject to its passions than to its discretion
! '

The wise observer is right. What a pity it

is we can never be so wise about our own affairs
as about those of other people.

What woman will accept duty in the place
of love ! How many submit to the neglect of
all duty so long as there is a pretence of love.
Dahlia was one of the many. She could have
borne anything more easily than the knowledge
that he cared more for another than for her —
ill-temper, indifference, drunkenness even, rather
than that.

She resented being treated like a child whose
feelings could be satisfied with soft words and
promises of sweetmeats, whilst she was placed
outside the real life of the man.

When she gave that promise to write at
once to Euth she had no definite idea of what
she would write ; but there was a vague fancy
in her mind of doing something vicious that
would make Euth, and Stephen too, suffer
anguish akin to her own.

She had been impressed by his sorrow ;

astonished and relieved by the almost entire
absence of reproach ; and a spirit of gentleness
had taken possession of her. She .would be
good and kind to him ; she would make up for
all he had lost — or fancied he had lost — if a
woman's devotion could do it. He should
never hear an upbraiding word from her. She
would watch his humours and tune her own
moods to harmony with them. She would be
so faithful to all his wishes that he should himself
acknowledge by-and-by that he had found
in her his true helpmate.

And then at the first trial of these wise
resolves they were swept away by the jealous
passion of the mere woman.

All preceding circumstances were forgotten.
She hated Euth ; she hated Stephen. We hate
most where we love most.

She could not see the necessity there was to
hold her own place now by making large
allowance for the unhappy position in which he

felt himself to be in regard to Euth, and by
waiting patiently until the first pain and awkwardness
of realising it had passed. She did
not, of course, say so to herself in as many
words, but her emotions were stirred by the
unfortunate theory that there ought to be no
pain or awkwardness ; that she was as good as
Euth and that she lead the right to demand his
first consideration. As it was he showed no
consideration for her, or he would be eager to
keep Euth far away, knowing that her presence
would be a constant reminder that she. Dahlia,
was his wife only in name.

With that vicious feeling upon her she
arranged her dress with special care. She
would write, as she had said, at once. She
would see what Euth would do now ; and then


She did not know what then ; and there
came a feeling of great loneliness as she dimly
realised that she was turning away from the

only human creature in whom her better nature
could find rest and strength.

She had never known what friendship was.
Gay, flippant, free of speech and manner, she
knew many people with whom she might talk
and amuse herself. But that species of cunning
which maintains a petty secretiveness under an
exterior of guilelessness prevented her from
having confidence in anybody in the whole
world except Stephen. There was Mrs. Meredith,
of course, and there were the girls ; but
she could not trust any of them. She listened
to all their little secrets and grievances, gave
sympathy and fairly good counsel, but she gave
nothing more. There was only Stephen, and
now she had lost confidence in him.

When that sense of utter loneliness creeps
upon one who is surrounded by seeming prosperity,
it is more terrible to bear and to think
of than when misfortune gives some excuse for
the desertion of friends.

VOL. II.

But it was Euth who was taking him away.
Euth was her enemy ; had she not returned
they would have been happy. And she knew
that quite well ; she knew that she ought never
to have returned to Kemerton to destroy the
peace of Derewood Grange.

What am I to do ? ' was her helpless
cry ; and then she grew angry with Stephen
again.

There would have been no need to ask that
question if he had not made the declaration in
the Green Lane, which placed an eternal barrier
between him and his wife.

She went down to the boudoir and took a
seat at her pretty little writing-table. Everything
on it and about it was pretty. There
was not a spot of ink on the silver inkstand,
not a speck of dust on any of the numerous
dainty ornaments which were tastefully ranged
on the table, like fairy guards on the richly
mounted coromandel desk. Her fancy for rich

perfumes was evident here too, and the whole
arrangements appeared to be those which were
appropriate only to the composition of the most
tender billet-doux.

She took the finest note paper and began
her epistle.

My Dearest '

Yes. She would say ' My Dearest Euth.'
The irony could not be misunderstood if the
woman had any of the ordinary feelings of
womanhood, and at any rate she enjoyed it
herself. *

My Dearest Euth, — You must have been
greatly amazed, and angry perhaps, at first to
find that '

What nonsense it was to say that she was
angry because she met Stephen instead of her !
There was no irony in that — only silliness at
which Euth could smile as she read.

Dahlia tore up the sheet and began anew.
She wrote only a few lines in the same strain,


and again tore up the paper. She could not
satisfy herself. She wanted to write such a
note as, read by Stephen, would appear to his
trusting nature a very kindly and generous
one, whilst read by Euth every word should
sting with its satire and reproach.

She tore up several sheets of paper. She
bit the end of the pen as she stared at another
blank sheet ; then she rose impatiently and
went to the window. Against the dull sky of
the cold afternoon the bare branches of the
trees outside appeared to form a huge spider's
web in which she was caught, and there seemed
to be no hope of escape.

A servant came to light the lamps, and at
the same time brought a letter.

When did this come .^ ' enquired Dahlia,
recognising with some surprise the handwriting
of Mr. Dottridge.

Only this minute, ma'am, and the man is
waiting for an answer. And if you please,

ma'am, Mr. Eapier has come back and asks if
you can see him.'

Eapier ! — was he to be always at her elbow
when her evil passions were in the ascendant P
She had hoped he would not return that day,
for she had understood that he was going to
Kemerton. Now? — she was not sure whether
she was pleased or sorry that he had returned.
He, of course, would answer that question,
What am I to do ? ' if she were to ask him.

She preserved her self-possession as she
bade the servant wait.

Mr. Dottridge's note was brief, but it was
all written by his own hand — a fact which
puzzled as well as amazed her.

My dear Dahha, — I would like you and
Stephen to come over to see me tomorrow.
There will be luncheon at half-past one, and
we can have a little chat afterwards.
'Yours truly,

H. DOTTRIDGE.'

Mr. Dottridge was proud of never having
subscribed himself anything but ' Yours truly,'
because it vas a commonplace which everybody
understood meant nothing.

Dahlia wrote a few lines accepting the
invitation, and then she wrote to Euth ; but
the epistle was quite different from what
she had intended it to be. All she said
was :

I intended to write you an explanation of
what occurred to-day ; but as I shall see you
tomorrow it can be done more satisfactorily in
conversation.'

This, with the usual preliminary address and
conclusion, was what her much meditated letter
came to at last.

Give these to the man,' she said, handing
the two notes to the servant, ' and tell Mr.
Eapier I am at liberty to see him.'

Although she could not at a moment's
notice hide the traces of the agitation she had

been suffering that afternoon, she was able to
shade the lamps so that her face was in shadow.
Her voice and manner were now under complete
control.

Eapier entered in his quiet way, and the
door closed behind him.

I am sorry to bother you, Mrs. Meredith,
he said, placing the packet of letters on the
table, 'but I was anxious to satisfy you as
quickly as possible that I was in earnest about
these things.'

He pointed to the packet, and in her impulsive
way she snatched it up at once, showing
her eagerness to possess it, and the importance
she attached to it in spite of her determination
to be as cool and deliberate as Eapier himself.
She was instantly conscious of the Weakness
thus indicated, and tried to pass it off with an
affected laugh, but seeing him smile she cast
aside her affectation and said frankly, if somewhat
petulantly :

'I am glad to have them. Thank you.
Are they all here ? '

All that I possess to the best of my knowledge.
I have spent the whole forenoon in
searching the few places where anything of
yours might have been preserved, and this is
all I can discover. Should more turn up at any
tiiiie they will be delivered to you at once.
You can trust me in this since it is my interest
to do everything in my power to please you.
That is the guarantee for my good faith.'

She scanned his face closely. She fancied
that she was only searching for some indication
of his innermost thoughts ; but she was also
revealing to him the craving of her distracted
mind for some one to help her.

On that guarantee I can and do trust you,'
she said, satisfied.

He bowed.

Self-interest is always the surest ground
for trust. Keeping that principle in mind, will

you permit me to tell you what I saw in your
face ? '

Do not waste compliments upon me. Reserve
them, if they are of any use, for her!

I mean to reserve them, for I shall require
all the sweet phrases my vocabulary can be
compounded into for her ear. But I thought
it was understood that you and I have nothing
to do with compliments now.'

I was afraid you had forgotten.'
'You need not fear that. The position is
too critical for both of us to allow any waste of
words. What I see, then, is that a great change
has taken place in you since we spoke together
in this room last night.'

No doubt — I have been thinking.'
'Yes, and you have been discovering and
doing. I am not gifted with the power of
clairvoyance, but I see, as clearly as if I were,
that you have had proofs of the impossibility of
there being happiness between you and your

husband so long as Eut Clark is a free
woman.'

I have,' she muttered, bitterly, turning
away from him to hide the fierce tears of
chagrin which started to her eyes in spite of
every effort to restrain them.

I do not wish you to give me any explanation
beyond what you may think it desirable
to give for your own sake. But it would be of
service to us both if you could tell me that I
am right in surmising that they have already
met.'

She nodded. She had been using a handkerchief
to wipe her eyes ; now she was unconsciously
wringing it as if it were some
reptile she wanted to kill.

I thought so, and you have seen them.
Well, I am pleased, for that should convince
you of the necessity there is for prompt action
on your part and mine. It should also enable
you to d'o something which, I believe, will help

me to help you, although I am not, at this
moment, prepared to tell you exactly how, because
I do not yet know myself.'

Tell me what it is.'

There was no doubting the tone in which
that was said : the something would be very
vile indeed if she would not do it.

It is such a trifle that you may fancy it is
only a jest of mine.'

I do not think that even you would jest
with me in my present state. We have no
time for sport.' •

That is the case precisely ; we are both
too much in earnest, and have too much at
stake, to find any time for amusement. But
we must act quietly. You have promised me
your help, and I believe you can give it very
effectively by a very simple act.'

Tell me what it is ? ' she repeated impatiently.


'I have given you these letters back,' he

went on undisturbed by her irritability ; ' and
now I want you to write another to me.'

To you ? '

Yes, but it is only a line, and one which
may be shown to anybody. I am known to bean
old friend of yours, and to have had something
to do with the arrangements for your
settlement in life. There is nothing more
natural under these circumstances than that
being in trouble you should tell me so and
seek my advice, as you cannot have your
guardian's.'

He has invited me to Kemerton tomorrow.'

Ah ! . . . ' Eapier reflected for a moment.
Then : ' That may be all the better, and your
note will enable me to get at the meaning of
some things which at present are not clear tome.
Will you give it ? '

She searched his face again, anxious to
fathom his design ; but he was able to meet her
gaze quite frankly ; for he had explained his

design truly, and if he had not told her how
he was to carry it into effect it was for the
reason given, namely, he did not yet know
himself.

She went back slowly to the pretty writing-table
and took up the pen. With her elbow
on the desk she rested her aching brow on the
disengaged hand as she spoke :

I will write what you wish me to say.'

It would be best to come from yourself,'
he replied, observing her curiously.

This was the docility of despair, and she
was evidently ready to outstrip him in anything
he might attempt, with the object of taking
Euth away so that her influence over Stephen's
mind might cease.

Dictate,' she answered mechanically : ' I
am not able to think.'

As you will. We must make it as short
as possible. Begin in the usual friendly way,
Dear Mr. Rapier." '

Dear Mr. Eapier,' she echoed, as she traced
the words ; but there was not the least expression
in the echo.

'Then I think the rest should be to this
effect — " I am in great distress," full stop.

. . . . distress, full stop.'

" Although Mr. Dottridge has come home
again, I am not at liberty to seek his advice,
and I am constrained " — No, don't put that
in : it is too forced. Say — " but I must have
some impartial person to advise me. Can you
do it ? You are aware of the great influence
Euth Clark had over my husband before she
went away from Kemerton. You cannot understand
with what pain I write that now she
is here again her influence is as great as ever

' How do you know that ? ' she cried
sharply, and looking round fiercely.

After a brief pause he answered gravely :
Your manner of asking the question proves

that it is so. If I am wrong — if you do not
believe that her influence is as great as ever,
do not write it.'

The flush which had overspread her face
faded, leaving it pale. She grew sick as she
heard that cruel declaration in the Green Lane
repeated —

No woman can ever hold your place in
my life ! '

Stifling a sob, she pressed her brow with
her hand again, and wrote the words Eapier
had dictated. •

'Eeady? . . Then you should add— "We
were so happy together ; and now I can only
see misery for us all. I don't know what todo.
Can you — can anyone help me ? " — Now,
if you sign your full name, Dahha Meredith,
I think that letter will enable me to do you the
greatest service you can desire, and serve myself
at the same time.'

She folded the paper, and gave it to him

without enquiring in what manner he purposed
using it.

When shall I hear from you ? ' was all she
asked.

As soon as there is anything to report —
tomorrow night probably ; the day following,
certainly. Take courage ; I think I see my
way to accomplish all we desire.'

I hope so. I will thank you — afterwards.'


She took no note of his going. With arms
crossed on the desk and head bowed upon
them, she remained a long time. It was
nearly the dinner hour when she rose — calm
now and with dry eyes, but feeling very
faint.

She went into the dining-room. The table
was laid, but there was no one present yet.
She opened the sideboard ; poured some liquid
resembling pale sherry into a glass, and having
mixed it with water drank it.

Her eyes brightened ; her cheeks flushed
she was stronger now. She looked defiantly
around, and if Euth had been there she would
have mocked her, and triumphed over her.
She would be weak no longer ; there should be
no pitiful cries for help — for love. She would
stand upon her rights. She had brought
fortune and ease to him and his family. They
owed her gratitude and respect ; and she
would have both. They were hers by right.

Euth and Stephen should soon find that
they had no silly child to play with ; but ' a
strong, determined woman, capable of defending
herself if he failed to defend her.

Poor Dahha! She had found the false,
insidious comforter — the implacable and always
Victorious foe of happiness.

• • • t • •

Accustomed as they were to Dahlia's whimsical
moods, Mrs. Meredith senior, and the girls,
were much surprised by her excited and curious

VOL. II. P

manner that evening. Stephen was distressed
by it, attributing it — rightly enough to a certain
extent — to her thoughts about Euth.

She spoke of her jestingly as the shipwrecked
heroine of the Eucalyptus, and
throwing Mr. Dottridge's note to him, she said :

I did not think it necessary to ask whether
or not you would accept the invitation. I took
it for granted that you would, as you would
see our dear friend again ; and I have written
to tell her when we meet we can have a chat
about things in general, and that will of course
include your request that she should favour us
with a visit. That will be a treat for us all —
only you must take care, Stephen, that she does
not frighten us too much with the harrowing
details of her adventures.'

I should imagine that on her own account
she will not like to dwell upon the subject,' he
said, quietly ; ' and I am sure she will never be
able to regard it as one to jest about.'

Oh, but there will be no jesting. We
will all put on our Sunday faces, and if it
would please you we can manage to produce
a few tears on the occasion. I should have
thought, however, that we had had enough of
tears, and that we ought to be merry, not
melancholy, when our dearest friend has had a
narrow escape from drowning.'

He tried to change the subject of conversation,
but Dahlia perversely returned to it again
and again.

After dinner the mother found an opportunity
of speaking to her alone.

What is the matter with you to-night,
Dahlia,' she enquired anxiously. ' You are
not like yourself. Are you not happy ? '

Happy ! — how could I be otherwise ? Did
I not smile enough and laugh enough to prove
how happy I am.^ Why, Stephen thought I
was too happy ! '

Now, child, you are worrying your poor
p 2

head about Euth. You must not do that.
You might have had reason to do it — and I
would have done it, too — if she had come
back before the wedding. But as she didn't
you have no cause to dorrit.'

'No — no cause at all; and I am quite
happy ! '

CHAPTER Xxxviii.

FORBIDDEN GROUND.

When Eapier arrived at Kemerton he was
shown at once to Mr. Dottridge's room. They
had many subjects to discuss, but the first question
asked was in reference to Euth's telegram
from Sydney.

I understand,' said Mr. Dottridge, who
had resumed some of the outward signs of
being still an invalid, and his eyes were shaded.
I understand that the telegram requested that
the news should be communicated to all friends.
How was it that Meredith heard nothing about
it?'

I suppose it is Miss Clark who is anxious
on that point ? ' answered Eapier, smiling, and

wondering within himself more and more why
Dottridge should keep up with him the farce
of pretending to have met Euth again only-after
her return to England.

Yes, but I also wish to understand it. Did
the message arrive before the marriage ? '

It did, but only a few days. It could not
have stopped the proceedings, and it certainly
would have caused a great deal of vexation to
everybody here. Taking that into account,
and especially considering that you had been
particularly anxious to bring about this match,
I took upon myself the responsibility of saying
nothing about the telegram. I thought, and
still think, that I was doing the best that could
be done for everybody under the circumstances.
I trust you agree with me.'

Not altogether. I was desirous that they
should be brought to see the advantages of
their union. I did not mean to force them
into it — only to offer them inducements.'

Well, that is all you have done ; but you
evidently attach more importance to the telegram
than I did. You cannot imagine that
they would have stopped the wedding after the
banns had been read and all the arrangements
completed ? '

Miss Clark thinks it is possible that he
would have drawn back.'

Then she has a poorer opinion of Meredith
than I have. She must have spoken without
reflection when she said that. I am sure
she is too good-natured to wish you or me to
have caused the pain which the announcement
of her safety would have produced at that
time. They were melancholy enough as it
was, but they were contented, and it would
have been brutal to have interfered with them.'

You must explain the course adopted to
Miss Clark herself.'

'Certainly. Can I see her at once? I
undertake to satisfy her.'

At any rate, I hope you will be able to
satisfy her that the blame does not rest with
me.'

That is easily done. Of course she is
aware that you have been away all the
time.'

This was said carelessly, as if it were probable
that Dottridge had not yet explained to
Euth how matters stood during her absence.

'She knows everything. . . . Are you
positive that the news of her safety would not
have stopped the marriage ? '

Quite positive. Apart from the fact that
he likes Dahlia, Meredith would have been a
bankrupt but for her fortune, and your
generosity, which I reckon as part of her
fortune.'

You don't mean to say that he would
have allowed the consideration of the money
to have any influence on his decision ? '

Eapier noted the subdued eagerness with

which that was spoken, and the wish that he
should answer ' yes

Did you ever hear of any man — and
especially one in straits — whose decision would
not be influenced by a fortune ? '

There may be such men,' said Dottridge,
meditatively.

Mr. Eapier mentally observed :

He is in love, and is fancying that he
could be indifferent to fortune on her account !
Whew ! '

He said aloud —

There are such men in fiction, but nowhere
else.'

Dottridge did not appear to have observed
the comment, as he enquired dreamily :

Are they happy ? '

Eapier shrugged his shoulders, and made a
slight motion with his hands, as if he were
putting something away from him.

They were jogging along excellently, and

would have turned out a model couple ; but
this resurrection of Miss Clark has upset everything.
I daresay they will be all right again
as soon as they have got over the first shock
of jealousy on her part, and disappointment on
his. I saw her this afternoon, and she is
badly cut up. I have only once seen a woman
look so utterly dejected and weary of life,
and that was her mother when you sent
me '

Stop ! ' ejaculated Dottridge, sternly, and
his voice was so strong that Eapier was
amazed. ' That subject is forbidden, now
more than ever.'

Pardon, it was a momentary slip — the
resemblance was so striking.'

You can see Miss Clark now,' said Mr.
Dottridge coldly. ' When you return you can
give me your report of all that has been going
on in my absence.'

I shall be with you again in half an hour.'

Eapier was satisfied on two points : that
his chief had thoughts of matrimony, and that
the memory of Dahha's mother could still be
made to sting him.

He had no doubt whatever that he would
prosper in his own designs.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

THE STATE OF THE CASE.

Mr. Eapier went into the drawing-room quite
cheerfully. He held in his possession — thanks
to his own genius of forethought — the means
of satisfying Euth that he had acted wisely and
even generously in keeping silent about her
telegram. More, he could prove that it would
only have wrought mischief had he made its
contents known at the time of its arrival.
Brassey came to him with this message —
Miss Clark's compliments, and will you be
kind enough to excuse her, as she is engaged
at present.'

Very well. Say to Miss Clark that I will
wait her pleasure here, as it is important that I

should see her before returning to Mr. Dot-bridge.'


Yes, sir.'

Brassey proceeded willingly to obey him,
for, like all the servants of Kemerton and elsewhere,
he not only respected Mr. Eapier but
liked him.

He is such a free outspoken gentleman,
and has such pleasant ways,' was the old
butler's opinion. * Not to reckon that the
master knows the right sort when he sees
them ; and he ain't like to have him for his
right-hand man if he weren't the right sort.'

There were several large mirrors in the
room : two reaching from wainscot to cornice,
and one covering a large space above the fireplace.
Thus Eapier had ample opportunity for
consulting his Confidant. Resting his arm on
the mantelpiece, he regarded his most intimate
friend with inquisitive eyes.

He noted that the look of cheerfulness with

which he had entered the room gradually-changed
to one of serious reflection. There
was nothing gloomy about it, however ; only
that serious expression the countenance of a
strong man assumes when he faces some unexpected
difficulty which yet does not frighten
him or appear to be insurmountable.

It is awkward — decidedly awkward,' he
observed, ' and wildly absurd as it appeared at
first, it promises to cause a good deal of trouble
now that I know it is a fact. What do you
say?'

Then Sir Confidant made answer :

I say that there is nothing absurd about
it if you take everything into consideration.'

Certainly, we are at a point where we
must take everything into account.'

'Well, then, you know from what he
managed to go through on that trip to Australia
he must be a toughest fellow, and that he
has cheated the doctors completely, although

he wants you and others to think he is still ina
poor condition.'

That's one point. Then his age ? '

You know that he is scarcely eight years
older than yourself, and you don't fancy yourself
an aged person. He has been kind to
her — he has been her companion in peril, and
above all he was her champion ; got knocked
on the head for her sake, and she nursed him
back to life. She can't help being fond of him
more or less.'

We generally do give most attention to
the most troublesome persons and things ; but
that is not to say we like them best,' commented
Mr. Eapier.

Perhaps not best,' continued the shadow,
with emphasis,' but next best will do when the
best is. out of reach. Moreover, he has secured
her gratitude, and she is one who will do a
good deal for the person who has done that ;
for, as you know, she has rather extravagant

notions about self-sacrifice. It is quite in her
to become his wife for no other reason than
that he has earned her gratitude and requires a
nurse ! '

Ah ! . if I could only do something to
prove to her that she owes him no gratitude
at all.'

Yes — if you could do that,' echoed the
Confidant.

It is possible,' said Mr. Eapier, slowly ;
but then the question is shall I gain most by
acting as his lieutenant in this as in other
things, or by becoming his rival .^ '

The Confidant looked doubtful; and he
continued in the same slow way :

Of course, if I first oppose him he cuts off
supplies, and might possibly score my name
out of that will Bassnett has in his safe. To
set against that I have only the chance of
winning her and that nice little property about
which she knows nothing yet. Of course that is

only a chance, and Dottridge is a certainty.
Why, then, should I hesitate between the
two?'

He took a turn across the floor, glancing at
his friend in the mirrors as he passed. He
halted and made this admission :

There is something in herself which tempts
me to the hazard. That's the fact. What is
it? Surely not the infirmity called love?
Nonsense — greater nonsense even than it would
be in him. Is it the mere vanity of conquering
such a woman ? . . . Tut — am I a mere
gambler who does not stop to seek the reason
why he risks his whole fortune on the colour
of a card ? '

A pause. Then, smiling at his own weakness
:

I am afraid it is the gambler's spirit which
has got into me ; but it does not master me
yet. No, my friend, we hold several trump
cards, and unless they are badly played indeed

VOL. II. Q

we must win by tricks if not by honours.
What do you say if I win her with his consent —
which I expected to do until I made the discovery
of his confounded folly ? What do you
say to that ? '

It would be good sport, and worthy of
you.'

Then I think it may be done, but we shall
know better after a little chat with her. Now,
what have I to stake against her gratitude and
his wealth ? '

'You have your knowledge of the past,
and your power of translating other people's
words and actions into something quite different
from what they mean.'

Just so.'

And you have the advantage of him in
person ; for you may say of yourself " not
absolutely handsome, but damnably genteel," as
your friend Carrill said of himself when he
thought nobody heard him.'

Mr. Eapier was nearly caught like his friend,
for just then the door opened andEuth entered.

The sight of her pale face at once altered
the tone of the greeting he had purposed giving
her. He had intended to be bathe, and to
convey to her with quiet earnestness the great
joy he felt af her safe return. Instead of that
he advanced to meet her with an expression of
profound anxiety.

My dear Miss Clark, the happiness I feel in
seeing you again is a little damped by the fear
that you have not yet recovered from the effects
of your terrible trials. I do hope, however,
that you will soon be quite strong.'

She bowed coldly.

Thank you, Mr. Rapier. I was told that
Mr. Dottridge desired you to see me ? '

He was still holding the hand he had taken
at his first greeting, and she quietly but resolutely
withdrew it.

I desired to see you on my own account.
Q 2

He wishes to be exonerated from any blame
for the delay which occurred in telling your
friend Stephen Meredith that you had been
rescued.'

He had resumed his ordinary outward bearing
— cool, suave, and obliging — but there was
just the indication of a sneering mile playing
about his lips which suggested that there was
not much respect for his chief lying behind the
words.

I regret that he troubled you in regard to
a matter which is now of no consequence,' she
said, a little nervously, for his peculiar smile
recalled that disagreeable suspicion which had
for a moment troubled her when she first enquired
about the telegram.

Eapier kept his eyes fixed steadily upon
her, and she could not help feeling that there
was a kind of pity for her simplicity in his expression
and tone as he spoke deliberately :

You may, if you please, acquit him of any

share in the transaction. I take the whole
blame. But my action was dictated by what it
seemed to me you would have wished me todo
had you known that your message only
reached me on the day fixed for the wedding,
when Meredith was content with his fate, and
Dahlia — poor girl — was so happy. The marriage
could not have been broken off without
disgrace and misery to him and to her. I do
not believe you would have wished that.

No, it was better to be silent,' she said,
turning her face away. ' But why did you not
tell me what had happened ? *

Frankly, for the reason that I wanted you
t6 come back ; I knew that Dottridge wanted
you to come back as much as he wanted the
marriage to be hurried over.'

He did not tell you to suppress the message
? ' she exclaimed with a flush as of coming
indignation.

No, he did not tell me — in words. But

that was unnecessary : the instructions left with
me were perfectly explicit.'

His instructions ? '

Yes ; even had it been my wish to act
otherwise — and you are aware that it could not
be — I was not at liberty to do so.'

You do not mean that Mr. Dottridge directed
you to deceive me — or them ? *

You may put what construction you please
on my words. I am simply telling you what
I was expected to do ; and you can understand
it, for you are acquainted with the conditions
on which Dahlia received her money, and
Meredith was released from the heavy mortgages
on Derewood.'

This was as hard a hit as he intended it to
be ; for she could not help remembering that
the conditions had been framed expressly on
her account — because Dottridge loved her.
True she had protested against them ; but she
submitted. And for what ?

It needed all the strength of memory to
enable her to realise that she had been moved
by a spirit of self-sacrifice in that weary past as
much as by the desire to feel in after years
that she had not been the cause of Stephen's
loss of fortune. Had events progressed in the
ordinary course of experience her submission
would have been justified.

How mean it all appeared to be now. Yet
it had not failed in the object she had had in
view. Stephen had obtained the fortune, and
he would be happy by-and-by. She must keep
a firm hold of that fact. She must keep it
constantly before her eyes ; it would steady
her. She must go forward now; she must
not think of going back, because she could
not if she would. The chief successes and
failures of life are based on no higher principle.


.' We need not continue this painful subject,
Mr. Eapier,' she said, with a calmness which

surprised him. ' I am satisfied that Mr. Dot-bridge
did not intend any deception to be practised
; I am satisfied that you acted as you
thought for the best. If you please, we will
not refer to it again.'

I certainly have no desire to do so.'

'Thank you — we must forget, if we can.
We cannot mend matters by talking of them.'

"But we may prevent matters from becoming
worse.'

He said this so quietly, and yet with such
peculiar emphasis, that she was as much
startled as if he had whispered ' murder ' in
her ear.

Why do you speak so strangely ? Weare
at the end of a long lane of blunders and
unhappiness — matters cannot be worse.'

'Pardon me, we are not at the turning
point yet. Matters may be made much worse
than they are ; and if they are the blame will
be yours.'

Mine ! ' she cried, pained and astounded
by the declaration.

Yours, undoubtedly ; for it is in your
power now to set matters right, and if you
refuse to use it the blame of what may happen
will be yours.' •

What can happen to bring blame on anyone?'


Shame — crime, perhaps, who knows ? But
the power to avert it is in your hands. Will
you use it whilst it remains to you — for you
can possess it but for a few days — it may be
only for a few hours ? '

His earnestness startled her even more than
his wild words and vague forebodings. Yet
he was speaking so softly that had anyone
entered suddenly he might have continued in
the same tone, and the tragic import of his
words would not have been suspected.

You must explain,' she said, making an
effort to shake off the unpleasant influence of

his speech and manner. ' What power I may
possess to help others I am ready to use whenever
it may be required.'

I am sure of it,' he exclaimed, in the
proud tone of one who fmds his high estimate
of another fully confirmed ; ' and I am sure
that you will use it whatever pain it may cost
you.'

You have not yet explained,' she answered
anxiously, but somewhat more calmly.

You cannot hide from yourself, Miss
Clark, what your return means to the people
of Derewood — distraction and misery so long
as — you are as you are.'

Was Eapier pleading for Dottridge ? This
was so similar to what he had said. Or were
the consequences of her being alive so palpable
to everyone that the two men at once fell upon
the same argument to persuade her to their
will?

She had encountered the perils of shipwreck

calmly. She had borne with fortitude
all the trials and privations which succeeded,
and it seemed horrible after passing through so
much to find herself here the miserable stumbling
block of everyone. Aye, Stephen had
said truly, the real shipwreck was here amongst
the green lanes and fields of Kemerton.

The very horror of the position steadied
her nerves.

The consequences need not be so terrible,'
she said, coldly.

'They are already terrible,' he replied,
with a shade of reproachful sternness in his
tone, and she winced under it in spite of her
consciousness that the man was working upon
her for his own ends, whatever they might
be. ' They are already terrible,' he repeated.
Meredith is utterly upset, as anyone would
expect who had the least knowledge of his
character, and knew anything of what his
feelings were for you. Dahlia is a passionate,

weak, and foolish creature — I know her well.
She, poor thing, lives in him, and I may, to
his credit, tell you that it was owing to a mad
attempt she made upon her own life that the
marriage was arranged with what was, in my
eyes, very unbecoming haste. They were
happy ; she was beginning to believe that he
was learning to care for her as every man
should for the woman to whom he has pledged
himself. You come, and all is changed. She
sees that he can never care for her now, and
is miserable — indeed, I think almost, if not
quite, mad. What it may end in. Heaven
alone knows.'

She is not so weak or foolish as you
think,' murmured Euth, in much agitation.

• Head this, and judge for yourself.'

He handed her the letter which Dahlia had
written to his dictation.

She read, and every word quickened her
pain. Then there came upon her, like a fresh

breeze on the hot face of one who has been
long in a stifling atmosphere, the sense of her
own sincerity of purpose and of her faith in
stephen's loyalty.

She refolded the letter, and with a sad smile
gave it back to him.

I think you exaggerate the importance of
this letter. At any rate she will soon learn
that whatever fears she may have of my crossing
-her happiness are baseless. Till then we
can do nothing.'

You can do everything. With one word
you can give back happiness to her and peace
of mind to Meredith.'

'How?'

Say that you will become my wife.'

There was silence in the room.

She knew, and he knew, that these words
had sounded a crisis in their fates.

Although she had been aware of his ulterior
object, he had brought about the declaration so

cunningly that, for the moment, she was staggered
and made dumb by his audacity. He
had already had evidence of her disapproval of
his intentions. She had been perfectly plain
with him on that score ; but apparently he was
one of those who are believed to be the most
successful of wooers — those who will not take
no ' for answer. At this juncture it was not only
disapproval she experienced, but repugnance.

She spoke with complete self-control now.

You have already had my answer on that
subject, Mr. Eapier ; and there has been no
change in my sentiments since we last spoke
of it. Good evening.'

Stay ! '

The word was pronounced in such a tone
of authority that she involuntarily obeyed.

I want you to consider well what ycu are
doing,' he said firmly, and with an apparent
undercurrent of emotion. ' I am aware of
what I stake in persisting in this pursuit of you.

I should not persist but that I believe there is a
future of happiness for us together. I do noi
want you to decide now. But you must decide
and answer by tomorrow night.'

My decision is already given. Nothing
can alter it.'

There was a cold tone of resolution in her
voice which would have satisfied anyone but a
man like Eapier that it was useless to argue
further.

I will not take that answer now. I wait
until tomorrow night. I do not wish you Xb
fancy that I threaten ; but if your answer is
still " no " — then I trust your conscience maybe
liberal enough to forgive you for the shame
and misery you will bring on Stephen Meredith
and the inevitable ruin to her.'

Euth was very pale, but she was not moved
from her resolution.

'I cannot believe, Mr. Eapier, that such
responsibilities as you suggest can be thrust

upon a woman because she refuses to accept a
man whom she does not care for, and cannot
respect when he seeks to win her by threats.'

You will think of what I have said,' he
replied, with cool significance.

I imagine it will not be easy to forget it ;
but I shall try ; and whether I think of it or
not my decision will be the same. If I thought
that my refusal caused you pain, I would express
my regret ; but feeling convinced that it
does not, I can only express the hope that on
the few occasions when we may have to meet
again, there will be no further reference to this
unpleasant subject. I thank you most heartily
for the information you have given me about
my friends — thank you because it directs me
how to help them, although not precisely in the
way you propose. Good evening and goodbye,
Mr. Eapier.'

She gave him her hand ; he took it with
the same quiet politeness which he might have

displayed had he been parting with her after
the most commonplace conversation.

I shall wait until nine o'clock tomorrow
evening,' he said, calmly, as he opened the
door for her and bowed her out.

Brave and cool as she was now, she could
not quite escape the mesmeric influence of that
determined iteration of the supremacy of his
will.

VOL. II. R

CHAPTEE XL.

LOVE LIES BLEEDING.

Stephen was late in his room that night.

He had gone there immediately after dinner
vexed, amazed, and bewildered by Dahlia's
conduct. He was haunted by a vague suspicion
which in its definite form assumed such a
horrible shape that he shrank from the bare
thought of it. He would not — he could not
believe it possible, for that would involve a
calamity worse than anything he had yet had
to encounter — the worst that any man can have
to face and deal with. He was miserable enough
as it was : this would finish him.

Dick Smalley came with the information
that a small packet which had arrived at the

railway station that afternoon had been delivered
only a few minutes ago. It was from
Smith and Co., agents at Sydney for Dottridge
and Co., London.

I know nothing about it, Dick, but bring it
here, and we will see what it is. Very likely
it is some surprise my cousin has ordered for
my wife, as he could not be present at the
marriage.'

The packet was brought into the library.

It ain't a big one, sir, to come so far,' said
Smalley, speculatively, as he laid it on the
table, ' and it ain't heavy enough to be a nugget
of gold.'

Stephen hastily opened the packet and
found in it an ordinary-looking note-book.

It was Euth's.

There was nothing at all about the outside
of the book to suggest what was within ; yet
the moment he opened it and saw her handwriting
he paused, instinctively checked by the
R 2

fear that there was something about to come
to his knowledge which was to influence the
course of his life. Why that should be he
could not divine, and he did not stay to try.
The pause he made was that which everybody
involuntarily makes when suddenly brought to
the junction of two roads, one of which he
knows will lead him right, the other, maybe,
far out of his way.

The outer address was simply that of some
clerk in the Sydney office, but there was the
superscription in Euth's writing that the book
was intended for his eyes only. Then arose
the question whether he should look at it or
not without first obtaining her sanction, as she
was so near, and considering all that had happened
since these pages were written.

This thing came to him as from the Dead ;
yet from the hand of one who had still a living
representative with full authority to speak and
act for the one who had passed away. The

Hath who had written these pages, whatever
their purport might be, was the Euth who had
hoped to return to him and find him faithful.
She was indeed dead to him : he must believe
her to be so or he could not hope for happiness.

Then should he take advantage of the opportunity
so strangely offered him to secure
the confidence of the dead Euth which the
Having Euth might wish to withhold from him ?

But she had told him that there were things
which she could not explain before going away,
and which she would explain when she returned.
He had a right to know these things ; he had a
right to know why she had resisted all his
appeals and left him when he so much needed
her love to sustain him in the struggle he had
to make. She had left him under circumstances
which demanded all his faith in her to believe
that she could care for him at all. She had
declared that she had good reasons for acting
as she was doing.

He had a right to know these reasons, and
so, for good or ill, he opened the book again
and read.

First his cheeks tingled with mad joy as he
found out how Euth loved him — how she had
sacrificed her own heart for his sake. Then
they became white with rage and shame as he
discovered the mean motives which must have
actuated Dahlia. By the light of this terrible
revelation he interpreted all her conduct towards
him so differently from what it had
appeared to be at the time. Her sympathy
had been a sham — her devotion a mockery,
which could not have deceived any but the
most contemptible fool.

And he was that most contemptible of all
fools — the one who permits himself to be deceived
by his own vanity.

He stopped there and tried to calm himself.

Was it vanity which prompted the suggestion
that it was impossible that Dahha could

have been moved only by her anxiety to secure
the promised fortune? She had been a good
friend to him. She had proved herself a faithful
and careful wife. . . . She must have cared
for him apart from the fortune. . In any
case he must believe she did.

Then he read on. He lived through all the
events on board the Eucalyptus now glowing
with tender sympathy for Euth ; and again
wild with anguish and rage as the action of his
cousin Dottridge became more and more clear
to him. *

The revelation was almost more than he
could bear. Why had Euth doubted him ?
How could she have thought for an instant
that all the wealth of Golconda could ever
have compensated him for the loss of her !

She had not known him rightly, and she
had been deceived . . . They had both been
deceived . by Dottridge and by Dahha.

He closed the book and rose, pallid and

bewildered. He paced the room fiercely, and
as the blood quickened in his veins his teeth
became clenched.

Scorn them — hate them ! All the scorn
and hate which he could give to them where
nothing to the loathing with which he regarded
himself.

This is the generous cousin — the friend of
the family — my benefactor ! ' he cried in bitterness
and agony of heart. ' He has said me for
my happiness — said me for the woman who
Alas life and fortune to me. And I have
accepted the bribe ! . . Oh, my God, what a
wretched thing I am ! '

And in his self contempt this stalwart,
heartbroken man sat down on a chair, and
hiding his face on crossed arms sobbed in the
bitterness of shame and humiliation.

The weakness was brief, but it made the
look of passion with which he lifted his head
the more terrible.

The door opened, and Dahlia, in her night-dress,
entered. Her eyes were unnaturally
bright, although her cheeks were pale. She
tottered as she advanced to him.

Stephen, I have been waiting for you ; it
is so late, and I am sorry that I vexed you.
And '

And then she caught sight of his face.
With a cry of terror she fell unconscious at
his feet.

CHAPTEE XLI.

THROUGH THE Night.

Dahlia had come to him intending to ask his
forgiveness, but the shock of seeing her as she
was, combined with the discoveries he had
just made to snap the last cord of self-control,
and his features were for a time distorted by
wild passion, hate, and loathing.

To the woman it was like the uncovering
of the veiled prophet of Khorassan ; the face
in which she had expected to find the light of
mercy was hideous in its malignant wrath.
Conscience-stricken, too, at her own vindictive
thoughts, she knew that he had discovered
everything, and was overwhelmed by her shame
and fear.

Whatever wrathful words he might have
spoken were stifled, and the sight of her lying
prostrate at his feet recalled some of his self-possession.


Frowning, he carried her to their chamber,
and placed her on the bed. Then he made
what use he could of smelling salts and cold
water in the endeavour to restore consciousness.
She sighed and muttered some disconnected
words ; she opened her eyes with a
stupid stare for an instant, and closed them
again. She was like one who, having been
half-awakened, relapsed into heavy sleep.

Stephen gazed at her with an expression in
which there was now more of pitying amazement
than of rage or scorn.

He did think of the possibility of her having
been meddling with Jim's chemicals again,
and he looked hastily round the room and on
the floor ; but there were no signs of anything
which could account for her stupor except a

tumbler which he found on the dressing-table.
Having examined that, he drew the curtains of
the bed, and went downstairs again.

For a time he sat with his face hidden in his
hands — the meanness of the position oppressed
him now more than its horror. The incident
had the effect of diverting his thoughts from
the first impulse of his passion, which had been
to ride to Kemerton that night, to confront
Dottridge, to renounce his gifts, and to heap
scorn upon him for his treachery. The time
which passed in his attendance upon Dahlia
enabled him to become sensible of the folly of
this course.

But in the morning he would see him — he
would force his way to him if necessary. If
he found him still in the feeble condition which
had formerly rendered the slightest disturbance
dangerous ; and if reproach and contumely
could stir any emotion in his breast strong
enough to kill ! — then, he would kill him.

His indignation visited Euth, too, for it washer
doubt of him which had been the mainspring
of the irreparable mischief that had
been wrought. She talked of her suffering —
her sacrifice — what could they signify but that
she had believed he esteemed money more
than

Ugh ! he could not bring himself to link
the two things together even in the momentary
cry of his own distracted brain. How base,
how contemptible must have been her thoughts
of him ! In this wild turmoil of thought and
emotion he seemed to live through a long life
of bitterness, and yet it was not morning.
Looking impatiently at his watch he found
that it was only half-past two, and felt that it
was impossible to sit still throughout the weary
hours which must pass before he could take
any action.

But when the morning came, when they
stood face to face what then ? The question

pulled him up sharply ; for every answer
he could find to it only revealed his own impotence
the more clearly.

He went out.

A strong west wind was making a sound
among the trees as of the roaring of a great
sea ; heavy black clouds were sweeping
rapidly along overhead, and so frequently
obscuring the moon that its occasional radiance
only made the intervals of darkness more dark.
It was a gusty angry night, or rather morning,
and the atmosphere was of that intensely cold
moist character which is the most unpleasant
of all weathers. It was certainly not the kind
of night which one would choose for a walk of
pleasure.

But it suited with the man's humour ; and
setting his face to the wind he marched forward
as if he were walking for a wager. He was
not at first aware that he was going in the
direction of Kemerton.

Yes — when they stood face to face, what
then ? Was he to play the part of a Billingsgate
fisherman, and spend his futile wrath in
cursing him ?

Dottridge could afford to ridicule such
folly. And he would deserve to be laughed
at if he were to perpetrate it. He could fling
back his gift of the mortgages ; but what a
farce that would be ! — he could not pay them
off. There was the bitterness of his position.
Yet he was not altogether helpless ; he could
and he would sell every inch of Derewood and
all that was on it. He would compel Dahlia
to restore the money that had been her portion.
Luckily he had not touched it : he had
left every farthing under her own control.
She had married him to possess it : she could
keep him now by forfeiting it, or lose him by
refusing to do so.

He would be a beggar, but he would be
free from that man whose treachery cancelled

every claim to gratitude. Hate and scorn were
the only earnings of his false favour.

And when all was done, the cruel question
came again, what then? What better would
he be? His lost freedom could not be restored
— the happy love which would have been
his but for this accursed man's accursed wealth.
Youth and hope were alike destroyed ; these
were riches no wealth could buy.

He was tearing through the Green Lane,
still at the mad pace with which he had
started, and found himself on the lawn at
Kemerton before he was aware of his whereabouts.


But, when he looked up, there was no
astonishment in his mind until he saw that
there was a light in one of the windows —
one on the ground floor.

Then, as the moon shone out for a few
minutes, brightening the face of the dark
building, he saw that the light was in Dot-bridge's

room. The mad thoughts which had
been surging in his brain suggested mad
action.

He knew the eccentric ways of the master
of Kemerton, and he knew that one of them
was a fondness for the night. He liked to be
alone in his room in the silent hours when
everybody else was fast asleep. What deep
schemes he incubated during those hours, what
financial triumphs he planned, could only be
surmised from the enormous wealth and influence
he possessed. •

Why not satisfy his heart, and crush all
this in an instant by one clutch of strong
sinewy fingers round his throat ?

It could be done.

Here was the opportunity he needed — the
opportunity to wreak dire vengeance on the
wretch who, under the mask of kindness, had""
been slowly poisoning his life.

Stephen advanced to the window. Through

VOL. II. s

the division of the curtains he saw a figure kneeling
before the large safe which he knew stood
in the corner farthest from the window, and
contained his cousin's most precious documents.

He knew that, because Dottridge had said
to him more than once,

Should I die, and leave anything in doubt,
search that safe, and you will find an explanation
of it. You can open it by this master-key,
which I carry always attached to my
watch.'

And he had shown him the simple-looking
gold key, the barrel lined with steel, which
opened every lock in Kemerton.

The figure was very slow and careful in
its movements ; it seemed to be picking out
particular packets from a number of them in
the lower part of the safe. Presently it
stopped ; held a packet up to the light, and
laying it on the table, bent eagerly over the
drawer again as if seeking for more.

Now was the moment to burst in upon him
and settle accounts.

He did not note the curious circumstance
that the shutters were not closed ; and, even if
he had noted it, he would have paid no heed toit,
as the ways of Dottridge were so peculiar.

It did strike him as odd, however, that
when he touched the latch of the window he
found it yield to him — noiselessly, of course,
for every hinge and latch in the house was
daily carefully oiled on account of the master's
nerves. And the rule had been carried out
even during his long absence.

He did not know exactly what it was he
was going to do, but he felt the nervous
gathering of his strength which the tiger must
experience when about to spring upon its prey.
He opened tlje window, thrust aside the curtains,
and with one bound crossed the room,
grasping his victim by the throat so that he
could not utter a sounds
2

It was all so swift, so silent, that murder
might have been done and no trace left of its
perpetrator.

But when he turned the ghastly face towards
him to speak his spite, he found that it
was Eapier he had in his grasp, not Dottridge.

Instantly he released him, and Eapier,
rising from his knees as he rubbed his throat,
exclaimed indignantly, yet in a cautious voice —

What in the devil's name brings you hereat
this time of night trying to throttle people ? '

Stephen looked and felt confused. He
glanced from Eapier's astounded and angry
face to the packet on the table which had been
taken from the safe. He observed mechanically
that it was neatly folded and docketed
Dottridge — Whitcombe,' with a date which
he did not make out.

I mistook you for someone else,' he muttered,
awkwardly.

Oh, our friend Dottridge,' said Eapier,

smoothing his ruffled collar ; ' you don't mean
to say that you keep prowling about the house
at night waiting for a chance to settle him.
My opinion is that you would have done it if
you had given him the same grip you gave me
just now.'

I have something to speak to him about ;
but I have not yet decided that I shall be his
executioner.'

I felt as if you meant to be mine, at any
rate. But explain, Meredith, what's up ? '

He began deliberately to rearrange the
papers in the safe.

Stephen recovered himself. He knew this
man to be in the confidence of his cousin, and
he knew that circumstances frequently required
them to be at work at all sorts of odd hours.
Still, there was something in-easier's manner
associated somehow with the names on that
packet lying there on the table which made him
suspicious.

He fired a random shot, and his words were
pronounced with a cutting coolness as if they
had been frozen as he passed through the outer
atmosphere.

I, too, might say, Eapier, what's up that
you are here at this hour dealing with the
private papers of my cousin ? '

He laid his hand on the packet he had
specially noted.

Eapier looked at him with an expression of
amused curiosity.

Upon my soul, Meredith, you are a rum
customer. Here you come breaking into a
gentleman's house like a burglar at all sorts of
hours in the morning, and then you take to
scolding the people who happen to be awake,
because they interfere with your project — whatever
that may be. I have heard of some cool
things in the course of my life, but this is the
coolest. You look sober, too.'

Stephen took up the packet and examined
the writing on the back.

These are papers relating to my wife's
mother.'

Exactly so, and they are not of such a
character as to make Mr. Dottridge desire that
they should fall into the hands of a person
who entertains such feelings for him as you
evidently do.'

In that case I shall take care of them.'

And he put the papers in his pocket.

Come, come, this is carrying the joke a
little too far. Hand over these papers, if you
please. They relate to Dottridge's private
affairs.'

That is why I wish to retain them.'

What has come over you ? ' exclaimed
Eapier, affecting to treat the matter as a jest,
but an unpleasant one. ' Don't you see what
will happen if you do not instantly restore that
property ? '

I am not quite clear on that point. Perhaps
you will enlighten me.'

It was amazing how cool this man had
become — he who had been during the previous
hours passing through the wildest storms of
passion and emotion.

With pleasure. This is what will happen
said Eapier, with emphasis on every word. ' I
shall rouse the servants, call Dottridge, and
charge you with attempted robbery and actual
violence — I believe the marks of your fingers
will be on my throat for a week.'

Stephen took a chair.

Thank you. I am most anxious to have
a few words with Dottridge, although I would
not have thought of disturbing him at this
hour ; but since you are so kind as to do it forme,
I can only say that I shall be under an
obligation to you.'

Eapier was on his way to the door when
Stephen began to speak ; he halted in the
middle of the sentence, and he wheeled round
at the end of it. He stood examining him

quietly — as if he had been a profound zoologist
and the man an interesting specimen of a curious
breed submitted for his inspection.

Stephen endured the inspection admirably,
and that increased the interest of the observer.

This was what Eapier was saying to himself
as he looked at the phenomenon :

I have never yet been outwitted by manor
woman. Dottridge is keen, and yet he is
under my thumb. Then here is this lout, who
has always appeared to be as dull as country
louts usually are — so dull that I did not thiftk
it necessary to give him particular attention —
and can it be that at the moment when I have
secured the means of making Dottridge do
exactly what I please, I should be bowled outby
this bumpkin? . . . No, sir, I am not to be
beaten by you.'

He advanced to him, and clasping his hands
behind his back, said with the air of one who

is good-naturedly trying to reason with a most
unreasonable person : —

This is confoundedly ridiculous, Meredith.
Will you tell me frankly, at once — are you
joking, or are you in earnest ? '

Stephen gave a slight, disagreeable laugh.

I am very much in earnest, as you will
find.'

'Oh, . . . very well. In that case we
understand each other, and we can discuss the
matter in a business-like fashion.'

He drew a chair in front of the unwelcome
visitor, and leaning forward, confidentially
placed a hand on his knee.

Explain — you have got some grudge
against Dottridge. What is it ? You can trust
me.'

Stephen was certainly thrown off his guard ;
there was something so unspeakably sympathetic
and good-natured in Eapier's manner,
combined with his consciousness of the awkward

position in which he was himself placed,
that the spring of his hate for Dottridge being
touched, it answered immediately.

Grudge against him ! I hate him. Damn
him.'

Eapier leaned back in his chair and drew a
long breath. The Confidant within him exclaimed
merrily, ' Won, by Jove, by the first
trump.' Eapier himself had the expression of
a friend who was surprised and puzzled by the
sudden discovery of enmity between two people
whom he had hitherto regarded as living on
the most amicable terms.

Damn him by all means, my dear Meredith,
but please let me understand something of your
reason for it. He has been a good friend to
you '

That made Stephen jump. It made him
forget the enquiry he had intended to make
regarding Eapier's possession of the master-key
which he knew Dottridge guarded so carefully

It made him forget the intention he had formed
on finding that it was Eapier he was grasping
by the throat to discover whether or not the
man was honest or a rogue. All the degradation
of his position was brought back by that
single phrase, ' He has been a good friend to
you.'

He was maddened.

'A friend!'

The word seemed to choke him. He rose
and stretched out his arms as if he were clutching
some unseen form, and again there was
that horrible expression on his face which had
stricken Dahlia down.

Eapier grasped his hands and pressed them
tightly, with every evidence of great anxiety,
but he did not speak.

Meredith, by some mighty efibrt, controlled,
although he could not subdue, the passion
which was in him. He flung Eapier's hands

from him, and seeing the carafe on the table,
took a big drink of water.

Do you call that man a friend who has
ruined your life ? ' he said, in a low, quivering
voice. ' Do you call that man a friend who,
under the pretence of blessings, has given you
curses ? . . . That is what Dottridge has done
to me.'

He stood, unable to speak further, staring
at Eapier. The latter remained still silent ; he
believed that he was victor ; at any rate he saw
his way now.

Meredith spoke impatiently.

'You do not answer. You, of course, are
his friend — I suppose because he has been such
a good friend to you.'

Eapier did not heed the sneer, apparently,
but he was saying within himself — ' He is still
the lout I thought him.'

To Meredith he said :

If you will listen to me quietly for five

minutes, I will prove to you that I am more
your friend than his. I will show you how to
punish him.'

Meredith clutched his hand with wild joy,
gasping :

Show me that, and I will thank you with
a life's gratitude.'

CHAPTER XLII.

MAD THOUGHTS.

When Dacia wakened in the morning she
did not recollect what had occurred during the
night. Her head was aching, and her eyes
seemed to be on fire as if she had been crying
for a long time.

Presently she vaguely comprehended that
something strange had happened, and she
strove desperately to put the events of the
previous day together in her faltering memory
in the hope that they would lead her up to the
event which had caused the vague terror and
oppression now upon her.

At length she recalled the jesting about
Euth at dinner, and Stephen's displeasure.

But that was not enough to account for his
absence now. Evidently he had not been
there all night.

She sat up and rang the bell for the servant
who usually brought her a cup of tea in
the morning, and as she was doing so there
flashed upon her memory the reflection of that
terrible face she had seen in the library. With
a low moan of pain she buried her face in the
pillow.

Here is the tea, ma'am,' said the servant.


Thanks — put it on the table, please.
Where is your master ? ' said Dahlia, without
looking up.

I'll enquire, ma'am.'

During the girl's absence Dahlia rose and
put on her dressing gown. Her heart was
beating wildly, and she made every movement
with nervous haste.

Well ? ' she queried impatiently, on the

return of the girl, whose absence had seemed
long to her.

I can't find him, ma'am ; but the door
was open this morning before any of us got up,
and we suppose it was the master went out.
The lamp was burning in the library when
Jane went in to do it up.'

Tell Mrs. Meredith I would like to speak
to her.'

When she was again alone, Dahlia clasped
her hands tightly on her head. It could not
be that the foolish words she had spoken .at
dinner were so very wicked that he could not
forgive them. No, it was not that. He had
discovered the conditions on which she had
obtained her fortune, and that she had been
aware of them. Euth must have told him.

At that thought she became cold, and her
expression of fright gave place to one of rage.
Well, so be it ; she had offered to explain
everything to him more than once before the

VOL. II. T

marriage, and he had refused to hear it. He
had himself told her that in order to win his
confidence she must show him that she could
respect that of others. Her conscience was
clear on that score, and she did love him — he
would never know how well. Euth could not
care for him as she did; if she had done so
she would never have given him this cause for
discontent.

Then there came upon her suddenly a new
light. If Euth had done this evil, Euth
should set it right. She would go to her;
she would tell her the misery she was causing ;
and if she could not move her to pity — no,
she would not ask for pity, she would ask for
justice — if she could not move her then to help
to make Stephen content, she would find some
means of retaliation,

Then the mad thoughts came into her poor
head again. She had no definite purpose, no
sense of the dangers into which her excitement

might cast her before she was aware of what
she was doing. There was only that wild,
vague craving to keep her lover fast to herself
the same wild craving which in shipwreck
makes a mother clasp her infant tightly to her
breast with the vain sense that there is safety
in the mere contact even whilst both are
drowning. But failing, there was no deed too
desperate for her to do. How it was to be
done she did not know; but Eapier might.
Ay, he was a cunning devil ; he had said that
she would need his help, and the time had
come. The compact which she had entered
into with him was of more consequence than
she had at first imagined.

She was dressing with that nervous haste
which characterised all her movements this
morning, when Mrs. Meredith came to her.

'My poor child, you look dreadfully ill,'
said the good-natured mother, as she kissed
her. ' What has happened ? '

T 2

I don't know,' said Dahlia, brushing her
hair viciously, ' something bad has happened,
although I don't know what it is. Where is
Stephen? — he has not been here all night

Mrs. Meredith took the commonplace view
of the case ; here were man and wife who had
quarrelled, and thought that they would never
speak to each other again, but she knew quite
well that they would — as was usual — and that
the person who interfered between them would
be the one to suffer most. She had a very
sensible notion, too, that if any friendly arbitration
should be needed a mother-in-law was
certainly not the person to be the arbitrator.

So she offered commonplace consolation,
assuring the restless and irritable young wife
that all would be right by-and-by, and giving
her that most unendurable of all advice when
one is in a temper — the advice to be patient.

Keep up your heart, dearie, you must

expect a little misunderstanding now and then.
The wisest thing I can say to you is to settle it
between yourselves, and don't speak a word
about it to anybody. I don't think you should
speak even to me. There now, I won't stay to
talk about it, because talking will only make
you worse, and when lie comes in you should
be ready to receive him quietly.'

Dahlia bit her lips to restrain an impatient
retort which had been upon them.

With a hopeful smile Mrs. Meredith was
going away when a servant entered with a
letter.

'This is from Kemerton, ma'am, and the
man is waiting to know if there is any answer.'

Dahlia snatched the letter from her. It
was from Eapier, and, as she read, a curious
expression of wonder and fear passed over her
face.

Is it from Stephen ? ' asked the mother.

She crumpled the letter in her hand.

No, it is not from him,' she replied briskly
to Mrs. Meredith ; and then turning to the
servant :

Tell the man there is no answer.'

END OP THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : Printed BY

SPOTTISWOODK AND CO., New-street SQUARE

Aid PARLIAMENT Street

US '*" "- >VJ

if

M

W^

'fmm&

'SJk^^

■m

m

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS

Gb42o
V.5

15f5^

sis

i

:^Vi

THE CAPTAINS' ROOM. By Walter Besant.

KIT : a Memory. By James Pain.

VAL STRANGE. By David Christie Murray.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon.

GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.

DUST. By Julian Hawthorne.

WOMEN ARE STRANGE. By F. W. Robinson.

Chatty & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

31 george

BY

CHARLES GIBBON

AUTHOR OF ROBIN GRAY THE GOLDEN SHAFT A HEARTS PROBLEM
'queen of the meadow' 'the BRAES OF YARROW* ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

Chatty & WINDUS, PICCADILLY


The ris:ht of translation is reserved ]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Squat

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

XLIII. A Heart on Fire 1

XLIV. Tragedy in the Drawing-room — Scene I. . 16

XLV. Tragedy in the Drawing-room — Scene II. 26

XLVI. An Interlude 37

XLVII. Juggling 44

XL VIII. Keen Wit and Keen Wit . . . . 54

XLIX. The Appeal 72

L. Tragedy in the Drawing-room — Scene IH. 83

LI. For and Against 93

LII. * Martyrs slain in Cupid's Wars ' . . 109

LIII. Vanquished 125

LIV. Under a Cloud . . . . . . 145

LV. ^ Needs must when the ' et cetera . 166

CHAPTER, PAGE

LVI. The Flight 184

LVII. The Chase 194

LVIII. The Crisis 202

LIX. The Trump Card 221

LX. ' A Hit, a very palpable Hit ' . . . 231

CHAPTEE XLIII.

A HEART ON FIRE.

The next tiling Dahlia did was to order Smalley
to get the carriage ready.

Smalley scratched his head 'and looked
puzzled, and, as far as his stood face was
capable of the expression, astonished.

You mean the phaeton, Missus, I suppose ? '

I said the carriage,' she replied, sharply.

But it hasn't been out since the wedding
day,' the old man expostulated, for in all his
experience he had never known the carriage to
be used except on some occasion of state or a
wet Sunday going to church ; and it seemed to

VOL. m. B

be quite out of the ordinary course of affairs
that it should be required on an ordinary weekday
without any visible sign of there being anything
special afoot.

That is why I want it.'

There was something in her manner, and
especially in the short dry laugh which accompanied
the words, that made Smalley proceed
to obey without further remonstrance. But he
relieved himself with a private growl.

She is a Tartar, and no mistake, if ever
there was one. It ain't raining, and there ain't
no feast on, and I can't see what she wants the
carriage for, barren' it be to worry me, for she
knows it's all clean and tidied up. She ain't
the same as she was — she didn't use to bang us
about in this way.'

Sighing for the good times which had
apparently passed, Smalley went on his way to
go through the elaborate ordeal of getting the
carriage ready.

Mrs. Meredith, senior, was as much surprised
as the old servant by DahHa's manner-and
order — more, certainly, by the manner than
the order. The curious laugh, the evident excitement,
the absence of Stephen, and that
effect upon the domestic atmosphere which
trouble always produces, combined to alarm
her.

What are you going to do. Dahlia ?
What is the meaning of all this strange conduct
? Speak to me before it is too late — you
know that I am your friend and that I woulfi
gladly do anything to make you happy.'

You are very good, mother, but I am
afraid you cannot do much for me now. . . .
There is nothing so very extraordinary after all
in my desire to visit Kemerton in state — is
there now, when you come to think of it .? Mr.
Dottridge invites us — Stephen goes before me,
and I only desire to follow him with becoming
dignity ? You know T like to be looked upon
B 2

as a very grand person — in fact, as the wife of
your son should be looked upon. There is
nothing very extraordinary in all that ? *

Again there was that odd little laugh, the
smile which was made up of a puckering of
the skin about the mouth and eyes, such as is
produced on the face of dolls by the distortion
of the features, and is labelled 'a playful
smile.'

The mother spoke with all the earnestness
of one who sees another about to do some
desperate act and wants to prevent it :

I implore you, Dahlia, to be careful. I
can see that something has gone wrong, and
from your present conduct I am afraid you are
going to make it worse. Stay where you are
until Stephen comes home.'

Mr. Dottridge has invited us to Kemerton,
and we have accepted the invitation. Stephen
has gone a little before the appointed hour;
but it is right that I should follow him, and of

course it will not matter if I, too, go earlier
than was arranged

Mrs. Meredith was becoming angry as well
as alarmed.

This is cruel, Dahlia ; I am his mother,
and yours now. I have a right to expect that
if there is anything seriously wrong, you will
give me the opportunity of trying to set it
right.'

Dahlia only laughed again.

Poor mother,' she exclaimed, with mocking
levity, ' you would like to set it right ! I
know you would. So would I, and I am
going to do what is in my power to accomplish
it. We are going to pour oil on fire.'

Then, before the mother could speak, she
added fiercely :

I am going to snatch him from the arms
of Euth Clark — to save him and you, and all
of us from disgrace.'

She flung her hair wildly back from her

forehead and began to comb it as if she would
tear it out by the roots.

Mrs. Meredith felt that this was not the
time to hope for any satisfactory explanation,
and that every attempt to obtain it would only
irritate Dahlia the more ; but she could not
help making another effort to learn something
which would enable her to comprehend the
position. She saw clearly now that it was very
different from an ordinary quarrel in which it
would have been foolish to interfere.

'I wish you could tell me all that has
happened,' she pleaded.

That is easily done. He has discovered
the arrangements about the money — he believes
that I sought him only on account of it — he
hates me and is going to run away with Euth.
That is all that has happened.'

What nonsense you are talking,' said Mrs.
Meredith, indignantly ; ' you cannot believe
that Stephen would be so foolish — so mad !

You know that I d^ not like Euth, but I am
sure that she would never think of such folly
either. You must calm yourself, Dahlia, and if
you are determined to go to Kemerton in your
present state I must go with you

Dahlia's hand paused above her head, the
comb holding up the hair. In the glass she
saw her own strange look. That was not the
expression which should be on her face when
she appeared at Kemerton. That was not the
temper in which to triumph over her rival.

The mother's words brought these facts to
her dazed understanding, and her quick wit
catching them, she steadied herself and her
whole manner changed. She laid down the
comb, and turned almost quietly, holding out
her hands to Mrs. Meredith.

Forgive me for frightening you, my dear
mother, I have been greatly excited, and I am
very nervous ; but you must not think that I
am going to show this vexation to anybody

else. You know a child is always most wilful
with those who are most patient with it. You
are patient with me and that is why you are
allowed to see all this silly passion. Of course
I do not believe that Stephen or Euth would be
so cruel. I am only going to Kemerton in
accordance with the invitation. Certainly I
mean to speak to Euth, but it will be in the
most friendly way.'

My dear child, I cannot tell you how
much relief you give me. You know that if
Stephen is angry with you about the arrangements
for the marriage, he should be angry
with me, too, and I am quite prepared to take
my full share of the blame for any mistake that
may have been made. But you really should
not go to Kemerton until novi have seen him
and talked matters over quietly together

He is there, waiting for me ; and you
know it would never do to disappoint Mr.
Dottridge. I must go at once, but I don't

think you should come with me ; they will
both be so angry with me if they should think
I have been making any fuss, and they would
be sure to think it if you came with me.'

Mrs. Meredith was much bewildered and
puzzled to know what to do. What Dahlia
said was true enough — Stephen would be vexed
if he thought there had been any fuss made
about Euth ; but at the same time Dahlia's
sudden calmness was almost as alarming as her
passion.

Well, perhaps it would be better for you
to go alone,' she said at length, hesitatingly ;
but I do hope for all our sakes you will becalm.'


Oh, I shall be very calm, you may trust
me,' said Dahlia, as she turned to the mirror
again, and the mother did not see the bitter
smile upon her face.

« * • • •

When the heavy old-fashioned carriage was

brought round to the large old-fashioned doorway
of the Grange, and Smalley — with a somewhat
sour visage — sat on the box in his old-fashioned
livery, the mind of the spectator was
carried back fifty years. There was a substantial,
easy-going look about the carriage and the
place which filled one with a sweet sense of
quiet country life, free from the hurry and
worry of our train and telegraph days.

The gloomy day — dull, leaden sky and
misty atmosphere — did not interfere with that
first impression of restfulness, but rather intensified
it. So far from being an incongruous
figure in the old-fashioned picture. Dahlia enhanced
its charm in her smart, grey ulster, and
black hat, with its one large, tawny feather, as
she stood for a moment in the doorway surrounded
by eager sisters-in-law.

They had been all as much astonished as
Smalley when they learned that the carriage
was ordered out ; but being better able to sympathise

with the feelings of the young wife who
was about to pay a first visit after her marriage
to her guardian, they appreciated her desire to
appear before him with all possible accessories
of dignity.

But the impression of calmness was instantly
dispelled by her quick nervous movements as
she descended the steps and entered the carriage,
and the impatience of her tone as she
gave the command,

'To Kemerton — quick.'

The vision of the gentle life suggested by
the scene disappeared, and in its place came the
realisation of the fact that all these emblems of
peace were marred by the feverish spirit of
haste peculiar to our time.

Smalley, however, was not moved by the
command except, maybe, to feel a little more
incensed at his young mistress. The idea of
having the family carriage out with no more
than two hours' notice, and then to expect that

it was to go quick ! Such a thing had never
been heard of before.

'Why, there's that livery alone takes an
hour to put on decent ; and you can't have the
carriage without the livery. That stands to
reason,' was his grumble to the stableman. ' I
am proud of that livery, and I am proud of
that there carriage ; and I don't want to see
them wasted on common work. There's the
gig or the phaeton for going out in a neighbourly
way, and what more do you want ? '

However, as it was to be a State affair,
Smalley drove with due regard to effect, and
therefore went along with little more speed
than if he had been in a Lord Mayor's procession.
The dignity of the carriage and the
family was in his eyes before all things.

Dahlia fretted a little at first, she even called
to him twice, but at length gave up the attempt
to influence him. The journey was not a long
one in any case.

She tried to subdue her impatience by-referring
again to Eapier's message. It was
very brief, and it was the more terrible in consequence.


Your husband is here. He has learned
everything about the conditions attached to your
marriage. He is mad about Ruth, and ready
to defy all law on her account. He is equally
mad with Dottridge, and I am doing all in
my power to prevent them meeting. Come hereat
once and help me to avert mischief

All sorts of wild possibilities were suggested
to her mind by this epistle. One dreadful
vision was that of Ruth and Stephen running
away together ; but the most prominent of all
was Eapier — her true friend and ally in this
contest between love and duty.

True friend, indeed, he seemed to be, as he
was waiting for her in the avenue. He entered

the carriage, and they proceeded towards the
house.

What does it all mean ? ' she inquired
bitterly.

It simply means this, Dahlia,' he replied

earnestly, ' that all our plans have failed if

Euth does not pledge herself to-day to become

my wife.'

What hope have you that you can bring

her to do that ? '

I have you. See her — tell her how you
stand with Stephen ; she has a kindly heart ;
she will consent to anything to save you from
pain and him from disgrace.'

But how am I to find an opportunity of
speaking to her alone ? '

I will arrange thai.'

Then ' — with that short, fierce laugh —
you need have no fear of my failing to tell
her exactly how it stands.'

But she may tell you that it is Dottridge
she is willing to marry.*

In that case I shall know that she is trying
to deceive me, and will act accordingly.*

I shall be near to help you.'

That was the sum of their compact — she
blindly following where he led.

CHAPTER XLIV.

TRAGEDY IN THE Drawing-ROOM — SCENE I,

The drawing-room is the place for afternoon
tea, for after-dinner tattle and music that is
rarely listened to, however good. It is not the
place for scenes of passion or earnest feeling of
any kind. But one — no, two, were as safe from
interruption in the drawing-room of Kemerton
during the forepart of three hundred days out
of the three hundred and sixty-five as if they
were in the wilds of Timbuctoo.

Euth and Stephen were there now. The
housemaid who — sometimes — came to dust the
places which would be most likely to proclaim
her negligence, had been in the room and
gone.

Euth knew that there was not the slightest
chance of interruption then, and so when she
had received Stephen's appeal that she should
see him for half an hour before he went to his
cousin — see him alone, and where he could
speak freely — she appointed the wilds of the
drawing-room for their rendezvous.

She was looking distressed, and even
alarmed : the necessity for another interview
she had felt ; but this one had come upon her
so suddenly, and in such an unexpected manner,
that she was filled with vague fears of still
more vague consequences.

But he had said :

You must see me if you value my happiness
or that of anybody connected with us.'

And so she had come.

His appearance was not reassuring; hair
uncombed ; face unwashed ; collar and shirt
crumpled and dirty ; clothes looking as if they
had not been brushed for days, and a wild

VOL. III. c

expression in his eyes which, taken altogether,
would have made her fancy that the man had
been out all night dissipating, had she not
known him well.

They had both reached the door of the
room at the same time, and, he taking her
hand, they entered it together. Inside he
dropped her hand, closed the door and looked
at her as one who is gazing for the last time on
the face he loves.

I see you are disturbed,' he said bitterly.
Did you never practise how you should receive
me when I came to tell you that I had learned
how heartless you had been in your doubt of
me ? Did you never think how you should
answer me when I stood before you as I do
now, the wreck of what might have been a
useful life, and said — this is your work. Are
you proud of it ? '

The subdued passion of the man was more
terrible than the wildest outburst of reproach
could have been.

She was pallid ; she was trembling. There
was no need for any explanation ; she comprehended
the whole position. Then she could
only stretch out her hands, crying :

I know that I have done wrong, Stephen
forgive me. . I feared it all along. But
how could I tell — how could I foresee the
accidents which have altered everything as it
appeared to me ? '

Had you loved me there would have been
no need to risk the occurrence of anything that
might separate us.'

Had I loved you ! ' she repeated in a low,
wistful voice ; ' had I loved you ! . . Oh,
Stephen, can you question that ? '

No,' he retorted, harshly, ' I do not
question it — I know it. You never loved me,
or you could not have tried me so.'

There she was about to cry in anguish.
You wrong me, and it is you who do not
know what love will do — you who do not know

c 2

how it can surrender self and be content to
suffer any pain so that it may give happiness to
its idol.' But she stifled the words, and, seeing
that here was a new demand to conquer self,
she answered, sadly :

Perhaps it was so, Stephen. Think it was,
if that will help to make you forget me.'

Oh, what infernal nonsense you talk ! ' he
exclaimed passionately, and clasping her in his
arms so wildly that she had no power to resist.
As if I could forget ; as if I would not gladly
do it if 1 could. . . . You can preach to me
because you do not feel.'

'Ah!'

The cry was so strangely low, and yet
pierced his ears so sharply, that it seemed like
the last «!ob of a dying heart.

He kissed her cold brow with his hot lips ;
then released her, and stepped back.

I know the folly of it all,' he said chokingly,
and struggling fiercely to master his despair.

I know my weakness . . . You have proved
your strength.'

'Do not try it any more, Stephen,' she
almost moaned ; ' it is already strained too far.'

I do not mean to strain it further. I did
not come to reproach you. May be, I shall be
able some day to appreciate the sacrifice which
you believe you made for me . . „ I can't
appreciate it now. Forgive me for that. I do
not blame you — I blame only that man who
has been the curse of all our lives. . . .
Through him I come to demand from you
the proof that what you did was because you
cared for me, and not because you feared my
poverty.'

Demand anything you will to satisfy you
of that, and I shall do it,' she answered, lifting
up her head again, cheeks glowing and eyes
brightening with eager hope.

As he looked at her in this moment of
exaltation — so beautiful, so brave, so true — his

sense of loss again took strong possession of him,
and lie covered his eyes with his hands in the
vain effort to shut out the vision which made
him think life impossible without her.

He mastered himself; but his rage against
the man who had robbed him of his treasure
was the more intense.

With a sudden calmness, which startled her
and made her tremble as with cold, he spoke.

• You said that this must be our last meeting.
I know it must. . I have read all that
you have written, and understand the happiness
we have both lost. . . . Enough of that, Euth.
Here we are to say good-bye for ever. But
one pledge you must give me before we part.'

Stane it.'

That you will also part from the fiend who
has wrought our ruin — that you will never see,
speak to, or hold any communication, except
that of hate, with my cousin Dottridge .^ '

She hesitated.

'He was my father's friend — he has been
mine.*

He has been a curse to everyone who
trusted him, and most of all to us. He betrayed
a noble woman and left her to shame. He
undertook the care of her child to save himself
from exposure and the ruin which disgrace
brings even to such men as he.'

Who told you this ? ' she inquired, knowing
that he spoke of Dahlia's mother.

Eapier, who knew it all — who was with
him through it all. . Oh, you need not warn
me against Eapier. I do not trust him. I have
the proofs of what I say here in my pocket.'

He spoke triumphantly, a savage joy in his
eyes.

'What are they?' (She doubted everything
that Eapier meddled with.)

Letters of Dottridge and Dahlia's mother
telling the whole miserable story of her fate
and his falsehood.'

Have you read them ? '

No — I shall do that in his presence when
I see him by and by. I shall make this man
pay the penalty of his crimes.'

Euth saw a greater danger to Stephen than
she had yet suspected — the danger of his meeting
Dottridge while the present frenzy was
upon him.

What would you have him do ? '

'Make him give up all thought of you.
That is my revenge — to disappoint the wretched
idiot of the prize which he has schemed so
cruelly to win. . . . Now give me the pledge
of your truth — give me the proof that all you
have said, all you have written, was true.
Promise that you will never be that man's wife.'

'Will that satisfy you?' she said very
slowly.

Nothing else can.'

Then you have my promise — on one condition
'

'No conditions, Euth, there must be none.
We are not to meet again. I cannot part from
you with any doubt on this subject. I hold
your pledge : and now good-bye.'

He did not attempt to take her in his arms
again ; they clasped hands, looking earnestly
into each other's faces, and as she bowed her
head he kissed her once more.

Then he went away.

She stood for a little dazed by the wild
scene through which she had passed, and
scarcely realising the nature of the pledge sEe
had given, or the fact that she had said her
last good-bye to Stephen.

She was startled from her sad reverie by a
cold, harsh voice.

I want to speak to you, Euth,' said Dahlia,
suddenly gliding in from the terrace by one of
the French windows.

CHAPTEE Xli.

TRAGEDY IN THE Drawing-room. — SCENE II.

The first impulse of Euth was to take the
young wife in her arms, to seek and to give
sympathy, for she was innocent of any thought
that might be the cause of unhappiness to
her.

But Dahlia believed her to be full of guilty
thoughts and designs, and so she looked at her
with that cold, repellant expression with which
one regards a foe from whom no pity is expected
and to whom no mercy is to be shown.
Then there was that anxious, glistening stare in
Dahlia's eyes which would have made anyone
feel uncomfortable.

It made Euth suspect that she was unwell,

and after the first moment of hesitation she
advanced towards her.

My dear Dahha,' she said, taking her
hand and embracing her, ' I am glad to see
you, but I wish I could have seen you looking
better.'

Dahlia submitted to the embrace, but made
no response to it. As soon as she had disengaged
herself, she said, as she rearranged her
collar and cuffs,

Thank you. I am glad you are glad to
see me. That was my husband who left you
just now ? '

'Yes.'

Euth pronounced the word slowly, and
Dahha misinterpreted the slowness to mean
hesitation to confess that it was Stephen who
had been there. It only meant that Euth was
perplexed and grieved by Dahlia's strange
manner.

I must apologise for interrupting you,'

Dahlia went on with evidently forced calmness,
and especially for coming in upon you through
the window. Quite amusing, is it not ? But I
really did not mean to disturb you. I was
walking on the terrace with Mr. Eapier, and
happening to see you here came in at once by
the way you know I used to be fond of. I had
no idea that my appearance would frighten him
away.'

There was that kind of irritating sneering
titter in the voice which only a woman can
express when she is openly pretending to be
civil to one with whom she is in a bitter
rage.

Euth was silent. The fact was slowly
dawning upon her that she was face to face with
a jealous wife who would not easily be persuaded
to understand the real position of
Stephen and herself. She answered quietly :

You did not disturb us, Dahlia. We
were saying good-bye. I did not see you until

you spoke, and I am sure he did not or he
would have stayed.'

Dahlia had drawn off her right-hand glove
and was patting — or whipping — the left with it,
playfully.

'Your conversation must have been very
interesting to render you both deaf and blind.
But, of course, it is usual for old friends —
especially when they happen to be a man and
woman — to have confidences to exchange which

might not be agreeable to the ears of the

•
woman's husband or the man's wife. I understand
that, but it was a pity that you could
not make an exception to the rule in my case.
Or it was a pity that I was so foolish as to
think you might do so, and, by my ridiculous
haste to show my trust in you both, spoil your
pleasure in meeting. But you know that I was
always a little silly.'

All this was spoken with an air and tone of
apologetic politeness, as if she sincerely regretted

having been the cause of inconvenience
to her friends ; but it was followed by that
horrible titter which nervous irritation provokes
in weak, passionate natures. Dahlia wished to
suppress all signs of her spleen and hate, but
betrayed herself by every word and look.

Euth looked at her for a moment, amazed
and pained ; but she saw the blunder Dahha
was making, and was resolved to save her from
it. She spoke with simple earnestness, yet
with a firmness which commanded attention.

You do not understand. Dahlia, but I hope
you will try to believe me when I explain.
You were aware of the position which Mr.
Meredith and I held to each other before my
departure for Australia. I know, and he
knows, that the position is entirely changed by
what has since occurred. I desire to see him
happy, and that includes the desire to see you
happy. You say that you had confidence in us
both, and I believe it or you would not have

caused us so much pain by bringing about the
unexpected meeting in the Holly Bush Eing —
you owe me some explanation for that.'

I thought I was doing you quite a friendly
turn,' was Dahlia's flippant answer ; ' and apparently
it proved to be one.'

On the contrary, it was most cruel to us.
We were unprepared, and we were unable to
act with the calmness which was required on
a first meeting, considering the altered positions
in which we stand to each other.'

Then I wished to see how you would remember
me when you met, and, as I expected,
you forgot me.'

You are wrong — we did remember you.
If we could have forgotten you we should have
been happy.'

That was true, and was the more bitter
because it was true. Euth could not help
saying it, although she sympathised with Dahlia
and wished to spare her pain. Whilst the

words were on her lips she was sorry for
uttering them, but was unable to stop in time.
She succeeded, however, in suppressing what
might have followed — 'had you remembered
me in time there would have been none of this
trouble.'

Dahlia twisted her glove between her
hands.

You were able to console yourselves, at any
rate, for my absence.'

This with a painful affectation of gaiety.

'We were not thinking of consolation of
any kind,' answered Euth, gently ; ' we were
thinking only of how we might make the best
of our position. And we believe that is to be
done by never meeting again.'

'So you have taken an eternal adieu. —
Poor Euth — Poor Stephen.*

When one is making an earnest effort to
find the best way out of a difficulty, and has
resolved upon stifling personal feeling for the

benefit of another — that other may most easily
provoke one to a feeling of irritation by affecting
to regard the sacrifice as of trifling consequence.
The mocking words and tone of
Dahlia did again stir the spirit of resentment in
Euth, but she controlled it.

'I have told you that we think it is best
for us all that we should not meet again,' she
answered simply, ' I cannot offer you advice,
for I see you would not heed it, but I must
implore you. Dahlia, not to make the unhappy
state we are all placed in worse by any foolish
act on your part.'

Oh, you expect me to act foolishly ! '

I fear it because I feel that you are not
satisfied.'

Could you expect me to be satisfied ? ' she
asked, with sudden fierceness.

Euth was relieved ; any humour was more
bearable than the alternate flippancy and superciliousness
with which Dahlia had been speaking.

VOL. III. D

Genuine passion was, under the circumstances,
understandable and to be respected. That was
natural, and Euth could answer it.

I was wrong to say satisfied, Dahlia,' she
replied, sadly, ' for I do not expect any of us
can be satisfied at present. But we can try to
understand each other — that is, you and I and
Stephen — since we three, at any rate, have only
one object in view.'

That is true, if the one thing we have in
view is the same,' said Dahlia, with that cold
glistening stare in her eyes.

Can you doubt it ? '

I shall be sure of it only when you have
proved that you desire to see us happy.'

Ah, I should be glad to do that if it were
in my power.'

It is in your power. Show him that you
can live without him as he found that he could
live without you. You know how it may be
done, and until you have done it you know

that your existence will be a constant accusation
against me that I have usurped your place ;
every sign of neglect on his part — whether real
or imagined by me — will be a constant proof
that he regards me as his curse because I stand
between him and you.'

Dahlia maintained a degree of outward
control, and the fury of this cry was the more
intense. It struck the deeper into the listener's
heart because the interview with Stephen
rendered her keenly sensible of how true it
was, and of how little service protestations of
sympathy could be so long as she occupied her
present place in his thoughts. She could not
answer.

Think of it,' Dahha went on bitterly ; ' one
of us two must end this difficulty. Say which of
us it must be — you, living ; or I, dead ? '

Euth shuddered, although she did not fully
comprehend the meaning of the words ' or I,
dead.'

s2

I will end it if it be possible by any sacrifice,'
lie said resolutely.

I will know to-night whether or not you
are in earnest, and then I shall also know my
course. If you want anyone to help you, there
he is ! '

She pointed to Eapier, who was passing the
window ; and then she quitted the room.

CHAPTER Xlii.

AN INTERLUDE.

Ruth felt feverish in her bewilderment. There
seemed to be fever in the atmosphere ; distracting
questions, each claiming immediate settlement,
were hurrying so fast one after the other
She had stood quite calm in the midst of
shipwreck, facing peril which threatened death
at every moment ; she had kept her head, and
had been able to help others to keep their
heads. But here, in this mental and moral
shipwreck, the rudder seemed to have been
lost, and she was being beaten about by so
many cross winds that she could only abandon
herself to their whims, and in her dazed state
submit to whatever fate might befall her.

That was her present position — one of utter
bewilderment and incapacity to determine what
was best for her to do.

Nature had not endowed her with woman's
safety-valve — hysterics. She was simply dazed,
dumb, still. More and more she was realising
the full force of Stephen's words that the true
shipwreck of their lives was here, on the land,
in the place where they had grown up together
in love — the place they called Home.

Home ! — where was her home to be now ?
Would she ever know one ? For Stephen's
sake she must abandon Dottridge, who, whatever
selfish blunder he had committed, had
proved himself to be devoted to her. It was
his devotion to her which had caused the
blunder. His eagerness to win her had provoked
him to use the power he possessed to
test the sincerity of Stephen by a very small
trial — a year's separation. And, notwithstanding
the peculiar circumstances of the case, she

did not think that Stephen had come out of it
quite so openhanded as he ought to have done.
He might have waited, and

There she stopped.

I am seeking to excuse myself by casting
blame upon him. I won't do that.'

And then she went to the window. Eapier
was not in sight. Bleak and cold as the landscape
was on this wintry day, there were rich
clumps of evergreens and stretches of green
headland to refresh the eye, whilst there
was on the masses of trees that faint, misty
bloom which betokens the approach of
buds.

She had thought that the way to settle the
matter was to be found in consenting to become
the wife of Humphrey Dottridge. She had
half determined to accept that means of escape
from all this worry. But she was forbidden ;
and being forbidden, she felt quite sure that it
would have been the simplest and most complete

solution of the difficulty which was distressing
them all.

If Stephen had not compelled her to promise
that she would not marry Dottridge, how
easily she might have satisfied Dahlia ! Or if
it would be enough for her to go away and
never cross their paths again, how glad she
would have been to do it ! But she knew that
going was of no avail ; the antipodes are only
on the other side of the world, and the
people we don't want to meet always turnup
more frequently than those we do want
to meet.

Besides, her task was to make him content,
for his own sake and for Dahlia's, and as Dahlia
had said there was only one method of accomplishing
that, — 'prove that she could forget
him, as he had forgotten her.'

But there was one other way of settling the
matter which none of them appeared to have
considered — she might disregard all their reproaches,

and do precisely what pleased herself
best.

They had not thought of that contingency.
She might turn her back on Kemerton and its
master : she might be indifferent to Stephen and
his troubles, and go on her way in silence.
That was by far the best plan which had been
discovered yet. . . Only it required the
quality she did not possess — indifference. She
could not be indifferent to Stephen ; she could
not get rid of the responsibility she felt had
been incurred by her departure for Australia,
and her submission to the terms which Dottridge
had made with her.

She had the consciousness that there was
something of a very simple nature required to
set everybody right : that was a little commonsense,
combined with a little forbearance of
each other's sins. She did not quite see how it
was to be found ; but she opened the window
and went out to seek it in the fresh air

She walked quickly along the terrace to the
corner of the house, and had turned when a
hand touched her shoulder:

I am not going to interfere with your
exercise,' said Eapier, softly in her ear ; ' but
seeing you on the terrace, I thought it would be
no harm to remind you that at nine to-night I
expect your answer. I shall wait for you in
the drawing-room.'

You have already had my answer,' she
replied, without turning her head.

He was walking quietly behind her, making
no effort to take his place by her side.

You have seen them both,' he continued,
and you can judge for yourself how sadly out
of sorts they are. On reflection, I think you
will listen to what I have to say to-night, and
do what you alone can do to mend matters. I
will expect you at the appointed time.'

She was in front of the drawing-room again,
and was glad to go in to escape from this

man. He made no attempt to follow her, but
passed on leisurely, his eyes fixed on the
ground, as if he were reading there the signs
of his fate which this night was to determine.

Euth sat down on the couch, her hands
clasped on her knees. She was trying to concentrate
her thoughts, which were at present
flying from one subject to another, so that she
could understand nothing clearly.

She succeeded at length so far as to determine
that it was Eapier's mischievous designs
she had to foil.

CHAPTEE Xliii.

JUGGLING.

The face of the man was as keen and cold as
an east wind. His hand had been unexpectedly
forced, and he knew that he stood on the
turning-point of his destiny. It was neck or
nothing with him now.

But, amongst other gifts which ought to
have made hin a successful man, Eapier owned
the rare faculty of being able to recognise his
weak points and promptly make up his mind
to meet the consequences boldly. He saw
clearly that he ought to have looked after
Stephen earlier, and although he had conquered
him in the meanwhile, he could foresee many

ways in which the mere loutish honesty of the
master of Derewood might defeat the best laid
schemes of clever Lewis Eapier.

Of course he could not have foreseen the
possibility of Stephen bursting in upon him at
somewhere about three o'clock of a winter
morning, when he had for the first time found
an opportunity of using the duplicate key of
Dottridge's private safe. He had only
possessed himself of that key, after long
watching and waiting, on the day before he
had begun the search in which he had been
interrupted. But he might have had more wit
than to leave the window quite unguarded from
outside intrusion when he had arranged it for
his own escape in the event of any intrusion
from the inside of the house.

That was clear enough now; it was likewise
clear enough now that Stephen was a
person to be taken seriously into account in
the general arrangement of affairs if he was to

succeed in bringing them to a satisfactory issue
for himself.

He felt quite injured by this man who had
suddenly wakened up from a state of bucolic
inactivity to that of an energetic being with
will and purpose of his own. Both will and
purpose threatened to interfere with Eapier's
interests : and so, Eapier's Confidant had at
once suggested that he should seize them and
use them — as a clever engineer seizes a
wayward and dangerous watercourse, and
applies its force to the furtherance of his own
designs.

He had no difficulty in discovering how he
might direct Stephen's energy into his services ;
that was by playing upon the chord — hatred
of Dottridge. But he had no assurance of
what tension the chord might bear. Therefore
he had to hasten forward the accomplishment of
his plans.

He cursed him with all his heart for the

unexpected bother he was causing ; but he did
not waste much time over his anathemas — they
came in as breaths of relief in the midst of his
hurried reflections and actions.

It is a business of juggling with four balls,'
he said to his friend, ' and I must keep them
all going at once — Meredith and Dahlia —
Dottridge and Euth. Well, the game is worth
playing, and seeing that I must play it to the
end now, I may as well pretend that I enjoy it.'

The first thing he had to do was to prevent
Stephen and Dottridge meeting ; the second
was to arouse Stephen to compel Euth to refuse
Dottridge ; the third was to make Dahlia urge
upon Euth the necessity of doing something
which would make Stephen cease to regret the
mistake he had made ; the fourth was to convince
Ruth and Dottridge that the only way to
restore happiness to the Derewood family was
by her consenting to become his wife.

He expected to fail in persuading them that

this was the best and quickest solution of the
difficulty ; and he was preparing to frighten
them into acceptance of his solution.

He had carried the first three points with
comparative ease, and he had reason to be
gratified with his success. But the fourth
remained to be accomplished ; and Euth on
her part still appeared to be as much opposed
to it as ever.

She must yield, however, when Dottridge
found that she could not or would not accept
him, and when it was made clear that Dahlia's
happiness or Dahlia's ruin was dependent on
Euth's action.

He had done admirably thus far— notwithstanding
the disturbing element of Stephen
which had taken him so much by surprise that
he had not had time to calculate all its possibilities.
What he had to do now was sufficiently
grave to make him for a few seconds hesitate
and question whether he should proceed.

Then his face assumed that bitterly keen
east wind expression.

I am in for it in any case. I will go on to
the end.'

His thin lips were closed tightly as the
words passed through his mind.

He had confided Dahlia to the care of Mrs.
Smith, and he had Stephen waiting for him in
that room, where, on the winter night a year
ago, after the conversation on the pier at
Southend, the lover had waited anxiously for
the explanation which had been refused.

Stephen knew the room well, and remembered
that night — remembered it with fierce
rage at himself, that he had been such an imbecile
as not to have penetrated the whole diabolical
scheme to rob him of the woman he
loved and who loved him.

He was impatient to see Dottridge ; but
he had given his promise to Eapier to wait
there until he told him that the moment had

VOL. III. E

come to catch the arch conspirator in his utter
humiliation when he had learned from Euth
that all his treachery had been to no purpose and
she would never consent to marry him. This
Eapier was a clever devil, and he would make
it all right.

Stephen gloated over the discomfiture of
this man, who had thought that by his money
money ! — he could bend hearts and lives to
his pleasure. He was about to learn a bitter
lesson.

I hope you will manage to keep cool,
Meredith,' said Eapier, as he entered and found
Stephen pacing the floor with quick, nervous
steps. ' I have explained to you that if we are
to manage to bring the old fox to his knees we
must be perfectly calm and deliberate in our
actions.'

Oh, I shall be calm enough when I am
With him, answered Stephen impetuously.

It does not matter so much how you

act when you are with him as beforehand.
Your wife is here

I know it. I saw the carriage. I do not
want to see her at present.'

'I would have suggested that you had
better not. She also is a little excited. I have
told Brassey that we must be allowed to
lunch to-day at any time we may hind convenient.'


Has Euth seen him yet ? ' was Stephen's
hasty inquiry, utterly indifferent to Brassey and
lunch.

Not yet, and I should say she is not likely
to see him for some hours to come — perhaps
not even to-day. You must make some allowance
for a woman's nerves ; and after all Euth
is only a woman.'

I know, I know, but why does she put it
off?'

Did you make her promise that she would
go straight to him after you left her and

E 2

LIBRARY ":,^,<j

pronounce sentence upon him ? You did not
tell me that when you informed me of what she
had agreed to do. I am afraid he will get the
best of us yet.'

He shall not,' said Stephen, clenching his
teeth. ' I can wait.'

That's right ; and if you would only be
sensible you would step into the dining-room
and have some lunch.'

Stephen turned away with a feeling of
nausea at the mere mention of food.

Very well, I will come back to you presently.'


Eapier left him, satisfied that there was not
likely to be any immediate interruption from
him. He proceeded leisurely to the apartment
where Dahlia was waiting under the care
of her friends the housekeeper.

Dahha was talking with Mrs. Smith quite
calmly ; but she had not taken that worthy friend
into her confidence any further than by the

general explanation that there were some
family difficulties to be arranged by Mr.
Dottridge. She did, however, say with something
like a smile of malicious triumph —

I don't think you will have Miss Clark
with you very long. Isn't it a pity when
she has become such an interesting creature ! '

When Eapier appeared, Mrs. Smith withdrew.


Well,' inquired Dahlia eagerly, ' have you
seen her — have you spoken .^ '

I have, and she refuses — do not be
alarmed; that answer is not final. I have
repeated that I will not take her answer until
to-night.'

And if she refuse, then ? '

In that case you must be content to wait
for their flight, or take the step I have suggested
to you.'

I will not wait,' said Dahlia, with a peculiar
little laugh.

CHAPTEE XLVIII.

KEEN WIT AND KEEN WIT.

This had been a busy morning for Mr. Dot-bridge.
The business began before he left his
bedroom.

Eapier came to him looking more like a
person disturbed in mind than he had ever
appeared before.

What is the matter, Eapier — another crisis
in Egypt ? We are somewhat deeply involved
in that quarter.'

I have no special news about Egypt, but
I am anxious to save you from what
threatens to be not only a surprise, but a greater
trouble than the loss of every penny you have
sunk in that quarter.'

Eapier still affected to regard the verdict
pronounced more than a year ago by the physicians
as in force — that his chief might still be
dangerously, if not fatally, affected by any sudden
tidings of calamity.

Dottridge smiled ; he appreciated his
friend's caution, but he was too proud of the
recovered strength which rendered him indifferent
to it to suspect that there was any affectation
in it.

'Go on, man, you need not be afraid now ;
my condition is changed from what it used to
be. I have got a new lease of life, thanks to
fresh air and new hope.'

If I were not too much bothered at this
moment, I would offer you congratulations, and
tell you that you are a miracle of contradiction
to medical science. I would also remind you
that you have told me really nothing of what
you have been doing during your long absence,
except that you have been cruising about the

world, and picking up life by resolving not to
die. But you will explain all that another
time, I suppose. Meanwhile '

Well, meanwhile ? '

Dottridge proceeded calmly with his toilet,
smiling at the reflection of Eapier's face in the
mirror.

I see that I need not be afraid of startling
you. No doubt you foresaw the possibility of
that arrangement concerning Dahlia's dowry
turning up some day, with a request from
Meredith to have it fully explained.'

I do not see that he requires any explanation
since he has married her, as I expected he
would, and it seems to me now, as it did at the
time, that the match is a very suitable one for
both parties.'

So I think — so does everybody ; but he
has discovered somehow the conditions on
which the dowry was granted,' said Eapier,
evidently still uneasy on the subject.

Dottridge was perfectly placid.

The conditions were not imposed on him.
I was careful about that, for I respect him too
much not to believe that he would have rejected
them. Had I proposed them to him they
would have been contemptible. The only
blame which he can attach to me is that I
placed temptation in his way. To that my
answer is, the man who could submit to temptation
was not a fitting husband for Euth Clark.
I told him nothing about the release from the
mortgages which would follow upon his marriage
with Dahlia. I did not even speak of
her dowry. I offered him no bribe whatever.
He was left free to choose, and he has chosen.
On the whole, it seems to me he has done very
well.'

'All the same, he is frantic with rage
against you. He charges you madly with a
deeply-laid and diabolical scheme to separate
him from Miss Clark. I explained to him — or

tried to explain — how absurd that was, for you
could not possibly have any motive in separating
them. I pointed out that you could as
easily have dowered her as DahHa, and would
have done so if it had been required to help
the man she had decided to marry. But the
poor devil is beside himself, and cannot listen
to reason

In the course of this reply Eapier's tones
were exquisitely blended : pity for Stephen,
with a shade of angry contempt for his folly ;
admiration for the generosity of Dottridge, with
indignation at the very thought that he should
have been moved in the remotest degree by
any personal motive in the whole transaction.

Dottridge was silent for a little while, but
continued to dress. By-and-by :

I will speak to him when he comes to-day.
I wish you could find him now.'

Find him ! — she has been in the house for
several hours.'

Where is he? Ask him to come to me.'

Eapier drew back, astounded at this rashness.


Ask a madman to step in and choke you?
No, I shall not do that, thank you. I have
found it hard enough to keep him away from
you so long.'

I have nothing to fear,' said Dottridge,
coldly.

Perhaps not,' rejoined Eapier, with a grim
smile, and apparently subduing although he
could not dismiss all anxiety at once ; ' but all
things considered, Dottridge, I do not think it
is fair of you to lead the poor wretch into
temptation. See him at once by all means if
such is your pleasure ; but . . . '

Here he stopped, adding emphasis by so
doing to the tone with which he pronounced
the word ' but.'

Dottridge wheeled round quickly and saw
that his clever agent was pale and resolute.

Eapier completed the sentence with the air of
one who washes his hands of a troublesome
affair and is determined that he shall not be
mixed up in it.

'But — murder will be the upshot of it. You
can take my advice, and give the man a chance
to calm himself before he meets you ; or call
him now, and I shall take the first train to
London with the pleasing duty of ordering a
suit of mourning to be ready immediately.'

Dottridge laughed, and yet the joke did not
entirely fail of effect upon him.

'What a droll creature you are, Eapier;
your views of life seem to be taken from the
most outrageous melodramas. Why should
Meredith wish to murder me ; and if he did,
how could he accomplish it? When a man
has an intention of that kind, he does not come
to the house of his victim in a towering passion,
blustering and threatening so that everybody
may be on the look-out for danger.'

I did not say he had any intention of
doing it, but he will do it if he remains in his
present uncontrollable fury when you meet.
You are warned and can take precautions or
not as you think fit. All I aim at is that you
should spare him and yourself unnecessary
annoyance.'

Dottridge remained silent, and carefully
buttoned his waistcoat. Two things were in
his mind — first, that Eapier was advising wisely
enough, whatever might be the circumstances
under which he was to meet Stephen ; and,
second, that Eapier was curiously urgent to
delay the meeting. Why? He asked the
question, and instantly dismissed the suspicion
it suggested, because Eapier could not have any
object to serve beyond his desire to protect and
to help him.

I daresay you are right,' he said, by-and-by.
' I will wait until you tell me that
Meredith is in a more composed state. I

should be sorry to be the cause of any trouble
to him.'

Then you leave the arrangement of matters
to me ? '

I fancy that will be best. You have had
charge of serious enough business on my
account to enable me partly to understand how
much worry you will save me. At the same
time I cannot take such a desperate view of the
case as you appear to do.'

You would have done so if you had
seen him when he arrived this morning. I
was in your room looking out the papers
you wanted — you will find them on the
table beside your couch — when suddenly he
pounced in upon me and half-choked me before
he discovered that he had mistaken me
for you.'

But how did he get in without your hearing
him ? '

Simply enough. You know that I meant

to be at the work early. Well, 1 looked out
at the window to see what sort of morning or
night it was, and forgot to fasten it again.
That was how he caught me unaware, and the
joke to me was that having caught me he had
in his mad state a wild notion that I was about
some business for myself meaning mischief to
you.'

Eapier uttered a slight laugh at this preposterous
idea ; but it so happened that Eapier 's
Confidant, being busy in watching the face of
Dottridge, betrayed in his expression the lurking
eagerness with which Eapier sought to
discover the effect of this revelation. If Dot-bridge
accepted it literally, then Meredith might
see him when he pleased, and the result would
be to his advantage.

Dottridge caught the expression as he
arranged his scarf pin, and he lingered over
that operation with the mental query ; ' Hullo !
what does this mean ? ' His first suspicion he

had at once dismissed ; but the second one he
thought it desirable to consider.

Yes, that must have been a good joke to
you,' he said at length with much deliberation ;
but it need not disturb us. What you tell me
certainly makes me anxious on Meredith's own
account. What is it you advise ? '

'Nothing more than I have already indicated
— that you should not see him until he
has recovered something like calmness, and you
have considered exactly how you are to deal
with him. With me he is safe enough, for I
have persuaded him that I have no other object
in the world than to do you harm. Of course
we can laugh at that joke for a little, but the
man is so decidedly insane that I am positively
afraid — and I think you know I am not particularly
chicken-hearted — that he will do some
mischief unless you are prepared with an answer
that will satisfy him you meant no harm by the
arrangement you made.'

I believe I can satisfy him on that score.'

Then if you feel sure of it, wait till I am
able to tell you that you may see him. But
allow me, or Brassey or some one who has
muscle, to be at hand to protect you if necessary.'


Eidiculous. I see you do not know Meredith.
I must see him without any guard
except what I possess in myself, if I see him at
all.'

This was said with a tone of so much contempt
for the precautions which were urged
upon him that Eapier was apparently dismayed.
He was in reality puzzled by the mental query :

What force can this man possess, of which
I am ignorant, that makes him so bold ? '

He said aloud :

At any rate do not see him — for his sake
until I tell you that he has come to something
like reason. Eemember, you are not
dealing with a man in his senses, but with one

VOL. TIL F

who may do something more than he himself
intends.'

Very well, let it be so. But I must see
Dahlia, and maybe I shall learn from her something
which will assist me in dealing with her
husband.'

See her by all means. She, poor creature,
is in much distress, and will be glad of any
comfort you can give her.'

• Then that is settled ; you look after the
arrangements and report progress. Dahlia
may come to me as soon as she arrives.'

I have no doubt we can square matters
since you are able to assure him that you had
no special reason for attempting to separate
him from Miss Clark. For reasons of my own,
I am particularly pleased by that fact. I will
explain by-and-by.'

Dottridge was half inclined to call him
back and let him understand at once that he
had been inspired by a special motive : but

Eapier was gone, and, on reflection, it seemed
that it might be as well to wait a little before
openly declaring his intentions regarding
Euth.

He wanted very much to discover the meaning
of that curious expression he had seen on
the face in the mirror.

Thinking much more about that incident
than he believed it could really deserve, Dot-bridge
went to his room. There he had letters
to examine and papers to read. Happily there
were few things requiring immediate attention,
for his presence was as yet known to very few,
and all matters of business which demanded
his own consideration were communicated to
him by Bassnett or Eapier.

But he sadly missed his right hand, as he
called Euth, and found himself falling into a
vice which he specially disliked— the vice of
dawdling.'

Euth had sent a message by Brassey, asking
r 2

him to excuse her during the forenoon, and he
was obliged to do what he could for himself.

Time passed rapidly with him, however,
for, dawdling or not, Dottridge was one of those
men whose activity of brain never permitted
him to know what an hour of perfect leisure
was like. He had always so many irons in the
fire that he was compelled to work continuously
at high pressure in order to give some attention
to each.

On this day he was conscious of an uncomfortable
sensation in the atmosphere ; and
his attention was distracted from whatever he
took in hand by the questions — ' What is Euth
doing ? ' ' Where is Eapier ? ' ' Why has Dahlia
not arrived ? '

His room being carefully padded against all
incursions of sound, he had not heard the
arrival of the Derewood family carriage, and
Eapier took care that the intimation of it was
delayed until it chimed in with his plans.

At length Brassey announced Mrs. Meredith,
and Dottridge experienced a sense of much
relief from himself. Had he been dismissing
some unconscionable bore he could not have
felt more satisfaction than he did in the prospect
of being for a time, at any rate, freed from his
own brooding.

Dahlia entered, looking so pale and fagged
that Dottridge was startled. He took her
hands, he touched her brow with his lips, and
found it cold, although she seemed so excited.


Why, Dahlia, you are looking very ill.
What has happened to you ? '

She did not answer, for she too was amazed.
She had always stood in awe of this guardian
of hers who so seldom permitted her to see
him. In her thoughts he had always appeared
as an old cantankerous invalid, who dared not
put his face beyond his room lest the first
breath of wind should snufF him out as it might

have done the last flickering flame of a candle
burnt to the socket.

But here was a pleasant although serious
face looking at her, and a good-natured voice
expressing anxiety about her. More wonderful
than all, instead of an aged creature tottering
into the grave she saw a man who was still in
the prime of life and apparently in condition to
enjoy it.

Without waiting for her reply he directed
Brassey to bring wine, and helped her to a
glass. She drank it eagerly. By this time he
had placed her in an easy chair.

You are astonished to see me looking so
well,' he said, when they were alone ; ' you
cannot be more astonished than I am myself.
I have cheated the doctors as people say, and
have a new life before me. But you '

I do not look as you expected to see me,
sir,' she interrupted. 'I am not well, but
I am glad to see the change in you. I wish

you had permitted me to see you more frequently.'


I feel the reproach, Dahlia,' he answered,
sadly ; ' but there were circumstances which the
sight of you recalled, when I wished to forget
them.'

What are they ? ' she asked boldly. ' They
Averse connected with my mother. I want to
know what they were.'

He saw that she was excited and replied
gently :

I do not think we should go into these
matters just now. I sent for you in order that
I might have the satisfaction of congratulating
you on your marriage, and to tell you how glad
I should be to do anything in my power to
help to increase your happiness.'

CHAPTER XLIX.

THE APPEAL.

The gentleness of his voice and the expression
of his face, in which there was a dignity of
pain, impressed Dahha more than his words.
Besides, she had not come to ask him about her
mother ; that was one of those impulses by
which her conduct was so often directed out of
its right course. She had come to speak to
him about Euth and Stephen.

But now having mentioned the parent she
could not remember, and whose name had been
always hushed in the presence of Mr. Dottridge,
she felt til at, whatever might be the mystery of
the association between these two, he could not
have acted badly. With that feeling upon her

she would, in calmer mood, have shrunk from
the subject altogether — would have wisely and
gratefully accepted his advice to inquire no
further, and so closed the subject. In her
present excited state she simply dismissed it,
turning sharply to the immediate object of her
visit.

As you will, sir,' she said, bowing. ' I
own that you have been always so kind to me
that the subject is not one which has often disturbed
me ; and if it gives you pain to think of
it, I will be silent about it always. I, too,
know what pain is.'

She spoke these last words between her
teeth, her hands clasped in that way she had
when much moved, her body a little bent
towards him in her eagerness, and the whole
figure expressive of the effort to subdue pain
and passion.

My dear Dahha,' he said, laying his hand
gently on her shoulder, and earnestly scanning

her face, ' you startle me ; what has
happened ? '

She rose ; it was impossible to sit still : his
very kindness made her feel the more bitter
towards Euth. Tears were in her eyes — angry
tears — and she wiped them impatiently away.

I am glad that I may speak freely to you.
I feel as if some great wall that stood up
between us had been broken down. I came
determined to speak even if I killed you, as
they told me I should do. Forgive me for
that.'

Yes, yes ; but what is it that is wrong, for
there must be something very seriously wrong
to affect you in this way P '

There is, and hitherto I have thought that
you were partly to blame for it. But I know
now you cannot be.'

Who knows ? ' he said, with the uncomfortable
feeling that he heard her unconsciously
repeating Euth's charge against him.

I know it cannot be,' she cried. ' You
asked me if I cared for Stephen, and I told you
that I did. Then, to fix my wayward fancy as
you said, you fixed my fortune upon the event
of my marriage.'

I did not think you were desperately in
love with him at that time, but I did think
you would learn to like him, and he to like
you.'

I have learned to love him,' was the
exclamation, and her whole soul was in her
eyes.

'Andre— ?'

And he has learnt to hate me.'

There was a pause. Mr. Dottridge was
distressed as well as amazed ; but he still hoped
that even yet things might not be quite so bad
as she and Eapier appeared to make out. If
they were — then his love had made him a
demon of tyranny, and he knew love should
not do that.

He took one of lier hands and held it
between his own.

You are talking very excitedly, Dahlia,' he
said, with calmness that was soothing, because
solicitude for her was apparent in it. He
even tried to smile reassuringly. 'But in
spite of your wild words, I hope that this is
only one of those dangerous quarrels between
man and wife, which, although they frequently
lead to hatred and separation, may be, if
honestly guided, only the beginning of real
happiness.'

Oh, it might be, it might be, if you would
only help me.'

'I help you, my child ! Why, I have no
greater desire, as I have just told you. But
you must tell me how.'

Take Euth away from him,' she said,
fiercely.

Euth ! '

Yes, Euth ! She has risen from the dead

to ruin our happiness. Oh ! if you could only
know low licippy we were until she came back.
I knew that at the first he did not care so much
for me as he did for her. I own that at the
first I sought to marry him, thinking as much
uf the money as of my liking for him. But
that all changed, and if I had been the greatest
heiress in the world, and was to be made a
beggar by marrying him, I would have done
it. He, too, was changing as I had done. He
did like me to begin with — he yielded because*
he saw the danger to me of his refusal. He
loved only Euth ; but she was dead. He cared
for me more than for any other woman, except
his mother and sisters. All was going well
with us, and in time he would have been
satisfied.'

And he will be yet.'

No, never now.'

'Why not?'

It is not only because Euth is here, and

that Euth is alive, but because he has discovered
the contract under which I married him.
Then, too, he finds that Euth is alive and free.
But for that he might have forgiven me. He
never will forgive me now unless she is taken
away. He never will believe me now that I
loved him.'

She sank down on the chair again sobbing
hysterically, and Mr. Dottridge did not speak.
His mind was clouded, for he saw the whole
terror of the position. He wished with all his
soul that he could have done half as much to
prevent this marriage, which had seemed to
promise so much happiness to everyone, as he
had done to bring it about.

He had said repeatedly to Euth that in all
his plans regarding it, he was actuated by selfish
motives ; but he felt, with a keenness now that
he had never before experienced, how cruelly
selfish his motives had been.

It had all seemed so simple to him. Here

was a wayward, impulsive girl, who might fall
a prey to the first showy adventurer who
accosted her, knowing that she was likely to
have a handsome dowry, and he had been
anxious to secure her position in life. Here
was a man of goodly presence with a comfortable
home, but involved in difficulties, although
not of his own making. This man was his own
cousin ; he knew him to be a gentleman, and
therefore to be trusted. He knew him to have
an attachment for another woman, but h^
believed it was not of so deep a nature as to
stand the test of time and absence. What then
could be kindlier than to lift him at once out of
his difficulties and give him a handsome wife,
although not the one he sought ?

True, he might have done as much for him
and given him the woman he sought ; but then
she happened to be necessary to his own existence,
and he could not give her up without
making some eli'or.t to keep her to himself.

Was it an unfair advantage he had taken ?
He had asked that question again and again,
and he ha(J always answered it in the negative.
When he heard that the marriage had actually
taken place, he felt assured that he had acted
fairly. What had he asked? Only that this
man should be faithful for one year, and he had

not

Stop, that was unjust to him, and he dare
not be unjust to him now. Circumstances,
beyond the skill of either to foresee, had made
him faithless, although that was too hard a word
to use for an action which was, after all, the
result of accident. But for that the man would
have been faithful. Well, what then .^

He believed that then., on the return from
Australia, he would have made no attempt to
interfere between him and Euth. The accident
had come in to aid his purpose, and he had
been up till now glad of it ; but he could be
o-lad no longer, with this weeping, distracted

woman before him, a living protest against his
scheme.

Mr. Dottridge started from this remorseful
reverie, and gave himself a moral shake by the
shoulders.

The past was past. What he had to do
now was to set things right for the present ;
and he believed that it was in his power todo
it.

Dahlia had again succeeded in getting her
emotions somewhat under control, when he •
laid his hand gently on her head.

I have made a mistake, Dahlia. I. thought
that I was to make you and Stephen and all cf
us happy. I have made a terrible blunder.
You appeal to me to set it right, and I think I
know the way.'

'How? how?'

I will ask Euth to be my wife,' he said,
deliberately.

Dahlia rose.

VOL. III. G

^ She will refuse you — she loves hin.'

I do not think she will refuse me when
she knows all.'

'She will refuse you,' persisted Dahlia,
obstinately ; ' but if she does, I shall then know
that there is no hope for me. If she was
married I know that Stephen would return tome.'


'You shall have your wish,' said Mr. Dot-bridge,
gravely.

When shall I know ? '

In a few minutes — wait here and you shall
learn.'

Go — I wait.'

CHAPTER L.

TRAGEDY IN THE Drawing-room. — SCENE III.

Individual conceptions of what might, could,
would, or should happen are seldom realised.

As he stepped meditatively towards ther
drawing-room, Mr. Dottridge had no doubt in
his own mind that the result of his interview
with Euth would be their marriage. What
was there to hinder it ? She cared for no one
next to Stephen — so much as himself. She
had proved his devotion to her ; she knew that
if it were within the compass of human power
to make her happy, he would do it. She knew
that she could not have the happiness she had
hoped for with Meredith, and so, what was

G 2

there to prevent lier trying to be happy with
him ?

He did not, at the moment, see the meanness
of attempting to force her to overcome repugnance
to the union ; his great yearning for her
banded him now as it had done before.
Certainly in this case it was not exactly
repugnance ; for Euth knew him well and
esteemed his many good qualities. But she
did not, could not, would not love him.
He said to himself:

'By-and-by she will learn to love me.
She has a generous nature, and she knows how
much I have sacrificed for her. She cannot
help yielding when she remembers that, and sees
how much happiness she may confer upon others.'
When everything was explained to her —
when it was made clear that by marrying him
she could make the home of Derewood happy

that she could save the distracted Dahlia

from utter despair, and that she could restore

Stephen Meredith to reason — she could not do

otherwise than consent, unless ?

Now that was a thing which had never
occurred to him before. Here was this woman
constantly with him ; her every action, almost
her every thought, known to him ; and there
had never been any sign which could suggest
that any man except Stephen or himself had
entered seriously into her mind in relation to

marriage.

But why might it not be that others had
occupied her mind ?

He dismissed the thought, impatient at it
and at himself for entertaining it. He knew
her too well to think it possible that another man
had found a moment's consideration with her.

Brassey was in the hall, looking perfectly
contented under the impression that a pleasant
family party was being held. He was decidedly
startled by the sudden appearance of his master
with the command :

Tell Miss Clark I would like to speak to
her in the drawing-room on important business.'

Sir ! ' gasped the worthy old servant, as if
a ghost had appeared before him.

Mr. Dottridge repeated his command.

But Miss Clark is in the drawing-room.
She has been there for ever so long, and she
has seen ever so many people. She hasn't
come out to luncheon ! '

The fact that she had not come out to
luncheon was in Brassey's mind most absolute
proof that she was still in the room.

Mr. Dottridge passed on ; but when he
touched the handle of the door his heart seemed
to miss a beat : he was conscious that he stood
upon the threshold of his fate. Whatever good
or ill might happen to others as the consequence
of Euth's answer to what he was about to say
—it was life or death to him.

Have you ever climbed a high mountain —
repeatedly disappointed by finding each new steep

ascended only reveals another — and at last,
having reached the summit, lain down to rest,
panting and tired ? A clear blue sky overhead ;
mountains like jagged marbles lying around
you, and villages like toy places at your feet.
How glorious it all seems ; how masterful you
feel, and you quote with something like full
appreciation of the sense of the much paraphrased
quotation, 'Monarch of all I survey.'
Then suddenly there sweeps a white mist overall
that lies below you, veiling everything from
your sight. The great white thing creeps
gradually up and around you, covering every
landmark you have noted, and — although you
have still the clear sky above — bewildering you
as to what direction you ought to take in order
to reach your haven.

That was precisely the position of Mr. Dot-bridge
as he paused at the door.

He had climbed the height, steep over steep,
and there seemed to be a clear way before him ;

but now there came this mist ; his fate lay
behind it, and he hesitated to penetrate it. All
that seemed clear before was dark now.

Drawing a long breath he turned the handle
resolutely and entered.

He thought Brass ay had been mistaken, and
that Euth was not there, the big room was so
silent. It was a ghostly-looking room at anytime,
with its pale lavender walls and its hangings
of deeper lavender slashed with gold.

At this moment Mr. Dottridge could not
help the grotesque association of ideas in fancying
that he was entering a whited sepulchre.
But that was only for a moment.

Euth appeared before him, and it was like
sunrise upon a spring landscape.

She had been resting — or trying to rest —
in her distraction ; and when the door opened
she was glad of any interruption to her bewildered
thoughts. When she saw who came she
advanced quickly, her hands extended as if for

support, and he grasped them eagerly, feeling
that the mists were already clearing.

But he misunderstood the impulsive movement.
It did indicate that she was drawn
closer towards him by the events in which they
were involved ; but it also indicated that she
was most anxious to be tender to him now on
account of the pain she was about to cause him.

In his joy at this reception he was able to
laugh.

^ I see we have all been having a bad time*
of it. You are looking almost — nay, you are
looking whiter than Dahlia. And here is
Stephen kicking up such a fuss that I am afraid
to see him. You must help me out of all this
confounded nonsense.'

Her hands were still resting in his, and she
was looking very steadily in his face.

'Yes, I must help you — it seems as if I
must help everyone out of this cruel position.
Have you ever wished that we had sunk in the

small boat before reaching land ? I have — I
have wished it many a time within the last
hour.'

I have done nothing of the kind. I am
very glad indeed to be at Kemerton again, and
most glad to have you with me.'

And I am sorry.'

She said it so bitterly and so sincerely —
that was the worst of it — her friend wondered
and was taken aback. But as a little of the mist
had been already blown away, he determined to
clear it completely and on the instant.

You have seen Dahlia ? ' he said, slowly.

Yes, and I have seen Stephen,' she answered,
calmly.

Very well, then, you know the whole
position. I have not seen Stephen yet because,
as Eapier tells me, he is in such a frantic state
that he is likely to murder me. I do not
believe that of course ; but after what Dahlia has
told me, I want to see him in your presence.'

In my presence ! '

'Yes, in your presence. . . . Now Euth,
we must clear this matter to-day. Whatever
harm I have done, I am sorry for it. But I
recognise no harm so great that it may not be
forgiven ; and whatever it may be, it is greater
in its effect than it was in all my calculations.'

If you could have seen ! ' she exclaimed ina
tremulous voice

Ay, that is what we all say — if we could
have seen ! But, be just to me — surely, there
is something due to my love for you.'

She withdrew her hands and shrank back
from him trembling.

That is the cause of all our trouble.'

Then end the trouble — be my wife. I do
not say be mistress of Kemerton, for you are
the master of its master. I only say make the
best of a bad position — I own it is a bad position
save Dahlia from insanity, and save Meredith
from something worse.'

She stood like a reed swaying in a great
wind, and then she spoke in a low voice, but
clear as a sharp bell in a still, frosty morning :

I would say " yes," but I have promised
him to say " no." Were I to yield to you, it
would be the proof of my falsehood to him.'

CHAPTEE LI.

FOR AND AGAINST.

So the mist had cleared away, and where he
had expected to see a contented home and a
happy future he saw destruction and misery.

He had put his fate to the touch and the
result was the ruin of all his hopes. He
understood her : he could even to some extent
understand Stephen, although at the same time
he felt bitterly towards him as one who was
playing the part of dog in the manger. Humphrey
Dottridge, however, was one who had
made his successes by his aptitude for recognising
the moment of failure and thereby turning
the worst to the best account that was
possible under the circumstances.

In this case he could not see any best to
make of it, for he at once thought of Dahha's
persistent declaration that Euth would refuse
him because she loved Stephen ; and, sure
enough, that was the reason given — she could
not accept him, because that would be the
proof of her falsehood. Then, when he told
Dahlia, how was he to prevent her from some
wild act which might land them in additional
trouble ?

There was another feeling in this matter
which claimed attention — that of self-respect ;
and it asserted itself even more strongly than
he would have wished it to have done.

'I cannot attempt to force you from that
position, Euth,' he said, at length, when he had
partly recovered from the surprise and chagrin
of his rejection ; ' but it seems to me that
Meredith has no right to command you now,
and that you are doing wrong — wrong even
on his account — in submitting to him

Are you going to scold ? . . . You cannot
do it half so fiercely, so bitterly as I have done
it to myself. I see the folly of it all, and cannot
help myself. Of course he has no right to
command me — perhaps I ought to be angry
with him. But I did do a cruel, a wicked
thing in deserting him — I do want him to
believe that I cared for him — and this is the
proof he demands : that I shall cheat you of
the prize — poor prize ! — for which you strove.'

The suppressed passion of the woman made
her cry the sharper and more bitter. Dahlia's
weaker nature gave vent to her despair, but,
here was one whose stronger feeling did not
prevent her from seeing clearly the whole
position and understanding precisely where the
folly of it lay.

She took blame to herself first, because she
had been tempted to trifle with the devotion of
a true heart under the false impression that she
was doing him service at the cost of her own

suffering ; and then she blamed the man who
stood before her, because he had placed the
temptation in her way.

They had both done a cruel wrong ; it was
right that they should suffer for it.

Mr. Dottridge stood silent and humiliated.
He had regained health, regained youth, and —
greatest boon of all — he had regained the capacity
to love : and all to no purpose. To win that
love he had done a wrong which seemed to be
irreparable. The only atonement he could make
was to consent to see the door of the happiness
for which he had staked so much closed upon
him for ever.

But there he pulled himself up. Sentiment
had more to do with this despairing view of
affairs than reason, and people could be very
happy with reason — although the absence of
the other element must make a big blank
always.

He walked slowly across the floor, his

hands clasped behind him, his head bowed.
He returned to her, and he was smiling — a
sad smile, certainly, but the sadness of it was
brightened by good-nature and honest purpose —
as you sometimes see a cloudy April landscape
illuminated by the sun.

'You are hard upon me, Euth, and hard
upon yourself,' he said very quietly. ' I admit
the blunder which my selfish, greedy love for
you caused me to make. Bnt why should we
not calmly join hands, and together try to
set matters as right as they can be set
now ? '

Impossible ! '

Why so ? '

I have already told you what he demands,
and I have agreed to grant.'

*He spoke in his frenzy — surely you will ,
not permit that to be an excuse for making us
all more miserable than we are.'

I have given him my promise.'

VOL. III. H

In a few days he will see the folly of it
and release you.'

Ah, yes, he may release me — he may forgive
me. But I cannot forgive myself.'

Again he took that slow, deliberating turn
across the floor. Then :

You will make me think that you are
infected by his fury against me. Consider,
Euth, we did not cause the shipwreck ; we did
not compel him to marry Dahlia.'

It could not have . happened if I had explained
my reasons for going away at first.'

Then you would have been unfair to me.
. . But here we are discussing what might
have been when we ought to be thinking only
of what may be.'

'We have to think of what must be. I
must leave here at once ; and you and I must
never meet again.'

She did hesitate in pronouncing that sentence
: for he had been a good friend, and she

knew that it was his love for her which had
restored him to life, and those things we save
from ruin are always precious to us.

He was very pale and stood quite still, looking
at her, wondering if this verdict could be
really final.

There was a strange silence in the room.

Then the great power of patience which
was born of the man's love came to his aid and
he spoke :

So be it. Make what arrangements you
think best for your departure. I will see that
you have every assistance. But . . . Euth,
are you still so bound to this man who has
given himself to another that you cannot feel
some regret for the pain you are causing me ? '

She held her hands before her face for an
instant ; then she clasped his.

Look at me.'

And that was sufficient answer. The pale,
brave face, the earnest eyes, and the quivering
H 2

lips told him how she was suffering. He drew
her head towards him, and kissed her on the
brow.

My poor girl, what is to be your future ? '

Work of some kind — hard work. I shall
go into trade. I have thought of it before,
and often wondered why women say it is so
difficult to find work when there is so much
for them to do. I shall not try to write, or
paint, or to become an actress. I shall become
a green grocer, a fishmonger, or a rag
merchant. There is plenty of work which
depends for its results upon the energy and
industry of the worker, and it is something of
that sort I shall try.'

Although all this was spoken in the hurry
of excitement, it was evident that she had
thought over the matter, and had good grounds
for her faith in the power of earnest work.

When you have had time to think of some
definite plan you can let me know,' said Mr.

Dottridge. ' The pledge which separates us
does not prevent me from helping you.'

It does — you must do nothing, and I can
accept nothing from you. When I leave this
house I shall be dead to you, and to all associated
with it. That is the only way in which
I can make him forget me.'

'You are mistaken, and you are doing
wrong,' he said, gravely. ' But I will not
argue with you now ; I leave circumstances to
decide which of us is right this time. I hope
they may not decide in such a way as to make
you bitterly repent this new step. I see a
plain course before us, and you refuse to adopt
it in obedience to the frenzied cry of a man
you think you have wronged. For the time
being, so be it ; but I reserve my own course
of action.'

If you bear any — ^I must call it friendship
for me, you will do nothing to interfere with
my plan.'

I will make no promise. If I see you are
happy, I shall be silent and do nothing. If I
see you suffering I shall act as may seem best
to myself.'

He said this very deliberately ; and she
turned away from him with a wearied look.

You only make my task the harder.'

I hope not.'

Do you not see that I am obliged to act
towards you as an enemy and not a friend ?
Promise to let me go my way without interference
on your part, and I will accept it as
the greatest proof you can give me of the
sincerity of the feelings which have led you
to do so much on my account.'

A pause : then he, huskily :

'You ask too much, Euth. Tell me that
you hate me, and I shall never seek to see
you or hear of you again. . . . Can you do
that?'

She bowed her head, moaning, but so softly,

that it seemed as if she were only drawing a
painful breath.

How can I do that ? '

He smiled sadly and took her bowed head
gently between his hands.

I should be sorry if you could. You must
be as one dead to him ; but why should you be
so to me ? Your life and his can never be
united. Ours may be — by-and-by/

It can never be — he has forbidden it, and
I must obey.'

He may relent — he will relent as soon ashe
becomes sensible of all that is involved in
this vengeance of spleen. It is absurd ; if he
was not false to you, he is false now to Dahlia
in claiming a right to control you. And you !
You are false to yourself more than to me by
submitting to be his accomplice in destroying
her life.'

That is cruel.'

It is true.'

No, for I give her all the help she requires,
although in a different way from what you wish.
I am only seeking to do what seems to me best
for him and for her.'

'And yet you said that but for him you
would consent to join hands with me ! . . .
You know that we would be happy together ;
you know that by taking this step you at once
silence him. You should also know that by
refusing to take it— by obeying him you keep
open his wound, you quicken his resentment
against Dahlia, and render peace in their home
impossible.'

No, no — not when they understand that I
am dead to you and to all of them.'

That can only be after years of vexation
to all of us.'

She held out her hands imploringly.

You said that you would not argue with
me any more on this subject.'

He was instantly checked, and seemed to
pull himself up sharply as he replied :

That is true ; for the present I agree to
be silent, and I am sorry that my eagerness
betrayed me into a renewal of the discussion.
You will, at any rate, see me again before you
go away ? '

She bowed, unable to speak.

I will be able to tell you then what effect
the result of our interview has had upon
Dahha. Poor child, I am anxious on her
account, for the proof you are giving to Stephen
of your love for him is the proof of his falsehood
to her.'

Oh, spare me.'

I cannot spare you in this, Euth, and
would not even if your action had no evil consequence
to myself.'

It is for his sake,' she said to herself,
clinging to her purpose with the desperate devotion

with which the martyr in the flames
dings to his crucifix . ' It is for his sake.'

Mr. Dottridge regarded her with as much
amazement as regret now. His own devotion
to her helped him to understand her, although
his clear practical view of the whole position
compelled him to think that she was acting
under the influence of an exaggerated idea of
the fidelity she owed to Stephen. The same
practical vision enabled him to act decisively.

I will not take that message to Dahlia,' he
said quietly ; ' for the rest, I know you too well
Euth, net to feel satisfied that in a few hours
you will see the absurdity of taking a step
which will do him no good, and will give us
all so much trouble. I count upon you to
grant me this favour that you will not leave
Kemerton until tomorrow.'

Then he went back to his own room, where
he found Dahlia moving about with the restlessness
of a wild animal in a cage.

'Well?'

The question was put with fierce eagerness
as she halted before him.

He did not know how to answer her, for he
wanted to soothe her without telling her a lie.
Then Dahlia laughed in that peculiar way which
at once indicated the presence of half-conscious
mania.

'She has refused! I told you that she
would. She wants to take him from me.'

My dear Dahlia, you must not allow such
foolish thoughts to overcome you in this way.
She has refused, but '

Dahlia bowed smiling, but the smile was the
painful grin of insanity. And yet she spoke
with more calmness than she had yet shown
since she came to him.

Thank you. I see that you cannot help
me : I will try to help myself. Good-bye.'

Don't go yet. Dahlia ; I wish to explain
that things are not so bad as they seem.'

I hope not ; but you need not trouble
yourself to explain. I should not understand
you at present.'

He believed that, and her recognition of
the fact afforded him much relief. As she left
him, he rang the bell, and Brassey answered it.

Where is Mr. Meredith ? '

In Mr. Eapier's room.'

Say that I wish to see him at once.'

Yes, sir.'

Brassey bowed, and retired.

CHAPTEE LII.

'MARTYRS SLAIN IN CUPID's WARS,'

EuTH knew that Mr. Dottridge had been speaking
good sense in all that he had said ; she felt
it at the time, and yet could not give in to it.
She felt that he had come to supply the one
thing which she had previously decided was the
special charm to release them all from the mesh
of difficulties and misunderstandings they had
fallen into — that was, common sense ; an J yet
she had been unable to obey her own perception
of what was right, and act with him promptly
and resolutely.

She tried to take herself to task.

What he says is true : Stephen has no
right to ask me to direct my life according to

his wish. I see the probability of happiness as
the wife of one who has always been my true
friend and my faithful lover. Is it vanity, or is
it fear which makes me submit to Stephen's
command ? Dahlia would be happy if I were
married. Stephen would be indignant at first,
but would soon see that it was the best thing
that could happen. . . . But I have given
him my promise ; I think it is due to him, and
I think Mr. Dottridge should suffer some of the
pain he has himself created.

She was no nearer the solution of the
problem than when she began her speculations.

I have given him my promise — that is
where the difficulty is now. That and my
anxiety to stand well in his memory.'

She could not get over that craving : she
wanted Stephen to love her, although they were
separated, and she shrank with shame at the
recognition of that desire.

'My plan is the best,' she said to herself

resolutely. ' Let me disappear from amongst
them. Let them know that I am really dead
so far as they are concerned. Stephen will
forgive Dahha, and the contented life which has
been interrupted by my return will be continued.
By-and-by he will forget me.'

And there was something bitter in that
thought, although she smiled feebly as it flitted
through her mind.

As she was passing upstairs she saw Eapier
entering Mr. Dottridge's room, and she felt a
chill as if a cold blast had suddenly swept*
through the hall. She remembered the assignation
he had forced upon her.

That man is the cause of it all,' was her
thought ; ' can we do nothing to prevent him
working further harm ? '

There was something definite to do — to
discover Eapier's purpose and to outwit him.
It would be difficult to shake Mr. Dottridge's
confidence in him, for she had no proof of any

treachery on his part. It was no crime for him
to seek her hand. Beyond that vague feeling
of mistrust with which she had always regarded
him, she had no ground for even casting blame
upon him. But she was convinced that he
exercised an evil influence over them ; and she
more than suspected that it was he who
suggested to Mr. Dottridge the arrangement
which had proved so fatal to their happiness.

At any rate she would do what was in her
power to find him out. If he were honest, no
injury would be done him : if her suspicions
proved to be correct, good must be the result of
her investigations.

Thinking over this matter she became calm.
- Eapier, unconscious of the direction her
thoughts had taken, proceeded with his plans.

It was Meredith I wanted to see,' said Mr.
Dottridge when his agent entered.

He is sound asleep,' answered Eapier
quietly.

'Asleep?'

Yes ; I was obliged to do something for
him, and so I took upon myself the responsibility
of a physician for once in a way, and
gave him a sleeping draught. When he wakens
he will be in a much better condition to talk
over matters sensibly.

Although astonished by Eapier's action, Mr.
Dottridge was quite able to see that it was the
best thing that could be done under the circumstances.


I must speak to him as soon as he wakens.
I am alarmed about Dahlia — I fear for her
reason.'

'I fear for her life, but there is no immediate
danger. I have been talking with her
since she left you, and I have promised that
to-night she will be satisfied that she has no
rivalry to fear from Miss Clark.'

What do you mean ? '

It will be a surprise for you,' said Eapier,

VOL. III. I

in his gayest tone. ' It means that to-night
Miss Clark is going to choose a husband.'

Mr. Dottridge leaned back on his chair and
studied Rapier's face, Amongst all the possible
reasons for that peculiar expression which
he had seen in the mirror when dressing, the
one. which now flashed upon him was the most
remote from his thoughts. But how was it
Euth had never hinted at anything of this
kind? That was a puzzle. Eapier, too, had
always been very frank with him ; how was
it he had kept this secret so closely ? There
was something very bewildering here ; and so
he only said very slowly and inquiringly :

Indeed ? . I am surprised.'
' I thought you would be. Of course you
have already surmised who the happy man is
to be.'

Under ordinary circumstances,' Mr. Dot-bridge
answered, still speaking in that very slow
way as if every word were carefully weighed

as it passed his lips, ' I should say that you
were telling me of your own good fortune.
But in this case I think I must be mistaken.'

No, you are not mistaken. To-night, I
believe I shall have the happiness of bringing
her to you, and asking you to give us your
blessing — which I hope you will be able to do.'

Eapier spoke with a careless confidence
which secretly irritated Mr. Dottridge, who remained
silent for a few seconds after this last
speech. Then, more slowly than before :

If Miss Clark accepts you . I shall
. . wish you both all happiness

At this Eapier 's careless, jaunty manner
was changed for one of earnest admiration.

I thought you would say that, Dottridge,
although it is only to-day that I have understood
how much it must cost you to say it.'

A pause. Dottridge's eyes remained fixed
on Eapier 's face ; and at length he rose quietly,
holding out his hand.

i2

I congratulate you, Eapier ; you have won
a prize for which I would have given all that I
possess.'

They shook hands, then Dottridge, with
bowed head, walked slowly up and down the
room, whilst the other remained standing on
the hearth-rug in respectful silence. Without
halting or lifting his head Dottridge spoke :

Since you understand what my wishes were,
you can also understand how much amazed I
am that nothing has occurred in her conversation
or manner to suggest the possibility of this
event. Therefore, I would like you to explain
a little. Have you her authority for making
this announcement ? '

In spite of his marvellous self-control, his
voice was husky, and so low that the listener
had difficulty in catching some of the words.

I have not precisely got her authority to
make the announcement yet.'

'Ah!'

He halted and looked up quickly, his eyes
brightening with renewed hope.

I shall have it, however, at ' — he looked at
his watch — ' at a quarter past nine, provided
you do not interfere.'

'I cannot interfere with her wishes in such
a matter as this.'

In that case the prize is mine. I will try
to explain the position. You remember when .
we were talking about Meredith's affairs, I said
I had a special reason of my own for being
glad that you had no other motive than that
of desiring to do a good turn to others in
making the arrangement which sent Miss Clark
across the sea ? You now know what that
reason was.'

Yes, and I now know that you had a
special reason in suggesting the arrangement,'
said Dottridge, and there was a bitterness in
his tone which he could not altogether conceal.

I admit it. But if you can excuse yourself

for carrying it out, having, as I now know, the
same motive, you can excuse me.'

But I do not excuse myself.'

What ? '

I have to-day learnt that I did a cruel
thing, for which there is no atonement.'

Yet you still wanted to marry her ? '

Yes ; because whilst I own the blunder of
the past, I want to do the best I can to make
things comfortable in the present and for the
future.'

Eapier inclined his head, and continued
respectfully :

I can understand, and I hope appreciate,
the good sense which actuates you in the course
you have adopted. But you see, as things
have turned out, it is impossible that she can
accept you. Meredith has compelled her to
pledge herself to that ; but she is not pledged
against me. She is anxious to restore peace
to the people at Derewood, and she knows

the quickest and surest way to do so. The
advantages are on my side, you perceive ? '

I can perceive nothing more than that you
have not got the spite of a madman to interfere
with you. In all that you have said there is
nothing to justify you in asserting that your
suit is accepted. For the rest, I have no
doubt of being able to bring Meredith to reason
before long.'

It will be too late to affect her decision.'

'That I shall only believe when she herself
tells me you have obtained her consent.'

I have promised you that she will do so.
And, in the meanwhile, all I ask is that you
will not try to influence her against me.'

I shall say nothing to her about you until
a quarter past nine to-night.'

That is fair, and I thank you cordially. I
am sorry that, without knowing it, I have been
your rival. I could not do more than acquaint
you with the position as soon as I discovered it.

Love is an affair in which, unfortunately, the
closest friends may cross each other, and few
escape quarrelling over it. Are we to be
amongst the few ? '

I hope so.'

That relieves my mind of all care. Upon
my word, when I learnt how we stood, my first
thought was to retire at once. Nothing could
have made me go on, but the knowledge that
you are absolutely excluded from the race,
and that by obtaining her consent at once,
I will render Dahlia the greatest possible
service.'

I have no doubt she will be gratified.
Has she gone ? '

She went just as I came to you. Of
course you could not hear the carriage in this
room.'

Was she calm ? *

She was very much relieved by my as ^
surfaces.'

Very well, I will see you by-and-by.'

I do hope that you will not be too much
upset by the turn events have taken.'

I daresay I shall bear it somehow.'

It is a most awkward position for me, and
I hope you will believe me when I say that I
wish it could have been otherwise.'

It is the fortune of war, and, as you say, in
these matters the best friends sometimes cross
each other. But you have not obtained her
consent yet.'

He said that with a faint smile, in which
hope struggled against the impression made
upon him by this man's air of complete confidence.


When Eapier left him, Mr. Dottridge summoned
Brassey, and hastily wrote a note.

I want you to take this yourself, Brassey,
to Mrs. Meredith, senior. You are to stay
with her as long as she may require you, and
you are to take care that young Mrs. Meredith

does not leave the house until her husband
returns

Yes, sir ; but young Mrs. Meredith has not
gone home. She has gone to the station, and I
heard her tell Smalley to go quick to catch a
train.'

Mr. Dottridge sat for a moment in uneasy
reflection.

That is strange. She is not well, and I
am anxious about her.'

She did seem queer, sir.'

Brassey did not like to explain the kind of
queerness which he thought she displayed.

Well, say nothing to anyone about it, but
2:0 to the station and find out whether or not
she has gone by the train. You might also
ask what place she has taken her ticket to,
and then drive back to me as fast as you
can.'

I understand, sir.'

Mr. Dottridge sat down, his chin touching

his breast, and a heavy, weary expression upon
his face.'

Punctually at nine o'clock Eapier was in
the drawing-room. There was triumph in his
face, although he was making efforts to conceal
it, and to maintain an aspect of becoming
anxiety for the occasion.

The day is ours,' he said to his Confidant.
She cannot resist this.'

He held in his hand a letter. ^

Euth did not keep him waiting. She was
very pale, but perfectly self-possessed, and
more like one who had come to discuss a
serious matter of business than a lady about to
give her decisive answer to the man who seeks
her hand.

I would not have come, Mr. Eapier, but
for your message that you have a letter from
Dahlia, which you would only deliver to
myself.'

He bowed, and without a word placed the
letter in her hand. It was marked, ' To be
opened at once,' and Eiith obeyed the injunction.
Its contents were brief but terrible.

You — you Ruth Clark, have driven me to
an act which will bring shame upon you all,

Dahlia.'

CHAPTEE LIII.

VANQUISHED.

EuTH looked at the strange words at first without
any sensation whatever ; there was a kind
of stupor upon her, and the stupor became
deeper as she read the words over and over
again. The shock was too great for feeling.
In a railway accident, a gunpowder or a gas
explosion the people who are in it feel nothing
at first, and they will often go on performing
necessary duties unconscious of the wounds
they have sustained.

So with Euth. Here was a blow so terrible
that at first she was unconscious of pain.
Then, recovering from the stupor, but still

insensible to pain, she held the note before
Eapier's face.

Do you know what is in this ? ' she said ina
low voice, but with an intensity of rage.

Eapier took the paper and read Dahlia's
wild cry. He handed it back to her.

I was not aware of what was in this paper,
and if I had-been I would have presented it
sooner in spite of your unhappy objection to
my presence.'

Where is she .^ ' was Euth's practical question.


Eapier made a little movement of his hand
as if deprecating her impatience.

I do not know where she may be at this
moment, but I have no doubt we shall be
able to find her. What I should like to know
is, do you see what you are doing — can you
feel what you have done .^ '

She passed the question with a quick look
of contempt.

I want to know, where is Mrs. Meredith ? '

'I have told you I cannot say at this
moment where she may be, but I will do my
utmost to help you in finding her if . . . if
you will be good enough to speak calmly with
me about our relationship.'

She had been looking at him with an expression
of eager inquiry ; the coolness, the
audacity with which he answered her produced
a curious effect. There was first a twist of the
features as if a sudden pang had passed through
her ; then there was a perfect calm upon the
pale face, and presently behind the calm there
was the glimpse of a contemptuous smile. You
have seen the rapid changes of the sky at
dawn — that will help you to understand the
changes on Euth's countenance. This was
what passed through her mind.

He is a scoundrel. He knows where she
has gone to ; he is trying to force me to accept
him by casting upon me the blame of her madness.

. . , She must be saved — for Stephen's
sake she must be saved. I will do anything to
accomplish that.'

This was what she said to him : —

I have already told you that there is no
change in my sentiments regarding you. Why
should you persist in seeking to marry a woman
who dislikes you ? '

Ah, now I see you are beginning to discuss
the matter, and that indicates an inclination to
yield. Frankly then, I shall tell you how it
stands in my mind, I shall not trouble you
with any repetition of asseverations of my —
well, we will call it liking for you. That would
be waste of time and your patience. I answer,
it is my interest to win you, and although you
may not believe it, I think it will be a happiness
to win you : and I am confident that after
a time you will be content with the bargain.
I am talking very plainly ? '

Very plainly,' she said, quietly, and she

was more conscious than before of that contemptuous
smile, although it was less visible
to him.

Then m the next place — or, as you would
say, in the first place — my fortune depends upon
you. Further, I believe that in winning you I
shall restore peace to Derewood.'

Are you sure of that ? '

Try it.'

There was a pause. The two stood regarding
each other, eyes fixed as those of duellists
whose swords are crossed, each aware that the
other meditates a deadly lunge, and, each knowing
the movement, prepared to parry it. The
advantage, however, was on the woman's side,
for the man had no suspicion of her conviction
that he was a knave and her determination to
prove it.

'I would do a great deal in order to
restore peace to Derewood.'

She said that very softly and as if hesitating

VOL. III. K

about what her ultimate decision was to be.
Eapier smiled to himself, and if he could
have spoken to his Confidant then he would
have said —

'I knew that she would yield. I knew
that for Meredith's sake she would overcome
her indifference to me. When she consents,
Dottridge will stump up handsomely ; and
after the marriage I will give her as much
liberty as she pleases — that is to say I shall be
with her as little as possible, and she shall be
free to attend as many mission meetings and
good societies as she may be able to stand.'

What he said was :

I knew that ; and therefore I persist in
my suit. It is in your power to make a
number of people happy without bringing upon
yourself any very great misery.'

You think so.'

I am sure of it — unless you have some
unconquerable repugnance to me ; and that I
cannot believe, as I am unconscious of having

done anything to provoke it. Have I done
so without knowing it ? '

I am unable to answer — I do not know
anything which should make me regard you
with special repugnance.'

Very well, then, the whole affair is quite
simple, — you will dispose of the whole bother
in the course of five minutes. You will accept
me, and there can be no further distress to
Mrs. Meredith or suspense to him.'

'You do.not know him.' •

I know human nature, and his passion cannot
last long when he knows that you belong
to another.'

'But what may happen if he knows that
before his passion is exhausted ? '

You need have no fear. When he awakens
from his present sleep he will be as calm as if
nothing had happened. Now you cannot say
that I have bored you with sentimental appeals
can you ? '

'No

But I hope you will understand that it has
not been owing to the absence of sentiment. It
was because I wished you to take the matter in
the plain ordinary way in which sensible people
choose their mates. But if you had listened tome,
I might have told you that, being a man of
some experience in the world, I am still single
only because I have never found any woman
who could compel me to admire and respect
her until I met you. I never met another who
could compel me to forget myself. You have
done that, and upon my word I find it difficult
at this moment to restrain my tongue from
uttering the foolish asseverations of the commonplace
lover, and calling heaven and all the stars
to witness how much I love you. But I have
gauged your nature, and know that in doing so
I should only displease you. So I content
myself by telling you that we should both be
gainers, according to my opinion, by joining

our fortunes, and you would at the same time do
an incalculable service to Meredith and his wife.'

He laid a disagreeable emphasis on the
word 'wife,' as if to remind her of the barrier
between her and Stephen.

Will you give me one proof of your
regard for me without insisting upon conditions
of any kind ? ' she asked slowly.

I will do anything you wish,' he replied
eagerly.

Then explain to me the meaning of this
strange note from Dahlia — tell me how I can
stay this mad action which she tells me she is
about to commit.'

Permit me to see it again ? '

He held out his hand and she gave him the
note. His face now assumed an expression
of alarm, and Euth's fears were increased
accordingly.

Well .^ ' she said impatiently.

I do not quite understand it,' was the frank

reply. ' I know her to be passionate and
capable of almost any act of violence in her
present state of frenzy. I know that she once
attempted to commit suicide.'

Ah ! can that be? ' cried Eulh. •

But she promised to wait at Derewood till
I brought your answer. Give me your answer
now or I must go without it. And before you
speak consider well what may be the consequence.
She told mee that upon your reply
would depend the direction of her course.
You ask me to tell you how you may save her
from this wild act she meditates. I have told
you what I believe to be the only way to save
her and to save him.'

But she will be satisfied if she knows I am
going away at once — never to return — never to
see Stephen Meredith again.'

'That will not satisfy a woman jealous to
frenzy and aware that she does not possess her
husband's love, whilst she knows that you do.

But decide as you will, only decide quickly —
for whether you are willing to help her or not
I must make some effort to save her.'

There was a generous resolution in his voice
and manner which caused Euth for a moment
to question the justice of her suspicions of him.

But there was something too generous, too
frank about him considering how long and how
steadily he had sought to compel her acceptance
of him. She could not understand why he
should be so persistent. Although she could
not altogether suppress the promptings of the
vanity common to all woman-nature that he regarded
her as a sufficient prize in herself, she
perfectly understood that this man must be
actuated by some other motive than that of
attachment to a penniless woman like herself.
What was it.^

She answered quickly and deliberately, and
he had no hint of the suspicions which were
flashing through her mind.

136 OF HIGH DEGREE.

Tell Dahlia that if it will make her happy
and content to know that I am your wife — she
has only to come and bid me marry you.'

Euth felt her heart stop as she spoke the
words ; but she was ready to make even this
sacrifice for Stephen's sake. And in making
she would try to fulfil her duty to the man
she married. There were no sentimental
wanderings about dying as soon as she made
the sacrifice. If she were forced to marry this
man, Eapier, she would do her duty until he
proved himself unworthy of it.

But she was sustained by the conviction
that the sacrifice would not be requisite.

Eapier seized her hand eagerly, and she
allowed it to remain in his, but there was no
responsive pressure in it.

'With that assurance I will save her,' he
said, in a low voice ; ' and with that assurance
you are mine, Euth, for I know what her
reply will be.'

Some one coughed outside. The door
opened, and Mr. Dottridge entered.

It is half-past nine, Eapier, but I would
not have trespassed upon you had it not been
for the occurrence of events which require immediate
attention. I am obliged to speak to
you and to Miss Clark with the least possible
delay, and understanding the delicate nature
of your interview, I thought it best to come
myself.'

You have arrived, sir, at the moment when
I am enabled to present to you the lady who is
to be my future wife,' said Eapier, leading
Euth towards him. ' The few minutes which
have passed beyond the time I mentioned, I
am sure you will excuse, knowing the important
nature of the business we have in hand.'

Mr. Dottridge stood silent, looking at
Euth. She would have shrunk from his gaze,
but inspired by an unaccountable sensation of
wild recklessness and a feeling that this was alla

kind of nightmare through which she was
passing, she did not flinch.

I have told Mr. Eapier that if by consenting
to accept him I can make Dahlia happy,
I consent.'

There was a moment of puzzlement and
inquiry in Mr. Dottridge's mind. Then hope
enabled him to grasp the position much more
exactly than even Euth herself. What pain he
suffered was soothed by the reflection — • She is
forced to this by her desire to satisfy Dahlia
and to save Meredith. When he understands
it all, he will release her from her pledge to
deny me.'

He removed his eyes from Euth's face and
turned quietly to Eapier.

I would offer you my congratulations
more cordially if I were not too much occupied
by my anxiety about Dahlia. She left Dun-thorpe
station for London without giving warning
to anyone.'

You told me she was waiting for you at
Derewood,' said Euth sharply.

And she promised to wait for me there
till I brought her your answer,' was the sincere
reply, for Eapier's calculations were somewhat
disarranged by this unexpected movement of
Dahlia. ' There is still time for a telegram
to reach Liverpool Street before the train
arrives. The superintendent there can easily
find her and give her a message, with the
assurance that all she wishes is accomplished.'

I have already sent a telegram,' said Mr.
Dottridge, ' although I could not give her that
assurance. She will be stopped at Liverpool
Street until her husband arrives. The immediate
business, therefore, is to rouse Stephen,
and by that time the carriage will be ready.
I wanted to tell you, Rapier, that I am going
to your room myself to attend to your
patient.'

Eapier's position was an awkward one ; but

lie was aware of it. He knew that Euth would
be glad to escape from him, and that Dottridge
earnestly desired that lie should. He was one
of that large class of men who regard themselves
as worthy of the greatest admiration if
they have succeeded in making somebody pay
twopence for what should only cost a penny.
He was, in fact, a devotee of ' sharp practice,'
and sharp practice involves lying and knavery
to any extent within the limits of common
law, and those limits provide a very extensive
area for the play of knaves.

He had not been prepared for this independent
action of Dahlia ; and he had not been
prepared for the activity of Dottridge. But
when they came upon him, he met them stoutly,
and with so much frankness that Euth again
faltered in her suspicions.

To Mr. Dottridge, he said : ' Certainly —
Meredith should be aroused at once. He is
the proper person to follow her, and, indeed,

he is the only one who has the right to exercise
any control over her movements. At the
same time, if you will permit me, I should
like to do something.'

What ? ' asked Mr. Dottridge, suspiciously.

I should like to be the means of bringing
her back safe to Derewood,' answered Eapier,
bowing to Euth.

They understood him, and neither could
blame him for his desire or his determination
to hold to his purpose. • ♦

But how will you do it 1 ' inquired Euth
anxiously.

'I do not yet myself know further than
this — I shall follow her, find her, explain your
engagement to me, and bring her back.'

If you know where to find her, you had
better allow her husband to be the person to
bring her back,' said Dottridge coldly.

'But I do not know where to find her
exactly ; and if I did she would not return

with her husband without the assurance which
I am now — thanks to Miss Clark — enabled to
give her, that she has no longer a rival. You
see? '

Both Euth and Dottridge did see and both
winced ; she, because the man had the privilege
to use her name, in this way ; and he, because
she did not instantly deny his right.

Act as you please,' said Dottridge. ' We
have all the same object to serve, and I shall
not grudge your triumph — I believe Miss Clark
will not grudge it either — if you can by any
means save the unhappy household of Dere-wood
from the utter wreck which at this
moment threatens it.'

I will do my best, and I have no doubt of
success if you will remain my friend.'

Can you doubt it ? '

No,' answered Eapier with effusive confidence,
as if he placed his whole life in trust
upon the fidelity of his friend. 'Pardon me

the momentary hesitation — bnt you know that
Meredith is an honest fellow, and you can
understand my anxiety to prevent you from
mistaking the meaning of what he may say
about me.'

I understand.'

'Then that is all right.' He turned to
Euth. 'Within two days I will bring Mrs.
Meredith's answer to you here.'

He bowed and quitted the room, an expression
of serious anxiety on his 'face.

Euth laid her hand on the arm of Mr.
Dottridge, and said in a voice which betrayed
much excitement well controlled :

You go to Stephen and try to make him
understand the position in which Dahha is
placed by his neglect. Follow up whatever
traces you can find, but take him with you.'

And you ? '

I am going to follow Mr. Eapier .^ '

What for ? '

'Because I think it is of the utmost importance
to me that I should speak to Dahha
before he does. He knows more about her
going away than he has told us, and he will
find her sooner than we can.'

Well, he will let us know when he has
found her.'

No doubt ; but I must see her first. It is
a race between us, and the result may be of importance
to you.'

'You mean that '

Do not ask me what I mean at this
moment. I scarcely know what it is myself.
Help me by doing what I say. How shall we
communicate ? '

'Telegraph to Bassnett's office and keep
him informed of your movements. I shall do
the same.'

That is enough. Good-bye,'

CHAPTEE LIV.

UNDER A CLOUD.

He is waking now. You will find him a little
confused at first, but he will be all right in a
few minutes. Even now, however, I have som
hesitation in leaving you to meet him alone.
Well, well, have your own way.'

That was what Rapier said to Mr. Dottridge
when he met him at the door of his room.

There was a lamp burning on the table in
the hall ; the light was soft but not brilliant.
Dottridge, with a playful movement and a
peculiar smile, laid his hand on Rapier's
shoulder and turned him towards the light.

I cannot tell you how grateful I am for all

VOL. III. L

your consideration for me,' he said quietly and
without the slightest indication of satire ; ' but
I think you are making a mountain of a molehill.
I am quite certain that Stephen Meredith
has no intention of murdering me, and that he
only desires to do what is right. So do I.
Now look here, my dear Eapier, I think there
is something peculiar in your conduct. You
have been a good friend and a trusty agent tome
— can you not explain what is the game you
are playing? You will gain more by being frank
with me than by trying to juggle with me.'

Eapier quietly removed the hand from his
shoulder, and grasped it tightly.

I am playing no game, Dottridge,' he said,
with a tone of sincerity which could not be
doubted ; ' it is you who have been playing a
game. My whole purpose is to win Euth
Clark — I believe that in winning her I shall
obtain not only your assent but your assistance.
I believe that you have sufficient strength in

yourself to pardon a successful rival, and to say
to him " good speed." More, I believe that
when you understand the whole position you
will thank me.'

Yes,' said Dottridge, hesitatingly ; ' but in
the meanwhile I do not understand you.'

Then leave the matter as it is. I can only
say to you that I mean to have Euth, and that
I will use all my strength and all my cunning
to win her. Now, I have told you, is not that
fair ? '

That is quite fair.'

Thanks, I see you understand.'

I do — and am quite content to enter into
the competition. But remember, you must wither
fairly.'

That shall be.'

Eapier started on his expedition satisfied
that all was going well for him.

As quietly and as calmly as if there were

L 2

nothing amiss, Mr. Dottridge went into the
room where Stephen lay in a deep sleep. It
was a kind of stupor into which the distracted
man had fallen ; but this was due as much to
physical and mental exhaustion as to the drug
which Eapier had administered. The latter
had seen the moment when the judicious use of
a sedative would be beneficial to the patient,
and would serve his own purposes admirably.
And there was no doubt that in some respects
he did do Stephen a good turn in sending him
to sleep.

The wild excitement which had been produced
by the perusal of Ruth's narrative and
the discovery of Dahlia's unfortunate condition,
combined with the want of his night's rest,
might have had direful effects on his brain.
The sleep saved him.

Mr. Dottridge was now acquainted with
enough of what had passed to make him hesitate
to disturb his sleep. But the emergency

was too great. Dahlia's safety must have the
first consideration.

Stephen,' he said, laying his hand on the
sleeper's shoulder, ' Stephen, you must rouse.'

He repeated the words, accompanying them
with a smart tug at the shoulder.

Stephen drew a long, sighing breath ; then
slowly rubbed his brow and eyes, and at last
looked up with a dazed, wondering expression.
He had no recollection for the moment of what
had passed, and seeing Dottridge standing ov^^
him with an anxious face, he was puzzled to
know the meaning of it all.

At that instant Brassey brought him a cup
of strong tea and a biscuit. He accepted the
refreshment mechanically, still striving to make
out the meaning of it all.

While drinking the tea, memory gradually
returned, but the events appeared dimly, as
through a mist, and as yet he had no feeling ;
no fierce passion stirred within him. It seemed

almost as if he were remembering things which
had happened to somebody else. The effect of
the drug was still working in his system.

His cousin stood patiently watching him.
No word had yet passed between them since
Dottridge had called him to arouse.

He placed the empty cup on a little table
near him, and slowly rose to his feet.

I wanted to speak to you,' he said, quietly,
and looking at Dottridge with a puzzled expression,
indicating that he was not yet quite
clear as to what it was he wanted to speak
about.

Come to my room. Will you take my
arm?'

Take your arm ! ' was the amazed exclamation.


Yes ; do you not see the change ? I am
restored to life.'

Oh, yes, yes— I see the change, and — I
begin to remember. I know all that has

passed. I know the miracle that has been
wrought, and how it was wrought. . . . Thank
you. I will go to your room, but I do not
require assistance.'

Dottridge led the way, and, prepared as he
had been by Euth's narrative, Stephen was
amazed at the change in the man who had
made such elaborate preparations for his own
death. In his present state — with the horrible
sensation of a heavy weight pressing over his
whole brain — Stephen could not help feeling a
certain sense of awe, almost of fear of this man
who had been in the clutch of the grim Master
of life, and had wrenched himself free.

Notwithstanding this eerie feeling, as they
walked along the hall and down the stairs,
Stephen was regaining the knowledge of his
own actions and the motives which inspired
them ; so that when they reached the room he
felt clearer in his head, although the depressing
weight was still upon it.

Now,' said Mr. Dottridge, ' I do not know
whether to ask you simply, what is it you have
to talk about? or to tell you at once that I
have learned from Euth and Eapier that you
came here this morning with the most violent
declarations against me.'

I believe I did,' was Stephen's slow answer,
passing his hand over his head as if he would
thrust away something that lay upon it.

Eapier was of opinion that my life was in
danger if we met. Of course I treated that asa
piece of absurd exaggeration, although I
thought it best that we should not meet until
you were cool. But why should you threaten
me ? I never did you any intentional harm.'

You have done me the cruellest wrong
that any man could do another. . . . But my
head is not clear yet. After that wine Eapier
gave me I became stupefied.'

Wine ! did you not know it was a sleeping
draught he gave you ? '

Sleeping draught ! ' That confused expression
passed over his face again, but was
suddenly dispelled by a flash of intelligence,
and he hastily searched his coat-pocket as he
exclaimed — 'The papers! . . . They are gone.'

Do not disturb yourself about them ; they
are here.'

Mr. Dottridge took up the packet from the
table, and held it in his hand.

How did you procure them ? '

'Eapier took them from you whilst yoy
slept. What did you want with them ? '

He told me they contained matters relating
to Dahlia's mother which, if revealed, would
disgrace you.'

I shall say nothing of the opinion others
might have of your conduct, Stephen,' said Mr.
Dottridge, gravely but kindly, ' in breaking
into my house and stealing my private papers.'

Stealing ! '

That is the word.'

Probably I saved them from him Stephen
replied, bitterly, ' for he has the same object in
view — to hurt you.'

That is impossible ; his own interests bind
him too closely to me. And you see he has
restored the packet. In what way did you
purpose using the letters ? '

To read them before you — to torture you
if there is anything in them that could wring
your heart as you have done mine.'

Here are the letters. But if you are wise
you will trust me that you should not read
them — for your own sake as well as Dahlia's.
I own that the sight of them pains me, and
that to hear them read would torture me.'

Stephen thrust the packet back.

No, I will not have them.'

There, now you are cooler, you see how
poor your revenge would be. I will tell you
how they would torture me — by showing me
myself doing a cruel action under the influence

of passion such as yours. You would, however,
find that I had reason for my conduct, which
would, I believe, fully excuse it even in your
eyes. You would also find that I became
quickly sensible of my cruelty, and did what
was in my power to save the unhappy woman
who had wronged me.'

Wronged you ? Then why did he tell me
the lie .^ Why did he say that you were guilty
in this as you have been in causing me the
misery you have done ? ' ejaculated Stephen,
fiercely.

His reason was simple — he thought it the
readiest way to calm you. For the misery you
are suffering you have to blame your own weakness
and the accident which made you believe
that Euth was dead. I say again and again, I
thought I was doing you a service and giving
myself a chance of happiness which through
you was and is denied me.'

'I do not understand,' said Stephen, coldly,

as he became more and more master of himself.


I will give you a full explanation down to
the minutest detail. But let me do it on our
way to London.'

Why are we going to London ? '

To seek your wife.'

Dahlia ? — she is here or at home,' and he
shuddered as he thought of the condition in
which he had left her at Derewood.

You are mistaken. She has been driven
to frenzy by your conduct, and she has fled
with the mad intention of doing something
which will cause us all pain. What it may be,
heaven knows ; but you know how passionate
and wilful she is, and she may even destroy
herself before the fit passes off.'

Oh, my God ! ' groaned Stephen, remembering
her former attempt upon her life.

We must follow her at once. She will be
stopped at Liverpool Street. I have telegraphed

to Bishop's Stratford for a special
train, and we can be in London a few minutes
after Dahha's train is due. But we must go at
once.'

I am ready.'

The carriage was waiting : the coachman
had his orders, and drove away at a speed
which betokened that the journey was one
involving a matter of life or death.

Arrived at the cold, draughty, melancholy
station of Bishop's Stratford, they found an
engine with first-class carriage attached, ready
for them : but they were obliged to wait for
fifteen minutes in order to allow the Cambridge
express, which had just passed, to get well
ahead of them.

Dottridge and Stephen had spoken little
during the furious drive from Kemerton, but in
this pause there was opportunity for conversation,
and Dottridge took advantage of it.

Stephen was still in a half-dazed state at one

moment, and in the next, wildly excited about
Dahlia and the possible meaning of her letter to
Euth.

Mr. Dottridge was anxious about him, and,
desirous of diverting his thoughts while still
keeping in view the object of the journey, he
said earnestly : —

'The minutes will soon fly, Stephen, and
you must be patient. If you like, and if you
think you can give attention to it, I will tell
you about Dahlia's mother.'

As you please,' said Stephen, impatiently
and indifferently, whilst he looked out at the
signals to see if the one which would permit
them to pass had moved yet.

I cannot say that I please ; indeed, I
would much rather not speak at all about a
subject which causes me so much pain, but I
am anxious to show you that I am not so black
as your imagination makes you believe me to
be. Do you care to know why I am anxious ? '

It might be interesting to understand you.
At present I confess that I do not.'

Mr. Dottridge settled himself back in his
seat and lit a cigar. He offered one to Stephen,
but it was impatiently thrust away. Stephen
was too eager in watching the signal even to
smoke. Dottridge quietly laid the cigar down
beside him with a box of lights.

You had better smoke : it will help you
to bear the tedium of my story and the
journey.' •

Thank you — presently.'

But with nervous haste, and apparently
half-unconscious of what he was doing he
snatched up the cigar and lit it, puffing out
furious volumes of smoke.

That's better. . . . You will not find it
difficult to understand me when I tell you that
I once endured a disappointment more bitter
than yours, because I had no part in bringing
it about. This journey which we are taking in

pursuit of Dahlia reminds me of a similar
journey — only I was not, like you, in pursuit of
my wife, but of the woman who should have
been so.'

Dottridge paused. He was speaking with
much deliberation ; but it was evident that the
memories of the past still had power to awaken
painful emotions.

You mean her mother. Well ? '
Eight. Of course you understand that
she was, in my eyes, a beautiful girl ; and, if
you can believe it, I cared as much for her as
you did for Euth. I have only now come to
understand, or rather to admit to myself, that
anybody could have such strong feelings of
devotion as mine were. You know we are all
full of selfish vanity in these matters, and every
man believes that no other is capable of such
devotion as himself. I might have acted
differently towards you if I had learned that
lesson sooner.'

'Would to heaven you lead!' muttered
Stephen, smoking viciously, and still looking out
at the window.

I wish so too, with all my heart,' said
Dottridge earnestly ; ' but we cannot help that
now, except by walking more clearly in future.
I am hoping that what I tell you may enable
us to do so ; otherwise I should not speak of it.
. . The girl was the daughter of a city
friend, a man who appeared to be, if not
wealthy, at least in a safe position. He was in.
reality on the brink of bankruptcy when I became
acquainted with him and his family, but
contrived to stave off the evil day by various
means so that for a long time he kept up a false
appearance of a flourishing business.'

I understand that is not uncommon in the
city,' said Stephen.

Ay, but it would be uncommon if false
pretences could always be detected at the beginning.
You are aware that I was unusually

VOL. III. M

successful when still very young. This man
became my friend ; he assisted me with advice
which I am bound to say was always valuable.
And that, by the way, is a curious thing that
men can often be much wiser in the affairs of
their friends than in their own. I was, of
course, frequently his guest and a marriage was
soon arranged between me and his daughter.
It would be ridiculous to attempt to describe to
you the wild passion with which I regarded
that girl. Think of all that I now believe you
have felt for Euth, and you will understand it.
And did she pledge herself to you ? ' said
Stephen, bitterly.

'She did,' continued Dottridge, quietly.
But in looking upon the past I am enabled todo
her this justice — that her pledge was given
with a coldness and a restraint which should
have warned me that it was given under compulsion.
Looking upon the past, I can see how
every sign of affection was a pretence — a part

acted so badly that it could only have deceived

a bUnd lover Enough of that. I behaved

her to be sincere. The marriage-day
was fixed, and on the night before it we discovered
that she had gone away with a man
unknown to any of us. We afterwards learned
that he was one of those hangers-on to the
uttermost skirts of society who, having a few
pounds a year, contrive to live as if they had
thousands until their unfortunate creditors find
them out. I do not know how she could have
become attached to such a man, but I suppose
his tailor had something to do with it. There
is no difficulty in understanding how he became
attached to her; he believed her to be the
daughter of a wealthy city merchant.'

Well ? ' queried Stephen, at last interested.

Well, we pursued, but it was three months
before I discovered her. By that time her
father had become bankrupt, and I found her
deserted by the scoundrel who had taken her

if 2

away. He had left her as soon as he found that
she was penniless. I, too, in my mad indignation
at her falsehood, spurned her and left her.
She was thus friendless : became reckless, and
drink did the rest. . You can guess the
miserable life which followed. But by the time
Dahlia was born I had become sensible. I took
care of the child, and did what I could for the
mother ; but she died soon after.'

Dottridge paused, walked to the other side
of the carriage and looked out at the window.
Then he returned quietly.

Now you know the whole miserable story.
You can easily fill in the details. You can
understand the remorse I felt and feel for having
deserted the woman I loved at the moment
when she most needed a friend, and why I have
regarded Dahlia with so much affection whilst
my conduct towards her has been so peculiar.
I implore you now to keep this story in
mind, and be careful of your conduct to Dahlia.

You may save yourself, if you act wisely, at this
moment, from a life of remorse.'

Eeady to start, sir,' said the guard, looking
in at the window.

All right,' answered Dottridge, and the
special train started.

CHAPTEE LY

'NEEDS MUST WHEN THE ' ET CETERA.

On arriving at the Dunthorpe station Eapier
obtained a telegraph form and wrote :

Everybody is as well as could he expected,
and doing everything they are hid. All that you
wish is being done. Wait up for me. I shall
arrive about midnight.'

This was addressed to Mrs. Whitecombe, at
the Bridge House Hotel, London Bridge.

Eapier then went on to the dark deserted
platform. Signal lights were gleaming like
glowworms in the distance, but there were few
lights in the station itself, for the last train had
gone ; and even the telegraph clerk, who was

also the booking clerk, had been induced to
send on his message only as a favour.

He could not afford to engage a special
train, and, indeed, did not think it necessary.
He sought the station-master and arranged with
him to be permitted to travel in the van of the
next goods train, as his case was one of vital
importance.

He had scarcely passed out of the booking
office when Eiith entered it. She was dressed
in black, her face concealed by a veil which
was doubled in order to hide her features thee
more effectively.

The window at the booking place wa?^
closed. She knocked at the door of the office.
After a second knock the clerk, who, tired with
his long day's work, was somewhat sulky at
being again disturbed in his closing duties,
answered the summons. But as soon as she
raised her veil he was all smiles and willingness,
for he knew her and liked her.

I want to send a telegram with Mr. Eapier's
to the same lady.'

Certainly, Miss Clark,' and he handed hera
form.

Will you be so good as to write the
address for me — copy it from Mr. Eapier's
message, because I am not quite sure that I remember
it correctly.'

To Mrs. Whitecombe ? '

'Yes.'

The clerk wrote the address, and good-naturedly
waited for her to dictate the rest.

Do nothing until I arrive.'

Is that all ? '

Yes, let me read it over. Thank you,'

She did not know by what instinct she had
been guided to suspect that there was some
arrangement between Dahlia and Eapier, but
here at the first steps she had taken in this
duel with the man, she found her suspicions
confirmed.

What it was he was striving for she could
not understand, and this was not exactly the
time to try to find out that, although it was so
much mingled with the effort to save Dahlia
that it was impossible to separate it in her
thoughts.

Do you know if Mr. Eapier has left the
station ? '

He wanted to see the station-master in
order to get along by the goods train ; and I
said he would find him at the signal-box, so I
suppose he has gone there.' •

Ruth hesitated. If Eapier should reach
Dahlia before her he would undoubtedly
contrive to make the poor wife insist that
the only proof, which could be satisfactory,
that she and Stephen were honest in their
intentions was Euth's acceptance of Eapier 's
hand.

The position was this :

Dahlia believed that she could not be happy

until she knew that Euth was married to
somebody.

Eapier believed that the only way to satisfy
Dahlia was that Euth should marry him.

Euth was determined to satisfy Dahlia
that it was in her own power to be happy
without insisting upon this or any other
marriage.

The question now was whether Euth or
Eapier should be the first to catch the runaway
and to explain matters to her.

The reason why Euth hesitated was that
she wanted to ask this young man, the booking
clerk, to arrange somehow for her to get along
by the same train as Eapier without his knowing
that she was in it. There was the difficulty
of explanation. She could not explain ; she
must ask him to trust her.

I want to get to London by this goods
train. But I do not want Mr. Eapier to know
that I am in it. I cannot explain my reasons

for this strange request, but if you could help
me to do what I want, you would be doing a
great service not only to me but to Mr. Dot-bridge,
who will thank you as heartily as I do
now.'

The name of the great Mr. Dottridge would
have been a charm to conjure with in any
case ; but the clerk would gladly have done
anything Euth asked him even without that
additional stimulus.

'If you will take a chair I will see the
station-master,' he said, politely giving her his
stool. ' I think we can arrange it.'

He went out, and in a few minutes returned
with the station-master, who knew Miss Clark
and had a very great respect for Mr. Dottridge.

I am told that you want to get to London
by the goods train, Miss Clark, and that you
do not want Mr. Eapier, who is also going by
it, to know of your presence. I thought he
was a great friend of Mr. Dottridge.'

There was no time to choose means to her
end, and she chose the course which would
have been the right one under any circumstances
— she told the truth.

He is ; but we have reason to suspect him
of some unfair dealings, and we wish to find
out whether we are right or not. For that
purpose it is of the utmost importance that I
should reach London at the same time as he
does.'

The station-master was even more puzzled
than the clerk ; for the latter was ready to
yield blind obedience to one whom he respected
so much as Ruth : the former would
have liked to understand a little of the nature
of the business on which he was engaged.

'It's a little awkward, Miss, for you see
there's only the van, and you can't travel ia
one of the trucks.'

I don't care in what I travel — I am ready
to sit on the top of a heap of coals — but I

want to get to London at the same time as he
does.'

You won't have to do that, Miss. I
think I've got it. I'll tell him that he must goon
the engine as one of the directors is travelling
in the van. That'll do it.'

I shall not forget your kindness.'

Don't mention it.'

I have one more favour to ask — what was
the name of the guard by the last train up ? '

It was Fred Winstanley — you have travelled
with him often.'

Winstanley — that is most fortunate.'
Euth could with difficulty suppress her joyful
excitement ; for this man not only knew her
but also Dahha. He would in all probability
have had to render some service to the solitary
traveller, and might be able to give some information
about her movements after quitting
the train. 'Can you give me his address in
London ? '

It isn't quite usual to give addresses, Miss,
but, of course, you can have it.'

He gave it me himself once, but I have
not got it with me,' she said, eager to satisfy
the station-master that he was committing no
breach of faith. ' He has a daughter for whom
I procured a situation. The place they lived
in then was somewhere off Bishopsgate Street.'

He lives there still — it's 24 Church Alley.'

Ah, that is the place. I know it. Thank
you.'

An electric bell rang sharply.

That's the train, Miss. The guard's name
is Haddock. I'll tell him what to do — it'll be
all right. You wait here, please, till I come
for you.'

Euth waited patiently whilst the weary
clerk made what speed he could to finish his
long day's work.

The station-master found Eapier pacing the
platform and smoking a cigar.

'It's a cold night, sir, will you step into
my room until the train comes up ? '

Certainly, if you don't object to smoke.'

Not at this hour.'

They went into the room, a plainly furnished
but clean-looking place, with an office
table in the centre of the floor, and some stiff-backed
chairs ranged in orderly position — it
might be called military fashion — round the
walls.

I am afraid you will not have a pleasant
journey,' said the good-natured but cunning
station-master. ' The fact is, one of our directors
is going up in the van.'

That will be all the better. We can have
a smoke and a chat together. I am a shareholder,
you know.'

I beg your pardon. He happens to be an
eccentric personage, and might cause me some
trouble if I put you in the van beside him— and
he doesn't smoke.'

Put me somewhere else, then.'

I can do that ; you can go on the engine
if you will promise to keep out of the director's
sight.'

Of course I will, and it will be a treat to
travel on the engine : then I can smoke as well
as it.'

Very well. I will go and arrange matters
and come for you before the train starts when
I see the coast clear.'

The train was in the station by that time ;
but there was a lot of shunting and coupling
of the waiting waggons to do before it was ready
to move away at its slow, uncertain pace, subject
to many halts, occasional spurts of speed, and
over weighted apparently by its fear of getting
into the way of passenger trains. The goods
train engine is the cart-horse of the railway,
and its driver requires a great deal more circumspection
than he gets credit for.

The station-master carried out his little

manoeuvre with complete success. Euth was
comfortably seated in the guard's box-seat, and
Eapier was on the engine making himself
agreeable to the driver and stoker. They
thought they had never known such a pleasant
companion, and the conviction was confirmed
when he tipped them at parting ; for it was one
of Eapier's theories that if you want service you
must pay for it, and a good tip to a servant is
always repaid in extra attention and willingness
to oblige.

It was midnight when the train reached
Liverpool Street. Eapier jumped down and
hurried off into the shadows of the vast space
in search of a cab.

Euth had made her arrangements. Mud-dock
jumped out, ran ahead of Eapier and.
securing the first hansom, gave the directions
where and how to drive. Euth followed
swiftly, and her skirts touched Eapier as she
passed him.

VOL. Ill, N

She was at the Bridge House Hotel in
about ten minutes, the streets being clear at
that time of the night.

No one of the name of Whitcombe was
there, but two telegrams had arrived addressed
to that lady, and the porter — a genial old man,
who did not think it a trouble to give information
— supposed that the lady was coming,
although they had no message from her.

Euth flitted by Eapier in the glass-covered
passage as she hastened back to her cab.

She drove straight to Winstanley's place.
Fortunately the man had been having a glass
with some friends, and had barely entered his
room when she knocked at the door. The
slavey who opened it was not only sleepy but
sulky, and eyed Euth with considerable suspicion,
as she denied that the man was at
home.

A half-crown cleverly slipped into her
hand quickened her faculties, and she remembered

that she had heard somebody come ia
with a latch-key a few minutes ago.

May be it was Mr. Winstanley ? '

She would go and see.

The guard, considerably astounded by the
intimation that there was a lady who wanted
to see him ' particular ' at that hour, came down
to the door.

The passage was quite dark, but there was
a lamp close by, and Euth turned towards it.

Can you see my face, Mr. Winstanley ? '

He was a tall, stout man, with bushy red
whiskers, moustache, and beard, kindly blue
eyes, and an expression of intelligent frankness.

Miss Clark, of Dunthorpe, I think,' he said
in a tone which suggested that he did not
believe his own eyes.

Yes, I am glad you recognise me, and I
know you will forgive me for disturbing you
at this untimely hour, when you learn the
cause.'

N 2

T know it must be something important,
although I can't guess what it may be, or how
I can help you. But I am ready to do anything
you require, Miss,' said Winstanley
respectfully.

I was sure you would be willing to help
me. You remember Miss Whitcombe, who is
now Mrs. Meredith, of Derewood?'

To be sure I do, and she travelled with us
to-nisfht.'

Euth's heart leapt with pleasure and satisfaction.


'Did you speak to her — can you tell me
where she went on leaving the train ? ' were the
eager inquiries. ' She was to have gone to
the Bridge House Hotel, but she is not there.'

Winstanley stared in bewilderment for a
moment ; then he quickly caught some idea of
the situation — it was not a very uncommon one
the lady had run away from home.

She didn't come to London at all. She

spoke to me at Duntliorpe, and asked me how
she could get to Harwich ? '

And what did you tell her to do ? '

I told her to get out at Chelmsford, and
she would catch the 9.50 down — that was the
last train she could catch and we were just intime
for it. I got her ticket, and off she went.
I hope there ain't nothing particular
wrong.'

He added that sympathetically.

I fear there is, Mr. Winstanley, I am sorry
to say. How soon can I get to Harwich ? '

Well, there's a train at 5.10 a.m,' answered
the guard reflectively ; ' but the most comfortable
one is the 10 a.m., and that gets you thereabout
12.15.'

When does the first one arrive ? '

'It's timed for 7.45, but you can't count on
being there much before eight.'

I shall go by that one. Now, Mr. Winstanley,
will you come with me to any hotel

near the station where you are known. You
see it is late. I have no luggage, and it might
be somewhat troublesome to explain my application
for lodgings.'

Certainly, Miss, the people at the Queen's
Head know me and they know Mr. Dottridge,
which is a great deal better. You come along
there and you will have everything you want.'

He went with her cheerfully, and she had
no difficulty in obtaining accommodation.

She was well contented with her adventure
so far, and she had no doubt that she would
reach Dahlia before Eapier, for it was evident
by the address of the telegram that he did not
know where she was. Euth felt that she had
gained a victory. Dahha would be saved.

But Euth did not bargain for the weakness
of Dahlia. Eapier did.

When he found she was not at the Bridge
House Hotel, he took Bradshaw. He saw that
she could get to Harwich that night if she got

out at Chelmsford ; and as it had been
arranged between them that after London she
was to go to Harwich en route for the Continent,
he had no doubt she j^had altered the
programme a little and gone straight there.

So he went to bed, telling Boots to rouse
him early.

CHAPTEE Lii.

THE FLIGHT.

That was a sad night for Dahlia.

She carried out the arrangements for her
sudden flight with surprising outward calmness
considering her excitable temperament. And
it could not be said that she was suffering
much inwardly. The spiteful bitterness of
jealousy and wrathful disappointment made
her take a vicious delight in what she was
doing.

She knew that it would grieve Mr. Dot-bridge,
and that, however little he might care
for her, Stephen would feel keenly the shame
which this act would reflect on him. It would
shock the pride of all the Derewood family.

and, above all, it would make Tutti's position at
Kemerton unbearable.

This was a sweet revenge for all that she
had been made to suffer.

There was also a mischievous pleasure in
having bamboozled Eapier. She had completely
spoiled what she surmised — but not
quite correctly — to be his clever little plan.
He wanted to give her flight the appearance
of an elopement with him. But by avoiding
the first part of the programme he had marked
out, and going straight to Harwich alone, she
thought that she had foiled the scheme.

No, she was not going to elope with him
or any man — at least, not yet.

She erred, however, in her conception of
Eapier's plot. He did not wish it to appear
that she had eloped with him : that was to bea
last step when he had absolutely failed with
Euth. The reason was a simple one ; he knew
that Euth was a bigger prize than Dahlia infortune,

and he believed a better one in the
character of the lady.

Then with the weakness upon which he had
calculated, Dahlia was now doing everything
he had suggested except making the preliminary
journey to London.

Her unhappy satisfaction at this moment,
however, at the thought of the misery her flight
would cause, sustained her in the first steps of
it.

In the carriage into which she was hurried
at Chelmsford there were two ladies and a
clergyman. They were chatting merrily together
; he describing his quiet little parsonage
and the simple occupations of his wife and self.
They were things he was proud of, and he
talked as some men do on such occasions as if
unconscious of the presence of a stranger. He
had much to say about their glebe, their fruits,
and their flowers, and the happy relations existing
between himself and his parishioners.

Sitting silent in her comer and hearing
most of what was said, Dahha compared this
quiet, even life with the passionate incidents
of her own, and she longed for such a peaceful
existence.

Could she ever attain it now ? The question
occupied her during the rest of the journey ;
and the chance words of this stranger struck
in her heart the first note of despair at what
she was doing.

On arriving at Harwich she engaged a
porter to guide her to the hotel. On entering
the large hall of the Great Eastern her appearance
at that hour unattended and without any
luggage did not cause so much siu-prise to the
two sleepy waiters who were standing there as
she had feared it would. The manager was
called, and she explained that she had been
obliged to leave home very unexpectedly and
luggage would follow. He was a shrewd buta
kindly gentleman ; he saw at once that she

was a lady in some domestic distress ; and a
chambermaid immediately conducted her to a
cheery, comfortable room.

She had still that outward coolness of
manner which had come upon her so suddenly,
and although she had no desire for food, she
ordered some tea to be brought, as she wished
to display as little eccentricity as possible.

But when the door closed finally, and she
was left alone for the night, she sat down feeling
a kind of dull wonder at all that had
happened. The resentment and passion which
had sustained her so far were already beginning
to desert her.

She began slowly to realise that she was
there, miles away from home, without the
possibility of returning that night. And how
would she be able to do it in the morning ?
She began slowly to understand that she had
separated herself from Stephen, that she had
done it with the wild desire to break his heart,

and it seemed as if it were to be her own that
was to be broken instead — for she could have no
happiness without him.

She lay across the bed face downwards, her
arms crossed and her brow resting on them ;
but she could not cry.

Was it really all over then ? Was thereto
be no more joy for her in the world ? Then
she had visions of the home she had left ; of
every bit of furniture in her room ; of the
flowers, the shrubs — of the whole scenery
around the place. She heard the dogs barking,
the horses neighing, and the bleating of
the sheep. Then she heard his cheery voice ashe
said good-bye to her in the mornings, and
all his passion — even that terrible look which
seemed to have killed her on that night when
she had found him in the library — all seemed
to dwindle away from her and she remembered
only that she had loved him.

She would die : there was no other end for

this misery. And there would be no need for
poison this time — her anguish would quickly do
the work. ,

Her brow was throbbing as if there were
hammers busy in it, and she could not cry yet ;
her eyes, like her tongue, were parched. And
Sleep, that ever-treacherous friend, who comes
often when not wanted and deserts us when
most needed, would not help her in her despair.
But Time is a true friend and he helped
her ; for the night passed. She did not know
how it passed or how she had outlived it.

In the early morning there were sounds of
voices and busy work in the streets below.
She looked out at the window, and, through
the dim light of the morning, saw men bustling
about on the quay. She heard the plashing
of the water in the harbour, mingled with
much whistling of trains at the landing stage
close by, and she saw a huge dark thing, with
lights like eyes, steaming up the river. She

knew that it was the steamer arriving from
Rotterdam.

Cold as the morning was she opened the
window ; for the sounds of voices and the
scene of busy life in some small measure
distracted her thoughts from herself. She
would have liked to have gone down and
mingled with the crowd, but that undercurrent
of sense or cunning which controlled her conduct
at present, forbade her. She was aware
that her arrival at the hotel had been strange
enough, and she did not wish to attract more
attention by going out for a walk at that time
in the morning.

But why might she not say, if necessary,
that she had altered her mind, and was going
up by the early train ; or she had only to call
for her bill, pay it, and walk out ? She could
then decide at her leisure what she was to do
next. She decided upon the latter course, and
rang the bell.

The hotel being open to accommodate the
continental travellers, servants were astir. The
request to have her bill at once therefore caused
no surprise.

The train won't start for half an hour yet,
ma'am,' was the information volunteered to herby
the servant who answered the summons.
Shall I get you any breakfast before you
start ? '

She again consented to have something
sent up to her, and for appearance's sake this
time did contrive to swallow a little tea and a
biscuit. Then she walked out, having no notion
whither her steps were to be directed. She
had a vague idea that if she could walk long
enough she might tire herself into a condition
that would secure sleep. But such a night as
the last she could never pass again. It would
drive her mad if it did not kill her — she wished
it would do that. She did not see the incongruity
of her wish and her present course of

action ; but she did ask herself, ' Was she not
mad already ? '

At that she closed her lips tightly : she
believed she was mad.

She went on to the landing stage and saw
the shivering travellers hurrying hither and
thither seeking compartments in the crowded
train. She mingled with them vacantly ;
listening to the confusion of tongues and the
strangeness of the scene dulled her sense of
pain.

VOL. Ill,

CHAPTEE Liii.

THE CHASE.

Rapier was up betimes ; but being a man who
studied his own ease and comfort, except when
he saw good reasons for being indifferent to
them, he decided upon waiting for the express
to Harwich. He saw no reason for doing
otherwise, for he had perfect confidence in
Pasha's incapacity to invent a plan for herself.
Besides he believed in the importance oi'
taking things coolly. He was convinced that he
was in the last heat of the race for Euth, and
every step he took now must be carefully
measured. One false step at this juncture and
lie would lose everything for which he had
been so long striving.

That would be hard lines,' he observed to
his Confidant as he was dressing, 'when they
have all unconsciously played into my hands so
beautifully.'

He smiled at the improbability of failure.

It can't be. Dahlia will hold to her pointy
for I think she really does care for the man
as she never cared for anybody or anything
before. . . . And he will keep to his point —
there is no doubt of that. I am safe : Euth
will be mine and bring me a handsome fortune.
I have seen the will, and there is no chance* of
Dottridge altering it, however sore he may feel.
That poor fool Meredith thought it was those
worthless letters I was after. He little guessed
that I only wanted to make some notes from,
a document which will astonish them all when,
it is read. By Jove, it will astonish them I.
Let me see it again.'

He took out of his pocket a sheet of papers
on which were these lines in pencil :.



To my true friend and helpmate, Euth
Clark, who has been the solace and mainstay of
my life, I give and bequeath the sum of thirty
thousand pounds as afterwards specified, and
appoint her my residuary legatee. This I do
without consideration as to whether or not my
long-cherished hope that she should become
my wife may be realised. But until that event
or my death occurs, I desire her to remain in
ignorance of this bequest.'

That was something worth making a bold
stroke to win. If that fool had not interrupted,
me I would have been able to copy the details.
However, they are of no consequence, and
Dottridge will come down handsome on the
wedding-day too.'

With that gleeful reflection in his mind he
made a hearty breakfast, wrote a line to
Dottridge saying that he was already on the
track, and then drove to the station.

He was in excellent time for the train, and

seated himself comfortably with a morning
paper in his hands and a cigar in his mouth.
He was smiling complacently ; but it was not
at anything he saw in the paper ; for although
staring at it he did not read a line. He was
looking at his own brilliant prospects, and
enjoying them already in imagination. He was
a happy man on that journey.

• • • •

When Mr. Dottridge and Stephen arrived
at Liverpool Street, they, not knowing what
Euth and Eapier knew, made their first inquiries
about the runaway at the superintendent's
office.

Yes, sir, the telegram was received, but no
lady answering the description given arrived by
the last train which left Dunthorpe. Inquiries
were made at every carriage the moment the
train stopped, but without success, I am sorry
to say.'

That was their answer, and they stared at

each other in sad bewilderment. They had
been so certain that she would be discovered
and detained at the station that the question
they had been asking themselves was not whereto
find her, but how they were to deal with
her when they arrived.

Stephen was conscience-stricken. What
had he done? To what new act of madness
had his passion driven her? The memory of
her former attempt to destroy herself was
haunting him, and there was only the one
horrible explanation of her purpose in his
thoughts.

Under his breath he muttered,

My God — my God — I have murdered
her ! . . . Had she no pity for me — no
mercy ? '

Had Dahlia seen the distracted man at that
moment she would have known that what she
had desired in her anger was accomplished —
she had made him completely wretched. He

would have given his own Hfe to have seen her
standing there safe before him.

It is not so bad as that,' said Mr. Dottridge,
reassuringly. ' I have no fear for her life, but
there are some things which may befall a
woman that are worse than death.'

And I am not afraid of that,' said Stephen,
warmly.

Then I think you need not alarm yourself,'
was the confident reply. 'What we have todo
now is to take the best measures we can to
discover her.'

What can we do ? '

'I confess that I am at a loss to know.
But as she did get into the train and did not
arrive with it, she must have got out at some
other station. We can telegraph to all the stations
at which the train stopped between this and
Dunthorpe. Somebody must have seen her.'

That was a shrewd and practical idea, and
it was at once carried out. But, unfortunately,

the telegraph offices at the country stations
were closed at that hour, and answers therefore
could not be received until the morning.

What next ? ' was Stephen's eager question,
for he was so much excited that he was unable
to suggest anything himself.

I do not see what more we can do tonight.
The suspense will have to be borne, for
we must wait for the replies, and also wait to
see if there is any message from Euth in the
morning. She gave me the impression that she
had some clue.'

So they went to the Queen's Head Hotel,
where Mr. Dottridge had been in the frequent
custom of staying when in town.

And Euth slept under the same roof, and
started in the morning without knowing that
she had been so near to those she would have
been so glad to see. She had, however, sent
her message to Bassnett's office giving them all
the information they required, and it was only

by the delay of their cab that they missed the
train in which Eapier travelled.

Euth was at Harwich by eight o'clock! She
found the porter who had guided Dahha to
the Great Eastern Hotel, and thither she went
with anxious thoughts of the interview about to
take place.

The lady went away this morning to catch
the early up train,' was the answer to her inquiries
for Mrs. Whitcombe,

CHAPTEE LVIII.

THE CRISIS.

Euth's first feeling was one of surprise,
mingled with dismay. But that quickly
changed to joy, for she interpreted Dahlia's
early departure to repentance as hasty as her
act of folly ; and now her desire was to get
home as speedily as possible.

How she pitied the poor rash young wife ;
and how glad she Avould be to do anything to
help her back to contentment and happiness.

With this joyful tidings to convey, the
question was — Would she be able to get it
conveyed in time to stop Mr. Dottridge and

Stephen from coming to Harwich, and to turn
them back to Derewood ? She would try.

'Can you direct me to the telegraph
office?'

'It is in Church Street, madam, but you
can write your telegram here and we will send
it for you,' was the manager's reply.

'Thank you, but I would prefer to go
myself

A smart young porter was directed to show
her the way. She hurried through streets that
had been formed in the days when width was
not considered an advantage. Houses, all of
low stature — two storeys of varying elevation
being the rule — with projecting gabies which
would enable opposite neighbours on the upper
floors to gossip with each other comfortably;
here and there flat, straight-up-and-down erections
break the line of gables and look as prim
as if they could not approve of their comrades
whose heads are thrust over the way. Church

Street is comparatively wide, its houses having
for the most part plain, flat fronts : at the
lower end, towards the quay, it has a whitewashed,
at the upper a grey look. The
greyness is chiefly due to the parish church
which towers above the town. But the town
has hemmed it in so closely that its surrounding
space is only that of the old graveyard
intersected by footpaths. Nearly opposite the
church is the post-office — a squat, dingy building
which seems to be always sternly absorbed
in its own official dignity.

Euth entered, hastily wrote her message,
and, even whilst she was writing, the question
forced itself upon her :

What have I but conjecture for saying that
Dahlia has gone home ? '

The pen stopped, and was poised doubtingly
over the paper She altered
her plan and sent this to Mrs. Meredith, senior:

Has she returned If she is not with you

already I believe she is on her way. But
answer immediately. I am waiting.'

Then to the postmaster.

How long do you think it will be before
I can have a reply to this ? '

'That will depend on how the wires are
engaged. May be an hour, may be three
hours.'

An hour — three hours ! Then if she waited
for Mrs. Meredith's answer her message to Mr.
Dottridge would be useless ; so bhe decided to
send it off now with this addition :

If you do not find her at Derewood, come
here.'

After that she went back to the hotel to
rest and consider what should be done in the
event of her conjecture turning out to be
wrong.

It so happened that when Bassnett received
the telegram for Mr. Dottridge he believed him
to be with Stephen, well on his way to

Harwich. He could have no suspicion that
they were impatiently kicking their heels at the
station waiting for the next train.

As Euth looked from the window she saw
without surprise but with much chagrin Eapier
walking jauntily along the quay towards the
hotel.

The answer had not come yet, and she
could only wait and watch

Eapier was so confident that he should
find Dahlia here that he said at once to the
waiter :

'Will you take my card to Mrs. Whitcombe,
please ? '

He was considerably taken aback when he
was told that the lady had gone.

You are sure she has gone .^ ' he said,
looking suspiciously at the waiter. ' Are you
sure that you know the lady I mean? '

Yes, sir, — came by the last train last

night, and went away by the first train this
morning. There is a lady here who has been
asking after her.'

'A lady here who has been asking after
her?'

Yes, sir.'

Do you know her name .^ '

I don't think she has given a name, but I'll
inquire.'

He went to the office and returned with the
answer that no name had been given.

Eapier stood quite still looking at his boots.
He wanted to know who this could be sufficiently
acquainted with Dahlia's movements to
forestall him in making inquiries for her at
Harwich. He took a simple means of finding
out.

As we have the same object in view, the
lady must be a friend. Take my card to her,
and say that I would be greatly obliged if she
would see me for a few minutes.'

The waiter placed the card on a salver and
went upstairs.

Did the gentleman ask for me by my
name ? ' inquired Euth.

'No, madam, he said that as you were
seeking Mrs. Whitcombe as well as himself,
you must be a friend, and he would like to see
you

Euth dropped the card on the salver again.

Return his card and say that I don't
understand how he should desire to see a lady
whose name he does not know.'

The waiter bowed and returned to Eapier
with the message and the card — the contempt
implied by the latter fact was perfectly understood.
It was as if he had been some unfortunate
tradesman who had been pushing his
business too zealously. But without appearing
to observe the card he walked into the diningroom.


A glass of sherry and a biscuit were brought

to him, and as he sipped the one and munched
the other he stood at a window staring at the
roughly-constructed pier which was intended
more for business purposes than for gay promenaders.


There is only one woman who could do
this,' he was saying mentally, ' and that is
Euth. . I need not bother myself trying
to make out how she discovered that Dahlia
had come here, or how she got here before me.
Enough that I know her purpose — she wants to
be the first to see Dahlia and take her home
without conditions.'

He emptied his glass and set it down with
the air of a man who has come to final resolutions.


It is a race between us, then, and I mean
to be the winner. . If Dahlia has left
Harwich, she has gone to London and is waiting
for me. I can easily find out whether she
has left or not, for there are few passengers who

VOL. III. p

take out tickets from here by the first train in
the morning.'

He called the waiter to whom he had first
spoken, and placed something in his hand for
which the man gave a very ready ' Thank you,
sir.'

The name of the lady upstairs is Miss
Clark. There is a slight misunderstanding
between us, and that was why she declined to
see me a little while ago. But it is important
that she should have the information which I
hope to bring back with me about our friend.'

Yes, sir,' said the man, wondering why all
this was confided to him.

Well, if she should go out before my
return, I should like to know where she goes
to. Do you think you could manage it forme?'


I don't see how I can, sir, unless she happens
to mention it.'

You might find someone — no, I will find

someone myself. Look here — you see the
pier ticket office. A man will be standing
there ; should Miss Clark go out you have only
to nod to him and he will know what to do.'

The waiter evidently did not relish the
business, but he agreed to do what was required.


Eapier went out and easily found one of
the loafers about the quay to undertake the
task of ' keeping an eye ' on Euth. That
arrangement having been completed he proceeded
to the station where he learned that
the early train was intended for continental
travellers only ; but that anyone having a
return ticket to London might go by it if there
happened to be room. The first Harwich train
up was at five minutes past eight.

Eapier was sure that Dahlia would not have

a return ticket, and so, if she had gone by train

at all, she must have been waiting for several

hours at the station. But no lady had been

p 2

waiting. Then he was convinced that she had
not left Harwich.

He sauntered out into the street and round
by the old lighthouse, which has been turned
to account as a training place for carrier pigeons.
He sauntered on towards the beach, busy trying
to solve the intricate problem — .' Where could
she be ? '

It is an uncomfortable sensation even under
ordinary circumstances to stand in the highway,
looking blankly up and down, unable to decide
which way a friend has gone. One feels that
it is impossible for a man or woman, or even a
dog, to disappear utterly from sight and leave
no sign. One gets impatient with the hard
roads that they retain no footprints for guidance,
and longs for the aid of a sleuth bound.

Failing that aid the next best thing is to try
to calculate from the knowledge of the missing
one's character what she would be most likely
to dos

'She was in a wild state when I left her in
the room yesterday, and she is, no doubt, in the
blues this morning. But she won't do anything
very desperate — she won't go home again except
at my instigation.'

His confidence in her not doing anything
desperate indicated a weakness in his own
clever intellect : he was unable to make allowances
for the desperate deeds the weakest
natures will perpetrate under the sway of
passion.

He saw a group of men coming along the
shore from the direction of the fort, and they
were evidently carrying something. One man
was running on a-head of the others, and
Eapier called to him :

What's the matter, my man ? '

• A lady has been found in . a fit on the
beach,' answered the man breathlessly. ' We
were just in time to save her, for the tide
was coming in, and was nigh at her feet

when we came upon her. I am going for
the doctor.'

Eapier scarcely heard the last words. He
hastened to meet the advancing group, and
when he saw the apparently lifeless body
they were carrying on a door he asked involuntarily
:

Is she dead ? '

We don't know, sir,' said a soldier, who
was one of the bearers, ' but she looks like it,
poor soul. Is she a friend of yours ? '

Yes, yes, step quickly to the doctor's — you
shall be well rewarded.'

Quite alone. In that bustling crowd of
people, eager to reach their homes or places of
sojourn, there was no face to give her a kindly
smile. Some young men stared curiously or
rudely at her as they passed rapidly, but she
was unconscious of it. Presently all these
people would be in the train, and the train

would go away, and she would be left the
solitary occupant of the platform.

They were going home : that was the
thought uppermost in her mind. And she ! —
she had no home to go to. She looked on
them with longing eyes, thinking of the welcomes
that awaited them but without envy, only with
a deeper, sadder sense of her own loss.

The guard's voice reached her as from a long
distance asking impatiently for the third time :
Are you going on, please ? '
And she answered vacantly, ' No.*
It was curious that what had seemed to
Euth the most natural course for Dahlia to
pursue had never occurred to her. She did
not think of going home.

The guard whistled, the engine shrieked,
the train moved slowly out from the shed, and
Dahlia watched it dreamily as its pace quickened
and it disappeared from her sight. She
felt as if that train had drawn something out of

her breast, and left a hole in it. She could not
go Home.

There were a number of officials and porters
moving leisurely about now, and one of them
came up to her.

Have you missed the train, ma'am ? '

'No.'

Going to the hotel, perhaps ? '

'No.'

Then she observed the astonishment on the
man's face, and became aware that she was exciting
curiosity amongst those about. She
drew down her veil and walked quietly away.

In that half conscious state she went up
Church Street, in which, as soon as she got a
little way from the quay, there was at that time
no sound of human life. When she came to
the church she paused for a moment, and then
she took the footpath through the graveyard.
She looked with vacant eyes through the railings
at the old brown and green headstones,

reading purposelessly strange names and ages
and dates ; and there was a vague wonder in
her mind as to what inscription they would put
upon her tombstone.

Out of the churchyard, past the infant
school, and she came to the green foreshore
with its broad gravel path leading towards the
fort. There was a deep haze over the Orwell
and the Stour, and the waters were being tossed
angrily by a rough breeze blowing in from the
sea. By-and-by the haze became aglow with
red, and it gradually dispersed : she could seethe
waters then, and they looked dull and
frowning under the heavy sky as they tossed
unceasingly and thrust out white pointed
tongues. She shivered as she listened to the
great booming of the waters.

But that was the only sign of her senses not
being quite dead to external sights and sounds.

She came near to the point where the path
divides into two, one ascending the hill on

which the fort stands, the other continuing its
level course along the shore. She stepped
down on to the gravelly beach, and seated herself
on a large stone.

The involuntary action was dictated by the
fatigue of mind and body which was beginning
to assert itself. Had she been asked she
would have said that she did not feel tired and
did not feel sleepy.

Soldiers passed and repassed, and stared
with amused curiosity at the lady sitting on the
stone gazing out towards the sea. Other people
passed and regarded her position as very
peculiar.

She neither saw them nor heard the remarks
they made. She was not looking at the water
as they thought, but into Derewood Grange,
and seeing the misery she had caused to all
who dwelt there.

She saw Stephen angry, and heard him —
heard him as plainly as ever his voice had

sounded in her ears when she had been by his
side — she heard him curse her.

At that there was a wild scream in her
brain — no sound escaped her hips — and with it
the muscles relaxed, the body became limp, and
she fell from the stone on to the gravel insensible.


The cruel waters were coming rapidly up to
her. At high tide they often rose above the
protecting wall and overflowed the path.

But a smart young soldier came down the
path from the fort, swinging his cane, and
thinking of sweethearts and glory.

As soon as he saw the woman lying on the
gravel, the water touching her feet, he jumped
down to see what was the matter. He took a
very commonplace view of the case at first —
Drink,' thought he, as he lifted her on to the
path and out of danger.

But when he saw her face he altered his
mind, and gave the alarm to some labourers ina

field close by. They came readily enough,
and as all their skill failed to arouse her, a door
was procured from the carpenters of a villa
which was in course of erection, and they were
bearing her to a doctor when Eapier met them.

CHAPTER LIX.

THE TRUMP CARD.

Dr. Harvey was at home, and about to begin
his early dinner. He was a stoutish, fair-haired
man, of about forty years, with bright, genial
hie eyes, who was thriving in his practice and
looked it. He was always busy, and yet always
contrived to do what was most needed at the
moment it was needed.

He was at the door when Rapier came up
with the men who were carrying Dahlia.

Bring her in here,' said the doctor, without
waiting for a word of explanation as to the
position of the patient or the prospect of obtaining
his fee.

She was carried into the hall, and Eapier
Hated her on to a couch in the drawing-room.

The doctor made his examination and
promptly applied the simplest restoratives.
The effect was soon visible : the respiration
became more regular, a flush appeared upon
the face, and the hands became warm. The
doctor was holding her wrist and counting her
pulse when her eyes opened. Eapier was
standing behind him, looking on with more of
curiosity than anxiety in his expression.

Is she all right .^ ' he asked in an eager
whisper.

Can't say yet — she is much exhausted, but
I have no doubt she will come round if there is
no special excitement to upset her again. Who
is she?'

Mrs. Meredith, of Derewood, Dunthorpe,'
answered Eapier in very distinct tones, as if
hoping that the sound of her own name would
assist in recalling her to consciousness. ' She

has had much domestic trouble — left her friends
in a pet, and we have been all seeking her
anxiously.'

Oh,' exclaimed the kindly doctor, studying
his patient's face, ' she is coming to herself, but
she does not hear as yet. The best thing that
you can do is to get her back to her friends as
quickly as possible. There is evidently great
nervous exhaustion, for which the best medicine
Avill be the sight of the people she likes and of
her own home.'

Home ! ' echoed Dahlia with a convulsive
movement.

It was the sound of the voice rather than the
convulsive movement that startled the doctor
and Eapier. It was like the eerie cry of a spirit
fading into the mist of death.

Yes, home,' said the doctor cheerily as he
patted her hand smartly, and noted with
pleasure that the blood came to the surface.
You've had a bad time of it, my dear madam ^

but you'll be all right by-and-by — only you
must not go scampering about the country
without letting your friends know where you are.
Everybody has been running after you in a great
state of anxiety ; and luckily here is one of
your friends who has found you just in the nick
of time.'

The doctor spoke with meditated abruptness,
and Dahlia was rapidly regaining consciousness,
although she did not yet remember anything of
what had occurred since the moment when she
had paid her bill at the hotel, and very hazily
understood what had gone before.

Her eyes wandered round the room, up to
the doctor's face, and from his to Eapier's :
there they paused a shudder, a flash of
light in the eyes, and she remembered why she
was there.

May I speak to her? ' whispered Eapier.

The doctor hesitated. He did not like
the shudder or the expression of pain which

passed over her face when she recognised her
friend.

Wait a minute,' he said, quietly ; ' I am a
stranger to you, Mrs. Meredith, but my profession
gives me the privilege of speaking to you
as a friend. It is a habit of mine to speak very
frankly to my patients, and I am going to tell
you something which will startle you ; but I do
so in the hope that the start will help to cure
you. And this is it : you are on the verge of a
dangerous illness, but it is a mental illness, and
I can do little for you. I can only advise you
to help yourself. Find relief for whatever it is
that is distressing your mind, and you will be
well again.'

Dahlia made no answer ; she only removed
her eyes from Eapier to ^^ them wonderingly on
this good physician.

Eapier laid his hand on the doctor's
shoulder. '

I know the cure, then. If you will leave

VOL. III. Q

US together for a few minutes I think you will
find on your return that she is better.'

The doctor looked at his watch, and his expression
was as grave as it ever could be. His
was one of those faces which are incapable of
expressing solemnity, however deep the feeling
of it may be.

I am obliged to go out just now — indeed, I
ought to have been off an hour ago, for I have a
somewhat anxious case on hand. I shall be back
in an hour or so, and in the meanwhile I shall
give instructions to my housekeeper to wait upon
Mrs. Meredith. You need have no hesitation
in ringing the bell.'

As the doctor went out he beckoned Rapier,
who followed him into the hall.

Take care not to disturb her, and leave her
as quickly as you can to the care of Mrs. Grace,
my housekeeper.'

It is her husband she is longing for,' said
Eapier, calmly ; ' and I am going to arrange

for their meeting. A few minutes will doit.'


Ah ! that's all right,' exclaimed the doctor,
much relieved. ' I can trust her to you and
Mrs. Grace.'

When the doctor went out there was still a
crowd about his door, but on his assurance that
the lady was recovering the people withdrew,
although a few lingered on the other side of the
way — amongst them those whom Eapier had
promptly rewarded for their assistance.

When Eapier re-entered the room he carried
with him a sheet of notepaper and pen and
ink which he had obtained from the housekeeper.


Dahlia was staring with dull curiosity at the
strange place. She knew that it was a doctor's
house, but she was still unable to understand
how she came there. The loud roar of the
waters and the wild sough of the wind were still
in her ears. That was all.
a2

Kepler placed a little table beside her very
quietly. Then standing calmly before her he
spoke.

'Do you think you are strong enough to
listen to me ? ' His voice was low and even
gentle.

After a long time, as if the words had had to
travel far in order to reach her understanding,
the answer came : —

Yes.'

I see you have been suffering more than I
ever thought you were likely to do. You need
not suffer any longer if you have only strength
to write three lines.'

For what purpose ? ' she said with languid
indifference.

To restore you to your home in perfect confidence
that you are safe, and that Euth will be
my wife.'

She started a little at Euth's name ; but she
was too feeble to sustain any passion.

What does it matter to me whose wife she
is ? ' was her bitter cry. ' Stephen never cared
for me — he cannot even respect me now.'

But you can both make him care for you
and respect you when she is out of the way.
Everything is in your own power. Make an
effort to write three hues and I will bring
Stephen to you.'

You will bring him to me — when ? '

With that exclamation the blood flushed
to her cheeks, her eyes became bright, and she
raised herself on her elbow.

Within a few hours — I pledge myself todo
it.'

What is it you want me to write ? ' she
asked with nervous eagerness, seizing the pen
with trembling hand.

Only this :

" / will come home as soon as I learn tha
Ruth has accepted Rapier T '

She wrote the words and signed her name.

Eapier calmly folded the paper and placed it in
an envelope.

Are you sure he will come ? ' she moaned,
falling back again upon the couch.

'He will come. You may be satisfied of
that.'

Having rung the bell for the housekeeper,
Eapier left Dahlia in her charge, promising to be
back with good news in less than an hour.

He went straight to the harbour and found
his man at the pier ticket office, smoking and
leaning against one of the posts just as he had
left him. That was good : Euth was still in the
hotel. The man assured him of that, and immediately
walked away.

Eapier crossed to the hotel, and learned that
Miss Clark had gone out immediately on hearing
the rumour that a strange lady had been found
insensible on the beach. The signal had been
given to his spy, but that worthy had either not
observed it or had deceived him.

CHAPTER LX.

'A HIT, A VERY PALPABLE HIT.'

If lie could only see Euth before she had an
opportunity of conversing with Dahlia, all
would be well. She must be very anxious to
restore harmony to the house of Derewoo(>, or
she would never have travelled all this way in
search of its lost mistress. That anxiety was
the lever by which he should be able to move
her to his purpose.

Everything, however, depended upon his
being able to play his trump card — Dahlia's
letter — and obtain her consent before the
women could exchange confidences. Here he
had been most unexpectedly foiled by the

stupidity or treachery of his scout. But the
game was not lost yet.

He returned to the doctor's house, and
when the housekeeper opened the door his first
observation was :

I hope she has not been disturbed during
my absence ? '

No, sir ; I don't think she has been disturbed,'
said the woman, sharply, as if all this
extra duty was trying her temper. ' She's been
a little uneasy, and I've covered her up to keep
her warm.'

Has the doctor returned ? '

Not yet — there's no saying when he may
come back once he goes out. He ain't like
other men as can say when they'll come and
when they'll go.'

Eapier did not like the woman's manner ;
but this was not the time to quarrel with anybody.


'If anyone should come asking for Mrs.

Meredith or Mrs. Whitcombe, you will please
to call me,' he said, quietly, ashe passed into
the room very softly.

The blinds were down, and he seemed to
have passed suddenly out of daylight into dusk.
All the objects around him were indistinct ; but
presently he made out the form on the couch
covered with blankets and rugs. He fancied
he detected a movement, and, therefore, spoke.

Are you sleeping, Dahlia ? '

There was a pause ; but the figure moved
again, and at length there was a response irr a
feeble voice.

No. . Is he coming ? '

Yes, yes, by-and-by. Do not doubt it.
I expect him every moment. But meanwhile
I want to tell you what may be unpleasant
news — Euth is in Harwich, and, no doubt,
wants to see you.'

Well .P ' was the muffled query from under
the blankets.

Well, I don't want you to see her until we
have got her promise to make you happy by
accepting me.'

A pause, during which the invalid appeared
to be breathing heavily and gathering strength
for the next question.

I have told you,' she said iiiintly, ' that I
do not care whether she marries or not. I
want only to be forgiven by Stephen.'

And you will be, of course. But you
seem to be forgetting, Dahlia, the bargain you
made with me.'

The bargain — ah, yes — what was it ? '

Oh, you must remember that you pledged
yourself to help me with all your power to win
Euth ; and to that end you were to act under
my direction. So far you have kept your
promise. Do not fail me now when success is
within my grasp. If you will only be true tome
in this, Euth will consent as soon as she sees
your letter.'

I scarcely remember what I wrote in the
letter — you dictated it.'

Eapier thought her mind mist be wandering
very much, but he answered patiently
enough :

There was nothing more in it than the
statement that you would go home as
soon as you knew that Euth had accepted
me.'

Another pause and the invalid seemed to
breathe with more difficulty than before.
Then, as with a painful effort :

Why is it you are so eager to win Euth
when she does not care for you ? '

He laughed lightly and passed his hand
through his hair.

How is it you have become so curious.
Dahlia ? I thought you had only one object to
serve — to get Euth out of your way — and that
I was helping you to accomplish it. However,
the answer to your question is that I like her,

and hope that by-and-by she will learn to like
me.'

Is that all ? '

What else should there be ? '

There must be something else.'

'Well, perhaps there is,' he said slowly.
Can I trust you ? '

I hope so. . . . Unless you trust me you
may find me fail in fulfilling the terms of our
bargain.'

There can be no harm in telling you that
besides liking her I know she has a considerable
fortune which would make me very comfortable
for life.'

The figure on the couch made an apparently
convulsive movement, and when she
spoke again the voice was very husky.

Euth ! a fortune ! . . . you are mad.
You know that she was left destitute and owes
everything to Mr. Dottridge. Be wise in time

and turn your thoughts elsewhere. Euth has
nothing.'

I see you are recovering, and I am glad of
that, for you will be all the better able to help
me,' he said coolly.

If it is money you seek, you are mad, I
tell you, to think of Euth. Look elsewhere.'

Your advice is excellent, and I should
certainly adopt it if I did not possess special information.
She certainly does owe everything
to Dottridge, and that everything includes the
fortune of which I speak. She knows nothing
about it. Only Dottridge who gives it, Bassnett
who drew up the deed, and I who have read
the deed, know that she is an heiress. Now
you know the whole state of affairs ; I helped
you to get Meredith ; I am helping you back
to him ; and I expect you to keep faith with
me. Eemember you are helping yourself in
helping me.'

For a moment there was perfect stillness in
the room. The invalid did not move, and
seemed almost as if she had ceased to breathe ;
but presently she spoke again, and the words
were uttered with singular distinctness.

You expect me to help you to force Euth
to marry you against her own wish and will ? '

I certainly expect you to keep your
promise. You need have no qualms of conscience
about it, because she will soon be
contented with her lot. And if she is not —
why, then we can separate. There will be
enough for both of us when the fortune is
divided.'

I know you now.'

There was something startling in the words
and in the firm tone of their pronunciation.
There was something still more startling in the
slow movement of the invalid's arm thrusting
back the coverings, and in the slow rising of a
tall dark figure from the couch.

Eapier sprang from his chair, and there
was amazement, fear, and rage in his voice ashe
exclaimed,

Ruth ! '

He could say no more. He stood dumbly
staring at her with the bitter sense that he had
been foiled by his own weapons ; that he had
been actually trepanned into a confession of his
whole schemes to the very person for whose
refreshment they were designed. His trump
card was not only valueless now, it was the
proof of his treacherous machinations.

Euth stood so still, so stern that she seemed
to tower above the discomfited gambler. Butin
the interval of awed silence, his quick wits
were at work. He was even at this moment
seeking some explanation by which to turn the
exposure to advantage, or at any rate to find
the means of hiding it from Dottridge.

I think, Mr. Eapier,' said Euth coldly,
that the conversation which we have just had

will satisfy you that yoii would only be wasting
your valuable time in any further efforts to
compel me to marry you. I now understand
why you made the suggestion to Mr. Dottridge
which has caused so much unhappiness, and I
now understand why the telegram from Sydney
was not delivered until too late to be of any
use.'

Much to her surprise the brief consternation
of Eapier entirely disappeared. He laughed
heartily.

'I can't keep it up any longer,' he said,
trying to control his mirth. ' Why, Euth, do
you think I did not know who I was speaking
to ? Do you think I did not understand the
whole position? . . . You heard of the lady
found on the beach in a fit ; you learned that
she had been carried to the doctor's, and left
there ; you guessed that it was Dahlia, and you
came here whilst I was absent seeking you.
Then you had her removed to a bedroom ; you

listened to the poor creature's ravings ; you
believed them, and you took her place here on
the couch in the hope of catching me in some
deception. Why, the first sound of your voice
betrayed you, and I have been simply carrying
out the joke which you began.'

He laughed again, and Euth was for an
instant disconcerted by his clever divination of
all that had occurred.

What joke ? ' she asked.

The joke that I was seeking you not
because of yourself, but because of some im-known
fortune you possessed. You see the
laugh is on my side. You have no fortune,
Euth, except what we may gain together ; and
I daresay Dottridge will give us something
handsome to begin life with. Indeed he has
almost promised as much if you will act sensibly
and accept a man who is entirely devoted
to you. Refuse, and '

Well ? ' she asked calmly, as he paused.

VOL. III. R

You can no longer live at Kemerton, and
your visit to Harwich is so associated with rae
that I can make it a disgrace to you even in
the eyes of Dottridge/

That you can never do,' said a stern voice
behind him.

Turning quickly he was confronted by
Dottridge himself, who had been at the door
all the time and, unable to endure the man's
insolence and treachery any longer, had at that
moment entered the room.

You here, too ! ' ejaculated Eapier.

Passing him contemptuously, Dottridge
advanced to Euth and took her hand.

What this fellow has told you is quite true,
Euth,' he said to her gently ; ' you have a
fortune which some people would think considerable.
But I did not wish you to know
about it until after my death, or until — well,
until another event about which we need not
speak at present. I can easily guess how he

came to know of it — he had the key of my
private safe one night. But that was not the
time when he first became aware of it. More
than three years ago I made a note in pencil ;
that note accurately stated my intentions as
they are expressed in my will. The paper
disappeared ; I believed that I had destroyed it
and forgotten the circumstance. He must have
taken it from the table. That is why he has
so persistently sought you.'

Eapier had by this time recovered somewhat
from his second surprise, and made
another bold effort to maintain his position.

It is not fair, Dottridge,' he said, with the
air of a man who felt himself aggrieved by the
falsehood of a friend. You pledged yourself
that you would not stand in my way or grudge
me my success.'

'I pledged myself, sir,' retorted Dottridge,
frowning, 'to accept whatever decision Miss
Clark might come to regarding her future,
b2

provided the decision was made of her own
free will, and not under compulsion. I had no
suspicion then of the abominable devices you
have practised to destroy the happiness of my
adopted daughter and of this lady.'

What devices ? ' queried Eapier defiantly.

That will do,' said Dottridge, with a
scornful movement of his hand. ' The joke is
on our side now, although we are not disposed
to laugh. Your game has been a cruel one,
but it is played out, and you have lost. . . .
Stephen Meredith is with his wife at present
upstairs. Shall I call him? . . . better not.
You kept me apart from him by reports of his
violent intentions towards me when I should
have seen him at once, and so prevented much
of the trouble we have had. He is a sturdy
fellow, and I should like to save him from
getting into a scrape. Therefore I would ask
you to take advantage of the steamer for
Rotterdam to-night, and not to return to

London until his and my passion has had time
to cool.'

Eapier's face was yellow and his lips were
quivering. But he took up his hat jauntily
and bowed with an air of profound respect.

Miss Clark, I shall always be your devoted
servant. Dottridge, you have lost a good friend,
as you will find to your cost before long ; but
that is your affair, not mine. Please convey
my respects to Meredith and his wife. Adieu ! '

He walked out of the house as proudly as
if he had won a victory and not destroyed his
whole prospects in life. He did take advantage
of the steamer to Rotterdam that night ;
and was last heard of as a financial agent in
Constantinople.

During the long illness which succeeded
Dahlia's adventures at Harwich Stephen washer
faithful attendant. Night and day he
watched over her, and was enabled in some

degree to comprehend how much she loved
him from her continual raving about him in
her delirium. He felt bitterly how much he
had wronged her in his passion, and remorse
combined with pity aroused in him a feeling so
closely akin to love that it became a sincere
and devoted attachment.

He sealed up Euth's diary, and locked it
away, resolved never to look at it again —
resolved always to think of the woman who
had written it as one dead, and to regard
the woman who bore her name as a good
friend : no more.

When the summer came, and Dahlia was
able to go out, he took her with him
everywhere, over the farm, to the markets, and
to town.

'They be a rare fond couple,' said the
country folk as they saw them pass, and no
one suspected through what misery they had
reached their happiness.

Kemerton was closed again, and this time it
was said to be in the hands of an agent to be
let or sold, furnished or unfurnished. Euth .
had gone away immediately after the return of
the party from Harwich. Stephen's wild determination
that she should never marry
Dottridge had, of course, been abandoned as
soon as his eyes became clearer, and he understood
the real course of events. But Euth,
although she liked Dottridge, and had learned
to admire him in many ways for his conduct
in the various trials through which they Had
passed, still refused to become his wife.

She went away with the explicit understanding
that for a year Dottridge should
neither meet her nor communicate with her.

Dottridge, restless and unhappy, sought
relief in travelling. He did not care to visit
Kemerton again, for every corner of the place
reminded him of the woman he loved, and who
apparently could never love him.

But about fifteen months after that journey
to Harwich there was a fete day in Dunthorpe-
There were rejoicing afoot which seemed to
bring to the parish church not only all the
nobility and gentry of the neighbourhood ' but
all the peasantry of the district for miles
round.

The occasion was the marriage of Humphrey
Dottridge, Esq., of Kemerton, to Euth
Clark.

THE END.

LONDON : FEINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODB AND CO., New-street SQTIARB

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

Chatto c?^ WINDUS's
L/sr ofBooks.

•«• For NOVELS, j« pp. 19-25,
•PHTP "iiyboundj^ nival style, small 4to. ,6».

which gives it a cloze hold onZ%l%f,Z"f\iTlZ'i ^'^^^^^ the story inspires, and
stmthtude of the poem, and so accurate al v/f i-i',- "^^ '^/"-""^A is the veri-events
which it describes are aueMedL ThJ\ '^'I'PP^'ons of scenery, that the
scene is laid; and no true Highlander hokfj.if.J''^'"'^ "* ^^' ''^''"' "'^^''^ ^^^
to doubt their actual occurrence It hLh.L'^^ tolerance on anyone who ventures
in which the genius of Scott has united IfJT'^' therefore, that the romantic poem
and the Trosachs hasbeconlj^^^^^^^^^ KaUu

believed that the present III u^t rated P^f^^.n 1^ ^^^ Scottish Lake-region. It is
of travellers who've UiiedllH^b^uZ rei of "" '''^'°'"' '""^^»*^ *' ''''"'^"^^

executed, to visit the Sco^^fi^hHiJ td. n^/ ^^P^nnston this Edition has been
every scene of the poem was blf^nnLlt ''^.^'^l^ke sketches on the spot. Nearly
Sketches have afforded tLlaL^on^^^^^^^^ ""f '/'^'V^ *^ '''»'' «''^ '^"^

scapes, for obvious nasonsTepict^h ScJl^^^^^^ *"''*• ^^'"^ ^««'^-

Costumes, Weapons, and other accessorie^Z^H ^ " V-^" ^''"'"' ^'"'^ ' "'^'''' ^''^
action of the poem, being car ehdlvT^^^^^ '"' of the period of the

tions, or from later aSorSeiS^ ^'''"'* ""'^'""Po'^^y Pictures and desiring

(Grant), Works by

TS^EvolntinStl^'V^?^- ^^°^ » Svo. cloth extra. 6

Ha^Jtl^^l]&^^ '/-^ - nave ev
Crown 8vo. cloth e^ai^^^^dth esglUustrationsTTs: 6rf

^^?^i,*t®h^r''''^^ ?*y^®«' A Handbook of.

From the German of A. Roskngarten, by W. Collect Saxdar.

Artemus Ward:

Artemus Ward's Works -. The Works of Charles Farmer Browne,
better known as Artemus Ward. Crown 8vo, with Portrait and Facsimile,
cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the Mormons. With 32 Illustrate

ons. Edited, with Preface, by Edward P. Kingston. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by :

A History of the Chap-Books of the Eighteenth Century.

By John Ashton. With nearly 400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile

of the originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne. Taken from Original

Sources. By John Ashton. With nearly One Hundred Illustrations.

Two Vols., d emy 8vo, cloth extra, 28s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London ;

Together with Lists of Bankers from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.

Bardsley (Rev. C. W.), Works by :

English Surnames ; Their Sources and Significations. By the Rev.
C. W. Bardsley, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature. By the Rev. C. W. Bardsley,
M.A. Cro wn 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 75. 6d.

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs of.

By Henry Morley. New Edition, with One Hundred Illustrations.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per volume.

Beautiful Pictures by British Artists :

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series.
All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of t he Art s ts, by Sydney Armytage , M.A .

Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Bernstein's As Pretty as Seven,

And other German Stories. Collected by LuDWiG Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations
by Richter.

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated.

Belgravia for 1882.

A New Serial Story, entitled " All Sorts and Conditions of Men,"
by Walter Besant, was begun in the January Number, which
Number contained also the First Chapters of " The Admiral's
Ward," by Mrs. Alexander ; and the First of a Series of Papers
About Yorkshire," by Mrs, Macquoid, Illustrated by Thomas R.
Macquoid. — In the August Number was begun a New Story by
WiLKiE Collins, entitled "Heart and Science"— In January,
1883, will be begun a New Serial Novel by Justin McCarthy,
entitled " Maid of Athens," with Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.

Belgravia Annual.

With Stories by Walter Besant, Julian Hawthorne, F. W.
Robinson, Dutton Cook, Justin H. McCarthy, J. Arbuthnot
Wilson, Henry W. Lucy, James Payn, and others. Demy 8vo,
with Illustrations, is.

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform in size for binding,

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks

Academy Notes. 1875. With 40 Illustrations.

Academy Notes, 1876.
Academy Notes, 1877.
Academy Notes, 1878.
Academy Notes, 1879.
Academy Notes, 1880.
Academy Notes, 1881.
Academy Notes, 1882.
Grosvenor Notes, 1878.
Grosvenor Notes, 1879.
Grosvenor Notes, 1880.
Grosvenor Notes, 1881.
Grosvenor Notes, 1882.

With 107 Illustrations.
With 143 Illustrations.
With 150 Illustrations.
With 146 Illustrations.
With 126 Illustrations.
With 128 Illustrations.
With 130 Illustrations.

With 68 Illustrations.

With 60 Illustrations.

With 56 Illustrations.

With 74 Illustrations.

IS.
IS.
IS.
IS.
IS.
IS.
IS.
IS.
IS.
IS.
IS.
IS.
IS.

With 74 Illustrations.

Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, is.

Pictures at South Kensington. With 70 Illustrations, is.

The English Pictures at the National Gallery. 1 14 Illusts. is.

The Old Masters at the National Gallery. 128 Illusts. is. 6d.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete in One Volume, with nearly
600 Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-1882. A Complete Catalogue of Exhibitions
at the Grosvenor Gallery since the Commencement. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery.
With Notes by H. Blackburn, and 24^ Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3s.

UNIFORM WITH "ACADEMY NOTES:'

The Art Annual for 1882-3. Edited by F. G. Dumas. With 250

full-page Illustrations. Demy Svo, French grey cover, 3s. 6cL
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1881,
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1882.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1878.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1880.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1881.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1882.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1878.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1880.
Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88
Society of Artists Notes, Birmingham, 1878.

125 Illustrations.
114 Illustrations.
104 Illustrations.
114 Illustrations.
95 Illusts.
100 Illusts.
120 Illusts.
|io8 Illusts.
102 Illusts.
112 Illusts.
100 Illusts.
100 Illusts.
Illustrations. IS:
95 Illusts. IS,

Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. is.

Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 215.

Blake (William) :

Etchings from his Works. By W. B. ScOTT. With descriptive Text.
In Illuminated Cover, crown 4to, 65.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language and Legends.

By W. J. Gordon. Illust. in Colours by Viola Boughton. [Shortly.

This sumptuous and elegant Birthday Book is the first in which our floral
treasures have been laid under really effective contribution. It has been produced at
immense cost, and in it we have one of the most accurate and beautiful Masterpieces
ofChromo-lithographyyet issued from the press. Withinits sixty-four fully-coloured
pages, each lithographed in fourteen printing, we have a noble Series of lovely Bouquets,
depicting in all their wealth of grace and beauty the most famous of our field
and garden jewels ; as a different flower is taken for every day in the year, there
are no 'ewer than three hundred and sixty-six separate selections. The legends
and the sentiments, ascribed to each of the chosen blossoms have formed the theme of
some fifteen hundred lines of Original Verse, and there is thus given one of the fullest
** Languages of Flowers " in existence, and the only one which is free from duplicates.
An unusual amount of thought and labour has been expended on the work, and the
publishers congratulate themselves that in a literary and artistic sense the result has
been fully commensurate thereto. Such a collection of flowers, so complete and compact
i has never before been offered. Asa Book of Birthdays and Family Records it
js unsurpassed. The addition of the scientific names to the minutely accurate delineations
of plants renders its pages invaluable to the botanist and every lover of leaf and
bloom. The legends which form the burden of its verse will delight the scholar and
archcEologist and all students of song and folk-lore ; while the copious floral meanings,
completer than in any ether language of flowers " yet available, will render it
the constant companion and most treasured gift of a much more numerous section of
the community— the whole world of Sweethearts of the English-speaking nations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, ys. 6d.

Boccaccio's Cameron;

or, Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Introduction
by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.

Bowers' (G.) Hunting Sketches :

Canters in Hampshire. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from Gorse-borough.
II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III. Studies with Stag
Hounds. Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, dis.

Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured in
facsimile of the originals. Oblong 4to, half-bound, 21s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with numerous Illustrations, ys. 6d.

Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities,

chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.

Brewster (Sir David), Works by:

More Worlds than One : The Creed of the Philosopher and the
Hope of the Christian. By Sir David Brewster. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science : Lives of Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and
Kepler. By Sir David Brewster. With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by:

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged and Revised by the
Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Plat*

Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author.
Vol, II. Earlier Papers— Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches

Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts — Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol, V. Stories— Condensed Novels, &c.

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry, With
Introductory Essay by J. M. Belle, Portrait of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Gabriel Convoy : A Novel, Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2S.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other Stories. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2S. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Twins of Table Mountain. Fcap, 8vo, picture cover, is. ;

crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches. Post Svo,

illustrated boards, as.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap, Svo, picture cover, is. ; cloth

extra, 2s. 6rf.
Flip. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6i.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works :

Idols and Legends of Inver-burn.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

St, Abe and his Seven Wives :

Ballads of Life, Love, and

Humour, With a Frontispiece by
Arthur Hughes. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.
With Frontispiece by Thos.
Daniel. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s,

Undertones. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

London Poems. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 6s,

The Book of Form.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

A Tale of Salt Lake City. V»th a
Frontispiece by A, B, Houghton.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

White Rose and Red :
A Love Story, Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6j,

The Hybrid Isles : Wanderings
in the Land of Lome and the Outer
Hebrides. With Frontispiece by W.
Small. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

*** See also Novels, pp. 19 and 21.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 7s, 6d.

Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy.

A New Edition, Complete, corrected and enriched by Translations of
the Classical Extracts.

•,♦ Also an Abridgment in " The Mayfair Library," under the title
Melancholy Anatomise," post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Burton (Captain), Works by :

The Book of the Sword : Being a History of the Sword and its

w-^K° *ils" n,"^f' ^'■•°'" ^H ^^'■'^«^* Times. By Richard F. Burton,

With over 400 Illustrations, Crown Svo, cloth extra, 25^. [In predatatiZ,

To the Gold Coast for Gold: A Personal Narrative. BrRiSARD

^i.S.^'^Twn^v'*!^^'*''^'' c°''^^^ Cameron. With Maps and Frontispiece.
Two Vols., crown 8vo, ais. **wu»ia-

THE STOTHARD BUNYAN.— Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by Stot
HARD, engraved by Goodwill ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, sith Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Byron's Letters and Journals.

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of the
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Cameron (Commander) and Captain Burton

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By Richards
F. Burton and Varney Loveth Cameron. With Frontispiece and

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 145.

Campbell.— White and Black :

Travels in the United States. By Sir George Campbell, M.P.

Carlyle (Thomas):

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections, By Concur D,

Conway, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.
On the Choice of Books. With a Life of the Author by R. H.

Shepherd. New and Revised Edition, post Svo, cloth extra. Illustrated,

IS. 6d,
The Correspondence of Thomas Carlyle and Ralph Waldo

Emerson, 1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles Eliot Norton. Two Vols.

crown Svo, cloth extra, 24s. [shortly.

These letters, extending over a period of nearly forty years, were, by the corn-won
consent and direction of the illustrious writers, long since placed in Mr.
Norton's hands with the fullest powers for editing and publication. It is not
too much to claim that the correspondence will be found to form the most valuable
and entertaining work of the kind ever issued.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6^.

Century (A) of Dishonour :

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some of
the Indian Tribes.

Large 4to, half-bound, profusely Illustrated, 28s.

Chatto and Jackson. — A Treatise on Wood

Engraving; Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatto
and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G.
John; and 450 fine Illustrations. A reprint of the last Revised Edition.

Chaucer :

Chaucer for Children : A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Hawes.

With Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.

New Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.
Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Demy Svo, cloth

limp, 2S. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 75. 6d,

Coleman's Humorous Works :

Broad Grins"" My Nightgown and Slippers, ' and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Coleman. With Life by G.
B. BucKSTONE, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery :

A Family Handbook. By Catherine Ryan.

"Full of sound sense and useful /n'«f5."— Saturday Review.

Conway (Concur D.), Works by

Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two Vols., royal Svo, with 65

Illustrations, 28s.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy.

Square Svo, cloth extra, 65.
The Wandering Jew. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.
Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections. With Illustrations.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Button), Works by :

Hours with the Players. With a Steel Plate Frontispiece. New

and Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Nights at the Play. Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth, 215. [/» the press.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Copyright.— A Handbook of English and

Foreign Copyright in Literary and Dramatic Works. By Sidney
Jerrold, of the Middle Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. *

'• Till the time arrives when copyright shall be so simple and so uniform that
it can be generally understood and enjoyed, such a handbook as this will prove of
great value. It is correct as well as concise, and gives just the kind and quantity
of information desired by persons who are ignorant of the subject, and turn to it
for i information and guidance." — Athens um.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cornwall.— Popular Romances of the West

of England ; or, The Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Old
Cornwall. Collected and Edited by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New
and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Steel-plate Illustrations
by George Cruikshank.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13 Portraits, 75. 6d.

Creasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians ;

With Notices of the Early History of Eton College. By Sir Edward
Creasy, Author of " The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Etched Frontispiece, 75, 6d,

Credulity, Past and Present.

By William Jones, F.S.A., Author of " Finger-Ring Lore," &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Crimes and Punishments.

Including a New Translation of Beccaria's " De Delitti e delle Pen."
By James Anson Farmer.

Cruikshank, George:

The Comic Almanac. Complete in Two Series : The First
from 1835 to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to 1853. A Gathering of the
Best Humour of Thackeray, Hood, Mayhkw, Albert Smith,
A Beckett, Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel
Engravings by Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt, two very thick volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cniikshank. By Blanchard Jerrold,
Author of "The Life of Napoleon Hi," &c. With numerous Illustrations
and a List of his Works. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry ;

with Instructions for Tracing Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians. Entirely New and Revised
Edition. Illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts and Coloured Plates.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d.

Covenant.— What shall my Son be P

Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their
Sons. By Francis Covenant, M.A.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Dora.— Memories of our Great Towns.

With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and their
Oddities. By Dr. John Dora, F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations.

Crown Svo, half-bound, 12s.' 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the Plays, Playwrights, Players,
and Playhouses of the United Kingdom and America, from the
Earliest to the Present Times. By W. Davenport Adams. (Uniform
with Brewer's " Reader's Handbook") [In preparation.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Dyer.— The Folk-Lore of Plants.

By T. F. Thiselton Dyer, M.A. [In preparation.

Among the subjects treated of will be the following :— i. Primitive and Savage
Notions respecting Plants — 2. Plant-Worship — 3. Plant Life — 4. Lightning
Plants— 5. Legendary Origin of Plants — 6. Mystic Plants— 7. Plant Nomenclature
— 8. Ceremonial, Use of Plants— 9. The Doctrine of Signatures— 10. Plants
in Folk-Medicine— II. Plants in Folk-Tales— 12. Plants in Doxology and
Witchcraft— 13. Wishing-Plants— 14. Sacred Plants— 15. Luck-Plants.

Crown Svo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Early English Poets.

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Groat.

I. Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Com 3. Herrick's (Robert) Complete
plate Poems. One Vol. Collected Poems. Three Vols.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete 4. Sidney's (Sir Philip) Com-poetical
Works. Two Vols. plate Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 65.

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and Precious

stones ; their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests sot
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Englishman's House, The :

A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building arouse,
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson.
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown Svo cloth extra, 65.

Ewald.— Stories from the State Papers.

By Alex. Charles Ewald, F.S.A., Author of '' The Life of Prince
Charles Stuart," «S:c. With an Autotype Facsimile.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Fairholt.— Tobacco :

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its
Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By
F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards
of 100 Illustrations by the Author.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Familiar Allusions :

A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names of
Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins,
Churches, Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like.
By William A. Wheeler, Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler.

Faraday (Michael), Works by:

The Chemical History of a Candle : Lectures delivered before
a Juvenile Audience at the Royal Institution. Edited by William
Crookes, F.C.S. Post Svo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations,
4s. 6d.

On the Various Forces of Nature, and their Relations to each
other ; Lectures delivered before a Juvenile Audience at the Royal
Institution. Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S, Post Svo, cloth extra,
with numerous Illustrations, 4s. 6J.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Finger-Ring Lore:

Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. By Wm. Jones, F.S.A. With

Hundreds of Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and Countries.

One 0/ those gossiping books which are as full of amusement as of instruction*'

r-AlHEN^UM.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Fitzgerald. — Recreations of a Literary Man ;

or, Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's Working Life. By Percy Fits

Books :

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice
to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and
Frame Garden. By George Glenny. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2S. 6rf.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we
Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of " The Garden that Paid the
Rent," &c. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. &d.

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom
and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6t/.

The Garden that Paid the Rent, By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo,
illustrated cover, is.; cloth limp, is. Gd.

My Garden V7ild, and What I Grew there. By Francis
George Heath. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

One Shilling Monthly.

Gentleman's Magazine (The) for 1882.

The January Number of this Periodical contained the First Chapters
of a New Serial Story, entitled " Dust," by Julian Hawthorne,
Author of "Garth," &c. "Science Notes," by W. Mattie
Williams, F.R.A.S., will also be continued monthly.— In January,
1883, will be begun a New Serial Novel by Robert Buchanan
entitled " The New Abelard."

\* Now ready, the Volume for July to December, 1882, cloth extras
price 8s. 6d ; and Cases for binding, price 2S. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The).

Containing Complete Novels by R. E. Francisco, the Author of
•' Miss Molly," Fred. Boyle, and F. Bell. Demy 8vo, illuminated

cover, 15.

THE RUSKIN GRIMM.—Squave 8vo, cl. ex., 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

German Popular Stories.

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor.
Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations
on Steel by George Cruikshank. Both Series Complete.
The illustrations of this volume . . . are of quite sterling and admirable
art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales which
they illustrate ; and the original etchings, as I have before said tn the Appendix ta
viy 'Elements of Drawing'' were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rembrandt
[in some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by him). . . . To make
somewhat enlarged copies of them, looking at them through a magnifying glass,
and never putting txvo lines where CruiksJiank has put only one, would be an exercise
in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards little to be learnt
i n schools"— Extract from Introduction by John Ruskin.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Glenny.— A Year's Work in Garden and

Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management
of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenny.
"/I great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. Ths
amateur need not wish for a better guide." — Leeds Mere fury.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Golden Treasury of Thought, The :

An Encyclopedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor.

II

Square imo (Tauchnitz size),

Golden Library, The :

Ballad History of England. By
W. C. Bennett.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of

the Echo Club.

Byron's Don Juan.

Emerson's Letters and Social
Aims.

Godwin's (William) Lives of
the Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the
Breakfast Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the

Breakfast Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities.
Complete. With all the original
Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

a Traveller.
Irving's (Washington) Tales of
the Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and

Occupations of Country Life.
Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both
Series Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale
for a Chimney Corner, and other
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier.

cloth extra, 2S. per volume.
Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

d' Arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round
Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.
Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
Dad.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia,
and The Indian Cottage. Edited,
with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and
Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh
Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems : Lion

and Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems,

the Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi,
St. Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History (?f Sel-borne.
Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys. ci.

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the,

Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Gull and W.

KONER. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by

Dr. F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.

Must find a place, not only upon the scholar's shelves, but in every well-chosen

library o/ayf."— Daily News. ^

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 45. ci.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation to the History of Mankind.
By Arnold Guyot. With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce,
and Gray; 12 Maps and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and
copious Index.

Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

Hair (The) : Its Treatment in Health, Weakness,

and Disease. Translated from the German of Dr. J. PiNCUS.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by :

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, 8s.
New Symbols, Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Serpent Play. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, is.

Half-hours with Foreign Novelists.

With Notices of their Lives and Writings. By Helen and Alice
ZiMMERN. A New Edition.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, ys. 6d. \

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character. By Mrs.

S. C. Hall. With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by
Machine, Gilbert, Harvey, and G. Cruikshank.
•T/itf Irish Sketches of this lady resemble Miss Milord's beautiful English

sketches in ' Our Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque and

bright"— Blackwood's Magazine.

Haweis (Mrs), Works by :

The Art of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis, Illustrated by the

Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, is. ; cloth limp, is. 6d.
A well-considered attempt to apply canons of good taste to the costumes

of ladies of our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to the

point ; she does not mince matters, but boldly remonstrates with her own sex

on the follies they indulge in W e may recommend the both to the

ladies whom it concerns." — Athenaeum.

The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly loo
Illustrations, ios.6d.

The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square Svo
handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, los. 6d.

*** See also Chaucer, p. 6 of this Catalogue.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).— American Humorists.

Including Washington Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus Ward, Mark Twain, and
Bret Harte. By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5j.

Heath (F. G.)— My Garden Wild,

And What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath, Author of

"The Fern World," &c.
^^ If gardens of wild flowers do not begin at once to spring up over half the little
patches of back yard within fifty miles of London it will not be Mr. Heath's fault,
for a more exquisite picture of the felicity of horticulture has seldom been drawn for
us by so charming and graphic a word-painter as the writer of this pleasant little
volume." — Grant Allen, in The Academy.

SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.— Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Heptalogia (The) ; or, The Seven against Sense.

A Cap with Seven Bells.
•* The merits of the book cannot be fairly estimated by means of a few extracts;
should be read at length to be appreciated properly, and in our opinion its
merits entitle it to be very widely read indeed." — St. James's Gazette.

Cr.8vo, bound in parchment, 8s. ; Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 15s.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord Herbert of

Carbury. Edited, with an Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 25, 6d.

Holmes.— The Science of Voice Production

and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speakers
and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, M.D.
The advice the author gives, coming as it does from one having authority, is
most valuable"— Nature.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals,
With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations.

Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6.<?.

Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North

Pole: A Noah's Archaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by
W. Brandon and E. C. Barnes. /

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d. >i

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works,

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns and Hoaxes.
With a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles and Illustrations.

Tenth Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s.

Home.— Orion :

An Epic Poem, in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Horne.
With Photographic Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

HowelL— Conflicts of Capital and Labour

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and
Review of the Trade Unions of Great Britain, shoving their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell.
This book is an attempt, and on the whole a successful attempt, to place the
work of trade unions in Ic pasl,a:!d their o'-yccts in the future, fairly before the
public from the n'orkins^ man's point of view." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s. 6d.

Hueflbr.— The Troubadours :

A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By

Francis Suffer. .

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ireland under the Land Act :

Letters to the Standard during the Crisis. Containing the most
recent Information about the State of the Country, the Popular
Leaders, the League, the Working of the Sub-Commissions, &c.
With Leading Cases under the Act, giving the Evidence in full ;
Judicial Dicta, &c. By E. Cant-Wall.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Janvier.— Practical Keramics for Students.

By Catherine A. Janvier.
Will be found a useful handbook by those who wish to try the mamifactuw or
decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all ivho desire to knox something of

the tri." MoRN!Na Poor.

A New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, ys, 6d.

Jennings.— The Rosicrucians :

Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and
Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations,

Jerrold (Tom), Works by :

The Garden that Paid the Rent, By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo,

illustrated cover, is. ; cloth limp, is. 6rf
Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom and

Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook
Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the Rent''
&c. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
"The combination of hints on cookery tvith gardening has been very cleverly
carried out, and the result is an interesting and highly instructive little work, Mr.
Jerrold is correct in saying that English people do not make half the use of vegetables
they might ; and by sh.oiinng how easily they can be grown, and so obtained
fresh, he is doing a great deal to make them more popular." — Daily Chronicle,

Two Vols. 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

Josephus, The Complete Works of.

Translated by Whist on. Containing both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."

Small 8vo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6s.

Kavanagh.— The Pearl Fountain,

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and JULIA Kavanagh.

With Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.
Genuine new fairy stories of the old type, some of them as delightful as the
best of Grimm's ' German Popular Stories.' For the most part the stories
are downright, thorough-going fairy stories of the most admirable hind, , . . .
Mr. Moyr Smith's illustrations, too, are admirable-spectator.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s,

Knight (The) and the Dwarf.

By Charles Mills. With Illustrations by Thomas Lindsay.
Crown Bvo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, 2s. 6d, ' ■ '■■

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and

Imitate it. By Daisy Warehouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustrations
by the Author.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights : Commonly called, in England,
The Arabian Nights' Entertainments." A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on Wood, from Original Designs by
William Harvey. A New Edition, from a Copy annotated by the
Translator, edited by his Nephew, Edward Stanley Poole. With a
Preface by Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra,
/s. 6d. each.

Arabian Society in the Middle Ages: Studies from " The Thousand
and One Nights." By Edward William Lane, Author of "The
Modern Egyptians,' &c. Edited by Stanley Lane-Poole. Crown 8vo,
cloth rvtra, Cos.

Lamb (Charles) :

Mary and Charles Lamb : Their Poems, Letters, and Remains.
With Reminiscences and Notes by W. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare
First Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, los. 6d.
Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose and Verse, reprinted from the
Original Editions, with many Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of a Page of the " Essay on Roast Pig." Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, ys. 6d.
A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has long been
wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains to
bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a
number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first time since their original
appearance in various old periodicals." — Saturday Review.

Poetry for Children, and Prince Doris. By Charles Lamb.
Carefully Reprinted from unique copies. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.
The quaint and delightful little book, over the recovery of which all the
hearts of his lovers are yet warn with rejoicing." — A. C. Swinburne.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates;

Or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy.

The whole book is well worth reading, for it is full of practical suggestion
We hope nobody will b( deterred from taking up a book which teaches a good dea
about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to wealthy ones." — Graphic.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Life in London ;

or, The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the
whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

Lights on the Way :

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J H. Alexander, Bea.
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of

"Thoreau: A Study."

Longfellow :

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works. Including " Outre Mer,"
Hyperion," " Kavanagh," " The Poets and Poetry of Europe," and
Driftwood." With Portrait and Illustrations by Valentine Bromley.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully Reprinted from the
Original Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a.

By A Sane Patient.

The story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though the subject
be. There is no personal bitterness, and no violence or anger. Whatever may
have been the evidence for our author's madness ivhen he was consigned to an
asylum, nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrote this book ; it i$
bright, calm, and to the point." — Spectator.

Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, i8s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian Verse by Robert French Duff.

McCarthy (Justin), Works by:

History of Our Own Times, from the Accession of Queen Victoria
to the General Election of 1880. By Justin McCarthy, M.P.
Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. each. — Also a POPULAR
Edition, in Four Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
"Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little but approval.
This is a really good book on a really interesting subject, and words piled on
words could say no more for it'* — Saturday Review.
History of the Four Georges. By Justin McCarthy, M.P.
Four Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. each. [In preparation**

For Mr. McCarthy's Novels, see pp. 21, 24.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.), Works by :

The Princess and Curdle. With 11 Illustrations by James Allen.

Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.
Gutta-Percha Willie, the Working Genius. With 9 Illustrations

by Arthur Hughes. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

*** For George Macdonald's Novels, see pp. 22, 25.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Machine Gallery (The) of Illustrious Literary

Characters : 85 fine Portraits, with Descriptive Text, Anecdotal and
Biographical, by William Bates, Bea. [In preparation.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by :

In the Ardennes. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With 50 fine
Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. By

Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas R.

Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, los. 6d.
Through Normandy. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

90 Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Through Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

numerous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Sq. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
About Yorkshire. By Katharine S. M.\cquoid. With about

70 Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid, Engraved by Swain. Square

Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d. \^In preparation.

The pleasant companionship which Mrs. Macquoid offers, while wandering
from one point of interest to another, seems to throw a renewed charm
around each oft-depicted scenes"— Morning Post.

Mattock (W. H.), Works by:

Is Life Worth Living ? Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

The New Bepubhc ; or. Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an

English Country House. Post Svo, cloth limp, zs. 6d.
The New Paul and Virginia , or, Positivism on an Island. Post

8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Poems Small 4to, bound in parchment, 85.
A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. Second Edition, with

a Preface. Two Vols., crown Svo. 21s.

Handsomely panted in facsimile, price 5s.

Magna Charta,

An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum,
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the
Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected
throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. With 100 Illustrations. Small
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2S.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With nearly 200 Illustrations,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6rf.

The Innocents Abroad; or, The New Pilgrim's Progress:
Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's " Pleasure Excursion
to Europe and the Holy Land. With 234 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Cheap Edition, post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2S.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

Mississippi Sketches. With about 300 Original Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [//i preparation.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, ys. 6d.

The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living man but
Mark Twain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the wonderful
feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make of all this episode of
Jim Baker and his jays a piece of work that is not only delightful as mere
reading, but also of a high degree of merit as literature. . . . The book is
full 0/ good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the
funniest of those that have gone before." — Athenaeum.

Small Svo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2S. 6i.

Miller.— Physiology for the Young ;

Or, The House of Life : Human Physiology, with its application to
the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fenwick Miller.

"An admirable introduction to a subject which all who value health and enjoy
life should have at their fingers' ends"— Echo.

Milton (J. L.), Works by :

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the
Management of the Skin: with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths,
&c. Small 8vo, is. cloth extra, is. 6d.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin. Small Svo, is. ; cloth extra,
is.6d.

The Laws of Life, and their Relation to Diseases of the Skin.
Small 8vo, is. ; cloth extra, 1$. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Post 8vo, cloth limp,

Mayfair Library, The :

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by

W. Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected

by W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of " The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introductions Alice Clay.

Balzac's " Comedie Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations

by H. H. Walker.
Melancholy Anatomise : A

Popular Abridgment of " Burton's

Anatomy of Melancholy."
Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.
The Speeches of Charles

Dickens.
Literary Frivolities, Fancies,

Follies, and Frolics. W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities andEccen-

atrocities. Selected and Edited by

W. T. DOBSON,

The Cupboard Papers. By
Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert,
First Series. Containing :
The Wicked World— Pygmalion and
Galatea— Charity —The Princess—
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing:
Broken Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts—
Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce —
Tom Cobb— H. Mss. Pinafore— Tie
Sorcerer — The Pirates of Penzance.

Animals and their Masters.

By Sir Arthur Helps.

The Autocrat of the .
ByO.WENDELLHOLMES.
Illustrated by J, Gordon Thomson.

Curiosities of Criticism. By
Henry J. Jennings.

25. td. per volume.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert-kept.


Clerical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Forensic Anecdotes ; or, Humour
and Curiosities of the Law and
Men of Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Carols of Cockayne, By Henry
S. Leigh.

Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry
S. Leigh.

The True History of Joshua
Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. L, Linton,

Pastimes and Players. By

Robert Macgregor.
The New Republic. By W. H.

Matlock.
The New Paul and Virginia.

By W. H. Matlock.
Muses of Mayfair, Edited by

H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.
Thoreau : His Life and Aims.

By H, A. Page.

Puck on Pegasus. By H,
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Juliana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley,

More Juliana. By the Hon,
Hugh Rowley,

The Philosophy of Handwriting,
Don Felix de Salamanca,

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Re-told. By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's

Note-Book. ByPr.ANDREwWiLSON.

Large 4to, bound in buckram, 215,

MoncriefF.— The Abdication; or, Time Tries All.

An Historical Drama. By W, D. Scott-Moncrieff. With Seven
Etchings by John Petrie, R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J. Mac
Whiter, A.R.A., Colin Hunter, R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham m.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 75.6^.

North Italian Folk.

By Mrs. Coins Carr, Illustrated by Randolph Caldecott.

"A delightful both, of a kind which is far too rare. If anyone wants to really
know the North Italian folk, we can honestly advise him to omit the journey, and
read Mrs. Carr's pages instead. . , Description with Mrs. Carr is a real gift. .
It is rarely that a book is so happily fZ/wsfraffrf,"— Contemporary Review.

New Novels :

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN: An Impossible

Story, By Walter Besant. Illust. by Fred. Barnard. 3 volsci. 8vo,
Valentine: A Sketch. By Eleanor C. Price. 2 vols., cr. 8vo.
KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope. With a

Frontispiece by J. E. Millais, R.A. 2 vols., post 8vo, 12s.
VAL STRANGE : A Story of the Primrose Way. By DAVID

Christie Murray. 3 vols., crown 8vo.
REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter, Author of

Cavalry Life," &c. 3 vols., crown 8vo.
THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon, Author of

Robin Gray," &o. 3 vols., crown Svo.
GIDEON FLEYCB. By Henry W. Lucy, 3 vols., crown Svo.
KIT : A Memory. By James Payn. 3 vols., crovm Svo.
FOXGLOVE MANOR. By Robert Buchanan, Author of " God

and the Man," &c. 3 vols., crown Svo. \ Shortly,

DUST: A Story. By Julian Hawthorne, Author of "Garth,"

Sebastian Stroma," &c. 3 vols., crown Svo. shortly,

BEAUTY AND THE BEAST. By Sarah Tatler. 3 vols,,

crown Svo. [Shortly.

A NEW NOVEL by WILKIE COLLINS is now in preparation,

in 3 vols., crown Svo.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE, and other Stories. By F. W.

Robinson, Author of " Grandmother's Money," &c. 3 vols. [Shortly.
A NEW COLLECTION oi STORIES by CHARLES Read

is now in preparation, in 3 vols., crown Svo.
A .NEW NOVEL BY OUIDA is now in preparation, in 3 vols.,

crown Svo. ^

Post Svo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 55.

Number Nip (Stories about),

The Spirit of the Giant Mountains. Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

O'Shaughnessy (Arthur), Works by:

Songs of a Worker. Fcap. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. Svo, cloth extra, 7^. 6d,
Lays of Fra nc e. Crown Svo, cl both ex tra, 105. 6d.

Crown Svo, red cloth extra, 5s. each.

Ouida's Novels.— Library Edition.

Pascal.

Two Little Wooden Shoes.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage.

Tricotrin.

Puck. j Pipistrello.

Fore Farine. A Village Commune.

A Dog of Flanders. In Maremma,*

Also a Cheap Edition of all but the last, post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.
OUIDA's NEW STORIES.— Sq. Svo, cloth gilt, cinnamon edges, 75. Sd,

BIMBI- Stories for Children. By Ouida.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price 6s. per Vol

Old Dramatists, The :

Ben Jonson's Works.

With Notes Critical and Explanatory,
and a Biographical Memoir by William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel
Cunningham. Three Vols.

Ohapmaji's "Works.
Complete in Three Vols. Vol. I. contains
the Plays complete, including
the doubtful ones; Vol. II. the
Poems and Minor Translations, with
an Introductory Essay by Algerian

Charles Swinburne ; Vol. III. the

Translations of the Iliad and

Odyssey.
Marlowe's Works.

Including his Translations. Edited,

with Notes and Introduction, by Col.

Cunningham. One Vol.
Massinger's Plays.

From thereat of William Gifford.

Edited by Col. Cunningham. One

Vol.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, i5. 6d.

Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Handbook

of. By Henry W. Lucy.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

Payn.— Some Private Views :

Being Essays contributed to The Nineteenth Century and to The
Times. By James Payn, Author of ." Lost Sir Massingberd," &c.

*»* For Mr. Payn's Novels, see pp. 22, 24, 25.

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 105. 6d.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men.

Translated from the Greek, with Notes Critical and Historical, and a
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhorne.

Proctor (Richard A.), Works by :

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illustrations. Small crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 4s. 6d.
Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps for Every Night in the Year,

Drawings of the Constellations, &c. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Familiar Science Studies. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.
Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Pleasant Ways in Science. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.
Rough Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on

Scientific Subjects. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Our Place among Infinities: A Series of Essays contrasting our

Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Expanse of Heaven : A Series of Essays on the Wonders

of the Firmament. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6r.
Saturn and its System. New and Revised Edition, with 13 Steel

Plates. Demy Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.
The Great Pyramid: Observatory, Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Mysteries of Time and Space. With Illustrations. Crown Svo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Wages and Wants of Science Workers. Crown Svo, 15. 6d.
Mr. Proctor, of all writers 0/ our time, best conforms to Matthew A mold 's conception
of a man of culture, in that he strives to humanise knowledge and divest it
of whatever is harsh, crude, or technical, and so makes it a source of happiness and
brightness for 3//."— Westminster Review.

Library Editions, many Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Piccadilly Novels, The.

popular mariti ig t^t Met ^ut^orji.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.

Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE,
Ready-money Mortify.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft

This Son of Vulcan.

With Harp and Crown.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

Twas in Trafalgar's Bay,

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,

A Child of Nature.

God and the Man.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.

Deceivers Ever.

Juliet's Guardian.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonio. | Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
The Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch
Miss or Mrs ?
The New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the Lady.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.

BY M. BETHAM-EDIVARDS.

Felicia.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.

Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.

Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.
BY EDWARD GARRETT.

The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
In Love and War.
What wil the World Say ?
For the King.
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree,.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE,
Garth.

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Stroke.

BY MRS ALFRED HUNT,
Thomicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.

BY JEAN INGE LOW,

Fated to be Free.

BY Fiery JAMES, Jmn,

Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.

The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen,
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas,
The World V7ell Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! "

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.
The Watergate Neighbours,
My Enemy's Daughter.
Linley Rochford.
A Fair Saxon.
Dear Lady Disdain.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.

Piccadilly Novels — continued,

BY AGNES Macdonald.

Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.

Lost Rose.
The Evil Eye.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.

Open ! Sesame !
Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.

Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A Life's Atonement.
Joseph's Coat.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

Whiteladies.

BY JAMES I'AYN.
Lost Sir Massingberd.
The Best of Husbands.
Fallen Fortunes.
Halves.

Walter's Word
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlton's Year.
A Confidential Agent.
From Exile.

BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L,

It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Haired Cash.
Peg Washington.
Christie Johnston.

By Charles Reade— col*.
Griffith Gaunt.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long,
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater.
Reading.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell,

Her Mother's Darling.

BY JOHN SA Under.

Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path.
The Two Dreamers.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie.
Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Way we Live Nov.
The American Senator.

BY T. A. TROLLOPE.

Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY SARAH Tatler.

What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S.
Cavalry Life.

WINTER.

NEW VOLUMES OF THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.
The Shadow of the Sword. By

Robert Buchanan.

The Martyrdom of Madeline.
By Robert Buchanan.

Hearts of Gold. By Wm. Cycles.

Prince Saroni's Wife. By Julian
Hawthorne.

Ivan de Iron. By Sir Arthur
Helps.

Paul Faber, Surgeon. By Geo.
MacDonald.LL.D. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. MiLLAis, R.A.

Coals of Fire. By D. Christie
Murray. Illustrated by Arthur
Hopkins, G. L. Seymour, and D. T.
White.

Thomas Wingfold, Curate. Bj

George MacDonald, LL.D. With

a Frontispiece.
A Grape from a Thorn. By

James Pawn. Illustrated by W.

Small.
For Cash Only. By James Payn.
The Prince of Wales's Garden-party.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

By T. W. Speight.
Frau Frohmann. By Anthony

Trollope. With Frontispiece by

H. French.

Marion Fay. By Anthony
Trollope.



Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2S. each.

Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of.

[WiLKiE CoLLiNS's NovELS and Besant and RiCE'sNovELsmayalsobe had
in cloth limp at 2s. 6d. See, too, the PiccAT>iLt.Y Novels, for Library Editions

BY Edmund ABOUT.

The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Confidences.
Carr of Carrion,

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.

Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.

Beady-Money Mortify.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr, Craft.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

BY SIIELSLEY BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.

Camp Notes. | Savage Life.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Gabriel Convoy. | Flip.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonio. | Basil.

Hide and Seek.

The Dead Secret.

The Queen of Hearts.

My Miscellanies.

The Woman in White,

The Moonstone.

Man and Wife.

Poor Miss Finch.

Miss or Mrs. ?

The New Magdalen.

The Frozen Deep.

The Law and the Lady.

By WiLKiE Collins— coif.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel.
Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.

BY DUTTON COOK.
Leo.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards,
A Point of Honour.
Archie Lovell.

BY M. Etiam-EDWARDS,

Felicia.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Polly. I Bella Donna.

Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs, Tillotson.
Seventy-five Brooke Street.
BY ALBANY DE FONDLANQUB
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco,

Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

BY EDWARD Garret.
The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

V/hat wil the World Say ?

In Honour Bound.

The Dead Heart.

In Love and War.

For the King.

Queen of the Meadow.

In Pastures Green.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY ANDREW Holiday.
E very-day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.

Paul Winter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.

Under the Greenwood Tree,

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.

Garth. | Juice Qucntiii.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Popular I^oxei.s— continued.
BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.

Thomicroft's Model.

BY JEAN Angelo.

Pated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, J tin.

Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.

The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Wel Lost.
Under which Lord?
"With a Silken Thread.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.
The Watergate Neighbours.
Dear Lady Disdain.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford,
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.

BY AGNES Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.

The Evil Eye. | Lost Hose.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame !
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.
Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.
Mr. Dorillion.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.

A Life's Atonement.

BY MRS. Oliphant.

Whiteladies.

BY OUIDA.
Held In Bondage.
Stratford. I Chances.
Under Two Flags.
Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine s Gage.
Tricotrin
Puck. ! Folio Farine.

By OuiDA— co«^
A Dog of Flanders.

Two Little Wooden Shoes.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne. I Friendship.

Moths. I Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir Massingberd.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of Clyffe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendolen's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son,

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hundred Pounds Reward,

The Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word. | Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than we're Painted.

By Proxy.

Under One Roof.

High Spirits.

A Confidential Agent.

Carlton's Year.

BY EDGAR A. FOE.

The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L.

It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Washington.
Christie Johnston.
Griffith Gaunt
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
I Put Yourself in his Place.



Popular Novels— continued.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.

Her Mother's Darling.

BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SAL A.

Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.

Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.

A Match in the Dark.

BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPS.

The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.

BY T. ADOLPHUS Trollope.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY MARK TWAIN.

A Pleasure Trip in Europe.

Tom Sawyer.

An Idle Excursion.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway.
Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrol.
Why P. Fen-oU Killed his Wife,

NEW Two-shilling NOVELS IN PREPARATION.

The Chaplain of the Fleet. By

Besant and Rice.

The Shadow of the Sword, By

Robert Buchanan.
A Child of Nature. R. Buchanan.
The Black Robe. By Wilkie

Collins.
James Duke. By Wm. Gilbert.
Sebastian Stroke. By Julian

Hawthorne.
Ivan de Iron. By Sir Arthur

Helps.
The Leaden Casket. By Mrs.

Alfred Hunt.
The Rebel of the Family. By

Mrs. Lynn Linton.
My Love ! " E. Lynn Linton.
Paul Faber, Surgeon. By Geo.

MacDonald, LL.D.

Thomas Wingfold, Curate. By

George MacDonald, LL.D.
Phoebe's Fortunes. By Mrs.
Robert Reilly.

Some Private Views. By James

Payn.
From Exile. By James Payn.
A Levantine Family. By Bayle

St. John.
The Two Dreamers. By John*

Saunders.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

By T. W. Speight.
Cressida. By Bertha Thomas.
Proud Maisie. Bertha Thomas.
The Violin-Player. By Bertha

Thomas.

What She Came Through. By

Sarah Tytlkk.

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, is. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's.'
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco.
The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold.

Grown 8vo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works.

With Baudelaire's Essay on his Life and \Yritinss.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Encyclopaedia of Costume ; or, A Dictionary of Dress— Regal,
Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military— from the Earliest Period in England
to the Reign of George the Third. Including Notices of Contemporaneous
Fashions on the Continent, and a General History of the Costumes of the
Principal Countries of Europe. By J. R. Planches;, Somerset Herald,
Two Vols, demy 4to, half morocco, profusely Illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, £7 ys. The Volumes may also be had
separately (each complete in itself) at £3 13s. 6d. each : Vol. I. Traditionary
Vol. II. A General History of Costume in Europe.

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry Founded upon Facts. By
J. R. Planches. With Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879. By J. R. Planche. Edited,
with an Introduction, by his Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. •

Small Svo, cloth extra, with 130 Illustrations, 3s. 6d.

Prince of Argolis, The :

A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moor Smith.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works.

Faithfully Translated from the French, with variorum Notes, and
numerous characteristic Illustrations by Gustave Doue.

Crown Svo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully
executed Chart of the various Spectra, js. 6d.

Rambosson. — Popular Astronomy.

By J. Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Profusely Illustrated.

Entirely New Edition, Revised, crown Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6^.

Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, References,
pious, and stories. By the Rev, Dr. Brewer. Third Edition,

revised throughout, with a Nevi Appendix, containing a Complete
English Bibliography.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. ^

Richardson. ~ A Ministry of Health, and

other Papers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., «S:c.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. By Alfred Rimmer. With over 50
Illustrations by the Author. Square Svo, cloth extra, gilt, los, 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow. By Alfred Rimmer. With
50 Illustrations by the Author. Square Svo, cloth gilt, los, 6d. Also an
Edition de Luxe, in 4to (only a limited number printed), with the Illusts.
beautifully printed on China paper, half-bound boards, edges uncut, 42s. j

About England with Dickens. With Illustrations by Alfred
Rimmer and C. A. Vanderhoof. Sq. Svo, cl. gilt, los. 6d. [In preparation,

T ,.:-'■ Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

Robinson.— The Poets' Birds.

By Phil. Robinson, Author of " Noah's Ark," &c, fin tJi4pre$S»,

Handsomely printed, price 5s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ;

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, A.D. 1066-7.
With the principal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 45. 6d. each.

Secret Out '' Series, The :

The Pjrrotechnist's Treasury; ; Magician's Own Book :

or. Complete Art of Making Fire ; Performances with Cups and Balls,

works. By Thomas Kentish. With , Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All

numerous Illustrations. from actual Experience. Edited by

The Krt of Amusing : W. H. Creek. 200 Illustrations.

A Collection of Graceful. \rts,Games, j Magic No Mystery :

Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &c.,

Frank Belle. 300 Illustrations. j with-fully descriptive Directions ; the

tTflnlrv PnnVv • ^^^ °f Secret Writing ; Training of

.r ^;- ^- , xr T^•«: u Performing Animals, &c. Coloured

V'-l ^^^fu^-. Tacks, Very Difficult , Frontispiece and many Illustrations.

Tricks,WhiteMagic,SIeightot Hand. „, f, x /^ x

Edited by W.H.CremerT 200 musts. ! The Secret Out : ., ^ ,

I One Thousand Tricks with Cards,

The Merry Circle : I and other Recreations ; with Enter

Book of New Intellectual Games j training Experiments in Drawings

Amusements. By Clara Bel room or " White Magic." By W. H.

Lew. Many Illustrations. I Cramer. 300 Engravings.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Senior.— Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William
Senior (" Red-spinners), Author of " By Stream and Sea."

Shakespeare ; ^

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr. William Shakespeare's
Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true
Original Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Haggard and Ed. Blunt.
1623.— -A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile
by a photographic process— ensuring the strictest accuracy in every
detail. Small 8vo, half-roxburgh, ys. 6d,

The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully printed in red
and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile of
Droeshout's Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By

Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and
plain, by J. Moyr Smith. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare Music. Being an Account of
350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of
Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse. 4to, half-roxburgh, js.

A. Study of Shakespeare. By Algerian Charles Swinburne.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 8s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page Tinted Illustrations, y.-?. 6d.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed
from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations.
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a Collection of Sheridaniana,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with lOO Illustrations, 7s. 6d,

Signboards :

Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable
Characters. By Jacob Haywood and John Camden Rotten.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d,

Slang Dictionary, The :

Etymology ital. Historical, and Anecdotal.

Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2s. 6d,

Smoker's Text-book, The.

By J. Homer, F.R.S.L. ^^

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 14s.

South-West, The New :

Travelling Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico, Arizona, and
Northern Mexico. By Ernst von Hesse-Wartegg. With 100
fine Illustrations and 3 Maps. [In preparation.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Spalding.— Elizabethan Demonology :

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the P o were possessed by them. By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.

Crown 4to, with Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Spenser for Children.

By M. H. TovyRY. With Illustrations by Walter J. Morgan.
A New Edition, small crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Staunton. — Laws and Practice of Chess ;

Together with an Analysis of the Openings, and a Treatise on End
Ga mes. By Howard Staunton. Edited by Robert B. World.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 95.

Seaman.— Victorian Poets :

Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Seaman.

Stevenson (R, Louis), Works by :

Familiar Studies of Men and Books. By R. Louis Stevenson.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

New Arabian Nights. By R. Louis Stevenson. New and

Cheaper Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
•' We must place the 'New Arabian Nights ' very high indeed, almost hors concours
, among the fiction of the present day"— Pai,i. Mall G gazette.

Two Vols. , crown Svo, with numerous Portraits and Illustrations, 245,

Strain.— Twenty Years of a Publisher's

Life. By Alexander Strain. [In preparation.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes of the People of

England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May
Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140
Illustrations. Edited by William Hone.



Crown 8vo, with a Map of Suburban London, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of London :

A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society,
Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates,
and House Accommodation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6i.

Swift's Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the
Maps in the Original Edition of " Tulliver's Travels."

Swinburne's (Algerian

The Queen Mother and Rosamond.
Fcap. 8vo, 5s.

Atlanta in Maldon.

A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6a.

Chastened.
A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 75.

Poems and Ballads.
First Series. Fcap. 8vo, gs. Also
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Poems and Ballads.
Second Series. Fcap. 8vo,9s. Also
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Notes on Poems and Reviews.

8vo, IS.

William Blake :
A Critical Essay. With Facsimile
Paintings. Demy 8vo, i6s.

Songs before Sunrise.
Crown 8vo, lox. 6d,

Bothwell :
A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 12s. ^d.

C.) Works :

George Chapman :
An Essay. Crown 8vo, ys.

Songs of Two Nations.

Crown Svo, 6s.
Essays and Studies.

Crown 8vo, 12s.
Erechtheus :

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 6s.
Note of an English Republican

on the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, 1$.

A Note on Charlotte Bronze.

Crown 8vo, 6s.

A Study of Shakespeare.

Crown 8vo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide.

Crown 8vo, 6s.
Studies in Song.

Crown 8vo, ys.

Mary Stuart :

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, gs.

Medium Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours,

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in Search
of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page Illustrations
in Colours, and a Life of the Author by J. C. Rotten.

Four Vols, small Svo, cloth boards, 305.

Taine's History of English Literature.

Translated by Henry Van Lain.
•«• Also a Populi ar Edition, in Two Vols, crown Svo, cloth extra, 15*.

Crown Svo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 65.

Tales of Old Thule.

Collected and Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.

One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas:

Chancery," " Jeanne Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The Fool's

Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn," " Plot and Passion."

*»* The Plays may also be had separately, at Is. each.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. ^d.

Thackerayana :

Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents
in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his everyday
reading. With Coloured Frontispiece and Hundreds of Wood
Engravings, facsimile from Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence.

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunningham,
and over 50 fine Illus tra tions on Steel and Wood.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by:

Haunted London. Edited by Edward Walford, M.A. With

Illustrations by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. fid.

The Life and Correspondence of J. M. W. Turner. Founded

upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimile from Turner's
Original Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Times (John), Works by:

Clubs and Club Life in London. With Anecdotes of its Famous
Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities : Stories of Wealth and

Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights

and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters,

&c. With nearly 50 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14s.

Torrens.— The Marquess Wellesley,

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol. I, of Proconsul
and Tribune : Wellesley and O'Connell : Historic
Portraits. By W. M. Torrens, M.P. In Two Vols.

Large folio, handsomely bound, 31s. 6d.

Turner's Rivers of England :

Sixteen Drawings by J. M. W. Turner, R.A., and Three by Thomas
GiRTiN, Mezzotinted by Thomas Lufton, Charles Turner, and
other Engravers. With Descriptions by Mrs. Holland. A New
Edition, reproduced by Telegraph. Edited by W. CosMO MONK-house.
Author of "The Life of Turner "in the " Great Artists "
Series. shortly.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground-Plans, 145.

Walcott.— Church Work and Life in English

Minsters ; and the English Student's Monastic. By the Rev.
Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, Bed,



The Twenty-third Annual Edition, for 1883, cloth, full gilt, 50s.

Walford.— The County Families of the United

Kingdom. By Edward Walford, M.A. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c., of more than 12,000
distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Country
Addresses, Clubs, &c.

Large crown 8vo, cloth antique, with Illustrations, 75. 6d,

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler ;

or, The Contemplative Man's Recreation ; being a Discourse of Rivers,
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by
Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris
Nicholas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. per volume.

Wanderer's Library, The :

Tunis : The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de Hesse War-egg.
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a

"Wanderings in Patagonia; or,
Life among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated,

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport
and Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

"Savage Life. By Frederick
Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden
Time. By George Daniel. With
Illustrations by Root. Cruikshank.

The World Behind the Scenes;
By Percy Fitzgerald.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers.
By Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old

London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.
Low-life Deeps. An Account

of the Strange Fish to be found there.

By James Greenwood.
The Wilds of London. By

James Greenwood.

Cheap Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hinder.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings ;
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Handley. WiUiUlusts.

The Genial Showman : Life
and Adventures of Artemus Ward.
By E. P. Kingston. Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With lusts.

London Characters. By Henry
Mathew. Illustrated.

Seven Generations of Executioners:
Memoirs of the Samson
Family (1688 to 1847). Edited by
Henry Samson.

Summer Cruising in the South

Seas. Bv Charles Warren Standard.
Illust. by Charles Mackay.

Carefully printed on paper to imitate the Original, 22 in. by 14 in., 2s.

Warrant to Execute Charles I.

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals.

Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS., price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots.

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and
a Facsimile of the Great Seal.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with numerous Illustrations, 4j. 6d.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery and Porcelain
; or, History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Fodder
M. Westropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Marks.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is.

Whistler v. Ruskin : Art and Art Critics.

By J. A. Macneill Whistler.

Williams (Mattieuu), Works by:

Science in Short Chapters. By W. Mattieuu Williams,

F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6rf.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. By W. Mattieuu Williams,
F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew), Works by :

Chapters on Evolution : A Popular History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development. By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d-j\

Leaves from a Naturalist's Note-book. By Andrew Wilson,

Ph.D., F.R.S.E. (A Volume of " The Mayfair Library") Post sackcloth
limp, 2S. 6d.

Leisure - Time Studies, chiefly Biological. By Andrew

Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with

Illustrations, 6s. j

•' It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigators

who in the intervals of his more serous professional labours sets himself to impart

knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct

with no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this

little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr,

Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in Science at Edinburgh and Glasgow,

at leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages teem

with matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the

truths of nature," — Saturday Review.

Small 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 65.

Wooing (The) of the Water Witch :

A Northern Oddity. By Evan Daldorne. lust. by J. Moyr Smith.
Crown 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d,

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-way Matters. By
Believer Edwards.

Wright (Thomas), Works by :

Caricature History of the Georges. (The House of Hanover.)
With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides, Window Pictures
&c. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

History of Caricature and of the Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Scripture, and Painting. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Profusely illustrated
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Large post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, 1/2, ST. JOHN Street, Eg.

\^\

i;^^^^'

diei

r^

.*

J^rj/" "^^J;

^^0m

':^

wmm
