¥

*«

L I E) R.A FLY

OF THE

UN IVLR.SITY

or ILLINOIS

8C23

<BAAu



V I

UniversityonUmms^lS

L161-H41

VOL. I.

BY

GEORGE Missing

AUTHOR OF " WORKERS IN THE DAWN.

Hast du night giite Gesellschaft gesehn ? Es zeigt uns dein Biichlein
Fast nur Gavikler und Volkk, ja was noah niedriger list.

Gate Gesellschaft hab' ici gesehn ; man nennt sie die gate
Went sie sum leinster Gedicht keene Gelegenheit giebt. " — Goethe.

IN THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. L

LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL

Limited

1884^

[All rights reserved.]

^
n

^

K /

■c^

TO

M. C. E.

A

BOOK I.
CHAPTER I.
SCHOOL

CHAPTER II.

MOTHER AND CHILD

ANTECEDENTS . .

CHAPTER IV.

CHRISTMAS IN TWO HOMES

CHAPTER V.

POSSIBILITIES .

PAGE





CHAPTER III. <^

43





BOOK 11.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

ADVERTISING AGENCY . . . . 106

CHAPTER II.

BETWEEN OLD AND NEW . . . 124

CHAPTER III.
ACADEMICAL . . . . . 148

CHAPTER IV.

THIS PICTURE AND THAT . . . 176

CHAPTER V.

THE WAY OUT . . . . 199

CHAPTER VI.

BY THE WAYSIDE . . . . 224

CHAPTER VII.

RENT DAY



CHAPTER VIII.

A Man-trap . . ■.• ••• 287

BOOK I.

CHAPTER I.
SCHOOL.

There was strange disorder in Miss Rather
ford's school-room, wont to be the abode of
decorum. True, it was the gathering-time after
the dinner-hour, and Miss Rutherford herself was
as yet out of sight ; but things seemed to be
going forward of a somewhat more serious kind
than a game of romps among the children. There
were screams and sobbing, hysterical cries for
help; some of the little girls were crowding
round an object in one corner of the room,
others appeared to be getting as far away from
it as possible, hiding their pale faces in their
hands, or looking at one another with terrified

VOL. I. B

eyes. At length one more thoughtful than the
rest sped away out of the room, and stood at
the bottom of the stairs, calling out her teacher's
name as loud as she could. A moment, and
j Miss Rutherford came hastening down, with
alarmed aspect, begging to be told what was
the matter. But the summoner had turned and
fled at the first sight of the lady's garments.
Miss Rutherford darted into the schoolroom,
and at once there was quietness, save for half-choked
sobs here and there, and a more ominous
kind of moaning from the crowded corner.

'gracious goodness, children, what is it?
1 Who's that lying on the floor ? Harriet Smales !
What ever has happened ? "

The cluster of children had fallen aside, exposing
a strange picture. On the ground lay
a girl of twelve, her face deadly pale, save in
the places where it was dabbled with fresh blood,
which still streamed from a gash on the right
side of her forehead. Her eyes were half opened ;
she was just recovering consciousness ; a moan
came from her at intervals. She had for support
the lap and arms of a little girl perhaps two

years younger than herself. Heedless of the i
flowing blood, this child was pressing her pale
cheek against that of the wounded one, whose
name she kept murmuring in pitiful accents,
mixed with endearing epithets. So unconscious
was she of all around, that the falling back of
the other children did not cause her to raise her
eyes ; neither was she aware of Miss Rutherford's
first exclamations, nor yet of the question
which was next addressed to her by the horrified
school-mistress.

How did it happen ? Some of you run at
once for a doctor, — Dr. Williams in Grove ^
Road, — Oh, quick ! — Ida Starr, how did it )
happen ? "

Ida did not move, but seemed to tighten
her embrace. The other pupils all looked fearfully
hither and thither, but none ventured to
speak.

*' Ida ! " repeated Miss Rutherford, dropping
on her knees by the two, and beginning to wipe
away some of the blood with her handkerchief.
Speak, child ! Has some one gone for the
doctor ? — How was it done ? "

B 2

The face at length turned upon the questioner
was almost as ghastly and red-stained as that it
had been pressed against. But it had become
self controlled ; the dark eyes looked straightforward
with an expression marvellously full of
meaning in one so young ; the lips did not
tremble as they spoke.

I did it, Miss Rutherford. I have killed
Harriet. I, and nobody else."

"You? How, child?"

I killed her with the slate, Miss Rutherford ;
this slate, look."

She pointed to a slate without a frame which
lay on the floor. There were sums worked on
the uppermost side, and the pencil-marks were
half-obliterated. For a moment the schoolmistress's
amazement held her motionless, but
fresh and louder moans recalled her to the
immediate necessities of the case. She pushed
Ida Starr aside, and, with the help of a servant-girl
who had by this time appeared in the room,
raised the sufferer into a chair, and began to
apply what remedies suggested themselves. The
surgeon whom several of the children had

hastened to seek only lived a few yards away,
and his assistant was speedily present. Harriet i
Smales had quite recovered consciousness, and
was very soon able to give her own account
of the incident. After listening to her, Miss
Rutherford turned to the school-children, who
were now seated in the usual order on
benches, and spoke to them with some degree
of calm.

I am going to take Harriet home. Lucy \
Wood, you will please to see that order is
preserved in my absence ; I shall only be away
twenty minutes, at the most. Ida Starr, you
will go up into my sitting-room, and remain
there till I come to you. All take out your
copy-books ; I shall examine the lines written
whilst I am away."

The servant, who had been dispatched for a
cab, appeared at the door. Harriet Smales was
led out. Before leaving the house. Miss Rutherford
whispered to the servant an order to occupy
herself in the sitting-room, so as to keep Ida
Starr in sight.

Miss Rutherford, strict disciplinarian when

her nerves were not unstrung, was as good asher
promise with regard to the copy-books. She
had returned within the twenty minutes, and
the first thing she did was to walk along all
the benches, making a comment here, a correction
there, in another place giving a word of
praise. Then she took her place at the raised
desk whence she was wont to survey the little
room.

There were present thirteen pupils, the oldest
of them turned fifteen, the youngest scarcely six.
They appeared to be the daughters of respectable
people, probably of tradesmen in the neighbourhood.
This school was in Lesson Grove, in the
north-west of London ; a spot not to be judged
of from its name by those ignorant of the
locality ; in point of fact a somewhat dingy
street, with a mixture of shops and private
houses. On the front door was a plate displaying
Miss Rutherford's name, — nothing more. That
lady herself was middle-aged, grave at all times,
kindly, and, be it added, fairly competent as
things go in the world of school. The room
was rather bare, but the good fire necessitated

by the winter season was not wanting, and the
plain boarding of the floor showed itself no
stranger to scrubbing. A clock hanging on
the wall ticked very loudly in the perfect stillness
as the schoolmistress took her seat.

She appeared to examine a book for a few
moments, then raised her head, looked at the
faces before her with a troubled expression, and
began to speak.

'* I wish to know who can give me any account
of the way in which Harriet Smales
received her hurt. Stop ! Hands only, please.
And only those raise their hands who actually
saw the blow struck, and overheard all that
led to it. You understand, now % One, two,
three, — seven altogether, that is quite enough.
Those seven will wait in the room at four o'clock
till the others have all gone. Now I will give
the first class their sums''

The afternoon passed very slowly to teacher
and pupils alike. When the clock struck four,
work was put away with more than the usual
noise and hurry. Miss Rutherford seemed fora
time to be on the point of making some new

address to the school before the children departed,
but eventually she decided to keep
silence, and the dismissal was got over as quickly
as possible. The seven witnesses remained,
solemnly seated at their desks, all anxious-looking.

^ " Lucy Wood," Miss Rutherford began, when
the door was closed and quiet, " you are the
eldest. Please tell me all you cau of this sad
affair."

There was one of the seven faces far more
discomposed than the rest, a sweet and spiritual
little countenance ; it was tear-stained, red-eyed ;
the eager look, the trembling lips spoke some
intimate cause of sympathy. Before the girl
addressed had time to begin her answer, this
other, one would have said in spite of herself,
intervened with an almost agonized question.

Oh, Miss Rutherford, is Harriet really
dead ? "

'' Hush, hush ! " said the lady, with a shocked
look. " No, my dear, she is only badly hurt."

And she really won't die '? " pleaded the
child, with an instant transfiguration of look.

Certainly not, certainly not. Now be quiet,
Maud, and let Lucy begin." /

Lucy, a sensible and matter-of-fact girl, made
a straightforward narration, the facts of which
were concurred in by her companions. Harriet
Smales, it seemed, had been exercising upon Ida
for some days her utmost powers of irritation,
teasing her, as Lucy put it, " beyond all bearing."
The cause of this was not unknown in the school,
and Miss Rutherford remembered the incident
from which the malice dated. Harriet had
copied a sum in class from Ida's slate — she was
always copying from somebody — and the teacher,
who had somehow detected her, asked Ida plainly
whether such was not the case. Ida made no
reply, would not speak, which of course was
taken as confirmatory evidence, and the culprit
had accordingly received an imposition. Her
spleen, thus aroused, Harriet vented upon the
other girl, who, she maintained, ought to have
stoutly denied the possibility of the alleged
deceit, and so have saved her. She gave poor
Ida no rest, and her persecution had culminated
this afternoon; she began to 'call Ida's mother

names," the result of which was that the assailed
one suddenly snatched up her slate, and, in an
uncontrollable fit of passion, struck her tormentor
a blow with it upon the forehead.

'what did she call Ida's mother?" inquired
Miss Rutherford, all at once changing her look
curiously.

She called her a bad woman."
*' Was that all ? "

No, please, Miss Rutherford," put in Maud,
eagerly. '* She said she got her living in the
streets. And it isn't true. Ida's mother 's a
lady, and doesn't sell things in the streets ! "
The teacher looked down, and was silent.
I don't think I need ask any more
questions," she said presently. " Eun away
home all of you. What is it, my dear?"
Maud, she was about eleven, and small for
her age, had remained behind, and was looking
anxiously up into Miss Rutherford's face.

May I wait for Ida, please," she asked, " and
and walk home with her? We go the same
way."

"Not to-night, dear; no, not to-night. Ida

Starr is in disgrace. She will not go home just
yet. Run away, now, there's a good girl."

Sadly, sadly was the command obeyed, and
very slowly did Maud Enderby walk along the v
streets homeward, ever turning back to see
whether perchance Ida might not be behind her.

Miss Rutherford ascended to her sitting-room.
The culprit was standing in a corner with her
face to the wall.

Why do you stand so ? " asked the teacher,
gravely, but not very severely.

"I thought you'd want me to, Miss Rutherford."

Come here to me, child."

Ida had clearly been crying for a long time,
and there was still blood on her face. She
seemed to have made up her mind that the
punishment awaiting her must be dreadful, and
she resolved to bear it humbly. She came up,
still holding her hands behind her, and stood
with downcast eyes. The hair which hung
down over her shoulders was dark brown, her
eye-brows strongly marked, the eyes themselves
rather deep-set. She wore a pretty plum-coloured
dress, with a dainty little apron in

front ; her whole appearance bespeaking a
certain taste and love of elegance in the person
who had the care of her.

"You will be glad to hear," said Miss Rutherford,
" that Harriet's hurt is not as serious as we
feared at first. But she will have to stay at
home for some days."

There was no motion or reply.

Do you know that I am quite afraid
of you, Ida ? I had no idea that you were
so passionate. Had you no thought what harm
you might do when you struck that terrible
blow ? "

But Ida could not converse ; no word was to
be got from her.

"You must go home now," went on the
school-mistress, after a pause, " and not come
back till I send for you. Tell your mother just
what you have done, and say that I will write
to her about you. You understand what I say,
my child ? "

The punishment had come upon her. Nothing
worse than this had Ida imagined ; nay, nothing
so bad. She drew in her breath, her fingers

wreathed themselves violently together behind
her back. She half raised her face, but could
not resolve to meet her teacher's eyes. On the
permission to go being repeated, she left the
room in silence, descended the stairs with the
slow steps of an old person, dressed herself
mechanically, and went out into the street.
Miss Rutherford stood for some time in profound
and troubled thought, then sighed as she
returned to her usual engagements.

The following day was Saturday, and therefore
a half-holiday. After dinner. Miss Rutherford
prepared herself for walking, and left home.
A quarter of an hour brought her to a little
out-of-the-way thoroughfare called Boston Street, *
close to the west side of Regent's Park, and i
here she entered a chemist's shop, over which
stood the name Smales. A middle-aged man "
of very haggard and feeble appearance stood
behind the counter, and his manner to the lady
as she addressed him was painfully subservient.
He spoke very little above a whisper, and as
though suffering from a severe sore-throat, but
it was his natural voice.

'* She's better, I thank you, madam ; much
better, I hope and believe ; yes, much better."

He repeated his words nervously, rubbing his
hands together feverishly the while, and making
his eye brows go up and down in a curious
way.

'' Might I see her for a few moments ? "

She would be happy, madam, very happy ;
oh yes, I am sure, very happy ! If — if you
would have the kindness to come round, yes,
round here, madam, and — and to excuse our poor
sitting-room. Thank you, thank you. Harriet,
my dear. Miss Rutherford has had the great,
the very great, goodness, to visit you, — to visit
you personally, — yes. I will leave you, if — if
you please, — hem, yes."

He shuffled away in the same distressingly
nervous manner, 'and closed the door behind
him. The school-mistress found herself in a dark
little parlour, which smelt even more of drugs
than the shop itself. The window looked out
into a dirty back-yard, and was almost concealed
with heavy red curtains. As the eyes got accustomed
to the dimness, one observed that the

floor was covered with very old oil-cloth, and
that the articles of furniture were few, only the
most indispensable, and all very shabby. Everything
seemed to be dusty and musty. The only
approach to an ornament was a framed diploma
hanging over the mantelpiece, certifying that
John Alfred Smales was a duly qualified parma
critical chemist. A low fire burned in the grate,
and before it, in a chair which would probably
have claimed the title of easy, sat the girl
Harriet Smales, her head in bandages.

She received Miss Rutherford rather sulkily,
and as she moved, groaned in a way which did
not seem the genuine utterance of pain. After
a few sympathetic remarks, the teacher began
to touch upon the real object of her visit.

I have no intention of blaming you, Harriet ;
I should not speak of this at all, if it were not
necessary. But I must ask you plainly what
reason you had for speaking of Ida Starr s mother
as they say you did. Why did you say she was
a bad woman ? "

It's only what she is," returned Harriet,
sullenly, and with much inward venom.

What do you mean by that ? Who has
told you anything about her ? "

Only after some little questioning the fact
was elicited that Harriet owed her ideas on the
subject to a servant-girl in the house, whose
I name was Sarah.

What does Sarah say, then ? " asked Miss
Rutherford.

She says she isn't respectable, and that she
goes about with men, and she's only a common
street woman," answered the girl, speaking evidently
with a very clear understanding of what
these accusations meant. The school-mistress
looked away with a rather shocked expression,
and thought a little before speaking again.

Well, that's all I wanted to ask you, Harriet,"
she said. " I won't blame you, but I trust you
will do as I wish, and never say such things
about any one again, whoever may tell you. It
is our duty never to speak ill of others, you
know ; least of all when we know that to do so
will be the cause of much pain and trouble. I
hope you will very soon be able to come back
again to us. And now I will say good-bye."

In the shop Miss Kutherford renewed to the
chemist her sincere regret for what had taken
place.

'' Of course I cannot risk the recurrence of
such a thing," she said. "The child who did it
will not return to me, Mr. Smales."

Mr. Smales uttered incoherent excuses, apologies,
and thanks, and shufflingly escorted the
lady to his shop-door.

Miss Kutherford went home in trouble. She
did not doubt the truth of what Harriet Smales
had told her, for she herself had already entertained
uneasy suspicions, dating indeed from the
one interview she had had with Mrs. Starr, when
Ida was first brought to the school, and deriving
confirmation from a chance meeting in the street
only a few days ago. It was only too plain
what she must do, and the necessity grieved her.
Ida had not shown any especial brilliancy at
her books, but the child's character was a remarkable
one, had displayed a strength which might
eventually operate either for good or for evil.
With careful training, it seemed at present very

probable that the good would predominate. But
VOL. L c

the task was not such as the school-mistress felt
able to undertake, bearing in mind the necessity
of an irreproachable character for her school if it
were to be kept together at all. The disagreeable
secret had begun to spread ; all the children
would relate the events of yesterday in their
own homes ; to pass the thing over was impossible.
She sincerely regretted the step she
must take, and to which she would not have
felt herself driven by any ill-placed prudery of
her own. On Monday morning it must be
stated to the girls that Ida Starr had left.

In the mean time, it only remained to write to
Mrs. Starr, and make known this determination.
Miss Kutherford thought for a little while of
goinsc to see Ida's mother, but felt that this
would be both painful and useless. It was
difficult even to write, desirous as she was of
somehow mitigating the harshness of this
sentence of expulsion. After half-an-hour spent
in efforts to pen a suitable note, she gave up
the attempt to write as she would have wished,
and announced the necessity she was under in
the fewest possible words.

CHAPTEK IL

MOTHER AND CHILD.

Ida Starr, dismissed by the schoolmistress, \
ran quickly homewards. She was unusually
late, and her mother would be anxious. Still,
when she came within sight of the door, she
stopped and stood panting. How should she
tell of her disgrace ? It was not fear that made
her shrink from repeating Miss Rutherford's
message ; nor yet shame, though she would
gladly have hidden herself away somewhere in
the dark from every eye ; her overwhelming
concern was for the pain she knew she was going
to cause one who had always cherished her with
faultless tenderness, — tenderness which it had
become her nature to repay with a child's unreflecting
devotion.

Her home was in Milton Street. On the \

C 2

front door was a brass-plate which bore the
j inscription : " Mrs. Edward, Dressmaker '' ; in
the window of the ground-floor was a large card
announcing that "Apartments" were vacant.
The only light was one which appeared in the
top storey, and there Ida knew that her mother
was waiting for her, with tea ready on the table
^as usual. Mrs. Starr was seldom at home during
the child's dinner hour, and Ida had not seen herat
all to-day. For it was only occasionally that
she shared her mother's bedroom ; it was the rule
V for her to sleep with Mrs. Edward, the landlady,
who was a widow and without children.
The arrangement had held ever since Ida could
remember ; when she had become old enough to
ask for an explanation of this, among other
singularities in their mode of life, she was told
that her mother slept badly, and must have the
bed to herself.

But the night had come on, and every moment
of delay doubtless increased the anxiety she was
causing. Ida went up to the door, stood on
tiptoe to reach the knocker, and gave her usual
two distinct raps. Mrs. Edward opened the

door to her in person ; a large woman, with
pressed lips and eyes that squinted very badly ;
attired, however, neatly, and looking as good-natured
as a woman who was at once landlady'
and dressmaker could be expected to look.

How 's 't you're so late ? " she asked, without
looking at the child ; her eyes, as far as one
could guess, fixed upon the houses opposite, her
hands in the little pockets on each side of her
apron. "Your mother 's poorly."

Oh, then I shall sleep with her to-night ? "
exclaimed Ida, forgetting her trouble for the
moment in this happy foresight.

Essay," returned Mrs. Led ward, laconically.

Ida left her still standing in the doorway, and
ran up-stairs. The chamber she went into — after
knocking and receiving permission to enter,
according to the rale which had been impressed
upon her — was a tolerably furnished bedroom,
which, with its bright fire, tasteful little lamp,
white coverlets and general air of fresh orderliness,
made a comfortable appearance. The air
was scented, too, with some pleasant odour of a
not too pungent kind. But the table lacked one

customary feature ; no tea was laid as it was
wont to be at this hour. The child gazed round
in surprise. Her mother was in bed, lying back
on raised pillows, and with a restless, half-pettish
look on her face.

Where ever have you been ? " she asked,
querulously, her voice husky and feeble, as if
from a severe cold. " Why are you so late ? "

Ida did not answer at once, but went straight
to the bed and offered the accustomed kiss. Her
mother waved her off.

"No, no; don't kiss me. Can't you see what
a sore throat I've got ? You might catch it.
And I haven't got you any tea," she went on,
her face growing to a calmer expression as she
gazed at the child. '^ Ain't I a naughty mother ?
But it serves you half right for being late.
Come and kiss me ; I don't think it's catching.
No, perhaps you'd better not."

But Ida started forward at the granted leave,
and kissed her warmly.

There now," went on the hoarse voice,
complainingly, " I shouldn't wonder if you
catch it, and we shall both be laid up at once.

Oh, Ida, I do feel that poorly, I do ! It's the
draught under the door : what else can it be ?
I do, I do feel that poorly ! "

She began to cry miserably. Ida forgot all
about the tale she had to tell ; her own eyes
overflowed in sympathy. She put her arm
under her mother's neck, and pressed cheek to
cheek tenderly.

Oh, how hot you are, mother ! Your face is
on fire, poor, poor mother ! Shall I get you a
cup of tea, dear ? Wouldn't it make your throat
better ? "

Perhaps it would ; I don't know. Don't go
away, not just yet. You'll have to be a mother
to me to-night, Ida. I almost feel I could go to
sleep, if you held me like that."

She closed her eyes, but only for a moment,
then started up anxiously.

*'"What am I thinking about ! Of course you
want your tea."

No, no ; indeed I don't, mother."

Nonsense ; of course you do. See, the
kettle is on the hob, and I think it's full. Go
away ; you make me hotter. Let me see you

get your tea, and then perhaps it'll make me
feel I could drink a cup. There, you've put
your hair all out of order; let me smooth it.
Don't trouble to lay the cloth ; just use the
tray ; it's in the cupboard."

Ida obeyed, and set about the preparations.
Compare her face with that which rested sideways
upon the pillows, and the resemblance was
as strong as could exist between two people of
/ such different ages : the same rich-brown hair,
\ the same strongly-pencilled eyebrows ; the deep-set
and very dark eyes, the fine lips, the somewhat
prominent jaw-bones, alike in both. The
mother was twenty-eight, the daughter ten, yet
the face on the pillow was the more childish at
present. In the mother's eyes was a helpless
look, a gaze of unintelligent misery, such as one
could not conceive on Ida's countenance ; her
lips, too, were weakly parted, and seemed
trembling to a sob, whilst sorrow only made
the child close hers the firmer. In the one case
a pallor not merely of present illness, but that
wasting whiteness which is only seen on faces
accustomed to borrow artificial hues ; in the

other, a healthy pearl-tint, the gleanings and
gradations of a perfect complexion. The one a
child long lost on weary, vvoful ways, knowing,
yet untaught by, the misery of desolation ; the
other a child still standing upon the misty
threshold of unknown lands, looking around for
guidance, yet already half feeling that the sole
guide and comforter was within.

It was strange, that talk which followed
between mother and daughter. Lotty Starry
(that was the name of the elder child, and it
became her much better than any more matronly
appellation,) would not remain silent, in spite of
the efforts it cost her to speak, and her conversation
ran on the most trivial topics. Except
at occasional moments, she spoke to Ida as to
one of her own age, with curious neglect of the
relationship between them ; at times she gave
herself up to the luxury of feeling like an infant
dependent on another's care ; and cried just for
the pleasure of being petted and consoled. Ida
had made up her mind to leave her disclosure
till the next morning ; impossible to grieve her
mother with such shocking news when she was

so poorly. Yet the little girl with difficulty
kept a cheerful countenance ; as often as a
moment's silence left her to her own reflections
she was reminded of the heaviness of heart which
made speaking an effort. To bear up under the
secret thought of her crime and its consequences
required in Ida Starr a courage different alike in
quality and degree from that of which children
are ordinarily capable. One compensation alone
helped her ; it was still early in the evening, and
she knew there were before her long hours to be
spent by her mother's side.

Do you like me to be with you, mother ? "
she asked, when a timid question had at length
elicited assurance of this joy. 'does it make
you feel better ? "

Yes, yes. But it's my throat, and you can't
make that better ; I only wish you could. But
you are a comfort to me, for all that ; I don't
know what I should do without you. Oh, I
shan't be able to speak a word soon, I shan't ! "

Don't, don't talk, dear. I'll talk instead,
and you listen. Don't you think, mother dear,
I could — could always sleep with you 1 I

wouldn't disturb you ; indeed, indeed I wouldn't !
You don't know how quiet I lie. If I'm wakeful
ever I seem to have such a lot to think about,
and I lie so still and quiet, you can't think. I
never wake Mrs. Edward, indeed. Do let me,
mother ; just try me ! "

Lotty broke out into passionate weeping
wrung her hands, hid her face in the pillow.
Ida was terrified, and exerted every effort to
console this strange grief. The outburst only
endured a minute or two, however ; then a
mood of vexed impatience grew out of the
anguish and despair, and Lotty pushed away the
child fretfully.

I've often told you, you can't, you mustn't
bother me. There, there ; you don't mean any
harm, but you put me out, bothering me, Ida.
Tell me, what do you think about when you lay
awake ? Don't you think you'd give anything
to get off to sleep again ? I know I do ; I can't
bear to think ; it makes my head ache so."

'' Oh, I like it. Sometimes I think over what
I've been reading, in the animal book, and the
geography-book ; and — and then I begin my

wishing-thoughts. And oh, I've such lots of
wishing-thoughts, you couldn't believe ! "

And what are the wishing-thoughts about ? "
inquired the mother, in a matter-of-fact way.

All sorts of things. Sometimes I wish father
hadn't died, and I wish we were still living in
the beautiful little house, as you tell me you
used to. It must be so nice to have a father."

I don't see what more he could do for you
than I do," broke in Lotty, turning away her
face, and speaking irritably.

Oh, I don't mean that, dear," the child
hastened to say, with soothing affection. " I
think it's partly because if I'd a father he'd be
kind to you as well, and you wouldn't cry so
often."

Well, never mind about t/iaf wishing-thought.
What else ? "^

"Then I often wish I was grown up. I feel
tired of being a child ; I want to be a woman.
Then I should know so much more, and I should
be able to understand all the things you tell me
I can't now. I don't care for playing at games
and going to school."

*' You'll be a woman soon enough, Ida," said
Lotty, with a quiet sadness unusual in her.
'' But go on ; what else ? "

And then I often wish I was a boy. It
must be so much nicer to be a boy. They're
stronger than girls, and they know more. Don't
you wish I was a boy, mother ? "

'* Yes I do, I often do 1 " exclaimed Lotty.
Boys aren't such a trouble, and they can go
out and shift for themselves."

''Oh, but I won't be a trouble to you,"
exclaimed Ida. "When I'm old enough to
leave school, — "

She interrupted herself, for the moment she
had actually forgotten the misfortune which had
come upon her. But her mother did not observe
the falling of her countenance, nor yet the incomplete
sentence.

Ida, have I been a bad mother to you ? "
Lotty sobbed out presently. " If I was to die,
would you be sorry ? "

Mother ! "

"I've done my best, indeed I've done my
best for you ! How many mothers like me

would have brought you up as I've done ? How
many, I'd like to know '? And some day you'll
hate me ; oh yes, you will ! Some day you'll
wish to forget all about me, and you'll never
come to see where I'm buried, and you'll get rid
of everything that could remind you of me.
How I wish I'd never been born ! "

Ida had often to comfort her mother in the
latter's fits of low spirits, but had never heard
such sad words as these before. The poor child
could say nothing in reply ; the terrible thought
that she herself was bringing new woes to be
endured almost broke her heart. She clung
about her mother's neck and wept passionately.

It was the climax of the evening's suffering.
Lotty shortly after took a draught from a bottle
which the child reached out of a drawer for her,
and lay pretty still till drowsiness came on. Ida
undressed and crept to her side. They had a
troubled night, and, when the daylight came
again, Lotty was no better. Ida rose in anguish
of spirit, torturing herself to find a way of
telling what must be told. Yet she had another
respite ; her mother said that, as it was Saturday,

she might as well stay away from school
and be a little nurse. And the dull day wore
through ; the confession being still postponed.

But by the last post at night came Miss
Rutherford's letter. Ida was still sitting up,
and Lotty had fallen into a doze, when the landlady
brought the letter upstairs. The child took
it in, answered an inquiry about her mother ina
whisper, and returned to the bedside. She
knew the handwriting on the envelope. The
dreaded moment had come.

She must have stood more than a quarter .of
an hour, motionless, gazing on her mother's face,
conscious of nothing but an agonized expectation
of seeing the sleeper's eyes open. They did
open at length, and quickly saw the letter.

It's from Miss Rutherford, mother," said Ida,
her own voice sounding very strange to herself.

Oh, is it ? " said Lotty, in the hoarse whisper
which was all she could command. " I suppose
she wants to know why you didn't go. Read it
to me."

Ida read, and, in reading, suffered as she
never did again throughout her life.

* Dear Mrs. Starr,

^ I am very sorry to have to say
that Ida must not return to school. I had
better leave the explanation to herself; she is
truthful, and will tell you what has compelled
me to take this step. I grieve to lose her,
but have really no choice.

^ I am, yours truly,

'' * H. Rutherford "

No tears rose : her voice was as firm as though
she had been reading in class ; but she was pale
and cold as death.

Lotty rose in bed and stared wildly.

What have you done, child "? — what ever have
you done ? Is — is it anything — about nne ? "

"I hit Harriet Smales with a slate, and
covered her all over with blood, and I thought
rd killed her."

She could not meet her mothers eyes; stood
with head hung down, and her hands clasped
behind her.

What made you do it ? " asked Lotty, in
amazement.

"I couldn't help it, mother; she — she said
you were a bad woman."

Ida had raised her eyes with a look of love
and proud confidence. Lotty shrank before her,
clutched convulsively at the bed-clothes, then
half raised herself and dashed her head with
fearful violence against the wall by which the
bed stood. She felL back, half stunned, and lay
on the pillows, whilst the child, with outstretched
hands, gazed horror-struck. But in a moment
Ida had her arms around the distraught woman,
pressing the dazed head against her breast.
Lotty began to utter incoherent self-reproaches,
unintelligible to her little comforter ; her voice
had become the merest whisper ; she seemed to
have quite exhausted herself. Just now there
came a knock at the door, and Ida was relieved
to see Mrs. Led ward, whose help she begged. Ina
few minutes Lotty had come to herself again,
and whispered that she wished to speak to the
landlady alone. The latter persuaded Ida to go
down-stairs for a while, and the child, whose
tears had begun to flow, left the room, sobbing

in anguish.

VOL. I.

Ain't you better then ? " asked the woman,
with an apparent effort to speak in a sympathetic
tone which did not come easily to her.

I'm very bad," whispered the other, drawing
her breath as if in pain.

"Aye, you've got a bad cold, that's what it is.
I'll make you some gruel presently, and put
some rum in it. You don't take care of yourself
: I told you how it 'ud be when you came in
with those wringing' things on, on Thursday night."

'they've found out about me at the school,"
gasped Lotty, with a despairing look, *' and Ida's
got sent away."

She has ? .Well, never mind, you can find
another, 1 suppose. I can't see myself what she
wants with so much schooling', but I suppose you
know best about your own affairs."

'' Oh, I feel that bad I If I get over this, I'll
give it up — God help me, I will ! I'll get my
living honest, if there's any way. I never felt
so bad as I do now."

Pooh ! " exclaimed the woman. " Wait a
bit till you get rid of your sore throat, and you'll
think different. Poorly people gets all sorts

o' fancies. Keep a bit quiet now, and don't put
yourself out so." ,

What are we to do ? IVe only got a few
shillings "

Well, you'll have money again some time, I
suppose. You don't suppose I'll turn you out
in the streets ? Write to Fred on Monday, and
he'll send you something."

They talked till Lotty exhausted herself again,
then Ida was allowed to re-enter the rcfom.
Mrs. Edward kept coming and going till her
own bed-time, giving what help and comfort
she could in her hard, half-indifferent way.
Another night passed, and in the morning Lotty
seemed a little better. Her throat was not so
painful, but she breathed with difficulty, and had
a cough. Ida sat holding her mother's hand.
It was a sunny morning, and the bells of neighbouring
churches began to ring out clearly on
the frosty air.

'vida," said the sick woman, raising herself
suddenly, "get me some note-paper and an
envelope out of the box ; and go and borrow
pen and ink, there's a good child."

D 2

The materials were procured, and, with a great
effort, Lotty managed to arrange herself so as
to be able to write. She covered four pages
with a sad scrawl, closed the envelope, and was
about to direct it, but paused.

The bells have stopped," she said, listening.
It's half-past eleven. Put on your things,
Ida."

The child obeyed, wondering.

'' Give me my purse out of the drawer. See,
there's a shilling. Now, say this after me : Mr.
Abram Woodstock, Number — , St. John Street
Road."

Ida repeated the address.

Now listen, Ida. You put this letter in
f your pocket ; you go down into the Mary 'bone
road ; you ask for a 'bus to the Angel. When
you get to the Angel, you ask your way to
Number — , St. John Street Road ; it isn't far
off. Knock at the door, and ask if Mr. Abram
Woodstock is in. If he is, say you want to see
him, and then give him this letter, — into his own
hands, and nobody else's. If he isn't in, ask
when he will be, and, if it won't be long, wait."

Ida promised, and then, after a long gaze, her
mother dropped back again on the pillow, and
turned her face away. A cough shook her fora
few moments. Ida waited.

Well, ain't you gone ? " asked Lotty, faintly.

Kiss me, mother."

They held each other in a passionate embrace,
and then the child went away.

She reached Islington without difficulty, and
among the bustling and loitering crowd \^ich
obstructs the corner at the Angel found some one
to direct her to the street she sought. She had
to walk some distance down St. John Street '
Road, in the direction of the City, before discovering
the house she desired to find. When
she reached it, it proved to be a very dingy
tenement, the ground-floor apparently used as
offices ; a much worn plate on the door exhibited
the name of the gentleman to whom her visit
was, with his professional description added.
Mr. Woodstock was an accountant.

She rang the bell, and a girl appeared. Yes,
Mr. Woodstock was at home. Ida was told to
enter the passage, and wait.

A door at lier right hand as she entered was
slightly ajar, and voices could be heard from
the other side of it. One of these voices very
shortly raised itself in a harsh and angry tone,
and Ida could catch what was said.

Well, Mr. What's-your-name, I suppose I
know my own business rather better than you
can teach me. It's pretty clear you've been
doing your best for some time to set the people
against me, and I'm damned if I'll have it !
You go to the place on religious pretences, and
what your real object may be I don't know ;
but I do know one thing, and that is, I won't
have you hanging about any longer. I'll meet
you there myself, and if it's a third floor window
you get pitched out of, Avell it won't be my
fault. Now I don't want any more talk with
you. This is most folks' praying-time ; I
wonder you're not at it. It's my time for
writing letters, and I'd rather have your room
than your company. I'm a plain-spoken man,
you see, a man of business, and I don't mince
matters. To come and dictate to me about the
state of my houses and of my tenants ain't a

business-like proceeding, and you'll excuse me
if I don't take it kindly. There's the door, and
good morning to you ! "

The door opened, and a young man, looking
pale and dismayed, came out quickly, and at
once left the house. Behind him came the last
speaker. At the sight of the waiting child, he
stood still, and the expression of his face changed
from sour annoyance to annoyed surprise.

'eh? Well?" he exclaimed, looking closely
at Ida, his eye-brows contracting.

"I have a letter for Mr. Abr 'am Woodstock, \
sir."

Well, give it here. Who's it from ? "

Mrs. Starr, sir."

Who's Mrs. Starr ? Come in here, will you?"

His short and somewhat angry tone was
evidently in some degree the result of the interview
that had just closed, but also pretty
clearly an indication of his general manner to
strangers. He let the child pass him, and
followed her into the room with the letter in his
hand. He did not seem able to remove his eyes
from her face. Ida, on her side, did not dare

to look up at him. He was a massively built,
g fey headed man of something more than sixty.
Everything about him expressed strength and
determination, power alike of body and mind.
His features were large and heavy, but the forehead
would have become a man of strong intellect
; the eyes were full of astonishing vital
force, and the chin was a physiognomical study,
so strikingly did its moulding express energy of
character. He was clean-shaven, and scarcely
a seam or wrinkle anywhere broke the hard,
smooth surface of his visage ; his complexion
was clear and rosy as that of a child. His
hands were of enormous size, yet well-formed,
and the finger-nails scrupulously kept. In fact,
his \Vho1e person showed a certain fastidiousness
and delicacy. He was dressed in decent black ;
a black silk bow at his throat ; only a small
space of very white shirt-front showing ; on his
waistcoat a heavy gold watch-guard. On the
whole, a man to be afraid of; in all probability
a man whom no one had ever yet loved,
and who was very capable of dispensing with
affection.

Still regarding Ida, he tore open the envelope.
At the sight of the writing he, not exactly
started but, moved his head rather suddenly,
and again turned his eyes upon the messenger. ,

'' Sit down," he said, pointing to a chair. The
room was an uncomfortable office, with no fire.
He himself took a seat deliberately at a desk,
whence he could watch Ida, and began to
read. As he did so, his face remained unmoved,
but he looked away occasionally, as if
to reflect.

What's your name ? " he asked, when he had
finished, beginning, at the same time, to tear
the letter into very small pieces, which he threw
into a waste-paper basket.

Ida, sir, — Ida Starr."

Starr, eh ? " He looked at her very keenly,
and, still looking, and still tearing up the letter,
went on in a hard, unmodulated voice. " AVell,
Ida Starr, it seems your mother wants to put
you ill the way of earning your living." The
child looked up in fear and astonishment. " You
can carry a message ? You'll say to your mother
that I'll undertake to do what I can for you, on

oae condition, and that is that she puts you in
my hands and never sees you again."

Oh, I can't leave mother ! " burst from the
child's lips involuntarily, her horror overcoming
her fear of the speaker.

'^ I didn't ask you if you could," remarked
Mr. Abraham Woodstock, with something like
a sneer, tapping the desk with the fingers of his
right hand. " I asked whether you could carry
a message. Can you, or not ? "

'eyes, I can," stammered Ida.

'then take that message, anti tell your
mother it's all I've got to say. Eun away."

He rose and stood with his hands behind him,
watching her. Ida made what haste she could
to the door, and sped out into the street.

CHAPTER III.

ANTECEDENTS.

It would not have been easy to find another
instance of a union of keen intellect and cold
heart so singular as that displayed in the
character of Abraham Woodstock. The man's!
life had been strongly consistent from the
beginning ; from boyhood a powerful will had \
borne him triumphantly over every difficulty,
and in each decisive instance his will had been
directed by a shrewd intelligence which knew
at once the strength of its own resources and
the multiplied weaknesses of the vast majority
of men. In the pursuit of his ends he would \
tolerate no obstacle which his strength would
suffice to remove. In boyhood and early manhood
the exuberance of his physical power was
wont to manifest itself in brutal self-assertion.'

At school he was the worst kind of bully, his
ferociousness being tempered by no cowardice.
Later on, he learned that a too demonstrative
bearing would on many occasions interfere with
his success in life ; he toned down his love of
muscular victory, and only allowed himself an
outbreak every now and then, when he felt he
could afford the indulgence. Put early into an

accountant's office, and losing his father about
the same time, (the parent, who had a diseased
heart, was killed by an outburst of fury to which
Abraham gave way on some trivial occasion,)
he had henceforth to fight his own battle, and
showed himself very capable of winning it.
In many strange ways he accumulated a little
capital, and the development of commercial
genius put him at a comparatively early age
on the road to fortune. He kept to the business

V of an accountant, and by degrees added several

other distinct callings. He became a lender of

money in several shapes, keeping both a loans

office and a pawnbroker's shop. In middle age

he won considerably on the race-course, but, for

sufficient reasons, dropped that pursuit entirely

before he had turned his fiftieth year. As a
youth he had made a good thing of games of
skill, but did not pursue them as a means of
profit when he no longer needed the resource.
He continued, however, to love the games for
their own sake, and still delighted in chess. It
was but seldom, however, that he indulged the
liking, and for the simple reason that he could
not support a defeat. To be beaten roused his
vile temper to such a fearful pitch that herewith
difficulty refrained from physical violence. Few
people who knew him ventured to play with
him and win ; at the same time very few were
capable of defeating him.

He married at the age of thirty. This, like
every other step he took, was well planned ; his i
wife brought him several thousand pounds, being
the daughter of a retired publican with w^iom
Woodstock had had business relations. He
would have told you, in his brutally ingenuous
way, that his wife was doubly profitable to him ;
she helped him to capital, and saved him the
expenditures which had hitherto been rendered
necessary by his bodily temperament. For

Abraham was typical of that class of men in
whom, though they are utterly devoid of
sentiment, the lusts of the flesh rule strongly.
And he had at no time crucified his appetite.
He was acquisitive, but not miserly ; absolute
confidence in his own powers had always held
him free from the pressure of miserable
economies. The history of his amours de
jeunesse to say nothing of those which had
succeeded upon the death of his wife, would
supply an instructive, though perhaps scarcely
edifying, chapter. In another man such a life
might have been called dissipated ; to Abraham
Woodstock the word would in no sense apply.
Never for a moment did he lose his sense of the
fit adjustment of means and ends ; never did he
throw away a halfpenny. At his present age
Ros three-score his habits had not greatly
changed, except that he was perhaps a trifle
more fastidious than he had been twenty years
back. He felt as yet none of the forebodings
of old age, and talked of another twenty years
to be spent in very much the same way.
i This house in St. John Street Road he had

occupied since he was five-and-thirty, having
gone to it shortly after his wife's death. The
accommodation was all he wanted, and he had
been led to take the premises in consequence
of having been employed as a lad in this very
office. The thought flattered him ; he liked to
compare that day with this ; for the love of
power ever in the last resort proved his ruling
passion, and he was not above gratifying it in
the most ignoble ways. His former employer,
who had lived here, failed in business just
when Abraham was beginning to flourish, and
the latter had gone out of his way to be
appointed receiver of the estate, in which
capacity he had bullied and humiliated the
unfortunate man to his heart's content. Thereafter
he had lent him money, had exercised a
horrible tyranny over the poor bankrupt for
many years, and had only seen the end of his
sport when the man was happy enough to die.
And all this out of no definite motive of
revenge ; merely in brutal exultation over one
who had once employed and paid him. The
house was at present solidly furnished in the

dwelling part, though, as a matter of course,
without any display of taste. The ground-floor
consisted of offices ; above were eatino;-
room, bed-room, and study ; on the second
floor the sleeping-room of the two servants
he kept, and chambers used for storing miscellaneous
goods, which came into his hands
in the way of business. One of these chambers
communicated by a door with the adjoining
house, which tenement was also rented by our
friend. Its ground-floor was a pawnbroker's
shop, the business being in the hands of Mr.
Woodstock, though another name was painted
up. To this shop he owed very much of his
wealth.

I have spoken of his *' study," and thereby
hangs another item of character. On entering
this room one was puzzled to account for its
peculiar appearance. A table in the midst was
entirely covered with a great litter of newspapers
and periodicals ; the same kind of literature was
heaped about the floor here and there. Two
walls were quite hidden by book-shelves, the
library presenting anything but an attractive

appearance. There were several hundreds of
Blue-books, a complete set of Hansard, a com I
plate series of the Annual Register, and other I
volumes of the same character. The remaining
free space around the room was covered with
maps of various countries, statistical charts,
almanac. The explanation of this singular
phenomenon lay in the fact that, from his
earliest manhood, Abraham Woodstock had devoted
himself with astonishing zest to the study "^
of contemporary politics. His ardour had increased
with knowledge, and at the present time
he was probably unsurpassed among laymen in
intelligent familiarity with the details of English
and foreign political life. Not a statesman of
the leading countries with whose history, actual
policy, and probable prospects he was not well
acquainted. La haute politique was the playground
of his imagination ; he seized his Times \
every morning with a vehement interest in the
latest telegrams from the various capitals. In
home affairs he could have instructed many a
cabinet minister; the blunders of leader-writers
were his repertory of humour ; the incapacity of

VOL. I. E

members was the stock subject of his scornful
comment. No Bill found its way into either
House without his making himself more or less
familiar with its details ; so-called " great "
measures were the delight of his — I was going
to say soul, but will ask the reader to substitute
some other word. In short, the engrossing
actuality of current politics was ideally adapted
to the man's mental and moral nature. Here
he was dealing with power, power in what
was, to him, its highest manifestations. He
liked to imagine himself a party-leader, a prime
minister, nay, a monarch. He devised ideal
policies for this state or that ; he schemed for
wars ; he elaborated treaties. At election times
he was a leading man in his borough, as active

practically in the petty details of registering,

i\

canvassing, bribing, polling, as in fancy when

higher spheres were concerned. What a worthy
citizen was Abraham Woodstock ! What an enlightened,
free, and independent elector ! What
a patriot ! How unfortunate that he was not
born Emperor of all the Russia !

To return to his domestic affairs. He had not

been a bad husband. True, his wife dreaded
him too much to ever provoke him in the least.
During her lifetime his infidelities were of comparatively
rare occurrence. Two years after his
marriage was born his Ufst and only child, a
girl whom they called Lotty. Lotty, as she
grew up, gradually developed an unfortunate
combination of her parents' qualities ; she had
her mother's weakness of mind, without her
mother's moral sense, and from her father, she
derived an ingrained stubbornness, which had
nothing in common with strength of character.
Doubly unhappy was it that she lost her mother
so early ; the loss deprived her of gentle guidance
during her youth and left her without
resource against her father's coldness, or harshness.
The result was that the softer elements
of her character unavoidably degenerated and
found expression in qualities not at all admirable,
whilst her obstinacy grew the ally of the
weakness from which she had most to fear.

But we are not greatly concerned with Lotty
Woodstock's early life, and must pass on quickly
to later days. Her story was destined to be

LIBRARY

Universal OF ILLINOIS

vulgar and commonplace in many of its features,
though her subsequent conduct in some degree

f redeemed it. She was sent to a day-school till
the age of thirteen, then had to become her
father's housekeeper. Her acquaintances were
very few, none of them likely to be of use to her.
She was left almost entirely to herself. And the
end was, that, having by haphazard got into the

I society of a medical student, she allowed herself
to be seduced, under promise of marriage. Marriage
drew no nearer, but the consequences of
her mistake soon rendered it impossible to conceal
what had happened. Rather than face her
father with such a disclosure, she left home, and
threw herself upon the mercy of the man who had
assisted her to go astray. He was generous enough
to support her for about a year, during which
time her child was born. Then his help ceased.

The familiar choice lay before her : home again,
the streets, or starvation. Hardship she could not
bear ; the second alternative she shrank from on
account of her child ; she determined to face her
father. For him she had no affection, and knew
that he did not love her ; only desperation could

drive her back. She came one Sunday evening,
at which time she knew he would most probably
be sitting in his study, absorbed in Blue-books J
Mr. Woodstock was at home, and, without letting
the servant say who was come, she went up
and entered his presence, the child in her arms.
Abraham rose and looked at her calmly. Her
disappearance had not troubled him, though he
had exerted himself to discover why and whither
she was gone, and her return did not visibly
affect him. She was a rebel against his authority,
so he viewed the matter, — and consequently
quite beyond the range of his sympathies. He
listened to all she had to say, beheld unmoved
her miserable tears, and, when she became silent,
coolly delivered his ultimatum. For her he would
procure a situation, whereby she could earn her
living, and therewith his relations to her would
end ; the child he would put into other hands
and have it cared for, but Lotty would lose
sight of it for ever. The girl hesitated, but the
maternal instinct was very strong in her; the
little one began to cry, as if fearing separation
from its mother ; she decided to refuse.

'' Then I shall go on the streets ! " she exclaimed,
passionately. 'there's nothing else
left for me."

You can go where you please," returned
Abraham.

LTo do her justice, she did not take this course
at once. She tried to obtain work, but was far
too weak to succeed in this attempt, the hardest
of all tasks in our most humanitarian age. She
got into debt with her landlady, and only took
the inevitable step when at length absolutely
turned adrift.

That was not quite ten years gone by ; she
was then but eighteen. Let her have lost her
child, and she would speedily have fallen into
the last stages of degradation. But the little
one lived. She had called it Ida, a name chosen
from some tale in the penny weeklies which were
the solace of her misery. She herself took the name
of Starr, that being the name she would have
borne, had Ida's father dealt honestly with her.
Poor thing, she had a hard, hard problem before
her, and the success with which she managed to
solve it might, perhaps, make some claim upon

the sympathies of even the most virtuous readers.
Balancing the good and evil of this life in her
dark little mind, Lotty determined that one
thing there was for which it was worth while to
make sacrifices, one end which she felt strong
enough to keep persistently in view. Ida should
be brought up " respectably " — it was her own
word ; she should be kept absolutely free from
the contamination of her mother's way of living ;
nay, should, when the time came, go to school,
and have good chances. And at the end of all
this was a far-off hope, a dim vision of possibilities,
a vague trust that her daughter might
perchance prove for her a means of returning to
that world of "respectability" from which she
was at present so hopelessly shut out. She
would keep making efforts to get into an honest
livelihood as often as an occasion presented itself ;
and Ida should always live with " respectable "
people, cost what it might.

The last resolution was only adhered to for a
few months. Lotty could not do without her
little one, and eventually brought it back to her
own home. It is not an infrequent thing to find

little children living in disorderly houses, and
the sight of them arouses strange speculations.
But Ida's lot was to be a better one than that of
the average prostitute's child. In the profession
her mother had chosen there are, as in all professions,
grades and differences. Lotty was by
no means a vicious girl, — please learn to make
these not unimportant distinctions, good madam;
she had no love of riot for its own sake ; she
would greatly have preferred a decent mode of
life, had such been practicable. Hence she did
not associate herself with the rank and file of
abandoned women ; her resorts were not the
reeking centres of dissipation ; her abode was
not in the quarters consecrated to her business.
In all parts of London there are quiet by-streets
of houses given up to lodging-letting, wherein
are to be found many landladies, who, good easy
souls, trouble little about the private morals of
their lodgers, provided and so long as no positive
disorder comes about and no public scandal is
occasioned. A girl who says that she is occupied
in a workroom is — alas ! — never presumed to be
able to afford the luxury of strict virtue, and if

such a one, on taking a room, says that " she
supposes she may have friends come to see
her ? " the landlady will understand quite well
what is meant, and will either accept or refuse
her for a loser as she sees o-ood. To such
houses as these Lotty confined herself. After
some three or four years of various experiences,
she hit upon the abode in Milton Street,
and there had dwelt ever since. She got on
well with Mrs. Edward, and had been 'able
to make comfortable arrangements for Ida. The
other lodgers in the house were generally very
quiet and orderly people, and she herself was
quite successful in arranging her affairs so as to
create no disturbance. She had her regular
clientele; she frequented the roads about Regent's
Park and Primrose Hill; and — she supported!
herself and her child.

I am not sure that Ida Starr's bringing up was
in any respect inferior to that she would have
received in the home of the average London
artisan or small tradesman. At six years old
she had begun to go to school ; Mrs. Edward's
daughter, a girl of seventeen, took her backwards'

and forwards every day. At this school she
remained three years and a half; then her
mother took her away, and put her under the
care of Miss Rutherford, a better teacher. When
at home, she either amused herself in Lotty's
room, or, when that was engaged, made herself
comfortable with Mrs. Edward's family, with one
or other of whom she generally passed the night.
She heard no bad language, saw nothing improper,
listened to no worse conversation than
any of the other children at Miss Rutherford's.
Even at her present age of ten it never occurred
to her to inquire how her mother supported
herself The charges brought by Harriet Smales
conveyed to her mind no conception of their true
meaning; they were to her mere general calumnies
of vague application. Her mother '' bad,"
indeed ! If so, then what was the meaning of
goodness 1 For poor Lotty's devotion to the
child had received its due reward herein, that
she was loved as purely and intensely as any
most virtuous parent could hope to be ; so little
regard has nature for social codes, so utterly is
she often opposed to all the precepts of respectability!

This phrase of Harriet's was the very
first breathing against her mother's character that
Ida had ever heard. As we have seen, Lotty had
thought food to invent fables, for the child's
amusement, about her own earlier days. The
legend was, that her husband had died about a
year after marriage. Of course Ida implicitly
believed all this. Her mind contained pictures
of a beautiful little house just outside London in
which her mother had once lived, and her imagination
busied itself with the time when they
would both live in just that same way. She was
going to be a teacher, so it had been decided in
confidential chats, and would one day have a
school of her own. In such a future Lotty
herself really believed. The child seemed to her
extraordinarily clever, and in four more years
she would be as old as a girl who had assisted
with the little ones in the first school she went
to. Lotty, we see, was ambitious. Offers of
Mrs. Led ward to teach Ida dressmaking, she had
put aside ; it was not good enough. Herein we
may trace, if we like, some hereditary strain of
character.

Yet Ida, as I have said, was not in reality
remarkable either for industry or quickness in
learning. At both schools she had frequently
to be dealt with somewhat severely. Ability she
showed from time to time, but in application she
was sadly lacking. The books were distasteful
to her, more even than to most children ; she
learned sometimes by listening to the teacher,
but seldom the lessons given her to prepare.
In fact, she was backward in almost everything ;
she wrote sadly, and her spelling was managed
on a priori principles not given to most people
to understand. At home there were no books
to tempt her to read for herself; her mother
never read, and would not have known how to
set about giving her child a love for such occupation,
even had she deemed it needful. And
yet Ida always seemed to have abundance to
think about ; she would sit by herself for hours,
without any childlike employment, and still not
seem weary. When asked what her thoughts
ran upon, she could not give very satisfactory
answers ; she was always rather slow in expressing
herself, and never chattered, even to

her mother. One queer and most childlike
habit she had, which, as if thinking it wrong,
she only indulged when quite alone ; she loved
to sit before a looking-glass and graze into her

'O t)

gown

face. At such times her little countenance
became very sad without any understood reason.
Could she, unconsciously, foresee the future in
those dark, deep eyes of hers ? Did fate speak
mysteriously to her in the beautiful lines of
her face, and turn her thoughts to things 'she
knew not of?

Ida had a passion for animals. The cat in
the house was her especial property ; it washer
delight to coax puss to sleep in her arms
at night, and to this companion she probably
talked at greater length and entrusted more
secrets than to any one else. Once or twice
her mother had taken her to the Zoological |
Gardens, and Ida was wild with rapture at the
beautiful beasts and birds. The ugly ones she
regarded with that tender compassion which her
face could so well express. It was during the
last year that these various traits of her character
had begun to exhibit themselves in pronounced

ways. The past summer had been to her a
period of unmitigated happiness, for there had
come comparatively little bad weather, and
sunshine was like wine to Ida. The proximity
of the park was a great advantage. During the
weeks of summer holiday, she spent whole days
wandering about the large, grassy tracts by herself,
rejoicing in the sensation of freedom from
task-work. If she were especially in luck, a dog
would come and play about her, deserting fora
minute its lawful master or mistress, and the
child would roll upon the grass in delighted
sport. Or she would find out a warm, shady
nook quite near to the borders of the Zoological
Gardens, and would lie there with ear eager
to catch the occasional sounds from the animals
within. The roar of the lion thrilled her with
an exquisite trembling ; the calls of the birds
made her laugh with joy. Once, three years
ago, her mother had taken her to Hastings fora
week, and when she now caught the cry of
the captive sea-gulls, it brought back marvellous
memories of the ocean flashing in the sun, of
the music of breakers, of the fresh smell of the

brine. Then again she would stray down to
the side of the little lake, and watch the boats
moving about ; or, better still, observe the
strange doings of the soft little ducks and the
stately swans. How it made her laugh to seethe
ducks going after their dinner along the
shallow edge of the water ! They would paddle
slowly along, with keen eye directed to the
clear bottom beneath them, then, all at once,
down would plunge their heads, and their short
tails would remain for a moment perpendicular,
their webb little feet keeping up the equilibrium
by flapping behind. Oh Ida, Ida !
How often in the years to come shall you
remember these long, sunny days in Regent's
Park, and yearn back to the time when the
world's secrets seemed but a hidden joy, and
life was one with happiness 1

Already there had come upon her the first
great grief. She had caused her mother bitter
steering, and her own heart was filled with a
commensurate pain. Had she been a little older
she would have been troubled ere now by

another anxiety ; for the hist two years her
mother's health had been falling away ; every
now and then had come a fit of illness, and at
other times Lotty suffered from a depression of
spirits which left her no energy to move about.
Ida knew that her mother was often unhappy,
but naturally could not dwell long on this as
soon as each successive occasion had passed away.
Indeed, in her heart, she almost welcomed such
times, since she was then allowed to sleep upstairs,
one of her greatest joys. Lotty was
only too well aware of the physical weakness
which was gaining upon her. She was mentally
troubled, moreover. Ida was growing up ; there
would come a time, and that very shortly, when
it would be necessary either for them to part,
or else for herself to change her mode of life.
Indeed, she had never from the first quite lost
sight of her intention to seek for an honest
means of support ; and of late years the consciousness
of her hopeless position had grown
to an ever-recurring trouble. She knew the
proposed step was in reality impossible to her,
yet she persistently thought and talked of it.

To Mrs. Edward she confided at least once a
week, generally when she paid her rent, her
settled intention to go and find work of some
kind in the course of the next two or three
days ; till at length this had become a standing
joke with the landlady, who laughed merrily
as often as the subject was mentioned. Lotty
had of late let her thoughts turn to her father,
whom she had never seen since their parting.
Not with any affection did she think of him,
but, in her despairing moments, it seemed to her
impossible that he should still refuse aid if she
appealed to him for it. Several times of late
she had been on the point of putting her conviction
to the test. She had passed his house
from time to time, and knew that he still lived
there. Perhaps the real reason of her hesitation
was, not fear of him, but a dread, which she
would not confess to herself, lest he should
indeed prove obdurate, and so put an end to
her last hope. For what would become of her
and of Ida if her health absolutely failed ? The
poor creature shrank from the thought in horror.
The hope connected with her father grew more

VOL. I. F

and more strong. But it needed some very
decided crisis to bring her to the point of overcoming
all the apprehensions which lay in the
way of an appeal to the stern old man. This
crisis had arrived. The illness which was now
upon her she felt to be more serious than any
she had yet suffered. Suppose she were to die,
and Ida to be left alone in the world ! Even
before she heard of the child's dismissal from
school she had all but made up her mind to
write to her father, and the shock of that event
gave her the last impulse. She wrote a letter
of pitiful entreaty. Would he help her to some
means of earning a living for herself and her
child? She could not part from Ida. Perhaps
she had not long to live, and to ask
her to give up her child would be too cruel.
She would do anything, would go into service,
perform the hardest and coarsest toil. She told
him how Ida had been brought up, and implored
his pity for the child, who at all events was
innocent.

When Ida reached home from her visit to the
City, she saw her mother risen and sitting by

the fire. Lotty had found the suspense insupportable
as she lay still, and, though the pains
in her chest grew worse and the feeling of
lassitude was gaining upon her, she had half-dressed,
and even tried to move about. Just
before the child's appearance, she seemed to have
sunk into something of a doze on her chair,
for, as the door opened, she started and looked
about her in doubt.

'' Where have you been so long ? " she asked,
impatiently.

I got back as quickly as I could, mother,"
said Ida, in some surprise.

Got back ? Is school over ? "

"From the — the place you sent me to,
mother."

What am I thinking of ! " exclaimed Lotty,
starting to consciousness. " Come here, and
tell me. Did you see — see him, Ida ? Mr.
Woodstock, you know."

Yes, mother," began the child, with pale
face, " and he — he said I was to tell you — "

She burst into tears, and flew to her mother's
neck.

F 2

Oh, you won't send me away from you,
mother dear ? I can't go away from you ! "

Lotty felt she knew what this meant. Fear
and trouble wrought with her physical weakness
to drive her almost distracted. She sprang up,
caught the child by the shoulders, and shook her
as if in anger.

Tell me, can't you ? " she cried, straining her
weak voice. " What did he say ? Don't be a
little fool ! Can't the child speak ? "

She fell back again, seized with a cough which
choked her. Ida stayed her sobbing, and looked
on in terror. Her mother motioned constantly
to her to proceed.

•' The gentleman said," Ida continued, with
calm which was the result of extreme self-control,
that he would take me, but that you were
never to see me again."

Did he say anything else about me ? "
whispered Lotty.

No, nothing else."

** Go — go and tell him you'll come, — you'll
leave me."

Ida stood in anguish, speechless and motionless.

All at once her mother seemed to forget
what she was saying, and sat still, staring into
the fire. Several times she shivered. Her hands
lay listlessly on her lap ; she breathed with
difficulty.

Shortly afterwards, the landlady came into the
room. She was alarmed at Lotty's condition.
Her attempts to arouse the sick woman to consciousness
were only partly successful. She went
down-stairs again, and returned with another
woman, a lodger in the house. These two
talked together in low tones. The result of
their colloquy was that Mrs. Led ward dressed
Lotty as well as she could, whilst the other left
the house and returned with a cab.

We're going to take your mother to the
hospital," said Mrs. Led ward to the child.
You wait here till we come back, there's a
good girl. Now, hold up a bit, Lotty ; try and
walk down stairs. That's better, my girl."

Ida was left alone.

CHAPTEK IV.

CHRISTMAS IN TWO HOMES.

When Ida Starr was dismissed from school it
wanted but a few days to the vacations. The
day which followed her mother's removal to the
hospital was Christmas Eve. For two hours on

the afternoon of Christmas Day, Ida sat in silence
by the bedside in the ward, holding her mother's
hand. The patient was not allowed to speak,
seemed indeed unable to do so. The child might

I not even kiss her. The Sister and the nurse
looked pityingly at Ida when they passed by,
and, when the visitors' time was at an end, and
she had to rise and go, the Sister put an orange
into her hand, and spoke a few hopeful words.

Night was setting in as she walked homewards
; it was cold, and the sky threatened
snow. She had only gone a few yards, when

there came by a little girl of her own age,
walking with some one who looked like a nursemaid.
They were passing ; but all at once the
child sprang to Ida's side with a cry of recognition.
It was little Maud Enderby. J

*' Where have you been, Ida ? Where are you
going ? Oh, I'm so glad ; I wanted so to see
you. Miss Kutherford told us you'd left school,
and you weren't coming back again. Aren't
you really ? And shan't I see you ? "

I don't know ; I think not," said Ida. In
her premature trouble she seemed so much older
than her friend.

"I told Miss Rutherford you weren't to
blame," went on Maud, eagerly. " I told her
it was Harriet's own fault, and how shockingly
she'd behaved to you. I expect you'll come back
again after the holidays, don't you ? "

Ida shook her head, and said nothing.

But I shall see you again ? " pleaded the
little maid. '* You know we're always going to
be friends, aren't we ? Who shall I tell all my
strange dreams to, if I lose you ? "

Dreams, in the literal sense of the word.

Seldom a week went by, but Maud had some
weird vision of the night to recount to her
friend, the meaning of which they would
together try to puzzle out ; for it was an article
of faith with both that there were meanings to
be discovered, and deep ones. Maud often
shuddered and grew pale as she whispered of
awful shapes, and of words dimly remembered,
but unintelligible to the waking mind. Life
perchance would read the riddles.

Ida promised that she would not allow herself
to be lost to her friend, and they kissed, and
went their several ways. Never again to meet,
but each to be an unperceived agent in the
other s lot ; to suffer, without mutual knowledge,
on each other's account.

We leave Ida to her lonely sadness and see
how Christmas was spent in two homes not very
far from hers. The first is one of which we have
already had a glimpse. Throughout the day
the door of Mr. Smales's shop had been open,
though the shutters were up. But at nightfall
it was closed, and the family drew around the
tea-table in the parlour which smelt so of drugs.

It was their only sitting-room, for as much of
the house as could be was let to another family.
Besides Mr. Smales and his daughter Harriet,
there sat at the table a lad of about thirteen,
with a dark, handsome face, which had something
of a foreign cast. His eyes gleamed at
all times with the light of a frank joyousness ;
he laughed with the unrestraint of a perfectly
happy nature. His countenance was capable,
too, of a though fulness beyond his years, a
gravity which seemed to come of high thoughts
or rich imagination. His hair was longer than
is usual in English boys, and indeed was so
beautiful that to clip it would have been profanation.
He bore no trace of resemblance to
either the chemist or his daughter, yet was their
relative. Mr. Smales had had a sister, who at
an early age became a public singer, aud so far
prospered as to gain some little distinction in
two or three opera seasons. Whilst thus engaged,
she made the acquaintance of an Italian, Cast
by name, fell violently in love with him, and
subsequently followed him to Italy. Her courage
was rewarded, for there she became the singer's

wife. They travelled for two years, during
which time a son was born to them. The
mother's health failed ; she was unable henceforth
to travel with her husband, and, after

1 living in Rome for nearly four years, she died
there. The boy was shortly brought back to
England by his father, and placed in the care
of Mr. Smales, on the understanding that a sum
of money should be paid yearly for his support
and education. From that day to the present

^ nothing more had been heard of Signor Cast,
and all the care of his sister's child had fallen
upon poor Smales, who, as you will have
gathered, was none too well provided with means
to support his own small household. However,
he had not failed in the duty, and Julian (his
name had been English) was still going to
school at his uncle's expense. It was by this
time understood that, on leaving school, he
should come into the shop, and there qualify
himself for the business of a chemist.

Had it not been for Julian, the back parlour
would have seen but little cheerfulness to-night.
Mr. Smales himself was always depressed in

mind and ailing in body. When his hands were
not otherwise occupied, he constantly rubbed
there together in a nervous manner highly
irritating to witness. His pocket-handkerchief
generally lay upon his knees, and he had a habit
of twisting up the corners which could very well
have been dispensed with. His eyes watered
very much, and there were but few days in the
year when he was not suffering from a more
or less distressing influenza. He smiled "very
seldom, and, when he did, always followed it up
with a grievous sigh. Yet in manner he was
not querulous or ill-tempered ; he always appeared
to be doing his best to hold up and be at least
moderately cheerful, though the effort resulted
in painful failure. Life had proved too much
for him ; the burden of the recurring daylight
was beyond his strength. There was plainly no
lack of kindliness in his disposition, and this
never failed to come strongly into his countenance
as often as he looked at Harriet. His love
for the girl was remarkably strong, though every
other characteristic seemed so stamped with
feebleness. She was his only child. Her mother

had died of consumption early in their married
life, and it was his perpetual dread lest he should
discover ia Harriet a disposition to the same
malady.

His fears had but too much stimulus to keep
them alive. Harriet 'had passed through a sickly
childhood, and, now that she was growing up,
developed a radically feeble constitution. Body
and mind were alike unhealthy. Of all the
people who came in contact with her, her father
alone was blind to her distorted sense of right,
her baseless resentments, her malicious pleasures,
her depraved intellect. His affection she repaid
with mere indifference. At present, the only
person she appeared to really like was the
servant Sarah,! who has already indirectly come
into our story. This Sarah was a girl of
genuinely bad character, covering a multitude
of evil dispositions with the vice of hypocrisy.
She had been in the house for nearly two years
now, and her influence for evil on Harriet's
character could not easily be expressed. Mr.
Smales had no sense of this misfortune, and
his daughter's motherless condition made him

disposed to encourage the intimacy between her
and the servant, in the absence of any better
companionship for the girl. He grew little by
little to treat Sarah as a sort of housekeeper,,
and to repose much confidence in her.

Harriet had suffered more from Ida's blow
than had at first appeared likely. The wound
would not heal well, and she had had several
feverish nights. To-day she had eaten more
plum-pudding than was good for her, and inconsequence
suffered from a bilious headache.
She still wore bandages about her face, the
colour of which was more unwholesome than
ever. For her convenience, the couch had been
drawn up between the fire and the table, and,
reclining here, she every now and then threw
out a petulant word in reply to her father's or
Julian's well-meant cheerfulness. But for the
boy, as I said, the gloomy silence would seldom
have been broken. He, however, was full tonight
of a favourite subject, and kept up a
steady flow of bright narrative. At school he
was much engaged just now with the history of
Rome, and it was his greatest delight to tell the

listeners at home all the glorious stories which
were his latest acquisitions. Through the whole
of to-day he had been supplementing his knowledge
of famous Romans from a Plutarch which
his teacher had lent him. The enthusiasm with
which he spoke of these old heroes and their
deeds went beyond mere boyish admiration of
valour and delight in bloodshed ; he seemed
to be strongly sensible of the real features of
greatness in these men's lives, and invested his
stories with a glow of poetical colour which it
is to be feared found little appreciation in
either of his hearers. He had made himself
surprisingly well acquainted with the details of
old Roman life ; he spoke of the towns as if he
knew them ; he could describe the habiliments of
peace or wear with much lively accuracy.

And I was born in Rome, wasn't I, uncle ? "
he exclaimed at last. " sam a Roman ; Romanus
semi !

Then he laughed with his wonted bright
gleefulness. It was half in jest, but for all
that there was a genuine warmth on his cheek,
and lustre in his fine eyes.

'' Eome day I will go to Eome again," lie said,
and both of you shall go with me. We shall
see the Forum and the Capitol ! Shan't you
shout when you see the Capitol, uncle ? "

Poor Smales only smiled sadly and shook his
head. It was a long way from Boston Street
to Eome ; greater still the distance between the
boy's mind and that of his uncle.

Sarah took Harriet to bed early. Julian had
got hold of his Plutarch again, and read snatches
of it aloud every now and then. His uncle paid
no heed, was sunk in dull reverie. When they
had sat thus for more than an hour, Mr. Smales
began to exhibit a wish to talk.

Put the book away, and draw up to the fire,
my boy'' he said, with as near an approach to
heartiness as he was capable of. "It's Christmas
time, and Christmas only comes once a year."

He rubbed his palms together, then began to
twist the corners of his handkerchief.

"Well, Julian," lie went on, leaning feebly
forward to the fire, " a year more school, I
suppose, and then — business ; what ? "

Yes, uncle."

The boy spoke cheerfully, but yet not in the
same natural way as before.

'' I wish I could afford to make you something
better, my lad ; you ought to be something
better by rights. And I don't well know what
you'll find to do in this stuffy little shop. The
business might be better ; yes, might be better.
You won't have much practice in dispensing,
I'm afraid, unless things improve. It is mostly
hair-oil, — and the patent medicines. It's a poor
look-out for you, Julian."

Oh, I shall like it, uncle."

There was a silence.

Harriet isn't quite well yet, is she ? " Smales
went on, half to himself.

No, she looked poorly to-night."

Julian," began the other, but paused,
rubbing his hands more nervously than ever.

Yes, uncle ? "

*' I wonder what 'ud become of her if I — if I
died now ? You're growing up, and you're a
clever lad ; you'll soon be able to shift for yourself.
But that'll Harriet! do ? If only she had
her health. And I shall have nothing to leave

either her or you, Julian, — nothing, — nothing!
She'll have to get her living somehow. I must
think of some easy business for her, I must.
She might be a teacher, but her head isn't
strong enough, I fear. Julian, — "

Yes, uncle ? "

'you — you are old enough to understand
things, my boy," went on his uncle, with quavering
voice. '' Suppose, after I'm dead and gone,
Harriet should want help. She won't make
many friends, I fear, and she'll have bad health.
Suppose she was in want of any kind, — you'd
stand by her, Julian, wouldn't you ? You'd bea
friend to her, — always ? "

Indeed I would, uncle 1 " exclaimed the boy,
stoutly.

"You promise me that, Julian, this Christmas
night ? — you promise it ? "

Yes, I promise, uncle. You've always been
kind and good to me, and see if I'm not the
same to Harriet."

His voice trembled with generous emotion.

No, I shan't see it, my boy," said Smales,

shaking his head drearily ; " but the promise
VOL. I. ^ G

will be a comfort to me at the end, a comfort tome.
You're a good lad, Julian ! "
Silence came upon them again.

The other abode to which we must now turn
is in the same neighbourhood. It is one of a
row of semi-detached houses standing in gardens,
on the south side of South Bank. You enter by
a wooden gate in the brick wall which skirts
the road. An unshapely little house of grey
brick, with un symmetrical windows in unaccountable
positions ; above the ground floor only
one storey. A long row of wooden steps, protected
by a very ugly metal arch, lead up to the
front door. Here lived Ida's little friend, Maud
Enderby, with her aunt, a maiden lady of
I perhaps forty-two or three. Miss Theresa
Bygrave had inherited the dwelling under
strange circumstances. Twenty years ago she
had been the promised wife of a young man of
much talent but small possessions, who shared
this house with a twin brother, the two living
alone. But a very few days before that fixed
for the marriage, the bridegroom unaccountably

disappeared ; and, in the course of a week, his
body was taken out of the Thames. The surviving
brother shut himself up, apparently-overwhelmed
with grief, and, after living in
solitude for rather more than a year, himself
died. He left a will, bequeathing all he possessed
to the woman who would have been his
brother's wife. The house was let to strangers
for a time ; after that, became the abode of its
owner. The rooms were small and dark ; the
furniture sparse, old-fashioned, and much worn ;
there were no ornaments in any of the rooms,
with the exception of a few pictures representing
the saddest incidents in the life of Christ. On
entering the front door you were oppressed by
the chill, damp atmosphere, and by a certain
unnatural stillness. The stairs were not carpeted,
but stained a dark colour ; a footfall upon
them, however light, echoed strangely as if from
empty chambers above. There was no sign of
lack of repair; perfect order and cleanliness
wherever the eye penetrated; yet the general
effect was an unspeakable desolation. Impossible
to imagine happy people living here. Father

G 2

one felt as if a corpse lay in the house, and it
was the morning of the funeral.

Maud Enderby, on reaching home after her
meeting with Ida, entered the front parlour, and
sat down in silence near the window, where faint
daylight yet glimmered. The room was without
fire. Over the mantelpiece hung an engraving
of the Crucifixion ; on the opposite wall were
the Agony in the Garden, and an Entombment ;
all after good masters. The centre table, a few
chairs, and a small sideboard were the sole
articles of furniture. The table was spread with
a white cloth ; upon it were a loaf of bread, a
pitcher containing milk, two plates, and two
glasses.

Maud sat in the cold room for a quarter of an
hour ; it became quite dark. Then was heard
a soft footstep descending the stairs ; the door
opened, and a lady came in, bearing a lighted
lamp, which she stood upon the table. She was
tall, very slender, and with a face which a
painter might have used to personify the spiritual
life. Its outlines were of severe perfection ;
its expression a confirmed grief, subdued by, and

made subordinate to, the consciousness of an
inward strength which could convert sufferings
triumph. As she stood in the doorway,
with the Lamp held before her face, her lineaments,
in their fixed firmness, gleamed as though
of ivory ; her full eyes looked straight forward,
with a sternness which seemed to speak judgment
on herself rather than on others. leer garment
was black, of the simplest possible form ; it
fitted tightly at her neck and her wrists, with pio
trace of ornament ; the lower part fell in natural
folds, gracefully suited to her stature. Her look
turned upon little Maud, as the child rose from
the chair; it was scarcely affection that her
eyes expressed, rather a grave compassion.
Maud took a seat at the table without speaking ;
her aunt sat down over against her. In perfect
silence they partook of the milk and the bread.
Miss By grave then cleared the table with her
own hands, and took the things out of the room.
Maud still kept her place. The child's manner
was not at all constrained ; she was evidently
behaving in her wonted way. Her eyes wandered
about the room with rather a dreamy gaze,

and, as often as they fell upon her aunt's face,
became very serious, though in no degree expressive
of fear or even awe. .

Miss By grave returned, and seated herself
near the little girl ; then remained thoughtful
for some minutes. The breath from their lips
was plainly visible on the air. Maud almost
shivered now and then, but forced herself to
suppress the impulse. Her aunt presently broke
the silence, speaking in a low voice, which had
nothing of tenderness, but was most impressive
in its earnest calm.

"I wish to speak to you before you go
up-stairs, Maud ; to speak of things which you
cannot understand fully, as yet, but which you
are old enough to begin to think about."

Maud was surprised. It was the first time
that her aunt had ever addressed her in this
serious way. She was used to being all but
ignored, though never in a manner which made
her feel that she was treated unkindly. There
was nothing like confidence between them ; only
in care for her bodily wants did Miss Bygrave
fill the place of the mother whose affection the

child had never known. Maud crossed her
hands on her lap, and looked up with respectful
attention upon her pale sweet little face.

Do you wonder at all," Miss Bygrave went
on, " why we never spend Christmas like your
friends do in their homes, with eating and
drinking and all sorts of merriment ? "

"Yes, aunt, I do."

It was evidently the truth, and given with the
simple directness which characterized the chin.

"You know what Christmas Day means,

Maud ? "

It is the day on which Christ was born."

And for what purpose did Christ come as a
child on earth ? "

Maud thought for a moment. She had never
had any direct religious teaching ; all she knew
of these matters was gathered from her regular
attendance at church. She replied in a phrase
which had rested in her mind, though probably
conveying little if any meaning to her.

He came to make us free from sin."

And so we should rejoice at His coming.
But would it please Him, do you think, to see us

showing our joy by indulging in those very sins
from which He came to free us ? "

Maud looked with puzzled countenance.

'ris it a sin to like cake and sweet things,
aunt ? "

The gravity of the question brought a smile to
Miss Bygrave's close, strong lips.

Listen, Maud," she said, " and I will tell you
what I mean. For you to like such things is no
sin, as long as you are still too young to have it
explained to you why you should overcome that
liking. As I said, you are now old enough to
begin to think of more than a child's foolishness,
to ask yourself what is the meaning of the life
which has been given you, what duties you must
set before yourself as you grow up to be a
woman. When once these duties have become
clear to you, when you understand what the end
of life is and how you should seek to gain it,
then many things become sinful which were not
so before, and many duties must be performed
which previously you were not ready for."

Miss Bygrave spoke with effort, as if she
found it difficult to express herself in sufficiently

simple phraseology. Speaking, she did not look
at the child ; and, when the pause came, her
eyes were still fixed absently on the picture
above the mantelpiece.

'' Keep in mind what I shall tell you," she
proceeded, with growing solemnity, " and some
day you will better understand its meaning than
you can now. The sin which Christ came to
free us from was — fondness for the world, enjoyment
of what we call pleasure, desire for happiness
on earth. He himself came to set us
the example of one to whom the world was
nothing, who could put aside every joy, and
make His life a life of sorrows. Even that was
not enough. When the time had come, and He
had finished His teaching of the disciples whom
He chose, He willingly underwent the most cruel
of all deaths, to prove that His teaching had been
the truth, and to show us that we must face any
most dreadful suffering rather than desert what
we believe to be right."

She pointed to the crucified figure, and Maud
followed the direction of her hand with awed
gaze.

'rand this," said Miss Bygrave, "is why I
think it wrong to make Christmas a time of
merriment. In the true Christian, every enjoyment
which comes from the body is a sin. If you
feel you like this or that, it is a sign that you
must renounce it, give it up. If you feel fond
of life, you must force yourself to hate it ; for
life is sin. Life is given to us that we may
conquer ourselves. We are placed in the midst
of sin that we may struggle against its temptations.
There is temptation in the very breath
you draw, since you feel a dread if it is checked.
You must live so as to be ready at any moment
to give up your life with gladness, as a burden
which it has been appointed you to bear for a
time. There is temptation in the love you feel
for those around you ; it makes you cling to life ;
you are tempted to grieve if you lose them,
whereas death is the greatest blessing in the
gift of God. And just because it is so, we must
not snatch at it before our time ; it would be a
sin to kill ourselves, since that would be to
escape from the tasks set us. Many pleasures
would seem to be innocent, but even these it is

better to renounce, since for that purpose does
every pleasure exist. I speak of the pleasures of
the world. One joy there is which we may and
must pursue, the joy of sacrifice. The more the
body suffers, the greater should be the delight of
the soul ; and the only moment of perfect happiness
should be that when the world grows dark
around us, and we feel the hand of death upon
our hearts."

She was silent, and both sat in the deadly cold
room without word or motion. Maud almost
held her breath, so strangely was she impressed
by the solemn enthusiasm of the dimly understood
words. Her aunt kept her eyes upon the
suffering Christ, with a gaze which was becoming
rapt adoration. The stillness of the house was
absolute. Presently it was broken by the sound
of a door closing up-stairs, and then by the tread
of a person coming down. Maud turned her
head and listened ; she recognized the step of a
lady who for some months had occupied an
upper part of the house. She knew her as Mrs.
Paul, but very seldom saw her. When the
footstep reached the parlour-door and paused

there, and when the door was opened, Miss
Bygrave herself turned her head and rose.

There entered a lady dressed for walking.
Her age was scarcely thirty, and the resemblance
between her and Miss Bygrave was clear
enough to proclaim some close relationship.
But her face spoke a very different character ;
it was a good type degraded by a strong element
of frivolity. She was pretty, a word which
certainly could at no time have applied to Miss
Bygrave's face ; there was something, too, of
coquetry in her attire, though she was plainly
dressed. But, as she came forward into the
room, it was the expression of her countenance
which held attention. Her eyes wandered hither
and thither with strange light ; she smiled in
an absent way, and nodded her head to Miss
Bygrave, whilst with one hand she buttoned a
glove upon the other.

Ta-ta, Theresa," she said. " I shan't belong.
I have ordered dinner for six, and the
carriage for the opera at half-past seven. I
have to make one or two purchases before
dinner. Ta-ta ! "

Miss Bygrave's face changed to a grave
alarm. She stepped quickly towards the
speaker.

Come up-stairs with me first, Emily," she
said, in a low voice, which almost trembled.
I want to ask you to look at — "

No, no," broke in the other, shaking her
head and laughing in a childish way, ** I really
haven't time. Paul is waiting for me at Har-grove's
; I shall be late. Why, there's his knock,
upon my word ! "

There had come a double knock at the front
door. The sudden noise it made went with
endless echoes through the house and startled
the listeners. Miss Bygrave endeavoured to
hold back the other woman, but it was in vain ;
for Mrs. Paul had darted out into the passage,
and gone to open to the visitor. Maud stood
alone in the room, wondering. She heard the
front door open, and then — then a fearful shriek
which rang through the still air with blood -
thrilling horror. There was a confusion of
voices, stumbling feet, and Miss Bygrave came
back into the parlour, ghostly in countenance,

followed by a man who bore in his arms the
insensible form of Mrs. Paul.

Go up stairs at once," said Miss By grave
to the child, sternly.

Maud obeyed. As she left the room, she
caught the eyes of the strange man, fixed upon
her with such an intensity of anguish that she
fled in terror.

CHAPTER V.

POSSIBILITIES.

When Mr. Abraham Woodstock was left alone,
on Ida Stairs departure, he did what was a
very rare thing for him to do, took out a
pocket-book and noted an address. As a rule
his tenacious memory relieved him from this
necessitate reason for his making a note
of the address which had stood at the head of
Lotty's letter, now hopelessly in fragments, was
probably this. Surprise at the receipt of the
letter and at its contents had prevented him
from doing more than half-unconsciously glance
at the superscription ; only when the sheet was
torn did he remember his neglect. But his
mind had preserved the impression which it so
passingly received ; a moment's reflection and he
had recovered the address. It was a very little

thing, but the thought that he might have had
to question the child, and so appear interested
in her, gave him some annoyance. He used
his note-book as a sort of self-rebuke!

Mr. Woodstock did not get to his letter-writing,
thus twice this morning interrupted.
He spent a couple of hours in unwonted absence
of mind. A portion of that time he sat before
the fire, his body squared and slightly leaning
forward, knees parted and a hand on each.
The chair had a round back to it, but it was
one of his habits, indicative of the physical
vigour of the man, very seldom to seek any
support of this kind ; as a rule he would sit
bolt upright, indebted to nothing but his own
dorsal structure. He turned his eyes first to
the right for a while, then to the left, though
looking at nothing in particular ; his big lips
worked a little occasionally ; his brows moved
up and down. The self-communing did not
apparently result in any definite purpose, and
during the latter part of the day his ordinary
routine suffered no alteration.

Nor throughout the days which immediately

followed. For all that, a close observer could
have testified to an occasional absence of mind
not altogether natural ; perhaps, too, the entrance
of any one into the office caused him
to look up with an interest he was not wont
to display in so ordinary an event. And could
one have seen into his mind during the niofht-
watches, it would probably have been found
running on things quite beyond the circles
alike of his daily business and his accustomed
hobbies. Christmas Day passed over, and the
beginning of the new year drew nigh. And,
one morning, as Mr. Woodstock was glancing
up and down the pages of a ledger, a telegram
was delivered to him. It was from the house-surgeon
of a hospital in the north-west of
London. " Your daughter is dying, and wishes
to see you. Please come at once."

Lotty's ailment had declared itself as pneumonia.
She was frequently delirious, and the
substance of her talk at such times led the
attendant Sister to ask her, when reason
returned, whether she did not wish any relative

VOL. I. H

to be sent for. Lotty was frightened, but, as
long as she was told that there was still hope of
recovery, declined to mention any name. The
stubborn independence which had supported her
through these long years asserted itself again,
as a reaction after her fruitless appeal ; at
moments she felt that she could die with her
lips closed, and let what might happen to her
child. But when she at length read upon the
faces of those about her that her fate hung in
the balance, and when she saw the face of little
Ida, come there she knew not how, looking upon
her from the bedside, then her purpose yielded,
and in a whisper she told her father's address,
and begged that he might be apprised of her
state.

Abraham Woodstock arrived at the hospital,
but to no purpose. Lotty had lost her consciousness.
He waited for some hours ; there was no
return of sensibility. When it had been long-dark,
and he had withdrawn from the ward fora
little, he was all at once hastily summoned
back. He stood by the bedside, his hands
behind his back, his face set in a hard sjaze

upon the pale features on the pillow. Opposite
to him stood the medical man, and a screen
placed around the bed shut them off from the
rest of the ward. All at once Lotty's eyes
opened. It seemed as though she recognized
her father, for a look of surprise came to her
countenance. Then there was a gasping for
breath, a struggle, and the eyes saw no more,
for all their staring.

Mr. Woodstock left the hospital. At the
first public-house he reached he entered and
drank a glass of hot Scotch whisky. The
barman had forgotten the piece of lemon, and
was rewarded with an oath considerably stronger
than the occasion seemed to warrant. Our friend
looked at his watch as he walked on, and, having
reached the crossing of certain roads, paused.
His eyes were turned downwards ; he did not
seem dubious of his way, so much as in hesitation
as to a choice of directions. He took a few steps
hither, then back; began to wend thither, and
again turned. When he at length decided, his
road brought him to Milton Street, and up to the
door on which stood the name of Mrs. Edward.

H 2

He rapped sharply, and the landlady herself
opened.

"A Mrs. Starr lived here, I believe?" he
asked, harshly.

'' She does live here, sir, but she's in the
hospital at present, I'm sorry to say."

Is her child at home ? "

She is, sir."

Let me see her, will you ? In some room,
if you please."

Mrs. Edward's squinting eyes took shrewd
stock of this gentleman, and, with much politeness,
she showed him into her own parlour.
Then she summoned Ida from up-stairs, and,
the door being closed upon the two, she
held her ear as closely as possible to the
keyhole.

Ida recognized her visitor with a start, and
drew back a little. There was both fear and
dislike in her face, fear perhaps predominating.

You remember coming to see me," said Mr.
Woodstock, looking down upon the child, and a
trifle askance.

'eyes, sir," was Ida's reply.

I have just been at the hospital. Your
mother is dead."

His voice gave way a little between the first
and the last letter of the last word. Perhaps
the sound was more to his ear than the thought
had been to his mind. Perhaps, also, he felt
when it was too late that he ought to have
made this announcement with something more
of preparation. Ida's eyes were fixed ripon
his face, and seemed expanding as they gazed ;
her lips had parted ; she was the image of
sudden dread. He tried to look away from her,
but somehow could not. Then two great tears
dropped upon her cheeks, and her mouth began
to quiver. She put her hands up to her face,
and sobbed as a grown woman might have
done.

Mr. Woodstock turned away for a minute,
and fingered a china ornament on the mantelpiece.
He heard the sobs forcibly checked,
and, when there was silence, again faced his
grandchild.

'you'll be left all alone now, you see," he
said, his voice less hard. "I was a friend of

your mother's, and I'll do what I can for you.
You'd better come with me to my house'

Ida looked at him in surprise, tempered with
indignation.

If you were a friend of mother's," she said,
why did you want to take me away from her
and never let her see me ao^ain ? "

Well, you've nothing to do with that," said
Abraham, roughly. "Go and put your things
on, and come with me."

No," replied Ida, firmly. " I don't want to
go with you."

"What you want has nothing to do with it.
You will do as I tell you."

Abraham felt strangely in this interview. It
was as though time were repeating itself, and he
was once more at issue with his daughter's
childish wilfulness.

Ida did not move.

Why won't you come ? " asked Mr. Woodstock,
sharply.

I don't want to," was Ida's answer.

Look here, then," said the other, after a
brief consideration. "You have the choice, and

you're old enough to see what it means. You
can either come with me and be well cared for,
or stay here and shift as best you can ; now, be
sharp and make up your mind."

I don't wish to go with you, I'll stay here
and do my best."

'' Very well."

Mr. Woodstock whistled a bar of an air,
stepped from the room, and thence out • into
the streets.

It was not his intention really to go at once.
Irritation had made it impossible for him to
speak longer with the child ; he would walk the
length of the street and return to give her one
more chance. Distracted in purpose as he had
never been in his life before, he reached Marbles
Eoad ; rain was just beginning to fall,
and he had no umbrella with him. He stood
and looked back. Ida once out of his sight,
that impatient tenderness which her face inspired
failed before the recollection of her stubbornness.
She had matched her will with his, as bad an
omen as well could be. What was the child to
him, or he to her ? He did not feel capable of

trying to make her like him ; what good in
renewing the old conflicts and upsetting the
position of freedom he had attained ? Doubtless
she inherited a fatal disposition. In his mind
lurked the foreknowledge that he might come
to be fond of this little outcast, but Woodstock
was incapable as yet of understanding that love
must and will be its own reward. The rain fell
heavier, and at this moment an omnibus came
up. He hailed it, saying to himself that he
would think the matter over and come back
on the morrow. The first part of his purpose
he fulfilled ; but to Milton Street he never
returned.

As soon as he had left the house, Mrs. Led
ward bounced into the room where Ida stood.
"You little idiot!" she exclaimed. "What
do you mean by refusing a offer like that ! —
Why, the gentleman's your own father."

My father ! " repeated Ida, in scornful
astonishment. "My father died when I was a
baby. Mother's told me so often."

If you believe all your mother told you, —
Well, well, you have been a little wooden-head.

What possessed you to behave like that to
him ? — Where does he Hve, eh '? "

*' I don't know."

'' You do know. Why, I heard him say you'd
been to see him. And what are you going todo,
I'd Hke to know? You don't expect me
to keep you, I repose. Tell me at once where
the gentleman lives, and let me take you there.
The idea of your turning against your-own
father ! "

He's not my father ! " cried Ida, passionately.
*' My father is dead ; and now mother's dead,
and I'm alone."

She turned and went from the room, weeping
bitterly.

BOOK I.

Chapter I.
ADVERTISING AGENCY.

The advertisement columns of the newspaper
press present us with a ready-made index to the
social history of the time. Glance over these
sheets of closely-printed matter, and be initiated
into the secrets of the most pitiless age the sun
ever calendar. See here disclosed, working
without disguise, the central motor of our common
life. Science, formulating the machine's
operation, teaches us to speak politely of the
survival of the fittest. The lecture platform
resounds its praises in economic eloquence,
lauding the principle of universal Competition.
Every-day experience, and its concentrated index
the advertisement column, put the matter in
plainer language, do not care to hide the fact
of a brutal fight for livelihood, and sum up in

intelligible terms all the meanness, ruthlessness,
anguish, and degradation which such a system
implies.

Once and again, in glancing over these
columns, you come across an announcement which
strikes you with a sense of incongruity, some
appeal to the world at large for something not
suitable in terms of cash or credit, the utterance
of one whose needs do not in any way connect
themselves with salary. Such an advertisement
was to be seen in a morning paper published one
day in March 187 — , that is to say, some eight
years after the events told of in the preceding
chapter. It ran thus : —

Wanted, human companionship. A young
man of four-and-twenty wishes to find a congenial
associate of about his own age. He is
a student of ancient and modern literatures, a
free-thinker in religion, a lover of art in all
its forms, a hater of conventionalism. Would
like to correspond in the first instance. Address
0. W.,— News Rooms."

An advertisement which, naturally, might mean

much or little, might be the outcome of an idle
whim, or the despairing cry of a hungry heart.
It could not be expected to elicit many replies ;
brought indeed but one. Let us see who it was
that wrote that one.

Behind the counter of a chemist's shop in
Oxford Street there served, day after day, a
young assistant who not seldom had the fortune
to draw a second, and more or less furtive,
glance from ladies who entered as customers.
The young man was, to tell the truth, singularly
handsome, and not by any means with that
vulgar handsomeness which is fairly common
among the better kind of shop walkers and
counter-keepers. He had rather long black hair,
which arranged itself in silky ripples about
a face of perfectly clear, though rather dark,
complexion. His wonted look of thoughtfulness
was touched with no suspicion of melancholy,
though the fine and delicate lips sometimes gave
expression to an unconscious pathos, which made
one of the most attractive phases of his countenance.
When he smiled, as he frequently did,
the effect was very pleasant. He spoke, too,

with that musical intonation which is always
more or less suggestive of musical thought.
He did not seem by any means ideally adapted
to the place he occupied here, yet filled it
without suspicion of constraint or uneasiness ;
there was nothing in him to make one suppose
that he had ever been accustomed to a better
sphere of life.

His abode was in the house above the shop,
and had been for about two years, previously
to which he had held a similar position in a
more modest establishment. His bed-room, which
had to serve him as sitting-room also during his
free hours, exhibited indications of a taste not
ordinarily found in chemists' assistants. On
the walls were several engravings of views
in Rome, ancient and modern ; and there were
two hanging book cases filled with literature
which had evidently known the second-hand
stall, — most of the Latin poets, a few Italian
books, and some English classics. Not a trace
anywhere of the habits and predilections not
unfairly associated with the youth of the shop,
not even a pipe or a cigar-holder. It was while

sitting alone here one evening, half musing, half
engaged in glancing over the advertisements ina
paper two days old, that the assistant had
been attracted by the insertion just quoted. He
read and re-read it, became more thoughtful,
sighed slightly. Then he moved to the table
and took some note-paper out of a writing-case.
Still he seemed to be in doubt, hesitated in
pressing a pen against his thumb-nail, was
on the point of putting the note-paper away
again. Ultimately, however, he sat down to
write. He covered four pages with a letter,
which he then proceeded deliberately to correct
and alter, till he had cut it down by about half.
Then came another period of doubt before he
decided to make a fair copy. But it was finally
made, and the signature at the foot was : Julian
Cast.

He went out at once, and put it in the post.

Two days later he received a reply, somewhat
longer than his own epistle. The writer was
clearly keeping himself in a quite tentative
attitude. Still, he wrote something about his
own position and his needs. He was a teacher

in a school in South London, living in lodgings,
with his evenings mostly unoccupied. His
habits, he declared, were Bohemian. Suppose,
by way of testing each other's dispositions, they
were to interchange views on some book with
which both were likely to be acquainted :
say, Keats's poems ? In conclusion, the " 0.
W." of the advertisement signed himself Esmond
Waymark.

The result was that, a week after, Castii received
an invitation to call on Waymark, at the
latter's lodgings in Walcot Square, Kennington.
He arrived on a Saturday evening, just after
eight o'clock. The house he sought proved to
be one of very modest appearance; small, apparently
not too clean, generally uninviting.
But a decent-looking woman opened the door,
and said that Mr. Waymark would be found in
response to a knock at the first-floor front. The
visitor made his way up the dark, narrow staircase,
and knocked as bidden. A firm voice
summoned him to enter.

From a seat by a table which was placed as
near as possible to a very large fire rose a young

man whose age might have been anything between
twenty-three and twenty eight. Most
people would have inclined to give him the
latter figure. He was rather above the average
stature, and, though scarcely of handsome figure,
showed fairly well-hung limbs, with a habit of
holding himself which suggested considerable
toughness of sinews ; he moved gracefully, and
with head well held up. His attire spoke
sedentary habits ; would have been decidedly
shabby, but for its evident adaptation to easy-chair
and fireside. The pure linen and general
tone of cleanliness was reassuring ; the hand,
too, which he extended, was soft, delicate, and
finely formed. The head was striking, strongly
individual, set solidly on a rather long and
shapely neck ; a fine forehead, irregular nose,
rather prominent jaw-bones, lips just a little
sensual, but speaking good-humour and intellectual
character. A heavy moustache ; else
clean-shaved. Eyes dark, keen, very capable
^ of tenderness, but perhaps more often shrewdly
discerning or cynically speculative. Marks allover
the countenance of dark things endured.

sufferings probably more from within than from
without. One felt that the present expression
of genial friendliness was unfamiliar to the face,
though it by no means failed in pleasantness.
The lips had the look of being frequently gnawed
in intense thought or strong feeling. In the
cheeks no healthy colour, but an extreme sallowness
on all the features. Smiling, he showed
imperfect teeth. Altogether, a young man upon
whom one felt it difficult to pronounce in the
earlier stages of acquaintance ; whose intimacy
but few men would exert themselves to seek ;
who in all likelihood was chary of exhibiting his
true self save when secure of being understood.

Julian Castii was timid with strangers ; his
eyes fell before the other's look, and he shook
hands without speaking. The contrast in mere
appearance between the two was very pronounced
; both seemed in some degree to be
aware of it. Waymark seemed more rugged
than in ordinary companionship ; the slightly
effeminate beauty of Castii, and his diffident,
shyly graceful manners, were more noticeable
than usual. Waymark inspected his visitor

VOL. I. I

closely and directly ; the latter only ventured
upon one or two quick side-glances. Yet the
results were, on the whole, mutually satisfactory.
They sat down together with ease.

The room was the ordinary parlour and bedroom
in one of the poorer kind of lodging-houses
as far as mere furniture went, but Julian's eyes
had glistened at the sight of two goodly bookcases,
reaching from floor to ceiling. There
were, too, pictures of other than the lodging-house
type ; engraved heads of the great in art
and science, and a few reproductions in pencil
or chalk of known subjects, it might be their
possessor's own work. On the table drawn so
near to the fire lay traces of literary occupation,
sheets of manuscript, open books, and the
like. On another table stood a tray, with
cups and saucers. A kettle was boiling on the
fire.

Way mark made some pleasant inquiries as
to his visitor's difficulty or otherwise in discovering
Walcot Square, then proceeded to render
their conversation easier by offering a cup of
coffee, which he himself made otL the spot.

*' You smoke, I hope ? " he asked, reaching
some cigars from the mantelpiece.

Julian shook his head, with a smile.

No ? How on earth do you support existence
? — At all events, you don't, as the railway-carriage
phrase has it, object to smoking ? "

Not at all. I like the scent, but was never
tempted to go further."

Waymark filled his pipe, and made himself
comfortable in a low cane-bottomed chair, which
had stood folded-up against the wall. Talk
began to range over very various topics, Waymark
leading the way, his visitor only gradually
venturing to take the initiative. Theatres were
mentioned, but Julian knew little of them ;
recent books, but with these he had small
acquaintance ; politics, but in these he had
clearly no interest.

There's a point of contact, at all events,"
exclaimed Waymark. " I detest the very name
of Parliament, and could as soon read Thunder
on Conic Sections as the reports of a debate.
Perhaps you're a mathematician ? " This with
a smile.

I 2

By no means," was the reply. " In fact,"
Castii went on, " I'm afraid you begin to think
my interests are very restricted indeed. My
opportunities have been narrow. I left a very
ordinary school at fourteen, and what knowledge
I have subsequently got has come from my own
efforts. I am sure the profit from our intercourse
will be entirely on my side. I have the
will to enter into many things, however," —

Oh," broke in the other, " don't suppose
that I am a scholar in any sense of the word,
or a man of more than average culture. My
own regular education came to an end pretty
much at the same age, and only a certain
stubbornness has forced me into an intellectual
life, if you can call it so. Not much intellect
required in my every-day business, at all events.
The school in which I teach is a fair type of the
middle-class commercial ' academy ' ; the headmaster
a nincompoop and charlatan, my fellow-assistants
poor creatures, who must live, I
suppose, — though one doesn't well understand
why. I had always a liking for Greek and
Latin, and can make shift to read both in a

way satisfactory to myself, though I dare say it
wouldn't go for much with college examiners.
Then, as for my scribbling, well, it has scarcely
yet passed the amateur stage. It will some
day ; simply because I've made up my mind
that it shall ; but as yet I haven't got beyond
a couple of weak articles in weak magazines, and
I don't exactly feel sure of my way. I rather
think we shall approach most nearly in our taste
for poetry. I liked much what you had to say
about Keats. It decided me that we ought to
pursue our adventure."

Julian looked up with a bright smile.

What did you think at first of my advertisement,
eh ? " cried Waymark, with a sudden burst
of loud laughter. " Queer idea, wasn't it ? "

It came upon me curiously. It was so like
a frequent thought of my own actually carried
out."

'' It was ? You have felt that same desperate
need of congenial society ? "

I have felt it very strongly indeed. I live
so very much alone, and have always done so.
Fortunately I am of a very cheerful disposition,

or I might have suffered much. The young
fellows whom I see every day haven't much
intellectuality, it must be confessed. I used to
try to get them under the influence of nay own
enthusiasms, but they didn't seem to understand
me. External things alone they have a mind
for, things which either repel me, or are utterly
without interest."

Ha ! you understand what that means ! "
Way mark had risen from his low chair, and
stood with his back to the fire. His eyes had
got a new life, and he spoke in a strong,
emphatic way which suited well with his
countenance. "You know what it is to have
to do exclusively with fools and brutes, to long
unspeakably for a voice from higher spheres,
to rave under the vile restraints of Philistine
surroundings ? Then you can form some notion
of the state I was in when I took the step
of writing that advertisement ; I was, I firmly
believe, on the verge of lunacy ! For two or
three days I had come back home from the
school only to pace up and down the room
in an indescribable condition. I get often like

that, but this time things seemed reaching a
climax. Why, I positively cried with misery,
absurd as it may sound. My blood seemed too
hot, seemed to be swelling out the veins beyond
endurance. As a rule I get over these moods
by furious walking about the streets half through
the night, but I couldn't even do that. I had
no money to go in for dissipation : that often
helps me. Head ? Write ? As soon I could speak
mystic tongues ! Every book was loathsome tome.
My landlady must have overheard something,
for she came in and began a conversation
about God knows what ; I fear I mortally
offended her ; I could have pitched the poor
old woman out of the window ! Heavens, how
did I get through those nights ? "

And the fit has passed ? " inquired Julian,
when the other ceased.

"The Lord be praised, yes ! " Waymark laughed
half-scornfully. " There came an editor's note,
accepting a thing that had been going from
magazine to magazine for three months. This
snatched me up into furious spirits. I rushed out
to a theatre, drank more than was good for me.

made a fool of myself in general,-^and then received
your letter. Good luck never comes singly."

Julian had watched the strange workings of
Waymark's face with close interest. "When the
latter suddenly turned his eyes, as if to see the
effect of all his frankness, Castii coloured slightly
and looked away, but with a look of friendly
sympathy.

''Do I shock you?" asked the other. "Do
you think me rather too much of an animal,
for all my spiritual longings ? "

Certainly not, I can well understand you,
I believe."

The conversation passed to quieter things.
Julian seemed afraid of saying too much about
his own experiences, but found opportunities of
showing his acquaintance with English poetry,
which was quite as extensive as that of his new
friend, excepting in the case of a few writers of
the day, whom he had not been able to procure.
He had taught himself Italian, too, and had read
considerably in that language. He explained
that his father was an Italian, but had died
when he himself was still an infant.

You have been in Italy ? " asked Way mark,
with interest.

A strange look came over Julian's features,
a look at once bright and melancholy ; his fine
eyes gleamed very much as we saw them gleam
eight years ago, in the back-parlour in Boston
Street, when he was telling the tales from
Plutarch, though the tender poetry of his
emotions had clearly deepened, and the unreflecting
school-boy spirit had undergone a
ripening change.

'* Never," he said, in a low voice charged with
feeling, " since I was three years old. — You
will think it strange, but I don't so much long
for the modern Italy, for the beautiful scenery
and climate, not even for the Italy of Raphael,
or of Dante. I think most of classical Italy.
I am no scholar, but I love the Latin writers,
and can forget myself for hours, working through
Livy or Tacitus. I want to see the ruins of
Rome ; I want to see the Tiber, the Clitumnus,
the Fidus, the Allan Hills, Lake Trasimenus,
a thousand places ! It is strange how those
old times have taken hold upon me. The mere

names in Woman history make my blood warm.
And there is so little chance that I shall ever
be able to go there ; so little chance."

Waymark had watched the glowing face with
some surprise.

<* Why, this is famous ! " he exclaimed. "We
shall suit each other splendidly. Who knows ?
We may see Italy together, in days when we
shall look back upon these times of miserable
struggle with a generous contempt. By the bye,
have you ever written verses ? "

Julian reddened, like a girl.

I have tried to," he said.

"Anddostiin"

Sometimes."

"T thought as much. Some day you shall
let me hear them ; won't you ? And I will read
you some of my own. But mine are in the
savage vein, a mere railing against the universe,
altogether too furious to be anything like poetry ;
I know that well enough. I have long since
made up my mind to stick to prose ; it is the
true medium for a polemical egotist. I want to
find some new form of satire ; I feel capabilities

that way which shall by no means rust unused.
It has pleased Heaven to give me a plentifully
splenetic disposition, and some day or other I
shall find the tongue."

It was midnight before Julian rose to leave,
and he was surprised when he discovered how
time had flown. Waymark insisted on his
guest's having some supper before setting out
on his walk home ; he brought out of a cupboard
a tin of Australian mutton, which, with bread
and pickles, afforded a very tolerable meal after
four hours' talk. They then left the house
together, and Waymark accompanied whig friend
as far as Westminster Bridge.

It's too bad to have brought you so far
at this hour," said Julian, as they parted.

"Oh, it is my hour for walking," was the
reply. ''' London streets at night are my
element. Depend upon it, Rome was poor in
comparison ! "

He went off" laughing, and waving his hand.

CHAPTER 11.

BETWEEN OLD AND NEW.

Julian Castii's uncle had been three years
dead. It was well for him that he lived no
longer ; his business had continued to dwindle,
and the last months of the poor man's life were
embittered by the prospect of inevitable bankruptcy.
He died of an overdose of some opiate,
which the anguish of sleeplessness brought him
into the habit of taking. Suicide it might have
been, yet that was scarcely probable ; he was too
anxious on his daughter's account to abandon
her in this way, for certainly his death could
be nothing to her profit. Julian was then
already eighteen, and quickly succeeded in
getting a situation. Harriet Smales left London,
and went to live with her sole relative, except
Julian, an aunt who kept a stationer's shop in

Colchester. She was taught the business, and
assisted her aunt for more than two years, when,
growing tired of the life of a country town, she
returned to London, and succeeded in getting a
place at a stationer's in Gray's Inn Eoad. This
was six months ago. Having thus established
herself, she wrote to Julian, and told him where
she was.

Julian never forgot the promise he had made
to his uncle that Christmas night, eight years
ago, when he was a lad of thirteen. Harriet ]
he had always regarded as his sister, and never
yet had he failed in brotherly duty to her.
When the girl left Colchester, she was on rather
bad terms with her aunt, and the latter wrote to
Julian, saying that she had no idea of Harriet's
purposes in going to London, but that it was
certainly advisable that some friend should be at
hand, if possible, to give her advice ; though
advice (she went on to say) was seldom acceptable
to Harriet. This letter alarmed Julian,
as it was the first he had heard of Harriet's new
step ; the letter from herself at the end of a
week's time greatly relieved him, and he went

off as soon as possible to see her. He found her
living in the house where she was engaged,
apparently with decent people, and moderately
contented; more than this could never be said
of the girl. Since then, he had seen her at
least once every week. Sometimes he visited
her at the shop ; when the weather was fine,
they spent the Sunday afternoon in walking
together. Harriet's health seemed to have improved
since her return to town. Previously,
as in her childhood, she had always been more or
less ailing. From both father and mother she
had inherited an unhealthy body ; there was a
scrofulous tendency in her constitution, and the
slightest casual ill-health, a cold or any trifling
accident, always threatened her with serious
results. She was of mind corresponding to her
i body ; restless, self-willed, discontented, sour-tempered,
querulous. She certainly used no
special pains to hide these faults from Julian,
perhaps was not herself sufficiently conscious of
them, but the young man did not seem to be
repelled by her imperfections ; he invariably
treated her with gentle forbearance, pitied her

sufferings, did many a graceful little kindness
in hope of pleasing her.

The first interview between Julian and Waymark
was followed by a second a few days after,
when it was agreed that they should spend each
Sunday evening together in Kennington; Julian
had no room in which he could well receive
visitors. The next Sunday proved fine ; Julian
planned to stake Harriet for a walk in the
afternoon, then, after accompanying her home,
to proceed himself to Walcot Square. As was
usual on these occasions, he was to meet his
cousin at the Lowborn end of Gray's Inn Eoad, ^
and, as also was very much the rule, Harriet
came some twenty minutes late. Julian was
himself always scrupulously punctual, and
waiting irritated him not a little, but he never
allowed himself to show his annoyance. There
was always the same kind smile on his handsome
face, and the pressure of his hand was warm.

Harriet Smales was about a year younger than
her cousin. Her dress showed moderately good
taste, with the usual fault of a desire to imitate
an elegance which she could not in reality afford.

She wore a black jacket, fur-trimmed, over a
light grey dress ; her black straw hat had a few
flowers in front. Her figure was good and her
movements graceful ; she was nearly as tall as
Julian. Her face, however, could not be called
attractive ; it was hollow and of a sickly hue,
even the lips scarcely red. Grey eyes, beneath
which were dark circles, looked about with a
quick, suspicious glance ; the eyebrows made
almost a straight line. The nose was of a
coarse type, the lips heavy and indicative of ill-temper.
The disagreeable effect produced by
these lineaments was increased by the presence
of a long scar over her right temple ; she
evidently did her best to conceal it by letting
her hair come forward very much on each side,
an arrangement in itself unsuited to her countenance.
A connoisseur of women could have
found much food for speculation in these commonplace
features, probably with the result of
feeling thankful that his lot was in no way
connected with their possessor.

I think I'm going to leave my place," washer
first remark to-day, as they turned to walk

westward. She spoke in a dogged way with
which Julian was familiar enough, holding her
eyes down, and, as she walked, swinging her
arms impatiently.

"I hope not," said her cousin, looking at her
anxiously. " What has happened ? "

Oh, I don't know ; it's always the same ;
people treat you as if you was so much dirt. I
haven't been accustomed to it, and I don't see
why I should begin now. I can soon enough
get a new shop."

Has Mrs. Ogle been unkind to you ? "

Oh, I don't know, and I don't much care.
You're expected to slave just the same, day after
day, whether you're feeling well or not."

This indirect and querulous mode of making
known her grievances was characteristic of the
girl. Julian bore with it very patiently.

Haven't you been feeling well ? " he asked,
with the same kindness.

Well, no, I haven't. My head fairly splits
now, and this sun isn't likely to make it any
better."

Let us cross to the shady side."

VOL. L K

'Won't make any difference ; I can't run to
get out of the way of horses."

Julian was silent for a little,

Why didn't you write to me in the week "? "
she asked, presently. "I'm sure it would be a
relief to hear from somebody sometimes. It's
like a year from one Sunday to another."

Did I promise to write '? I really didn't
remember having done so ; I'm very sorry. I
might have told you about a new friend I've
got."

Harriet looked sharply into his face. Julian
had made no mention of Waymark on the
preceding Sunday ; it had been a rainy day, and
they had only spent a few minutes together in
the parlour which Mrs. Ogle, the keeper of the
shop, allowed them to use on these occasions.

What sort of a friend ? " the girl inquired,
rather sourly.

A very pleasant fellow, rather older than
myself ; I made his acquaintance by chance."

Julian avoided reference to the real circumstances.
He knew well the difficulty of making
Harriet understand them.

We are going to see each other every
Sunday," he went on.

"Then I suppose you'll give up coming forme
? "

Oh no, not at all. I shall see him at night
always, after I have left you."

'* Where does he live ? "

Eather far off ; in Kennington."

What is he 1 "

A teacher in a school. I hope to get good
from being with him ; we re going to read together,
and so on. I wish you could find some
pleasant companion of the same kind, Harriet ;
you wouldn't feel so lonely."

I dare say Fm better off without anybody.
I shouldn't suit them. It's very few people I
do suit, or else people don't suit me, one or the
other. What's his name, your new friend's ? "

Waymark."

And he lives in Kennington ? Whereabouts
? "

In Walcot Square. I don't think you know
that part, do you ? "

"What number?"

K 2

Julian looked at her with some surprise. He
found her eyes fixed with penetrating observation
upon his face. He mentioned the number, and
she evidently made a mental note of it. She
was silent for some minutes.

I suppose you'll go out at nights with him V
was her next remark.

It is scarcely likely. Where should we go to ? "

Oh, I don't know, and I don't suppose it
matters much, to me."

You seem vexed at this, Harriet. I'm
very sorry. Really, it's the first friend I've
ever had, whose society could be of profit tome.
I've often felt the need of some such
companionship."

I'm nobody ? " she said, with a laugh, the
first to-day.

Julian's face registered very perfectly the
many subtle phases of thought and emotion
which succeeded each other in his mind. This
last remark distressed him for a moment ; he
could not bear to hurt another's feelings.

Of course I meant male friend," he said,
quickly. " You are my sister."

No, I'm not," was the reply ; and, as she
spoke, Harriet glanced sideways at him in a
particularly unpleasant manner. She herself
meant it to be pleasant.

Oh yes, you are, Harriet," he insisted,
good-humouredly. " We've been brother and
sister ever since we can remember, haven't
we?"

*' But we aren't really, for all that," said* the
girl, looking away. " Well, now you've got
somebody else to take you up, I know very
well I shall see less of you. You'll be making
excuses to get out of the rides when the summer
comes again."

Pray don't say or think anything of the
kind, Harriet," urged Julian, with feeling. " 1
should not think of letting anything put a
stop to our picnics. It will soon be getting
warm enough to think of the river, won't it ?
And then, if you would like it, there is no
reason why my friend shouldn't come with us,
sometimes."

Oh, nonsense ! Why, you'd be ashamed tolet
him know me."

Ashamed ! How can you possibly think
so ? But you don't mean it ; you are joking."

I'm sure I'm not. I should make mistakes
in talking, and all sorts of things. You don't
think much of me, as it is, and that would make
you like me worse still."

She tossed her head nervously, and swung
her arms with the awkward restlessness which
always denoted some strong feeling in her.

Come, Harriet, this is too bad," Julian
exclaimed, smiling. "Why, I shall have to
quarrel with you, to prove that we're good
friends."

I wish you would quarrel with me sometimes,"
said the girl, laughing in a forced way.
You take all my bad-temper always just in
the same quiet way. I'd far rather you fell
out with me. It's treating me too like a child,
as if it didn't matter how I went on, and I
wasn't anything to you."

Of late, Harriet had been getting much into
the habit of this ambiguous kind of remark,
when in her cousin's company. Julian noticed
it, and it made him a trifle uneasy. He

attributed it, however, to the girl's strangely
irritable disposition, and never failed to meet
such outbreaks with increased warmth and kindness
of tone. To-day, Harriet's vagaries seemed
to affect him somewhat unusually. He became
silent at times, and then tried to laugh away
the unpleasantness, but the laughter was not
exactly spontaneous. At length he brought
back the conversation to the point from which
it had started, and asked if she had any serious
intention of leaving Mrs. Ogle.

'' I'm tired of being ordered about by people ! "
Harriet exclaimed. " I know I shan't put up
with it much longer. I only wish I'd a few
pounds to start a shop for myself."

I heartily wish I had the money to give
you," was Julian's reply.

'don't you save anything at all?" asked his
cousin, with affected indifference.

A little ; very little. At all events I think
we shall be able to have our week at the seaside
when the time comes. Have you thought where
you'd like to go to ? "

'' No ; I haven't thought anything about it.

What time shall you get back home tonight
? "

Rather late, I dare say. We sit talking and
forget the time. It may be after twelve o'clock."

Harriet became silent again. They reached
Hyde Park, and joined the crowds of people
going in all directions about the walks. Harriet
had always a number of ill-natured comments to
make on the dress and general appearance of
people they passed. Julian smiled, but with
no genuine pleasure. As always, he did his
best to lead, the girl's thoughts away from their
incessant object, herself. He tried to talk of
things rather outside and above the every-day
interests of life, but in these interests Harriet
was absorbed. He had lent her books from time
to time, and tried to get her to talk of them ;
but it was too clear that she had not succeeded
in understanding what she read, if indeed it
were true that she had tried to read the books
at all. On the whole, it was not a little admirable,
Julian's weekly self-sacrifice to an idea of
duty. He could not say that he disliked his
cousin ; his compassionate nature often made

him feel a pity for her which was something
like affection ; but he was under no delusion
about her grievous ill-qualities, and they often
occasioned him acute suffering. On a fine afternoon
such as this, Julian would gladly have
sought some quiet spot, and lost himself in
musings over all beautiful things ; but he gave
up this without a sigh. After all, he was
conscious that Harriet did feel a certain gratitude
for his companionship, and that was quite
enough to make the burden a light one. ^J

They were back again at the end of Gray's
Inn Road by half-past four.

Well, I won't keep you," said Harriet, with
the sour smile. " I know you're in a hurry to
be off. Are you going to walk ? "

"Yes ; I can do it in about an hour."

The girl turned away without further leave-taking,
and Julian walked southwards with a
troubled face.

Waymark expected him to tea. At this, their
third meeting, the two were already on very
easy terms. Waymark did the greater share of
the talking, for Julian was naturally of fewer

words ; from the beginning it was clear that the
elder of the friends would have the initiative inmost
things. Waymark unconsciously displayed
something of that egotism which is inseparable
from force of character, and to the other this
was far from disagreeable ; Julian liked the
novel sensation of having a strong nature to
rely upon. Already he was being led by
his natural tendency to hero-worship into a
fervid admiration for his friend. He listened to
every word with eager attention, and entirely
lost himself in the charm of Waymark's
individuality. /

'what have you been doing with yourself
this fine day ? " Waymark asked, as they sat
down to table.

I always spend Sunday afternoon with a
cousin of mine," replied Julian, with the unhesitating
frankness which was natural to him.

'' Male or female ? "

Female." There was a touch of colour on
his face as he met the other's eye, and he
continued rather quickly. " We lived together
always as children, and were only separated at

my uncle's death, three years ago. She is
engaged at a stationer s shop."

Do you know why Waymark cast his eyes
down for a moment 1 It sounded strange to
him, the perfect openness with which Julian
always referred to his own humble position and
that of those connected with him. Waymark
felt that he would not have been capable of
this himself. Was it a snobbish characteristic ?
Possibly.

Had you rather keep Sunday night free ? "
he asked, returning to the previous thought.

Not at all. I always see my cousin home
by tea-time."

The silence which ensued was a trifle awkward.
Waymark speedily broke it by talk of other
things. Tea over, they took seats by the fire.
Julian could not be induced to make a beginning
of smoking, a circumstance which Waymark
professed to find deplorable.

"What is a fellow to do to get cash?"
Waymark exclaimed, when his pipe was well
alight. " I'm growing sick of this hand-monmouth
existence. Now if one had a bare competency,

say two hundred and fifty a year, what glorious

possibilities would open out. The vulgar saying

has it that * time is money ' ; like most vulgar

sayings putting the thing just the wrong way

about. ' Money is time ', I prefer to say ; it

means leisure, and all that follows therefrom.

Why don't you write a poem on Money, Castii ?

1 almost feel capable of it myself. What can

.claim precedence, in all this world, over hard

cash ? It is the fruitful soil wherein is nourished

the root of the tree of life ; it is the vivifying

principle of human activity. Upon it luxuriate

art, letters, science ; rob them of its sustenance,

and they droop like withering leaves. Money

means virtue ; the lack of it is vice. The devil

loves no lurking-place like an empty purse.

Give me a thousand pounds tomorrow, and I

become the most virtuous man in England.

Why ? Because I shall satisfy all my instincts

freely, openly, with no petty makeshifts and

vile hypocrisies, which alone are the constituents

of vicious habit. To scorn and revile wealth

is the mere resource of splenetic poverty. What

cannot be purchased with coin of the realm ?

First and foremost, freedom. The moneyed man
is the sole king ; the herds of the penniless are
but as slaves before his footstool. He breathes
with a sense of proprietorship in the whole globe-enveloping
atmosphere ; for is it not in his
power to inhale it wheresoever he pleases ? He
puts his hand in his pocket, and bids with
security for every joy of body and mind ; even
death he faces with the comforting consciousness
that his defeat will only coincide with that of
human science. He buys culture, he buys peace
of mind, he buys love. — You think not ? I don't
use the word cynically, but in very virtuous
earnest. Make me a millionnaire, and I will
purchase the passionate devotion of any freehearted
woman the world contains ! "

Waymark's pipe had gone out ; he re-lit it,
with the half-mocking smile which always followed
upon any more vehement utterance.

That I am poor," he went on presently, " is
the result of my own pigheadedness. My father
was a stock-broker, in anything but flourishing
circumstances. He went in for some cursed
foreign loan or other, — I know nothing of such

things, — and ruined himself completely. He had
to take a subordinate position, and died in it.
I was about seventeen then, and found myself
alone in the world. A friend of my father's, also
a city man, Woodstock by name, was left my
guardian. He wanted me to begin a business
career, and, like a fool, I wouldn't hear of it.
Mr. Woodstock and I quarrelled ; he showed
himself worthy of his name, and told me plainly
that, if I didn't choose to take his advice, I
must shift for myself. That I professed myself
perfectly ready to do ; I was bent on an intellectual
life, forsooth ; couldn't see that the
natural order of things was to make money first
and be intellectual afterwards. So, lad as I
was, I got a place as a teacher, and that's been
my business ever since. When I was one-and-twenty,
Woodstock cleared up accounts with
me, with the result that I found myself possessed
of three hundred and ninety-two pounds, some
shillings, some pence, and, I believe, a halfpenny,
the present value of some invested cash which
my father had left behind him. What did I do
with it ? Ye gods ! I lived; for the space of

some six months positively lived I The wonder
was I didn't die. I went in for the wildest
dissipation, gave up all show of work, cried ho
for ' wine and women, mirth and laughter ' !
The ' sermons and soda-water ' naturally came indue
course. When I look back on that period,
I can scarcely believe that it really formed a
part of my life ; it is like a wild dream. You
put me down for a lunatic ? Do you know, my
dear fellow, that I in no way regret it all, would
go through it again under the same circumstances
? It made me at home in the world,
it opened to me the secrets of life, it taught me
to read the characters of men and, yet more,
of women ; it will help me to make my fortune
yet."

And when the money was done ? " asked
Julian.

What think you ? Did I hang about the
old haunts, in idle misery and regret ? Did I
find myself incapacitated for any exertion ? No ;
I had a day of unspeakable torture, and, on
the day after that, at once made application to
a scholastic agency for a place. I got one, ina

school in Sussex, at the sea-side. What a
queer state of mind it was, that in which I fell
to teaching once more ! I used to astonish my
pupils by every now and then bursting into a
laugh in the middle of class. The laugh was
excited by the incongruity between my inner
man and the position I was occupying. Suppose
the head-master could have divined the thoughts
which corresponded within me to the lip-reciting
of Amo, amas, mat ! "

Waymark threw himself back and laughed
loudly. He looked keenly at Julian, strummed
a little with his fingers, on the arm of the chair,
and resumed :

I was soon back again in London, the only
place under the sun where life is tolerable for
more than a week at a time. Then began a new
phase. I interested myself in religion and philosophy
;"* I became an aggressive disciple of free-thought,
as it is called. Radicalism of every
kind broke out in me, like an ailment. I bought
cheap free thought literature ; to one or two
papers of the kind I even contributed. I keep
these effusions carefully locked up, for salutary

self-humiliation at some future day, when I shall
have grown conceited. Nay, I went further.
I delivered lectures at working-men's clubs,
lectures with violent titles. One, I remember,
was called ' The Gospel of Rationalism.' And I
was enthusiastic in the cause, with an enthusiasm
such as I shall never experience again. Can I
imagine myself writing and speaking such things
now-a-days ? Scarcely : yet the spirit remains, it
is only the manifestations which have changed.
I am by nature combative ; I feel the need of
attacking the cherished prejudices of society ; I
have a joy in outraging what are called the
proprieties. And I wait for my opportunity,
which has yet to come." \^

How commonplace my life has been, in
comparison," said Julian, after an interval of
thoughtfulness. / " I have experienced strong
emotions, but they have never found outward
expression. I have followed the path which
circumstances made for me, and suppose I shall
always do so. My life till now has not been
unhappy, for all that my ordinary mood is one
of longing for impossibilities. Mere dwelling

VOL. I. L

on beauty in the imagination seems to suffice
to keep me cheerful. You must regard me asa
child, no doubt. And indeed I know as little
of the world as one of my age could do. I fear
I am absorbed in myself ; not even temptations
\ have been strong enough to carry me away."

"Your nature, I believe, is singularly pure,
and therefore very happy. / am what Browning
somewhere calls a ' beast with a speckled hide,'
and happiness, I take it, I shall never know."

Even Julian could begin to see that his friend
took something of a pleasure in showing and
dwelling upon the worst side of his own
character.

You will be happy," he said, " when you
once find your true work, and feel that you
are doing it well."

But the motives, the motives ! — Never mind,
I've talked enough of myself for one sitting.
Don't think I've told you everything. Plenty
more confessions to come, when time and place
shall serve. Little by little you will get to
know me, and by then will most likely have
had enough of me."

*' That is not at all likely ; rather the
opposite."

When they left the house together, shortly
after eleven, Julian's eye fell upon the dark
figure of a girl, standing by a gas-lamp ou
the opposite side of the way. The figure held
his gaze. Waymark moved on, and he had to
follow, but still looked back. The girl had a
veil half down upon her face ; she was gazing
after the two. She moved, and the resemblance
to Harriet was so striking that Julian again
stopped. As he did so, the figure turned away,
and walked in the opposite direction, till it was
lost in the darkness.

Julian went on, and for a time was very
silent.

L 2

CHAPTER III.

ACADEMICAL.

The school in which Osmond Waymark
taught no longer possesses a local habitation and
a name. No great number of years ago its
numerous advantages were prominently put
forward at certain seasons in the most suitable
advertising quarters, presumably with results
satisfactory, for the time being at all events, to
the learned gentleman at the head of the establishment.
It's designation was The Academy,
neither more nor less. It was situated, so one
learned from the veracious announcements in
question, in " a pleasant suburb of southern
London " (North Brixton, to wit) ; had its
"spacious playground and gymnasium" (the
former a tolerable back-yard, the latter a disused
coach-house) ; and, as to educational features,

offered, at the choice of parents and guardians,
either the solid foundation desirable for those
youths predestined to a commercial career, or
the more liberal training adapted to minds
wherein was discernible a professional bias. A
member of Parliament, a Q.C., three directors,"
a member of the Stock Exchange, and four
clergymen, were prepared to testify to the
sterling character of The Academy ; in addition
to which information, you gathered from the
prospectus that not a few lights of the Civil
Service, and no inconsiderable number of scientific
and literary samnites, were directly indebted
for their worldly success to principles early
instilled into their minds at the establishment
in North Brixton. Anything further in the way
of information was to be obtained by applying
to the head-master, Dr. Marcus Tootle.

At present the number of resident pupils was
something under forty. The marvel was how
so many could be accommodated in so small a
house. Two fair-sized bedrooms, and a garret
in which the servants could not be persuaded
to sleep, served as dormitories for the whole

school ; the younger children sleeping two
together. On the ground-floor was the main
school-room, the dining-room, and a smaller
class-room ; the last-mentioned serving also as
the retreat of the two resident masters when
work-hours were over. On the storey above was
a room usually occupied by Mrs. Tootle and her
family, but which, as we shall presently see, was
also used for teaching purposes at times. Below-stairs
was a spacious cellar which had to do duty
at once as box-room and lavatory, the boys
descending thither each morning at a certain
stage in their dressing, and going through such
ablutions as they saw fit in rows of zinc basins,
soap being generally at a premium and water
not obtainable at any time in anything but
restricted quantity.

Way mark, as we know, did not reside on the
premises. For a stipulated sum of thirteen
pounds per quarter he taught daily from nine
till five, with an interval of an hour and a half
at dinner-time, when he walked home to Walcot
Square for such meal as the state of his
exchequer would allow. Way mark occupied a

pr<jnunent place in Dr. Tootle's prospectus. As
Osmond Waymark, Bea., — the degree was a
born fide one, of London University, — he filled
the position of Senior Classical Master ; anonymously
he figured as a teacher of drawing and
lecturer on experimental chemistry. The other
two masters, resident, were Mr. O'Gree and Herr
Egger ; the former, teacher of mathematics,
assistant classical master, and professor of
gymnastics ; the latter, teacher of foreign
languages, of music, and of dancing. Dr. Tootle
took upon himself the English branches, and,
of course, the arduous duty of general superintendence.
He was a very tall, thin, cadaver ^
vous, bald-headed man. Somehow or other he
had the reputation of having, at an earlier stage
in his career, grievously over-exerted his brain
in literary labour ; parents were found, on the
whole, ready to accept this fact as an incontestable
proof of the Doctor's fitness to fill his
present office, though it resulted in entire weeks
of retreat from the school-room under the \
excuse of fearful headaches. The only known
product of the literary toil which had had such

sad results was a very small English Grammar,
of course used in the school, and always referred
to by the Doctor as " my little compendium."
This phrase had not unnaturally become corrupted
on the lips of the Doctor's pupils, among
j whom he was spoken of as " Old Pendulum," or,
still more enigmatically, as " Penny."

One evening, about the time we speak of,
Waymark sought refuge from the loneliness of
his room in a visit to his colleagues at The
Academy. Once a week, as a rule, he was in
the habit of doing this, and was always received
with a hearty welcome in what was called the
Masters' Room. This retreat was not remarkable
for cosiness, even when a fire burnt in
the grate and the world of school was for the
time shut out. The floor was uncarpeted, the
walls illustrated only with a few maps and
diagrams. The whole space above the mantelpiece
was occupied by a huge slate, let into
the wall, and used ordinarily for mathematical
demonstration. There was a piano, Whereon
Herr Egger gave his music lessons. In the
centre of the floor a long table, much hacked

round the edges by schoolboys' knives ; other
furniture, three very rickety Windsor chairs,
and two long forms. Few rooms in existence
could have excelled this one for draughts ; at
all times there came beneath the door a current
of wind which pierced the legs like a knife ;
impossible to leave loose papers anywhere with
a chance of finding them in the same place two
minutes after.

When Way mark entered this evening, he
found his colleagues seated together in silence.
Let me try to describe these gentlemen. Mr.
Philip O'Gree — " fill-up " was his own habitual
pronunciation of the name, — was a decidedly
small man ; his appearance would have been
worse than insignificant, but for the expression
of irresistible good-humour and geniality which
possessed his most irregular features. He was
red-headed, and had large red whiskers, — red
hardly suffices to depict their violent tone.
His general appearance I might describe as
shabby-genteel, but that I fear it would be a
misuse of the second adjective ; in short, his
clothes had presumably once been such as gentlemen

wear, but at present he might very profitably
have exchanged them for good honest
corduroys, so shockingly had they suffered at
the hands of time and the tailor. Apparently
Mr. O'Gree did not labour under any consciousness
of this fact ; he bore himself with dignity,
made the very most of his inches, and on the
pavement used his little feet as though engaged
in a minuet.

Herr Egger was a gentleman of very different
exterior. Tall, thick, ungainly, with a very
heavy, stupid face, coarse hands, outrageous
lower extremities. A mass of coal-black hair
seemed to weigh down his head. His attire
was un-english, and, one might suspect, had
been manufactured in some lonely cottage away
in the remote Swiss valley which had till lately
been the poor fellow's home. Dr. Tootle never
kept his foreign masters long. His plan was
to get hold, by means of the Agencies, of some
foreigner without means and ignorant of English,
who would come and teach French or German
in return for mere board and lodging ; when
the man had learnt a little English, and was

iD a position to demand a salary, he was dismissed,
and a new professor obtained. Egger
had lately, under the influence of some desperate
delusion, come to our hospitable clime in search
of his fortune Of languages he could not be
said to know any ; his French and his German
were of barbarisms all compact ; English as yet
he could only discourse in a most primitive
manner. He must have been the most unhappy
man in all London. Finding himself face to
face with large classes of youngsters accustomed
to no kind of discipline, in whom every word
he uttered merely excited outrageous mirth,
he was hourly brought to the very verge of
despair. Constitutionally he was lachrymose ;
tears came from him freely when distress had
reached a climax, and the contrast between
his unwieldy form and this weakness of
demeanour supplied inexhaustible occasion for
mirth throughout the school. At times he lost
his temper in class-time, and raved in the most
absurd fashion : but, unfortunately, was far too
good-hearted to inflict the least personal injury
on his worst foe. His hours of freedom were

spent in abysmal brooding. / His attitude at
present, when Wayinark entered, was characteristic.
He had planted one of the rickety
Windsor chairs in a corner of the room, had
tilted it backwards till he rested against the
wall, his long legs sprawling dreadfully in front,
and sat thus with half an enormous yellow
handkerchief crammed into his mouth, whilst
his eyes distilled most pathetic fluid. Thus
would he remain for hours, till blessed bedtime
came, to give him, let us hope, a brief
interval of unconsciousness.

Way mark entered in good spirits. At the
sight of him, Mr. O'Gree started from the
fire-side, snatched up the poker, brandished it
wildly about his head, and, with face reddening
with an indignation which made him look
more irresistibly comical than ever, burst into
vehement exclamations.

Ha ! — ha ! — you've come in time, sir ; you've
come in time to hear my resolution I can't
stand ut any longer ; I won't stand ut a day
longer ! Mr. Waymark, you're a witness of the
outrageous way in which I'm treated in this

academy, — the way in which I'm treated both
by Dr. Tootle and by Mrs. Tootle. You were
witness of his insulting behaviour this very
afternoon. He openly takes the side of the
boys against me ; he ridicules my accent ; he
treats me as no gentleman can treat another,
unless one of them's no gentleman at all ! And,
Mr. Way mark, T won't stand ut ! "

Mr. O'Gree's accent was very strong indeed,
especially in his present mood. Waymark
listened with what gravity he could command.

You're quite right," he said in reply.
Tootle's behaviour was especially scandalous
to-day. I should certainly take some kind of
notice of it."

Notus, sir, notus ! I'll take that amount
of notus of it that all the metropolis shall
hear of my wrongs. I'll assault 'um, sir ; I'll
assault 'um in the face of the school, — the very
next time he dares to provoke me ! I'll rise in
my might, and smite his bald crown with his
own ruler ! I'm not a tall man, Mr. Waymark,
but I can reach his crown, and that he shall be
aware of before he knows ut. He sets me at

naught in my own class, sir ; he poo-poohs my
mathematical demonstrations, sir ; he encourages
my pupils in insubordination ! And Mrs.
Tootle ! Bead, if I don't invent some device
for revenging myself on that supercilious woman.
The very next time she presumes to address me
disrespectfully at the dinner table, sir, I'll rise in
my might, sir, — see if I don't ! — and I'll say to
her, 'Mrs. Tootle, ma'am, you seem to forget
that I'm a gentleman, and have a gentleman's
susceptibilities. When I treat you with disrespect,
ma'am, pray tell me of ut, and I'll
inform you you speak an untruth ! ' "

Waymark smiled, with the result that the
expression of furious wrath immediately passed
from his colleague's countenance, giving place to
a broad grin.

Waymark, look here ! " exclaimed the Irishman,
snatching up a piece of chalk, and proceeding
to design certain outlines rapidly upon
the slate over the mantelpiece. " Here's Tootle,
a veritable Goliath ; — here's me, as it were David.
Observe ; Tootle holds in his hand his ' little
compendium,' raised in haughty superciliousness.

Observe me with the ruler ! — I am on tiptoe ; I
am taking aim ; there is wrath in every sinew
of my arum ! My arum descends on the very
centre of Tootle's bald pate," — ,

Mr. O'Gree ! "

The tableau was most effective. Unnoticed
by either the Irishman or Waymark, the door
had opened behind them, and there had appeared
a little, scraggy, red-faced woman, dressed in
faded green, with a dirty red wrapper about
her shoulders. It was Mrs. Tootle. She had
overheard almost the whole of O'Gree's vivid
comment upon his graphic illustration, in silence,
until at length she could hold her peace no
longer, and gave utterance to the teacher's
name in a voice which trembled with rage and
mortification.

Mr. O'Gree ! Are you aware of my presence,
sir?"

The chalk dropped from O'Gree's fingers, but
otherwise his attitude remained unaltered ;
struck motionless with horror, he stood pointing
to the drawing on the slate, his face pale, his
eyes fascinated by those of Mrs. Tootle. The

latter proceeded in a high note, and with much
violence of utterance.

"Well, sir, as soon as you have had enough of
your insulting buffoonery, perhaps you will have
the goodness to attend to me, and to your duty !
What do you mean by allowing the dormitories
to get into this state of uproar ? There's been a
pillow-fight going on for the last half-hour, and
you pay no sort of attention ; the very house is
shaking ! I suppose you would have me go in
among a lot of naked youths, and establish
order ! Attend to your duty, sir, this minute ! "

I — I — I will, ma'am," stammered poor
O'Gree, utterly cowed. " I protest I had not
heard a sound, ma'am, or I should have "

Perhaps you hear nothing now, sir, — and
the doctor suffering from one of his very worst
headaches, utterly unable to rest even if the
house were perfectly quiet ! "

O'Gree darted to the door, past Mrs. Tootle,
and was lost to sight. There was indeed a
desperate uproar in the higher regions of the
house. In a moment the noise increased considerably.
O'Gree had rushed up without a

light, and was battling desperately in the darkness
with a score of pillow-fighters, roaring out
threats the while at the top of his voice. Mrs.
Tootle retired from the masters' room with much
affectation of dignity, leaving the door open
behind her.

Waymark slammed it to, and turned with a
laugh to the poor Swiss.

In low spirits to-night, I'm afraid, Mr.
Egger ? "

Egger let his chair tilt forward, rose slowly,
drew the handkerchief from his mouth and wiped
his eyes with it, then exclaimed, in the most
pitiful voice, —

Mr. Waymark, I have made my possible ! —
I can no more ! "

It was his regular phrase on these occasions ;
Waymark had always much ado to refrain from
laughter when he heard it repeated, but he did
his best to be seriously sympathetic, and to
attempt consolation in such German as was at
his command. Egger's despondency only increased,
and he wept afresh to hear accents
which were intelligible to him: Mr. O'Gree

VOL. I. M

re-entered the room, and the Swiss retired to his
corner.

Philip was hot with excitement and bodily
exertion ; he came in mopping his forehead, and,
without turning to Wayniark, stood with eyes
fixed on the chalk caricatures. Very gradually
he turned round. Waymark was watching
him, on his face an expression of subdued
mirth. Their looks met, and both exploded
in laughter.

'' Bead, my boy," exclaimed O'Gree, '' I'm
devilish sorry ! I wouldn't have had it happen
for a quarter's salary, — though I sadly need a
new pair of breeches. She's a supercilious cat-mountain,
and she loses no opportunity of
insulting me, but after all she's a woman. D'ye
think she heard all I said ? "

'' Every word, no doubt."

Bah ! " cried the other, reddening more than
ever with very shame. " I'm always up to some
fool's trick ! I must apologize to her ; upon my
soul. I must apologize ! Was ever such infernal
luck ! "

Apologize ? Humbug. On the whole ita

very good joke. It was only anticipating your
revenge a little."

Ay, but — well, there's something mean in
ridiculing people behind their backs ; isn't there,
now ? I must apologize, my boy."

Waymark with some difficulty succeeded in
persuading the sensitive Irishman that by far
the pleasantness thing for all concerned would be
to make no further reference to the matter.
O'Gree acquiesced at last, but was crestfallen fora
quarter of an hour longer.

*' Gone, Mr. Egger," said Waymark, in German,
turning to the corner of woe, '* let's have
some music, please. One or two of the old
favourites. Try this tobacco, O'Gree ; it's a
fresh kind, and will suit you."

*' Thanks, my boy. Tell you what, I must
really have a glass of beer, to take the taste of
that episode out of my mouth. Monsieur Egger,
on are de beer, nest-ce pas ? Cela vous conn
courage, nest-ce pas? Cheer uip, ??W7i ami!
Quoi dites-vous pour ' cheer up ' ? "

Egger smiled dolefully, but allowed himself
to be drawn out of the corner. Philip himself

M 2

set off for the beer. His mode of procedure was
to go on tip-toe to the top of the kitchen-steps,
and, standing there, call very gently to some one
below.

'•' Susan ! Susan, my dear ! Susan, my angel !
Hush ; the quart jug, my beloved, if you please.
And three glasses, Susan, there's a good crater."

These requisites were forthcoming, and in a
few minutes our friend returned from across
the way, bringing a jug full of foaming liquor.
The first draught put Philip into his normal
spirits.

"By the bye, Waymark," he exclaimed,
what a stunner the new governess is ! You're
a lucky dog, to sit in the same room with her.
What's her name, I say ? "

Miss Enderby. You've seen her, have you ?"

I caught a glimpse of her as she came downstairs
; it was quite enough ; she floored me.
I'd stand on my head for half an hour to look
at her for two minutes. What grace of motion !
What divine eyes ! What a turn of the head !
i' If ever she passes me again, I shall fall down
and worship her, I know I, shall. She's never

been out of my thoughts for a minute since I
saw her. ' I love her, I love her, and who shall
dare, to chide me for loving that teacher fair ! ' "

"Well, yes," said Waymark, "she has a
tolerable face ; seems to me a long way too good
to be teaching those unlicked cubs. The dragon
wasn't too civil to her, though it was the first
day."

Not civil to her ? If I were present, and
heard that woman breathe the slightest incivility,
I'd—"

He broke off in the midst of his vehemence
with a startled look towards the door, and the
rest of his sentence was buried in another
draught of the cheering liquor.

Mr. Egger," he exclaimed, " a song ; I beg,
a song. Come, I'll lead off.

Miss Enderby hath a beaming eye ' —

Bah ! I'm not in voice to-night."

Egger was persuaded to sit down to the piano.
It was a mournful instrument, reduced to discordant
wheeziness by perennial five-finger
exercises, but the touch of the Swiss could still

evoke from it some kind of harmony. He sang
a Volkslied, and in a way which showed that
there was poetry in the man's nature, though
his outward appearance gave so little promise
of it. His voice was very fair, and well suited
to express the tender pathos of these inimitable
melodies. Way mark always enjoyed this singing
; his eyes brightened, and a fine emotion
played about his lips. It was an inspiration
to him. As he listened, his brain filled with
rich fancies ; the ambitions, which at times
grew feeble before his natural love of ease,
stirred themselves strongly within him. At
such moments he made resolutions of desperate
energy, and felt capable of carrying them into
effect. At the same time, the songs woke the
passionate elements of his nature, and made
him chafe in the bonds of his sordid life. There
was that within Osmond Waymark which accorded
ill with the position made for him by
circumstances.

His favourite song was also that which the
Swiss liked best and sang with most feeling ;
a well-known Swabian melody.

Wenn\'i Mailufterl welt, geld im Walt drauss^ der Sclinee^
Da lien haue Verger die Kopferl in d'Hoh,
Und Vogel die g'schlafn liaVn durcli d' Interest
Die tcerd'n wider hunter, und singer vol Freud*

*^ Jed's Jalir kommt der Filling, list d^ Winter vorbet,
Der Mensch aber hat nur ein einzigen Mai.
Die ScliwalVn liege iveit fort, docli zieh'n wider Tier ;
Der Mensch went er fortgelit, der kommt nimmermehrP

Way mark was silent after this had been sung,
and very shortly took his leave. And as he
walked along the dark ways to his lodgings,
Egger s voice was still in his ears, singing the
sad refrain :

'' Der Mensch went er forget, der kommt nimmermehrJ*

Heaven be thanked, no ! " the young man
said to himself. "Most of us could well
dispense with the one life ; how few would
come back from their rest and begin it over
again ! "

This, then, was the routine which occupied
Waymark's days. Poverty was his familiar
companion, and had been so for years. His
rent paid each week, there often remained a
sum quite insufficient for the absolute necessities

of existence ; for anything more, he had to look
to chance pupils in the evenings, and what little
he could earn with his pen. He wrote constantly,
but as yet had only succeeded in getting
two articles printed. That he possessed literary
powers of some kind or other, he knew quite
well ; but, as he said, the path was not yet hit
upon, the true note had not yet been struck.
He wrote at present the kind of thing known as
padding " ; his two published articles were more
or less pleasantly patched-up essays on popular
authors, but he was well aware that criticism
was not his direction. These occasional windfalls
of precious guineas ought to have been hoarded
against the ever-recurring periods of privation,
but to do so required a self-denial he did not possess.
For one thing, the second-hand book-stalls
always proved a fatal temptation ; in this way he
had little by little scraped together his three or
1 four hundred volumes. Then, it was a necessity
of his existence to mix from time to time in
the life of the town, and a stroll into the Strand
after nightfall inevitably led to the expenditure
of whatever cash his pocket contained. He was

passionately fond of the theatre ; the lights about
the open entrance drew him on irresistibly, and
if, as so often, he had to choose between a meal
and a seat in the gallery, the meal was sacrificed.
Hunger, indeed, was his normal state ; semi-starvation,
alternating with surfeits of cheap and
unwholesome food, brought about an unhealthy
condition of body, and laid the foundations of
numberless constitutional ailments. Often lie
returned to Walcot Square from his day-long
drudgery, and threw himself upon the bed, too
exhausted to light a fire and make his tea, —
for he was his own servant in all things except
the weekly cleaning-out of the room. Those
were dark hours, and they had to be struggled
through in solitude.

Weary as he was he seldom went to bed
before midnight, sometimes long after, for he
clung to those few hours of freedom with something
like savage obstinacy ; during this small
portion of each day at least he would possess
his own soul, be free to think and read. Then
came the penalty of anguish unutterable when
the mornings had to be faced. These dark,

foggy February mornings crushed him with a
recurring misery which often drove him to the
verge of mania. His head throbbing with the
torture of insufficient sleep, he lay in dull
half conscious misery till there was no longer
time to prepare breakfast, and he had to hasten
off to school after a mouthful of dry bread
which choked him. There had been moments
when his strength failed, and he found his eyes
filling with tears of wretchedness. To face the
hideous drudgery of the day's teaching often cost
him more than it had cost many men to face
the scaffold ; — let those smile at this as an exaggeration
who are so happy as never to have
earned their bread by labour they loathed.
The hours between nine and one, the hours
between half-past two and five, Waymark cursed
them minute by minute, as their awful length
was registered by the crawling hands of the
school-clock. He tried sometimes in mere self-defence,
to force himself into an interest in his
work, that the time might go the quicker;
but the effort was miserably vain. His senses
reeled amid the din and rattle of classes where

discipline was unknown and intelligence almost
indiscoverable. Not seldom his temper got
the better even of sick lassitude ; his face at
such times paled with passion, and in ungoverned
fury he raved at his tormentors. He
awed them, too, but only for the moment, and
the waste of misery swallowed him up once
more.

Was this to be his life ? — he asked himself.
Would this last for ever ?

For some reason, the morning after the visit
to the masters' room just spoken of found him in
rather better spirits than usual. Perhaps it was
that he had slept fairly well ; a gleam of unwonted
sunshine had doubtless something to do
with it. Yet there was another reason, though
he would scarcely admit it to himself. It was
the day on which he gave a drawing-lesson to
Dr. Tootle's two eldest children. These drawing-lessons
were always given in the room up-stairs,
which has already been mentioned ; which room
was also appropriated to the governess who came
every morning to teach three other young
Tootles, two girls and a boy, the latter considered

not yet old enough to go into the school,
though he was nearly nine, and as robust a
young ragamuffin as well could be. On the
previous day, Waymark had been engaged in the
room for half an hour touching up some drawings
of boys in the school, which were about to be
sent home. He knew that he should find a
fresh governess busy with the children, the lady
hitherto employed having gone at a moment's
notice after a violent quarrel with Mrs. Tootle,
an incident which had happened not infrequently
before. When he entered the room, he
saw a young woman seated with her back to
him, penning a copy, whilst the children jumped
and rioted about her in their usual fashion. The
late governess had been a mature person of
features rather serviceable than handsome ; that
her successor was of a different type appeared
sufficiently from the fair round head, the gracefully
bended neck, the perfect shoulders, the
slight, beautiful form. Waymark took his place
and waited with some curiosity till she moved.
When she did so, and, rising, suddenly became
aware of his presence, there was a little start on

both sides ; Miss Enderby — so AVaymark soon
heard her called by the pupils — had not been
aware, owing to the noise, of a stranger's entrance,
and Way mark on his side was so struck
with the face presented to him. He had
expected, at the most, a pretty girl of the
commonplace kind : he saw a countenance in
which refinement was as conspicuous as rare
beauty. She was probably not more than
eighteen or nineteen. The face was pale and
somewhat thin, the features small and of exquisite
delicacy ; her eyes had a curious purple
tinge, which corresponded with the deep chestnut
of her hair. Some would have thought the forehead
too large and prominent, or perhaps, the
lips too undecided ; these faults seemed to show
themselves especially in moments of thoughtfulness,
when there was an eager, painfully
anxious gaze on the face, the explanation of
which would clearly have to be sought in circumstances
of life. In speaking with the
children she rarely if ever smiled, but exhibited
a gentle forbearance which had something
touching in it; it was almost as though she

appealed for gentleness in return, and feared a
harsh word or look.

"That's Mr. Waymark," cried out Master
Percy Tootle, the youth of nine, when his over-quick
eyes perceived that the two had seen each
other. " He's our drawing-master. Do you like
the look of him ? "

Miss Enderby reddened, and laid her hand on
the boy's arm, trying to direct his attention to a
book. But the youngster shook off her gentle
touch, and looked at his brothers and sisters
with a much too knowing grin. Way mark had
contented himself with a slight bow, and at once
bent again over his work.

Very shortly the two eldest children, both
girls, came in, and with them their mother.
The latter paid no attention to Way mark, but
proceeded to cross-examine the new governess as
to her methods of teaching, her experience, and
so on, in the coarse and loud manner which
, characterized Mrs. Tootle. Miss Enderby replied
(. in a low voice and timidly.

You'll find my children clever," said Mrs.
Tootle, " at least that has been the opinion of all

their teachers hitherto. If they don't make
progress, it certainly will not be their own fault.
At the same time, they are high-spirited, and
require to be discreetly managed. This, as I
previously informed you, must be done without
the help of punishment in any shape ; I disapprove
of those methods altogether. Now let
me hear you give them a lesson in geography."

Waymark retired at this juncture ; he felt

that it would be nothing less than cruelty to

remain. The episode, however, had lightened

his day with an interest of a very unusual kind.

And so it was that, on the following morning,

not only the gleam of watery sunshine, but also

the thought of an hour to be spent in the

presence of that strange, timid face, brought him

on his way to the school with an unwonted

resignation. Unfortunately his drawing lessons

were only given on two mornings in the week.

Still, there would be something in future to look

forward to, a novel sensation at the Academy.

CHAPTER IV.

THIS Picture AND THAT.

Harriet Smales had left home in a bad
temper that Sunday afternoon, and when she
came back to tea, after her walk with Julian,
her state of mind did not appear to have undergone
any improvement. She took her place at
the tea-table in silence. She and Mrs. Ogle
were alone this evening ; the latter's husband —
he was a journeyman printer, and left entirely
in his wife's hands the management of the shop
in Gray's Inn Road — happened to be away.
Mrs. Ogle was a decent, cheerful woman of
motherly appearance. She made one or two
attempts to engage Harriet in conversation,
but, failing, subsided into silence, only looking
askance at the girl from time to time. When
she had finished her tea and bread-and-butter.

Harriet coughed, and, without facing her companion,
spoke in rather a cold way.

I may be late back to-night, Mrs. Ogle.
You won't lock the door ? "

I shan't go to bed till eleven myself," was
the reply.

But it may be after twelve when I get back."

Where are you going to, Harriet 1 "

'* If you must know always, Mrs. Ogle, Fm
going to see my friend in Westminster."

Well, it ain't no business of mine, my girl,"
returned the woman, not unkindly, " but I think
it's only right I should have some idea where
you spend your nights. As long as you live
in my house, Fm responsible for you, in a way."

I don't want any one to be responsible forme,
Mrs. Ogle."

'* Maybe not, my girl. But young people
ain't always the best judges of what's good for
them, and what isn't. I don't think your cousin
'ud approve of your being out so late. I shall
sit up for you, and you mustn't be after twelve."

It was said very decidedly. Harriet made no
reply, but speedily dressed and went out. She

VOL. I. N

walked by the nearest cuts to Westminster, and
sought a neighbourhood which most decently
dressed people would have been chary of entering
after nightfall, or indeed at any other time,
unless compelled to do so. The little streets
along which she passed familiarly were almost
within the shadow of the Abbey, yet it would
not have been easy to match them for noisome
less and horror in any obscurest part of London.
During the last few years a considerable portion
of the ground has been cleared and rebuilt
upon, but there still remain in the locality
very favourable samples of the things that
were. The girl found the object of her walk
in a dirty little public-house at the corner of
two foul and narrow by-ways ; the name of
this place of entertainment was the Clock House,
due to the fact of there being a clock above the
doorway for public inspection. She entered by a
private door, and passed into a parlour, which
was behind the bar.

A woman was sitting in the room, beguiling
her leisure with a Sunday paper. She was
dressed with vulgar showiness, and made a lavish

display of jewellery, more or less valuable ; there'
were seven rings divided between both hands,
a bracelet on one arm, a silver necklet, a long
o[old watch-chain. She illustrated herein the
practice so common among women in her
position, who prefer this mode of investing
spare cash, seeing that it most readily allows
of realization at any moment, at the same* time
satisfying their personal vanity. The coarseness
of her face quite corresponded with her attire.
Indirectly, she has already come under our
notice ;/ eight years ago she was a servant in
Mr. Smales's house, and her name was Sarah.
She had married in the mean while, and become
Mrs. Prowl.

She welcomed her visitor with a friendly nod,
but did not rise.

T thought it likely you'd look in, as you
missed last week. How's things going' in your
part o' the world ? "

Very badly," returned Harriet, throwing off
her hat and cloak, and going to warm her hands
and feet at the fire. " It won't last much longer,
that's the truth of it."

Eh well, it's all in a life ; we all has our
little trials an' troubles, as the say in' is."

How's the baby ? " asked Harriet, looking
towards a bundle of wrappers which lay on a
sofa.

"I doubt it's too good for this world,"
returned the mother, grinning in a way
which made her ugly face peculiarly revolting.
Essay it'll join its little brother an' sister
before long. Mike put it in the club yes'day."

The burial-club, Mrs. Sprowl meant, and'
Harriet evidently understood the allusion.

Have you walked ? " went on the woman,
doubling up her paper, and then throwing it
aside. 'edessa you could do with something
to take the cold orff yer chest. — Liz," she
called out to some one behind the bar, with
which the parlour communicated by an open
door ; 'two Irish !"

The glasses were brought in by a young girl
whose look suggested feeble-mindedness, if not
idiocy. She smiled constantly in a vacant
manner, and moved her head about fantastically.
At present she seemed to be suffering from the

result of some accident ; her face was all marked
with recent scratches and scars, which disfigured
her horribly.

Why, what's come to you, Liz ? " asked
Harriet, on seeing her. " What have you been
doing with your face ? "

Gravel-rash," put in Mrs. Sprowl, with a
laugh, whilst the girl herself only nodded and
smiled.

Don't you know what that means ? " she
went on, as Harriet looked puzzled. '' Liz got
a drop too much thither night, — didn't you,
Liz ? — and she didn't know no better than let
herself be robbed by a chap, down in Smith
Street. It was rough on poor Liz, an' she got
thirty, an' kicked up a row, an' gave a chap as
was standing' by one for himself; but it was the
wrong chap, an' she was run in. She made a
good fight, did Liz, and the copper had his job
to take her, but he tripped her up, an' so she
copped the gravel-rash, you see."

Harriet laughed at this entertaining story,
mixing her whisky with hot water the while.
The poor creature who was the object of Mrs.

Sprowl's mirth looked on, proud of being thus
noticed.

"Liz is getting' starchy, Harriet," the humorous
lady went on ; *' she's got a soldier for her
walking-stick now ; ain't you, Liz ? Ho, ho,
ho!"

Somebody called out from the bar, and the girl
ran off to attend on customers. In a moment
she reappeared in the doorway, and looked at
Mrs. Sprowl with a wink and a peculiar motion
of the thumb over her shoulder. The woman at
once started up and went into the bar. Leaning
on the counter, in one of the compartments, was
something which a philanthropist might perhaps
have had the courage to still claim as a human
being ; to all appearances it represented some
loathsome monstrosity all the more fearful from
its distant resemblance to a man. A very tall
creature, with bent shoulders, and head seemingly
growing straight out of its chest ; thick,
grizzled hair hiding almost every vestige of
feature, with the exception of one dreadful red
eye, its fellow being dead and sightless. It had
laid on the counter, with palms downward as if

concealing something, two huge hairy paws.
Its clothing, if the word can be used, was a'
huddled mass of vilest rags. Its presence
was pollution to all the senses ; the air grew
foul around it, as it breathed with the heavy
snorting of a beast. Mrs. Sprowl seemed familiar
with the appearance of this object ; she addressed
it rather bad-temperedly, but otherwise
much as she would have spoken to any other
customer.

No you don't, Slimy ! No you don't !
What you have in this house you pay for in
coppers, so you know. Next time I catch you
train' to ring the changes, I'll have you run in,
and then you'll get a warm bath, which you
wouldn't particular care for."

The creature spoke, in hoarse, jumbled words
not easy to catch unless you listened closely.

If you've any occasion to make again me,
Mrs. Sprowl, perhaps you'll wait till you can
prove it. I want change for ars a suvrin : ain't
that straight, now ? "

"Straight or not, you won't get no change
over this counter, so there you've the straight

tip. Now sling yer 'took, Slimy, an' get it
somewhere else."

If you've any occasion to make," —

Hold yer noise ! — What's he ordered,
Liz?"

Pot o' old six," answered the girl.

'* Got sixpence. Slimy ? "

"No, I ain't, Mrs. Sprowl," muttered the
creature. "I've got ars a suvrin," —

Then go an' get change for it. Now, once
more, sling yer 'took."

The object moved away, sending back a
horrible glare from its one fiery eyeball. It
disappeared through the swinging door.

Mrs. Sprowl re-entered the parlour, and quietly
resumed her conversation.

I wish you'd take me on as barmaid, Sarah,"
Harriet said, when she had drunk off her glass
of spirits.

"Take you on?" exclaimed the other, with
surprise. " Why, have you fallen out with your
cousin ? I thought you was going' to be married
soon."

I didn't say for sure that I was ; I only said

I might be. Any way it won't be just yet, and
I'm tired of my place in the shop."

Don't you be a fool, Harriet," said the other,
with genial frankness. " You're well enough
off. You stick where you are till you get
married. You wouldn't make nothing' at our
business ; 'ain't all sugar an' lemon, an' sitting'
drinking' twos o' whisky till further orders. You
want a quiet, easy business, you do, an' you've
got it. If you keep worritin' herself this way,
you won't never make old bones, an' that's the
truth. You wait a bit, an' give yer cousin
a chance to art you, — if that's what you're
troubling' about."

I've given him lots o' chances," said Harriet,
peevishly.

Eh well, give him lots more, an' it'll all come
right. We're all born, but we're not buried —
Hev' another Irish ? "

Harriet allowed herself to be persuaded to
take another glass. She continued sitting in the
parlour all through the evening, at times being
quitted by Mrs. Sprowl, who was occasionally
wanted at the bar. The frequenters of the

Clock House, especially on Sunday night, were
not remarkable for orderliness or self-restraint,
and the landlady had frequent opportunity fur
exercising the loud voice and authoritative
manner which were her most useful endowments.
When the miserable little baby on the sofa
woke up, at some rather more furious outbreak
in the bar, and began to whine from amid its
smothering wrappers, Harriet took it on her
lap, and seemed to find a sort of pleasure in
nursing it into quietness again.

When the clock pointed to half-past nine, she
rose and prepared to depart. Leave-taking,
however, could not be satisfactorily got through
without yet another glass of spirits ; thus fortified,
Harriet left the house. She had told Mrs.
Sprowl that she would take the 'bus and go
straight home : but something seemed to have
led her to alter her purpose, for she made her
way to Westminster Bridge, and crossed the
river. Then she made some inquiries of a
policeman, and, in consequence, got into a Kennington
omnibus. Very shortly she was set down
close by Walcot Square. She walked about till.

with some difficulty in the darkness, she had
discovered the number at which Julian had told
her his friend lived. The house found, she
began to pace up and down on the opposite
pavement, always keeping her eyes fixed on
the same door. She was soon shivering in the
cold night air, and quickened her walk. It
was rather more than an hour before at
length the door she was watching opened, and-our
two friends came out together. Harriet
followed them as closely as she could, until she
saw that she herself was observed. Thereupon
she walked away, and, by a circuit, ultimately
came back into the main road, where she took
a 'bus going northwards.

Having seen how Harriet liked to spend her
free evenings, let us turn our attention to her
cousin, and observe him one nis^ht after the
shop is closed and he is at liberty to follow his
own inclinations. By the special favour of his
employer, he is allowed to have a fire in his
bedroom, and here he sits, the world shut out,
his thoughts living in long past times, rebuilding

the ruins of a fallen Empire. What matter that
all day long he stands behind a counter and
dispenses drugs, is familiar with the pharmacopoeia,
applies his wits to the deciphering of
fashionable doctors' crabbed prescriptions ? The
lamp in his bedroom is as powerful as that
possessed by Aladdin ; once lit, it creates for
him a magic world. A shade concentrates its
glow upon the fair pages of enchanted volumes ;
at other times, upon sheets of paper which are
slowly covered with writing in Julian's clear,
fine hand.

When he was eighteen, the lad had the good
luck to light upon a copy of Gibbon in a secondhand
book-shop, the price only six shillings.
It was the first edition ; six noble quarto
volumes, clean and firm in the old bindings.
Often he had turned longing eyes upon newer
copies of the great book, but the price had
always put them beyond his reach. Six shillings,
however, he could and did afford, paying
the money down with palpitating heart and
hands which trembled visibly. The bookseller
made two parcels for him, three volumes in

each, and these he carried off in a state of
exaltation not easily conceived. The weight —
no slight one — was nothing to him ; he hurried
along as though unburdened, and reached home
with the perspiration streaming from every pore.
Heavens ! the joy of that first half-hour, spent
in turning over the creamy pages, catching here
and there names which as yet were little more
than names, getting the first ravishing glimpses
of a marvellous new land, with the assured
promise of a rich share in all its milk and
honey ! That very night he solemnly laid open
the first volume at the first page, propping it
on a couple of meaner books, and, after glancing
through the short Preface, began to read with
a mind as devoutly disposed as that of any most
pious believer poring upon his Bible. " In the
second century of the Christian era, the empire
of Rome comprehended the fairest part of the
earth, and the most civilized portion of mankind.
The frontiers of that extensive monarchy were
guarded by ancient renown aud disciplined
valour." With what a grand epic roll, with
what anticipations of solemn music, did the

noble history begin ! Far, far into the night
Julian turned over page after page, thoughtless
of sleep and the commonplace duties of the
morrow. His soul was strong within him;
grand possibilities visioned themselves before
his mind's eye. All that he read converted
itself into poetry ; the driest details of law,
administration, finance, became indispensable
chords in the grand hymn ; history and prophecy
blended in harmony deep and sweet as that of
the morning stars when they sang together.

Since then Julian had mastered his Gibbon,
knew him from end to end, and toyed in him
more than ever. Whenever he had a chance of
obtaining any of the writers, ancient or modern,
to whom Gibbon refers, he read them and added
to his knowledge. About a year ago, he had
picked up an old Claudia, and the reading of
the poet had settled him to a task which he had
before that doubtfully sought. He wanted to
write either a poem or a drama on some subject
taken from the ' Decline and Fall,' and now,
with Claudia's help, he fixed upon Stilicho for
his hero. The form, he then decided, should be

dramatic. Upon ' Stilicho ' he had now been
engaged for a year, and to-night he is writing
the last words of the last scene. Shortly after
twelve he has finished it, and, throwing down his
pen, paces about the room with enviable feelings.
He had not as yet mentioned to Waymark
the work he was engaged upon, though he had
confessed that he wrote verses at times. He
wished to complete it, and then read it to* his
friend. It was now only the middle of the
week, and though he had decided previously to
wait till his visit to Walcot Square next Sunday
before saying a word about * Stilicho,* he could
not refrain now from hastily penning a note to
Waymark, and going out to post it at once. It
was merely to say that he had just completed
a play he had been writing, and would ask
Waymark to let him read it aloud when they
met on Sunday. To this there came an answer
on the following day, a line or two in Waymark's
heartiest vein, anticipating joyfully the treat
that was offered him. Julian felt that all his
delights in the achievement were doubled by
the possession of this sympathetic friend.

When the day came, the weather would not
allow the usual walk with Harriet, and Julian
could not help feeling glad that it was so. He
was too pre-occupied to talk in the usual way
with the girl, and he knew how vain it would
be to try and make her understand his state of
mind. Still, he went to see her as usual, and
sat for an hour in Mrs. Ogle's parlour. At
times, throughout the week, he had thought of
the curious resemblance between Harriet and
the girl he had noticed on leaving Waymark's
house last Sunday, and now he asked her, in a
half-jesting way, whether it had really been
she.

How could it be ? " said Harriet, carelessly.
'' I can't be in two places at once."

'' Did you stay at home that evening ? "

^' No, — not all the evening."

What friends are they you go to, when you
are out at night, Harriet ? "

Oh, some relations of the Colchester people.
I suppose you've been spending most of your
time in Kennington since Sunday ? "

I haven't left home. In fact, IVe been

very busy. I've just finished some work that
has occupied me for nearly a year."

After all, he could not refrain from speaking
of it, though he had made up his mind not todo
so.

'' Work ? What work ? " asked Harriet, with
the suspicious look which came into her grey
eyes whenever she heard something she could
not understand.

Some writing. I've written a play."

A play'? Will it be acted ? "

Oh no, it isn't meant for acting."

What's the good of it then ? "

It's written in verse. I shall perhaps try
to get it published.

Shall you get money for it ? "

"That is scarcely likely. In all probability
1 shall not be able to get it printed at all."

Then what's the good of it ? " repeated
Harriet, still suspicious, and a little contemptuous.

'' It has given me pleasure, that's all."

Julian was glad when at length he could take

this leave. He rode to Kennington, both on

account of the weather and to save time. Way-vol.
I. o

mark received him with a pleased smile, and
much questioning.

'' I took it for granted,'^ he said, " that it
would be historical and poetical. Why did you
keep it such a secret ? I shall try my hand
at a play some day or other, but, as you can
guess, the material will scarcely be sought in
Gibbon. It will be desperately modern, and
possibly not altogether in accordance with the
views of the Lord Chamberlain. What's the
time ? Four o'clock. We'll have a cup of coffee
and then fall to. I'm desperately eager to hear
your ' deep-chested music,' your * hollow does and
aes.' Where do you lay the opening scene ? "

The reading took some three hours ; Waymark
smoked a vast number of pipes the while, and
was silent till the close. Then he got up from
his easy-chair, took a step forward, and held
out his hand. His face glowed with the
frankest enthusiasm.

By Jeroboam the son of Neat ! " he exclaimed,
with a strange oath frequently on his
lips. " If I had written that tragedy, I should
think myself of no small account among the

sons of men ! You are a poet, my boy, and
that of no mean stamp ! Does your worthy
employer know whom he has got behind his
counter? Some day that chemist's shop will
be an object of pilgrimages, mark my word." ^ ^

He could not express himself with sufficient
vehemence. Julian sat, with the manuscript
rolled up in his hands, on his face a glow of
unconcealed delight.

It's very kind of you to speak in this way,"
he faltered at length.

Kind ! How the deuce should I speak ?
But come, we will have this off to a publisher's
forthwith. Shall you need to make another
copy first ? "

'' Do you think there is the least chance
of any one accepting it ? "

That I can't say. But in any case it shall
not be our fault if your light remains under
a bushel. We'll post it off to Walker and
Bright ; they are the most likely men, I
should think."

I have heard," said Julian, '' that poetry
is not generally very welcome to publishers."



No more is anything that is not likely to
tickle the ear of Gath and make rumours in
the streets of Skelton. Oh, we must of course
be prepared for all manner of disappointments.
Heaven forbid that I should set you dreaming
of Ormuz and of Ind, — "

I care nothing for money results," broke
in Julian, very honestly ; " but I should like
to see it printed."

Of course you would ! Confound you, Castii,
why don't you smoke ? Now a pipe together
would make our fellowship complete. Well,
We'll brew another cup of coffee. No, we'll
have some ale, a foaming flagon from the tap
round the corner. I shall have to fetch it
myself, but never mind ; perish respectability,
after such an evening as this ! "

The ale was procured, and Waymark drank
success to the poem.

You will infect me with your own energy,"
he exclaimed, 'sand ultimately compel me todo
something. By the Lord, I grow old ;
if I don't mind, the working time of life
will have gone by unused. It's my cursed

bondage that takes all the spirit out of me, and
leaves me fit for nothing each night but railing
and despondency. Your position is enviable
in comparison ; at least so it seems to me.
Anything would be preferable to this cursed
gerund-grinding. I shall throw it up one day,
and let the morrow look out for itself. And
what should I do if I were free ? You have
no experience of this uncertainty as to • your
true path ; you go at the thing which has
attracted you since boyhood, and you succeed.
Have you any ideas for the next work ? "

Yes ; but so daring that they hardly bear
putting into words."

Try the effect on me."

I have even thought," said Julian, with
embarrassment, " of a very long poem — in fact,
an Epic. I should like to take this huge fact
of the fall of the Western Empire and somehow
deal with it in an Epic. Virgil wrote of the
founding of Rome ; her dissolution is a grander
subject. It would mean years of preparation,
and again years in the writing. How glorious
to give one's life to the task ! "

Verily, a work not to be raised from the
heat of youth, or the vapours of wine. Who
knows what you may perform ! It is time that
the world gave birth to another Epic ; we have
had enough of fragmentary story-telling and
ineffectual gamesters."

There was high talk in Walcot Square that
evening. All unknown to its other worthy inhabitants,
the poor lodging-house was converted
into a temple of the Muses, and harmonies as
from the lyre of Apollo's self throbbed in the
hearts of the two friends. The future was their
inexhaustible subject, the seed-plot of strange
hopes and desires. Good, for one at least of
them, that the book of fate was hidden. Good,
perhaps, for all of us, and in seeming kindness.
But there comes a moment when " the page
prescribed " is the last page, and the anguish of
retrospect, though it endure but a moment,
will outweigh all the baseless glories of by-gone
days.

CHAPTER V.

THE WAY OUT.

The ruling spirit of the Academy was Mrs.
Tootle. Her husband's constitutional headache,
and yet more constitutional laziness, left to her
almost exclusively the congenial task of guiding
the household, and even of disciplining the
school. When she headed one of the tables
at meal-times, she had by her side a little
note-book, with a pencil, and herein she noted
'* impositions " against the names of such boys
as happened to make themselves personally
objectionable to her. In lesson-time she would
even flit about the class-rooms, and not scruple
to administer sharp rebukes to a teacher whose
pupils were disorderly, the effect of this naturally
beinsr to make confusion worse confounded. The
boys of course hated her with the hatred of

which schoolboys alone are capable, and many
a practical joke was played at her expense, not,
however, with impunity. Still more pronounced,
if possible, was the animus entertained against
Mrs. Tootle's offspring. These youngsters, male
and female, feeling secure in their mother's protection,
indulged themselves in a haughtiness of
demeanour towards all and sundry which was
very edifying. Even the youngest, a little girl
of four, would cry out at dinner, " Ma, Thompson
making faces at me; punish Thompson"; and
when Thompson had his hundred lines duly
entered in the note-book, his feeling towards
,[jhe cherub may be faintly imagined. J But it
was upon the head of Master Felix Tootle, the
boy of nine, that the full energy of detestation
concentrated itself. He was, in truth, as offensive
a young imp as the soil of a middle-class
boarding-school could well produce. If Mrs.
Tootle ruled the Academy, he in turn ruled
Mrs. Tootle, and on all occasions showed himself
a most exemplary autocrat. His position, however,
as in the case of certain other autocratic
rulers, had its disadvantages ; he could never

venture to wander out of ear-shot of his father
or mother, who formed his body-guard, and the
utmost prudence did not suffice to protect him
from an occasional punch on the head, or a nip
in a tender part, meant probably as earnest of
more substantial kindnesses to be conferred upon
him at the very earliest opportunity.

To poor Egger fell the pleasant duty of instructing
these young Tootles in the elements
of the French language. For that purpose he
went up every morning to the class-room on the
first floor, and for a while relieved Miss Enderby
of her charge. With anguish of spirit he felt
the approach of the moment which summoned
him to this dread duty, for, in addition to
the lively spite of Master Felix and the other
children, he had to face the awful superintendence
of Mrs. Tootle herself, who was invariably
present at these lessons. Mrs. Tootle had somehow
conceived the idea that French was a second
mother-tongue to her, and her intercourse with
Mr. Egger was invariably carried on in that
language. Now this was a refinement of torture,
seeing that it was often impossible to gather

a meaning from her remarks, whilst to show
any such difficulty was to incur her most furious
wrath. Egger trembled when he heard the
rustle of her dress outside, the perspiration
stood on his forehead as he rose and bowed
before her.

Bon jour, Monsieur," she would come in
exclaiming. *' Quel un beau matin ! Vous trouverez
les jeunes dames et messieurs en bons
esprits ce matin."

The spirits of Master Felix had manifested
themselves already in his skilfully standing a
book upright on the teacher's chair, so that
when Egger subsided from his obeisance he sat
down on a sharp edge and was thrown into
confusion.

Monsieur Felix," cried his mother, " que
faites-vous la ? — Les jeunes messieurs anglais
sont plus spirituels que les jeunes messieurs
suisses, n'est ce pas, Monsieur Egger ? "

En effet, madame," muttered the teacher,
nervously arranging his books.

Mademoiselle Josephine, montrez a Monsieur
Eao^er votre exercice. II faut vous informer,

Monsieur, que cette exercise a eu le bienfait demes
corrections. Vous Observes, n'est-ce pas ? "

Egger would not for his life have dared, after
this, to hint at a single fault in the composition,
though scarcely a word of it was correct. He
ran over it, murmuring *' très-bien, tres-bien,"
whereat Mrs. Tootle was much delighted.

Monsieur Egger," she exclaimed, with a
burst of good humour, " est-ce vrai ce qu'on
dit que les Suisses sont si excess! cement sujets
a etre chez-malades ? ''

The awful moment had come. What on earth
did chez-malades mean ? Was he to answer yes
or no ? In his ignorance of her meaning, either
reply might prove offensive. He reddened,
fidgeted on his chair, looked about him with
an anguished mute appeal for help. Mrs. Tootle
repeated her question with emphasis and a
change of countenance which he knew too well.
The poor fellow had not the tact to appear to
understand and, as he might easily have done,
mystify her by some idiomatic remark. He
stammered out his apologies and excuses, with
the effect of making Mrs. Tootle furious.

Monsieur Felix," she cried out, by way of
changing the subject, " asseyez-vous tout despite
! Monsieur Egger, it faut commencer le
]eon, s'il vous plait. Nous tous attentions, vous
voyez."

Then follows a terrible hour of it, at the end
of which poor Egger rushes down to the Masters'
Room, and, sitting down at the table, covers
his head with his hands and weeps, regardless
of the boy who is strumming his exercises on
the piano. Waymark or O'Gree would shortly
come in to summon him to some other class,
whereupon he would rise, and, with gestures of
despair, groan out, —

Let me, let me ! — I have made my possible ;
I can no more ! "

Waymark alone feared neither Mrs. Tootle
nor her hopeful son, and, in turn, was held in
some little awe by both of them. The lady had
at first tried the effect of interfering in his
classes, as she did in those of the other masters,
but the result was not encouraging.

Don't you think, Mr. Waymark," she had
said one day, as she walked through the schoolroom

and paused to listen to our friend's
explanation of some rule in English grammar ;
don't you think it would be better to confine
yourself to the terms of the Doctor's little
compendium ? The boys are used to it."

In this case," replied Waymark, calmly, " I
think the terms of the compendium are rather
too technical for the fourth class."

"Still, it is customary in this school to use
the compendium, and it has never yet been
found unsatisfactory. Whilst you are discoursing
at such length, I observe your class gets very
disorderly."

Waymark looked at her, but kept silence.
Mrs. Tootle stood still.

What are you waiting for, Mr. Waymark ? "
she asked sharply.

"Till your presence has ceased to distract the
boys' attention, Mrs. Tootle," was the straightforward
reply.

The woman was disconcerted, and, as Waymark
preserved his calm silence, she had no
alternative but to withdraw, after giving him
a look not easily forgotten. He preserved the

same independence during the lessons to the
young Tootles up-stairs. The conflict of authorities
between Master Felix and himself had been
a notable one, but very soon decided. The boy
flatly refused to obey him, and, in consequence,
was bidden to leave the room. On his refusing,
Waymark caught him under the arms, and
deposited him, kicking and yelling, on the
landing without. Mrs. Tootle was at once on
the scene.

What does this mean, Mr. Waymark ? " she
demanded, with an excessive dignity which had
been her manner towards him since the first
encounter.

"It means that the boy has been impertinent,
and that I won't have it."

I do not allow my children to be touched,
sir. You must preserve discipline in the usual
way."

The usual way is no good. If the boy
behaves to me again as he has done this
morning, I shall box his ears."

Waymark was angry, and did not care to
weigh his words.

'' Sir ! " exclaimed Mrs. Tootle.

The teacher paid no attention, and turned ta
the other children. Mrs. Tootle stared at him
for a moment, then called Felix into the room.

'^ Felix, resume your place."

"And," added Waymark, "behave yourself,
or "

But there was another person whose sufferings
under the tyranny of mother and children were
perhaps keenest of all. If Mrs. Tootle was
autocratic with the masters, her treatment of
successive governesses who tried to teach her
children deserved, in all seriousness, the name
of brutal. Here, at all events, she felt herself in
no danger of meeting her equals ; her delight in
badgering these poor creatures was a remarkable
phenomenon. Their methods were always wrong,
they had no idea of maintaining discipline, they
showed unbecoming familiarity, their information
was defective, their very pronunciation could
not escape censure. One after another gave up
their work in despair, and fled from the fearful
woman. The latest. Miss Enderby, seemed to \
possess especial power of exasperating her tore



mentor, perhaps because she was so completely
passive, and offered no real occasion for rebuke.
Her quiet, ladylike demeanour made Mrs.
Tootle's vulgarity exceptionally striking, by
force of contrast. At any excessive outburst
of rude violence, she would look up with something
of pained surprise, but never expressed
anything of her feeling in words. Waymark
had frequent opportunities of observing her
under these persecutions, and learned to recognize
in her the signs of acutest suffering. Many
times he left the room, rather than add to her
misery by his presence ; very often it was as
much as he could do to refrain from taking
her part, and defending her against Mrs. Tootle.
He had never been formally introduced to Miss
Enderby, and during several weeks held no kind
of communication with her beyond a "good
morning " when he entered the room and found
her there. The first quarter of a year was
drawing to a close when there occurred the
first conversation between them. Wayma.rk
had been giving some of the children their
drawing-lesson, whilst the governess taught the

two youngest. The class-time being over, the
youngsters all scampered off. For a wonder,
Mrs. Tootle was not present, and Waymark
seized the opportunity to exchange a word with
the young lady.

"I fear your pupils give you dreadful trouble,"
he said, as he stood by the window pointing a
pencil.

She started at being spoken to.

They are full of life," she replied, in the
low sad voice which was natural to her.

"Which would all seem to be directed towards
shortening that of others," said Waymark, with
a smile.

They are intelligent," the governess ventured
to suggest, after a silence. " It would be a
]pleasure to teach them if they — if they were
a little more orderly."

Certainly. If their parents had only common
sense," —

He stopped. A flush had risen to the girl's

face, and a slight involuntary motion of her

hand seemed to warn him. The reason was

that Mrs. Tootle stood in the doorway, to
VOL. I. p

which he had his back turned. Miss Enderby
said a quick " good morning" and left him.

He was taking up some papers, preparatory
to leaving the room, when he noticed that the
governess had left behind her a little book in
which she was accustomed to jot down lessons
for the children. He took it up and examined
it. On the first page was written " Maud
Enderby, South Bank, Regent's Park." He
repeated the name to himself several times,
becoming thoughtful. Then he smiled, this
being occasioned by his recalling the way in
which the governess had warned him that Mrs.
Tootle could overhear what he said. Somehow,
this slight gesture of the girl's had seemed to
bring them closer to each other; there was an
unpremeditated touch of intimacy in the movement,
which it pleased him to think of. This
was by no means the first time that he had
stood with thoughts busied about her, but,
very strangely, the brief exchange of words
and what had followed gave something of a
new complexion to his feelings. Previously he
had been interested in her ; her striking features

had made him wonder what was the history

which their expression concealed ; but her

extreme reticence and the timid coldness of

her look had left his senses unmoved. Now

he all at once experienced the awakening of

quite a new interest ; there had been something

in her eyes as they met his which seemed to

desire sympathy ; he was struck with the

possibilities of emotion in the face which this

one look had revealed to him. Her situation

seemed, when he thought of it, to affect him

more strongly than hitherto ; he felt that it

would be more difficult henceforth to maintain

his calmness when he saw her insulted by Mrs.

Tootle or disrespectfully used by the children.

Nor did the new feelings subside as rapidly

as they had arisen. At home that night he

was unable to settle to his usual occupations,

and, as a visit to his friends in the Masters'

Room would have been equally distasteful, he

rambled about the streets and so tired himself.

His duties did not take him up to the children's

class-room on the following morning, but he

invented an excuse for going there, and felt

p 2

rewarded by the very faint smile and the
inclination of the head with which Miss
Enderby returned his 'good morning." Day
after day, he schemed to obtain an opportunity
of speaking with her again, and he fancied
that she herself helped to remove any chances
that might have occurred. Throughout his
lessons, his attention remained fixed upon her ;
he studied her face intently, and was constantly
discovering in it new meanings. When she
caught his eyes thus busy with her, she evinced,
for a moment, trouble and uneasiness ; he felt
sure that she arranged her seat so as to have
her back to him more frequently than she had
been accustomed to do. Her work appeared
to him to be done with less self-forgetfulness
than formerly ; the rioting and impertinence of
the children seemed to trouble her more ; she
bore Mrs. Tootle's interference with something
like fear. Once, when Master Felix had gone
beyond his wonted licence, in his mother's
absence, Way mark went so far as to call him
to order. As soon as he had spoken, the girl
looked up at him in a startled way, and seemed

silently to beg him to refrain. All this only
strengthened the influence she exercised upon
Wayi!aark. He found himself doing curious
things ; for instance, when she read to her
pupils, he would close his eyes for a moment
and try to imagine that they were alone together
in the room, and she was reading to him. Her
mere voice became a keen pleasure to his ears.
He observed the details of her dress as he had
not done before ; everything she wore was of
extreme plainness, and no doubt indicated very
restricted circumstances. Who, indeed, would
be teaching Mrs. Tootle's children who was not
driven to such an occupation by dire necessity ?

Preoccupations of this kind served, it is true,
to make certain hours in the week pass more
easily for Waymark than they had been wont todo,
but their effect on the whole was not to
improve his spirits and to render the burden of
his existence lighter. There were periods when
the fiends of melancholy and savage discontent
expelled from his soul every cheerful impulse
and utterly overcame the inherent hopefulness
of his self reliant disposition. Since the climax

of wretchedness which had resulted in his advertisement
and the forming of Julian Castii's
acquaintance, a moderate cheerfulness had possessed
him. Now he once more felt the clouds
sinking about him, was aware of many a
threatening portent, the meaning whereof he
too well understood. There had been a week
or two of prevailing bad weather, a state of
things which always wrought carefully upon
him ; his thoughts darkened under the dark
sky, and the daily downpour of hateful rain
sapped his energies. It was within a few days
of Easter, but the prospect of a holiday had no
effect upon him. Night after night he lay in
fever and unrest. He felt as though some voice
were calling upon him to undertake a vaguely
hazardous enterprise which yet he knew not
the nature of. The crises in our lives do not
arrive wholly without premonition, but the
weight of complete misery was too familiar to
Way mark to point to anything more than a sick
and heartless strusfsrle.

On one of these evenings, Mr. O'Gree announced
to him that Miss Enderby was going

to give up her position at the end of the
quarter. Philip had gathered this from a
conversation heard during the day between Dr.
Tootle and his wife.

"The light of my life will be gone out,"
exclaimed O'Gree, "when I am no longer able
to catch a glimpse of her as she goes past the
schoolroom - door. And I've never even had a
(chance of speaking to her. You know the tale
of Raleigh and Queen Elizabeth. Suppose I were
to rush out and throw my top-coat on the
muddy door-step, just as she's going out ; d'ye
think she'd say thank you ? "

"Probably," muttered Waymark, without
knowing: what he said. It was Mr. O'Gree's
habit to affect this violent devotion to each new
governess in turn, but Waymark did not seem to
find the joke amusing at present.

Bead, I'll do it then ! Or rather, I would,
if I'd two top-coats. Hang it ! There's no
behaving like a gentleman on twenty-five pounds
a year."

Waymark walked about the streets the greater
part of the night, and the next morning came

to school rather late. Dr. Tootle had to consult
with him about some matter as soon as he
arrived.

"You seem indisposed, Mr. Waymark," the
Doctor remarked, when he had in vain tried to
elicit intelligible replies to his questions.

I am a little out of sorts," the other returned,
carelessly. " Perhaps we could talk
about these things tomorrow."

As you please," said Dr. Tootle, a little
surprised at his assistant's indifference.

It was a drawing-lesson morning. As he
went up-stairs, his ears apprised him of the state
of things he would find in Miss Enderby's room.
The approach of the Easter holidays was making
the youngsters even more than usually uproarious,
and their insubordination had passed
beyond all pretence of attending to tasks. When
Waymark entered, his first glance, as always,
was towards the governess. She looked
harassed and ill ; was in vain endeavouring
to exert some authority with her gentle voice.
Her eyes showed unmistakable gratitude as the
teacher appeared, for his approach meant that

she would be relieved from the three elder
children. Way mark called sharply to his pupils
to come and take their places, but without any
attention on their part. Master Felix openly
uro^ed the rest to assume a defiant attitude,
and began to improvise melodies on a trumpet
formed by rolling up a copy-book.

Felix," said Miss Enderby, "give me your
copy-book and go to the drawing-lesson."

The boy removed the trumpet from his mouth,
and, waving it once round his head, sent it
flying across the room at the speaker ; it hit heron
the cheek. In the same minute, Waymark
had bent across his knee a large pointer which
stood in a corner of the room, and had snapped
it into two pieces. Holding the lighter of these
in one hand, with the other hand he suddenly
caught Master Felix by the coat-collar, and in a
second had him out of the room and on to the
landing. Then did the echoes of the Academy
wake to such a bellowing as they had probably
never heard before. With a gripe impossible even
to struggle against, Waymark held the young
imp under his arm, and plied the broken pointer

with amazing vigour ; the stripes were almost as
loud as the roaring. There was a rush from
the rooms below in the direction of the disturbance
; all the boys were in a trice leaping
about delightedly on the stairs, and behind them
came O'Gree, Egger, and Dr. Tootle himself.
From the room above rushed out all the young
Tootles, yelling for help. Last of all, from still
higher regions of the house, there swept down a
vision of disordered female attire, dishevelled
hair, and glaring eyes ; it was Mrs. Tootle, disturbed
at her toilet, forgetting all considerations
of personal appearance at the alarming outcry.
Just as she reached the spot, Waymark's arm
dropped in weariness ; he flung the howling
young monkey into one corner, the stick into
another, and deliberately pulled his coat-sleeves
into position once more. He felt vastly better
for the exercise, and there was even a smile on
his heated face.

You brutal ruffian ! " shrieked Mrs. Tootle.
How dare you touch my child ! You shall
answer for this in the police court, sir. You
cowardly brute ! "

Waymark," cried her husband, who had
struggled to the scene through the crowd of
cheering boys, "what's the meaning of this?
You forget yourself, sir. Who gave you
authority to use corporal chastisement, above all
to my son ? / This is rather too much, sir ! "

He shall pay for it in the dock and the
prison-cell ! " screamed Mrs. Tootle, who was
begging in her arms the still roaring Felix.
"Send at once for Dr. Smith. The wretch
has broken every bone in the darling child's
body ! "

A wild cheer rose from the surging crowd of
boys on the staircase, and cries of " Serve him
right!" "Ifope he's killed!" "Hurrah for
Waymark ! " " Give it the young sneak ! " and
so on, echoed through the house. A calm
onlooker might even have been able to recognize
amid the plaudits a voice remarkable for a
strong brogue. Waymark stood with his hands
in his trouser-pockets, and, as soon as he could
make himself heard, addressed Dr. Tootle with
perfect calmness.

"The boy has long deserved a good thrashing,"

J

he said, " and I'm glad I lost my temper sufficiently
to give him a portion of his deserts. If
you wish to know the immediate cause, it
simply was that he threw a book at his governess's
head and hit her. Any further discussion
of the matter had perhaps better be carried on in
private."

"Mr. O'Gree," called out the doctor, "take
your boys back to their duties, sir ! I am quite
unable to understand this disgraceful lack of
discipline. Every boy who is not at his seat in
one minute will have five hundred verses of the
Psalms to write out ! — Mr. Way mark, I shall
be obliged to you if you will step into my
study."

Five minutes after, our friend was closeted
with Dr. Tootle. The latter had all at once
quite put off his appearance of indignation.

Really," he began, "it's a great pity you let
yourself be carried away like that. I think it
very probable indeed that Felix deserved
castigation of some kind, but you would have
done much better to report him to me, you
know, and let me see to it. You have put mein

an awkward position. I fear sou must make
an apology to Mrs. Tootle, and then perhaps the
matter can be allowed to blow over."

I think not," replied Waymark, whose mind
was evidently made up. There was a look of
recklessness on his face which one could at anytime
have detected lurking beneath the hard
self-control which usually marked him. " I
don't feel disposed to apologize, and I am
tired of my position here. I must give
it up."

Dr. Tootle was annoyed. It would not be
easy to get another teacher of the kind at so
cheap a rate.

Come, you don't mean this," he said. *' You
are out of temper for the moment. Perhaps
the apology could be dispensed with ; I think I
may promise that it can be. The lad will be no
worse for his little correction. Possibly we can
come to some more satisfactory arrangements for
the future, — "

No," interposed Waymark ; "I have quite
made up my mind. I mean to give up teaching
altogether ; it doesn't suit me. Of course I

am willing to come as usual the next two
days."

You are aware that this notice should have
been given me at the beginning of the quarter ? "
hinted the principal.

yes. Of course you will legally owe
me nothing. I am prepared for that."

Well, I shall have to consider it. But
I still think that you — "

"As far as I am concerned, the matter is
decided. I go at Easter."

Very well. I think you are blind to your
own interest, but of course you do as you
please. If Mrs. Tootle should press me to
take out a summons against you for assault,
of course I — "
osgood morning. Dr. Tootle."

The summons was not taken out, but Waymark's
resolution suffered no change. There was
another interview between him and the principal,
from which he issued with the sum of six
pounds ten in his pocket, being half the quarter's
salary. He had not applied for this, but
did not refuse it when it was offered. Seeing

that the total amount of cash previously in
his possession was something less than five
shillings, he did wisely, perhaps, to compromise
with his dignity, and let Dr. Tootle come out
of the situation with a certain show of generosity.

CHAPTER VI.

BY THE WAYSIDE.

So there ends another chapter. How many
more to the end of the story ? How many more
scenes till the farce is played out ? There is
something flattering to one's vanity in this
careless playing with one's fate ; it is edifying,
moreover, to set circumstances at defiance in
this way, now and then, to assert one's freedom.
Freedom ! What a joke the word must be to
whoever is pulling the wires and making us
poor puppets dance at his pleasure. Pity that
we have to pay the piper so heavily for our
involuntary jigging ! "

A passage from the letter Waymark wrote
to his friend Castii, on the evening when his
school-work came to an end. That night he
sought rest early, and slept well. The sensations

with which he woke next morning were
such as he had not experienced for a long time.
He was at liberty, — with six pounds ten in his
pocket. He could do wdiat he liked and go
whither he liked, — till lack of a dinner should
remind him that a man's hardest master is his
own body. He dressed leisurely, and, having
dressed, treated himself to an egg for breakfast.
Absolutely no need for hurry; the thought of
school-hours dismissed for ever ; an horizon quite
free from the vision of hateful toil ; in the real
sky above-head positively a gleam of real sunshine,
as if to make credible to the senses this
sudden change. His mood still complete recklessness,
a revolt against the idea of responsibility,
indifference to all beyond the moment. Only
in strange junctures is the mind capable of thus
neglecting palpable difficulties and letting the
day suffice to itself. The state follows upon a
withdrawal of severe and painful restrictions.
Thought is for a while thrown off its balance ;
reflection and foresight are for the moment
faculties fallen out of use. Perhaps the only
quite happy moments of existence.

VOL. I. Q

It was Thursday ; the morrow would be Good
Friday ; after that the intervention of two clear
days before the commencement of a new week.
In the mean time the sun was really shining,
and the fresh spring air invited to the open ways,
Waymark closed the door of his room behind
him, and went down-stairs whistling to himself.
But, before reaching the bottom, he turned and
went back again. It seemed warm enough to
sit in one of the parks and read. He laid his
hand on a book almost at haphazard, to put
in his pocket; it was "The Vicar of Wakefield."
Then he walked very leisurely along Kennington
Eoad. The atmosphere seemed to breathe
holiday ; all the people in the streets appeared
to be freshening up at the thought of a brief
rest from the life-long compleat. He reached
Westminster Bridge, and, leaning upon the
parapet, watched the boats for a full half-hour,
with as much enjoyment as a child would have
felt. Thence he rambled away into St. James's
Park, and sat down in a sheltered spot ; but
the little volume lay undisturbed in his pocket ;
after all he was in no mood for reading to-day.

Up again, and away into busy parts of the
town ; finally, as far north as Tottenham Court
Road. It was mid-day, and hunger had come
upon him. He entered a restaurant, and refreshed
himself.

Again amid the crowd. All at once he found
himself laughing aloud, and had to turn aside
to a shop window, lest he should attract attention.
The idea was too absurd ! What in
the name of sense and reason did it mean,
this hustling and bustling of the people on all
sides, these grave-set, often fierce-set, faces, this
desperate seriousness in pursuit of a thousand
conflicting ends ? Among all these sweating
millions not enough wit to perceive that it was
themselves plying the whip upon their own
backs ; that with themselves lay the choice
between this insensate rush and welter, and a
calm pilgrimage from cradle to grave. Life,
woeful in its essence, they were making vile and
hateful by their own brutish greed, their muddy
intelligences incapable of wide views, their
monstrous superstition of the saving grace of

labour. Surely some day, W^aymark said too

2

himself, a sudden light will break upon the
world, and men fall to laughing so consumedly
at their own folly that the very earth will dance,
greeting a new era. Our friend walked on,
regarding all he passed with a good-humoured
pity. In this madly ordered world he had no
place. He stood on one side, and looked at it
all with unclouded eyes. Yesterday he had
himself borne the burden ; tomorrow he would
have to resume it, most likely with added
bitterness, if that were possible. In the meanwhile
his faculties called no man master ; he
had regained the dignity of freedom.

Wondering in which direction he should next
turn, he suddenly found himself repeating, with
unaccountable transition of thought, the words
'' South Bank, Eegent's Park." In all likelihood,
he said to himself presently, they were suggested
by some inscription on a passing omnibus, noted
unconsciously. The address was that he had read
in Miss Enderby's note-book. Why not ramble
in that direction as well as another, and amuse
himself by guessing which house it was that the
governess lived in ? He had not seen lier since

the uproar which had terminated his connection
with the young Tootles. Was it true that she
had then already decided to give up her position ?
If not, his outbreak of temper had doubtless
resulted unpleasantly for her, seeing that Mrs.
Tootle would almost certainly dismiss her out
of mere spite. Several times during the last
two days he had thought of conveying to hera
note by some means, to express in some way
or other this fear and the regret it caused him ;
the real motive, he knew well enough, would
be a hope of receiving a reply from her. But
now she had perhaps left the Academy finally,
and he did not know her exact address. He
made his way across the Park in the direction
of St. John's Wood, and had soon reached
South Bank.

He had walked once the length of the road,
and was looking at the nearest houses before
he turned, when a lady came round the corner
and paused to avoid him, as he stood in the
middle of the pavement. It was Miss En derby
herself Her embarrassment was apparently not
as great as his own. She smiled with friend lines

; seemed indeed in a happier frame of mind
than any in which Waymark had as yet seen
her. But she did not offer her hand, and the
other, having raised his hat, was almost on the
point of passing on, when he overcame his
diffidence and spoke.

I came here to try and discover where
you lived, Miss Enderby."

There was something grotesque in this
abruptness ; his tone only saved it from impertinence.
The girl looked at him with frank
surprise.

Pray do not misunderstand me," he went on
hurriedly. " I wished, if possible, to — well,
to tell you that I feared I acted thoughtlessly
the other day ; without regard, I mean, to any
consequences it might have for yourself."

*' Rather I ought to thank you for defending
me. It made no difference in the way you
mean. It had already been decided that I
should leave. I did not suit Mrs. Tootle."

It was very pleasant to look down into her
pale, earnest face, and watch it as she spoke
in this unrestrained way. She seemed so slight

and frail, evidently thought so depreciatingly
of herself, looked as though her life had in
it so little joy, that Waymark had speedily
assumed a confident attitude, and gazed at her
as a man does at one whom he would gladly
guard and cherish.

*' You were certainly unsuited for the work,
in every way," he said, with a smile. *' Your
gentleness and conscientious efforts were quite
wasted there. Still, I am sorry you have left."

*' I am going into a family*' were her next
words, spoken almost cheerfully. "It is in the
country, in Essex. There are only two children,
quite young. I think I shall succeed better
with them ; I hope so."

Then I suppose," Waymark said, moving
a little and keeping his eyes fixed on her with
an uneasy look, " I shall — I must say goodbye
to you, for the last time ? "

A scarcely heard " yes " fell from her lips,
expressive merely of the necessity to say something.
Her eyes were cast down.

'' I am going to make a bold request," Waymark
exclaimed, with a sort of recklessness,

though his voice expressed no less respect than
hitherto. " Will you tell me where you are
going to ? "

She told him, without looking up, and with
a recurrence to the timid manner which had
marked her in the schoolroom. This gave
Waymark encouragement ; his confidence grew
as hers diminished.

Will you permit me to write to you —
occasionally ? In fact, I cannot easily reconcile
myself to break off completely our acquaintance,
though it has been so slight. Would you let
me maintain it in this way, — so that, if you
return to London, I might look forward to
meeting you again some time ? ''

She was agitated beyond concealment ; indeed
concealment of the most passing shade of
emotion seemed impossible in her. She grew
red, and could not speak.

I have distressed you," Waymark went on,
quickly, really feeling self-reproach at having
caused her pain. " I had no business to ask
such a thing, and you are too kind to give
me the plain answer I deserve''

'' No, no, indeed," she broke in, meeting his
eyes for an instant, herself evidently troubled
at this construction of her embarrassment. " I
shall be quite glad to keep up our acquaintance.
I shall be glad to hear from you."

Then, at once feeling that she had gone too
far, her confusion made her pale. Way mark
held out his hand, as if to take leave.

Thank you very much," he said, warmly.
I am very grateful."

She gave him a quick " good-bye," and then
passed on. Waymark moved at once in the
opposite direction, turning the corner. Then
he wished to go back and notice which house
she entered, but would not do so lest she should
observe him. He walked straight forwards.

How the aspect of the world had changed for
him in these few minutes ; what an incredible
revolution had come to pass in his own desires
and purposes ! For the first time in his life
he understood the mutual dependence of human
soul on soul ; for the very first time he had
wholly lost thought of himself in the approach
to another's being. Stray loves he had had, nota

few, but always with the consciousness that
he was led into them by selfish and unworthy
motives ; a cynical doubt of the possibility of
pure passion was becoming the habit of his
mind, though naturally he was disposed to
idealism in all things, and instinctively rebelled
against the grossness of his experiences. The
circumstances of his life had been unfortunate.
The intellectual atmosphere he breathed was of
his own creation ; the society of cultured people
he had never had an opportunity of enjoying.
A refined and virtuous woman had hitherto
existed for him merely in the sanctuary of his
imagination ; he had known not one such. If
he passed one in the street, the effect of the
momentary proximity was only to embitter his
thoughts, by reminding him of the hopeless gulf
fixed between his world and that in which such
creatures had their being. In revenge, he tried
to soil the purity of his ideals ; would have
persuaded himself that the difference between
the two spheres was merely in externals, that
he was imposed upon by wealth, education, and
superficial refinement of manners. Happily he

had never really succeeded in thus deceiving
himself, and the effort had only served to
aggravate his miseries. The habit of mind,
however, had shown itself in the earlier stages
of his acquaintance with Miss Enderby. The
first sight of her had moved him somewhat, but
scarcely with any foreshadowing of serious
emotion. He felt that she was different from
any woman with whom he had ever stood on
an equal footing ; but, at the same time, the
very possibility of establishing more or less
intimate relations with her made him distrustful
of his judgment. In spite of himself, he tried
to disparage her qualities. She was pretty, he
admitted, but then of such a feeble, characterless
type ; doubtless her understanding corresponded
with the weakness of her outward appearance.
None the less, he had continued to observe her
keenly, and had noted with pleasure every
circumstance which contradicted his wilful depreciation
of her. His state of mind after the
thrashing he gave to young Tootle had been
characteristic. What had been the cause of his
violence ? Certainly not uncontrollable anger,

for he had in reality been perfectly cool throughout
the affair ; simply, then, the pleasure of
avenging Miss Enderby. And for this he had
sacrificed his place, and left himself without
resources. He had acted absurdly ; certainly
would not have repeated the absurdity had the
scene been to act over again. This was not the
attitude of one in love, and he knew it. Moreover,
though he had thought of writing to her,
it would in reality have cost him nothing if she
had forthwith passed out of his sight and knowledge.
Now how all this had been altered, by
a mere chance meeting. The doubts had left
him ; she was indeed the being from a higher
world that he would have liked to believe her
from the first ; the mysterious note of true
sympathy had been struck in that short exchange
of words and looks, and, though they
had taken leave of each other for who could say
how long, mutual knowledge was just beginning,
real intercourse about to be established between
them. He might write to her, and of course
she would reply.

Yes, life had a new aspect ; there was a

seriousness in the world's affairs which an hour
ago had been altogether missing. As he walked
back into the busy streets, he no longer regarded
with the same contemptuous smile all the doings
of men. This and that he marked with interest;
here and there he was arrested by sympathy or
good-natured amusement ; instead of congratulating
himself on his aloofness from the combat,
he would gladly have entered it and taken his
share of good and ill, for the striving seemed to
be for nobler ends. He himself was conscious
of the change, and smiled at it ; yet that did not
make it any the less real. He said to himself
that a state of feeling so easily brought about
was not very likely to endure ; yet he no longer
cast doubt on his sincerity, or sought an ignoble
explanation of his impulses. Let it be transitory,
he was at all events experiencing an
emotion for which he had longed, and for which
he would be better in the future, clearer in his
views of life, with truer intelligence in the
regions of art. /

He walked without much perception of time
or distance, and found himself at home just

before nightfall. He felt disposed for a quiet
evening, to be spent in the companionship of
his thoughts. But when he had made his coffee
and eaten with appetite after the day's rambling,
restlessness again possessed him. After all, it
was not retirement that he needed ; these strange
new imaginings would consort best with motion
and the liveliness of the streets. So he put out
his lamp, and once more set forth. There was
starlight and the soft crescent of a waning moon ;
the night air freshened his spirits; he sang to
himself as he went along. It was long since
he had been to a theatre, and just now he was
so hopelessly poor that he could really afford a
little extravagance. So he was soon sitting
before the well-known drop of a favourite playhouse,
as full of light-hearted expectancy as a
boy who is enjoying a holiday. The evening
was delightful, and passed all too quickly.

The play over, he was in no mood to go
straight home. He lit a cigar and drifted with
the current westward, out of the Strand and
into Pall Mall. A dispute between a cab-driver
and his fare induced him to pause for a moment

under the colonnade, and, when the little cluster
of people had moved on, he still stood leaning
against one of the pillars, enjoying the mild air
and the scent of his cigar. He felt his elbow
touched, and, looking round with indifference,
met the kind of greeting for which he was
prepared. He shook his head and did not reply ;
then the sham gaiety of the voice all at once
turned to a very real misery, and the girl began
to beg instead of trying to entice him in the
ordinary way. He looked at her again, and was
shocked at the ghastly wretchedness of her
daubed face. She was ill, she said, and could
scarcely walk about, but must get money somehow
; if she didn't, her landlady wouldn't let her
sleep in the house again, and she had nowhere
else to go to. There could be no mistake about
the genuineness of her story, at all events as
far as bodily suffering went. Waymark contrasted
her state with his own, and took out
what money he had in his pocket ; it was the
change out of a sovereign which he had received
at the theatre, and he gave her it all. She
stared, and did not understand.

"Are you coming with me?" she asked,
feeling obliged to make a hideous attempt at
professional coaxing in return for such generosity.

Good God, no ! " Waymark exclaimed. "Go
home and take care of yourself."

She thanked him warmly, and turned away
at once. As his eye followed her, he was aware
that somebody else had drawn near to him from
behind. This also was a girl, but of a different
kind. She was well-dressed, and of graceful,
rounded form; a veil almost hid her face, but
enough could be seen to prove that she was
well-looking.

That a friend of yours ? " she asked abruptly.
She had the accent of an educated person, and
her voice was remarkably full, clear, and sweet.

Waymark answered with a negative, looking
closely at her.

Then why did you give her all that money ? "

How do you know what I gave her ? "

I was standing just behind here, and could

see.

Well ? "

Nothing ; only I should think you are one

out of a thousand. You saved me a sovereign
too ; IVe watched her begging of nearly a
dozen people, and I couldn't have stood it
much longer."

You would have given her a sovereign ? "

I meant to, if she'd failed with you."

*' Is she a friend of yours ? "

Never saw her before to-night."

Then you must be one out of a thousand."

The girl laughed merrily, real, unaffected
laughter.

"In that case," she said, "we ought to know
each other, shouldn't we ? "

''If we began by thinking so well of each
other," returned Waymark, smiling, " we should
not improbably suffer a grievous disappointment
before long."

"Well, you might. You have to take my
generosity on trust, but I have proof of yours."

You're an original sort of girl," said Waymark,
throwing away the end of his cigar. " Do
you talk to everybody in this way ? "

Pooh, of course not. I shouldn't be worth
much if I couldn't suit my conversation to the

VOL. I. R

man I want to make a fool of. Would you
rather have me talk in the usual way ? Shall
I say "

I had rather not."

Well, I knew that."

'' And how ? "

Well, i/ou don't wear a veil, if I do."

You can read faces ? "

'' A little, I flatter myself. Can you ? "

Give me a chance of trying."

She raised her veil, and he inspected her
for some moments, then looked away.

'excellently well, if God did all," he
observed, with a smile.

"That's out of a play," she replied quickly.
'* I heard it a little time ago, but I forget the
answer. I'd have given anything to be able
to cap you ! Then you'd have put me down
for a clever woman, and I should have lived
on the reputation henceforth and for ever.
But it's all my own, indeed ; I'm not afraid of
crying."

Do you ever cry ? I can't easily imagine it."

*' Oh yes, sometimes," she answered, sighing,

and at the same time lowering her veil again.
But you haven't read my face for me'*

** It's a face I'm sorry to have seen."

*' Why ? " she asked, holding her hands clasped
before her, the palms turned outwards.

I shall think of it often after to-night, and
imagine it with all its freshness gone, and marks
of suffering and degradation upon it."

Suffering, perhaps ; degradation, no. Why
should I be degraded ? "

You can't help yourself. The life you have
chosen brings its inevitable consequences."

Chosen ! " she repeated, with an indignant
face. "How do you know I had any choice in
the matter ? You have no right to speak
contemptuously, like that."

Perhaps not. Certainly not. I should have
said — the life you are evidently leading."

Well, I don't know that it makes so much
difference. I suppose everybody has a choice at
all events between life and death, and you mean
that I ought to have killed myself rather than
come to this. That's my own business, however,
and "

K 2

A man had just passed behind them, and,
catching the sound of the shires voice, had turned
suddenly to look at her. She, at the same
moment, looked towards him, and stopped all at
once in her speech.

Are you walking up Regent Street ? " she
asked Waymark, in quite a different voice.
Give me your arm, will you ? "

Waymark complied, and they walked together
in the direction she suggested.

"What is the matter with you?" he asked.
Why are you trembling ? "

'' Don't look round. It's that fellow behind
us ; I know he is following."

Somebody you know ? "

Yes, and hate. Worse than that, I'm afraid
of him. Will you keep with me till he's gone ? "

Of course I will. What harm can he do
you, though ? "

None that I know of It's a strange stupid
feeling I have. I can't bear the sight of him.
Don't look round ! "

Has he been a — a friend of yours ? "

No, no ; not in that way. But he follows

me about. He'll drive me out of London, I
know." ^

Where shall you go to then ? "

To Paris, I think ; else perhaps to America.
I should like to travel, and see the world. Have
you ever been out of England ? "

Never. Suppose we go ois to Paris together ? "

You mean it ? "

I should, if expenses were no object."

They had reached Piccadilly Circus.

Look back now," she said, " and see if he's
following still."

Waymark turned his head ; the man was at
a little distance behind. He stopped when he
saw himself observed, and stood on the edge
of the pavement, tapping his boot with his cane.
He was a tall and rather burly fellow, well-dressed,
with a clean-shaven face.

Let's make haste round the corner," the girl
said, 'rand get into the restaurant. You must
have some supper with me."

I should be very happy, had 1 a penny
in my pocket."

See how easily good deeds are forgotten,"

returned the other, laughing in the old way.
Now comes my turn to give proof of generosity.
Come and have some supper all the same."

No ; that's out of the question."

Fiddlestick ! Surely you won't desert me
when I ask your protection ? Come along, and
pay me back another time, if you like."

They walked round the corner, then the girl
started and ran at her full speed. Waymark
followed in the same way, somewhat oppressed
by a sense of ridiculousness. They reached the
shelter of the restaurant, and the girl led the
way up-stairs, laughing immoderately.

Supper was served to them, and honoured
with due attention by both. Waymark had
leisure to observe his companions face in
clearer light. It was beautiful, and, better
still, full of character. Strongly outlined and
rather large features ; cheeks exquisitely rounded
and marked with sound health ; full nostrils ;
nose almost straight from the forehead ; the
eyebrows making two perfect arches, dark
brown lines of divine sweep ; beneath them,
the glory of the sweet countenance, eyes which

it is vain to endeavour to describe, but which,
once looked upon, could never be forgotten.
The lower lids seemed to rise a little, causing a
half-twinkle which had more of bright intelligence
than mere fun. If these were not the
windows of a rich and beautiful soul, surely
never did eyes so lie. Then the mouth, long
but delicate, the upper lip a lovely bow, the
lower tremulous with that same indescribable
characteristic which dwelt in the corner of her
eyes. Low on her forehead, and making a background
for head and neck, a wonderful mass of
the richest and brownest of rich brown hair, in
orderly disorder, every lock a miracle of wreathing
loveliness. But I have begun a foolish task,
and may well prove foolish in my way of seeking
to accomplish it. The tenderest and most delicate
pencil would fail to give that face as it then was ;
words are useless even to suggest it, as indeed
they always are useless in face-drawing, save
when we wish to show you some countenance
marked with grotesque deformity, or at all
events with features of very pronounced and
easily recognizable type. The type I speak of

can be recognized by none save those who knew
it in reality ; nature cast the mould and broke it.

Whilst they were eating, the girl quietly laid
her hand by Waymark's, and left a sovereign on
the cloth.

'pay, and give me the change when we go
out' she said.

Waymark presently bent forward to her and
spoke in a low voice.

Isn't this the man who followed us, just
coming in now ? Look, he has gone to the table
on the right."

She looked round hastily, and shuddered, for
she had met the man's eyes.

"Why did you tell me?" she exclaimed,
impatiently. " Now I can't finish my supper.
Wait till he has given his order, and then we
weill go."

Waymark examined this mysterious persecutor.
In truth, the countenance was no food
one, and a woman might well dislike to have
such eyes turned upon her. It was a strong
face ; coarse originally, and, in addition to the
faults of nature, it now bore the plainest traces

of a life spent in vicious gratifications. One of
those faces from which you turn with instinctive
repugnance, or, if you are disposed for such
inquiries, in which you seek the indications of
nameless and numberless iniquities. Black hair,
smooth and glossy, and slightly curling about
the temples. He would have done well to leave
the moustache on his lip ; the mouth, thus bare,
was too repulsive in its undisguised ferocity of
appetite. His neck was thick and red, with a
great swelling at the throat. When he threw
back his overcoat, he appeared in evening dress,
which had the effect of making him yet more
villainous-looking. As soon as he perceived
Waymark and his companion, he fixed them
with his greedy eyes, and scarcely looked away
as long as they remained in the room. The girl
seemed shrinking under this gaze, though she
sat almost with her back to him. She ceased
talking, and, as soon as she saw that Waymark
had finished, made a sign to him to pay quickly
and let them be gone. They rose, accordingly,
and left. The man followed them with his eyes,
but remained seated.

*' Are you in a hurry to get home ? " the girl
asked, when they were in the street again.

No ; time is of no consequence to me."

Do you live far off ? "

In Kennington. And you ? "

If you like, I'll show you. Let us walk
quickly. I feel rather cold."

She led the way into the Strand. At no
great distance from Temple Bar, she turned off
into a small court.

This is a queer place to live in," observed
Waymark, as he looked up at the dark houses.

Don't be afraid," was the good-humoured
reply, as she opened the door with a latch-key.
They went up two flights of stairs, then entered
a room where a bright fire was burning. Waymark's
conductor held a piece of paper to the
flame, and lit a lamp. It was a good-sized
chamber, pleasantly furnished as sitting-room ;
in everything the utmost order and much regard
for comfort. Ad other door, which stood open,
led into an inner room.

Do you play ? " Waymark added, seeing an
open piano, with music upon it.

I only wish I could. My landlady's daughter
is giving me lessons. But I think I'm getting
on. Listen to me do this exercise."

She sat down, and, with much conscientious
effort, went over some simple bars. Then she
looked up at her companion and caught him
smiling.

'* Well," she exclaimed, in a pet, "you must
begin at the beginning in everything, mustn't
you ? Come and let me hear what you can do."

Not even so much."

Then don't laugh at a poor girl doing her
best. You have such a queer smile too ; it
seems both ill-natured and good-natured at the
same time. Now wait a minute till I come back."

She went into the inner room, and closed the
door behind her. In five minutes it opened
again. She appeared in a handsome dressing-gown
and with her feet in slippers. Her
glorious hair fell heavily about her shoulders,
warm and fragrant as that of a goddess. And
in her arms she held a beautiful cat, with whitethroat
and white paws, else glossy black, and
with golden eyes.

'' This is my child. Don't you admire him ?
Shake hands, Grim."

Why Grim ? "

It's short for Grimalkin, the name of a catin
a book of fairy tales I used to be fond of
reading. Don't you think he's got a beautiful
face, and a good deal more intelligent than some
people we could mention ? How 1 love the dear
old fellow ! And I think he's fond of me, too.
I picked him up on our door-step, two months
ago. Oh, you never saw such a wretched little
object, dripping with rain, and with such a
poor starved little face, and bones almost
coming through the skin. He looked up at
me, and begged me as plain as plain could be
to shave pity on him and help him ; didn't you,
Grimmy ? And so I brought him up-stairs,
and made him comfortable, and now we shall
never part. — Do you like animals ? "

'eyes."

So does every one that's worth anything.
I always feel a pity for them, to think they
can't speak and ask us great strong creatures
to be kind and gentle with them. I sometimes

pass poor little donkeys in the street which bring
tears to my eyes. Do you think me foolish ? "

I should be worse than foolish myself if
I did?"

I shouldn't speak to every one like this, you
know," she said, smiling. '* And I certainly
shouldn't introduce Grim to any one I thought
wouldn't appreciate him."

The door of the room suddenly opened," and
there sprang in a fresh-coloured young girl in
hat and jacket, short, plump, pretty, and looking
about seventeen. She started back on seeing
that the room was occupied.

What is it, Sally ? " asked Grim's mistress,
with a good-natured laugh.

Why, Mrs. Walter told me you wasn't in
yet ; I'm awful sorry, I beg your pardon."

She spoke with a pleasant south-west-country
accent.

Do you want me ? "

It's only for Grim," returned Sally, showing
something which she held wrapped up in paper.
I'd brought un home a bit o' fish, a nice bit
without bone ; it'll just suit he."

Then come and give it he," said the other,
with a merry glance at Waymark. " But he
mustn't make a mess on the hearth-rug."

Oh, trust un for that," cried Sally. " He
won't pull it off the paper."

Grim was accordingly provided with his
supper, and Sally ran away with a "good-night."

Who's that ? " Waymark asked. " Whereon
earth does she come from ? "

•■' She's from Weymouth. They talk queerly
there, don't they ? She lives in the house, and
goes to business. Sally and I are great friends."

Do you come from the country ? " Waymark
inquired, as she sat down in an easy-chair and
watched the cat eating.

No, I'm a London girl. I've never been out
o-f the town since I was a little child."

Not even a few miles out ? "

Never out of the streets. If I'm well off
this summer I mean to go to the sea-side. I've
said I would for the last five years, but I've
never managed it yet. I want to go to Hastings.
My mother took me there — goodness knows how
long ago, and I remember it as well as possible."

And how old are you now ? "

Guess."

"Not twenty."

Eighteen a month ago. All my life before
me, isn't it ? "

Way mark kept silence for a moment.

'* How do you like my room ? " she asked,
suddenly, looking round.

'* It's very comfortable. I always thought
there were nothing but business places all about
here. I should rather like to live in the very
middle of the town, like this."

Should you ? That's just what I like. Oh,
how I CD joy the noise and the crowds ! I should
be ill if I had to live in one of those long, dismal
streets, where the houses are all the same
shape, and costermongers go bawling about all
day long. I suppose you live in a place like
that ? "

"Very much the same."

In taking his handkerchief out, Waymark just
happened to feel a book in his overcoat-pocket.
He drew it forth to see what it was, having
forgotten entirely that he had been carrying the

worthy Dr. Primrose about with him since
morning.

"What's that?" asked the girl. "Will you
let me look ? "

'the Vicar of Wakefield.' Have you read
it?"

•'' No. Is it a tale ? Lend it me ; will you ? "

Do you read books ? "

"Oh yes; why not? Let me keep this till
you come again. Is this your name written
here — Osmond Waymark ? "

Yes. And what is your name ? "

Ida Starr."

Ida ? That's a beautiful name. I was
almost afraid to ask you, for fear it should be
something common — Sarah, or Louisa, or the
like."

And why shouldn't I have a common name ? "

Because you are by no means a common
girl."

You think not ? Well, perhaps you are right.
Rut may I keep the book till I see you again ? "

I had better give it you, for it isn't very
likely you will see me again."

^' Why not ? "

You remind me," Waymark exclaimed suddenly.
" Here ; this is your change. Suppose I
had run off with it ? "

I certainly shouldn't have thought of it.
But what has that got to do with seeing me
again i

Everything. My acquaintance would be
anything but profitable to you. I often haven't
enough money to live on, and — "

Ida stooped down and played for a few
moments with Grim, who turned over lazily
on to his back, and stroked his mistress's hands
delicately with his soft white paws.

But you are a gentleman," she said, rising
again, and rustling over the pages of the book
she still held. " Are you in the city ? "

The Lord deliver me ! "

What then ? "

I am nothing."

'' Then you must be rich."

It by no means follows. Yesterday I was

a teacher in a school. To-day I am what is

called out of work."

VOL. I. s

A teacher. But I suppose you'll get another
place."

"No. I've given it up because I couldn't
endure it any longer."

And how are you going to live ? "

I have no idea."

Then you must have been very foolish to
give away your money like that to-night."

I don't pretend to much wisdom. If I had
had another sovereign in my pocket, no doubt
I should have given it you before this, and you
wouldn't have refused it."

'' How do you know ? " she asked, sharply.
Why should you think me selfish ? "

Certainly I have no reason to. And by
the bye, I already owe you money for the supper.
I will send it you tomorrow."

Why not bring it ? "

"Better not. I have a good deal of an
unpleasant quality which people call pride, and
I don't care to make myself uncomfortable
unnecessarily."

You can't have more pride than I have.
Look." She held out her hands. " Will you

be my friend, really my friend ? You understand
me?"

*'I think I understand, but I doubt whether
it is possible."

Everything is possible. Will you shake
hands with me, and, when you come to seeme
again, let us meet as if I were a modest girl,
and you had got to know me in a respectable
house, and not in the street at midnight ? " '

'' You really wish it ? You are not joking ? "

I am in sober earnest, and I wish it. You
won't refuse ? "

If I did I should refuse a great happiness."

He took her hand and again released it.

And now look at the time," said she,
pointing to a clock on the mantelpiece. " Half-past
one. How will you get home ? "

'' Walk. It won't take me more than an hour.
May I light my pipe before I start ? "

Of course you may. When shall I see yoD
again ? "

Shall we say this night next week ? "

Very well. Come here any time you like
in the evening. I will be at horne after

S 2

six. And then I can give you your book
back."

Waymark lit his pipe, stooped to give Grim
a stroke, and buttoned up his coat.

'* You understand, Grim," said Ida to the
cat ; " this one is different from the others ;
you'll remember when he comes again next
week."

She lit a candle, and led the way down-stairs.
They shook hands again, and parted.

CHAPTER VII.

RENT DAY.

It was considerably after his usual hour when
Waymark awoke on Good Friday morning. He
had been troubled throughout the night with a
strangely vivid dream, which seemed to have
repeated itself several times ; when he at length
started into consciousness the anguish of the
vision was still upon him. In this dream he had
been standing before the altar in a church, and
by his side a woman who was about to become
his wife. Her face was covered with a veil, and
he was making desperate efforts to discern her
features through the gauze, for a horrible suspicion
possessed him that somehow she was not
his real bride. He could not raise the veil to
satisfy himself, for she w^s holding both his
hands. Just as the clergyman addressed to him

the question whether he would take this woman
to wife, and whilst the affirmative trembled on
his lips, the clasping hands were suddenly
severed by another woman, also veiled, who
sprang forward and clung to him. The repulsed
woman fell back with a moan ; the new-comer
took her place. Her countenance also the
dreamer tried vainly to discern ; his doubt and
trouble had increased. But the clergyman's
solemn question still waited his reply, and, with
a great effort, he spoke the " I will." Immediately
a shriek rang out behind him, chilling his
blood. He turned. The rejected woman had
thrown back her veil, and a death-like face
stared upon him. Mad with a conflict of
emotions, he wildly called out her name, — and
so awoke.

He rose at once, and dressed quickly, doing
his best to shake off" the clinging misery of his
sleep. In a little while it had passed, and he
tried to go over in his mind the events of the
preceding day. Were they, too, only fragments
of a long dream ? Surely so many and strange
events could not have crowded themselves into

one period of twelve hours ; and for him, whose
days passed with such dreary monotony. The
interview with Maud Enderby seemed so unnaturally
long ago ; that with Ida Starr, so
impossibly fresh and recent. Yet both had
undoubtedly taken place. He, who but yesterday
morning had felt so bitterly his loneliness in
the world, and, above all, the impossibility of
what he most longed for — woman's companionship
— found himself all at once on terms of at
least friendly intimacy with two women, both
young, both beautiful, yet so wholly different.
Each answered to an ideal which he cherished,
and the two ideals were so diverse, so mutually
exclusive. The experience had left him in a
curious frame of mind. For the present, he felt
cool, almost indifferent, to both his new acquaintances.
He had asked and obtained leave
to write to Maud Enderby ; what on earth
could he write about ? How could he address
her ? He had promised to go and see Ida Starr,
on a most impracticable footing. Was it not
almost certain that, before the day came round,
her caprice would have vanished, and his reception

would prove anything but a flattering
one ? The feelings which both girls had at the
time excited in him seemed artificial ; in his
present mood he in vain tried to resuscitate his
interest either in the one or the other. It was
as though he had over exerted his emotional
powers, and they lay exhausted. Weariness was
the only reality of which he was conscious. He
must turn his mind to other things. Having
breakfasted, he remembered what day it was,
and presently took down a volume of his Goethe,
opening at the Easter morning scene in Faust,
favourite reading with him. This inspired him
with a desire to go into the open air; it was a
bright day, and there would be life in the
streets. Just as he began to prepare himself for
walking, there came a knock at his door, and
Julian Castii entered.

Halloa ! " Way mark cried. " I thought you
told me you were engaged with your cousin
to-day."

1 was, but I sent her a note yesterday to
say I was unable to meet her."

'' Then why didn't you write at the same

time and tell me you were coming ? I might
have gone out for the day."

I had no intention of coming, then."
What's the matter ? You look out of sorts."
I don't feel in very good spirits. By the
bye, I heard from the publishers yesterday.
Here's the note."

It simply stated that Messrs. So-and-so
had given their best attention to the play of
Stilicho,' which Mr. Castii had been so good as
to submit to them, and regretted their inability
to make any proposal for its publication, seeing
that its subject was hardly likely to excite popular
interest. They thanked the author for offering
it to them, and begged to return the MS.

Well, it's a disappointment," said Waymark,
'' but we must try again. I myself am so
hardened to this kind of thing that I fear you
will think me unsympathetic. It's like having a
tooth out. You never quite get used to it, but
you learn after two or three experiments to
gauge the moment's torture at its true value.
Re-direct your parcel, and fresh hope beats
out the old discouragement."

It wasn't altogether that which was making
me feel restless and depressed," Castii said, when
they had left the house and were walking along.
I suppose I'm not quite right in health just at
present. I seem to have lost my natural good
spirits of late ; the worst of it is, I can't settle
to my day's work as I used to. In fact, I have
just been applying for a new place, that of
dispenser at the Ail Saints' Hospital. If I get
it, it would make my life a good deal more
independent. I should live in lodgings of my
own, and have much more time to myself."

Waymark encouraged the idea strongly. But
his companion could not be roused to the
wonted cheerfulness. After a long silence, he
all at once put a strange question, and in an
abashed way.

Waymark, have you ever been in love ? "

Osmond laughed and looked at his friend
curiously.

"Many thousand times," was his reply.

"No, but seriously," urged Julian.

With desperate seriousness for two or three
days at a time. Never longer."

Well now, answer me in all earnestness.
Do you believe it possible to love a woman
whom in almost every respect you regard as
your inferior, who you know can't understand
your thoughts and aspirations, who has no interest
in anything above daily needs ? "

Impossible to say. Is she good-looking? "

Suppose she is not ; yet not altogether
plain."

Then does she love you ? "

Julian reddened at the direct application.

Suppose she seems to."

"Seems to, eh ? — On the whole, I should say
that I couldn't declare it possible or the contrary
till I had seen the girl. I myself should
be very capable of falling desperately in love
with a girl who hadn't an idea in her head,
and didn't know her letters. All I should ask
would be passion in return, and — well, yes, a
pliant and docile character."

You are right ; the character would go for
much. Never mind, we won't speak any more
of the subject. It was an absurd question to
ask you."

"Nevertheless, you have made me very
curious."

[ will tell you more some other time ; not
now. Tell me about your own plans. What
decision have you come to ? "

Waymark professed to have formed no plan
whatever. This was not strictly true. For
some months now, ever aod again, as often
indeed as he had felt the burden of his school-work
more than usually intolerable, his thoughts
had turned to the one person who could be of
any assistance to him, and upon whom he had
any kind of claim ; that was, Abraham Woodstock,
his father's old friend. He had held no
communication with Mr. Woodstock for four
years ; did not even know whether he was
living. But of him he still thought, now that
absolute need was close at hand, and, as soon
as Julian Castii had left him to-day, he examined
a directory, to ascertain whether the accountant
still occupied the house in St. John Street Road.
Apparently he did. And the same evening
Waymark made up his mind to visit Mr. Woodstock
on the following day.

The old gentleman was sitting alone in his
'study" when the servant announced Waymark's
visit. His surroundings were precisely the same
in character as they had been for the last thirty
years ; on floor and tables the same litter of
newspapers, periodicals, pamphlets, the shelves
exhibiting the same rows of Blue-books and
Annual Registers. In personal appearance he
was scarcely changed since that visit of Irttle
Ida's which we remember. Perhaps the eye was
not quite so vivid, the skin on forehead and
cheeks a trifle less smooth, but his countenance
showed the same healthy glow ; there was the
same repose of force in the huge limbs, and his
voice had lost nothing of its resonant firmness.
Yet to Way mark it was very soon obvious that ^
something was lacking in the old viveur ; there
was a diminution of his cheerful brutality ; he \
was more given to moments of mental absence,
during which the brow became wrinkled. Possibly
his palate suffered from the sameness of the daily
draught of life, or the presence of dregs had
begun to annoy him. .^

Ah ! " he exclaimed, as Way mark entered.

You ! I've been wondering where you were
to be found."

The visitor held out his hand, and Abraham,
though he did not rise, smiled not unpleasantly
as he gave his own.

You wanted to see me ? " Waymark asked.

'well, yes. I suppose you've come about
the mines."

'' Mines ? What mines ? "

Oh, then you haven't come about them
You didn't know the Llwg Valley people have
begun to pay a dividend ? "

Waymark remembered that one of his father's
unfortunate speculations had been the purchase
of certain shares in some Welsh mines. The
money thus invested had remained, for the last
nine years, wholly unproductive. Mr. Woodstock
explained that things were looking up with
the company in question, who had just declared
a dividend of four per cent, on all their 
shares.

'ein other words," exclaimed Waymark eagerly,
'' they owe me some money ? "

'* Which you can do with, eh ? " said Abraham,

\

with a twinkle of good-humoured commiseration
in his eye.

Perfectly. What are the details 1 "

'* There are fifty ten-pound shares. Dividend
accordingly twenty pounds."

By Jingo ! How is it to be got at ? "

"Do you feel disposed to sell the shares?"
asked the old man, looking up sideways, and
still smiling.

No ; on the whole I think not."

Ho, ho, Osmond, where have you learnt
prudence, eh ? — Why don't you sit down ? — '■
If you didn't come about the mines, why did
you come, eh ? "

Not to mince matters," said Waymark,
taking a chair, and speaking in an off-hand way
which cost him much effort, *' I came to ask
you to help me to some way of getting a
living."

Hollo ! " exclaimed the old man, chuckling.
'* Why, I should have thought you'd made your
fortune by this time. Poetry doesn't pay, it
seems f

*' It doesn't. One has to buy experience.

It's no good saying that I ought to have been
guided by you five years ago. Of course I wish
I had been, but it wasn't possible. The question
is, do you care to help me now ? "

What's your idea ? " asked Abraham, playing
with his watch-guard, a smile as of inward
triumph flitting about his lips.

I have none. I only knows that I've been
half-starved for a year in the cursed business of
teaching, and that I can't stand it any longer.
I want some kind of occupation that will allow
me to have three good meals every day, and
leave me my evenings free. That isn't asking
much, I imagine ; most men manage to find
such. I don't care what the work is, not a bit.
If it's of a kind which gives a prospect of getting
on, all the better ; if that's out of the question,
well, three good meals and a roof shall suffice."

"You're turning out a devilish sensible lad,
Osmond," said Mr. Woodstock, still smiling.
Better late than never, as they say. But I
don t see what you can do. You literary chaps
get into the way of thinking that any fool can
make a man of business, and that it's only a

matter of condescending to turn your hands to
desk work and the way's clear before you. Ita
mistake, and you're not the first that'll find
it out."

This much I know," replied Waymark, with
decision. 'set me to anything that can be
learnt, and I'll be perfect in it in a quarter the
time it would take the average man."

'' You want your evenings free ? " asked the
other, after a short reflection. " What will you
do with them ? "

I shall give them to literary work."

I thought as much. And you think you
can be a man of business and a poet at the same
time ? No go, my boy. If you take up business,
you drop poetizing. Those two horses
never yet pulled at the same shaft, and never
will."

'' I don't see why business and literature
shouldn't go on together as well as business and
politics."

Ho, ho ! That's all you know about it,
Osmond. Why, lad, politics is business, just
the highest kind, and needing the shrewdest

VOL. I. T

head. But poetry, and tale-writing, and that
kind of nonsense, makes a man unfit for anything
practical. I don't believe you'd stick at a desk
for a fortnight. — Have you made any money
out of your writing yet ? "

A few pounds."

And do you think it would ever come to
anything ? "

If I live ten years, my name will be among
the leading writers of the time."

How do you know, eh ? " asked Abraham,
shortly.

Simply because T have made up my mind
that it shall be."

Mr. Woodstock pondered for a few moments.
He thrust out his great legs with feet crossed
on the fender, and with his hands jingled coin
in his trouser-pockets. Waymark watched his
face curiously, and envied the experience and
command which were the outcome of half a
century's keen dealing with the world's affairs.
How hard to duly appreciate the working of
that brain ! — how yet more difficult to guess at
the shades of feeling which remained valid in

such a nature ! A certain warmth of sentiment
towards the old man, such as he did not remember
to have felt before, began to grow in
Waymark's heart. He wished that there might
be friendship between them.

I tell you what," Abraham suddenly began.
There's only one thing I know of at present
that you're likely to be able to do. Suppose I
gave you the job of collecting my rents down
in Westminster ? " •

Weekly rents ? "

Weekly. It's a rough quarter, and they're
a shady lot of customers. You wouldn't find
the job over-pleasant, but you might try,
eh?"

What would it bring me in, — to go at once
to the point ? "

The rents average twenty-five pounds. Your
commission would be seven per cent. You
might reckon, I dare say, on five-and-thirty
shillings a week."

What is the day for collecting ? "

Mondays ; but there's lots of 'em you'd have
to look up several times in a week. If you like I'll

T 2

go round myself on Tuesday — Easter Monday's
no good — and you can come with me."

"I will go by all means," exclaimed Waymark.
*' The thing is quite to my taste. Do I understand
that you make me the offer definitively ? "

Wei], it's usual to give some guarantee,"
said Mr. Woodstock, with a keen look. " Suppose
you took it into your head to disappear
some week with the rents ? "

You know very well I shouldn't make such a
fool of myself."

I don't know anything of the kind. Tell
you what. Leave in my hands this Llwg Valley
dividend."

Waymark was revolted, and looked into the
old man's face with something of contempt.
But the keen, quiet eye mastered him once
more. He smiled and acquiesced.

Talk of a more general kind followed, and
continued for some half-hour. When Waymark
rose at length, he expressed his gratitude for the
assistance promised.

"Well, well," said the other, " wait till we see
how things work. I shouldn't wonder if you

throw it up after a week or two. However, be
here on Tuesday at ten. And prompt, mind :
I don't wait for any man."

Way mark was punctual enough on the following
Tuesday, and the two rode in a hansom as
far as Broad Sanctuary. Hence they walked in
the direction of the least savoury part of Westminster.
It was rather a foggy morning, and
the district appeared at its worst, if indeed there
could be said to be degrees in the prevalent
vileness. Mr. Woodstock paused in his walk in
front of a small public-house over the entrance
to which was a clock — whence the current name
of the Clock House — and drew his companion's
attention to a name written up close by.

'' You see," he said, " that's Litany Lane. \
There are sixteen houses in it, and they're all
mine. Half way down, on the left, runs off
Jubilee Court, where there are fourteen houses,
and those are all mine, too."

Way mark looked. Litany Lane was a narrow
passage, with houses only on one side ; opposite
to them ran a long high wall, apparently the
limit of some manufactory. Two posts set up

at the entrance to the Lane showed that it was
no thoroughfare for vehicles. The houses were
of three storeys. There were two or three dirty
little shops, but the rest were ordinary lodging-houses,
the front-doors standing wide open asa
matter of course, exhibiting a dusky passage,
filthy stairs, with generally a glimpse right
through into the yard in the rear. In Jubilee
Court the houses were smaller, and had their
fronts white washed, the white having become
a dirty yellow. Under the archway which led
into the Court were fastened up several written
notices of rooms to be let at this or that number.
The paving was in evil repair, forming here and
there considerable pools of water, the stench and
the colour whereof led to the supposition that
the inhabitants facilitated domestic operations
by emptying casual vessels out of the windows.
The dirty little casements on the ground-floor
exhibited without exception a rag of red or
white curtain on the one side, prevailing fashion
evidently requiring no corresponding drapery on
the other. The Court was a cul de sac, and at
the farther end stood a receptacle for ashes, the

odour from which was intolerable. Strangely
enough, almost all the window-sills displayed
flower-pots, and, despite the wretched weather,
several little bird-cages hung out from the upper
storeys. In one of them a lark was singing
furiously.

They began their progress through the
tenements, commencing at the top of Litany
Lane. Many of the rooms were locked, the
occupiers being away at their work, but ir such
case the rent had generally been left with some
other person in the house, and was forthcoming.
But now and then neither rent nor tenant was
to be got at, and dire were the threats which
Abraham bade the neighbours convey to the
defaulters on their return. His way with one
and all was curt and vigorous ; to Waymark it
seemed needlessly brutal. A woman pleading
inability to make up her total sum would be
cut short with a thunderous oath, and the
assurance that, if she did not pay up in a day
or two, every stick would be carried off. Pitiful
pleading for time had absolutely no effect upon
i\.braham. Here and there a tenant would

complain of high rent and point out a cracked
ceiling, a rotten piece of stairs, or something
else imperatively calling for renovation. " If
you don't like the room, clear out," was the
landlord's sole reply to all such speeches.

In one place they came across an old Irishwoman
engaged in washings. The room was
hung: with reeking clothes from wall to wall.
For a time it was difficult to distinguish objects
through the steam, and Waymark, making his
way in, stumbled and almost fell over an
open box. From the box at once proceeded a
miserable little wail, broken by as terrible a
cough as a child could be afflicted with ; and
Waymark then perceived that the box was being
used as a cradle, in which lay a baby gasping
in the agonies of some throat disease, whilst
drops from the wet clothing trickled on to its
face. The old woman was its grandmother.
She was in a state — doubtless chronic — of partial
intoxication, and was disposed to be very jocose.
The rent, was it ? Sure, and it seemed to
be always rent-day. But it wasn't often that
Mr. Woodstock did her the honour to come and

ask for it himself. And would he taste just a
drop of rale Irish, now ? "

Come on, old lady," said Mr. Woodstock.
We've no time to waste. Where's the money ? "

"The money? Sure, an' it's little we see of
it, these hard times. And the child's ill, sure,
an' it was only this morning we paid the doctor
a half-crown. Perhaps the young gentleman 'full
taste a drop ? "

"Have you got the rent or not?" 'asked
Abraham, savagely.

"' Sure, and I should have it somewhere, Mr.
Woodstock. It was only this morning, when
my daughter was paying the doctor that she
said it was rent-day, and we put the money in
the copper for safety, so I could feel it whilst
I washed. And here it is, sure enough," she
added, fishing up five shillings and sixpence
from beneath a mass of clothing which was
bubbling over the fire.

Here's your receipt, then, and be a bit
quicker when the new collector comes round
next week."

And is that the new collector ? " asked the

old woman, with a chuckle. " Sure, he's a sweet
bo-oy. Hint-day 'ill come easier for the young
women, faith."

On leaving this house, • they entered Jubilee
Court. Here, sitting on the doorstep of the first
house, was a child of apparently nine or ten,
and seemingly a girl, though the nondescript
attire might have concealed either sex, and the
face was absolutely sexless in its savagery. Her
hair was cut short, and round her neck was a bit
of steel chain, fastened with string. On seeing
the two approach, she sprang up, and disappeared
with a bound into the house.

*' That's the most infernal little devil in all
London, I do believe," said Mr. Woodstock, as
they began to ascend the stairs. " Her mother
owes two weeks, and if she don't pay something
to-day, I'll have her out. She'll be shamming
illness, you'll see. The child ran up to prepare
her."

The room in question was at the top of the
house. It proved to be quite bare of furniture.
On a bundle of straw in one corner was lying
a woman, to all appearances in extremis. Any

description of her state of body would be too
disgusting to read. She lay looking up to the
ceiling, her face distorted into the most ghastly
anguish, her lips foaming ; her whole frame
shivered incessantly.

Ha, I thought so," exclaimed Abraham, ashe
entered. " Now, we're too old birds to be
caught with this kind of chaff. Are you going
to pay anything this week ? "

The woman seemed to be unconscious.

"Have you got the rent?" asked Mr. Woodstock,
turning to the child, who had crouched
down in another corner.

No, we ain't," was the reply, with a terribly
fierce glare from eyes which rather seemed to
have looked on ninety years than nine.

Then out you go ! Come, you, get up now ;
d' you hear ? Very well ; come along, Osmond ;
you take hold of that foot, and I'll take this.
Now, drag her out on to the landing."

They dragged her about half-way to the door,
when suddenly Waymark felt the foot he had
hold of withdrawn from his grasp, and at once
the woman sprang upright. Then she fell on

him, tooth and nail, screaming like some evil
beast. Had not Abraham forthwith come to the
rescue, he would have been seriously torn about
the face, but just in time the woman's arms
were seized in a giant grip, and she was flung
bodily out of the room, falling with a crash upon
the landing. Then from her and the child arose
a most terrific uproar of commination ; both
together yelled such foulness and blasphemy as
can only be conceived by those who have made
a special study of this vocabulary, and the
vituperation of the child was, if anything, richer
in quality than the mother s. The former, moreover,
did not confine herself to words, but all
at once sent her clenched fist through every
pane of glass in the window, heedless of the
fearful cuts she inflicted upon herself, and uttering
a wild yell of triumph at each fracture.
Mr. Woodstock was too late to save his property,
but he caught up the creature like a doll, and
flung her out also on to the landing, then coolly
locked the door behind him, put the key in
his pocket, and, letting Waymark pass on first,
descended the stairs. The yelling and screeching

behind them continued as long as they were
in the Court, but it drew no attention from the
neighbours, who were far too accustomed to this
kind of thing to heed it.

In the last house they had to enter, they came
upon a man asleep on a bare bedstead. It was
difficult to wake him. When at length he was
aroused, he glared at them for a moment with
one bloodshot eye, (the other was sightless,)
looking much like a wild beast which doubts
whether to spring or to shrink back.

Rent, Slimy," said Mr. Woodstock, with
more of good-humour than usual.

The man pointed to the mantel-piece, where
the pieces of money were found to be lying.
Waymark looked round the room. Besides the
bedstead, a table was the only article of furniture,
and on it stood a dirty jug and a glass.
Lying about was a strange collection of miscellaneous
articles, heaps of rags and dirty
paper, bottles, boots, bones. There were one
or two chairs in process of being new caned ;
there was a wooden frame for holding glass,
such as is carried about by itinerant glaziers,

and, finally, there was a knife-grinding instrument,
adapted for wheeling about the streets.
The walls were all scribbled over with obscene
words and drawings. On the inside of the
door had been fitted two enormous bolts, one
above and one below.

How's trade, Slimy ? " inquired Mr. Woodstock.


'' Which trade, Mr. Woodstock ? " asked the
man in return, in a very husky voice.

Oh, trade in general."

There never was such times since old Scratch
died," replied Slimy, shaking his head. " No
chance for a honest man."

Then you're in luck. This is the new
collector, d'you see."

I've been a-looking at him," said Slimy,
whose one eye, for all that, had seemed busy all
the time in quite a different direction. " I seen
him somewheres, but I can't just make out where."

"Not many people you haven't seen, I think,"
said Abraham, nodding, as he went out of the
room, Waymark followed, and was glad to
get into the open streets again.

CHAPTER VIII.

A Man-trap,

Julian Castii was successful in his application
for the post of dispenser at the All Saints'
Hospital, and shortly after Easter he left the
shop in Oxford Street, taking lodgings in Beaufort
Street, Chelsea. His first evening there
was spent in Waymark's company, and there
was much talk of the progress his writing would
make, now that his hours of liberty were so
considerably extended. For the first time in
his life he was enjoying the sense of independence.
Waymark talked of moving from Walcot
Square, in order to be nearer to his friend. He,
too, was possessed of more freedom than had
been the case for a long time, aod his head
was full of various fancies. They would encourage
each other in their work, afford by
mutual appreciation that stimulus which is so
essential to the young artist.

But in this world, though man may propose,
it is woman who disposes. And at this moment,
Julian's future was being disposed of in a manner
he could not well have foreseen.

Harriet S males had heard with unconcealed
pleasure of his leaving the shop and taking
lodgings of his own. She had been anxious
to come and see the rooms, and, though the
following Sunday was appointed for her visit,
she could not wait so long, but, to her cousin's
surprise, presented herself at the house one
evening, and was announced by the landlady,
who looked suspicious. Julian, with some nervousness,
hastened to explain that the visitor
was a relative, which, by the way, did not in
the least alter his landlady's preconceived ideas.
Harriet sat down and looked about her with a
sigh of satisfaction. If she could but have such
a home ! Girls had no chance of getting on as
men did. If only her father could have lived,
things would have been different. Now she
was thrown on the world, and had to depend
upon her own hard work. Then she gave way
to an hysterical sob, and Julian — who felt sure

that the landlady was listening at the door —
could only beg her nervously not to be so
down-hearted.

*' Whatever success I have," he said to her,
"you will share it."

If I thought so ! " she sighed, looking down
at the floor, and moving the point of her umbrella
up and down. Harriet had saturated her
mind — or whatever succedaneum for mind her
constitution comprised — with the fiction of
penny weeklies, and owed to this training all
manner of awkward affectations which she took
to be the most becoming manifestations of a
susceptible heart. Every now and then she
would express herself in phrases of the most
absurdly high-flown kind, and of late she had
got into the habit of heaving profound sighs
between her sentences. We know that Julian
was not blind to the meaning of all this. His
active employments during the past week had
kept his thoughts from brooding on the matter,
and he had all but dismissed the trouble it had
given him. But this visit, and Harriet's demeanour
throughout it, revived all his anxieties.

VOL. I. u

He came back from accompanying his cousin
part of her way home in a very uneasy frame
of mind. What could he do to disabuse the
poor girl of the unhappy hopes she entertained ?
(The thought of giving pain to any most humble
creature was itself a pain unendurable to Julian.
His was one of those natures to which self-sacrifice
is infinitely easier than the idea of
sacrificing another to his own desires or even
necessities, a vice of weakness often more deeply
and widely destructive than the vices of strength.
The visit having been paid, it was arranged
that on the following Sunday Julian should meet
his cousin at the end of Gray's Inn Eoad as
usual. On that day the weather was fine, but
Harriet came out in no mood for a walk. She
had been ailing for a day or two, she said, and
felt incapable of exertion ; Mrs. Ogle was away
from home for the day, too, and it would be
better they should spend the afternoon together
in the house. Julian of course assented, as
always, and they established themselves in the
parlour behind the shop. In the course of
talk, the girl made mention of an engraving

Julian had given her a week or two before,
and said that she had had it framed and hung
it in her bed-room.

Do come up and look at it," she exclaimed ;
"there's no one in the house. I want to ask
you if you can find a better place for it. It
doesn't show so well where it is."

Julian hesitated for a moment, but she was
already leading the way, and he could not refuse
to follow. They went up to the top of the
house, and entered a little chamber which might
have been more tidy, though it was decently
furnished. The bed was made in a slovenly
way, the mantelpiece was dusty, and the pictures
on the walls hung askew. Harriet closed the
door behind them, and proceeded to point out
the new picture, and discuss the various
positions which had occurred to her. Julian
would have decided the question as speedily as
possible, and once or twice moved to return
down-stairs, but each time the girl found something
new to detain him. Opening a drawer,
she took out several paltry little ornaments,

which she wished him to admire, and, in showing

u 2

them, stood very close by his side. All at once
the door of the room was pushed open, and a
woman ran in. On seeing the stranger present,
she darted back with an exclamation of surprise.

Oh, Miss Smales, I didn't know as you
wasn't alone ! I heard you moving about, an

come just to art you to lend me but never

mind, I'm so sorry ; why didn't you lock the
door ? "

And she bustled out again, apparently in
much confusion.

Harriet had dropped the thing she held in
her hand, and stood looking at her cousin as if
dismayed.

I never thought any one was in," she said,
nervously. " It's Miss Mould, the lodger. She
went out before I did, and I never heard her
come back. Whatever will she think ! "

"But of course," he stammered, "you will
explain everything to her. She knows who I
am, doesn't she ? "

I don't think so, and, even if she did " —

She stopped, and stood with eyes on the
ground, doing her best to display maiden confusion.

Then lie began to cry. Harriet always
had the water-works astonishingly under command.

"But surely, surely there is no need to distress
yourself," exclaimed Julian, almost distracted,
beginning to be dimly conscious of all manner of
threatening possibilities. " I will speak to the

woman myself, and clear you of every Oh

but this is all nonsense. Let us go down at
once, Harriet. What a pity you asked me to
come up here 1 ''

It was the nearest to a reproach that he had
ever yet addressed to her. His face showed
clearly how distressed he was, and that on his
own account more than hers, for he could not
conceive any blame save on himself for being
so regardless of appearances.

'^ Go as quietly as ever you can," Harriet whispered.
" The stairs creak so. Step very softly."

This was terrible to the poor fellow. To steal
down in this guilty way was as bad as a confession
of evil intentions, and he so entirely
innocent of a shadow of evil even in his thought.
Yet he could not but do as she bade him. Even
on the stairs she urged him in a very loud

whisper to be yet more cautious. He was out of
himself with mortification ; and felt angry with
her for bringing him into such ignominy. In
the back parlour once more, he took up his hat
at once.

"You mustn't go yet," whispered Harriet.
I'm sure that woman's listening on the stairs.
You must talk a little. Let's talk so she can
hear us. Suppose she should tell Mrs. Ogle."

I can't see that it matters," said Julian, with
annoyance. " I will myself see Mrs. Ogle."

'' No, no ! The idea ! I should have to leave at
once. Whatever shall I do if she turns me away,
and won't give me a reference or anything ! "

Even in a calmer mood, Julian's excessive
delicacy would have presented an affair of this
kind in a grave light to him ; at present he was
wholly incapable of distinguishing between true
and false, or of gauging these fears at their true
value. The mere fact of the girl making so
great a matter out of what should have been so
easy to explain and have done with, caused an
exaggeration of the difficulty in his own mind.
He felt that he ought of course to justify himself

before Mrs. Ogle, and would have been capable
of doing so had only Harriet taken the same
sensible view ; but her apparent distress seemed
even to him — so much more like conscious
guilt than troubled innocence, that such a task
would cost him the acutest suffering. For
nearly an hour he argued with her, trying to
convince her how impossible it was that the
woman who had surprised them should harbour
any injurious suspicions.

But she knows — " began Harriet, and then
stopped, her eyes falling.

What does she know ? " demanded her
cousin in surprise ; but could get no reply to
his question. However, his arguments seemed
at length to have a calming effect, and, as he
took leave, he even affected to laugh at the
whole affair. For all that, he had never suffered
such mental trouble in his life as during this
visit and throughout the evening which followed.
The mere thought of having been obliged to
discuss such things with his cousin filled him
with inexpressible shame and misery. Waymark
came to spend the evening with him, but found

poor entertainment. Several times Julian was
on the point of relating what had happened,
and asking for advice, but he found it impossible
to broach the subject. There was an ever-recurring
anger against Harriet in his mind, too,
for which at the same time he reproached himself.
He dreaded the next meeting between them.

Now the discerning reader, by which I mean
the one who has been led by inclination or dire
circumstance to study female humanity in the
phase represented by Harriet Smales, will already
be at no loss to understand the significance
of that scene up-stairs ; needless to explain in
detail that the situation was all pre-planned
between the girl and her friend Miss Mould. , It
was a plan involving some delicacy of judgment,

\ moreover. Harriet, though herself quite inno-
I cent of fine feeling and nice complexities of
conscience, was well aware of the existence of
such properties in her cousin. She neither
admired nor despised him for possessing them ;
they were of unknown value, indifferent to her,
indeed, until she became aware of the practical
use that might be made of them. Like most

narrow-minded girls, she became a shrewd reader
of character, when her affections and interests
were concerned, and could calculate Julian's
motives, and the course wherein they would lead
him, with much precision. She knew too well
that he did not love her in the way she desired,
but at the same time she knew that he was
capable of making almost any sacrifice to spare
her humiliation and trouble, especially if he felt
that her unhappiness was in any way caused by
himself. Herein Harriet was typical of the
people whose lack of principle arises from their
lack of imagination ; they do not disbelieve the
existence of noble motive, but, recognizing its
presence in this and that person, are simply
unable to comprehend the nature of such a
characteristic. Its practical display they foresee
and can calculate upon, as Harriet did in
the present instance.

Thus it came about that, on the Tuesday
evening of the ensuing week, Julian was startled
by his landlady announcing another visit from
Miss Scales. Harriet came into the room with
a veil over her face, and sank on a chair, sobbing.

What she had feared had come to pass. The
lodger had told Mrs. Ogle of what had taken
place in her absence on the Sunday afternoon,
and Harriet had received notice that she must
find another place at once. Mrs. Ogle was a
woman of severe virtue, and would not endure
the suspicion of wrong-doing under her roof.
To whom could she come for advice and help,
but to Julian ?

Julian was overwhelmed. His perfectly
sincere nature was incapable of suspecting a far
more palpable fraud. He started up with the
intention of going forthwith to Gray's Inn Eoad,
but Harriet clung to him and held him back.
The idea was vain. The lodger, Miss Mould,
had long entertained a spite against her, Harriet
said, and had so exaggerated this story in
relating it to Mrs. Ogle, that the latter, and her
husband, had declared that Castii should not as
much as put foot in their shop again.

''If you only knew what they've been told!"
sobbed the girl, still clinging to Julian. " They
wouldn't listen to a word you said. As if I
could have thought of such a thing happening,

and that woman to say all the bad things of us
she can turn her tongue to ! I shan't never get
another place ; I'm thrown out on the wide
world ! "

It was a phrase she had got out of her penny
fiction ; and very remarkable indeed was the
mixture of acting and real sentiment which
marked her utterances throughout.

Julian's shame and anger began to turn to
compassion. A woman in tears was a ' sight
which always caused him the keenest distress.

*^ But' he cried, with tears in his own eyes,
"it is impossible that you should suffer all this
through me, and I not even make an attempt
to clear you of such vile charges ! "

It was my own fault. I was thoughtless.
I ought to have known that people's always
ready to think harm. But I think of nothing
when I'm with you, Julian ! "

He had diseno:ao:ed himself from her hands,
and was holding one of them in his own. But,
as she made this last confession, she threw her
arms about his neck and drooped her head
against his bosom.

Oh, if you only felt to me like I do to you ! '?
lie sobbed.

No man can hear without some return of
emotion a confession from a woman's lips that
she loves him. Harriet was the only girl whom
Julian had ever approached in familiar intercourse
; she had no rival to fear amongst living
women ; the one rival to be dreaded was altogether
out of the sphere of her conceptions, — the
ideal love of a poet's heart and brain. But the
ideal is often least present to us when most
needed. Here was love ; offer but love to a
poet, and does he pause to gauge its quality?
The sudden whirl of conflicting emotions left
Julian at the mercy of the instant's impulse.
She was weak ; she was suffering through him ;
she loved him.

Be my wife, then," he whispered, returning
her embrace, " and let me guard you from all
who would do you harm."

She uttered a cry of delight, and — let it be
remembered for her — the cry was a true one.

END OF VOL. I.

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS

e44u
1884-

Cop.'Z

University of Illinois Library

uCi -5 ^'B:

L161— H41

VOL. n.

BY

GEORGE Missing

AUTHOR OF " WORKERS IN THE DAWN.

Hast du night giite Gesellschaft gesehn ? Es zeigt uns dein BUchlein
Fast nur Gaoler und Volkk, ja was noah niedriger list.

Gate Gesellschaft hab' ici gesehn ; man nennt sie die gate
Went sie sum leinster Gedicht keiiie Gelegenheit giebt." — Goethe.

IN THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. XL

LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL

Limited



\ All rights raerved.}

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

BOOK III.
CHAPTER I.
THINKING MAKES IT 80 "

CHAPTER 11.
ON A NEW FOOTING

PAGE



CHAPTER II.

HINTS . . . . . 28

CHAPTER III.

EXAMPLE WITHOUT PRECEPT . . . 50

CHAPTER IV.

TEE MISSING YEARS . . . . 69

BOOK IV.
CHAPTER I.

PARENTS . . . . . 106



CHAPTER IIJ.

Prob

IN THE MEAN TIME . . . . 156

CHAPTER IV.

A SUGGESTION . . . . 177

CHAPTER V.

DIPLOMACY . . . . . 201

CHAPTER VI.

UNDER-CURRENTS . . . . 226

CHAPTER VII.

THE OPPORTUNITY . . . . 255

CHAPTER VIII.
JUSTICE . . . . . 278

BOOK III.

CHAPTER I.

"thinking makes it so."

Osmond Waymark was light-hearted; and \
with him such a state meant something not
at all to be understood by those with whom
lightness of heart is a chronic affection. The
man who dwells for long periods face to face
with the bitter truths of life learns so to distrust
a fleeting moment of joy, gives habitually so
cold a reception to the tardy messenger of
delight, that, when the bright guest outrages
his churlishness and perforce tarries with him,
there ensues a passionate revulsion unknown
to hearts which open readily to every fluttering
illusive bliss. Illusion it of course remains ; is

VOL. II. B

ever recognized as that ; but illusion so sweet
and powerful that he thanks the god that blinds
him, and counts off with sighs of joy the
hours thus brightly winged.

He awaited with extreme impatience the
evening on which he would again see Ida.
Distrustful always, he could not entirely dismiss
the fear that his first impressions might
prove mistaken in the second interview ; yet he
tried his best to do so, and amused himself with
imagining for Ida a romantic past, for her and
himself together a yet more romantic future.
In spite of the strange nature of their relations,
he did not delude himself with the notion that
the girl had fallen in love with him at first sight,
and that she stood before him to take or reject
as he chose. He had a certain awe of her.
He divined in her a strength of character which
made her his equal ; it might well be, his
superior. Take, for instance, the question of
the life she was at present leading. In the
case of an ordinary pretty and good-natured
girl falling in his way as Ida Starr had done,
he would have exerted whatever influence he

might acquire over her to persuade her into
better paths. Any such direct guidance was,
he felt, out of the question here. The girl had
independence of judgment; she would resent
anything said by him on the assumption of her
moral inferiority, and, for aught he knew, with
justice. Let me give evidence to you of a
self-knowledge greater than your own knowledge
of me, and you have no right to take for
granted the moral iniquity of any ccAirse I
choose to pursue. Only then are your instincts
(which is the same as saying your powers of
moral judgment) more valid for me than my
own, when you prove that you have learnt me
by heart, have got at my mystery, appreciate
every step which has brought me to my present
position, and miss no item of the circumstances,
internal and external, which constitute my being.
And Ida Starr was not so easily conned by rote.
Waymark felt, in fact, that, in the proposed
friendship between them, he was at least as
much on his trial as she. The chances were at
least as great that he might prove unworthy of
her, as that she should prove unworthy of him.

B 2

When he presented himself at the house in
the little court by Temple Bar, it was the girl
Sally who opened the door to him. She
beckoned him to follow, and ran before him
up-stairs. The sitting-room presented the same
comfortable appearance, and Grim, rising lazily
from the hearth-rug, came forward purring a
welcome, but Ida was not there.

'she was obliged to go out," said Sally, in
answer to his look of inquiry. " She won't belong,
and she said you was to make yourself
comfortable till she came back."

On a little side-table stood cups and saucers,
and a box of cigars. The latter Sally brought
forward.

'' I was to ask you to smoke, and whether
you'd like a cup of coffee with it ? " she asked,
with the curious naivete which marked her mode
of speech.

The kettle's boiling on the side," she added,
seeing that Waymark hesitated. " I can make
it in a minute."

'' In that case, I will."

You don't mind me having one as well ? "

'• Of course not."

'shall I talk, or shall I keep quiet? I'm
not a servant here, you know," she added, with
an amusing desire to make her position clear.
Ida and me's friends, and she'd do just as
much for I.''

Talk by all means," said Way mark, smiling,
as he lit his cigar. The result was that, ina
quarter of an hour Sally had related her
whole history. As Ida had said, she came from
Weymouth, where her father was a fisherman,
and owner of bum<=boats, yachts, and other such
craft. Her mother kept a laundry, and the
family had all lived together in easy circumstances.
She herself had come to London — well,
just for a change. And what was she doing ?
Oh, getting her living as best she could. In
the day-time she worked in a city workroom.

*' And how much do you think I earn a
week ? " she asked.

"Fifteen shillings or so, I suppose?"

Ah, that's all you know about it ! Now, last
week was the best I've had yet, and I made
seven shillings."

'^ What do you do?"

Machine work ; making' ulsters. How much
do you think we get, now, for making a ulster —
one like this ? " pointing to one which hung
behind the door.

Have no idea."

^ ^,—fourpence : there now ! "

*' And how many can you make in a day ? "

I can't make no more than two. Some
make three, but it's blessed hard work. But I
get a little job now and then to do at home."

But you can't live on seven shillings a
week ? "

'*I shed think not, indeed. We have to makeup
the rest as best we can, enough."

'' But your employers must know that ? "

In course. What's the odds % All us girls
are the same ; we have to keep on the two jobs
at the same time. But I'll give up the day-work
before long, enough. I come home at
night that tired out I ain't fit for nothing. I
feel all eyes, as the saying' is. And it's hard to
have to go out into the Strand, when you're like
that."

*' But do they know about all this at home ? "

No fear ! If our father knew, he'd be down
here precious soon, and the house wouldn't hold
him. But I shall go back some day, when I've
got a good fit-out."

The door opened quietly, and Ida came in.

Well, young people, so you are making yourselves
at home."

The sweet, pure face, the eyes and lips with
their contained mirth, the light, perfect form,
the graceful carriage, — Waymark felt his pulses
throb at the sound of her voice and the touch
of her hand.

You didn't mind waiting a little for me ? I
really couldn't help it. And then, after all, I
thought you oughtn't come."

But I promised to."

Promises, promises, oh dear ! " laughed Ida.
Sally, here's an orange for you."

"You are a duck!" was the girl's reply, as
she caught it, and, with a nod to Waymark, left
the room.

And so you've really come," Ida went on,
sitting down and beginning to draw off her gloves.

"You find it surprising? To begin with, I

have come to pay my debts."

*' Is there another cup of coffee ? " she asked,

seeming not to have heard. " I'm too tired to

get up and see."

Waymark felt a keen delight in waiting upon

her, in judging to a nicety the true amount of

sugar and cream, in drawing the little table just

within her reach.

"Mr. Waymark," she exclaimed, all at once,

if you had had supper with a friend, and your

friend had paid the bill, should you take out

your purse and pay him back at your next

meeting ? "

It would depend entirely on circumstances."
"Just so. Then the present circumstances

don't permit anything of the kind, and there's

an end of that matter. Light another cigar, will

you?"

You don't dislike the smoke ? "

If I did, I should certainly say so."

Having removed her outer garments one by

one, she rose and took them into the inner room.

On reappearing, she went to the sitting-room

door and turned the key in the lock. Then she
noticed that the cat had approached her and was
purring about her feet.

My poor old Grim 1 " she cried, with almost
passionate fervour. " To think that I haven't as
much as noticed you ! Come and sit on my lap,
old darling. Bless his little golden eyes ! Do
look at his face, Mr. Waymark. Isn't it the
most beautiful face you ever saw ? "

Of animals, I think so."

Oh, of animals or people either ! I never
saw a man's or woman's face yet which would
bear looking at from all points. There's always
some view of a face which brings out the worst
part of the person's character, though you're
sometimes long before you catch it. But however
you look at Grimmy's face, it's always the
same true, gentle, thoughtful little countenance.
How I like animals ! Will you go with me some
day to the Zoological Gardens ? When I was a
child, I used to live near Eegent's Park, and
often went near the gardens just to hear the
sound of their voices."

Something in the memory seemed to make

her thoughtful. The smile faded from her face,
and she remained for a moment looking into the
fire.

Oh, I have read your book," she exclaimed,
with a quick return to her ordinary manner.

"the Vicar of Wakefield'? And did you
like it?"

It made me wish to go away and live in
some quiet little village, just like that. It quite
took me out of my usual life and thoughts.
But then it made me wonder, too. Doesn't it
seem to you strange, — I mean when you think
about it, — that so much trouble and misery and
shame should be caused just by a girl being
led astray, as they call it? Suppose you had
a daughter, and the same kind of thing happened
to her, should you rave and storm and
go on in that mad way, like the old Vicar does ?
Should you think she'd disgraced herself and all
her family for ever ? "

On the whole, I think not." '

'' Of course if a girl comes to want and misery
and so on, why, the case is pitiful. But I can't
understand all this talk about shame and disgrace.

What worse is she than she was before ?
Suppose it all happened secretly, and there an
end of it, well, wouldn't it be the same as if it
had never happened ? "

** People don't think so. They believe in
what they call contamination of the soul."

Yes, but it seems so queer. Suppose a girl
is found out to have a lover who visits her so
as to make people suspicious. Her character is
lost ; her soul is contaminated. Then suppose
it is discovered all at once that the two have
been secretly married. Character instantly
comes back, and the soul is made pure again.
Surely there's something very absurd in all
this."

I myself hold the same opinions, but the
world would call us abominable heretics. I
fancy the truth is this. If you believe yourself
to be made impure by any piece of conduct, you
are in fact made so ; otherwise not. Shakspeare
makes Hamlet say, ' There's nothing either good
or bad, but thinking makes it so.' Purity and
impurity are not actually existing things ; they
are only states of thought. AVhat one may do

and be no worse for, another must not venture
upon. Do you see what I mean ? "

Yes, yes,'^ cried the girl eagerly. " You put
into words what I've so often tried to make
myself understand. ' There's nothing either good
or bad, but thinking makes it so.' Oh, what a
good thought that is ; I am sure it is true ! "

She repeated it, half to herself, several times.

'^ Take my own case," she said then. " A
respectable woman, as they are called, would not
speak to me, would run and wash her hand if I
touched it, would not let her dress brush against
mine in the street, if she knew it. Am I really
so vile ? Do i/ou in your heart think me so ? I
can bear the truth. Tell me ; speak honestly tome
; I wish it ! "

There is no woman I ever knew worthy to
be called your equal."

Oh, but I don't want you to speak in that
way," she urged, almost fretfully. "Do you
think I am degraded, — hopelessly and for ever
impure, however I might alter my life ? "

'' I think nothing of the kind. The mere fact
of your being able to speak to me in this way

proves the opposite. For, I repeat, everything is
a question of thought. There are girls whom
I pass here in the Strand who do indeed seem
hopelessly degraded, but I dare say they would
have been so under any circumstances."

*look at me, — now !" exclaimed Ida, standing
up. " Here, at this moment, in my talk
with you, I am as pure as any woman who lives.
I can be so at any moment, whenever I choose.
But there are times when I am indeed vile. I
know it perfectly well. I hate myself when I
feel it. I get my living by a vile trade. But
what I loll declare is this : that my trade does
not render me hopelessly degraded. Give me a
fortune, and tomorrow I will be as chaste as if I
still sat on my mother's knee ; the past life will
have gone for ever, and have left no trace, —
except in a clearer understanding of things. Do
you believe that ? "

"Entirely."

Some day I shall shake it all off, — that is if
the world will be so kind as to show me someway
of living without labour which would make
life intolerable to me. There again. They

would tell me that the hardest and meanest toil
was to be chosen before such a life as mine. By
some women, perhaps ; not by me. I have no
religion ; I can't bring myself to believe in God
and Heaven, still less in Hell. So why should I
slave my body into pieces, just to keep what is
called virtue ? I will die if you like. I am
always ready to do that. But I refuse to live a
life of prison-labour."

At the same time," said Waymark, after a
short silence, " we have to admit the teaching of
experience, that what is called a vicious life does
often end in real degradation, — what even we
should call such. Many a girl has sunk to
fearful depths, who, if circumstances had averted
the "first step, might have never known evil."

Then she was not worth preserving ! We
must learn to keep soul and body apart. If we
can't do that, why, every-day life will offer a
thousand occasions for degradation. There are
respectable women who every day contaminate
the soul through the body more than I have
done in all my life — I have known them. Oh
yes ! But, happily, I am strong ; I shall not

allow myself to sink. If this life becomes unendurable,
and no other better offers itself, I
shall find some easy kind of death, and there
an end."

"That's not likely to be your end," said
Waymark, meeting her eyes. " Life is only just
beginning for you. There must be many men
who would sacrifice their own existence to make
yours smooth and happy."

I know no one from whom I would accept
the sacrifice," returned Ida, with a touch of
scorn in her eyes.

Have you never been in love ? " Waymark
asked, paling slightly as he did so.

"Never. Nor ever had any one whom I could
call a friend."

You have promised to let me be that to

you."

Yes, I have," she replied, gravely, " and 1
don't repent it. I never spoke with any one as
with you to-night ; you will be a help to me.
AVill you let me see you every week '? "

I cannot see you too often."

My plan of life is this. At the beginning

of each week, I arrange how I shall spend everyday
in it. Will you let me send you a note
each Monday morning, to tell you when I shall
be free, and, if you can't come, just let me
know ? "

Presently, she took a little manuscript book
from a drawer.

I write in this," she said, " all sorts of little
things that I want to remember. "Will you
write for me, here, that sentence from Shakspeare r
' There is nothing either good or bad '."

He did so, and put after it the date and his
initials.

Could you let me have some more books
to read ? " she asked.

"I have brought one, thinking you might be
ready for it."

It was 'Jane Eyre.' She glanced over the
pages eagerly.

I don't know how it is," she said, " I have
grown so hungry for reading of late. Till just
now I never cared for it. When I was a child
and went to school, I didn't like my lessons.
Still I learned a good deal, for a little girl, and

it has stayed by me. And oh, it seems so long
ago ! Never mind, perhaps I will tell you all
about that some day."

I shall think much of you," said Waymark,
when it was time for him to go.

The less the better," was Ida's reply.

For his comfort, yes, — - Waymark thought,

as he walked homewards. Ida had already a

dangerous hold upon him ; she possessed his

senses, and set him on fire with passionate

imaginings. Were he but rich, he could buy

her, make her his property, as did any other

of the men on whom she lived. Here, as on

every hand, his cursed poverty closed against

him the possibilities of happiness. That she

should ever come to love him, seemed very

unlikely ; the alliance between them could only

be a mere caprice on her part, such as girls of

her kind are very subject to ; he might perhaps

fill up her intervals of tedium, but would have

no share in her real life. And the thought of

that life fretted him with jealousy. She might

say what she liked about never having known

love, but it was of course impossible that she
VOL. II. , c

should not have a preference among her lovers.
And to think of the chances before such a girl,
so blessed with rare beauty and endless charms.
In the natural order of events she would become
the mistress of some rich man ; might even, as
at times happens, be raised by marriage to high
social position; in either case, the connection
between them must cease. And, indeed, what
right had he to endeavour to gain her love,
having nothing but mere beggarly devotion to
offer her in return ? He had not even the excuse
of one who could offer her married life in soberly
easy circumstances, — supposing that to be an
improvement on her present position. In fact,
it amounted to this : any hint of love on his part
was a request that she would yield him gratis
what others paid for ; he would become a
pensioner on her bounty. Needless to say, a
wholly intolerable situation. Would it not be
better at once to break off these impossible
relations ? How often he had promised himself,
in moments of clear thought, never again to
enter on a course which would obviously involve
him in futile suffering. Why had he not now

the strength to obey his reason, and continue

to possess his soul in the calm of which he

had enjoyed a brief taste ?

The novel circumstances of the past week

had almost driven from his mind all thought

of Maud Enderbv. He regretted having asked

and obtained permission to write to her. She

seemed so remote from him, their meeting

so long past. What could there be in common

between himself and that dim, quiet little

girl, who had excited his sympathy merely

because her pretty face was made sad by the

same torments which had afflicted him ? He

needed some strong, vehement, original nature

such as Ida Starr's ; how would Maud's timid

conventionality — doubtless she was absolutely

conventional — suit with the heresies of which

he was all compact ? Still, he could not well

ignore what had taken place between them,

and, after all, there would be a certain pleasant

curiosity in awaiting her reply. In any case,

he would write just such a letter as came

naturally from him. If she was horrified, well,

there an end of the matter.

c 2

Accordingly, he sat down on the morning after
his visit to Ida, and, after a little difficulty
in commencing, produced a letter of some ten
close pages. It was mainly occupied with a
description of his experiences in Litany Lane
and Jubilee Court on the preceding Tuesday.
He made no apology for detailing such unpleasant
matters, and explained that he would
henceforth be kept in pretty close connection
with this unknown world. Even this, he
asserted, was preferable to the world of Dr.
Tootle's Academy. Then he dwelt a little on
the contrast between this life of his and that
which Maud was doubtless leading in her home
on the Essex coast ; and finally he hoped she
would write to him when she found leisure,
and be able to let him know that she was no
longer so unhappy as formerly.

This he posted on Friday. On the following
Monday morning, the post brought two letters
for him, both addressed in female hand, one bearing
a city, the other a country, post-mark. Waymark
smiled as he compared the two envelopes,
on one of which his name stood in firm, upright

characters, on the other in slender, sloping,
delicate writing. The former he pressed to
his lips, then tore open eagerly ; it was the
promised intimation that Ida would be at home
after eight o'clock on Wednesday and Friday
evenings, nothing more. The second letter
he allowed to lie by till he had breakfasted. He
could see that it contained more than one sheet.
When at length he opened it, he read this : —

"Dear Mr. Waymark,

I have an hour of freedom this Sunday
afternoon, and I will spend it in replying as well
as I can to your very interesting letter. My life
is, as you say, very quiet and commonplace
compared with that you find yourself suddenly
entering upon. I have no such strange and
moving: things to write about, but I will tell
you in the first place how I live and what I
do, then put down some of the thoughts your
letter has excited in me.

The family I am with consists of very
worthy but commonplace people They treat
me with more consideration than 1 imagine

governesses usually get, and I am grateful to
them for this, but their conversation, especially
that of Mrs. Epping, I find frankly wearisome.
It deals with very trivial concerns of e very-day
life, wherein I vainly endeavour to interest
myself. Mr. Epping has a mania for horticulture,
and makes the most kindly efforts to
delight me with talk about his various specimens,
whereas — dare I confess it ? — I am
strangely indifferent to plants and flowers.
Their existence about me has, I doubt not, a
soothing effect, but quite apart from my own
consciousness ; I can see their absolute loveless,
but do not feel drawn to lean over and examine
them, or even to breathe their sweetest odours.
Yet nature is dear to me, but in its broader and
grander aspects. I glory in the sea-shore, in the
downs, in grand effects of sky. I fear the result
of my present experiences will be to make me
even dislike flowers, which would be sad.

But I have not mentioned the most seriously
distressing feature of my life here. It is the
terrible religious formalism of the Epping and
their friends. They belong to what is called the

High Church, and devote themselves to external
piety with a precision I could scarcely have
imagined to exist in the present day. They
discuss with astonishing vigour and at dreadful
length what seem to me the most immaterial
points in the Church service, and just at
present an impulse is given to their zeal by
the fact of their favourite clergyman being
threatened with a prosecution for ritualistic
practices. Of course I have to feign a becoming
interest in all this, and to take part in all their
religious forms and ceremonies. And indeed it
is all so new to me that I have scarcely yet got
over the first feelings of wonder and curiosity.

Have I not, then, you will ask, the courage
of my opinions ? But indeed my religious
opinions are so strangely different from those
which prevail here, that I fear it would be impossible
to make my thoughts clear to these good
people. They would scarcely esteem me a
Christian ; and yet I cannot but think that it
is they who are widely astray from Christian
belief and practice. The other evening, Mr.
Wigglesworth — the clergyman 1 named — dined

with us, and throughout the meal discussions
of the rubric alternated with genial chat about
delicacies of the table ! That the rubric should
be so interesting amazes me, but that an earnest
Christian should think it compatible with his
religion to show the slightest concern in what
he shall eat or drink is unspeakably strange tome.
Surely, if Christianity means anything it
means asceticism. My experience of the world
is so slight. I believe this is the first clergyman
I ever saw in private life. Surely they cannot
all be thus ?

I knew well how far the world at large
had passed from true Christianity ; that has been
impressed upon me from my childhood. But
how strange it seems to me to hear proposed
as a remedy the merely exterior formalism to
which my friends here pin their faith ! How
often have I burned to speak up among them,
and ask : — ' What think ye, then, of Christ ? Is
He, or is He not, our exemplar ? Was not His
life meant to exhibit to us the ideal of the
completest severance from the world which is
consistent with human existence ? To follow

Him, should we not, at least in the spirit, east
off everything which may tempt us to consider
life, as life, precious ? ' We cannot worship
both God and the world, and yet now-a-days
Christians seem to make a merit of doing so.
When I conceive a religious revival, my thought
does not in the least concern itself with forms
and ceremonies. I imagine another John the
Baptist, inciting the people, with irresistible
fervour, to turn from their sins, — that is, from
the world and all its concerns, — and to purify
themselves by Renunciation. What they call
Progress,' 1 take to be the veritable Kingdom of
Anti-christ. The world is evil, life is evil ; only
by renunciation of the very desire for life can
we fulfil the Christian idea. AVhat then of the
civilization which endeavours to make the world
more and more pleasant as a dwelling-place, life
more and more desirable for its own sake ?

And so I come to the contents of your own
letter. You say you marvel that these wretched
people you visited do not, in a wild burst of
insurrection, overthrow all social order, and
seize for themselves a fair share of the world's

goods. I marvel also ; — all the more that their
very teachers in religion seem to lay such stress
on the joys of life. And yet what profit would
a real Christian preacher draw for them from
this very misery of their existence ! He would
teach them that herein lay their supreme blessing,
not their curse ; that in their poverty and
nakedness lay means of grace and salvation such
as the rich can scarcely by any means attain
to ; that they should proudly, devoutly, accept
their heritage of woe, and daily thank God for
depriving them of all that can make life dear.
Only awaken the spirit in these poor creatures,
and how near might they be to the true Kingdom
of Heaven ! And surely such a preacher will
yet arise, and there will be a Reformation very
different from the movement we now call by
that name. But I weary you, perhaps. It maybe
you have no interest in all this. Yet 1 think
you would wish me to write from what I am.

It has been rough, stormy weather since
I came here. Last night the tempest was fearful.
During the evening I stole out and down
to the shore. There was a brilliant moon, but

the wind was wild, and the roaring of the sea
was like the voice of the wrath of God. I never
felt so strongly the moving of the immortal
spirit within me, as in the face of this tremendous
scene. Fear took hold of me, fear
of myself; I believe I uttered a cry for help.
I must go to the children. It would interest
me to hear your further experiences in the new
work. Believe me to be your sincere friend,

Maud Enderby."

Way mark read, and thought, and wondered.
Then it was time to go and collect his rents.

Chapter II.

HINTS.

Here is an extract from a letter written by
Julian Castii to Waymark in the month of May.
By this time they were living almost next door
to each other in Beaufort Street, but something
was about to happen which Julian preferred to
communicate in writing.

"This will be the beginning of a new life for
inc. Already I have felt a strange increase in
my power of poetical production. Verse runs
together in my thoughts without effort ; I feel
ready for some really great attempt ; I have
grand ideas which make me tremble with solemn
joy. Have you not noticed something of this
in me these last few days ? Come and see me
to-night, if you can, and rejoice with me."

Of course this meant that Julian was about to

be married ; as in fact he was, on the last day of
the same month. Honeymoon trip was out of
the question for him. He and his wife merely
established themselves in the lodgings which he
was already occupying. And the new life began.

Way mark had made Harriet's acquaintance a
couple of weeks before ; Julian had brought her
with him one Sunday to his friend's room. She
was then living by herself, having quitted Mrs.
Ogle the day after that decisive call upon Julian.
There was really no need for her to have done
so ; Mrs. Ogle's part in the comedy being an
imaginary one of Harriet's devising. But Julian
was led entirely by his cousin, and, as she knew
quite well, there was not the least danger of his
gong on his own account to the shop in Gray's
Inn Road ; he dreaded the thought of such an
interview.

As I said. Way mark had made the acquaintance
of Miss Smales. Frankly, he was not
(charmed ; the more he thought of this marriage,
the more it amazed him. For of course he
deemed it wholly of his friend's bringing about.
And indeed the extract from the letter just

quoted represented in all truth poor Julian's
state of mind. Five minutes had sufficed to
bring about the change. Naturally, the soil was
well prepared to receive the seed, and Julian was
not the first who, loving love, has been blinded
by the contact of lips into the belief that woman
is synonymous with love. Nay, if we come to
that, was he not right ? Take man and woman,
any man and any woman, and you have the
constituents of love. But unfortunately by the
law of evolution body has developed into soul ;
1n7ic nice lachrymal,

This marriage brought about a change in the
intercourse of our two friends. Henceforth the
visiting was to be wholly on the side of Waymark
; Harriet did not like to be left alone in
the evening ; accordingly Julian could not go to
Waymark's abode, as he had been accustomed
to, and conversation in Mrs. Castii's presence
naturally could not be as unrestrained as both
would have desired. Waymark bore this with
impatience, and even did his best to alter it.
One Sunday afternoon, about three weeks after the
marriage, he called and carried Julian off to his

room across the street. Harriet's face sufficiently
indicated her opinion of this proceeding, and
Julian had difficulty in appearing at his ease.
Waymark understood what was going on, and
tried to discuss the matter freely, but the other
shrank from it.

I am grievously impatient of domestic
arrangements," Waymark said. " I fancy it
would never do for me to marry, unless I had
limitless cash, and my wife were as great a
Bohemian as myself. By the bye, I've got another
letter from Maud. Let me read it to you."

Waymark had told his friend of the relations
between himself and Maud Enderby ; though of
Ida Starr he had never spoken. He now read
her letter, the third he had received from her.

'' I was never so wholly astray in my judgment
of any one as of this girl," he said, when
he had ended. " I wish I had a portrait of her
to show you. Such a quiet, timid, drooping
little being ! Who could conceive her from these
letters ? What surprising force and independence
of thought ! "

"What strikes me most," said Julian, "is her

imagination. She draws such fine pictures, and
in such forcible language."

And always of a splendidly gloomy kind. Her
pessimism is magnificent. This intense religiousness
is no doubt a mere phase ; it will pass, of
course. I wonder how things would arrange themselves
if she came back to London. Why shouldn't
she come here to sit and chat, like you do ? "-

That would naturally lead to something
definite," said Castii, smiling.

Oh, I don't know. Why should it ? I'm a
believer in friendship between men and women.
Of course there is in it the spice of the difference
of sex, and why not accept that as a pleasant
things ? How much better if, when we met a
woman we liked, we could say frankly, ' Now let
us amuse each other without any arrive pense.
If I married you to-day, even though I feel quite
ready to, I should ten to one see some one next
week who would make me regret having bound
myself. So would you, my dear. Very well, let
us tantalize each other agreeably, and be at ease
in the sense that we are on the right side of the
illusion. You laugh at the idea ? "

Julian laughed, but not heartily. They went
on to talk of other things.

'' I'm making an article out of Jubilee Court,"
said Waymark. " Semi descriptive, semi-reflective,
wholly cynical. Maybe it will pay for
my summer holiday. And, apropos of the
same subject, I've got great ideas. This introduction
to such phases of life will prove endlessly
advantageous to me, artistically speaking. Let
me get a little more experience, and I will write
a novel such as no one has yet ventured to
write, at all events in England. I begin to
see my way to magnificent effects ; ye gods,
such light and shade ! The fact is, the novel
of e very-day life is getting worn out. We
must dig deeper, get to untouched social strata.
Dickens felt this, but he had not the courage
to face his subjects ; his monthly numbers had
to lie on the family tea-table, which is emphatically
not the place where you will find anything
out of the common. Not virginius puisque
will be my lay, I assure you, but for men and
women who bke to look beneath the surface,

and who understand that only as artistic
VOL. II. D

material has human life any significance. Yes,
that is the conclusion I am working round to.
The artist is the only sane man. Life for its
own sake ? — no ; I would drink a pint of laudanum
to-night. But life as the source of
splendid pictures, inexhaustible material for
effects, — that can reconcile me to existence,
and that only. It is a delight followed by
no bitter after-taste, and the only such delight
I know."

Harriet was very quiet when Julian returned.
She went about getting the tea with a sort
of indifference ; she let a cup fall and break,
but made no remark, and left her husband topick
up the pieces.

Waymark thinks I'm neglecting him," said
Julian, with a laugh, as they sat down together.

*' It's better to neglect him than to neglect me,
I should think," was Harriet's reply, in a quietly
ill-natured tone which she was mistress of.

'* But couldn't we find out some way of doing
neither, dear ? " went on Julian, playing with
his spoon. '' Now suppose I give him a couple
of hours one evening every week ? You could

spare that, couldn't you ? Say, from eight to
ten on Wednesdays ? "

"I suppose you'll go if you want to," said
Harriet, rising from the tea-table, and taking a
seat sulkily by the window.

Come, come, we won t say any more about it,
if it's so disagreeable to you," said Julian, going
up to her, and coaxing her back to her place.
You don't feel well to-day, do you ? I
oughtn't to have left you this afternoon, but
it was difficult to refuse, wasn't it ? "

He had no business to ask you to go. He
could see I didn't like it."

Waymark grew so accustomed to receiving
Ida's note each Monday morning, that when for
the first time it failed to come he was troubled
seriously. It happened, too, that he was able to
attach a particular significance to the omission.
When they had last parted, instead of just pressing
her hand as usual, he had raised it to his
lips. She frowned, and turned quickly away
saying no word. He had offended her by this
infringement of the conditions of their friend

2

ship ; for once before, when he had uttered a
word which implied more than she was willing
to allow, Ida had engaged him in the distinct
agreement that he should never do or say anything
that approached love-making. As, moreover,
it was distinctly understood that he should
never visit her save at times previously appointed,
he could not see her till she chose to write.
After waiting in the vain expectation of some
later post bringing news, he himself wrote,
simply asking the cause of her silence. The
reply came speedily.

I have no spare time in the week. I thought
you would understand this.

'' I. S."

It was her custom to write without any formal
beginning or ending ; yet Waymark felt that this
note was briefer than it would have been, had
all been as usual between them. The jealousy
which now often tortured him awoke with intolerable
vehemence. He spent a week of misery.

But late on Saturday evening came a letter
addressed in the well-known hand. It said : —

Sally and I are going up the river tomorrow,
if it is fine. Do you care to meet us
on the boat which reaches Chelsea Pier at 10.30?

"I. S."

It seemed he did care ; at all events he was
half an hour too soon at the pier. As the boat
approached, his eye soon singled out two very
quietly dressed girls, who sat with their backs
to him, and neither turned nor made any sign
of expecting an addition to their party. With
like undemonstrativeness he took a seat at Ida's
side, and returned Sally's nod aud smile. Ida
merely said "good morning," in the ladylike
manner which was natural to her ; there was
nothing of displeasure on her face, however,
and when he began to speak of indifferent things
she replied with the usual easy friendliness.

It was the first time he had seen her by daylight,
or in such attire. She always dressed in
perfect taste, but with a decided liking for rich
materials and the adornments which so well
became her beauty. At present the dress,
mantle and black straw hat were almost too
simple. He had been uncertain whether she

used any artificial colour on her cheeks ; seemingly
she did, for now she looked much paler
than usual. But the perfect clearness of her
complexion, the gentle lustre of her eyes,
appeared to indicate complete health. She
breathed in the fresh sun-lit air with frank
enjoyment, and smiled to herself at objects on
either side of the river.

By the bye," Waymark said, when no word
had been exchanged for some minutes, '*' you
didn't tell me where you were going ; so I took
no ticket, and left matters to fate."

Are you a good walker ? " Ida asked

'•' Fairly good, I flatter myself."

Then this is what I propose. It's a plan T
carried out two or three times by myself last
summer, and enjoyed. We get off at Putney,
walk through Southampton, then over the park
into Richmond. By that time we shall be ready
for dinner, and I know a place where we can
have it in comfort."

There was little thought of weariness throughout
the delightful walk. All three gave themselves
up for the time to simple enjoyment ;

their intercourse became that of children ; the
troubles of passion, the miseries of self-consciousness,
the strain of mutual observation fell from
them as the. city dropped behind ; they were
once more creatures for whom the external world
alone had reality, whose senses were the media
of sunny joys. This is one of the familiar effects
of free sky and field ; human beings become less
exclusively interesting to each other ; the soul
feels its oneness, its independence before the
face of nature. There was a glorious June sky ;
there were country roads scented with flower
and tree ; the w^ide-ojleaminor common with its
furze and bramble ; then the splendid meadow-tracts
of the o;reat park, with felled trunks to
rest upon, and prospects of endlessly-varied green
to soothe the eye. The girls exhibited their
pleasure each in her own way. Sally threw
off restraint, and sprang about in free happiness,
like one of the young roes, the sight of which
made her utter cries like a delighted child. She
recalled scenes about her Devon home, and
chattered in her dialect of people and places
strange enough to both her companions. She

was in constant expectation of catching a
glimpse of the sea ; in spite of all warning it
was a great surprise and disappointment to her
that Eichmond Hill did not end in cliffs and
breakers. Ida talked less, but every now and
then laughed in her deep enjoyment. She had
no reminiscences of country life ; it v\ as enough
that all about her was new and fresh and pure ;
nothing to remind her of Eegent Street and the
Strand. She plucked the commonest sprigs,
hazel or briar, and examined them with pleased
and curious eyes. To tread on the rich turf was
a delicious sensation. When they rested, she
drank in the fragrance of the earth, and it was
sweeter to her than distilled essences. Waymark
talked of he knew not what, cheerful
things that came by chance to his tongue,
trifling stories, descriptions of places, ideal plans
for the spending of ideal holidays ; but nothing
of London, nothing of what at other times his
thoughts most ran upon. He came back to
himself now and then, and smiled as he looked
at the girls, but this happened seldom.

The appetites of all three were beyond denying

vvheu they had passed the ' Star and Garter ' and
began to walk down into the town. Waymark
wondered whither their guide would lead them,
but asked no questions. To his surprise, Ida
stopped at a small inn half way down the
hill.

"You are to go straight in," she said, with a
smile, to Waymark, "and are to tell the first
person you meet that three people want dinner.
There's no choice, — roast beef and vegetables,
and some pudding or other afterwards. Then
you are to walk straight up-stairs, as if you knew
your way, and we will follow."

These directions were obeyed, with the result
that all reached an upper chamber, wherein a
table was cleanly and comfortably laid, as if
expecting them. French windows led out on to
a quaint little verandah at the back of the
house, and the view thence was perfect. The
river below, winding between wooded banks,
and everywhere the same splendour of varied
green which had delighted their eyes all the
mornings. Just below the verandah was the tiled
roof of an out-house, whereon lay a fine black

and white Coat, basking in the hot sun. Ida
clapped her hands.

He's like poor old Grim," she cried. Then,
turning to Waymark : " If you are good, you
may bring out a chair and smoke a cigar hereafter
dinner."

They had just began to eat, when footsteps
were heard coming up the stairs.

"Oh bother!" exclaimed Sally. "There's
some one else a-comin'', enough."

There was. The door opened and two gentlemen
walked in. Waymark looked up, and to
his astonishment recognized his old friends
O'Gree and Egger. Mr. O'Gree was mopping
his face with a handkerchief, and looked red and
hungry ; Mr. Egger was resplendent in a very
broad-brimmed straw hat, the glistening newness
of which contrasted alarmingly with the rest of
his attire, which had known no variation since
his first arrival at Dr. Tootle's. He, too, was
perspiring profusely, and, as he entered, was
just in the act of taking out the great yellow
handkerchief which Waymark had seen him
chewing so often in the bitterness of his spirit.

"Bead, Waymark, is it you?" cried Mr.
O'Gree, forgetting the presence of the ladies in
his astonishment. " Sure, and they told us we'd
find a gentleman here."

Consequently," returned Waymark laughing,
I was the last person you would have thought
of as answering to that description ? "

*' Well, no, I didn't mean that. 1 meant
there was no mention of the ladies."

Waymark flashed a question at Ida with his
eyes, and understood her assent in the smile and
slight motion of the head.

Then let me introduce you to the ladies."

The new-comers accordingly made the acquaintance
of Miss Starr and Miss Grace, (that
was Sally's name,) and took seats at the table,
to await the arrival of their dinners. Both were
eminently on their good behaviour forthwith.
Mr. O'Gree managed to place himself at Sally's
left hand, and thenceforth led the conversation
with the natural ease of an Irishman, especially
delighted if Sally herself seemed to appreciate
his efforts to be entertaining.

*' Now, who'd have thought of the like of this ! "

he exclaimed. "And we came in here by the
merest chance ; sure, there's a fatality in these
things. We've walked all the way from
Hammersmith."

And we from Putney," said Waymark.

You don't mean it ? It's been a warm
undertaking."

How did you find the walk, Mr. Egger ? "

Bead," replied that gentleman, who had
got hold of his friend's exclamation, and used
it with killing effect ; " I made my possible, but,
bead, I could not much more."

"You both look warm," Waymark observed,
smiling. " I fear you hurried. You should
have been leisurely, like we were."

Now that's cruel, Waymark. You needn't
have reflected upon our solitariness. If we'd
been blessed with society such as you had, we'd
have come slow enough. As it was, we thought
a good deal of our dinners. What a divine day !
\ — Miss Grace, I humbly apologize ; I didn't
observe you were looking for the salt. Will
you let uie help you to it ? "

"No, no, no, — please!" almost screamed

Sally, as she was proceeding to put salt on to
her plate. Mr. O'Gree paused in astonishment.

"You don't want to bring me bad luck,
do you ? " asked Sally, blushing, whilst she
looked askance at him in a quite irresistible
way.

Sure, and I'd rather swallow the salt-cellar!"
cried Mr. O'Gree, with enthusiasm.

There was general laughter at this piece of
superstition and its result. Sally helped herself
to the salt, and friendliness waxed between her
and her neighbour. Even the arrival of Mr.
O'G-ree's dinner had small effect upon his amiable
loquacity. The Swiss, however, was speedily
absorbed in his plate, and did manfully.

No fresh guests appeared to disturb the
party. When all had appeased their hunger,
Waymark took a chair out on to the verandah
for Ida. He was spared the trouble of providing
in the same way for Sally by Mr. O'Gree's
ready offices. Poor Egger, finding himself
deserted, opened a piano there was in the
room, and began to run his finger over the
keys.

Let us have one of your German songs, my
boy' cried O'Gree.

'' But it is the Sunday, and we are still in
England," said the Swiss, hesitating.

Pooh, never mind," said Waymark. " We'll
shut the door. Sing my favourite,* Mr. Egger,
I —' Weans Mailufteri: "

The Swiss sang, keeping his voice low, and
thus improving the effect of the sweet, sad air.
All around lay so wonderfully still in the hot
summer afternoon. There were drowsy pipings
of birds from the clustered trees by the river-side,
and now and then an oar-splash as a boat went
by. So peaceful a moment in all these so
different lives ; to pass so quickly, but doubtless
by all to be remembered so long. Such
moments make the young and unknowing long
for immortality ; the older and wiser to yearn
for the eternal rest.

Die SchwalVn liege fort , dock sie zieh'n wider her ;
Der Mensch went er forget, er homme nimmermeh?'."

"It is very beautiful," said Ida in a low voice
to Waymark, who stood beside her. *' I wish I
could understand the words."

I will tell you them afterwards' he whispered
back.

When they left the inn at length, Waymark
walked first with Ida, and Mr. O'Gree"
followed with Sally. Egger brought up the
rear ; he had relapsed into a dreamy mood,
and his mind seemed occupied with unearthly
things.

How had you proposed to return ? " W^ay-
mark asked, as they paused on the bridge, and
watched the boats for a few minutes.

Oh, we have no plan whatever," replied
O'Gree, recklessly. *' It's quite early yet."

After three o'clock. Sturdy fellows like you
perhaps contemplate walking back ; in any case
you've time enough to ramble about yet. But
we others must think of goinor towards the
station."

Ida had, in truth, beofun to show sirens of
bodily weariness, in spite of herself.

Oh, you don't mean that ! " exclaimed Mr.
O'Gree. Then he added, after a quick examination
of Waymark's face, " At all events you will
let us walk as far as the station with you ? —

Shouldn't you prefer the shady side, Miss
Grace ? "

They moved on. With not a little amusement
Waymark had noted Sally's demeanour under
Mr. O'Gree's attentions. The girl had evidently
made up her mind to be absolutely proper. The
Irishman's respectful delicacy was something so
new to her and so pleasant, and the question
with her was how she could sufficiently show
her appreciation without at the same time
forfeiting his good opinion for becoming modesty.
All so new to her, compelled by necessity to
make an art of forwardness, and to school herself
in the endurance of brutality. She was constantly
blushing in the most unfeigned way at
his neatly-turned little compliments, and, when
she spoke, did so with a pretty air of self-distrust
which sat quite charmingly on her. Fain, fain
would O'Gree have proposed to journey back
to London by the same train, but good taste
and good sense prevailed with him. At the
ticket-barrier there was a parting.

'* How delightful it would be. Miss Grace,"
said Mr. O'Gree, in something like a whisper.

if this lucky chance happened again. If I
only knew when you were coming again, there's
no telling but it might."

Sally gave her hand, smiled, evidently wished
to say something, but ended by turning away
and running after her companions.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER III.

EXAMPLE WITHOUT PRECEPT.

Waymark was grateful for the help Mr.
Woodstock had given him. He found a lifetime
of prejudice removed by this piece of kindness ;
and felt that he had wronged his old guardian
in his former thoughts. Indeed, the two soon
began to get on very well together. In a great
measure, of course, this was due to the change
in Waymark's philosophy ; whereas his early
idealism had been revolted by what he then
deemed Mr. Woodstock's crass materialism and
vulgarity, the tolerance which had come with
widened experience now made him regard these
characteristics with far less certainty of condemnation.
He was merely amused, often, at
what had formerly enraged and disgusted him.
iVt the same time, there were changes in Abraham

himself, no doubt — at all events in his manner
to the young man. He, on his side, was also
far more tolerant than in the days when he had
growled at Osmond for a conceited young puppy.
Might it be that he was ceasing to find in his
own pursuits and prejudices that satisfaction
which had formerly attended them, and that
thus his mind became more disposed to consider
the aims and ideals of those who differed from
him ?

One Sunday morning in early July, Waymark
was sitting alone in his room, when he noticed
that a cab stopped before the house. A minute
after, there was a knock at his door, and, to his
great surprise, Mr. Woodstock entered, bearing
a huge volume in his arms. Abraham deposited
it on a chair, wiped his forehead, and looked
round the room.

You smoke poor tobacco," was his first
remark, as he sniffed the air.

Good tobacco happens to be somewhat
expensive," was the reply. '' Will you sit
down ? "

"Yes, I will." The chair creaked under him.

E 2

LIBfURY

Universal OF ILLINOIS

"And so here you hang out, eh? Only one
room f

As you see."

*' Devilish unhealthy, I should think."

But economical."

*hugh!"

The grunt meant nothing in particular. Waymark
was eyeing the mighty volume on the
chair, and had recognized it. Some fortnight
previously, he had come upon Abraham, in
the latter's study, turning over a collection of
Hogarth's plates, and greatly amusing himself
with the realism which so distinctly appealed
to his taste in art. The book had been
pledged in the shop, and by lapse of time was
become Abraham's property. It was the first
time that Waymark had had au opportunity of
examining Hogarth ; the pictures harmonized
with his ^Qiood ; they gave him a fresh impulse
in the direction his literary projects were taking.
He spent a couple of hours in turning the leaves,
and Mr. Woodstock had observed his enjoyment.
What meant the arrival of the volume here in
Beaufort Street ?

Abraham lit a cigar, still looking about the
room.

You live alone ? " he asked, in a matter-of-fact
way.

"At present."

"Ha! Didn't know but you might have
found it lonely ; I used to, at your age."

Then, after a short silence, —

By the bye, it's your birthday."

How do you know ? "

Well, I shouldn't have done, but for an old
letter I turned up by chance the other day.
How old are you ? "

Five-and-twenty."

Hem. I'm sixty-nine next third of september.
You'll be a wiser man when you get to my
age. — Well, if you can find room anywhere for
that book there, perhaps you'd like to keep it ! "

Waymark looked up in amazement. ^

A birthday-present ! " he exclaimed. " It's
ten years since I had one. Upon my word, 1
don't well know how to thank you ! "

"Do you know what the thing was published
at ? " asked Abraham, in an off-hand way.

No."

Fifty pounds."

I don't care about the value. It's the
kindness. You couldn't have given me anything,
either, that would have delighted me so
much."

All right ; keep it, and there's an end of the
matter. And what do you do with yourself all
day, eh ? I didn't think it very likely I should
find you in."

I'm writing a novel."
Hem. Shall you get anything for it ? "
Can't say. I hope so."

Look here. Why don't you go in for
politics ? "

Neither know nor care anything about them."
Would you like to go into Parliament ? "
'* Wouldn't go if every borough in England
called upon me tomorrow ! "
"Why not ? "

"Simply because I hate the mere sight of
Parliamentary debates. To take part in such
absurdity would be to acquiesce in the world's
folly. Plainly, I think myself too good for such

occupation. If you once can succeed in getting
outside the world, you have little desire to go
back and join in its grossest pranks."

'' That's all damned nonsense! How can anyone
be too good to be in Parliament ? The
better men you have there, the better the
country will be governed, won't it ? "

Certainly. But the best man, in this case,
is the man who sees the shortest distance before
his nose. If you think the world worth all the
trouble it takes to govern it, go in for politics
neck and crop, by all means, and the world will
no doubt thank you in its own way''

Abraham looked puzzled, and half disposed to
be angry.

Then you think novel-writing better than
governing the country ? " he asked.

On its own merits, vastly so."

'* x4nd suppose there was no government.
What about your novels then ? "

I'd make a magnificent one out of the
spectacle of chaos, and then jump into the
Thames with satisfaction."

But you know very well you're talking

bosh," exclaimed Abraham, somewhat discomfited.
"There must be government, and
there must be order, say what you like. It's
nature that the strong should rule over the
weak, and show them what's for their own
good. What else are we here for? If you're
going to be a parson, well and good ; then cry
down the world as much as you please, and
think only about heaven and hell. But as far
as I can make out, there's government there too.
The devil rebelled and was kicked out. Serve
him right. If he wasn't strong enough to hold
his own, he'd ought to have kept quiet."

You're a Conservative, of course," said Waymark,
smiling. 'you believe only in keeping
the balance, You don't care about reform."

Don't be so sure of that. Let me have the
chance and the power, and I'd reform hard
enough, many a thing."

Well, one might begin on a small scale.
Suppose one took in hand Litany Lane and
Jubilee Court ? Suppose we exert our right as
the stronger, and, to begin with, do a little whitewashing
? Then sundry stairs and ceilings might

be looked to. No doubt there'd be resistance,
but ou the whole it would be for the people's
own good. A little fresh draining oughtn't be
amiss, or — "

"What the devil's all this to do with
politics?" cried Abraham, whose face had grown
dark.

''I should imagine, a good deal' returned
Way mark, knocking out his pipe. *' If you're
for government, you mustn't be above considering
details."

'' And so you think you have a hit at me, eh ?
Nothing of the kind. These are affairs of private
contract, and no concern of government at all.
In private contract a man has only a right to
what he's strong enough to exact. If a tenant
tells me my houses ain't fit to live in, I tell him
to go where he'll be better off, and I don't hinder
him; I know well enough in a day or two there'll
come somebody else. Ten to one he can't go,
and he don't. Then why should I be at unnecessary
expense in making the places better ?
As soon as I can get no tenants, I'll do so ; not
till then."

** You don't believe in works of mere
humanity ? ''

'' What the devil's humanity got to do with
business ? " cried Abraham.

True," was Waymark's rejoinder.

'* See, we won't talk of these kind of things,"
said Mr. Woodstock. "That's just what we
always used to quarrel about, and I'm getting
too old for quarrelling. Got any engagement
this afternoon ? "

I thought of looking in to see a friend herein
the street."

Male or female ? "

^' Both ; man and wife."

"Oh, then you have got some friends ? So
had I when I was your age. They go somehow
when you get old. Your father was the last
of them, I think. But you're not much like
him, except a little in face. True, he was a
Radical, but you, — well, I don't know what
you are. If you'd been a son of mine, I'd
have had you in Parliament by now, somehow
or other."

I think you never had a son ? " said Waymark,

observing the note of melancholy which
every now and then came up in the old man's
talk.

'^ No."

But you had some children, I think ? "

Yes, yes, — they're dead."

He had walked to the window, and suddenly
turned round with a kind of impatience.

Never mind the friend to-day ; come and
have some dinner with me. I seem to want a
]pit of company."

This was the first invitation of the kind
Waymark had received. He accepted it, and
they went out together.

"It's a pleasant part this," Mr. Woodstock
said, as they walked by the river. " One might
build himself a decent house somewhere about
here, eh 1 "

Do you think of doing so ? "

'' I think of doing so ? What's the good of a
house, and nobody to live in it ? "

Waymark studied these various traits of the
old man's humour, and constantly felt more of
kindness towards him.

On the following day, just as he had collected
his rents, and was on his way out of Litany
Lane, Waymark was surprised at coming face
to face with Mrs. Castii ; yet more surprised
when he perceived that she came out from
the Clock House. She looked embarrassed, and
for a moment seemed about to pass without
recognizing him ; but he had raised his hat,
and she could not but move her head in reply.
She so obviously wished to avoid speaking, that
he walked quickly on in another direction.
He wondered what she could be doing in such
a place as this. It could hardly be that she
had acquaintances or connections here. Julian
had not given him any particulars of Harriet's
former life, and his friend's marriage was still
a great puzzle to him. He knew well that
the ml had no likings for himself: it was not
improbable that this casual meeting would make
their intercourse yet more strained. He thought
for a moment of questioning Julian, but decided
that the matter was no business of his.

It was so rare for him to meet an acquaintance
in the streets, that a second chance of the

same kind, only a few minutes later, surprised
him greatly. This time the meeting was a
pleasant one ; somebody ran across to him from
over the way, and he saw that it was Sally
Grace. She looked pleased. The girl had
wonderfully preserved her sea side complexion
through the year and a half of haphazard
town life, and, when happy, glowed all over
her cheeks with the healthiest hue. She held
out her hand in the usual frank, impulsive
way.

Oh, I thought it was you ! You won't see
I no more at the old place."

'^No? How's that?"

Tm leaving' 'un tomorrow. I've got a place
in a shop, just by here, — a chandler's shop,
and I'm going to live in."

Indeed ? Well, I'm glad to hear it. I
dare say you'll be better off."

Oh, I say, — you know your friend ? "

"The Irishman?"

Yes."

What about him ? " asked the other, smiling
as he looked into the girl's pretty face. To his

surprise, her answer was to catch his arm and
pull him off the pavement.

What's the matter ? " he inquired, stopping.

It's unlucky," she answered, pointing up to a
ladder which leaned against a house, and beneath
which he had been about to pass. He laughed,
and, as they went on, repeated his question about
Mr. O'Gree.

'' Well," said Sally, " I don't mind you telling
'un where I live now, — if you like. — Look,
there's the address on that paper; you can
take it."

'' Oh, I see. In point of fact, you wish me to
tell him ? "

Oh, 1 don't care. I essay he don't want to
know anything about I. But you can if you like."

I will be sure to, and no doubt he will be
delighted. He's been growing thin since I told
him you declined to renew his acquaintance."

Oh, don't talk ! And now I must be off.
Good-bye. I essay I shall see you sometimes '{ "

Without doubt. We'll have another Sunday
at Eichmond soon. Good-bye."

We take our way with Sally. It was about

four in the afternoon when she reached home,
and she ran up at once to Ida's room, and burst
in, crying out, '' I've got it ! I've got it ! "
with much dancing about and joyous singing.
Ida rose, with a faint smile of welcome. She
had been sitting in the window, at times reading
a book lent her by Waymark, but mostly gazing
on the glorious strip of sky up above the court,
and listening to the roar of the Strand, which
seemed so far off, though it was so near. She
was in her dressing-gown, with her hair hanging
down over her shoulders, — divine, fragrant,
lustrous air, — and Grim had been lying on her
lap. She sighed as she rose.

They said they liked my appearance," Sally
went on, "and 'ud give me a try. I go in
tomorrow. It won't be a over easy place,
neither. I've to do all the clean inoj in the
house, and there's a baby to look after when
Fm not in the shop, and they say I may have
to do washing as well."

And what will they give you ? "

"Five shillings a month, for the first half-year
; then a rise."

And you're satisfied ? "

Oil, it'll do till something better turns up.
Oh, I say, I met your friend just after I'd come
away."

Did you ? " said Ida quietly.

Yes ; and I told him he could tell his
friend where I was, if he liked."

His friend ? "

The Irishman, you know," explained Sally,
moving about the room. " I told you he'd been
asking after me."

Ida seemed all at once to awake from a dream.
She uttered a long " Ah ! " under her breath,
and for a moment looked at the girl like one
who is struck with an unexpected explanation.
Then she turned away to the window, and again
gazed up at the blue sky, standing so for nearly
a minute.

Sally," she said, looking round again, and
beckoning.

The girl came. Ida kissed her, saying, as she
did so, " Thank you, dear."

What for ? " asked the other in surprise.

For making the sky clear to me."

Sally looked uneasy, could not understand,
and said nothing. There was another silence.

Are you engaged to-night ? " Sally asked
presently.

No ; will you sit with me ? "

*' You're not feeling very well to-day, are
you ? "

I think not," replied Ida, passing her handover
her forehead, wearily. " I've been thinking
of going out of London for a few days, perhaps
to the seaside."

Go to Weymouth ! " cried Sally, delighted at
the thought. " Go and see my people, and tell
'un how I'm getting on. They'll make you bide
with 'un all the time you're there, enough. It
isn't a big grand house, but it's comfortable, and
see if our mother wouldn't look after you ! It's
three weeks since I wrote ; if I don't mind
there '11 be our father up here looking after I.
Now, do go ! "

"No, it's too far. Besides, if I go, I shall
want to be quite alone."

On the following evening Waymark was expected.
At his last visit he had noticed that

VOL. II. F

Ida was not in her usual spirits. To-night he
saw that something was clearly wrong, and when
Ida spoke of going to the seaside, he strongly-urged
her to do so.

Where should you go to ? " he asked.

1 think, to Hastings. I went there once,
when I was a child, with my mother — I believe
I told you. I had rather go there than anywhere
else."

I feel the need of a change myself," he said,
a moment after, and without looking at her.
Suppose I were to go to Hastings, too, — at
the same time that you're there, — would you
dislike it ? "

She merely shook her head, almost indifferently.
She did not care to talk much to-night,
and frequently nodded instead of replying with
words.

But — you would rather I didn't ? " he urged.

"No, indeed," still in the same indifferent
way. /'I should have company, if I found it
dull."

'then let us go down by the same train, —
will you, Ida ? "

As far as she remembered, it was the first
time that he had ever addressed her thus by
her name. She looked up and smiled slightly.

If you like," was her answer. " When ? "

"I can't go before Tuesday. Say on Tuesday
morning. Shall I look up the train, and write
to you when to be at the station ? "

If you will. And now, you don't mind if
I send you away a little earlier than usual ? "

He rose at once, and took his leave. Doings
so, he could not help keeping his eyes fixed on
her face ; hers fell, and she turned away, saying
Good-bye " with a tired voice.

The proposal he had made was somewhat
rash, seeing that, beyond a few shillings, he
had nothing wherewith to meet the outlay of
such a trip. He was perfectly well aware that
Ida would neither expect nor suffer him to goto
the slightest expense on her account ; still he
ought to have at least three or four pounds, for
contingencies. The article which he had hoped
might enable him to take a holiday was still
trying to find an editor. There was only one
thing to be done. He wrote a line to Mr.

F 2

Woodstock, asking whether the period of their
business relations had sufficed to establish his
probity in his employer's eyes, seeing that, if that
were the case, he should be glad of the twenty
pounds, or some portion of it, which had been
left as guarantee. By return of post there came
a cheque for the sum, but with no accompanying
note. Waymark wrote his thanks, and no
reference was made to the matter on either
side when he took the rents to the office on
Monday.

CHAPTER IV.

THE MISSING YEARS.

Why shouldn't life be always like this ? "
said Waymark, lying on the upper beach and
throwing pebbles into the mock breakers, which
each moment drew a little further back and
needed a little extra exertion of the arm to reach
them. There was small disturbance by people
passing, here some two miles up the shore eastward
from Hastings. A large shawl spread
between two walking-sticks stuck upright gave,
at this afternoon hour, all the shade needful for
two persons lying side by side, and, even in the
blaze of unclouded summer, there were pleasant
airs flitting about the edge of the laughing sea.
Why shouldn't life be always like this ? It
might be, — sunshine or fireside, — if men were
wise. Leisure is the one thing that all desire.

but they strive for it so blindly that they frustrate
one another's hope. And so at length they
have come to lose the end in the means ; are mad
enough to set the means before them as in itself
an end."

'* We must work to forget our troubles," said
his companion, simply.

Why, yes, and those very troubles are the
fit reward of our folly. We have not been
content to live in the simple happiness of our
senses. We must be learned and wise, forsooth.
We were not content to enjoy the beauty of
the greater and the lesser light. We must
understand whence they come and whither they
go, — after that, what they are made of and how
much they weigh. We thought for such a longtime
that our toil would end in something ; that
we might become as gods, knowing good and
evil. Now we are at the end of our tether, we
see clearly enough that it has all been worse
than vain ; how good if we could unlearn it all,
scatter the building of phantasmal knowledge
in which we dwell so uncomfortably ! It is too
late. The gods never take back their gifts ; we

wearied them with our prayers into granting us
this one, and now they sit in the clouds and
mock us."

Ida looked, and kept silent ; perhaps scarcely
understood.

'* People kill themselves in despair," Way mark
went on, " that is, when they have drunk to the
very dregs the cup of life's bitterness. If they
were wise, they would die at that moment — if
it ever comes — when joy seems supreme and
stable. Life can give nothing further, and it
has no more hellish misery than disillusion
following upon delight."

Did you ever seriously think of killing
yourself ? " Ida asked, gazing at him closely.

Yes. I have reached at times the point
when I would not have moved a muscle to
escape death, and from that it is not far to
suicide. But my joy had never come, and it
is hard to go away without that one draught. —
And you ? "

I went so far once as to buy poison. But
neither had I tasted any happiness, and I could
not help hoping."

And you still wait, — still hope ? "

Ida made no direct answer. She gazed far off
at the indistinguishable border land of sea and
sky, and when she spoke it was in a softened tone.

^' When I was here last, I was seven years
old. Now I am not quite nineteen. How long
I have lived since then, — how long ! Yet my
life did not really begin till I was about eleven.
Till then I was a happy child, understanding
nothing. Between then and now, if I have
discovered little good either in myself or in
others, I have learned by heart everything that
is bad in the world. Nothing in meanness or
vileness or wretchedness is a secret to me.
Compare me with other girls of nineteen, — perhaps
still at school. What sort of a companion
should I be for one of those, I wonder ? What
strange thoughts I should have, if ever I talked
with such a girl ; how old I should feel myself
beside her ! "

'' Your knowledge is better in my eyes than
their ignorance. My ideal woman is the one
who, knowing every darkest secret of life, keeps
yet a pure mind, — as you do, Ida''

She was silent so long that Waymark spoke
again.

Your mother died when you were eleven ? "

Yes, and that was when my life began. My
mother was very poor, but she managed to send
me to a pretty good school. But for that, my
life would have been very different ; I should
not have understood myself as well as I always
have done. Poor mother, — good, good mother!
Oh, if T could but have her now, and thank
her for all her love, and give her but one year
of quiet happiness. To think that I can see
her as if she were standing before me, and yet
that she is gone, is nowhere, never to be brought
back to me if I break rav heart with longing; ! "

Tears fell from her eyes, and a sob caught her
breath. She turned away and wept freely, as
she had so often wept, at night or at noon-day,
when these thoughts came upon her. And the
tears meant more than she could ever say to
another, however close and dear to her. The
secret of her mother's life lay in the grave and
in her own mind ; the one would render it upas
soon as the other. For never would Ida tellin

words of that moment when there had come
to her maturing intelligence clear insight into
her mother s history, when the fables of childhood
had no longer availed to blind her, and
every recalled circumstance pointed but to one
miserable truth. Poor, poor mother !

She's happier than we are," Way mark said,
solemnly. " Think how long she has been resting."

Ida became silent, and presently spoke with
a firmer voice.

"They took her to a hospital in her last
illness, and she died there. I don't know
where her grave is."

And what became of you ? Had you
friends to go to ? "

No one ; I was quite alone. — We had been
living in lodgings. The landlady told me that
of course I couldn't stay on there ; she couldn't
afford to keep me ; I must go and find a home
somewhere. Try and think what that meant tome.
I was so young and ignorant that such an
idea as that I might one day have to earn my
own living had never entered my mind. I was
fed and clothed like every one else, — a good deal

better, indeed, than some of the children at school,
and I didn't know why it shouldn't always be
so. Besides, I was a vain child ; I thought myself
clever ; I had even begun to look at myself in the
glass and think I was handsome. It seemed quite
natural that every one should be kind and indulgent
to me. I shall never forget the feeling I had
when the landlady spoke to me in that hard, sharp
way. My whole idea of the world was overset all
at once ; I seemed to be in a miserable dream. I
sat in my mother s bedroom hour after hour, and,
every step I heard on the stairs, I thought it
must be my mother coming back home to me ; — it
was impossible to believe that I was left alone,
and could look to no one for help and comfort.
Whatever should I do ? Somebody brought me
up something to eat, and then I was left for the
night. — I have been miserable enough since then,
but I suppose never so miserable.

Next morning the landlady came up to me
again, and said, if I liked, she could tell me of a
way of earning my living. It was by going as a
servant to an eating-house in a street close by,
where they wanted some one to wash up dishes

and do different kinds of work not too hard for a
child like me. I could only do as I was advised ;
I went at once, and was engaged. They took off
the dress I was wearing, which was far too good
for me then, and gave me a dirty, ragged one ;
then I was set to work at once to clean some
knives. Nothing was said about wages or anything
of that kind ; only I understood that I
should live in the house, and have all given me
that I needed. Of course I was very awkward.
I tried my very hardest to do everything that
was set me, but only got scolding for my pains ;
and it soon came to boxes on the ear and even
kicks. The place was kept by a man and wife ;
they had a daughter older than I, and they
treated her just like a hired servant. I used to
sleep with the girl in a wretched kitchen underground,
and the poor thing kept me awake every
night with crying and complaining of her hard
life. It was no harder than mine, and I can't
think she felt it more ; but I had even then a
kind of stubborn pride which kept me from
showing what I suffered. I couldn't have borne
to let them see what a terrible change it was forme,

all this drudgery and unkindness ; I felt it
would have been like taking them into my
confidence, opening my heart to them, and I
despised them too much for that. I even tried
to talk in a rough rude way, as if I had never
been used to anything better "

That was fine, that was heroic ! " broke in
Waymark, admiringly.

I only know it was miserable enough. And
things got worse instead of better. The master
was a coarse drunken brute, and he and his wife
used to quarrel fearfully. I have seen them
throw knives at each other, and do worse things
than that, too. The woman seemed somehow to
have a spite against me from the first, and the
way her husband behaved to me made her hate
me still more. Child as I was, he did and said
things which made her jealous. Often when she
had gone out of an evening, I had to defend
myself against him, and call the daughter to
protect me. And so it went on, till, what with
fear of him, and fear of her, and misery and
weariness, I resolved to go away, become of me
\vhat might. One night, instead of undressing

for bed as usual, I told Jane — that was the
daughter — that I couldn't bear it any longer,
and was going away, as soon as I thought the
house was quiet. She looked at me in astonishment,
and asked me if I had anywhere to go to.
Will you believe that I said yes, I had? I
suppose I spoke in a way which didn't encourage
her to ask questions ; she only lay down on the
bed and cried as usual. "Jane," I said, in a
little, ''if I were you, I'd run away as well."
I will," she cried out, starting up, '* I will this
very night ! We'll go out together." It was
my turn to ask her if she had anywhere to go to.
She said she knew a girl who lived in a good
home at Tottenham, and who'd do something for
her, she thought. At any rate she'd rather goto
the workhouse than stay where she was. So,
about one o'clock, we both crept out by a back
way, and ran into Edgware Road. There we
said good-bye, and she went one way, and I
another.

"All that night I walked about, for fear of
being noticed loitering by a policeman. When it
was morning, I had come round to Hyde Park,

and, though it was terribly cold — just in March
I went to sleep on a seat. I woke about ten
o'clock, and walked off into the town, seeking
a poor part, where I thought it more likely I
miorht find something to do. Of course I asked
first of all at eating-houses, but no one wanted
me. It was nearly dark, and I hadn't tasted
anything. Then I begged of one or two people
I forgot everything but my hunger — and they
gave me a few coppers. I bought some bread,
and still wandered about. There are some
streets into which I can never bear to go now ;
the thought of walking about them eight years
ago is too terrible to me. Well, I walked till
midnight, and then could stand up no longer.
I found myself in a dirty little street where the
house doors stood, open all night ; I went into
one, and walked up as far as the first landing,
and there fell down in a corner and slept all
night."

"Poor child!" said Waymark, looking into
her face, which had become very animated as
the details of the story succeeded each other in
her mind. " What a strange, wild, beautiful

little face you must have carried about amid all
these horrors."

I must have looked a terrible little savage
on that next morning," Ida went on, smiling
sadly. " Oh, how hungry I was ! I was awoke
by a woman who came out of one of the rooms,
and I asked her if she'd give me something to
eat. She said she would, if I'd light her fire for
her, and clean up the grate. I did this, gladly
enough. Then she pretended I had done it
badly, and gave me one miserable little dry
crust, and told me to be off. Well, that day I
found another woman who said she'd give me
one meal and twopence a day for helping her to
chop wood and wash vegetables ; she had a son
who was a costermonger, and the stuff he sold
had to be cleaned each day. I took the work
gladly. She never asked me where I spent the
night ; the truth was I chose a different house
each night, where I found the door open, and
went up and slept on the stairs. I often found
several people doing the same thing, and no one
disturbed us.

I lived so for a fortnight, then I was lucky

enough to get into another eating-house. I lived'
there nearly two months, and had to leave for
the very same reason as at the first place. I
only half understood the meaning of what I had
to resist, but my resistance led to other unbearable
cruelties, and again 1 ran away. 1 went
about eight o'clock in the evening. The thought
of going back to my old sleeping places on the
stairs was horrible. Besides, for some days a
strange idea had been in my head. I had not
forgotten my friend Jane, and I wondered
whether, if I went to Tottenham, it would be
possible to find her. Perhaps she might be well
off there, and could help me. I had made
inquiries about the way to Tottenham, and the
distance, and when I left the eating-house I had
made up my mind to walk straight there. I
started from Horton, and went on and on, till I
had left the big streets behind. 1 kept asking
my way, but often went long distances in the
wrong direction. I knew that Tottenham was
quite in the country, and my idea was to find
a sleeping-place in some field, then to begin my
search on the next day. It was summer, but

VOL. II. G

still I began to feel cold, and this drew me away
out of my straight road to a fire which I saw
burning a little way off. I thought it would be
nice to sit down by it and rest. I found that
the road was being mended, and by the fire lay
a watchman in a big tub. Just as I came up
he was eating his supper. He was a great,
roTigh man, but I looked in his face and thought
it seemed good, so I asked him if he'd let merest
a little. Of course he was surprised at
seeing me there, for it must have been midnight,
and when he asked me about myself I told
him the truth, because he spoke in a kind way.
Then he stopped eating and gave me what was
left ; it was a bit of fat bacon and some cold
potatoes ; but how good it was, and how good
he was ! To this moment I can see that man's
face. He got out of his tub and made me take
his place, and he wrapped me up in something
he had there. Then he sat by the fire, and kept
looking at me, I thought, in a sad sort of way ;
and he said, over and over again, ' Aye, it's
1 )ad to be born a little o-irl ; it's bad to be born
a little girl ; pity you wasn't a boy.' Oh, how

well I can hear his voice this moment ! And
as he kept saying this, I went off to sleep."

She stopped, and played with the pebbles.

And in the morning ? " asked Way mark.
Do go on. I never read a tale half so
interesting."

"Well, when I woke up, it was light, and
there were a lot of other men about, beginning
their work on the road. 1 crept out of the
tub, and when they saw me, they laughed in a
kind sort of way, and gave me some breakfast.
I suppose I thanked them, I hope I did ; the
watchman was gone, but no doubt he had told
the others my story, for they showed me the way
to Tottenham, and wished me luck. Ever since
then, I've felt kindly to labouring men. And
I'm sure that people that work with their hands
are much better than those who live by buying
and selling. Compare a showman with these
good-hearted fellows ! "

You're quite right," said Waymark. " There's
nothing makes men so mean as commerce. — And
you found your friend Jane ! "

No, no ; how was it likely I should ? I

G 2

wandered about till I could stand no longer,
and then I went up to the door of a house
which stood in a garden, and begged for
something to eat. The servant who opened
was sending me away, when her mistress heard,
and came to the door. She stood looking
at me for some time, and then told me to
come in. I went into the kitchen, and she
asked me all about myself. I told her the
truth ; I was too miserable now to do anything
else. Well, the result was — she kept me there."

For good ? "

Indeed, for good. In that very house
I lived for six years. Oh ; she was the queerest
and kindest little body ! At first I helped
her servant in the kitchen, — she lived quite
by herself, with one servant, — but little by
little she made me a sort of lady's maid, and
I did no more rough work. You wouldn't
believe the ridiculous fancies of that dear old
woman ! She thought herself a great beauty,
and often told me so very plainly, and she
used to talk to me about her chances of being
married to this and the other person in the

neighbourhood. And the result of all this was
that she had to spend I don't know how long
every day in dressing herself, and then looking at
herself in the glass. And I had to learn how
to do her hair, and put paint and powder
on her face, and all sorts of wonderful things.
She was as good to me as she could be, and
I never wanted for anything And so six
years passed, and one morning she was found
dead in her bed.

Well, that was the end of the happiest time
of my life. In a day or two, some relatives
came to look after things, and I had to go.
They were kind to me, however; they gave me
money, and told me 1 might refer to them if I
needed to. I came to London, and took a room,
and wondered what I should do.

I advertised, and answered advertisements,
but nothing came. My money was going, and
I should soon be as badly off as ever. I began
to do what I had always thought of as the very
last thing, look for needle-work, either for home
or in a work-room. I don't know how it is that
I have always hated sewing. For one thing, I

really can't sew. I was never taught as a child,
and few girls are as clumsy with a needle as I
am. I've always looked upon a work-girl's life
as the most horrible drudgery ; I'd far rather
scrub floors. I suppose I've a rebellious disposition,
and just because sewing is looked
upon as a woman's natural slavery, I rebelled
against it.

*' By this time I was actually starving. I had
one day to tell my landlady I couldn't pay my
rent. She was a very decent woman, and she
talked to me in a kind way. What was better,
she gave me help. She had a sister who ke23t
a laundry, and she thought I might perhaps get
something to do there ; at all events she would
go and see. The result was, I got work. I was
in the laundry nearly six months, and became
quite clever in getting up linen. Now this was
a kind of work I liked. You can't think what
a pleasure it was to me to see shirts and collars
turning out so spotless and sweet — "

Way mark laughed.

'' Oh, but you don't understand. I do so like
cleanliness ! I have a sort of feeling when I'm

washing anything, that I'm really doing good
in the world, and the dazzling white of linen
after I'd ironed it seemed to thank me for my
work."

"Yes, yes, I understand well enough," said
Waymark, earnestly. " ' The moving waters at
their priest-like task of pure ablution round
earth's human shores.' "

For all that, I couldn't stay. I was restless.
I had a foolish notion that I should like to be
with a better kind of people again, — I mean
people in a higher position. I still kept answering
advertisements for a lady's maid's place, and
at last I got what I wanted. Oh yes, I got it."

She broke off, laughing bitterly, and remained
silent. Waymark would not urge her to continue.
For a minute it seemed as if she would
tell no more ; she looked at her watch, and half
arose.

Oh, I may as well tell you all, now I've
begun," she said, falling back assail in a careless
way. " You know what the end's going to be ;
never mind, at all events I'll try and make you
understand how it came.

"The family I got into was a lady and her
/ two grown-up daughters, and a son of about five-and-twenty.
They lived in a small house at
Shepherd's Bush. My wages were very small,
and I soon found out that they were a kind of
people who keep up a great deal of show on
very little means. Of course I had to be let
into all the secrets of their miserable shifts for
dressing well on next to nothing at all, and they
expected me — mother and daughters — to do the
most wonderful and impossible things. I had
to turn old rags into smart new costumes, to
trim worn-out hats into all manner of gaudy
shapes, even to patch up boots in a way you
couldn't imagine. And they used to send me
with money to buy things they were ashamed
to go and buy themselves ; then, if I hadn't
laid out their few pence with marvellous result,
they all but accused me of having used some of
the money for myself I had fortunately learnt
a great deal with the good old lady in Totten-ham,
or I couldn't have satisfied them for a day.
I'm sure I did what few people could have done,
and for all that they treated me from almost the

first very badly. I had to be housemaid as well
as lady's maid ; the slavery left me every night
worn out with exhaustion. And I hadn't even
enough to eat. As time went on, they treated
me worse and worse. They spoke to me often
in a way that made my blood boil, as if they
were so many queens, and I was some poor
mean wretch who was honoured by being allowed
to toil for them. Then they quarrelled among
themselves unceasingly, and of course I had to
bear all the bad temper. I never saw people
hate one another like those three did ; the sisters
even scratched each other's faces in their fits
of jealousy, and sometimes they both stormed
at their mother till she went into hysterics, just
because she couldn't give them more money.
The only one in the house who ever spoke
decently to me was the son, — Alfred Bolter, his
name was. I suppose I felt grateful to him.
Once or twice, when he met me on the stairs, he
kissed me. I was too miserable even tu resent it.
I went about, day after day, in a dazed
state, trying to make up my mind to leave the
people, but I couldn't. I don't know how it

was, I had never felt so afraid of being thrown
out into the world again. I suppose it was
bodily weakness, want of proper food and overwork.
I began to feel that the whole world was
wronging me. Was there never to be anything
for me but slaving ? Was I never to have any
enjoyment of life, like other people ? I felt a
need of pleasure, I didn't care how or what. I
was always in a fever ; everything was exaggerated
to me. What was going to be my
future ? — I kept asking myself. Was it only
to be hard work, miserably paid, till I died ?
And I should die at last without having known
what it was to enjoy my life. When I was
allowed to go out — it was very seldom — I
walked aimlessly about the streets, watching
all the girls I passed, and fancying they all
looked so happy, all enjoying their life so. I
was growing thin and pale. I coughed, and
began to think I was consumptive. A little
more of it, and I believe I should have become
so really.

It came to an end, suddenly and unexpectedly.
All three, mother and daughters, had

been worrying me through a whole morning, and
at last one of them called me a downright fool,
and said I wasn't worth the bread I ate. I turned
on them. I can't remember a word I said, but
speak I did, and in a way that astonished them ;
they shrank back from me, looking pale and
frightened. I felt in that moment that I was a
thousand times their superior ; I believe I told
them so. Then I rushed up to my room, packed
my box, and went out into the street.

I had just turned a corner, when some one
came up to me, and it was Mr. Bolter. He had
followed me from the house. He laughed, said
I had done quite right, and asked me if I had
any money. I shook my head. He walked on
by me, and talked. The end was, that he found
a room for me, provided for me, and I became his
mistress.

I had not the least affection for him, but he
had pleasant, gentlemanly ways, and it scarcely
even occurred to me to refuse his offers. I was
reckless ; what happened to me mattered little,
as long as I had not to face hard work. I needed
rest. For one in my position there was, I saw

well enough, only one way of getting it. I took
that way."

Ida had told this in a straightforward, unhesitating
manner, not meeting her companion's
gaze, yet not turning away. One would have
said that judgments upon her story were indifferent
to her ; she simply related past events.
In a moment, she resumed,

Do you remember, on the night when you
first met me, a man following us in the
street ? "

Waymark nodded.

He was a friend of Alfred Bolter's, and
sometimes we met him when we went to the
theatre, and such places. That is the only
person I ever hated from the first sight, — hated
and dreaded in a way I could not possibly
explain."

But why do you mention him ? " asked
Waymark. " What is his name ? "

His name is Mellowdew," returned Ida, pronouncing
it as if the sound excited loathing in
her. " I had been living in this way for nearly
half-a-year, when one day this man called and

came up to my sitting-room. He said he had an
appointment with Mr. Bolter, who would come
presently. I sat scarcely speaking, but he talked
on. Presently, Mr. Bolter came. He seemed
surprised to find the other man with me, and
almost at once turned round and went out again.
Mellowdew followed him, saying to me that he
wondered wdiat it all meant. The meaning was
made clear to me a few hours after. There came
a short note from Mr. Bolter, saying that he
had suspected that something was wrong, and
that under the circumstances he could of course
only say good-bye.

I can't say that I was sorry ; I can't say that
I was glad. I despised him for his meanness,
not even troubling myself to try and make sure
of what had happened. The same night Mellow-dew
came to see me again, made excuses, blamed
his friend, shuffled here and there, and gave me
clearly to understand what he wanted. I scarcely
spoke, only told him t(^ go away, and that he
need never speak to me anywhere or at any time;
it would be useless. Well, I changed my
lodgings for those I now have, and simply

began the life I now — the life I have been
leading. Work was more impossible for me
than ever, and I had to feed and clothe
myself."

How long ago was that ? " asked Way mark,
without looking up.

'four months."

Ida rose from the beach. The tide had gone
down some distance ; there were stretches of
smooth sand, already dry in the sunshine.

Let us walk back on the sands," she said
pointing.

You are going home ? "

Yes, I want to rest a little. I weill meet
you again about eight o'clock, if you like."

Waymark accompanied her as far as the door,
then strolled on to his own lodgings, which were
near at hand. It was only the second day that
they had been in Hastings, yet it seemed to
him as if he had been walking about on the
sea-shore with Ida for weeks. For all that,
he felt that he was not as near to her now
as he had been on ceram evenings in London,
when his arrival was to her a manifest pleasure,

aud their talk unflagging from hour to hour.
She did not show the spirit of holiday, seemed
weary from time to time, was too often preoccupied
and indisposed to talk. True, she
had at length fulfilled her promise of telling
him the whole of her story, but even this
increase of confidence Way mark's uneasy mind
strangely converted into fresh source of discomfort
to himself She had made this revelation
— he half believed — on purpose to keep
up the distance between them, to warn him how
slight occasion had led her from what is called
the path of virtue, that he might not delude
himself into exaggerated estimates of her character.
Such a thought could of course only
be due to the fact that Ida's story had indeed
produced something of this impression upon
her hearer. Waymark had often busied himself
with inventing all manner of excuses for her,
had exerted his imagination to the utmost to
hit upon some most irresistible climax of
dolorous circumstances to account for her downfall.
He had yet to realize that circumstances
are as relative in their importance as everything

else in this world, and that ofttimes the greatest
tragedies revolve on apparently the most insignificant
outward events, — personality being all.
He spent the hours of her absence in moving
from place to place, fretting in mind. At one
moment, he half determined to bring things
to some issue, by disregarding all considerations
and urging his love upon her. Yet this he
felt he could not do. Surely — he asked himself
angrily — he was not still so much in the thrall-dom
of conventionality as to be affected by his
fresh reminder of her position and antecedents ?
Perhaps not quite so much prejudice as experience
which disturbed him. He was well
acquainted with the characteristics of girls of
this class ; he knew how all but impossible it
is for them to tell the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth. And there was
one thing particularly in Ida's story that he
found hard to credit ; was it indeed likely that
she had not felt more than she would confess
for this man whose mistress she became so
easily ? If she had not, if what she said were
true, was not this something like a proof of

her lack of that refined sentiment which is
the capacity for love, in its real sense ? Torturing
doubts and reasonings of this kind once
set going in a brain already confused with
passion, there is slight limit to the range of
speculation opened ; Waymark found himself —
in spite of everything — entertaining all his old
scepticism. In any case, had he the slightest
ground for the hope that she might ever feel
to him as warmly as he did to her ? He could
not recall one instance of Ida s having betrayed
a trace of fondness in her intercourse with him.
The mere fact of their intercourse he altogether
lost sight of. Whereas an outsider would, under
the circumstances, have been justified in laying
the utmost stress on this, Waymark had grown
to accept it as a matter of course, and only
occupied himself with Ida's absolute self-control,
her perfect calmness in all situations, the ease
with which she met his glance, the looseness
of her hand in his, the indifference with which
she heard him when he had spoken of his
loneliness and frequent misery. Where was
the key of her character? She did not care

VOL. II. H

for admiration ; it was quite certain that she
was not leading him about just to gratify her
own vanity. Was it not purely an intellectual
matter ? She was a girl of superior intellect, and,
having found in him some one with whom she
could satisfy her desire for rational converse, did
she not on this account keep up their relations ?
For the rest — well, she liked ease and luxury ;
above all, ease. Of that she would certainly
make no sacrifice. How well he could imagine
the half-annoyed, half contemptuous smile which
would rise to her beautiful face, if he were so
foolish as to become sentimental with her !
That, he felt, would be a look not easy to bear.
Humiliation he dreaded.

When eight o'clock came, he was leaning
over the end of the pier, at the appointed spot,
still busy in thought. There came a touch on
his arm.

AVell, are you thinking how you can make
a book out of my story ? "

The touch, the voice, the smile, — how all his
sophistry was swept away in a rush of tenderness
and delight !

I must wait for the end of it," he returned,
holdings out his hand, which she did not take.

The end ? — Oh, you must invent one. Ends
in real life are so commonplace and uninteresting."


'' Commonplace or not," said Waymark, with
some lack of firmness in his voice, " the end
of your story should not be an unhappy one,
if I had the disposing of it. And I might have,
but for one thing."

"What's that?" she asked, with sudden
interest.

My miserable poverty. If I only had
money, — money," —

''Monev!" she exclaimed, turning; away
almost angrily. Then she added, with the
coldness which she did not often use, but which,
when she did, chilled and checked him, — *' 1
don't understand you."

He pointed with a bitter smile down to the
sands.

Look at that gold of the sunset in the
pools the tide has left. It is the most glorious
colour in nature, but it makes me miserable by

H 2

reminding me of the metal it takes its name
from."

She looked at him with eyes which had in
them a strange wonder, sad at first, then full
of scorn, of indignation. And then she laughed,
drawing herself away from him. The laugh
irritated him. He experienced a terrible revulsion
of feeling, from the warmth and passion
which had possessed him, to that humiliation,
which he could not bear.

And just now a number of people came and
took their stands close by, in a gossiping group.
Ida had half turned away, and was looking at
the golden pools. He tried to say something,
but his tongue was dry, and the word would
not come. Presently, she faced him again, and
said, in very much her ordinary tone, —

"I was going to tell you that I have just had
news from London, which makes it necessary forme
to go back tomorrow. I shall have to take
an early train."

This is because I have offended you'' Waymark
said, moving nearer to her. " You had
no thought of going before that."

'' I am not surprised that you refuse to believe
me," returned Ida, smiling very faintly. " Still,
it is the truth. And now I must go in again ;
I am very tired."

No," he exclaimed, as she moved away,
you must not go in till — till you have forgiven
me. At least come away to a quiet place, where
I can speak freely to you ; these people "

*' To-morrow morning," she said, waving her
hand wearily. '' I can't talk now, — and indeed
there is no need to speak of this at all. I have
forgotten it."

'' No, you have not ; how could you ? — And
you will not go tomorrow ; you shall not."

Yes, I must," she returned, firmly.

Then I shall go with you."

As you like. I shall leave by the express at
five minutes past nine."

'^ Then I shall be at the station. But at least
I may walk home with you ? "

"No, please. If you wish me to think
you are sincere, — if you wish us still to befriends
— stay till I have left the pier. — Goodnight."


He muttered a return, and stood watching her
as she walked quietly away.

When it was nearly midnight, Ida lay on her
bed, dressed, as she had lain since her return
home. For more than an hour she had cried
and sobbed in blank misery, cried as never since
the bitter days long ago, just after her mother's
death. Then, the fit over, something like a
reaction of calm followed, and, as she lay perfectly
still in the darkness, her regular breathing
would have led one to believe her asleep. But
she was only thinking, and indeed very far from
sleep. The long day in the open air had so
affected her eyes that, as she looked up at the
ceiling, it seemed to her to be a blue space,
with light clouds constantly flitting across it.
Presently this impression became painful, and
a growing restlessness made her rise. The heat
of the room was stifling, for just above was the
roof, upon which all day the sun had poured its
rays. She threw open the window, and drank
the air. The night was magnificent, flooded
with warm moonlight, and fragrant with sea-breathing.

Ida felt an irresistible desire to
leave the house and go down to the shore, which
she could not see from her window ; the tide,
she remembered, would just now be full, and to
walk by it in the solitude of midnight would
bring her that peace and strength of soul she so
much needed. She put on her hat and cloak,
and went downstairs. The front door was only
latched, and, as she had her key, no doubt she
would be able to let herself in at any hour.

The streets were all but deserted, and, when
she came to the beach, no soul was anywhere
visible. She walked towards the place where
she had spent the afternoon with Waymark,
then onwards still further to the east, till there
was but a narrow space between the water and
the cliffs. Breakers there were none, not more
ripple at the clear tide-edge than on the border
of a little lake. So intense was the silence that
every now and then could be distinctly heard a
call on one of the fishing-boats lying some
distance from shore. The town was no longer
in sight.

It was close even here : what little breeze

there was l)ruslied the face like the warm wins:
of a passing bird. Ida dipped her hands in the
water and sprinkled it upon her forehead. Then
she took off her boots and stockings, and walked
with her feet in the ripples. A moment after
she stopped, and looked all around, as if hesitating
at some thought, and wishing to see that
her solitude was secure. Just then the sound of
a clock came very faintly across the still air,
striking the hour of one. She stepped from the
water a few paces, and began hastily to put off
her clothing ; in a moment her feet were again
in the ripples, and she was walking out from the
beach, till her gleaming body was hidden. Then
she Imthed, breasts: the full flow with delight,
making the sundered and broken water flash
myriad reflections of the moon and stars. As
she came forth on to the beach again, it was
another Venus Anadyomene. Heaven gloried in
her beauty, and over-shone her with chaste
splendour.

******
Waymark was at the station next morning
half an hour before train-time. He waited for

Ida's arrival before taking his ticket. She did
not come. He walked about in feverish impatience,
plaguing himself with all manner of
doubt and apprehension. The train came into
the station, and yet she had not arrived. It
started, and no sign of her.

He waited yet five minutes, then walked
hastily into the town, and to Ida's lodo^ino-s.
Miss Starr, he was told, had left very early that
morning ; if he was Mr. Waymark, there was a
note to be delivered to him.

I thought it better that I should go to
London by an earlier train, for we should not
have been Cjuite at our ease with each other. I
beg you will not think my leaving you is due to
anything but necessity; indeed it is not. I shall
not be living at the old place, but any letter you
send there I shall get. I cannot promise to
reply at once, but hope you will let me do so
when I feel able to.

"I. S."

Waymark took the next train to town.

BOOK lY.

CHAPTER I.
PARENTS.

At this point in our story, it becomes necessary
to go back some twenty years, and to change
the scene for a moment to an unpleasant little
town in Lancashire, the name of which is
nothing to our purpose, and which is sufficiently
characterized by the statement of the fact that
it is in the midst of a mining district, that
its atmosphere is one of soot and coal-dust,
and its population precisely of the kind which
such surroundings might be expected to foster.
Some twenty years, then, before the date we
have at present reached, a well-known figure
in this disagreeable little town was that of the
Rev. Paul Enderby, a young man of notable
exterior, and, to all appearances, endowed with

moral and intellectual qualities considerably
above the average. Mr. En derby was not a
native of Lancashire ; he came from London,
and was said to have sought, of free choice,
this sphere for the exertion of his activity.
There could be no doubt of the tremendous
earnestness with which he threw himself into
every kind of work adapted to his position.
Though anything but well off, he managed very
soon to get a reputation for solid beneficence
among the poor people of his parish. In
religious matters, his attitude was one of great
liberality ; not a few people were found to assert
that the gospel he preached was anything but
that recognized by the Church of England ; still,
his congregation were somehow impressed from
the first by his manifest zeal, and by degrees
followed him in tracts of doctrine whither they
would certainly never have strayed of their own
motion. In the houses of the well-to-do inhabitants
he was extremely popular, thinking
it in no wise incompatible with his position
to display a vigorous enjoyment of the present
world, and to do his best towards making others

equally at home in it. If he ever felt longings
for a social circle which would have given more
scope to the powers of his mind, he at all events
never gave outward signs of being anything
but perfectly at his ease ; wise Paul Enderby.

He had lived here for two years, an unmarried
man ; now it was all at once made known
abroad that this state of things was to come
to an and ; moreover, to the grievous disappointment
of not a few households, it was
understood that the future Mrs. Enderby had
been chosen from among his own people, in
far-away London. The lady came, and of
course there was a field-day of criticism, with
very various results in various circles. To begin
with, she could not be more than seventeen ;
in the next place she was undeniably pretty,
if not handsome. Altogether useless qualities,
and worse, of course, in a clergyman's wife —
at all events in such a place as this. Nor did
it appear, as acquaintance grew, that Mrs.
Enderby could make up in promise of serious
conversation for her obvious disadvantages ;
flighty " was the epithet applied to her by

the ladies with whom she came in contact, and
it may be that they were not far wrong. She
had a quantity of superficial accomplishments,
and evidently liked to exhibit them before her
homely visitors. She exaggerated the refinement
of her utterance that it might all the more strike
off against the local twang, and if there is
anything which will make a person detested
by the lowly inhabitants of the north, it is
this very refinement, affected or not. Then,
it soon became clear that she would be anything
but an assistance to her husband in his parochial
work ; one or two attempts \\ ere made,
apparently with good will, at intercourse with
the poor parishioners, but the enterprise was
distinctly a failure ; it had to be definitively
given up. Presently a child was born in the
parsonage, and for a little while the young
mother's attention was satisfactorily engaged
at home. The child was a girl and received
the name of Maud.

I don't know that it is necessary to go into
much more detail about the relations between
Paul and his wife in these early days. The

man, for all his vigorous self-surrender to clerical
work, was endowed with a hot and imaginative
temperament ; it may be that he felt the
necessity of calming his pulses by immersion
in the world's misery, and on that very account
had become what he was. Enough that the
marriage was one of — perhaps one should say
infatuation rather than love, at all events on
the husband's side. Their acquaintance was a
chance one, in the first instance. The girl
had been discovered living with her mother
and an only sister ; they were gentlefolk, but
not very well-to-do. Paul's home, for the first
year of his marriage, was a scene of romance.
He had naturally tried to bring the girl into
harmony with her circumstances, but, failing,
did not pursue his efforts, and on the whole
perhaps did not regret his failure. He had
wedded because he wanted to love and be loved,
not for the sake of having what is called a
helpmate. And of love he had his fill. The
girl was of temperament as warm as his own.
Unfortunately, she had not his powers of self-balance.
Paul's work was an abomination to

her ; she grudged every moment of his presence
of which it robbed her. She shoukl have
carried him off with her to some paean isle,
where the tale of the diminishing moons might
have circled to successive years, whilst the world
of toil and want remained forgotten.

He struggled, poor fellow, to bate no jot of
his former activity, but the change was soon
very plain to all. Not only was his personal
ubiquity a thing of the past, but those who
had learned to look for his helping hand intimes
of need found that he either could not,
or did not care to, assist them as previously.
The fact was that his income was sadly inelastic,
whilst the claims of home grew in very noticeable
degree. His wife was no housekeeper, and
what was more, fond of a certain luxury
without being able to understand the adaptation
of means to ends. Paul would have "dropped
his blood for drachmas," rather than bid her
hold her hand when she longed for anything.
With the second year, dien the first pleasure
in her baby had worn off, she grew more and
more careless in her expenses. She ordered

costly dresses,— and could he say a word of the
outlay when she stood before him and made his
eyes drunk with the perfection of her beauty ?
He remembered how young she was, and
thought she would grow wiser. And the more
she sank him in horrible embarrassments, the
more desperately he loved her. In the third
year, things had got so far that people began
to talk, and Paul seriously contemplated a plan
of exchanging to some other living ; a richer
one if practicable ; if not, then just for the sake
of making a new beginning in a new place. He
was growing haggard ; his health was failing ;
his work shrank to the narrowest possible
limits ; he shunned men s gaze.

Yet all at once there happened something
which revived much of his old zeal, and, in
spite of everything, brought him once more prominently
forward. A grave calamity had visited
the town. By a great explosion in a neighbouring
colliery, numbers of homes had been rendered
destitute, and aid of every kind was imperatively
called for on all sides. In former times, Paul
Eagerly would have been just the man for this

occasion, and even now he was not wanting.
Extensive subscriptions were raised, and he,
as chief man in the committee which had been
formed, had chief control of the funds. People
said afterwards that they had often remarked
something singular in his manner as he went
about in these duties. Whether that was true
or not, something more than singular happened
when, some two months later, accounts were
being investigated and cleared up. Late one
evening, Mr. Enderby left home, — and never
returned to it. It was very soon known that he
must have appropriated to his own use considerable
sums which had reached his hands for
charitable purposes, and the scandal was terrific.
Mrs. Enderby and her child disappeared in a day
or two. It was said that an old and a young
lady from London had come and fetched her
away, and she was no more heard of in that
disagreeable little town.

Had he killed himself ? Presumably not ; for
Miss By grave, his wife's elder sister, had received
a letter from Paul summoning her to the poor
girl's aid : and this letter, dated from Liverpool,

VOL. II. I

after disclosing in a few words the whole situation,
went on to say that the writer, though he
would never more be seen by those who knew
him, would not fail to send his wife what money
he could as often as he could. Anil, after half
a year, sums had begun to be remitted, in
envelopes bearing a Calif orphan postmark. They
were not much use, however, to Mrs. Enderby.
A few days after her arrival at her home in
London, she had been discovered hanging, with
a rope round her neck, from a nail behind her
bedroom door. Cut down in time, her life was
saved, but reason had forsaken her. She was
taken away to an asylum, and remained there for
five years.

By that time, she seemed to have quite
recovered. Her home was now to be with her
sister, Theresa Bygrave, in the house in South
Bank, which we already know. Her child, Maud
Enderby, was nearly seven years old, and was in
Miss By grave's care, the poor mother of the
sisters having died amid the horrors which had
come upon her family. Mrs. Enderby returned
to the world very much the same woman that

she had left it, but with some of her more
individual characteristics strengthened. She had
never lacked character, being capable of the same
passionate force which proved itself, though so
differently, in Theresa. This now took the form
of one immutable resolution. Having; found
that the child knew nothing of its parents, she
determined that this ignorance should continue ;
or rather that it should be exchanged for the
belief that those parents were both long dead.
She herself would take her husband's first name,
and be known as Mrs. Paul. Her sister was in '
doubt whether to give her consent, but yielded
in the end. " Would you have the child grow
up with the misery of knowing one parent a
fugitive criminal, and the other a lunatic ? "
asked the unhappy mother ; adding, " I am sane
now, but I shall not be so for long at a time, and
at last I shall die mad."

The first part of the prophecy was soon fulfilled.
She brooded over the loss of her husband,
who had now for more than two years given
no sign that he still lived, and her wretchedness
brought about a result to which perpetual

I 2

insanity would have been preferable. She began
to support herself with all manner of drugs and
stimulants ; by degrees became a drunkard. In
eighteen months, she was again confined in the
asylum. But through everything the resolve to
conceal herself from the child held good. She
scarcely allowed herself to caress it, though fall
of passionate love. Maud's training was in Miss
Bygrave's hands, and found no interference.

Her next period of sanity endured longer, but
was terminated in the same manner as before.
You remember that Christmas night, when the
talk between Maud and her aunt was interrupted
by the pale, wild face at the door, and when a
moment after, a strange man entered the house,
and there ensued a scene of unexplained horror ?
The poor woman's mind was already straying,
when, as she went to pass out of the house,
she found herself face to face with the husband
she had not seen for ten years, and at once
became a maniac.

No one had expected Paul's return. He came
back to his own country in a state of complete
poverty ; on his face the marks of dread experience.

What that experience had been, he
never opened his lips to tell ; the story of those
ten years would die with him.

He remained in London, and somehow worked
on to a tolerable livelihood. He met his sister-in-law
at regular intervals, and she learned
from him that he was employed in the City.
When, after nearly five years, his wife once
more left the asylum, it was for a long time
a matter for doubt whether he ought to risk
the effect of seeing her. He did so, at length.
She had seemed long impressed with a belief
that he was somewhere near her, and the
meeting between them was much calmer than
had been expected. The result upon her was
for good. Within a few months, the revival
of the old passion made it impossible for them
to be separated. Paul took her into his own
home, and their married life was renewed.

Now let us listen to a conversation between
Paul Enderby and Miss Bygrave, which took
place very nearly at the time when Way mark
and Ida were together in Hastings. Early one
evening, Paul had called at the house in South

Bank, the interior of which had in no respect
changed since we last saw it ; still the same
coldness, bareness and gloom, the same silence
echoing to a strange footfall. Theresa Bygrave
had not greatly altered ; tall, upright, clad in
the plainest black garment, she walked into the
room with silent dignity, ! looking scarcely older,
though much of gray was now visible in the
hair which fell on each side of her clear, colourless,
perfect face. She smiled gently in greeting
her brother-in-law, — not a smile of pleasure, but

^ of kindly feeling.

Paul Enderby was still a man of fine physique
and distinctly handsome countenance. He was

J not yet fifty, but the little hair he had was

almost white ; his face was completely shaven.
His nerves left him no rest ; it was difficult for
him to remain seated more than a few minutes ;
his hands constantly occupied themselves at his
watch-chain, in his pockets, with objects about
the room. The physiognomy was in keeping
with this nervousness, keen in outline, expressive
of shrewd intellect, with almost feminine
tenderness about the lips, eyes the more restless

and anxious that they were very short-sighted.
He spoke quickly and eagerly, frequently correcting
his expressions, and always watching
the effect of what he said, though his gaze never
for a moment fully met that of the person he
spoke with. At present his cheeks were much
flushed. He constantly laughed in a forced
way, as if to solicit a friendly construction of
all he said.

We have talked it over again," he began,
when Miss By grave was seated, " and we have
decided, — it really seems best to us, — we think
our life would be vastly happier, if — if we took
this step."

He paused and watched the listener's face
eagerly, glancing quickly away as soon as she
looked up.

'rand you still wish me to break it to Maud,
and in the way you said ? "

Her calm, low, distinct utterance contrasted
very strangely with his rapid indistinctness.

If you would. — But I do so wish you would
let me know your own thoughts about this.
You have so much claim to be considered.

Maud is in reality yours far more than she is
ours. Will it, — do you think now it will really
be for our own happiness ? Will the explanation
you are able to give be satisfactory to
her ? What will be her attitude towards us ?
You know her character, — you understand her."

If the future could be all as calm as the
past year has been," said Miss By grave, " I
should have nothing to urge against your
wishes."

And this will contribute to it," exclaimed
Enderby. " This would give Emily the very
support she needs. And, indeed, I am convinced
that her mind is perfectly established ;
her self-control is all but complete ; the one
great evil and temptation scarcely any longer
exists for her. No ; if I could anticipate anything
so dreadful as — as you seem to fear, I
would not entertain this project for a moment ;
far better that Maud should remain parentheses —
though that she is not, having you^than be
drawn into such fearful things. I have consulted
a physician on these points, and his opinion is
strongly favourable. Maud will — will uphold

her mother ; her strong nature will be just
what poor Emily's weakness needs. Do try to
heartily approve this, Theresa ; you can't think
what a comfort that would be to me, to — to
know you perfectly content to have it so."

Miss Bygrave looked into his face, which had
a pleading earnestness, and a deep pity lay in
her eyes.

'' Let it be so," she said, with decision. " I
myself have much hope from Maud's influence.
I will write and tell her not to renew her
enojao^ement, and she will be with us at the end
of September."

*' But you will not tell her anything till she
comes ? "

'' No."

Better so. Now I shall set to work to find
a house, — somewhere in this part it shall be.
Our life will be renewed in real earnest. Emily
will be overwhelmed with joy when I tell her
that it is all settled. And her mind will be so
thoroughly occupied in the intervening time.
She shall go with me to look over houses, and
then there will be the purchasing of furniture,

and so on, — ^jiist what she likes." Here one of
those painful little jerks of laughter. 'you
can't think how much more like my old self I
have been since these gleams of sunshine came
upon me ! All my old interests are coming
strongly back ; things I haven't thought of for
years once more occupy me. I am better in
health, too, now that I am able to take more
care of myself."

I earnestly hope your sadness is gone by forever,"
said Theresa, gently, and with the calm of
one whose own lot is beyond the arbitrament of
the world's mutability.

Paul Enderby seemed possessed with a sudden
access of fervour. He seated himself in a chair
close by her, and began to speak with a warmth
and readiness different from his usual nervous
manner.

Do you think me ungrateful, Theresa, because
I have not once tried to thank you for all
you have been in this wretched life of mine ?
If I have not done so, it is because thanks were
vain, seemed paltry when I most felt your
overwhelming goodness. Who else would have

been as patient with me as you have, — never
have uttered one syllable of reproof or reproach,
when you might so justly have scorned me out
of your very presence ? Sometimes I have
almost thought that your forbearance was
cruelty ; you made me so terribly conscious
of the greatness of your own soul, and of my
own mean littleness. You are like no other manor
woman ; you are great and noble as the saint
whose name you bear. I have moments when
the thought of you fills me with a passion of
worship. And could I do better than worship
one like you ? You make me realize the necessity
of those who made saints intermediaries
between themselves and Heaven ; I am not
worthy to approach a glory which is above
earth ; I can humble myself before you, and feel
that you have compassion upon me. And you
do not know my full weakness. I even try to
hide it from you. I would so gladly have some
of your love, as well as your pity. Yet I am
miserably unworthy of it."

You must not credit me with more than I
possess," said Theresa, whose face, as he spoke,

had become transfigured with a light which
scarcely seemed of the flesh. '' My life has been
very remote from temptation. Perhaps in
shrinking from the world, I have only obeyed
the voice of my own weakness."

No, no," he cried, with a trembling voice,
'' to withhold from the world can never be anything
but a sign of strength. It is I, and such
as I, who cling to the world so much, that love
the darkness rather than the light. I am given
up to mere enjoyments of the day ; yours is the
peace of the kingdom in which there is neither
day nor night, nor time, nor change, — only the
eternity of the soul. And I want you to know
that I am conscious of this, that I have not lost
all power of admiring what is noble and pure.
Is there not something in this mere power to
understand the higher life ? Or is our damnation
greater, that we see, yet will not follow? "

There were tears in his voice.

I hope and think," was Theresa's gentle
answer, " that I have never judged you wrongly.
I do not believe that you have ever really loved
darkness rather than light. We cannot all win

our salvation in the same way. What is law
for one may not be binding upon another. Who
has more than the imsh to be perfect ? Your
trials may well have brought you in many ways
further upon the path than I can ever be."

'' No ; I have fallen ; only and always fallen.
But in your presence I am better than myself.
If I lead not the chance of seeing and speaking
with you, I should be hopelessly lost. Take
what poor thanks I can offer you. If I am
ever stronger, I will thank you better."

Almost without leave-taking, he hurried away.

We have seen how Maud Enderby and her
aunt lived whilst the former was still a child.
It was only very slowly that a nearer intimacy
had developed with a warm affection felt on both
sides, but seldom given expression to. Miss
By grave had her limitations. Though a woman,
childhood was not charming to her ; she even
found it difficult to sympathize with a soul
which was growing, seeking its way in many
directions. Suffering seemed to her the essential
of spiritual progress, and had Maud been one

of those shallow, joyous natures which reach
such maturity as they are capable of without
any period of inward anguish, she and her aunt
would doubtless have ever remained asunder.
But the girl's personality was far other than
this. As she grew into perception of the
circumstances amid which her lot was cast, the
sense of a mystery clinging around her began
to darken her life. Her parents, she was told,
were dead ; relatives besides her aunt she seemed
to have none. Miss By grave herself lived in
all but complete severance from the world.
Maud felt that her history could not be the
common one of an orphaned child, and, though
very soon refraining from inquiries which she
saw to be unwelcome, she brooded over these
things in her loneliness. When, on leaving
her first school, she attended another of a
higher kind, the companionship of the young
girls with whom she studied did not suffice
to draw her out of herself. The contrast
between her life and theirs was painfully forced
upon her ; she withdrew into solitary reading
and thinking ; grew ever more timid of thei



world which was unknown, and by degrees
sought more of her aunt's confidence, feeling
that here was a soul that had long since attained
to the peace which she was vainly seeking.

Theresa Bygrave was no proselytizer. It

was with effort that she brought herself to

speak to another of her form of faith. After

that Christmas night when she addressed Maud

for the first time on matters of religion, she

had said no second word ; she waited the effect

of her teaching, and the girl's spontaneous

recurrence to the subject. Maud was long

before she could overcome the diffidence she

felt in inviting her aunt's closer sympathy. As

was but natural, the mere proximity to the

latter's daily life was influencing her greatly,

and the one lesson she had received was bearing

its fruits. There w-as something in the very

air of the still, chill house favourable to ascetic

gravity. A young girl, living under such

circumstances, must either pine away, eating

her own heart, or become a mystic, and find

her daily food in religious meditation. Maud

felt severely the want of books. There were

very few in the house, and these almost all
religious poets, one or two of whom Theresa
was in the habit of reading and re-reading.
Maud made their acquaintance, and acquired
the taste for them. For a long time she
wondered vainly how her aunt occupied herself
through her long, lonely days, in the room
which no other person ever entered ; when the
two began to draw nearer to each other, she
discovered that Theresa spent most of her time
in needlework, the result of which was all given
away in charity. Maud begged to be allowed
to aid her in this, and found the occupation a
relief in her dreary periods of holiday.

Miss Bygrave scarcely ever spoke of the
ordinary concerns of every day life ; she lived,
for the most part, as if under a vow of silence.
Only when Maud was seventeen years old, did
she speak for the first time to her of her life
in the future. Her own income, she explained,
was but just sufficient for their needs, and would
terminate upon her death ; had Maud thought
at all of what course she would choose when
the time for decision came ? Naturally, only

one thing could suggest itself to the girl's mind,
and that was to become a teacher. To begin
with, she took subordinate work in the school
where she had been a pupil ; later, she obtained
the en2:ao;ement at Dr. Tootle's.

An education of this kind, working upon
Maud Enderby's natural temperament, resulted
in an abnormal character, the chief trait of
which was remarkable as being in contradiction
to the spirit of our days. She was oppressed
with the consciousness of sin. Every most
natural impulse of her own heart she regarded
as a temptation to be resisted with all her
strength. Her ideal was the same as Theresa's,
but she could not pursue it with the latter's
assured calm ; at every moment the voice of her
youth spoke within her, and became to her the
voice of the enemy. Her faith was scarcely
capable of formulation in creeds ; her sins were
not of omission or commission in the literal
sense ; it was an attitude of soul which she
sought to attain, though ever falling away.
What little she saw of the world in London,
and afterwards at her home by the sea-side, only

VOL. II. K

served to increase the trouble of her conscience,
by making her more aware of her own weakness.
For instance, the matter of her correspondence
with Waymark. In very truth, the chief reason
why she had given him the permission he asked
of her was, that before so sudden and unexpected
a demand she found herself confused and
helpless ; had she been able to reflect, the
temptation would probably have been resisted,
for the pleasantness of the thought made her
regard it as a temptation of the gravest.
Casuistry and sophistical reasoning with her
own heart ensued, to the increase of her morbid
sensitiveness ; she persuaded herself that greater
insight into the world's evil would be of aid in
her struggle, and so the contents of Waymark's
first letter led her to a continuance of the
correspondence. The power of strong and
gloomy description which she showed in her
own letters, and which so impressed Waymark,
afforded the very key to the deepest of her sufferings
; her soul in reality was that of an artist,
and, whereas the artist should be free from
everything like moral prepossession, Maud's

aesthetic sensibilities were in perpetual conflict
with her moral convictions. She could not
understand herself, seeing that her opportunities
had never allowed her to obtain an idea of the
artistic character. This irrepressible delight
and interest in the active life of the world,
what could it be but the tendency to evil,
most strongly developed ? These heart-burnings
whenever she witnessed men and women rejoicing
in the exercise of their natural affections,
what could that be but the proneness to evil
in its grossest form ? The sight of a mother
fondling her child would often cause her to all
but faint, a terrible tumult in her blood blinded
her, and made her stagger for a moment. It
was the same when one of Waymark's letters
arrived. The touch of the paper was like fire ;
it was minutes before she could distinguish the
words when she endeavoured to read. It was
marvellous that such intense experiences allowed
her to remain in tolerable health. She did
indeed suffer severely at times from headaches,
neuralgia, and other disorders of the nerves ;
but under her frail appearance she concealed a

K 2

force and a vitality which would enable her to

1 bear through much.

It was naturally a great surprise to Maud
when she received the letter from her aunt,
which asked her not to continue her engagement
into the new quarter, giving as a reason merely
that the writer wished for her at home. It was
even with something of dread and shrinking
that she looked forward to a renewal of the old
life. Still, it was enough that her aunt had
need of her ; ill health, it at once occurred to

I her, must be the meaning of the summons.
This, however, she was assured was not the
case ; and then her restless imagination filled
her with the thought that some new phase of
her destiny was about to open ; that something
of the mystery would be cleared up, with confirmation
or the opposite of the long romance,
which had grown to a strange conviction
through years of brooding. The agitation which
this belief caused, gained upon her during the
remaining wrecks ; when at length she reached
home, it was in a state of illness, such as
necessitated her keeping her bed for some days.

And when, yielding to her almost desperate
entreaties, Theresa made the disclosure she
would have preferred to postpone, Maud lay
pale and feeble for hours, only able to make
signs that she was not suffering. Miss By-graves
story had been agreed upon between
herself and Paul. It had been deemed best to
make Mrs. Enderby's insanity the motive of
Maud's removal from her parents, — this, coupled
with a commercial failure suffered by her father
in early life, the result of which had been a long
period of poverty. Theresa said — truly, in this
instance — that it had been the mother's own
wish to hide herself and her terrible affliction
from her child. But things were brighter now,
and there seemed no longer any reason why
this unnatural state of things should continue.

Maud wished at first to wait a few days
before seeing her parents, but within two or
three hours her mind changed, she would go to
them the next day. To her aunt's astonishment,
she rose from her bed almost immediately after
determining this, and seemed to shake off her
illness by a mere effort of will. She moved

about during the evening restlessly, and asked
constant questions about the new life she was
going to enter upon. When at length the time
for rest came, and she went to kiss her aunt
in the old accustomed way, instead of doing
so, she fell upon her knees, with a burst of
weeping.

Pray for me, pray for me," she sobbed,
that I may have strength ! You have been
my mother so long, and my mother in the spirit
you will always be. I am not leaving you ;
1 only seem to do so ; in my heart I am always
clinging to you, for you are my trust after God.
Put your arms round me — once ! Lay your
hand on my head and bless me, for I need it ! "

Theresa raised the girl, pressed her tenderly
to her strong heart, and wept over her.

CHAPTER 11.

ON A NEW FOOTING.

The five years or so since Paul Enclerby's
reappearance in England seemed to have been
not unprosperous. The house to which Maud
was welcomed by her father and mother was
not a large one, and not in a very fashionable
locality, but it was furnished with elegance.
Mrs. Enderby frequently had her hired brougham,
and made use of it to move about a good deal
where people see and are seen ; though she had
very few acquaintances, and those few not people
of her own apparent standing. Mr. Enderby 's
business was "in the City," and he was understood
to follow the somewhat vague avocations
of a "broker." How he had surmounted the
first difficulties was not very clear; his wife
learned that he had brought with him from

America a scheme for the utilization of waste
product in some obscure branch of manufacture,
which had been so far successful as to supply
him with a. small capital. He seemed to work
hard, leaving home at nine each morning,
getting back to dinner at half-past six, and,
as often as not, spending the evening away
from home, and not returning till the small
hours. He had the feverish eye of a man whose
subsistence depends upon speculative acuteness
and restless calculation. No doubt he was still
so far the old Paul, that, whatever he undertook,
he threw himself into it with surpassing
energy. His hardships did not seem to have
wrought much upon his health ; he was, indeed,
in the prime of life.

Emily Enderby was in her thirty eighth year,
and still handsome. Most men, at all events,
would have called her so, for most men are
attracted by a face which is long, delicate,
characterless, and preserves late the self-conscious
expression of a rather frivolous girl of seventeen.
She had yellow hair — or seemed to have, for
much of it was false, and her own was dyed.

It was not pleasant to meet her eyes ; their
look suggested a secret understanding with you ;
and, if you happened to know her history, you
could read in them only too clearly both past
events and future possibilities. Her laugh was
jarring to the ear, too childish, yet without
the child's innocence, and she laughed on the
slightest occasion. For all this, you did not
shrink from her. Every now and then came
a flash of good sense, or of true womanly feeling,
which hinted what she might have become
under happier circumstances — above all, had
the companion of her life been a man with force
to repress the evil in her and develop the good.
By no means without strength of will, she had
yet never known what was meant by principle.
In this, to be sure, she was only like the vast
majority of women; but, whereas most women
are kept in the straight path of what we call
duty, domestic and social, by sheer force of
habit, and that alone, this very habit had never
entered into her life. She had ideals of her
own, which she pursued regardless of the course
in which they led her ; and these ideals were

far from ignoble. To beauty of all kinds she
was passionately sensitive. As a girl she had
played the piano well, and, though the power
had gone from long disuse, music was still her
chief passion. Graceful ease, delicacy in her
surroundings, freedom from domestic cares, the
bloom of flowers, sweet scents — such things
made up her existence. She loved her husband,
and had once worshipped him ; she loved her
recovered daughter ; but both affections were
in her, so to speak, of aesthetic rather than of
moral quality.

How was such a woman capable of the sacrifice
implied in the separation from her child during
so many years — a sacrifice dictated, as we have
seen, by conscious consideration for Maud's
happiness ? The explanation was this. The
return of reason after her first attack of insanity,
led her for the first time to a sense of the
misfortunes which had befallen her. Brought
to live with her sister, transferred to an utterly
barren and colourless sphere, submitted to influences
which previously would have left her
unaffected, but which now, in her lonely and

helpless state, proved all-powerful, she experienced
a change of the kind known in religions
technology as "conversion." Passionate in
this new feeling, as in every other which fora
time possessed her, she must needs offer some
extreme proof of her sincerity. Theresa had
purposely kept the child away from her in the
first instance — possibly with no great wisdom,
humanly speaking — and when, for the first time,
the subject was mentioned between them, Emily
declared the resolution she had come to. After
consideration, her sister favoured it, and Theresa's
influence it was, doubtless, which kept the resolution
inviolate. The power of a nature like
Theresa's over such a woman as Emily was
almost boundless. Small wonder that the second
attack of insanity ensued. The life of those
lucid years must have been such as would have
affected a far stronger intellect. The poor
creature, as we know, took refuge in drink ; it
would procure her the pleasurable excitement
which otherwise she could never have known,
and be followed by the unconsciousness which
was perhaps a yet greater boon.

Intercourse between Maud and her parents,
now that they lived together, was, as might
have been expected, not altogether natural or
easy. She came to them with boundless longings,
ready to expend in a moment the love of
a lifetime ; they, on their side, were scarcely
less full of warm anticipation ; yet something
prevented the complete expression of this mutual
yearning. The fault was not in the father and
mother if they hung back somewhat ; in very
truth, Maud's pure, noble countenance abashed
them. This, their child, was so much the
superior of them both ; they felt it from the
first moment, and could never master the consciousness.
Maud mistook this for coldness ; it
checked and saddened her. Yet time brought
about better things, though the ideal would
never be attained. In her father, the girl found
much to love ; her mother she could not love
as she had hoped, but she regarded her with
a vast tenderness, often with deep compassion.
Much of sympathy, moreover, there was between
these two. Maud's artistic temperament was
inherited from her mother, but she possessed it

in a stronger degree, of purer quality, and under
greater restraint. This restraint, however, did
not long continue to be exercised as hitherto.
Once the shadow of her aunt's roof quitted,
Maud strove in vain against her own instincts.
Life for the first time was open before her, and
the music which began to fill her ears, the
splendour which shone into her eyes, gradually
availed to still that inner voice which had so
long spoken to her in dark admonishing. She
could not resign herself absolutely to the new
delight ; it was still a conflict ; but from the
conflict itself she derived a kind of joy, born
of the strength of her imagination. No longer
restricted in her literature to religious poetry,
she searched with eagerness the catalogue of the
circulating library, and read everything which
seemed likely to answer her desire for spiritual
beauty. We are fond of trying to conceive
what our sensations would be if we could be
lorn into the world in possession of mature
faculties : the endless delight and wonder, the
rush of speculation fettered by no established
prejudices, the unflagging interest in every commonest

detail of life. Maud's experience in
many respects resembled such a state as this.
The universe of art was all at once disclosed ;
she burned through tale and poem with joy
almost too great to bear. The day for selection
was not yet ; where all was the work of magic,
how to choose and prefer ? Many a night she
read till the dawn came ghostlike to her window,
and many days she scarcely stirred from her
chair. When she paused to think of the past
time, it was like looking back into a half-forgotten
state of being; : the motives and faiths
which had actuated her grew difficult of realization.
The present was scarcely less subject
to consciousness ; life had become a dream of
emotion. The people she met, the places she
went to, the succession of day upon day, these
things were misty and intangible ; the only real
presence was her own throbbing heart.

Yes, there was one item of the past which
dwelt with her, and by degrees busied her
thoughts more and more. The correspondence
with Waymark had ceased, and by her own
negligence. In those days of mental disturbance

which preceded her return to London, his
last letter had reached her, and this she had
not replied to. It had been her turn to write,
but she had not felt able to do so ; it had
seemed to her, indeed, that, with her return
home, the correspondence would naturally come
to an end ; with a strange ignorance of herself,
such as now and then darkens us, she had
suddenly come to attach little value to the
connection. Not improbably, Waymark's last
two letters had been forced and lacking in
interest ; they were written at a time when
Ida's presence was strong upon him, and when
he himself half regretted having commenced a
relationship which could lead to nothing. In
writing, he had never said anything which could
be construed into more than an expression of
friendly interest, or intellectual sympathy. It
may be that Maud's condition, dimly prophetic
of the coming change, required more than this,
and she conceived a certain dissatisfaction. Then
came the change itself, and for some weeks she
scarcely thought of her correspondent. One
day, however, she chanced upon the little packet

of his letters, and read them through again. It
was with new eyes. Thoughts spoke to her
which had not been there on the first reading.
Waymark had touched at times on art and
kindred subjects, and only now could she understand
his meanings. She felt that, in breaking
off her connection with him, she had lost the
one person who could give her entire sympathy ;
to whom she might have spoken, with certainty
of being understood, of all the novel ideas which
possessed her ; who, indeed, would have been
invaluable as a guide in the unknown land she
was treading. It was now almost the end of the
year ; more than three months had gone by
since she received that last letter from him.
Could she write now, and let him know that
she was in London ? How explain her long
silence ? And even if it were explained, to
write now would be almost the same as inviting
him to a personal meeting, though it was hard
to say how that could come about. She could
not but give expression to her altered self; and
would he be able to understand her ? Yet, — she
needed him ; and there was something of her

mother in the fretting to which she was now
and then driven by the balked desire. At
length she was on the point of waiting a letter,
with whatever result, when chance spared her
the trouble.

One morning in December, she went with her
mother to an exhibition of pictures in Bond
Street. Such visits had been common of late ;
Mrs. Enderby could rarely occupy herself for
long at home, and pictures, as everything
beautiful, always attracted her. They had been
in the gallery a few minutes only, when Maud
recognized Waymark close at hand. He was
looking closely at a canvas, and seemed quite
unaware of her proximity. She laid her hand on
her mother's arm, and spoke in a nervous whisper.

Mother, I know that gentleman."

This one ? " asked Mrs. Enderby, indicating
Waymark, with a smile. She showed no surprise,
any more than she would have done had
Maud been only her friend.

"Yes. If he should notice me, may I introduce
him to you ? He was at the school
where I taught, a year ago."

VOL. II. L

"Why, certainly, my love," replied her
mother, with cheerful assent. ^' It is quite
natural that you should have acquaintances I
should like to know. Shall I ask him to come
and see us ? "

There was no opportunity of answering.
Waymark, in moving on, had glanced round at
the groups of people, and his eye had fallen on
Maud. He seemed uncertain ; looked quickly
away ; glanced again, and, meeting her eyes,
raised his hat, though still without conviction
in his face. Maud came naturally forward a
step or two, and they shook hands ; then at
once she introduced him to her mother. No
one ever experienced awkward pauses in Mrs.
Enderby's presence; conversation linked itself
with perfect ease, and in a minute they were
examining the pictures together. Mrs. En derby
had made up her mind with regard to her new
acquaintance in one or two gleams of her quick
eyes, and then talked on in an eager, intelligent
way, full of contagious enthusiasm, which soon
brought out Waymark's best powers. Maud
said very little. Whenever it was possible

unobserved, she gazed at Waymark's face. Lie
found herself thinking that, in external appearance,
he had improved since she last saw him.
He had no longer that hungry, discontented
look to which she had grown accustomed in the
upper schoolroom at Dr. Tootle's ; his eye seemed
at once quieter and keener ; his complexion was
brighter ; the habitual frown had somewhat
smoothed away. Then, he was more careful
in the matter of dress. On the whole, it seemed
probable that his circumstances had changed for
the better.

Waymark, on his side, whilst he talked, was
not less full of speculation about Maud. For
the change in her appearance was certainly
much more noticeable than it could be in his
own. Not only that she had put aside her
sad coloured and poor raiment for a costume
of tasteful and attractive simplicity, — this, of
course, her mother's doing, — but the look of
shrinking, almost of fear, which he had been
wont to see on her face, was entirely gone.
Her eyes seemed for ever intelligent of new
meanings ; she was pale, but with the pallor

L 2

of eager, joy bringing thought ; to meet her
glance was to be subdued into calm by its
simple directness. There was something pathetic
in this new-born face ; the lips seemed still to
speak of past sorrows, or, it might be, to hold
unspoken a sad fate half foreseen.

I hope you will let us see you shortly,
Mr. Way mark," Mrs. Enderby said, when the
pictures had all been viewed. 'when would
it suit you to dine with us ? Could you say
next Wednesday ? We should really be very
glad."

Way mark accepted the invitation. It was
only when they had parted at the door, and
gone their separate ways, that it occurred to
him that he had no knowledge of where the
Enderbys lived. This matter, however, was
set right on the following morning, when there
came a short note from Maud. "It was foolish
of me to forget this," she said, after rectifying
the omission. " Formerly, I was not living
with my parents." And she added, " Pray
forgive me for not replying to your last letter.
I have given up my work of teaching, and shall

most likely continue to live in London." This
was not very consequent, but it was all Maud
could say, though, with trembling hand, she had
written many notes before this final one.

If this renewal of acquaintanceship came just
at the right time for Maud, it was no less
welcome to Waymark. When he wrote his
last letter to seer, it had proceeded more from
a sense of obligation than any natural impulse.
For he was then only just recovering from a
period of something like despair. His pursuit
of Ida Starr to London had been fruitless. It
was true that she had left her former abode,
and the landlady professed to be ignorant of
her new one, though she admitted that she had
seen Ida scarcely two hours before • Waymark's
arrival. He wrote, but had no reply. His
only comfort was an ever-rising suspicion of
the truth (as he would learn it later), but fears
were, on the whole, strongest within him.
Confidence in her he had not. All the reflections
of that last evening on Hastings pier
lived and re-lived in his mind ; outcome of the
cynicism which was a marked feature in his

development, and at the same time tending to
confirm it. She had been summoned back
suddenly by a letter ; who but a simpleton
could doubt what that meant ? It was out of
her honesty that she had told him plainly why
she must go ; perhaps she would not have been
so honest but for his prior insult. Well, they
were quits, and what had he to complain of?
He thought of Sally Grace, of course, and the
step she had taken ; but could he draw conclusions
about Ida from Sally, and did ever
two such instances come within a man's
experience ? To Sally herself he had naturally
had recourse, but in vain. She said that she
knew nothing of the lost girl. So Waymark
fought it out, to the result of weariness ; then
plunged into his work again, and had regained
very much his ordinary state of mind when
Maud Enderby unexpectedly came before him.
To the loss of her he had also resigned himself.
Well, and was it likely that their correspondence
could go on for ever ? She was tired of it, no
doubt; he, on his side, was not passionately
interested. Life is an incomplete novel, consisting,

for the most part, of blurred and
fragmentary chapters. It interests us, doubtless,
as each new situation shadows itself forth ;
but, as we see these successively come to
nothing, we smile, if we are wise, and wonder
sadly what the author was about.

Wa}TiLark presented himself on the Wednesday
evening: at a house in Paddington. He found
Maud and her mother in a little drawing-room,
which had a pleasant air of ease and refinement.
Mr. Enderby had not reached home yet. It was
a new sensation for AYaymark as he sank into
a soft chair, and, in speaking, lowered his voice,
to suit the quietness of the room. The soft
lamp-light spreading through the coloured shade,
the just perceptible odour of scent when Mrs.
Enderby stirred, the crackling of the welcome
fire, filled him with a sense of luxury to which
he was not accustomed. He looked at Maud.
She was very beautiful in her evening dress ;
and, mariner the save, sweet thou orhtfuln less of
her face, the grace of her movements, the air
of purity which clung about her, his mind
turned to Ida Starr, and experienced a shock

at the comparison. Where was Ida at this
moment ? The mere possibilities which such a
question brought before his mind made him
uneasy, almost as if he had forgotten himself
and uttered aloud some word all unfit for
ladies' ears. The feeling was a novel one,
and, in afterwards recalling it, he could smile
rather contemptuously. If we are enraptured
with one particular flower, shall we necessarily
despise another, whose beauty and perfume
happen to be of quite a different kind ?

Mr. Enderby appeared, followed by another
gentleman. Waymark noticed an unpleasant
heat in the hand held out to him ; there was
a flush in Paul's cheeks, too, and his eyes were
very bright. He greeted the visitor with somewhat
excessive warmth, then turned round and
introduced his companion.

Mr. Mellowdew ! "

Waymark had not clearly seen the face ; on
hearing the name, he looked sharply. Mr.
Mellowdew he had seen before. The recognition,
he fancied, was mutual, but the other
was not a man to let any feeling become too

obvious on his hard, smooth, and rather handsome
face. He shook hands in a friendly
way, smiled a little, and went to talk to Mrs.
En derby.

The evening passed pleasantly. Mrs. Enderby
and Mr. Mellowdew bore the chief expenses of
the conversation, and to their loquacity Waymark
was indebted, on returning to the drawing-room,
for a short talk with Maud. She asked
him if he was still teaching. He replied simply
in the negative, and, feeling this was a little
abrupt, turned it off by asking if she had been
long back in London. As she answered, their
eyes happened to meet, and remained at gaze
for an instant ; it was like the removal of an
obstacle from between them.

"Has the description of your experiences been
published yet ? " Maud asked.

"Two months ago, in a very modified form.
People who read magazines, it seems, are too
delicate-minded to allow of the truth being told
them. May I send you the number ? "

*'I should be so glad. And are you writing
anything at present '? "

I have begun the story I spoke of."

It will take you some time."

"Yes; but I hope to have finished it before
the summer."

Mr. Enderby had drawn near, and took a seat
by them.

I am told, Mr. Waymark," he said, fingering
his watch-guard and looking everywhere but
into Waymark's face, 'that your guidance in
the picture-gallery was invaluable. Art, no
doubt, is a special interest of yours ? "

It is," the other answered, " but I am
not sure that my zeal is always according to
knowledge."

Zeal, in my opinion," observed Paul, " is
better than knowledge, where art is concerned.
So much nonsense of a critical kind is current
now-a-days ; it is refreshing to find some one
who is content to honestly enjoy, without
troubling about technicalities."

Mr. Enderby showed a good deal of intelligent
independence in his mode of conversing, and
seemed to find Waymark's tone congenial.
Maud, as they talked, watched first one face.

then the other, and followed eagerly ; she was
clearly glad that they got on so well together.

** You must let us see you as often as you
can," Paul said, presently. " Mrs. Enderby is
always at home on Wednesday evenings, and
will be very glad if you will come as often as
it suits you."

The lady herself said the same when at length
the time of departure arrived, and Way mark
went away very well satisfied with the evening.

CHAPTEK III.

m THE MEAN TIME.

During the three months that followed,
Waymark's intercourse with the Enderbys was
pretty frequent. The Wednesday evenings became
an institution, and, as acquaintance grew,
Mrs. Enderby, who seemed to find a particular
pleasure in Waymark's society, sometimes got
him to accompany Maud and herself to museums
and galleries, or any place which Maud expressed
a desire to visit. She asked no questions about
their new friend, and Maud was silent after she
had explained Waymark's position, as far as
she was acquainted with it, and how she had
come to know him. To both parents, the fact
of Maud's friendship was a quite sufficient
guarantee, so possessed were they with a conviction
of the trustworthiness of her judgment,

and the moral value of her impulses. In Waymark's
character there was something which
women found very attractive ; strength and individuality
are perhaps the words that best
express what it was, though these qualities
would not in themselves have sufficed to give
him his influence, without a certain gracefulness
of inward homage which manifested itself when
he talked with women, a suggestion, too, of
underlying passion which works subtly on a
woman's imagination. There was nothing commonplace
in his appearance and manner ; one
divined in him a past out of the ordinary range
of experiences, and felt the promise of a future
which would, in one way or another, be remarkable.
To men he could seldom force himself
to be deferential ; face to face with them, he
felt his strength ; woman, on the other hand,
made him conscious of his chief weakness, and,
what was more, they generally became aware
of the fact. His nature was just one of those
to which the noblest women glory in submitting
themselves, sure to be recompensed most richly.
The female mind has this power of discerning

^^

hidden depths of passion ; it knows, too, that
natures so endowed are rarely constant, and
from this knowledge comes the perturbation of
a love thus originating. But what woman of
deep feeling would not, if indeed she had the
choice, prefer the brief enjoyment of a love
which scales all heights, to the constancy of ai]
inferior soul, moving always along the smooth
domestic level ? Great bliss is only to be attained
at the price of corresponding disillusion,
and it is woman's superiority over man that,
whilst her stake is greater, prudence weighs for
her far more lightly in the balance against that
for which alone life is worth living.

The more Waymark saw of Maud Enderby,
the more completely did he yield to the fascination
of her character. In her presence he
enjoyed a strange calm of spirit ; the spirit,
indeed, subdued the flesh more entirely than
ever before. She, he felt, dwelt perpetually ina
thin, pure atmosphere which he only knew
at rare times ; she drank of springs which he
had so seldom tasted, and the stars must seem
so near from those heights of hers. The conflicts

which left her pale were not those of mere
gross humanity ; for the first time he knew a
woman who by no word or look or motion could
stir in him a cynical thought. Here was something
higher than himself, a nature which he
had to confess transcended the limits of his
judgment, a soul with insight possibly for ever
denied to himself. He was often pained by
the deference with which she sought his opinion
or counsel ; the words in which he replied to
her sounded so hollow ; he became so often and
so keenly sensible of his insincerity, — a quality
which, with others, he could consciously rely
upon as a resource, but which, before Maud,
stung him. He was driven to balance judgments,
to hesitate in replies, to search his own
heart, as perhaps never before.

'' You make me very conscious of my insufficiency,"
he exclaimed once, when she had
asked a question about some poem, a question
showing the most perfect sensibility to refinements
of artistic form.

How can that be," said Maud, " when I never
fail to get from you a valuable suggestion ? "

It was no answer, of course, but still was
perfectly true, and Waymark knew that no
desire to pay a compliment could draw her into
\ the slightest insincerity. Indeed, the artificial
good humour, the affected interest, the mock
sympathy, of polite intercourse were as far from
her as was the least taint of indelicacy ; every
word she uttered rang true, and her very phrases
had that musical fall which only associates itself
with beautiful and honest thought. If she
spoke at table, there was silence and attention,
and every one felt that the matter in hand had
shown a new and better aspect. She never
exhibited gaiety, or a spirit of fun, but could
raise a smile by an exquisite shade of humour,
humour which, as the best is, was more than
half sadness. Nor was she fond of mixing with
people whom she did not know well ; when
there was company at dinner, she generally
begged to be allowed to dine alone. Though
always anxious to give pleasure to her parents,
she was most happy when nothing drew her
from her own room ; there she would read and
dream through hours. Some years before, when

it had been decided that she was to Le a
governess, she had learnt enough of piano-playing
to be able to teach children ; but at
present, though much persuaded by her mother,
she shrank from touching the keys ; the imperfection
of her powers distressed her, and she
did not care to practise for the attainment of a
mere superficial skill. Music was inexpressibly
delightful to her, yet she had little pleasure at
public concerts ; she felt the necessity of being
alone for the full enjoyment of what she heard.
Close by their house was a church, and one of
her most solemn pleasures was to sit by her
window on a Sunday evening, and hear the
pealing of the organ, softened by distance, and
lending itself to all the enlargement of the
imagination. It was not, however, a religious
pleasure — not so in the ordinary sense of the
word ; seeing that religion was to her a subject
dark with endured pain, one on which in this
period of her life she never voluntarily dwelt.
Her worship was of beauty, by her so newly
discovered, on which she had at first begun to
look with trembling, which now disturbed her

VOL. II. M

with the joy of elevated thoughts; hers was

that

sense sublime
Of something far more deeply interfused,
Whose dwelling is the light of setting suns,
And the round ocean, and the living air.
And the blue sky, and in the mind of man."

There were hours in which the old dreaded
feelings took revenge ; night waking, when she
lay in cold anguish, yearning for the dawn.
She was not yet strong enough to face past and
future, secure in attained conviction. As yet,
she could not stir beyond the present, and in
the enjoyment of the present was her strength.

It was one Wednesday evening in early April,
when he returned home from Paddington, that
Waymark found a letter awaiting him, addressed
in a hand he at once recognized.

Wil] you come and see me ? I am at home
after eight o'clock till the end of the week, and
all day on Sunday.

"LS."

No distinct pleasure was aroused in Waymark
as he read this. As was always the case for

hours after he had left Maud's presence, her
face and voice lived with him to the exclusion
of every other thought. There v\^as even something
of repulsion in the feeling excited by his
thus having the memory of Ida brought suddenly
before him ; her face came as an unwelcome
intruder upon the calm, grave mood which
always possessed him on these evenings. In
returning home each Wednesday night, Waymark
always sought the speediest and quietest
route, unwilling to be brought in contact with
that life of the streets which at other times
delighted him. Ida's note seemed a summons
from that world which, for the moment, he held
at a distance. But the call was not to be
silenced at his will. He began to wonder about
her life during the past half-year. Why had
she written just now, after so long a silence ?
Where, and under what circumstances, should
he meet her ? Did she think to find him the
same as when they last talked together ?

Through the night he woke constantly, and
always with thoughts busy about Ida. In the

morning his first impulse was to re-read herm

2

message ; received so carelessly, it had in the
mean time become of more account, and Waymark
laughed in his wonted way as he saw
himself thus swayed between forces he had no
control over. The ordinary day's task was
neglected, and he impatiently waited for the
hour when he could be sure of finding Ida at
home. The address was in Pimlico, and, on
reaching it, he found it to be a large new block
of the kind known as model lodging-houses.
Ida's number was up at the very top. When
he knocked, the door opened immediately, and
she stood there, holding out her hand to him.

She-wore the same dress that she had worn
at Hastings, but the gold brooch and watch-chain
were missing, and her hair was arranged
in a simpler way. She was a trifle pale,
perhaps, but that might be due to the excitement
of the moment ; her voice shook a little
as she spoke.

Waymark looked about him as he went in.
There appeared to be two rooms, one of them
a very small bed-room, the other fitted with a
cooking grate and oven ; the kind of tenement

suitable to very poor working-people. The floors
were bare, and there was nothing in the way of
furniture beyond the most indispensable articles :
a table, two chairs, and a few cups, saucers, and
plates on a shelf; through the half-open door,
he saw that the bed-room was equally plain. A
fire was burnings and a kettle on it : and in
front, on a little square piece of carpet, lay Ida's
inseparable friend. Grim. Grim had lifted his
head at Waymark's entrance, and, with gathering
curiosity in his eyes, slowly stood up ; then
stretched himself, and, looking first at one, then
at the other, waited in doubt.

Ida stooped and took him up in her arms.

"And who's this?" she asked, talking to him
as one talks to a child, whilst she pressed his
warm black cheek against her own. " Does Grim
remember who this is ? We still keep together,"
she added, looking at Waymark. "He's a dear,
good fellow. All day long, whilst I'm away, he
keeps house ; I'm often afraid he suffers dreadfully
from loneliness, but, you see, I'm obliged
to lock him in, Aod he knows exactly the time
when I come home. I always find him sitting

on that chair by the door, waiting, waiting, oh so
patiently ! And I often bring him back something
nice, don't I, Grimmy ? You should see how
delighted he is as soon as I enter the door ; we
always have a game before I take my things off."

Ida was changed, and in many ways. She
seemed to have grown younger ; in her voice
and manner there was a girlishness which was
quite new to Waymark. Her motions were
lighter and nimbler ; there was no longer that
slow grace of step and carriage which had
expressed absolute leisure, and with it had
gone, perhaps, something of dignity, which
used to sit so well upon her. She laughed
from time to time in a free, careless way ;
formerly she seldom did more than smile. In
the old days, there was nothing about her
suggestive of what are called the domestic
virtues ; now she seemed perfectly at home
amid these simple surroundings, and, almost
as soon as her visitor had sat down, she busied
herself in laying the table in a quick, ready way,
which came of the habit of waiting upon herself.

You'll have a cup of tea with me ? " she

said, looking at Waymark with the curiosity
which seemed to show that she also found
something changed in him. "I only get home
about eight o'clock, and this is the quietest and
pleasantness meal in the day for me."

What do you do all day, then ? " Waymark
asked, softening the bluntness of his question
with a smile.

She stepped near to him, and held out her
hands for him to look at ; then, as he met her
eyes again, laughed, merrily.

Do you guess ? " she asked.

'^ I believe I can. You have gone back to the
laundry again ? "

"Yes."

And how long is it since you did so ? "

*' How long is it since we last saw each
other ? "

Did you begin at once when you returned
to London ? "

"Yes."

Waymark kept silence, whilst Ida poured out
a cup of tea for him, and then took her seat at
the table.

Will you have some bread and butter ? " she
asked.

'' Yes, I will ; a little piece."

I'm so glad. I should have been afraid to
eat alone, and I'm really hungry."

As she had sat down, Grim had jumped up onto
her lap, and lay there in readiness for the
morsels of thickly buttered bread which she
offered him ever and again.

*' Don't you think I'm comfortable here ? " Ida
said. "It's like having a house of my own. I
see nothing of the other people in the building,
and feel perfectly independent."

Did you buy the furniture yourself ? "

Yes ; just the things I couldn't do without.
I pay only three-and-sixpence a week, and so
long as I can earn that, I'm sure at all events
of a home, where I can be happy or miserable,
as I please."

Waymark wondered. There was no mistaking
the genuineness of her tone. What, then, had
been the reason for this astonishing change, a
change extending, it would seem, almost to
temperament 1 What intermediate phases had

led up to this result ? He wished to ask her
for an explanation, but to do so would be to
refer to the condition she had left, and that he
did not wish to do. All would no doubt explain
itself as they talked ; in the mean time she told
him how her days were ordered, and the details
of her life.

Have you brought your pipe ? " she asked,
when they had drank their tea.

May I smoke ? "

'' Of course, — just as you used to."

But it is not the same," Waymark said, half
to himself.

"iVreyou sorry for the change?" Ida asked,
as she handed him a box of matches.

What induced you to make it ? "

Oh, I have strange fancies. The idea came,
just like others do. Are you sorry ? "

The opposite. Did the idea come whilst we
were at Hastings ? "

'' Before that. Do you remember my telling
you that I had a letter calling me back to
London ? "

Waymark nodded.

It was from the laundry, to say I could goto
work as soon as I liked."

'' And why didn't you tell me that ? "

Ida seemed about to reply, but altered her
intention, and, after being silent for a moment,
asked another question.

"Did you think you would ever hear from
me?"

I had given up hope."

"And did you wonder what had become of
me ? "

Often. Why didn't you write before ? "

"I wasn't ready."

What does that mean ? " Waymark asked,
looking closely at her.

Perhaps I shall be able to explain some day.
If not, well, it won't matter."

And will you let me see you often ? " said
Waymark, after thinking a little. "Are we to
be friends again, as we used to be ? "

If you would care for it."

Waym.ark turned away as their eyes met.

"Certainly I should care for it," he said,
feeling all at once a difficulty in speaking naturally.

Then he looked at Ida again ; she was
bending down and stroking Grim's ears. There
was rather a long silence, which Waymark at
length forced himself to break.

Shall I bring you books again V lie
said.

"I have very little time for reading," was
Ida s reply. '' It's better, perhaps, that it is so."

'' But why ? "

"Perhaps it would make me discontented
with my work, and want all sorts of things
I couldn't have."

You have your Sundays free ? " Waymark
said, after another rather long silence.

"Yes."

"Then we must have some expeditions again,
now that the fine days have come. By the bye,
do you ever see Sally ? "

Ida looked up with a smile and said, " Yes ;
do you ? "

No ; but I hear of her."

From your friend ? "

Yes, from O'Gree."

Do your other friends still live near you ? "

Ida asked, speaking quickly, as if to interrupt
what Waymark was about to say.

The Castis ? Oh yes."

What is Mrs. Castii like ? " she said, in a tone
which drew Waymark's attention.

Well," he replied, " it's difficult to describe
her. There's nothing very good about her,
and I suppose nothing very bad. I see little of
her now; she's almost always ill."

What's the matter with her ? "

"Can't say; general weakness and ill health,
I think?"

But she's so young, isn't she ? Has she
friends to go and see her ? "

Very few, I think."

It must be dreadful to be like that," said
Ida. " I'm thankful that I have my health,
at all events. Loneliness isn't so hard to bear,
as it must be in illness,"

Do you feel lonely ? "

A little, sometimes," said Ida. " But it's
ungrateful to poor old Grim to say so."

Have you no acquaintances except the
people you work with ? "

She shook her head.

And YOU don't read 1 "

I have only one book, but I read that
sometimes. Shall I show it you ? "

She went into the other room, and returned,
with a curious smile, holding a Shakespeare.

Do you recognize it ? "

And I thought it was lost ! " exclaimed
Waymark. "I made up my mind I had left
it on the sands that last afternoon. "

'' I stole it," said Ida, nodding. *' Will you
have it back ? "

'' Certainly not. It is yours by right of use." /

'' Wouldn't you like," he said presently, " to
go on reading as you used to ? You have a
better head than most women, and it's a pity
not to make use of it. That's all nonsense about
it making you discontented. You won't always
be living like this. I suppose."

Why not ? " Ida asked simply.

Well," said Waymark, without meeting her
look, '' even if you do, it will be gain to you
to cultivate your mind ? "

'' Do you wish me to cultivate my mind ? "

'' You know I do."

Waymark seemed uneasy. He rose and leaned
against the mantelpiece.

I will do whatever you bid me," Ida said.
I can get an hour or so each night, and I have
all Sunday."

But you mustn't undertake a lot of work
just to please me," Waymark said, speaking
rather quickly. " Have you any desire to learn?
Will the thing be its own reward ? "

Ida was silent, and looked down.

"Yes," she said at length, in a firm voice, "I
think it will be." Then she added, with still
more emphasis, 'eyes, I want to understand
the world better than I do, and — and I want
to understand myself better. I believe I have
learnt much from Shakespeare, but there are
many things in him I want to ask you to
explain."

She was silent again.

"I shall be glad to do so," Waymark said,
speaking mechanically.

Then you will teach me ? You won't think
it a trouble ? "

*' It is never troublesome to teach a willing
pupil."

Waymark felt only too well the effect of the
tone he was adopting. The situation was by
this time clear enough to him, and his own
difficulties no less clear. He avoided looking
at Ida as much as he could. During the last
quarter of an hour a change had again come
over her manner ; the girlishness was modified,
the old sadder tone was audible at moments.
When she asked whether it would be a trouble
to him, something of reserve in her voice brought
back so vividly former conversations that he
could not but face her as he replied. ind he
did so with extreme effort ; spoke also with
such strained effect that he was startled at his
own voice. Ida's look was very steady ; he met
it with tense muscles and impassive expression,
and, having succeeded so far, at once took up
his hat and said that it was time to go. Ida was
silent still. As he again looked at her, the sense
of behaving unkindly became intolerable. At all
costs, he could not take his leave in this way.

''If it's fine on Sunday," he said, "will you

go with me to Kichroond, and let us have dinner
at the old place ? "

No," was Ida's reply, with a smile, " I can't
afford it."

But I invite you. Of course I didn't mean
that it should be any expense."

She still shook her head.

No, I must take my own share, wherever
we go."

Then I shall certainly refuse your cup of tea
next time I come," said Waymark, jestingly.

'that's quite different," said Ida. "But if
you like, we can go in the afternoon, and walk
about Southampton ; that I can afford."

As you please. When shall I call for you ? "

Half-past one."

She opened the door for him, and held out
her hand. Their eyes did not meet as they said
good-bye. The door closed, and Waymark went
so slowly down the stone steps that he seemed
at every moment on the point of stopping and
turning back.

CHAPTER IV.

A SUGGESTION.

Waymark and Julian Castii were sitting to /
gather in the former's room. It was Saturday
evening ; two days after Waymark's visit to Ida.
Waymark lead been speaking of the Enderbys.
Julian listened in silence, only speaking now
and then. He looked pale and troubled. When
Waymark ceased, there was quietness for some
minutes. Julian had fallen into a sad reverie.

How is your wife ? " asked his friend, after
watching the melancholy face for a while.

She said her headache was worse to-night."

Curiously," observed Waymark, with a little
acidity, 'rit always is when you have to leave
home."

Julian looked up, and seemed to reach a crisis
in his thoughts.

"Waymark," he began, reddening as he still

VOL. II. N

always did when greatly moved, '' I fear I have
been behaving very foolishly. Many a time I
have wished to speak out to you plainly, buta
sort of delicacy — a wrong kind of delicacy, I
think — prevented me. I can't keep this attitude
any longer. I must tell you how things are
going on, and you must give me what help you
can. And perhaps I shall be telling you what
you already know ? '*
"I have suspected."

Where is the blame ? " Julian broke outwith
sudden vehemence. " I cannot think that
ever husband was more patient and more indulgent
than I have been. I have refused her
nothing that my means could possibly obtain.
I have given up all the old quiet habits of my
life that she oughtn't think I slighted her; I
scarcely ever open a book at home, knowing that
it irritates her to see me reading ; I do my
best to amuse her at all times. How does she
reward me ? For ever she grumbles that I can't
perform impossibilities, — take her to theatres,
buy her new dresses, procure for her friends and
acquaintances. My wishes, expressed or understood,

weigh with her less than the least of her
own caprices. She wantonly does things which
she knows will cause me endless misery. Her
bosom companions are gross and depraved people,
who constantly drag her lower and lower, to their
own level. The landlady has told me that, in
my absence, women have called to see her who
certainly ought not to enter any decent house.
When I entreat her to give up such associates,
her only answer is to accuse me of selfishness,
since I have friends myself, and yet won't
permit her to have any. And things have gone
from bad to worse. Several nights of late,
when I have got home, she has been away,
and has not returned till much after midnight.
Hour after hour I have sat there in the extremest
misery, waiting, waiting, feeling as
though my brain would burst with its strain !
I have no idea where she goes to. If I ask,
she only retorts by asking me where I spend
the nights when I am with you, and laughs
contemptuously when I tell her the truth.
Her suspicions and jealousy are incessant, and
torture me past endurance. Once or twice, I

X 2

confess, I have lost patience, and have spoken
angrily, too angrily ; then she has accused me
of brutal disregard of her sufferings. It would
hurt me less if she pierced me with a knife.
Only this morning there was a terrible scene ;
she maddened me past endurance by her wretched
calumnies, — accusing me of I know not what
disgraceful secrets, — and when words burst from
me involuntarily, she fell into hysterics, and
shrieked till all the people in the house ran
up in alarm. Can you understand what this
means to one of my temperament ? To have
my private affairs forced upon strangers in this
way tortures me with the pains of hell. I am
naturally reticent and retiring — too much so,
I dare say — and no misery could have been
devised for me more dreadful than this. Her
accusations are atrocious, such as could only
come from a grossly impure mind, or at the
suggestion of vile creatures. You, she hates
with a rabid hatred — God only knows why.
She would hate any one who was my friend,
and whose society relieved me for a moment
from my ghastly torments ! "

He ceased, for very exhaustion, so terribly
did the things he described work upon him.
His forehead was covered with perspiration ; in
every limb he quivered like one under torture.
There were tears in his eyes ; his voice
failed.

"And yet," he resumed, when something of
calmness was regained, " she says that she loves
me ; that it is only her love of me. that makes
her jealous and suspicious. What can I reply
to such words ? And who can say how much
of this is due to her miserable health ? I feel
so deeply that her sufferings demand pity, yet
often pity is entirely banished from my heart
in the face of her monstrous selfishness and
reckless cruelty. You know that I went to the
expense of having one of the hospital doctors
attend her privately ; the only result was that
he told me his visits were perfectly useless,
since she did not and would not obey one of
his directions, and upon me he very naturally
put most of the blame. I had hoped to take
her to the seaside for a week or so in the
summer, but our expenses will render that

impossible. What am I to do, Waymark ? Can
you give me advice ? "

Waymark had listened with his eyes cast
down, and he was silent for some time after
Julian ceased.

You couldn't well ask for advice in a more
difficult case," he said at length. " I had
guessed very much of this. Any counsel I
could offer would seem little but mockery ; it
would only amount to this : strengthen yourself
and endure. Try the effect of complete passivity.
I have studied her character, and I believe 1
understand it ; to oppose her, to try to reform
her, will be worse than useless. Doubtless her
ailments have much to do with it ; this hysteria
and the rest of it are the very devil, of course.
But, as far as I can see, her health could only
be improved by doing the impossible, putting
her under entirely new conditions of life. Well
then, endure ! Force yourself into work. Try
to forget her when she is out of sight."

But," broke in Julian, " this amounts to a
sentence of death ! What of the life before me,
of the years I shall have to spend with her ?

Work, forget myself, forget her, — that is just
what I cannot do ! My nerves are getting
weaker every day ; I am beginning to have
fits of trembling and horrible palpitation; my
dreams are hideous with vague apprehensions,
only to be realized when I wake. Work ! Half
my misery is caused by the thought that my
work is at an end for ever. It is all forsaking
me, the delight of imagining great things, what
power I had of putting my fancies into words,
the music that used to go with me through the
day's work. It is long since I wrote a line of
verse. Quietness, peace, a calm life of thought,
these things are what I must have ; I thought I
should have them in a higher degree than ever,
and I find they are irretrievably lost. I feel my
own weakness, as I never could before. When
you bid me strengthen myself, you tell me to
alter my character. The resolution needed to
preserve the better part of my nature through
such a life as this, will never be within my
reach. It is fearful to think of what I shall
become as time goes on. I dread myself ! There
have been revealed to me depths of passion and

misery in my own heart which I had not suspected.
I shall lose all self-control, and become
as selfish and heedless as she is."

"No, you will not," said Waymark, encouragingly.
" This crisis will pass over, and strength
will be developed. We have a limitless faculty
for accommodating ourselves to wretchedness ;
how else would the world have held together so
long? What does Evolution mean but development
through hardships and dire necessity ; and
we see the same process in the individual as in
the species. If you had a fault, it was this very
lack of independent force ; you know I have
often felt it in your poetry. Your life had been
too easy. I wax very teleological at times, in
thinking over my own fate ; it is so easy to
point to this and that misery, which, in the
light of subsequent things, are seen to have
been indispensable to my growth. I am now
using my experience. It is ' material.' Do you
try and think in the same way. Who knows
but this may make a modern man of you ?
When you begin to find your voice again,
maybe you won't sing of the dead world any

longer, but of tb living and suffering. Your
schemes, completed or projected, were beautiful;
they showed you to be a poet ; but I have never
hidden from you how I washed that you had
been on my side. Art now-a-days must be the
mouthpiece of misery, for misery is the key-note
of modern life. Yes ; you must be passive as
regards your wife's irrationality but strong
and independent in your own course. Let us
aid each other to live in the mind alone, heedless
of external annoyances. You are a poet,
and a poet you will remain. Put your suffering
into song ; speak out what your heart feels.
What are we here for, but to make perfect
pictures out of the horrors about us, and to
modulate our groans till they become melody?
You have been an optimist hitherto ; become a
pessimist, and poetry will have for you a new
significance. And verily, you are on the way
to pessimism."

Waymark said it with that peculiar smile
which was nothing less than unfeeling, the
smile of compassionate despair which was so
common on his lips. They talked on, and

Julian, so easily moulded by a strong will,
became half courageous.

"One of her reproaches," he said, "is just ; I
can't meet it. If I object to her present companions,
it is my duty to find her more suitable
ones. She lives too much alone. No doubt it
is every husband's duty to provide his wife with
society. But how am I to find it ? I am so
isolated, and always have been. I know not a
soul who could be a friend to her."

Way mark grew thoughtful, and kept silence.

One person I know," he said presently, and
in a cautious way, " who might perhaps help
you."

You do ? " cried Julian eagerly. "' But it
must be no one of culture ; that is impossible."

"I am not thinking of the Enderbys. You
know that I make all sorts of queer acquaintances
in my wanderings. Well, I happen to
know a girl, of about your wife's age, who, if
she were willing, would be just the person you
want. She is quite alone, parentheses, and almost
without friends. She lives by herself, and
supports herself by working in a laundry. For

all this, she is by no means the ordinary London
work-girl ; you can't call her educated, but she
speaks purely, and has a remarkably good intelligence.
I met her by chance, and kept up her
acquaintance. There has been nothing wrong —
bah ! how conventional one is, in spite of oneself!—
-I mean to say, there has been nothing
more than a pleasant friendship between us ;
absolutely nothing. We see each other from
time to time, and have a walk, perhaps a meal,
together, and I lend her books. Now, do you
think there would be any way of getting your
wife to accept her society, say of an evening
now and then ? Don't do anything rash ; it is
of course clear that you must have no hand in
this. I must manage it, if it is to be done.
Naturally, I can't answer at once for the girl's
readiness ; but I believe she would do what I
asked her to. Do you think it is worth entertaining,
this idea ? "

"I do, indeed ; it would be salvation, I really
believe."

Don't be too sanguine, Castii ; that's another
of your faults. Still, I know very well that this

girl could cure your wife of her ill propensities
if any living creature could. She is strong in
character, admirably clear-headed, mild, gentle,
womanly ; in fact, there is perhaps no one I
respect so much, on the whole."

Respect, only ? " asked Julian, smiling.

Ye-es ; yes, I believe I am perfectly honest
in saying so, though I couldn't have been so
sure about it some little time ago. Our relations,
no doubt, are peculiar ; on her side there
is no more warmth than on mine," — Waymark
tried so to believe, — " and indeed her clear
sight has no doubt gauged me fairly well at my
true value."

This is a dea ex macldna ! " exclaimed Julian.
We must manage it somehow. What plan
have you ? "

That will require some thought, and indeed
I can't plan anything till I have spoken to heron
the subject. Now, how far may I reveal the
state of the case ? "

Precisely as far as you think necessary. I
will trust you absolutely. You are my friend ;
you know my terrible position ; you have

prudence far beyond mine ; you wouldn't do
anything to increase my difficulties."

Not knowingly, be sure ; but we so often
work to our own defeat. Never mind. The
case is desperate, and needs a desperate remedy.
I will see her, and will try."

^' What is her name ? "

Ida Starr."

^'What!" cried Julian, startled. "That is
a most singular coincidence ! You have noticed
the scar on Harriet's forehead ? "

*well?"

Why, it was a wound given her at school by
a girl of that very name ! I remember the name
as well as possible. It was a blow with a slate,
dealt in passion, — some quarrel or other. They
were both children then, and Ida Starr left the
school in consequence."

Is it possible that it is the same person ? "
asked Way mark, wondering and reflecting.

If so, that puts a new difficulty in our way."

'* Removes one, I should have thought."

*' Harriet is not of a very forgiving nature,"
said Julian, gravely.

I shouldn't have supposed she was ; but a
long time has gone by since then, and, after all,
one is generally glad to see an old school-fellow.
Has she ever expressed herself with resentment
on the subject ?"

Not exactly with resentment."

Well, it's worth trying. I'll hit on someway
of speaking of her before your wife."

At this point the conversation was interrupted
by a knock at the door, followed by the announcement
that a gentleman named O'Gree
wished to see Mr. Way mark. Way mark smiled
at Julian.

Don't run away," he said. " You ought to
know O'Gree in the flesh."

The teacher came into the room with a rush,
and was much taken aback at the sight of a
stranger present. Perspiration was streaming
profusely from his face, which was aglow with,
some great intelligence. After being introduced
to Castii, he plunged down on a chair, and
mopped himself with his handkerchief, uttering
incoherencies about the state of the weather.
Waymark made an effort to bring about a

general conversation, but failed ; O'Gree was
so preoccupied that any remark addressed to
him had to be repeated before he understood it,
and Julian was in no mood for making new
acquaintances. So, in a few minutes, the
latter took his hat and left, Waymark going
with him to the door to speak a few words of
encouragement.

The battle's won ! " cried O'Gree, with much
gesticulation, as soon as Waymark returned.
"The campaign's at an end! — I'm sorry if I've
driven your friend away, but I was bound to
tell you."

All right. Let me have a description of the
manoeuvres."

"Look here, my boy," said O'Gree, with
sudden solemnity, " you've never been very
willing to talk to me about her. Now, before
I tell you anything, I want to know this. Wliy
wouldn't you tell me how you first got to know
her, and so on ? "

Before I answer, I want to know this : have
you found out why I wouldn't ? "

•' Yes, I have, — that is, I suppose I have, — '^

and from her own lips, bead ! You knew her
when she lived near the Strand there, eh ? "

I did."

"Well now, understand, my boy. I don't
want to hear anything disagreeable ; in fact, I
won't listen to anything disagreeable ; — all I
want to know is, whether I may safely tell you
what she has told me. If you don't know it
already, there's no need to talk of it."

*' I understand, and I don't think you can tell
me anything I'm not well aware of"

Sure, then, I will tell you, and if there's
another girl as brave and honest as Sally in all
this would, I'll be obliged if you'll make me
acquainted with her ! Well, you know she hasa
Saturday afternoon off every month. It hasn't
been a very cheerful day, but it couldn't be
missed ; and, as it was too rainy to walk about,
I couldn't think of any better place to go to
than the British Museum. Of course I wanted
to find a quiet corner, but there were people
about everywhere, and the best we could manage
was in the mummy-room. We looked at all
the mummies, and I told her all I knew about

them, and I kept thinking to myself: Now,
how can I work round to it ? I've tried so often,
you know, and she's always escaped me, somehow,
and I couldn't help thinking it was because
I hadn't gone about it in the proper way. Well,
we'd been staring at a mummy for about a
quarter of an hour, and neither of us said ,
when ail at once a rare idea came into
my head. ' Sally,' I said, glancing round to see
that there was no one by, ' that mummy was
very likely a pretty girl like you, once.' ' Do
you think so ? ' she said, with that look of hers
which makes me feel like a galvanic battery.
I do,^ I said, ' and what's more, there may once
have been another mummy, a man-mummy,
standing by her just as Fm standing by you,
and wanting very much to ask her something,
and shaking in his shoes for fear he shouldn't
get the right answer.' ' Did the mummies wear
shoes when they were alive ? ' she asked, all at
once. ' Wear shoes ! ' I cried out. ' Bead, I
can't tell you, Sally ; but one thing I feel very
sure of, and that is that they had hearts. Now,
suppose,' I said, 'we're those two mummies — '

VOL. II.

rm sure it's bad luck I ' interrupted Sally.
Oh no, it isn't said I, seeing something in her
face which made me think it was the opposite.
Let me go on. Now, suppose the one mummy
said to the other, "Sally — '" ' Were the girl-mummies
called Sally ? ' she interrupted again.
Sure, I can't say,' said I, ' but we'll suppose so.
Well, suppose he said, " Sally, if I can hit on
some means of making a comfortable home hereby
the Nile, — that's to say, the Thames, you
know, — will you come and keep it in order forme,
and live with me for all the rest of our
lives ? " Now what do you think the girl-mummy
would have answered ? ' "

Waymark laughed, but O'Gree had become
solemn.

"She didn't answer at once, and there was
something very queer in her face. All at once
she said, 'What has Mr. Waymark told you
about me ? ' ' Why, just nothing at all,' I said,
rather puzzled. ' And do you know,' she asked
then, without looking at me, ' what sort of a
sir I am ? ' Well, all at once there came something
into my head that I'd never thought of

before, and I was staggered for a moment ; I
couldn't say anything. But I got over it. ' I
don't want to know anything,' I said. ' All I
know is, that I like you better than I ever shall
any one else, and I want you to promise to be
my wife, some day.' 'Then you must let me
tell you all my story first,' she said. ' I won't
answer till you know everything.' And so she
told me what it seems you know. Well, if
I thought much of her before, I thought a
thousand times as much after that! And do
sou know what ? I believe it was on my
account that she went and took that place in
the shop."

Precisely," said Waymark.

'* You think so ? " cried the other, delighted.

I guessed as much when she met me that
day and said I might let you know where she
was."

Ha ! " exclaimed O'Gree, with a long breath.

And so the matter is settled ? "

All but the most important part of it.
There's no chance of my being able to marry
for long enough to come. Now, can you give



me any advice ? I've quite made up my mind
to leave Tootle. The position isn t worthy of
a gentleman ; Fm losing my self-respect, bead !
The she-Tootle gets worse and worse. If I don't
electrify her, one of these days, with an outburst
of ferocious indignation, she will only have my
patience to thank. Let her beware how she
drives the lion to bay ! "

Couldn't you get a non-resident mastership ? "

I must try, but the pay is so devilish
small."

"We must talk the matter over. What are
you going to do to-night ? "

Nothing particular."

"Then let's celebrate the day and go to some
theatre. I'm at a loose end myself."

With ' two-on-two ' afterwards ? "

' Two-on-two ' afterwards," assented Waymark,
smiling • and they went out together.

Shall I insult your intelligence, reader,
by offering to explain what is meant by the
formula " two-on-two " ? Yet it occurs to me
that perchance you are no Bohemian, and that
there is a whole world outside the Limit of

London supper-bars. Know, then, that the
phrase denotes a simple, possibly vulgar, yet
attractive luxury ; in fact, two fried sausages
laid gently on the surface of two-pennyworth of
mashed potatoes. To Waymark the refreshment
was dear of old ; he had made O'Gree acquainted
with it as soon as they knew each other well
enough to go together to the gallery of a theatre,
and solace themselves, before returning home,
with such supper as their pockets allowed. It
had become an institution, and to-night was
honoured with the due observance. Perched on
the familiar uncomfortable stools at the familiar
bar, smiled upon by the two neat-handed
damsels, whose faces and whose conversation
were so well known to them, they sated their
souls on the savoury morsels, and assuaged
the wonted thirst from foaming tankards of
stout and bitter. Mr. O'Gree's hilarity had
been unexampled throughout the evening ;
just now he bubbled over with irrepressible
delight.

Maggie, my dear," he whispered across the
counter, " can a man indulge iu a second ' 

\ and go home to bed with a clear
conscience ? "

'eat the worst you can only dream of little
pigs' was the laughing reply.

Then, faith, Til risk that," he declared, and
a second supply was forthwith brought him.
Waymark lit his pipe, and sipped from the
tankard, observant, as usual, of the bustling
life around. When they sallied forth again,
O'Gree slipped his arm in Waymark's and became
sentimental.

*' If there's a happy man in London to-night,"
he said, " sure it's me ! I think better of myself
than I ever did before. Here's nearly a year
I've been screwing up my courage to ask her
if she'd condescend to have me, and then to
think that after all she should speak in that
humble way, as if it was I that was condescending.
I feel more of the dignity of a man I The
next time old Tootle displays his insolence, I
shall stand up to him in a way he'll find surprising
! Take my advice, Waymark, and fall
in love as soon as possible ; you've no idea what
an effect it has on a man's spirits."

It isn't so easy to find the right person,"
said Waymark, with a laugh.

Well, sure enough, you won't find another
Sally ; but no doubt there are girls a
man may get on very well with. tomorrow
I'll be writing to my poor old mother
in Cork, and letting her know ; she'll send
me her blessing, and that's all she has to
give. It's ten to one I'll never be rich

o

enough to go and see her, and she's close on
seventy."

'' By the bye," said Waymark, '' remember me.
to Sally when you see her again."

No need to do that, my boy. What do
you think she said to me, after it was allover
to-day ? * Mr. Waymark's a gentleman,'
she said, 'and I don't mind if he knows what
I think of him.' Now, what do you say to
that ? "

It's more than I deserve. But I'm tolerably
sure that she is better than many we should
call ladies."

Ladies ! Faith, she's lady enough for me —
a good deal more of one than I am."

After which characteristic observation, Mr.
O'G-ree, with a hasty shake of the hand, jumped
into a 'bus which was just going by, and
Way mark pursued his walk alone.

CHAPTER V.

DIPLOMACY.

Waymark had a o-ood deal of frank conversation
with himself before meetiDo- Ida ao^ain on
the Sunday. Such conversation was, as we
know, habitual. Under the circumstances, however,
he felt that it behoved him to become
especially clear on one or two points ; never
mind what course he might ultimately pursue,
it was always needful to him to dissect his own
motives, that he might at least be action with
full consciousness. You of course understand by
this time that such introspection had in our
friend's case very little to do with commonplace
balancing of practical advantages and
disadvantages, and just as little with what are
commonly called moral considerations. Morality
he had none, in the ordinary sense of the phrase ;

in other words, he felt neither the power nor the
desire to formulate a moral creed, being quite
satisfied to judge of each case as it arose, without
prejudice or precedent. The immoral man
is quite a different being ; he is still in the
bondage of formulae, and his sin consists in the
conscious violation of principles which in his
heart he believes ought to guide him.

One thing was clear enough. The fiction of
a mere relation of friendship between himself
and Ida was impossible to support. It had
been impossible under the very different circumstances
of a year ago, and was not likely
to last a week, now that Ida could so little
conceal how her own feelings had changed.
What, then, was to be their future ? Could he
accept her love, and join their lives without legal
bond, thinking only of present happiness, and
content to let things arrange themselves as they
would in the years to come ?

His heart strongly opposed such a step.
Clearly Ida had changed her life for his sake,
and was undergoing hardships in the hope of
winning his respect as well as his love. Would

she have done all this without something of a
hope that she might regain her place in the
every day world, and be held by Waymark
worthy to become his wife ? He could not
certainly know, but there was little doubt that
this hope had led her on. Could he believe her
capable of yet nobler ideas ; could he think that
only in reverence of the sanctity of love, and
without regard to other things, she had acted
in this way ; then, regarding her as indeed his
equal, he would open his heart to her and speak
somewhat in this way. " Yes, I do love you ;
but at the same time I know too well the
uncertainty of love to go through the pretence
of binding myself to you for ever. Will you
accept my love in its present sincerity, neither
hoping nor fearing, knowing that whatever
happens is beyond our own control, feeling
With me that only an ignoble nature can
descend to the affectation of union when the
real links are broken?" Could Waymark but
have felt sure of her answer to such an appeal,
it would have gone far to make his love for
Ida all-engrossing. She wx»uld then be his ideal

woman, and his devotion to her would have no
bounds.

But he felt too strongly that in thus speaking
he would sadden her by the destruction of her
great hope. On the other hand, to offer to make
her his legal wife would be to do her a yet
greater injustice, even had he been willing to
so sacrifice himself. The necessity for legal
marriage would be a confession of her inferiority,
and the sense of being thus bound would, he
well knew, be the surest means of weakening
his affection. This affection he could not trust.
How far was it mere passion of the senses, which
gratification would speedily kill ?

In the case of his feeling towards Maud
Enderby there was no such doubt. Never was
his blood so calm as in her presence. She was
to him a spirit, and in the spirit he loved her.
With Maud he might look forward to union at
some distant day, a union outwardly of the
conventional kind. It would be so, not on
account of any inferiority to his ideal in Maud,
for he felt that there was no height of his own
thought whither she would not in time follow

him; but simply because no point of principle
would demand a refusal of the yoke of respectability,
with its attendant social advantages.
And the thought of thus binding himself to
Maud had nothing repulsive, for the links
between them were not of the kind which
easily yield, and loyalty to a higher and nobler
nature may well be deemed a duty.

So far logical arguing. But the fact remained
that he had not the least intention of breaking
off his intercourse with Ida, despite the certainty
that passion would grow upon him with each of
their meetings, rendering: their mutual relations
more and more dangerous. Of only one thing
could he be sure : marriage was not to bethought
of. It remained, then, that he was in
danger of beinor led into conduct which would

o o

be the source of grievous unrest to himself, and
for Ida would lay the foundation of much suffering.
Way mark was honest enough in his self-communing
to admit that he could not trust
himself. Gross deception he was incapable of,
but he would not answer for it that, the
temptation pressing him too hard, he might

not be guilty of allowing Ida to think his love
of more worth than it really was. She knew his
contempt of conventional ties, and her faith in
him would keep her from pressing him to any
step he disliked ; she would trust him without
that. And such trust would be unmerited.

It was significant that he did not take into
account loyalty to Maud as a help in resisting
this temptation. He was too sure of himself
as regarded that purer love ; let what might
happen, his loyalty to Maud would be unshaken.
It was independent of passion, and passion could
not shake it.

Then came the subject of the proposed acquaintance
between Ida and Mrs. Castii. An
impulse of friendship had led to his conceiving
the idea ; together, perhaps, with the recollection
of what Ida had said about her loneliness, and
the questions she had asked about Mrs. Castii.
Waymark had little doubt that those questions
indicated a desire to become acquainted with
his friends ; the desire was natural, under the
circumstances. Still, he regretted what he had
done. To introduce Ida to his friends would be

almost equivalent to avowing some conventional
relations between her and himself. And, in the
next place, it would be an obstacle in the way
of those relations becoming anything but conventional.
Well, and was not this exactly the
kind of aid he needed in pursuing the course

which be felt to be right ? Truly ; yet

At this point Waymark broke into that half-contemptuous,
half indulgent laugh which so
frequently interrupted his self-communing, and,
it being nearly one o'clock, set out to call for
Ida. The day was fine, and, when they left the
steamer at Putney, they walked on to the heath
in good spirits and with cheerful talk. To be
with Ida under these circumstances, in the
sunlight and the fresh breeze, was very different
from sitting with her yonder in the little room,
with the lamp burning on the table, and the
quietness of night around. The calm pleasure
of passionless intercourse was realized and sufficing.
Ida, too, seemed content to enjoy the
moment ; there was not that wistfulness in her
eyes which had been so new to him and so
strong in its influence. It was easy to find

indifferent subjects of conversation, and to avoid
the seriousness which would have been fatal.

When they had found a pleasant spot to rest
awhile before turning back, Waymark made up
his mind to fulfil his promise to Julian.

It's rather strange," he said, " that you
should have been asking me questions about
Mrs. Castii. Since then I've discovered that you
probably know her, or once did."

Ida looked surprised.

Do you remember once having a schoolfellow
called Harriet Smales ? "

Is that her name ? "

It was, before her marriage."

Ida became grave, and thought for some
moments before speaking again.

"Yes, I remember her," she said, "and not
pleasantly."

You wouldn't care to renew her acquaintance
then % " said Waymark, half glad, in spite
of himself, that she spoke in this way.

Ida asked, with earnestness, how he had made
this discovery. Waymark hesitated, but at
length told the truth. He explained that Mrs.

Castii suffered from the want of companionship,
and that he had mentioned Ida's name to Julian;
whence the discovery.

*' Has she been told about me ? " asked Ida.

*' Nothing was to be said till I had spoken
to you."

Waymark paused, but presently continued ina
more serious tone. In recurring to that conversation
with Julian, his friend's trouble spoke
strongly to him once more, and overcame selfish
thoughts.

I said that I had come to knows you by
chance, and that — strange as it mig-ht sound —
we were simply friends." He glanced for an
instant at Ida ; her eyes were turned to the
ground. " You will believe me," he went on
quickly, " when I tell you that I really said
nothing more ? "

"I never doubt a word of yours," was Ida's
quiet reply.

Castii was overjoyed at the thought of

finding such a friend for his wife. Of course I

told him that he must not certainly count

either on your consent or on his wife's. Hers
VOL. II. p

I thought to be perhaps more doubtful than
yours."

'* Could I really be of any use to her," asked
Ida, after a silence, '' with so little free time as
I have ? "

"Supposing she would welcome you, I really
believe you could be of great use. She is a
strange creature, miserably weak in body and
mind. If you could get to regard this as a sort
of good work you were called upon to undertake,
you would very likely be little less than an
angel of mercy to both of them. Castii is falling
into grievous unhappiness — why, you will
understand sufficiently if you come to know
them."

"Do you think she bears malice against
me i

Of that I know nothing. Castii said she
had never spoken of you in that way. By-the-bye,
she still has a scar on her forehead. I often
wondered how it came there."

Ida winced.

What a little termagant you must have
been ! " exclaimed Way mark, laughing. " How

hard it is to fancy you at that age, Ida. — What
was the quarrel all about ? "

I can't speak of it," she replied, in a low,
sad voice. " It is so long ago ; and I want to
forget it."

Waymark kept silence.

"Do you wish me to be her friend?" Ida
asked, suddenly looking up.

"Certainly not if you dislike the thought."

No, no. But you think it would be doing
good ? you would like me to help your friend
if I can ? "

Yes, I should," was Waymark's reply.

Then I hope she will be willing to let me
go and see her. I will do my very best. Let
us lose no time in trying. It is such a strange
thing that we should meet again in this way ;
perhaps it is something more than chance."

Waymark smiled.

You think I am superstitious ? " she asked,
quickly. " I often feel so. I have all sorts of
hopes and faiths that you would laugh at."

'rit is often the case," said Waymark, '' even

with intelligent people, when their lives are full

p 2

of event and change. Did you ever have your
fortune told ? "

She shook her head.

Then hold out your palm, and let me
examine it."

She did so, and it trembled. Waymark took
the hand for a moment, then dropped it, and
rose from his seat with a laugh.

Let us walk on," lie said. " We are too
old for such nonsense."

Ida's thoughts were busy that night with
the past and the future. The first mention
of Harriet's name had given her a shock ; it
brought back with vividness the saddest moments
of her life ; it awoke a bitter resentment
which mere memory had no longer kept the
power to revive. That was only for a moment,
however. The more she accustomed herself to
the thought, the easier it seemed to be to bury
the past in forgiveness. Harriet must have
changed so much since those days. Possibly
there would never be a mention between them
of the old trouble ; practically they would be
new acquaintances, and would be very little

helped to an understanding of each other by the
recollections of childhood. And then Ida felt
there was so much to be glad of in the new
prospects. She longed for a world more substantial
than that of her own imaginations, and
here, as she thought, it would be opened to her.
Above all, by introducing her to his friends,
Way mark had strengthened the relations between
her and himself. He was giving her, too, a
chance of showing herself to him in a new lio^ht.
For the first time he would see her under the
ordinary conditions of a woman's life in a home
circle. Ida had passed from one extreme to the
other. At present there was nothing she desired
so much as the simple, conventional, every-day
existence of the woman who has never swerved
from the beaten track. She never saw a family
group anywhere without envying the happiness

which to her seemed involved in the mere fact
of a home and relations. Her isolation weighed
heavily upon her. If there were but some one
who could claim her services, as of right, and
in return render her the simple hum-drum
affection which goes for so much in easing the

burden of life. She was weary of her solitary
heroism, though she never regarded it as heroism,
but merely as the path in which she was naturally
led by her feelings. Waymark could not
but still think of her very much in the old
light, and she wished to prove to him how
completely she was changed. The simple act
of making tea for him when he came to see
her had been a pleasure ; it was domestic and
womanly, and she had often glanced at his face
to see whether he noticed it at all. Then the
fact of Harriet being an invalid would give her
many opportunities for showing that she could
be gentle and patient and serviceable. Castii
would observe these things, and doubtless would
speak of them to Waymark. Thinking in this
way, Ida became all eagerness for the new
friendship. There was of course the possibility
that Harriet would refuse to accept her offered
kindness, but it seemed very unlikely, and the
disappointment would be so great that she could
not bear to dwell on the thought. Waymark had
promised to come as soon as he had any news.
The time would go very slowly till she saw him.

Way mark had met Harriet very seldom of
late. Julian spent regularly one evening a
week with him, but it was only oi-occasionally
that Waymark paid a visit in turn. He knew
that he was anything but welcome to ]Mrs.
Castii, who of course had neither interest nor
understanding for the conversation between himself
and Julian. Formerly he had now and then
tried his best to find some common subject for
talk with her, but the effort had been vain ; she
was hopelessly stupid, and more often than not
in a surly moocl, which made her mere presence
difficult to be endured. Of late, whenever he
came, she made her illness an excuse for remaining
in her bed-room. And hence arose another
trouble. The two rooms were only divided by
folding doors, and when Harriet got impatient
with what she conceived to be the visitor's undue
stay, she would rap on the doors, to summon
Julian to her. This rapping would take place
sometimes six or seven times in half an hour,
till Waymark hastened away in annoyance.
And indeed there was little possibility of conversing
in Julian's own room. Julian sat

for ever in a state of nervous apprehension, dreading
the summons which was sure to come before
long. When he left the room for a moment,
in obedience to it, Waymark could hear Harriet's
voice speaking in a peevish or ill-tempered tone,
and Julian would return pale with agitation,
unable to utter consecutive words. It was a
little better when the meeting was at Waymark's,
but even then Julian was anything but
at his ease. He would often sit for a long time
in gloomy silence, and seldom could even affect
his old cheerfulness. The change which a year
had made in him was painful. His face was
growing haggard with ceaseless anxiety. The
slightest unexpected noise made him start nervously.
His old enthusiasms were dying away.
His daily work was a burden which grew more
and more oppressive. He always seemed weary,
alike in body and mind.

Harriet's ailments were not of that unreal
kind which hysterical women often affect, for
the mere sake of demanding sympathy, though
it was certain she made the most of them.
The scrofulous taint in her constitution was de-daring

itself in many ways. The most serious
symptoms took the form of convulsive fits. On
Julian's return home one evening, he had found
her stretched upon the floor, unconscious, foaming
at the mouth, and struggling horribly.
Since then, he had come back every night in
agonies of miserable anticipation. Her illness,
and his own miseries, were of course much intensified
by her self-willed habits. AVhen she
remained away from home till after midnight,
Julian was always in fear lest some accident
had happened to her, and once or twice of
late she had declared (whether truly or not
it was impossible to say) that she had had fits
in the open street. Weather made no difference
to her ; she would leave home on the pretence
of making necessary purchases, and would come
back drenched with rain. Protest availed
nothing, save to irritate her. At times her
conduct was so utterly unreasonable that Julian
looked at her as if to see whether she had lost
her senses. And all this he bore with a patience
which few could have rivalled. Moments there
were when she softened, and, in a burst of

hysterical weeping, begged him to forgive her
for some unusual violence, pleading her illness
as the cause ; and so sensible was he to compassion,
that he always vowed in his mind to
bear anything rather than deal harshly with
her. Love for her, in the true sense, he had
never felt, but his pity often led him to effusions
of tenderness which love could scarcely have
exceeded. He was giving up everything for
her. Through whole evenings he would sit by
her, as she lay in pain, holding her hands, and
talking in a way which he thought would amuse
or interest her.

*' You're sorry you married me," she would
often say at such times. '' It's no good saying
no ; I'm sure you are."

That always made Julian think of her father,
and of his own promise always to be a friend
to the poor, weak, ailing creature ; and he
strengthened himself in his resolution to bear
everything.

Waymark decided that he would venture on
the step of going to see Harriet during the daytime,
whilst Julian was away, in order to speak

of Ida. This he did on the Monday, and was
lucky enough to find her at home. She was
evidently surprised at his visit, and perhaps
still more so at the kind and friendly way in
which he began to speak to her. In a few
minutes he had worked round to his subject.
He had, he said, a friend, a young lady who was
very lonely, and for whom he wanted to find an
agreeable companion. It had occurred to him
that perhaps he might ask to be allowed to
introduce her. Waymark had concluded that
this would probably be the best way of putting
it ; Harriet would perhaps be flattered by being
asked to confer the favour of her acquaintance.
And indeed she seemed so ; there was even
something like a momentary touch of colour in
her pale cheek.

"Does Julian know her?" she asked, fixing
her eyes on his with the closest scrutiny.

No, he does not."

He would leave her to what conclusion she
liked about his relations to Ida ; in reality that
mattered little.

'■' She is some one," he went on, " for whom I

have a great regard. As I say, she has really no
friends, and she earns her own living. I feel
sure you would find her company pleasant ;
she is sensible and cheerful, and would be very
grateful for any kindness you showed her. Her
name, by 1 he-bye, is Ida Starr."
'' Ida Starr ? "

Is the name familiar to you ? "
I used to know some one called that."
Indeed ? How strange it would be if you
knew her already. I have spoken to her of you,
but she didn't tell me she knew your name."

Oh no, she wouldn't. It was years and
years ago. We used to go to school together,
if it's the same."

The way in which this was spoken was not
very promising, but Waymark would not
be discouraged, having; once brought himself
to the point of carrying the scheme through.
Harriet went on to ask many questions, all of
which he answered as satisfactorily as he could,
and in the end she expressed herself quite
willing to renew Ida's acquaintance. Waymark
had watched her face as closely as she did his.

and he was aide to read pretty accurately what
was passing in her mind. Curiosity, it was clear,
was her main incentive. Good will there was
none; its growth, if at all possible, would
depend upon Ida herself. There was even
something very like a gleam of hate in her
dark eyes when Ida's name was first spoken.

When may I bring her ? " Waymark asked.
Perhaps you would like to talk it over with
Julian first ? By-the-bye, perhaps he remembers
her as your schoolfellow ? "

I don't know, I'm sure," she said, with a
pretence of indifference. " I don't see what he
can have to sav against it. Bring; her as soon as
you like."

She is not free till seven at night. Perhaps
we had better leave it till next Sunday ? "

Why ? Why couldn't she come tomorrow
night ? "

It is very good of you. I have no doubt
she would be glad."

With this understanding Waymark took his
departure.

"Do you remember Ida Starr?" was Harriet's

first question to her Island when he returned
that evening.

Certainly I do," replied Julian, with complete
self-control. " Why ? "

When did you see her last ? " followed
quickly, whilst she examined him as keenly
as she had done Waymark.

'^ See her ? " repeated Julian, laughing. " Do
you mean the girl you went to school with ? "

Of course I do."

'' I don't know that I ever saw her in my life."

Well, she's coming here tomorrow night."

An explanation followed.

Hasn't he ever spoken to you about her ? "
Harriet asked.

No," said Julian, smiling. " I suppose he
thought it was a private affair, in which no one
else had any interest."

I hope you will like her," he said presently.
Tt will be very nice to have a friend of that
kind, won't it ? "

Yes, — if she doesn't throw one of my own
plates at me."

For all this, Harriet showed a good deal of

anticipation as the time drew near on the
following evening. She put on her best dress,
and even asked Julian about certain points of
behaviour on introduction. It was arranged
that, after a quarter of an hour or so, Way mark
and Julian should go out together for a short
time and leave the two to talk alone. The
knock at the front door was heard at length,
and as the visitors entered, Harriet rose from
her chair and looked keenly towards the door.
She and Ida had not much difficulty in recognizing
each other under the circumstances. Ida
was calm and natural, but she reddened a little
as she observed the scar on Harriet's forehead.
She was the first to speak.

'' I am very glad to see you again," she said.
Who could have thought of our meeting in
this way ? "

"Yes," returned Harriet, doing her best to
smile graciously, "it is strange, isn't it?"

As she spoke she was not looking at Ida, but
at her husband.

Waymark came to the rescue in the silence
which naturally followed, and with a little tact

managed to make all feel as much at their ease
as possible.

It won't be dark for half an hour yet'
Harriet observed, when she saw Julian rising.
Why shouldn't we all walk together to the
Embankment, and come back for supper ? "

This was a good idea, and was at once carried
out. Harriet and Ida walked together, and the
other two followed. The contrast between the
two girls could not well have been more striking.
Harriet was slightly the taller, but her figure
was much inferior ; her face too seemed to have
its worst characteristics brought out by being
viewed side by side with Ida's pure and perfect
beauty. There was nothing natural in her
demeanour ; her very movements seemed to
indicate suspicion and the restlessness of an
ignoble nature. Ida was all unaffected grace
and sweetness. The look she turned on her
companion as she spoke was full of anxious
good-will. Harriet's pale, unhealthy countenance
had moved pity in her ; if there still
remained any shadow of the old resentment,
it had no power to interfere with the complete

sincerity with which she gave herself to
this friendship.

And Julian, walking behind them, let his eyes
wander from one to the other. He spoke little,
and was pale.

This is really better than I had hoped," said
Waymark to him, in an undertone.

Julian did not seem to hear.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER VI.

UNDER-CURRENTS.

Well, how do you like her ? " Julian asked,
when their visitors had left them.

Oh, I dare say she's all right," was the reply.
She's got a good deal to say for herself."

Julian turned away, and walked about the
room.

*' What does she work at ? " said Harriet, after
glancing at him furtively once or twice.

I have no idea."

It's my belief she doesn't work at all."

Why should Waymark have said so, then ? "
asked Julian, standing still and looking at her.
He spoke very quietly, but his face betrayed
some annoyance.

Harriet merely laughed, her most ill-natured
and maliciously suggestive laugh, and rose from
her seat. Julian came up and faced her.

Harriet," he said, with perfect gentleness,
though his lips trembled, " why do you always
prefer to think the worst of people ? I should
be very uncomfortable if I allowed myself to be
always searching out possible evil motives. My
way of thinking is quite different from yours. I
always look for the good rather than the evil in
people T meet."

We're different in a good many things, you
see," said Harriet, with a sneer. Her countenance
had darkened. Julian had learnt the
significance of her looks and tones only too well.
Under the circumstances it would have been
better to keep silence, but something compelled
him to speak.

I am sure of this," he said. " If you will

only meet her in her own spirit, you will find

her a valuable friend — just such a friend as you

need. But of course if you begin with all

manner of prejudices and suspicions, it will be

very hard for her to make you believe in her

sincerity. Certainly her kindness, her sympathy,

her whole manner, was perfect to-night."

•'You seem to notice her a good deal."

Q 2

"Naturally I did, being so anxious that you
should at length find a worthy friend and
companion."

And who is she, I should like to know ? "
said Harriet, with perfection of subdued acrimony.
How can I tell that she's a proper person to bea
friend to me ? I know what her mother was,
at all events."

Her mother ? What do you know of her
mother ? "

Julian had never known the whole story of
that scar on his wife's forehead.

'^ Never mind," said Harriet, nodding significantly.


I have no idea what you mean," Julian
returned. " At all events I can trust Waymark,
and I know very well he would not have brought
her here, if she hadn't been a proper person for
you to know. But come," he added, quickly,
making an effort to dismiss the disagreeable tone
between them, " there's surely no need for us to
talk like this, Harriet. I am sure you will like
her, when you know her better. Promise me
that you will try, dear. You are so lonely, and

it would rejoice me so to feel that you had a
friend to help you and to be a comfort to you.
At all events you will judge her on her own
merits, won't you, and put aside all kind of
prejudice ? "

I haven't said I shouldn't ; but I suppose I
must get to know her first ? "

Ominous as such a commencement would have
been under any other circumstances, Julian was
so prepared for more decided hostility, that he
was even hopeful. When he met Way mark
next, the change in his manner was obvious ; he
was almost cheerful once more. And the improvement
held its ground as the next two or
three weeks went by. Ida came to Beaufort \
Street often, and Julian was able to use the
freedom he thus obtained to spend more time in
Waymark's society. The latter noticed the
change in him with surprise.

Things 0^0 well still ? " he would ask, when
Julian came in of an evening;.

Very well indeed. Harriet hasn't been out
one night this week."

And you think it will last ? "

I have good hope. It will not be Ida's fault
if it does not. She would subdue the most
perverse nature."

They did not speak much of Ida, however.
It was only when three weeks had gone by that
Julian asked one night, with some hesitation in
putting the question, whether Way mark saw
her often.

Pretty often," was the reply. "I am her
tutor, in a sort of way. We read together, and
that kind of thing."

At her lodgings ? "

*' Yes. Does it seem a queer arrangement ? "

She seems very intelligent," said Julian,
letting the question pass by, and speaking with
some constraint. " Isn't it a pity that she can't
find some employment better suited to her ? "

I don't see what is open. Could you suggest
anything ? "

Julian was silent.

In any case, it won't last very long, 1
suppose ? " he said, looking up with a smile
which was rather a trembling of the lip.

'' Why ? "

They gazed at each other for a moment. "

"No," said Waymark, shaking his head and
smiling. " It isn't as you think. It is perfectly
understood between us that we are to be agreeable
company to each other, and absolutely
nothing beyond that. I have no motive for
leading you astray in the matter. However
things were, I would tell you frankly."

There was another silence.

Do you think there is anything like confidence
between your wife and her ? " Waymark asked.

That I hardly know. When I am present,
of course they only talk about ordinary women's
interests, household affairs, and so on."

Then you have no means of —-well, of knowing
whether she has spoken about me to your
wife in any particular way ? "

"Nothing of the kind has ever been hinted
to me."

"Waymark," Julian continued, after a pause,
you are a strange fellow."

In what respect ? "

Do you mean to tell me honestly that —
that you — "

Well ? — You mean to say, that I am not
in love with the girl ? "

No, I wasn't going to say that," said Julian,
with his usual bashfulness, heightened in this
case by some feeling which made him pale. "I
meant, do you really believe that she has no
kind of regard for you beyond mere friendship ? "

Why ? Have you formed any conclusions of
your own on the point ? "

How could I help doing so ? "

And you look on me," said Waymark, after
thinking for a moment, "as an insensible dog,
with a treasure thrown at his feet which he
is quite incapable of appreciating or making
use of ? "

No. I only feel that your position must bea
very difficult one. But perhaps you had rather
not speak of these things ? "

"On the contrary. You are perfectly right,
and the position is as difficult as it well could
be."

You had made your choice, I suppose, before
you knew Ida at all ? "

"So far from that, I haven't even made it

yet. I am not at all sure that my chance of
ever marrying Maud Enderby is not so utterly
remote, that I ought to put aside all thought of
it. In that case — "

But this is a strange state of mind," said
Julian, with a forced laugh. "Is it possible to
balance feelings in this way ? "

You, in my position, would have no doubt ? "

I don't know Miss Enderby," said Julian,
reddening.

Waymark walked up and down the room,
with his hands behind his back, his brows bent.
He had never told his friend anything of Ida's
earlier history ; but now he felt half tempted tolet
him know everything. To do so, might
possibly give him that additional motive to a
clear and speedy decision in the difficulties
which grew ever more pressing. Yet was it just
to Ida to speak of these things even to one who
would certainly not repeat a word ? Once or
twice he all but began, yet in the end a variety
of motives kept him silent.

Let us talk of this again in a little time," he
said. Then, with an outbreak of impatience :

''' How different one's conduct would be, but for
this cursed poverty ! How easy it is to be
honest when you have money ! There is no such
cant as that which prates of the soul's independence
of external things. Give me a fortune tomorrow,
and I shall be in scarcely one respect
the man that I am to-day. I shall act in
accordance with my principles, and it will be
easy to do so. Now I am a miserable shifting
fellow, paltering with my own conscience, and
despising myself every other moment for the
thought which came the moment before."

'' I think better of you than that," said Julian,
with an earnestness which seemed out of proportion
to the other's tone. " Whatever your
promptings might be, you would never do anything
unprincipled ; you would never lose sight
of the result of your conduct on others."

Don't be so sure of that, my dear fellow !
Yes ; principles I have, of a kind, no doubt ;
but, as I tell you, I lack the means of giving
them play. I am quite capable of the most
rascally acts, out of mere spleen, mere irritation
and discontent. Every strange soul represents

to me the world. And what do I owe the
world, that I should spare any one, when the
opportunity comes for gratifying myself ? "

'don't speak in that way, Waymark," said
Julian, coming up to face him, and meeting his
look with one of agitated earnestness. "You
don't really think so ; no, indeed you do not !
Surely we can speak plainly to each other. All
this abstract talk of course has reference to what
we both well understand. In that matter, you
will be led away by no such sophistry ! / have
no right to preach to you, of course, but — "

His voice faltered, and he turned away.
Waymark looked at him keenly, and went back
to his seat, with a half-smile.

"Well," he exclaimed, shortly, "we'll talk
about this another time. Perhaps I shall have
more to tell you. Don't be gloomy. Look,
here I am just upon the end of my novel. If
all goes smoothly I shall finish it in a fortnight,
and then I will read it to you."

I hope you may have better luck with it
than I had," said Julian.

Oh, your time is yet to come. And it's

very likely I shall be no better off. There are
things in the book which will scarcely recommend
it to the British parent. But it shall be
published, if it is at my own expense. If it
comes to the worst, I shall sell my mining shares
to Woodstock."

After all," said Julian, smiling, " you are a
capitalist."

Yes, and much good it does me."
Since that first evening, Julian had refrained
from speaking to his wife about Ida, beyond
casual remarks and questions which could carry
no significance. Harriet likewise had been
silent. As far as could be observed, however,
she seemed to take a pleasure in Ida's society,
and, as Julian said, with apparently good result
to herself. She was more at home than
formerly, and her health even seemed to profit
by the change. Still, there was something not
altogether natural in all this, and Julian could
scarcely bring himself to believe in the happy
turn things seemed to be taking. In Harriet
herself there was no corresponding growth of
cheerfulness or good-nature. She was quiet.

but with a quietness not altogether pleasant ; it
was as though her thoughts were constantly
occupied, as never hitherto ; and her own moral
condition was hardly likely to be the subject of
these meditations. Julian, when he sat reading,
sometimes became desperately aware of her eyes
being fixed on him for many minutes at a time.
Once, on this happening, he looked up with a
smile.

What is it, dear ? " he asked, turning round
to her. '' You are very quiet. Shall I put
away the book and talk ? "

"No; I'm all right."

You've been much better lately, haven't
you ^ " he said, taking her hand playfully.
Let me feel your pulse ; you know I'm half
a doctor."

She drew it away peevishly. But Julian,
whom a peaceful hour had made full of kindness,
went on in the same gentle way.

You don't know how haj^py it makes me to
see you and Ida such good friends. I was sure
it would be so. Don't you feel there is something
soothing in her society ? She speaks so

gently, and always brings a sort of sunshine
with her."

Harriet's lips curled, very slightly, but she
said nothing.

"When are you going to see her again ? It's
hardly fair to let the visiting be always on her
side, is it ? "

I shall go when I feel able. Perhaps tomorrow."


Julian presently went back to his book again.
If he could have seen the look Harriet turned
upon him when his face was averted, he would
not have read so calmly.

That same evening Harriet herself was the
subject of a short conversation between Ida and
Waymark, as they sat together in the usual
way.

I fear there will never be anything like
confidence between us," Ida was saying. " Do
you know that I am sometimes almost afraid of
her ; sometimes she looks and speaks as if she
hated me."

She is a poor, ill-conditioned creature,"
Waymark replied, rather contemptuously.

"Can you explains," asked Ida, "how it ^va^^
that Mr. Castii married her ? "

For my life, I can't ! It astounded me at
the time, and has amazed me ever since, whenever
I thought of it. I half believe it was out
of mere pity ; I shouldn't wonder if the proposal
came from her side. Castii might once have done
something ; but I'm afraid he never weill now."

And he is so very good to her. I pity him
from my heart whenever I see them together.
Often I have been so discouraged by her cold
suspicious ways, that I half thought I should
have to give it up, but I felt it would be cruel
to desert him so. I met him in the street the
other night just as I was going to her, and he
thanked me for what I was doing in a way that
almost made me cry."

By-the-bye," said Waymark, "you know her
too well to venture upon anything like direct
criticism of her behaviour, when you talk
together ? "

Indeed, I scarcely venture to speak of herself
at all. It would be hard to say what we
talk about."

*' Of course," Waymark said, after a short
silence, "there are limits to self-devotion. So
long as it seems to you that there is any chance
of doing some good, well, persevere. But you
mustn't be sacrificed to such a situation. The
time you give her is so much absolute loss to
yourself."

Oh, but I work hard to make up for it.
You are not dissatisfied with me ? "

And what if I were ? Would it matter
much ? "

This was one of the things that Waymark
was ever and again saying, in spite of himself.
He could not resist the temptation of proving
his power in this way ; it is so sweet to be
assured of love, even though every voice within
cries out against the temptation to enjoy it,
and condemns every word or act that could
encourage it to hope. Ida generally met such
remarks with silence ; but in this instance she
looked up steadily, and said —

Yes, it woidd matter much."

Waymark drew in his breath, half turned
away — and spoke of some quite different matter.

Harriet carried out her intention of visiting
Ida on the following day. Tn these three weeks
she had only been to Ida's lodgings once. The
present visit was unexpected. She waited about
the pavement for Ida's return from work, and
shortly saw her approaching.

/'This is kind of you," Ida said. "AVe'll
have some tea, and then, if you're not too tired,
we might go into the park. It will be cool
then."

She dreaded the thought of sitting alone with
Harriet. But the latter said she must get home
early, and would only have time to sit for half
an hour. When ida had lit her fire, and put
the kettle on, she found that the milk which
she had kept since the morning for Grim and
herself had gone sour ; so she had to run out
to a dairy to fetch some.

You won't mind beinor left alone for a
minute ? " she said.

Oh no ; I'll amuse myself with Grim."

As soon as she was alone, Harriet went into
the bed-room, and began to examine everything.
Grim had followed her, and came up to rub

VOL. II. R

affectionately against her feet, but she kicked
him, muttering, " Get off, you black beast ! "
Having scrutinized the articles which lay about,
she quickly searched the pockets of a dress
which hung on the door, but found nothing
except a handkerchief. All the time she listened
for any footfall on the stone steps without.
Next she went to the chest of drawers, and was
pleased to find that they were unlocked. In the
first she drew out there were some books and
papers. These she rummaged through very
quickly, and at length, underneath them, came
upon a little bundle of pawn-tickets. On finding
these, she laughed to herself, and carefully inspected
every one of them. '' Gold chain," she
muttered ; " bracelet ; seal-skin ; — what was she
doing with all those things, I wonder ? Ho, ho,
Miss Starr ! "

She started ; there was a step on the stairs.
In a second, everything was replaced, and she
was back in the sitting-room, stooping over
Grim, who took her endearments with passive
indignation.

Have I been long ? " panted Ida, as she

came in. " The kettle won't be a minute.
You'll take your things off ? "

Harriet removed her hat only. As Ida went
about, preparing the tea, Harriet watched her
with eyes in which there was a new light. She
spoke, too, in almost a cheerful way, and even
showed a better appetite than usual when they
sat down together.

You are better to-day ? " Ida said to her.

Perhaps so ; but it doesn't last long."

Oh, you must be more hopeful. Try not to
look so much on the dark side of things. How
would, you be," she added, with a good-humoured
laugh, " if you had to work all day, like me ?
I'm sure you've a great deal to make you feel
happy and thankful."

'' I don't know what," returned Harriet, coldly.

But your husband, your home, your long,
free days 1 "

The other laughed peevishly. Ida turned her
head away for a moment ; she was irritated by
this wretched humour, and, as had often been
the case of late, found it difficult to restrain
some rather trenchant remark.

R 2

"It may sound strange," she sail, with a
smile, "but I think 1 should be very willing to
endure bad health for a position something like
yours."

Harriet laughed again, and still more unpleasantly.
Ida turned the talk to indifferent
matters, and, very shortly after tea, her visitor
said it was time to go. Ida offered her lips,
and they were just touched.

Harriet did not take the nearest way homewards
; after a little hesitation, she turned ina
quite opposite direction, and walked to Westminster.
In twenty minutes she reached the
neighbourhood of Litany Lane, and came to the
Clock House. Something of an amusing kind
seemed to be going forward in front of the
house. On drawing near and pressing into
the crowd of loitering people, she witnessed a
spectacle familiar to her, and one which brought
a smile to her face. A man of wretched appearance,
in vile semblance of clothing which barely
(flung together about him, was standing on his
head upon the pavement, and, in that attitude,
drawling out what was meant for a song, while

those around made merry and indulged in
practical jokes at his expense. One such put
a sudden end to the exhibition. A young
raoramuffiu drew near with a handful of rich
mud, and carefully cast it right into the
singer's inverted mouth. The man was on his
feet in an instant, and pursuing the assailant,
who, however, succeeded in escaping down an
alley hard by. Returning, the man went from
one to another in the crowd, holding out his
hand. Harriet passed on into the bar.

Slimy's up to his larks to-night," exclaimed
Mrs. Sprowl, with a laugh, as she welcomed her
visitor in the bar-parlour. " He'll be losing' his
sweet temper just now, see if he don't, an then
one o' them chaps '11 get a bash i' the eye."

I always like to see him singing on his
head," said Harriet, who seemed at once
thoroughly at her ease in the atmosphere of
beer and pipes.

It's funny, ain't it ? And Ws the world
been a-usin' you, Harriet ? Seen anything more
o' that affectionate friend o' your ? "

This was said with a grin, and a significant wink.

Have you found out anything about her ? "
asked Harriet, eagerly.

Why yes, I have ; something as '11 amuse
you. It's just as I thought."

How do you mean ? "
/ 'why, Luce Waddy was in 'ere th' other
night, so I says to her, ' Luce,' I says, ' didn't
you never hear of a girl called Ida Starr ? ' I
says. course I did,' she say s^/ ' It's a girl as
Melly was after.' "

Who's Melly ? " interrupted Harriet, whose
face was all greedy attention.
1 " Fellow as used to keep Lily Crow, — you
know her. His real name's Mellydew, and they
call him Melly for short and sweet."

Well, go on ; what about her ? "

Well, I says to Luce, ' Was she on the job
then ? ' I says. * Oh yes,' says Luce, ' one o'
the 'high an' 'aught lot, an' she lived by herself
somewhere in the Strand.' So it's just as I told

you."

*' But what is she doings now ? "

You say she's turned modest."

"I can't make her out quite," said Harriet,

reflecting, with her head on one side. " Fve
been at her lodgings to-night, and, whilst she
was out of the room, I happened to get sight
of a lot of pawn-tickets, for gold chains and
seal-skins, and I don't know what."

Spouted 'em all when she threw up the job,
I repose," suggested Mrs. Sprowl. " She must
be dead nuts on some one. You're sure she does
go to work ? "

"Yes, I've had somebody to follow her and
watch her. There's Waymark goes to see her
often, and I shouldn't wonder if she half keeps
him ; he's just that kind of fellow."

You haven't caught no one else s^oinof
there ? " asked Mrs. Sprowl, with another of
her intense winks.

No, I haven't, not yet," replied Harriet,
with sudden vehemence, " but I believe he does
go there, or else sees her somewhere else."

"Well," said the landlady, with an air of
generous wisdom, "I told you from the first
as I 'ain't much opinion of men as is so anxious
to have their wives friendly with other women.
There's always something at the bottom of it,

you may bet. It's my belief he's one too many
for you, Harriet ; you're too simple-minded to
catch him."

I'll have a good try, though," cried the girl,
deadly pale with passion. " Perhaps Fm not so
simple as you think. I'm pretty quick in
tumbling to things, — no fear. If they think I
don't notice what goes on, they must take me
for a damned silly fool, that's all ! Why, I've
seen them wink at each other, when they
thought I wasn't looking."

You're not such a fool as to leave them
alone together ? " said the woman, who seemed
to have a pleasure in working upon Harriet's
jealousy.

No fear ! But they understand each other ;
I can see that well enough. And he writes to
her ; I'm dead sure he writes to her. Let me
get hold of a letter just once, that's all ! '^

And he's orful good-natured to her, ain't he ?
Looks after her when she has tea with you, and
so on ? "

"I should think he did. It's all— ' Won't
Miss Starr have this ? ' and ' won't Miss Starr

have that ? ' He scarcely takes his eyes off of
her, all the time."

I know, I know ; it's alius the same ! You
keep your eyes open, Harriet, and you'll 'ave
your reward, as the Scriptures says."

In talking, Mrs. Sprowl had been constantly
moving backwards and forwards, helping to
serve customers at the bar. At this point she
had to be away for several minutes, settling a
matter of disputed payment with a drunken
woman, whose clamours had been incessant.
In her absence, a change suddenly came over
Harriet's face ; her eyelids drooped, and her
mouth began to work convulsively. Then her
arms fell to her sides, and in a moment she was
stiffening on the chair ; her head fell back,
and, with a low moaning and a struggling, she
slipped sideways, and at length fell heavily to
the ground. When Mrs. Sprowl reappeared,
she was lying there in convulsions, her lips
covered with a thin foam, her limbs violently
distorted. The woman looked at her with a
sort of quiet curiosity for a moment, then
stooped to put some object under her head,

and at the same time loosened the front of
her dress. Presently the fit passed away, and
consciousness slowly returned.

'' Are y' all right again ? " asked Mrs. Sprowl,
when she had helped her up into the chair.
See, drink this drop. You've been over-exciting'
yourself. Why can't you take things
easier ? "

Harriet drank a glass of hot spirits. She was
a little hysterical now, and began to cry. Mrs.
Sprowl comforted her in a rough-and-ready way,
and, the glass being empty, presently refilled it.
One or two friends began to look in, whom
Harriet knew well, and with idiom she was
evidently in the habit of discussing freely all
her private affairs. Not till nearly twelve
o'clock did she think of leaving. During the
latter part of the evening she was quieter than
usual, and seemed to be brooding deeply.

When at length she reached home, Julian
was in the uneasy condition always brought
about by these late absences. To a remark
he made about the time, she vouchsafed no
answer.

Have you been with Ida all the evening ? "
he asked.

'' No, I haven't," was her reply.

She went into the bed-room, and was absent
for a few minutes ; then reappeared.

"Do you know where my silver spoon is?"
she asked, looking closely at him.

Your silver spoon?" he returned, in surprise.
Have you lost it ? "

The article in question, together with a fork,
had been a wedding-present from Mrs. Sprowl,
whose character had in it a sort of vulgar
generosity, displayed at times in gifts to Harriet.

'' I can't find it," Harriet said. " I was showing
it to Ida Starr when she was here on Sunday,
and now I come to look for it, it's gone."

'' Oh, it can't be very far off," said Julian.
'you'll find it if you look."

But I tell you I've looked everywhere. It's
gone, that's all I know."

Well, but, what do you mean ? How

can it have gone ? "

I don't know. I only know I was showing
it her on Sunday."

And what connection is there between the
two circumstances?" asked Julian, almost sternly.
You don't wish me to understand that Ida
Starr knows anything about the spoon ? "

How can I tell ? It's gone."

Come," exclaimed Julian, with a laugh,
this is too absurd, Harriet ! You must have
taken leave of your senses. If it's gone, then
some one in the house has taken it."

And why not Ida Starr ? "

Julian stared at her, with mingled anger and
alarm.

*' Why not ? Simply because she is incapable
of such a thing."

Perhaps you think so ; no doubt. You think
a good deal of her, it seems to me. Perhaps you
don't know quite as much about her as I do."

*' I fancy I know much more," exclaimed
Julian, indignantly.

Oh, do you ? "

*' If you think her capable of stealing your
spoon, you show complete ignorance of her
character. What do you know of her that you
should have such suspicions ? "

'never mind," said Harriet, nodding her
head obstinately. " Perhaps you'll know some
day."

Julian trembled in every limb, and seemed
unable to speak. AVhen his eyes fell on her,
they turned away again, with a contempt which
had even something of hatred. He walked up
and down the room once or twice, before breaking
the silence.

'' In this case," he said at length, abruptly,
'rit is of course impossible for any further intercourse
to exist between you."

I didn't say it was," replied Harriet, with
something of concession in her voice all at once.
But if you accuse her — "
'' I didn't accuse her. You're a deal too sharp."
But you grossly calumniate her. You regard
it as a possible thing, and hint all manner of
slanders I don't at all understand, Under these
circumstances, it's impossible to keep up any
pretence of friendship."

'now don't begin to storm at me in that
way. I've had one fit already to-night, and
I don't feel well ; so keep quiet."

There was again a long silence. Julian
reflected.

We will talk about this again tomorrow,"
he said, " when you have had time to think.
You are under some strange delusion. After all,
I expect you will find the spoon, and then you'll
be sorry for having been so hasty."

Harriet became obstinately silent. She cut
a piece of bread and butter, and took it into
the other room. Julian paced up and down.

CHAPTER Vir.

THE OPPORTUNITY.

One or two days after this, Ida Starr came
home from work with a heavy heart. Quite
without notice, and without explanation, her
employer had paid her a wreck's wages and
dismissed her. Her first astonished questions
having been met with silence by the honest
but rather hard-grained woman who kept the
laundry, Ida had not condescended to any
further appeal. As it happened, there had
been for some little time an evident lack of
friendliness towards her in the laundress's
daughter, a feather-headed girl who had taken
offence at some trifle or other, and this she was
obliged to accept as in some way the origin of
her dismissal. Of course that was not the
real cause. The fact was that the laundress

\ had received a visit from a certain Mrs. Sprowl,
who had represented herself as under a moral
obligation to inform the laundress that Ida
was no better than she should be, advancing
at the same time what appeared to be incontestable
proofs of her assertion ; adding, moreover,
that Ida was strongly suspected of certain thefts,
and was being watched with a view to her
detection. This visit, be it understood, was
the result of a little chat between the landlady

i of the Clock House and Harriet Castii.

Several circumstances united to make this
event disastrous to Ida. Her wages were very
little more than she needed for her week to
week existence, yet she had managed to save
a shilling or two now and then. The greater
part of these small savings she had just laid
out in some new clothing, the reason for the
expense being not so much necessity, as a
desire to be rather better dressed when she
accompanied Waymark on those little country
excursions which had re-established themselves
of late. By no means the smallest part of Ida's
heroism was that involved in this matter of

external appearance. A beautiful woman can

never be indifferent to the way in which her

beauty is arrayed. In the former times, when

her means allowed comparative luxury, she had

dressed with perfect taste and with great

advantage. That Waymark was not indifferent

to such things she knew well, and often she

suffered from the thought that one strong means

of attraction was lost to her. Love has its pride,

but no less its humilities. If at one moment Ida

was conscious of her claim to inspire a noble

enthusiasm, at another she fell into the saddest

self-distrust, and, in her hunger for love, would

gladly have sought every humblest aid of grace

and adornment. So she had yielded to the

needs of her heart, and only this mornings was

gladdened by the charm pf some new clothing

which became her well, and which Waymark

would see in a day or two. It lay there before

her now that she returned home, and, in the

first onset of trouble, she sat down and cried

over it.

She suffered the more, too, that there had

been something of a falling off of late in the
VOL. II. s

258 The Unclasped.

perfect health she had generally enjoyed. She
had had sleepless nights, and her early rising
was often with a dizzy head and eyes which
ached at the daylight. The day's work seemed
long and hard ; she felt an unwonted need of
rest. And these things caused trouble of the
mind. With scarcely an hour of depression she
had worked on through those months of solitude,
supported by the sense that every day brought
an accession of the strength of purity, that the
dark time was left one more stage behind, and
that trust in herself was o;rowinor assured. It
will not have been hard to guess why she kept
secret from Waymark the plans which lay before
lier when she left Hastings. There was so much
doubt whether she would have the strength to
fulfil them. Should she fail in endurance,
should she find that the noble purposes conceived
in those eager days were but a gleam
from some world in which she was unworthy
to constantly dwell, then it would be better
that Waymark knew nothing of her failure.
Doubtless some ignoble consolation would be
discovered, that she might live her life with at

least something of the old indifference. But
time had proved her, and her strength had
not failed. When she wrote to him, it was in
assurance that the time for relenting their
acquaintance had come ; she doubted herself
no looser, and felt that, whatsoever raio^ht be
her future relations with him, — whether he came
back to her with all the old appearance of
passion, or only with friendship to offer, — she
had learnt the sources of moral strength and
self-reliance, that in any event she would no
longer be unworthy of him.

Yet she had not fully realized the effect of a
possible change in Waymark ; perhaps because
her hopes would not let her dwell on that
possibility. He had changed, and she recognized
it from the first moment. Disappointment
followed, and a struggle through a niojht

^ CO o o

of misery ; in which, however, she as yet

suffered no defeat. Oily she must get used

to the reversal of her anticipations ; only she

must draw new strength from depths of her

nature where might be untested powers. Since

then, however, she had no longer known thats

2

unbroken course of glad effort which had become
her means of health and cheerfulness. It was
so much harder than she had foreseen, to
maintain reserve and reticence when her heart
was throbbing with passion ; the effect upon
her of Waymark's comparative coldness was so
much harder to bear than she had imagined.
Her mind tortured itself incessantly with the
fear that some new love had taken possession
of Waymark in the interval. And now there
had befallen her this new misfortune, which,
it might be, would once more bring about a
crisis in her life.

Of course she must forthwith set about finding
new work. It would be difficult, seeing that
she had now no reference to give ; clearly it
was impossible to ask any favour of this kind
from the woman who had behaved to her with
such injustice. Reflection had convinced her
that it must have been some discovery of her
former life which had led to her sudden dismissal,
and this increased her despondency. Yet
she would not give way to it. On the following
morning she began her search for employment.

and day after day faced without result the
hateful ordeal. If you, dear madam, who read
this in the ease of assured leisure, should ever
feel disposed to vary the monotony of your
life with a distinctly new sensation, permit me
to suggest that you should disguise yourself asa
simple work-girl, and, supposing yourself for
the moment quite friendless and " character "-
less, go about from place to place begging for
leave to toil. Of course there will be lacking
the real piquancy of despair, yet I doubt nota
very tolerable misery will be produced in
the process. Here you will be met with an
indifferent negative, perhaps expressed by a mere
careless shake of the head ; there, after being
gauged in a manner clearly indicative of certain
opinions about you, you will be rebuffed with
frank insolence ; everywhere you will be given
to understand that you are altogether superfluous,
and that your existence is clearly a
matter of no concern to any soul oa earth. A
few hours of such experience will suffice to you ;
Ida had to endure it day after day, till the
days grew to weeks. Sometimes she should

come home after a morning thus spent, anal,
throwing herself on her bed, lie there in blank
misery till darkness filled the room. Hope
failed as she saw her painfuUj-eked-out coins
become fewer and fewer. In a day or two she
would have nothing, and what would happen
then ? ^

When she returned to London to begin a new
life, now nearly a year ago, she had sold some
and pawned the rest of such possessions as
would in future be useless to her. Part of the
money thus obtained had bought the furniture
of her rooms ; what remained had gone for a
few months to supplement her weekly wages,
thus making the winter less a time of hardship
than it must otherwise have been. One or two
articles yet remained capable of being turned
into small sums, and these she now disposed of
at a neighbouring pawnbroker's, — the same she
had previously visited on the occasion of pawning
one or two of the things, the tickets for
which Harriet Castii had so carefully inspected.
She spoke to no one of her position. Yet now
the time was quickly coming when she must

either have help from some quarter or else give
up her lodgings. In food she was already stint-ins;
herself to the verge of starvation. ind
through all this she had to meet her friends aso



hitherto, if possible without allowing any trace
of her suffering to become visible. Harriet,
strange to say, had been of late a rather frequent
visitor, and was more pressing than formerly in
her invitations. Ida dreaded her coming, as it
involved the unwarrantable expense of obtaining
luxuries now unknown in her cupboard, such as
tea and butter. And, on the other hand, it was
almost impossible to affect cheerfulness in the
company of the Castis. At times she caught
Julian's eyes fixed upon her, and felt that he
noticed some change in her appearance. She
had a sense of guilt in their presence, as if she
were there on false pretences. For, together
with her daily work, much of her confidence had
gone ; an inexplicable shame constantly troubled
her. She longed to hide herself away, and be
alone with her wretchedness.

If it came to asking for help, of whom could
she ask it but of Waymark ? Yet for some time

lie felt she could not bring herself to that-instincts
of delicacy shrank before the thought.
In the consciousness of her own attitude towards
him, it seemed to her that Waymark might well
doubt the genuineness of her need, might think
it a mere feint to draw him into nearer relations.
She could not doubt that he knew her love for
him ; she did not desire to hide it, even had she
been able. But him she could not understand.
A struggle often seemed going on within him
in her presence ; he appeared to repress his
impulses ; he was afraid of her. At times
passion urged her to break through this barrier
between them, to bring about a situation which
would end in clear mutual understanding, cost
her what it might. At other times she was
driven to despair by the thought that she had
made herself too cheap in his eyes, that the very
completeness of her self-surrender had had the
effect of making him cold. Could she put off
the last vestige of her independence, and, in so
many words, ask him to give her money ?

A fortnight had gone by, the third week was
beo^inninir, and her means were at an end.

Through the whole of two days she sat at home ;
on the second without food. She did not feel
the want of it indeed. There was no longer
any use in torturing herself with seeking for
work ; even if she found it, it would not remove
the necessity of getting money for immediate
needs. This evening she expected Way mark,
hut the usual time of his coming went by. She
sat in the twilight, listening ^^'ith painful intentness
to every step on the stairs ; again and
again her heart leaped at some footfall far below,
only to be deceived. She had not even now
made up her mind how to speak to him, or
whether to speak to him at all ; but she longed
passionately to see him. The alternations of hope
and disappointment made her feverish. Illusions
began to possess her. Once she heard distinctly
the familiar knock. It seemed to rouse her
from slumber : she sprang to the door and
opened it, but no one was there. She ran halfway
clown the stairs, but saw no one. It was
now nearly midnight. The movement had
dispelled for a little the lethargy which was
growing upon her, and she suddenly came to a

resolution. Taking a sheet of note-paper, she
wrote this : —

I have been without work for a fortnight.
All my money is done, and I am in want. Can
you send me some, for present help, till I get
more work ? Do not bring it yourself, and do not
speak a word of tins when you see nne, I leg you
earnestly. If I still fail to get work, I will speak
to you of my own accord.

I. S."

She went out and posted this, though she
had no stamp to put on the envelope ; then,
returning, she threw herself as she was on the
bed, and before long passed into unconsciousness.

Waymark's absence that evening had been
voluntary. The conflict in him between passion
and what may perhaps be called prudence was
reaching a climax, and it seemed that passion
would prevail. His work had come to a standstill
; his waking hours were passed in a restless
misery which threatened to make him ill. And
to-night he had not dared to go to Ida ; in his

present state the visit could have but one
result, and even yet he hoped that such a result
miaiit not come about. He left home and
wandered about the streets till early morning.
All manner of projects occupied him. He all
lout made up his mind to write a long letter to
Ida and explain his position without reserve.
But he feared lest the result of that might be to
make Ida hide away from him once more, and
to this loss he could not reconcile himself. Yet
he was further than ever from the thought of
giving himself wholly to her, for the intense
his feeling grew, the more clearly he recognized
its character. This was not love he suffered
from, but mere desire. To let it have its way
would be to degrade Ida. Love might or might
not follow, and how could he place her at the
mercy of such a chance as that ? Her faith and
trust in him was absolute ; could he take
advantage of it for his own ends ? And, for
all these fine arguments, Waymark saw with
perfect clearness how the matter would end. Self
would triumph, and Ida, if the fates so willed
it, would be sacrificed. It was detestable, buta

fact ; as good already as an accomplished
fact.

ind on the following morning: Ida's note
reached him. It was final. Her entreaty that
he would merely send money had no weight
with him for a moment ; he felt that there was
a contradiction between her words and her
wishes. This note explained the strangeness he
had noticed in her on their last evening together.
He pitied her, and, as is so often the case, pity
was but fuel to passion. He swept from his
mind all obstinate debating. Passion should
be a law unto itself. Let the future bring
things about as it would.

He had risen late, and by the time he had
finished a hasty breakfast it was eleven o'clock.
Half an hour after he went up the stairs of the
lodging-house and knocked at the familiar door.

But his knock met with no answer ; nay, at
that door never again would be answered. Ida
herself had left home an hour before. Upon
waking, and recalling what she had done, she
foresaw that Waymark would himself come, in
spite of her request. She could not face him.

For all that lier exhaustion was so great that
walking was slow and weary, she went out and
strayed at first with no aim ; but presently she
turned in the direction of Chelsea, and so came
to Beaufort Street. She would go in and see
Harriet, who would give her something to eat.
She cared little now for letting it be known that
she had left her employment ; with the step
which she had at last taken, her position was
quite changed ; she had only kept silence lest
Waymark should come to know. Harriet was at
first surprised to see her, then seemed strangely
glad.

I have come to have lunch with you," Ida
said, as she sank trembling upon a chair. " You
are surprised to see me at this time ? "

Why, yes, I am. I've only a minute ago
sent a note, asking you to be sure to come
round to-night. I wanted you to help me with
this new hat ; you have such good taste in
trimming."

Ida would have been astonished at another
time ; for Harriet to be paying compliments was
indeed something novel. There was a flush on

the latter's usually sallow face ; she did not sit
do WD, and kept moving aimlessly about.

Give me your hat and jacket," she said,
and let me take them into the other room."

She took them away, and returned. Ida was
not looking at her ; otherwise she must surely
have noticed that weird pallor which had all at
once succeeded to the unhealthy flush, and the
unwonted gleaming of her eyes. Of what passed
during those next two hours Ida had afterwards
no recollection. They ate together, and they
talked, Ida as if in a dream, Harriet preoccupied
in a way quite out of her habit. Ida explained
that she was out of employment, news which
could scarcely be news to the listener, who
would in that case have heard it with far less
composure. There where long silences, generally
brought to an end by some outburst of forced
merriment from Harriet. Ida was without consciousness
of time, but her restless imagination at
length compelled her to go forth again. Harriet
did not urge her to stay, but rose and watched
her as she went into the other room to put her
things on. In a few moments they had parted.

The instant Harriet, from the head of the
stairs, heard the front-door close, she ran back
into her bed-room, put on her hat, and darted
down. Opening the door, she saw Ida moving
away at a short distance. Turning her eyes in
the opposite direction, she perceived a policeman
coming slowly down the street. She ran
towards him.

I've caught her at last," she exclaimed, as
she met him, pointing eagerly after Ida. " She's
taken a brooch of mine. I put it in a particular
place in my bed-room, and it's gone."

Was she alone in the room ? " inquired the
constable, looking keenly at Harriet, then down
the street.

"Yes, she went in alone to put her things on.
Be quick, or she'll be off! "

I understand as you give her in charge ? "

Of course I do."

Come along o' me then."

A brisk walk of two or three minutes, and
they had caught up Ida, who turned at the
sound of the quick footsteps, and stood in
surprise.

"This lady charges you with stealing some
articles of hers," said the constable, looking from
face to face. " You must come with me to the
station."

Ida blanched. When the policeman had
spoken, she turned to Harriet, and gazed at
her fixedly. She could neither speak nor move.
The constable touched her arm impatiently.
Her eyes turned to him, and she began to walk
along by his side.

Harriet followed behind in silence. There
were not many people on the way to the police-station
in King's Eoad, and they reached it
speedily. They came before the inspector, and
the constable made his report. Formalities were
gone through.

"Have you got this brooch?" asked the
inspector, looking at Ida.

Ida put her hand into one of her jacket-pockets,
then into the other, and from the
second brought out the object in question. It
was of gold, and had been given by Julian to
his wife just after their marriage. As she laid
it before her on the desk, she seemed about to

speak, but her breath failed, and she clutched
with her hands at the nearest support.

Look out," exclaimed the inspector. " Don't
let her fall."

Five or six times, throughout the day and
evening, AVaymark had knocked at Ida's door.
About seven o'clock he had called at the Castis',
but found neither of them at home. Returning
thence to Pimlico, he had walked for hours up
and down in front of the lodging-house, in vain
expectation of Ida's coming. There was no light
at her window.

Just before midnight he reached home, having
on his way posted a letter with money in it.
As he reached his door, Julian stood there, about
to knock.

Anything amiss ? " Waymark asked, examining
his friend by the light of the street-lamp.


Julian only made a sign to him to open the
door. They went up-stairs together, and Waymark
speedily obtained a light. Julian had
seated himself on the couch. His face was

VOL. TI. T

ghastly, this eyes glared wildly, his teeth were
set as in a paroxysm of physical pain.

"What's the matter?" Waymark asked,
anxiously. "Do you know anything about
Ida ? "

She's locked up in the police cells," was the
reply. " My wife has accused her of stealing
things from our rooms."

Waymark stared at him, convinced at first
that he was in delirium and speaking without
consciousness. The hoarse, dry voice, the deadly
pallor, the inflamed eyes, seemed the very expression
of a violent fever.

Castii, what's the matter with you '? " he
exclaimed, overcome with fear, in spite of his
strong self-command. "Are you ill? Do you
know what you're saying ? "

Julian rose and made an effort to control
himself. He began to shiver, and his words
were severed by the chattering of his teeth. /

I know what I'm saying, Waymark. I've
only just heard it. She has come back home
from somewhere, — only just now, — she seems to
have been drinking. It happened in the middle

of the day, whilst I was at the hospital. She
gave her in charge to a policeman in the street,
and a brooch was found on here's

A brooch found on her ? Your wife's ? "

"Yes. When she came in, she railed at me
like a fury, and charged me with the most
monstrous things. I can't and won't go back
there to-night ! I shall go mad if I hear her
voice. I will walk about the streets till
morning."

'rand you tell me that Ida Starr is in
custody ? "

She is. My wife accuses her of stealing
several things."

And you believe this ? " asked Waymark,
under his voice, whilst his thoughts pictured
Ida's poverty, of which he had known nothing,
and led him thrush a lone train of miserable
sequences.

'•'I don't knows I can't say. She says that
Ida confessed, and gave the brooch up at once.
But her devilish malice is equal to anything.
I see into her character as I never did before.
Good God, if you could have seen her face as

T 2

she told me ! And Ida, Ida ! I am afraid of
myself, Waymark. If I had stayed to listen
another moment, I should have struck her. It
seemed as if every vein was bursting. How
am 1 ever to live with her again "? I dare not !
I should kill her in some moment of madness !
What will happen to Ida ? "

He flung himself upon the couch, and burst
into tears. Sobs convulsed him ; he writhed in
an anguish of conflicting passions. Waymark
seemed scarcely to observe him, standing absorbed
in speculation and the devising of a course to be
pursued.

I must go to the police station," he said at
length, when the violence of the paroxysm had
passed and left Julian in the still exhaustion
of despair. " You, I think, had better stay
here. Is there any danger of her coming to
seek you ? "

Julian made a motion with his hand, otherwise
lay still, his pale face turned upwards.

I shall be back very quickly," Waymark
added, taking his hat. Then, turning back fora
moment, " You mustn't give way like this.

old fellow ; this is horrible weakness. Dare I
leave you alone ? "

Julian stretched out his hand, and Waymark
pressed it.

"This is dramatic," he said to himself, as he
went out into the quiet street. " A situation,
decidedly."

And, for all that, his heart was beating
violently.

CHAPTER VIII.

JUSTICE.

Waymark received from the police a confirmation
of all that Julian had said, and returned
home. Julian still lay on the couch, calmer,
but like one in despair. He begged Waymark
to let him remain where he was through the
night, declaring that in any case sleep was
impossible for him, and that perhaps he might
try to pass the hours in reading. They talked
together for a time; then Waymark lay down
on the bed and shortly slept.

Waymark was to be at the police court in
the morning. Julian would go to the hospital
as usual.

"Shall you call at home on your way?"
Waymark asked him.

"No."

But what do you propose to do ? "

''I must think during the day. I shall
come to-night, and you ^Yill tell me what has
happened."

Then, as Waymark stood in thought, Julian
added —

'•' This is a turning-point in my life. I scarcely
know myself. I feel that my future will be
something I can't in the least foresee. Every
thought and plan has been overturned ; I am
at the mercy of impulses of which I knew
nothing."

So they parted, and Waymark somehow or
other whiled away the time till it was the hour
for oroinpf to the court. He found it difficult
to realize the situation ; so startling and brought
about so suddenly. Julian had been the first
to put into words the suspicion of them both,
that it was all a deliberate plot of Harriet's ;
but he had not been able to speak of this own
position freely enough to let Waymark understand
the train of circumstances which could
lead Harriet to such resoluteness of infamy.
Waymark doubted. But for the unfortunate

fact of Ida's secret necessities, he could perhaps
scarcely have entertained the thought of her
guilt ; as it was, he could not but balance two
probabilities, and, in spite of himself, he felt it
easier to believe that Ida had stolen these things
to supply her needs, than that Harriet had
possessed the courage and skill to develop this
plot. And, what is more, such a doubt could
hardly be said to involve a degradation of Ida
in his mind. To Waymark the word "guilt",
applied to such circumstances, connoted no
moral reprobation ; had he used it, in speech
or thought, it would merely have borne the
technical sense. In his habitual conviction of
the relativity of all names and things, he could
not possibly bring himself to regard this act
as a crime. It was an imprudence, a grievous
imprudence, regard had to its almost inevitable
results ; but that Ida should commit such an
imprudence, in her difficult position, seemed not
at all impossible. He was led on, however, to
other doubts. What was the explanation of
her being without employment ? Why had she
hesitated to tell him, as soon as she lost her

work ? Was there not some mystery at the
bottom of this, arguing a lack of complete
frankness on Ida's part from the first ?

The actual pain caused by Ida's danger was,
strange to say, a far less important item in his
state of mind than the interest which the
situation inspired ; " situation " might almost
be used in the purely artistic sense. Through
the niorht he had thought more of Julian than
of Ida. What he had for some time suspected
had now found confirmation ; Julian was in
love with Ida, in love for the first time, and
under circumstances which, as Julian himself
had said, might well suffice to change his
whole nature. Waymark had never beheld
such terrible suffering as that depicted on his
friend's face during those hours of talk in the
night. Something of jealousy had been aroused
in him by the spectacle ; not jealousy of the
ordinary gross kind, but rather a sense of
humiliation in the thought that he himself had
never experienced, was perhaps incapable of,
such passion as racked Julian in every nerve.
This was the passion which Ida was worthy of

inspiring, and Waymark contrasted it with his
own feelings on the previous day, and now
since the calamity had fallen. He had to
confess that there was even an element of
relief in the sensations the event had caused
in him. He had been saved from himself; a
position of affairs which had become intolerable
was got rid of without his own exertion.
Whatever might now happen, the old state of
things would never be restored. There was
relief and pleasure in the thought of such a
change, were it only for the sake of the opening
up of new vistas of observation and experience.
Such thoughts as these indicated very strongly
the course which Waymark's development was
taking, and he profited by them to obtain a
clearer understanding of himself.

The proceedings in the court that morning
were brief. Waymark, from his seat on the
public benches, saw Ida brought forward, and
heard her remanded for a week. She did not
see him ; seemed, indeed, to see nothing. The
aspect of her standing there in the dock, the
beautiful head bowed under intolerable shame.

made a tumult within him. Blind anger and
scorn against all who surrounded her were his
first emotions ; there was something of martyrdom
in her position ; she, essentially so good
and noble, to be dragged here before these
narrow-natured slaves of an ignoble social order,
in all probability to be condemned to miserable
torment by men who had no shadow of understandings
of her character and her circumstances.
Judgment and justice, forsooth ! Well, after all
these were only names to him, as to every one
else ; and no doubt these worthy justices of the
peace really believed that the words represented
some eternal fact ; they would only be acting
in accordance with their lights, and as society
bade them. Perhaps they were right ; who
knows ? If society is to be held together, at
all events, it could only be on these terms.
Whether society is worth being held together
on such conditions, — why, that of course was
quite another question.

Waymark was enabled, whilst in court, to
make up his mind as to how he should act.
When he left he took his way northwards,

havma ia view St. John Street Eoad. Reaching
Mr. Woodstock's house, he was disappointed in^^
not finding that gentleman at home. He would
wait, however, and did so in the study up-stairs.
I The friendship between Mr. Woodstock and
himself had continued to grow in cordiality.
Way mark had come to find in the old man
powers of sympathy and appreciation which he
had not suspected. Of course they differed
enormously in their views of life, and Waymark
had never cared to be perfectly sincere in their
occasional talks, knowing that his position would
have no chance of being understood ; but he was
often surprised at the results to which the hardheaded
old politician was led by mere dint of
independent thought. Of more importance, however,
than such chance points of intellectual
sympathy was the apparently strong liking
which Abraham had conceived for Waymark.
Little by little the last traces of the former
harshness had vanished from his behaviour to
the young man. About once a fortnight Waymark
dined with him by invitation, generally at
some restaurant, and the evening was frequently

finished at the theatre. The gift of the Hogarth,
moreover, had been succeeded at intervals by a
few other presents of the same kind. But,
save in these agreeable ways, Mr. Woodstock
interfered not at all with Waymark's course of
life. Very rarely indeed he made an inquiry
about the progress of what he called the literary
speculation ; otherwise his young friend's future
appeared a matter of indifference to him.

When Waymark had waited about half an
hour, the old man appeared. He gave his hand
in silence. Something seemed to be preoccupying
him ; he went to his chair in a mechanical way.

I have come on rather serious business,"
Waymark began. " I want to ask your advice
in a very disagreeable matter, — a criminal casein
fact."

Abraham did not at once pay attention, but
the last words presently had their effect, and he
looked up with some surprise.

"What have you been up to?" he asked,
with rather a grim smile, leaning back and
thrusting his hands in his pockets in the usual
way.

"It only concerns myself indirectly. It's all
about a girl, who is charged with a theft she is
perhaps quite innocent of. If so, she is being
made the victim of a conspiracy, or something
of the kind. She was remanded to-day at
Westminster for a week."

A girl, eh ? And what's your interest in
the business ? "

'well, if you don't mind I shall have to go
a little into detail. You are at liberty ? "

"Goon."

She is a friend of mine. No, I mean what
I say ; there is absolutely nothing else between
us, and never has been. I should like to know
whether you are satisfied to believe that ; much
depends on it."

Age and appearance ? "

"About twenty, — not quite so much, — and
strikingly handsome."

Hem. Position in life ? "

A year ago was on the streets, to put it
plainly ; since then has been getting her living
at laundry work."

"Hem. Name?"

Ida Starr."

Mr. Woodstock had been gazing at the toes
of his boots, still the same smile on his face.
When he heard the name he ceased to smile,
but did not move at all. Nor did he look upas
he asked the next question.

Is that her real name ? "

•' I believe so."

The old man drew up his feet, threw one leg
over the other, and began to tap upon his knee
with the fingers of one hand. He was silent

o

for a minute at least.

•'^ What do you know about her ? " he then
inquired, looking steadily at Waymark, with
a gravity which surprised the latter. " I mean,
of her earlier life. Do you know who she is
at all?"

'' She has told me her whole story, — a rather
uncommon one, full of good situations."

'* What do you mean ? "

The words were uttered with such harsh
impatience that Waymark started.

•'' What annoys you ? " he asked, with surprise.

"Tell me something of the story," said the

other, regaining his composure, and apparently
wishing to affect indifference. " I have a
twinge of this damned rheumatism every now
and then, and it makes me rather crusty. Do
you think her story is to be depended upon ? "

Yes, I believe it is."

And Waymark linked briefly the chief points
of Ida's history, as he knew it, the old man
continually interrupting him with questions.

"Now go on," said Abraham, when he had
heard all that Waymark knew, " and explain
the scrape she's got into."

Waymark did so.

And you mean to tell me," Abraham said,
before the story was quite finished, "that there's
been nothing more between you than that ? "

"Absolutely nothing."

I don't believe you."

It was said angrily, and with a blow of the
clenched fist on the table. The old man could
no longer conceal the emotion that possessed
him. Waymark looked at him in astonishment,
unable to comprehend his behaviour.

Well, if you don't believe me, of course I

can offer no proof; and I know well enough
that every presumption is against me. Still,
I tell you the plain fact ; and what reason have
I for hiding the truth ? If I had been livings
the girl, I should have said so, as an extra
reason for asking your help in the matter."

What help can I give ? " asked Woodstock,
again cooling down, though his eyes had in
them a most unwonted light. He spoke as
if simply asking for information.

I thought you might suggest something as
to modes of defence, and the like. The expenses
I would somehow or other meet myself It
appears that she will plead not-guilty."

And what's your belief? "

I can't make up my mind."

In that case, it seems to me, you ought to
give her the benefit of the doubt ; especially as
you seem to have made up your mind pretty
clearly about this Mrs. What's-her-name."

Waymark was silent, looking at Mr. Woodstock,
and reflecting.

"What are your intentions with regard to the
girl ? " Abraham asked, with a change in his

VOL. II. u

voice, the usual friendliness coming back. He
looked at the young man in a curious way ; one
would almost have said, with apprehensive
expectation.

I have no intentions."

'* You would have had, but for this affair ? "

No ; you are mistaken. I know the position
is difficult to realize."

Have you intentions, then, in any other
quarter ? "

Well, perhaps yes."

I've never heard anything of this."

"I could scarcely talk of a matter so
uncertain."

There was silence. A sort of agitation came
upon the old man ever and again, in talking.
He now grew absorbed in thought, and remained
thus for several minutes, Waymark looking at
him the while. When at length Abraham raised
his eyes, and they met Waymark's, he turned
them away at once, and rose from the chair.

I'll look into the business," he said, taking
out a bunch of keys, and putting one into the
lock of a drawer in his desk. '•' Yes, I'll go and

make inquiries." He half pulled out the drawer
and rustled among some papers.

Look here' he said, on the point of taking
something out ; but, even in speaking, he altered
his mind. " No ; it don't matter. I'll go and
make inquiries. You can go now, if you like ;
I mean to say, I suppose you've told me all
that's necessary. — Yes, you'd better go, and
look in again tomorrow morning."

Waymark left the room. He walked as far
as Lowborn, then took an omnibus, and rode to
Pimlico. Teaching the block of tenements
which had been Ida's home, he sought out the
porter's abode. When the door opened at his
knock, the first face that greeted him was that of
Grim, dio had pushed between the man's legs
and was peering up, as if in search of some
familiar aspect.

Could I have a word or two with you ? "
Waymark asked.

The porter was a pleasant enough fellow, and
his wife talkative even beyond the wont of her
kind. From them Waymark learned that the

police had made that afternoon an inspection

u 2

of Ida's rooms, though with what result was not
known. The couple had clearly formed their
own opinion as to Waymark's interest in the
accused girl, but took the position in a very
matter-of-fact way, and were eager to hear more
than they succeeded in getting out of the police.
They spoke with much kindness of Ida ; they
had seen very little of her at any time, but
never anything but what they deemed favourable
; they found it very hard to believe her
guilty of theft.

'' My main object in coming," Way mark
explained, *' was to look after her cat. I see
you have been good enough to anticipate me."

The poor thing takes on sadly," said the
woman. " Of course I shouldn't have known
nothing if the officers hadn't come, and it 'ud
just have starved to death. It seems to know
you, sir (

Yes, yes, I dare say. Do you think you
could make it convenient to keep the cat for the
present, if I paid you for its food ? "

Well, I don't see why not, sir ; we ain't
iron none of our own."

"And you would promise rnc very seriously
to be kind to him ? I don't mind the expense ;
keep him well, and let me know what you
spend. And of course I should consider your
trouble."

So that matter was satisfactorily arranged,
and Waymark went home.

Julian spent his day at the hospital as usual,
finding relief in fixing his attention upon outward
things. It was only when he left his work
in the evening that he became aware how exhausted
he was in mind and body. And the
dread which he had hitherto kept off came back
upon him, the dread of seeing his wife's face
and hearing her voice. When he parted with
Waymark in the morning, he had thought that
he would be able to come to some resolution
during the day as to his behaviour with regard
to her. But no such decision had been formed,
and his overtaxed mind could do no more than
dwell with dull persistency on a long prospect
of wretchedness. Fear and hatred moved him
in turns, and the fear was as much of himself as
of the object of his hate.

As he approached the door, a man came out
whom he did not know, but whose business he
suspected. He had little doubt that it was a
police officer in plain clothes. He had to stand
a moment and rest, before he could use his
latch-key to admit himself. When he entered
the sitting-room, he found the table spread as
usual. Harriet was sitting with sewing upon
her lap. She did not look at him.

He sat down, and closed his eyes. There
seemed to be a ringing of great bells about him,
overpowering every other sound ; all his muscles
had become relaxed and powerless ; he half forgot
where and under what circumstances he was,
in a kind of deadly drowsiness. Presently this
passed, and he grew aware that Harriet was
preparing tea. When it was ready, he went to
the table, and drank two or three cups, for he
was parched with a hot thirst. He could not
look at Harriet, but he understood the mood
she was in, and knew she would not be the first
to speak. He rose, walked about for a few
minutes, then stood still before her.

What proof have you to offer," he said,

speaking in a slow but indistinct tone, '' that
she is guilty of this, and that it isn't a plot
you have laid against her ? "

*' You can believe what you like," she replied,
sullenly. " Of course I know you'll do your
worst against me."

I wish you to answer my question. If I
choose to suspect that you yourself put this
brooch in her pocket — and if other people choose
to suspect the same, knowing your enmity against
her, what proof can you give that she is guilty ? "

Tt isn't the first thing she's stolen."

o

What proof have you that she took those
other things ? "

"Quite enough, I think. At all events,
they've found a pawn-ticket for the spoon at
her lodgings, among a whole lot of other tickets
for things she can't have come by honestly."
Julian became silent, and, as Harriet looked
up at him with eyes full of triumphant spite, he
turned pale. He could have crushed the hateful
face beneath his feet.

You're a good husband, you are," Harriet
went on, with a sudden change to anger ;

"taking part against your own wife, and trying
to make her out all that's bad. But I think
you've had things your own way long enough.
You thought I was a fool, did you, and couldn't
see what was going on ? You and your Ida
Starr, indeed ! Oh, she would be such a good
friend to me, wouldn't she ? She would do me
so much good ; you thought so highly of her ;
she was just the very girl to be my companion ;
how lucky we found her ! I'm much obliged
to you, but I think I might have better friends
than thieves and street-walkers."

What do you mean ? " asked Julian, starting
at the last word, and turning a ghastly countenance
on her.

I mean what I say. As if you didn't know,
indeed ! "

Explain what you mean," Julian repeated,
almost with violence. " Who has said anything
of that kind against her ? "

'' Who has ? Wliy I can bring half a dozen
people who knew her when she was on the
streets, before Waymark kept her. And you
knew it, well enough — no fear ! "

It's a lie, a cursed lie ! No one can say a
word against her purity. Only a foul mind
could imagine such things."

Purity ! Oh yes, she's very pure — you
know that, don't you? No doubt you'll be a
witness, and give evidence for her, and against
uie ; — let everybody know how perfect she is,
and what a beast and a liar I am ! You and
your Ida Starr ! "

Julian rushed out of the room into the adjoining
one, to save himself from some mad outbreak
in word or deed. There he stood motionless in
the middle of the floor, deafened by the fierce
throbbing of his blood, whilst temptations of the
wildest kind rushed through his brain. Strongest
of all was that which bade him save his soul by
flight, disappear from all who knew him, forget
every responsibility in a new life, perhaps ina
new country. To endure through what lay
before him if he stayed would be beyond his
strength ; it would end in madness or suicide.
Was all his life to be ruined because in a foolish
moment he had promised to love and cherish
one who had proved herself utterly unworthy

of him ? What claim had this wretched creature
upon him, now that the last links of affection
and confidence, always fatally frail, were broken
for ever ? What were law and the opinion of
men to one wrapped in the flame of despair ?
What duty was left for him, save to deliver
himself from these hideous conditions, which
befouled the current of his being ? He had
sacrificed enough ; he had made every effort a
man could make ; it was time to consider himself.

There was a noise in the next room ; it caught
his ear, and with a shudder he came back to
his waking life. He passed through the doors,
and saw that Harriet had fallen into a fit. Fora
moment he watched her from a distance, and
only slowly drew to her side, and stooped by
her. He could not bear to look into her face,
rendered yet more dreadful to him by the convulsions.
But he raised her head, and let it
rest against him till the fit was over. Then he
helped her to rise.

You had better get to bed," he said, when
she could understand him. " I have to 2^0 out
for a time, but T shall come back."

*' It makes no difference to me," she replied,
arranging her disordered dress.

Waymark could not but observe the peculiarities
in Mr. Woodstock's behaviour during
the conversation about Ida. At first it had
occurred to him — knowing a good deal of
Abraham's mode of life — that there must be
some disagreeable secret at the bottom, and
for a moment the ever-recurring distrust of
Ida rose again. But he had soon observed
that the listener was especially interested in
the girl's earliest years, and this pointed to
possibilities of a different kind. What was
it that was being taken from the drawer
to show him, when the old man suddenly
altered his mind ? Mr. Woodstock had perhaps
known Ida's parents. Waymark waited
with some curiosity for the interview on the
morrow.

Accordingly, he was surprised when, on presenting
himself, Mr. Woodstock did not at
first appear to remember what he had called
about.

Ob, ay, the girl ! " Abraham exclaimed, on
being reminded. "What did you say her name
was 'i Ida something,"

Waymark was puzzled and suspicious, and
showed both feelings in his looks, but Mr.
Woodstock preserved a stolid indifference which
it was very difficult to believe feigned.

IVe been busy," said the latter. *' Never
mind ; ther's time. She was remanded for a
week, you said ? Til go and see Helter about
her. May as well come along with me, and put
the case in 'artistic' form."

It was a word frequently on Way mark's lips,
and he recognized the unwonted touch of satire
with a smile, but was yet more puzzled. They
set out together to the office of the solicitor who
did Abraham's legal business, and held with him
a rather lengthy colloquy. Waymark stated all
he knew or could surmise with perfect frankness.
He had heard from Julian the night before of
the discovery which it was said the police had
made at Ida's lodo-ino-s, and this had almost
confirmed him in the belief that Harriet's
accusation was genuine.

How did she lose her place at the laundry ? "
asked Mr. Helter.

Waymark could not say ; for all he knew it
was through her own fault.

Her antecedents make the matter shady'
opined the solicitor, biting the end of his quill.
'* How about the antecedents of Mrs. Castii ? "

I know nothing against her ; believe she has
always been ' respectable '."

Hem."

And that's all you've got to say, Waymark?"
observed Mr. Woodstock, who had listened with
a good deal of indifference. " Well, I have no
more time at present. Look the thing up,
Helter ; and, by-the-bye, 1 want to show you
that correspondence with Hurst and Co. ; could
you look in to-night ? "

Mr. Helter agreed to do so, and his clients
took their leave.

I wouldn't bother your head much about
this," Mr. Woodstock said, as they parted
shortly after. '' I'm afraid there's not much of
a case ; but we must see."

On reaching home, Waymark wrote a few

lines to Ida, merely to say that Grim was
provided for, and assure her that she was not
forgotten. In a day or two he received a reply.
The official envelope almost startled him at first.
Inside was written this :

You have been kind. I thank you for everything.
Try to think kindly of me, whatever
happens ; I shall be conscious of it, and it will
give me strength.

"I. S."

The week went by, and Ida again appeared in
court. Mr. Woodstock went with Way mark,
out of curiosity, he said. The statement of the
case against the prisoner sounded very grave.
What Harriet had said about the discovery of
the pawn-ticket for her silver spoon was true.
Ida's face was calm, but paler yet and thinner.
When she caught sight of Harriet Castii, she
turned her eyes away quickly, and with a look
of trouble. She desired to ask no question,
simply gave her low and distinct " Not guilty."
She was committed for trial.

Waymark watched Mr. Woodstock, who was

examining Ida all the time ; he felt sure that he
heard something like a catching of the breath
when the girl's face first because visible.

That Mrs. Castii's a ! " exclaimed

Abraham, as they left the court. The expressions
he used were picturesque and forcible,
too much so for repetition in mixed society.
''If the jury don't read perjury in that face,
they'll be damned thickets."

"And what's your opinion of Ida herself?"
asked Waymark.

I couldn't see her very well," said the old
mau, coldly.

She hasn't quite a fortnight to wait."

No."

"You're sure Helter will do all that can be
done ? "

'eyes."

Mr. Woodstock nodded his head, and walked
off by himself.

Julian Castii was ill. With difficulty he had
dragged himself to the court, and his sufferings
as he sat there were horribly evident on his
white face. Waymark met him just as Mr.

Woodstock walked off, and the two went home
together by omnibus, not speaking on the way.

She will be convicted," was Julian's first
utterance, when he had sat for a few minutes in
Waymark's room, whilst Waymark himself paced
up and down. The latter turned, and saw that
tears were on his friend's hollow cheeks.

Did you sleep better last night ? " he asked.

Good God, no ! I never closed my eyes.
That's the third night without rest. Waymark,
get me an opiate of some kind, or I shall kill
myself; and let me sleep here."

What will your wife say ? "

"What do I care what she says!" cried
Julian, with sudden excitement, his muscles
quivering, and his cheeks flaming all at once.
Don't use that word ' wife,' it is profanation ;
I can't bear it ! If I see her to-night, I can't
answer for what I may do. Curse her to all
eternity ! "

He sank back in exhaustion.

Julian," said Waymark, using his friend's first
name by exception, " if this goes on, you will be
seriously ill. What the deuce shall we do then ? "

No, I shall not be ill. It will be all right if
I can get sleep'

He was silent for a little, then spoke, with his
eyes on the ground.

Waymark, is this true they say about her, —
about the former time ? "

"Yes ; it is true."

Waymark in turn was silent.

I suppose'* he continued presently, " I owe
you an apology."

"None. It was right of you to act as you
did."

He was going to say something else, but
checked himself. Waymark noticed this, watched
his face for a moment, and spoke with some
earnestness.

"But it was in that only I misled you.
Perhaps I have forfeited your credit ? Do you
believe me when I repeat that she and I were
never anything but friends ? "

Julian looked up with a gleam of gratitude
in his eyes.

Yes, I believe you ! "

And be sure of this," Waymark went on,

VOL. II. X

whether or not this accusation is true, it does
not in the least affect the nobility of her
character. You and I are sufficiently honest,
in the true sense of the word, to understand
this. Now would you like me to tell you all
her story, as she once told it me '? "

'' Yes, yes ! Thank you a thousand times ! "
I will do so, then. It will help you to get
rid of many doubts, which I know are troubling

you."

Every detail of that narrative was clear in
Waymark's mind, and he related it well. Julian
followed with interest which absorbed him. At
the end, he sighed and leaned back with a sad
smile.

'you are blest as never man yet was," he
said, but little above a whisper, " and you have
realized it too late, — perhaps do not realize it
now."

It was agreed presently that Julian should
remain where he was during the night, and
Waymark should go to apprise Harriet of the
arrangement. He went very shortly, and was
struck with the irrepressible glow of triumph on

Harriet's countenance. She received the communication
almost cheerfully. For her own
part, she spent her evening at the Clock House.

Waymark only saw Mr. Woodstock once or
twice in the next fortnight, and very slight
mention was made between them of the coming
trial. He himself was not to be involved in the
case in any way ; as a witness on Ida's side he
could do no good, and probably would prejudice
her yet more in the eyes of the jury. It troubled
him a little to find with what complete calmness
he could await the result ; often he said to
himself that he must be sadly lacking in human
sympathy. Julian Castii, on the other hand,
had passed into a state of miserable deadness ;
Waymark in vain tried to excite hope in him.
He came to his friend's every evening, and sat
there for hours in dark reverie.

What will become of her ? " Julian asked
once. " In either case, — what will become of
her ? "

Woodstock shall help us in that," Waymark
replied. " She must get a place of some
kind."

X 2

How dreadfully lie is suffering, and how
dark life will be before her ! "

And so the day of the trial came. Helter
had come to the conclusion that the best way
of serving his client was to allow all the facts
of her history to be known without reserve ; in
the event of conviction, they might possibly
become a plea for mitigation of judgment.
Moreover, he would act throughout on the
assumption that Ida was the victim of a conspiracy.
Clearly it was the easiest thing in the
world for Harriet to have put the brooch in the
pocket where it was found ; and the ascertained
fact that the drawers in Ida's rooms were always
left unlocked made it perfectly possible for
Harriet to have bestowed the incriminating
pawn-ticket among the genuine ones on either
of two occasions on which Ida had left her alone
there.

Unfortunately, the pawnbroker's evidence was
damaging. The silver spoon had been pledged,
he asserted, at the same time with another article
for which Ida possessed the duplicate. The
inscriptions on the duplicates supported him in

this, and he professed to have not the least
doubt as to the prisoner's identity. Pressed in
cross-examination, he certainly threw some
suspicion on the trustworthiness of his assertions.
You positively swear that these two articles
were pledged by the prisoner, and at the same
time ? " asked the cross-examiner. " Well," was
the impatient reply, " there's the same date and
name, and both in my writing." But even
thus much of doubt he speedily retracted,
and his evidence could not be practically
undermined.

Harriet's examination was long and searching,
but she bore it without the slightest damage to
her credit. Plain, straightforward, and stubborn
were all her replies and assertions ; she did not
contradict herself once. Waymark marvelled
at her appearance and manner. The venom of
malice had acted upon her as a tonic, strengthening
her intellect, and bracing her nerves.
Once she looked directly into Ida's face and
smiled.

Mrs. Sprowl had been summoned, and appeared
in all the magnificence of accumulated

rings, bracelets, necklaces, and watch-chains.
Helter hoped to make good use of her.

Did you on a certain occasion ^o to the
person in whose employ the prisoner was, and,
by means of certain representations with regard
to the prisoner's antecedents, become the cause
of her dismissal ? ''

'^ I did. I told all I knew about her, and I
consider I'd a right to do so."

Mrs. Sprowl was not to be robbed of her self-assurance
by any array of judicial dignity.

What motive led you to do this ? "

A good enough one, I think. She'd been
imposed on Mr. Castii and his wife as a respectable
character, and she was causing trouble
between them. She had to be got rid of somehow,
and that was one step to it."

Was Mrs. Castii aware of your intention
to take this step ? "

No, she wasn't."

But you told her when you had done it ? "

'eyes, I did."

The frankness of all this had its effect, of
course. The case was attracting much interest

in court, and the public seats were quite full.
Mrs. Sprowl looked round in evident enjoyment
of her position. There was a slight pause, and
then the examination continued.

'' Of what nature was the trouble you speak
of, caused by the prisoner between this lady
and her husband ? "

Mr. Castii began to pay a good deal too
much attention to her."

There was a sound of whispers and a murmuring.


Did Mrs. Castii impart to you her suspicions
of the prisoner as soon as she missed the first of
these articles alleged to be stolen ? "

'' Yes, she did''

And did you give any advice as to how she
should proceed ? "

I told her to be on the look-out."

No doubt you laid stress on the advantage,
from a domestic point of view, of securing this
prisoner's detection ? "

Certainly I did, and I hoped and prayed as
she mio^ht be caught ! "

Mrs. Sprowl was very shortly allowed to retire.

For the defence there was but one witness, and
that was Mrs. Tree, the laundress who had
employed Ida. Personal fault with Ida she had
none at all to find ; the latter's character had
appeared perfect during both the periods of her
employment in the laundry. The sole cause of
her dismissal was in the representations made by
Mrs. Sprowl. Perhaps she had acted hastily
and unkindly, but she had three daughters of
her own working in the laundry, and it behoved
her to be careful of them.

Julian's part in the trial had been limited
to an examination as to his knowledge of
Ida's alleged thefts. He declared that he
knew nothing save from his wife's statements
to him. He had observed nothing in the least
suspicious.

The judge's summing-up was very brief. It
was not difficult to see that Ida's position had
awakened in him a certain sympathy, and he did
not fail to draw attention to the danger of her
case being prejudiced by her antecedents. The
jury, however, had to weigh the value of the
prisoner's assertion of innocence against the

evidence which had been offered ; this assertion
was, indeed, all that she had to depend upon,
unless any solid suspicion had been aroused
of foul play on the part of the accuser. This
latter, it seemed, the jury did not deem to
be the case. Domesticities and the evidence
carried the day. A verdict was returned of
Guilty."

Had the prisoner anything to say ? Nothing
whatever. Ida shook her head, and, standing
with her hands crossed before her on the
wall of the dock, calmly looked at the judge.
There was a pause, a longer pause than seemed
necessary. Then, without remark, she was
sentenced to be imprisoned for six months with
hard labour.

Waymark had been drawn to the court in
spite of himself. Strangely quiet hitherto, a
fear fell upon him the night before the trial.
From an early hour in the morning he walked
about the streets, circling ever nearer to the
hateful place. All at once he found himself
facing: Mr. Woodstock. The old man's face

was darkly anxious, and he could not change
its expression quickly enough.

Are you going in ? " he asked, sharply.

'' Are you ? "

^^Yes."

Then I shall not," said Way mark. " 111 goto
your office, and wait there."

But when Abraham, whose eyes had not
moved from the prisoner throughout the proceedings,
rose at length to leave, a step or
two brought him to a man who was leaning
against the wall, powerless from conflicting
excitement, and deadly pale. It was Waymark.
Mr. Woodstock took him by the arm and led
him out.

Why couldn't you keep away ? " the old
man exclaimed, hoarsely, and with more of age
in his voice than any one had ever yet heard
in it.

Waymark shook himself free, and laughed, as
one laughs under torment.

Do you believe her guilty ? " asked the
other, with a human earnestness quite unlike
him.

'not if every court in England proclaimed
her so ! " repeated Waymark, between his teeth.
I saw her face as she went away."

So did I."

They looked at each other.

END OF VOL. II.

University of Illinois Library

ici-^'M

L161— H41

OF THE

UN 1VE.RSITY

Of ILLINOIS

G44u
IB84

cop. 2.

Vol ir.

BY

GEORGE Missing

AUTHOR OF "WORKERS IN THE DAWN.

Hast du night gate Gesellschaf t gesehn ? Es zeigt uns dein Btichlein
Fast nur Gaoler und Volkk, ja was noah niedriger list.
Gate Gesellschaft hab' ici gesehn ; man nennt sie die gate
Went sie sum leinster Gedicht keene Gelegenheit giebt."— Goethe.

IN THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. Il

LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL

Limited



[All rights reserved.'\

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

BOOK V.
CHAPTER I.

PAGE

DECLARATION OF FAITH . . . 1

CHAPTER II.

STRAYING

CHAPTER VI.
JUBILEE COURT

21

CHAPTER III.
THE WILL TO LIVE . . . . 43

CHAPTER IV.

BONDAGE . . . . . 63

CHAPTER V.

FREEDOM . . . . ••• 87



BOOK VL
CHAPTER L

PAGE

MONEY THE HELPER . . . . 118

CHAPTER II.

A VISION OF SIN . . . . 146

CHAPTER III.

A Garden-party . . . . 165

CHAPTER IV.

A LATE REVENGE . . . . 191

CHAPTER V.
HOUSE-WARMING . . . . 215

CHAPTER VI.
NO WAY BUT THIS . . . . 236

CHAPTER VII.

FORBIDDEN . . . . . 264

CHAPTER VIII.

THE SECOND LETTER . . . 285

BOOK V.

CHAPTER I.
Declaration OF FAITH.

One Monday afternoon at the end of October
three months had gone by since the tria! —
Waymark carried his rents to St. John Street
Eoad as usual. He found Mr. Woodstock on
the point of going out.

Can you spare a couple of hours or so ? "
asked the latter.

Quite well."

'* I'm going over to Fulham. You may as
well come with me."

Of the object in view Waymark knew nothing.
They took a hansom, and drove westward

*' By the bye, I finished my novel the other

VOL. III. B

r

day," Waymark said, when their approach to
quieter regions made conversation possible.

"That's right. No doubt you're on your way
to glory, as the hymn says."

Abraham was in good spirits. One would
have said that he had grown younger of late.
That heaviness and tendency to absent brooding
which not long ago seemed to indicate the
tightening grip of age, was disappearing ; he
was once more active and loud and full of his
old interests.

Ten to one," Waymark went on, " no
publisher will have the courage to bring it out."

Mr. Woodstock laughed.

You say you've got Slimy in it ? "

Yes ; he's one of the chief characters. By
the bye, he hasn't paid up to-day."

Hasn't he ? Well, we won't be hard on him.
Queer fish, Slimy."

A year ago such a remark as this would have
been impossible on Abraham's lips. Waymark
had noticed one or two such little touches of late.

How's Castii ? " Mr. Woodstock went on to ask.

'' A good deal better, I think, but shaky. Of

course things will be as bad as ever when his
wife comes out of the hospital."

Pity she shouldn't come out heels first,"
muttered Abraham.

They drew up by some pleasant old houses
not far from the river Things had of course
a bare aspect at this season of the year, but
there were trees and gardens around, and doubtless
in the time of leaves it would be a delightful
spot to live in.

How do you like the look of that house ? "
asked the old man, pointing to one which stood
some distance back from the road, in pleasant
grounds. It was a picturesque building of
brick, mellowed by the weather of a century and
a half. A board in front gave notice that it
was to be let or sold. Way mark expressed his
approval of it, and his companion led the w-ay
to the front-door. A caretaker showed them
over the house. It was not very large, but
inside and outside matched, and Way mark
rejoiced in the staircases, fireplaces, and ceilings.

It wants a good deal of renovation," observed
Mr. Woodstock.

B 2

For Heaven's sake, no ! It is perfect."

I must inquire about the drains," said the
other, without heeding.

Way mark psha'd.

"I suppose you think me an old fool," said
Abraham, as they drove to Chelsea, "to take a
house like this at my time of life, eh ? "

There was a twinkle in his eye, and a moment
after he fairly burst into a laugh of pleasure.

So long ! — as the blackguards say," he
exclaimed, as he put down Waymark in Beaufort
Street. 'look in on Wednesday night."

I'm sorry I can't. Dine with the Enderbys."

Damn the Enderbys ! " was the reply, with
a real lowering of the brows. " All right ; say
Thursday."

Waymark expected Julian in the evening, he
had given him the manuscript of his novel
to read, and was anxious to hear his opinion.
About nine o'clock Julian came, bringing the
parcel. He looked like one who had recovered
from a long illness, very pale and thin, and his
voice had trembling and uncertainties of key.
In fact, a feverish disorder had been upon him

for some weeks, never severe enough to prevent
his getting about, but weakening him to a
serious degree. It would doubtless have developed
into some more pronounced illness, but
for the period of comparative rest and quietness
which had begun shortly after the miseries of
the trial. Harriet's ailments had all at once
taken such a decided turn for the worse, — her
fits becoming incessant, and other disorders
traceable to the same source suddenly taking
hold upon her, — that Julian had obtained her
admission to the All Saints' Hospital, where^she
still remained. He went to see her in the ward
two or three times a week, though he dreaded
the necessity. From little incidents which
occurred at such times, he was convinced that
all her fellow-patients, as well as the "sister"
and nurses of the wards, had been prejudiced
against him by her reports and accusations. To
meet their looks occasioned him the most
dreadful . suffering. Sometimes he sat by the
bedside for half an hour without speaking, then
rose and hastened away to hide himself and be
alone with his misery.

He was earnest and eager to-night in his
praise of Waymark's book.

It is horrible," he exclaimed ; ** often hideous
and revolting to me ; but I feel its absolute
truth. Such a book will do more good than
half a dozen religious societies''

If only people can be got to read it. Yet
I care nothing for that aspect of the thing. Is
it artistically strong "? Is it good as a picture ?
There was a time when I might have written in
this way with a declared social object. That
is all gone by. I have no longer a spark of
social enthusiasm. Art is all I now care for, and
as art I wish my work to be judged."

One would have thought," said Julian, " that
increased knowledge of these fearful things
would have had just the opposite effect."

"Yes," exclaimed the other, with the smile
which always prefaced some piece of self-dissection,
" and so it would in the case of a man
lorn to be a radical. Strange as it may sound,
I am by nature an aristocrat, — because I am
by nature an artist. The aristocratic and the
artistic temperaments have this in common,

both are founded on egotism ; conscious egotism.
Of course every man is an egotist, but the artist
is so to a supremely conscious degree ; and in consequence
he becomes an aristocrats' I often amuse
myself with taking to pieces my former self I
was not a conscious hypocrite in those days of
violent radicalism, working-man's-club lecturing,
and the like ; the fault was that I understood myself
as yet so imperfectly. That zeal on behalf of
the suffering masses was nothing more nor less
than disguised zeal on behalf of my own starved
passions. I was poor and desperate, life had no
pleasures, the future seemed hopeless, yet I was
overflowing with vehement desires, every nerve in
me was a hunger which cried to be appeased. I
identified myself with the poor and ignorant ; I
did not make their cause my own, but my own
cause theirs. I raved for freedom because I was
myself in the bondage of unsatisfiable longing."

"Well," he went on, after regarding his
listener with still the same smile, '^ I have come
out of all that, in proportion as my artistic self-consciousness
has developed. For one thing, I
am not so miserable as I was then, personally ;

then again, I have found my vocation. You know
pretty well the phases I have passed through.
Upon ranting radicalism followed a period of
philosophical study. ; I still wanted to write, and
had a plan of combining philosophy with art. But
I am no Metropolis. My philosophy, I have
come to see, was worth nothing ; what philosophy
is worth anything'? It had its use for myself,
however ; it made me by degrees self-conscious,
and brought me to see that in art alone I could
find full satisfaction. I repeat that I have
absolutely no social purpose in this novel ; it is
purely objective. Of course people are at liberty
to make what use they like of it."

Yet," urged Julian, " the old direction still
shows itself in your choice of subjects. Granting
that this is pure art, it is a kind of art only
possible to an age in which the social question
is predominant."

True, very likely. Every strong individuality
is more or less the expression of its age.
This direction may be imposed upon me ; for
all that, I understand why I pursue it. Two
supreme artists are at work in the creation of

the world, — God and the Devil. Some of us
delight to imitate the former, some the latter.
In the work of the Devil I find my own delight
and inspiration. I have only to go out into
the streets all nis^ht to come across half a
hundred scenes of awful suffering or degradation,
every one of which fills me with absolute joy.
There is nothing of malice in this ; it is simply
that every human situation is interesting to mein
proportion as it exhibits artistic possibilities
and my temperament is especially sensitive ta
the picturesque in what is usually called vileness.'
Thus, for instance, prostitution and everything
connected with it is my highest interest. In
the prostitute you have the incarnation at once
of the greatest good and the greatest evil, the
highest and the lowest, that which is most pure
associated with that which is most foul, — using
all these words in the conventional sense. Love
is the supreme in human life ; and love brought
to market, the temple of ecstatic worship degraded
to a house of entertainment for the
merest bodily need, the ideals of a young girl's
heart little by little corroded and envenomed

and blotted out by the reeking mists of debauched
imagination, the fair bodily form corrupting
with the degradation of the soul and
metamorphosed to a horror, — what has earth
to show more rich in artistic suggestion than
this ? Mere pity is killed by this appreciation.
Often I call myself heartless in the face of such
feelings. Well, what matter '? I am what I am,
and, like every other creature, I worship what
seems to me the highest."

It sounds very horrible," said Julian, smiling
sadly, ^'but the horror is of course only in your
point of view. For my own part, I can't accept
art as an end in itself; and I don't believe that
it does end in itself After all, it is but one
of the means of human happiness ; true art,
somehow or other, works for human good. A
picture of supreme beauty does so directly, by
giving immediate joy ; your work will do so ina
different way, by arousing compassion and the
enthusiasms which ensue."

Let it be so ; I am agreeable. I only want
to give you an insight into my own nature.
My delight is purely egotistic. In writing, I

don't even think of those who may read, their
praise and so on. Creation is at the time everything.
And you see how necessarily such a
state of mind results in social conservatism.
Now, look at Hogarth there ! " He pointed" to
the volume of plates, Mr. Woodstock's present.
*' We talk of his aims in choosing these subjects ;
we call him a social reformer, a moralist. That
is only an accident of his work, and so far as he
himself believed in such an aim he was deficient
in self-consciousness. Suppose for a moment
that his pictures could have been so miraculously
efficient as to lead to a social revolution. Think
you he would have rejoiced in the destruction
of Gin Lane ? Never believe it ! No more
sketching on the thumb-nail, no more artist's
rapture in view of a group of vilest humanity,
no more glorious effects of filth and outrage !
Hogarth would have sunk into despondency,
and died cursing the work of his own hands."

There was a silence, broken by Way mark's
laughter.

I am not talking for effect," he said. " All
this is literally and absolutely true."

It would change," said Julian, without raising
his eyes, " if you became yourself a part of such
wretchedness. Imagine yourself in my position.
Could you appreciate the artistic effect of your
own circumstances ? "

Probably not. And it is because I recognize
that, that I grow more and more careful to hold
aloof from situations that would threaten my
peace of mind. My artistic egotism bids fair
to ally itself with vulgar selfishness. That
tendency I must resist. For the artist ought
to be able to make material of his own sufferings,
even while the suffering is at its height. To
what other end does he suffer ? In very deed,
he is the only man whose misery finds justification
in apparent result. I am often tempted
to believe that one great work of art embodying
human misery would be ample justification of
the whole world's anguish. Justification, that
is, from the humanly relative point of view.
Of the absolute of course we know nothing,
and I have long since ceased to speculate
about it."

"You used to say that you would purposely

seek dreadful experiences, to extend your knowledge
of life."

"Yes, and I hope to come back again to that.
It's only just at present that I feel cowardly.
I suppose I need a little rest. But, mind ; if
I go to seek experiences, I also hold myself
at liberty to put an end to the conditions, as
soon as I have drawn from them all the profit
I can."

Suppose yourself situated as I am."

I should do something extreme. I would
suffer no soul to chain me down and hinder my
progress. Look at the history of artists. Thole
who became great were strong to burst asunder
petty conventional bonds, and make a new life
when the old was intolerable."

I am not an artist," sighed Julian.

"On the contrary, I firmly believe that you
are. And it makes me angry to see the impulses
dying in you."

What am I to do ? " Julian cried, almost
with a voice of anguish. "I am so helpless,
so hopelessly fettered ! Release is impossible.
No words could express the desperate struggles

I go through when I recognize how my life is
being wasted and my powers, whatever they
may be, numbed and crushed. Something I
might do, if I were free ; I feel that ! But there
is no hope of freedom. I shall fall into darker
and darker depths of weakness and ruin, always
conscious of what I am losing. What will bethe
end?"

What the end will be, under the present
circumstances, is only too clear to me. But it
might easily be averted ? "

How ? Give me some practical advice, Waymark
! Let us talk of the matter freely. Tell
me what you would do ! "

Way mark thought for a moment.

"Does there seem any chance of her health
being permanently improved ? " he asked.

I can t say. She says she is better. It's
no use my asking the doctors ; they despise me,
and would not think of treating me with any
consideration."

Why don't you do this ? " began Waymark,
after another pause. " Use all means to find
some convalescent-home where she can be

received when she leaves the hospital. Then,
if her fits and the rest of it still continue, find
some permanent place for her. You can afford
it. Never mind if it reduces you for a time to
a garret and a crust."

She would refuse to go to such places," said
Julian, despondently.

Then refuse to take her back ! Sell your
furniture ; take one room for yourself ; and tell
her she must live where she likes on a sufficient
allowance from you'

"I dare not. It is impossible. She would
never leave me in peace."

• "You will have to do this ultimately, if you
are to continue to live. Of that there is no
doubt. So why not now ? "

*' I must think ; it is impossible to make up
my mind to such a thing at once. I know you
advise what is best ; 1 have thought of it myself.
But I shall never have the courage ! I am so
miserably weak. If only I could get my health
back I Good God, how I suffer ! "

Way mark did his best to familiarize Julian
with the thought, and to foster in him something

of resoluteness, but he had small hope of
succeeding. The poor fellow was so incapable
of anything which at all resembled selfishness,
and so dreaded the results of any such severity
on his part as that proposed. There were
moments when indignation almost nerved him
to independence, but there returned so soon the
sense of pity, and, oftener still, the thought
of that promise made to Harriet's father, long
ago, in the dark little parlour which smelt of
drugs. The poor chemist, whose own life was
full of misery, had been everything to him ;
but for Mr. Smales, he might now have been
an ignorant, coarse-handed working man, if not
worse. Was Harriet past all rescue ? Was
there not even yet a chance of saving her from
herself and these hateful friends of hers ?

This was the natural reaction after listening
to Waymark's remorseless counsel. Going home,
Julian fought once more the battle with himself,
till the usual troubled sleep severed his thoughts
into fragments of horrible dreams. The next day
he felt differently ; Waymark's advice seemed
more practical. In the afternoon he should

have visited Harriet in the ward, but an insuperable
repulsion kept him away, and. for
the first time. It was a bleak, cheerless day ;
the air was cold with the breath of the nearing
winter. Anguish of vain desires, the burden of
a hopeless future, the bitterness of the world's
cruelty, found voice in the constant moaning of
the wind. By night the fever had come upon
him with renewed force. He found it impossible
to sit in his own room, and dreaded to talk with
any one. His thoughts were fixed upon one
place ; a great longing drew him forth, into
the darkness and the rain of the streets, onwards
in a fixed direction. It brought him to Westminster,
and to the gate of Tothill Fields Prison. /
The fetters upon the great doors were hideous
in the light of the lamps above them ; the mean
houses around the gaol seemed to be rotting in
its accursed shadow. A deadly stillness possessed
the air ; there was blight in the dropping of the
rain.

He leaned against the great, gloomy wall, and
thought of Ida. At this hour she was most
likely asleep, unless sorrow kept her waking.

VOL. III. c

What unimagined horrors did she suffer day
after day in that accursed prison-house ? How
did she bear her torments ? Was she well or ill ?
What brutality might she not be subjected to ?
He pictured her face wasted with secret tears,
those eyes which were the light of his soul fixed
on the walls of the cell, hour after hour, in
changeless despair, the fire of passionate resentment
feeding at her life's core. For he had
never believed her guilty of the baseness laid
to her charge ; that Waymark could do so, had
astonished and pained him. Might he not have
saved her by uttering all he knew and suspected ?
His silence had been in spite of himself; in that
moment of her condemnation, had the sacrifice
of his life availed to rescue her, he would have
died with joy. She was suffering unreservedly ;
and had he still a thought of mercy for the
hateful cause of it all ?

The night became calmer. The rain ceased,
and a sudden gleam made him look up, to
behold the moon breaking her way through
billows of darkness. There fell upon him that
mood in which human things lose their relative

magnitude, and the mind judges of the world
from without. By virtue of what divine
authority did men dare thus to hold in
bondage a fellow-mortal ? What right had
society thus to impose its penalties on a living
soul, to condemn to anguish a being it had no
power to make happy, to disinherit of the birthright
of liberty in mere revenge for a petty
infringement of a prescription which has seemed
good to man in the wisdom of his selfishness ?
Theft, forsooth Who of all those constituting
society should make good to her one moment
of these months stolen from her short life ?
Eternity claimed in exchange for so many
shillings sterling ; was this the last outcome of
human wisdom ? Who dare estimate the value
of this stolen time, even relatively to society?
Oh, the solemn mummery of justice and judgment
! Nay, throw it all off, and deal honestly
one with another ; say plainly : we here are the
stronger, and in our brute strength we make
rules for you; be led by we care not what
impulse into the breaking of these rules, and
we will prove to you our supremacy, even unto

C 2

the gates of death. Or better, let the laws of
society affect that which is in the gift of society ;
let kind be paid for in kind ; recognize that the
so-called "laws" are at the best but a paltry
expedient, and shun the monstrous arrogance of
claiming lordship over the life which comes we
know not whence, goes we know not whither !

So thought Julian Castii in his anguish. It is
so difficult not to believe that man is something
apart from his conditions ; and love soars so
high in its faith in the individual soul. Oh
passion and enthusiasm, and all things great
and rare, learn your kinship with the meanest
of human functions, and remember the goal
whereto you and they alike tend. Hope for
nothing more than ultimate rest ; pant and
yearn and aspire, for so is it ordained you
shall, but remember that the toil is vain, and
the reward frustration. Suffer in silence. " Si
quis sofa die current fervent ad vespers, satis
rstr

CHAPTER 11.

STRAYING.

The Enderbys were at Brighton during the
autumn. Mr. Enderby only remained with
them two or three days at a time, business
requiring his frequent presence in town. Maud
would have been glad to spend her holidays at
some far quieter place, but her mother enjoyed
Brighton, and threw herself into the amusements
of the place with spirits which seemed to grow
younger. They occupied handsome apartments,
and altogether lived in a much more expensive
way than when at home. Mrs. Enderby gloried
in the varying splendours of oft-changed garments
; she was — as Maud became aware — the
admired of many beholders, and in truth her
perfect taste enabled her to so far assist her
lingering beauty as to appear a young and

handsome woman. Look full into her face
for a few moments, and you caught suspicions
of things not altogether charming ; a slight
wrinkle might show itself flitting here and
there, a thinness of cheek, a something in the
eyes not to be understood and productive of
uncomfortable sensations. But these things
were of no account in her general intercourse
with the frothy people of the Esplanade. She
had more society here than in London On
several occasions, Paul, as he walked with her
and Maud, had met people of his acquaintance,
and, in his nervous way, effected introductions
which led to subsequent intercourse. Visitors
were abundant after the first week or so, and
Mrs. Enderby managed so to fill up the days
with various engagements as to leave no danger
of the loneliness which more and more she
shrank from.

Maud was glad to see her mother happy, but
was far from being at ease herself in this kind,
of life. Their acquaintances were not people
with whom she could sympathize in any way,
and the racket of a fashionable watering-place

seriously distressed her. It was not as easy to
avoid, society here as at home, and the indiscriminate
intercourse into which she was driven,
the perpetual strain upon her nerves, the unwonted
mental and bodily exertion, soon affected
her health. She was scarcely ever free from
headache, and the pale trouble of her countenance
constantly led to compassionate inquiries
from the people who met her. In the third
week she broke down, beyond possibility of
further disguise. Her mother was alarmed,
and nursed her for one whole day assiduously.
After that it was arranged that Maud should
live in her own way, withholding from the
social riot which she dreaded, and seeking rest
in out-of-the-way parts of the shore, where more
of nature was to be found and less of fashion.
Maud feared lest her mother should feel this as
an unkind desertion, but Mrs. Enderby was far
from any such trouble ; it would leave her more
freedom, and relieve her from the occasional
disadvantages attendant upon the presence by
her side of a grown-up daughter, whose kind
of beauty so strongly contrasted with her own.

So Maud spent lier days very frequently in
exploring the Downs, or in seeking out retired
nooks beneath the cliffs, where there was no
sound in her ears but that of the waves. She
was too weak to go very far. She would sit for
hours with no companion save her thoughts,
which were unconsciously led from phase to
phase by the moving lights and shadows upon
the sea, and the soft beauty of unstable clouds.

Even before leaving London, she had begun
to experience a frequent sadness of mood, tending
at times to weariness and depression, which
foreshadowed new changes in her inner life.
The fresh delight in nature and art had worn
off in some degree ; she read less, and her
thoughts took the habit of musing upon the
people and circumstances about her, also upon
the secrets of the years to come. She grew
more conscious of the mystery in her own
earlier life, and in the conditions which now
surrounded her. A sense which at times besets
all imaginative minds came upon her now and
then with painful force ; a fantastic unreality
would suddenly possess all she saw and heard ;

it seemed as if she had been of a sudden transported
out of the old existence into this new
and unrealized position ; if any person spoke
to her, it was difficult to feel that she was really
addressed and must reply ; was it not all a
mere vision she was beholding, out of which she
would presently awake ? Such moments were
followed by dark melancholy, wherein whispered
a stern presage of formless misery. This life
she was leading would not last, but would pass
away in some fearful shock of soul. Once she
half-believed herself endowed with the curse of a
hideous second-sight. Sitting with her father
and mother, silence all at once fell upon the
room, and everything was transfigured in a
ghostly light. Distinctly she saw her mother
throw her head back and raise to her throat what
seemed to be a sharp glistening piece of steel ;
then came a cry, and all was darkened before her
eyes in a rush of crimson mist. The cry she
had herself uttered, much to her parents' alarm ;
what her mother held was in reality only a
paper-knife, with which she bad been tapping
her lips in thought. A slight attack of illness

followed on tins disturbance, and it was some
days before she recovered from the shock ; she
kept to herself, however, the horrible picture
which her imagination had conjured up.

She began to pay more frequent visits to her
Aunt Theresa, whom at first she had seen very
seldom. There was not the old confidence
between them. Maud shrank from any direct
reference to the change in herself, and Theresa
said no word which could suggest a comparison
between past and present. In silence, now, by
look and manner, Maud tried once more to draw
nearer to the pale and gentle woman, whose
life ever remained the same. She was not
repelled, but neither did any motion of the
countenance respond to her half-yearning. She
always came away with a sinking heart.

One evening in the week she looked forward
to with eagerness ; it was that on which Waymark
was generally expected. In Waymark's
presence she could forget those dark spirits that
hovered about her ; she could forget herself, and
be at rest in the contemplation of strength and
confidence. There was a ring in his voice which

inspired faith ; whatever might be his own
doubts and difficulties, — and his face testified
to his knowledge of both, — it was so certain
that he had power to overcome them. This
characteristic grew stronger in him to her observation
; he was a far other man now than
when she first knew him ; the darkness had
passed from his eyes, which seemed always to
look straight forward, and with perception of an
end he was nearing. Why could she not make
opportunities of speaking freely with him, alone
with him ? They were less near to each other,
it seemed, after a year of constant meeting, Xhsm
in the times when, personally all but strangers,
they had corresponded so frankly and unconventionally.
Of course he came to the house for
her sake ; it could not but be so ; yet at times
he seemed to pay so little attention to her. Her
mother often monopolized him through a whole
evening, and not apparently to his own annoyance.
And all the time he had in his heart
the message for which she longed ; support and
comfort were waiting for her there, she felt
sure, could he but speak unrestrainedly. In

herself was no salvation ; but he had already
overcome, and why could she not ask him for
the secret of his confidence ? Often, as the
evening drew to an end, and he was preparing
to leave, an impatience scarcely to be repressed
took hold upon her ; her face grew hot, her
hands trembled, she would have followed him
from the room and beo^o:ed for one word to
herself had it been possible. And when he
was gone, there came the weakest moments her
life had yet known ; a childish petulance, a
tearful fretting, an irritable misery of which
she was ashamed. She went to her room to
suffer in silence, and often to read through that
packet of his letters, till the night was far
spent.

It had cost her much to leave London. She
feared lest, during her absence, something should
occur to break off the wonted course of things,
and that Waymark might not resume his visits
on their return. After the feverish interval
of those first weeks, she tried sometimes to
distract her thoughts by reading, and got from
a library a book which Waymark had recommended

to her at tHeir last meeting, Rossetti's
poems. These gave her much help in restoring
her mind to quietness. Their perfect beauty
entranced her, and the rapturous purity of ideal
passion, the mystic delicacies of emotion, which
made every verse gleam like a star, held her
for the time high above that gloomy cloudland
of her being, rife with weird shapes and muffled
voices. That Beauty is solace of life, and Love
the end of being, — this faith she would cling
to in spite of all ; she grasped it with the
desperate force of one who dreaded lest it should
fade and fail from her. Beauty alone would
not suffice ; too often it was perceived as a mere
mask, veiling horrors ; but in the passion and
the worship of love was surely a never-failing
fountain of growth and power ; this the draught
that would leave no bitter after-taste, its enjoyment
the final and all-sufficient answer to the
riddle of life. Rossetti put into utterance for
her so much that she had not dared to entrust
even to the voice of thought. Her spirit and
flesh became one and indivisible ; the old antagonism
seemed at an end for ever.

Such dreaming as these naturally heightened
Maud's dislike for the kind of life her mother
led, and she longed unspeakably for the time
of her return to London. They had been at
Brighton already nearly a month, when a new
circumstance was added to her discomfort. As
she walked with her mother one day, they
were met by their former acquaintance, Mr.
Mellowdew. This gentleman had not visited
them for some six months ; on his being-mentioned
once, Paul had said that he was
constantly in Paris on business. On the present
occasion, however, he showed no lack of friendly
interest. He dined with them that evening
at Mrs. Enderby's invitation, and persuaded the
latter to join a party he had made up for an
excursion on the following day. Maud excused
herself She did not like Mr. Mellowdew, and
his demeanour during the evening only strengthened
her prejudice. He was unduly excited
and fervent, and allowed himself a certain
freedom in his conversation with Mrs. Enderby
which Maud resented strongly, though her
mother, as usual, quite entered into the spirit

of the visitors talk, and exerted herself to
respond to it. The intercourse continued. When
Paul came down for the week-end, he welcomed
Mellowdew heartily, and seemed to be very
glad of his presence. Maud could only withhold
herself more and more from all company ;
she was excused on the plea of ill-health. She
even asked her father to let her return with
him, but this Paul would not hear of.

*^ I'm sure the sea-air is just what you need,"
he urged, with the struggle between respect
and tenderness which always showed itself£ in
his way of speaking to Maud. " Are you uncomfortable
in these rooms ? Say so, and I will
find new ones at once. Can I send you any
books down ? Would you like to drive more ?
I will make arrangements."

Maud smiled.

"If I were a child, father, I should grow
more spoiled than ever child yet was."

It is my greatest privilege in life to try to
give you pleasure," he answered, very earnestly.
He himself was looking far from well just now,
seemed to need a rest. His eyes were growing

sunken, his cheeks still more cadaverous, and
the pressure of his hand told of incessant fever.

"Do you think of me sometimes when I'm
away, Maud ? " he asked, as a diffident lover
might ask of her whom he loved.

Very often, father. I so wish you could
stay with us this last week."

"Do you ? I'll do my best to come down on
Tuesday or Wednesday, indeed I will ! "

And he went off with his worn face gently
flushed and the hollow eyes brightened. Maud
looked after him, and was sad. She knew so
little of his life and occupations ; but that some
great anxiety perpetually weighed upon him
was only too clear. She loved him for his
boundless tenderness to her mother and herself,
and hoped that she might some day make his
life one of quiet happiness.

At length they were once more in London,
but Maud did not win back the former quiet
of mind. Waymark came again as usual, but
if anything the distance between him and herself
seemed more hopeless. He appeared pre-occupied
; his talk, when he spoke with her, was of

a more general kind than formerly ; lie was
conscious that her presence did not affect him
as it had done. She sank again into despondency
; books were insipid, and society irritated
her. She began the habit of taking long walks,
an aimless wandering about the streets and parks
within her reach. One evening, wending wearily
homewards, she was attracted by the lights in a
church in Marylebone Road, and, partly for a
few minutes' rest, partly out of a sudden attraction
to a religious service, she entered. It
was the church of Our Lady of the Rosary. She
had not noticed that it was a Roman Catholic
place of worship, but the discovery gave her an
unexpected pleasure. She was soothed and filled
with a sense of repose. Sinking into the attitude
of prayer, she let her thoughts carry her whither
they would ; they showed her nothing but images
of beauty and peace. It was with reluctance
that she arose and went back into the dark
street, where the world met her with a chill
blast, sleet-laden.

Our Lady of the Rosary received her frequently
after this. But there were days when

VOL. III. D

the thought of repose was far from her. Atone
such time, on an evening in November, a
sudden desire possessed her mind ; she would
go out into the streets of the town and see
something of that life which she knew only in
imagination, the traffic of highway and byway
after dark, the masque of pleasure and misery
and sin of which a young girl can know nothing,
save from hints here and there in her
reading, or from the occasional whispers and
head-shaking of society's gossip. Her freedom
was complete ; her absence, if noticed, would
entail no questions ; her mother doubtless would
conclude that she was at her Aunt Theresa's.
So she clad herself in walking attire of a kind
not likely to attract observation, and set forth.
The tumult which had been in her blood oil
day received fresh impulse from the excitement
of the adventure. She had veiled her face, but
the veil hindered her observation, and she threw
it back. First into Edgware Road, then down
Oxford Street. Her thoughts pointed her to
Westminster, though she feared the distance
would be too great; she had frequently talked

with Waymark of his work in Westminster, and
the names of Litany Lane and Jubilee Court
were familiar to her. Perhaps she might seek
out these places. She reached the top of Regent
Street, and was shortly at Piccadilly Circus.
From this point the ways were unknown to her,
but she had accomplished her walk so quickly,
and it was still so early — not quite eight o'clock
that she determined to ask a direction and
proceed. Her eyes were busy in eager scrutiny
of all she passed. Presently she was spoken toby
a gentleman who stepped up to her side sand
began to walk along with her. He said something
about its being a fine evening, but the
look of surprise which she turned upon him
was so genuine that he drew back and quitted
her. In Waterloo Place she passed by two
girls who were laughing and talking together ;
their appearance, and some phrases which caught
her ear, made her slacken her pace and presently
pause at a little distance to watch them. As
she stood thus, one of the two went away, and
the other, after looking about for a little, seemed
to observe Maud, and began to walk slowly

D 2

towards her. Maud's first impulse was to pass
on, but something held her ; the girl drew
nearer, looked in her face, and spoke to her.

Are you Lotty's sister ? " she asked. She
was a pretty girl, with a certain refinement in
her look and voice, but poorly dressed. Maud
experienced strange sensations in finding herself
for the first time face to face with a girl of this
kind ; what she was, could not be doubtful ;
there where two words used in the Bible to
denominate her class and stamp her destiny,
and it was not without fear that Maud met her
eyes. With difficulty she uttered a negative in
reply to the question, and then again would
have moved away, but had not the power.

"Who is Lotty?" she found herself asking,
half involuntarily.

"Oh, it don't matter," said the other, with
a laugh which was strangely innocent and attractive.
" Her sister's been after her, they said,
and I thought you might be her, that's all.
Waiting for somebody ? " she went on to ask,
again with the slight laugh.

No, I'm not."

"You look scared. What's the matter? I
thought pVaps you knew me. I don't know as
IVe seen you about here before."

I'm going to Westminster," Maud said,
unable to move her eyes for a moment from the
other's face. " Can you tell me the way ? "

Oh," laughed the girl, " you're a stranger,
eh ? I thought you might be about here."

She pointed out the way, but even yet Maud
could not go.

I'm awful hungry," the girl said, with a
half-ashamed look, but still the same lauo^h. " I
shan't see my friend before ten o'clock, and I
feel almost as if I should drop. I feel too
hungry to look about, I do, pon my word ! "

Have you no money ? " asked Maud, her
own voice sounding to her as if a stranger was
speaking.

*not a copper. My friend's promised me
half a quid to-night, but he ain't much to be
depended on."

"Have you no other way of earning money
but— but this '\ "

The girl shook her head, laughing still.

Maud nervously took out her purse, and gave
her half-a-crown.

It's awful good of you. I repose you're not
one of our lot. You ain't offended, eh ? You
see, I saw you standing about," —

Maud held out her hand, and said good-bye.
No other word would come to her lips, and she
hurried on without thinking of her way. She
was trembling, and soon had to rest upon a
seat in Trafalgar Square. But in a few moments
she resumed her walk, and made inquiries for
Litany Lane. The policeman she asked regarded
her curiously. She walked in a dream, fearful
of all she saw, yet compelled to go forward.
But before she reached the Clock House, her
way was blocked by a curious spectacle.

There rushed out of an alley, just before
her, a woman of hideous aspect, pursued by
another, younger, but, if possible, yet more foul,
the latter shrieking out furious curses and threats.
In the way of the fugitive was a costermonger's
stall ; unable to check herself, the woman rushed
against this, overturning it, and herself falling
among the ruin. The one in pursuit, with a yell

of triumph, sprang upon her prostrate enemy,
and attacked her with fearful violence, leaping
on her body, dashing her head against the pavement,
seemingly bent on murder. In a moment
there was a thick crowd rushing round, amid
which Maud was crushed and swayed without
possibility of disengaging herself. The screams
of the one woman, and the terrific objurgations
of the other, echoed through the street. From
the utterances of those pressing about her, Maud
understood that the two women were mother and
daughter, and that it was no rare circumstance
for the latter to just fall short of extinguishing
her parent. But it was only for a moment or
two that Maud was capable of understanding
anything ; horror and physical oppression overcame
her senses. Her fainting caused a diversion
in the crowd, and she was dragged without much
delay to the nearest doorstep.

She was not long unconscious, and presently
was so far recovered as to be aware that she was
being assisted to enter a cab. The cab began
to drive off. Then she knew that some one was
sitting over against her, holding her hand.

Who is it ? " she asked, trying to command
herself, and to see clearly by the light of the
street lamps. At the sound of the voice which
answered, she started, and, looking again, at
length recognized Waymark.

*'Doyou feel better?" he asked. " Are you
able to go on homewards ? "

Quite able," she answered, leaning back
again, and speaking with strange calmness.

*what on earth is the meaning of this?"
was Waymark's next inquiry. He had forgotten
that he still held her hand, and she made no
sign of wishing' to withdraw it. *how came
you here at this time ? "

Curiosity brought me," Maud answered, with
the same unnatural composure.

Had you been there long ? "

"No; I had asked my way to Litany Lane,
and all at once found myself in the crowd."

Thank goodness I happened to be by ! I
had just been looking up a defaulting tenant.
I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw you lying
in that doorway. Why didn't you ask me to
come with you, and show you these places ? "

It would have been better," she said, with
her eyes closed.

Waymark relinquished her hand, and leaned
back. Speaking was difficult in the noise of
the vehicle. He kept his eyes fixed upon
her, full of wondering and speculation. They
were in Edgware Eoad before either spoke

again.

I told the man to drive to Paddington
Green," Waymark said then. " Should he goon
to the house ? "

'' No ; I had rather walk."

Accordingly they got out at the Green. The
Enderbys lived in St. Mary's Terrace, hard by.
Waymark offered his arm, and Maud just laid
her hand upon it.

I have seen dreadful things to-night," she
said, in a voice that still trembled ; " seen and
heard things that will haunt me."

"You give too much weight to the impressions
of the moment. That world is farther removed
from yours than the farthest star ; you will
forget this glimpse of it ; beauty and purity
alone have permanence in your life."

Oh, I fear you do not know me ; I do not
know myself."

He made no reply, and, on their coming near
to the house, Maud paused.

Mother's sending you a note this evening,"
she said, as she held out her hand, " to ask you
to come on Thursday instead of tomorrow. She
will be from home tomorrow night."

Shall you also be from home '? "

"I? No."

Then may I not come and see you ? — Not if
it would be troublesome."

'* It would not, at all."

It is good of you. I will come."

Chapter III.

THE WILL TO LIVE.

Waymark made his way to Paddington at
the usual time on the following evening, and
found Maud alone. There was a visible agitation
in her manner as she welcomed him, sand
she resumed her seat as if the attitude of rest
was needful to her. In reply to his inquiries
about her health, she assured him she was welland
that she felt no painful results from the
previous evening. Waymark also showed an
unusual embarrassment. He stood for some
moments by the table, turning over the leaves
of a book.

I didn't know you had Rossetti," he said,
without looking up. ^' You never mentioned
him."

I seem to have had no opportunity."

No. I too have many things that I have
wanted to speak to you about, but opportunity
was wanting. I have sometimes been on the
point of asking you to let me write to you again.
We used to speak with more freedom in our
letters. Do you find Rossetti sympathetic ? "

Very ; or rather I did so. I seem to have
been undergoing some change of late. I am no
longer so at one with myself as I was. Doubts
that I thought were quite passed from me have
I been coming back again. I can't read my books
with the same quietness and confidence."

He glanced inquiringly at her. Her eyes fell,
and she tried to speak, but failed. Waymark
went to a seat at a little distance from her.

^' You do not look as well as when I met you
in the summer," he said. " I have feared you
might be studying too hard. I hope you threw
away your books whilst you were at the sea-side."

J did, but it was because I found little
pleasure in them. It was not rest that took
the place of reading."

Are your difficulties of a kind you could
speak of to me?" he asked, with some hesitation.

She kept her eyes lowered, and her fingers
writhed nervously on the arm of the chair.

'' My only fear would be lest you should think
my troubles unreal. Indeed it is so hard to
make them appear anything more than morbid
fancies. They have their origin, doubtless, in
my earliest years. To explain them fully, I
should have to tell you circumstances of my
life which could have little interest for you."

It would be my pleasure and privilege to
listen," Way mark replied, earnestly.

Will you indeed let me speak of these
things ? " she said, with a timid pleasure in her
voice. " I believe you could understand me.
I have a feeling that you must have experienced
something of these troubles yourself, and have
overcome them. Perhaps you could help me to
understand myself."

If I thought I could, it would give me great
happiness."

She was silent a little, then, with diffidence
which lessened as she went on, she related the
history, as far as she knew it, of her childhood,
and described the growth of her mind up to

the time when she had left home to begin life
as a governess. It was all very simply, but
very vividly, told ; that natural command of
impressive language which had so struck Waymark
in her letters displayed itself as soon as
she had gained confidence. Glimpses of her
experience Waymark had already had, but now
for the first time he understood the full significance
of her early years. Whilst she spoke, he
did not move his eyes from her face. He was
putting himself in her position, and imagining
himself to be telling his own story in the same
way. His relation, he knew, would have been
a piece of more or less clever acting, howsoever
true ; he would have been considering, all the
time, the effect of what he said, and, indeed,
could not, on this account, have allowed himself
to be quite truthful. How far was this the
case with Maud Enderby '( Could he have
surprised the faintest touch of insincerity in look
or accent, it would have made a world's difference
in his position towards /ler. His instinct
was unfailing in the detection of the note of
affected feeling ; so much the stronger the

impression produced upon him by a soul unveiling
itself in the naivete of genuine emotion.
That all was sincere he could have no doubt.
Gradually he lost his critical attitude, and at
moments surprised himself under the influence
of a sympathetic instinct. Then he would lose
consciousness of her words for an interval,
during which he pondered her face, and was
wrought upon by its strange beauty. The pure
and touching spirituality of Maud's countenance
had never been so present to him as now ; she
was pale with very earnestness, her eyes seemed
larger than their wont, there was more than
womanly sweetness in the voice which so unconsciously
modulated itself to the perfect
expression of all she would utter. Towards the
end, he could but yield himself completely to
the spell, and, when she ceased, he, like Adam
at the end of the angel's speech, did not at once
realize that her voice was silent.

It was long," she said, after telling the
outward circumstances of her life with her aunt,
'before I came to understand how differently
I had been brought up from other children.

Partly I began to see it at the school where we
first met ; but it only grew quite clear to me
when I shared in the home life of my pupils
in the country. I found I had an entirely
different view of the world from what was usual.
That which was my evil, I discovered to be
often others' good ; and my good, their abhorrence.
In the circumstances of e very-day life
these variances were marked enough, but they
became deeper still whenever questions of religion
came up for thought or conversation. My
aunt's system, as I have described it to you, was
held to be utterly unchristian. Little things
which I sometimes said, in perfect innocence of
their peculiarity, excited grave disapproval. All
this frightened me, and made me even more
reserved than I should have been naturally.

In my letters to you I began to venture for
the first time to speak of things which were
making my life restless. I did little more than
hint my opinions ; I wonder, in looking back,
that I had the courage to do even that. But I
already knew that your mind was broader and
richer than mine, and I suppose I caught with

a certain desperation at the chance of being
understood. It was the first opportunity I
had ever had of discussing intellectual things.
With my aunt I had never ventured to discuss
anything ; I reverenced her too much for that ,
she spoke, and I received all she said. But the
time had now come when that child-like receptiveness
was no longer possible. I felt that there
were questionings busy within me, and anything
of the nature of doubt was beforehand condemned
in my sight. I thought that from you I
should obtain confirmation where I needed it, but
your influence was of the opposite kind. Your
letters so abounded with suggestion that was
quite new to me, referred so familiarly to beliefs
and interests of which I was quite ignorant,
showed such a boldness in judging all things,
a boldness seemingly justified by your experience,
that I drifted further and further from
certainty. I wearied myself with mental toil,
the outer world became unreal to me ; sleep
scarcely gave me rest from anxious brooding.
The result of it all was that I fell ill.

'you see now what it is that has burdened

VOL. III. E

me from the day when I first began to ask
myself about my beliefs. I was taught to
believe that the world was sin, and that the
soul only freed itself from sin in proportion as
it learned to live apart from and independently
of the world. To feel and enjoy the fulness
of life, to assert your existence, to hope and fear
for the future, — these things were forbidden to
whosoever sought the higher ends of being.
Abnegation, mortification of the desires, this
alone could save. We were sent into the world
only that we might renounce it, and our
renunciation must extend even to the instinct
which bids us cling to life. Everything was
dark because of sin ; only in the still, secret
places of the soul was the light of purity and
salvation.

I thought I had passed out of this. When
I returned to London, and began this strange
new life, the burden seemed all at once lifted
from me. I could look here and there with
freedom ; the sky was bright above me ; human
existence was cheerful and noble and justified
in itself I began to learn a thousand things.

Above all, my mind fixed on Art ; in that I
thought I had found a support that would never
fail me. I had scarcely known the meaning of
the word ; had I done so, it would have been
synonymous with sin of the darkest kind, seeing
that it was the supreme outcome of the world's
life, the flower of conscious being. No words
could realize to you the joy of those first few
weeks. It was as though I had just been born
into the world, and came to everything with
faculties at once prepared to comprehend and
enjoy. Our acquaintance was then renewed,
and you must have wondered at the change
in me.

'' Oh, why could it not endure ? The clouds ^
where only dispelled for a time ; they began to
collect again over me, and throw their shadow
on all I saw. Of late, I have renewed experiences
which were the most terrible in that dark
time which led to my illness. The voices once
more speak within me which I had hoped were
for ever silenced. At times I fall into the
darkest brooding, a boundless misery, without
form, without cause, which crushes my spirit.

E 2
LIBRARY

universal 0F mim

Then the sense of sin is once more predominant ;
my soul is sinful in its every impulse ; I can
neither think nor do anything that is pure.
It came upon me last night, amid the horrors
of the streets ; I lost the sense of the things
around me, and seemed to gaze into infinite and
eternal darkness. Into that I was being driven.
To resist was vain, for the very sources of my
will were poisoned, the core of my nature was
corrupt. And then I yearn so unspeakably for
holiness and purity of heart ; I have moments
of anguished prayer ; I weep unceasingly through
the nights of my misery, and it is all in vain.
The dawn comes to me with a curse ; the fires
of the sunrise are angry and vengeful ; I wish
to die, and know that even that wish is a sin,
meaning only a weariness of the struggle to be
pure."

She was silent, and, meeting Waymark's eyes
so fixed on her own, became conscious of the
eagerness and fervour with which she had
spoken. Her look fell, and the paleness of her
cheeks was faintly tinged.

Have you any experience of such things ? "

she asked, nervously. " Did you ever suffer in
the same way ? "

"It is all very strange," he said, without
answering her question. "This overpowering
consciousness of sin is an anachronism in our
time. The early ages of Christianity knew it,
and it resulted in lives such as that of Simeon
Stylites. But, from the way in which you
express yourself, I should have thought you
had been studying Schopenhauer. I suppose
you know nothing of him ? "

"Nothing."

"It is a curious coincidence ; some of your
phrases were precisely his. Your doctrine is
simply Pessimism, with an element of dogmatic
faith added. With Schopenhauer, the will to
live is the root of sin ; mortify this, deny the
first instincts of your being, and you approach
righteousness. Buddhism has the same system.
And, in deducing all this from the plain teachings
of Christianity, I am disposed ' to think
you are right and consistent. Christianity is
pessimism, as far as this world is concerned ;
we see that in such things as the thanksgiving

for a person's death in the burial service, and
the prayer that the end of the world may soon
come."

He paused, and thought for a moment.

'' But all this' he resumed, rising from his
seat, and going to stand with one arm upon the
mantel-piece, "is of course, with me, mere matter
of speculation ; interesting as such, but of no
moment in my life. Now let me show you two
allegories, which put clearly the positions of
Pessimism and Optimism ; I think the best
way, perhaps, of helping you is to make these
things intellectually clear. First that of Adam
and Christ. Adam falls through eating of the
tree of knowledge ; in other words, sin only
comes with self-consciousness, sin is the conscious
enjoyment of life. And, according to this
creed, it can only be overcome by abnegation,
by the denial of the will to live. Accordingly,
Christ enters the world, and, representing
Humanity, as Adam had done, saves the world
by denial of himself, even to death. The
other allegory is that of Prometheus. He also
represents mankind, and his stealing of the fire

means man's acquirement of a conscious soul,
whereby he makes himself capable of sin. The
gods put him in bondage and torment, representing
the subjection to the flesh. But Prometheus
is saved in a different way from Adam ; not by
renunciation, the resort of Pessimism, but by
the prowess of Hercules, that is to say, the
triumphant aspiration of Humanity. Man
triumphs by asserting his right to do so, according
to this optimistic faith. Self-consciousness
he claims as a good thing, and embraces
the world as his birthright. Here, you see,
there is no room for the crushing sense of sin.
Sin, if anything, is weakness. Let us rejoice in
our strength, whilst we have it. The end of
course will come, but it is a wise man's part
not to heed the inevitable. Let us live whilst
it is called to-day ; we shall go to sleep withall
the better conscience for having completely
played our parts,"
She listened, with head bent down.

My own temperament," Waymark went on,
'^^is, I suppose, somewhat exceptional, at all
events among men who have an inner life.

I never knew that which goes by the name of
religious feeling ; impulses of devotion, in the
common sense of the phrase, have always been
strange to me. I have known fear at the
prospect of death ; religious consolation, never.
Sin, above all, has been a word without significance
to me. As a boy, it was so ; it is so still,
now that I am self-conscious. I have never
been a deep student of philosophy, but the
doctrine of philosophical necessity, the idea of
Fate, is with me an instinct. I know that I
could not have acted otherwise than I did in
any juncture of my life ; I know that the future
is beyond my control. I shall do this, and
avoid that, simply owing to a preponderance of
motives, which I can gauge, but not control.
Certain things I hate and shrink from ; but I
try to avoid, even in thought, such words as
vice and crime ; the murderer could not help
himself, and the saint has no merit in his
sanctity. Does all this seem horrible to you ? "

Maud raised her eyes, and looked steadily at
him, but did not speak. It was the gaze of one
who tries humbly to understand, and longs to

sympathize. But there was a shadow of something
like fear upon her face.

Waymark drew his chair nearer to her, and
spoke with more earnestness.

"You will not think me incapable of what we
call noble thought and feeling? I have moments
in which the glory of the visible world thrills
me with joy beyond words ; the beauty of all
we deem most sacred often moves me to an
intensity of rapture which you might think
little consistent with what I have been saying.
I have in me the elements of an enthusiast ;
they might have led me to strange developments,
but for that cold, critical spirit which
makes me so intensely self-conscious. This
restless scepticism has often been to me a
torment in somewhat the same way as that
burden of which you speak. Often, often, I
would so gladly surrender myself to my
instincts of passion and delight. I may
change ; I may perhaps some day attain rest
in an absolute ideal. If I do, it will be
through the help of one who shall become tome
that ideal personified, who shall embody all

the purer elements of my nature, and speak tome
as with the voice of my own soul."

She hung upon his words, and an involuntary
sigh, born of the intensity of the moment,
trembled on her lips.

I have spoken to you," he said, after what
seemed a long silence, '' with a sincerity which
was the due return for your own. You must be
conscious that I could well have represented
myself in a more pleasing light. You see how
little able I am to help you ; the centre-thought
of your being is wholly strange to me. And
for all that — may I speak my thought ? — weare
nearer to each other than before''

Yes, nearer," she repeated, under her breath.

"You think that? You feel that? I have
not repelled you ? "

You have not."

And if I stood before you, now, as you know
me, — egotistic, sceptical, calm, — and told you that
you are the only being in whom I have ever felt
complete confidence, whose word and thought I
felt to be one ; that, as such, you exercise more
power over me than any other ever did or shall ;

that life in your companionship might gain
the unity I long for ; that in your presence I
feel myself face to face with a higher and
nobler nature than my own, one capable of
sustaining me in effort and leading me to great
results,"

He became silent, for her face had turned
deadly pale ; she seemed for a moment about
to lose consciousness. But this passed, and in
her eyes, as they met his, trouble grew to a calm
joy. Without speaking, she held her hand to
him.

You are not afraid," Waymark said, " to
link your fate with mine ? My life is made up
of uncertainties. I have no position ; it may bea
long time before I can see even the promise
of success in my work. I have chosen that
work, however, and by it I stand or fall.
Have you sufficient faith in me to wait with
confidence '? "

"I have absolute faith in you. I ask no
greater happiness than to have a share in your
aims. It will give me the strength I need, and
make my life full of hope,"

It had come then, and just as he had foreseen
it would. It was no result of deliberate decision,
he had given up the effort to discover his true
path, knowing sufficiently that neither reason
nor true preponderance of inclination was likely
to turn the balance. The gathering emotion of
the hour had united with opportunity to decide
his future. The decision was a relief; as he
walked homewards, he was light-hearted.

On the way, he thought over everything once
more, reviewing former doubts from his present
position. On the whole, he felt that fate had
worked for his happiness ; there was, indeed,
more of the elements of permanence in the
emotions excited in him by Maud Enderby than
in those which the thought of Ida aroused, and
inconstancy to Ida would have been an especial
cruelty. It was for Ida's good, as well as for
his own. Her misery, it seemed, had come upon
her just in time to save both of them from worse
things afterwards.

And yet there was discontent. He had never
known, felt that perhaps he might never know,
that sustained energy of imaginative and sensual

longing which ideal passion demands. The respectable
make-believe which takes the form of
domestic sentiment, that every-day love, which,
become the servant of habit, suffices to cement
the ordinary household, is not the state in
which such men as Waymark seek or find
repose ; the very possibility of falling into it
unawares is a dread to them. If he could but
feel at all times as he had felt at moments in
Maud's presence. It might be that the growth
of intimacy, of mutual knowledge, would make
his love for her a more real factor in his life.
He would endeavour that it should be so. Yet
there remained that fatal conviction of the
unreality of every self-persuasion save in relation
to the influences of the moment. To love was
easy, inevitable ; to concentrate love finally on
one object might well prove, in his case, an
impossibility. Clear enough to him already was
the likelihood of a strong revulsion of feeling
when Ida once more came back, and the old
life — if it could be — was resumed. Compassion
would speak so loudly for her; her face, pale
and illuminated with sorrow, would throw a

stronger spell than ever upon his senses. Well,
there was no help. Whatever would be, would
be. It availed nothing to foresee and scheme
and resolve.

And, in the same hour, Maud was upon her
knees, in the silence of her own chamber, shedding
tears which were at once both sweet and
bitter, in her heart a tumult of emotion, joy
and thanksgiving at strife with those dark powers
which shadowed her existence. Sie had no
doubts of the completeness and persistency of
her love. But was not this love a sin, and its
very strength the testimony of her soul's loss ?

CHAPTER IV.

BONDAGE.

Waymark lead written to Ida just after her
imprisonment began, a few words of such comfort
as he could send. No answer came ; perhaps
the prison rules prevented it. When the term
was drawing to a close, he wrote again, to let
her know that he would meet her on the morning
of her release. She replied : " Thank you
for your kindness. I shall be glad to see the
face of some one I can trust." Only that.

It would be on a Tuesday morning. As the
time drew near, Waymark did his best to think
of the matter quietly. The girl had no one else
to help her ; it would have been brutality to
withdraw and leave her to her fate, merely
because he just a little feared the effect upon
himself of such a meeting. And the feeling on

her side ? Well, that he could not pretend to be
ignorant of, and, in spite of everything, there
was still the same half-acknowledged pleasure in
the thought. He tried to persuade himself that
he should have the moral course to let her as
soon as possible understand his new position ; he
also tried to believe that this would not involve
any serious shock to Ida. For all that, our friend
knew only too well that man is *' ein erbdrmlicher
Bcliufll' and there was always the possibility that
he might say nothing of what had happened,
and let things take their course.

On the Monday he was already looking forward
to the meeting: with restlessness. Could
he have foreseen that anything would occur to
prevent his keeping his promise, it would have
caused him extreme anxiety. But such a possibility
never entered his thoughts, and, shortly
before mid-day, he went down to Westminster
to collect his rents as usual.

The effect of a hard winter was seen in the
decrease of the collector's weekly receipts. The
misery of cold and starvation was growing
familiar to Waymark's eyes, and scarcely excited

the same feelings as formerly ; yet there were
some cases in which he had not the heart to
press for the payment of rent, and his representations
to Mr. Woodstock on behalf of the poor
creatures were more frequently successful than
in former times. Still, in the absence of ideal
philanthropy, there was nothing for it every
now and then but eviction, and Waymark
experienced more than once the sensation of
being cursed to his face by suffering wretches
whom despair made incapable of discrimination.
" Where are we to go ? " was the oft-repeated
question, and the only reply was a
shrug of the shoulders ; impossible to express
oneself otherwise. They clung desperately to
habitations so vile that brutes would have forsaken
them for cleaner and warmer retreats in
archway and by roadside. One family of seven, '
a man and wife (both ill) with five children,
could not be got out, even when a joiner had
been sent by Mr. Woodstock to remove the
window-frames and take the door away, furniture
having already been seized ; only by force
at length were they thrown into the street, to

VOL. III. F

find their way to perdition as best they might.
Waymark did not relish all this ; it cost him
a dark hour now and then. But it was rich
material ; every item was stored up for future
use.

Among others, the man named Slimy just
managed to hold his footing. Times were hard
with Slimy, that was clear ; still, he somehow
contrived to keep no more than a fortnight
behind with his rent. Waymark, as we know,
was studying .this creature, and found in him
the strangest matter for observation ; in Slimy
there were depths beyond Caliban, and, at the
same time, curious points of contact with
average humanity, unexpectedly occurring. He
was not ungrateful for the collector's frequent
forbearance, and, when able to speak coherently,
tried at times to show this. Waymark had got
into the habit of sitting with him in his room
for a little time, whenever he found him at
home. Of late. Slimy had seemed not quite
in his usual health ; this circumstance exhibited
itself much as it would in some repulsive animal,
which suffers in captivity, and tries to find a

remote corner when the pains come on. At
times Waymark experienced a certain fear in
the man's presence ; if ever he met the dull
glare of that one bleared, blood-shot eye, a
coldness ran through him for a moment, and
he drew back a little. Personal uncleanliness
made Slimy's proximity at all times unpleasant ;
and occasionally his gaunt, grimed face grew
to an expression suggestive of disagreeable
possibilities.

On the present day, Waymark was told by a
woman who lived on the ground-floor that Slimy
had shortly before gone out, but had left word
with her, in case the collector called, that he
should be back in less than half an hour.
Doubtless this meant that the rent was not
forthcoming. The people who lived on the first
floor were out as usual, but had left their rent.
Of the two rooms at the top, one was just now
vacant. Waymark went on to the two or three
houses that remained. On turning back, he met
Slimy at the door ; the man nodded in his
wonted way, grinning like a grisly phantom,
and beckoned Waymark to follow him up-stairs.

F 2

The woman below had closed her door again,
and in all probability no one observed the two
entering together.

Waymark sat down amid the collection of
nondescript articles which always filled the
room, and waited for the tenant to produce
his rent. Slimy seemed to have other things
in mind. After closing the door, he too had
taken a seat, upon a heap of filthy oil-cloth,
and was running his fingers through the shock
of black hair which made his beard. Waymark
examined him. There was no sign of intoxication,
but something was evidently working in
the man's mind, and his breath came quickly,
with a kind of asthmatic pant, from between
his thin lips, still parted in the uncanny
grin.

Mr. Waymark," he began at length.

Well ? "

''I ain't got no rent."

That's bad. You're two weeks behind, you
know."

Mr. Waymark."

The single eye fixed itself on Waymark's

face in a way which made the latter feel
uncomfortable.
'well?"

I ain't a-going' to pay you no more rent, nor
yet no one else, maybe."
'' How's that ? "

'Cos I ain't, and 'cos I'm tired o' pain' rent."

I'm afraid you'll find it difficult to get on

without, though," said Waymark, trying to get

into the jocular tone he sometimes adopted with

Slimy, but scarcely succeeding.

"Mr. Waymark." •

There was clearly something wrong. Waymark
rose to his feet. Slimy rose also, and at
the same time took up a heavy piece of wood,
looking like a piece of a cart-shaft, which had
lain on the floor beside him. His exclamation
elicited no answer, and he spoke again, hoarsely
as always, but with a calmness which contrasted
strangely with the words he uttered.

Do you believe in the devil and hell ? "
Why ? " returned Waymark, trying hard to
command himself, and to face down the man asa
wild beast has been known to be out-gazed.

'Cos, by the devil himself, as 11 have me
before many weeks is over, and by the fires of
hell, as 11 burn me, if you stir a step, or speak
a word above your breath. 111 bring you down
just like they do the bullocks. Y' understand ? "

Waymark saw that the threat was no idle
one. He could scarcely have spoken, had he
wished. Slimy grinned at the effect he had
produced, and continued in the same matter-of-fact
way.

It takes you back a bit, don't it ? Never
mind ; you'll get over it. I don't mean you no
'arm, Mr. Waymark, but I'll have to put you to
a little ill convenience, that's all. See now ;
here's a bit o' stout rope. With this 'ere, I'm
a-going' just to tie you up, 'and an' foot, you see.
As I said before, if you give me any trouble,
well, I'll 'ave to knock the senses out o' you must,
that's all."

Vain to think of grappling with the man,
whose strength Waymark knew to be extraordinary.
For a moment, the shock of alarm
had deprived him of thought and power of
movement ; but this passed, and he was able to

consider his position. He looked keenly into
Slimy's face. Head the man gone mad ? His
manner was scarcely consistent with that supposition.
As the alternative before him was of
such a kind, Waymark could but choose the
lesser evil. He allowed Slimy to remove from
his shoulders the satchel which contained the
sums of money he had just collected. It was
quietly laid on one side.

Now," said Slimy, with the same deliberation,
" I have to art you just to lay down, on
the floor, just 'ere, see. It s better to lay down
quiet than to be knocked down, you see."

Waymark mentally agreed that it was. Intaking
the position indicated, he noticed that
three very large iron hooks had been driven
firmly into the floor, in a triangular shape.
Just beside the lower one of these his feet had
to rest ; his head lay between the other two.
Slimy now proceeded to bind his captive's feet
together with strong cord, and then attach them
firmly to the hook ; then bidding him sit up for a
moment, he made his hands fast behind his back ;
lastly, Waymark being again recumbent, a rope

was passed once round his neck, and each end of
it firmly fastened to one of the remaining hooks.
This was not a pleasant moment, but, the operation
completed, Waymark found that, though
he could not move his head an inch, there was
no danger of positive strangulation, as long ashe
remained quiet. In short, he was bound as
effectually as a man could be, yet without pain.
The only question was, how long he would have
to remain thus.

Slimy examined his work, and nodded with
satisfaction. Then he took up the satchel again,
opened it, and for a few moments kept diving his
long, black fingers into the coins, whilst his face
was transformed to an expression of grim joy.
Presently, having satisfied himself with the
feel of the money, he transferred it all to large
pockets inside his ragged coat.

Now, Mr. Waymark," he recommenced, seating
himself on the chair Waymark had previously
occupied, " I ain't quite done with ill-convenience'
you. I'm sorry to say I'll 'ave just to put
a bit of a gag on, to prevent you from 'ollerin'
out too soon ; but before I do that, I've just got

a word or two to say. Let's spend our last time
together in a friendly way."

In spite of his alarm, Waymark observed with
astonishment the change which had come over
the man's mode of speech. In all their previous
intercourse, Slimy had shown himself barely
articulate ; for the most part it was difficult to
collect meaning from his grunts and snarls. His
voice was still dreadfully husky, and indeed
seemed unused to the task of uttering so many
words, but for all that he spoke without hesitation,
and with a reserve of force which made his
utterances all the more impressive. Having
bespoken his hearer's attention in this deliberate
way, he became silent, and for a while sat
brooding, his fingers still busy among the coins
in his pocket.

I don't rightly know how old I may be,"
he began at length, " but it's most like about
fifty ; we'll say fifty. For fifty years I've lived
in this world, and in all that time I can't
remember not one single 'happy day, not one.
I never snowed neither father nor mother; I
never snowed not a soul as belonged to me.

Friends I save lead ; four of 'em ; and their
names was Brandy, Whisky, Eum, an' Gin.
But they've cost me a good deal, an' somehow
they ain't quite what they used to be. They
used to make me merry for a while, now and
then ; but they've taken now to burning' up my
inside, an' filling my 'eat with devils ; an' I'm
getting' afeard of 'em, an' they'll 'ave to seeme
through to the end."

Fifty year," he resumed, after another interval
of brooding, " an' not one 'happy day. I was
a-thinking' of it over to myself, and, says I,
What's the reason on it ? ' The reason is, 'cos
I ain't never 'ad money. Money means 'happiness,
an' them as never 'as money, '11 never be
'happy, live as long as they nay. Well, I went
on a-saying' to myself, * Ain't I to 'ave not one
'happy day in all my life ? ' An' it come to me
all at once, with a flash like, that money was
to be 'ad for the trouble o' takin' it, — money
an' 'happiness."

The bleared eye rolled with a sort of self-congratulation,
and the coins jingled more loudly.

A pound ain't no use ; nor yet two pound ;

nor yet five pound. An five pound's what I
never 'ad in fifty year. There's a good deal
more than five pound 'ere now, Mr. Waymark ;
I've reckoned it up in my 'eat. What d' you
think I'm a-going' for to do with it ? "

He asked this question after a pause, with
his head bent forward, his countenance screwed
into the most hideous expression of cunning and
gratified desire.

I'm a-goin''' he said, with the emphasis of
a hoarse whisper, "I a-going' to drink myself
dead ! That's what I'm a-going' to do, * Mr.
Waymark. My four friends ain't what they
used for to be, an' 'cos I ain't got enough of 'em.
It's unsatisf action, that's what it is, as brings
the burning' i' th' inside, an' the devils in the
'eat. Now I've got money, an' for wunst in
my life I'll be satisfied an' 'happy. And then I'll
go where there's real burning', an' real devils — an'
let 'em make the most o' Slimy ! "

Waymark felt his blood chill with horror. For
years after, the face of Slimy, as it thus glared
at him, haunted him in dreamful nights. Dante
saw nothing more fearful in any circle of hell.

Well, I've said my say," Slimy remarked,
rising from his seat. 'ran' now, I'm sorry I'll
'ave to ill-convenience you, Mr. Waymark.
You've behaved better to me than most has,
and I wouldn't pay you in ill-convenience, if
I could help it. But I must have time enough
to get off clear. I'll 'ave just to keep you from
'ollerin , — this way, see, — but I won't hurt you ;
the nose is good enough for breathing'. I'll see
as some one comes to let you out before tomorrow
morning'. An' now I'll say good-bye,
Mr. Waymark. You won't see Slimy in this
world again, an' if I only snowed 'ow to say a
prayer, why, I'd pray as you oughtn't never see
him in the next."

With one more look, a look at once of
wild anticipation and friendly regret. Slimy
disappeared.

The relief consequent upon the certainty that
no bodily injury was threatened had brought
Waymark into a state of mind in which he could
regard his position with equanimity. The loss of
the money seemed now to be the most serious
result of the affair. Slimy had promised that

release should come before the morning;, and
would doubtless keep his word ; Waymark had
a certain confidence in this, which a less interested
person would perhaps have deemed scarcely
warrantable. In the mean time, the discomfort
was not extreme ; to lie gagged and bound on
a garret-floor for some few hours, was, after alla
situation which a philosopher might patiently
endure, and to an artist it might well be suggestive
of useful hints. Breathing, to be sure,
was not easy, but became more so by degrees.

But with the complete recollection of his
faculties came back the thought of what was
involved in the question of release before the
following day. Early in the morning he had to
be at the door of Tothill Fields' prison. How if
his release were delayed, through Slimy's neglect
or that of the agent he might employ ? As the
first hour passed slowly by, this became the
chief anxiety in Waymark's mind. It made him
forgetful of the aching in his arms, caused by
the binding together of his hands behind him,
and left no room for anticipation of the other
sufferings which would result from his being

left thus for an indefinite period. What would
Ida do, if she came out and found no one to
meet her?

His absence would make no one anxious, at
all events not till more than a day had gone
by. Hitherto he had always taken his rents
at once to Mr. Woodstock's office, but the old
gentleman was not likely to be disturbed by his
non-appearance ; it would be accounted for in
some simple way, and his coming expected on
the following morning. Then it was as good
as certain that no one would come to Slimy's
room. And, by the bye, had not there been
a sound of the turning of a key when Slimy
took his departure ? He" could not be quite
sure of this ; just then he had noticed all things
so imperfectly. Was it impossible to free a
limb, or to ungag his mouth ? He tried to turn
his head, but it was clear that strangulation
would be the only result of any such effort ; and
the bonds on hands and feet were immoveable.
No escape, save by Slimy's aid.

He determined not to face the possibility of
Slimy's failing in his word; otherwise, anxiety

would make him desperate. He recognized now,
for the first time fully, how much it meant to
him, that meeting with Ida. The shock he had
experienced on hearing her sentence and beholding
her face as she left the court had not,
apparently, produced lasting results ; his weakness
surprised him when he looked back upon
it. In a day or two he had come to regard
the event as finally severing him from Ida, and
a certain calm ensuing hereupon led to the phase
which ultimately brought him to Maud once
more. But Waymark's introspection was at
fault ; he understood himself less in proportion
as he felt that the ground was growing firmer
under his feet. Even when he wrote the letter
to the prison, promising to meet Ida, he had
acted as if out of mere humanity. It needed
a chance such as the present to open his eyes.
That she should quit the prison, and, not finding
him, wander away in blank misery and hopelessness,
most likely embittered by the thought
that he had carelessly neglected to meet her,
and so driven to despair, — such a possibility
was intolerable. The fear of it began to goad

him in flesh and spirit. With a sudden violent
stringing of all his sinews, he wrenched at the
bonds, but only with the effect of exhausting
himself and making the walls and ceiling reel
before his eyes. The attempt to utter cries
resulted in nothing but muffled moaning. Then,
mastering himself once more, he resolved to be
patient. Slimy would not fail him.

He tried not to think of Ida in any way,
but this was beyond his power. Again and
again she came before his mind. When he
endeavoured to supplant her by the image of
Maud Enderby, the latter's face only irritated
him. Till now, it had been just the reverse ;
the thought of Maud had always brought quietness
; Ida he had recognized as the disturbing
element of his life, and had learned to associate
her with his least noble instincts. Thinking of
this now, he began to marvel how it could have
been so. Was it true that Maud was his good
angel, that in her he had found his ideal ? He
had forced himself to believe this, now that he
was in honour bound to her ; yet she had never
made his pulse quicken, as it had often done

when he had approached Ida. True, that
warmth of feeling had come to represent merely
a temptation to him ; but was not that the
consequence of his own ambiguous attitude ?
Suppose he had not known Maud Enderby, how
would he then have regarded Ida, and his
relations to her ? Were these in very deed
founded on nothing but selfish feeling ? Then
he reviewed all his acquaintanceship with her
from the first, and every detail of the story
grew to a new aspect.

Thinking of Ida, he found himself wondering
how it was that Mr. Woodstock appeared to
take so much interest in her fate. Several
times during the past six months the old man
had referred to her, generally inquiring whether
Waymark had written to or heard from her.
And, only two days ago, he had shown that
he remembered the exact date of her release,
in asking whether Waymark meant to do anything.
W^aymark replying that he intended
to meet her, and give her what assistance he
could, the old gentleman had signified his strong
approval, and had even gone on to mention a

VOL. III. G

house in the neighbourhood of the office, where
Ida could be lodged at first. A room had
accordingly been secured beforehand, and it
was arranged that Waymark should take her
directly thither on the Tuesday morning. In
reviewing all this, Waymark found it more
significant than he had imagined. Why, he
wondered, had Mr. Woodstock grown so philanthropic
all at once ? Why had he been so
particular in making sure that Waymark would
meet the girl ? Indeed, from the very beginning
of this affair, he had behaved with regard to it
in a manner quite unlike himself. Waymark
had leisure now to ponder these things, but
could only conjecture explanations.

The hours went by; 'big Ben" kept him
aware of their progress. The aching in his arms
became severe ; he suffered from cold. The
floor was swept by a draught which seemed
strong and keen as a blast of east wind ; it
made his eyes smart, and he kept them closed,
with some slight hope that this might also have
the effect of inducing sleep. Sleep, however,
held far aloof from him. When he had wearied

his brain with other thoughts, his attention
beojan to turn to sounds in the court below.
There, just as it drew dusk, some children were
playing, and he tried to get amusement from
their games. One of them was this. A little
girl would say to the rest : — " I sent my daughter
to the oil-shop, and the first thing she saw was
C " ; and the task was to guess for what article
this initial stood. '* Carrots ! " cried one, but was
laughed to scorn. " Candles ! " cried another,
and triumphed. Then there were games which
consisted in the saying of strange incantations.
The children would go round and round, as was
evident from the sound of their feet, chanting
the while :— " Sally, Sally Wallflower, Sprinkle
in a pan ; Rise, Sally Wallflower, and choose
your young man. Choose for the fairest one,
Choose for the best. Choose for the rarest one.
That you love best ! " Upon this followed words
and movements only half understood; then at
length broke out a sort of hymeneal chorus : —
*' Here stands a young couple. Just married and
settled ; Their father and mother they must
obey. They love one another like sister and

G 2

brother, So pray, young couple, come kiss
together ! " Lastly, laughter and screams and
confusion. This went on till it was quite dark.

Pitch dark in Slimy's room ; only the faintest
reflection on a portion of the ceiling of lamplight
from without. Waymark's sufferings
became extreme. The rope about his neck
seemed to work itself tighter ; there were
moments when he had to struggle for the scant
breath which the gag allowed him. He feared
lest he should become insensible, and so perhaps
be suffocated. His arms were entirely numbed ;
he could not feel that he was lying on them.
Surely Slimy's emissary would come before
midnight.

One, two, three, four twelve ! " That

was the voice of '' Big Ben," beyond doubt ; how
was it that he had lost all count of the hours
since eight o'clock ? Whether that had been
sleep or insensibility, Waymark could not decide.
Intensity of cold must have brought back consciousness
; his whole body seemed to be frozen ;
his eyes ached insufferably. Continuous thought
had somehow become an impossibility ; he knew

that Ida was constantly in his mind, and her
image clear at times in the dark before him,
but he could not think about her as he wished
and tried to do. Who was it that seemed to
come between her and him ? — some one he knew,
yet could not identify. Then the hours sounded
uncertainly ; some he appeared to have missed.
There, at length, was seven. Why, this was
morning; and Slimy had promised that he
should be set free before this. What was it
that tortured his struggling brain so ? A thought
he strove in vain for a time to grasp-the
meaning flashed upon him. By a great effort
he regained complete consciousness ; mind alone
seemed to be left to him, his body was dead.
Was he, then, really to be prevented from keeping
his promise to Ida ? All the suffering of
his previous life amassed was nothing to what
Waymark endured during the successive quarters
of this hour. His brain burned ; his eyes had
no power to gather the growing daylight. That
one name was his single perception ; the sound
of it, uttered incessantly in thought, alone
seemed to keep him conscious. He could feel

something slightly warm on his cheeks, but did
not know that it was the streaming of tears
from his darkened eyes. Then he lost consciousness
once more.

Big Ben " gave out the hour of eight.

CHAPTER V.

FREEDOM.

Mr. Woodstock was not so indifferent with
regard to Waymark's failure to come in the
usual way with the rent as the latter supposed.
Under ordinary circumstances, he probably
would have waited without any anxiety . till
the following day ; already on a previous occasion
Waymark had collected on Tuesday instead of
Monday, though not without notice of his
intention to do so. But Mr. Woodstock had
quite special reasons for wishing to see his
agent before the following morning ; he desired
to assure himself once more that Waymark
would not fail to be at the prison punctually.
When the afternoon passed without the usual
visit, he grew visibly uneasy ; he was incapable
of attending to matters of business, and walked
up and down his office with impatient step.

Such a mood was extraordinary in Mr. Woodstock
; he had often waxed restive in this or
that business difficulty ; was, indeed, as we
know, anything but remarkable for equanimity
under trial ; but his state of mind was quite
different at present, and exhibited itself in
entirely different ways. He neither swore nor
looked black ; his was the anxiety of a man
who has some grave interest at stake wherein
the better part of his nature is concerned.

At five o'clock he took a cab, and went oft
to Waymark's lodgings in Chelsea. Here he
learned that Waymark had left home at the
usual time, and had not yet returned. Just
as he was speaking with the landlady at the
door, another gentleman came up on the same
errand. Mr. Woodstock remembered Julian
Castiiii, and held out his hand to him. Castiiii
looked ill ; his handsome features had wasted,
and his fair complexion was turned to a dull,
unhealthy, yellowish hue. It was a comparatively
warm day for the season, but his thin
frame was closely muffled up, and still he
seemed to be shrinking under the air.

'' Have you any idea where he can be ? " Mr.
Woodstock asked, as they turned away together.

None whatever. I must see him to-night,
though, if possible."

Ha ! And I too."

As he spoke, Mr. Woodstock looked at the
other keenly, and something seemed to suggest
itself to him.

I'm going on to Westminster, just to see
if he's been for the rents as usual. Would you
care to come with me ? "

Julian looked surprised, but assented. They
got into the cab together, and soon alighted at
the end of Litany Lane, neither having spoken
on the way. Inquiries here showed that the
collector had gone his rounds as usual, and
departed, it was said, in the ordinary way.

Have you an hour to spare, Mr. Castii ? "
asked the old gentleman, turning suddenly after
a moment's reflection.

Certainly."

*then I wish you'd just come on with me
to St. John Street Road. It's possible you
may have it in your power to do me a great

service, if Way mark doesn't turn up. And
yet, ten to one, I shall find him waiting forme.
— Never mind, come along if you can spare
the time ; you'll find him the sooner."

Mr. Woodstock tried to pooh-pooh his own
uneasiness ; yet, totally improbable as it seemed
that "Waymark should disappear at such a
juncture, the impatience of the afternoon had
worked him into a most unwonted fit of
nervousness. Doubts and suspicions which
would ordinarily never have occurred to him
filled his mind. He was again quite silent till
his office was reached.

Waymark had not been. They walked upstairs
together to the " study," and Mr. Woodstock
asked his companion to be seated. He
himself stood, and began to poke violently the
cheerful fire, which was the only light in the
room, until its flames illuminated brilliantly the
rows of Blue-books and the heaped litter of
newspapers all about the floor and tha tables.

'' Do you live in Chelsea still ? " he suddenly
'asked.

Yes ; in Markham Street."

You are living alone, I believe ? "

At present."

I have left word at Waymark's lodgings
that he is to come straight here whenever he
returns. If he's not here by midnight, should
I find you up, if I called, — say at half-past
twelve or so ? "

I would in any case wait up for you, with
pleasure. '*

"Really," said Mr. Woodstock, who could
behave with much courtesy when he chose,
*' I must apologize for taking such liberties.
Our acquaintance is so slight. And yet I
believe you would willingly serve me in the
matter in hand. Perhaps you guess what it is.
Never mind ; I could speak of that when I came
to you, if I have to come."

Julian's pale cheek had flushed with a sudden
warmth. He looked at the other, and faced
steadily the gaze that met his own.

I am absolutely at your disposal," he said,
in a voice which he tried to make firm, though
with small success.

'* I am obliged to you. And now you will

come and have something to eat with me ; it
is my usual time."

Julian declined, however, and almost immediately
took his leave. He walked all the way
to Chelsea, regarding nothing that he passed,
his head drooped in a way that had become
his habit of life. When he found himself in
his lodgings, he put a match to the ready-laid
fire, and presently made himself some tea. Then
he sat idly through the evening, for the most
part staring into the glowing coals, occasionally
taking up a book for a few minutes, and
throwing it aside again with a sigh of weariness.
As it got late, he shivered so with cold, in
spite of the fire, that he had to sit in his
overcoat. When it was past midnight, he
began to pace the room, making impatient
gestures, and often resting his head upon his
hands, as if it ached. It must have been about
a quarter to one, when there was the sound of
a vehicle pulling up in the street below,
followed by a knock at the door. Julian went
down himself, and admitted Mr. Woodstock.

What can it mean ? " he asked anxiously,

when they had walked up to the room together.
What has become of him ? "

** Don't know. I stopped at his place on the
way here."

Don't you fear some mischance ? With all
that money — "

Pooh ! It's some absurd freak of his, I'll
warrant. He doesn't care how much anxiety
he gives other people."

Mr. Woodstock was excited and angry.

*' But he will certainly go — go there in the
morning, wherever he is," said Julian.

I'm not so sure of that. I believe it's on that
very account that he's keeping out of the way ! "

He smote his fist on the palm of the other
hand with the emphasis of conviction. Julian
looked at him with an expression of wonder.
There was a short silence, and then Mr. Woodstock
began to speak more calmly. It is not
necessary to repeat the conversation that ensued.
It lasted only about a quarter of an hour. Mr.
Woodstock then returned to his cab, which had
waited, and Julian bade him good night at the
door.

Castii scarcely slept. At six o'clock lie arose,
lit his fire, and made a cup of tea. It was still
quite dark when he left the house, and the air
was bitter. But he did not mind the weather
this morning. His step had a vigour very
different from the trailing weariness of the night
before, and he looked straight before him as he
walked. There was a heat on his forehead which
the raw breath of the morning could not allay.
Before he had gone half a mile, he flung open
his overcoat, as if it oppressed him. It was in
the direction of Westminster that he walked.
Out of Victoria Street he took the same turn as
on one miserable night when we followed him,
and which he had taken on many a night since
then. But he was far too early at the prison-gate.
He strayed about the little streets of the
neighbourhood, his eyes gazing absently in this
or that direction, his hot breath steaming up in
the grey light. When it was drawing near the
time, he made some inquiries from a policeman
whom he passed. Then he went to the spot
whither he was directed, and watched. Two
or three people, of poor appearance, were also

standing about, waiting. Julian kept apart
from them.

First, a miserable old woman, huddling herself
in a dirty shawl ; looking on all sides with a
greedy eye ; hastening off no one knew whither.
Then two young girls, laughing aloud at their
recovered liberty ; they repaired at once to the
nearest public-house. Then a figure of quite
different appearance, coming quickly forward,
hesitating, gazing around ; a beautiful face,
calm with too great self-control, sad, pale.
Towards her Julian advanced. •

Mr. Way mark was unavoidably prevented
from coming," h^ said, quickly. " But he has
taken rooms for you. You will let me go with
you, and show you the house ? "

Thank you," was Ida's only reply.

They walked together into the main street,
and Julian stopped the first empty cab that
passed. As he sat opposite to her, his eyes, in
spite of himself, kept straying to her face. Oh,
she had suffered ! Years would not obliterate
the sign which misery had stamped upon her
broad, fair brow. Gazing at her, Castii's eyes

dimmed themselves with mist. At the bidding
of a wild impulse, which seized upon him as
flame seizes on a dry leaf, he caught one of her
hands and pressed it to his lips. Ida looked up
at him gravely, almost sternly; but in a moment
her mouth trembled to a sad smile, and tears
streamed from her eyes. Julian turned away,
and forced himself not to look at her till the cab
stopped.

They are prepared for you here," he said, as
they stood on the pavement. *you just give
your name. And — you will not go away ? You
will wait till some one calls ? "

Ida nodded.

No ; but your word," Julian urged anxiously.
Promise me."

** I promise."

She went up to the door and knocked. Julian
walked quickly away.

At the end of the street Mr. Woodstock was
waiting.

"What's the matter?" he asked, examining
the young man anxiously.

Nothing, — nothing ! "

Does she seem well ? "

*' I think so ; yes," Castii replied, in a stifled
voice. Then he asked hurriedly, "where can
Waymark be ? What does it all mean ? "

Mr. Woodstock shook his head, looking
annoyed.

I am convinced," Julian said, " that something
is wrong. Surely it's time to make
inquiries."

Yes, yes ; I will do so. But you look downright
ill. Do you feel able to get home ? If I'd
thought it would upset you like this — "

Mr. Woodstock was puzzled, and kept scrutinizing
the other's face.

"I shall go home and have a little rest,"
Julian said. " I didn't get much sleep last
night, that's all. But I must hear about
Waymark."

You shall. I'll warrant he turns up in the
course of the day. Don't be anxious : I'll get
to work as soon as possible to find him ; but,
depend upon it, the fellow's all right."

They shook hands, and Julian took his way
homewards. Mr. Woodstock went to the house

VOL. III. H

which Ida had just entered. He knocked lightly,
and a woman opened to him and led him into a
sitting-room on the ground-floor.

'' I'll just have a cup of coffee, Mrs. Sims," he
said. "Does she seem to care for her breakfast?"

I'm afraid not, sir ; she looks tired out, and
poorly like."

Yes, yes ; the long journey and her troubles.
Make her as comfortable as you can. I'll make
myself at home with the paper here for an hour
or so. Just see if she cares to lie down for a
little ; if so I won't disturb her."

Abraham did not devote much attention to
the news. He sat before the fire, a cup of coffee
within reach on the mantel-piece, his legs fully
stretched out before him, his favourite attitude
when thinking. In spite of his fresh complexion
and active limbs, you would have seen, had you
watched him in his present mood, that Mr.
Woodstock was beginning to age. Outwardly
he was remarkably well-preserved ; few men of
his years anything like as well. But let the
inner man become visible during a fit of brooding,
and his features made evident the progress

of years. His present phase of countenance was
a recent development ; it spoke other things
than speculation on business or politics ; the
relaxed lines brought to light a human kindliness
not easily discoverable in the set expression
of wide-awake hours. At present there was even
tenderness in his eyes, and something of sad
recollection. His strong mouth twitched a little
at times, and his brows contracted, as if in self-reproach.
AVhen he returned to himself, it was
with a sigh.

He sat for about an hour ; then the woman
presented herself again, and told him that Miss
Starr had been prevailed upon to rest. It seemed
likely she might sleep.

Very well," said Mr. Woodstock, rising. " I'll
go to the office. Send some one round when she's
stirring, will you ? "

Ida, to get rid of her troublesome though well-meaning
attendant, had promised to lie down,
but she had no need of sleep. Alone, she still
kept her chair by the fire, sitting like one worn
out with fatigue, her hands upon her lap, her
head drooping, her eyes fixed on vacancy. She

H 2

was trying to think, but thoughts refused to
come consecutively, and a dull annoyance at
this inability to reason upon her position fretted
her consciousness. Not with impunity can the
human mind surrender itself for half a year to
unvaried brooding upon one vast misery ; the
neglected faculties revenge themselves by rusting,
and will not respond when at length summoned.
For months Ida's thoughts had gone

o o

round and round about one centre of anguish,
like a wailing bird circling over a ravaged nest.
Removed from the world to the confinement of
a prison-cell, the powers of her mind had by
degrees proportionately contracted. The image
of her mental state had been presented by an
outward experience with which she became
familiar. Waking long before daylight, she
would lie with her eyes directed to the little
barred window, and watch till there came the
first glimmer of dawn. Even so was it her sole
relief in the deep night of her misery to look
forward for that narrow gleam of hope, — her
ultimate release. As the day approached, she
made it the business of her thoughts to construct

a picture of the events it would bring.
Even before hearing from Waymark, she had
been sure that he would meet her ; Waymark
and freedom grew identical images ; to be free
meant to see him awaiting her and to put herself
absolutely in his hands. Now that everything
had turned out differently from what she had
grown to anticipate with certainty, she found
herself powerless to face the unexpected. Why
had Waymark failed her ? — she could do no
more than repeat the question a thousand times,
till the faculty of self-communing forsook merit
was as though the sun should fail one morning
to rise upon the world, and men should
stand hopeless of day for ever.

She wondered vaguely whither she had been
brought. At one moment she seemed to have
been waiting an eternity in this unknown room,
Julian's face and voice unspeakably remote ;
then again she would look round and wonder
that she no longer saw the bare walls and
barred window of her cell, the present seeming
only a dream. All the processes of her mind
were slow, sinewless. She tried to hope for

something, to expect that something would
happen, but couhl not summon the energy.
Resentment, revolt, bitterness of spirit, of these
things she knew just as little. They had been
strong enough within her at first, but how long
ago that seemed ! She had no thought of time
in the present ; to sit waiting for an hour meant
as little as to wait five minutes ; such was the
habit that had become impressed upon her by
interminable days and nights. When at length
she heard a knock at the door it filled her with
fear ; she started to her feet and looked with
unintelligent eyes at the woman who again
presented herself.

Do you feel better, 'm ? " the landlady asked.
Have you rested yourself? "

Yes, thank you."

The woman went away ; then came another
knock, and Mr. Woodstock entered the room.
He closed the door behind him, and drew near.
She had again started up, and did not^move her
eyes from his face.

Have you any remembrance of me ? " Abraham
asked, much embarrassed in her presence,

his voice failing to be as gentle as lie wished
through his difficulty in commanding it.

Ida had recognized him at once. He had
undergone no change since that day when she
saw him last in Milton Street, and at this
moment it was much easier for her to concentrate
her thoughts upon bygone things than
to realize the present.

You are Abraham Woodstock," she said,
very coldly, the resentment associated with the
thought of him being yet stronger than the
dead habit which had but now oppressed her.'

Yes, I am. And I am a friend of Osmond
Waymark. I should like to talk a little with
you, if you'll let me."

The old man found it so hard to give expression
to the feelings that possessed him.
Ida concluded at once that he came with some
hostile purpose, and the name of Waymark was
an incentive to her numbed faculties.

How can you be a friend of Osmond Waymark
? " she asked, with cold suspicion.

Didn't he ever mention my name to you ? "

Never."

Waymark had in truth always kept silence
with Ida about his occupations in Westminster,
though he had spoken so freely of them to Maud.
He could not easily have explained to himself
why he had made this difference, though it
possessed a significance. Mr. Woodstock was
almost at a loss how to proceed. He coughed,
and moved his foot uneasily about on the fender.

I have known him all his life, for all that,"
he said. " And it was through him I found
you."

Found me ? "

** It'll seem very strange, what I have to tell
you. — You were a little girl when I saw you
last, and you refused to come with me. Had
you any idea why I asked you ? "

I hadn't then."

'' But you have thought of it since ? "

Ida looked at him sternly, and turned her
eyes away again. The belief that he was her
father had always increased the resentment with
which she recalled his face.

I am your grandfather," Abraham said,
gravely. " Your mother was my daughter."

A change came over her countenance ; she
gazed at him with wonder.

Who did you think I was ? " he asked.

She hesitated for a moment, then, instead
of replying, said :

You behaved cruelly to my poor mother'*

I won't deny it," the old man returned,
mastering his voice with difficulty. *' I ought
to have been more patient with her. But she
refused to obey me, and I can't help my nature.
I repented it when it was too late."

Ida could not know what it cost him to utter
these abrupt sentences. He seemed harsh, even
in confining his harshness. She was as far
from him as ever.

I can't do anything for her,' Mr. Woodstock
continued, trying to look her in the face. " But
you are her child, and I want to do now what I
ought to have done long ago. I've come hereto
ask you if you'll live in my house, and belike
a child of my own."

I don't feel to you as a child ought," Ida
said, her voice changing to sadness. " You've
left it too late."

No, it isn't too late ! " exclaimed the other,
with emotion he could not control ^' You
mustn't think of yourself, but of me. You have
all your life before you, but I'm drawing near
to the end of mine. There's no one in the world
belonging to me but you. I have a ri^/Ai to — "

No right ! no right ! " Ida interrupted him,
almost passionately.

Then ^oa have a duty," said Abraham,
with lowered voice. " My mind isn't at ease,
and it's in your power to help me. Don't
imitate me, and put off doing good till it is too
late. I don't ask you to feel kindly to me ;
all I want is that you'll let me take you to my
home and do all I can for you, both now and
after I'm gone."

There was pathos in the speech, and Ida
felt it.

Do you know where I came from this morning
? " she asked, when both had been silent
for some moments.

I know all about it. I was at the trial,
and I did my best for you then."

Do you believe that I robbed that woman ? "

Ida asked, leaning forward with eager eyes
and quickened breath.

Believe it ! Not I ! No one believes it
who knows anything about her. Waymark said
he wouldn't have believed it if all the courts
in England found you guilty."

He said that ? " she exclaimed. Then, as
if suddenly becoming clearer about her position :
Where is Mr. Waymark ? Why didn't he
meet me as he promised ? "

Abraham hesitated, but speedily made up his
mind that it would be best to speak the truth.

I know as little as you do. He ought to
have come to me yesterday, but he didn't, and
I can't discover him. I got Mr. Castii to meet
you instead."

The keenest trouble manifested itself on Ida's
countenance. She asked questions in rapid
succession, and thus elicited an explanation of
all the circumstances hitherto unknown to her.

*' Have you been through the houses ? " she
inquired, all her native energy restored by apprehension.
" Haven't you thought that he may
have been robbed and "

She stopped, overcome by sudden weakness,
and sank into the chair.

Come, come, it isn't so bad as all that,"
said the old man, observing her closely. " He
may turn up at any moment ; all sorts of
unexpected things may have happened. But
I'll go again to his lodgings, and if I can't hear
anything there, I'll set the police to work in
Westminster. Will you promise me to wait
here quietly ? "

No, that I can't do ! I want to move
about ; I must do something. Let me go with
you to look for him."

*' No, no ; that'll never do, Ida," —

The power of speaking tenderly seemed to
have been given to him all at once ; this and
his calling her " Ida," struck so upon the girl's
agitated feelings that she began to sob.

Let me, let me go with you ! I will forget
everything — I will be your child — I will try
to love you,"

She was as weak as water, and would have
sunk to the ground if Abraham had not given
her his support just in time. He could not find

words to soothe her, but passed his hand very
tenderly over her head.

We are losing time ! " she exclaimed, forcing
herself into an appearance of calmness. " Come
at once."

She hastily put on her hat and jacket. As
she stood in her pale eagerness, strong once
more in spirit, her beauty all the more impressive
for its record of unspoken woe, Abraham
felt a strange pride blending itself with the
love which had already awoke in him. Timidly
he stepped nearer and touched her cheek with
his lips.

CHAPTER VI.

JUBILEE COURT.

In Beaufort Street they only learnt that
Waymark had not yet been home. Thence
they drove to Westminster, and stopped at a
police-station, where Abraham saw the inspector.
The latter suggested that Mr. Woodstock should
go through all the houses which Waymark would
have visited ; if that search proved fruitless, the
police would pursue the matter. Ida insisted
on being allowed to accompany him when the
cab stopped at the end of Litany Lane. She
gazed about her like one who had been suddenly
set down in a new country ; this squalor and
vileness, so familiar to her of old, affected her
strangely under the present conditions. The
faces of people at whom she looked remained
fresh in her memory for years after ; the long

confinement and the excitement which now
possessed her resulted in preternatural acuteness
of observation. • Abraham spoke first with several
people whom he had already questioned about
Waymark, but they had heard nothing since.

*rare you strong enough for this?" he asked
Ida. " Hadn't you really better go back to the
cab and wait for me ? "

Don't ask me to do that ! " she entreated
earnestly. " I must be active. I have strength
now for anything."

Just as she spoke, Mr. Woodstock became
aware of a disturbance of some kind in a dirty
little tobacconist's shop close at hand. There
was a small crowd at the door, and the sound
of wranoiino; voices came from within. Such
an occurrence was too ordinary to suggest any
special significance, but Abraham would not pass
without making some inquiry. Begging Ida to
stand where he left her, he pushed his way into
the shop and listened to what was going on. A
lad, well known in these parts as " Lushy Dick,"
was, it appeared, charging the tobacconist with
cheating him ; he alleged that he had deposited

half a sovereign on the counter, in payment fora
cigar, and the showman had given him change
as if for sixpence, maintaining stoutly that sixpence
had been the coin given him, and no half-sovereign
at all. When Mr. Woodstock entered,
the quarrel had reached a high pitch.

'' Ars a quid ! " the tobacconist was exclaiming,
contemptuously. 'Td like to know where such
as you's likely to git ars a quid from."

Lushy Dick, stung to recklessness by a succession
of such remarks, broke out in vehement
self-justification.

'' Would yer like to know, y' old ! Then

yer shall, soon ! I'm if I don't tell just

the truth, an' take the consequences.

It was Slimy as give it me, an' if yer want to

know where Slimy got it, yer '11 'ave to

well find out, 'cos I don't know myself."

Lushy Dick was strong in his command of the
vernacular ; it is difficult to report him faithfully.

"And how came Slimy to give you half a
sovereign ? " Mr. Woodstock at once interposed,
speaking with authority.

"Is that you, Mr. Woodstock?" exclaimed

the boy, turning round suddenly at the sound
of the voice. 'now, look 'ere, Fm a-going' to

make a clean breast of it. This 'ere

bloke's been a ringing' the changes on me ; I'll

show him up, an' well chance it ! Slimy

give me a quid afore he took his hook."

The lad had clearly been drinking, but had
not yet reached the incoherent stage. He spoke
in great excitement, repeating constantly his
determination to be revenged upon the tobacconist
at all costs. It was with difficulty that Mr.
Woodstock kept him to the point.

Why Slimy give it me ? "Well, I'll just tell
yer, Mr. Woodstock. It was to do a job for
him, which I never done it, after all. Slimy
told me as 'ow I was to go to your office at
ten o'clock last night, an' tell you from him
as he'd no more 'casion for his room, so he'd
sent yer the key, an yer'd better come as soon
as possible an' see as he'd left everything square
behind him, an' 'cos he was afraid he'd locked
in a friend o' your by mistake an' in his
hurry."

*' And why the devil did'nt you come?"

VOL. III. I

exclaimed Abraham, looking at him in angry
surprise.

"cos why, Mr. Woodstock 1 Well, I'll tell
yer just the blooming' truth, an' chance it. I
loss the key out o' my pocket, through 'ain.' a

hole in it, so I thought as 'ow I'd best just

say nothing about neither Slimy nor his room,
an' there y'ave it 1 "

Abraham was out of the shop again on the
instant.

I've found him," he said to Ida. " A house
round there in the court."

She walked quickly by his side, a cluster of
people following them. Fortunately, a policeman
was just coming from the opposite end
of Litany Lane, and Mr. Woodstock secured
his services to keep the mob from entering
the house where Slimy had lived. As soon as
they got inside, the old man begged Ida to
remain in a room on the ground floor whilst
he went up-stairs, and this she consented to do.
Teaching the garret, he tried the handle of the
door, without effect. Knocking and calling-produced
no response, and within all was

perfectly quiet. Hesitating no longer, he drew
back as far as the wall would allow him, and
ran with his foot against the door. The rotten
woodwork cracked, and a second onset forced the
lock away. In the middle of the floor Waymark
lay, just as Slimy had left him nearly twenty-four
hours ago. Abraham scarcely ventured to
draw near ; there was no motion in the fettered
body, and he dreaded to look closely at the face.
Before he could overcome this momentary fear,
there was a quick step behind him, and, with a
smothered cry, Ida had rushed into the room.
She was on her knees beside Waymark, her face
close down to his.

He is alive ! " she cried. " His eyes have
opened. A knife ! Cut these cords ! "

That was soon accomplished, but Waymark
lay motionless ; he showed that he understood
what was going on, but he was quite blind, his
voice had all but gone, and a dead man could
as soon have risen. Ida still knelt by him,
chafing one of his hands ; when he tried to
speak, she gently raised his head and let it rest
upon her lap. In a few minutes Abraham had

I 2

obtained a glass of spirits from the Clock House,
and, after drinking this, Waymark was able to
make himself understood.

Who is touching me ? " he asked, in a hoarse
whisper. " It is all dark. Whose hand is this ? "

It's Ida," Abraham said, when she herself
remained silent. " She and I have had a rare
hunt for you."

"Ida?"

He endeavoured to raise himself, but in vain.
All he could do was to press her hand to his
heart. In the mean time the policeman had
come up, and with his help Waymark was
carried down-stairs, out into the court, and thence
to the end of Litany Lane, where the cab still
waited. Abraham and Ida followed, and all
were straightway driven off to Fulham.

*****

Four days after this the following paragraph
appeared in the morning papers : —

"The man who committed robbery with
violence in Jubilee Court, Westminster, and
who appears to be known only by the nickname
of Slimy, was yesterday afternoon discovered by

the police in a cellar in Limehouse. He seems
to have been in hiding there since the perpetration
of the crime, only going out from time
to time to purchase liquor at public-houses in
the neighbourhood. Information given by the
landlord of one of these houses led to his arrest.
He was found lying on the stone floor, with
seventeen empty bottles about him, also a
quantity of gold aid silver coins, which appeared
to have rolled out of his pocket. He was carried
to the police-station in an insensible state, but
on being taken to the cell, came to himself-and
gradually exhibited violent symptoms of delirium
tremens. Two officers remained with him, but
the assistance of a third shortly became necessary,
owing to the violence of his struggles. At
intervals they administered medicine to him by
force. Towards midnight his fury lessened, and
after a very brief interval of unconsciousness, the
wretched creature expired."

BOOK VI.

Chapter I.
MONEY THE HELPER.

Mr. Woodstock's house at Fulham was a
cheerful abode when the months of early
summer came round, and there was thick
leafage within the shelter of the old brick wall
which shut it off from the road. The quaintly
picturesque building had been appropriately set
in order for its new inhabitants, and there was
taste as well as evidence of wealth in the
appointments of all the rooms. Abraham was
too wise to trust his own unassisted instinct in
the matter of furnishing; he had put himself
with confidence into the hands of a firm by
whom the aesthetic swore, and doubtless appreciated
the beauties of an eighteenth-century
interior quite as much as the majority of those

who accept it as the mode. It had taken him
some time before he could feel altogether at
home in the soft-toned, silent rooms, so different
from what he had ever been accustomed to.
And even now he had not made-up his mind
to surrender the "study" in St. John Street
Road, and transfer its political litter to Fulham
Still, he purposed doing so, finding, indeed, that
he cared less and less to spend any time in town
which was not absolutely devoted to the calls
of business. His Blue-books had never suffered
such neglect ; never had he scanned the (Controversial
harangues in and out of Parliament
with so cursory an eye. The man was becoming
humanized in his later years. Clubs, restaurants,
and yet more questionable resorts knew him no
more. For the first time in his life he understood
the attractions of domesticity. During
the early months of the year, slippers and the
fireside after dinner ; now that the sunset time
was growing warm and fragrant, a musing
saunter about the garden walks ; these were
the things to which his imagination grew fond
of turning. Nor to these only ; blended with

such visions of bodily comfort, perchance lending
to them their chief attraction, was the light of
a young face, grave always, often sad, speaking
with its beautiful eyes to those simpler and
tenderer instincts of his nature which had
hitherto slept. In the presence of Ida (who
was now known, by his wish, as Miss Woodstock)
Abraham's hard voice found for itself
a more modest and musical key. For a time
he ate his meals with her under a certain
constraint, which yet was a source of sensations
rather pleasant than otherwise. Time clearly
would not diminish the scrupulous respect
with which he always behaved to her. He
found a real delight in watching her move about
the room, in observing her demeanour at table,
her attitudes when she sat reading or doing
needle-work. This, he felt, was his ideal of
ladyhood ; he rejoiced to have it made actual
before his eyes, nay, in one who was his own
child, in a sense. Such had not formerly been
his ideal woman ; he was surprised at himself
when he discovered with what distaste he now
regarded those graces of stage and pavement

J

which had once had such attraction for him. He
began — novel sensation — to look upon himself
as a respectable old gentleman ; the grey patches
on his head were grateful to him from that
point of view. If only he had been able to
gather round his granddaughter and himself
a circle of equally respectable friends and
acquaintances, he would have enjoyed complete
satisfaction. Two or three at most there were,
and these only old bachelors of restricted conversational
abilities, whom he could venture to
bring over with him from the old life to .the
new. For Ida he could as yet provide no
companionship at all.

But Ida did not feel the want. Since the day
of her coming to the new house her life had
been very full ; so much was passing within,
that she desired to escape, rather than discover,
new distractions in the world around her. For
the week or so during which Waymark had
lain ill, her courage had triumphed marvellously
over the sufferings to which she was
herself a prey ; the beginning of his recovery
brought about a reaction in her state, and

for some days she fell back into a depressed
feebleness almost as extreme as on the first
morning of her freedom. It distressed her
to be spoken to, and her own lips were all
but mute. There was no physical ailment,
unless it were a lack of all bodily energy and
a distaste for food ; but she entreated to be
left alone, and would lie in her room through
the whole day, her eyes either closed or looking
upon vacancy. Mr. Woodstock sat by her for
hours whilst she slept, or seemed to be sleeping ;
when she stirred and showed consciousness of
his presence, he left her, so great was his fear
of annoying her, and thus losing the ground he
had gained. Once, when he was rising to quit
the room, Ida held out her hand as if to stay
him. She was lying on a sofa, and had enjoyed
a very quiet sleep.

Grandfather," she murmured, turning to
face him. It was the first time she had addressed
him thus, and the old man's eyes
brightened at the sound.

'' Are you better for the sleep, Ida ? " he
asked, taking the hand she had extended.

Much ; much better. How the sun shines ! "

"Yes, it's a fine day. Don't you think
you could go out a little ? "

''I think I should like to, but I can't walk
very far, I'm afraid."

*you needn't walk at all, my dear. Your
carriage shall be here whenever you like to
order it."

My carriage ? "

The exclamation was like a child's pleased
wonder. She coloured a little, and seemed
ashamed. %

How is Mr. Waymark ? " was her next
question.

Nothing much amiss now, I think. His
eyes are painful, he says, and he mustn't leave
the room yet, but it won't last much longer.
Shall we go together and see him ? "

She hesitated, but decided to wait till he could
come down.

"But you'll go out, Ida, if I order the
carriage ? "

Thank you, I should like to."

Come, that's something like ! You shall

have some lunch first though. Where shall we
drive too, eh ? "

Are we far from Putney ? "
Oh no ; the bridge is quite near."
'then we could go over the river, and as far
as Southampton 1 Do you know Southampton ? "
'' Of course I do," returned Abraham, cheerfully.
" Well get some colour into your cheeks
on the common. In a day or two I dare say
Way mark will go with us."

That first drive had been to Ida a joy unspeakable.
Her going forth thus into the sunlight
and amid the scenes she remembered so
gladly was like a new birth. To-day for the first
time she was able to sweep her mind clear of
the dread shadow of brooding, and gave herself
up to simple enjoyment of the hour. The fresh
r breeze from the river was like a cordial ; it
made her feel so strong that, when on the
common, she could not resist the impulse to
leave the carriage and walk a little way. It
was indeed only a little way, for imagination
exaggerated her real powers, but the good effect
of the exercise was visible on her cheeks when

she returned, and in the touch of merriment, so
new to her, which her conversation showed.

Abraham went and told Waymark of all this
as soon as they got back. In the exuberance
of his spirits he was half angry with the invalid
for being gloomy. Waymark had by this time
shaken off all effects of his disagreeable adventure,
with the exception of a weakness of the
eyes ; but convalescence did not work upon him
as in Ida's case. He was morose, often apparently
sunk in hopeless wretchedness. When
Abraham spoke to him of Ida, he could scarcely
be got to reply. Above all, he showed an
extreme impatience to recover his health and
go back to the ordinary life.

"I shall be able to go to Westminster next
Monday," he said to Mr. Woodstock one day.

*' Westminster ? I should have thought you'd
had enough of that. IVe found another man
for that job."

Then what on earth am I to do ? " Waymark
exclaimed, impatiently. 'how am I to get my
living if you take that work away from me ? "

Never mind ; well find something," Abraham

returned. "Why are you in such a hurry to
get away, I should like to know ? "

Simply because I can't always live here,
and I hate uncertainty."

There was something in the young man's
behaviour which puzzled Mr. Woodstock ; but
the key to the puzzle was very shortly given
him. On the evening of the same day he
presented himself once more in Waymark's
room. The latter could not see him, but the
first sound of his voice was a warning of trouble.

"Do you feel able to talk?" Abraham asked,
rather gruffly.

Yes. Why ? "

Because I want to ask you a few questions.
I've just had a call from that friend of yours,
Enderby, and something came out in talk that
I wasn't exactly prepared for."

Waymark rose from his chair.

Why didn't you tell me," pursued Mr.
Woodstock, " that you were engaged to his
daughter ? "

I scarcely thought it necessary."

Not when I told you who Ida was ? "

This disclosure had been made whilst Waymark
was still confined to his bed ; partly because
Abraham had a difficulty in keeping the matter
to himself, partly because he thought it might
help the other through his illness. Waymark
had said very little at the time, and there had
been no definite conversation on the matter
between them since.

I don't see that it made any difference,"
Waymark replied, gloomily.

The old man was silent. He had been, it
seemed, under a complete delusion, and could pot
immediately make up his mind whether he had
indeed ground of complaint against Waymark.

"Why did Mr. Enderby call?" the latter
inquired.

Very naturally, it seems to me, to know what
had become of you. He didn't see the report in
the paper, and went searching for you."

Does Ida know of this ? " he asked, after
a pause, during which Waymark had remained
standing with his arms crossed on the back of
the chair.

'' I have never told her. Why should I have

done ? Perhaps now you will believe what I
insisted upon before the trial, that there had
been nothing whatever "

He spoke irritably, and was interrupted by
the other with yet more irritation.

** Never mention that again to me as long
as you live, Waymark ! If you do, we shall
quarrel, understand now ! "

I have no more pleasure in referring to it
than you have," said Waymark, more calmly ;
but T must justify myself when you attack me."

How long has this been going on ? " asked
the other, after a silence.

Some three months — perhaps more."

"Well, I think it would have been better if
you'd been straightforward about it, that's all. I
don't know that I've anything more to say. We
know what we're about, and there's an end of it."

So saying, the old man went out of the room.
There was a difference in him henceforth, something
which Ida noticed, though she could not
explain it. On the following day he spoke with
her on a matter she was surprised to hear him
mention, her education. He had been thinking,

he said, that she ought to learn to play
the piano, and be taught foreign languages.
Wouldn't she like him to find some lady who
could live in the house and teach her all these
things ? Ida's thoughts at once ran to the
conclusion that this had been suggested by
Waymark, and, when she found that her grandfather
really wished it, gave a ready assent. A
week or two later the suitable person had been
discovered — a lady of some thirty years of age,
by name Miss Edward. She was agreeable and
refined, endowed, moreover, with the tact which
was desirable in one undertaking an office such
as this. Ida found her companionship pleasant,
and Mr. Woodstock congratulated himself on
having taken the right step.

At the same time that the governess came
to the house, Waymark left it. He returned
to his old lodgings, and, with an independence
which was partly his own impulse, partly the
natural result of the slight coolness towards
him which had shown itself in Mr. Woodstock,
set to work to find a means of earning his living.
This he was fortunate enough to discover

VOL. III. . K

without any undue delay ; lie obtained a place
as assistant in a large circulating library. The
payment was small, but just enough to live
upon, and he still had his evenings free.

Ida did not conceal her disappointment when
Abraham conveyed this news to her ; she had
been hoping for better things. Her intercourse
with "Waymark between his recovery and his
leaving the house had been difficult, full of
evident constraint on both sides. It was the
desire of both not to meet alone, and in Mr.
Woodstock's presence they talked of indifferent
things, with an artificiality which it was difficult
to support, yet impossible to abandon. They
shunned each other's eyes. Waymark was even
less at his ease than Ida, knowing that Mr.
Woodstock observed him closely at all times.
With her grandfather Ida tried to speak freely
of their friend, but she too was troubled by the
consciousness that the old man did not seem as-friendly
to Waymark as formerly.

This will of course only be for a time ? "
she said, when told of Waymark's new
employment.

I don't know," Abraham replied, indifferently.
" I should think it will suit him as well
as anything else."

But he is clever ; he writes books. Don't
you think he weill make himself known some
day ? "

That kind of thing isn't much to be depended
on, it seems to me. It's a doubtful business to
look forward to for a living."

Ida kept silence on the subject after that.
she did not seem to brood any longer over sad
thoughts, yet it was seldom she behaved 'or
spoke light-heartedly ; her face often indicated
an absent mind, but it was the calm musing
of one whose thoughts look to the future and
strengthen themselves with hope. Times there
were when she drew away into solitude, and
these were the intervals of doubt and self-questioning.
With her grandfather she was
reconciled ; she had become convinced of his
kindness to her, and the far-off past was now
seldom in her mind. The trouble originated
in the deepest workings of her nature. When
she found herself comparing her position now

K 2

with that of former days, it excited in her a
restive mood to think that chance alone had
thus raised her out of misery, that the conscious
strength and purity of her soul would never
have availed to help her to the things which
were now within her grasp. The old sense of
the world's injustice excited anger and revolt
in her heart. Chance, chance alone befriended
her, and the reflection injured her pride. What
of those numberless struggling creatures to
whom such happy fortune could never come,
who, be their aspirations and capabilities what
they might, must struggle vainly, agonize, and
in the end despair ? She had been lifted out
of hell, not risen therefrom by her own strength.
Sometimes it half seemed to her that it would
have been the nobler lot to remain as she was,
to share the misery of that dread realm of
darkness with those poor disinherited ones, to
cherish that spirit of noble rebellion, the consciousness
of which had been as a pure fire on
the altar of her being. What was to be her
future ? Would she insensibly forget her past
self, let her strength subside in ladylike refinement,

— it might be, even lose the passion which
had made her what she was ?

But hope predominated. Forget I Could she
ever forget those faces in the slums on the day
when she bade farewell to poverty and all
its attendant wretchedness ? Litany Lane and
Jubilee Court were names which already symbolized
a purpose. If ever she still looked at her
grandfather with a remnant of distrust, it was
because she thought of him as drawing money
from such a source, enjoying his life of ease
in disregard of the responsibilities laid upon
him. The day would come when she could find
courage to speak to him. She waited and
prepared herself.

Prepared herself, for that, and for so much
else. Way mark's behaviour would have cost
her the bitterest misery, had she not been able
to explain it to her own satisfaction. There
could be but one reason why he held aloof from
her, and that an all-sufficient one. In her new
position, it was impossible for him to be more
than just friendly to her. If that had been his
attitude in the old days, how could his self-respect

allow him to slow the slightest change ?
In his anxiety not to do so, he had even fallen
short of the former kindness. No forgiveness
was needed, when she felt that she understood
him so well. But all the more did it behove
her to make herself worthy of him in all things.
She had still so much to learn ; she was sofar
his inferior in culture and understanding.
Her studies with Miss Edward ^erQ' pursued
with a restless energy which not a little astonished
that worthy lady, and with results
even more than proportionate. The pure delight
in attainment for its own sake would have
sufficed to make Ida tax her strength of mind
and body to the utmost ; the ever-present
thought of what she was working for supplied
an incentive which made her days a triumphal
progress in knowledge. Nor were her domestic
duties forgotten. Mr. Woodstock had supplied
her with a good housekeeper, to help her inexperience,
but Ida took an adequate burden
on her own shoulders. This again was a new
and keen joy. It was moving in a woman's
sphere, and therefore full of pleasure ; the same

pleasure lie had felt in showing her handiness
when Waymark had come to tea with her in her
lodgings. He came to Fulham but seldom now,
and, owing to his work, almost always late
in the evening ; but she hoped he observed her
and saw something of the progress she was
making in all things. She longed to exchange
with him one glance of intelligence, to speak
to him for a moment of the work she was doing,
to ask his advice and help ; but there came
no opportunity from his side, and she bade
herself be patient.

Waymark dined with them one Sunday in
May, and, in the course of the evening, went
with Abraham to the smoking-room for some
private conversation.

"Do you remember," he began, 'once offering
to buy those shares of mine ? "

Yes, I do," replied Mr. Woodstock, narrowing
his eyes.

Does the offer still hold good ? "

Yes, yes ; if you're anxious to realize."

I am. I want money — for two purposes."

What are they ? " Abraham asked bluntly.

One is a private matter, which I don't think
I need speak of; but the other I can explain.
I have found a courageous publisher who has
offered to bring my book out if I take a certain
risk. This I have made up my mind to do. I
want to get the thing out, if only for the sake
of hearing Mrs. Grundy lift up her voice ; and
if it can't be otherwise, I must publish at my
own expense."

'* Will it repay you ? " Mr. Woodstock asked.

Ultimately, I have no doubt ; but I don't
care so much about that."

Hem. I should think that's the chief matter
to be considered. And you won't tell me what
the other speculation is ? "

*' I'm going to lend a friend some money, but
I don't wish to go into detail."

The old man looked at him shrewdly.

Very well," he said presently. ''' I'll let you
have the cash. Could you manage to look in at
the office tomorrow at mid-day ? "

This was arranged, and Waymark rose, but Mr.
Woodstock motioned to him to resume his seat.

As we're talking," he began, " I may as well
have over something that's on my mind. Why
haven't you told Ida yet about that engagement
of yours ? "

Haven't you done so ? " Waymark asked,
in surprise.

Did you think I had ? "

*' Why yes, I did."

I've done nothing of the kind," Abraham
returned, pretending to be surprised at the
supposition, though he knew it was a perfectly
natural one. •

Waymark was silent.

'^ Don't you think," the other pursued, "its
about time something was said to her ? "

I can't see that it matters, and "

*but I can see. As long as that isn't known,
you're here, to speak plainly, on false pretences.'

Then I won't come here at all I "

Very good," exclaimed the old man, irritably,
so long as you explain to her first."

Waymark turned away, and stood gazing
gloomily at the floor. Abraham regarded him,
and a change came over his hard face.

'now, look here' he said, "there's something
in all this I can't make out. Is this engagement
a serious one *? "

Serious ? " returned the other, with a look of
misery. " How can it be otherwise ? "

Very well ; in that case you're bound to let
Ida know about it, and at once. Damn it all,
don't you know your own mind ? "

Waymark collected himself, and spoke with
gravity.

I of course understand why you press so for
this explanation. You take it for granted that
Ida regards me as something more than a friend.
If so, my manner since she has been here must
have clearly shown her that, on my side, I have
not the least thought of offering more than
friendship. You yourself will grant so much,
I believe. For all that, I don't deny thafc our
relations have always been unusual ; and it
would cost me very much to tell her of my
engagement. I ask you to relieve me of the
painful task, on the understanding that I never
come here again. I can't make you understand
my position ; it would involve a description of

peculiarities of character in myself for which you
could have no kind of sympathy. You say my
behaviour has not been straightforward. In the
ordinary sense of the word it has not ; — there let
it rest. Tell Ida what you will of me, and let
me disappear from her world."

*' The plain English of all which," cried
Abraham, angrily, "is, that, as far as you are
concerned, you would be quite willing to let the
girl live on false hopes, just to have the pleasure
of her society as long as you care for it."

*' Not so, not so at all ! I value Ida's friendship
as I value that of no other woman, and I
am persuaded that, if I were free with her, I
could reconcile her entirely to our connection
remaining one of friendship, and nothing more."

Waymark, in his desperate straits, all but
persuaded himself that he told the truth. Mr.
Woodstock gazed at him in astonished doubt.
Was this rascality, or was it absurd self-delusion
? he asked himself. Like a practical
man he shook himself clear of this entangling
sophistry, and delivered his ultimatum. He
would give Way mark to the end of June to

make up his mind ; by that time the latter
must either present himself as a free man or
allow Ida to be informed of his position. In
the mean while he must come to Fulham not
oftener than once a week. To this Waymark
agreed, glad of any respite, and very shortly
left without seeing Ida.

He returned to his lodgings in a state of
nervous misery. Fortunately, he was not left
to his thoughts ; in a few minutes a knock
at his door announced a visitor in the person
of Mr. O'Gree. Our old friend exhibited his
wonted liveliness, and at once beo^an to relate
an incident to the disadvantage of his archenemy,
the worthy Dr. Tootle.

Faith," he cried, 'i'd have given a trifle if
ye could have heard the conversation between
old Pendy and me, just after breakfast yesterday.
The boys were filing out of the room, when,
Mr. O'Gree ! ' cries Pendy. — ' Sir ! ' I reply. —
The boys were called late this morning, I hear.'
• — ' No such thing, sir,' I assure 'um. ' Half
past six to the minute, by my watch.' — ' Oh,
your watch, Mr. O'Gree,' cries the old reprobate.

I fear your watch doesn't keep very good
time.' — ' Sure, you're in the right, sir,' said I ;

it's been losing a little of late ; so only last
night I stopped it at half-past six, to make sure
it would show me the right calling-time this
morning.' And, when I'd said that, I just nod
my head, as much as to say, ' There's one for
ye, me boy ! ' and walk off as jaunty as a
Limerick bantam."

Then, after a burst of irresistible mirth, Mr.
O'Gree quite suddenly fixed his face in a very
grave expression. «

I'm resolved. Way mark, I'm resolved ! " he
exclaimed. " At midsummer I break my chains,
and stand erect in the dignity of a free man.
I've said it often, but now I mean it. Sally
urges me to do ut, and Sally never utters a
worrud that isn't pure wisdom."

"Well, I think she's right. I myself should
prefer a scavenger's existence, on the whole.
But have you thought any further of the other
scheme ? "

"The commercial undertaking ? We were
talking it over the other night. Sally says :

Borrow the money and risk ut. And I think
she's in the right. If you enter the world of
commerce, you must be prepared for speculation.
We looked over the advertisements in a newspaper,
just to get an idea, and. we calculated
the concern could be set afloat for seventy-five
pounds. Out of that we could pay a quarter's
rent, and stock the shop. Sally's been behind
the counter a good bit of late, and she's getting
an insight into that kind of thing. Wonderful
girl, Sally ! Put her in Downing Street for a
week, and she'd be competent to supplant
the Premier ! "

'* You have decided for a chandler's ? "
'' Yes ; we neither of us know much about
tobacco, and tobacco perhaps isn't quite the
thing; for a man of education. But to be a
chandler is something worthy of any man's
ambition. You supply at once the solids and
the luxuries of life ; you range from boiled ham
and pickles to mixed biscuits and preserves.
You are the dietetic focus of a whole street.
The father comes to you for his mid-day bread
and cheese, the mother for her half-ounce of

tea, the child for its farthings worth of sweets.
For years I've been leading a useless life ; once
let me get into my shop, and I become a column
of the social system. Faith, it's as good as done !"

From whom shall you borrow the cash ? "

Sally's going to think about that point. I
suppose we shall go to a loan office, and make
some kind of arrangement. I'm rather vas^ue on
these things, but Sally will find it out."

I understand," said AVaymark, checking his
amusement, "that you are perfectly serious in
this plan ? "

As serious as I was in the moment of my
birth ! There's no other chance."

Very well, then, suppose I osier to lend
you the money."

You, Waymark ? "

"No less a person."

And he went on to explain how it was
that he was able to make the offer, adding
that any sum up to a hundred pounds was
at his friend's disposal.

Ye mean it, Waymark ! " cried O'Gree,
leaping round the room in ecstasy. "Bead,

you are a man and a brother, and no mistake !
Ye're the first that ever offered to lend me a
penny ; ye're the first that ever had faith in me !
You shall come with me to see Sally on Saturday,
and tell her this yourself, and I shouldn't
be surprised if she gives you a kiss 1 "

Mr. O'Gree exhausted himself in capering and
vociferation, then sat down and began to exercise
his luxuriant imagination in picturing unheard-of
prosperity.

We'll take a shop in a new neighbourhood,
where we shall have the monopoly. The people
'11 get to know Sally ; she'll be like a magnet
behind the counter. I shall go to the wholesale
houses, and impress them with a sense of my
financial stability ; I flatter myself I shall look
the prosperous shop-keeper, eh ? Who knows
what we may come to ? Why, in a few years
we may transfer our business to Oxford Street
or Piccadilly, and call ourselves Italian warehousemen
; and bead, we'll turn out in the end
another Crosse and Blackwell, see if we don't ! "

At the utmost limit of the time allowed him
by the rules of the Academy, the future man

of commerce took his leave, in spirits extravagant
even for him.

'' Faith," he exclaimed, when he was already
at the door, " who d'ye think I saw last Sunday ?
As I was free in the afternoon, I took a long
walk, and, coming back, I went into a little
coffee-shop for a cup of tea. A man in an
apron came up to serve me, and, by me soul,
if it wasn't poor old Egger ! I've heard not a
word of him since he left last Christmas. He
was ashamed of himself, poor devil ; but I did
my best to make him easy. After all, he's
better off than in the scholastic line."

Waymark laughed at this incident, and stood
watching O'Gree's progress down the street fora
minute or two. Then he went to his room
again, and sitting down with a sigh, fell into
deep brooding.

VOL. 111.

CHAPTER 11.

A VISION OF SIN.

Maud Enderby's life at home became evermore
solitary. Such daily intercourse as had
been established between her mother and herself
grew less and less fruitful of real intimacy,
till at length it was felt by both to be mere
form. Maud strove against this, but there was
no corresponding effort on the other side ; Mrs.
Enderby showed no dislike for her daughter,
yet unmistakably shunned her If she chanced
to enter the sitting-room whilst Maud was
there, she would, if possible, retreat unobserved ;
or else she would feign to have come in quest
of something, and at once go away with it.
Maud could not fail to observe this, and its
recurrence struck a chill to her heart. She had
not the courage to speak to her mother ; a dead-weight

of trouble, a restless spirit of apprehension,
made her life one of passive endurance ;
she feared to have the unnatural conditions of
their home openly recognized. Very often her
thoughts turned to the time when she had found
refuge from herself in the daily occupation of
teaching, and, had she dared, she would gladly
have gone away once more as a governess.
But she could not bring herself to propose such
a step. To do so would necessitate explanations,
and that was what she dreaded most of all.
Whole days, with the exception of meal-times,
she spent in her own room, and there no one
ever disturbed her. Sometimes she read, but
most often sat in prolonged brooding, heedless
of the hours.

Her father was now constantly away from
home. He told her that he travelled on business.
It scarcely seemed to be a relief to him
to rest awhile in his chair ; indeed, Paul had
grown incapable of resting. Time was deepening
the lines of anxiety on his sallow face. His
mind seemed for ever racked with painful
calculation. Mrs. Enderby, too, spent much

L 2

time away from the house, and Maud knew
nothing of her engagements. One thing, however,
Maud could not help noticing, and that
was that her mother was clearly very extravagant
in her mode of living. New and costly
dresses were constantly being purchased, as
well as articles of luxury for the house. Mrs.
Enderby had of late provided herself with a
femme de cUavihre^ a young woman who arrayed
herself with magnificence in her mistress's castoff
dresses, and whose appearance and demeanour
had something the reverse of domestic. Maud
almost feared her. Then there was a hired
brougham constantly in use. Whenever Mrs.
Enderby spent an evening at home, company
was sure to be entertained ; noisy and showy
people filled the drawing-room, and remained
till late hours. Maud did not even see their
faces, but the voices of one or two men and
women became only too familiar to her ; even
in the retirement of her room she could not
avoid hearing these voices, and they made her
shudder. Especially she was conscious of Mr.
Mellowdew's presence ; she knew his very step

on the stairs, and waited in feverish apprehension
for the first notes of an accompaniment
on the piano, which warned her that he was
going to sing. He had a good voice, and it
was often in request. Sometimes the inexplicable
dread of his singing was more than she
could bear ; she would hurry on her walking-attire,
and, stealing like a shadow down the
stairs, would seek refuge in pacing about the
streets of the neighbourhood, heedless of weather
or the hours of the night.

Mrs. Enderby never came down to breakfast.
One morning, when Paul happened to be at home,
he and Maud had finished that meal in silence,
and Maud was rising to leave the room, when her
father checked her. He leaned over the table
towards her, and spoke in an anxious undertone.

Have you noticed anything a little — a little
strange in your mother lately, Maud ? Anything
in her way of speaking, I mean, — her general
manner ? "

The girl met his look, and shook her head.
The approach to such a conversation affected
her as with a shock ; she could not speak.

^' She has very bad nights, you know," Paul
went on, still in a tone just above a whisper,
and of late she has been taking chloral. It's
against my wish, but the relief makes it an
irresistible temptation. I fear — I am afraid it
is having some deleterious effect upon her ; she
seemed to be a little — just a little delirious in
the night, I thought."

There was something horrible in his voice and
face as he uttered these words ; he shuddered
slightly, and his tongue seemed to labour for
utterance, as though he dreaded the sound of
his own speech.

Maud sat unmoving and silent.
I thought, also," Paul went on, '' that she
appeared a little strange last evening, when the
people were here. — You weren't in the drawing-room
{

Maud shook her head again.
Do you — do you think," he asked, " she
is having too much excitement ? I know she
needs a life of constant variety ; it is essential
to her. I'm sure you understand that, Maud ?
You — you don't misjudge her ? "

No, no ; it is necessary to lier," said the girl
mechanically.

But," her father pursued, with still lower
voice, " there is always the danger lest she
should over-exert herself. Last night I — I
thought I noticed, — but it was scarcely worth
speaking of; I am so easily alarmed, you know."

Maud tried to say something, but in vain.

*^ You — you won't desert her, — quite, — Maud,"
said her father, in a tone of pleading. " I am
obliged to be so much away ; — God knows I
can't help it. And then, I — I wonder whether
you have noticed ? — I seem to have little influence
with her."

He stopped, but the next moment forced
himself to utter what was in his mind.

'can't you help me a little more, Maud?
Couldn't you induce her to live a little more —
more resentfully at times ? "

She rose, pushing the chair back behind her,
her face ghostly with suffering.

Father, I can't ! " she cried ; then burst into
an hysterical passion of tears, and stood trembling,
all but falling.

God help us ! " lier father breathed, rising
and looking at her in blank misery. But in a
moment she had recovered herself. They faced
each other for an instant, but neither ventured
to speak again, and Maud turned and left him.

Waymark still came once a week, but now he
seldom saw Mrs. Enderby. Maud received him
alone, and they sat together through the evening.
There was little that was lover-like in these
hours spent together. They kissed each other
at meeting and parting, but with this exception,
the manner of both was very slightly different
from what it had been before their engagement.
They sat apart, and talked of art, literature,
religion, seldom of each other. It had come to
this by degrees ; at first there had been more
warmth, but passion never. Waymark's self-consciousness
often weighed upon his tongue,
and made his conversation but a string of
commonplaces ; Maud was often silent for long
intervals. Their eyes never met in a steady
gaze.

Waymark often asked himself whether Maud's

was a passionless nature, or whether it was
possible that her reserve had the same origin
as his own. The latter he felt to be unlikely ;
sometimes there was a pressure of her hands
as their lips just touched, the indication, he
believed, of feeling held in restraint for uncertain
reasons. She welcomed him, too, with
a look which he in vain endeavoured to respond
to — a look of sudden relief from weariness, of
gentle illumination ; it smote him like a reproach.
AVhen the summer had set in, he was
glad to change the still room for the open air ;
they walked frequently into Eegent's Park, and
lingered there after sunset.

One evening, when it was dull and threatened
rain, they returned to the house in St. Mary's;
Terrace sooner than usual. Waymark would
have taken his leave at the door, as he ordinarily
did, but Maud begged him to enter, if only for a
few minutes. It was not quite nine o'clock, and
Mrs. Enderby was from home.

He seated himself, but Maud remained standing,
irresolutely. Waymark glanced at her from
under his eyebrows. He did not find it easy

to speak ; they had both been silent since they
left the park, with the exception of the few
words exchanged at the door.

"Will you let me sit here?" Maud asked
suddenly, pushing a footstool near to his chair,
and kneeling upon it.

He smiled and nodded.

When will they begin the printing ? " she
asked, referring to his book, which was now
in the hands of the publisher who had undertaken
it.

"Not for some months. It can't come out
till the winter season."

"If it should succeed, it will make a great
difference in your position, won't it ? "

It might," he replied, looking away.

She sat with her eyes fixed on the ground.
She wished to continue, but something stayed
her.

I don't much count upon it," Waymark said,
when he could no longer endure the silence.
We — we mustn't base any hopes on that."

He rose ; the need of changing his attitude
seemed imperative.

'must you go?" Maud asked, looking up
at him with eyes which spoke all that her
voice failed to.

He moved his head affirmatively, and held
out his hand to raise her. She obeyed his
summons, and stood up before him ; her eyes
had fixed themselves upon his ; he could not
avoid their strange gaze.

Good-bye," he said.

Her free hand rose to his shoulder, upon
which it scarcely rested. He could not escape
her eyes, though to meet them tortured him.
Her lips were moving, but he could distinguish
no syllable ; they moved again, and he could
just gather the sense of her whisper.

Do you love me ? "

An immense pity thrilled through him. He
put his arm about her, held her closely, and
pressed his lips against her cheek. She reddened,
and hid her face against him. Waymark
touched her hair caressingly, then freed his
other hand, and went from the room.

Maud sat in thought till a loud ring at the
door-bell made her start and flee hip-stairs. The

room in which she and Waymark sat when they
were by themselves was in no danger of invasion,
but she feared the possibility of meeting
her mother to-night. Her father was away
from home, as usual, but the days of his return
were always uncertain, and Mrs. Enderby might
perchance open the door of the little sitting-room
just to see whether he was there, as it
was here he ordinarily employed himself when
in the house. From her bedroom Maud could
hear several people ascend the stairs. It was
ten o'clock, but an influx of visitors at such an
hour was nothing remarkable. She could hear
her mother's laugh, and then the voice of a
man, a voice she knew but too well — Mr.
Mellowdew's.

Her nerves were excited. She still felt that
kiss of Waymark's upon her cheek, a burning
spot, and it would not let her sink into calm,
even the calm of sadness. She could not remain
seated ; fears had got possession of her ; the
future became a bodily presence, gazing at her
with lurid eyes, kindling within her the prescience
of woe. The night was close, and there

were muttering of thunder at times ; the cloud
whence they came seemed to her to spread its
baleful blackness over this one roof, to sink
down towards it with threat of overwhelming,
a storm winged fate. And with this mood of
terror was combined an unwonted instinct of
passion ; her veins ran with fire ; her heart beat
to the point of anguish. An impulse seized
her ; she took paper and sat down at her desk
to write. It was a letter to Waymark, a letter
such as she had never addressed to him, and
which, even in writing it, she was conscious she
could not send. Her hand trembled as she
filled the pages with words of burning love,
expressions which, when she recovered her real
self, would seem to her the outcome of a passionate
frenzy. She panted for more than he
had given her ; this calm, half-brotherly love
of his was just now like a single drop of water
to one dying of thirst ; she cried to him for a
deeper draught of the joy of life. The words
came to her without need of thought ; tears
fell hot from her eyes and blotted what she
wrote.

The tears brought her relief; she was able to
throw her writing aside, and by degrees to
resume that dull, vacant mood of habitual suffering
which at all events could be endured.
From this, too, there was at times a retreat
possible with the help of a book. She had no
mind to sleep, and on looking round, she remembered
that the book she had been reading
in the early part of the day was down-stairs.
It was after midnight, and she seemed to have
a recollection of hearing the visitors leave the
house a little while ago ; it would be safe to
venture as far as the sitting-room below.

She began to descend the stairs quietly.
There was still a light in the hall, but the
quietness of the house reassured her. On
turning an angle of the stairs, however, she
saw that the door of the drawing-room stood
open. She stopped, doubtful whether to risk
a meeting, and at the same moment two persons
came into the doorway. Something held her ;
a force stronger than her fear compelled her
to remain with her hands upon the banisters
and watch. The two below where her mother

and Mr. Mellowdew. She could hear a whisper
interchanged, and then saw them kiss each other.
Then the visitor passed out of sight, and in a
moment she heard him leave the house. Mrs.
Enderby went back into the drawing-room.

Maud stood fixed to the spot. Darkness had
closed in around her, and she clung to the
banisters to save herself from the gulf which
seemed to yawn before her feet. The ringing of
a bell, the drawing-room bell summoning Mrs.
Enderby 's maid, brought her back to consciousness,
and with trembling limbs she regained her
room. It was as though some ghastly vision of
the night had shaken her soul and left her
terror-struck on waking. The habit of her mind
overwhelmed her with the conviction that she
knew at last the meaning of that mystery of
horror which had of late been strengthening its
hold upon her imagination. The black cloud
which lowered above the house had indeed its
significance ; the voices which wailed to her of
sin and woe were the true expression of things
amid which she had been moving unconsciously.
That instinct which made her shrink from her

mothers presence was not without its justification
; the dark powers which circled her existence
had not vainly forced their influence upon her.
Her first impulse was to flee from the house ;
the air breathed pestilence and death, death of
the soul. Looking about her in the anguish of
conflicting thoughts, her eyes fell upon the
pages she had written. These now came before
her as a proof of contagion which had seized
upon her own nature ; she tore the letter hastily
into fragments and, striking fire with a match,
consumed them in the grate. As she watched
the sparks go out, there came a rustling of
dresses past her door. She flung herself upon
her knees and sought refuge in wild, wordless
prayer.

A fortnight after this Maud went late in the
evenings to the room where she knew her father .
was sitting alone. Paul Enderby looked up from
his papers in surprise ; it was some time since Maud
had sought private conversation with him. Ashe
met her pale, resolute face, he knew that she
had a serious purpose in thus visiting him, and

the expression of haggard attention which had
fixed itself upon his countenance changed to one
of nervous anticipation.

Do I disturb you, father ? " Maud asked.
' Could you spare me a few minutes ? "

Paul nodded, and she took a seat near him.

*' Father, I am going to leave home, going to
be a governess again."

He drew a sigh of relief; he had expected
something worse than this. Yet the relief was
only for a moment, and then he looked at her with
eyes which made her soul fail for very compassion.

You will desert me, Maud ? " he asked,
trying to convey in his look that which he
could not utter in words.

Father, I can be of no help, and I feel that
I must not remain here."

Have you found a place ? "

This afternoon I engaged myself to go to
Paris with a French family. They have been
in England some time, and want to take back
an English governess for their children."

Paul was silent, and Maud also remained so
till their eyes again met.

VOL. III. M

I leave the day after tomorrow," she added ;
at first she had feared to say how soon she was
to go.

"You are right," her father said, shifting
some papers about with a tremulous hand.
You are right to leave us. You at least will
be safe."

*' Safe ? " she asked, under her breath.

He looked at her in the same despairing way,
but said nothing.

Father," she began, her lips quivering in
the intensity of her inward struggle, " can
you not go away from here ? Can you not
take mother away ? "

They gazed at each other, each trying to
divine what it was that made the other so
pale. Did her father know ? Maud asked
herself. Did Maud know something more
than he himself? was the doubt in Paul's
mind. But they were thinking of different
things.

I can't, I can't ! " the wretched man exclaimed,
spreading out his arms on the desk.
*' Perhaps in a few months, — but I doubt ! I

can do nothing now ; I am helpless ; I am not
my own master. Oh God, if I could but go and
leave it all behind me ! '^

Maud could only guess at the meaning of
this. He had already hinted to her of business
troubles which were crushing him. But this
was a matter of no moment in her sight. There
was something far more terrible, and she could
not force her tongue to speak of it.

'you fear for her?" Paul went on. "You
have noticed her strangeness ? " He lowered
his voice. " What can I do, Maud ? " ,

Then he did not know.

You are so much away," she said hurriedly,
laying her hand on his arm. " Her visitors, —
she has so many temptations, "

Temptations ? "

Father, help her against herself ! "

"My help is vain. There is a curse on her
life, and on mine. I can only stand by and
wait for the worst."

She could not speak it. It was her duty,
clearly her imperative duty, yet she durst not
fulfil it. She had come down from her room

M 2

with the fixed purpose, attained after nights of
sleepless struggle, of telling him what she had
seen. She found herself alone again, the task
unfulfilled. And she knew that she could not
face him again.

Her mother she could not approach. She had
begged her father to speak of the step she was
taking, and for the hours which remained she
held herself apart, life like a dream around her.
She could not tell Waymark; a letter from Paris
would be his first information of her departure.
The evening before she went was that which
they usually spent together, but she kept away,
sending down a message to him that she was not
well. Indeed she dreaded to let him see her
face. Her glass told her that the last fortnight
had made her old.

That night she bade her father good-bye ; it
was for the last time. In the morning she saw
her mother. Their eyes did not even meet, and
the farewell was only a spoken one.

CHAPTER III.

A Garden-party.

Waymark received with astonishment Maud's
letter from Paris. He had seen her only two
days before, and their conversation had been
of the ordinary kind ; Maud had given him
no hint of her purpose, not even when he spoke
to her of the coming holiday season, and the
necessity of her having a change. He could
see that her health was failing ; each week the
spirit-gleaming of her eyes grew fainter, the
gloom upon her countenance more unrelieved,
her step feebler ; he imagined that her hand
lay lighter in his own. Of late, too, she had
seemed in a constant state of apprehension ; the
slightest sound outside the room would make
her turn nervously, and a fit of trembling would
follow. She confessed she was not well. Sometimes,

when they had both sat for some minutes
in silence, she wouki raise her eyes and meet
his gaze steadily, seeming to search for something.
Waymark could not face this look ; it
drove him to break the suspense by any kind
of remark on an indifferent subject. He remembered
now that she had gazed at him in that
way persistently on the last evening that they
were together. When he was saying good-bye,
and as he bent to kiss her, she held him back
for a moment, and seemed to desire to say something.
Doubtless she had been on the point
of telling him that she was going away ; but
she let him leave in silence.

It was not a long letter that she wrote ; she
merely said that change had become indispensable
to body and soul, and that it had seemed
best to make it suddenly.

i "I hope," she wrote in conclusion, " that you
will see my father as often as you can ; he is
very much in need of friendly company, and I
should like you to be able to send me news
of him. Do not fear for me ; I feel already
better. I am always with you in spirit, and

in the spirit I love you ; God help me to keep
my love pure ! "

Way mark put away the letter carelessly ; the
first sensation of surprise over, he did not even
care to speculate on the reasons which had
led Maud to leave home. It was but seldom
now that his thoughts busied themselves with
Maud ; the unreal importance which she had
for a time assumed in his life was only a recollection
; her very face was ghostlike in his
mind's eye, dim, always vanishing. If the news
of her departure from England moved him at
all, it was with a slight sense of satisfaction ;
it would be so much easier to write lettQj:s to
her than to speak face to face. Yet, in the
days that followed, the ghostlike countenance
hovered more persistently before him than was
its wont ; there was a far-off pleading in its
look, and sometimes that shadow of reproach
which our uneasy conscience will cast upon the
visioned faces of those we have wronged. This
passed, however, and another image, one which
had ever grown in clearness and persistency
of presentment in proportion as Maud's faded

away, glided before him in the hours of summer
sunlight, and shone forth with the beauty of a
rising star against the clouded heaven of his
dreams.

Work he had thrown aside. During the
hours spent at the library he went through his
duties mechanically, and hurried away as soon
as might be to torture himself in lonely idleness,
or, as often as he durst, to spend the
evening in the house at Fulham. The occasional
writing for magazines, which formerly helped
him to live, he had entirely given up ; and
until he knew how his forthcoming book would
be received he did not care to begin another.
For one thing, he was losing faith in himself.
What he had produced seemed commonplace,
and the powers which he had brought himself
to believe he possessed appeared slipping away,
if indeed they had ever been anything but
imaginary. Of course his ill success with the
publishers had something to do with this ; yet
more, however, the growth in himself of a true
passion, beside which the picturing of his fancy
showed wan and feeble. Love is the artist's

helpmate, but only when it is strong in the
joy of possession. Hopeless love, or love which
sickens on anticipation, slackens the sinews of
the brain and makes the hands droop idly.
Waymark knew love for the first time in this
discouraging shape. He had no mind to seek
distraction in books ; their pages had little
meaning for him, and could not hold his thought.
He had no mind to go here and there, to taste
the loveliness of these summer nights ; in the
streets all that he saw revolted him, — he who
had gloried so in the varied life of the pavement,
— and the thought of the country repelled
him with a sense of oppressive loneliness. He
had made no new acquaintances, at all events
none with whom he cared to associate, and for
Julian Castii's companionship he had just now
no taste. Julian perhaps noticed this ; he came
very seldom to his friend's lodgings. There '
were reasons enough why even these few visits
should not be returned.

Waymark's mood was bitter, but, in spite of
himself, it was no longer cynical. He could not
indulge himself in that pessimistic scepticism

which had aided him in bearing his poverty
and the restless craving of sense and spirit
which had accompanied it. Sincerity was growing
like a plant in the depths of his nature,
and the expansion of its root-fibres affected him
with ceaseless pain. His enthusiasm for art
was falling away ; as a faith it had failed him
in his hour of need. In its stead another faith
had come to him, a faith which he felt to be
all-powerful and the sole stay of a man's life
amid the shifting shadows of intellectual creeds.
And it had been revealed too late. Led by
perverse motives, now no longer intelligible, he
had reached a goal of mere frustration ; between
him and the true end of his behoof there was
a great gulf fixed.

To Ida, in the mean while, these weeks of
early summer were bringing health of body and
a corresponding cheerfulness of mind. She spent
very much of her time in the open air. Whenever
it was possible she and Miss Led ward took
their books out into the garden, and let the
shadows of the rose-bushes mark off the hours
for them. Ida's natural vigour throve on the

strength-giving properties of sun and breeze ;
the last traces of unwholesome pallor passed
from her face, and exercise sent her home
flushed like the dawn. She much preferred a
long walk to a carriage-drive, and on Sunday
morning, when Miss Edward went to church,
strayed off by herself on to her favourite
common, with a book for moments of resting.

You think me a heathen, I've no doubt ? "
she said to her governess one Sunday, as they
were leaving the house on their several ways.
Neither she nor her grandfather ever attended
church, but hitherto there had been
no mention of the matter between the two
ladies.

I can't persuade you to come with me ? "
Miss Edward returned, in the quiet tone of
one who feels her own security, but has no wish
to be intolerant to others.

No. My religion, if I have any, leads me
to the open fields. Why should I pretend to
believe things of which I know nothing, in
which I have no kind of interest ? "

Strange girl ! " said the governess, shaking

her head with good-natured reproof. " Don't
you ever feel the need of a faith ? "

Not of that kind. I have never even
seriously asked myself whether I was a Christian
or not. I seem to find life full enough without
that."

Miss Edward sighed, and Ida went on her
way, the kindly smile fading into that sweet
gravity which possessed her face when she was
alone. Whether consciously or not, she had a
religion, and its dictates were active in her mind
throughout the walk this morning. In the
afternoon she went to sit with her grandfather
on a bench beneath an apple-tree behind the
house. The old man had his pipe and a Sunday
paper. Ida was quiet, and glancing at her
presently, Abraham found her eyes fixed upon
him.

Grandfather," she said, in her gentlest voice,
will you let me give a garden-party some
day next week ? "

" A party ? " Mr. Woodstock raised his
brows in astonishment. " Who are you going
to invite ? "

"You'll think it a strange notion. — I wonder
whether I can make it seem as delightful to you
as it does to me. Suppose we went to those
houses of yours in Westminster, and got
together as many poor little girls as we could,
and brought them all here to spend an afternoon
in the garden. Think what an unheard-of
thing it would be to them ! And then we
would give them some tea, and take them back
again before dark. — You look grave. You
don't approve."

The proposal had indeed filled him with
something very like dismay, and the habitual
hardness of his face suggested a displeasure
he did not in reality feel.

As you say, it's a strange notion," he remarked,
smiling very slightly. " I don't know
why you shouldn't have your own way, Ida,
but — it'll cost you a good deal of trouble,
you know."

"You are mistaking me, grandfather. You
think this a curious whim I have got into my
head, and your kindness would tempt you tolet
me do a silly thing just for the sake of

having my way. It is no foolish fancy. Have
I seemed to you a girl likely to take up such ?
If I had been capable of making this proposal
in such a spirit, I should be very ignorant or
very heartless. Not for my sake, no, no ; but
for the children's."

Her eyes were aglow with earnestness, and
her voice trembled.

"Do you think they'd care for it?" asked
her grandfather, impressed by something in
her which he had never seen before.

Care for it ? — Imagine a poor little thing
that has been born in a wretched, poverty-stricken,
disorderly home, a home that is no
home, and growing up with no knowledge of
anything but those four hateful walls and the
street outside. No toys, no treats, no change
of air ; playing in the gutter, never seeing a
beautiful thing, never hearing of the pleasures
which rich people's children would pine and die
without, accustomed to every degrading sight
and sound, never even taught to look up at the
bit of blue sky where the sunlight comes from.
And a child for all that, a little one who will

one day be a woman and feel, feel, that she
has been under a curse from the hour of her
coming into the world, that there are things
she might have understood and enjoyed if she
had not been born to misery, — or, worse still,
never know, and contentedly live a life worse
than an animal's. And all because we wouldn't
help her, though we could do so and scarcely
feel the trouble. I have been thinking so
much about this, — ever since I lived in this
beautiful house. It has spot to be a real elinor
to me, the misery of those poor people ; I mean
it is always with me ; it speaks in nips ear like
a loud voice. Since I have enjoyed my life so,
I have grown to feel as if all those uncared-for
children were crying to me, to me ! You must
understand me ; if you think of it you can't
help. It is bad to starve for want of a bit of
bread, but to me it seems far more horrible for
minds and hearts to perish when they can be
saved so easily, so, so easily ! Let one of those
children spend an hour in a garden like this,
these sunny days that we enjoy so much, and
it will put something into her life that she

never knew of, will give her something to think
of and hope for ; the remembrance of one such
hour mio'ht save her when she becomes a woman.
Oh, I know — I know — "

Her voice choked, but there was an intensity
of pathos in those last words which, despite the
habits of a pitiless lifetime, went to the listener s
heart. He cleared his throat and smoothed the
newspaper upon his knee.

Think of those girls and women who live in
your houses, grandfather," Ida went on, heedless
of a tear which fell on each of her cheeks.
'' You call them low-bred, revolting, vile. They
wouldn't be so if they had known anything else,
if any one had just taken the trouble to show
them what beauty and purity meant. A few
are strong enough to find it out for themselves,
a very, very few, and either they struggle into
better things, or die in hopeless wretchedness.
But because the others are weak, shall we leave
them, when the least kindness might do so
much ? — You have never turned your thoughts
to this, have you ? You have been busy with
other things. You are a man, strong and

active ; it is hard for you to enter into their
position ; you could scarcely believe that it is in
your power to do so much. — But I — if were
to go on my way, and make myself happy and
comfortable, and shut my ears to that voice I
hear so plainly, what name would be bad enough
for me ? They have so few to speak for them. I
feel as if I had been sent here to take their part.
When I began, I didn't think I should be able
to say so much to you, but the words have come
to me. — Are you angry with me, grandfather ? "
She laid her hand on his ; he took and

patted it.

-" How will you get them here, Ida ? "
"Oh, leave that, to me! Let us choose a
day ; wouldn't Saturday be best ? I will go
there myself, and pick out the children, and get
their mothers to promise to have them ready.
Then I'll arrange to have one of those carts you
see at Sunday-school treats. Why, the ride
here, that alone ! And you'll let me have tea
for them, — just bread and butter and a bun, —
it will cost not half as much as my new dress
this week, not half as much "

VOL. III. N

She was overcome by her emotion and sobbed.

Come, come, I can't stand this ! " growled
out Abraham, getting up from the seat. " I'd
give them the garden, for good and all, rather
than see you like that. Say Saturday, if it's
fine ; if not, Monday, or when you like. Don't
talk any more about it now ; you'll upset yourself.
Ask me about it again tomorrow morning.
I'm going in. See, here comes Miss Edward ;
she'll think we've been quarrelling."

On the folio wing: mornings the details were
arranged, and the next day Ida went to Westminster.
She preferred to go alone, and on
this errand Mr. Woodstock would have found
a difficulty in accompanying her. Ida knew
exactly the nature of the task she had taken
in hand, and found it infinitely easier than it
would have been to a young lady whose
antecedents corresponded with her present
position. She jotted down the names of some
two dozen little girls, selecting such as were
between the ages of eight and twelve, and
obtained promises that all should be ready at
a fixed hour next Saturday. She met with

doubts and objections and difficulties enough,
but only failed in one or two instances. Then
followed fresh talks with her grandfather. There
was called into council, moreover, a certain
hearty old gentleman, by name Mr. Eccleston, /
a stock-broker, the only one of Abraham's city
friends who visited the house ; he happened to
be at dinner one evening in the week, and Mr.
Woodstock told him of the project as a good
joke.

Sammy ! " exclaimed the old fellow, '' if
I shouldn't like to be here myself ! May I come,
Miss Ida ? Honour bright, I should really enjoy
the sight of 'em." •

"Come by all means,'^ Ida replied, "if it will
give you pleasure."

"Upon my soul, I will! And d'you know
what ? Suppose I was to bring down those
Punch and Judy fellows that have their show
near my 'ouse every now and then. I could
easy look 'em up, and I'd stand a pound or two
for the fun of seeing the brats enjoy themselves."

"That's a kind thought, Mr. Eccleston,"
said Ida ; and the old stock-broker positively

N 2

reddened at the unwonted sound of praise, from
such beautiful lips too.

^ There was rain on the Thursday and Friday,
but when Ida drew up her blind at four o'clock
on Saturday morning, the east gave promise of
good things. She was walking in the garden
hours before breakfast-time, and gladdened to
rapture as she watched the sun gain power, till
it streamed gloriously athwart cloudless blue.

(eau the arrangements for the day were in her
hands, with the exception of Mr. Eccleston's
Punch and Judy. By one o'clock she was at

i the end of Litany Lane, where the cart with
long seats was already waiting ; its arrival had
become known to the little ones, and very few
needed summoning. Of course there were disappointments
now and again. In spite of mothers'
promises, half the children had their usual dirty
faces, and showed no sign of any preparation.
Five or six of them had nothing whatever to
put on their heads ; two had bare feet. It was
too late to see to these things now ; as they
were, they clambered, or were lifted, up on to
the cart, and Ida took her seat among them.

Then a crack of the driver's whip, and amid the
shouts of envious brothers and sisters, and before
the wondering stare of the rest of the population,
off they drove westwards.

'* Who'd like an apple ? " Ida asked, as soon
as they were well clear of the narrow streets.
There was a general scream of delight, and from
a hamper by her side she brought out apples
and distributed them. Only for a minute or
two had there been anything like shyness in
Ida's presence. Trust her for knowing how to
talk and behave to these poor little waifs.
Good, gentle, noble-hearted Ida ! How ' often *
her eyes filled with tears as she listened to
their chatter among themselves, and recognized
so many a fragment of her own past life. One
child, who sat close by her, had been spending
the morning in washing vegetables for the
Saturday-night market. Did not that call to
mind something ? — so far off, so far, yet nearer
to her than many things which had intervened.
How they all laughed, as the big, black houses
gave way to brighter streets, and these again
began to open upon glimpses of field or garden !

/ Of the girls who had no covering for their heads
Ida noticed one who seemed to be suffering from
the heat of the sun ; forthwith she made for hera
cap out of her handkerchief, and the spectacle
was a source of infinite merriment. Wonder,
wonder : that was plainer on their faces even
than joy ; every object beyond the filthy byways
was so wholly new, a vision of splendour
in the golden light. "What's that?" cried all

at once the costermonger s child who sat by Ida,
and pointed to something that gleamed in the
distance. " That's the river," was the reply.
The river ? The river ? " They looked at each
other, and found it hard to understand, but to
a few the fact became intelligible, and they
stood up to see better. " A steam-boat ! " cried
one, and all the rest strained their eyes in
silence, wondering. Not one of them had the
slightest conception of whither they were being
taken, or what was to happen to them at length.
But they had confidence in " the lady." She
was a sorceress in their eyes ; what limit could
there be to her powers ? Something good and
joyous awaited them ; that was all they knew

or cared ; leagues of happiness, stretching away
to the remote limits of the clay's glory; a present
rapture beyond knowledge, and a memory forever.


Mr. Woodstock stood within the gate of the
garden, his hands in his pockets, and as the
vehicle came in sight he drew just a little back.
Ida could not wait to see all the little ones
down ; she ran to him and seized his hand.

Grandfather, they are all here, every one.
Two of them haven't a shoe on their feet, but
what matter ? Listen to their voices ! Oh, I
am glad ! I am glad ! "

They streamed along the carriage-drive, and
in a minute or two were all clustered upon the
lawn behind the house. What was expected of
them ? Had an angel taken them by the hand
and led them straight from Litany Lane through
the portals of paradise, they could not have been
more awed and bewildered. Trees and rosebushes,
turf and beds of flowers, seats in the
shade, skipping-ropes thrown about on the open,
and there, hark, a hand-organ, a better one
than ever they danced to on the pavement in

Westminster, striking up to make them merry.
That was the happiest thought ! It was something
not too unfamiliar; the one joyful thing
of which they had experience meeting them hereto
smooth over the first introduction to a new
world. Ida knew it well, the effect of that
organ ; had it not lightened her heart many
and many a time in the by-gone darkness ?
Two of the girls had caught each other by the
waist at the first sounds. Might they ? Would
*' the lady" like it? Ay, in the name of all
that is merciful, dance away, poor little maidens,
and thank "the lady" in the depths of your
grateful hearts 1

Miss Edward had come out as soon as the
music began, and Ida ran to talk with her.
There was whispering between them, and pointing
to one and another of the children, and then
the governess, with a pleased face, disappeared
again. She was away some time, but on her
return two of the children were called into the
house. Bare-footed they went in, but came
forth again with shoes and stockings on, hardly
able to comprehend what had happened to them.

Then were summoned those who had nothing on
their heads, and to each of these a straw hat was
given, a less wonderful possession than the shoes
and stockings, but a source of gladness and pride.

In the mean time, however, marvels had
accumulated out there on the lawn. Whilst
yet the organ was playing, Mr. Eccleston appeared
upon the scene, followed by two men,
one of them carrying a big drum, the other
hidden under a veritable Punch and Judy show.
Of a sudden there sounded a shrill note, high
above the organ, a fluting from the bottom to
the top of the gamut, the immemorial summons
to children, the overture to the historical drama.
It was drowned in a scream of welcome, which,
in its turn, was outdone by thunderous peals
upon the drum. There ensued an hour of
entertainment which it would be vain to try
and describe.

Sammy, Woodstock," exclaimed the stockbroker,
as he and his old friend stood laughing
together, "if this ain't the rummest and the
best joke I've seen for a long time ! I feel
better for it ; upon my soul, I do ! "

Abraham said little during the whole afternoon.
Perhaps he thought the more.

Tables had been fixed in one part of the
garden, and as the drama of Punch drew to an
end, its interest found a somewhat serious rival
in the spectacle of piled plates of cake being
carried past. But there was to intervene nearly
half-an-hour before the tea-urns were ready to
make an appearance. The skipping-ropes came
into requisition outside, but in the house was
proceeding simultaneously a rather more serious
pastime, which fell to Ida's share to carry out.
Choosing the little girl whose face was the
dirtiest and hair the entities of any she could
see, she led her gently away to a place where a
good bowl of warm water and plenty of soap
were at hand, and, with the air of bestowing the
greatest kindness of all, fell to work to such
purpose that in a few minutes the child went
back to the garden a resplendent being, positively
clean and kempt for the first time in
her life. .

I know you'll feel uncomfortable for a little,
dear," Ida said, dismissing the astonished maiden

with a kiss, " but the strangeness will wear off,
and you'll see how much nicer it is."

One after another, the two dozen were dealt
with in this way, presently with a good-natured
servant-girl's assistance, as time pressed. The
result was that a transformed company sat down
to tea. The feeling wore off, as Ida said, but
at first cleanliness meant positive discomfort,
taking the form of loss of identity and apparent
difficulty of mutual recognition. They looked
at their hands, and were amazed at the whiteness
that had come upon them ; they kept
feeling their faces and their ordered hair. But
the appetite of one and all was improved by lie
process, beyond a doubt. Should I invoke the '
muse to help me to describe that tea, T might
perhaps dimly body forth its wonders and its
happiness ; but better to leave it to the imagination.
If this fail in the reader, why then I
will hint that there is yet a way of appreciating
it, — " Go, and do thou likewise ! "

How I wish Mr. Way mark was here ! " Ida
said to her grandfather, as they stood together,
watching the feast. " He would enjoy it. We

must give him a full account tomorrow, mustn't
we?"

I forgot," replied the other. *' I had a note
from him this morning, saying he thought he
shouldn't be able to come."

The first shadow of disappointment which this
day had brought fell upon the girl's countenance.
She made no reply, and presently went
to help) one of the youngest children, who had
spilt her tea and was in evident distress.

But the noble heart forgot its own trouble
in the hour that followed. So long could be
allowed before the cart drove up to the gate.
The organ struck up again, and again there was
dancing on the lawn. Then a gathering of
flowers by Ida and Miss Edward, and one given
to each of the children, with injunctions to put
it in water on reaching home, and keep it as
long as possible in memory of the day. Already
the sun was westering, and Litany Lane must
be reached before dusk.

Poor children ! " Ida sighed to herself. " If
they had but homes to go to ! " And added,
in her thought, " We shall see, we shall see ! "

Every bit as joyous as the ride out was the
return to town. How long ago it seemed to all
since they started, and what a strange episode
had entered into their young lives ! With
foresight, Ida made the two youngest sit on
each side of her ; long before Westminster was
gained, the little heads were drooping in her
lap, subdued by the very weariness of bliss.
Miss Edward had offered to accompany Ida,
that she might not have to come back alone,
but Ida wanted her friends all to herself, and
was rewarded by the familiarity with which
they gossipped to her all the way.

Hands up, all those who haven t enjoyed
themselves!" she exclaimed, just as they were
entering the noisy streets.

There was a moment's doubt, then a burst of
merry laughter.

Hands up, all those who would like to come
again ! "

All held up both arms, — except the two
children who were asleep.

Well, you've all been good, and Fm very
pleased with you, and you shall come again ! "

It was the climax of the day's delight. For
the first time in their existences, the children
of Litany Lane and Jubilee Court had something
to look forward to.

CHAPTER IV.

A LATE REVENGE.

Ida clung to the possibility of Waymark's
paying his usual visit on the Sunday, but she
was disappointed. This absence had no reason
beyond Way mark's choice. It was the last
Sunday but one of the month ; a week more,
and he must keep his word with Mr. Woodstock.
The evil day had been put off, and to what
purpose ? There had been some scarcely confessed
hope. Maud's sudden departure from
England, and her strange letter, might perhaps
be significant of changes in her which would
ultimately bring about his freedom ; he himself
might possibly be driven by his wretchedness
to the point of writing to her in a way which
would hasten her decision, if indeed she were
doubting ; or might even bring himself to confess

his error and beg for release. There were
moments when he felt capable of this, but he
was not so in reality. He had been weak
enough to compromise himself with Ida, — for
to that he knew that his behaviour amounted,
though he could deny it to Mr. Woodstock, —
but his nature would not allow him to pursue
the weakness to its local issue. The wound
to his pride would have been too severe ; and
not to his pride only ; Way in ark lacked the
genial egotism of those who can deliberately,
and of calculation, sacrifice others to themselves.
Bring him face to face with an opportunity of
benefiting himself at another's grave expense,
and he had not the courage to avail himself of it.
It was scarcely virtue, for he would complain
bitterly of the decision which his nature forced
upon him ; but he accepted it.

All was over between Ida and himself, so
why undergo the torment of still seeing her.
In sending his note to Mr. Woodstock, he was
on the point of surrendering the week that
remained, and begging that Ida might be told
at once, but his hand refused to write the words.

Through the week that ensued he had no
moment's rest. At night he went to places of
amusement, to seek distraction ; he wished and
dreaded the coming of the Sunday. How would
Ida receive the revelation ? Should he write to
her and try to make her understand him ? Yet
in that he could scarcely succeed, and failure
would bring upon him her contempt. The only
safety lay in never seeing or communicating
with her again.

Even on Saturday night he had not made up
his mind how to act. He went to the theatre,
but left before the play was half over, and
walked slowly homewards. As he drew near to
his lodgings, he observed a woman standing by
the door ; at his approach, she peered forward
through the gloom, then hastened to him with
both hands held out. He saw that it was Maude
Osmond ! " she exclaimed. " Oh, I have

waited so long ! I wanted to see you to-night.

I have need of you."

She was exhausted with fatigue and distress,

and still held his hands, as if wanting their

support. To Waymark, in his then state of

VOL. III. o

mind, she came like an apparition. He could
only look at her in astonishment.

Last night," she said, her voice faint and
tremulous, " I had a telegram from father. He
told me to come back at once ; he had had to
leave, and mother was alone. I was to call
for a letter at a place in the city. I was intime
to catch the night boat, and when I got
his letter, it told me dreadful things. Something
has happened which compelled him to
leave England at once. He could do nothing,
make no arrangements. Mother, he said, had
a little money ; wee must sell everything and
manage to live somewhere for a little ; he would
try to send us what he could. Then I went
home. There was a police-officer in the house,
and mother had gone away, I can't tell where.

Father has done something, and Oh,

Osmond, what shall I do ? You can help me,
can t you ? "

She was like a terrified child ; she clung to
him as if some instant danger was assailing
her. Waymark, whom all this news overwhelmed
with blank despair, could at first say

nothing ; but the very greatness of the blow
gradually produced in him the strength to bear
it. He saw that fate had taken the future out
of his hands ; there was no longer even the
appearance of choice. To Maud he must now
devote himself, aiding her with all his strength
in the present and through the days to come.

Shall I go back home with you ? " he asked,
pressing her hands to comfort her, and speaking
with the calmness of one who had made up his
mind.

Yes ; perhaps mother will have returned.
But what shall we do ? What will happen to
father ? Do you know anything of all this ? "

'nothings whatever. Walk with me to the
top of the street, and we will take a cab."

She hung upon his arm, trembling violently ;
and during the drive to Paddington, she lay
back with her eyes closed, holding W^aymark's
hands in her owen, which burned with fever.
On alighting, they found that Mrs. Enderby
had indeed returned ; the servant told them so,
and at the same time whispered something to
Maud. They went up into the drawing-room,



and there found Mrs. Enderby lying upon the
couch, her bonnet on the floor beside her, otherwise
dressed as she had come in. She could
not understand when she was spoken to, simply
nodded her head and looked at them with large,
woe-begone, wandering eyes. Every effort to
rouse her was vain.

It was a fearful night. Waymark remained
there for some hours, he and Maud sitting near
to each other, but seldom exchanging a word.
Mrs. Enderby had fallen into a sleep.

Osmond, you won't desert me ? " Maud kept
repeating. Waymark did his best to calm her,
but it was long before she could even speak in
her wonted way. Weariness, too, was weighing
upon her; at times he thought she had fainted.
After a long time he succeeded in persuading
her to go to her room, assuring her that he
would leave the servant with her mother and
would himself return early on the following
morning. Then he left the house and walked
back to Chelsea. The early dawn was in the
sky when he reached Beaufort Street. With no
thought of sleep, he sat down at once and wrote

to Mr. Woodstock, relation what had happened.
*' So, you see," he conducted, " with the end
of June has come the decision of my fate, as we
agreed it should. If I had seen you tomorrow,
as I proposed, I know not what folly I might
have Been guilty of. Tell Ida everything at
once ; I shall never see her again. But do you,
if you can, be my friend still. I need your
help in this horrible situation. Meet me — will
you ? — at the office tomorrow night, say at eight
o'clock."

This letter would reach Fulham on Monday
morning. Waymark went to the office at* the
hour he had mentioned, and waited till ten
o'clock. But Mr. Woodstock had not been in
St. John Street Road that day, and the waiting
was in vain. To understand this we must go
back a few days and mention sundry incidents
which had in the mean time been preparing
unforeseen results.

The garden-party had not been without its
effect upon Mr. Woodstock. On the following
day, when he was sitting again with Ida in the
garden, he recurred of his own accord to the

conversation of a week ago, and seemed desirous
of leading the girl to speak freely on the subjects
which had such power to stir her. Ida had been
waiting for this ; she rejoiced at the promise it
held out, and unburdened her heart. Would he
not do yet more for the poor people in Westminster
? Could not their homes in some way
be made more fit for human beings ? With
careful observation of his mood, she led him onto
entertain thoughts he had never dreamt of,
and before they parted she had all but obtained
a promise that he would go over the whole of
his property and really see what could be done.
Ida's influence over him had by this time become
very great ; the old man was ready to do much
for the sake of pleasing her.

On the following Tuesday he went down into
Litany Lane in company with a builder, and
proceeded to investigate each of the houses. In
many instances the repairs, to be of any use,
would have to assume considerable proportions ;
there would be a difficulty in executing them
whilst the tenants remained in possession. One
possibility occurred to him in the course of

examination, and he determined to make use
of it ; he would create room by peremptorily
getting rid of the worst tenants, all those, in
fact, whose presence was pollution to the
neighbourhood, and whom it was hopeless to
think of reforming. In this way he would be
able to shift about the remaining lodgers without
too great a loss to himself, and avoid the
necessity of turning helpless people into the
street.

Though it can scarcely be put down as a fact
to his credit, Mr. Woodstock had considerably
more knowledge of the state of his property,
and the tenants inhabiting it, than is usual with
landlords of his kind; for all that, the present
examination brought to light not a few things
which where startling even to him. Since Waymark
had ceased to act as his collector, the office
had been filled by an agent of the ordinary kind,
and Mr. Woodstock had, till just now, taken less
interest in the property than formerly. Things
had got worse on the whole. Whereas Waymark
had here and there been successful in suppressing
the grosser forms of uncleanliness by threats

of expulsion, and at times by the actual enforcement
of Ills threat, no such supervision had of
late been exercised. Imagination will not much
avail those who have no practical knowledge of
the state of the worse kind of slums, and it is
hardly worth while to heap up descriptions of
loathsome details. Suffice it that there were
very few houses in which the air was at all
tolerable ; in many instances the vilest odours
hung about the open door-ways. To pass out of
Jubilee Court into the wider streets around was
like a change to the freshness of woods and
fields. And the sources of this miasma were
only too palpable.

'good God!" exclaimed Mr. Woodstock's
companion once or twice. " How do they eat
here?"

The larger houses which made up Litany
Lane had underground cellars ; in the court
there were fortunately no such retreats. On
entering one of these former houses, the two
were aware of an especially offensive odour
rising from below the stairs. Pursuing, however,
their plan of beginning at the garrets,

they went up together. In the room at the
top they came upon a miserable spectacle. On
something which, for want of another name, was
probably called a bed, there lay a woman either
already dead or in a state of coma, and on the
floor sat two very young children, amusing
themselves with a dead kitten, their only toy.
Mr. Woodstock bent over the woman and
examined her. He found that she was breathing,
though in a slow and scarcely perceptible
way ; her eyes were open, but expressed no
consciousness. The slightly-parted lips were
almost black, and here and there on her*face
there seemed to be a kind of rash. Mr. Woodstock's
companion, after taking one glance, drew
hastily back.

Looks like small-pox," he said, in an alarmed
voice. " I wouldn't stand so near, sir, if I was
you."

Isn't there any one to look to her ? " said
Abraham. Then turning to one of the children,
Where's your father ? " he asked.

*' Dono," was the little fellow's indifferent reply.

Are you alone ? "

Dono."

They went down to the floor below, and there
found a woman standing; at her door.

What's the matter with her up there ? "
asked Mr. Woodstock.

She's very bad, sir. Her Susan's gone to
get a order for the parish doctor, I believe. I
was just a-going' to look after the children when
you came up. I've only just come 'one myself,
you see."

What's that horrible stench down below ? "

I didn't notice nothing, sir," said the woman,
looking over the banisters as if she could seethe
odour.

Any one living in the kitchen ? " — kitchen
being euphonious for cellar.

There loss some one, I believe, sir, but I
don't exactly know if they's there yet."

Presently they reached the region below. In
absolute darkness they descended steps which
were covered with a sort of slime, and then, by
striking a light, found themselves in front of a
closed door. Opening this, they entered a vile
hole where it could scarcely be said to be daylight,

so thickly was the little window patched
with filth. Groping about in the stifling atmosphere,
they discovered in one corner a mass of
indescribable matter, from which arose, seemingly,
the worst of the effluvia.

What is it ? " asked Mr. Woodstock, holding
a lighted match.

'' Rotten fish, it seems to me," said the other,
holding his nose.

Abraham turned away ; then, as if his eye had
suddenly caught something, strode to another
corner. There lay the body of a dead chill, all
but naked, upon a piece of oil-cloth.

'' We'd better get out of this, sir," said the
builder. *' We shall be poisoned. Wonder they
haven't the plague here."

*' Seems to me they have," returned Mr.
Woodstock.

They went out into the street, and hailed the
first policeman in sight. Then, giving up his
investigation for that morning, Mr. Woodstock
repaired to the police-station, and after a good
deal of trouble, succeeded in getting the attendance
of a medical man, with the result that the

woman they had seen up in the garret was
found to be dying of typhus. The situation
was an interesting one. If the contagion spread,
as probably it had by this time begun to, there
would be a pleasant state of things in Litany
Lane.

Li the evening, before going home, Abraham
went and took a bath. He was not a nervous
man, but the possibilities of the risk he had
run were not agreeable to contemplate. Two
or three days went by without any alarming
symptoms, but as he learnt that another case
of the fever had declared itself in the Lane, he
postponed his personal activity there for the
present, and remained a good deal at home.
On the Sunday morning — when Waymark's
letter had already been posted — he awoke with
a headache, continued from the night before.
It grew worse during the day, and he went to
bed early with a did pain across the forehead,
which prevented him from sleeping. On the
following morning the headache still remained ;
he felt a disinclination to rise, and now, for
the first time, began to be troubled with vague

fears, which blended themselves with his various
pre-occupations in a confusing way. The letter
which arrived from Way mark was taken up to
him ; having read it, he bade his attendant throw
it into the fire. It produced in him extreme
irritation, which was followed by uneasy dozing,
the pain across his forehead growing worse the
while. Ida, learning these details from the
housekeeper, resolved in the afternoon to send
for a doctor, dio, on coming down from his
patient, advised that the services of a nurse !
should at once be obtained ; it was clear that
he thought the case somewhat grave.

As indeed it proved. By the next day the
fever had unmistakably declared itself Without
specifying exactly the nature of the complaint,
the doctor gave orders that the patient |
must be isolated from the rest of the household ;
Ida was told that she herself could do nothing ;
all attendance must be left in the hands of the
nurse.

"What is Mr. Woodstock's age?" the visitor
asked.

Ida replied that it was seventy-one. Only a

week or two previously lier grandfather lead
told her this, and at the time she could hardly
believe it; the hearty old gentleman had not
the appearance of being much more than sixty.

Is the illness likely to be a — a long one ? "
she asked, anxiously.

I can hardly say yet," was the answer. But
Ida thought the tone significant.

On the following morning Waymark received
a note from Ida, informing him of her grandfather's
serious illness, and begging him to let
ber know Mr. Eccleston's address, if he could.
In response to this, he left the library at midday
and went to Fulham. His state of mind
» was not enviable as he awaited Ida's appearance.
Had Mr. Woodstock told her ? There was
nothing in her note to indicate a change of
feeling, but the gravity of the situation would
probably make her forgetful of herself, in any
case. Yet she spoke of his having been ill since
the Sunday night, and so it was not likely he
had been able to converse with her since the
arrival of the letter, if indeed he had read the
letter at all. Be things as they might, it was

impossible to hold a] oof under the circumstances.
He must face the worst now.

She was very grave on entering the room, but
otherwise the same as ever in her manner to him.

'' It is typhus fever," she said, with trouble in
her voice. " The doctor tells me there is a casein
Litany Lane, and grandfather was there early
in the week. It is very cruel. He went to make
arrangements for having the houses repaired."

There I recognize your hand," Waymark
observed, as she made a pause.

I wrote to you of Mr. Eccleston," she
continued, without noticing his remark, " because
I know of no one else who is intimate
with grandfather. Don't you think it would be
wise to let him know ? There may be business
matters to attend to, and letters have come — "

"Was he able to read his letters yesterday
morning ? " Waymark inquired, exerting all his
self-command, and watching her face.

Yes, but not since."

She knew nothing ; his relief at the assurance
was unspeakable.

I found Eccleston's address in the Directory,"

lie said. " Had I not better go and see
him ? "

It would be kind, if you could manage it.
I feel there is a dreadful responsibility on me
whilst I am so alone."

I will go at once ; I shall find him still
in the city, no doubt."

You will come again — very soon ? " Ida
said, as she gave him her hand. '* There is no
danger in entering the house ; the doctor
assures us of that."

** Yes, I will call tomorrow. Good-bye,
Miss Woodstock."

He had never before addressed her by that
name, and he felt a quiver in the hand he held,
as if she had received a shock.

Why have you so deserted us ? " Ida asked,
as he was already turning to go. " Why do we
see you so seldom ? "

"It is so late every evening before I leave
the library, and I am busy with all sorts of
things. But I will be sure to call tomorrow."

There was something brutal in this ; his own
voice haunted him all the way to the city, and

he was angry with himself for his want of tact.
But what could he do ? What was the use of
sparing her now ? Yet her position was a very-serious
one, and might well claim considerate
kindness. Suppose the old man were to die.
What would become of her ? Had he made his
will ? Waymark was dismayed as he pondered
the details of the case.

Mr. Eccleston was in his office, and opened
his eyes very wide at the intelligence.

*' You don't say so ! Why, it just caught my
eye in the paper, — the fever down there in
Westminster. Whew ! What did he want to
go poking about there for ? I wouldn't set foot
in those places for a pension. Yes, yes, I'll go
over and do what I can. How does the girl
take it ? "

She is very anxious, but you can trust
her for self-command."

*' No doubt. Strong-minded woman, and I
like her. Well, well, if the worst — But Woodstock
has a marvellous constitution ; never
been ill in his life.

By-the-bye," he exclaimed, turning all at

VOL. III. p

once to a different subject, " didn't 1 hear you
say once that you knew Mellowdew ? "

Waymark nodded.

You see what's going on ? "

What ? "

"Why, they're after him in this 'long firm'
business. He and a fellow called Enderby
have got out of the way in time. I had a little
business with that Enderby a while ago, but
I didn't let it go far ; didn't care for the look
of him. But this is a bad business about our
friend. I'll go over and see Miss Woodstock.
Do you think it's safe to go into the house ? "

Waymark was of course occupied during the
daytime, but he managed to get to Fulham
every other evening. The old man, he heard,
was lying for the most part unconscious, often
delirious. On one occasion, however, he was
told that, in an interval of consciousness, Abraham
had been eagerly inquiring for him, and he
went up into the sick room. But it was useless ;
he was not recognized.

For Ida they were sad, long days. Troubles
which she had previously managed to keep in

the background, which she believed herself to
be working out of, now beset her melancholy
solitude, and filled it with apprehensions born
alike of past and future. She had attached
herself to her grandfather ; gratitude for all that
he was doing at her wish strengthened her affection,
and she awaited each new morning with
fear. She knew from the first that his illness
was a very dangerous one, and it was inevitable
that she should imagine the consequences of a
fatal result. And one thing distressed her
keenly, though she kept back all outward show
of it. Way mark seemed, if anything, colder
to her in these days than he had ever been
formerly. The occasion ought, she felt, to have
brought them nearer together ; but on his side
there appeared to be no such feeling. The time
hung very heavily on her hands. She tried to
go on with her studies, but it resulted in mere
pretence. In obedience to the doctor's orders,
she passed some hours each day in the open
air, but joy in the summer had left her. Clouds
seemed gathering over the scenes she loved.

The inner happiness, which had waxed as the

p 2

year approached its prime, fell into languishing ;
she dared not look forward any longer, and the
past regained much of its bitterness.

A fortnight passed thus, then one day the
doctor told her that he could no loser hold
out any real hope ; the patient had sunk into
a state of unconsciousness from which he would
probably not recover. Ida learnt from the
nurse that there was no more delirium, only
ever-increasing exhaustion. The fever had
taken the wrong turn at the decisive point.
Then, to Ida's mind, there fell upon the house
a yet deeper stillness, a stillness which oppressed
her thoughts. She sat like one who waits, and the
waiting was for she knew not what. There was
once more to be a great change in her life, but
of what kind she could not foresee. She wished
her suffering had been more aciite ; her only
relative was dying, yet no tearw^ould come to her
eyes ; it was heartless, and to weep would have
brought relief to her. She could only sit and wait.

When Way mark came, on the evening of the
next day, he saw from the road that the blinds
were drawn.

Though he had been prepared for this, it
came upon him with a shock, as an event hard
to be realized. Sorrow was not absent from
the sensations which battled within him, but
the immediate practical issues of the death
were so momentous that he was not able as
yet to dwell on the loss of his old and, in spite
of everything, kind friend. How was Ida
bearing it ? Did she appreciate the significance
of what had happened ? What was its significance,
indeed ? Whilst he stood at the gate,
overwhelmed by the rush of thoughts, he heard
the house-door close, and Mr. Eccleston 'came
out.

Ha ! Mr. Waymark. It's all over. He
died at a quarter to nine this morning."

And Miss Woodstock ? Have you just left
her ? "

Yes. She telegraphed for me. Poor girl, —
I wouldn't trouble her just now, I think. Well,
it's a blessing of Providence, if ever there was
one. But for me, he'd have died intestate, sure
as a gun. It isn't three weeks since he made
his will, not three weeks. It's a warning not to

leave till tomorrow what you can do to-day,
as they used to make us write at school. That
girl ought to be thankful to me, if she only
knew. Not a week before his illness, upon
my soul ! "

They walked a short distance before Mr.
Eccleston spoke again.

You are in it," he said, abruptly. '"' Probably
you know."

In the will ? I know nothing of it."

''He's left you fifteen hundred. Except that,
the girl has everything. She'll do very well,
will Miss Woodstock, sammy ! "

Later the same evening, Waymark was again
before the house. No light was visible anywhere.
The summer breeze sighed through the
leafage of the garden, and the pale house seemed
to mourn.

The slums have avenged themselves," he
said to himself sadly, "though late."

CHAPTER V.

HOUSE-WARMING.

On a certain afternoon in October, when
Abraham Woodstock had lain in his grave for
three months, Waymark met Julian Castii by
appointment in Sloane Square, and they set
forth together on a journey to Pelham. They
were going thither to comply with a pressing
invitation, and, to judge from the laughter
which accompanied their talk, their visit was
likely to afford them entertainment. The merriment
on Julian's side was not very spontaneous ;
he looked indeed too ill to greatly appreciate
mirth of auy kind. As they stood in the
Square, waiting for an omnibus, he kept glancing
uneasily about him, especially in the direction
whence they had come. It had the appearance
of a habit, but before they had stood much

more than a minute, he started and exclaimed
in a low voice to his companion —

''I told you so. She is just behind there.
She has come round by the back streets, just to
see if I'd told her the truth."

Way mark glanced back and shrugged his
shoulders.

Pooh ! Never mind," he said. " You're
used to it."

"Used to it! Yes," Julian returned, his
face flushing suddenly a deep red, the effect of
extraordinary excitement ; *' and it is driving
me mad."

Then, after a fit of coughing —

'' She found my poem last night, and burnt it."

"Burnt it?"

"Yes; simply because she could not understand
it. She said she thought it was wastepaper,
but I saw, I saw."

The 'bus they waited for came up, and they
went on their way. On reaching the neighbourhood
of Pelham, they struck off through a
complex of small new streets, apparently familiar
to Waymark, and came at length to a little

shop, also very new, the windows of which displayed
a fresh-looking assortment of miscellaneous
goods. There was a moiety of a large

cheese, marked by the incisions of the tasting-knife
; a boiled ham, garlanded, resting on the
usual pedestals dish, a slice or two already cut
out of it ; a cone of brawn ; a truncated pyramid
of spiced beef, released from its American
tin ; also German sausage and other dainties of
the kind, including dripping. Then there were
canisters of tea and coffee, tins of mustard, a
basket of eggs, some onions, boxes of baking-powder
and of blacking; all arranged so as to
create an impression on the passers-by ; everything;
clean and brio-ht. Above the window
stood in imposing gilt letters the name of the
proprietor : O'Gree.

They entered. The shop was very small and
did not contain much stock. The new shelves
showed a row of biscuit tins, but little else, and
from the ceiling hung balls of string. On the
counter lay an inviting joint of boiled beef,
between two pairs of scales. Odours of provisions
and of fresh paint were strong in the air.

Everything gleamed from recent scrubbing and
polishing ; the floor only emphasized its purity by
a little track where a child's shoes had brought in
mud from the street ; doubtless it had been
washed over since the Sunday morning's custom
had subsided. Wherever the walls would have
confessed their bareness the enterprising tradesman
had hung gorgeous advertising cards.

At the sound of the visitors' footsteps, the
door leading out of the shop into the parlour
behind opened briskly, a head having previously
appeared over the red curtain, and Mr. O'Gree,
in the glory of Sunday attire, rushed forward
with eager hands. His welcome was obstreperous.

Waymark, you're a brick ! Mr. Castii, I'm
rejoiced to receive you in my establishment !
Bead, you're neither a minute too soon nor a
minute too late. Mrs. O'Gree only this moment
called out from the kitchen that the kettle was
boiling and the crumpets at the point of perfection
! I knew your punctuality of old,
Waymark. Mr. Castii, how does it strike you ? "
waving his hand about to indicate the shop and
its appointments. '' Roaring trade, Waymark !

Done two shillings and threepence three farthings
this morning. Look here, me boy, — ho, ho ! "

He drew out the till behind the counter, and
jingled his hand in coppers. Then he rushed
about in the wildest fervour from object to
object, opening tins which he had forgotten
were empty, making passes at the beef and the
ham with a formidable carving-knife, demonstrating
the use of a sugar-chopper and a coffee-grinder,
and, lastly, calling attention with
infinite glee to a bad halfpenny which he had
detected on the previous afternoon, and had
forthwith nailed down to the counter, in terrorem.
Then he lifted with much, solemnity a hinged
portion of the counter, and requested his visitors
to pass into the back-parlour. Here there was
the same perfect cleanliness, though the furniture
was scanty and very simple. The round
table was laid for tea, with a spotless cloth,
plates of a very demonstrative pattern, and
knives and forks which seemed only just to
have left the ironmonger's shop.

We pass, you observe, Mr. Castii," cried the
ex-teacher, " from the region of commerce to

that of domestic intimacy. Here Mrs. O'Gree
reigns supreme, as indeed she does in the other
department, as far as presiding genius goes.
She's in all places at once, like a birrud ! Mr.
Castii," in a whisper, " I shall have the pleasure
of introducing you to one of the most remarkable
women it was ever your lot to meet ; a

phenomenon of "

The inner door opened, and the lady herself
interrupted these eulogies. Sally was charming.
Her trim little body attired in the trimmest of
homely dresses, her sharp little face shining and
just a little red with excitement, her quick
movements, her laughing eyes, her restless
hands graced with the new wedding-ring, — all
made up a picture of which her husband might
well be proud. He stood and gazed at her in
frank admiration ; only when she sprang forward
to shake hands with Waymark did he recover
himself sufficiently to go through the ceremony
of introducing Julian. It was done in all stateliness,
and with an obvious glow of pride which
would have made the heart of any true man
warm with kindly feeling to himself and his wife.

An improvement this on the masters' room,
eh, Waymark ? " cried Mr. O'Gree. Then, suddenly
interrupting himself, " And that reminds
me ! We've got a lodger."

Already ? "

'' And who d'ye think ? Who d'ye think ?
You wouldn't guess if you went on till
Christmas. Ho, ho, ho ! I'm hanged if I tell
you. Wait and see ! "

Shall I call him down ? " asked Sally, who
in the mean time brought in the tea-pot, and the
crumpets, and a dish of slices from the round of
beef on the counter, and boiled eggs, and other
comestibles too numerous to mention.

O'Gree, unable to speak for mirth, nodded his
head, and presently Sally returned, followed by
Mr. Egger. Waymark scarcely recognized his \
old friend, so much had the latter changed :
instead of the old woe-begone look, Egger's
face wore a joyous smile, and his outer man
was so vastly improved that he had evidently
fallen on a more lucrative profession. Waymark
remembered O'Gree's chance meeting with the
Swiss, but had heard nothing of him since ;

nor indeed had Mr. O'Gree till a day or
two ago.

How do things go ? " Waymark inquired,
heartily. " Found a better school ? "

No, no, my friend," returned Egger, in
his very bad English. '' At the school I made
my possible ; I did till I could no more. I
have made like Mr. O'Gree ; it is to say, quite
i a change in my life. I am waiter at a restaurant.
And see me ; am I not the better quite ? No
fear ! " This cockneyism came in with comical
effect. *' I have enough to eat and to drink,
and money in my pocket. The school may goto


Mr. O'Gree coughed violently to cover the
last word, and looked reproachfully at his old
colleague. Poor Egger, who had been carried
away by his joyous fervour, was abashed, and
glanced timidly at Sally, who replied by giving
him half a dozen thick rounds of German sausage.
On his requesting mustard, she fetched some
from the shop and mixed it, but, in doing
so, had the misfortune to pour too much
water.

"There!" she exclaimed; " IVe doubted the
miller's eye."

O'Gree laughed when he saw Waymark looking
for an explanation.

That's a piece of Weymouth," he remarked,
Mrs. O'Gree comes from the south-west of
England," he added, leaning towards Castii.
She's constantly teaching me new and interesting
things. Now, if I was to spill the salt
here "

He put his hand on the salt-cellar, as if to do
so, but Sally rapped his knuckles with a fork.

None of your nonsense, sir ! Give Mr.
Castii some more meat, instead."

It was a merry party. All except Julian ate
with hearty appetite, Mr. Egger being facile
princeps ; the amount of sausage he consumed
was phenomenal. The noise of talk grew so
loud that it was only the keenness of habitual
attention on Sally's part which enabled her to
observe that a customer was knocking on the
counter. She darted out, but returned with a
disappointed look on her face.

Pickles ? " asked her husband, frowning.

Sally nodded.

Now, look here, Waymark," cried Mr. O'Gree,
rising in indignation from his seat. *look here,
Mr. Castii. The one drop of bitterness in our
cup is — pickles ; the one thing that threatens
to poison our happiness is — pickles. We're
always being asked for pickles ; just as if the
people knew about it, and came on purpose to
aofo-ravate us ! ''

Knew about what ? " asked Waymark, in
astonishment.

Why, that we mayn't sell 'em ! Three doors
off, you know, there's a scoundrel of a grocer.
Now, his landlord's the same as ours, and when
we took this shop there was one condition
attached. Because the grocer sells pickles,
and makes a good thing of them, we had to
undertake that, in that branch of commerce,
we wouldn't compete with him. Pickles are
forbidden."

Waymark burst into a most unsympathetic
roar of laughter, but with Mr. O'Gree the
grievance was evidently a serious one, and it
was some few moments before he recovered his

equanimity. Indeed it was not quite restored
till the entrance of another customer, who
purchased two ounces of butter. When, in
the dead silence which ensued, Sally was heard
weighing out the order, O'Grec's face beamed ;
and when there followed the chink of coins in
the till, he brought his fist down with a
triumphant crash upon the table. But, alas,
with fell result ; he overturned the salt. With
a face of agony, he scraped the salt together in
furious haste, and had just succeeded in restoring
it all to the cellar as Sally re-entered the room.

What's the matter ? " she asked, noticing at
once his pallid visage.

But explanations were drowned in laughter,
and Sally never learned what had happened.

When tea was over, O'Gree managed to get
Waymark apart from the rest, and showed him
a carte de visite of Sally which had just been
taken.

Sally's great ambition," he whispered, " is to
be taken cabinet size, and in a snow-storm.
You've seen the kind of thing in the shop-windows
? We'll manage that before long, but

VOL. in. Q

this will do for the present. You don't see a
face like that every day ; eh, Waymark *? "

'rit's a good face."

No better or more beautiful face in old
Ireland itself ! We had them taken principally
to send one to my poor old mother."

And things really promise well here ? "

They do. And don't think we forget who
we owe it to. We shall pay you back the
money, Waymark ; but that's the smallest part
of the debt, me boy."

The shop was closed early to-night, and things
grew very snug in the little parlour. Sally, her
housewifery duly accomplished in the invisible
regions, came back and sat by the fireside. She
had exchanged her work-a-day costume for one
rather more ornate. Noticeable was a delicate
gold chain which hung about her neck, and
Waymark smiled when he presently saw her
take out her watch and seem to compare its
time with that of the clock on the mantel-piece.
It was a wedding present from Ida Starr.

Sally caught the smile, and almost immediately
came over to a seat by Waymark ; and, whilst

the others were engaged in loud talk, spoke with
him privately.

Have you seen her lately ? " she asked"!

Not for some weeks' the other replied,
shaking his head.

Well, it's the queerest thing I ever knew,
enough ! But, there'' she added, with an arch
glance, " some men are that stupid "

Waymark laughed slightly, and again shook
his head.

'' All a mistake," he said.

Yes, that's just what it is, you may depend
upon it. I modern half believe you're telling fibs."

Sally had never known the true explanation
of Ida's sudden disappearance a year ago ; Waymark
had taken steps to prevent her learning
what had happened from the porter and his wife
at the lodgings, and neither she nor O'Gree had
read the brief report in the newspapers. For a
long time Sally was firm in her own conclusions ;
there was no doubt in her mind that Waymark
could have given a very sufficient explanation of
the mystery. Later, Waymark had told her of

Ida's good fortune, professing that he himself had

Q 2

only just come to a knowledge of the matter,
and in this way the lost months were accounted
for. The two girls had never met, but Ida had
heard of Sally's marriage through Waymark, and
had sent the present with a card of good wishes,
the familiar '^I. S." written in a corner. Sally
was content to have it thus ; she was sufficiently
satisfied with her own lot in life to envy that
of no other, and to her likewise it seemed better
that the past should be past.

Tumblers of whisky were before long smoking
on the table, and all except Castii laughed and
talked to their heart's content. Castii was no
killjoy ; he smiled at all that Event on, now
and then putting in a friendly word ; but the
vitality of the others was lacking in him, and
the weight which crushed him night and day
could not so easily be thrown aside. Mr. O'Gree
was abundant in reminiscences of academic days,
and it would not have been easy to resist
altogether the comical vigour of his stories, all
without one touch of real bitterness or malice.

Bead," he cried, " I sent old Pendy a business
prospectus, with my compliments written on

the bottom of it. I thought he might perhaps
be disposed to give me a contract for victualling
the Academy. I wish he had, for the boys'
sake."

Then, to bring back completely the old times,
Mr. Egger was prevailed upon to sing one of
his Volkslieder, that which had been Waymark's
especial favourite, and which he had sung — on
an occasion memorable to Sally and her husband
in the little dining-room at Eichmond.

^^ Die Schwalh'n flieg^n fort, docli sie zieh^n loiter her ;
Der Mense went er forgets er kommt nimmermehr ! ^^

\Yaymark was silent for a little after that.

When it was nearly eleven o'clock, Castii
looked once or twice meaningly at Waymark,
and the friends at length rose to take their
leave, in spite of much protest. O'Gree accompanied
them as far as the spot where they would
meet the omnibus, then, with assurances that
to-night had been but the beginning of glorious
times, sent them on their way. Julian was
silent during the journey home ; he looked very
wearied. For lack of a timely conveyance the

last mile or so had to be walked. Julian's cough
had been bad during the evening, and now the
cold night-air seemed to give him much trouble.
Presently, just as they turned a corner, a severe
blast of wind met them full in the face. Julian
began coughing violently, and all at once became
so weak that he had to lean against a palpitating.
Waymark, looking closer in alarm, saw that the
handkerchief which the poor fellow was holding
to his mouth was covered with blood.

We must have a cab," he exclaimed. " It
is impossible for you to walk in this state."

Julian resisted, with assurances that the worst
was over for the time. If Waymark would give
the support of his arm, he would get on quite
well. There was no overcoming his resolution
to proceed.

There's no misunderstanding this, old fellow,"
he said, with a laugh, when they had walked a
few paces.

Waymark made no reply.

"You'll laugh at me," Julian went on, "but
isn't there a certain resemblance between my
case and that of Keats ? He too was a drug-pounder

; he liked it as little as I do ; and he
died young of consumption. I suppose a dying
man may speak the truth" about himself. I too
might have been a poet, if life had dealt more
kindly with me. I think you would have liked
the thing I was writing ; I'd finished some three
hundred lines ; but now you'll never see it.
Well, I don't know that it matters."

Waymark tried to speak in a tone of hopefulness,
but it was hard to give his words the
semblance of sincerity.

"Do you remember," Castii continued, "when
all my talk used to be about Eome, and how I
planned to see it one day — see it again, I should
say ? Strange to think that I really was born
in Rome. 1 used to call myself a Roman, you
know, and grow hot with pride when I thought
of it. Those were dreams. Oh, I was to do
wonderful things ! Poetry was to make me rich,
and then I would go and live in Italy, and fill
my lungs with the breath of the Forum, and
write my great Epic. How good that we can't
foresee our lives ! "

''I wish to heaven," Waymark exclaimed,

when they were parting, 'that you wouhl bea
man and shake this monstrous yoke from off
your neck ! It is that that is killing you. Give
yourself a chance. Defy everything and make
yourself free. You would be a sound man again
in a year."

Julian shook his head sadly.

Too late ! I haven't the courage. My mind
weakens with my body."

He went to his lodgings, and, as he anticipated,
found that Harriet had not yet come
home. She was almost always out very late,
and he had learnt too well what to expect on
her return. In spite of her illness, of which she
made the most when it suited her purpose, she
was able to wander about at all hours with the
acquaintances her husband did not even know
by name, and Julian had no longer the strength
even to implore her to have pity on him. Her
absence racked him with nervous fears ; her
presence tortured him to agony. Weakness in
him had reached a criminal degree. Once or
twice he had all but made up his mind to flee
secretly, and only let her know his determination

when he had gone ; but his poverty interposed
such obstacles that he ended by accepting
them as excuses for his hesitation. The mere
thought of fulfilling the duty which he owed to
himself, of speaking out with manly firmness,
and telling her that here at length all ended between
them — that was a terror to his soul. So
he stayed on and allowed her to kill him by slow
torment. He was at least carrying out to the
letter the promise he had made to her father,
and this thought supplied him with a flattering
unction which, such was his disposition, at times
even brought him a moment's solace.

There was no fire in the room, but in his
exhaustion he sank upon a chair and waited.
Every sound in the street below sent the blood
back upon his heart. At length there came the
fumbling of a latch-key, — he could hear it
plainly, — and then the heavy foot ascending
the stairs. Her glazed eyes and red cheeks
told the familiar tale. She sat down opposite
him and was silent for a minute, half dozing ;
then she seemed suddenly to become conscious
of his presence, and the words began to flow

from her tongue, every one cutting him to the
quick, poisoning his soul with their venom of
jealousy and vulgar spite. Contention was the
breath of her nostrils ; the prime impulse of her
heart was suspicion. Little by little she came
round to the wonted topic. Had he been to see
his friend the thief? Was she in prison again
yet ? Whom had she been stealing from of late ?
Oh, she was innocence itself, of course ; too
good for this evil-speaking world.

To-night he could not bear it. He rose from
his chair like a drunken man, and staggered to
the door. She sprang after him, but he was
just in time to escape her grasp and spring
down the stairs ; then, out into the night.
Once before, not quite a month ago, he had
been driven thus in terror from the sound of
her voice, and had slept at a coffee-house. Now,
as soon as he had got out of the street and saw
that he was not being pursued, he discovered
that he had given away his last copper for the
omnibus fare. No matter ; the air was pleasant
upon his throbbing temples. Eather find rest
in the dark river yonder than return whilst she

was in this mood. It was too late to think of
knocking at the house where Waymark lodged.
Nothing remained but to walk about the streets
all night, resting on a stone when he became
too weary to go further, sheltering a little here
or there when the wind cut him too keenly.
Eather this, oh, a thousand times rather, than
the hell behind him.

Did there come any troubled dream to Ida
that night, any vision of a haggard shape flitting
about and about her house, the spirit, it might
seem, of the wailing November wind ? Was her
ear saddened by the echo of sobs ; did her eyes
grow moist in sleep from sympathy with an
unutterable woe languishing at her very door ?
Alas, Ida had her own miseries to fill the
shadow-land of dreams, and the agony which
that night circled round her was as remote from
her consciousness as though it had not been.

Chapter VI.

NO WAY BUT THIS.

In the early days of October, Waymark's book
appeared. It excited no special attention. Here
and there a reviewer was found who ventured
to hint that there was powerful writing in this
new novel, but no one dared to heartily recommend
it to public attention. By some it
was classed with the "unsavoury productions
of the so-called naturalist school " ; others passed
it by with a few lines of unfavourable comment.
Clearly it was destined to bring the author
neither fame nor fortune.

Waymark was surprised at his own indifference.
Having given a copy to Castii, and one
to Maud, he thought very little more of the
production. It had ceased to interest him ; the
subject-matter had grown distasteful ; he felt

that if he were to write again it would be ina
very different way and of different people.
This was a singular state of mind, the result
of the experiences through which he was
passing. The genuine impulses of a creative
intellect do not thus nullify themselves ; but
they may be checked for a while by unpropitious
circumstances, and seem to have belonged
to a bygone stage of development. In a mood
of general weariness it is often our strongest
affinities which suffer most assailment. Waymark's
career as a writer was by no means at
an end ; the time would come when he wild
look back upon this period of apathy, and grow
to understand its significance. It simply meant
that he was suffering from the suppression of a
desire which had identified itself with all the
strongest instincts of his being. The desire
had been slow in asserting its predominance ;
passions which were in time to become the
nutriment of this purest fire had so long tortured
him with irresolution ; even when he
prided himself most upon his self-knowledge he
had been most ignorant of the direction in

which his character was developing. Unconsciously,
he had struggled to the extremity of
weariness, and now he cared only to let things
take their course, standing aside from every
shadow of new onset. He lived for the day,
for the hour rather, and seldom looked forward.
Above all, he kept away as much as possible
from the house at Fulham, where Ida was still
living. To go there meant only a renewal of
torment. This was in fact the commonplace
period of his life. He had no energy above
that of the ordinary young man who is making
his living in a commonplace way, and his
superior faculties lay dormant. He read little,
and chiefly the new novels which passed through
his hands in the library ; they accorded with
his present palate.

He might consider himself rich now, and, as
if in fulfilment of the prophecy that to him who
hath shall be given, he obtained, just before the
publication of his book, a position superior to
the subordinate one he was then filling. This
t was the appointment of librarian at a public
institution in Birmingham. Without any real

tlLOUght of succeeding, he had answered an
advertisement, and was successful, chiefly owing,
no doubt, to the recommendation of his employers
in London. He was to enter on his
duties at the beginning of the new year, and his
salary would be two hundred pounds. The
prospect of having to leave London did not
trouble him ; his material needs were henceforth
provided for, and that was all he cared to consider
at present. And not only his own needs ;
his position thus assured, there was no longer
any reason why his marriage should be delayed.
For Maud's sake this step was clearly desirable.
At present she and her mother were living with
her aunt Theresa in the weird old house in South
Bank. Of Paul there had come no tidings.
Their home was of course broken up, and they
had absolutely no income of their own to depend
upon. Maud tried to procure teaching once
more, but as yet had obtained none. Waymark
did his best to persuade her to accept help from
him ; if he had not a right to offer it, who had ?
But this her aunt forbade her to accept. Miss
By grave declared herself perfectly ready to share

what she possessed with her relatives ; would
indeed permit no stranger's interference. That
was a shadowed house, where the three women
lived together. Waymark' always shuddered ashe
passed its threshold, and felt as though he
were bidding farewell to the light of day.

And what of Ida ? It was hard for her to
realize her position ; for a time she was conscious
only of an overwhelming sense of loneliness.
The interval of life with her grandfather was
dreamlike as she looked back upon it ; yet
harder to grasp was the situation in which she
now found herself, surrounded by luxuries which
had come to her as if from the clouds, wealthy
beyond what she had ever dreamed of, her own
mistress, free to form wishes merely for the sake
of satisfying them. Could she but have foreseen
such things as these a year ago, with what
extremity of delight the vision would have
stirred her ! Now the gleams fell chillingly
upon her heart. She cared little to realize the
minor possibilities of wealth. The great purpose,
the noble end to which her active life had shaped

itself, was sternly present before her ; lie
would not shirk its demands. But there was
lacking the inspiration of joy. Could she harden
herself to every personal desire, and forget, in
devotion to others, the sickness of one great
hope deferred ? Did her ideal require this
of her ?

Would he come, now that she was free to give
herself where she would, now that she was so
alone ? She had seen him frequently in that
time of trouble, but even then he had been cold
beyond his wont, and now he visited her very,
very seldom, and spoke only with formal kindness.
She repeated his phrases in thought, and
they chilled her ; remembering his face, her
confidence was assailed with fearful doubting.
The distance between them had increased ever
since the beginning of her new life. She had
found her explanation of it, and derived comfort
therefrom, but had she deceived herself? She
knew well the sort of pride he was capable of;
but was there not something else, something she
dreaded to observe too closely, in the manner
of his speech ? Did he think so meanly of her as

VOL. III. R

to deem such precautions necessary against her
misconstruction ? Nay, could he have guarded
himself in that way if he really loved her ?
Would it not have been to degrade her too
much in his own eyes ?

He loved her once. Had she in any way
grown less noble in his eyes, by those very
things which she regarded as help and strengthening
? Did he perchance think she had too
readily accepted ease when it was offered her,
sacrificing the independence which he most
regarded ? If so, all the more would he shrink
from losing to her his own independence. In
spite of herself she often longed that her wealth
might tempt him ; it was to sully him with
baseness, but, so strange a thing is love, she had
rather he came thus than not at all. Would
she not then bring him to love her, touch his
heart to tenderness by every gentlest virtue,
rouse him to passion by the breath of her soul %

Sh imagined herself wedded to him ; at
liberty to stand before him and confess all the
thoughts which now consumed her in the silence
of vain longing. " Why did I break free from

the fetters of a shameful life ! — Because I loved,
and loved you. What gave me the strength to
pass from idle luxury, poisoning the energies of
the soul, to that life of lonely toil and misery ! —
My love, and my love for yoic. I kept apart
from you then ; I would not even let you know
what I was enduring; only because you had
spoken a hasty, thoughtless word to me, which
showed me with terrible distinctness the meaning
of all I had escaped, and filled me with a determination
to prove to myself that I had not lost
all my better nature, that there was still enough
of purity in my being to save me finally. What
was it that afflicted me with agony beyond all
words when I was made the victim of a cruel
and base accusation '? Not the fear of its consequences
; only the dread lest sou should believe
me guilty, and no longer deem me worthy of a
thought. It was my only consolation in the
prison cell, to call before my mind all your
nobleness of heart ; to remember how I had
shown myself to you without reserve that you
might understand me and put faith in me, and

then to feel sure that you would not think me

R 2

so base as others wished to prove me. Then,
when release came, and with it that strange new
life, so full of possibilities, could I have entered
upon it so eagerly, with such instant forgetfulness
of all that had gone before, if it had not
been that I hoped to profit in your eyes ; to show
that I could use the opportunities that offered,
and make myself outwardly not unworthy to be
your wife some day ? It was this that gave me
joy in all my new efforts, that made everything
easy to me. Look into my soul, and see if there
remains in it one blot ! It is no arrogance to
say that I am become a pure woman ; not my
own merits, but love of you has made me so ;
love that came upon me with the power of a
blessing from Heaven. I love you as a woman
loves only once ; if you asked me to give up my
life to prove it, I am capable of doing no less a
thing than that. Flesh and spirit I lay before
you, — all yours ; do you still think the offering
unworthy ? "

And yet she knew that she could never thus
speak to him ; her humility was too great. At
moments she might feel this glow of conscious

virtue, but for the most part the weight of all
the past was so heavy upon her. From her
judgment of herself she concluded what must be
his judgment of her. Can a woman ever wash
herself clean from impurity once incurred ? The
ideas of conventional religion were often strong
in her, despite that clear insight which would
have assured her of their folly ; the ideas which
make the body of more importance than the soul,
and are at utter variance with the spiritual
truths whence they profess to derive.

Fortunately, her time did not long remain
unoccupied. As her grandfather's heiress shelf
course found herself owner of the property in
Westminster. The fever had not spread, and, as
soon as it was assured that she would incur no
danger, she went over the houses in the company
of the builder whom Abraham had chosen to carry
out his proposed restorations, and, in consequence
of this visit, came to the decision to henceforth
be her own rent-collector. The improvements
were proceeded with at once, greatly to the
astonishment of the tenants, to whom such
changes inevitably suggested increase of rent.

These fears Ida did her best to dispel. Dressed
in the simplest possible way, and with that kind,
quiet manner which was natural to her, she went
about from room to room, and did her best to
become intimately acquainted with the womankind
of the Lane and the Court. It was not an
easy end to compass. She was received at first
with extreme suspicion ; her appearance aroused
that distrust which with the uneducated attaches
to everything novel. In many instances she
found it difficult to get it believed that she was
really the "landlord." But when this idea had
been gradually mastered, and when, moreover,
it was discovered that she brought no tracts,
spoke not at all of religious matters, was not
impertinently curious, and showed indeed that
she knew a good deal of what she talked about,
something like respect for her began to spring
up here and there, and she was spoken of as
"the right sort."

Ida was excellently fitted for the work she
had undertaken. She knew so well, from her
own early experience, the nature of the people
with whom she was brought in contact, and had

that instinctive sympathy with their lives without
which it is so vain to attempt practical social
reform. She would have been greatly surprised
if she had heard any such phrase as this applied
to her activity. She started with no theory,
and as yet had no very definite end in view ;
it simply appeared to her that, as owner of
these slums, honesty and regard for her own
credit required that she should make them
decent human habitations, and give what other
help she could to people obviously so much in
need of it. The best was that she understood
how and when such help could be afforded. ' To
woman's native practicality and prudence she
added a keen recollection of the wants and
difficulties she had struggled through in childhood
; there was no danger of her being foolishly
lavish in charity, when she could foresee with
sympathy all the evil results which would ensue.
Her only temptation to imprudence was whenas
so often happened, she saw some little girl ina
position which reminded her strongly of her
own dark days ; all such she would have liked
to take home with her and somehow provide

for, saving them from the wretched alternatives
which were all that life had to offer them. So,
little by little, she was brought to think in a
broader way of problems puzzling enough to
wiser heads than hers. Social miseries, which
she had previously regarded as mere matters of
fact, having never enjoyed the opportunities of
comparison which alone can present them in any
other light, began to move her to indignation.
Often it was with a keen sense of shame that
she took the weekly rent, a sum scraped together
Heaven knew how, representing so much deduction
from the food of the family. She knew
that it would be impossible to remit the rent
altogether, but at all events there was the power
of reducing it, and this she did in many cases.

The children, especially, as I said, the little
girls, she came to regard as her peculiar care.
Her strong common sense taught her that it was
with these that most could be done. The parents
could not be reformed ; at best they might be
kept from that darkest depth of poverty which
corrupts soul and body alike. But might not the
girls be somehow put into the way of earning a

decent livelihood ? Ida knew so well the effect
upon them of the occupations to which they
mostly turned, occupations degrading to womanhood,
blighting every pure instinct in the bud.
Even to give them the means of remaining at
home would not greatly help them ; there they
still breathed the vile atmosphere. To remove
them altogether was the only efficient way, and
how could that be done ?

The months of late summer and autumn saw
several more garden-parties. These, Ida knew,
were very useful, but more enduring things must
,be devised. Miss Edward was the only person
with whom she could consult, and that lady's
notions were not very practical. If only she
could have spoken freely with Waymark ; but
that she could no longer on any subject, least of
all on this. As winter set in, he had almost
forsaken her. He showed no interest in her life,
beyond asking occasionally what she was reading,
and taking the opportunity to talk of books.
Throughout November she neither saw him nor
heard from him. Then one evening he came.

She was alone when the servant announced

him, for Miss Edward had gone to spend the
evening with friends. Hearing the visitor's bell,
she had concluded that it was Mr. Eccleston,
who looked in about once a week ; but the old
gentleman was at present troubled with a bad
cough, which always announced him, and no
cough sounded in the hall. Ida had been sitting
with Grim on her lap, our old acquaintance, who
of course had not been forgotten when she came
to Fulham, but had forthwith been taken from
his pension, and restored to his dear mistress's
loving care. Solitude had been familiar to her
throughout her life, and it was no hardship to
sit by herself for hours. Beyond the time
confessedly devoted to study, she did not read
much now ; she could not sufficiently forget
herself to have much joy in books. To-night
sadness had filled her heart to overflowing.
Hope, she felt, had been given in mockery ;
happiness was further off than in the days
when she could outface degradation with a
scornful gaiety. The utterance of Waymark's
name affected her strangely ; her soul was overwhelmed
with a sudden and intense self-pity,

and weakness held tier to her chair. Before she
could put Grim from her lap and summon the
force to rise, Waymark had approached her.

He, too, was sad enough. She looked at him
calmly — with a calmness which even in the
moment surprised her — as he took a seat at a
distance, and saw that on his face which could
only be the result of long trouble. Perhaps it
was the more evident, owing to the time which
had intervened since his last visit.

I thought you would never come again'*
Ida said, quietly.

I have not kept away through thoughtlessness,"
he replied. " Believe that ; it is the
truth. And to-night I have only come to say
good-bye. I am going to leave London."

On what account ? "

I have got a librarianship in Birmingham, —
an acceptable change from my present position."

You used to say nothing would induce you
to leave London, and that you couldn't live
anywhere else."

Yes ; that was one of my old fancies. It
will be disagreeable at first, but only at first.

Books will make my world for the greater part,
henceforth, and a book worm can be happy
anywhere."

He moved uneasily under her gaze, and affected
a cheerfulness which could not deceive her.

"After all, it's the best thing that could
happen to me ; it ensures a certain quiet enjoyment
of life, and that is much. I have a
strain of pedantry in my disposition, which
can easily be cultivated to a ruling passion, no
doubt. If I am left alone, I shall probably
become a sort of elder Disraeli, and continue
the ' Curiosities of Literature ' ; — do you know
the book ? It's capital reading. I have always
had an intense sympathy, on one side of my
nature, with the life of a student-recluse. I
should like to undertake some enormous antiquarian
work which would absorb me for the
next twenty years."

Has your book been a success ? " Ida inquired,
as if she had scarcely heard what he
had been saying.

"My book? Oh, I have forgotten all about
that. No ; it attracted no attention."

Why didn't you give me a copy ? "

I thought too little of it. It's poor stuff.
Better you shouldn't read it."

"But I have read it."

Got it from the library, did you ? "

No ; I bought it."

Indeed ? You must be one of a select half-dozen,"
he exclaimed, with a laugh. " What a
pity to waste a guinea and a half in such a
way."

'why do you speak like that? You know
that anything of yours would interest me."

"Oh yes, in a certain way, of course. But
for its own sake ? "

For its own sake also. I can't criticize, but
I know it held me as nothing else ever did. It
was horrible in many parts, but I was the better
for reading it."

He could not help showing pleasure, and grew
more natural. Ida had purposely refrained
from speaking of the book when she read it,
more than a month ago, always hoping that he
would be the first to say something about it.
But the news he had brought her to-night put

an end to reticence on her side. She must
speak out her heart, cost her what it might.

Who should read it, if not I ? " she said,
as he remained silent. "Who can possibly
understand it half so well as I do ?" *

"Yes," he remarked, with wilful misunderstanding,
"you have seen the places and the
people. Is it true, what Mr. Eccleston tells
me, that you are going on with the work your
grandfather began ? "

I am trying to do something. If you had
been able to give me a little time now and then,
I should have asked you to advise and help me.
It is hard to work there single-handed."

It is kind, and like you, to give yourself
to such loathsome tasks. But you are too good
for that ; I should have liked to think of you
as far apart from those vile scenes."

Too good for it ? " Her voice trembled,
scarcely rising above a whisper. " How can
any one be too good to help the miserable ? If
you had said that I was not worthy to exercise
such a ]privilege — Can you, knowing me as
no one else does or ever will, think that I could

live here in peace, whilst those poor creatures
stint and starve themselves every week to
provide me with comforts ? Do I seem to you
such a woman ? "

He only • smiled, his lips tortured to hold
their peace.

I had hoped you understood me better than
that. Is that why you have left me to myself?
Do you doubt my sincerity ? Why do you
speak so cruelly, saying I am too good, when
your real thoughts must be so different ? You
mean that I am incapable of really doing anything
; you have no faith in me. I seem to you
too weak to pursue any high end. You would
not even sneak to me of your book, because you
felt I should not appreciate it. And yet you
do know me "

Yes ; I know you well," Way mark said.
"When I go away, I shall take with me the
remembrance of you as of the one perfect
woman."

He left his seat, and drew further away,
bending to a piece of music which stood open
on the piano.

Perfect 1 " Ida repeated, her eyes following
him with sad wonder. "You never used to
speak so unkindly to me. If I could only know
in what I strayed from the path you wished me
to follow." She rose and took a few steps
towards him. "If you are speaking to me for
the last time, won't you be sincere, and tell me
of my faults? Do you think I could not bear
it ? You can say nothing to me — nothing from
your heart — that I won't accept in all humility.
Are we no longer even friends ? "

You mistake me altogether." He straightened
himself, and looked at her very kindly.
I spoke the truth."

And you are still my friend ? " she uttered,
warmly. " But why do you think me unfit for
good work ? "

I had no such thought. You know how my
ideals oppose each other. I spoke on the impulse
of the moment ; I often find it so hard
to reconcile myself to anything in life that is
not still and calm and beautiful. I am just
now bent on attuning my mind to things very
different from those in which you are so earnest."

He seemed still about to speak, but sbe waited
in vain.

Earnest ? Yes. But I cannot give my
whole self to the work. I am so lonely."

The words fell from her like a sob.

You will not be so long' he answered, with
more cheerfulness. '' You have every opportunity
of making for yourself a good social position.
You will soon have many friends, if only you
seek them. Your goodness will make you respected.
Indeed I wonder at your remaining
so isolated. It need not be ; I am sure it need
not. Your wealth — I have no thought of speaking
cynically — your wealth must — "

My wealth ! What is it to me ? What do
I care for all the friends it might bring ? They
are nothing to me in my misery. But you . . .
I would give all I possess for one kind word
from you. It will be a curse to me^unl^ss you
share it."

Flushing over forehead and cheeks, she compelled
herself to meet his look. It was her
wealth that stood between her and him. Her
position was not like that of other women.

VOL. III. S

Conventionalities were meaningless, set against
a life.

I have tried hard to make myself ever so
little worthy of you," she murmured, when her
voice would again obey her will. ^' Am I still —
still too far beneath you ? "

He stood like one detected in a crime, and
stammered the words,

Ida, I am not free."

Anguish overwhelmed her for an instant, but,
as he staggered back to a support, she sprang to
him and caught his hand, falling beside him.

T/iis was your secret ? Have courage, dear ;
bear up ! Look — I am strong ! Osmond ! Tell
me about it. I should — I might have thought
of this. I thought only of myself. I might
have known there was good reason for the
distance you put between us. Forgive me — oh,
forgive the pain I have caused you ! "

You asking for forgiveness ? How you must
despise me."

'' Why should I despise you ? " she returned,
still holding his hand, and gazing at him with
eyes incapable of a tear. " What right have I,

dear *? You have never said a word to me that
any friend, any near friend, might not have said,
never since I myself, in my folly, forbade you
to. You were not bound to tell me — "

I was, Ida ! I can't bear your goodness."

She released his hand and covered her face.

I had told your grandfather," Waymark said,
in a broken voice. " In a letter I wrote the
very day he was taken ill, I begged him to let
you know that I had bound myself."

As he spoke, he knew that he was excusing
himself with a truth which implied a falsehood,
and before it was too late his soul revolted
against the unworthiness.

'' But it was my own fault that it was left
so long. I would not let him tell you when he
wished to ; I put off the day as long as I could.
From the first I have been living a deceit."

Ida uncovered her eyes, and drew back a little.

Since you first knew me ? " she asked, in a
low voice.

*' No ! Since you came to live here. I was
free before."

It was the part of his confession which cost

S 2

him most to utter, and the hearing of it chilled
Ida's heart. It was whilst she had been living
through her bitterest shame and misery that
he had given his love to another woman, forgetful
of her. For the first time, weakness
overcame her.

I thought you loved me," she sobbed, bowing
her head to the ground.

I did — and I do. I have no power to
understand myself, and it would be worse than
vain to try to show you how it came about. I
have brought a curse upon my life, and worse
than my own despair is your misery."

She rose and took a seat on the couch beside
him. Her tears were checked, and she could
once more speak almost calmly.

Is she a good woman you are going to
marry ? " she asked, simply and kindly.

"Only less noble than yourself."

"And she loves you — no, she cannot love as
I do — but she loves you worthily and with all
her soul ? "

*' Worthily and with all her soul — the greater
my despair."

Then I dare not think of her one unkind
thought. Osmond, we must remember her, and
be strong for her sake. You will leave London,
and forget me soon, — yes, yes, you will try to
forget me. You owe it to her ; it is your
duty."

"" Duty ! " he broke out, passionately. " What
have I to do with duty ? Was it not my duty
to be true to you ? Was it not my duty to
confess my hateful weakness, when I had taken
the fatal step ? Duty has no meaning for me.
I have set it aside at every turn. Even now
there would be no obligation on me to keep
my word, but that I am too great a coward to
revoke it."

She knelt down by him again, and again held
his hand.

Dear, — I will call you so, it is for the last
time, — you think these things in the worst
moment of our suffering ; afterwards you will
thank me for having been strong enough, or cold
enough, to be your conscience. There is such a
thing as duty ; it speaks in your heart and in
mine, and tells us that we must part."

You speak so lightly of parting. If you felt
all that I—"

My love is no shadow less than yours' she
said, with earnestness which was well nigh
severity. " I have never wavered from you since
I knew you first."

"Ida!"

I meant no reproach, but it will perhaps
help you to think of that. You did love her, if
it was only for a day, and that love will return."

She moved from him, and he too rose.

You shame me," he said, under his breath.
I am not worthy to touch your hand."

Yes," she returned, smiling amid her tears,
very worthy of all the love I have given you,
and of the love with which she will make you
happy. I shall suffer, but the thought of your
happiness will help me to bear up and try to
live a life you would not call ignoble. You will
do great things, and I shall hear of them, and be
glad. Yes ; I know that is before you. You
are one of those who cannot rest till they have
won a high place. I, too, have my work, and — ''

Her voice failed.

Shall wc never see each other again, Ida ? "

Perhaps. In a few years we might meet,
and be friends. But I dare not think of that
now."

They clasped hands. In Ida's countenance
shone the rapt ecstacy of noblest devotion ; the
lustre of her eyes, and the smile which touched
her lips with more than spoken eloquence, so
heightened her loveliness that Waymark could
not turn away his gaze. Then, at the prompting
of an impulse such as perfect purity alone could
inspire or can conceive, she approached her face,
and kissed him.

Waymark trembled, and hastened from the
room.

CHAPTER VII.

FORBIDDEN.

December was half through, and it was the
eve of Maud Enderby's marriage day. Everything
was ready for the morrow. Waymark
had been down to Birmingham several times of
late, and the house to which he would take his
wife now awaited their coming. Maud and he
were to set off thither immediately after the
ceremony. At Christmas they would be joined
by Mrs. Enderby, who, it had been arranged,
was to live with them. >-

It was a foggy night. Maud had been for
an hour to Our Lady of the Rosary, and
found it difficult to make her way back. The
street-lamps were mere luminous blurs upon the
clinging darkness, and the suspension of the
wonted traffic made the air strangely still. It

was cold, that kind of cold which wraps the
limbs like a cloth soaked in icy water. When
she knocked at the door of her aunt's house,
and it was opened to her, wreaths of mist swept
in and hung about the lighted hall. It seemed
colder within than without. Footsteps echoed
here in the old way, and voices lost themselves
in a muffled resonance along the bare white
walls. The house was more tomb like than ever
on such a night as this. To Maud's eyes the
intruding fog shaped itself into ghostly visages,
which looked upon her with weird and woeful
compassion. She shuddered, and hastened upstairs
to her mother's room.

After her husband's disappearance,' ' Mrs.
En derby had passed her days in a species of
morbid apathy, contrasting strangely with the
restless excitement which had so long possessed
her. Apparently she was well in bodily health,
but any exertion had become impossible to her ;
a proposal that she should leave her room would
often bring on a fit of extreme irritation ; she
would reproach her daughter and her sister with
neglect, and bid them leave her alone in her

\ misery. /' But a change came over her from the
day when she was told of Maud's approaching
marriage. Lassitude still restrained her from
bodily activity, but her mind seemed to have
received a stimulus from this fresh subject
of thought. It was her delight to have Maud
sit by her bed, or her couch, and talk over the
details of the wedding and the new life that
would follow upon it. Her interest in Waymark,
which had fallen off during the past half-year,
all at once revived ; she conversed with him as
she had been used to do when she first made
his acquaintance, and the publication of his book
afforded her endless matter for gossip. The
prospect of going to live with him and his wife
in a new part of the country was delightful to
her. She began to speak of herself as an old
woman, and of spending her last years happily
in the new home. To all appearances she had
dismissed from her mind the calamity which had
befallen her ; her husband might have been long
dead for any thought she seemed to give him.
She grew wholly taken up with a childish joy
in trivial matters. The dress in which Maud

should be married gave her thoughts constant
occupation, and she fretted openly if Maud
offered any opposition to her ideas. Still, like
a child, she allowed herself to be brought round
to others' views, and was ultimately led to
consent that the costume should be a very
simple one, merely a new dress, in fact, which
Maud would be able to wear subsequently with
little change. Even thus, every detail of it was
as important to her as if it had been the most
elaborate piece of bridal attire. In talking with
Maud, too, she had lost that kind of awe which
had formerly restrained her ; it was as thigh
she had been an affectionate mother ever since
her daughter's birth. She called her by pet
names, often caressed her, and wished for loving
words and acts in return. Of Miss Bygrave's
presence in the house she appeared scarcely
conscious, never referring to her, and suffering
a vague trouble if her sister entered the room
where she was, which Theresa did very seldom.

The new dress had come home finished this
evening whilst Maud was away. On the latter's
return, her mother insisted on seeing her at once

in it, and Maud obeyed. A strange bride, rather
as one who was about to wed herself to Heaven
beneath the veil, than preparing to be led to
the altar. The spirit had so overcome in its
conflict with the body that to look at her was
to lose all thought of her womanly beauty ; her
face was transfigured into the ideal expression
of spiritual striving ; her large eyes were radiant
with a holy awe ; her lips seemed formed only
for the utterance of prayer. When she smiled,
her countenance took an extreme sadness ; you
saw then the regret which possessed her soul
for the loss of that Paradise on which she looked
in her moments of self-forgetfulness.

Maud presently returned to her own room,
and, having resumed her ordinary dress, went
down-stairs to the parlour where her aunt was
sitting. Miss Bygrave laid down a book as she
entered, and, Maud sitting near to her, they
remained for a while in silence. There was no
fire, in accordance with Theresa's habit, and the
fog had penetrated even here.

We shall not see each other after to-night,"
Theresa said, breaking the stillness with her

grave but not unkind voice. " Is there anything
more you would like to say to me, Maud?"

*' Only that I shall always think of you, and
grieve that we are parted."

*you are going into the world," said the other,
sadly, "my thoughts cannot follow you there.
But your purer spirit will often be with me."

And your spirit with me. If I had been
permitted to share your life, that would have
been my greatest joy. I am consciously choosing
what my soul would set aside. For a time I
thought I had reconciled myself to the world ;
I found delight in it, and came to look on the
promptings of the spirit as morbid fancies.
That has passed. I know the highest, but
between me and it there is a gulf which it
may be I shall never pass."

It is only to few," said Theresa, looking at
Maud with her smile of assured peace, " that it
is given to persevere and attain."

As they sat once more in silence, there
suddenly came a light knock at the house-door.
At this moment Maud's thoughts had wandered
back to a Christmas of her childhood, when she

had sat just as to-night with her aunt, and had
for the first time listened to those teachings

o

which had moulded her life. The intervening
years were swept away, and she was once more
the thoughtful, wondering child, conscious of the
great difference between herself and her companions
; in spite of herself learning to regard
the world in which they moved as something
in which she had no part. Of those school
companions a few came back to her mind, and,
before all, the poor girl named Ida Starr, whom
she had loved and admired. What had become
of Ida, after she had been sent away from Miss
Rutherford's school ? She remembered that last
meeting with her in the street, on the evening
of Christmas Day, and could see the beautiful
young face so well. Surely Ida had grown into
no ignoble womanhood, wherever her lot might
have lain. Once more she recurred to her aunt's
solemn teaching. Miss Bygrave had scarcely
altered since then, to her eyes ; to look at her
now was to recall the past with strange vividness.
Then she remembered how their conversation
had been interrupted by a knock at the

house-door, and what dreadful things had
followed, things which no one had ever explained
to her, but which she now understood
too well. And at this very moment there came
again the knock — a low, cautious rat-tat, which
made her heart leap with sudden fear. Her eyes
met those of her aunt, who at once arose and
went to open.

The same knock, and the same hand. Maud
heard a voice outside which held her to the spot
where she stood. Then Theresa re-entered the
room, and after her came Paul Enderby.

He seemed to be wearing a disguise ; at all
events his clothing was that of a working man,
poor and worn, and his face was altered by the
growth of a beard. He shivered with cold, and,
as Miss Bygrave closed the door behind him,
stood with eyes sunk to the ground, in an
attitude of misery and shame. Maud, recovering
quickly from the shock his entrance had
caused her, approached him and took his hand.

Father," she said gently. Her voice overcame
him ; he burst into tears and stood hiding his
face with the rough cap he held. Maud turned

to her aunt, who remained at a little distance,
unmoving, her eyes cast down. Before any
other word was said, the door opened quickly,
and Mrs. Enderby ran in with a smothered cry.
Throwing her arms about her husband, she clung
to him in a passion of grief and tenderness. Ina
moment she had been changed from the listless
childish woman of the last few months to a creature
instinct with violent emotion. Her mingled
excess of joy and anguish could not have displayed
itself more vehemently had she been
sorrowing night and day for her husband's loss.
Maud was terrified at the scene, and shrunk to
Theresa's side. Without heeding either, the distracted
woman led Paul from the room, and
up stairs to her own chamber. Here there was a
fire, and the table had just been laid for the
evening meal. Drawing him to a chair, she fell
on her knees beside him and wept agonizingly.

You will stay with me now ? " she cried, when
her voice could form words. "You won't leave
me again, Paul ? We will hide you here. — No,
no ; I am forgetting. You will go away with us,
away from London to a safe place. Maud is

going to be married tomorrow, and we are going
to live with her in her new home. Osmond has
got a house for us, in Birmingham ; that's a long
way from here, isn't it, darling ? — You have
suffered dreadfully ; you look so changed, so ill.
You shall rest, and I will nurse you. Oh, I will
be a good wife to you, Paul. Speak to me, do
speak to me ; speak kindly, dear ! — How long is
it since I lost you ? I have had no count of
the days. But you are come, and you won't
leave me again ! "

I aren't stay, Emily," he replied, in a
hoarse and broken voice. " I should be discovered.
I must get away from England, that
is my only chance. I have scarcely left the
house where I was hiding all this time. It
wouldn't have been safe to try and escape, even
if I had any money. I have hungered for days,
and I am weaker than a child."

He sobbed again in the extremity of his
wretchedness.

It was all for my sake ! " she cried, clinging
around his neck. " I am your curse. I have
brought you to ruin a second time. I am a bad,

VOL. III. T

wretched woman ; if you drove me from you
with blows it would be less than I deserve ! You
can never forgive me ; but let me be your slave,
let me suffer something dreadful for your sake !
Why did I ever recover from my madness, only
to bring that upon you ! "

He could speak little, but leaned back, holding
her to him with one arm.

No, it is not your fault, Emily," he said.
Only my own weakness and folly. Your love
repays me for all I have undergone ; that was
all I ever wanted."

When she had exhausted herself in passionate
consolation, she left him for a few moments to get
him food, and he ate of it like a famished man.

If I can only get money enough to leave the
country, I am saved," he said. " If I stay here,
I shall be found, and they will imprison me for
years. I had rather kill myself ! "

Osmond will give us the money," was the
reply, "and we will go away together."

That would betray me ; it would be folly
to face such a risk. If I can escape, then you
shall come to me."

Oh, you will leave me ! " she cried. " I shall
lose you, as I did before, but this time for ever !
You don't love me, Paul ! And how can I expect
you should ? — But let me go as your servant.
Let me dress like a man, and follow you. Who
will notice then ? "

He shook his head.

'* I love you, Emily, and shall love you as long
as I breathe. To hear you speak to me like this
has almost the power to make me happy. If I
had known it, I shouldn't have stayed so long
away from you ; I hadn't the courage to come,
and I thought the sight of me would only 'be
misery to you. I have lived a terrible life,
among the poorest and vilest people, getting my
bread as they did ; oftener starving. Not one of
my acquaintances was to be trusted. I have not
seen one face I knew since I first heard of my
danger and escaped. But I had rather live on
like that than fall into the hands of the police ;
I should never know freedom again. The
thought maddens me with fear."

You are safe here, love, quite safe ! " she
urged soothingly. " Who could know that you

T 1

are here ? Who could know that Maud and I
were living here ? "

There was a tap at the door. Mrs. Enderby
started to it, turned the key, and then asked
who was there.

Emily," said Miss Bygrave's voice, " let me
come in, — or let Paul come out here and speak
to me."

There was something unusual in the speaker's
tone ; it was quick and nervous. Paul himself
went to the door, and, putting his wife's hand
aside, opened it.

*what isitr' he asked.

She beckoned him to leave the room, then
whispered :

Some one I don't know is at the front door.
I opened it with the chain on, and a man said he
must see Mr. Enderby."

Can't I go out by the back ? " Paul asked,
all but voiceless with terror. " I aren't hide in
the rooms ; they will search them all — How did
they know that I was here ? Oh God, I am
lost ! "

They could hear the knocking below repeated.

Paul hurried down the stairs, followed by his
wife, whom Theresa in vain tried to hold back.
He knew the way to the door which led into the
garden, and, opening this, sprang into the darkness.
Scarcely had he taken a step, when strong
arms seized him.

Hold on ! " said a voice. " You must come
back with me into the house."

At the same moment there was a shriek close
at hand, and, as they turned to the open door,
Paul and his captor saw Emily prostrate on the
threshold, and Miss Bygrave stooping over her.

"Better open the front door, ma'am," said the
police officer, " and ask my friend there to come J
through. We've got all we want."

This was done, and when Emily had been
carried into the house, Paul was led thither also
by his captor. As they stood in the hall, the
second officer drew from his pocket a warrant of
arrest, and read it out with official gravity.

You'll go quietly with us, I suppose ? " he
then said.

Paul nodded, and all three departed by the
front door.

It was midnight before Mrs. Enderby showed
any signs of returning consciousness. Miss By-grave
and Maud sat by her bed together, and
at length one of them noticed that she had
opened her eyes and was looking about her,
though without moving her head.

"Mother' Maud asked, bending over her,
are you better ? — Do you know me ? "

Emily nodded. There was no touch of natural
colour in her face, and its muscles seemed paralyzed.
And she lay thus for hours, conscious
apparently, but paying no attention to those in
the room. Early in the morning a medical man
was summoned, but his assistance effected no
change. The fog was still heavy, and only
towards noon was it possible to dispense with
lamp-light ; then there gleamed for an hour or
two a dull, weird mockery of day, and again it
was nightfalL With the darkness came rain.

Waymark had come to the house about ten
o'clock. But this was to be no wedding-day.
Maud begged him through her aunt not to desire
to see her, and he returned as he came. Miss
Bygrave had told him all that had happened.

Emily seemed to sleep for some hours, but
just after nightfall the previous condition recurred
; she lay with her eyes open, and just
nodded when spoken to. From eight o'clock to
midnight Maud tried to obtain rest in her own
room, but sleep was far from her, and when
she returned to the sick-chamber to relieve her
aunt, she was almost as worn and ghastly in
countenance as the one they tended. She took
her place by the fire, and sat listening to the
sad rain, which fell heavily upon the soaked
garden-ground below. It had a lulling effect.
Weariness overcame her, and before she could
suspect the inclination, she had fallen asleep.

Suddenly she was awake again, wide awake,
it seemed to her, without any interval of half-consciousness,
and staring with horror-struck
eyes at a scene before her. The shaded lamp
stood on the chest of drawers at one side of the
room, and by its light she beheld her mother
standing in front of the looking-glass, her raised
band holding something that glistened. She
could not move a limb ; her tongue was powerless
to utter a sound. There was a wild laugh,

a quick motion of the raised hand, — then it

seemed to Maud as if the room were filled with

a crimson light, followed by the eternal darkness.

* * * ife

A fortnight later Miss Bygrave was sitting
in the early morning by the bed where Maud
lay ill. For some days it had been feared that
the girl's reason would fail, and though this
worst possibility seemed at length averted, her
condition was still full of danger. She had
recognized her aunt the preceding evening, buta
relapse into wandering had followed. Now
she unexpectedly turned to the watcher, and
spoke feebly, but with perfect self-control.

Aunt, is madness hereditary ? "

Theresa, who had believed her sleeping, bent
over her and tried to turn her mind to other
thoughts. But the sick girl would speak only
of this subject.

I am quite myself," she said, " and 1 feel
better. Yes, I remember reading somewhere
that it was hereditary."

She was quiet for a little.

Aunt," she then said, " I shall never be

married. It would be wrong to him. I am
afraid of myself."

She did not recur to the subject till she had
risen, two or three weeks after, and was strong
enough to move about the room. Waymark
had called every day during her illness. As
soon as he heard that she was up, he desired
to see her, but Maud begged him, through her
aunt, to wait yet a day or two. In the night
which followed she wrote to him, and the letter
was this :

"Dear Osmond, «

If I had seen you when you called
yesterday, I should have had to face a task
beyond my strength. Yet it would be wrong
to keep from you any longer what I have to say.
I must write it, and hope your knowledge of me
will help you to understand what I can only
imperfectly express.

I ask you to let me break my promise to
you. I have not ceased to love you ; to me you
are still all that is best and dearest in the world.
You would have made my life very happy. But

happiness is now what I dare not wish for. I
am too weak to make that use of it which, I do
not doubt, is permitted us ; it would enslave my
soul. With a nature such as mine, there is only-one
path of safety : I must renounce all. You
know me to be no hypocrite, and to you, in this
moment, I need not fear to speak my whole
thought. The sacrifice has cost me much. To
break my faith to you, and to put aside forever
all the world's joys — the strength for this
has only come after hours of bitterest striving.
Try to be glad that I have won ; it is all behind
me, and I stand upon the threshold of the
kingdom of peace.

'' You know how from a child 1 have suffered
in the consciousness of my frail nature. What
to others was pure and lawful joy became to mea
temptation. But God was not unjust ; if He
so framed me. He gave me at the same time the
power to understand and to choose. All those
warnings which I have, in my blindness, spoken
of so lightly to you, I now recall with humbler
and truer mind. If the shadow of sin darkened
my path, it was that I might look well to my

steps, and, alas, I have failed so, have gone so
grievously astray ! God, in His righteous anger,
has terribly visited me. The most fearful form
of death has risen before me ; I have been cast
into abysses of horror, and only saved from
frenzy by the mercy which brought all this upon
me for my good. A few months ago I had also
a warning. I did not disregard it, but it could
not overcome the love which bound me to you.
But for that love, how much easier it would
have been to me to overcome the world and
myself.

You will forgive me, Osmond, for you will
understand me. Do not write in reply ; spare
me, I entreat you, a renewal of that dark hour
I have passed through. With my aunt I am
going to leave London. We shall remain
together, and she will strengthen me in the
new life. May God bless you here and
hereafter.

"Maud Enderby."

After an interval of a day Waymark wrote as
follows to Miss Bygrave : —

Doubtless you know that Maud has written
desiring me to release her. I cannot but remember
that she is scarcely yet recovered from
a severe illness, and her letter must not be final.
She entreats me not to write to her or see her.
Accordingly I address myself to you, and beg that
you will not allow Maud to take any irrevocable
step till she is perfectly well, and has had time
to reflect. I shall still deem her promise tome
binding. If after the lapse of six months
from now she still desires to be released, I
must know it, either from herself or from you.
If you leave London, I think you owe it to me
to send me your address. I myself go to Birmingham
at the end of the week."

CHAPTER Vii

THE SECOND LETTER.

Waymark and Castii spent their Christmas
Eve together. It was not a cheerful one. Both
were conscious that it was the hist they would
see in company, for one of them the last of all
Christmas Eves. They spoke freely of each
other's affairs, saving that there was no mention
of Ida. Waymark had of course said nothing
of that parting between Ida and himself. Of
the one hope which made it possible for him to
face the dreary life in the new town he could
not speak to his friend.

A. month had told upon Julian as months do
when the end draws so near. In spite of his
suffering he still discharged his duties at the
hospital, but it was plain that he would not be
able to do so much longer. And what would
happen then ?

''Casti," Waymark exclaimed suddenly, when
a hint of this thought had brought both of them
to a pause, '' you will go with me."

Julian looked up in bewilderment.

To Birmingham ? "

"Yes. There is the house, and some one must
live in it. If I succeed in letting a part, there
will still be room for us. And you will go ? "

*' What an impossible idea ! How am I to
get my living ? And how is she to live ? "

"No difficulties at all. You will find something
to do there, as easily as in London, when
you have had a week or two of rest. And you
will send her what she needs."

Julian shook his head and laughed.

Look here," Waymark said, smiling, " my
will is not a little stronger than yours, and in
the present case I mean to exercise it. I have
said, and there's an eut of it. You say she'll
be away from home tomorrow. Good. We
go together, pack up your books and things in
half an hour or so, and reach Birmingham tomorrow
night. Sic volo, sic jubeo, sit pro rations
voluntas ! "

And it was done, though not till Waymark
had overcome the other's opposition by the most
strenuous effort. Julian understood perfectly
well the full significance of the scheme, for all
Waymark's kind endeavour to put a hopeful and
commonplace aspect on his proposal. He resisted
as long as his strength would allow, then
put himself in his friend's hands.

And so a new life began. It was some time
before Julian could entirely set his mind at rest
with regard to the desertion of his wife. Though
no one capable of judging the situation could
have cast upon him a shadow of blame, the, first
experience of peace mingled itself in his mind
with self-reproach. Waymark showed him how
utterly baseless any such feeling was. Harriet
had proved herself unworthy of a moment's consideration,
and it was certain that, as long as
she received her weekly remittance, — paid
through an agent in London, — she would trouble
herself very little about the rest ; or, at all
events, any feeling that might possess her would
be wholly undeserving of respect. , Gradually
Julian accustomed himself to this thought.

r"

But there was still the fact that he was
living at his friend's expense, and this was a
scruple more difficult to overcome. When tie
had remained passive for a week or two, he
would forthwith have exerted himself to find
employment of some kind ; but Waymark discouraged
any such proposal. And Julian was
only too conscious that the time for these things
was fast going by, nay, had already passed.

Wait till the warmer weather comes," Waymark
said. " I can hardly manage to get about
myself in this vile atmosphere. We shall have
time by then to turn it over, and see what can
be done."

Julian could make no reply, save by a look
which the other would not meet.

Waymark, in his free hours, gave himself
wholly to the invalid. He had no impulse to
resume literary work ; anything was welcome
which enabled him to fill up the day and reach
the morrow. Whilst Julian lay on the couch,
which was drawn up to the fireside, Waymark
read aloud anything that could lead them to
forget themselves. At other times, Julian either

read to himself or wrote verse, which, however,
he did not show to his friend ; only occasionally
he left the house, when there came a brief gleam
of sunshine, and then he could only walk a short
distance. Before springtime came he found it
difficult even to maintain a sitting attitude for
long. His cough still racked him terribly.
Way mark often lay long awake in the night,
listening to that fearful sound in the next room.
At such times he tried to fancy himself in the
dying man's position, and then the sweat of
horror came upon his brow. Deeply, with all the
strength of his vehement nature, he sympathized
with the misery he could do so little to allay.
Yet he was doing what he might to make the
end a quiet one, and the consciousness of this
brought him many a moment of joy.

However he might be in those fearful vigils,
Julian's days did not seem unhappy. He was
resigning himself to the inevitable, in the
strength of that calm which sometimes ensues
upon despair. Now and then he could even be,
to all appearances, light-hearted. Something
which happened at the beginning of March

VOL. III. u

made him so for a while. During Way mark's
absence he had been reading the new number
of a leading review. It contained an article
on '^ Some Aspects of Recent Fiction," by a
writer of authority, and there, to his delight,
he had discovered a mention of Waymark's
novel. More than a mention, indeed ; it was
spoken of as a significant work, and its artistic
merits dwelt upon with discriminating "appreciation.
This was rare news for the author
on his return from the library. Waymark
affected to shrug his shoulders at first, but he
could not long conceal his intense gratification.

Now you must write again, old fellow ! "
Julian exclaimed. '* This will make you known
everywhere. I told you we hadn't heard the last
of it yet ! ''

Yes, I will write again," Waymark returned,
with a wrinkling; of the brow. "And it shall be
something savage ! "

There was coming back upon him this old

desire to battle with the rampant monsters of

y the world. After all, perhaps art for art's sake

was not the final stage of his development. Art,

yes ; but combat at the same time. The two
things are not so incompatible as some would
have us think.

With the early May Julian too had a revival
of inspiration. Strangely losing sight of his
desperate condition, he spoke once more of
beginning the epic planned long ago. It was
rife within his mind and heart, he said. In a
week or two he would be able to think of looking
about him, and as soon as things had become
settled, he could begin to write. Waymark
listened to him whilst he unfolded book after
book of glorious vision ; listened, and wondered.

There was a splendid sunset one evening at

this time, and the two watched it together from

the room in which they always sat. Vapour

rolling up in dun wreaths from the thousand

chimneys of the manufacturing wilderness caught

fire above, and was transformed into weird lurid

shapes, which vanished as the western light

grew in power and glory. Seas of molten gold,

strands and promontories of jasper and amethyst,

illimitable mountain-ranges, cities of unimagined

splendour, all were there in that extent of

u 2

evening sky. They watched it till the vision
wasted before the breath of night.

What shall I read ? " Waymark asked, when
the lamp was lit.

Head that passage in the Georgic which
glorifies Italy," Julian replied. " It will suit my
mood to-night, and your voice never sounds so
well as in the hexameter."

Waymark took down his Virgil.

,' " ' Sed neque Decorum silva, ditissima terra,

J^ec butcher Ganges atque auro turdus Hermes
Claudius Italian content, non Bactria, neque India,
Itaque turf eris Pancliaia penguins arenis. ' "

Julian's eyes glistened as the melody rolled
on, and when it ceased, they were both quiet
for a time.

Waymark," Julian said presently, a gentle
tremor in his voice, '* why do we never speak
of her?"

'* Can we speak of her ? " Waymark returned,
knowing well who was meant.

A short time ago I could not have done ;
now I feel the need. It will give me no touch
of pain, but great happiness."

That is all gone by," he continued, with a

solemn smile. "To me she is no longer anything
but a remembrance, an ideal I once knew.
The noblest and sweetest woman I have known,
or shall know, on earth ; — as you," he added,
under his breath, " are the noblest man."

Waymark made a hasty motion.

'* But for her," Julian went on very calmly, I
should never have known all I am capable of. But
for you I should have died in horrible despair."

They talked of her a little while with subdued
voices, reverently and tenderly. Waymark described
what he knew or divined of the life she
was now leading, her beneficent activity,* her
perfect adaptation to the new place she filled.

*' In a little while," Julian said, when they
had fallen into thought again, "you will have
your second letter. And then ? "

There was no answer. Julian waited a moment,
then rose and, clasping his friend's hand, bade
him good night.

Waymark awoke once or twice before morning,
but there was no coughing in the next room.
He felt glad, and wondered whether there
was indeed any improvement in the invalid's
health. But at the usual breakfast-time Julian

did not appear. Way mark knocked at his door,
with no result. He turned the handle and
^ entered. Julian had died in the night.

*****

/ Another three months, and we are in Ida's
drawing-room on a pleasant July morning. Today
there is no lack of company here. Some
half a dozen ladies are sitting about the room, all
listening attentively to Ida, who is speaking to
them in a quiet, practical way, exposing sundry
details of a plan which is under common consideration.
Miss Edward is sitting by the lady
of the house, and, in the capacity of secretary,
is making notes now and then. The meaning of
it all is that Ida's favourite project is at length
in the way of being practically realized. The
scheme for founding a kind of home in which
young girls from the poorest classes could be
trained into possibility for domestic service had
taken such strong possession of her that she
ultimately found a way of making it known to
others likely to be interested in such an undertaking,
and the meeting to-day was that of a
provisional committee, formed to devise how the
money which Ida was prepared to dispose of

could best be laid out, and also take steps for
obtaining further assistance.

To no one of these ladies was Ida known, save
by the report she gave of herself, and yet
the briefest acquaintance had inspired them
with absolute confidence in her. Her youth, her
beauty, and the loneliness of which she made no
secret, excited an interest from the first; and
Ida's admirable practical qualities, which made
themselves evident as soon as she began to speak
on the subject which appeared to engross her
thoughts, strengthened this feeling to one of
respect. Young as she was, too, woman's, instinct
had not much difficulty in discovering
that a shadow of some kind had fallen upon her
life and tinged it with seriousness. All felt
that there was some strange history concealed
under this premature gravity of thought and
speech. But the ladies Ida had around her were
not such as make petty curiosity the main object
of their lives. Her sincerity was beyond question.
All admired her, some grew to love her.
Her secrets were her own.

Who shall scorn at money 1 " Ida exclaimed,
when the committee meeting was over, to her

friend Miss Edward, who knew of course that
Mr. Woodstock's grand-daughter had not always
occupied her present position, though she knew
little more. "A year and a half ago I was a
miserable, penniless girl, without a hope in life.
At the most I could have looked forward to
getting a hard livelihood by the work of my
hands. If I had at any time felt that I was
capable of better things, that my brain had
possible uses as well as my fingers, what use
would the thought have been, except to make my
lot harder to bear ? Now, to-day, I am speaking
on equal terms with wealthy and cultured
ladies ; earning a measure of respect from them,
I suppose ; making them glad to associate with
me in my plans. More than that, I have the
power of becoming a providence to a number
of poor creatures, who, but for me, would in all
probability drag out their lives in wretchedness
and degradation. And the source of it all,
simply my possession of so much a year ! Isn't
money a good thing ? "

'eyes," replied Miss Edward; but added, in
her copy-book manner, " still there are things
that money can not do."

True," rejoined Ida, and turned away with
a sigh.

This same afternoon she had occasion to visit
her property in Westminster. Litany Lane and
Jubilee Court now wore an appearance not a
little different from that which had characterized
them in the old days. At present it was possible
to breathe the atmosphere even in the
inmost recesses of the Court. There the fronts of
the houses were fresh white-washed ; in the Lane
they were new-painted. Even the pavement
and road-way exhibited a distinct improvement.
If you penetrated into garrets and cellars you no
longer found squalor and dilapidation ; poverty
in plenty, but at all events an attempt at cleanliness
everywhere, as far, that is to say, as a landlord's
care could ensure it. The stair-cases had
ceased to be rotten pit falls ; the ceilings showed
traces of recent care ; the walls no longer dripped
with moisture or were foul with patches of filth.
Not much change, it is true, in the appearance
of the inhabitants ; yet close inquiry would have
elicited comforting assurances of progressing
reform, results of a supervision which was never

offensive, never thoughtlessly exaggerated. Especially
in the condition of the children improvement
was discernible. Lodgers in the Lane and
the Court had come to understand that not even
punctual payment of weekly rent was sufficient
to guarantee them stability of tenure. Under
this singular lady-landlord something more than
that was expected and required, and, whilst
those who were capable of adjusting themselves
to the new regime found, on the whole, that
things went vastly better with them, such as
could by no means overcome their affinity to
filth, moral and material, doubtless troubled themselves
little when the notice to quit associated
itself with a little sum of ready money to cover
the expenses of removal elsewhither.

Among those whom Ida called upon this afternoon
was an old woman who, in addition to
her own voluminous troubles, was always in a
position to lay before her landlord a sort of
compte-rendu of the general distress of the neighbourhood.
Her genius for narration would
naturally have led her to assume this function ;
but it was not long before others discovered that
her eloquence could be profitably made use of

in their own service, and not infrequently, when
speaking with Ida, she was in reality holding a
brief from this or that neighbour, marked, not
indeed in guineas, but in " twos " of strong
beverage, obtainable at her favourite house of
call. To-day she held such a brief, and was
more than usually urgent in the representation
of a deserving case.

Oh, Miss Woodstock, mem, there's a poor
young 'oman a-lyin at the Clock 'Ouse, as it
really makes one's 'art bleed to tell of her ! For
all she's so young, she's a wider, an' reaps it's
as well she should be, seen' how shocking' Tier
'husband treated her afore he was took where no
doubt he's been' done as he did by. Its fair
cruel, Miss Woodstock, mem, to see her suffering's.
She has fits, an' falls down everywhere ; it's a
mercy as she 'isn't been run over in the public
street long ago. They're apoplectic fits, I'm
told, an' laws o' me ! the way she foams at the
mouth ! No doubt as they was brought on by
her 'husband's atrocious treatment. I understand
as he was a man as called himself a gentleman.
He was alius that jealous of the pore innocent
thing, mem, — casting' in her teeth things as I

couldn't bring myself not even to 'int at in
your presence, Miss Woodstock, mem. Many s
the time he's beat her black an' blue, when she
just went out to get a bit o' something for his
tea at night, 'cos he would 'ave it she'd been
a-doing' what she 'ain't ought "

Where is she ? " Ida asked, thinking she had
now gathered enough of the features of the case.

"I said at the Clock 'Ouse, mem. Mrs.
Sprowl's took her in, mem, and is behaving' to
her like a mother. She knew her, did Mrs.
Sprowl, in the pore thing's 'happy days, before
ever she married. But of course it ain't likely
as Mrs. Sprowl can keep her as long as her
pore life lasts ; not to speak of the expense ; ita
terrible responsibility, own' to the apoplectic
ailment, mem, as of course you understand."

Can't she get into any hospital ? "

She only just came out, mem, not two weeks
ago. They couldn't do no more for the pore
creature, and so she had to go. An' she 'isn't
not a friend in the world, 'ceptin' Mrs. Sprowl,
as is no less than a mother to her."

Do you know her name ? "

"Mrs. Cast, mem. It's a Irish name, I

believe, an' I can't say as I'm partial to the Irish,
but "

Very well," Ida broke in hastily. " I'll see
if I can do anything."

Paying no attention to the blessings showered
upon her by the counsel in this case, blessings
to which she was accustomed, and of which she
well understood the value, Ida went out into
the Lane, and walked away quickly. She did
not pause at the Clock House, but walked as
far as a quiet street some little distance off,
and then paced the pavement for a while, in
thought. Who this "Mrs. Cast" was she child
have little doubt. That Julian should be dead
did not surprise her ; she had heard from Waymark
in the former days that he had consumptive
symptoms, and she remembered, though noting
it little at the time, the haggard appearance of
his face when she had last seen him, that morning
when he met her at the prison-gates. The calumnies
as to her treatment by her husband were just
such as Harriet would be likely to give currency to.

For a moment it had seemed possible to goto
the public-house and make personal inquiries.

but reflection showed her that this would bea
needless imprudence, even had she been able
to overcome herself sufficiently for such an
interview. She went home instead, and at once
despatched Miss Edward to the Clock House,
to discover whether it was indeed Harriet Castii
who lay there, and, if so, what her real condition
was. That lady returned with evidence
establishing the sick woman's identity. Harriet,
she reported, was indeed in a sad state, clearly
incapable of supporting herself by any kind of
work. Her husband — Miss Edward was told —
had deserted her more than a year ago, leaving
her entirely without means, and now, but for
Mrs. Sprowl's charity, she would have been
in the workhouse. This story sounded very
strangely to Ida, but she had no available
means of inquiry. Julian's death was no doubt
a fact ; the other assertions mattered little.
The result of it was that, in the course of a
week, Harriet was informed by Miss Edward
that a place was open to her in an invalid home
near London where she could remain as long asher
ailments rendered it necessary ; the expense
would be provided for by a lady who had been

told of the case, and wished to give what aid she
could. The offer was accepted.

*****

A glance at two more pictures, and we have
done.

Far away from London, in a cottage sundered
from a poor village, Maud Enderby is pacing to
and fro at midnight. She has just written a
letter, and it lies ready for the post. Some great
excitement is working upon her ; her haggard
face gleams with frenzied aspiration ; passionate
utterances, broken prayers, hysterical cries and
sobs, break the silence of the night. On the
wall there hangs a crucified Christ, and before
this at length she throws herself on her knees.

The door opens, and Theresa comes to kneel
by the girl's side. They pray together, then
Maud falls upon her aunt's neck :

I have conquered ! " she exclaims, with
solemn fervour, looking upwards. " The world
has fallen from me like a garment. I have no
desire but of the spirit, no home but with God ! "

Not many days after this there came to Ida
in London a letter which bore the Birmingham

post-mark, addressed in a hand she knew well.
To read it she went apart to a room where there
was no fear of disturbance, and before breaking
open the envelope, pressed it to her lips. There
was a flush on her countenance as she began to
read ; when this passed away, it was succeeded
by the pallor of a sudden joy almost too intense
to be borne. The letter was a long one, containing
the story of several years of the writer's life,
related with unflinching sincerity, bad and good
impartially set down, and all leading up to
words which danced in golden sunlight before
her tear-dimmed eyes ; words instinct with the
very soul of him who penned them, glorious
children of ardour and aspiration, fire-winged
messengers of love and joy. Ida wept long over
the pages, tears which were the dew of a dawn
risen in unforeseen splendour above the clouded
world, solace and strength to all sweetest flowers
that hang their heads in unsought places.
Then she took her pen and wrote.

THE END.

CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRINTERS, BUNGAY, SUFFOLK. S. & H.
