OF THE
UN Diversity
or ILLINOIS



V.I

Theft, mutilation, and Mnderllnlng of books are reason,
for disciplinary action and may result In dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-f400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT Urban-CHAMPAIGN

L161— O-1096

DERVAL HAMPTON

% §>im) of tjje Sea.

BY

JAMES GRANT,

AUTHOR OF " ROMANCE OF WAR," ETC., ETC.

YOL. I.

LONDON:
W. H. ALLEN & CO., 13 WATERLOO PLACE,

PALL MALL. S.W.

188L

(All rights reserved.)

V, I

^



i

CONTENTS.

r

j^

d

^

PAQB

Chapter I. — " Playing with Shells upon the Shores

of Time" 1

^ Chapter II. — " Therefore he loved Gold in special " 63

Chapter III. — On board the good ship Amethyst . 103

Chapter IV. — Under the Southern Cross . . 144

^ Chapter V. — After Long Years 181

(A Story OF THE SEA.)

CHAPTEE I.

«<

Playing with shells upon the shores of time." ,

** I WONDER why Heaven sent ns into this
world to face the mortifications we have to
endure ? "

**Do not say this, Greville, dearest; it is
not for us to judge; we have but to suffer
and endure, and be thankful for life, for
health, and that we are not worse off than
we are."

^* Thankful for life ! " exclaimed the man,
.1. 1

bitterly. ^'Why should I be thankful for a
life of poverty, obscurity, and trouble ? ''

Trouble is sent, as the preacher tells us,
to make us better and draw us closer to God.
It is ' not my will, but Thine be done ' ; so
we ought not to question the mystery of
life; and then, husband dear, we have our
little boy ! "

As she said this, something of a soft smile
replaced the angry and far-away expression
that filled her husband's dark eyes.

Greville Hampton and his wife Mary — her
hands busy with work — were seated in the
ivy-clad porch of their little cottage on a
bright evening in summer. Before them, at
the end of the vista down the dell in which it
stood, lay the waters of the English Channel
glittering in sunlight, as it rolled away from
Oakham Bay to craggy Portland Point, a
sheer precipice 300 feet in height. If humble
and small in accommodation, the cottage of
Finglecombe was pretty externally, with its

wealth of creeping plants, and kept scrupulously
neat and clean within, though destitute
of every luxury.

Before the cottage lay the pretty garden
which Greville Hampton tended with his
own hands, and where Mary reared and
twined her flowers. There were the ripening
strawberries, their fresh green leaves lying
lightly on beds of yellow straw, the late
asparagus and wonderful cucumbers under
glass-shades, mellow-flavoured peas in borders,
and wonderful nectarines climbing up the
wall. Behind the cottage, on the southey
Finglecombe, (in old Devonian) ** The dell
with the hazel boundary," and a lovely del
it was, bordered by gentle slopes, covered
with those *^ apple bowers," for which the
district is so famous, in all their luxuriance
and greenery. Yet, all this brought no pleasure
to the eye or mind of Greville Hampton,
a moody and discontented man, one on whom
the world and society had smiled in other

1 *

days, and thus he was ever comparing the
present with the irrecoverable past.

There was an air of great refinement in
both husband and wife, an air that contrasted
strongly and strangely with their plain attire
and circumscribed dwelling. Greville Hampton's
face was dark in complexion, aquiline
in feature, a very handsome face, one quite
warranted to claim the unmistakable admiration
his wife had for it, and yet it was not a
pleasing one. His brow was indicative of
intellect and courage ; his lip, shaded by a
black moustache, was indicative of a resolute
will and firm purpose ; and his dark hazel
eyes, if stern and even gloomy in their normal
expression, could soften with a depth of
affection when they dwelt on the face of
Mary, on the child that was playing at their
feet, or at the approach of a friend, and
showed that he had a warm heart under the
crust in which he was wont to hide it.
Early disappointment, great monetary losses,

and a wrong more real than fancied, the loss
of a title and patrimony, had much to do
"with the latter, and hence came the bitter
expression that at times stole over his well-formed
mouth, and the shadow that clouded
a really handsome face.

Mary was indeed a lovely woman, but her
slight girlish figure, and the bright tint of
colour on her soft. Madonna-like cheek,
seemed to speak of a delicacy of constitution,
not quite suited for the hardships and trials
consequent upon the loss of all to which she
had been at one time accustomed. Her
dress was coarse and plain, yet arranged so
tastefully, that her figure made it look graceful,
and it seemed — humble though the
material — to repose on her rounded bust and
limbs with something suggestive of distinction
and placid elegance.

Mary was a brunette, yet with a wonderfully
pure complexion, with small hands and
feet, urge dark eyes, and dark silky braided

hair. Like Annie Laurie, of the tender old
Scottish song, ** her voice was low and
sweets'— soft as the low notes of the stock-dove,
and yet men always spoke to her with
a strange sensation of timidity. Often did the
touch of her cool soft hand soothe Greville
Hampton in his times of dejection, and he
found hope and sympathy in the earnest light
of her reproaching eyes.

She was fond of dress, and what pretty
woman is not ? and a time there was when
she had indulged to the full in stylish things,
and always wore silks of the most delicate
colours in the carriage, or in the evening;
but she had to content herself with dresses
of other material and more sombre tints, that
were turned more than once, as she had todo
much of her own economical millinery,
and darn her gloves again and again ; but
Mary was always content, and would smile
happily when Greville would say, with something
of his old lover-like gallantry, ** Dearest

Mary, it is you who will make any dress
seem charming, and not dress that enhances

Between them, and at their feet, sat their
only child, little Derval, a pretty golden-haired
boy of six, intent on playing alternately
with a toy ship and building a house
of little wooden blocks, which he would rear
and carefully construct again and again, each
time that the tiny edifice was finished, demolishing
it with a shout of laughter to
begin his labour anew.

*^ Come, Derval," said his mamma, after
they had been watching him, fondly and
silently, for nearly half-an-hour, while the sun
sank beyond the sea, ^^ it is time for bed, so
put away your toys, darling'*

'* Oh, I wish the sun wouldn't go down
Just yet*' the little fellow exclaimed; *' do
let me make one more Pixies' house,
mamma."

** Pixies!" said Greville, with one of his

bitter laughs. *' By Jove ! I wish that the
Pixies, be they fairies or fiends, would show
us where some treasure is buried, or teach me
the art of growing rich ! '*

God grant, Greville dearest," said Mary,
meekly, ** that the child may always be as
happy and innocent as he is now."

*' God grant, I say, that he may be rich —
rich as we once were — richer, at least, than
we are to-night."

*' Wealth does not bring happiness, Greville."


'* It brings the nearest approach [to it,
Mary ; a light heart generally goes with a
heavy purse. It is not so much for myself,
as for the child and you, Mary, that I wish
the past could come again — but the past with
its experience. 'Twere useless else. You are
lost here, with your perfect manner, your
sweetness, your talents and high accompHsh-r
ments."

** Lost when I am with you ? "

'eyes, lost; who and what are our immediate
neighbours ? "

Mary smiled silently, for she knew well
that the occupants of Finglecome village — a
village as red as the soil, consisting only of
rude cob-cottages as they are called — were
only weavers of pillow-lace ; and that the
homely manners and slip-shod conversation of
these, and of the adjacent farmers, with their
incessant talk of short-horns and the merits
of the Devonshire breed, their cows and
'* owes," the weather and the turnip-fly,
worried and bored her husband at times,
though he was too well-bred to let them see
that it did so ; and they, on their part, were
perfectly aware that there was a vast difference
and distance between themselves and
the mysterious and lonely gentlefolks who
vegetated in the sequestered little cottage of
Finglecombe.

And yet, how Greville Hampton envied the
contentment of the dwellers in those cob-cottages

— people with whom the world seemed
to go precisely as they wished it to do ; and
who deemed that human life out of Single
and beyond the circuit of its interests
and apple-orchards, must be a dull affair
indeed for the greatest portion of mankind.

** Poor Derval ! " he sighed, as he saw the
reluctance with which the child at last
gathered up his toys ; '* Dry den was right
* men are but children of a larger growth ' ;
children who often toil a lifetime in rearing
fabrics unstable as yours. Kiss papa, daring,
and now to bed'*

So while Mary bore away her darling, undressed
him, smoothed all his golden curls,
and tucked him tenderly into his little crib ;
while she knelt beside it, folded his little
pink hands devoutly, and made him repeat
after her a simple childish prayer, of love and
faith, and that God might bless papa and
mamma, and give Derval a good night's rest ;
while, after this, she had to tell him stories

of the flowers in the garden, the birds and
the little lambs, and especially of the Pixies,
those wonderful Devonshire fairies, who,
though invisibly small, ride the farmers'
horses nearly to death, steal the fruit and
pound their own cider in holes and corners ;
and while she covered his rosy cheeks with
the tenderest kisses ere he coaxed himself to
sleep, her moody husband lost in his own
thoughts, his briar-root pipe grown cold, had
been gazing on the sea, and the wide expanse
of Barnstaple Bay shining in the last glow
of the set sun.

The beauty of the Devonshire coast, withall
its bluffs and rocks, its wonderful verdure
and glorious ^^ apple-bowers now mellowing in
the moon," had no charms for the soul of
Greville Hampton, whose mind at that time
was running on the London life from which
he was a hopeless exile now, the life in which
lie once bore a brilliant part.

Well did he know all that was passing,

and on the tapis at that identical season !
That the club at Sundown was flourishing as
it never flourished before ; that Prince's was
in all its glory; that the meetings of the
Coaching Clubs and four-in-hands had all
been arranged, without his team of romans
being expected at the Serpentine ; that Richmond,
Buckingham, and the Orleans Club
were all extant, though they knew not him,
and that even his name was recalled at none
of them now. Already had the attractions of
Epsom and Ascot begun, combining those of
hospitable country-house life with wild excitement
of the race-course and betting-ring ;
and he knew that the sons and daughters of
pleasure were striving to crush as [much
brilliant amusement as was possible into the
interval between flowery "Whitsuntide and the
epoch of Goodwood in its glory, and the
yacht regattas at Cowes.

His mind, we say, was full of all these
things — fierce, high, bitter, and regretful

thoughts all mingling together — when Mary,
full only of the sleeping face of her child,
gentle and repining, content and hopeful,
crept back to resume her knitting by his side.

Her knitting ! How the proud man winced
as he saw her white hands so humbly employed.


** Derval is asleep ? '* said he.

*' Yes ; and the dear pet lamb, how sweetly
he does sleep ! " replied Mary, her soft voice
almost tremulous with the pleasure of her
maternal love ; "I remained watching him
for a time, and wondering — wondering in my '
heart*'

What, Mary ? ''

** What awaited him in the unseen future,"
she replied, as she fixed her eyes, not upon
the face of her husband, but on the far
horizon of the sea, yet tinted with ruddy
gold by the sun that had set.

Were the book of destiny laid before you,
Mary, would you have the courage to turn a

leaf?" asked her husband in a strange and
hard voice.

**I fear, Greville, dear, I should lack the
courage," said Mary, as she ceased to knit
and her white hands lay idle in her lap.

^* If wealth — if riches — be not written there,
I care not what the leaf contains ! Not that
I entirely believe in destiny ; in many instances
we make our own, as I, to a certain
extent, made ours, by becoming a victim of
others ; but a destiny over which I have no
control deprives me of my birthright ; and I,
who ought now to be twelfth Lord Oakham*
ton, and tenth Lord of Wistmanswood, am a
poor and needy man. So I say again, Mary,
if wealth be not before our little Derval, m
the years to come, I care not what may be,
with all my love of him ! "

*^ Oh, Greville, do not — do not talk thus ! "
said Mary, imploringly ; " suppose death were
to come, and our child, the sole bright star
in our otherwise cloudy sky, went out, leaving

US in utter darkness ! '* Her voice broke at
the idea of the hopeless desolation she conjured
up, and her eyes filled with tears, for
she was a sensitive creature. ^' Suppose this
were to happen," she continued, ^' and you
saw me, with fond and lingering hands, folding
and putting past, as priceless treasures,
the little garments they had made, the tiny
socks they had knitted, and the broken toys
that would be required no more, while turning
away heart-sick from the sight of happy
parents, whose little ones were spared to
them, and striving to console ourselves with
the conviction that all things come from
Heaven. I share your hope and wish, Greville,
that Derval may be rich, and great
too, but I would rather that he were good
than either ! "

*' Each he shall be, I hope, before I
die," exclaimed Greville Hampton; sand I
have strange dreams at times, Mary, that
seem the harbingers of something to come,"

he added gravely, and in a lower tone,
<' Wealth "

** What need of wealth, dearest ? we can
save, out of our little pittance for Derval ; he
is the only chick we have to scrape for," she
interrupted him, and took his passive hands
caressingly within her own.

** Oh, Mary," he replied bitterly, without
heeding her question, " I have in my time
feasted at the table of Dives, while Lazarus
stood without the gate, and now I seem, in
turn, to have taken his place. *'

^* How can you talk thus wildly, dear
Greville; have we not every necessary that
life requires ? "

** True ; but not the position and the
luxuries to which we were accustomed."

This was but one of many such conversations
to which she was accustomed, and
Mary sighed wearily at her husband's incessant
repining, as she said, while glancing
furtively at her plain dress :

*' Luxuries can be done without; but you
have been having some of your tantalising
dreams again."

'shave, indeed, Mary," said he, with his
eyes fixed on vacancy, for the visions that
haunted his mind in the hours of sleep by
night, or when his thoughts were drifting
back to the material world in the early hours
of morning, showed the tenor of those other
dreams that haunted him in the hours of
wakefulness by day.

** Was it again of the mysterious treasure
ship — the quaint old Argosy stranded in"
yonder Barnstaple Bay, deserted by her crew
and left high and dry by the ebbing sea, with
the great golden doubloons flowing in torrents
through her gaping seams, and piled like
glittering oyster-shells in heaps upon the
sand, where you and I were gathering them
up in handfuls — for you often have such
fancies in your sleep, Greville?" she added,
nestling her sweet face lovingly and laugh.
2

ingle on his neck, anxious to soothe and
humour him.

** It was not of ships, Mary," he replied,

with an arm caressingly around her; *but of

a strange and wondrous land — a scene amid

stupendous mountain ranges, like what we

have heard of, or read of, as being in the Great

Basin of California, or the Cordilleras,

hemmed in on every side by mighty steeps.

It was indeed a strange dream, Mary, and

most vivid, distinct and coherent in all its

details — painfully so, when the moment of

waking came. Falling aslant the mountains

the sun's rays struck upon a streak in a mass

of volcanic rock, which gave back a yellow

gleam. I struck the mass with a hammer —

a fragment fell at my feet — it was gold —

pure gold ! Again and again I struck, and

huge nuggets of the precious metal fell

down before me, while at every stroke my

heart beat painfully yet exultingly, and my

breath came thick and fast. I was there,

I thought, alone ; the land around me was
my own, with the conviction that far in
the bosom of the mighty mountains rose
the strata of precious metal — a wondrous
land, where the teeth of the black cattle,
•of the mules and the goats that grazed upon
their grassy sides, were tinted yellow by
the gold with which the soil abounded.
Could my dreamland have been in California
? *' he asked, as if talking to himself.
" What visions of boundless wealth
came before me ; and what mighty power
would that wealth command ! Again and
again I wielded my hammer, and the heap
before me seemed to increase, till my brain
became giddy with the thoughts that swept
athwart it. Could my vision have been of
California ? '* he continued dreamily to himself,
rather than to Mary; "it must have
been — it must have been among the Rocky
Mountains that my soul was wandering while
my body slept'

2 *

^* Oh, Greville, darling, don't talk in this
wild way."

*' I should like to search for that place,
Mary ; it exists somewhere, and I am sure I
should know it again*'

** Heavens, Greville, you would not think
of going there, and on the strength only of
a dream ? "

No, Mary ; you are not adapted to the
life of a digger's wife'* said he with a tender
smile.

** As Kttle as you are to he a digger," she
replied, while caressing his hand, which,
though manly, was a white one.

** The dream seemed a long, long one,
Mary, though doubtless short enough in
reality, so true it is, a writer tells us, that
there is a drowsy state between sleeping and
waking, when you dream more in five minutes
with your eyes half open and yourself half
conscious of everything passing around you,
than you would do in five nights with your

eyes fast closed and your senses wrapt in
perfect unconsciousness ! So it was with me
Mary ; but the mountains seemed to sink ;
the scene to change and resolve itseK into
sweet and peaceful Finglecombe, with all its
orchards and the Bay shining in the rising
moon, even as it is doing now ; but the heap
of golden ore was still before me — til I awoke
with a start, to find myself again — a
beggar ! '*

But beside me," suit Mary, with a little
laugh that ended in a sigh ; ** and if your
dream will bear reading at all, Greville, it
must be that your riches He, not in California,
but here in Finglecombe ; though what they
are, or where they are, unless they be Derval
and me," she added, kissing him, ** goodness
only knows."

But full of his vivid dream, Greville Hampton
made no response immediately. He sat
lost in thought, passively gazing on the Bay,
glittering and rippling beyond the boundary

of his garden where a fallen beech of vast
dimensions lay, with its end half-hidden in a
rose-tree that was a mass of bloom. There
was silence in the place — a drowsy summer
silence ; the sounds of the distant cob-village
came faintly mingled with the lap, lap, lapping
of the waves upon the shore.

** Supper waits, ma'am," said Patty Fripp,.
suddenly appearing in the porch, which was
a veritable bower of roses and Virginia-creeper,
for Patty — a robust and honest
countrywoman, who was nurse to Master
Derval, cook and housemaid by turns, and all
together at times, and had come as a retainer
to his father's house in better days, when she
was a blooming lass of eighteen — was close
on the wrong side of fifty now, but true as
steel in their altered fortunes to Greville
Hampton and her mistress.

He allowed himself to be led by Mary indoors,
where in their snug little parlour, a
room made pretty by many a knick-knack, the

work of her industrious hands, a plain repast
awaited them ; the home-brewed ale frothed
dreamily in a great antique silver tankard,
that had served his sire and grandsire before
him, and which, nearly the sole family relic,
bore the heraldic coughs borne by so many
Cornish and Devonshire families ; and there
were ruddy cheese, snow-white bread, and
dainty butter, all prepared by Mary's pretty
hands ; but there was a shadow upon Greville's
brow to-night that even she could not
dispel ; for while he regretted very bitterly —
half savagely, almost — the luxuries to which
lie had once been accustomed in Belgravian
dining-rooms and Pall Mall clubs, the rich
entrees and rare wines, Mary — who had also
been accustomed to luxury — took her food
contentedly, and thought the while of the
many men and women and little children —
children like her own golden-haired Derval
who had neither dinner nor supper to sit
down to.

Her perfect and sublime trust in the conviction
that all things were ordered for the
best, and her sweet yet strong reliance on
God in every way, were certainly touching to
Greville, but he failed utterly in falling in
with her views, or sharing her content and
trustfulness, and when assured by her that
thousands and thousands of others were not
so well off in worldly matters as themselves,
he failed also to find any ground for complacency
in any such statistics ; and so,
whether it was the influence of his golden
dream, or of his general discontent, on this
night, his broad open brow, his firm lips, and
dark eyes, wore that peculiar expression which
they did at times, and which we have said
was certainly not a pleasing one, when he
deemed himself to be haunted by his evil
destiny — the Demon of Impecuniosity.

Mary left nothing undone or untried to add
to his comforts, and he knew that her beautiful
and delicate hands had often done,

and had yet to do, rougher work than
they were ever intended for, though it was
often done in secret, to prevent him from
seeing it ; but Patty Fripp knew of it
well.

*^ Yes," said Greville Hampton, as if assenting
to his own thoughts, after he had drained
the antique silver tankard, and fixed his eyes
for a moment upon the shield argent, with
three coughs, gules, engraved thereon, and
the crested chough that surmounted a coronet
with lethe motto Clarior e Tenehris (Brighter
from Obscurity), "yes, may the words.be
ominous of good ! If I could but think that
Derval would certainly be rich, and should
never know the privations we have suffered
and the deprivations to which we have been
subjected, I think, Mary, I could die happy."

The same repining thoughts still, Greville
! " said Mary, softly and entreatingly.

*' Yes, stm, Mary."

Derval," said she, as she resumed her

knitting, 'has his youth and all his life before
him."

'^ But without some effort on my part it
swill be a life of half penury and whole
obscurity in Finglecombe. But how is that
effort to be made? You would not have our
boy grow up the associate and companion of
these villagers and lace-makers ! Among
whom else will his lot be cast ? I would
rather see him in his grave, Mary."

'^ Do not say so. The misfortunes you have
undergone have made you unreasonably bitter ;
but let us hope, Greville, for the best," she
added, running her slender fingers caressingly
through his thick dark hair.

'* Bitter ! unreasonable ! Have I not been
mulcted of my proper inheritance ? Is not
the position — the rank which ought to have
been mine and my father's before me — now
held by another ? Have I not been robbed
by fashionable gamesters, swindlers, and false
friends 1 "

** Yet it is for such society as those that
you repine ! "

'^ It is not so, Mary ; what happened once
could never happen again. I know better
now'

** The man who calls himself Lord Oakhampton
"

'^ And who holds the broad lands and stately
house that should be mine — knows well, if the
world at large knows it not — through a quibble
he is a usurper ! Oh, my own Mary ! " he
exclaimed, while tears glittered in his flashing
eyes, and he glanced with angry scorn round
the tiny apartment, ** when I wooed and won
you in the happy past time, you who were
reared in the lap of luxury, wealth, and refinement.
I little foresaw that I would ever bring
you, in the end, to a home so humble as this ! **

** But I am with you to share it, Greville,
and I do not repine — unless, perhaps
for the child's sake. But why do you tell
me these things again and again, daring?

Is it," she added, with one of her brightest
and most witching smiles, *sto lure me into
repeating how much and how truly I love
you, as if I were a girl again in that second
Luton season, which ended so sweetly for
us both ? "

She would have thrown her soft arms
around him, but a spirit of anger filled his
heart, and he paced to and fro the little
room like a caged lion ; and Mary regarded
him anxiously, for she had a dread of her
husband's crotchets taking some active and
dangerous form, especially if he were again
to have that Californian dream; for when
one's life, as a writer says, is a constant
trial, " the moments of respite seem only to
substitute the heaviness of dread for the
heaviness of actual suffering ; ** and Mary was
indeed far from strong. There was a greater
delicacy in her constitution than Greville
was the least aware of, a delicacy that,
though it alarmed herder, for his sake and

their child's she kept her lips sealed on the
subject, lest the knowledge thereof might
add to the regret of Greville for the past,
and his " worry " for the present.

** If this life cannot be endured, it must
be cured — to reverse a vulgar saw, Mary,"
said he, continuing his short promenade;
if I cannot be rich, Derval shall be so, if
any scheme of mine can achieve that end;
and as soon as he is old enough, I shall
teach him how money can make money, and
how to keep it hard and fast — hard and fast —
when it is made, and not be a fool like , his
father."

** Teach not the child thus, Greville, I
implore you," said Mary, relinquishing her
knitting; *' of what avail will it be, if I strive
to make him virtuous, kind to the poor,
prudent and industrious, if you instil precepts
so stern, so cold and selfish into his young
mind ? If you have affection for me, Greville
dearest, abandon such cruel ideas and

plans, or I will begin to think you a changed
man, and the Greville Hampton of to-day is
not Greville that won the love of my girlhood
yea, and of my life," she added with great
tenderness.

**I am a changed man — I admit it — a sorely
changed man, in all things but my love for
you, Mary," he replied, as he stooped and
kissed her bright little upturned face, and
perhaps thought for a moment — but a moment
only — that no man could be unhappy who
had the smile and love of such a woman as
Mary to brighten the path and lighten the
burden of his life.

** Riches are good and a godsend," said she,
"if employed aright and not as a means of
pleasure only."

** Aright?" repeated Greville, who was
thinking of the clubs he once frequented,
his whilom team of romans, and Ascot
perhaps.

*' Pleasure as a means of doing good and

protecting the poor, assisting merit and
rewarding ingenuity. The rich man who
presumes on his wealth, and the poor man
who desponds on his poverty are — ''

^' Oh, don't preach, Mary darling, leave that
to our friend Asperges Laud. You are a duck
and an angel, but I can't quite agree with
you," he added with a sigh as he filled
his briar-root with tobacco of a kind he
would have disdained to smoke once.

Many emotions combined to fill Mary's
eyes with tears, but to conceal them she
turned away to seek Patty's aid in the preparation
of some jellies for one of her pensioners
— for though so poor herself she had
several— a deformed girl who was dying of
consumption ; and in spare times she was
wont to read good and amusing books by the
bedsides of the old and blind, who were aiHng
or unable to be abroad. She had even pensioners
among the little birds, for whom she
daily spread out crumbs, especially in winter,

upon her doorstep, whither they would come
without fear of Mary's pet cat, which was too
well fed to meddle with them.

Greville Hampton was in an unusually
bitter [mood that night, and long, long he sat
abandoned to it after Mary had given a final
but lingering look at the little subject of their
anxieties, folded in his pretty cot, *^ like the
callow cygnet in its nest," and then sought
her pillow.

Evil spirits — envy, anger, and avarice —
were struggling in the man's heart, with a
keen sense of unmerited wrong inflicted on
him, of injustice he had suffered, the black
ingratitude of friends, and of his own
extravagance and reckless folly in the past;
and had there been a close observer present
to watch his handsome features, they would
have read by the working of these, how each
passion prevailed in turn.

Finally, he emptied his cherished briar-root
by tapping it on the hearth, put it in its case

nth an emphatic snap, and muttering,
as he sought the side of his sleeping
wife,

^* Surely God will hear Mary's prayers, if
not mine, that Derval may be rich — but never
the luckless creature I am to-night."

Derval, a chubby child of six, with rosy
dimpled cheeks, his mother's snowy skin, and
his father's deep dark eyes, with a wealth of
golden curls that rose crisp and in upward
spouts from his forehead, grew fast, while
the care of his boyish education devolved
wholly on the delicate Mary, for Greville,
though educated at Eton and finished off at
Oxford, was too erratic by nature, and with all
his love of their offspring, too impatient to
share in the task of tutelage ; in which,
eventually, she was fully and powerfully, to
her great gratitude, assisted by the Reverend
Asperges Laud, the only visitor who shed a
Httle light on their humble dwelling, and who
was also the only link, as it seemed, that they
I. 3

cared to preserve between their past life and
the present.

In his fortieth year, the Curate of Single
— a place in which he was utterly lost,
because of its obscurity, and where he subsisted
on a mere pittance — was a man of
considerable talent, and no small accomplishments.
He had gained high academic honours
in philosophy and theology, and was already
known as author of several celebrated prize
essays ; he therefore proved a valuable friend
to Mary and her little boy.

The Reverend Asperges Laud, Mea., Oxon.,
belonged not to the days of ^* nasal clerks and
top-booted parsons." He was a man of broad
and advanced views, with somewhat stately,
yet very soft and gentle manners, who intoned
his services, had matins and evensong, wore
a coat with remarkably long tails, a Woman
coUarino and a broad hat of soft felt garnished
with a black silk rosetta, and was furtively
addicted to the flute.

He had little choir boys in white collars
and black surplices ; called his altar-table
*the sanctuary," and had four candles
thereon which, in wholesome fear of the
Court of Arches and His Grace of Canterbury,
he dared not light as yet ; and there was
much about him that — according to the
Methodists in the district — savoured of the
City of the Seven Hills, yet, " a man he
was to all the country dear."

All the neighbours about Finglecombe, but
none more than Mr. Asperges Laud, were
delighted with Mary's grave, sweet eyes, her
softness of manner, her goodness of heart,
her refined and cultivated mind, all of which
lent additional charms to a certainly very
statuesque little face.

And Greville had won the hearts of the
farmers, by ridings controlling and breaking
in, for one of them, a dare-devil horse, that
no jockey in Devonshire could ride, and had
thereby won himself emphatically the 

*

nation of being " a man every inch of
him."

But both husband and wife were very reserved,
and the few who ventured, to call on
them when they first dropped from the clouds,
as it were, into Finglecombe, could not truthfully
assert that, though politely welcomed,
they were urged to come again. Whether
this came of a sense of shyness, or of haughty
exclusiveness, none could precisely decide.
Some averred it was the former in the wife
and the latter in the husband, and perhaps
they were right.

Both seem only to live for each other
and their little boy," said Mr. Asperges Laud,
their only and regular visitor in the end, and
he was right certainly.

Thanks to the tutelage of the worthy
curate, the childish mind of little Derval
Hampton began to expand, and he ceased to
wonder if the sea he saw rolling in Barnstaple
Bay, between craggy Portland Point and

sandy Staunton Burrows, and the uplands
that bordered Finglecombe, were all the
world contained ; for dreams, visions and a
distant knowledge of other seas and shores
came upon him, and with the knowledge
there came in time the usual boyish crave to
see and know them.

In Finglecombe, a lonely dell, where the
apple groves grew entangled, and a brawling
stream, concealed by their foliage from the
sunshine, ran between banks of moss-grown
stones towards the Bay, was an excavation or
cavern in a wooded hill, known as the Pixies
Parlour, a place he was wont to explore with
fear and excitement, but in the daytime of
course ; and near it on the shore was a place,
never to be visited at any time, for therein
were sights to be seen that none could look
upon and live — the Horses' Hole, a cavern
dark as night, full of pools of water, and
running an unknown distance under ground,
wherein a horse black as jet had found its

way, and came forth with its coat changed*
to snowy white ; but as he grew older the
place of deepest interest for him was the
ruined Castle of Oakhampton, and the place
named Wistmanswood, whence came the
titles of that peerage his father deemed his
right.

The wood always impressed him with fear
and haunted him in his dreams — for it was
one of the wonders of Devonshire, and is
said to have been unchanged in aspect since
the days of the Norman Conquest — a vast
grove of dwarf oaks, interspersed with mountain
ashes, everywhere covered by masses of
fern and parasitical plants, growing amid
gigantic blocks of stone, — the clefts of which,
and the thorny undergrowth, are swarming
with poisonous adders, and form the shelter
of innumerable foxes — a strange and weird
place, amid the desolation of which the
scream of the bittern is yet heard, and the
whole appearance of which conveys the idea

of tie tory age in the vegetable world of
creation ; yet here on more than one occasion
did the somewhat gloomy Greville Hampton
lead his impressionable and shrinking boy by
the hand, for to him the old Druid wood in
its waste and decay seemed sympathetic with
his own fallen condition and impoverished
state. And but for the sake of the future of
that dear child whose hand he held, and
unconsciously almost crushed in the bitter
energy of his thoughts at such times, he
would have wished himself as dead as one of
those hoary trees; for to Greville Hampton
often came a strange feeling of weariness of
life, and then he longed for that day to come
when failure or success in aught would matter
nothing, when the sun would rise, but not
for him, and all the world go on as usual
while he should be at rest and beyond all
care and trouble.

And little Derval in the golden morning
of his life, often wondered already what it

was clouded his father's brow and made his
manner so triste and pre-occupied.

*^ It is not given to man to choose his own
position in this world' said Mr. Asperges
Laud gently to Hampton on one occasion;
*' but it is given to him to feel honestly-content,
and without useless repining, in the
place so assigned."

'' Another and better place in the world
than that I now occupy, was assigned tome;
but — *' and Greville Hampton paused,
as something very Hke an imprecation rose
to his quivering lips.

Meanwhile Derval, save for his mother's
care and Mr. Laud's tuition, would have
grown up in rather a rough and scrambling
manner; as it was he was a little undisciplined
; prone to bird-nesting, seeking the
eggs of the coughs and cormorants among
the rocks ; helping himseK to apples in anyone's
orchard, and rambling far afield, and
clambering up eminences where he could seethe

variously tinted groves that bordered on
the deep blue bay, the distant sea itself —
glorious, glittering and far stretching ; the
brown boats drawn up on the golden sands ;
the passing ships under white canvas, or the
steamers with volumes of dusky smoke
curling far on the ambient air. He was
rather addicted, we fear, to playing the
truant, and especially of skipping if he could
the afternoon class for catechism held by Mr.
Laud in his church at Finglecombe, a quaint
old fane, concerning which there is a terrible
old legend well-known in Devonshire. In
1638 a ball of fire burst into it during time of
service, killing and wounding, or scorching,
sixty six persons, and this event took intime
a wild form, and we are told how the
devil, dressed in black, inquired his way on
that identical Sunday of a woman who kept
a little ale-house at the end of the Come,
and offered her money to become his guide.
But she, distrusting him, offered him a

tankard of good Devonshire cyder, which
went hissing and steaming down his throat ;
and her suspicions were confirmed, when, ashe
rode off towards the church, she saw his
cloven foot, and a few minutes after the
terrible catastrophe occurred, and Single
church was strewn with dead and
dying — a story that often made little Derval
cower in his crib in the gusty nights of
winter.

What was to be his future, some twelve
years hence, was the ever-recurring thought
of his parents.

Greville feared he would inevitably grow up
a rough country lad, and already, man-like,
he shivered at the idea of Derval — Ms son — becoming
such, and in the time to come, getting
up "a copse and hedgerow flirtation " with a
daughter of some cob-cottager— marrying her
it might be, and being thus inevitably dragged
down into the mire. At such thoughts his
heart used to die within him.

We have said that Mary Hampton's constitution
was a peculiarly delicate one, and
How an illness fell upon her which was to
prove only the beginning of the end.

Mr. Land averred that at Christmas-time
fine could decorate his little church, especially
the sanctuary" thereof, so tastefully
as Mary, with scarlet hoUyberries and green
glistening leaves, and so, on one occasion
having prolonged her labours in the cold,
damp edifice far into the late hours of a
winter night, she caught a chill, fevered, and
became hopelessly consumptive. Her cheeks
grew hollow, her lips pale, and there came
into her sweet sad eyes a pathetic and settled
intensity of expression.

She was desired by the doctor to cease
from exertion, to abstain from all household
work, and to drink plenty of good wine, to
procure which Greville Hampton deprived
himself of many little things to which in hi
reduced position he had been accustomed —

an occasional cigar, or a glass of cheap
Marsala ; and when he thought of the past,
the strong man's tender and loving heart was
wrung, when he heard her hacking cough, and
he saw her seated, pale and feeble, her
delicate hands unable to persevere even in
sewing a little jacket for Derval that lay on
the table before her.

And now the kind curate, whose threadbare
coat covered a noble heart, brought her many
a bunch of luxurious grapes, and many a
bottle of good wine— port of fabulous antiquity
which had been sent to himself from the
Hall, the abode of the Squire, whom Greville
had known in other days, but who now knew
him not.

To procure comforts for Mary, in his desperation
he appealed to his remote kinsman,
Lord Oakhampton ; but the application was
ignored — no answer ever came, and for sometime
black fury filled the heart of the proud and
fiery, but powerless and impoverished man.

Anon he thought, what other treatment
could he expect ?

Did not Lord Oakhampton know well that
in society, on every occasion, he, Greville
Hampton, had denounced him as the usurper
of his property and title — a denunciation the
truth of which, legally, as yet, he could not
prove ?

^^ Oh," he would exclaim, *for a little of
the wealth I have wasted in the foolish past
time — for Mary's sake — for Mary's sake ! "

How bitter it was to look back in the light
of experience and think of what might be
now, had he been wiser than he was ! And
his whole soul recoiled at the contemplation
of the awful loneliness of life without her, if
Mary were taken from him.

Her fast failing health drew him from his
usual selfish and useless repining over the
past, or if he did so, it was for her sake alone
now ; for that she was failing and passing*
away from him day by day, became painfully

apparent ; a cough shook her delicate form,
and again and again was her handkerchief
soaked in blood. And he could only groan
over the poverty that precluded all change of
air, or scene, and the employment of greater
medical skill than that possessed by the
country practitioner. But no skill could have
availed Mary ; and the frail tenure of her lifeji
despite all his love and anxiety, was only a
thing of time.

The consumption that was wasting her
delicate form only served to make her beauty
seem more tender, alluring, and pathetic to
the eyes of her sorrow stricken husband, to
whom she said more than once, with her
head reclined on his breast —

"If I am taken from you, Greville darling,
I trust you will think of the past less regretfully,
of the future more hopefully, and remember
that we are, while here, but as ' little
children playing with shells upon the shore of
time.' "

You are too good for this rough and bitter
world," said he, as his tears fell hotly on her
soft and rippling hair, and thought in his
heart, ** Oh, why does God take her and leave
me ? "

And he clasped her to his heart, as if by
the mere strength of his love,, and strength
of his arms too, he might protect and keep
her with him, and kissed her more tenderly
than he had ever done in his lover days, fora
holier emotion was in his heart now, and
to him it seemed that touches of great sweetness
came and went about her lips and into
her unusually luminous eyes, though their expression
grew more weary day by day, and
there came into them also that strange, weird,
and far-off look that belongs, not to this world,
but to the life that is gradually ebbing away
from it, and this expression Greville Hampton
saw and read with acute mental agony.

** God is taking me away from you, darlings,"
she said softly, one evening; "but

you will always be true and loving to each
other for my sake'*

Little Derval clung to his father, unable yet
to realise the great sorrow that had come
upon both.

Why prolong this part of our story? At
last all was over, and Greville, worn out with
grief and long watching, was led away like a
child by the curate from the chamber of
death, where his Mary lay, still rarely beautiful,
as a piece of sculpture, in her last
repose. All seemed terribly silent in the little
cottage now ; the buzzing of the flies in the
sunshine, and the ticking of a clock alone
were beard, unless it might be a sob from
old Patty Fripp in the kitchen, where she sat
rocking herself to and fro, with her apron
over her head, or if she moved about it was
with soft and stealthy tread, as if she feared
to wake someone.

'^ Dead — gone — left him — his other self — it
could not be ! " he whispered in his soul, for

he could not believe, in his great sorrow, that
it was all happening to him. Surely it was
some horrible nightmare, from which he
would awake to find his little world going on
as before !

But day followed day, each adding fresh
details to the calamity, and that of the funeral
came inexorably, the closing scene of all.

As one in a dream, Greville Hampton saw
the episode like a grim phantasmagoria. He
heard the bell tolling, and heard Mr. Laud
sob, as he met the few mourners at the
churchyard gate, and led the way to the*
grave, repeating the fine words of the burial
service.

Grasping his father's hand, Httle Derval,
with a stunned look and dry eyes, dry with
wonder and a great fear, saw the coffin going
down — down — till it disappeared, and then a
cry burst from him, for he knew that mamma
was there — there in that cruel coffin which
had left his sight for ever, and he began, child.
4

like, to understand the dire and dreadful
reality !

At last the scene closed ; the horrible-jarring
of shovels, gravel, and earth had
ceased, and Greville Hampton came back to
his broken and desolate home, where he sat
like a man turned to stone, twisting fatuously,
yet caressingly, a tress of shining dark
brown hair, all that remained to him now
of Mary, save the little boy, who nestled
with scared and wistful eyes, beside his.
knee.

The drawn blinds had for some days told
all the passers-by that there was death in the
cottage at Finglecombe. Strangers hurried
past with a momentary glance, and thought no
more of it, in the bright sunshine and business
of life ; but some there were who looked sorrowfully
and went by with slower step, and
there were the poor who missed the ministering
hand of Mary Hampton. Even now the
little birds, for whom she was wont to spread

cit crumBs, were tapping MtJi their beaks
at the window.

The blinds were drawii tip" now, and an
unnatural flood of sunny light seemed to fill
the place. Everything (greville's haggard
glance fell on seemed to have' a history of its
own, a tender association, connected with her
who had passed away. The little womanly
trifles her hands had made to brighten this,
their latter, humble home, were all there
still ; the cheap but artistic-looking cretonne
with which her pretty and industrious fingers
had deftly covered the furniture, brought back
to memory the song she sang while doing so \
the water-colours on the wall were her work
too, scenes associated with the past years and
long vanished happiness ; and no comfort
could be gathered from Tennyson's hackneyed
couplet —

*' 'Tis better to have loved and lost,
Than never to have loved at all."

The terrible distinctness with which the

4 *

ttOfftLC

first clod of earth fell — as it seemed to him
on Mary's tender breast, was yet ringing
in Greville's ears, together with the cry that
escaped from Derval.

So Mary was gone, and for her the long,
long night of the grave had begun !

CHAPTER II.

Therefore he loved gold in special." — Chaucer,

'* It is a great calamity, a heavy dispensation
! " said a neighbour to Patty Cripple

will get over it in time — the master'*
said others, especially the women ; " all men
get over these things — he '11 marry again, no
doubt ; he is too young to live all alone in
the world''

Patty was very indignant at this suggestion
being made already.

Time tries all, and soothes all," said another
gossip; "weshaUsee by and by — men

don't break their hearts for love, look you.
And how about the little boy ? "

** Poor little soul! he is fretting sorely for
his mother," said Patty, polishing her face
with her checked apron, after having ' a good
cry ' ; ^^ but that is just human nature, I
repose."

To the lonely man it seemed strange that
Mary was no longer in the cottage at Single
and it was difficult for him, for a
time, to realise the idea that she was gone
for ever from her place ; that he would
never see her again ; and that morning and
night would come inexorably ; the weeks
become months, and the months become
years ; and that no Mary, with all her great
love and tenderness, was there to bear ^
part in the long vista of life that lay before
him.

His loneliness became at times insupportable,
and he was frequently absent from
home — a circumstance which never occurred

in Mary's time. On these occasions the
long and sleepless hours of night were terrible
to little Derval, with his true Devonshire
dread of the supernatural, for he had no
longer the sweet consciousness of the near
presence of his watchful mother.

At such times, till sleep sealed his eyes,
he had but one thought — that out there in
the dew and darkness of night, as in the
sunshine by day, was the grave of one who
had loved him and tended him, as no other
human being would do, in the little churchyard,
where the white tombstones and crosses
contrasted so strongly and beautifully with
the emerald green of the turf and the darker
tint of the vast ancient yew that overshadowed
them.

In all the wide earth — the earth of which
he had, as yet, so little conception, there was
already no spot so dear to little Derval as
the turf that covered his mother's grave ; and
thus in the darkness of the moonless nights

he was wont to waken and weep when lie
heard the cold wind sighing and the rain
falling ; and he [shuddered at the thought
that she was out there, exposed to them both,
as it seemed to his heated fancy.

Then a great terror would come over him
till he crept softly into bed beside old Patty
Fripp.

So the first heart-piercing days of sorrow
and unavailing regret began to pass away, and
the old craving after wealth, the world, and
mammon began to resume its sway in the
mind of Greville Hampton, and the dreams
of which we have spoken came to his fancy
again.

He began to think of Mary with mora
composure, and could hear, in silence, Mr
Asperges Laud, when urged by him, gently
and sweetly, to remember that she had only
faded out, as the stars fade, to shine again ;
had died as the flowers die in autumn, for
resurrection in a brighter summer, in which

he should meet her again, and there should
he neither sorrow nor parting. All this
sounded and seemed too remote and vague
for the ache, the bitter void made by her
departure. Yet though Mr. Laud knew
by experience that Father Time was a
great consoler, there was another nearer
at hand than his Reverence had quite
reckoned on.

Over the Hfe of Httle Derval there was now
a change, which he felt, though did not quite
understand. The loss of his mother he had
become accustomed to ; but somehow, though
there seemed plenty of happiness in the world,
it never came to him. Other children whom
he saw, or met at Mr. Laud's classes, seemed
all well fed, neatly clad, and joyous, for they
had come thither with mothers* kisses on
their rosy cheeks, and the same caresses
awaited them when they went home; but
he had no one to kiss him now, save old
Patty Fripp, who, like a genuine 

all work, was seldom without a smudge
on one side of her nose.

Papa seemed for ever absent, for, as the
months ran on, he seemed to have found
some mysterious occupation elsewhere than
at Finglecombe.

There was a time when Greville Hampton
used to steal to the bedside of his little boy,
and hang over him in his sleep, parting the
thick curly hair from his forehead, softly and
tenderly, while remarking with fondness, that
there still he could see Mary's long eyelashes,
Mary's brow and pure sweet profile,
and all the loving memory of her would
gush up in his heart.

Observant Patty thought that he was wont
to do this less and less now, while his
absences from the lonely cottage became
more frequent and long. She marvelled much
^;t this. Had he fallen in with some schemes
by which to amend his shattered fortune —
the schemes on which she had again and

again heard him descant in times past ? But
whatever caused the change in his habits
and bearing, it was soon to be made apparent
to her now,

Patty was startled from her usual propriety,
or the even tenor of her way, when Greville
Hampton, with some reluctance or hesitation
in his manner, as if conscious of the speculation
he would excite, announced that three
guests were coming to dinner on a certain
day; and thereupon great bustle ensued at
the cottage of Finglecombe, whither the
railway van brought various wines, fruits, and
condiments, seven to the last grapes and
first cucumbers of the season*' as Patty Fripp
said, for the expected guests ; and Patty had
to obtain the aid of a neighbour as a helping
hand, and the united wonder and excitement
culminated, when two of the guests arrived
in a handsome and well-appointed brougham,
and proved to be ladies — an old and a young
one — a Mrs. Bookleigh (of whom Patty had

never heard) and her niece, whom, with all
her beauty, she mentally deemed to be hard,
bold, and haughty.

It is a strange but true assertion, that
anxiety, like misfortune, can lend misgiving
and fear to any unwonted occurrence, and
now Patty Fripp, for the little boy's sake,
began to apprehend — she scarcely knew
what !

*' When I *m 'hurried I *m flurried'* said
she to her gossip, ** and look you, it ain't
easy to get this place, a cottage though
it be, ready by myself — to sort rooms and
toilet-tables, kill chickens and dress 'em,
and bake cakes, look you, like the king as
burned 'em, lay tables, and all that sort o'
thing 1 "

Mr. Hampton received his guests with
great empressement, welcomed them to Single
with the beautiful surroundings of
which they were greatly delighted, and — as
Patty's watchful and wondering eyes were

upon him — he was not sorry when the Curate
arrived, and he desired her to conduct the
ladies to a room, and assist them to remove
the costumes they had driven in.

About the elder lady there was so little to
remark that Patty scarcely noticed her, but
her niece. Miss Anne Eookleigh, then nearer
her thirtieth than her twentieth year, was
brilliantly fair in complexion, with large and
languishing eyes of that golden-hazel colour
which so often goes with a duplicity of
character, a magnificent figure, and masses of
light chesnut coloured hair. Save that her
bearing and expression were hard and cold,
despite the languor in her eyes, the most
severe connoisseur in female beauty could
have found no fault with her, unless his
glance fell upon her hands, which, for a lady
so generally refined in aspect, were decidedly
large and even coarse-looking.

Since his mother had been borne away — sit
seemed so long ago now—- in that grim funeral

car with its black plumes, no ladies had ever
been under their roof, till these two crime,
and now to Derval it seemed that his papa
was far less gloomy than he had been— indeed,
was quite gay; one of these ladies,
Derval thought, eyed him curiously, even
hostilely through her gold glass, and he,
grasping the while his top and whip, looked
steadily up in her proud face with a reconnoitring
gaze that piqued her.

The dinner passed over like any other.
Greville Hampton was scrupulously attentive
to both aunt and niece, but was so delicate
and guarded in his manner, that Patty, who
knew not the language of the eyes, could, a^
yet, obtain no clue to her suspicions; but,
for the first time in his short life, the child
was conscious of a something undefinable, he
knew not what, in the manner of his father
to himself, and felt that if the former did
not quite repel his advances and wished-for
caresses, he failed completely to respond to

them, while under the golden hazel eyes of
Miss Anne Rookleigh.

Derval then drew to the side of her aunt,
who was intently conversing with Mr. Asperges
Laud, and whom he utterly failed to
interest, on the subject of his pet canary, and
the big Dorking hen, that had been mamma's,
and laid so many eggs*

At last the ladies rose, and quitting the
table resolved to seek the garden, leaving
their host and the curate to their wine and
cigars.

You have a piano here, Greville," said
Miss Kookleigh with a bright smile.

** It is locked'* said he uneasily.

** But there is a key, of course ? "

*^I have lost it' said he evasively; for the
piano had been Mary's, and he could not yet
have a stranger's fingers running over the
keys where hers had brought forth the familiar
notes.

So the ladies swept forth into the Httle

garden, where they found a rustic chair under
the shadow of a golden lahurnham tree, and
where the roses that Mary's hands had tended
were now in all the beauty and luxuriance
of midsummer; and ere long, Patty Fripp,
who was not above eaves-dropping, while collecting
fresh salad for supper, and unobserved
was close by listening to all the two visitors
said, obtained a clue to the whole matter.

In fact, Greville Hampton, the widower,
was engaged to Miss Anne Eookleigh !

** Yes," said the latter, leisurely fanning
herself, *That child of his will be a great
bore ! "

*^ A greater bore if you have any Kttle ones
of your own," said the aunt, laughing; ** but
don't begin with this spirit in your breast,
Anne — take care."

Take care of what ? " asked the niece,
haughtily.

** I mean of abusing the great power you so
evidently possess over your intended."

I Kttle thought, aunt, when I was only
amusing myself with him at Ilfracombe,
rambling among the Tors, sketching the
Lover's Leap, talking, playing chess with
him, singing to him, accepting his flowers
and all that, I would come to love him as I
do, and end at last by finding this engagement
ring on my finger ! "

('^ So-so ! " muttered Patty, under her breath,
with a vicious sniff; ^^my old gossip was
right — men don't break their hearts and die
of love — for their wives at all events, look
you")

** Yes, I love him for himself alone," resumed
Miss Eookleigh, after a pause, 'not
his fortune certainly," she added with a
mocking laugh ; "he is so handsome and
winning. But I know, aunt, that though
you are a widow, you deem it impossible
that there can be any romance in a second
marriage ; and yet in such, a man may
learn that his first was a mistake, and that
I. 6

now lie only loves for the first time," and
with a dreamy smile in her bright hazel
eyes she swayed her fan to and fro.

No one looks for romance in a second
marriage — at least, I should not," replied her
practical aunt ; " I have always deemed them,
like most first marriages, matters of convenience
or of calculation, now-a-days. At
all events you must admit, Anne, that all
freshness of the heart must be gone ? "

^^ Aunt, you are very unpleasant ! I believe
a man is quite capable of loving twice, and
the second time more than the first ; because
he must know his own mind better. If I
thought that Greville had only the shadow
of love to offer me — but I shall not canvas
the idea ! Greville's first marriage must seem
like a dream to him now, and, if otherwise,
it will go hard with me if I do not soon
obliterate all memory of a former affection.
He married his first wife for her beauty, I
believe ; but she was a poor namby-pamby 4

little thing. He '11 soon forget her, nay, he
must have forgotten her now ! " And a flash
came into her eyes, of subtle colour, as she
spoke.

'* Hush, Anne, how would you like to bespoken
of thus ? Besides, his child — her child
will be a perpetual reminder."

*^ It is aggravating ! I believe the little brat
already views me as an interloper ; and though
I knew his age, he is on a larger scale than I
expected, and certainly looks old for the child
of a man so youthful as Greville ; and then he .
speaks with the odious Devonshire patois ! "

One lucky thing is that your engagement
will not be a long one, if you are satisfied
for the time with this poor — though certainly
pretty — place."

'^ It satisfied lier,'^ thought Patty, glancing

at the distant spire, the shadow of which was

falling on Mary's grave ; and the old woman

crept away, as she had heard more than

enough, muttering, ^^ after all these years I 'd

5 *

give him warning this very hour, but for the
sake of the child. Poor Derval ! from this
day, I fear me, his life will be a blighted one !.
Dear, dear ! but the master has soon begun
to sweeten the hay again ! " she added, referring
to an old Cornish practice common
among lovers in hay making time.

So barely a year had elapsed, since the
woman who clung to him so tenderly and
truly in poverty, as in wealth, and whose
heart had been for years against his own, had
been laid in the silent grave, when Greville
Hampton brought another — but not a fairer —
wife to share his cottage home.

That home he had spared no expense his.
means permitted to decorate for the new idol,
who had certainly not come to him undowered.
Many old and familiar objects had been removed
— there were cogent reasons why — and
gave place to newer fancies.

While Derval and Patty had been the sole
occupants of the cottage at Finglecombe, the ^

wedded pair had been spending their honeymoon
on the continent ; they had seen
Antwerp with its cathedral and the art treasures
of its galleries ; Cologne and Coblentz,
the precipitous Kolandseck with its baronial
ruin and mouldering arch ; hill encircled Ems,
the banks of the picturesque Lake, wooded
Nassau and merry Wiesbaden ; Greville the
while judiciously silent that he had gone all
that bridal tour once before. But now he
thoroughly believed in his second election;
and it has been said that, at few times, or at
no time, of his life, is a man such a true*
believer in faith and love as when he plunges
into matrimony; and we must suppose that
it was so with Greville Hampton.

The arrival of the bride at Finglecombe,
with all her boxes and that ^* particular baggage,"
as Patty thought, her own maid, was
a source of sore worry to the former, who
could no longer pursue the even tenor of
her way under the new state of things.

Greville kissed his little boy, who clung
fondly to him ; bnt the bride gave the latter
her gloved hand coldly, and scanned him
through her glass, while he eyed her with
mistrust and wonder, and with a strange
shrinking, for somehow her eye chilled him
and thus, at the very home-coming there was
a petty contretemps,

'^ Kiss him, Anne dearest'' said Greville ;
*' go and be kissed by your mamma, Derval."

*' She is not my mamma," said the child
recoiling.

^^ Go and be kissed by her instantly, sir ! "

^a won't, Papa."

*' Then leave the room, sir ! "

*^ He gives me a cold reception, certainly"'
said Mrs. Hampton, her golden-coloured eyes
sparkling dangerously under their rather white
lashes, as she threw off some of her traveling
wraps and appeared to Patty's wondering eyes
in a rich and handsome dress, that accorded
well with the stately character of her beauty ;

and Derval slunk away, doubtful and fearing,
whether he had done right or wrong; but
then, what did papa mean by calling this
strange woman his mamma ?

His presence shall not annoy you, Anne'*

'* But, until he gets accustomed to me
Greville ? "

'* I shall compel him to stay in his own
room, or in the kitchen with Patty, till he
knows how to treat you."

So on this day the troubles of Derval really
began. He felt that he could never be even
confident in the presence of this stranger who
had so suddenly taken a high place in their
little household. There was everything in
her manner and bearing to repel him, and
when she spoke to him his large eyes dilated
under her stony gaze, as those of a bird are
said to do when a serpent begins its charm of
fear ; and when rated for some trifle, he said
sullenly :

*'I want my own mamma. Why did papa

bring you here, and set yon in her place at
table ? '^

*dare you say so; you are a very bold
child ! " she exclaimed with some heat, and in
her hard constrained voice, when a more generous
woman would have smiled and resorted
to caresses ; '^ you ought to learn to love
me''

'^ Never ! *' said the chubby Derval stoutly ;
*^ I shall only love my own mamma ; she
allowed me to climb on papa's knee and
kiss him, but you won't."

*' This brat, Derval," she thought, ^'rnust
certainly remind him of that woman he loved,
or fancied he loved, in the days of his youth
and folly ! Derval must be sent from this —
out of this, somehow — anyhow ! I would that
he were old enough to go to sea."

To sea ! Was his future shadowed forth in
this idea ?

Time will show.

And already she began to hate the child, all

the more that her husband in his dreams — •
for he was as great a dreamer as ever — more
than once, in her hearing, muttered or
whispered to himself, softly and sadly, as to
one near him, the name of *' Mary," when
doubtless the present was forgotten, and the
days of the past came back in the visions of
the night.

''He is thinking of his boyish fancies and
his wax doll," Anne would mutter; ** how
shall I have patience to endure this if it
occurs often ? "

Tall, proud, haughty, and imperious in her
secret nature, she was in all things the reverse
of the mignonne, gentle and affectionate *' wax
doll," she thought of so contemptuously.

The poor for miles around felt a change
now. Mary had ever but little to spare from
her own slender store, and that little was
given freely with kind words to all ; yet the
new bride that had come to Finglecombe,
though wealthier far than ever poor Mary

hoped to be, even amid all Greville's brilliant
schemes and aspirations, gave not a crumb of
broken victuals to the passing mendicant ; and
as for the sick and needy in the adjacent lanes,
and little cob-villages, she knew not of their
existence.

She had brought him a round sum of money,,
which, perhaps, more than even her beauty
and unmistakable advances, had lured Greville
Hampton into this second alliance ; and with
this he had speedily begun to speculate
successfully in the purchase of land at Single
and to see, in prospect, the possible
realisation of his golden dreams !

Had anyone ventured to hint to Greville
Hampton that he had now forgotten Mary,
he would have repelled the accusation with
anger. But he had been lonely — he felt the
want of companionship ; this woman was
handsome, and had been bent on winning
him, for he was possessed of much manly
beauty, with a fine presence ; and the dowry

she had, roused in him anew that craving
thirst, that eager longing for ^^ the gold that
perished."

But in her love for him, and jealousy of
the dead, she was somewhat exacting, and
tried him considerably at times.

You loved your first wife, of course
Greville, because it is your nature to be tender
and loving," said she on one occasion; ^'but
do, please, put her portrait away."

^^ Why, Anne?"

'* Because the eyes of it seem to follow me
everywhere, to watch me ; and I can never
see it without thinking — thinking — "

'' Of what ? "

^* That she was as dear to you, perhaps — as
near to you, certainly — as I am."

*your ideas are foolish, Anne," said he;
but the portrait was removed eventually, and
one of her aunt, Mrs. Eookleigh, took its
place.

Sometimes she went further than this, and

would test his veracity a little unwarrantably,
in her inordinate vanity, and with ineffably
bad taste.

*tell me, dearest Greville," she said,
hanging over him, and caressing him with
great empressement, " did you ever love before as
you love me now ? "

He smoked his old briar-root, but made no
reply.

*tell me — tell me," she persisted, while
playfully pulling his ear ; but his heart felt a
pang, and his eye wandered involuntarily to
where poor Mary's portrait used to hang.

** Why so inquisitive ? " said he ; *' you know
that I was married before. Do you think I
am so vile as to marry without loving ? "

*' That is no answer. But were you ever so
much in love as you are now ? "

Wishing to evade the inquiry, he smoked
rather doggedly on ; so she questioned him
again.

*^ Some fellows are in love a score of times,

with every pretty girl they meet, in fact,"
said he.

^'But you, Greville, are not one of those
men."

No, Anne, most certainly not."

So she could extract no more from him.
He was weak in her hands, hut to have said
what she wished, he felt would he coarse
treason to the dead, and thought, ^' why could
she not be content ? "

And when she sang — hut in a style Mary
never sang — she indulged in high fantastic
flourishes, running her hands heavily over the
same keys that Mary's pretty fingers had been
wont to touch so lightly. For a time Greville
Hampton winced at the familiar sound of the
instrument, as if a spirit was conjured up
by it ; but ere long he became hardened —
accustomed to it.

Soon her piano, almost every immediate
relic of Mary, disappeared ; and times there
were when her successor spoke — but never in

Greville's hearing — of her memory in a
sneering manner, that stung the sensitive
Derval, and as he grew older, maddened and
infuriated him. However, he was but a child
yet, and barely understood the tithe of what
she said.

To her he was a perpetual eyesore ; and in
the round of her daily life — especially in the
absence of Greville — she found a hundred
petty means of venting her groundless dislike
upon him.

*^ Get out of the way — leave the room, boy —
go and play in the garden — you are not wanted
here ! " Such were hourly the greetings to
the child now — no kisses, no caresses as of
old. All his sweet childish impulses were
crushed or checked, and thrust back upon
himself, and distrust and dislike of her, the
typical rather than the real stepmother (fortunately
for humanity's sake), grew strong in
his heart — his little yearning heart, that felt
hae broken at times by neglect, for he had no

one now, save old Patty, to whom he could
tell all the wondrous secrets, and deep, tender
confidences of child-life.

And even Patty he might not have long, as
in Mrs. Hampton's mind she contrasted
unfavourably with her own maid ; she deemed
her gauche, for Patty was a stout, broad, and
short-necked woman, with a clumsy gait, a
ruddy complexion, red sandy hair, eyes rather
green than grey, and with a resolute mouth
and chin that came of her Cornish blood.

** Poor little Master Derval, poor darling ! '*
said Patty once to Greville. ^^ She has never;
said a kind word to him since she came to the
house ; and look you, sir, he would think she
was mocking him if she said one now — yah ! "
and she ground her teeth.

** Silence, Patty ; I cannot permit you to
speak thus of Mrs. Hampton," said he
angrily.

Missus Hampton, indeed ! " grumbled
Patty, but under her breath, however. But

one day Greville overheard a remark which
gave him a pang.

Derval, where are you going, sir ? "
demanded Mrs. Hampton imperiously, as he
was taking his little cap.

** To the sea-shore," he answered shyly.

*^ Again? You are never anywhere else,
and always come hack with wet and sandy
shoes. What takes you there ? "

'* I Hke to watch the waves come in, and
listen to what they are saying."

"You are a little fool ; I say you shall not
go ! " and seizing him with hands, which we
have said were not small ones, she shook him
violently, and tears sprang to his eyes.

*^ Oh," he wailed, "that my own mamma
would come out of the ground, and help her
little hoy ! "

"Ah, but your mamma can't," she said
spitefully; "she is deep enough down, thank
Heaven ! "

"Hush, Anne," said Greville, suddenly

appearing; '^ for Heaven's sake don't speak to
the child in that manner."

** He aggravates me so ! " she replied, colouring
; but more with anger than shame.

Oh, I do beg your pardon," said Derval one
day, approaching in great tribulation, with his
little hands pressed tremblingly together.

*' For what ? " she asked sharply.

*' Please, I have broken your little china

vase."

** The vase that dear Aunt Eookleigh gave
me ! Oh you clumsy, obnoxious brat ! " she
exclaimed, while her eyes gleamed with anger';
and as no one was near she punished him
severely.

** Mother, mother ! mamma, mamma ! " he
cried, panting in her grasp, " oh, come back
to your little boy, and save him from this
terrible woman ! "

** Woman, indeed, you fractious imp ; I '11
teach you what your mamma, as you call her,
never did — manners ! " and she continued to
I. 6

beat him till lie, and herself, were quite breath-^
less, and then she flung him in a heap into a
corner, to sob himself into sullen composure.

In the lust of her cruelty she, by the
pursuance of a system all her own, succeeded
in actually weaning much of the regard of
his father from him, and had him excluded
from the dining-room when dessert — to which
he had always been admitted — was on the table*

Banishment from dessert seemed to Derval
the acme of ill-usage ; and, apart from the loss
of the good things thereat, he never forgot the
day he found himself thus banished.

He had come into the room when he knew
^' papa was there'* and rushed, breathless and
laughing, up to his side.

*' My chair is not put in for me, papa ! " he
exclaimed ; " why is this ? "

Seizing one, he began to drag it across the
room towards the table, and to his father's
side. Mrs. Hampton looked at him darkly
(she was rather an Epicurean and did not like

to be worried at meals), and Greville did so
silently and uneasily, for lie was not unmoved
just then by the tender and pleading expression
he read in the child's eyes.

** I thought you said, my dear, that we
Were not to be disturbed in this way by that
gauche boy ? '* said Mrs. Hampton ; '^ and you
know the nervous condition to which he
reduces me — just now, at least."

** Leave the room, Derval; mamma does
not want you to-days'*

*^ Oh, papa, you are not angry with me ? "

** Yes — no — but go ; you are a bad boy to
insist on coming to table*'

And so Derval never sat at that table again
till the day came when he was to leave the
house for ever.

As he was peremptorily forbidden to go
near the sea-shore, he frequently went to the
churchyard of Finglecombe and spent hours
there, weaving chaplets of daisies and wildflowers.


6 *

^' What brings yon here so often, my poor
child ? " asked Mr. Asperges Laud (patting
him on the head) the curate, in his long-tailed
coat, gaiters, and Woman collating.

^' To he near mamma's grave," said Derval,
gulping down a sob. *^ Besides, it is a quiet
place for a good cry," he added, as the kind
curate took him into his little thatched parsonage.


In the dark nights of winter he could recal
how tenderly mamma put him to bed, and
watched beside him till he slept. It was old
Patty Fripp who did so now, who tucked him
cosily into his little crib and kissed him some
twenty times ere she bade him *' good-night,"
but, by order of Mrs. Hampton, was not
permitted to linger beside him,

*^ The child tells you, ma'am, that he can't
sleep in the dark alone, from fear," urged
Patty on one occasion.

** Pear of what ? " she asked curtly.

^' The Long Cripples''

What do you mean ? "

Patty then told her that snakes in Devonshire
were called ^' long cripples," and Derval
had heard of the one at Mansion, that was as
big as a human body, and had legs as well as
wings, and uttered a hiss that could be heard
for miles around.

^^ The boy is a fool, and you are another ;
leave him to sleep, or wake, as he chooses,"
was the mandate. So Derval was left to sob
himself asleep in the dark, cowering under his
coverlet, fearing " the Long Cripple " was
coming when the wind moaned in the
chimney, or the ivy-leaves pattered on the
window-panes.

Apart from the comments of Patty, the
remarks of schoolfellows and neighbours were
not wanting to foster the growing animosity
of Derval to his stepmother. Curious eyes
watched him, and the inquisitive questioned
him, extracting answers, to which they gave
suggestions all calculated to inflame his impotent

wrath ; and now a day came when the
cottage at Pinglecombe was turned topsy-turvy,
and Derval, to his utter bewilderment,
was banished for some time to the parsonage.

The real Lord of Finglecombe had come in
the shape of a baby-brother to him — a baby
whom the Eev. Asperges Laud made a little
Christian by the name of Kookleigh Greville
Hampton.

And now, more than ever, as this little one
had come, did the father bless his increasing
prospects in the acquisition of land, and in
the profits thereon, as, like the man in the
Canterbury Tales , ** therefore loved he gold m
special."

New hopes sprang up in the heart of
Greville, and with the wealth he seemed
likely to acquire, he ceased to regret that
which he had lost, and to repine about the
title of which his father and grandsire had
been, as he believed, illegally deprived.

But in the years to come this baby-brother

was fated to have a terrible and calamitous
influence upon the destiny of Derval
Hampton.

Greville Hampton was so successful in his
speculations that he actually hoped, in time,
to make quite an estate of Finglecombe.
Money makes money, and thus he became a
wealthy man ; for true it is, ** that the thing
we look forward to often comes to pass, but
never in the way we have imagined it."

His dreams of an El Dorado, and Mary's
reading thereof, came back to his memory,
when he saw house after house being built in
the little dell that overlooked the sea ; and he
recalled her words, "Your riches lie, not in
California, but here in Finglecombe.*' How
prophetic were her words !

Now that he was becoming wealthy, many
persons who had held somewhat aloof from
him began to discover a hundred good
qualities in him they had never dreamed of
before. Ladies had always admitted that he

was a more than ordinarily handsome man ;
their husbands — county men — praised his seaton
horseback, his manner and bearing, remarked
the cheerfulness and good nature
expressed in his face, and began to extol the
great frankness of his manner, though, sooth
to say, they saw little of him ; for he, remembering
how they had ignored his existence
in the past, ignored theirs in the present
time.

He steadily added acre to acre. A small,
but pretty village, approaching the dignity of
a watering-place, had sprung up in the lovely
dell where the little cottage of Finglecombe
stood, for it had now given place to an
imposing brick villa, which seemed to look
haughtily down on the humbler dwellings
around, with its plate-glass oriels, ogee
gables, its handsome oaken porch of fanciful
design, and its sweeping approaches, rolled
and gravelled between beautiful shrubberies.

As wealth flowed in and brought back

wonted luxuries with it, lie ceased to remember
poor Mary's pathetic attempts at a little
ornament and refinement amid the humility
of her later surroundings, for Greville
Hampton became a sorely changed man to
all, and to Derval especially.

Could Mary have dreamed that a day
would ever come when her child would pine
for his father's love, as Derval pined in
secret ? But under the cruel influence of the
second wife and her little boy it was so.
Much of this, perhaps, arose from Hampton's
absorption in his own pursuits, so fearful was
he of losing any time that might add to his
increasing store. Thus no word of endearment,
of praise for studious conduct, no
caress cheered the lonely little boy, who saw
all such as his father could spare exacted by
Mrs. Hampton for his baby-brother, while her
petty tyranny and aversion to himself grew
daily together, and a woman so petty, weak-minded,
and jealous — jealous even of the

dead — found muoli to inflict in the round
of home life.

Once, during a protracted absence of his
father — not that his presence perhaps would
have mattered much — his little pet dog was
taken from him, and sent away he knew not
where, and when he wept and clamoured for
it, she beat him and pulled his ears till his
head ached. On another occasion she deprived
him of his canary, as its seed and
chickweed ^' made a mess " ; and then he
felt — as when she sent ** mamma's big Dorking
" to the spit — something Hke murder in
his little heart.

He rushed at her and contrived to inflict
sundry kicks about her ankles, which made
her scream, and in a moment the strong
and athletic hand of his father was upon
him.

^* Ask instant pardon of your mamma, sir ! "
was the command.

^* I won't — she is not my mamma."

I tell yon, sir, she is," and the blows
fell like a hailstorm about the head and
shoulders of Derval. But not a tear came
from his eyes now ; his lips were firmly compressed,
his face was deadly pale, and he
regarded his father with a steady and unflinching
eye.

** Go to your room, sir, and remain there
till you are sent for."

Under this unjust treatment the boy became
sullen and resentful ; thus, when a little pool
he had constructed in the garden, to hold a
aboal of minnows, by her order was emptied
and filled up, he revenged himself by cooling
her favourite Persian cat, the gift of her
aunt, Mrs. Rookleigh, and for this she
resolved to inflict condign punishment, with
great form and ceremony.

She armed herself with her riding switch
(for Greville now kept a pretty pad for her)
and desired the groom to bring Master Derval
to the stables and as she did so, in her silly

malignity, her very handsome face had a very
tiger-ike expression, and she grasped the
jewelled handle of the switch resolutely in
her large white hand.

*^ Lock the door on the inside," said she
when Derval was brought before her. ^^ Off
with his jacket and tie up his hands to the
knob on that heelpost."

And almost before Derval could realise
the situation, he found himself a prisoner,
denuded of his jacket, a halter-rope looped
round his wrists, and himself ^' seized up,"
for deliberate punishment, standing almost
on tip-toe, and with considerable tension.


** Will that do, mum ? '* asked the groom,
who thought the situation an amusing one,
'^ a rum start," as he afterwards said in the
kitchen, adding that he never thought so
*^ handsome a lady could be so downright
savage."

Derval turned his head half round with an

appealing expression on his sweet boyish face
a look that reminded her of the expression
of Mary's eyes in her banished portrait, — but
at that instant she swung the elastic switch
round, and it fell with a smart and stinging
thud upon his shoulders, which had no protection
now save his little shirt. Derval
winced, but set his teeth firmly together,
determined to die rather than give her the
satisfaction of hearing him cry out or supplicate
for mercy.

With steady and regular sweep the switch
descended on Derval's quivering shoulder
again and again ; but not a cry escaped him,
and enraged anew by his fortitude, or ^^ obstinacy'*
as she deemed it, Mrs. Hampton
exerted herself afresh, and Derval, while
clenching his teeth and breathing hard, boy-like,
thought of the cruel enchantress who
used to whip the bare back of the helpless
young king of the Black Isles in the Arabian
Nightly and longed for some such punishment

to fall on his tormentor as fell on that
remarkable lady.

We know not how many strokes were administered,
but Mrs. Hampton was becoming
somewhat breathless, and the tension of the
rope that bound her victim to the heelpost
seemed as if dragging his arms out of thetf
sockets.

*' Do stop, please mum, the little lad is
fainting," exclaimed the groom.

*' Nonsense, he is shamming, he is as cunning
as a fox!" she exclaimed; but it was
as the groom said, for Dears head drooped
on his breast and he hung on the rope like
a dead weight, while no motion was made by
him*

*' Untie him; dear me, 1 had no idea of
this," said Mrs. Hampton, becoming suddenly
alarmed, while the groom released the passive
hands of Derval, and tenderly carried him
into the stable-yard, where the fresh air
fanned his face, which was now bathed with

cold water from a fountain into which Mrs.
Hampton dipped her cambric handkerchief.

^^ He will revive in a few minutes," said
she, becoming certainly still more alarmed
at the pallor of his face and seeing that his
eyes remained closed.

*lord, mum," said the groom, who rather
enjoyed her growing terror, " I hope wo
won't be having a crowner's 'quest in the
house ! "

Fool ! " said she, darting an angry look
at the speaker, and then applying her little
bottle of aromatic vinegar to Derval's nostrils.
He revived, however, rapidly, put
his jacket on, and walked sullenly but unsteadily
away.

For the first time in her life she feared
her husband — was glad of his absence, and
hoped that Derval's back, which she anointed
when he was sound asleep, would bear no
trace of what he had undergone when Greville
Hampton returned.

flogged like a black nigger for cooling
a dirty cat — my eyes ! " was the comment of
the groom, when relating the episode in the
kitchen ; and poor old Patty Fripp wept tears
of rage when she heard of it.

Derval's back was still stiff and painful,
and his tender wrists were excoriated, when
his father returned a day or two after, but
the idea of complaining about what he had
undergone never occurred to him; in fact,
he was too much accustomed to systematic
ill-usage now.

He longed to be old enough to run away
and be a soldier or a sailor — he cared not
which — and he would sit by his mother's
grave brooding over such thoughts, till led
away by Mr. Asperges Laud, or found by
Patty Fripp.

As he grew older he became painfully conscious,
however, of the different treatment of
his younger brother and himself; he saw
how he was permitted to go threadbare and

shabby, with tattered cap and seamy boots,
while little Eookleigb — or Eook as he called
him — was kept like a princeHng in purple
and fine linen, and all the while their father
seemed careless or oblivious of the difference.

I '11 not stay here, Patty*' said Derval
one day in great soreness of heart, while
smarting under some new affront; "I'll runaway."


** Eun away, child, and let the Pixies or
the Long Cripple get thee ! " exclaimed his
old nurse.

But Derval had nearly ceased to fear these
things now, and he had no dread of any
created thing, though he did shrink from the
malice and the severe and vindictive eyes
of his stepmother, and from contending with
the low forces of her small and narrow mind.

Had Greville Hampton shown more, or
even any remarkable preference for his firstborn
than for little Eookleigh, there might
have been some reason for her jealousy though

none for her cruelty ; but so absorbed was he,
as we have said, in the novel and pleasant
task of money-making, that he never gave a
thought at all to Derval.

As the latter approached boyhood, and
Eookleigh childhood from mere infancy, the
continued difference in the treatment of both,
in food, raiment, and even in toys, was
perceptible to all. Derval shunned alike the
dining-room and drawing-room, for she was
sure to be in either one or other. He lurked
in the stable, the gardens, on the sea-shore,
anywhere to be away from her, and his father
never missed him apparently,

Eookleigh, petted, master, and more than
master of the establishment, grew up froward,
petulant, sullen and cunning child — a greedy
one too, who ate his cakes and sweetmeats in
secrecy and haste, sharing none and nothing
with his elder brother or anyone else ; and in
many ways, as her own peculiar rearing, he
was becoming the counterpart of his mother.

Again and again had the latter hinted at
sending Derval away somewhere, to board orbe
bound apprentice, she cared not to what ;
but time passed on, till he attained his fourteenth
year, and his half-brother was seven
years old, with his mother's chestnut hair and
her cunning yellow-hazel eyes, but with a
strange shifty expression in them.

At home in his father's house, Derval was
beginning to feel homeless now. Though
impulsive and enthusiastic, what to him were
now the leafy rustle of the woods and apple-orchards
of Finglecombe ; the trill of the lark
above his head, the white-flecked azure of the
summer sky, the cornfields ripe for the sickle,
the glare of the golden sunshine, the soft curve
of the distant hills, the bold rocky coast of
Devon, and the sea that lapped it ?

He only longed to be far away from them
all and from " that woman," for Finglecombe
was no longer home to him ; no welcome was
there, and love had departed.

7 •

Often did the boy visit the ruins of the oldcastle
of Oakhampton, and wander there, ashe
had been wont to do in happier times, when
led by his father's hand, longing to be the lord
of it, or of some such place — but of it more
than all. For he had been told it was theirs
by right, and the coat of arms above the
mouldering portal, the shield with its three
coughs, and the motto Clarior e Tenehris, was
theirs also.

The grim stone vaults, the dimly-lighted
chamber, the roofless hall, he peopled in
imagination with mail-clad soldiers, their pikes
glittering and banners waving, as his mind
filled with feudal fancies and monastic longings,
and he loved the old walls, which had
been the cradle of his race, especially when
they, and the masses of dark-green ivy that
clothed them, were steeped in the redness of
the setting sun, and [the gathering shadows
of evening added to their melancholy, their
stillness, and gloom.

He felt his heart swell with romance and
pride, as he recalled all his father and even
Patty Fripp had told him of the Hampton of
other days, and of the rights he had lost, and
bold and daring were the fancies that filled the
mind of the brave boy at times, for he was
now at the age when all life is illusion.

The sea-shore was his other favourite rescrfc,
and he spent hours there listening to the lap,
lapping of the waves upon the shingle, and
marvelling of other lands that were far, faraway;
and there was one morning, the
excitement of which he never forgot, when *a
nameless and unknown wreck was found floating
in the bay, a masters and battered hulk —
battered by the fury of some great storm, in
which the water had contended with the
spirits of the air, till all on board had
perished.

Another haunt was a ruined and unused
mill at Mill-brook, where the old wheel,
covered with green moss and grey lichens.

looked so picturesque, while the brook foamed
and boiled unheeded beneath it, and some
ancient trees with drooping branches cast a
shadow over the ivied walls, where all, so busy
once, was now silent, and made up a picture
of which Derval never wearied in his childish
rambles, though the pixies were said to grind
their com there at night, when the old wheel,
so silent and still by day, was seen revolving
furiously in the light of the moon.

Thus, a strange and shadowy expression— ^
induced by his loneliness — began to come into
the boy's eyes, as if he had thoughts no one
understood, or cared to understand, and as if
by day he dreamed of things unthought of by
others. Mr. Asperges Laud saw all this in his
face, and longed to see the little lad away
from Finglecombe and its influence, and the
wish was likely to be soon gratified.

CHAPTEE III.

ON Board THE GOOD SHIP " AMETHYST."

At last there comes a crisis in the affairs of
Derval Hampton.

^^ How often am I to urge that this boy of
yours should be sent to a boarding school or —
to sea, dearest Greville," he heard his stepmother
say decisively, but in a suave manner
-she was cunning enough to adopt with his
father, when she had some important end in
view, just as he took his seat at a side-table
for breakfast to which he had been permanently
banished, while little Kookleigh

perched in a baby-chair (held in by a cross-bar)
sat by his mamma's side and got tiny bits
of the best of everything from her own hands.

As her husband made no immediate reply,
but sat immersed in the " money article '* of
the Times, she repeated her observation or
suggestion in a louder key, when he said,

Why, Anne ? "

'because I cannot have him at home here
any longer, and what is more, dear Greville,
I shall not ! ''

^' You will not ? " said he, laying down his
paper, while Derval listened with a quick-beating
heart.

Once and for all — no."

*' I ask again, why ? *'

He is so unfinished — worse — unmannerly
a mere Devonshire lout, I am sorry to say
and will corrupt my darling little Kookleigh
if they grow up together*'

Say ours, Anne."

** Well, ours, of course, darling'*

'^ I cannot see that poor Derval is all you
say."

*^ But I do, and to sea let him go ; we
can't have him growing up to manhood an
idle, hulking fellow here."

*^ Everyone thinks Derval a very well-bred
boy, and Mr. Asperges says he is the best
behaved of all his choir."

*she poodle the cat, however, steals the
fruit and the jam, and is so full of tricks and
strange eccentric ways, that he should be
permanently banished to the kitchen," continued
Mrs. Hampton, forgetting her suavity
and warming up with her subject; *^ but
here is the very thing we want ! " she exclaimed,
turning to an advertisement in the
Times as if her eye had only caught it for
the first time.

'^ The Sea, — Introduction given — free of all
charge — to one of the oldest ship-owning
firms in the city requiring respectable youths
on board of three splendid ships just launched,

for the West Indian and Colonial trades.
Midshipman-uniform worn. Apply, Dugald
Curry & Co," &c. "I think you should lose no
time in writing, love," she added coaxingly.

*^ Would you like this, Derval?" asked
Greville Hampton, with a little softer cadence
in his voice than usual.

Of course he liked it ; and a great flush of
happiness and longing rose up in his heart, the
ideas of the " splendid ship " and *' middy's
uniform," combined with a young Briton's in-horn
tastes and visions of the sea — the sea,
with its perils, glories, and wonders ; of Robinson
Crusoe, and lonely isles full of fruits and
flowers and coral caves, of gold to find and
savages to fight — now filled the whole mind
of Derval; and all that the lives of adventurous
voyagers and intrepid seamen — all that
the stories contained in naval history and the
novels of Marryat and others have sown in
the souls of our schoolboys, were there to
rouse his native enthusiasm.

So the matter was soon accomplished, and
a correspondence with Messrs. Dugald Curry
& Co. ended in Derval finding himself elected
to seek his bread upon the waters as middy
on board the good ship Amethyst of London,
700 tons register, Captain Philip Talbot commander,
bound for Eio Janeiro.

From this we may fully gather that the
once tender husband that loved so well the
gentle Mary, and whose whole thought was
the future welfare of their only child, was
a sorely changed man now, under the
influence of another woman and his new-surroundings.


With the removal of the picturesque little
cottage of Finglecombe and the erection of a
"florid and pretentious villa in its place, the
old life had passed away, and with it many
a memory of the innocent and loving, if
anxious, past. Greville Hampton had become
almost callous in his worldliness; a slave
to chance impulses, to gratified avarice, to

feverish acquisitiveness, and the love that had
whilom been absorbed by the son of Mary,
was now shared, and more than shared,
yea, usurped, by the younger born of Anne
Kookleigh.

Derval, whom he was sending forth into the
cold and bitter world so early in Hfe, in his
tender years, as a poor sailor boy, was the
same son for whom, in the days of his more
limited means, he had longed for wealth, and
now — snow when wealth was coming upon
him — he could look on Anne's face, and into
her false eyes of golden hazel, and thrust
back the thoughts that at times reproached
him.

'■ Could it really be that he — Greville Hampton
— was doing this without a necessity
therefor ? But true it is, that " one's memory
is apt to grow rusty with respect to one's old
self, and we nearly always look upon ourselves
as the products of certain causes, setting down
anything unsatisfactory to the charge of

training and circumstances." Yet, as in
every parting there is an image of death,
in the departure of Derval it seemed for a
time to Greville Hampton as if Mary was
dying again.

The day before he was to leave, Derval
went alone to her grave, to read again the
words — how well he knew them ! — on the
little cross at the head of the dear mound,
and to take farewell of her, as it were — that
turfy mound, to him the most hallowed spot
on earth, yea, hallowed as that on which the
Angel of God once alighted ; and waves of
feeling seemed to swell painfully up in his
little heart as he turned slowly to leave the
spot, for years — perhaps for ever.

Often in the lonely watches of the night,
under the glory of the southern skies, or in
dark and stormy hours, when the bleak wind
blustered aloft and bellied out the close-reefed
topsails, when giant waves came thundering
from windward to wash the deck and gorge

the lee-scuppers, making the stout ship reel
like a toy in the perilous trough of the sea,
did the sailor boy's thoughts fly back to that
peaceful grave and his farewell visit there.

And now the last night came that Derval
was to spend under the roof of his father, and
for a time the heart of the latter really did go
forth to him; the present wife was almost
forgotten ; dead Mary came back to his soul,
and seemed to take her place again. Fain
would he have gone with his boy to London,
to have seen him off, or into safe hands onboard
his future home ; but Mrs. Hampton
said no — she could not and would not be left
alone just then.

How tenderly old Patty wept over her
^' darling's things," and folded them carefully
and neatly for the last time, and packed his
little portmanteau, yearningly as his own
mother would have done, and thought truly,
with a great sob, that had she lived he would
not now have been ^^ going into the world as a

sailor boy." And for that dead mother's sake
she kissed him many times, and with her old
scissors snipped off a lock of his once golden
curls, that were gradually turning to rich dark
brown like his father's; but Derval had the
crisp hair that indicates character, firmness,
and decision of purpose. As he was to depart
in the early morning, he kissed and hung over
his brother, ^* little Eook," as he called him,
whom he was not permitted to waken ; and
the episode of the lonely boy doing this moved
the heart of his father; but Mrs. Hampton
looked coldly on, for hers was hard as flint to
him and cold as iron.

At last it was all over, and in the early
hours of the next morning he found himself,
as one in a dream, in the train for London,
and leaving fast behind every feature of the
landscape with which he had been familiar
from infancy. Already Finglecombe, with all
its groves and little church tower had vanished,
and now Bideford, with its wide and airy

streets that shelve towards the water, came
and went as the train swept on, and after
that, all his wistful eyes looked on was new
to him.

It was an inauspicious morning on which to
begin the world, being a dull and raw one in
February ; the rain fell aslant the grey sky,
and reedy fens and lonesome marshes, where
the bittern boomed, were full of water, and
the rooks were cawing in the leafless elms as
they built their nests. The orchards were
leafless, and the furrows in the ploughed
fields were like long narrow runnels filled with
water; but despite all this, the novelty of
Derval's situation, a certain sense of freedom,
and being the lord of his own proper person,
kept up his spirits for a time.

The last hand in which his hand had
lingered was that of Mr. Asperges Laud, and
in fancy he seemed still to see his kind and
earnest face, his Woman coUarino, broad hat,
and long-skirted coat, as he stood on the

platform and gave a farewell wave, like a
wafted blessing, after the departing train.

The railway journey was precisely like any
other ; he saw many places new to him,
Taunton, with all its pleasant villages and
beautiful orchards, and Salisbury with its
wonderful spire, among others, and after a
run of two hundred and twenty miles his train
ran clanking into Waterloo Station. After
traversing miles of streets (which he thought
would never come to an end), about ten at
night, and with a heart beating almost painfully
with excitement, young Derval found himself
in the mighty wilderness of London, and surrounded
by more people than he thought the
world contained, and an appalling bustle,
strange lights and sights and sounds, and
where all men seemed to be engaged in a race
with time and for bare existence.

By the guard who had him in charge he was
taken to an hotel ; excitement rendered him
incapable of eating, and weary with intense
I. 8

thinking he went supperless to bed. Sooth to
say, he felt very friendless and miserable. He
dearly loved his father, despite his later
abstraction and coldness, and already he was
longing to see his face again, and the face,
too, of Patty Fripp, who had been a mother
to him. He had left home but that morning,
and already ages seemed to have lapsed since
then.

The thoughts of Robinson Crusoe, Captain
Cook, Peter Simple, and so forth, failed now
to keep up his spirits in the unutterable loneliness
of his condition ; already he wept for the
home he had so lately quitted and loathed,
and from which he had been literally driven ;
but he had no anger at any one there now —
not even Mrs. Hampton; and folding his
hands, he repeated the prayers, from which
mockery was soon to make him refrain when
on board the good ship Amethyst,

George Eliot says truly that ^' daylight
changes the aspect of misery to us, as of

everything else, for the night presses on
our imagination — the forms it takes are false,
fitful, exaggerated; in broad day it sickens
our sense with the dreary persistence of
measurable reality''

The day that dawned was scarcely one calculated
to rouse the ardour or spirits even of a
lad, as it was one of the Cimmerian darkness,
u London fog, when the omnibuses ceased to
ply, and not even the boldest cabby would
undertake to convey Derval to the West India
Docks, a state of things which greatly perplexed
him, as the yellow opaqueness that
now surrounded him was so different from
the thin white mists that came at times from
the Bristol Channel.

It was one of those horrible fogs peculiar

to London and to London only, when there is a

doubly blinding nature in it, which puts the

thrust-down smoke into a state of atmospheric

solution, obscuring aU things, and causes the

oppressed eyes to tingle, smart, and fill with

8 *

irrepressible tears, and blinds them to the dim
objects that might perchance otherwise be
visible ; that compels at midday, and often
all day long, a vast consumption of candles
and lamp oil, gas and torches, and nearly all
locomotion is brought to a standstill ; when
the trees and railings become white as if
snowed upon, carriages are relinquished and
links and lanterns resorted to at the West End,
and the street perils of the East are fearfully
increased, and many a vehicle is found half-wrecked
by the kerb-stone ; and when the
terrible poisonous smoke-fog in its descent
from the very sky, as it were, penetrates
houses, and makes dark and obscure, damp
and comfortless, even the cosiest and brightest
of rooms.

The mind is usually affected by external
circumstances. Thus, never more than now
in this dark and apparently awful day, did
Derval, cowering in the corner of a coffee-room,
sigh in heart for the touch of the loving

hand and the sound of the caressing voice
that the grave had closed over for ever.
At last, as evening drew near, the tiresome
tog lifted a Httle, and a cab was brought for
him. To Derval's timidly expressed *hope
that he knew the way," the bloated visage of
the Jehu of the ** four-wheeler *' responded by
a smile of half amusement, half contempt ;
and to the inquiry if the fog was often like
this, he was told that it was " ever so, from
year's end to year's end."

After traversing a mighty labyrinth of
streets, narrow, dirty, and of most repellent
aspect, the cabman drew up, descended, and
opened the door ; though aware that he had
to deal with " a precious green 'un," he was
actually content with thrice his legal fare,
and depositing Derval at a gate of the Dock
a wilderness of kegs, masts, and ships, and
all manner of strange things to him — left him
with his portmanteau to find out the Amethyst
this future home — as best he could.

By the assistance of a good-natured porter,
after great delay and trouble, he found hers.
and by a gangway proceeded on board in the
mist and damp, unnoticed and bewildered tO;
whom to address himself.

A prodigious noise and bustle prevailed
everywhere, but to Derval's excited imagination
they seemed to culminate on board the
Amethyst, Several black gaping hatches were
open, and a mighty multitude of casks, boxes,
bales, and filled sacks, were descending into
them, by ropes and chain run through the
blocks shipped on derricks (in spars supported
by stays, and used for singing up or lowering
down goods), with a terrible creaking and
rattling, amid much expenditure of breath in
the way of " yo-heave-oing " by gangs of
peculiarly dirty-looking fellows, with jersey-sleeves
rolled up, and who looked like gipsies
or vagrants, but were simply unwashed and
unkempt dock-labourers and porters.

The deck and the entire ship seemed, to the-lad's

unprofessional eyes, a mass of irremediable
confusion. The former was encumbered
with casks and cases, and the mud
brought from the shore by the feet of dock-people
and visitors had not added to its comfort
or cleanness. Everybody seemed bustling
about, with some distinct object in view ; but
Derval stood aside with his little portmanteau
and a traveling-bag, pushed to and fro by every
passer, lost, bewildered, and not unfrequently
sworn at.

At last he took courage to address a young
man, tall, surly, and saucy in aspect, who was
smoking a short pipe, but who wore a naval
cap, and though he had his shirt-sleeves rolled
up as if he had been at work, seemed in some
authority, for Derval heard him spoken of as
the third mate, and he was greatly shocked
to find such an official attired thus, while
superintending cargo going into the open
hold.

** Please, sir," said Derval, ^^ I have come

to Join the ship as a midshipman — where
shall I put these things of mine ? "

^' Don't chuck them down here, youngster,
whatever you do," was the [somewhat surly
response, while he gave Derval a casual yet
critical glance. 'you are young — young —
what the devil is your name ? **

'' Derval Hampton, sir'*

'* Oh, ah — eyes," replied the other, touching
the peak of his cap in mockery, and for a
moment taking his short pipe from his mouth.
'' I am Paul Bitts, the third mate ; we have
been looking for you for ever so long ; you '11
excuse the ship not being decorated to receive
you."

'' Certainly, sir."

That is very good of you." I hope you
left your esteemed papa aud mamma very
well ? "

<' Very well, thank you."

''A very greenhorn, by Jove!" muttered
this would-be witty young gentleman. 'ris

your wife coming to see you off? I hope
not, as I can't stand women's tears — lovely
woman in distress and all that sort of
thing*

*^ "Who 's this ? " asked a smart-looking
seaman with a fringe of curly brown whiskers,
and a good-natured face — a man about fortyfive
— as he came forward. The new-comer
had the cut of a genuine seaman, and wore
his clothes as no landsman could ever
wear them. His trousers were loose and
round at the feet but tight at the waist ; he
wore a well varnished and low crowned black*
hat, with a long blue ribbon hanging over the
left eye, a black silk handkerchief peculiarly
knotted round his bare brown throat, that
had been tanned by the sun of many a land
and sea ; a jack-knife hanging by a lanyard
thread was his only ornament, unless we
except a clumsy gold ring, and he displayed a
superabundance of check shirt. He had a
wide step, a rolling gait, and half-open hands

that seemed always ready to tally on to anything.
"Who is this?" he repeated, eyeing
Derval.

A greenhorn — a land-crab — come with
the owner's compliments," said Mr. Paul
Bitts, bowing low ironically ; " allow me to
introduce Mr. Derval Hampton — Mr. Joe
Trumpet, our boatswain ; Mr. Joe Trumpet
— ^Mr. Derval — — "

'* Stow that 'ere nonsense," said the other
bluntly ; " welcome aboard, my little lad, and
if any man in the Amethyst can make a sailor
of you, I am he."

Then Joe Trumpet shook Derval's hand
very cordially indeed.

*^ Take him aft to the captain," said Mr*
Bitts ; " but before you go, youngster, handover
all the cakes and jam-pots the old woman
at home gave you."

** I have none, and if I have, why should I
give them to you ? " asked Derval, beginning
to resent the other's offensive tone.

*' Because you might be a naughty boy
and get so sea-sick — so band them over, and
1 11 find fellows to eat them for you."

*^ I bave none, I tell you," replied Derval,
with sparkling eyes ; '* and wbo do you mean
by the ^ old woman ' ? "

^^ Your mother, of course."

I bave — none ! " replied Derval, in a
changed voice that Joe Trumpet was not slow
to detect, and taking up Derval's portmanteau
and bag, be desired bim to follow, whispering
as they went :

** Look 'ee, Hampton lad, there isn't • a
saucier fellow in the ship than Paul Bitts, but
be is senior to you, and you won't gain anything
by running foul of bis base, so give
bim a wide berth always."

And now, by a very handsome companion-way
and mahogany stair, they descended to
the cabin of the ship, wbicb was plainly and
neatly furnished, the chief features, to Derval's
eyes, being a rack or two of arms and a

brass tell-tale compass, that swung in the
square skylight.

'^ Mr. Hampton —-just come aboard, sir,"
said Joe Trumpet, removing his hat ; and
Derval found himself kindly welcomed by
Captain Talbot, a man about thirty, with a
handsome open countenance, a bright cheerful
expression, and a stout well-set figure, and
his two other mates, Mr. GirtHne and Mr.
Tyeblock, who pressed him to join them in a
glass of sherry and a biscuit, of which they
were partaking before going on shore.

Captain Talbot questioned him kindly
about his parents and home as if to acquire
his confidence and inspire him therewith ;
about his education, and if he had a genuine
King for the sea, or if it was only a flight
of boyish fancy born of story books; but
Derval, unable to tell that anywhere was
better than home to him, answered with great
reserve and much shyness, while sooth to
say, as he had never heard of the Royal

Naval Eeserve, to which Captain Talbot and
his two mates belonged, their costumes
puzzled him very much.

They wore gold epaulettes, and half-inch
gold lace in wavy Ones around the cuffs, laced
trousers, sword and belts like naval officers,
Captain Talbot having two medals glittering
on his broad chest for saving human life ; and
he and his two mates were now departing in
^'full fig," as Joe Trumpet informed him, to
a great entertainment given by the Lord
Mayor, and ere they left the ship, the
captain, who knew probably the proclivities
of Mr. Paul Bitts, who was left in charge
there, specially directed the boatswain to
have an eye to the comforts of the newcomer.


So while showing him his berth and whereto
stow his things, Joe solved to him the
mystery of the handsome uniforms, and fired
his enthusiasm thereby. He told him that no
less a personage than the Prince of Wales

was at the head of the Royal Naval Eeserve ;
that Captain Talbot had the rank of
Lieutenant there, and Mr. Girtline and Mr.
Tyeblock that of sub-lieutenants among the
officers, who among their number included
several marquises and lords, as the Navtj List
showed ; and that in consequence of the
Amethyst having among her crew, which consisted
of twenty-five all told (exclusive of
officers), ten seamen of the Royal Naval
Eeserve (of whom he, Joe, was one), she was
entitled to carry at her gaff-peak, the blue
ensign of Her Majesty's fleet, prior to first
hoisting of which, she was duly provided with
an Admiralty warrant.

The uniform which he had now unpacked
and the contemplation of six brass 9-pounders
on deck, polished like jeweller's gold, with
black tompkins in their muzzles and canvas-covered
lashings white as snow, afforded
Derval as much delight as the rifles with
sword-bayonets, the cutlasses and pistols that

were racked round the mizenmast in the
€abni and against the rudder case ; for in the
seas the Amethyst might have to traverse, were
risks to be run that rendered lethal weapons
necessary at times ; and he longed, with allan
enthusiastic lad's longing, for the day
when he, like Joe Trumpet and the rest,
would be qualified to have his turn of drill
and gunnery practice on board H.M.S. President
in the West India Docks. And he hoped
too, that in time to come he might be captain
of just such another fine and stately ship
as the Amethyst of 700 tons register, At at
Lloyds, perfect in the grace of her rigging,
beautiful in mould, and made for fast sailing
for sipping through the sea ** a-head of her
reckoning."

Her rigging was beautifully fitted, every
rope lying in the chafe of another, her decks
were flush and level, and when at sea any
loose rope was neatly coiled away and laid
down in a regular man-of-war fashion that

came of the recent training of Joe Trumpet
and others on board H.M.S. President,

*^ The skipper has specially requested me
to take you in tow, Mr. Hampton' said the
boatswain.

In tow ? " queried Derval.

^^ In charge, don't you know; so there is
one piece of advice I'll give you, keep to
windward if you can of Mr. Paul Bitts ; he is
often crank, and over-fond of costing the
youngster, and who yaws a bit in way of
doing duty."

To this mysteriously worded advice, Derval
replied that he should endeavour to please
that gentleman in all things.

^' The captain, of course, will take care that
you are not put upon, but then he is not
always at hand. He is a fine fellow, Phil
Talbot, who can crack his joke and his biscuit
on the same head," continued the boatswain
manipulating a quid between the hard
palms of his hands prier to inserting it in the

back recesses of his month. '* Many a Inner
he and I have worked together when mere
ship-boys long ago — for there weren't no middies
— no reefers — in the merchant service in
those days, and many who sailed with us then
have gone aloft for ever. But come lad-supper
waits," he exclaimed as a bell was
heard to jingle ; *' a jolly British leg of mutton
with caper sauce — gad boy, I have eaten
capers oJBf the bushes many a time on the
shore of the Black Sea."

At supper were Dr. Strang, the young
Scotch surgeon, who in despair of a practice
ashore was fain to ship as a ^' medico " in the
Amethyst) and two middies, Harry or Hal
Bowline, a frank fair-haired and cherry-cheeked
young fellow with a confident and
often defiant air ; and Httle Tommy Thetford,
usually called Tom Tit — a quiet, dark-eyed,
and gentle lad about DervaFs age, and who
was the peculiar object of the malevolence of
Mr. Paul Bitts, then busily engaged in slicing
I. 9

clown the mutton, of which he reserved all the
hest cuts for himself.

He gruffly told Derval to make haste and
finish his supper, as he had a message for him
to execute ; and Derval, anxious to make
himself useful, and also to conciliate this
personage, bolted his food, and nearly choked
himself with a can of ale handed to him by
the good-natured boatswain.

Got any sisters, Hampton"' asked Bowline,
who thought himself a wag.

"No," replied Derval.

"Sorry for that; because we would have
stuck their photos all over the place, and set
them up to auction now and then."

*•' Your message, please sir ? " said Derval.

The harbour watch is set, so go forward
and send the cook's shifter to me."

Where shall I find him? "

'^ In the starboard binnacle."

^i Very good, sir." And Derval vanished.

"He is as big a gull as ever picked up a bit

of biscuit ! " said Bitts with a horse-laugh in
which the others joined, especially young
Bowline, and after some time Derval returned
looking rather tired, flushed, and confused, to
say he had been all over the ship, inquired of
everyone, and could find neither the person
nor the place referred to, at which there was
a fresh burst of laughter ; for by some he
had been informed that the cook's shifter
had gone on shore to be married, by others
that he was busy polishing the chain cable,
and that the starboard binnacle was • at
present in the captain's hat-box, and sq

Many similar, and many silly jokes against
which the boatswain failed to protect him
and perhaps was not disinclined to join in,
were perpetrated on Derval, ere, thoroughly
weary with a long and, to him, exciting day,
he retired to his berth, which he thought
had a moist and musty odour, and certainly
its sheets had not the dried lavender and

9 *

camphor scents of Patty Fripp's store presses
at Finglecombe.

Betimes came the morrow with its troubles,
and the tyranny of Mr. Bitts among them.

Come youngster, tumble up," shouted that
individual, '* it is six bells."

^^ What have bells to do with me, sir?"
asked Derval timidly.

^' By Jingo, I '11 soon let you know, through
the medium of a good colt. Rouse — that is
all!"

Now that gentleman was in charge of the
deck, and when Derval came upon it, at
6 A.M., Bitts was again in his shirt-sleeves,
and still superintending the stowage of cargo,
swearing at the dock labourers, until the
appearance of Derval gave a turn to his
thoughts.

On deck at last, Hampton. By Jove, you
look as if you had been cooked and stewed
up again ! " he exclaimed ; ^* now, away aloft
anl get the fresh air about you. The sooner

you learn to sit astride the main cross-trees,
the better for yourself''

And to Derval's dismay the speaker indicated
two little spars, that looked as slender
as walking-canes, resting on the trestle-trees,
where the topmast and topgallant mast are
connected.

"Please, sir, I cannot do that just yet,"
urged Derval, turning very white.

Into the maintop then," continued the
bully; "away aloft youngster, and hold on
with your eyelids if your hands fail you.
By Jove, you'll soon find that you-are
like a young bear, with aU your sorrows to
come ! Here you, Tom Tit, show this son
of a shotten herring how to mount the
rigging."

In obedience to these orders the boys
began to ascend the main rattles at once,
little Titford leading the way and saying
many pleasant things to give Derval courage
and confidence.

'" Not throiigli the lubber's hole," shouted
Paul Bitts ; ^' up by the futtock shrouds ! "

Derval knew well that the sooner he mastered
all this kind of work the better for
himself. He had climbed many a tall elm
when seeking rooks' eggs at Finglecombe,
and many a taller cliff when after those of the
cormorants, coughs, and gannets ; but this
was very different work, even though the ship,
moored beside the quay, was motionless as
St. Paul ; and he thought of what this task
would be at sea, in a storm perhaps, when the
ship became the fulcrum of the swaying
masts, and his heart stood still at the terrible
anticipation ; yet he mounted bravely up,
step for step with young Titford, encouraged
by the latter's voice, and the clapping of
hard horny palms below.

But now they had reached the top of the
long shrouds, to where th-e futtock-shrouds
•eomo down from the top and are bound to
the mast by a hoop of iron.

»

^^ Up you go now — if you go throng the
lubber's hole, I '11 be the death of you ! " cried
Bitts from below, for as the captain and other
two mates were still on shore, he was in all
the plenitude of his power.

*' Hold on fast and follow me," cried little
Titford, and active as a squirrel, with his
body bent backward at an angle of forty-five
from the mast, he continued mounting until
he found himself in the maintop — i.e. the
platform placed over the head of the lower
must.

Panting, and perspiring at every pore, rvith
agitation, exertion, and an emotion of no
small dismay to see the deck and the men
thereon seem so small and so far down below,
Derval, with tingling fingers, while a prayer
rose to his lips, grasped the fut took shrouds,
surmounted them as one in a dream,, and
found himself safe beside Titford. There
same a time when this task was as easy to
Mm as sitting down to table, but the novelty

of it filled him with great alarm then, and
when the descent began, despite his terror of
Mr. Paul Bitts, he deliberately left the top
through the lubber's hole — an aperture in the
top grating — as an easier mode of progression,
while Titford went down by the futtock-shrouds.


On seeing this Paul Bitts grinned with
delight, and produced from his pocket a colt
a piece of rope eighteen inches long,
knotted at one end and whipped at the other
which he was wont to carry for the benefit
of the ship-boys.

Derval perceived this ; a spirit of mischief
caused by revulsion of feeling, rose within
him, and the moment he reached the deck,
all encumbered as it was by boxes, barrels,
bales, andgangways, dock labourers and porters,
he gave Mr. Bitts a chase that excited
the laughter of all and roused the fury of that
personage, by darting hither and thither, withall
a boy's agiHty, round the masts and hatchways

till he reached the quarter-deck, at a
part of which the side-netting was being
repaired ; consequently a portion of it was
open and the moulded planks here (a plank
which runs all round the timber heads) was
hinged up.

While Derval stood here irresolute, and
thinking of capitulation, Bitts made a dart at
him, on which the latter instantly shrank
aside, and his tormentor, in his blind fury
failing to perceive the gap in the bulwark, went
head foremost overboard and into the water.

Amid shouts of laughter he came to* the
surface, black as a negro, with the filthy mud
and ooze of the harbour bottom, into which he
must have been wedged to the shoulders.

*' Oh, my eye ! " shouted Harry Bowline,
who danced a few steps of a hornpipe, 'there 's
a lark — Bitts in the water — man overboard — •
rope, rope ! cut away the life-buoy — man a
boat!"

Puffing like a grampus and half choked, the

third mate scrambled on board by the mizen
chains, minus his colt, and rather more than
crestfallen, and while he went below to alter
his costume, Derval, after paying his 'footing*'
to the crew — their perquisites for his first
going aloft — was sent into a part of the hold
where a gang of men were stowing away cases,
and where, as it was very dark, his duty consisted
in holding a candle to show a light
when required.

In an atmosphere and amid features and
occupations so new and strange, perhaps
Derval thought as little now of the Oakhampton
title, the ruined castle, and Wistmans-
wood, as his father did amid his fast growing
wealth ; but the time might come for both to
lay such matters to heart, and this the future
will show.

It was somewhat of a axed-letter day for
Derval when he first donned his uniform— a
gold-laced cap and blue Oxford jacket with
gilt anchor buttons, gold anchors oa the

collars, and ditto lace upon the cuffs — sand
went on shore, bearer of a letter to Messrs.
Dugald Curry & Co., and feeling indifferent
i)0 the anxious inquiries of Mr. Bitts, as to
whether he thought he resembled Lord Nelson,
K.C.B., whether his mamma knew he was
absent from home, and at what church he was
to meet his intended, and much more to the
same purpose.

In time the cargo was all on board, the
hatches battened down, the boats secured
and inspected, the bills of lading signed — •
documents whereby the captain of a vessel
acknowledges receipt of goods shipped onboard,
and binds himself ('' dangers of accidents,
the seas, fire, enemies, &c., excepted ")
to deliver them in good order to those to
whom they are addressed., on payment of th
stipulated freight.

The Amethyst was hauled out of dock, and
with the blue ensign of the Boyai Naval
Eeserve flying at her gaff-peak, and Blue Peter

at the foremast-head, was taken by tug down
the river, and came to anchor off Tilbury Fort.
Next day began the bustle of preparing for
sea ; the canvas was fully bent, the royal
yards crossed, the studding sail gear rove, the
powder brought on board ; and in many ways
Derval made himself so active, even up
aloft, that he quite won the heart of Joe
Trumpet.

I knew you would drop into your place ina
day or two, youngster," said he, '^ and
you 've already done it'*

** "When shall we reach the ocean ? "

"Oh, very soon — a deuced deal too soon for
you," said Mr. Bitts.

** To-morrow a tug will take us to the More,
and next day will find us in the Channel — and
here comes old Toggle the Pilot," said Trumpet,
as a stout personage, enveloped in many
coats and wraps, came tumbling over the side,
with a rubicund and weatherbeaten face, and
made his way direct for the grog, which as a

preliminary to everything, waited him, as he
knew, in the cabin.

It is not an uncommon thing for the captain
of a sea-going ship, calling the roll, to find
several of his men absent, having been either
too intoxicated to sail, or having broken their
articles and disappeared, and such deficiencies
are then made up by the crimps at Gravesend,
as no vessel can go to sea short-handed ; but
this was never the case with Phil Talbot, who
was one of the most popular merchant commanders
belonging to the mighty Port of
London.

Ere long the More was left behind, and
Derval had his first instalment of the odious
mal-duster amid the heavy seas of the English
Channel, and with a longing and somewhat of
an envious heart, he saw old Toggle the Pilot
quit the ship and go off to Deal in his boat,
waving a farewell with his tarpaulin hat — the
last link with old England.

Even the glorious sea is becoming somewhat

prosaic now in these oiOir days of steam, telegraphy,
and extreme colonisation ; yet it was
the fortune of Derval Hampton to see much
that was stirring, perilous and even terrible
ere he had the down of manhood on his
upper lip.

The family at Finglecomhe knew that the
ArMthjst had sailed for Eio de Janeiro. Greville
Hampton, who was neither destitute of
humanity nor of natural interest in his first-horn,
duly announced the fact, as seen among
the ^' Shipping Intelligence " in his morning
paper, and it set Mrs. Hampton thinking —
thinking — as she fondled her rather cross-tempered
little Eookleigh.

She thought on the contingencies consequent
to a sailor's life, separated from, death
by a six-inch plank, as Juvenal has it — an idea
reproduced by Dr. Samuel Johnson — the
collisions, fires, foundering,. the chances of
lee-shores, of floating hulls and icebergs in the
dark ; the countless chances to of drowning or

dying by climate and disease. She had read
too in the papers that '* in the five years
ending June last, 5,028 ships had gone to the
bottom with every man on board, making
6,469 souls," and she thought there were a
good many chances against Derval Hampton —
the eldest born — ever darkening his father's
door again.

But there was one chance, or mischance
rather, on which she had not calculated, and
which startled the soul of Greville to its
inmost depth, when he read on another
morning a paragraph worded thus : —

*' The ship Amethyst of London, outward
bound, spoken with in Latitude 13° 17' S. and
Longitude 33° 27' W., by Curry &. Co's ship
Wanderer all well, save that a death had
happened. A boy had fallen from aloft and
perished."

«

CHAPTER IV.

UNDER THE SOUTHERN CROSS.

The voyage of the Amethyst towards tropical
seas and shores was far from monotonous,
and more than one startling event occurred
during its progress. With her snowy canvas
spread, her rigging all a-taut (to use a cant
nautical phrase), and her deck, whilom so wet,
slippery, and foul in dock, well holystoned
and swabbed till it was — as Joe Trumpet
said — white as a lady's hand, the Amethyst
was in all her beauty now — all the more so
to Derval, who got rid of his sea-sickness ere
she cleared the Channel.

^^ Well, my little man," said Captain Talbot
one day, when Joe Trumpet was teaching
him the use of the quadrant, 'show do you
feel on your sea legs — eh ? "

*^ Happy, sir — very happy*' replied Derval,
turning his bright young face, which was
flushed by the keen breeze, laden by the
iodine of many thousand miles of the fresh,
glorious, and open ocean.

'' That 's right, my lad."

*' I have not been so happy for many a year
past," said Derval, [thinking, perhaps, of his
mother. •

** Come, come, youngster, it is rather early
in life for you to talk of many years, and of
happiness in the past tense," said the Captain,
amused by a quaintness in the manner of
Derval — a manner born of the kind of isolation
in which he had lived in his father's
house ; and save for the annoyance occasionally
given to him by the wasp-like nature
of Paul Bitts, he would have had nothing to
I. ^ 10

complain of, for the good example and gentlemanly
bearing of Captain Talbot and the first
and second mates, affected all the ship's
company advantageously.

As for the self-won ducking in the West
India Dock, Derval hoped Mr. Bitts would
forget that and get over it in time ; but he
never did, and in many ways pursued the feud
which he had declared, apparently, on the
day Derval first joined the ship.

One morning, when he and Derval were in
the middle watch (i.e. from 12 to 4 a.m., as the
ship was nearing the Azores), the latter,
overcome by the heavy saline atmosphere of
the sea, by youth and the lateness of the hour,
began insensibly to doze, with his head resting
on the gunnel of the quarter-deck, and in a
kind of half-waking .dream he thought himself
at Finglecombe : young rabbits scudded past
in the grass ; the hum of the wind in the
rigging aloft, suggested that of bees and
insects in the sunshine, and the air seemed

to become laden with the familiar fragrance
of the apple orchards and garden flowers,
till a heavy thwack from the new colt of the
inevitable Mr. Paul Bitts awoke him with a
nervous start.

*^ Sleeping are you — on your watch, too ! '*
You '11 come to the gallows, you young villain
! " exclaimed his senior officer, with a
malicious gleam in his closely set and serpent-like
eyes ; ^* that will teach you to snore like
one of Circe's swine. Now go to windward — -
keep a bright look-out for the revolving light on
Cape Flyaway, and if you see the great sea-serpent,
don't forget to call the morning
watch'*

Aud, with a chuckle, he coiled away the
holt in a pocket of his pea-jacket.

** Keep your weather-eye open," he added ina
bullying tone ; ** and don't let me catch you,
in the dark, stealing eggs out of the hen-coops ! "

"Please, sir," said Derval, rubbing his
shoulders, " I never was a thief."

10 *

** But thieving begins sometimes, and opportunity
is the devil's game''

Under the special tutelage of Joe Grummet^
who conceived a great regard for him, Derval^
in conjunction with little Tom Titford, learned
to hand, reef and steer, to mount away aloft
with ease and confidence, and with both ta
lie out on the arms of a topgallant yard ; to
use the marling-spike, to splice and knot, and
make a trumpet. He knew the name of
every part of the ship, of every spar and of
all the standing and running rigging ; for he
had great aptitude, and proved a smart
scholar at this kind of work ; thus, in a Httle
time, it was evident that he would be able
to take sights, work a reckoning by log and
compass, and calculate variation and leeway.
He was taught how to be ready for any
emergency of wind or weather ; to consider
nothing too trivial for consideration, and to
remember, as Joe said, ^* how a little leak
may sink a great ship."

Et his sweet boyish nature still remained ;
and now, when far away at sea, he thought,
in the warmth of his affection, of the handsome
pipe he would ** bring home for papa " ;
of the beautiful shells for his Httle half-brother
; and he had visions, too, of a wonderful
cap, all over ribbons, for old Patty
Pripp.

Overhead the sky was now of the cerulean
blue that England never knew, and never
will know.

Captain Talbot made his men strictly
observe the *' clean-birthdays," as the sailors
call Thursday and Sunday ; on the latter
he always read prayers at the capstan-head
to his crew, who were sure to be
neatly dressed, and there was much of that
-silence which prevails in a man-of-war on
that day.

On one of these occasions, just after
prayers, Mr. Bitts, to Dervar^ great surprise,
approached under the lee of the long-boat,

amidships, and said, *^ Come, youngster — here
is a glass of grog for you — just a thimble-full
; the sun is over the fore-yard long
ago'*

Derval shrank from the beverage, which
was proffered in a tumbler, but seeing Mr.
Bitts' hand in his pocket wherein the colt
was coiled, he drank it off, though nearly
choked by the effort, and after that, his
perceptions of everything were very vague
indeed.

The ship seemed to be sailing round and
round upon an axis ; he tried to speak, but
the difficulty of articulation became great,,
and the half-uttered nonsense he talked
hung upon his lips ; he felt alternately
maudlin and defiant, especially with young
Harry Bowline, who greeted him with shouts
of laughter, yet good-naturedly endeavoured
to get him below, and a struggle ensued
between them*

^'-What is tho matter there forward P'^'^

cried the Captain, in surprise, from the quarterdeck.


*'Mr. Hampton taken suddenly ill, sir'*
replied Mr. Bitts with a gratified grin.

*' Strang, see what is the matter''

The young Scots doctor went amidships
and returned laughing, to report that which
was really the case, ** Young Hampton as
screwed as an owl ! "

*' The deuce he is ! " exclaimed the Captain
with great annoyance; *' how came this to
pass ? "

'^ The grog as Mr. Bitts gave him has" been
too strong for him, sir'* said Joe Trumpet,
who took in the whole situation and resented
it accordingly ; ** riglar thumb-grog it must
have been, to my mind."

Bifcts furtively darted a vicious glance at
the boatswain, who received it with perfect
equanimity.

*what can that boy know about grog'*
said the Captain angrily.

'' How to get jolly drunk on it apparently,"
replied the unabashed Paul Bitts ; " he is
rather a greenhorn yet."

*' Shame on you, sir ! this is your fault, not
his ; and mark me, if it ever happens again, it
will be the worse for you and your certificate
! "

With this threat, the Captain turned and
walked aft.

It may be safely recorded that this never
happened again, and Derval, full of shame for
the occurrence, did all in his power, by proper
and zealous behaviour, to wipe off the stain,
for such he deemed it, brought upon him by
the malevolence of the third mate.

On the watch by night, under skies where
new constellations — new to his eyes at least —
were studding heaven, he always felt to the
full the awful impressiveness, the utter
silence of the sea ! Then his thoughts fled
home — to that which had latterly been no
home to him — and again, in fancy, he saw

the lovely dell of Finglecombe, the bay glittering
in the sunny distance, the grim rocky
portal of the Horses' Hole, the Pixies Parlour,
the stately ruins of Oakhampton, the lone
waste of Wistmanswood, the cob-cottages,
and the old haunted mill at the Mill brook,
with its silent and mossy wheel.

What a vast time seemed to have elapsed
since he left all these behind him !

One day, when the Amethyst was near the
tropic of Cancer, and ploughing the Sargasso
Sea, about daybreak, Tom Tyeblock, the
second mate, who had the morning watch,
reported a sail, with a signal flying on the
lee-bow, so the Amethyst was edged down
towards her.

She was a large brig, with her sails in considerable
disorder. The peak halyards of the
spanker gaff had given way, and the sail lay
flapping against the mainmast; her spars
were topped about in various ways; the
maintopsail was full, but the foretop sail lay

in the wind; not a soul was to be seen onboard,
and yet she had signals flying, that
said, 'can yon send a boat on board ? "

"When near her, the Amethyst lay to, and
Captain Talbot ordered Mr. Bitts to take a
brace of revolvers with him and go off to the
stranger, with Derval and six men, who
hazarded all manner of conjectures as to the
vessel.

Had her crew all perished of some terrible
disease, or been poisoned by a rascally black
cook ? If so, terrible sights would await
them, of corpses lying about, or festering in
bunks and berths. Had there been a
mutiny, and had she been scuttled, to sink
in time ? she did look rather deep in the
water, Paul Bitts remarked, adding that she
might sink suddenly when they were onboard,
or alongside, and so carry them down
in the vortex she made. Had some dreadful
crime compelled her crew to abandon
her?

As they neared her, stroke hy stroke, the
silent, voiceless, and careless craft, floating
in utter silence upon the glassy tropical sea,
became an object calculated to impose awe
and a solemn sense of great mystery on the
boat's crew. At last they were alongside,
and as it might have been dangerous to hook
on the painter to any part of her, the coxswain
held on by boat-hook to the forechains,
while with their pulses accelerated by excitement,
Paul Bitts and Derval clambered up
and leaped on board, the soul of the latter
already recoiling within him at anticipation of
some sight of horror.

The deck was deserted, but ropes, &c. lay
about everywhere in confusion. The longboat
was missing, but its chocks remained
over the main hatch. The quarter-boat, too,
was gone, and the fall-tackles swung idly at
the davitrheads.

They descended to the cabin: it was empty;
but a, fixed lamp was burning on the table.

and a clock ticked at the bulkhead; some
books, wine-glasses, and a couple of decanters
had evidently sipped off the table, and lay ina
heap to leeward. A paroquet, in a gilt cage,
hung in the skylight. Save this bird, there
was no living thing on board.

The cabin berths had not been slept in,
and they, as well as the forecastle bunks, were
empty. There was no appearance of corpses,
no blood, no weapons, or sign of outrage
anywhere. No ship's papers could be found,
but her name was the Bonnie Jean of , , . and
the rest was painted out !

After making certain that there was no one
on board the derelict, as the weather was
becoming squally, and Captain Talbot had a
signal flying ** to return," Mr. Bitts quitted
the brig, and shoved off. Boy-like, Derval had
possessed himself of the paroquet — a beautiful
little love-bird, half green and scarlet — in its
pretty cage, thinking of it as a gift for his
little brother at home ; but with a malediction,

Paul Bitts told him to " let it alone'* and ashe
delayed, he took it out of the cage and
tossed it away to leeward, when it soon disappeared.


What could the emergency have been that
caused the still flying signal, now answered
too late, ^* Can you send a boat ? " to be
hoisted, and to what ship had it been exhibited
? It could have been to no town or
fort in that latitude and longitude. Moreover,
the burning lamp showed that the
desertion had been most recent. Where, then,
were her crew ?

Conjectures were endless ; a sharp look-out
was kept from aloft, but no boats were seen,
and as the Amethyst hauled her wind and
pursued her course, every eye was turned ever
and anon to the floating derelict till she was.
hull down, and even till her topsails sank
beneath the dim and blue horizon astern.

Derval recalled to memory the old and sea-worn
wreck he had seen floating in Barnstaple

Bay, and the mysterious interest it had excited
in his childish mind, when he never thought
that a day would come and find him a sailor
and far away on tropical waters.

The episode was duly recorded in the ship's
log, and it formed the staple object for comment
in the forecastle for the next twenty-four
hours, exciting the narration of many a quaint
personal adventure from the seamen, and one
of these, a somewhat ghastly one, was told by
Joe Trumpet.

*' You must know, Mates," said he, ^'that
when I was a foremastman aboard the Boomerang
of Liverpool, bound from Newfoundland
to Waterford, in latitude 47 north and longitude
45 west, the look-out men reported a
boat in sight, on a dark-grey squally day in
April, and bearing about half a mile on the
lee-bow, and in the stern-sheets of that identical
boat, far out in mid-ocean, sat a man,
steering it with an oar ! There wasn't no
vessels in sight, but an iceberg or two, for we

sere leaving the floes astern going north with
the Gals stream, so the air, you may believe
was bitterly keen and cold. We edged down
towards him, but as he seemed to take no
notice of us, or heeded a shout or two, I was
sent off with three hands in the quarter-boat
to overhaul him. My eye ! we found as that
'ere boat was steered by a corpse ! In her
stern-sheets he sat stiff, motionless, lifeless,
frozen hard as a rock, but with his head drooping
a little forward. He was rigidly upright,

with the oar over the back-board of the stern,

•

as if he had been a-sculling, and so hard were
his hands frozen to it, that we failed to get it
from the death-grasp. The boat had been
half full of water that had turned to ice, in
which he was wedged to his knees. Over his
head and shoulders the spray and spoon-drift
of the sea had been washing again and again,
freezing as it came. How long he must have
been dead, or whence or how he came there,
there was nothing to tell us. We held the

water with our oars, and held our breath too,
as the boat with its terrible occupant, on a
current and before the impetus of the wind,
went bobbing past us, and we struck out for
the ship, anxious only to [see the last of that
ghastly boatman."

Clear, warm, and sunny was the weather
as the Amethyst ploughed the tropical seas,
when Derval saw in the sky the wonderful
constellation of six stars named the Southern
Cross, which, though coeval with the universe,
was first seen with awe by Christian eyes in
the fifteenth [century, when Cade Most, the
Venetian, steered his caravel into the Southern
Sea.

One fine day Captain Talbot and his three
mates were amusing themselves with revolver
practice, at a quart-bottle slung from the ,
at which they fired from the quarterdeck,
but as the motion of the ship was
considerable, as she was then going before
the wind with all her yards square, and consequently

rolled heavily, such was the
oscillation of the object, that after some
twenty shots it was only broken by Mr. Paul
Bitts, who was greatly inflated by the circumstance
and the applause it won him and now
ensued thereon, an event somewhat illustrative
of the strange doctrine of chances — a thing
happening by luck, without expectation or
prevision.

As Mr. Bitts was dropping fresh cartridges
into the chambers of his breech-loading pistol,
with the ak of a candle-snuffer at twenty
paces, his eyes fell on Derval, who, with the
other two middies, was regarding him with
some interest, if it was not a very warm one.

Well, young fellow, do you think you
could do that — eh ? " he asked with a grin.

*' I should like to try, sir," replied Derval,
colouring.

'^ Oho ! the deuce you would ! Why, you
young "

*give him a shot," said Captain Talbot,
I. 11

interrupting some abusive epithet ; stake my
revolver, Hampton. Trumpet, run up another
bottle to the yard-arm."

*^ It will save trouble to let him have a shy
at the neck — that is enough for such a marksman
! " sneered Paul Bitts.

Derval nervously took the Captain's pistol,
for he had never had such an implement in
his hand before, raised it, aimed, and while
thinking the report was all he would make,
fired, and, by a most astounding ^^ fluke,"
smashed the bottle-neck which was yet
dangling from the yard-arm !

A burst of astonishment escaped the crew,
while the Captain, who evidently knew how it
all came to pass, laughed heartily ; but not so
Mr. Bitts, who felt in this a fresh cause for
hatred, and retired aft, sulkily muttering :

** A sly young beggar, who, I believe, knows
more of the world, the flesh, and the devil,
than the ship's crew all told, for all that his
face and manner are so devilish meek ! "

But resting on the reputation so suddenly
won, Derval did not, for a long time, indulge
in any more pistol-shooting.

Now came the time for crossing the line,
and from all he had heard of the rough jokes
perpetrated on that occasion Derval had a
genuine terror of Mr. Bitts, for the absurdities
practised often became insulting and cruel.
But such is the improvement now wrought
among seamen by the spread of education and
general progress of refinement, that these coarse
sports are decidedly on the wane, and Captain
Talbot contenting himself with ordering extra
grog to all to drink the health of Neptune,
the equator was passed quietly, and many
schemes formed secretly by Mr. Paul Bitts
for shaving and sousing in slush both Derval
and his chum Tom Titford, ended in nothing,
to the great relief of both.

After the Amethyst was some days' sail
beyond the equator and running on a wind,
with her topsails set and starboard tacks on

11 *

board, the weather became peculiarly gloomy
and squally, and one day, when it was Derval's
watch with Mr. Tyeblock, the Captain, who had
been studying the barometer below, came suddenly
on deck, and looked aloft and at the sky.

(c Trin the yards anew, Mr. Tyeblock," said
he ; *^ the wind is getting more ahead."

«^ Very good, sir," and the tacks and sheets
were promptly attended to.

Joe Trumpet and other old seamen were
now seen looking occasionally to windward,
for they knew well by the dark clouds that
were coming banking up from the horizon
that they had foul weather to prepare for ; but
it came slowly. Two or three days of sunless
gloom followed, during which no sights could
be had or reckoning properly worked, and the
doubts concerning the latter were fated to
have a perilous solution.

Night was closing amid mist and obscurity,
the sea was rising, the vessel rolling heavily,
and all was in considerable confusion in the

cabin below, were everything that was not
made fast fetched aivay, and went crashing to
leeward and got jammed or broken.

Coiled on a chest in the companion-way,
Derval had been courting a little sleep, when
he heard the hoarse voice of Joe Trumpet
shouting :

*' All hands, ahoy! all hands, ahoy ! tumble
up and take in sail ! "

Thick and fast the rain-drops were now
pouring on the deck, gorging the foaming
scuppers, rushing as they only do in the
tropics ; and rolling from side to side, as if
she would dip her yard-arms in the mountain-like
billows that ran towards her, the Amethyst,
with her courses set and topsails nearly close-reefed,
was ploughing before the wind through
a black and midnight sea. Loud and repeated
orders rang confusedly on the rising blast,
together with the trampling of feet, the
creaking of blocks, the bellowing of the wind
through the strained rigging, where loose

ropes were flying wildly about, and there were
the roar, the wash, and fierce incessant gurgle
of the sea as it burst over the bows and boiled
away beneath the counter.

*^ Close-reef topsails ! " cried Captain Talbot
while the storm deepened ; and with others,
Derval and Tom Titford, under Mr. Bitts,
ascended, to do their part of this task, by
the fore-rigging, often as they went embracing
the shrouds with their legs and arms ; and
the ill-conditioned third mate was heard using
terrible language as he urged them all up to
the cross-trees and out upon the yard.

^^ Out you go to the starboard ear-ring, you
wretched little biscuit-nibbler, and don't look
as if you had joined the Shakers ! " he
exclaimed, administering a blow with his
clenched hand to poor Tom Tit, who turned
his little white face upbraidingly towards him,
and then lay out manfully on one yard-arm as
Derval did on the other, and aided by the
strong hands of the seamen at the centre of

the spar, got the heavy wet canvas tied hard
and fast with the reef points.

Poor Tom *' lay out " on the yard with a
will, above the black and seething deep, withall
his strength ; but in the fury of the wind
it began to fail him, or it might be that in
the force of the gale he lost his presence of
mind, and when the men began their descent
he remained, with his hands convulsively
clutching the yard, and his feet on the slippery
foot-ropes or in the stirrups thereof.

Now then, stupid ! are you going to sleep
there ? " cried Paul Bitts from the crossness,
*^ or must I rouse you with my colt, and make
you dance the binnacle hornpipe when I get
you on deck ? "

^^ Mother — oh, Mother ! " the boy was heard
to shriek, his small voice sounding weirdly on
the skirt of the howling blast, as he slipped
from the yard-arm, and vanishing into the
wrack and obscurity below, was seen no
more !

Derval felt his blood grow cold ; and as one
in a dreadful dream, from which he must
waken to find Tom Tit by his side, he made
his way, he knew not how, but mechanically,
to the deck, where the tragedy was reported
to the Captain. But there was not a moment
now, either for comment, explanation, or
regret, for there came aft a terrible cry from
the look-out man at the bowsprit.

^' Breakers ahead ! breakers on both bows ! "

In the name of heaven, how came breakers
here ! " exclaimed Captain Talbot, for a
moment forgetting that for many hours past
he had been unable to verify his whereabouts.
Proceeding forward in haste, the Captain
went out to the cap of the bowsprit. In peril
he was a man whose nerves became as iron !
Steadily he looked around him, but even his
cheek blanched then, though none could perceive
it.

Through the black gloom, a blacker barrier
of mighty rocks was rising right ahead.

Rolling fiercely before a northern blast, the
sea was breaking on them wildly, dashing its
white spray as high as the maintop, and, as
the waves receded, the sable fronts of two
particular or insulated masses were plainly
visible from time to time, with a mass of froth
between them ; while accelerated by the wind
astern, and no doubt by the indraught in the
reef, for a reef it appeared to be, the stately
Amethyst seemed to increase her speed from
ten knots an hour to something far beyond it.
Clinging to a belaying pin on the port side,
as the ship rushed on, there came into Der-val's
uninitiated mind only the fear of immediate
death, with a quickened circulation of
the blood and a painful tightness of the chest,
and in this emotion men far his seniors
shared, at that dreadful crisis ; but now the
voice of Captain Talbot, who had obtained
his trumpet, was heard even amid the roar of
the breakers, and a clear and manly voice it
was.

In that tropical region the water and spray
that swept over the ship were warm nearly as
new milk, and by this time the poultry and
pigs were all washed overboard and drowned.

^* There is an opening in the reef, three
points before the port beam," said the Captain;
^^ Mr. Tyeblock, take the wheel and
steer for it — three points, remember ! There
may be water there to carry ns through.
Hands to the braces ; brace the yards, forward
! "

Then, as the Amethyst sprang to the blast,
the waves boiled over her lee gunnel; but
finding a terrible strain aloft, —

^' Let fly the topsail sheets ! " was now the
order of Captain Talbot, and then, as the
canvas flew to ribbons that cracked like
thunder in the gale, the topmasts were saved.

^^ Hard up with the helm now, Tyeblock !
Hands to the braces and square away the
yards."

Headlong careered the ship on her way

through the narrow passage wMcli Talbot's
eye lead detected, and splendidly was she
steered in the skilful hands of Tyeblock, who
exultingly declared that he could turn her on
a sixpence.

The reef is astern, we are safe, thanks be
to God ! " exclaimed Captain Talbot, whose
emotion of prayerful gratitude was shared by
all who heard him.

Deep water ahead, was reported by Girtline,
the second mate, who was in the bows with
the hand-lead.

Heave to, till dawn comes ! '* was now
the Captain's order, and the ship was accordingly
hove to, about two miles to leeward of
the reef, and a keen look-out was kept in
every direction for breakers.

On sounding the well, Joe Trumpet reported
that the ship had sprung a leak, and
the water was rising at the rate of two feet
an hour ; so the chain pumps were rigged,
and all idlers — such as the carpenter, cook,

steward, and others — took the first spell
thereat, to be immediately followed by a
fresh gang, so that the leak made little
way.

The gale abated as day came in with its
tropical rapidity and splendour, and Captain
Talbot knew instantly that the reef they had
so nearly perished on, was one of those
between the numerous rocky and barren little
islets that stud the whole coast around the
island of Fernando-de-Noronha, which lies
about seventy leagues north-east from the
Cato de San Eoque, on the coast of Brazil.

In the full glory of the morning sun,
towered up the Campania (or Belfry), a
steep mountain of the isle, a thousand feet in
height, and of a form so remarkable, that on
one side the upper portion overhangs its base.
The Portuguese flag was hoisted on Fort
Remedies, as the Amethyst passed on the northwest
side of the island, with a soft and
pleasant breeze, while the hands were aloft,

bending a new set of topsails, or attending to
the leak and other damages of the eventful
night.

While sent aloft, for practice, to assist in
bending on the new foretop sail, Derval had
not much time either for reflection on the
catastrophe of the past sleepless night, or
observing the wonderful multitude of turtle's
eggs which cover all the rocks and shore
thereabout between the months of December
and April; but when excitement and work
were over, he, like others, had leisure to think
over poor Tom Titford, whose maritime career,
to which he had looked forward in all the
delight of youth, was thus ended ere it had
well begun.

His empty berth and vacant place at table,
his uniform cap hanging on a peg, and his
little trunk with all his worldly goods remained;
but his soft smiling face and his
earnest honest eyes were gone from human
gaze for ever, and Derval and Hal Bowline

Vere very sad on the subject of his sudden
loss, which made them somehow closer
friends, while each felt that the victim might
have been himself or the other ; and both
instinctively clenched their fists when they
heard Bitts say, with a silent laugh, that
^^ even if the body were found, there would be
no coroner's inquest in the latitude of ,
and that young lubbers when
they went aloft should remember the maxim
of ' one hand for myself, and one for my

owners.' "

So the middy, of whose death the passing
ship brought tidings, was not Derval Hampton,
but little Tom Titford. Had it been himself,
he thought, who would have sorrowed
for him? and it cannot seem strange that
the image of old Patty Fripp occurred to
the lonely lad even before that of his own
father.

For days after the storm, he felt his legs
and arms stiff from the effect of bruises and

abrasions sustained in clasping the shrouds
when going aloft to reef the topsails.

Days of light breezes and bright weather
followed each other now, and on a fine morning
in March the cheerful cry of " Land insight,"
passed from mouth to mouth on board
the Amethyst, To Derval's eye, the faint blue
mass that rose west-north-west about four
miles distant, seemed an island ; but to Talbot
and many of the crew it was familiar as Cape
Frio, a promontory on the Brazilian coast,
sixty-four miles eastward of their destination ;
and with all that interest and curiosity excited
by the appearance of a new and strange
country, he watched the oval-shaped mass of
granite cliff that terminates a long range of
mountains, and all its features were distinct by
five in the evening, when it was only seven
miles distant.

With midnight came squally weather, with
thunder and red flashes of lightning, against
which, " instant seen and instant lost," rose

the black outline of the heavy waves, serrated
like the teeth of a saw ; but when day came
in, the Amethyst was standing in for the Bay of
Eio de Janeiro, under full sail, with a steady
breeze from the sea. Long ere this, the
watch on deck had been busy getting the
cables out of the tier, laying them in frenchman
on the deck, a peculiar method adopted
to let them run out freely, precluding all
danger of the links getting foul. They were
then bent to the anchors, which were hoisted
over the bows and hung by the ring ready
for use.

The flag of the Royal Naval Eeserve was
now run up in a round ball to the gaff, where
it was shaken loose, and then " the blessed bit
o' bunting," as Joe Trumpet admiringly and
affectionately called it, floated gallantly on
the breeze.

By noon Captain Talbot gave the order to
shorten sail ; the courses were hauled up ; the
warm breeze swept through the open rigging ;

the anchor was let go — the cable swept with
a roar through the hawse-hole, and the ship
rode at her moorings, in eight fathoms water,
while the hands and apprentices went aloft to
furl everything fore and aft.

Around was now the noble bay of Rio,
studded by fully eighty islets, with the city
and all its shipping in the foreground ; and
the high range of beautiful mountains, clothed
with wood to their summits, called the Cocos
that bound its western plain, in the
background. Along the beach lies the main
street, called the Eua Dirieta, from which all
the others branch off and form a city of
palaces, for such it is ; and high over all its
edifices, conspicuous on a hill that juts into
the sea between it and the Pray de Flamingo,
towers Fossa Senhora da Gloria, the greatest
of the sixty churches in Eio, where eternal
spring and summer reign together.

But we do not mean to ^^ do Guide Book,"
and dwell on the beauties and wonders of Eio
I. 12

de Janeiro ; neither do we mean to linger on
the devil of Derval or his probationary Hfe asa
sailor, for we have inch to relate of his
future career. Suffice it now, that ^^bulk"
was soon broken on board the Amethyst ; the
cargo started and sent ashore, to be replaced
"by another for Van Dieman's Land, and by
the labour of slaves, who in Eio are made
veritable beasts of burden, and are to be seen
with iron collars about their necks, and often
with masks of tin, that conceal the lower portion
of their faces and are secured behind by a
common padlock ; and the last day of March
saw the Amethjst standing out of the bay, with
a land breeze, under a press of sail, once more
to plough the world of waters.

Ere the vessel sailed Derval felt, but for the
last time, the colt of Mr. Paul Bitts, who called
him *^ the lazy scum of a fish-pond," and who
delighted in malignant cruelty and the torture
of his own species, and highly resented the
circumstance of the lad being a little absorbed

in a letter from home, brought by the mail
steamer. His father had heard of his safety,
through the owners, Curry & Co., and no
doubt the fright he had received caused him
to reproach himself, for a time — but a time
only — with his coldness and neglect of his
firstborn, and lack of that affection which
latterly he had denied him and bestowed
entirely on the other son ; and poor Derval's
honest heart grew very, very full indeed, as he
read and re-read the lines his father's hand
had traced, and which he valued more than
the twenty-pound note he enclosed to him,
and which could not be of much use while
on the waters of the Southern Sea.

Fortunately he had been well grounded in
Euclid and algebra, by the kind tutelage of
Mr. Asperges Laud, to whom his thoughts
ever went home gratefully ; and in the knowledge
of his profession he made rapid progress
under Joe Trumpet, a tutor of a very different
kind ; while his mind, as active as his body,

12 *

required and delighted in scientific research.
He became a prime favourite with the seamen,
knew and understood their characters, and
was all the more in favour that he quickly
knew the whole parts of the ship from stem to
stern, and could act by turns cooper and
carpenter, sail maker and rope maker, so clever
was his head and so skilful was he with his
hands.

CHAPTEE V.

AFTER LONG Years.

Four years have elapsed since we last saw
Derval, and since then the Amethjst had been
freighted to so many parts of the world, that
he had seen a vast deal of it and won much
skill and experience, but had never once been
near his home.

Great were the changes which time and
circumstances had effected there.

From the hour Greville Hampton began to
speculate, it seemed as if everything he
touched turned to gold. He had bought and
sold, sold and bought, and speculated, till he

was becoming one of the richest men in
Devonshire or Cornwall, and all this growing
good fortune he somehow insensibly connected
with his second marriage, and poor Mary was
as completely forgotten, apparently, as if she
had never existed.

His success was great ; it astonished himself
and others too ; and, after the fashion of
the toadying world, he was greatly looked up
by many who, at one period of his life, knew
him not.

The last of the humble cob-cottages had
disappeared, and with it the last of the
aboriginal inhabitants of Finglecombe ; the
villa residences of Bayview Terrace were in
great request, and a handsome sea-wall, called
the Grand Promenade, occupied the shingly
shore on which the ocean had freely rolled forages.


Finglecombe was now inhabited by a circle
of families who dined and tea-ed each other,
and, moreover, closely criticised each other,

for "pig-iron always looks down on tenpenny
nails" ; who attended church and, frequently
uninvited, each others' marriages, baptisms,
and funerals ; and more than all, a great hotel
was built, with a gin-palace as an adjunct,
and the once secluded Combe began rapidly to
approach the dignity of a cockney watering-place,
in every way, however, a source of
wealth to its lord and proprietor.

The thatched parsonage and the little
church of the middle ages alone remained
unchanged, though Mr. Asperges Laud was
more silver-haired, and he had, under the* influences
of surrounding gentility, ventured to
light two candles on his altar.

The wayside booth, dignified by the name
of a railway station, that boasted of but one
porter, who often travelled to and fro per
train, and acted as deputy stoker, &c., had
now been replaced by one of imposing aspect,
with a spacious platform, a staff of officials, and
an airy young damsel to superintend its buffet.

Mrs. Hampton's carriage was one of the
features of the new settlement, but though to
the poor of Finglecombe, or its vicinity
rather, she was, as .ever, no friend, her name
appeared often in print as a patron of local
charities.

Of all these wonderful changes the toiler of
the sea knew little, if anything at all ; his
half-brother Kookleigh was now a pampered
and very precocious boy of eleven, and already,
under his mother's influence, he was beginning
to be infected by an idea that if Derval — the
fact of whose existence was referred to
occasionally — ever did return, he could not
but view him, elder though he was, as an
interloper and intruder where he was not
wanted, all the more as the family lawyers had
begun to foster her pride by some confident
surmises concerning ousting the Lord Oakhampton
out of his title in her husband's
favour.

The perils of the sea, the chances of climate,

and many chances militated (thought Mrs.
Hampton) against Derval ever returning
again ; and she comfortably, with a view to
her pet's interests, made up her mind that too
probably he never would return, and that all
his father had made and was yet amassing,
would eventually go to her own and only son
Eookleigh.

Towards the end of the fourth year of her
absence from home, the Amethyst was running
from Rio de Janeiro to Bermuda ; and time
had seen some changes in her. Many of the
old hands had shipped on board other craft ;
but Captain Talbot still held his post, as did
Joe Trumpet and Mr. Gritline ; but Harry
Bowline had been promoted as second mate,
and Derval, now past his eighteenth year, was
third, vice the ill-conditioned Mr. Paul Bitts,
who had come to an untimely end, when
Derval nearly lost his life in trying to save
him.

While in the act of endeavouring to stimulate

with his inevitable colt an apprentice boy,
wbo was at work greasing the sheaves of the
starboard matlock, Bitts fell overboard. The
ship, which was going before an easy breeze,
was promptly thrown in the wind, and, aware
that Bitts was unable to swim, Derval, without
a thought or consideration, threw off his
jacket, and plunged in to save or assist him.

This occurred within a day's sail of Tristan
d'Achuna. The height from which he leaped —
the top-gallant forecastle, as the short upper
deck forward is named — made him go very
deep into the water, and when he came to the
surface a cry of horror escaped him, for he
could see only one of the man's hands above
it, while all around was crimsoned with
blood !

In a moment he knew that a shark had
taken him, and every instant he expected the
same fate. The breath seemed to leave his
body at the terrible anticipation, and thus he
sank more than once, nearly paralysed.

Promptly thongs the mainland had been
backed, the Amethjst had forged some distance
ahead, and Derval gave himself up for lost,
though he heard the clamour on board each
time he rose to the surface, and the rattle of
the fall-tackles, with the splash, as a quarter-boat
was being lowered and shoved off towards
him.

As if to add to his horror he saw — or
thought he saw — the black dorsal fin of the
monster standing steadily above the water
about twenty yards distant.

** God help me ! God spare me ! " escaped
his lips, for death in an awful shape seemed
terribly close indeed, and every action of his
past life seemed to come in memory vividly
before him, compressed into the narrow space
of a minute or two.

Half senseless with actual fear, he was
dragged into the boat, and he was barely onboard
the ship when no less than four sharks,
all seeking for prey, were seen under the starboard

counter, where they continued to follow
her for some time after the yard-heads were
filled, and she once more stood on her course.

The crew crowded round Derval, and Captain
Talbot shook him warmly by the hand.

** You are a brave, good lad ! " said he, " and
had you saved the poor fellow, should have
had such a medal as I now wear. I have
twice saved human Hfe at sea, but never in the
face of peril such as this. Poor Paul Bitts !
he was never a friend of yours, certainly ; but
he has come to a most awful end, with all his
imperfections on his head''

After a little time the Captain decided that
on getting a certificate he should be his
successor.

For many a day and night after this did
Derval shudder at the thought of what he had
gone through, and recal the acute agony of
his emotions in the water ; but other events
came to pass, and gradually the horror lessened
in his memory.

Now past eighteen years of age, Derval's
face was decidedly of a handsome cast,
inherited, Hke his well-knit figure, from his
father, and he had the soft, gentle, and
earnest eyes of his mother — the tender Mary,
whose grave was under the shadow of Single
Church, but on which no loving hand
laid a chaplet now. He was intelligent and
experienced far beyond his years, and had, in
the opinion of Joe Trumpet, only one defect
as a sailor — a fancy for sedulously cultivating
on his upper lip something that Joe stigmatised
as " fluff " ; but it was certainly adding
fast to the character of a very fine cast of
features.

So it was as third mate, and as such keeping
a bright look-out ahead, while assisting
Mr. Girtline to conn, or direct the steerage,
that, on a brilliant afternoon in autumn —
though there is no autumn in those isles of
eternal summer — Derval saw the Bermudas,
to all appearance Hke a range of low sterile

Mils, at the base of which the ocean is dashed
into a line of white foam, rise gradually on
the lee-bow, while cheerily the afternoon
watch were singing, as they got the ^ Aground
tackle " ready and bent to the anchors.

These isles are so numerous that there is
said to be one for every day in the year —
some writers say foundered and more — and
as the ship neared them the short greensward
that covers them, their dark cedar-trees, and
pretty, but low, white dwellings, rapidly became
visible, together with the masts of
several vessels of war, as the group serves asa
summer station for some of our American
squadron, and also as a rendezvous for the
great steamers of the Koyal Mail Steam
Packet Company ; but the whole of these
isles, which are formed by the zoophyte, or
coral worm, are so completely hemmed in by
perilous rocks, that it is only with extreme
caution that a vessel of even ten tons burden
can enter the roads. The water, however, is

SO beautifully clear and pellucid that the
pilots can make their way with considerable
facility between the coral reefs.

There is but one channel for large vessels
into the principal anchorage, and through that
the Amethyst was guided by a native pilot at
flood-tide, for at low-water the whole of the
rocks are nearly dry.

After the cargo was out, there was some
delay about getting a freight for England, as
the main dependence of the colony is upon
the naval and military establishments that
have been formed there, and on the shipyards
and saltworks ; and now there had been a
falling off in onions and whale oil, which are
among the chief exports of the *' vexed
Bermoothes.''

To this delay was added another. The
Amethyst had sprung her main topmast in a
sudden gale of wind, one of those " Bermuda
squalls *' so dreaded by all navigators of those
seas, and she had suffered other damages,

which compelled the Captain to place her in
the hands of the dockyard people ; thus, as
there was plenty of leave-going, Derval was
frequently on shore, and on one of these
occasions a rather curious adventure betel
him.

Joe Trumpet had prepared Derval for seeing
much that was novel in these Summer
Isles, as they were not inaptly named from Sir
George Summers, who was driven there in a
storm in 1609, and whose heart is buried in
one of them ; but Joe could not prevail upon
him to accept the genuine old nautical idea
that the land and the coral crust composing it
is so thin as to be easily broken, even by a
stroke of the foot. But so many wrecks took
place among their shoals, that the Spaniards
of old named them Devils Isles, and Joe knew
by tradition the strange story regarding a
mighty multitude of rats, that came, no one
knew from where, and, multiplying exceedingly,
swarmed over all the isles, and eat np

the corn, the fruit, and all green things for a
period of five years, after which came a cloud
of ravens out of the sky and destroyed them
in turn, since when no raven has been seen in
the Bermudas.*

Derval saw whales trapped and harpooned
among the coral reefs, while the very sharks
contended with the natives for the blubber in
the warm shoal water, and more than once he
had chimed Gibbs Hill, the highest elevation
there, only a hundred and eighty feet in-altitude
; and he had seen the gangs of'
natives toiling at the cisterns in which rainwater
is preserved for the shipping, for there'
are few wells and no fresh water streams, but
the dew-point ranges very high indeed.

One day, in his rambles, Derval came upon •
a little spot of remarkable beauty near the
sea-shore. Many caverns, the roofs of which'
sparkle with brilliant spars, and having fan-this

story is told in the Atlas Geographers, 1717,,
vol. V.

I. la

tactic stalactites formed of the dripping water
genuine coral caverns, beautiful as the
transformation scene in a pantomime, with
their reflected lights, colours, shadows and
uncertainties — are to be found in many parts
of these isles, haying in them pools of cool
water delicious to bathe in.

Through one of these from the sea-shore —
one in which it is said the poet Waller wrote
a portion of his poetical description of Bermuda,
when in exile there he penned his
insipid *^ Battle of the Summer Isles," —
Derval wandered to where its inner end
opened on a beautiful little dell, an amphitheatre
of coral cuffs and verdure, at the
bottom of which lay a salt pool filled always
by the sea at each flood tide, and therein he
was certain that more than once he saw a
stealthy shark gliding.

Bordering it were the palmetto palms, with
luscious fruit Hke plums in colour, and those
enormous leaves, each of which are of such

amazing length that they are used to roof
houses ; the oak, the ash, bananas, orange,
lemon, mahogany and caoutchouc trees all
growing in luxuriance together, and the coffee
plant flourishing wild under the lofty cedars.

Delighted with the beauty of the cool and
shady place, Derval stretched himself at
length upon the velvet sward, and proceeded
to enjoy a cigar, while watching, high above
his head, the struggles of a small bird which
was caught in the web of a spider — one of
those spiders there so remarkable for their
size and a peculiar kind of beauty, and the
webs of which are, in colour and substance,
a veritable raw silk.

His attention was next attracted by the
appearance of a lady and a young girl walking
slowly on the summit of a coral rock, or cliff,
that overhung the salt pool. The lady, who
carried a large white sunshade, was proceeding
leisurely, reading a book, while the girl went
hither and thither gathering flowers.

13 *

** Take care, Clara darling* tie heard the
lady say; "keep back from the edge of the
rocks'*

Do let me gather these flowers' was the
entreating reply, *^ and I shall make you such
a lovely bouquet'*

** Stay, I insist upon it," said the lady.

Oh, I shall be so very careful," replied
the sweet little English voice, which sounded
so pleasantly to the ears of the listener, —
but a shriek closed the sentence.

When venturing to the verge to gather the
coveted trifle, the girl had fallen over, and
vanished from the eyes of her horrified companion
— her governess, as she eventually
proved to be — who fled, uttering wild and
breathless cries for assistance, for she knew
that the little one had fallen from a height of
nearly a hundred feet.

At the same moment a hae stifled cry
escaped Derval, who, with the keenest alarm,
saw that in her descent a stump of laurel

projecting from the cliff had caught a portion
of the girl's dress, a species of muslin scarf
that went round her waist, and there she
hung, blind with terror and silent in her
agony, some fifty feet above the rocks that
shelved steeply downward to the pool or saltwater
tarn.

Keep still, girl, keep still ! ** cried Derval,
who saw that already her frail protection was
beginning to rend, while he instantly commenced
to climb towards her, and as only a
British sailor can climb, finding footing and
things to grasp where a landsman would have
found none.

At last he reached her, but not without
incredible difficulty and great peril, at the
very instant when the delicate scarf had
nearly parted, and she must have perished
miserably on the rocks or in the water below.
To make assurance doubly sure, he grasped
one part of her dress with his teeth, another
with his left hand, winding it at the same

time round his arm, and holding her thus,
while she clutched his neck, he began his
descent to the base, breathless and silent ; for
to ascend, though the way was shorter, proved
impossible, as the rock over which she had
fallen was an impending one.

The base at last was reached, when Derval
could scarcely respire, and was trembling in
every fibre with exertion and anxiety ; and
intent on conveying his half-senseless charge
to her friends without delay, as he knew that
their grief would be intolerable, he deemed
his quickest way would be through the cavern
to the sea-shore ; but he had not proceeded.
far, when he found the flood tide was already
coming in so fast, that to pass or repass was.
impossible, and he could but clamber up into
a recess, and place her there on a dry shelf of
the coral formation till the tide ebbed again ;
and in that strange shelter there was a
reflected light from the rising water at both
ends, that while it produced some very curious

and picturesque effects of colour and shadow,
enabled them to see distinctly around them.

Thank you, thank you, sir, — oh so much,
so very much ! '' sobbed the child (she did not
seem to be yet in her teens), and after the
terror and prolonged shock she had undergone,
she wept bitterly and hysterically, with
her beautiful little head on Derval's shoulder,
while his arm yet encircled her ; but his
voice and manner were so kind, tender, and
reassuring, that after a time she became
soothed, and " disengaging " herself from him,
as the novels have it, so shyly, so prettily,
and like a little lady, said :

'^ Oh, what a fright my poor papa will be in,
when Miss Sampler tells him of my fall !
How will he ever be able to thank you, sir ! "

Thank Heaven, thank Heaven — not me —
that you are safe," said Derval, earnestly.
** Poor child ! what a fate you have escaped ! "
he added with a shudder as he looked at the
tender and delicate form, the soft violet eyes.

the rich brown hair, and mignonne face,
flushed with excitement, and thought of what
might have been, had he not been there — had
he been too late, or failed in his courageous
attempt !

He gazed on her with all the interest the
great service he had rendered, her great
beauty, and her present helplessness all
seemed to excite, and he said, half to himself
:

*^ Had you fallen to the base, you had been
instantly killed ; if into the water, the sharks

and shudderingly he thought of his

recent episode near Tristan d'Acunha. " I
.shall ever bless heaven I was so near you,
child ! "

*^ I am not a child*' said she with a pout on
her rosy lip, as her colour came back; *^ I am
twelve years old."

*rand who was the lady with you — your
mamma?"

^* Oh no ; my dear mamma is dead."

Who, then ? "

*^ My governess, Miss Sampler. Do you
live near this ? '* she asked.

*^ I am a sailor, and live in my ship. She
is now in the dockyard. And you — you must,
of course, live near this ? " he added, seeing
that she was without a head-dress.

** Yes ; in the large white house that has
great cannons in front of it, and where a pretty
flag is always flying till sunset, when boom!
goes one of the cannon, and down it comes."

** It is a garrison, then ? "

*^ Oh no ; it is papa's house. Oh, how papa
will thank you for saving his little girl — he
loves me so much ! " Her voice trembled and
her soft eyes filled as she said this, and added
prettily, ^^ I am the only one he has now ; all
my sisters are buried beside mamma."

'^ Where''

'^ In England, far, far away — in Devonshire."

*' I know Devonshire well!" exclaimed
Derval with growing interest.

'^ Do you ?" she asked, while her earnest
eyes dilated.

May I ask your name ? "

'' Clara'

*^ A pretty name ! Clara what ? "

*^ Hampton. And yours ? '*

** Hampton too."

*^ How very, very odd ! "

Derval laughed, as the little " situation ''
began to have *' its charm," in one way, but-not
quite in another. In their hiding-place,
the whole floor of which was now a stretch of
deep and shining water, the sound of excited
voices reached them, as from a distance, from
time to time — the voices of those who, nO'
doubt, were in search of the lost one, and with
whom Derval could not communicate, for
there — either brought in by the flood-tide from
the sea, or by it out of the pool — he could
see, at no great distance from the perch occupied
by himself and his shrinking companion,
the back or dorsal fin of a great shark above

the surface of the smooth dead water, while
the whole of its awful length was visible
beneath it.

The monster swam slowly to and fro —
Derval, sailor-ike, never doubting but it heard
their voices, and was only waiting if opportunity
served, or the water rose, to make a
mouthful of each of them ; but he felt safe and
secure, as they were above high-water mark
as he could see by the colour of the coral
walls ; and when, ultimately, the tide did
begin to ebb, Jack Shark passed out with it
and eventually disappeared.

Before this came to pass, Derval and the
rescued had conversed on many things ; and
he found that, young though she was, there
was a sweet, womanly sympathy about hers
that led him, unconsciously, to tell her much
concerning himself and his affairs, and how
and why he left pleasant Devonshire to become
a sailor; how quickly he had risen
to be third mate of a handsome ship, what

a fine fellow Captain Talbot was, and so
forth, and as the little lady listened to
him, her soft eyes filled with interest and
wonder.

At last the ebbing tide left the floor of
the cavern, and the shingly beach without it,
completely dry, when the red sinking sun
was nearly level with the sea, all crimsoned
now ; and giving his hand to his pretty
namesake, he led her forth, and she at once
indicated a path that led from the shore to
her home. Ascending this, and passing
through a grove of Palmetto palms, they
found themselves on the plateau of the rock
from whence she had fallen, and the appearance
of the place made her shrink to DervaFs
side, while his arm went kindly and instinctively
round her. But they had not
proceeded far when they came upon a group
of excited searchers, perhaps the same whose
voices Derval had heard, and among them
were officers in undress, soldiers from the

garrison, seamen from the ships, planters,
clerks, and blacks, their white teeth and eyes
gleaming, screaming, hallooing, and all bearing
ladders, ropes, poles, drags, and even lanterns,
for the darkness was close at hand
now.

Papa, Papa ! " suddenly exclaimed the
young lady, and snatching her hand from
that of Derval, she sprang like an antelope
into the open arms of a careworn and
haggard, but tall and distinguished-looking
man, who had a decided air of good birth
and breeding his planter-like costume, of a
broad straw hat and white linen coat and
trousers, failed to mask ; and in his close
embrace she sobbed hysterically.

Safe, Clara — safe, my child ! " said he ina
broken voice ; and then there was a minute's
pause, during which the haggard lines grief
and alarm had suddenly drawn on his face
began already to fade out. /* Oh, my darling,
my darling ! — what miracle is this ? "

*' That gentleman saved me, Papa ; saved
me, saved me ! " was the sobbing reply.

*^ But how is she harmless after such a
fall ? " asked her father shudderingly of those
around him, and as if unable to believe the
evidence of his own senses, while the crowd
closed round.

Derval briefly and modestly related all that
had occurred.

Then the father of the rescued girl wept
as he pressed and retained Derval's hands in
his ; but failed to find language in which to
thank him coherently. After a time he asked :

Do you belong to a ship of war, sir ? "

^^No, sir."

^^ To what, then ? " asked the other, glancing
at the uniform.

To the ship Amethysts of London, carrying
the flag of the Royal Naval Reserves' replied
Derval, touching his cap, for somehow the
bearing of him he addressed bore the impress
of one in no small authority.

The latter drew a handsome ring from
Ms finger, and presented it to Derval,
saying :

'*I beg that you will accept of this, and
wear it in remembrance of one whose gratitude
you have won for life."

The stone was a magnificent onyx, and
Derval saw, with a start, how that it bore a
shield with three coughs, and the motto
Clarior e Tenehris. He bowed, and placed it
on his finger, saying :

^^ May I ask whom I have the honour of
addressing ? '*

^^ This," said an officer (an aide-de-camp
apparently), who stood near, *ris Lord Oakhampton.
Governor of the Bermudas."

His remote kinsman and his father's
enemy ! Confusion, astonishment, and then
something of gratification filled the heart of
Derval by turns, and all together.

** I am deeply grateful to you, young gentleman,
for the great service you have rendered

to me; but may I, in turn, ask yon name,
that I may never forget it ? *'

*^ My name, like yours, my lord, is Hampton
— Derval Hampton."

"Are you a Devonshire man? "

'* Yes, my Lord ; my father lives at Single



Lord Oakhampton coloured, and a cloud
came over his decidedly handsome face, as he
was well aware who Greville Hampton was,
and what his pretensions were; and now,
with a little more of hauteur that hospitality
in his manner, he said :

** Dine with me at Government House tomorrow;
eight is the hour, and I shall be
glad to see you then."

Derval muttered his thanks, and lifted his
cap, but ere he retired Lord Oakhampton
shook his hand, Clara gave him hers confidently
and pleasantly, and the interview
terminated, for the night had fallen and
Derval had to make his way back to the ship.

The episode in all its details gave him
much food for thought, as he proceeded
slowly homeward. He knew not, till then,
that Lord Oakhampton was in the Colonial
Service at all ; neither did he know that by
extravagance the peer had found the salary of
Governor of the " vexed Bedclothes," some
thousands per annum, a comfortable addition
to a shattered income, while his estates were
at dry-nurse. Derval knew now, however,
that he had done an act demanding a supreme
amount of gratitude, from a proud and rather
repellent man, who would, perhaps, rather
have been indebted therefor to any other
person in the world, than the son of Greville
Hampton ; while, on the other hand, Derval
had been taught to view his lordship as his
hereditary enemy, the usurper of his father's
rights, though why, or how, Derval could
not define; and that, more than all, in the
days of his father's unexpected penury and
obscurity at Finglecombe, he had sedulously
I. 14

withheld all countenance and assistance from
Mm.

*' By Jove ! " thought he ; '^ sharks, sea-lawyers,
the sailor's natural foes, seem to be
my friends ! One gets me promotion, vice
poor Paul Bitts, and I have the honour of
saving a peer's daughter from another — my
little kinswoman, too. I wonder in what
degree she is so — a charming little creatures
too ! "

His father seemed of late to have taken hut
little interest in his movements or his success
; but perhaps this startling episode might
kindle some emotion of revengeful triumph
that great good had been rendered for evil
done.

Derval duly presented himself at Government
House next evening, and was received
by Lord Oakhampton with considerable impressment,
and by him was presented, as the
rescuer of his child from a dreadful peril — all
Hamilton now rang with the story, though

none knew precisely who the hero was — to a
select circle, composed of the heads of departments,
civil and military, the Chief Justice,,
the two puisne judges, and so forth ; and as
Derval was a gentleman by birth, education ^
and breeding, all were agreeably impressed by
his appearance, for added thereto, he had now
that easy and perfectly self-possessed manner
which is only to be acquired by intercourse
with the world, by travel, and some experience
of life; and there were many things combined,
which made Derval Hampton, in expression
and bearing, older than his years.

Modest and reserved by nature and habit,
he was, for a time, rather abashed to find
himself somewhat the lion of the evening,
and was glad when a little change was made
in the current of the conversation, by the
appearance of Clara Hampton and her
governess with the dessert ; and wonderfully
bright and brilliant the little lady looked, all

trace of yesterday's alarm and shock having

14 *

passed away ; but, though she accorded him
her pretty hand very frankly, and with a wonderful
smile of pleasure and welcome, she was
very shy with him now, as contrasted with the
mutual confidences they had exchanged in the
cavern, " while Jack Shark was swimming to
.and fro, keeping a species of blockade upon
them," as Derval laughingly said.

After a time she drew close to his side, and
with great, yet childlike gracefulness, presented
him with a flower from her dress,
saying :

'* I made this bouquet for you. Papa says
no one can make a button-hole — why he calls
it so, I don't know — like me."

So Derval gallantly kissed the little bouquet,
and placed it in the capelle of his naval
coat.

Ere he left. Lord Oakhampton, thawing
considerably in his somewhat measured manner
— a manner born, as Derval knew, of
circumstances far remote from Bermuda —

assured him, that if lie could do aught for
him in anyway, to command his services.
Very pleasant all this, thought Derval, who
supposed he had no true friends in the world
save his shipmates on board the Amethjst ;
hut remembering his father's feud and claims,
he returned thanks very reservedly and took
his departure.

For certain reasons, chiefly family considerations,
and his own dislike of all sass
and speculation, Derval said nothing of his
adventure, or his visit to Government House,
on board the Amethyst, which lay at Ireland
Island, the chief place there for shipping ;
thus, great was the astonishment of his
skipper," when an officer in undress military
uniform arrived from Hamilton, the chief
town of these isles, with an official letter
addressed to ^' Captain Talbot, H.M. Koyal
Naval Eeserve."

For you, sir," said the aide-de-camp.

** From whom, sir ? "

His Excellency the Governor."

Captain Talbot was rather, as he afterwards
told, 'taken aback," but he said :

*' Won't you have a glass of sherry and a
biscuit, sir ? "

'' Thanks, very much — no," replied the
other, and stepped on shore, while the surprise
of Talbot increased very much when he
read the letter twice over, and then starting
up, ordered Joe Trumpet to ^'pipe all hands,"
and bring them aft, *' and run the ensign upto
the gaff."

** Hats off, my lads," said the Captain, his
face glowing with pleasure; 'for this comes
from the Queen's representative."

The letter, of which we only give an outline,
proved to be from " His Excellency Lord
Oakhampton, K.C.B., Governor of the
Bermuda [Islands, &c. &c.," warmly recommending
Mr. Derval Hampton to his captain
and owners for his gallant conduct, which
was fully detailed therein ; and congratulating

Captain Talbot on having such an
officer under him in the Amethyst,

Whereupon Joe Trumpet took off his old
battered tarpaulin hat, from a head that was
getting grey now, and led the van of three
stentorian cheers for the third mate; and
Derval heard them, as he had heard the letter,
with cheeks flushing scarlet, like those of a
school-girl, and a wildly beating heart.

And in honour of the whole event, which
Hal BowHne duly engrossed on the ship's log,
Joe Trumpet's whistle was next heard, summoning
all hands to '* spice the main-braces**
an invitation never unattended to by sailors,
as they are ever ready for a glass of grog.

The ship was now getting ready for sea,
the hatches were being battened down, the
boats hoisted in, the studding-sail gear rove,
the royal yards crossed, &c., and Derval was
compelled to spend much of his time on board
of the Amethyst ; and now came the last day
he could pass, perhaps, on shore.

Unconsciously lie wandered to the little dell
of the palmetto and other trees, the coral cliff
and the salt pool, all of which impressed him
so deeply as the scene of a startling adventure.
A fragment of Clara's muslin dress yet
fluttered from the laurel stump by which
her fall had been arrested, either on the rocks
below or into the pool, where sharks were
as usual swimming whenever the flood tide
floated them in ; and as Derval surveyed the
cliff up which he had clambered to her assistance,
now, when he had not the impetus of
excitement, he thought himself a very clever
fellow, but doubted whether he could achieve
the same feat again.

Something glittering at the foot of the
cliff caught his eye. It was a locket of gold,
the size of a florin, with the name Clara in
pearls on one side — an ornament doubtless
lost by Miss Hampton on the day in question,
and he speedily possessed himself of it.
Opening it, he found that it was empty, but

prepared at once to restore it, and do what
the rules of society required, to leave with
it a farewell card at Government House.

On going thither he was informed that Lord
Oakhampton had gone to open the Assembly
of Representatives (consisting of thirty-six
in number, four of whom are elected by each
parish), so he inquired if he could see Miss
Clara Hampton.

The valets, who knew the service he had
rendered her, ushered him at once into the
drawing-room, where he found her, with all
her rich brown hair loose for coolness, and
fanning herself with a large circular fan,
composed of the snow-white feathers of some
rare tropical bird, and intently conning some
task set her by Miss Sampler.

*^ I have come to bid adieu to your papa
and yourself," said Derval.

'^I am so sorry he is from home," she
replied, as she gave him her hand, and with
more self-possession than she might have had,

if a few years older, invited him at once to be
seated. The soft mignonne face seemed to
Derval's eyes more beautiful than ever in its
childlike purity, and her violet eyes with their
long lashes were full of a bright and earnest
expression.

After a little pause, he placed the locket in
her hand.

This, of course, is yours ; I found it
to-day at the place where — where — ^I first
had the pleasure of meeting you," said he,
seeing that she shivered and half closed her
eyes.

*^ Oh, do not speak of that place ! '' she
exclaimed, lifting up her hands ; *^ I shall
never, never forget you or it either''

*^ I am sorry that the memory of me
should be combined with a thought of
horror."

*^ Do not imagine I shall think of you in
that way," she said very earnestly ; and as
for the locket — will you accept it — will you

permit me to give it to you ? Pray do. Papa
will be so pleased!"

And springing to his side, the engaging creature,
with rapid and deft little fingers, attached
it to his watch-chain, exclaiming gleefully :

Now, does it not look pretty ?'*

** Thanks, my dear Miss Clara," said
Derval, looking almost tenderly into her
bright upturned face; *but there is something
that would make it look prettier and
enhance its value to me."

^^ What?"

^* A tiny lock of your hair, as a souvenir
when I am far away from Bermuda."

*^ Oh — is that all ! " she exclaimed, and with
the scissors that lay near her she snipped offa
tress and coiled it into the locket, laughing
merrily the while. " You will come and see
Papa again tomorrow, and let him thank
you for me again," said she, interrupting
Derval's thanks, and seeing that he had risen
from his chair.

^^ For me there is no tomorrow, of leave
at least — we must sail ere the tide ebbs, and
make a good offing by sunset. And now," lie
added, yet lingeringly, ^^ I must say goodbye'


^^ Bon visage. Miss Sampler would say; buta
pleasant voyage bone to England I wish
you with — with all my heart, Mr. Hampton,"
she said, as her smile died away, for recalling
the episode which made them acquainted, the
young girl's heart grew very full, and her
beautiful eyes too.

Will you give me one kiss ere I go ? " said
Derval, considering she was but a child he
addressed.

*^ Oh yes ! " was the frank response, as she
innocently held up her mouth, and the memory
of the kiss given by those sweet rosebud-like
lips, haunted Derval pleasantly for many a
month to come, when many a league of ocean
lay between him and the Summer Isles.

Next day saw the Amethyst in the pilot's

hands, working out of the tortuous channel
between the reefs, her yards being braced up
sharp, and her tacks being carried far aft to
port and starboard alternately. As she passed
in view of Government House the ports were
triced up and she fired nineteen rounds from
her brass nine-pounders in honour of Lord
Oakhampton, the flag on whose residence was
dipped to her three times in farewell.

By that time she was clear of all the rocks ;
her yards were squared, and with a fair wind
she bore away north-eastward into the evening
sea, the watery highway to " Old England'*

Some two months after this found Derval,
after quitting the Amethyst at the West India
Dock — ever in his mind associated with the
awful day of London fog in which he first
saw it — Chastening homeward on a few weeks'
leave, and having with him, sailor-like, presents
for all there : a tiger-skin from the Cape
for his father's study; furs of the platypus.

soft and grey, from Australia, to make muffs
and cuffs for Mrs. Hampton, and a shawl
for her too : a shark's skull for Mr. Asperges
Laud; a model junk for Httle Eookleigh;
several cosy things for old Patty Fripp ; and,
moreover, he had shells, horns, idols, queer
ornaments, and all the curious omnium gathered
which sailors usually pick up — the gathered
spoil of years of wandering and affection.

He disliked to carry the locket where Clara's
hands had hung it. A day might come — nay,
surely would come — when he might have to
discard the gift, lest treasuring a woman's
locket, with her name upon it and her hair
within it, might alarm some one dearer to him
than life, and lead to serious complications,
although he had not met her yet — or thought
so ; thus the locket was consigned to one of
his secret repositories.

Home — home ! " he exclaimed to himself,
and clapped his hands with glee as the swift
express train went tearing on through North

Devon, and the vale of Taunton, with its
foliaged slopes, Cordon Hill and St. Peter's
ancient spire, came in sight ; on and on yet,
and ere long he should be at Finglecombe !

Breathlessly he stood at the window of the
carriage, in his eagerness hailing each successive
familiar feature in the view. It was the
close of a summer day, and his heart felt full
as when he had knelt at his mother's knee
to lisp the prayers she taught him. There
seemed to be something in the white clouds
flecking the blue sky ; in the sweet fresh breath
of the land breeze, laden with the perfume of
the orchards, the green leaves, and the
flowers ; in the joyous song of the birds ; in
the pretty farms, in field after field as he saw
them, like great green seas of grass, studded
with golden buttercups and snow-white daisies ;
in the groups of children, in the herds of cattle
going to the pools to drink ; in the voice of the
lark soaring aloft ; in the familiar peal of the
old church bell, like the voice of an early

friend : that all spoke to his brimming heart of
England and of home !

At last the train went clanking into the
station, where porters and passengers were
hurrying to and fro, and in their hot haste
jostling each other. Could this be Single
? Changes were being effected, and in
progress, when he left ; but he was by no
means prepared for all he saw now. There was
no one to receive him on the platform, about
which he looked as one in a dream. He
arrived, as he had departed, unseen by the eye
of a kinsman ; and now, for the first time,
something of the old chill he had felt so often
years ago, fell upon his heart.

A flaring placard, with views of Finglecombe,
its terraces, villas, sea-wall, and various projected
improvements then caught his eye. It
was described as one of the most rising places
on the western coast, in a beautiful district,
commanding a view of the Bristol Channel;
for yachtsmen and canonists possessing an

Unrivalled field, and attractive walks and drives
for the excursions or pedestrian ; a hotel,
telegraph, and railway station, ** advantages
showing that, as a centre or head-quarters for
the tourist, Finglecombe was unrivalled
indeed; combining, as it did, cheapness of
transit, and every means for amusement, with
great natural beauty of situation''

Had his father found the lamp of Aladdin
to produce all this ? thought Derval, as
memory went back to the solitary little
cottage in the Combe, where a slice of brown
bread, a pat of golden butter, and a foaming
jug of beer, were once deemed a luxurious
supper.

The Hampton family had a carriage now ;
but Derval, though expected, was left to
make his way home, how he chose or how
he could.

A porter put his portmanteaus on a truck,

and, when desired to follow him to Mr.

Hampton's house, received the order with
I. 15

profound respect. He was a stranger, and
knew not Deryal, whose own mother might
not have recognised him now — tall, developed
in every muscle, brown and manly in visage,
with a dark, if slight, moustache; but amid
the *' improvements '' at the Combe he became
so bewildered, that he was fain to ** drop
astern '' and let the porter pilot him.

The handsome entrance gates were reached,
and through the sweeping approach, gravelled
to perfection, and bordered by shrubbery and
flower-beds in all their splendour, Derval
proceeded till ho found himself, as one in a
dream, before the beautiful villa; and as a
portion of that dream, too, he found himself
face to face with his father, who grasped his
hand, yet gazed upon him with an expression
in which astonishment at the change in his
appearance, too evidently exceeded the emotion
of welcome ; nor was it till Patty Fripp
threw her arms round his neck, weeping over
and kissing him, in an obstreperous fashion

all her own, that the spell seemed broken,
and that tears sprang to his own eyes, as the
ready flood-gates of affection opened.

*this mother's darling! his mother's darling
and mine ! " she continued to exclaim.
** Oh, Master Derval, Master Derval, how
glad we are to have you safe home again ! "

Derval felt a sense of mortification and
disappointment. Of all the sudden and wonderful
changes around him, he, the wandering
sailor, had been kept in utter ignorance !
Why was this ? As a surprise for him,
perhaps, hope suggested.

He found his father grayer, but less lined

in visage than he could remember him, for

prosperity had smoothed out many a line that

Mary had seen growing, to her sorrow.

Derval thought his manner nervous, and that

he welcomed him, perhaps with affection, but

certainly with outward constraint, especially

when under the cold and observant eyes of

Mrs. Hampton ; and when the latter put her

15 *

large, if wite and shapely, hand into that
of Derval, there flashed back upon his memory
that which he had long forgotten — how
viciously she flogged him in the stable with
her riding-switch for cooling the cat.

She seemed quite unchanged since then, as
young and handsome as ever, for no thought,
care, or consideration would ever write a line
on her smooth forehead and certainly brilliant
face.

^^ This is your younger brother, Derval,"
said his father, as Kookleigh came to take his
place at the late dinner table. He had his
mother's expression of face ; her light hazel
eyes, only a little more green in tint and
shifty in expression, with short white lashes.
Derval went to him cordially, though he was
no longer like the sleeping baby over whom
he had wept on the morning he left home,
but a big hulking boy of eleven years old.

Eook, as they named him, eyed his elder
brother sullenly, distrustfully, and even malevolently,

for already had his mother contrived
to implant in his dawning mind, that
this tall sailor was a species of natural enemy;
but his face lighted up and his manner softened,
when this enemy put a handful of silver
in his hand, and produced the model junk,
some packets of sweetmeats, a jack-knife,
shells, and many knick-knacks, brought specially
for him from far beyond the sea ; and
eventually Master Book, who coveted everything
that Derval had to give, contrived to
*^ screw " loose change out of him on every
available occasion.

Greville Hampton listened with a curiously
mingled expression in his face — disdain of,
and indignation at. Lord Oakhampton, when
Derval related the episode at Bermuda; and
then something of real gratification stole into
his features on thinking that the peer's
daughter should owe her life and existence
to the skill and prowess of his son ! While,
to anything in which Derval shone with

credit, Mrs, Hampton listened coldly, with
disdain nearly expressed in her light-coloured
eyes, and had no word of womanly or well-bred
approbation for the feat he had performed,
and of which the only trophy he
chose to show, was the signet ring of Lord
Oakhampton, with the three coughs under
a coronet, at which Greville gave an angry
grimace, and sat slowly stroking a huge
beard he had cultivated since Derval last
saw him.

^^ And so you like Captain Talbot and your
ship, my boy ? " said he, when Mrs. Hampton
and her peculiar care had betaken them to
the drawing-room, and to change the subject
of the astounding alterations at Finglecombe,
on which Derval had naturally been expatiating.


*' Like the Captain? He is a genuine
brick ! " said Derval ; '^ and as for our ship,
no better sails the sea 1 **

'^ Fill your glass, Derval— that Burgundy

ifs better than any we used to have long
ago."

*' Thanks, Papa — ' Governor,' I suppose I
should call you in the parlance of the present
day — even Book, I perceive, has adopted it''

'bad form, I deem it — very."

Whatever I call yon, you will ever be the
same dear old man to me ! " exclaimed Derval,
as his eyes filled, and he wrung his father's
hand. 'but I should like you to see the
Amethyst under full sail before the wind, or even
close hauled with her tacks aboard ! " he
added, with aU a seaman's genuine enthusiasm
in a really good craft. '^ She does indeed skim
the waves, as if she were the work of magic.
I have often watched her, as Scott describes
the Merton watching Cleveland's vessel, as
^ that rare masterpiece by which human genius
aspires to surmount the waves and contend
with the winds,' and you must know that we
sailors think that a ship, like a woman, has a
will of her own, yet knows what the helmsman

wants of her ; so right was he who said ' she
walks the waters like a thing of life ' — and this
is precisely what the Amethyst does. Buoyant
as a duck, when before the wind, I have seen
her yard-arms nearly touch the great rollers on
each side alternately'*

So multifarious were his father's engagements,
and so much was he pre-occupied by
his schemes, that Derval soon found his own
society could be spared, and one of his first
acts was to visit the quaint old parsonage of
the Tudor times, and present to Mr. Asperges
Laud the grim natural curiosity he had for
him — the head of a shark caught by Joe
Trumpet off Tristan d'Acunha, and which he
had scraped and polished till he had rendered
it, as he thought, a very high work of art
indeed.

To reach the parsonage, he had to pass his
mother's grave, and as he approached the well-known
spot, with his head uncovered, he
experienced somewhat of a shock, it seemed

SO neglected and forgotten ; when under the
Southern Cross, and far beyond the equator,
how often had his prayerful thoughts come
here, and how did he find it now ?

The tiny, but pretty monumental cross,
erected by his father in the days of their
limited means — then almost penury — had
fallen down, and the little patch of grass
under which she lay was choked with weeds !

Even Mr. Asperges Laud had failed in the
work of clearing and weeding it again and
again — often with his own hands. But Derval
resolved that not another day should pass-ere
this desecration should end.

The kind old curate received him warmly
and affectionately, as if he had been his own
father, and with tears in his eyes, held up his
hand to bless him.

Incidentally, he told him of the growing
wealth of Finglecombe, and of the great fortune
his father was amassing. Derval, who
had naturally inferred that such was the case

now heard it distinctly for the first time,
though he had been kept in ignorance of it ;
and, as naturally, he again asked of himself,
why was this the case ?

He strove to crush down the unpleasant
suspicions of — he knew not what — that would
occur to him again and again, and sought to
enjoy to the fall the brief term of his leave of
absence. He sought all his old haunts, but only
to find changes ; the shingly shore, which he
had been wont to seek for hours, and whence
he saw the old weedy hull floating silently in
the bay, was now giving place to a sea-wall
and marine parade ; the Druidical stones that
formed the Pixies Parlour had become road
metal, and the new hotel occupied its site;
the haunted mill with its moss-grown wheel
had given place to a new villa of astounding
design ; and he found nothing unchanged but
the Tiws- stone, or rock, named after the
Saxon god (of the third day of the week), on
the summit of a hill, where in the deep snows

of inter, it is said, that on certain nights are
traced the marks of a naked human foot, and
of a cloven hoof, while the shrieks of the
*' whist hounds " are heard with the winding
of unearthly horns, in the hollow below the
hi.

So for a time, a very little time, he gave
himself up to the full enjoyment of the sleepy
country life, which was so unlike what he
had been leading for fully four years past.

Yet in his father's house he felt singularly
homeless ; by the side of him whose blood he
inherited and of the brother whose blood he
partly shared, he felt as one without kindred,
and ever and anon the thought occurred to
him, 'what brought me here? I had no
pressing invitation certainly ; let me get back
to the Amethyst again ! "

Still stronger grew this desire, when one day
he overheard his step-mother say :

*' Greville dear, we must not have him with
us long — with his sea manners and ways ; his

oaths, no doubt, will come in time, and the
mode of treating the servant-maids too ; for
even they, and the ladies he may meet, are so
different to all he is accustomed to."

"Who sent him to sea'' asked her husband
curtly, for her remarks were alike unjust
and untrue ; but though they had a circle of
rather fashionable friends now, Derval was
conscious that none were invited to meet
him ; and thus coldness on the part of those
who should have made him welcome, requests
often refused, and lectures from Mrs. Hampton,
in a tone unsuited to a lad past eighteen
years, provoked a certain spirit of resistance
in Derval. So far were slights carried, that
one day during his father's absence young
Kookleigh was placed at the head of the
table. To see a boy of eleven years of age
there, made Derval laugh ; but, as Selden

says, "you may see by a straw which way
the wind is," and the preference was only a

part and parcel of her whole system.

One morning, shortly before the time for his
departure came, there occurred two events —
or one, we should say, as each was but a part
of the other — which gave Derval some food
for reflection.

Among the letters for post on the hall-table,
he saw one in Mrs. Hampton's handwriting,
addressed to 'sleeve Eudderhead,
Esq., Mate, Ship Amethyst, West India Dock,
London."

^^Who the dickens is he?" thought Derval;
'* we have no such man, and it is improbable
that there are two ships of the same name in
the same dock."

He inquired of Mrs. Hampton who this
Eudderhead was.

He has succeeded Mr. Girtline in your
ship."

"As first mate? "

'eyes."

Who told you of this ? "

My aunt Eookleigh, by letter."

"And about what are you writing to
him?" asked Derval, so abruptly or suspiciously,
that she coloured with annoyance and
said :

** That is my business; besides, he is my
cousin-german, and was an admirer of mine
in my girlish days'' she added, and left
the room.

Soon after Derval was in the library, penning
a letter to Hal Bowline, and while doing
so, the appearance of his own name on the
blotting-pad, several times, in Mrs. Hampton's
handwriting, attracted his attention,
and very naturally excited his curiosity.
The blotting-paper was new, yellow tinted,
and clean otherwise, and anxious to know in
what way she was interested in his affairs, he
deemed himself quite entitled to examine into
the matter ; and he could make out, by the
address which was thereto, that the fragments
he could decipher were part of his stepmother's
letter to her nautical cousin, Mr.

Eeeve Eudderhead, and though unconnected,
they ran thus : —

'* . . . so Derval, you see, is . 2/, mind for
the old love you bore me , . ^ good round sum, rid
. . him in any way , . • had and evil . see
him no more, again . . • ."

Derval read these strange fragments between
hi m and the light again and again, till
he fairly committed them to memory. He
could not make out the mystery, or why she
should be writing about him in any way. He
quite failed to understand it, nor could he
exactly speak of it ; but he had good reason
to remember it when several degrees of latitude
lay between him and Finglecombe.

He felt that his visit there had been a
mistake ; that his father was all but alienated
from him by a step-mother who wickedly
hated him ; that his step-brother was a
greedy, sullen, and most unHkeable youth.
Thus, more than ever, was his loving heart
thrust back upon itself. Why was all this ?

What had he done beyond the crime of being
the eldest son of his father, that his own flesh
and blood should treat him thus ?

He had but one unalloyed satisfaction
during his visit. He received the Albert
Medal for saving the life of Lord Southampton's
daughter, and as he looked on it, his
heart reverted again to the bright little maid
in that isle of *^ Vexed Bedclothes," and he
wished that the Amethjst had been bound for
that region again, instead of Van Dieman's
Land, or Tasmania as we name it now.

So the hour of his departure came, and
with heedlessness and mortification curiously
mingling in his heart, he once more quitted
his home, on the very day preceding one
which Mrs. Hampton had fixed for a brilliant
dinner-party, and when she knew that Derval
must, without fail, be on board his ship.

London : Printed by W. H. Allen & Co., 13, Waterloo Place, S.W

"^

OF THE
UN IVLR5ITY
or ILLINOIS

8^23

G764cle

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result In dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

L161— O-1096

BY

JAMES Grant,

AUTHOR OF *' ROMANCE OF WAR," ETC., ETC.

YOL. II.

London:
W. H. ALLEN & CO., 13, WATERLOO PLACE,

PALL MALL. S.W.

1881.

(AU eight? reserved.)

CONTENTS

PAGE

Chapter I. — " A Wet Sheet and a Flowing Sea " . 1

Chapter II.— Turtle Island 48

Chapter III.— H.M.S. Holyrood 82

Chapter Iv—" The Desire of the Moth for the Star " 101

Chapter V. — 'deeper than e'en Plummet sounded" 140

Chapter VI. — A Crushed Heart 165

Chapter VII. — Nemesis . 192

(A Story OF THE SEA.)

CHAPTER I.

^* A WET SHEET AND A FLOWING SEA."

Another long spell of the sea, including
several voyages and some stirring adventures,
was before Derval now, with a protracted
absence from Britain. The ship was not
getting ready for sea, so Captain Talbot was
on shore, when a hansom cab deposited Der-val
and his belongings close by the gangway
that led on board, where he was warmly
welcomed by Joe Trumpet and Harry Bowline.


VOL. n. 1

'« So GirtHne has left us, Hal ? "
*« Yes, in bad health."

** And what sort of fellow is his successor?"
asked Derval as they descended to the cabin.
*' He is simply horrid— a cad, a brute ! "
exclaimed Bowline. *' He is in the hold just
now, and if a cask fell out of the sings on
his head, it would be a good thing for all onboard.
He is so different from poor Girtline ;
he looks like an old pirate, and has stopped
our promotion ; but you see, Hampton, the
owners think us rather young for further
advancement yet. Steward, a couple of
gross ; the sun is over the fore-yard ! "
** When do we sail?"

"I don't exactly know, but I wish we saw
Blue Peter up ! "

<* This Eudderhead — " began Derval, thinking
of the mysterious letter.

** You '11 have enough of him in time, I
doubt not. He has already caused much ill-blood
on board."

'* He plays the tyrant in the Captain's-absence
; he has stopped the men's grog for
next to nothing, though he is seldom quite
sober himself ; he sent two of the apprentices
aloft, and had them lashed to the topgallant
shrouds, in sight of all the people ; and, Hke
a beast as he is, had the lashings wetted that
they might shrink a trick he must have picked
up in the Canton river! He refused Joe
G-rummet leave, and me too, though there
was no duty to do but the anchor-watch," said
Bowline, referring to the two or three men
appointed to look after a ship while at anchor
or in port. *' But hush! here he comes
lumbering down the companion-ladder —
screwed, I have no doubt."

Step by step he came down, his large splay
feet, thick legs, the broader part of his person,
his great back, short neck, and bullet-like
head all appearing in succession. He looked
full and scrutinisingly at the new-comer,

1 *

while Hal, taking off this cap, bowed to each,
and said mockingly :

*' Mr. Derval Hampton — Mr. Eeeve Eud-
dread ; Mr. Eeeve Eudderhead — Mr. Derval
Hampton."

The first mate eyed both viciously, particularly
Bowline, who finished his grog,
and eyeing him defiantly in turn, went
slowly on deck, singing as he went a grotesque
song:

** We bore away to the Greenland seas till we saw a
mighty whale,
The tremendous length of which, 'tis said, did reach

from the head to the tail, brave boys !
The captain on the bowsprit stood, with the mainmast
in his hand :
Overhaul, overhaul ! let the main-deck fall, and belay
her to the land, brave boys ! ' "

Mr. Eudderhead meanwhile seated himself
on a locker and leisurely proceeded to fill a
clay pipe, while quite as leisurely surveying
Derval. He was a piratical, bull-dog looking
fellow, about forty years of age, with a broad.

swollen visage, which, where it was not red
by grog blossoms and blotches, was covered
by cuts and scars, won in fisticuff battles in
the vicinity of Tapping or the docks. His
figure was powerful and suggestive of enormous
brutal strength. His appearance was
repugnant and dirty; he wore the kind of
uniform prescribed by Curry & Co. for the
officers of their ships, but it was evidently a
second-hand suit, and was already greasy,
foul, and frayed.

As his eyes met those of Derval, the latter
felt, ^^ by instinct swift as Hight," that he was
face to face with an enemy — a worse one
than Paul Bitts — who was, moreover, the
cousin of his hostile step-mother, and no
doubt in frequent communication with her.

'soho!" said he, scraping a match and
lighting his pipe ; *' so you are Derval Hampton,
eh ? "

''I am, as yet, Mr. Derval Hampton to
you, sir," said our hero sharply.

**I beg your pardon, Mister Hampton' said
he, lifting Its cap impertinently.

** Yes ; and I am third mate of this ship."

**I am the first , which you'll find out intime,
so let us know each other at once. I
am a sharp hand at my duty, and stand no
nonsense — so keep a bright look-out, I say ! "
he added, adopting a bullying tone, as he had
evidently been drinking; and he interlarded
his conversation with many ^^ strange oaths,"
which we cannot commit to paper.

*you are, I understand, a cousin of my
step-mother ? '' said Derval, not unwilling to
try and conciliate this truculent fellow, with
whom his lot would be unluckily cast for sometime,


*eyes, first cousin; and she told me to
look very particularly after you."

^' Indeed — very kind of her ! But I can
look pretty well after myself, and others
too."

<*I believe you are apt to cut up rough

on occasions, and lay out to windward if you

can'

*< Indeed ! " said Derval, Ms choler rising.

And I was to see that you did your duty
well, to ship and owners."

**I can do my duty without need of your
supervision'' said Derval, annoyed still more
by the peculiar tone this obnoxious personage
adopted.

And so can I, though I don't belong to
the Royal Naval Eeserve," said he with a
sneer.

Nor are ever likely to do so, unless
you mend your manners and your morals
too."

'* What the — what do you know about
me or my morals?" demanded Rudders
with a black look; *you lubberly
haymaker ! "

**I can guess much — we guess much about
ships that go down, though we may not be
certain about them."

^^Down — what do you mean by or about
down — any particular ship? " asked the other
hoarsely, and with a terrible oath, while
his face grew pale, all save the pimples
and blotches, and his eyes glared like those
of a rattlesnake.

^•' I mean precisely what my words infer**
replied Derval disdainfully, as he quitted the
cabin and went on deck, convinced that he
had, by a random speech, probed some dark
secret in this man's life, and stung him in
some way ; and in the time to come he gained
a clue to it.

How a woman so refined and lady-like as
Mrs. Hampton — for she was both in appearance,
unquestionably — came to have such a
remarkable kinsman it was difficult to say;
but from that hour there was a declared feud
between him and Derval, and both were
prepared to carry it out to the bitter
end.

Derval's indignation was very keen.

"Through all the years he had been away
from home, the tender home-love had never
died in his honest and passionate heart. To
Finglecombe he had sent aU he could give —
letters, presents, and many a token of regard ;
but all in vain ; and now she, who had driven
him from that home — a luxurious one now —
had found him an enemy, and a dangerous
one, in the truculent savage, Reeve Rudders


Derval hailed the return of the Captain onboard
with right good welcome. He was
warmly welcomed by the latter, who said :

"I saw by the London Gazette, and other
papers, that Her Majesty had, at the request
of Lord Oakhampton, given you the Albert
Medal for saving his girl's Hfe ! Long may
you live to wear it, Derval; but now you
must, Hke me, join the Reserve ; you '11 just
be able to manage your training before we
sail."

This was exactly suited to the young man's

tastes and ambition; so Derval was duly
commissioned as a midshipman on board
H.M. training ship President, appeared in his
uniform as such, with the Albert Medal on
his right breast, and performed twenty-eight
days drill, under the Gunnery Lieutenant,
.messing with the officers in the ward room.

This brief sojourn on board Her Majesty's
ship, while so much active and even dirty
work (which Derval luckily escaped) was
being done in the Amethyst, roused the ready
wrath and jealousy of Mr. Reeve Eudderhead
to boiling heat against him ; and consequently,
when Derval again appeared on her
deck, he was greeted by that personage in
this manner : —

** Now, then, Mister Derval Hampton, as
you have done us the honour of coming
aboard again, you '11 perhaps take off that
dandy gold ring of yours, with the three
crows — or are they three mudlarks ? — on it ,;
and go aloft and see to greasing down the

C - -

foretop-mast, and setting np the maintop-mast
backstay'

<« Very good, sir'* said Derval, passing on.

*' A gold ring ! " muttered the bully, aside ;
<* I '11 warrant him as perfect a cock-pit beau
as ever foundered in the lee-scuppers."

<* What is the difference between foundering
and going down ? " asked Derval, as a Parthian
shot, remembering how curiously the word
had stung his enemy before, and a terrible
scowl darkened the face of the latter, ashe
turned away grumbling one of his deep
maledictions.

The cargo was complete now, and the ship
was ready for sea; all the running rigging
had been examined, and that which was
unfit for service removed, and new rigging
rove in its place, together with the studding
gear, and *the chaffing gear," which consists
af soundings or mats, battens, put upon the
rigging and spars to prevent their being
frayed, was all arranged under the eyes of Joe

Trumpet, as the ship dropped down the river,
and was again taken into the Channel by
old Toggle the Deal pilot.

After the two lights on the Lizard Point —
the last they saw of England— melted out in
distance and the obscurity of a February
night, and the Amethyst was altogether clear
of the English Channel, the weather became
delightful, the water smooth, the skies clear,
and as the wind was fair, she ran before it
merrily, without tack or sheet being lifted, till
the latitudes of balmy breezes and sunny days
in long succession were reached.

Every other day vessels were passed, but
after a time the seas became more lonely, and
for many a day no sail would be in sight;
and then a succession of foul winds took the
Amethyst considerably out of her course, and
to the westward.

The crew of a vessel while at sea is
generally divided in two portions, called
the starboard and port watches. The former,

in a merchant ship, is the captain's watch,
but is frequently commanded by the second
mate ; the other, the larboard or port watch,
falls to the chief mate ; and the periods of
time occupied by each part of the crew alternately,
while thus on duty, are also termed
watches.

One night, after Fog — one of the Cape de
Vere Islands — had been passed, with its
volcano 9,000 feet above the sea, all aflame
as it now generally is, after fifty years of
silence, Mr. Kudderhead was so long of
coming on deck to relieve Captain Talbot,
who had the starboard watch from 8 to
12, that he sent Derval below to rouse
him up.

Under all circumstances Derval disliked
coming in contact with this man, who was a
dark and repellent fellow, haunted in his sleep
by nightmares and dreams, amid which ever
and anon — as sometimes when he was irritated
by day — he would mutter horribly of

some sMp going down with all hands onboard.


As Derval entered the cabin, it was lighted
only by a swinging lamp in the skylight,
where, with the tell-tale compass, it vibrated
to and fro with every roll of the ship, and ashe
made his way towards the berth, where
the first mate lay fast asleep with his clothes
on, all ready to turn out, he became aware
that Endderhead was in one of his drunken
slumbers, for he had a store of spirits in his
own baggage, and often imbibed so much as
to endanger the ship when in his care.

He lay on his back, his repulsive visage
half seen and half sunk in shadow by the
partial light of the cabin lamp, and was
evidently haunted by one of his peculiar
dreams just then, and was muttering about a
ship called the North Star,

At first he was actually smiling, and then
an expression of intense cunning and gratification
stole over his face as he muttered —

'good, good; I understand . . . the Marine
Insurance must stump up . • . all the boats
gone save one, save ow^/' he said, in a husky-whisper;
"all but mine — mine! . . . alongside.
Where's the auger? . . . here . . .
now, now, through outer and inner sheathing
. . there is one ! " and his clenched hands
revolved over each other as in fancy he
grasped the cross handle of an auger, and infancy
— could Derval doubt it ? — was piercing
a ship's side. '* Three, four, five . off,
off . . . now she begins to settle in the water
they find she is going down . . now to
scull for the shore . . . four miles . . . How
they shriek, and cry, and howl . . . How pale
their faces look in the moonlight . . . they
threaten, rave, and implore me to return . . .
no help for them . . . down they go . . .
down, down, down, and now they all come
up with their dead faces and white hands
out of the green sea. They glare at me
on every side . . . they grasp the gunwale

of my boat — they clutch me . . . Merciful
Heaven ! "

His muttering terminated in a wail of
horror, then came prayers, with maledictions
on himself and others, as he writhed on his
bed; and in the agony produced by his
dream, which seemed to reach a climax of
unutterable horror, while a cold and clammy
sweat distilled upon his brow, and his muscular
Hmbs shivered like aspen twigs, he
awoke and half sprang out of his berth ; but
the effect of his vision overcame him, and
for a moment he sank back on the pillow,
panting rather than beg-thing.

On seeing that Derval was regarding him,
and conscious that he must have been muttering
though knowing not what he might
have said, a sudden expression of alarm,
mingled with defiance and malevolence, came
into his face, and he staggered up.

I have been dreaming'' said he.

So I see," observed Derval.

'^ See — what did you hears I mutter odd
things in my sleep, I am told. Those who
hear them are not lucky. The last fellow
who did so was lost overboard in the night," he
added, with a diabolical grin.

Derval was silent.

** Speak, I tell you," bullied the other.

'^ Captain's orders are that you are instantly
to relieve the deck ; eight bells in
the first watch have struck," said Derval,
sharply, and went on deck, merely reporting
that Mr. Eudderhead was coming, and the
new watch was already on deck.

Derval acted with judicious care in not
telling the first mate all he had heard ; but
the latter knew what was too often his use
and wont, to mutter in his sleep, and thus a
species of dread of Derval was added to his
ill concealed hatred of him.

The latter confided to Harry Bowline and
to the boatswain the strange revelations
Eudderhead had made in his sleep.

II. 2

'' The XortJi S tar y the North Star \" exclaimed
Trumpet, as lie slapped his thigh, and with
a gulp of astonishment, hy which he nearly
swallowed his quid ; *' why that 's the very ship
as was said to have foundered four miles off
the Scilly Isles, after losing all her boats
save one, in which Kudderhead, her second
mate, reached St. Mary's, and I don't think
the Mercantile Marine Insurance would have
stumped up,' as he calls it, without a fight
for it. I have heard him muttering in his
dreams. I wish he was well out of the ship,
that I do ; good can't come to us with such a
thief on board. My eyes ! how many a better
man has. swung in Execution dock, and had
his poor bones chained to those stumps, as we
may see any day by the Essex marshes. I
never Heed the cut of his jib."

To Derval it was evident that what he had
overheard was no dream or nightmare, simple
and pure, but the recollection of a real event —
the cutting of the North Star, and leaving

her to sink with all hands on. board, the result
of some foul scheme between himself and
someone else ; and now there took possession
of him a great horror of this man,, with whom
he had to sit at table, and to converse and
confer maiden tally while conducting mutually
the duty of the ship.

That the untoward incident of Derval
coming upon him in his dream dwelt in the
mate's memory, was evident, as the former
frequently caught the latter regarding him
with a stern and lowering eye when he thought
his attention was turned another way; and
once, when the mate was partially intoxicated,
said had crept into the long-boat amidships to
keep out of the captain's sight, Derval, who
was busy near the mainmast, heard him
muttering —

"Dreams — a curse upon them! Why wil
they haunt me ? Well, well, let him suspect
what he likes, but he can prove nothing, and
no one can prove anything, and dead men tell

2 *

no tales, as he may find out one day. She
wrote me to serve him out in any fashion to
suit her ; but (here he uttered a terrible oath)
I '11 serve him out to suit myself."

She was, Derval never for a moment doubted,
Mrs. Hampton. Thus he found that to avoid
scrapes, to avoid tyranny, and to escape
positive peril, would require all his care, all
his caution and perseverance now.

Eeeve Eudderhead was, we have said, a man
of enormous strength, bulk, and stature ; every
muscle and fibre in his form had been developed
and turned, as it were, to iron and wire. He
was decidedly a fellow to fear physically, and
to shun morally. He was quite capable of
working anyone a fatal mischief whom he
dished, or who crossed him in the least way,
and the contingencies of a seafaring life afford
such a character many easy chances for doing
so with impunity ; thus Derval did not forget
his hint and threat about the listener who
was lost overboard.

But there were other risks to run on which
he did not calculate.

Thus, one day, a top-maul, or large iron
hammer kept up aloft for driving in or out
the fid of the topmasts, came whizzing down
from the mizen-top, where Eudderhead was
supposed to be busy on something or other.
It crashed upon the quarter-deck, close by
where Derval was standing, and then followed
the cry which always precedes anything being
thrown from aloft : —

*' Stand from under," sang out Rudders


Derval felt himself grow pale, while a fierce
gust of wrath rose in his breast, for this could
not have been a chance occurrence, but a
deliberate attempt to destroy him accidentally,
as it were, in open daylight, and in the face of
the crew ; and there was an unconcealed grin
on the visage of Eudderhead when rebuked
by Captain Talbot for carelessness, and while
making his sham excuses to Derval.

The latter thought deeply over the correspondence
between Mrs. Hampton and her
amiable cousin, and recalled the fragments of
the letter he traced on the blotting pad, and
he now could but construe or connect them
thus : that they were to the effect that as he,
Derval, was in the way (of whom, Eookleigh?),
Eudderhead, for the old love he bore her, and
for a good round sum, would rid her of him in
any mode he chose, so that they might see
him no more.

It was impossible to doubt now that such
had been the tenor of that atrocious epistle.
It might be, Derval thought in his calmer
moments, that she did not mean a deadly
crime to be committed to remove him from
jarring with her son's interests, and that the
affair of the maul was dictated by Eeeve
Eudderhead's own spirit of malevolence and
revenge.

Eut what could she mean ? unless it were
that Eudderhead was to contrive to leave him

ashore in some place where he might perish or
never more be heard of ; or if, when some sick
contingency as a tumble overboard befel him,
to be in no hurry to throw him a line or cutaway
the Hfe-buoy. Anyway, Derval was now
completely on his guard.

He remembered how his predecessor, Paul
Bitts — an enemy from the hour he joined the
ship — by his cruelty, tyranny, and terror, had
blotted out the short life of poor little Tom
Titford on that terrible night at Fernando
Corona ; and he wondered if some such untoward
fate might befal himself at the hands
of this unscrupulous wretch. But then Tom
Tit, as they called him, was but a child compared
with what Derval was now, and he
resolved, as he said to Harry Bowline, *rto
keep his weather-eye remarkably wide open."

As for his growing inheritance, sailor like,
he set no store on it then, and actually cared
little, if he always had a ship, whether every
shilling of it went to Eookleigh, the failings

in whose disposition and character seemed to
soften by time and distance, and often in lone
watches of the night did Derval think he
would try to love him, when the selfish little
Book of the nursery became, like himself, a
man. Was he not his brother, and, moreover,
the nearest kinsman he had on earth ? They
had the same father, though different mothers
oh, so different ! Yes, yes, a day would
come when Eook would cease to be under his
mother's influence, and the bonds of fraternal
affection would naturally strengthen between
them as years rolled on.

Alas ! Could Derval have foreseen the future !

About the time when the Amethyst began to
feel the main equatorial current, one evening
the sea, which had been as smooth as the
Serpentine in Hyde Park on a summer day,
suddenly became torn up by a hurricane,
which a rapid fall in the barometer indicated,
but scarcely in time for preparations to
meet it.

The wind seemed to come from all quarters
at once, as if contending for mastery, and the
spray flew over the ship in blinding clouds.
The weightiest blast struck her on the lee
bow, and, as the yards were braced that
way, she was nearly thrown on her beam
ends.

'^ Hold on ! " was the shout that went from
stem to stern, and every man grasped something
to prevent himself being swept overboard.


For nearly a minute the ship lay in the
same position, when she righted a little, and
then payed off before the blast, when Joe
Trumpet joined the man at the wheel.

Darkness came on with more than tropical
rapidity. Luckily the royal had not been
set, and topsails, close-reefed, were lowered
upon the caps, while the vessel drove before
her courses and forestaysail.

*' We are in for a rough night," said Mr.
Eudderhead grimly, as he tied the strings of

a yellow south-wester under his chin. "A
night as may make some beggar lose the
number of his mess, if it don't send us all to
Davy Jones's locker before morning."

Twice during this short speech his eye
wandered, perhaps unconsciously, to Derval ;
but, as the event proved, the night was ta
have more terror for himself than any man
on board.

The sea which, from the commencement of
the hurricane, had been roused into boiling
surge, dashed over the ship without a
moment's cessation, though she must have
been going at the rate of twelve knots an
hour, but as the light in the binnacle was
extinguished by the tempest, no one could
tell for some time which way her head lay ;
and for a time such was the black fury of the
hurricane, that the look-out ahead could not
see half the vessel's length from her, so thick
were the clouds of spray raised by the force of
the wind, and meanwhile the whole deck was

flooded, and everything loose went washing
away to leeward.

From time to time Derval thought of End-dread,
and while doing his duty kept on his
guard. Amid the hubbub and obscurity of
such time there was more than one opportunity
of working mischief.

Thunder, lightning, and rain were all in full
chorus together for more than an hour, during
which very Httle was said by one man ta
another, save brief orders, or hurried remarks.

'' I think there is a little lull, sir," said
Eudderhead to the Captain ; ^* shall we keep
our wind ? "

'* I think you are right — she is a weatherly
craft, and makes little leeway. Luff her to,
then ! " shouted Talbot, through his trumpet.

The words were scarcely out of his mouth
when a great black sea came thundering like
a mountain over the weather gangway, nearly
tearing the long-boat from its chocks, straining
and starting the lashing of the weather

guns, beating open two of the lee ports, and
nearly sweeping away everything movable.
The hurricane now abated a little; but the
Amethyst had scarcely a stitch of canvas set,
yet the yards being braced up sharply, kept
her steady, while ever and anon brilliant
flashes of green lightning cast a ghastly glare
upon the seething water, and appalling booms
of thunder hurtled through the sky, to die
away in distance.

About three bells, in the middle watch,
there came a cry from the look-out man
ahead —

'^ Sail on the weather bow!"

She had been revealed by a flash of lightning,
and was, Harry Bowline reported, about
half a mile off.

In such a tempest it might be necessary to
give her as wide a berth as possible, and several
night-glasses were in requisition, scanning the
quarter indicated ; and, among others, Derval,
with his left arm round one of the fore-shrouds,

kept his binocular intently to his
eyes, on the look-ont.

Flash after flash came in rapid succession,
vivid, green, and ghastly, and with each they
could all see the stranger, whom they neared
fast, and made out to be a brig with her
topmasts gone, her canvas split to ribbons.
Bobbing up and down, she was visible only
for an instant at a time, and chill fell on all
who saw her, for she was evidently an old
wreck, with no living being on board of her,
though a dead man was seen lashed in the starboard
main-shrouds, and three other corpses
were dangling from lashings in the foretop.

No sound or cry came from that ghostly
craft as the Amethyst swept past her within a
few yards of her stern, just as one more than
usually vivid flash showed her distinctly, with
her torn rigging all hanging in bights and
loops, the dead-lights shipped in her cabin
windows, and her name painted in white
letters underneath them.

*^ Could any of you make out her name ? "
asked Captain Talbot, as the flash passed
away, and the wreck seemed to vanish, when
the thunder burst fearfully overhead.

"I did, sir," replied Derval.

*^ You are very clever, Hampton. Did anyone
else make it out ? I should like to be
sure, for the log-book."

There was no reply from anyone else, and
Derval was silent, for he had a choking sensation
in his throat.

I should like to have some other warrant
for her name, ere I put it in the log, than Mr,
Derval Hampton's," sneered Eudderhead.

** And what did you make out her name to
be?" asked Talbot.

Tete North Star'* replied Derval, for such
was indeed the name he had seen.

^^WliatV* roared Eudderhead, in a voice,
that startled all. ^'It is a lie — a horrid lie!:
He could not have made it out in this
obscurity."

'' How dare you say so ? " asked Captain
Talbot.

^' I am sure of what I assert, sir'* said
Derval, careless of how his words affected his
enemy ; she is The North Star of Whitchurch,''

Something between a groan and a curse
escaped the lips of Kudderhead, whose perplexity
Derval really shared, but with much
of awe, while the former felt much of rage and
hatred, believing, almost hoping, that the
name was Derval's invention, and suggested,
perhaps, by some remark overheard in the
dream, on the night he was too late to reeve
the deck.

'the North Share'' and ^'of Christchurch"
too ! Was it a reality, or a phantom ship
sent to blast the eye-sight and terrify the
heart of Eeeve Eudderhead?

Any way, it was a strange and startling
coincidence, the whole episode ; and the perfect
similitude of the name with that of the
vessel of his dreams, or his crime. This,

together with the terrible circumstances under
which she had been seen, had, for a time, a
calming effect upon the brutal temper and
spirit of the first mate, whose entry of the
circumstances in the log, together with the
details of how the Amethyst was handled in the
hurricane, proved nearly illegible, so tremulous
and uncertain was the handwriting.

As daylight broke the hurricane passed
away, and the clouds cleared; but not a
vestige of the wreck was to be seen, so those
who swept the horizon with their glasses for
her could but conclude that she had gone
down, with her dead, in the night.

The sea was still running very high, and the
Amethyst, having no canvas set, rolled very
heavily. The morning watch, whose duty
extends from 4 to 8 a.m., was now on deck.

*away aloft and cast loose the topsails,"
was now the Captain's order; *' hoist away,
lads — up to the cross-trees with them."
The courses were then let fall, and pleasantly

and steadily the ship bore on, rolling away
before the wind.

Derval, who had never mentioned the
matter of the first mate's dreams and nocturnal
visits to the Captain, had much
difficulty in assuring Hal Bowing and Joe
Trumpet that the name he had given was
that which he had really seen ; for the boatswain
was especially unbelieving. He laughed
loudly again and again, slapped his thigh
vigorously, and Derval's back too, supposing
that the name was all an invention for the
purpose of *' giving that piratical beggar a dig
hitting him on the raw*' and so forth; but
the episode elicited, as usual at sea, a number
of anything but enlivening or hilarious anecdotes,
concerning wrecks and marvels of the
deep.

** The last time I saw any dead bodies

adrift upon the sea," said Joe, "was just

before I shipped aboard this here craft. We

had left Sidney in June, bound for Shanghai,

II. 3

and had fair winds till we reached latitude 6,
south, when the glass fell low, the sea rose
and the wind too, for we lost our fore-topmast,
which snapped off at the cap like a clay-pipe.
The gale increased, so we hauled to the wind
on the port tack, under a close-reefed foresail,
main-topsail, and forestaysail, and plenty of
cormorants were flying about us and perching
on the yard-arms. When the gale
abated, and all but the watch were thankfully
about to turn in, there was a cry of * Wreck
to leeward ! ' and there came drifting past usa
raft made of planks, poles, and spars, on
which was a poor wretch, almost naked as he
came into the world, famished, starving, and
well-nigh raving mad, the last survivor of only
four unfortunate fellows who had escaped from
a sinking ship. On the second day the ship
sank, one of the men fell off the raft into the
water, and was devoured by sharks under the
eyes of the three survivors, around whom
the sea-lawyers began to gather on every side.

A second man died from exhaustion, and tother
two threw him into the sea, hoping that
then the sharks would go and leave them i:»^
peace. But the taste of human flesh seemed]
to increase their longings, and their numbers
also, and still more when the third man fell
dead on the raft and his mess-mate was too
weak to throw him into the sea. They
seemed to swarm up out of the deep now on ;
every side ; they crowded round the frail raft,
which was level with the water, so that every
wave rolled over it. Eagerly the sharks
watched its only occupant on every hand, v
their dorsal fins quivering with hungry longings,
their rows of awful teeth glittering head
over head, side by side, in close ranks. Look
which way he might, he saw nothing but eyes
and teeth — eyes and teeth — and for well-nigh
a week this lasted. He could neither sleep -
nor lie down, for dread of falling into the sea
and being rent piecemeal. The hot sun of
these scorching latitudes beat all day long

3 *

upon Ms defenceless head; he was without
food or water at last, and when we got him
aboard was well-nigh a raving lunatic, and he
had terrible dreams at night, Hke our friend in
the cabin — dreams of sharp teeth and eyes,
sharp teeth and glistening eyes, for long after.
Another day of such work and we might have
found him like his mess-mate, as the newspapers
say, *with the vital spark extinct *'

Greatly to the disgust and annoyance of
Mr. Eudderhead, Captain Talbot, having as
we have said, a proportion of Royal Naval
Reserve men on board, when the weather was
fine, was fond of training the crew to the guns
and small arms, making and shortening sail,
reefing topsails, and otherwise manoeuvring
the ship ; and when she was about the latitude
of St. Helena, it would seem as if the skill
and mettle of her crew were on the point of
being tangibly proved.

Foul winds, as stated, had driven the
Amethyst considerably to the westward of her

course. One day, in the early part of the
morning watch, Derval was regarding with
pleasure, as he often did, the strange beauty
of the early day-break on the vast and wide
expanse of ocean. The first streaks of grey
and then yellow light stretched for miles and
miles along the horizon eastward, indicating
the line where sky and ocean met ; throwing
a broadening sheet of radiance upon the face
of the undulating deep, imparting a weird
beauty to it, which, as a writer says, combined
with the boundlessness and unknown depth
of the sea around you, *' gives one a feeling
of loneliness, of dread, and of melancholy
foreboding, which nothing else in nature can
give."

Day broke and brightened fast, and the
Amethyst was on a wind, with topsails, courses,
jib, and spanker set, when suddenly the cry,
which always attracts attention on board
ship, ** Sail ho ! " was given by one of the
watch.

*where'* demanded Derval.

*« Eight astern, sir'

Derval took the glass from the cleats, where
it hung in the companion, and saw a vessel,
equal in tonnage evidently to the Amethjst,
heading directly after her, with every stitch
of canvas spread. She was a great clipper-built
brigantine.

*' She is following us, certainly," said one
of the men.

"What can she want with us'* asked
another.

Has lost her reckoning — or is out of water
or something else," suggested the first speaker.

** Are you going to shorten sail, and let her
come up with us?" asked Harry Bowline.

Certainly not without orders," said
Derval ; ** go below and report this to the
Captain."

In a few minutes Captain Talbot came on
deck, and took the glass from Derval's hand.
After a time, he said:

'* I make her out to be a sharp-bowed or
clipper-built barque or brigantine, with a
small mast rigged aft, with an enormous fore
and aft mainsail ; she is about 600 tons or
more, and full of men — very full of men, fora
merchant vessel."

'how far is she astern, sir?"

'' About eight miles — I can see the water
curling white under her fore-foot."

'' She shows no colours or signal."

'' Which she would be sure to do if she
wished to speak to us ; any way, we '11 show
her ours. Eun up the ensign."

No response was made to this, and the blue
flag of the Naval Eeserve floated out in vain
£com the gaff; and the silent craft, with its
crowded deck, came steadily on, and was
overhauling the Amethyst so fast that ere long,
as the distance between them lessened, many
coloured and even black faces could be seen
among her crew.

'* She does not require to speak with us,

sir," said Joe Trumpet ; ** she would show
her colours else."

'then what the devil does she mean by
keeping in our wake in this fashion ? " said
Captain Talbot testily.

** Her crew crowd her deck as thick as
bees," observed Joe, when the whole flush line
of the stranger's deck could be seen, as her
head went down into the trough of the sea
and her stern rose alternately. The whole of
the Amethyst's company were on deck now, and
the strange craft was an object of undivided
attention.

*sin these days of steam," said Captain
Talbot, with a smile that was not quite a
smile, ** one may well think that a pirate is
as much a thing of the past as a slaver in
these seas; but the bearing of this craft is
very suspicious, and we must risk nothing with
a cargo so valuable."

Joe Trumpet, who had been looking at her
from the mizen-rigging, now reported that she

had portends partly triced up, and that right
amidships she had something covered hy a
tarpaulin that was certainly not a boat, and, if
not a boat, was very probably a long-range
gun, and that she had a Civilian or Brazilian
look about her, 'that with the coloured lot
on her deck certainly suggested that it would
be as well to give her as wide a berth as
possible."

** Cast loose the royal," ordered Captain
Talbot, ** and set the fore and main studding
sails, and the topgallant studding sails."

This was all speedily done, and the ship
began to tear through the water, on which the
brigantine set her square main topsail, but
still did not show her colours.

** It is clearly a case of chase, and had she
not such a crowd of men — by Jove ! I would
lie to and try conclusions with her," said
Captain Talbot, whose cheek flushed, and whose
eyes sparkled with excitement.

To make the sails draw better, he now

ordered water to be thrown on them, and to
wet them down by buckets whipped up to the
masthead. He then ordered the vessel's
course to be changed more than once, but the
craft in pursuit changed hers in the same
manner, and by noon was drawing nearer and
nearer.

Matters were becoming serious now, and
the excitement on the Amethjst was increasing.
Captain Talbot next ordered the guns to be
cast loose, the powder and small arms to be
brought on deck, with the cutlasses and
revolvers, and a grim expression of something
very like satisfaction mingled with defiance
became visible on the faces of the men, as
they buckled on their waist-belts and filled
their cartridge-boxes.

"Hurrah!" cried Joe Trumpet, applying
the edge of a cutlass to his hard, brown palm ;
*' we '11 tip them a twist of the Royal Naval
Eeserve."

** I hope it won't come to that Grummet/'

said the Captain seriously ; ** she has ten men
for each of us evidently'*

In the tasks of setting more canvas and
wetting it all down from aloft, none had been
more active than Mr. Reeve Eudderhead, but
his bearing became very nervous and restless
when he saw the lines of the guns laid across
the deck, the rammers and sponges laid by
their sides, the port tackles triced to the Hds,
and expected every moment to hear Captain
Talbot issue an order to throw the ship in the
wind.

The latter, however, had no such intention
if it could be avoided. He continued dead
before the wind with all his yards squared,
knowing well that a square-rigged vessel
always sailed better so, while fore and aft
vessels have most speed on a wind ; moreover,
as the breeze was light, he spread more canvas
than the chase could do, having royal,
fourteen studding-sails, and sky-sails fore and
aft.

The entire day all hands remained on deck,
and what food they had was all taken there.
The wind varied a good deal and fell light
sometimes on board the Amethyst, while, as
if by ill-luck, the chase seemed to have it
steadily, and was provokingly enabled to
preserve her distance — about two miles.

*^ Look out ! " cried Eudderhead, ducking
below the gunnel, as a white puff spirted out
from the black bow of the stranger, and a
shot, which came ricochetting along the wave-tops,
dropped into the water far astern of
the Amethyst,

'* A hint of what is in store for us," said
Captain Talbot ; and by sunset she was still
coming on, bringing the pressing breeze with
her, and the snow-white foam seemed to cui'l
higher and higher round the bright copper
that flashed upon her bows.

It was with an emotion of considerable
relief that, after a day of such excitement,
Captain Talbot saw the sun of the tropics

shedding his light like a long level ray of
fire from the verge of the horizon, and going
down beyond the world of waters which were
overspread by a darkness sudden and complete,
for luckily there was no moon, and
the night was a very gloomy one for those
latitudes.

All lights on board were extinguished, the
studding-sails and sky-sails were all taken off
the ship, the course of which was altered four
points ; the port-tacks were brought aft, the
starboard yard-heads trimmed accordingly,
and the Amethyst passed away into the darkness,
leaving astern, floating in the water, a
ship's lighted lantern attached to a barrel asa
decoy — a suggestion of Derval's, and greatly
did the Captain compliment him thereon.

This light, which was visible from the deck,
continued to bob about on the waves for
some time, and no doubt the stranger would
continue to steer directly for it, and very
probably ran it down, as about an hour after

it was set afloat, it suddenly vanished, and by
that time the Amethjst was considered safe, all
the more so that the wind came more aft
for the direction she had taken, and again her
yards were squared, but no light was placed
in the binnacle ; the second mate, Tom Tye-block,
steered her by the light of the stars,
and perfect silence was maintained during the
night.

When day broke not a vestige of the chase
was visible, even from the masthead ; the
guns were made fast, and the portends also,
the arms and ammunition were all sent below,
and the vessel was kept off to her course.

Ere long she reached the 40th degree of
southern latitude, and then her prow was
pointed to the wide and stormy ocean which
divides Africa from Australia ; and now
gigantic albatrosses— the *man-o'-war bird,"
as the sailors name them — were seen around
the ship, with those graceful Httle birds which
resemble swallows in shape and mode of flying,

though smaller — Mother Carey's chickens.
'rand all the world knows, or ought to know,"
as a sapor told Derval, 'that Mother Carey
was an aunt of St. Patrick."

CHAPTEE II.

TURTLE ISLAND.

*< He didn't like seeing the guns cast loose,
and the powder and small arms brought on
deck, this precious first mate of ours*' said
Joe Trumpet one day to Derval, when they
were up aloft; *cos why? he is a coward,
and cowards are always cruel. He was once
a captain, but his certificate is suspended —
though I don't know for how long, but suspended
it is — cos why? He caught a poor
stowaway lad on board, hae dead with confinement
and want of food, and how do you
think he treated him ? He lashed a ring-bolt

with spunyarn athwart his open jaws to
prevent his shrieks being heard when he
ropes-ended him, and trained a dog to bite
him ; he headed him up in a cask and rolled
him round the deck; and this work went on
for days. He made a timber hitch on a line,
and hoisted him by the neck three feet from
the deck at a time, till his eyes started from
their sockets, and blood and froth oozed
from his mouth, flogging him day after day,
till one came, when the poor boy was found
dead under the lee of the long-boat ; and then
his body, without service or prayer, was
chucked overboard.* Now he sails as chief
mate, but I wonder our owners took him
aboard at all."

This anecdote served to increase Derval's
disgust for Eudderhead, who seemed almost
to divine that he was the subject of conversation,
as he stood on the quarter-deck, with

A fact.

II. 4

DEBVAL HAMPTON.

Ms eyes steadily regarding them in tli©''
foretop.

• Amid fine weather, and accompanied by
steady and pleasant breezes, the Amethyst made
the Island of Desolation, or Kerguelen's Land,
the abode alone of petrels, albatrosses, gulls,'
and sea-swallows, on the rifted rocks of which,
washed by incessant rains, nothing grows but
saxifrage — a lonely and most melancholy
place.

After passing it, the ship's log shows that
she encountered a gale, and that the watch
had to take in the main topgallant-sail and
mainsail, with the fourth reef of the topsails;
and set the mainstay-sail. In th evening
she was under close-reefed topsails, a reefed
foresail, and was shipping heavy seas.

Fine weather came again, and one fine
forenoon, a week: or so after, when Derval
had the watch, the cry **Xiand ahead ! '' from
the look-out men caused every glass to be
levelled at a dark-bine streak, that rose like a

cloud from the shining sea, upon the lee bow ;
and a reference to the chart showed that it
was one of those sequestered and seldom
visited isles in the South Sea, in latitude §0
south, and 110 west longitude, and is known
as Turtle Island.

It was rocky, hilly, and seemed to rise fast
from the sea, and to loom large, through a kind
of white haze, exhaled from the latter by the
heat of the sun; thus, by the bearings given,
the reader will see that it was a considerable
distance south of the regular line from Britain
to Australia.

As Captain Talbot was anxious to procure
some turtle, he gave orders to stand towards
it, and about nightfall came to anchor in
seven fathoms water, in a fine sandy bay
where the waves rippled on the beach as
quietly as those^of an island lake, and where
groves of trees grow close to the water's
edge.

The volcanic rocks at tha mouth of the

4 *

^ "•■ ■■■'-, '" '■■ ^- '■ 'jFT.'

bay were literally covered with sea-hens,
gigantic albatrosses, and other feathered
tribes; wild boars and wild goats could be
seen by the glass ere the sun set, but luckily
no sign of inhabitants, on which Talbot
rather congratulated himself, as he knew well
the isle possessed them, and that, like all
other South Sea savages, they were vindictive,
cruel, and hostile to all strangers.

By daybreak next morning two boats' crews,
under Kudderhead and Derval, taking with
them handspikes or capstan bars, pulled inshore
to search for turtle. They beached the
boats at a place where a number of large
turtle were seen, well up on the shore, near
some dense brushwood, out of which black
cocks flew from time to time, and near which
some great seals lay basking in the sun.

In high spirits the boats' crews sprang
ashore, and intercepting the retreat of the
turtle, some of which were of such a size as
to be two or three hundred weight, they

proceeded with the handspikes to turn them
on their backs and leave them thus till several
were captured, and then tumbled into the
boats.

Full of natural interest at treading on new
soil, and looking on that which he had never
seen before, Derval, penetrating through the
brushwood, advanced some hundred yards
upward and inshore, and heard with pleasure
the tender rusting of the leaves in the morning
sea-breeze, while inhaling the perfume of
the aromatic plants and myrtle-trees. The
brilliant green of the woods that crept up the-sides
of the hills, which in one place were so
lofty that the haze shrouded their summits,
were all novel and delightful, after the
monotony of the sea and sky during a long
voyage.

While observing the brilliant tints and
peculiar shadows given by the morning sun to
some volcanic rocks rising from the nearest
grove of trees, he became suddenly aware that.

they were swarming with black savages, whose
weapons, whatever they were, glittered in the
sun, and who from their eyrie were evidently
watching the ship in the bay, if not the party
in quest of turtle on the beach.

He had scarcely made this discovery, when
he became aware that Reeve Eudderhead was
by his side, with what intent he could not
divine. Curiosity had no doubt prompted
him to follow Derval, simply to see what was
to be seen, and opportunity made him suddenly
avail himself of the time to do the fell crime
he subsequently committed.

Enemies though they were, who never spoke
but on inevitable matters connected with ship
duty, Derval could not refrain from drawing
his ungracious messmate's attention to the
watching savages and their hostile aspect,
adding :

*' Don't you think, sir, that we had better
retire ? "

They were already in motion and leaping

down the rocks, with yells, brandishing their
spears and clubs.

*retire?" growled Eudderhead with an
path, ^' I think so, unless we mean to share
the fate of Captain Cook; so here goes for
one. As for you," he added, with one of his
ferocious maledictions, ^* they may pick your
bones, and welcome!" Then whirling the
heavy hand-spike he carried, circularly in the
air, he struck Derval a blow on the back of
the head that felled him bleeding, stunned,
and senseless, among the brushwood!
The moment he had accomplished this
terrible and atrocious act, he went plunging
down to the beach, shouting —

*the savages — the natives are upon us ;
into the boats with you for your Ives, and
shove off to the ship ! "

Alarmed by this cry, and being unarmed,
the party were forced to be content with
what turtle they had got — some seven or eight
—and leaping into their two boats, pushed off

at once from the shore, and shipping their
oars pulled away with a will, just as a naked
horde of dark-skinned savages, perfectly nude,
save in the matter of the bead ornaments that
hung about their persons, shrieking, whooping,
yelling, and dancing like mad things, came
rushing with war-clubs, spears, powerful bows
and arrows, close to the edge of the water,
and even rushing into it up to their waists.

The boats' crews could see their dark,
copper coloured skins, their hair which was
longer and straighter than the wool of the
negro, their gleaming eyes and white glistening
teeth. An arrow or two whistled past,
but wide of the mark, and with laughing
shouts of defiance the party brought their
boats sheering alongside the ship, when the
turtles had ropes hitched round them, and
were quickly conveyed on board.

** Hoist in the boats," was now the order
of Eudderhead, in his guilty haste anticipating
the authority of the captain for doing so. -

In the haste and confusion with which they
had embarked, the crew of each boat probably
thought — if they thought on the subject at all
that Derval was on board the other; nor
was it till the boats were being actually
hoisted in on each quarter, that he was
missed, and Joe Trumpet asked, with some
asperity and much alarm :

** Where is the third mate — where is Mr.
Hampton?"

Then the boats' crews looked inquiringly
and blankly into each other's faces.

** Left on shore ! " said Captain Talbot.
'^ Good heaven ! what a fate he must have
met by this time ! "

*^ We had not a moment to lose, sir, as you
must have seen, if you had been watching
us," said Eudderhead sullenly and with
averted eyes ; his safety was his own lookout
— not mine ; and I think the third mate
could take jolly good care of himself."
- The Captain was silent ; the beach was

now covered by a dingy lorde of savages,
yelling and brandishing their weapons in
defiance at the ship, and he could not for a
moment doubt that Derval Hampton must
have perished at their hands.

As for Mr. Eeeve Budderhead, he had not
the smallest doubt about it either, behaving
that the little life he had left, if any, in
Derval, would speedily be beaten out of him
by the knob-sticks or war-clubs of the
islanders.

All on board — save Eeeve Eudderhead —
sorrowed for Derval, and were loud in their
praises and vehement in their regret (for, as
an officer, he was active, vigilant, and, if distant,
yet most kinds and none, perhaps, more
than Captain Talbot, who valued him highly
for his gentlemanly bearing, good appearance,
skill, and conscientious interest in his duty;
and in all this the Captain was joined by old
Joe Trumpet, who would miss the listener
to many a yarn of the sea, and who sighed

heavily, like a head wind through a hawsehole,
slapped his thigh, viciously chewed his
quid, and clenched his hard first many times,
menacingly, while swearing ** strange oaths'
and objurgating the eyes, Hmbs, and blood of
some individual unnamed, but who was
shrewdly supposed to be the first mate.

Closely did the Captain and his officers
question the boats' crews, but nothing could
be excited from them, save the facts that the
first and third mates had gone a little way
inland together, and the former would seem
to have come back alone ; but yet that Derval
was not specially missed till the boats were
hoisted in ; so Trumpet and Hal Bowline felt
sure there must have been some treachery at
work, and that the most artful savage on
Turtle Island had been Eeeve Eudderhead,
and the brutal indifference of the latter
greatly exasperated them.

What better could you expect of a fellow
who was neither man nor boy, sober nor

sailor ? '* growled Eudderhead. *' A lubber
he was — always reading when be should have
been knotting, splicing, and learning to box
the compass."

Heading was not to the speaker's taste,
though grog was, and he drank it at night
to keep out the cold, by day to cure the heat,
never sipping it, ^'but shipping it in bulk, at
a mouthful," so Joe Trumpet said.

But now, regrets for Derval apart, active
work was cut out for the crew of the Amethyst.

Thick as bees the dark natives seemed to
be swarming around the shores of the bay ;
the alarm and muster of them seemed to be
general, and more than a score of pretty large
canoes, full of armed warriors, padding the
water into foam, howling like madmen, and
all in a frantic state of activity, shot out of
mangrove creeks and other places where they
would seem to have been concealed, and
very soon the ship was nearly environed with
them.

The small arms were all distributed by this
time, the guns cast loose and shotted with
grape, the ports triced up, and the watch
on deck were ordered to prepare for sea.
The courses were let fall, the topsails half-hoisted,
and the ship was sheered to her
anchor, i.e. steered towards it while weighing,
so as to keep the wind and current ahead,
and thus lessen the friction on the hawse-pipe.


If the intentions of these people were hostile,
which Captain Talbot and his crew never
doubted, they were not immediately aggressive,
but continued to paddle round and
round the ship, coming as near as they dared,
as they had probably been fired upon by other
vessels and knew the effect of cannon and
musketry.

The windlass bars were all shipped, but
there was a great and altogether unexpected
delay in getting the anchor a-trip or even
roused. The flukes seemed to hold on to

something, and for a time the bars were vainly
strained in the grasp of the seamen, bnt " the
main piece' or beam of the windlass
remained immovable on its iron spindles, and
the oaths and execrations of Mr. Eudderhead,
who, in his anxiety, began to think of sipping
the cable, were loud and bitter. The month
of the bay was becoming well-nigh blocked up
by canoes, and the minds of all on board the
Amethyst were full of those stories which ever
and anon the public prints give, of the wholesale
massacre of ships' crews by savages in the
isles of the South Sea.

To intimidate them Captain Talbot ordered
a 9-pounder, loaded with a blank cartridge, to
be fired ; but like blank firing on a mob at
home, this precisely made matters worse, for
even while the echoes of the gun pealed otter
the water, seeing no effect followed, the
savages uttered screams of defiance and pulled
closer, with the evident intention of boarding,
and arrows began to whizz over the ship, or

stick quivering into her sides and deck every
instant.

At that instant the clanking of the windlass
pals was heard, a welcome sound; the
anchor was roused, " up-torn, reluctant from
its oozy bed," and was seen dripping a-
cockbill at the cat-heads The topsails were
fully hoisted and the courses sheeted home,
but there was very little wind, so the ship's
progress was slow, and the arrows were flying
faster than ever. Captain Talbot had his cheek
laid open by one, and three of the crew were
more or less wounded, one by a barbed reed,
which cost Dr. Strang the greatest trouble
to extract, and perceiving that the strangers
were taking to flight emboldened the pursuers
who came so close that they were endeavouring
to reach the side plates aid chains.

** Depress the guns to port and starboard,
fire wherever these devils are thickest, and
blaze away the small-arm men," cried Captain
Talbot, whose face was streaming with blood. ,

The savages, their canoes huddled close
together, jostling and crashing side by side,
were now nearly all within pistol-range : thus
the effect of the double broadside, together
with a sputtering fire from the breechloading
rifles over the gunnel, had a terrific effect
upon them. The simultaneous roar of the
9-pounders burst like thunder over the waters
of the bay ; for a brief space the vessel was
shrouded in smoke, and amid it the crew could
hear that the defiant war-yells had given place
to those of terror, rage, and agony.

As the light smoke curled up through the
rigging, or went ahead with the wind, and the
guns were drawn in for reloading, a scene of
terrible devastation became visible. Many of
the canoes were dashed to pieces and floated
in fragments on the water, clutched desperately
by hands that had relinquished the
bow, the spear, or the war-club. Other
canoes were riddled and sinking with all onboard.
Scores of black heads were bobbing

about like fishermen's floats, and all around
the Amethyst the clear blue water of the bay
was streaked with blood.

The groans and gurgling of the wounded
and dying who floated about were somewhat
heart-sickening.

^^ Cease firing the guns," cried the Captain,.
*^ but pick off any scoundrel within range of
the small arms."

Thus from the waist and quarter on both
sides a desultory fire was maintained ; most
deliberate were the aims taken at any blackhead
that appeared, for the crew had been
thoroughly alarmed and exasperated. Just a&
the ship got clear of the bight or little bay
and the wind began to freshen, a most
singular act of retribution took place.

As the guns and ports were being made fast,
Eeeve Eudderhead chanced — for what reason
or by what impulse he knew not — to look over
the side, when he perceived just beneath him
a savage crouching in the main chains dripping
II. 5

with blood from a wound in his throat, and
while hopeless of mercy, fearing to trust
himself to the water while the deadly rifles
were in activity over his head. Finding
himself discovered, quick as thought, with
deadly and unerring hand, he launched a spear
at the first mate's head, and leaping into the
water was seen no more.

The lance, which had a small barbed head,
went right through the two cheeks of Mr.
Eudderhead, who uttered a howl of rage and
anguish, as he rushed back fairly *' spritsail-larded,"
as the sailor's said, and with his
mouth so full of blood that he was soon
speechless and well-nigh choked, for a labial
artery had been cut, and when Dr. Strang
removed the lance, by first sawing off its head,
the haemorrhage was so great that the crew
began to think — if they did not precisely hope
—that the wounded man would *^ sHp his
cable."

The wounds were dressed, a good horn of

grog was next given him, and he was tucked
into his berth, where, doubtless, his reflections
would be of a somewhat mingled character.
His Visage had received a double wound, which,
though he had not much beauty to mar, would
render him unpleasant to look upon for the
remainder of his life. He had no compunction
for his treacherous conduct to Derval, even in
the least degree, and he was chiefly occupied
in surmising whether he had killed him
outright, or if the savages were — like most of
the South Sea islanders — cannibals, what they
might do if they found him dead or alive ; and,
lastly, whether Mrs. Hampton would *^ comedown
handsomely " on learning that she was —
as her letter had it — rid of him ; then he
savagely cursed his present plight, and lay
growling on his pillow, while the breeze
freshened and sail was made on the ship, and
ere night feU upon the sea Turtle Island was
put of sight.

And now to record the retribution referred to !

5 *

The arrow-wounds of Captain talbot and
others progressed most favourably under Dr.
Strang's skilful treatment ; but whether it
was that the blood of Kudderhead was in an
unhealthy state, [or that the spearhead had
been poisoned, it was difficult to discover, as
the hurts he had received, so far from healing,
grew daily worse and worse. His agony
increased till it drove him to madness ; he
could neither eat nor drink. His face swelled
up and became discoloured until he was
something frightful to look upon, and times
there were when his groans, prayers, and
imprecations rang through the whole ship,
and chilled the very souls of the men in the
watches of the night.

To Dr. Strang it was soon evident that he
was dying ; but he had much vitality in him,
and died hard, in his latter hours raving of
the scuttled ship or the stowaway, of Derval
Hampton, and many other persons and events.
The wind was blowing a heavy and increasing

gale, and the Amethyst was scudding under
close-reefed topsails, in a perilous and chopping
sea, when Eudderhead passed away,
clutching the Captain's hands, as if he could
retain him in this world, and passed from it,
impenitent for the past, yet hopeless of the
future ; and the fiat of the doctor was that
the ship could not be too soon rid of his
remains.

At that crisis the brevity of even a funeral
at sea was dispensed with, and he was thrown
overboard to leeward, into the trough of an
angry midnight sea, with four 9-pound shot
at his heels — buried precisely as he had buried
the poor stowaway boy, without a prayer,
finding a grave ** unknelled, uncoffined, and
unknown."

As if his departure had been awaited forby
the spirit of the storm, the latter lulled
rapidly, and, when day broke, the cheerful
cry of *' Land ahead ! " announced that the
bold and rocky south-west cape of Tasmania

was only ten miles distant, and bearing nortli*^
east, with the mountains, snow-capped at
that season, in the hack-ground.

Next day saw the Amethyst working through
D'Encastreaux's Channel, sixteen miles eastward
of it, to her safe anchorage off Hobart
Town, from whence the mail took home the
intelligence of Derval Hampton's fate on
Turtle Island. The fight with the natives
there formed a passing newspaper paragraph,
and, so far as he was concerned, there was an
end of it.

When Greville Hampton — that sorely-changed
man, whose god had become gold
heard of his eldest son's miserable fate, *^Bome
natural tears he shed," as memory went back
to the little golden-haired boy that was wont
to nestle at Mary's knee, in the little cottage
which was as much a thing of the past as
herself. Master Eookleigh Hampton heard:
of it with perfect philosophy, as became, he'
thought, a lad of his years ; and Mrs. Hampton,

as in duty bound, pnt on, for as brief a
period as decency required, a most becoming
suit of mourning. But there was one who,
when he read of the event while glancing
over the newspaper, really sorrowed for
Derval — Lord Oakhampton, who, when he
looked at his happy little daughter in her
budding beauty, and thought of what might
have been, and how nearly he lost her, could
not but regret the untimely fate of the brave
young sailor to whom he owed her life and
safety, and said much to her on the subject
that made the gentle girl feel deeply.

Four more years passed on, and the name
and existence of Derval Hampton became
almost forgotten in his father's house, or was,
perhaps, remembered chiefly by his nurse, old
Patty Grippy

that time Eookleigh, strangely precocious,
had become — in his sixteenth year —
almost a man ere boyhood was past, and
during that part of his career, he showed

indeed how ^^ the child is the father of the
man." Greedy, avaricious, like Mr. Ralph
Nickleby (in his youth) he was wont to lend
to his companions and schoolfellows halfpence
to he repaid by pence, and so forth ; and his
disposition was further largely leavened with
cruelty, which seemed born in him, and bade
defiance to all remonstrance. Servants,
horses, dogs, and even insects felt its virulence,
and when Mr. Asperges Laud spoke
reprehensively on the subject, his mother
would merely urge that 'she was just like
other boys," and that all boys are cruel. And
already in his sixteenth year, by the influence
of companions, though selfish and avaricious
to a degree, he, through the medium of
billiards, cards, and a betting-book, was
utterly wasting the time during which he was
waiting for the rent-roll which his mother
assured him must one day be his. He was
"tall, well-made and well-featured, for both his
parents were handsome, but the expression

of his face, particularly of his shifty green
eyes — for they were less golden-hazel in tint
than those of his mother — proved unpleasant
to all who knew him, and indicated a great
latent spirit of evil and malevolence.

In the succession of his tutors, in the
society with which he mingled, and in all
his surroundings, Kookleigh Hampton had a
thousand advantages that the unfortunate
Derval had never known, yet with them all
he did not eventually make a particular figure
amid the circle in which he moved.

Though lavish enough in his expenditure
upon himself, and even on those who flattered
him, ministered unto him, and made
life lively and pleasant by pandering to his
weaknesses, the leading features of his character
were gross selfishness and avarice or
acquisitiveness, all of which he seemed to
have inherited from his mother, or through
the force of his father's latter thoughts, and
were thus, to the manner, born in him.

As when poor Derval sailed on Ms fatal
voyage, Greville Hampton might be found
daily in his luxurious library, settling mortgages,
signing contracts, adjusting ground-rents,
buying up land and old manor-houses
to remodel or remove for new ones — up to
the eyes among deeds and papers, with old
Mr. Stephen De Murrer, the family solicitor
a denizen of Gray's Inn, who about this time
began to exert himself anew in the peerage
claim of his lucrative employer, and eventually
visited Lord Oakhampton, at his house in
Tyburn, on the subject.

Proud and haughty by nature, though a
scrupulously well-bred and most aristocratic-like
man, his lordship could be very cold and
repellent to those he disliked ; thus his reception
of the stout and deliberate old lawyers
when the latter was ushered into the stately
drawing-room overlooking the park, was
neither soothing nor encouraging.

You are a l)old fellow, Mr. — oh— Mr. "

De Murrer," said the lawyer, bowing.

*'Yos — a bold fellow, sir, to some to me
personally on this subject, of which I admit
having heard before — a claim to my hereditary
peerage by this whilom spendthrift —
obscure beggar, and latterly successful speculative
builder ! Absurd, sir ! The matter
has no face upon it— won't hold water," continued
Lord Oakhampton, scornfully ; ^^ and
anyway, I beg to refer you to my solicitors
at Gray's Inn."

*' If, my Lord — if the assumption that your
great ancestor was summoned by mistake to
the House of Peers, in the reign of Queen
Anne, is proved — and it is also proved that
the real heir was then in existence — the heir
from whom my cent is descended — what
then, my Lord V*

Mortification, exasperation, and pride made
the haughty heart of Lord Oakhampton thrill
painfully, and he listened to this, and much
more that the little lawyer had to advance

as one in a dream. The flies buzzed about
the flowers in a magnificent jadiniere ; a
French clock ticked monotonously on the
mantelpiece; and the busy life of London
outside, went on as a ceaseless stream ; but
he felt as if all this evil were about to happen,
not to himself, but to someone else, in the
confusion and irritation of his mind.

We shall suppose this peculiar claim
made good and clear in law, Mr. — Mr. '*

**De Murrer," suggested the lawyer,
blandly.

'what would be the result*'

^* Can you ask me ? " said Mr. De Murrer ;
most calamitous to your Lordship, I assure

you''

*^ In what way, sir ? "

'' What way ? "

"Don't repeat my words, sir!"

With the title would go lands and estate,
plate, pictures — everything, even to your
Household effects ! "

Lord Oakhampton grew pale — very pale,
yet less at the thought of himself than of his
daughter, for the world was all before her
yet. Rallying a little, he said: —

** You cannot think, Mr. De Murrer, that
I will yield without a struggle — and a desperate
one too ! "

'* Unquestionably not, my Lord ; only *'

*^ Only what ? " he asked, impatiently.

*^ With the solid and simple proofs we "

** Proofs that must be submitted to the
legal acumen and most searching analysis of
my law advisers ! '*

^^ Indubitably, my Lord ; yet the dates are,
fortunately for us, not remote ones."

'indeed!"

** Your Lordship's great-grandfather Derval,
to whom a great mass of the estate came by
marriage with the Moins, was called to the
Upper House in the year of the Union with
Scotland, 1707, and sat in the first British
House of Lords, as the direct heir of Derval,

Lord Oakhampton, who was forfeited inter
Edward IV., but was restored by Henry VII.
for bis service against the King of Scotland
; yet your great-grandsire was so sum-^
money in ignorance that bis eldest brother,
wbo bad quarrelled with bis family, was
not dead, but was married, and settled in
Bermuda, were be became ancestor, in the
third degree, of Greville Hampton, now of
Pinglecombe."

'^ Intolerable dry-adust stuff this ! " exclaimed
Lord Oakbampton, bis pride and
passion rising again. ** Do you imagine that
I am an entire committee of privileges, to
listen to all this twaddle, and that the title
that bas come to me, through a long Hne of
stainless ancestors, is to be disturbed by the
outrageous pretensions of an obscure colonists
grandson. Moreover, sir, do you think that
I am also unaware bow men of your trade
make it their business to rake up such claims
if they can, and assume to guide the destinies

of the rich and noble, as the means of bringing
money to their own coffers?"

To this somewhat injurious speech, the
Little lawyer only shrugged his shoulders, and
smiled deprecatingly, as he replied :

I can easily understand, and well pardon,
your Lordship's natural irritation at the prospect
aU this action-at-law involves ; the loss
of rank and position — wealth and political
influence ; your daughter, at her very entry
into life and society, reduced, like yourself,
to the condition of a commoner; the newspaper
comments — the nine days' wonder of
London ; the sneers of the once servile, and
the mockery of the malevolent, and of aU
who take a cruel delight in strange reverses
of fortune ; but I would beg of you to think
over the matter to be contended; for the
mere announcement that not only was your
title about to be contested, but your property
litigated, would bring any creditors you have,
like a swarm of hornets on you."

Mr. De Murrer now took his hat and
departed, certain that this Parthian shot was
the heaviest and sharpest he had fired ; and
sooth to say, my Lord Oakhampton felt and
knew it to be so !

His alarm, however, and infinite anxiety,
rather died away when delays ensued consequent
to the disappearance or alleged death
of Derval, and still more by the sudden
demise of Greville Hampton, who was found
lifeless at his desk one afternoon, when at
his usual task of calculating and speculating.

The bulk of all his fortune he left by will
to Kookleigh, while Mrs. Hampton was handsomely
provided for during her life. The
sum of ^500 per annum was set apart for
Derval, in case he was ever heard of ; if not
within a given time, it reverted to Eook-
leigh.

So Greville Hampton was dead, and Kook-leigh
stood at the head of his grave as chief
mourner ; but he was not laid by Mary's side

in the pretty little churchyard where for ages,
yea since Saxon times, ** the rude forefathers
of the hamlet sleep." No, no ; Mrs. Hampton
took care of that; so he was deposited
in the new and pretentious mausoleum of
Cornish granite, in the fashionable cemetery
of *^ the new and rising watering-place of
Fioglecombe," where a special spot was
reserved for herder.

In the matter of the peerage claim, Mrs.
Hampton would have left nothing undone,
of course, to urge Mr. De Murrer in advancing
the interests of her well-beloved son
Eookleigh; but just about the time of her
husband's death, something occurred which
led to a change in her mind, or to indifference
on the subject, and this 'something"
proved to be tidings of — Derval !

II.



Chapter m.

H.M.S. ^' HOLYEOOD.'*

After being struck down by Eeeve Rudders
in the merciless way we have described,
Derval lay long insensible, and when his
thoughts began to turn again to earth, he
was haunted by a dream of home — of wild
grass where the brindled cattle stood knee-deep,
of fields studded with the white stars
of the dog-daisies, the golden buttercups, and
scarlet poppies, of rose-tangled hedges and
meadow-sweet; then came the face and figure
of Eudderhead — and starting, he staggered
up on his hands and knees, weak and giddy

with loss of blood, dim of sight, and his head
racked with pain by the force of the blow.

What sounds were these? Cannon and
musketry and yells in the air, as if the fiends
of the lower world had broken loose. He
remembered the savages from which the
boats' crews were escaping, and with a heart
filled by terrible emotions of anxiety and rage
—anxiety for himself, and rage to find that
he was the victim of a plot between Eeeve
Eudderhead and Mrs. Hampton — he crept
cautiously through the brushwood among
which he had been lying, and where a pool
of his blood yet lay, till he reached the brow
of a little eminence which overlooked the
bay, and arrived in time only to see the last
of the conflict between the Amethyst and the
savages.

The bay was strewed with the floating ruins
of many canoes, and the dead bodies of their
whilom occupants ; others were being paddled
away in hot haste ; the ship was under weigh,

6 *

with lier topsails sheeted home and her head-sails
filled ; — under weigh, and he — unable to
join her, or make any sign or signal — was
left behind !

With all that conviction implied, a great
stupor — the stupor of utter horror — fell upon
him, and he could have wept tears of rage
and despair.

Defenceless, helpless, powerless, almost
petrified by the whole situation, he gazed
after the ship, on which sail after sail was
spread to catch the land breeze, as she
already began to lessen in distance upon the
blue and shining sea ; then sight seemed to
pass from him — a blindness to descend upon
his eyes ; he became faint, and, falling on the
earth, with the last effort of sense, crept
under some of the gigantic ferns, with which
the island abounds, and for a time remembered
no more.

When sense again came, and he looked
about him, the shadows were falling eastward

; the ship had become diminished to a
speck upon the ocean, then reddened by the
setting sun. He gazed after her as if his
soul followed her, and when he could see
even the spectrum of her no longer, a groan
escaped him, and he burst into tears.

On one hand spread the boundless sea ; on
the other, a succession of knolls and hills and
bluffs, with pine covered summits, and little
grassy vales between thon, all glowing under
the gleaming west.

What was to be his fate ?

He dared not speculate upon it, though
whatever was in store for him must be close
indeed now !

Dipping his handkerchief in a runnel he
bathed the back of his head, thus removing
the clotted and extravasated blood, and then
bandaged up the wound with his necktie. A
deep draught taken in the hollow of his hands
from the same pool revived him, and a few
wild peaches, figs, and grapes afforded him

food ; after which hermit-like repast he seated
himself against a rock and strove to think —
to think, of what ? While the lower portion
of the western sky assumed a vermilion hue,
and the upper was violet braced with gold ;
sunk in shadow now, the waves rose with a.
silvery sheen upon the yellow sand, their
ripple alone breaking the stillness of the
place and time; but the moment the sun,
with its tropical rapidity, sank beyond the
sea, all these varied and wonderful tints
passed away at once.

Derval remembered the picturesque elements
of the scene afterwards ; at the time,
he was certainly not in the mood to appreciate
them.

The parrots, pigeons, and straw-necked
ibises had all gone to their nests; some
kangaroo-rats (about the size of rabbits) and
squirrels were flitting about; Derval's first
fear was of snakes, but he saw none.,

The multitude, of savages that, in the

morning had been swarming on the shore,
]ad all disappeared and gone inland to their
kraals and villages ; but how long would hebe
able to elude them ; and as for their habits
and nature, he could not doubt that they
were in any way less terrible and revolting
than those of other South Sea islanders, most
of whom are cannibals.

As he thought of the home he had quitted
years ago, of his father's changed nature and
indifference, his brother's selfishness, his stepmother's
unrelenting malevolence, and Eeeve
Eudderhead's cruel treachery, all culminating
in the present catastrophe, leaving him to
perish helpless and unavenged, excitement
made his wound burst out afresh, and he
staunched it again with difficulty.

The southern constellations came out in
all their wonderful brilliance, and under their
silvery Aught, he sat lost in thoughts that
wrung his heart. How long — even if he
found food and concealment — might it be ere

a slip passed that way ; and if one did, how
was he to attract the attention of those onboard
— show signal to them unseen by the
savage inhabitants of the isle ?

The memory of much that he had read,
of men wrecked or marooned in lonely and
desolate places, together with the fancies of
a quick and fertile imagination, added greatly
to the poignancy of his mental sufferings.
For in its desperation his situation was a
maddening one, and calculated to blind him
with horror and despair.

Was he to perish of starvation and exposure
in the groves of the island, or to find a
death of torture at the hands of its inhabitants,
without obtaining even a grave? for
there was a detail in the future after death,
that made his blood run cold to think of.

And was this unthought-of fate to be the
end of all his once bright day-dreams, his
hopes and aspirations ! And were all his
bright ambitions and little vanities— the

vanities and ambitions of ardent youth — to
end in less and worse than utter nothingness?


He feared to move about even in search of
food, lest the track of his footsteps might
be found, for he knew that the aboriginal
of such places can follow as blood-hounds do
but by sight, not scent, and in a manner
that seems incredible to the European — any
track they find, and follow it, too, over grass
and rock, even up a tree ; thus he knew
that were his traces found, he would inevitably
be tracked and discovered, wherever he
went.

So the long hours of the night went slowly
past, and he longed, as a change or relief, for
morning. " Poor fools that we are ! " says a
writer; ^^ our hours are in time so few, and
yet we forever wish them shorter, and fling
them, scarcely used, behind us roughly, as a
child flings his broken toys."

At last exhaustion of the mind and body

brought blessed sleep, and on the dewy earth,
under the shelter of some black and silver
mimosa trees, he slumbered heavily till the
noon of the next day was well advanced, and
the sun shone in the unclouded sky.

He had a dream of the now defunct cottage
at Finglecombe, as it existed when he was
wont to play by his mother's knee, or watch
with childish wonder his silent father, a
moody and discontented man. He started
and awoke, recalling an old Devonshire superstition,
that to have a dream of one's childhood,
when in maturity, was a sure sign that
something was about to happen.

^' Oh, what may that something be ! " was
his first despairing, rather than hopeful
mental thought, and with it came a terror
of what the long and solitary hunger stricken
day might bring forth.

But he was not left long in doubt. There
came distinctly to his ear the familiar sound
Qi an anchor being let go, and the rush of a

qbain-caUe through, a hawse-lisle., followed
by the blowing-off of steam !

A sudden revulsion of thought from despair
to keenest joy — a gush of prayer and gratitude
to God filled his heart, and a shout
escaped his. lips— help, succour, escape, were
all at hand, and already — already !

Forgetful oblivious of what savages might
be near or might see him, he started to an
eminence close by, and saw in the bay, the
very place occupied but yesterday morning
a time that seemed ages upon ages ago —
by the Ametlujstj a stately steam corvette,,
]riding at anchor, and all her snow-white,
canvas being handed with man-o'-war celerity.

She had no. ensign flying, but to Derval's.
experienced eye, it was evident that she was
at British ship. If any of the natives saw
her, as there was every reason to suppose
they did, the terrible lesson taught them by
the guns and small-arms of the Amethyst,
laude them, conceal themselves,, for nothing

was seen of them when Derval rushed to the
beach, and, without attempting to make a
signal or waiting for a boat, and heedless or
unthinking of whether there might be sharks
in the water, plunged into the waves that
rippled on the rocks, and swam off at once,
through the debris of battered canoes and
dead bodies that were still floating about.

** Man overboard — a rope — a rope — stand
by!" he heard voices shouting as he cleft
the water and neared her fast, for he was
a powerful and skilful swimmer, and after a
few minutes he found himself, panting,
breathless, and faint with excitement, past
anxiety and present joy, safe upon the deck
of the ship-of-war, where he was of course,
supposed by all to be a ship-wrecked man —
the last survivor of some unfortunate crew
and found himself overwhelmed with questions.


But none of these could he answer with
coherence, until he was taken into the cabin

of the captain, who at once ordered him wine
and other refreshments. He then told his
story, which elicited considerable commiseration,
and much more indignation at the foul
treachery of which his messmate had been
guilty.

He now found that he was on board H.M.
corvette Holyroodj of 16 guns, an iron ship,
cased with wood, of 5,000 horse-power, commanded
by Captain who came into these

seas with orders to look after any surveyors
of wrecks, and who had been last at the
Closet Islands, that wild and mountainous
group which lies in south latitude 47 and east
longitude 46, and the peaks of which, high
as Ben Nevis, are covered with eternal snow.
He had visited Turtle Island for the same
purpose, and meant now to haul up for
England, via the Cape, St. Helena, and
Ascension.

But for the circumstance of this ship's
fortuitous visit, it is not difficult to speculate

upon what must eventually have been the
awful fate of Derval Hampton !

The latter now found himself recognised
by the third lieutenant of the Holyrood, who
had belonged to the President training ship,
and astonished the rescued man by accosting
him by name, and they shook hands quite
as old friends.

Finding that Derval was a gentleman by
education and bearing, and an officer of the
Royal Naval Reserve, whose name as such
was in the Navy List, the officers of the gun-room
at once requested that he would mess
with them during the passage home, or till
he made some other arrangement.

What other arrangement could he make,
bu rejoin his ship ? and that, as yet, was
impossible.

The homeward voyage was a very protracted
one, and for several reasons the Holyrood was
long detained at the Cape by the Commodore
commanding our squadron there.

It was when lying in Table Bay that Derval
read in an old number of the Times, that
Lord Oakhampton, his meeting with whom
he had well-nigh forgotten amid more exciting
events, had returned home from Bermuda.
Then he thought of Clara, and wondered if
the little maid, with the rosebud mouth she
had given him so frankly to kiss, remembered
the young sailor to whom she owed her life in
the Summer Isles.

The paragraph announcing that Lord Oakhampton
had resigned his governorship, concluded
by stating that strange rumours were
abroad, to the effect that his Lordship's return
was connected with a new and unexpected
claimant to his title and estates, whose pretensions
thereto would soon be a knotty
matter for a committee of privileges.

Derval read aU this with singular indifference.
So keen was his disgust of his own
family, that he cared Httle whether his father
succeeded in his claim or not. One fact he

felt assured of, that it would avail him —
Derval — nothing to communicate to him the
cruel treachery of which his step-mother, and
her kinsman, had made his eldest son their
victim. She would simply deny it, and the
breach made wide enough now by coldness
and indifference, would become more so by
solid mistrust and dislike.

Thus he resolved to go no more near his
home, and hence the long ignorance of all
there as to his movements, and even of his
existence.

When the Amethyst returned home, and
Derval stepped on board of her in the London
docks, old Joe Trumpet, who was smoking
his pipe in the gangway, thought he saw
a ghost, and uttered a roar of absolute terror
! Most extravagant was the joy of the
worthy old salt on being assured of Derval's
identity.

^' Of all my yarns, this beats them — beats
old Boots ! " he exclaimed, as he drew a

match across the sole of his shoe aud relighted
his pipe.

Where is the Captain, Joe ? " asked
Derval.

'* Captain 's in the cabin."

The unexpected visitor descended at once.

'* Just come on board, sir ! " said he,
reporting himself with comic coolness and
gravity.

"Good heavens — can it be — Derval — Der-val
Hampton ! " exclaimed Captain Talbot,
springing up from his writing-desk, and
scattering his letters over the deck, and he
took both DervaFs hands in his own, shook
them heartily, and mutual explanations at
once ensued.

After rejoining the Amethyst Derval made
many voyages with her, and thus four years
and more passed on, till, seeing an account of
his father's death in a paper some weeks old, a
great revulsion of feeling came over him, with
much of repentance for the mutual indifference
n. 7

in which he had indulged ; and a species of
craving came over him to see the home of his
childhood, or rather the place thereof, once
again, for his father lay there in the great
granite mausoleum, and his mother near the
yew of other years, in the old church-yard —
the true ^' God's acre" of Finglecombe ;, and
he longed, too, to see old Patty Fripp.

As for his father, his old face came back to
memory, as he remembered it in. the days of
his infancy, out of the long dim vista of the.
vanished years; and so for a time his whole.
heart went forth to his. father— the father
that loved his mother, and her memory sa,,
before that other came !

Derval was now first mate of the Amethyst,,
Tom Tyeblock having got a ship of his own.
He was moreover a sub-lieutenant of the,
Koyal Naval Eeserve, had done his gunnery
drill again and again on board the training-ship,
drawing the pay of his rank., and messing
in the gun-room.

Qf course lie still connected all that had
befallen him on Turtle Island, with Mrs.
Hampton and her letter to the late Mr. Eeeve
Eudderhead ; thus, after taking the train to
Knglecombe, on reaching that place no power
could make him take up his abode underneath
the roof of his half-brother and Mrs. Hampton.
So he took rooms at the hotel, the ^' Hampton
Arms" (the armorial three coughs), where
Eookleigh visited him promptly enough ; but
the meeting between those two who shared
the same blood, was a strange and unnatural
one, after their long separation, though
Derval's heart warmed to Eookleigh, and was
more stirred than vanity would have permitted
him to owne

What will people think," said Eookleigh,
^* of your being here at an hotel, and not at
home?"

^^ Home ! " exclaimed Derval, with a bitter
laugh.

^^ Yes — it is home."

7 *

** Yours — not mine ; and as to * the people,'
they may think precisely what they please,
my dear Eookleigh.'*

"And what shall I tell mother is your
reason?" asked Kookleigh, who, to do him
justice, was ignorant of much that Derval
knew.

*' Say it is my desire that she should forget
her dear and amiable cousin, Eeeve Rudders
and all connected with him, especially
their epistolary correspondence y" was the — to
Eookleigh — enigmatical, yet bitter reply of
Derval.

Save the surrounding hills and woods, he
found all the once secluded localities of his
childhood so changed by the erection of
marine villas, terraces, and formal promenades,
that he would soon — sin disgust — shave gone
back to London, but for certain influences
that came to bear upon his actions.
Derval fell in love !

CHAPTER IV.

^^ THE DESIRE OF THE MOTH FOR THE STAR."

*^ I HAVE never been so far out from the Marine
Parade before— so far out at sea, I mean."

^* But you are not uneasy — alarmed ? "
asked the young man, with great tenderness
of manner.

^* Ob, no; am I not with youV^ answered
the girl sweetly and simply, as sbe drew offa
glove and let the water slip through ber
slender white fingers, as the boat, urged by
the powerful bands and arms of a handsome
and sunburnt young fellow of twenty-two or
thereabout, clad in a white flannel boating
costume, with canvas shoes and a straw bat,

shot through the water of the bay in view of
Finglecombe.

It was a summer evening. The sun was
setting beyond the Bristol Channel, and seeming
to light its waves with fire. The rocks,
the gardens and orchards along the shore,
and all the villas of *^ the rising watering-place
" were bathed in ruddy light, blended
with a misty golden haze ; and the warm
glow fell on two bright faces in particular.
When the oarsman looked with wonder at the
changes on the shore, as he sometimes did,
the girl looked at him, not in a way she was
wont to do, but with a soft expression in her
tender eyes that he would have given the
world to have seen,

anon, when at some distance from the
Bboi?e, he rested on his skulls, leaving them in
the rowlocks, while the boat floated idly on
the sunlit water.

-^^ Please do not do any more of that" said
the young lady.

"Of what?" asked her companion"*

This tattooing," said she, pointing with
het parasol to his handsome hare arms, on
which he had punctured, in sailor fashion, a
ship in ful sail, three coughs, and other
insignia known to himself alone.

** Ah ! Joe Trumpet did all these one
evening, when we were standing off and on
under easy sail near Cuba," said Derval, for
the speaker was he, and the beautiful girl who
sat opposite to him in the stern-sheets, and
on the dainty cushions of the pleasure-boat,
was Clara, Lord Oakhampton's only daughter.

And now to explain how all this came
about, and that these two were so intimate.

Derval was not long in discovering, from
the visitors' lists, that Lord Oakhampton had
taken, foT the summer months, a villa in
Bayview Terrace, Finglecombe, but had
ignored the existence of the widow of his late
namesake.

This was nothing to Derval, who immediately

called at the villa and sent np his
card, and was warmly received by Lord
Oakhampton, who, we have said, was a tall
and handsome man, with stately manners.
He was elderly now, with silvery hair, but
his fine aquiline features were unchanged in
noble outline and honesty of expression.
After a few mutual remarks and inquiries,

^' I called," said Derval, "to do myself the
honour of personally thanking your Lordship
for the medal for which you so kindly recommended
me."

^' A medal most deservedly won by you,
and my life-long gratitude went with it to
you ! " replied Lord Oakhampton, as did
his daughter, who soon made her appearance,
and saw that their visitor was a handsome
and manly-looking young fellow. His brown
hair was deeper in colour than it had been in
Bermuda, and a slight moustache shaded a
sensitive mouth. His tall and slender figure
had all the strength and grace of manhood in

it, and his manners were unexceptionable.
His early training had made him grave in
manner, thoughtful in expression of eye,
courteous to men and deferential to women ;
in fact, he was all his mother could have
wished him to be.

** Clara, my dear," said Lord Oakhampton
bowing, with much of the old-fashioned
courtesy which certainly did distinguish his
manner when addressing her, or, indeed, any
female of his household, *^ may I introduce
an old friend to you — one to whom, indeed,
you owe much ! "

Clara Hampton looked up with something
of surprise, and saw only a young man like a
naval officer — but a very handsome one certainly
— who answered her inquiring gaze by
a bow and a smile.

*show unfortunate I am to have been
forgotten by you. Miss Hampton," he said.

^^ Forgotten — oh, no, no," she exclaimed
as sudden recognition flashed upon her, and

lightened all her features ; 1 Remember yoti
perfectly, and the sharks' pool and the coral
cavern in Bermuda — you are our namesake,
Mr. Derval Hampton''

And she frankly put both her hands in his.

'you are grown quite a woman, Miss
Hampton*'

She will be eighteen on her nest birthday,"
said her father; ^'but women are by
nature older than men," he added laughingly.

And so it all came about thus.

Every detail of a beauty that seemed to
have no peer, in his eyes at least, did Derval
take in by one swift glance. In all the bloom
of her age, the girl was radiantly bright and
fresh. Her rich brown hair was darker now,
and more luxuriant than ever ; but the violet
eyes were softer and more shy than in the
girlish time, when she accorded to Derval
that kiss over which he fondly pondered now.
But perhaps she was remembering it too. On
her delicate cheeks there was a soft flush, as

of the rose-leaf; her month was perfect in
shape, and sweet. Refined, proud, and lovely,
and she looked — birth stamped on every
feature — a peer's daughter every inch, and in
every way a picture fair to look upon ; and
so thought Derval. Never before had he
dreamed that a woman could be so fair.

He was invited to stay to dinner ; the
invitation was repeated for a second occasion
and a third. Lord Oakhampton had evidently
few friends in that part of the world, was the
modest thought of Derval, and the Bermuda
Isles formed a safe and easy topic for general
conversation when other subjects failed ; and
the usually haughty peer thawed fast and
easily towards his young friend — Httle dreaming
that the latter was learning faster to love
his daughter, and not the less that he deemed
this love a midsummer madness, and too
surely might be only like the desire of the
moth for the star !

They met on the marine parade, on the

shingly beach, and singularly enough in some
of the shady green lanes, that had escaped
recent improvements ; but Miss Sampler was
always with her, a companion now. Derval
felt his heart leap when he saw her, and it
trembled as she drew near him, and as it had
never trembled under human influence before.
He showed her the locket she had given him
at Bermuda. She laughed at first, and then
coloured deeply to find that he wore it
attached to his neck by a ribbon.

Yet after this she neither avoided him, nor
made any change in her demeanour towards
him. What could he deduce from that, but that
she favoured him, or received him as a means
of passing the time in a stupid watering-place.
It was bitter for him to think that she —
secure in a position so far above him in
many respects — might be doing thus; but
from the soft, shy gentleness of her manner,
it was impossible to adopt such a conviction.

Twice, when escorting her to the dinner-table,

lie thought that her hand — how little
it was ! — leant rather fondly on his arm, and
the idea made his heart thrill. Is it a marvel
that his head was turned and intoxicated by
the opportunities offered by propinquity, and
that the secret of his heart was daily
trembling on his lips ?

Was she luring him on to his own
destruction ? Her calm, gentle eye, and
perfect quietude of manner, repelled this idea.
Could he but have looked into the girl's
heart ! At that very time she was asking
herself, what was this young sailor to her?
Why should she feel so deeply interested in
him, for such was indeed the case ! Cold
reason replied that he ought to be as nothing
to her ; yet her heart already told her that
he was something, and more than something
to dream of— to ponder on fondly — to be
sorely missed when he departed — as if his life
were already mysteriously linked with her own.

*^ His Hfe linked with hers ? What folly ! '*

she whispered to herself, as she thought of
her proud father and '' society'*

So now they had taken them to boating on-the
bay ; but Miss Sampler who usually
played propriety in their apparently casual
walks disliked aquatic excursions, and generally
sat reading on the beach, while DervaL
pulled far enough out to be beyond the ken
of anything but a powerful lorgnette^ and of
this Clara generally possessed herself '^ to
see the coast."

On the evening mentioned, when Clara
referred to the tattooing, and made Derval
promise to disfigure his arms no more in
that remarkable way, it may be inferred that.
their intimacy had made considerable progress
the result of the somewhat untrammelled
life they led at Finglecombe — and seldom
does the evening sun fall upon a pair of more
attractive-looking lovers — for lovers they
were undoubtedly — though no distinct word
of love had passed between them.

It lingered, softly as Derval's own eyes, on
Clara's graceful figure, her creamy dress and
soft laces, on lier shining hair, and pretty little
feet encased.in hose of bright cardinal silk and
tiny loftiness the most perfect that Paris could
produce — homines which the folds of her dress
had kindly revealed for a time.

Seeing that Derval was resting, as we left
him — cresting dreamily on his sculls, and
letting the boat drift with the current, while
his soul was full of her beauty, and his heart
seemed at his lips, she said :

'* Of what are you thinking ? "

** Of you," he replied, and he saw that she
grew pale at the idea of what might follow,
and the conviction that she had drawn it on
herself; *^ I was thinking that you could be a
friend good and true, if you chose ; and heaven
knows," he added with a sigh, and timidly
fencing as he thought, '* I want one."

*^ Have you not Eookleigh, your brother of
whom I have heard, but, oddly, never seen? "

To me he is a brother, and no brother ! "

'* I will be your friend," said she, coyly.

'' Ever ! "

*never and always. Think of all I owe
you — that I am here to-day, alive and in the
world, listening to you, and spared to Papa."

Bright ardour filled his eyes, and stooping
he pressed her hand to his lips; but she
snatched it away.

I do not mean friendship of that kind ! "
said she, blushing with anger at herself for
taking, as she thought, the initiative ; then he
too reddened, and a pause ensued.

Clara had not the least idea of flirting ; and
yet the most consummate coquette could not
have been more fascinating in her charming
frankness of manner.

^* Of what are you thinking now ? " he
asked, as her white fingers played with the
shining ripples.

*' Of Bermuda," she replied, with a soft
smile in her averted face.

** You were a child then — five years ago —
and now "

** What am I now ? " she asked, laughingly.

Look into the water where your face is
reflected, and you will see'

'' See— what ? ''

"A face, like no other in this world — tome,
especially."

** Now you talk foolishly."

** God knows, I do — perhaps," said he,
sadly ; *' it is pleasant to dream for the present,
and to forget the coming future, for all this
sweet companionship must end, and when I
return to England again, you will he no longer
Clara Hampton*'

** What then — or who then ? " she asked ina
low voice.

The wife of some happy man."

'* Why are you so sure ? '*

"Of what?"

That he will be happy."

** Could he be otherwise with you ? '*
n. 8

All this was pointed enough ; but both were
fencing — he dreading a repulse, and she
thinking of her father's pride. Yet both were
very pale, and their hearts beat violently.

'^ And how came you to be so assured of all
this ? " she asked, looking down.

^* You are beautiful, rich, noble, Clara ! "

*' You must not call me Clara. Each ? You
think, then, that no one would love me for
myself alone ? " she asked a little bitterly.

'^ I have not said so."

Did you think so ? "

^' Heaven forbid ! but judging from my own
heart, I wish, indeed — indeed "

^^What?"

** That you were as humble and as poor
as the beggar-maid whom King Cophetua
loved."

*' Thank you, a very odd wish ! " she said,
with a low musical laugh.

*^ Oh, do not mock me ! " he exclaimed
bitterly — for no lover likes his heroics to be

made a jest of; but no mockery was in the
girl's heart ; she felt as if dreaming ; she only-felt
and knew that her lover was beside her,
looking more manly and handsome, and more
fascinating, than the first day they met ; but
she thought of her father and his lofty pride,
and said with apparent firmness, yet with a
gasp in her slender white throat, —

'' I do not mock you — oh, never, never think
that of me ; but for pity's sake, talk no more
in this strain ; and do pul the boat in shore,
for I see Miss Sampler is making signals of
impatience."

Though her long lashes imparted a dreamy
depth to the young girl's eyes, there were in
the low, broad brow, firm lips, and clearly-cut
nostrils, evidence of force of character and
strength of resolution.

Derval understood the situation ; he sighed,
shipped his sculls, and pulled in silently,
feeling that he had said enough to show that
he loved her, and that she chid him not, he

8 *

resigned her to her chaperone, and betook
him, full of anxious thoughts, to the solitude
of his room at the hotel ; yet each felt that
they must meet again, or that henceforward
life would be a blank to them ; and eye said
this to eye as they parted on the shore.

It was rather a source of exasperation to
Mrs. Hampton in her stately villa, that Derval
should be so intimate with Lord Oakhampton
and his daughter, while she and her son were
not — were ignored, in fact; and this, with
DervaFs protracted residence at the hotel,
caused no speculation among her friends and
the gossips of the new settlement or watering-place
; and, incited to mischief by his mother,
Eookleigh Hampton began to scheme revenge ;
nor were Patty Fripp's ample and exulting
expatiations on the rare beauty of Miss
Hampton, and the great glory of DervaPs
boating expeditions with her, wanting as a
spur on this occasion.

Lord Oakhampton remarked to himself that

neither by word, act, nor hint, did Derval ever
refer to his late father's dreaded claim to the
coronet. This pleased with him with his
young friend, yet it was not without annoyance
and alarm that he discovered and viewed the
growing intimacy between him and his
daughter, and painfully, indeed, did the latter
blush when he began to remonstrate with her
upon the subject ; and her pain was all the
deeper by a knowledge that she had brought
it upon herself.

Seated together with her father in an oriel
window overlooking the bay, her mind, as
evening darkened and the moonlight came
upon the water, was full of what had passed
between herself and Derval but a very short
time before, and after a silence of some
minutes she said, with the irrepressible desire
to talk of what was nearest her heart and
uppermost in her thoughts, —

^^ Have you ever remarked. Papa, what a
handsome young man Mr. Hampton is ? "

Lord Oakhampton started quickly, and
looked at her, but Clara's face was hidden in
shadow.

** Of course I have observed it," he replied ;
he is not only handsome, but distinguished-looking,
for a man of his class. He comes of
a good family."

^^ Yes — is he not some relation of our own
Papa ? "

*' Has he ever said so — does he talk of such
a matter ? " asked Lord Oakhampton, in a
changed tone.

*^ Oh, no. Papa, but he strikes me as sa
unlike the men I usually meet."

Lord Oakhampton was silent for a minute ;
then he said, with some asperity of manner, —

Since when has this extreme intimacy
with Mr. Hampton been in progress ? "

** Extreme intimacy. Papa ! " said Clara, ina
tone of dismay, and colouring deeply in the
twilight.

*' Yes ;] you understand me, I presume ? '"

'* I have known him since the day he sent
np his card, and renewed the intimacy that
began at Bermuda."

^' That was but a casual, but very important
episode; but what passed then, under the
circumstances, temporarily, when you were
but a child, cannot be continued or tolerated
now. He is but a merchant seaman ! "

'* A mate, Papa, and a commissioned officer
in the Naval Reserve."

"Pshaw! "

*^ And heir to a large estate."

That is doubtful, Clara ; his brother is
the heir. I know there is much commonsense
in that little head of yours, and I wish
you to bring it to bear upon the present
question. This intimacy is unseemly. Good
heaven ! what would society say of it ? "

Society ! how I do hate that word,
Papa ! "

Indeed ! You are young and inexperienced,
and it is for me to consider that

which may become insolence on his part, and
folly on yours."

Never before bad ber father spoken with
such severity of tone, and the soft eyes of
Clara filled with unseen tears.

*^ Ours is a levelling age certainly ; but
this intimacy carries the game rather far.
It is outrageous ! " be continued, nursing ibis
annoyance, and warming with it.

** But be bears our name, and why may
we not know bim ? If be is a kinsman '*

*' Kinsman ! " exclaimed ber father, with
growing anger, as be recalled the visit of
Mr. De Murrer ; ** the devil ! don't speak
thus ; and as for the mere matter of a
name, one would think you were an old
Scotsman of a hundred years ago, rather
than an English girl of the nineteenth
century ! "

*' I only think of what I owe him. Papa,"
urged Clara, greatly apprehensive that Derval's
name would now be struck off the visitor's

Must — but prudence forbade such an order as
yet.

'^ It is possible you may think too mucli/'
continued Lord Oakhampton, greatly ruffled ;
** but remember, Clara, that this young man
is 'as much out of your world as one of
yonder boatmen in the bay ! "

*' Do not suppose, dear Papa, that I will
ever do aught unbecoming your daughter. I
have always done my best to please you,"
she added, as her graceful figure bent over
him, and a white arm stole round his neck,
while her sweet face grew almost softer in
expression, as she caressed him.

But she now discovered the truth of the
German proverb, '* Speech is silver, silence is
gold," and knew to her infinite mortification,
that by her first remark on Derval's appearance,
and her attempted defence of their
friendship, she had thoroughly awakened the
suspicions of her father, of whose old hostility
to the Hampton of Finglecombe she knew

nothing; and the results were that her
liberty was much more circumscribed than it
had been. There was no more boating on the
bay, and Miss Sampler was for ever on duty
now. Forbidden to think of him, she cherished
the idea all the more. To her, Derval, honest,
manly, straightforward, and single-hearted,
seemed worth all " the white-handed glittering
youth " she had yet met with ; and
thus it was in vain that her father urged that
he did not and never would belong to her class
in society — even by thought, culture, and
education ; but, in some of the latter premises,
his lordship was in error. Yet, too keenly
aware of what the claims were that Derval,
or interfering friends for him, might urge to
the title he held, he could neither forbid
him his house nor request that he would
cease to address Miss Hampton

To Derval the idea of these claims never
occurred; he felt that there was a change
now, that he saw Clara more seldom, and

never alone. Whether this was her own
desire, or that of her father, he could not tell ;
he only knew that the first stirrings of a
deeply-absorbing love were quickening his
pulses and thrilling in his veins. He had
heard of the desire of the moth for the star,
and felt himself somewhat akin to that foolish
insect indeed. She was the daughter of a
peer, and in the fulness of that thought, and
the greatness of his passion, he forgot that he
might yet be a peer himself !

Time was passing on — day followed day,
and he missed the sweet companionship sorely.
Her face was ever before him in all its soft
beauty and variety of expression ; her voice
seemed ever in his ear, as he conned over her
utterances, and recalled her attractive and
pretty little modes of manner. He was never
weary of watching the roof that covered her,
the windows she might be looking from, or
the walks where he might chance to meet,
even to see her ; and he resolved, that come

what might, he would not go away without
declaring how he loved her, without telling
her the old, old story, that was first told in
Eden ; and that he would never forget her,
and never love another.

The time for his departure was drawing
near now, and thus he was a prey to the most
terrible anxiety.

He felt that the relief of words he must
have, or his heart would sink. So much had
this strong passion become a part of himself,
that he felt and thought that he would rather
be dead and buried with her, than that she
should become the wife of another. And yet
such separations come to pass every day, and
no one dies of them, so far as the world
knows.

He had gathered courage from what he
could read in her eyes, more than once, when
he had met her and her chaperone, and they
had lingered together, talking the merest
commonplaces, but with their hearts very full

indeed, and Miss Sampler keenly observant
of their words and actions. Thus he had resolved
that there should be no mistake when
the opportunity came, and come it did one
day, most unexpectedly, when he met her
suddenly, alone too, and then, all the world
seemed to stand still !

It was in one of the last places where he would
have thought to meet her unattended — at the
Nutcrackers Rock, an ancient logan-stone,
which rests, as it were, upon a keel, so that a
push rolls it from side to side, at each vibration
being arrested by a stone, against which
it knocks. Hence its name, and it stands ina
wooded and solitary place, near the shore of
the bay, covered with golden moss and surrounded
by dwarf oak-trees and hawthorns.

She was seated on a camp-stool, and so
intent on her work of sketching it, that he
drew near her unperceived, with his heart
beating almost painfully, and every fibre
tingling with love and joy. His step aroused

her, she looked round ; a faint exclamation
escaped her, and she dropped her pencil.

^^ Mr. Hampton, you here ? "

'' Thank heaven that I find you as I do,
alone, Clara," said he, picking up the fallen
pencil, and kneeling on one knee by her side
after he did so. They were eye to eye now,
and both were greatly agitated.

'^ Alone, Clara," said he, taking her
unresisting hand, ^' how are you here
alone ? "

'* Miss Sampler has just left me ; did not
you meet her ? "

*^ No, I came by the beach*'

^' And what were the wild waves saying ? "
she asked, smiling honestly and fondly down
on his upturned face.

*' They seemed to sing to me of love and
you, Clara," he answered, in the same joyous
manner, and drawing her towards him he
kissed her tenderly, passionately, and there
was no need for declaring the love that filled

his heart and trembled on his Hps, and yet
he did so in words that filled her heart with
mingled joy and fear — joy, for they were
such as no young girl could have heard
unmoved when addressed to herself — and a
great fear, as she thought of her father, and
all his words flashed on her memory. She
grew pale, and even when Derval's kisses
were pressed upon her cheek in that sequestered
place, she glanced round her fearfully.


'^ And you love me in return, Clara, my own
Clara ? " he murmured, caressing her tenderly
after their first incoherences were
over.

*eyes, oh yes, Derval, I love you I " she
replied.

*^ It is said to be fortunate for us, that the
future is a sealed book," said he, drawing
her head and face caressingly into his neck
and his breast, '* yet I should like to have
known that the Httle girl whose life I saved

in Bermuda was to bo my wife — my own
darling wife — in the years to come ! "

His wife I

The sweet assumption made her tears flow
fast, and hot and bitter tears [they were.
The intensity of his love had touched her,
and delighted her heart ; but these words
recalled her father's remarks and injunctions,
and even while Derval spoke and she responded,
while joining with him in the
delirious joy of the present, she had the
chilling and terrible fear, that this great love
and his suit would prove — all nonsense in the
future, and never come to anything !

I was an awful conviction or fear to have
at such a moment, and the intensity of her
agitation, her sobs and tears, attracted the
attention of Derval.

** My own darling'* he asked, inquiringly,
*why all those tears?"

'' My father, Derval,'*

** You dread his opposition — so do I; but

I would not have him ashamed of me, if you
are not — my own love ! "

'' Derval — we leave this for Paris tomorrow
morning. In the joy of seeing you, I almost
forgot it," she continued, sobbing heavily.

*' To-morrow — oh heavens, Clara ! And I !
next day for a ship — a few days whole seas
will be between us ! We sail for the
Cape."

'* It is awful to think, Derval, that we
may pass out of each others' lives, and be
as if we never met — never known each
other ! "

Why — how ? " he asked regarding her
anxiously.

What can such a secret and forbidden
love as ours, with such a separation, lead to ?
a separation without a place or period for
meeting again, and without a means of hearing
of each others' lives, safety, or happiness'*

As she spake her pearly teeth were set, and
there came into her face something of the
II. 9

expression that Derval had seen it wear in
the boat on the last occasion, force of
character and strength of resolution, young
though she was.

As the reader may conjecture, the sketch
of the famous Nutcrackers Rock was never
finished.

*^ I shall ever thank heaven for the impulse
that sent me to meet you to-day, daring
Clara," said he, as they reached the spot at
which they would be compelled to separate.
'ewe must, and shall, meet again when I
return, for I shall seek you out, wherever
you are, and we must think of each other
every day and every hour. Till then — oh,
my love, till then ! "

Much more was said, brokenly and incoherently,
and they lingered so long, that at
last she had to leave him, blinded in tears, and
with one long and clinging kiss they parted,
as so many lovers have done before, and will
do so again.

They had exchanged rings and locks of
hair in the most orthodox fashion. It was
arranged that Eookleigh should be the
medium through which their correspondence
should be conducted, their letters being
mutually, if necessary, sent under cover to
him. There could be no harm in their
hearing of each other secretly, they thought,
and deemed such an institution necessary for
their happiness — their very existence, indeed ;
for both were rash, young, loving, and enthusiastic,
and both, too, were somewhat
ignorant of the conventional ways of the
world; and to Eookleigh now they both
mutually looked for succour in the great love
that bound their hearts together.

Though his heart was weary with the keen
sorrow of their separation, Derval felt full of
bright hope for the future — that hope which
furnishes all our Chateaux in Espagne, or in
the air — '^ hope that lends us alabaster bricks
and golden mortar to build these castles

9 *

withal ; hope that turns the hue of the stalest
loaf into the richest plum-cake, and the
smallest of beer into the mellowest of Burgundy."


As if chance were already beginning to
favour him, Derval, who did not, and never
would visit the villa at Finglecombe, on
returning to the hotel found his brother
Eookleigh awaiting him there.

*you asked me the other day if I would
do you a favour Eook," said he, ^^ and I
promised to do it — though I was in a great
hurry."

^' Yes — Miss Hampton was waiting for you
on the beach. I saw you meet — well ? ''

*' You must in turn do a favour for me —
and I am sure you will, old fellow ! " added
Derval, and he placed a hand affectionately
on his brother's shoulder, feeling at that
moment, in the great joy of being loved by
Clara, that he forgave him everything, and
could love him too.

He then related to Eookleigh much that
had passed between himself and Clara — told
of their secret engagement— secret, at least,
as yet; showed her engagement-ring, but
failed to see the sneer of Eookleigh's Hp, ashe
kissed it with what the latter deemed
idiotic ardour ; and in the end, begged him
to be the medium through whom their correspondence
was to be conducted ; and to
this Eookleigh, affecting demurrage, ultimately
consented, for which he was extravagantly
thanked and well-nigh embraced by
Derval, who said :

And now, Eook, dear old boy, what is
the favour you wanted of me — in what can I
serve you ? "

An unfathomable expression stole over the
face of Eookleigh at that moment, and his
pale green shifty hazel eyes perhaps never
looked so shifty. Skilfully veiled hatred,
mace, and anticipated triumph were singing
there ; but Derval, whose heart and thoughts

were utterly strangers to passions such as
these, could little have conceived they were
so near him.

We have said that both Mrs. Hampton
and Kookleigh resented Derval's intimacy
with Lord Oakhampton, and the revengeful
feeling of the half-brother eventually took a
very remarkable form.

Seeing that Eookleigh seemed embarrassed,
Derval pressed him to say what favour he
required of him.

'^ I want a thousand pounds sorely on loan
just now," said Eookleigh, in a very measured
voice, while avoiding his brother's eye ; ^^ Know
you have more than double that sum lying at
your bankers, as you have scarcely drawn a
penny of what our good father left you."

^'He left me so little and you so much,
Eook, that I marvel greatly you can want
any more, especially from a poor devil like
me ; but you are heartily welcome to the
thousand ; and as for dear Clara's letters — "

*' They will be fully attended to. Thank
you, dear Derval, I knew you would assist me
if you could. My monetary annoyance is a
very temporary one indeed."

*' There you are — and welcome ! " exclaimed
Derval, as with a dart of his pen he filled up
a cheque and handed it to his brother, who,
after carefully placing it in his pocketbook,
drew forth a document of somewhat
portentous aspect.

ii Why — what is this ? " said Derval.

'* Knowing that you would give me the
money, and that it would be necessary to
give you some admission or receipt for it, I
had this prepared, as time is short."

'' True, I must be off in twenty-four hours.
But what is the meaning of all this, Kook?
The cheque is a crossed one — and I can trust
you — can you not trust yourself?"

Eookleigh's rather pale face was crossed by
a blush as he said —

^^ We never know what may happen, and

if you are to marry Clara Hampton, as I hope
you will, all the money you can scrape
together will be necessary."

'^ But, man alive ! what is all this you have
written here?" exclaimed Derval ; *sit looks
like a title-deed — a marriage settlement —
or a bill in chancery. Surely all this
raggabash is not necessary between you and
me!"

*' For legal purposes it is — you, as a sailor,
are ignorant of the ridiculous tautology of
legal composition ; but if you will affix your
ordinary signature, witnessed by me, in these
two places, without troubling you to read it
we shall post it to old De Murrer for security
in his hands."

*^ All right, old fellow, I'll do anything you
like but read over all that rigmarole," replied
Derval, who dashed off his signature at the
places indicated, and the document was
enclosed in an envelope, addressed to their
mutual agent at Gray's Inn for preservation

and placed in the usual receptacle at the
hotel for letters to be posted.

There is no doubt that it was extremely
culpable and negligent of Derval to sign that
document as he did, without once troubling
himself by an examination of its contents and
nature — all the more so was he culpable, from
the past knowledge he had of Kookleigh's
general character; but his correspondence
with Clara was uppermost then in his
thoughts ; and when the half-brothers parted
for the night, there came into Eookleigh's
face a diabolical smile, and he laughed, ashe
took his homeward way muttering to
himself —

*' How easily that fool allowed himself to
be chiselled out of everything ; but he is a
sailor, ignorant of land life, for sailors go
round and round the world but never
into it ! "

And again he laughed loudly.

On the morrow, the pretty villa at Bayview

was tenantless ; the shrine was empty, so
Derval gladly welcomed the hour that took
him from Finglecomhe, and the change of
scene and occupation that came with it.

Lord Oakhampton had seen of late the
preoccupation of his daughter's thoughts, and
knew the cause thereof. Hence this sudden
Parisian trip ; after which a season in London
would, he hoped, find another whose presence
might obliterate what he deemed to be a
foolish, a girlish, and outre fancy for Derval
Hampton.

Ere the Amethyst sailed, the latter wrote to
her under cover to Kookleigh, who was to
discover Lord Oakhampton's address, and
contrive some means of having it delivered.

The letter, full of passionate love and
longing, of the tender little incoherences in
which all lovers indulge, and many prayerful
hopes for the future, duly reached the hands
of his brother ; but it was fortunate for
Derval's peace of mind that he did not seethe

strange and horrible smile that crept over
the face of Eookleigh as he perused it, and then
tossed it into the fire.

The latter was the receptacle of most of
its successors, and of Clara's too.

CHAPTEE X.

*deeper THAN e'eN PLUMMET SOUNDED."

Derval was back to his old work on the
sea, but now it had lost all zest, and even the
love for and hope of adventure had gone out
of him. His whole soul and existence seemed
to centre in the image of Clara, and his mind
was never weary of dwelling upon it, and all
the minutiae of his late sojourn at Single
and all that had come of it.

She loved him ; he had the dearest
and sweetest assurance of that, and they
were engaged — solemnly engaged; but how,
and when was the end to be ? Their future

was painfully vagiie ! He could scarcely hope
for her father's consent, and without it he
feared that he would never win Clara for his
wife, as he knew, but too well, that though
the name and blood were the same, their
relative positions in life — in that *' society"
in which she moved — were different, far apart,
and that — as yet — he had no place therein.

His imagination was fertile in the art of
self-torment ; and still more did it become so,
as time and distance increased between him
and their parting hour and parting place;
and, after skirting the Bay of Biscay, that
turbulent corner of the seas where, at times,
all their storms seem gathered together, the
Amethyst shaped her course towards Madeira.

On the lone sea by day and in the silent
watches of the starry night of what could he
think but her, and the new and hitherto
unknown emotion she had kindled in his
heart !

He hailed with joy and anxiety the Pico

KtiiYO as it rose from the sea, and the Amethyst
ran into the roads of Funchal, where she
lay-to while Joe Trumpet went ashore for
any ship letters that might have come ahead
of them hy the steam-packet.

Letters there were for the Captain, Harry
Bowline, and others on hoard, but not one
for him, and his spirit began to fall. He
strove hard to console himself with the
doctrine of chances and mischance, and
hoped letters might await him at Ascension
or the Cape of Good Hope.

Enough old Joe Trumpet, a shrewd observer,
especially of those for whom he had a
regard, saw how his countenance changed
when the letters were distributed and none
appeared for him.

*^Iwas sorry to see you so disappointed,
sir," said Joe, as they walked the deck
together that night, after the Pico Kuivo had
sunk into the sea, '^ but I think it is often
better not to get letters when in blue water,

for we can't amend evil things then, as we
might when ashore ; and I had a shipmate,
who lost his life through getting one — and
ont of the smallest post-office in the whole
world*

'' Where is that, Joe ? "

'rit is a harrel that swings from the
outermost rock of the sheer mountains that
overhang the Straits of Magellan, right
opposite to La Tierra del Fuego. E very-ship
passing opens it to place in letters or
take them out, and undertakes their transit,
if possible. It hangs there at an iron chain,
washed, beaten, and battered by wind and
storm ; but no post-office, even in London,
is more secure from robbers. Well, this poor
fellow laid well out on the foretop sail yard,
while the ship was thrown in the wind, to
see what letters were in the barrel. There
was but one, and it was for himself. It was
from his wife, but was sealed with black.
Sitting outside the yard he read it ; then a

cry escaped him, and falling into the sea
between the ship and the rocks he was seen
no more. The letter fluttered aft to where
I stood near the taffrail. It told poor Bill of
his mother's death, months and months
before, and the shock had been too much
for him. But you have come back to the
Amethyst sorely changed, surely Mr. Hampton?"


*^ How, Joe ? *'

«^ Why — all the fun and cheeriness are
quite gone out of you."

*^ They should not, Joe, as there is no reason
therefor. But were you ever in love, Joe ? "

^^ Bless my heart, many and many times,
as long as my pay lasted, and I had to come
aboard again."

*^Ah! Joe," said Derval, laughing, **I fear
you don't know what love is."

*^ Don't I, though!" exclaimed old Trumpet,
as he bit a quid off the twist of pigtail
that was always in his right-hand pocket.

'^ I often boast myself as one of the not-tombstone
squadron of the Royal Naval Eeserve,
Mr. Hampton ; yet I am always done brown
when I am on shore, which is the reason I
generally stick close to the ship, as one can't
fall in love when in blue water and the anchor's
catted."

** Joe, the love I mean is the merging of
your whole existence in that of another;
placing every hope and wish on the will of
another ; living a glad, wild, feverish dream,
with the strange sense that without that other
all life is worthless."

'* Well, I 'm blessed ! On that other, as you
call her, I have too often spent every 'tarnal
penny, and come to grief in the end, and
found myseK toying a hne before the beak.
No, no ! love ain't for me now ; and for you,
perhaps, it as well you didn't get any letters,
for perhaps your girl may have sipped from
her moorings and gone foreign with some other
fellow."

II. 10

Derval laughed at Joe's phraseology, but
said, *this is perhaps my last trip, Joe, and
if I leave the ship I hope to see you a mate of
her."

*' Mate — no, no, Mr. Hampton ; I ain't used
to the luxuriance of a cabin, where knives and
forks and tea-cups is used ; and where the grotto,
the bread-barge, and the mess-kid ain't
known."

The wind was fair, the weather delightful,
and the Amethyst in due time crossed the
equator.

• *^ Let me be patient, let me be patient!"
sighed Derval, when the volcanic peaks of
Ascension, the rendezvous of our African
squadron, came in sight; and the Amethyst,
having sprung one of her topmasts, ran in to
refit. Letters for her came off in a Government
boat. There were some for nearly every
man on board save Derval, whose anxiety was
fast becoming painful.

As at Madeira, he wrote and left a passionate
and appealing letter to Clara, under cover to
bis brother, and sailed in hope for the Cape.
Hope; he could not abandon that! Was
Clara ill? had Eookleigh mismanaged their
correspondence? or had Lord Oakhampton
discovered and intercepted all their letters?
Clara could address letters to the ship — letters
which would follow him all over the world ;
but he remembered that his movements were
somewhat unknown to her, and gathered a
little mental relief from the idea. But from
what did the silence of Eookleigh arise ? He
might at least write and state that he had no
letters to enclose !

Why did she never write to him ? he was
incessantly asking himself. Where were the
fondly promised letters that Eookleigh was to
transmit to him, in exchange for those transmitted
to him for her — passionate letters,
expressing all the complete and wild abandonment
of his heart and soul to an earthly love,

10 *

to which he had given up all that God had
given him.

Times there were when already he began to
have strange and terrible doubts of her. Yet,
why had she been so sweet, so kind, so loving
in her manner to him, if she was but luring
him into misery and disappointment ? She
could not be so cruel — his very life was in
those little white hands of hers — hands that he
had so often covered with kisses. Then he
thrust these aching thoughts aside, and hoped
and trusted that time would unravel and
explain all ; but as yet a black cloud, a pall,
seemed to have come between him, his past
existence, and Clara !

In the life he knew she must lead in the
gay world, where she participated in all that
fashion, wealth, and rank could surround her
with, was she forgetting him ? would be his
tormenting thought anon; and had what he
deemed a mutual love been to her but a seaside
romance, a summer flirtation ? Oh !

what was hCj he would mutter, that she, a
peer's daughter, in her beauty and her bloom,
should remember him ?

If true to him, at all risks and hazards, even
of her father's anger, she should have written
to him ; and passing over Eookleigh, at the
same risks and hazards, he should have written
direct to her, and ended his cruel anxiety if
possible; but he knew not her address, or
whether she had returned from Paris to
England.

"I thought that I had too many reasons
for being happy'* said he, *' a sure sign
of grief to come — of sorrow close at
hand."

At last, after a voyage (including her delay
at Ascension) of more than two months, the
Amethyst hauled up for Table Bay, came to
anchor, and the boats came off from Capo
Town.

"At last, at last — surely now ! " exclaimed
Derval as a letter was given him, and he opened

it with trembling hands. It was from Eook-
leigh, in answer to one he had written from
Madeira, saying that ** Miss Hampton had
never sent a single letter for transmission,"
and nothing more.

What had happened ? What did this cruel
mystery mean ?

He wrote her one cold and brief letter,
almost a farewell, under cover to Eookleigh,
and then an illness and fever came upon him
while the ship lay at Cape Town, and through
the long days and nights there, he lay in his
little cabin, almost mad with his mental
misery — a misery athwart which there came
no gleam of light or hope ; and when next he
came on deck, after many weeks of illness, he
found that the Amethyst, instead of returning
to England, had been freighted for Batavia
under Captain Talbot, and was working out of
Table Bay, and heading eastward for the Indian
Ocean !

Thus it would be long before he should see

or hear of Clara again, and learn the worst
that fate had in store for him.

How little could he imagine, that all he was
suffering — the keenest pangs of doubt, anxiety
sorrow, and disappointment — were suffered by
Clara. Ignorant of his precise address and
whereabouts, the poor girl wrote to him in
secrecy again and again — wrote to him
lovingly, then despondently, and anon with
surprise and upbraiding, under cover to Eook-
leigh, posting her epistles with her own hand,
and trusting none other — posting them with
a prayer on her lips ; and to the recipient — the
supposed medium of their love affair — the
mutual correspondence proved a source of
supreme merriment, and even to his mother
too ; and in the end the fire received it all.

At last Clara knew not what to think ; she
could but wait and hope, but ceased to use
her pen. The conviction that she had stooped
actually condescended — in the acceptance
of his love, added to the poignancy of what she

felt, and filled her, at times, "with indignation
at conduct so singular and unwarrantable.

Fear of Derval's vengeance, if his duplicity
ever came to light, the malevolent Eookleigh
had none ; but he laughed curiously when he
thought of the folly of which his sailor brother
had been guilty in signing the unread document
! And as for the loss of his lady-love,
*^ Derval,*' he thought with a chuckle, *' will
no doubt take to poetry, and writing sonnets
on female inconstancy."
f A somewhat unexpected turn was given to
the then state of the affair, by Lord Oakhampton
once more taking up his abode
temporarily at Bayview, in Finglecombe, the
saline air of which he rightly or wrongly — for
our story it matters little which — conceived
to be beneficial to his health. This to Clara
was most distasteful, as the entire locality
was — for her — full of associations of the past,
that the sooner she forgot the better for her
own happiness.

It was about this time that Derval's last
letter from Clara, written before bis illness at
the Cape, came to the hands of Eookleigh,
and conceiving, from the animus of that in
which it was enclosed, it might seem to widen
the breach between the lovers, he, by the
assistance of little hot water to moisten the
envelope, made himseK master of the contents,
and adding a bitter postscript in
imitation of Derval's writing, he closed it,
and, aware that Lord Oakhampton was
absent in London, resolved to deliver it in
person, and thus achieve, perhaps, an introduction
to Clara.

Inspired by a new and very remarkable
scheme, he repaired to Bayview Villa, and
sending up his card, was ushered into the
drawing-room.

The apartment was 'a double one, divided
by an archway, in which hung curtains of blue
silk, edged with silver lace, and festooned
partly with white silk cord and tassels. There

was a sound, the rustling of a dress in the
inner room ; but at first Eookleigh saw only a
white hand and arm — an arm so taper round
and marvellously beautiful that he had never
before seen anything Hke it. A diamond
bracelet clasped the wrist. The hand slightly
parted the curtains — for Clara was there, with
his card in her hand, striving to still the
painful beating of her heart.

Then her whole figure appeared : a girl tall,
slender, perfect in grace and symmetry, her
dark violet eyes full of earnest inquiry, the
sweet lips and mignonne face, all expressive of
it too. Lovely, dainty, and refined, Clara
Hampton stood before him.

Would she osier him that lovely hand
permit him to touch it ? was his first thought ;
but in a second more it was placed confidingly
within his own; while Clara, who blushed
deeply at first, now grew pale as the new-fallen
snow. '
- Never before had he stood in the presence

of a girl so quietly patrician in bearing and
appearance.

"Mr. Kookleigh. Hampton?" said she,
glancing at the card, and with enforced
calmness of tone and manner.

Derval's brother'* replied the traitor, and
no other introduction was necessary, though
at the mention of Derval's name, he could
see how anxiety mingled with hauteur in her
sensitive lips and eyes.

^' You are, of course, aware of the arrangement
my brother made about — about your
letters ?" said Eookleigh.

** You sent him all mine ? " asked Clara ina
breathless voice.

All — and I have one here for you — whether
a reply, or not, I cannot say."

'' Only one ! "

The first and only one," replied Eookleigh,
who, with all his effrontery and duplicity,
felt that he never before stood in such a
presence, and could scarcely remember how

he answered her ; for his mind was filling fast
with admiration, his heart beat fast, and his
brain seemed to burn.

*'A letter from Derval at last! His first
letter too — yet it would explain ! " were her
first ideas. ^' Be seated, Sir, and for a moment
or two, pray do excuse me."

She retired back beyond the silk hangings,
and rapidly made herself, more than once,
mistress of the contents of that letter, one
of coldness, brevity, and farewell — farewell
without further explanation — a letter the
strange tenor of which startled and bewildered
her.

Clara's agitation and confusion were excessive
; but sorrow succeeded to surprise in her
heart, and indignation to sorrow.

**A11 is over and ended between your
brother and myself, Mr. Eookleigh,'* said
she, with a painful swelling in her slender
white throat.

*' His letter displeases you? " asked Eook-

leigh, scarcely knowing what to say, and
feeling his heart for a moment fail him.

Read it* said she, haughtily.

He scarcely required to do so, yet he
affected to peruse it, and then knit his narrow
brows.

How cold this letter is ! but in it there
lurks some mystery," said he.

What mystery. Sir ? " • ^. .

I know not — I only know that above all
things the human heart is deceitful ! "

After a pause, during which both remained
silent, and Clara had nervously, half unconsciously,
crushed and crumpled up the odious
and disappointing note — for it was scarcely
even a letter — in her small and tremulous
hand, Eookleigh proceeded to make apologies
for the strange conduct of his unworthy
brother, and to express his own pain, shame,
sorrow, and so forth, in terms well chosen and
uttered.

*^ He is peculiar*' he added, " always was

SO ; thus Ms oddity of disposition caused him
to be sent to sea. I can assure you, my dear
Miss Hampton, that he never got on well with
the mother or me, or with anyone else, in
fact. Then, sailors will be sailors Miss
Hampton, and are said to have loves in every
port''

He continued to linger and utter his regrets,
till the silence of Clara indicated that she
was weary of his presence and desired to be
left alone — alone to her own reflections and
misery — and the young squire of Single
bowed himseK out, well pleased
with his morning's work, and resolved that
this should not be his last visit to Bayview
Via.

He was well aware that Clara Hampton,
though just turned eighteen, had been the
queen of the last season in London, and that
though other queens were there as proud and
pure and marvellously fair, yet there was
hone who apparently had remained so unspoiled

by the homage offered. Flattery left
her untouched ; and beautiful and nobly born
though she was, no weekly journal yet dared
to make her portrait an inducement to purchasers,
and no photo of her appeared in any
London shop-window to court the comments,
admiration, or ribaldry of every passing
*^ cad'* or ruffian.

It has been said — with what truth we know
not — that no idle man can resist the temptation
of seeking to fascinate a handsome girl,
while at the same time eclipsing another
man. Thus, could Eookleigh have any compunction
about eclipsing that half-brother
of whose proper position in the family he
was so jealous, and whom he had been so
studiously reared by his mother to view with
a rancorous and most unholy hate ?

Certainly not, and to this amiable end,
Eookleigh resolved to leave no means
untried to introduce himself to Lord Oakhampton.


Chance meetings — chance apparently — in
the railway train, and elaborate civilities
proffered by Kookleigh, the offers of cigars,
periodicals, and so forth, led to an exchange
of words; and though the peer was unpleasantly
struck by the young man's names
and then knew precisely who he was, for
certain cogent legal reasons he deemed it
wise and well to be civil to him, and an
invitation to Bayview followed — an invitation
which Eookleigh was not slow to accept ;
and soon, by making himseK useful in fifty
different ways, he became then a regular
sea-side visitor ; though, as the brother
of Derval, his welcome was of a somewhat
mingled kind by both father and
daughter.

Mrs. Hampton was intensely gratified by
this unexpected intimacy, of which, however,
by failing health, she was, perhaps luckily,
unable to avail herself.

To Eookleigh the idea did occur at times,

as to how he was to account to Derval for
the non-transmission of Clara's letters for
him to the ship, the owners, or their agents
abroad ?

Well — that was a matter for future consideration
; meantime he had the signed
bond, and that laid Derval at his mercy !

The lovers were meanwhile beginning to
think — nay, to be assured — that their worst
fears were becoming raised ; Clara deeming
that Derval, as his brother had alleged, was
*'a very sailor '*; and he, that Clara was
only true to the instincts of her cold-blooded
class, and had already forgotten him, or cast
him off, for some new, richer, and titled
object ; and Kookleigh rubbed his long lean
hands, and puckered up his green eyes with
quaint delight, as the plot seemed to
thicken.

Clara had never striven even to like him,
though the brother of that Derval she had
loved so well — nay, loved in secret still.
II. 11

She saw the base metal in his composition,
and always detected a something in the
tone of his voice, and in the expression
of his face, that roused an undefinable
emotion of distrust, as belying in someway
the ease and nonchalance of manner
he affected.

*ewe are a kind of cousins, you know,
Miss Hampton*' said he one day, as he hung
over her at the piano.

'* I do not know that Jwe are*' she replied
coldly.

Permit me to explain to you the degree'*
and he proceeded to do so with extreme
accuracy, as he had just been studying the
matter with Mr. De Murrer, affecting to act in
the interest of his absent brother, but in
reality for his own selfish purposes. But she
only laughed aloud, and said :

"It is rather remote**

** It would not be thought so, in Scotland."


She remembered her father's reply on a
similar occasion, and merely shrugged her
shoulders. Had Derval claimed the kindred
blood, her view of it might have been
different.

The poor girl's heart was ever beating
with *^ a vague unrest " she could well
understand, but had a difficulty in concealing
and acting a part to those around her, to
the watchful eyes of her father especially,
and he began to wonder whether he had
acted wisely in opening his house to Eook-
leigh Hampton.

The latter now learned that the Amethyst
had sailed for Batavia, which would ensure,
even if she returned direct to England, an
absence of at least eight months on the part
of Derval — eight months, of which Kook-leigh
made, as we shall show, a terrible
use.

^* Sailed for Batavia — sailed for Batavia ! "
he repeated. Fate was playing into his

11 *

hands indeed, for long ere Derval could
return, the game would be his own !

So *' deeper than ever plummet sounded,"
was the deep villany of Kookleigh Hampton.

CHAPTER VI.

A Crushed Heart.

In detailing plot and counterplot, cunning
and selfishness, doubt, despair, and no small
agony of spirit, we have much to compress in
the latter pages of this our history.

As the squire of Finglecombe, Eookleigh
was, in every way, a more eligible parti than
his sailor brother ; thus, confident in having
eventually the countenance of Lord Oakhampton,
the former cared very Httle about
the opposition of Clara, his whole anxiety
being to play his cards well, and have her
completely in his power, ere the return of

Derval upset his plans, and this unexpected
voyage to Batavia gave him far more time todo
so than he could at first have hoped for.

Into his nefarious schemes his mother
entered con amove, Derval removed or circumvented
in any way, her son would marry
the heiress of Lord Oakhampton, and eventually
might succeed to the title. Every
scruple died in her heart !

** Do you make any progress with her,
Kookleigh ? " that amiable lady asked one
day.

^' None — as yet," he answered sulkily.

^^ Why, dear?"

*^ She is always brooding over Derval."

*' Though all letters have been intercepted
? "

Yes ; but I have plenty of time, however,
before he returns — if he returns at
all."

At all ! Why not get up a rumour that
he is drowned — or married ? "

Not a bad idea, Mother ; anyway I shall
be sure to succeed," replied Eookleigh,
laughing, with something of the contemptuous
confidence of youth, and ignorance of
the world.

Unaware of the secret impulses that were
working, Clara disliked the apparent intimacy
between her father and young Eookleigh
Hampton. She disliked his constant visits
and something in the bearing he was assuming
towards herself. The little toleration
she had for him at first, as Derval's brother,
passed away with the hope of ever hearing
of ,Derval more, and she had — she knew
not why — a secret antipathy to Eookleigh.

The latter felt this, and all his attempts
to gain her confidence, even to engage her
in a pleasant conversation came to nothing.

Coming upon her one day as she sat on
the beach, she seemed so unconscious of his
approach, that he came close to her side
quite unnoticed.

Then she looked up at him and bowed,
hut her face scarcely wore the semblance of
a smile as she did so.

** Of what were you thinking ? '* he asked,
as he lay down on the pebbles by her
feet.

Nothing," she replied curtly.

** How smooth and pleasant the water
looks — will you let me row you out a Httle
way ? *'

**No, thanks," she replied almost with
asperity.

** You always seem to — to doubt me, Miss
Hampton."

*you think so?" said she, with her lip
curling slightly.

I am sorry to say that I feel it instinctively."


** I do not doubt your honour, at all
events."

** My truth, then ? " said he, colouring.

** Are they not the same thing ? "

** Not always — unless I deceive myself.

** You may — but not me," replied the girl,
almost sharply, for his manner worried her,
and she rose up.

He grew pale with anger, love, and even
hate, curiously mingled, and thought, as he
started to his feet, and walked on by her
side, ^' I'll crush you yet, my proud damsel ! "

After a little pause, he said :

Whatever you think of me. Miss Hampton,
I trust you do not deem me a worshipper
of Mammon ? "

Now, as this was precisely what she did
think of him, young though he was, she
laughed and replied :

The conversation is becoming, to say the
least of it, peculiar and personal. What can
it possibly matter to you, how or what I think
of you''

Dissembling his rage at this contemptuous
question, he said:

*sit matters much, indeed; all would wish

to stand well in your estimation — and I more
than all, Miss Hampton."

*' Well — are not most people worshippers
of Mammon ? "

More, I hope, worshippers of beauty."

His smile became a leer, and while irritation
gathered in her heart, she said :

*^ I know nothing of either — I have lived
only some eighteen years in the world, Mr.
Hampton. But why do you cross-question
me ? " she added impetuously.

'pardon me; because to me all your
thoughts are of the deepest interest, and
I "

^*I do not understand all this'' interrupted
Clara, with increasing annoyance ; '* but here
is our gate, and I must wish you good
morning, Mr. Hampton."

** Good morning." He lifted his hat and
turned away, with a baffled and angry emotion
in his mind, and an expression in his eyes,
that, had Clara seen it, would certainly have

startled her ; but so far as lie was concerned,
sorrow, annoyance, and evil were fated to
come thick and fast now.

Kookleigh's law agents were meanwhile
perfecting the evidences of his own and his
brother's claims successively to the title held
then by Lord Oakhampton. We have already
detailed the angry interview between his
lordship and Mr. De Murrer, and the alarm
with which it inspired him ; and this emotion
was renewed when, from that gentleman,
acting ostensibly in the interest of the absent
Derval, but in reality under the secret pressure
of Kookleigh, came a terrifying legal
missive, to the effect that the whole chain of
evidence was now complete and would shortly
be laid before the world !

There is but one way of compromising with
the absent heir," wrote Mr. De Murrer, good-naturedly
: *' your lordship has no direct heir ;
Mr. Derval Hampton, and then his brother,
are the next in succession; thus, if you do

not marry again, the claim may take its
comes after your demise, if the heirs assent
thereto'*

^* Marry again — and at my years ! '* thought
Lord Oakhampton, bitterly; '^ of that there
is no danger"; but as he thought of his
daughter, the beads of perspiration started on
his brow. He thought of the mutual regard
his daughter and Derval had for each other ;
he saw a means of compromise the lawyer
did not think of, and wrote him to that effect,
begging him not to move in the matter until
the return of Derval; but kept his own
counsel, and said nothing to Clara on what
he deemed their impending ruin ; and his
natural hauteur made him shrink from speaking
on the matter, as yet, to Kookleigh
Hampton.

The latter continued his visits as usual — ►
the whole impending suit being supposed to
be DervaFs ; but Clara kept so sedulously
out of his way, that he could not use

the opportunities he had, of urging his regard
for her; thus, he left no means untried to
win over Lord Oakhampton to his side.

Old, far beyond his years, in calculating
villany, Eookleigh knew well, that though he
might persuade Clara, by a false newspaper
notice, that Derval was dead, the truth or
falsity thereof would soon be proved; he
thought it would be better to assure her in
some manner of his supposed perfidy, and
hence make her more open to the proposals
of a new suitor, and the dedication of that
time to revenge, which otherwise might be
naturally dedicated to grief ; and at Bideford
he was not long in discovering one to be his
accomplice in this deceit — a broken-down
actress, or rather a dancing-girl belonging to
a travelling troupe, whose acquaintance he
had made with considerable facility about this
time.

The girl was pretty, clever, and attractive
in appearance, while destitute of nearly every

scruple — so far as conscience was concerned.


*' You will do this for me, my dear Sally ? "
said Eookleigli, as lie sat toying with her over
some wine, in one of the inn windows that
overlooked the river and beautiful valley at
Bideford.

*^ Of course I will — like a bird, old fellow,
if you pay me** was the confident reply.

Pay you — that I will, my pet — and well,
too! You will have to act the dear, dear
little devoted but deserted wife**

'sto the life, Book— to the life'*

Then a hundred pounds shall be yours'*
said Kookleigh, with something like a groan,
as he deeply loved his money, and the girl
had flatly refused to be his accomplice for less,
and received half the sum in the first instance.

** Then give me a kiss, you dear old fellow,
and I will soon earn the other instalment,"
said the young lady airily, as she got a vehicle
and drove off at once to Finglecombe, kissing

her hand to Eookleigh as long as he was in
view.

We shall soon see the result of their
compact.

It was autumn now, the fields were no
longer yellow with billows of golden grain, as
the breeze swept over the uplands ; the white
cups of the water-lies had disappeared from
pool and pond ; the beeches changed their
hue from green to russet, and the oak leaves
were turning red ; the evening sun had sunk
beyond the waters of the bay, and Clara,
seated alone, in the recess of a window, with
an unread book in her lap, and her eyes fixed
dreamily on the deepening shadows of the
land and sea, felt more than usually depressed,
when she was startled by a servant announcing
'mrs. Hampton," and a girl of somewhat
attractive appearance, though rather flippant
and nervous in manner, and somewhat shabbily
clad, was ushered in.

Clara's first thought was of Eookleigh's

mother, but the years of the visitor showed
she was mistaken.

*you gave the name of Hampton'* said
Clara, inquiringly, as her visitor remained silent.

*eyes, Ma'am — yes, Miss — Mrs. Derval
Hampton, I am."

'you — yon?" exclaimed Clara, startled
and bewildered; '^ I do not understand."

*but you soon will," replied the girl,
affecting to sob; '^if I might take a seat,
Miss — I am weary and faint and ill, and very
sick at heart, too."

Clara trembled very much, though unaware
of what all this was to lead to, but pointed to
a chair, on the extreme edge of which the
visitor seated herself, and seemed very far from
being at ease. She was a little awed by her
surroundings ; then came an emotion of envy
and anger at Clara for her perfect costume
and beauty, her superior position and supreme
purity of aspect, manner, and character ; but
no emotion of compunction for the pain she

was about to inflict, or of shame for the
deliberate falsehood she was about to tell,
came to the soul of Miss Sally Trin.

**Aiid what may your business be with
me ? " asked Clara.

Only to know, Miss, if you have heard of
late from my husband, as he has ceased to
write to me ? "

Clara felt herself grow sick and pale at this
degrading question ; but she asked with much
apparent calmness :

*sand, pray, who may your husband be
girl, that I should know aught of him ? "

*^ Mr. Derval Hampton of the ship Amethjst,
who, I understand, engaged himself to you
while knowing well that I — his lawful wife,
whom he left to starve — was living ! I don't
blame you, Miss," she continued, weeping to
all appearance, for she could act her part welland
professionally, *^ for you knew no better ;
but, thank heaven, I come in time to save
you and unmask him ! "

n. 12

There ensued a pause now— but a pause in
which Clara could hear the beating of her
heart, and then she asked:

** When, and where, were you married ? "

*' In London, Miss, and just after his last
voyage ; Captain Talbot knows me well, and
so does his brother Mr. Eookleigh."

*' And why did he leave you ? " asked Clara,
with a strange and husky voice.

because I am poor; he despised me as
soon as he knew you, and used to go off with
you in a boat on the bay, and leave me to break
my heart weeping on the shore ; for many a
time I saw you both. For what was I but a
toy to be played with, and cast aside when
he was tired of me ; but I am his wedded
wife, as this ring and the register can
testify ! "

The stroller played her part to perfection,
with every word planting a knife in the heart
of the shrinking listener; and deeming that
now she had said and done enough by the few

details she threw in to convince the latter
that she had been cruelly deceived, Miss Trin
sobbed heavily, bowed herself out, and quitted
Bayview Villa with all speed, considering that
the character she had taken in this *^ cast "
was — in a monetary sense— the best engagement
she had ever made.

Clara sat long in the dusk as if turned to
stone, but not a tear escaped her This
sudden revelation of Derval's supposed perfidy
could not give her now the pain it might have
done in time past; his conduct had partly
prepared her for some such catastrophe as
this; and yet how antagonistic— how unlike
his open, gentle, candid, and earnest outward
character, did this accumulation of secret
perfidy seem !

And that tardily dressed damsel had
declared herself his wife 1 His wife I

She recalled the time when that word, as a
term of endearment to herself, had fallen so
sweetly on her startled ear; then a bitter,

12 *

bitter sense of having been insulted and
degraded, was added to her still more keen
sense of utter disappointment in Derval ; and
to her guileless and innocent mind, no doubt,
no thought of suspicion that she might be
deluded, ever occurred.

*^ You have had an unexpected visitor. Miss
Hampton ? '' said Eookleigh, eyeing her pale
face keenly next day.

'eyes."

*^Ah — so have I, one who has explained
aU."

**A11?*'

** My brothers peculiar perfidy, I mean'

"Yes'

**A perfidy for which I blush! You see
that it has been as I suggested, sailors have
entanglements everywhere ; but this is rather
more than that — a legal marriage."

Oh, how dared he — how dared he ! " she
exclaimed, as she clenched her little white
hands, and the look of firm resolve she would

assume at times stole swiftly into her sweet
face.

Some weeks passed on ; Eookleigh became
impatient for action, and during these weeks
a thoughtful and shadowy expression deepened
in the once bright face of Clara, till it became
one of such woeful fear, that the heart of the
father alternately bled with sorrow for her,
and swelled with indignation against Derval.

Every way Clara was a desirable wife, one
of whose beauty, at least, any man might well
be proud. She had inflamed the senses and
fired the vanity of Eookleigh Hampton —
not touched his heart, for he had none, in
the way of a lover, to touch; thus, in the
pursuit of his scheme he could think, speak,
and act, with consummate coolness of head
and demeanour.

He was well-pleased to find that — thanks
to the hints of his mother — the gossips of
Finglecombe, to whom all his actions and
motives were objects of interest, already

coupled his name seriously with that of Clara
Hampton.

Self-contained and well-balanced as she
deems herself, this appearance of Derval's
wife has knocked her off her perch ! " thought
Kookleigh, with a chuckle, when one day his
eye fell on her white hand, as it rested on
the arm of a sofa, and he remarked that the
ring, which he knew Derval had given to her,
was no longer on her engaged finger. She
had removed it — relinquished it — and Rook-leigh
took this as an infallible sign that she
now concluded all was over between the
absent one and herself.

"Good!" thought he, ," good; I 'U make
my innings now ! "

And with a coolness and confidence far
beyond his years, he, with the greatest
deliberation, took the earliest opportunity of
obtaining Lord Oakhampton's permission to
address his daughter.

I should like to repair, if I possibly can

do SO, the evil my brother has done her, my
lord. I do not understand how it is," saide,
" that I have gone on so far with her
without the least encouragement ; but a love
for her has grown rapidly upon me, and this
love has become a part of my life — my very
existence*

** You are very young to talk in this
fashion," said Lord Oakhampton, uneasily.

If she would but care for me ! " sighed
Eookleigh, assuming humility and timidity.

^' It is not my Clara's way to care for any
man as he may probably care for her'

*^ Have I, then, your lordship's permission
to propose ? "

*^ Yes," said Lord Oakhampton, huskily, ashe
thought of his last communication from
Mr. De Murrer of Gray's Inn, and felt himself,
for the first time, the slave of circumstances,
and between the horns of a dilemma*
Indeed, life — save for the few monetary
troubles that sent him to Bermuda — had gone

SO smoothly with his lordship that, until now,
when the claim to his coronet began to take
a tangible and legal form, he had no reason to

inspect Fate of having the least intention of

eating him scurvily.

And with that invincible effrontery and

coolness which were a part of his nature,

Eookleigh, feeling that to a certain extent

both father and daughter were in his power,

went at once to the latter, whom he found

in the drawing-room alone; and, no longer

abashed as he had been at first by her rare

beauty and stately presence — for stately and

patrician was the presence of Clara, even in

her girlhood — he seated himself by her side,

and endeavouring to take and retain her

hand, said, with a nervousness which we

thoroughly believe was assumed:

*^ Miss Hampton, I have your father's permission
to drop the mask I have worn so long."

"What do you mean?" she asked, with
unfeigned surprise.

** To learn, if I can, from your own lips, my
fate."

'' Your fate, Sir ! "

*' The fate of the love I bear you. Miss
Hampton — Clara, I love you, as you must
have known ere now — I love you ; and in
return for mine will you give me back truth
for truth, love for love, trust for trust, your
heart, your life, as fully and freely as I give
you mine ? "

How glibly he rattled it all out ! He had,
probably, learned it out of some novel, for
one might have thought he was in the habit
of proposing every day.

Clara was, at first, astonished and startled,
and a thousand things that she had taken no
heed of, or entirely misunderstood, rushed
clearly on her memory now. Ahead insulted,
mocked, and deluded by one brother, was she
to endure the deliberate and insolent love-making
of another?

She rose and looked at him in silence, and

with an expression of eye not favourable to
his suit, at all events ; but Kookleigh was bono
means abashed, for he was one of those
men to whom the apparently unattainable hasa
peculiar fascination. Clara, with difficulty,
restrained her tears.

** Will you pardon me, if I have been presumptuous
? " said he.

*^ On one condition."

'' Oh, name it ! "

** That you never* dare address me in this
manner again, and never intrude upon me
more ! '*

She was sweeping away with a queenly
grace, when his voice arrested her *

** Miss Hampton, you had better think
twice over this," said he, coarsely ; *' you
may not disdain the hand of a man of wealth
and position some day."

Her only reply was to ring the beU.

** Show this gentleman out," said she to
the servant who appeared; and Eookleigh,

baffled for the time, retired, with his heart
swollen by passion and resentment.

When next he appeared before Clara, his
manner was changed, and her appearance
too.

Her father had set before the astounded
girl the claim these brothers, Derval and
Eookleigh Hampton, could advance to his
title, his estates, and all that he possessed.
That with them lay the power, or alternative,
of waiting till his death gave them the means
of quiet accession, or now declaring open war,
and sweeping away wealth, position, rank,
influence in Church, in State, and in society,
by degrading him in his old age to the state
of the merest commoner, and having him
laughed at as a sham and interloper ; and the
gentle heart of Clara died within her, as she
beheld her father's agony, and read some of
the communications that had lately come
from Gray's Inn.

*^ To save me, darling — oh, my darling, you

will consent to marry the young fellow,"
urged Lord Oakhampton, piteously.

'eyes, Papa," she replied in a whisper,
as he withdrew, saying, 'god bless you,
darling ! " and Eookleigh took his place.

*your father has placed all this matter
plainly before you'' said he, and triumph and
passion glittered together in his eyes, as he
surveyed the beauty of the crushed girl, who
stood before him now with downcast face;
^' there is but one way to escape the evils that
may — nay, must — come upon you and him,
and that is a refuge under the shelter of my
name."

'* I do not quite understand you. Sir," she
replied, with a dazed look in her eyes.

** As my wife, Clara ? **

The words fell distinctly enough upon her
ear — distinctly and deliberately were they
uttered. She did not stir, moan, or weep, but
every drop of blood left her face and lips —
even the delicate hands he grasped so

daringly in his ; and a strange hunted and
desperate yet defiant expression stole into her
beautiful face and remained there.

^* Speak, Clara ; is your answer that which
I venture now to hope and have a right to
expect ? *'

Endearment was unnatural to him, and
his tone and manner were more those of
authority.

Still more deathly pale she grew ; but her
voiceless lips moved, and she sunk on the
sofa insensible; but from that moment the
arrangements for the wedding were carried
forward without delay.

Still more did Fate seem to be playing into
the hands of Kookleigh, when in the shipping
intelligence appeared a notice to the effect
that the Amethyst had perished in a storm in
the Indian Ocean, and that a vessel answering
her description, with the flag of the Royal
Naval Reserve flying at her gaff-peak, upside
down in token of distress, had been seen to

founder; and Eookleigh knew that in the
fulness of time he would be Lord Oakhampton,
if lie had the grace to be patient and wait.
Of this catastrophe Bookleigh made no mention
to Clara, whose spirit seemed so low now
that nothing could depress it further.

^' Child, child," her father would often say,
while caressing her fondly and with great
commiseration, ** by your marriage with one
or other of these men I may die in possession
of my title underrated — underrated, and at
my death, it will go to one or the other."

*^ Oh that Derval had been worthy of me ! "
wailed the girl in her heart.

Old Patty Fripp was gone now to God's
Acre, and with her ended another of 'Hie
innumerable simple and honest lives of pain
and love, that are swept away like the dead
leaves by the winds of autumn," and there
was no one in Finglecombe now, save Mr.
Asperges Laud, to lament for Derval Hampton,
and, aware of Eookleigh's hatred of the

latter, lie bewailed his sorrowful destiny in
strong language.

*' Destiny brings stranger things to pass
than ever you dream of," said Kookleigh,
with a grimace of triumph.

*^ This bearing of yours is shameful ! "
exclaimed the old curate; *^ yea, it is indecent
! What says the gospel of St. John ? "

** Nothing that affects me."

Listen, ingrate ! * He that loveth not,
abideth in death. Whoso hateth his brother
is a murderer. And you know that no
murderer hath eternal life abiding in
himself.' ''

But Eookleigh only laughed, and shrugged
his shoulders contemptuously, at St. John
and his gospel too.

CHAPTER VII.

NEMESIS.

During the long voyage of nearly three
thousand miles to Batavia, Derval's health
and strength came back, but not his old
elasticity of spirit. He had ever one thought
Clara ! and the disappointment and mortification
he endured were keen and bitter.

Now the once happy time of love and
lingering at Finglecombe seemed, indeed, as
an unreal mirage, a vanished oasis in the dull
grey desert of his existence. He ceased now
to seek for such explanations of her silence as
his imagination might suggest ; though times

there were, when a great terror came over
him, that she was dead ; yet it was passing
strange, that it was amid the mighty waste of
the Indian ocean he was fated to hear some
tidings of her — tidings that were, certainly,
somewhat bewildering.

In latitude 12° south and longitude 100^
west, the Amethyst spoke with a large steamer,
from the Need Sea, bound to Australia, and
from which Captain Talbot obtained some
London papers, which proved of keen interest,
when so far from home, though they were a
month or two old.

In one of these Derval saw, among fashionable
gossip, a marriage as being on the tapis
between "the only daughter of Lord Oakhampton
and young Mr. Hampton of Single
Devonshire

Derval could scarcely believe his eyes, ashe

read this strange notice again and again.

What did the mystery mean — or to what or

whom did it point ? Could it be some mistake

II. 13

with regard to • Himself ? Had Lord Oak*
hampton given to Clara his consent to their
engagement. If so, whence her mysterious
silence ? That his half-brother, Eookleigh,
was the person to whom the printed piece of
gossip referred, never once occurred to honest
Derval; but whatever it meant the date of
the paper, some six weeks old assured him
that she must have been at that period alive
and well. This episode gave him much food
for reflection, and his mind wa full of it
when the Amethyst encountered that terrible
gale, in which she did not founder, though
another vessel did so within sight of her.

The tornado, for such it wag, struck her
suddenly, at a time when, luckily for the ship
and all on board, she was running about ten
knots an hour, with all her sails close-reefed,
through haze that thickened fast to warm
rain. The rise of the whirlwind was instantaneous,
and the fore and main topsails were
blown clean out of the bolt-ropes, while a sea

was shipped that rolled aft leaving all ou
deck knee-deep in water.

The wind was not blowing steadily, but,
-strange to say, came in a series of rapid and
dreadful gusts, tearing up the sea in such a
fashion that the whole air was a mass of
foam as high as the mainland. The Amethyst
careened heavily over to her port side with
her gunnel in the water, and her whole deck
float with fragments of sail ropes-spars
and blocks flying about. The masts bent like
willow wands, and overhead all the loose
rigging flew wildly about in loops and bights.

In addition to the thunder of the sea, and
the deep hoarse bellowing of the gusty wind
was the crackling and crashing of blocks and
ropes, of sails and of all loose objects, dashed
hither and thither, as wave after wave
deluged the deck.

timid this hurly-burly of the elements, the
mysterious paragraph was ever in Derval's
mind, and he thought how hard it would be

13 *

to perish now, and never know the meaning
of it, or learn whether happiness or misery
were awaiting him at home.

Home ! how mighty was the waste of
waters he had to traverse ere he could see
its white cliffs again.

So violent was the fury of the storm, that
to see the hands aloft endeavouring to furl or
secure the fragments of the topsails, was
calculated to strike terror, as momentarily
they seemed in danger of being whirled off
into the air.

Half a mile distant a partly dismasted ship,
with the flag of the Royal Naval Eeserve flying
reversed at her gaff-peak, could be seen rising
and falling beautifully on the long waves, atone
time showing all her bows and nearly all
her side, anon the whole line of her deck
swept of everything from stem to stern, with
her drenched crew clinging to the lower rigging
or belaying pins. One moment she
seemed lifted as if on the summit of a green

lull, and the next seemed sunk in the deep
dark valley ; but it soon became evident to tho
eyes of Captain Talbot, and of all on board
the Amethyst, that the buoyancy of the stranger
was gone — that she must have sprung a leak
and was settling down in the water with
terrible rapidity.

Even if boats could have been hoisted out, it
would have been impossible to have succoured
her in such a sea, and ere long, while a cry came
across from her crew, to be echoed by another
from that of the A amethyst, she went down by
the stern and vanished from sight with every
man on board of her.

^^ And this might have been our fate ! " was
the thought of Derval.

The tempest passed away to tear up other
oceans, but so agitated was the water, that
the Amethyst pitched and lurched heavily,
while a new set of topsails were bent upon
her ; all damages made so far good, and with
a steady breeze she began to enter the straits

of Sunday. By noon next day the south-east
point of the Isle of Lubbock, with its great
Conical peak, eight thousand feet in height-bore
S.S.W. on the starboard bow, and Captain
Talbot steered for the strait of Alias,
passed the isle to the westward and that of
Sumbawa to the westward, which is reckoned
the best and safest way to the eastward of
Java ; and at the beginning of the end of his
pilgrimage, after running along the shore of
Madura — the land of cotton, rice, and edible
nests — Derval heard, with a sigh of satisfaction,
the anchor let go in the roads of Batavia,
as the ship swung at her moorings, with thirty-five
fathoms and the small bower out, and
the hands went aloft to furl the sails.

In his anxiety to return, to be off again as
soon as possible, no man in the ship equalled
Perval in his activity, with regard to getting
the cargo out and another in, and daily he
counted the hours while watching from the
deck the lovely low green isles that stud the

beautiful bay, the wite-walled city, with its
two-and-twenty bastions — ^^the Queen of the
East," with all heir palaces, villas, and trees,
for there the Butch, true to their national
taste, have covered every available spot with
verdure, flowers, and the brightest foliage.

Finally, the ballast and the last casks of
sugar and turmeric were on board, the hatches
battened down, and the boat hoisted in, and
after a month's sojourn, in which he did not
spend an idle hour, with a glow of joy he
heard the orders given that were to take the
ship out of the roadstead of Batavia.

*^ Mr. Trumpet," cried the captain, "weather
bit the chain forward, man the windlass,
heave and haul ! Mr. Hampton, get the topsails
loose— I see they are furled with reefs."

Away aloft, my lads," said Derval, "make
sail on her with a will."

Sheet home and hoist away— up with the
yards to the caps ; let fall the courses."

Some of the head sails were now roused out

of their netting, the fore topmast, staysail,
and spanker were set, and then she was fully
under weigh. She went through the water
*like a thing of life," and the flat Batavia
shore began to sink.

*' Home to England at last — home ! "
thought Derval as he looked over the side
and saw the waves running under the counter,
while he began to reckon for the thousandth
time the probable period the homeward voyage
might consume.

And now to take another homeward glance
while that long voyage is in progress.

It was quite natural now, seeing so much
as he did of a girl so beautiful as Clara, that in
Eookleigh, though as yet he had never dared
to attempt to caress her, or do more than take
her passive or unwilling hand in his, the
admiration of her person and inclination for
her should increase, as a sense of propriety
in her grew upon him ; and also, that the
opposition and indifference, with which he

knew her heart was filled, should invite him
to stronger efforts to reach, to win, and
control it.

An illness that fell upon her delayed the
marriage, which Eookleigh had * duly paragraphed
in the papers as forthcoming. He
knew now, that the ship which had perished
near the Straits of Sunday was not the Amethyst;
and he knew, moreover, from a visit he paid
to her owners, that she was now on her homeward
way, and that there was no time to be
lost!

Yet the season of spring was nearly over
before Clara, who had recovered slowly, at
her father's pleasant house in the western
suburbs of London, could face in any way
the fate before her, — a fate that seemed terribly
close now, and from which there was no
escape but her own death, or the degradation
of her father.

She saw, as part of a terrible phantasmagoria,
her wedding dress, and other dresses,

lier nuptial trousseau, strewed all over Lier
room, on her bed, on the chairs, reflected over
and over again in the pier-glasses ; her toilet-table
littered with ornaments which, though
rare and beautiful, she loathed to wear.

Guests were, of course, invited — a few only,
however, as her father wished the sacrifice
(for such he deemed it too) completed very
quietly ; the bridesmaids were selected — only
four, all in the same costume, with ornaments
the gift of the bridegroom; and to Clara, their
flippant gossip, their conversation for ever on
one topic — the marriage — girls whom she only
knew as having met them *' in society," or
little more, — were a source of perpetual worry
and irritation to her.

Eookleigh's mother, now in all her glory,
came and went at will, quite famille at Lord
Oakhampton's house ; and she too, with her
pale hazel eyes (the golden tint had faded out
of them now), was another source of irritation
to Clara, who looked so white, so wild-eyed

and nervous, that her father, poor man, was
crushed in heart and soul at the sight of her.

She felt like a poor little fly in the toils of
some enormous spider. Never before did she
think it was in her gentle nature to loathe any
human being as she loathed this young man,
whom she was so shortly to promise to love,
honour, and obey, and with whom she was to
go through the long weary years of the Hfe
that lay between tomorrow and the grave.

And in these years that would inexorably
come, what might not his conduct become,
and his treatment of her be, if, in the first
flush of his own youth and of her beauty, he
would be thus so unyielding cruel as to make
her hand, freedom, and happiness the price of
her father's title and honour, for the little that
remained to him of a long, blameless, and
honourable life — for Eookleigh still had the
trump card of playing to win the coronet for
his absent brother.

Then a wild gust of horror and dismay

would come over her, ever and anon, when she
thought of the coming hour when she must
inevitably and irrevocably become the wife
of Eookleigh, and there could be no escape
from him but by death — and she felt that she
dared and could not die — or by flight — a
flight that ^* society "would speedily twist into
a terrible scandal !

The afternoon was drawing into evening —
one Clara would never forget, for Mr. De
Murrer was to arrive with the marriage settlements
and contract for signature, and Clara,
who had begged to be left for a little time to
herself — her miserable self — was seated in a
bay window lost in bitter thought, looking at
the flowers of spring, and wondering how all
would be with her when the time came that
they had faded away and been replaced by
those of summer.

Already soft showers had expanded the buds
that but a week ago were closed, the forage
of the brightest green was hiding the dark

tranches of the trees. On all hands she heard
the notes of the birds, and with that tendency
which we laye to note trifles when in great
tribulation, she found herself watching with
curious interest the bees and the butterflies
among the bright parterres of flowers where
the geranium, the heliotrope, the light green
leaves of the echevaria and the cups of the
tulips mingled.

All nature looked sweet; but the spring
suggested nothing of hope to Clara, and she
was past weeping now, in the bitter conviction
that it availed her nothing ; but a shiver
passed over her, when she found that Kook-leigh,
claiming a bridegroom's privilege, had
come upon her unannounced, and was bending
singly over her — could he do otherwise,
for the girl was adorably beautiful, and was
so nearly now his own !

** To-morrow, Clara, my darling** said hein
a voice of more tenderness than it was quite
Ms nature or his habit to assume, for true

tenderness was not in lira, *^tliink of tomorrow,
for long ere this hour we shall fee
united for life and far away together ! "

What she replied she sever precisely knew,
or cared perhaps to remember, so (quickly did
certain events come to pass waist then.

The stoppage of a vehicle at the front porch,
an important ring at the door bell, was followed
by steps in the entrance-hall, and then
a servant announced that-^VMr. De. Murrer
was in the library, where Lord Oaldiamptoji
awaited Miss Hampton and Mr, Eookleigh." .

'^ We are to sign the contract, and so forth,
so take courage, Clara," said Rookleigh, taking
her by the hand, but she shrank on hearing
voices below.

'' A stranger is there ! " said she timidly.

** Oh, only some fellow he has brought,
no doubt, to witness our signatures ; he
.has delayed unaccountably long, so come,
darling."

Clara entered the half-darkened library.

pale as snow, and trembling very much, and
saw her father and Mr. De Murrer mutually
shaking hands, and then with — Derval Hampton!


On reaching London, the latter was doubtful
at first what to do to obtain information
of Lord Oakhampton's movements, of Clara,
of his brother, and how to gain a clue to all
that must have transpired during his protracted
absence. As money was necessary
for him, in the first place, he drove from the
docks to Gray's Inn in quest of Mr. De Murrer,
and at his chambers found that dapper little
gentleman leisurely tying up with red tape a
bundle of very legal-looking documents, which
proved to be the contract and marriage settlements
of "Kookleigh Hampton, Esquire, of
Finglecombe, and the Honourable Clara
Hampton," and thereby hung a wondrous
tale !

It was with something of a sigh in his
breast that the worthy little lawyer tied up

these documents, for lie disliked and mistrusted
the bridegroom, and was astonished
and grieved by the bearing of the luckless and
too evidently repugnant bride. In all his legal
experience he had met nothing like this.

Warmly indeed did he welcome Derval.

** Just in time, my dear young friend; justin
time ! " he exclaimed.

'^ Time for what'* asked the sunburned
and weatherbeaten Derval.

*the wedding — of course, you know all
about it''

'' Wedding— whose ? "

*^ Your brother."

'^ And — and — " stammered Derval, as
the newspaper paragraph flashed upon his
memory.

*^ Miss Clara Hampton — a good marriage indeed;
a strange, but very good way of compromising
the claim to the coronet — a consolidation
of mutual interests, I take it to be;
■SL family compact, quite."

With his eyes fixed alternately on the
speaker's face, and then, as one in a dream,
surveying the great square of the Inn, with
its monotonous brick walls and uniform rows
of windows, Derval heard all this with equal
astonishment and dismay.

'*I am just about to take these papers to
Lord Oakhampton's ; you will go with me,
of course, and sign them as witness."

*« Clara false — so fair, yet so false ! " was
Derval's bitter thought, as he threw himself
into a chair.

A very few words served to enlighten him
as to the conspiracy of which they had both
been the victims — as to the pressure which
must have been put upon the unhappy Clara
to save her father's title, during his life at
least, by the sacrifice of herself; and more
exasperating to him was the knowledge that
this pressure had been put upon her by Kook-leigh,
while acting nominally in the interests
of an absent brother; and he knew in a
.II 14

moment that Eookleigh — the medium of their
correspondence — must, for his own nefarious
ends, have effectually suppressed it !

** And now, as we are on this unpleasant
subject," said the lawyer, opening a drawer
and taking therefrom a paper, '* what was the
meaning of this mysterious document that
Eookleigh framed and you signed ? "

** It referred, I understood, to a sum of
money I lent him*'

*' Of what folly you were guilty ! he should
have signed an acknowledgment to you. Good
heavens! you sailors are strange fellows."

** Then what are the contents of the
paper? "

"Merely that you make over to your brother
the whole of the JC500 per annum left you by
your father, with all your right, title, and
interest therein."

Derval was astounded and bewildered not
at his own folly and simplicity, but by the
systematic baseness of his brother.

Oh, wretch ! " he exclaimed ; *^ was it not
enough to rob me of all, even my poor patrimony
? but to seek to rob me too of Clara,
my affianced wife ! "

For a few moments his emotions were
stifling, and he gasped rather than breathed.

"I must own," said Mr. De Murrer, ^' that
when the post brought this singular document,
signed by you, and witnessed by Kookleigh,
the framer of it, illegally expressed and on
unstamped paper, I was sorely puzzled ; but,
luckily, it is every way valueless."

^' Save in so far as revealing the perfidy
of which he is capable — the double villain! "

^' While searching your father's papers for
documents in connection with the peerage
affair, I came upon one which completely
alters all your affairs, and that I shall show
you in time'* said Mr. De Murrer.

** He need no longer now pretend to act in
my interests in pressing on the peerage case,
and not a moment must be lost in freeing my

212 DEKVAL HAMPTON.

poor Clara from the trammels — the evil of
mental misery — by which he has surrounded
her'

*^ Good, good ! " said the little lawyer, rubbing
his hands. " The contract and the settlements
won't be signed, after all, and may go
with Kookleigh's document into the wastepaper
basket. But I was due with them at
Lord Oakhampton's an hour ago — a hansom
will take us there in half that time ; and now,
my dear Derval, let us be off ! "

To the confusion of Eookleigh, the mystery
of the letters was all unfolded now, and when
the cheques he had paid Miss Sally Trin
came to be known, through Mr. De Murrer, a
light was thrown upon his transactions with
her, and the use to which he had put her with
Clara ; thus link after link was found, and the
chain of his cruelty and duplicity was complete !

Eookleigh did not wait for the elucidation
of all the reader knows. His brother's sudden
appearance in the library was more than

enough for him; he evacuated Lord Southampton's
house with all speed, and even quitted
London that night, a prey to baffled spite,
ambition, and treachery.

Oh, Derval, Derval," said Clara, as she
reclined upon his breast, ** may God forgive
that man for all he has made me suffer ! "

*^ And me too, darling! '*

If DervaPs blood boiled at his half-brother's
perfidy, it boiled still more when he
thought of how a he ad wind in the channel
or elsewhere might, by delay, have affected
the fortune of all who figured in the tableau
in Lord Oakhampton's library. But the good
ship Amethyst had brought the wind with her,
bravely and splendidly had she run, and
scarcely sheet or tack were lifted, " for," as
Joe Trumpet said, ^^the girls at home were
tallying on to the tow-rope."

The document which the lawyer had found
among Greville Hampton's papers proved to
be nothing less than a will, dated subsequent

to one on which they had all acted, and which
reversed its terms, for ^500 yearly were all
that accrued to Eookleigh, while all else he
possessed was bequeathed to Derval; so the
hand of Nemesis fell heavily on the former.

So the wedding dresses, the wedding cake
and breakfast, and the bridesmaids too were
all required eventually ; but a different bridegroom
knelt by Clara's side before the altar
rails at St. George's, Hanover Square, while
Eookleigh and his amiable mother were left at
Finglecombe *sto chew the cud of sweet and
bitter fancy."

Captain Talbot was groomsman, and old Joe
Trumpet, who with difficulty was restrained
from hoisting a flag of the Royal Naval Eeserve
out of the drawing-room window, as a prelude
to the rice and slippers, got disreputably tipsy
in the butler's pantry, and pulled all the housemaids
about, in the exuberance of his joy,
making quite a riot in the servants' hall.

<^
