I

-n.

I I I I II I III i i ' w i, tm^mmmmm

'♦i ici ''*i i?i?i '^♦^ CCj ili Si Cl'h f^^i mihi ^V'i Cl i^i
St? Q lv^ ^a:? ^<1V^•^I7 ^-C>^ \t7 ^ m7 Vi Vt W ^g '«^'

L-^ a^,L.-l,L-^J //- . ■-: IT n ■ ^ ■' .1- -. ■- I I - ii - i - ii i "" ' • "~"*"'^*^ ' .' ' ' ' ' — ——'^■*-***—

^



■^^

•twni

n

^

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
or ILLINOIS

ad^^z'

a^m

^Jt?92^,

^»3K/'/

for disciplinary action and may result
the University. ^

T. — .on-''■•7;-^^7;;;;";r Lna.cha«.a,gm

UNIVERSITY OF iniNOIS .LIBRARY Al

I L161— O-



31 fi0\}Zl

BY

JAMES GRANT,

AUTHOR OF 'THE ROMANCE OF WAR,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1886.

[A// Rights Reserved. \

••0^0«'

FROM THE SILENT PAST. By Mrs. Herbert Martin.

2 vols.

COWARD AND COQUETTE. By the Author of 'The
Parish of Hilby.' i vol.

MIND, BODY, AND ESTATE. By the Author of ' Olive
Varcoe.' 3 vols.

AT THE RED GLOVE. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

3 vols.

WHERE TEMPESTS BLOW. By the Author of 'Miss
Elvester's Girls.' 3 vols.

IN SIGHT OF LAND. By Lady Dufkus Hardy. 3 vols.

AS IN A Looking-glass. By F. C. Philips, i vol.

LORD VANECOURT's DAUGHTER. By Mabel Collins.
3 vols.

WARD AND DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

OF

MY ELDEST SON,

JAMES SIMPSON GRANT,

Captain Cheshire Regiment

I INSCRIBE

THIS MILITARY STORY.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. IN THE HOWE OF THE MEARNS - - I

II. WEDDED - - - - - - l6

III. THE SPURNED OFFER - - - - # 26

IV. REVELSTOKE COTTAGE - - - '38
V. Dulcis - - - - - - 47

VI. THE SECRET PACKET - - --65

VII. A FAREWELL - - - - "75

VIII. THE SILVER LOCKET - - - - 86

IX. MR. KIPPILAW, W.S. - - - "99

X. ALONE IN THE WORLD - - - - III

XI. Shaft IN CLOVER - - - "125

XII. VIVIAN Hammered - - - - 140

XIII. AMONG THE GROUSE - - - "155

CHAPTER ^^^^

XIV. THE TWO FINELLAS - - - - 1 66

XV. AT REVELSTOKE AGAIN - - - 1 83

XVI. "tis but the old, old story' - - 192

Evil AT CRAIGENGOWAN - - . - 204

XVIII. AT THE BUFFALO RIVER - - - 222

XIX. ELANDSBERGEN - - - - - 2-^4

XX. BAFFLED ! - - . . - 253

CHAPTER I.

IN THE HOWE OF THE MEARNS.

Ths will end In a scene, Fettercairn, and

you know how I hate scenes.'

So do I, they are such deuced bad form.'
I shall need all my self-possession to get

over the esclandre this affair may cause,'

exclaimed the lady, fanning herself violently.
'Well, life Is made up of getting over

things responded her husband.

But not things so disgraceful as this,
Fettercairn !'

Is this son of yours in his senses ?'

Who is that loves ? It has been asked,'
said the culprit referred to.

VOL. I. I

A marriage between you and a penniless
girl In her rank of life Is not to be thought of,
Leonard.'

Her rank of life, father ?'

'Yes!'

Her father's rank was superior to that of
the first of our family, when life began with
him.'

What Is that to you or to me now ?'

Much to me.'

Too much, It would seem.'

The excited speakers were a Peer, Cosmo,
Lord Fettercairn, his wife, the Lady thereof,
and their youngest son, Lennard Melfort, a
captain of the line, home on leave from
India, who had been somewhat timidly
venturing to break — knowing the Inordinate
family vanity of his parents — we say to break
the news of his love for a girl possessed of
more beauty than this world's goods ; and. In
his excitement and Indignation, his lordship's
usual easy, Indolent, and drawling way was
forgotten now when addressing his son.

Cosmo, Lord Fettercairn of that Ilk (and
Strathfinella In the Means) was by nature a

proud, cold, selfish, and calculating man,
whose chief passion in life was a combined
spirit of enormous vanity and acquisitiveness,
which he inherited from his predecessors,
whom he resembled in political caution and
selfishness, and also in personal appearance,
to judge from the portraits of three generations,
by Sir John de Medina, Aikman, and
Raeburn, adorning the walls of the stately
room in the house of Craigengowan, where
this rather stormy interview took place.

Tall and thin in figure, with fiat square
shoulders and sandy-coloured hair, cold grey
eyes, and irregular features, he was altogether
a contrast to his son Lennard, who inherited
his slightly aquiline nose and perfect face
from his mother, but his firm dark eyes and
rich brown hair from a previous generation ;
and these, together with an olive complexion,
rendered more dusky by five years' exposure
to an Indian sun, made his aspect a very
striking one.

My Lady Fettercairn's birth and breeding
were, as Sir Bernard Burke had recorded,
irreproachable, and she certainly seemed a

I — 2

grande dame to the tips of her long slender
fingers. She was about forty-five years of
age, but looked ten younger. The upper
part of her aristocratic face was strikingly
handsome ; but the lower, with its proud and
firm lips, was less pleasant to look at. Her
complexion was almost colourless, her hair
of the lightest brown, like her eyebrows and
lashes ; while her eyes were clear and blue as
an Alpine sky, and, as Lennard often thought
with a sigh, they seemed quite as — cold.

Her manner was always calm, assured, and
self-possessed. She would smile, but that
smile never degenerated into honest laughter,
while her pale and impressive face was
without a line — especially on her forehead —
that seemed to indicate either thought or
reflection, and certainly she had never known
care or sorrow or even annoyance until
now.

She is beautiful, mother,' urged the
young man, breaking an ominous silence, with
reference to the object of his love.

^ Perhaps ; but she is not one of tts^ exclaimed
Lady Fettercairn, cresting up her

handsome head haughtily, and a whole
volume of intense pride and hauteur was
centred in the last word she spoke.

Who is this Flora Maclan, as she calls
herself ?' asked his father in a similar tone ;
but I need not ask. You have already told
us she is the governess in a house you have
been recently visiting — that of Lady Drum-cloddy
— a governess, with all her beauty, poor
and obscure.'

Not so obscure,' said Lennard, a wave of
red passing under the tan of his olive cheek ;
her father was a gallant old officer of the
Ross-shire Buffs, who earned his V.C. at the
battle of Khooshab, in Persia, and her only
brother and support fell when leading on his
Grenadiers at the storming of Lucknow. The
old captain was, as his name imports, a cadet
of the Macdonald of Glencoe.'

With a pedigree of his family, no doubt,
from the grounding of the Ark to the battle
of Culloden,' sneered his father.

Then his family would end soon after ours
began,' retorted the son, becoming greatly
ruffled now. ' You know, father, we can't

6 Dulcis CAR LYON,

count much beyond three generations ourselves.'


Lord Fettercairn, wounded thus In his
sorest point, grew white with anger.

We always suspected you of having some
secret, Lennard,' said his mother severely.

Ah, mother, unfortunately, as some one
says, a secret is like a hole in your coat — the
more you try to hide it, the more it is seen.'

An aphorism, and consequently vulgar ;
does she teach you this style of thing ?' asked
the haughty lady, while Lennard reddened
again with annoyance, and gave his dark
moustache a vicious twist, but sighed and
strove to keep his temper.

^ I have found and felt it very bitter, father,
to live under false colours,' said he gently and
appealingly, ' and to keep that a secret from
you both, which should be no secret at
all.'

*We would rather not have heard this
secret,' replied Lord Fettercairn sternly, while
tugging at his sandy-coloured mutton-chop
whiskers.

Then would you have preferred that I

should be deceitful to you, and false to the
dear girl who loves and trusts me ?'

I do not choose to consider //(?r/ was the
cold reply.

But I do, and must, now !'
Why ?'

Because we are already married — she is
my wife,' was the steady response.

Married !' exclaimed his father and mother
with one accord, as they started from their
chairs together, and another ominous silence
of a minute ensued.

My poor, lost boy — the prey of an artful
minx !' said Lady Fettercairn, looking a§ if
she would like to weep ; but tears were rather
strangers to her cold blue eyes.

Mother, dear mother, if you only knew
her, you would not talk thus of Flora,' urged
Lennard almost piteously. * If we had It In
our power to give love and to withhold It, easy
indeed would our progress be through life.'

Love — nonsense !'

Save to the two most Interested, who are
judges of It,' said Lennard. * Surely you
loved my father, and he you.'

Our case was very different,' replied Lady
Fettercairn, in her anger actually forgetting
herself so far as to bite feathers off her fan
with her firm white teeth.

How, mother dear ?'

In rank and wealth we were equal
Lennard sighed, and said :

I little thought that you, who loved me
so, would prove all but one of the mothers of
Society.'

What do you mean, sir ?' demanded his
father.

What a writer says.'

And what the devil does he say ?*

That ** love seems such a poor and contemptible
thing in their eyes in comparison
with settlements. Perhaps they forget their
own youth ; one does, they say, when he outlives
romance. And I suppose bread and
butter is better than poetry any day." '

I should think so.'

We had other and brilliant views for you
said his mother in a tone of intense mortification,
* but now '

Leave us and begone, and let us look

upon your face no more,' interrupted his
father in a voice of indescribable sternness,
almost hoarse with passion, as he pointed to
the door.

Mother !' said Lennard appealingly, * oh,
mother !' But she averted her face, cold as a
woman of ice, and said, ' Go !'

So be it,' replied Lennard, gravely and
sadly, as he drew himself up to the full height
of his five feet ten inches, and a handsome
and comely fellow he looked as he turned
away and left the room.

Thank God, his elder brother, Cosmo, is
yet left to us !' exclaimed Lady Fettercairn
earnestly.

It was the last time in this life he ever
heard his mother's voice, and he quitted the
house. On the terrace without, carefully he
knocked the ashes out of his cherished briar-root,
put it with equal care into its velvet-lined
case, put the case into his pocket, and
walked slowly off with a grim and resolute
expression in his fine young face, upon which
from that day forth his father and mother
never looked again.

Then he was thinking chiefly of the sweet
face of the young girl who had united her
fortunes with his, and who was anxiously
awaiting the result of the Interview we have
described.

Sorrow, mortification, and no small indignation
were in the heart of Lennard Melfort
at the result of the late interview.

I have been rash,' he thought, ' in marrying
poor Flora without their permission, but that
they would never have accorded, even had
they seen her; and none fairer or more beautiful
ever came as a bride to Craigengowan.'

Pausing, he gave a long and farewell look
at the house so named — the home of his boyhood.


It stands at some distance from the Valley
of the Dee (which forms the natural communication
between the central Highlands
and the fertile Lowlands) in the Hollow or
Howe of the Means. Situated amid luxuriant
woods, glimpses of Craigengowan obtained
from the highway only excite curiosity
without gratifying it, but a nearer approach
reveals its picturesque architectural features.

These are the elements common to most
northern mansions that are built in the old
Scottish style — a multitude of conical turrets,
steep crow stepped gables and dormer gables,
encrusted with the monograms and armorial
bearings of the race who were its lords when
the family of Fettercairn were hewers of wood
and drawers of water.

The turrets rise into kindred forms in the
towers and gables, and are the gradual accumulation
of additions made at various times
on the original old square tower, rather thana
part of the original design, but the effect of
the whole is extremely rich and picturesque.

In the old Scottish garden was an ancient
sun and moon dial, mossy and grey, by which
many a lover had reckoned the time in the
days of other years.

Of old, Craigengowan belonged to an exiled
and attainted Jacobite family, from whom it
passed readily enough into the hands of the
second Lord Fettercairn, a greedy and unscrupulous
Commissioner on the forfeited
estates of the unfortunate loyalists. It had
now many modern comforts and appliances ;

the entrance-hall was a marble-paved apartment,
off which the principal sitting-rooms
opened, and now a handsome staircase led to
the upper chambers, whilom the abode of
barons who ate the beef and mutton their
neighbours fed in the valley of the Dee.

The grounds were extensive and beautiful,
and Lord Fettercairn's flower gardens and
conservatories were renowned throughout
Angus and the Means.

To the bitter storm that existed in his own
breast, and that which he had left in those of
his parents, how peaceful by contrast looked
the old house and the summer scenery to
Lennard — the place on which he probably
would never gaze again.

There was a breeze that rustled the green
leaves in the thickets, but no wind. Beautiful
and soft white clouds floated lazily in the
deep blue sky, and a recent shower had
freshened up every tree, meadow, and hedgerow.
The full-eared wheat grew red or
golden by the banks of the Bervie, and the
voice of the cushat dove came from the
autumn woods from time to time as with a

sigh Lennard Melfort turned his back on
Craigengowan for ever, cursing, as he went,
the pride of his family, for, though not an
old one, by title or territory, they were as
proud as they were unscrupulous in politics.

The first prominent member of the family,
Lennard Melfort, had been a Commissioner
for the Means in the Scottish Parliament,
and for political services had been raised to
the peerage by Queen Anne as Lord Fetter-cairn
and Strathfinella, and was famous for
nothing but selling his Union vote for the
same sum as my Lord Abercairnie, ^500,
and for having afterwards ' a ruo^ at the compensation,'
as the English equivalent money
was called. After the battle of Sheriffmuir
saw half the old peerage of Scotland attainted,
he obtained Craigengowan, and was
one ' who,' as the minister of Inverbervie
said, ' wad sell his soul to the deil for a
cracked sixpence.' ■

With the ex-Commissioner the talent — such
as it was — of the race ended, and for three
generations the Lords of Fettercairn had
been neither better nor worse than peers

of Scotland generally ; that Is, they were
totally oblivious of the political interests of
that country, and of everything but their own
self-aggrandisement by marriage or otherwise.


Lennard Melfort seemed the first of the
family that proved untrue to its old instincts.

And I had made up my mind that he
should marry Lady Drumshoddy's daughter
she has a splendid fortune !' wailed Lady
Fettercairn.

Married my governess — the girl Mac I an !'
snorted my Lady Drumshoddy when she
heard of the dreadful mesalliance. ' Why
marry the creature ? He might love her, of
course — all men are alike weak — but to marry
her — oh, no !'

And my Lady Drumshoddy was a very
moral woman according to her standard, and
carried her head very high.

When tidings were bruited abroad of what
happened, and the split in the family circle at
Craigengowan, there were equal sorrow and
indignation expressed in the servants' hall,
the gamekeepers' lodges, and the home farm,

for joyous and boyish Captain Melfort was a
favourite with all on the Fettercairn estates ;
and Mrs. Prim, his mother's maid, actually
shed many tears over the untoward fate he
had brought upon himself.

WEDDED.

*And you will love me still, Flora, In spite
of this bitter affront to which you are subjected
for my sake ?' said Lennard.

Yes,' said the girl passionately, ' I love
you, Lennard — love you so much,' she added,
while her soft voice broke and her blossom-like
lips quivered, ^ that were I to lose you I
would die !'

My darling, you cannot lose me now,' he
responded, while tenderly caressing her.

Are we foolish to talk In this fashion,
Lennard ?'

Foolish ?'

Yes — or rash. I have heard that It Is
not lucky for people to love each other so
much as we do.'

Could we love each other less ?'

I don't think so,' said she simply and
sweetly, as he laid her cheek on his breast
with her upturned eyes gazing into his.

The girl was slight and slender, yet perfect
was every curve of her shapely figure, which
was destitute of any straight line ; even her
nose was, in the slightest degree, aquiline.
Her beautifully arched mouth, the scarlet
line of her upper lip, and the full round of
the nether one were parted in a tender
smile, just enough to show her teeth, defied
all criticism ; her complexion was pure and
soft, and her eyes were of the most liquid
hazel, with almost black lashes. Her hair
was of the same tint, and Flora seemed a
lady to perfection, especially by the whiteness
and delicacy of her beautifully shaped little
hands.

When she walked she did so gracefully, as
all Highland women do, and like them held
her head poised on her slender neck so
airily and prettily that her nurse, Macedon,
called her * the swan.'

How I trembled, Lennard,' said she,

VOL. I. 2

after a pause, * as I thought of the mauvais
quart d'hetire you were undergoing at Craig-gowan.'


It was a mauvais hour and more,
daring.'

And ever and anon I felt that strange
chill, or shudder, which Nurse Madelon says
people feel when some one crosses the place
where their grave is to be. How can your
parents be so cruel to you ?'

And to you, Flora !'

Ah, that is different,' she replied, with
her eyes full of unshed tears, and in a pained
voice. ' Doubtless they consider me a very
designing girl ; but in spite of that, you
will always care for me as much as you do
now ?'

Why such fears ? Ever and always —
ever and always, my darling,' said Lennard
Melfort, stopping her questioning lips most
effectually for a time.

Oh, if you should ever come to regret,
and with regret to love me less !' said she,
in a low voice, with her eyes for a moment
fixed on vacancy.

Why that boding thought, Flora ?'

Because, surely, such great love never
lasts.'

He kissed her again as the readiest response.


But the sequel proved that his great love
outlasted her own life, poor girl !

Then they sat long silent, hand locked in
hand, while the gloaming deepened round
them, for words seem poor and feeble when
the heart is very full.

How long will they continue to despise
me ?' said Flora suddenly, while across her
soft cheeks there rushed the hot blood of a
lone and gallant line of Celtic ancestors.

An exclamation of bitterness — almost impatience,
escaped Lennard.

Let us forget them — father, mother, all !'
said he.

The girl looked passionately into the face
of her lover-husband — the husband of a
month ; and never did her bright hazel eyes
seem more tender and soft than now, withall
the fire of love and pride sparkling in
their depths, for her Highland spirit and

nature revolted at the affront to which she
was subjected.

The bearing of Lennard Melfort and the
poise of his close-shorn head told that he was
a soldier, and a well-drilled one ; and - the
style of his light grey suit showed how
thoroughly he was a gentleman ; and to
Flora's loving and partial eye he was every-way
a model man.

They had been married just a month, we
have said, a month that very day, and
Lennard had brought his bride to the little
burgh town, within a short distance of Craig-gowan,
and left her in their apartments
while he sought with his father and mother
the bootless interview just narrated.

For three days before he had the courage
to bring it about, they had spent the time
together, full of hopeful thoughts, strolling
along the banks of the pretty Bervie, from
the blue current of which ever and anon the
bull-trout and the salmon rise to the flies ; orin
the deep and leafy recourses of the
adjacent woods, and climbing the rugged
coast, against which the waves of the German

Sea were rolling in golden foam ; or ascending
Craig David, so called from David II.
of Scotland — a landmark from the sea for
fifteen leagues — for both had a true and
warm appreciation and artistic love of Nature
in all her moods and aspects.

The sounds of autumn were about them
now ; the hum of insects and the song of the
few birds that yet sang ; the fragrance of the
golden broom and the sweet briar, with a
score of other sweet and indefinable scents
and balmy breaths. All around them was
scenic beauty and peace, and yet with all
their great love for each other, their hearts
were heavy at the prospect of their future,
which must be a life of banishment in India,
and to the heaviness of Lennard was added
indignation and sorrow. But he could
scarcely accuse himself of having acted
rashly in the matter of his marriage, for to
that his family would never have consented ;
and he often thought could his mother but
see Flora in her beauty and brightness, looking
so charming in her smart sealskin and
bewitching cap and feather, and long skirt of

golden-brown silk that matched her hair and
eyes — every way a most piquante-looking
girl !

Young though he was, and though a
second son, Lennard Melfort had been a
favourite with more than one Belgravian
belle and her mamma, and there were few
who had not something pleasant or complimentary
to say of him since his return from
India. At balls, fetes, garden and water
parties, girls had given him the preference
to many who seemed more eligible, had
reserved for him dances on their programmes,
sang for him, made unmistakable ceillades,
and so forth ; for his handsome figure and his
position made him very acceptable, though
he had not the prospects of his elder brother,
the Hon. Cosmo.

Lady Fettercairn knew how Lennard was
regarded and valued well, and nourished
great hopes therefrom ; but this was all over
and done with now.

To her it seemed as if he had thrown his
very life away, and that when his marriage
with a needy governess — however beautiful

and well born she might be — became known,
all that charmed and charming circle in
Belgravia and Tyburniaia would regard him asa
black sheep indeed ; would shake their
aristocratic heads, and pity poor Lord and
Lady Fettercairn for having such a renegade
son.

Flora's chief attendant — a Highland woman
who had nursed her in infancy — was comically
vituperative and indignant at the affront put
by these titled folks upon ' her child ' as she
called her

Madelon Galbraith was strong, healthy,
active, and only in her fortieth year, with
black eyes and hair, a rich ruddy complexion,
a set of magnificent white teeth, and her
manner was full of emphatic, almost violent,
gesticulation peculiar to many Highlanders,
who seem to talk with their hands and arms
quite as much as the tongue.

Sometimes Madelon spoke in her native
Gaelic, but generally in the dialect of the
Lowlands.

Set them up indeed,' she muttered ; ' wha
are the Melforts o' Fettercairn, that they

should slight you — logie vio chris ?' she
added, softly (calf of my heart). 'What a
pity it is ye canna fling at their heads the
gold they love, for even a Lowland dog minna
yowl gin ye pelt him wi' banes. But you've
begun wi' love and marriage, and a gude
beginning mak's a gude ending.'

But we shall be so poor, Nurse Madelon,
and I have ruined my poor Lennard,' urged
Flora, as the kind woman caressed her.

^ They say a kiss and a cup of water mak'
but a wersh breakfast,' laughed Madelon ; 'but
you're no sae pair as that comes to, my
darling.'

Not quite ' said Flora, laughing faintly, in
turn. ' Yet I have sorely injured my
husband's prospects.'

Tut, tut, my bairn. Ony man can woo,
but he weds only what his weird lies ; and so
Captain Melfort wedded you, and wha better ?
Then what is a Lord that we should lippen to
him ? As long as ye serve a tod ye maun
carry his tail ? And your father's daughter
may carry her head wi' the highest.'

Lennard Melfort now resolved neither

verbally nor by letter to have further intercourse
with his family at Craigengowan or
elsewhere, but before he could make up his
mind what to do or could betake him south,
as he meant to quit Scotland without delay,
on the day subsequent to the stormy interview
Madelon announced a visitor, and on a
salver brought in a card inscribed — ' Mr,
Kenneth Kippilaw, W.S.'

THE SPURNED OFFER.

The family agent from Edinburgh, Flora
said Lennard, in answer to her inquiring
glance. * Mrs. Melfort,' he added, introducing
her to their visitor, who bowed with a
critical glance and appreciative smile.

I have been telegraphed for by sour
father, Captain Melfort,' said Mr. KIppilaw,
as they shook hands and he was motioned to
a chair.

A hale, hearty, unpretentious, business-like
man, about forty years of age, Mr. Kenneth
KIppilaw was too well-bred and too sensible
to begin the matter in hand by any remarks
about youthful imprudence, early marriages,
or so forth, as he knew the pride and temperament
of the young man before him, but

laid down his hat, and, after some of that
familiar weather talk which is the invariable
prelude to any conversation over all the
British Isles, he gently approached the object
of his mission, which Flora, in the simplicity
and terror of her heart, never doubted was a
separation of some kind between herself and
Lennard, so with a pallid face she bowed and
withdrew.

To what am I indebted for the pleasure
of this — a — unexpected interview ?' asked
Lennard, a little stiffly.

Instructions just received from your father,
Captain Melfort'

Then you have come from Craigen-
gowan ?'

Straight.'

Has he made up his mind to accept my
wife as his daughter-in-law i^'

Quite the reverse, I regret to say.'

Lennard's face darkened with indignation,
and he gave his moustache an angry twist.

Are my father and mother determined to
ignore the fact that she is a lady by birth V
asked Lennard after a gloomy pause.

Yes — they know, of course, that she is a
lady,' stammered Mr. Kippilaw, feeing his
mission an ungracious one, ' but poor — one
who has sunk into obscurity and dependence
pardon me, I but use their own identical
words.

Well ?'

What is done in this instance unfortunately
cannot be undone. Captain Melfort ;
but his lordship, feeling, of course, keenly In
the matter, is willing to continue your allowance,
and even to double it, on one condition.

Name it.'

Mr. Kippilaw sighed, for though, as a
lawyer, considerably hardened, he felt the
delicacy of the whole situation, and Lennard's
dark eyes seemed to focus and pierce
him.

The condition — to the point !'

Is — that you will return to India '

I mean to do so forthwith,' interrupted
Lennard sharply.

Or you may live anywhere out of Britain,
but never attempt to intrude Mrs. Melfort
upon your family or their circle, and contrive,

if possible, to let that circle forget your
existence.'

Insolent — and cruel as insolent!' exclaimed
Lennard Melfort as he started from
his chair and paced about the room, with his
dark eyes flashing and the veins in his forehead
swollen like whip-cord.

The words I speak are not my own,' said
Mr. Kippilaw, deprecatingly.

Return to Craigengowan, and tell my
father that I reject his bribe to insult my wife
for a bribe it is — with the scorn it merits.
Not a penny of his money will I accept while
my sword and pay, or life itself, are left me.
Tell Lord and Lady Fettercairn that I view
myself as their son no more. As they discard
me, so do I discard them ; and even
their very name I shall not keep — remember
that !'

Dear me — dear me, all this is very
sad!'

They have thrust me from them as if I
had been guilty of a crime '

Captain Melfort !'

A crime I say — yet a day may come

when they will repent It ; and from this hour
I swear '

Not in anger,' interrupted Mr. Kippllaw,
entreatingly ; ' take no hasty vow in your
present temper.'

I swear that to them and theirs I shall be
from this hour — as one in the grave !'

But urged the lawyer, ' but suppose —
which God forbid — that aught happened to
your elder brother, Mr. Cosmo Melfort ?'

I wish Cosmo well ; but I care not for my
interest in the title — it may become dormant,
extinct, for aught that I care. Neither I nor
any of mine shall ever claim it, nor shall I
again set foot in Craigengowan, or on the
lands around it — no, never again, never
again !'

To every argument of the kind-hearted
Mr. Kippilaw, who really loved the Fetter-cairn
family and esteemed the high-spirited
Lennard, the latter turned a deaf ear.

He departed in despair of softening matters
between the rash son and indignant parents.
To them he greatly modified the nature of
the useless interview, but they heard of

Lennard's determination with perfect unconcern,
and even with a grim smile of contempt,
never doubting that when money pressure
came upon him they would find him at their
mercy. But that time never came.

Mr. Kippilaw returned to Edinburgh, and
there the affair seemed to end.

The parting words of Lord Fettercairn to
him were said smilingly and loftily : —

The French have a little phrase, which in
six words expresses all our experiences in life.'

And this phrase, my lord ?'

Is simply — tout passe, tottt casse, toitt lasse
that we outlive everything in turn and Intime
— and so this matter of Lennard's pride
will be a matter of time only. Be assured
we shall outlive the indignation of our misguided
son.'

But will you outlive your own ?'
'Never!'

I can but hope that you will, my lord.
Remember the hackneyed quotation from
Pope — "To err is human, to forgive divine'"

I never forgive !' replied his lordship
bitterly.

The name of Leonard was never uttered
again by his parents, nor even by his brother
Cosmo (then reading up at Oxford) till the
hour for forgiveness was past ; and even
Cosmo they contrived to inoculated with
their own cruel and unchristian sentiment of
hostility. Lennard's portrait was removed
from its place of honour in the dining-hall,
and banished to the lumber-attic ; the goods,
chattels, and mementoes he left at home were
scattered and dispersed ; even his horses were
sold, and the saddles he had used ; and the
Fettercairn family would — could they have
done so — have obliterated his name from the
great double-columned tome of Sir Bernard
Burke.

Heedless of all that, the young husband
and his dark-eyed girl-wife were all the world
to each other.

^ After mamma followed papa to the grave,
Lennard — for she never held up her head
after she heard of his death at Khooshab,'
said Flora, as she nestled her head in his
neck, ' I seemed to be condemned to a life of
hardship, humiliation, and heartlessness, till

I met you, dearest. I felt that even the love
of some dumb animal — a dog or a horse —
was better than the entire absence of affection
in the narrow circle of my life. I did so long
for something or some one to love me exclusively
— I felt so miserably, so utterly alone
In the world. Now I have you — you to love
me. But In winning you I have robbed you
of the love of all your people.'

Talk not of It, and think not of It, dearest
Flora. We are now more than ever all in
all to each other.'

The money bribe, offered in such a way
and for such a purpose, exasperated Lennard
still more against his family, and drew many
a tear of humiliation from Flora in secret.

She thought that she had wrought Lennard
a great wrong by winning his love for herself,
and she was now burning with impatience to
turn her back on the shores of Britain and
find a new home In India ; and there, by staff
or other employments and allowances, Lennard
knew that he could gain more than the
yearly sum his father so mortifying offered
him.

VOL. I. 3

Flora wept much over it all, we say, and
her appetite became impaired ; but she did
nat — like the heroine of a three-volume novel
starve herself into a fright.

But a short time before she had been a
childish and simple maiden — one sorely tried,
however, and crushed by evil fortune ; but
with Lennard Melfort now, 'the prince had
come into her existence and awakened her
soul, and she was a woman — innocent still —
but yet a woman

The scenery of the Means looked inexpressibly
lovely in the purity and richness of
its verdure and varied artistic views, for the
woods were profusely tinted with gold, russet
brown, and red, when Lennard Melfort turned
his back upon it and his native home forever
!

The birds were chirping blithely, and the
voice of the corncraik, with

The sweet strain that the corn-reapers sang,'

came on the evening breeze together. The
old kirk bell was tolling in the distance, and
its familiar sound spoke to Lennard's heart

of home like that of an old friend. The river
was rolling under its great arch of some eighty
feet In span, the downward reflection of the
latter in the water making a complete circle
like a giant O. The old castle of Shagreen,
with its loopholed battlements of the fourteenth
century, stood blackly and boldly upon
its wave-beaten eminence, and the blue smoke
of picturesque Gordon, a fisher village, curled
up on the ambient air, as the scenery faded
out in the distance.

Flora became marvellously cheerful when
their journey fairly began, and laughingly she
sung in Lennard's ear —

The world goes up and the world goes down.
But yesterday's smile and yesterdays frown
Can never come back again, sweet friend —
Can never come back again !'

Means were not forgotten to support nurse
Madelon in her native place, where we shall
leave her till she reappears in our narrative
again.

So Lennard and his girl-wife sailed for
India, full of love for each other and hope for
their own lonely and unaided future, and both

3—2

passed for ever out of the lives and apparently
out of the memory of the family at Craigen-
gowan.

Times there were when he hoped to distinguish
himself, so that the circle there —
those who had renounced him — would be
proud of him ; but in seeking that distinction
rashly, he might throw away his life, and thus
leave his little Flora penniless on the mercy
of a cold world and a proverbially ungrateful
Government.

But they could not forget home, and many
a time and oft, where the sun-baked cantonments
of Meerut seemed to vibrate under the
fierce light of the Indian sun, where the temples
of Hardware from their steep of marble
steps look down upon the Ganges, or where
the bungalows of Cawnpore or Etwah, garlanded
with fragrant jasmine, stand by the
rolling Jumna amid glorious oleanders and
baboon trees, with their golden balls loading
the air with perfume, while the giant heron
stalked by the river's bed, the alligator basked
in the ooze, and the Brahmin ducks floated
overhead. Flora's sweet voice made Lennard's

heart thrill as she sang to him the songs of
the land they had resolved never to look
upon again, even when that sound so stirring
to the most sluggish Scottish breast when faraway,
the pipes of a Highland regiment,
poured their notes on the hot sunny air.

At home none seemed to care or think of
the discarded son but the worthy lawyer
Kenneth KIppIlaw, who had loved him as a
lad, and could not get his hard fate out of his
mind.

From time to time, inspired by kindness
and curiosity, he watched his name among the
captains In the military lists of that thick
compendium which no Scottish business
establishment is ever without — ' Oliver and
Boyd's Almanac.' Therein, after a while,
the name of Lennard Melfort disappeared,
but whether he was dead, had sold out, or
gone to the bad,' the worthy Writer to the
Signet could not discover, and he not unnaturally
sighed over what he deemed a lost
life.

And here we end that which is a species of
prologue to our story.

REVELSTOKE COTTAGE.

More than twenty years had elapsed after
the episodes we have described, and Lennard
and Flora had found a new home, and she,
her last one more than four hundred and
fifty miles as the crow flies from where
Craigengowan looks down on the German
Sea. But none that looked on Lennard
Melfort now would have recognised In the
prematurely aged man the handsome young
fellow who In ire and disgust had quitted his
native land.

In two years after he had gone eastward a
dreadful fever, contracted In a place where
he had volunteered on a certain duty to
gain money for the support of his wife and
her little Indian establishment — the Terra of

Nepaul, that miasmatic border of prairie which
Hes along the great forest of the Himalayas,
and has an evil repute even among the
natives of the country in the wet season when
the leaves are falling.

This fever broke Lennard's health completely,
and so changed him that his rich
brown hair and moustache were grey at six-and-twenty,
and ere long he looked like a
man of twice his age.

Can that fellow really be Lennard Melfort
of the Fusiliers ? Why, he is a veritable
Knight of the Rueful Countenance !' exclaimed
some old friends who saw him *at
The Rag,' when he came home to seek a
place of quiet and seclusion in Devonshire, as
it subsequently chanced to be.

Amid the apple bowers of the land of cider,
and near a beautiful little bay into which the
waters of the British Channel rippled, stood
the pretty and secluded cottage he occupied,
as ' Major Maclan,' with his son and a
nephew

The wooded hills around it were not all
covered with orchards, however, and the little

road that wound round the bay ran under
eminences that, from their aspect, might make
a tourist think he was skirting a Swiss lake.
Others were heath-clad and fringed at the
base by a margin of grey rocks.

Into the bay flowed a stream, blue and
transparent always. Here salmon trout were
often found, and the young men spent hours
at its estuary angling for rock fish.

A Devonshire cottage is said by Mrs. Bray
to be ' the sweetest object that the poet, the
artist, or the lover of the romantic could
desire to see,' and such a cottage was that of
Major Maclan, the name now adopted by
Lennard — that of Flora's father — in fulfilment
of the vow he had made to renounce the
name, title, and existence of his family.

Around it, and in front sloping down to
the bay, was a beautiful garden, teeming with
the flowers and fruits of Devonshire. On
three sides was a rustic verandah, the trellis
work of which was covered by a woven
clematis, sweetbread, and Virginia creeper,
which, in the first year of her residence there,
Flora's pretty hands, cased in garden gloves.

were never tired of tending ; and now the
Virginia creeper, with its luxuriant tendrils
emerald green in summer, russet and red in
autumn, grew in heavy masses over the roof
and around the chimney stalks, making it, as
Flora was wont to say exultingly, ' quite a
love of a place !'

On one hand lay the rolling waters of the
Channel, foaming about the Keystone Rock;
on the other, a peep was given amid the
coppice of the ancient church of Revelstoke,
and here the married pair lived happily and
alone for a brief time.

Save for the advent of a ship passing* insight
of the little bay, it was a sleepy place
in which Lennard, now retired as a major,
had 'pitched his tent,' as he said — the Cottage
of Revelstoke. Even in these railway times
people thereabout were content with yesterday's
news. There was no gas to spoil the
complexions of the young, and no water rates
to ' dorrit ' the old ; and telegrams never
came, in their orange-tinted envelopes, to
startle the hearts of the feeble and the sickly.

No monetary transactions having taken

place, and no correspondence being necessary,
between Lennard and his family or their
legal agent, Mr. Kippilaw, for more than
twenty years now, he had quite passed away
from their knowledge, and almost from their
memory; and many who knew them once
cared not, perhaps, whether he or his wife
were in the land of the living.

A son, we have said, had been born to
them, and Lennard named the child Florian,
after his mother (here again ignoring his own
family), whom that event cost dear, for the
sweet and loving Flora never recovered her
health or strength — injured, no doubt, in
India — but fell into a decline, and, two years
after, passed away in the arms of Lennard
and her old nurse, Madelon.

Lonely, lonely indeed, did the former feel
now, though an orphan nephew of Flora —
the son of her only sister — came to reside
with him — Shaftoo Gyle by name — one who
will figure largely in our story.

Would Lennard ever forget the day of her
departure, when she sank under that wasting
illness with which no doctor could grapple 1

Ever and always he could recall the sweet
but pallid face, the white, wasted hands, the
fever-lighted dark eyes, which seemed so unnaturally
large when, after one harrowing
night of pain and delirium, she became gentle
and quiet, and lovingly told him to take a
little rest — for old-looking he was ; old, worn,
and wasted far beyond his years — and he
obeyed her, saying he would take a little
turn in the garden among the roses — the
roses her hands would tend no more — sick
at heart with the closeness of the sick-chamber
and all it suggested, and maddened by the
loud ticking of the watchful doctor's repeater
as it lay on a table littered with useless
phials ; and how, ere he had been ten minutes
in the sunny morning air, amid the perfume
of the roses, he was wildly summoned by
Madelon Galbraith with white cheeks and
affrighted eyes, back to the chamber of
death it proved to be ; for it was on the
brow of Death he pressed his passionate
kisses, and to ears that could hear no more
he uttered his heartrending entreaties that
she would not leave him, or would give him

one farewell word ; and ever after would the
perfume of roses be associated in his mind
with that morning — the most terrible one of
his life !

Beside Revelstoke Church — old, picturesque,
and rendered comely by a wealth
of luxuriant ivy that Time has wreathed
around its hoary walls to flutter in the sea
breeze — she was laid, and the heart of
Lennard seemed to be buried with her.

It is a lonely old building, spotted with
lichens, worn by storms, and perched upon
the verge of a low, rocky cliff, up which the
salt spray comes at times to the burial-ground.
It is near the end of Mothcombe
Bay, where the shore makes a turn to the
southward.

Not a house is near it, the solitary hills
and waves encompass it, and it is said that
its smouldering tombstones would furnish
ample matter for the ' meditations ' of a
Hervey. So there Flora was laid, and there
Lennard was to be laid by her side when the
time came.

Her death hardened his heart more than

ever against his own family, and he began
almost to forget that he ever bore any other
name than hers — his adopted one.

In the kindness of his heart the major, as
the lads — his son and nephew — grew up together,
introduced both to neighbours and
strangers equally as his sons, but most unwisely,
as we shall ere long have to record.

Neither to Florian nor to Shaftoo Gyle did
he reveal his real name, or the story of the
quarrel with his family and their work ; thus
in and about Revelstoke all three passed
under the name of Mac I an now.

Madelon Galbraith, who had attended her
mistress on her death-bed, and nursed her
baby into boyhood, had now gone back to
her native glen in the wilds of Ross. She
proved, Lennard found, somewhat unfitted
for the locality of Revelstoke, as her ways
and ideas were foreign to those of the folks
thereabouts ; but she will have a prominent
place in our story in the future.

But long, long Madelon wept over Florian,
and pressed him often to her breast — ' the
baby of her bairn,' as she had called him —

for as she had nursed him, so had she nursed
his mother before him In the days when the
victorious Ross-shIre Buffs set up their tents
at Khooshab, on the plains of Persia.

Gude-by, calf of my heart,' were her parting
words; Mell see ye yet again, Florian.
If it were na for hope, the heart wad break !'

Dulcis.

All trace of Lennard Melfort had been ob
liberated at Craigengowan, we have said.
He was never mentioned there, and though
his family tried to think of him as dead, they
did not quite succeed ; but the disappearance
of his name from the Army List first excited
a Httle speculation, but no inquiry, until a
terrible event occurred.

The eldest son, the Hon. Cosmo, married
the daughter of Lady Drumshoddy, thus
securing her thousands, and did his best to
console Lord and Lady Fettercairn for ' the
disgrace' brought upon them by Lennard,
and they regarded him quite as a model son.

He shone as Chairman at all kinds of
county meetings; became M.P. for a cluster

of northern burghs, and was a typical Scottish
member, mightily interested when such grand
Imperial matters as the gravelling of Park
Lane, the ducks on the Serpentine, and the
improvements at Hyde Park Corner were
before the House, but was oblivious of all
Scottish interests, or that such a place as
Scotland existed. When she wanted — like
other parts of the empire — but never got
them— grants for necessary purposes, the
Hon. Cosmo was mute as a fish, or if he
spoke it was to record his vote against them.

Lennard saw in a chance newspaper, and
with natural grief and dismay, that Cosmo
had come to an untimely end when deer-stalking
near Gentile. He had wounded a
large stag, the captain of its herd, and approached
rashly or incautiously when the
infuriated animal was at bay. It broke its
bay, attacked him in turn, and ere the great
shaggy hounds could tear it down, Cosmo
was trampled under foot and gored to death
by its horns.

As Lennard read, his sad mind went to the
.scene where that death must have happened,

under mighty Ben-y-gloe, where the kestrel
builds his nest and the great mountain eagle
has his eyre, and the Tilt comes thundering
down over its precipices of grey rock. Never
again would his eyes rest on such glorious
scenes as these.

Cosmo had left a little daughter, Finally,
who took up her abode with her grandparents
at Craigengowan, but no son, and
Lennard knew that by this tragedy he was
now the heir to the peerage, but he only gave
a bitter sigh as he thought of Flora in her
Save and made no shorn.

Poor Cosmo,' he muttered, and forgetting
for a time much that had occurred, and how
completely Cosmo had leagued with father
and mother against him, his memory went
back to the pleasant days of their happy
boyhood, when they rode, fished, and shot
together, shared the same bedroom in Craigen-
gowan, and conned their tasks from the same
books.

Well, well,' he added, ' all that is over
and done with long, long ago.'

VOL. I. 4

He made no sign, we say, but let time pass
by, not foreseeing the complications that were
eventually to arise by his doing so.

Florian, born two years after the adoption
of Shaftoo Gyle in his infancy, always regarded
and looked up to the latter as a species of
elder brother and undoubted senior.
- In his twentieth year Florian was really a
handsome fellow, and if, without absurdity,
the term ' beautiful ' could be applied to a
young man, he was so, in his perfect manliness.
Tall in figure, hard and well developed
in muscle, regular in features, he had clear,
dark, honest eyes, with lashes like a girl's,
and a dark, silky moustache.

Shaftoo's face was in some respects handsome
too, but an evil one to look at, in one
way. His fair eyebrows were heavy, and
had a way of meeting in a dark frown when
he was thinking. His pale grey eyes were
shifty, and were given him, like his tongue,
to conceal rather than express his thoughts,
for they were sharp and cunning. His
nostrils were delicate, and, like his thin lips,
suggestive of cruelty, while his massive jaw

and thick neck were equally so — we must say-almost
to brutality.

They were rather a contrast, these two
young men — a contrast no less great in their
dispositions and minds than in their outward
appearance. They were so dissimilar — one
being dark and the other fair — that no one
would have taken them for brothers, as they
were generally supposed to be, so affectionate
was the Major to both, and both bearing his
name in the locality.

As a schoolboy Shaftoo had won an unpleasant
reputation for jockeying his companions,
doing ' them out of toys, sweetmeats,
marbles, and money, and for skilfully shifting
punishments on the wrong shoulders when
opportunity offered, and not unfrequently on
those of the unsuspecting Florian.

From some of his proclivities, the Major
thought Shaftoo would make a good attorney,
and so had him duly installed in the office of
Lewellen Carlyon, the nearest village lawyer,
while for his own boy, Florian, he had higher
hopes and aspirations, to make him, like
himself, a soldier ; but though far from idle,

4—2

t/BRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

or lacking application, Florian failed, under
the insane high-pressure system of ' cramming,'
to pass, and not a few — Shaftoo particularly
— laid it to the account of a certain
damsel, Dulcis by name, who was supposed,
with some truth, to occupy too much of his
thoughts.

Disgusted by the result of his last ' exam,'
Florian would at once have enlisted, like so
many others, who rush as privates for commissions
nowadays ; but his father's fast-failing
health, his love for Dulcis Carlyon,
and the desperate but ' Micawber-like hope
that ' something would turn up,' kept him
hanging on day by day aimlessly at Revel-stoke,
without even the apparent future that
had opened to Shaftoo when elevated to a
high stool in Lawyer Carlyon's office.

As time went on, Lennard Melfort (or
Maclan as he called himself), though he had
a high appreciation of Shaftoo's sense, turn for
business to all appearance, cleverness, and
strength of character, turned with greater
pleasure to his own son Florian, whose clear
open brow and honest manly eyes bore

nature's unmistakable impress of a truer
nobility than ever appertained to the truculent
and anti-national lords of Fettercairn.

Though to all appearance the best of
friends before the world, the cousins were
rivals ; but as Florian was the successful
lover, Shaftoo had a good basis for bitterness,
if not secret hate.

In common with the few neighbours who
were in that sequestered quarter, the lawyer
liked the Major — he was so gentle, suave,
retiring in manner, and courteously polite.
He liked Florian too, but deemed him idle,
and there his liking ended.

He took Shaftoo into his office at the
Major's urgent request, as a species of apprentice,
but he — after the aphorism of * Dr.
Fell ' — did not much affect the young man,
though he found him sharp enough — too
sharp at times ; and, like most of the neighbours,
he never cared to inquire into the
precise relationship of the Major and the two
lads, both of whom from boyhood had called
the latter ' Papa.'

Dulcis Carlyon was the belle of the limited

circle In which she moved, and a very limited
circle it was ; but she was pretty enough to
have been the belle of a much larger orbit ;
for she was the very ideal of a sweet, bright
English girl, now nearly in her eighteenth
year, and the boy and girl romance in the
lives of her and Florian had lasted since they
were children and playmates together, and
they seemed now to regard each other with
the love that is given once in a lifetime.'

Could I but separate these two !' muttered
Shaftoo, as with eyes full of envy and evil he
watched one of their meetings, amid the
bushes that fringed an old quarry not far from
Revelstoke Church.

From the summit where he lurked there
was a magnificent view of the sea and the
surrounding country. On one hand lay the
lonely old church and all the solitary hills that
overlook its wave-beaten promontory ; on the
other were the white-crested waves of the
British Channel, rolling in sunshine ; but
Shaftoo saw only the face and figure of Dulcis
Carlyon, who was clad just as he was fond of
picturing her, in a jacket of navy blue.

fastened with gilt buttons, and a skirt with
clinging folds of the same — a costume which
invests an English girl with an air equally
nautical and coquettish. Dulcis's dresses
always fitted her exquisitely, and her small
head, with smart hat and feather, set gracefully
on her shapely shoulders, had just a
soMpcoii of pride in its contour and bearing.

Slender in figure, with that lovely flowerlike
complexion which is so peculiarly English,
Dulcis had regular and delicate features, with
eyes deeply and beautifully blue, reddish-golden
hair, a laughing mouth that some
thought too large for perfect beauty, but it
was fully redeemed by its vivid colour and
faultless teeth.

Could I but separate them !' muttered
Shaftoo, through his clenched teeth, while
their murmured words and mutual caresses
maddened him.

Dulcis was laughingly kissing a likeness in
an open locket which Florian had just given
her — a likeness, no doubt, of himself — and
she did so repeatedly, and ever and anon
held it admiringly at arm's length. Then she

closed it, and Florlan clasped the flat silver
necklet to which it was attached round her
slender white throat ; and with a bright fond
smile she concealed it among the lace frilling
of her collarette, and let the locket, for
security, drop into the cleft of her bosom,
little foreseeing the part it was yet to play in
her life.

Shaftoo's face would not have been pleasant
to look upon as he saw this episode, and his
shifty grey eyes grew pea-green in hue as he
watched it.

Oh, Dulcis !' exclaimed Florian, with a
kind of boyish rapture, as he placed a hand
on each of her shoulders and gazed into her
eyes, ' I am most terribly in love with you.'

Why should there be any terror in it ?'
asked Dulcis, with a sweet silvery laugh.

Well, I feel so full of joy in having your
love, and being always with you, that — that
a fear comes over me lest we should be some
day parted.'

Who can part us but ourselves ?' said she
with a pretty pout, while her long lashes
drooped.

Dulcle,' said he, after a little pause, ' have
you ever had an emotion that comes uncalled
for — that which people call a presentiment ?'

Yes ; often.'

Has it ever come true ?'

Sometimes.'

Well — I have a presentiment this evening
which tells me that something is about to
happen to me — to us — and very soon too !'

What can happen to us — we are so happy ?*
said Dulcis, her blue eyes dilating.

Did the vicinity of Shaftoo, though unknown
to Florian, mysteriously prompt this thought
this boding fear. Shaftoo heard the words,
and a strange smile spread over his face as he
shook his clenched hand at the absorbed pair,
and stole away from his hiding-place, leaving
two foolish hearts full of a foolish dream from
which they might be roughly awakened —
leaving the happy Florian, with that sweet
and winsome Dulcis whom he loved, and
with whom he had played even as a child ;
with whom he had shared many a pot of
clotted cream ; with whom he had fished for
trout in the Erme and Yealm ; explored with

fearful steps and awe-stricken heart the cavern
there, where He thick the fossil bones of the
elephant, hyaena, and wolf; and wandered for
hours by the moors, among mossy rocks and
mossy trees, and in woody labyrinthine lanes,
and many a time and oft by the sea shore,
where the cliffs are upheaved and contorted ina
manner beyond description, but so loosely
bound together that waves rend them asunder,
and shape them into forms like ruined castles
and stranded ships ; till, as years went on,
heart had spoken to heart ; boy and girl life
had been left behind ; and that dream-time
came in which they seemed to live for years.

No one could accuse Dulcis Carlyon of
coquetry, her nature was too truthful and open
for that ; thus she had never for a moment
wavered in her preference between Florian
and Shaftoo, and spent with the former those
bright and hopeful hours that seldom come
again with the same keen intensity in a
lifetime, though often clouded by vague
doubts.

As yet they had led a kind of Paul and
Virginia life, without very defined ideas of their

future ; in fact, perhaps scarcely considering
what that future might be.

They only knew, like the Impassioned boy
and girl in the beautiful story of Bernardin St.
Pierre, that they loved each other very dearly,
and for the sweet present that sufficed ; while
cunning Shaftoo Gyle looked darkly, gloomily,
and enviously on them.

Perhaps it was his fast failing health that
prevented Lennard Melfort from looking
more closely into this matter, or It may be
that he remembered the youthful love of his
own heart ; for he could never forget-her
whom he was so soon to join now, and who,
after life's fitful fever,' slept by the grey wall
of Revelstoke, within sound of the restless sea.

Dulcis's father. Lawyer Carlyon, heard
rumours of these meetings and rambles, and
probably liked them as little as the Major did ;
but he was a busy man absorbed in his work,
and had been used to seeing the pair together
since they were toddling children. Lennard,
perhaps, thought it was as well to let them
alone, as nothing would come of it, while the
lawyer treated it surlily as a kind of joke.

*Why, Dulcle, my girl said he one day,
what is to be the end of all this philandering
but spoiling your own market, perhaps ? Do
you expect a young fellow to marry you who
has no money, no prospects, no position in
the world ?'

Position he has,' said poor Dulcis, blushing
painfully, for though an only and motherless
child she stood in awe of her father.

Position — a deuced bad one, I think !'

The other two items will come in time,
papa,' said Dulcis, laughing now.

When ?'

Dulcis was silent, and — for the first time in
her life — thought sadly, ' Yes, when !' But
she pressed a pretty white hand upon the
silver locket in her bosom, as if to draw
courage therefrom as from an amulet.

Why, lass, he can't keep even the roof of
a cod cottage over your head.'

Well, papa, remember our hopeful Devonshire
proverb — a good cob, a good hat and
shoes, and a good heart last for ever.'

Right, lass, and a good heart have you,
my darling,' said Mr. Carlyon, kissing her

peach-like cheek, for he was a kind and good-hearted
man, though somewhat rough in his
exterior, and more Hke a grazier than a
lawyer. ' You are both too young to know
what you are talking about. He'll be going
away, however — can't live always on his
father, and he, poor fellow, won't last long.
The fancy of you both will wear itself out,
like any other summer flirtation — I had many
such in my time,' he added, with a chuckle,
'and got safely over them all. So will you,,
lass, and marry into some good family, getting
a husband that will give you a comfortable
home — for instance, Job Holbein, with his
pits of Covey coal.'

Poor little Dulcis shivered, and could
scarcely restrain her tears at the hard,
practical suggestions of her father. Hard-featured,
stout, and grizzled Joe Holbein
versus her handsome Florian !

Her father spoke, too, of his probable
going away.' Was this the presentiment to
which her lover had referred '^ It almost
seemed so.

In the sunset she went forth into the

garden to work with her wools, and even to
have a ' good cry ' over what her father had
said ; but in this she was prevented by suddenly
finding Shaftoo stretched on the grass
at her feet under a pine ,
whom she could only tolerate for
Florlan 's sake.

Why do you stare at me so hard, Shaftoo,'
she asked, with unconcealed annoyance.

Staring, was I ?'

Yes, like an owl.'

I always like to see girls working.'

Indeed!'

And the work, what do you call it ?'

Crewel work. And you like to see us
busy ?'

Yes, especially when the work is done by
hands so pretty and white.'

As mine, you mean, of course ?'

Yes, Dulcle. How you do bewilder a
fellow !'

Don't begin as usual to pay me clumsy
compliments, Shaftoo, or I shall quit the
garden,' said Dulcle, her blue eyes looking
with a half-frightened, half-defiant expression

Into the keen, shifty, and pale grey ones of
Shaftoo, who was somewhat given to persecuting
her.

He could see the outline of the locket with
every respiration of her bosom. Could he
but possess himself of it, thought he, as he
proceeded to fill his meerschaum pipe.

I thought gentlemen did not smoke in
ladies' society unless with permission,' said
Dulcle.

Never bother about that, little one, please.
But may I smoke .'^'

'Yes.' «

Thanks ; this is jolly,' said he, looking up
at her with eyes full of admiration. ' I feel
like Hercules at the feet of Omphale.'

^ I don't know who he was, or what you
feel, but do you know what you look like H'

'No.'

Shall I tell you ?' asked Dulcis, her eyes
sparkling with mischief.

Yes.'

'Well, like the Athenian weaver, Bottom,
with his ass's head, at the feet of Titania.
Dost like the picture ?" '

Shaftoo eyed her spitefully, all the more so
that Dulcis laughed merrily, showing all her
pearly teeth at her reply.

Oho, this comes of rambling In quarries,'
said he, bluntly and coarsely ; ' doing the
Huguenot business, the pose of Millais'
picture. Bosh ! What can you and he
mean ?'

Millais and I ?'

No ; you and Florian !'

Mean !' exclaimed Dulcis, her sweet face
growing very pale in spite of herself at the
bluntness of Shaftoo, and the unmistakable
anger of his tone and bearing.

Yes — with your tomfoolery.'

'How?— why?'

Penniless as you are — he at least.'

Good evening, Shaftoo ; you are very unpleasant,
to say the least of it,' said Dulcis, as
she gathered up her wools and sailed into the
house, while his eyes followed her with a
menacing and very ugly expression indeed.

THE SECRET PACKET.

The broken health brought by Lennard from
the miasmatic Terai of Nepaul was rapidly
becoming more broken than ever, and,
though not yet fifty, he was a premature othman
and it seemed as if the first part of
Florian's presentiment or prevision of coming
sorrow would soon be fulfilled.

His steps became very feeble, and he could
only get about, in the autumn sunshine, with
the aid of a stick and Florian's arm ; and
the latter watched him with grief and pain,
tottering like the aged, panting and leaning
heavily on his cane, as ever and anon he insisted
on being led up a steep slope from
which he could clearly see the old church of
Revelstoke on its wave-beaten promontory,

VOL. I. 5

overlooked by sad and solitary hills, and his
hollow eyes glistened as he gazed on it, with
a kind of yearning expression, as if he longed
to be at peace, and by the side of her he had
laid there, it seemed long years ago — ajife-
time ago.

Poor Lennard was certainly near his tomb,
and all who looked upon him thought so ; yet
his calm eye, ever looking upward, betrayed
no fear.

One day when Florian was absent — no
doubt sketching, boating with Dulcis on the
Yealm, or idling with her on the moors —
Lennard besought Shaftoo to stay beside him
as he sat feeble and languid in his easy chair,
sinking with the wasting and internal fever,
with which the country practitioners were
totally incapable of grappling ; and on this
day, for the first time, he began to speak
to him of Scotland and the home he once
had there ; and he was listened to with
the keenest interest by Shaftoo, who had ever
even as a child — been cunning, selfish, and
avaricious, yet wonderfully clever and complaisant
in his uncle's prejudiced eyes, as he

remembered only Flora's dead and devoted
sister.

I have been thinking over old times and
other days, Shaftoo,' said he, with his
attenuated hands crossed on the head of his
bamboo cane ; ' and, all things considered, it
seems an occupation I had better avoid did
the memory concern myself alone : but I
must think of others and their interests — of
Florian and of you — so I can't help it, boy,
in my present state of health, or rather
want of health,' he added, as a violent fit of
spasmodic coughing came upon him.

After a pause he spoke again.

'You, Shaftoo, are a couple of years older
than Florian, and are, in many ways, several
years older in thought and experience by the
short training you have received in Carlyon's
office.'

The Major paused again, leaving Shaftoo
full of wonder and curiosity as to what this
preamble was leading up to.

The former had begun to see things more
clearly and temperately with regard to the
sudden death of Cosmo, and to feel that,

5—2

though he had renounced all family ties,
name, and wealth, so far as concerned himself,
to die, with the secret of all untold, would
be to inflict a cruel wrong on Florian. Atone
time Lennard thought of putting ,his
papers and the whole matter in the hands of
Mr. Lewellen Carlyon, and it was a pity he
did not do so instead of choosing to entrust
them to his long-headed nephew.

Hand here my desk, and unlock it for me
my hands are so tremulous,' said he.

When this was done he selected a packet
from a private drawer, and briefly and rapidly
told the story of his life, his proper name,
and rank to Shaftoo, who listened with open-eyed
amazement.

When the latter had thoroughly digested the
whole information, he said, after a long pause :

This must be told to Florian !'

And with Florian came the thought of
Dulcis, and how this sudden accession of her
lover to fortune and position would affect her.

Nay, Shaftoo — not yet — not till I am gone
a short time now. I can trust you, with
your sharpness and legal acumen, with the

handling of this matter entirely. When I
am gone, and laid beside your aunt Flora,
by the wall of the old church yonder,' he
continued with a very broken voice — one
almost a childish treble, ^ you will seek the
person to whom this packet is addressed,
Kenneth Kippllaw, a Writer to the Signet in
Edinburgh — he is alive still ; place these in
his hands, and he will do all that is required ;
but treasure them, Shaftoo — be careful of them
as you would of your soul's salvation — for
my sake, and more than all for the sake of
Florian ! Now, my good lad, give me the
composing draught — I feel sleepy and so
weary with all this talking, and the thoughts
that have come unbidden — unbidden, sad,
bitter, and angry thoughts — to memory.'

Shaftoo locked the desk, put it aside, and,
giving his uncle the draught, stole softly away
to his own room with the papers, to con them
over and to — think !

He had not sat at a desk for three years in
Lawyer Carlyon's office without having his
wits sharpened. He paused as he put the
documents away.

Stop — stop — let me think, let me consider
!' he exclaimed to himself, and he
certainly did consider to some purpose. He
was cold and calculating ; he was never unusually
agitated or flustered, but he became
both with the thoughts that occurred to him
now.

Among the papers and letters entrusted to
him were the certificates of the marriage of
Lennard and Flora, and another which ran
thus :

Certificate of entry of birth, under section
37 of 17 and 18 Vice., cap. 80.' It authenticated
the birth of their child Florian at
Revelstoke, with the date thereof to a minute.

These documents were enclosed in a letter
written in a tremulous and uncertain hand by
Lennard Melfort to Mr. Kenneth Kippilaw,
part of which was in these terms :

The child was baptized by a neighbouring
clergyman — the Rev. Paul Pentreath — who
has faithfully kept the promise of secrecy he
gave me, and, dying as I now feel myself to
be, I pray earnestly that my father and
mother will be kind to my orphan son. Let

them not — as they one day hope for mercy at
that dread throne before which I am soon to
appear — visit upon his innocent head my
supposed and most heavily punished offence.
Let him succeed in poor Cosmo's place to
that which is his due ; let him succeed to all
I renounced in anger — an anger that has
passed away, for now, my dear old friend, I
am aged beyond my years, and my hair is
now white as snow through ill-health contracted
in India, where, to procure money
necessary for my poor Flora, I volunteered
on desperate service, and in seasons destructive
to existence. In your hands I leave the
matter with perfect hope and confidence. The
bearer will tell you all more that may be
necessary.'

After having read, reread, and made himself
thoroughly master of the contents of this
to him certainly most astounding packet, he
requested the Major tore-address it in his own
tremulous and all but illegible handwriting,
and seal it up with his long-disused signet
ring, which bore the arms of Fettercairn.

Prior to having all this done, Shaftoo had

operated on one of the documents most dexterously
and destructively with his pen-knife !
A peerage ! a peerage ! — rank, wealth,
money, mine — all mine 1' he muttered under
his breath, as he stored the packet away in a
sure and secret place, and while whistling
softly to himself, a way he had when brooding
(as he often did) over mischief, he recalled
the lines of Robert Herrick :

Our life is like a narrow raft,

Afloat upon the hungry sea ;
Hereon is but a little space,
And all men, eager for a place,

Do thrust each other in the sea.'

So why should I not thrust Jim into the
hungry briny ? If life is a raft — and, by
Jove, I find it so ! — why should one not grasp
at all one can, and make the best of life for
one's self, by making the worst of it for other
folks ? Does such a chance of winning rank
and wealth come often to any one's hands ?
No ! and I should be the biggest of fools —
the most enormous of idiots — not to avail
myself to the fullest extent. I see my lite
game clearly, but must play warily. *' Eat,

drink, and be merry," says Isaiah, " for tomorrow
we die." They say the devil can
quote Scripture, and so can Shaftoo Gyle.
But I don't mean to die tomorrow, but to
have a jolly good spell for many a year to
come !'

And in the wild exuberance of his spirits
he tossed his hat again and again to the
ceiling.

From that day forward the health of
Lennard Melfort seemed to decline more
rapidly, and erelong he was compelled by
the chill winds of the season to remain in
bed, quite unable to take his place at table *or
move about, save when wheeled in a chair to
the window, where he loved to watch the
setting sun.

Then came one evening when, for the last
time, he begged to be propped up there in
his pillowed chair. The sun was setting over
Revelstoke Church, and throwing its picturesque
outline strongly forward, in a dark
indigo tint, against the golden and crimson
flush of the west, and all the waves around
the promontory were glittering in light.

But Lennard saw nothing of all this,
though he felt the feeble warmth of the
wintry sun as he stretched his thin, worn
hands towards It ; his eyesight was gone, and
would never come again ! There was something
very pathetic In the withered face and
sightless eyes, and the drooping white moustache
that had once been a rich dark-brown,
and waxed a V Empereurs

His dream of life was over, and his last
muttering were a prayer for Florlan, on
whose breast his head lay as he breathed his
last.

The two lads looked at each other In that
supreme moment — but with very different
thoughts In their hearts. Florlan felt only
desolation, blank and utter, and even Shaftoo,
in the awful presence of Death, felt alone In
the world.

A FAREWELL.

As he lay dead, that old-looking, wasted, and
attenuated man, whose hair was like the
thistledown, none would have recognised in
him the dark-haired, bronzed, and joyous
young subaltern who only twenty-four years
before had led his company at the storming
of the Redan, who had planted the scaling-ladder
against the scarp, and shouted in a
voice heard even amid the roar of the adverse
musketry :

Come on, men ! ladders to the front,
eight men per ladder ; up and at them, lads,
with the bayonet,' and fought his way into
an embrasure, while round-shot tore up the
earth beneath his feet, and men were swept
away in sections of twenty ; or the hardy

soldier who faced fever and foes alike in the
Terai of Nepaul.

How still and peaceful he lay now as the
coffin-lid was closed over him.

Snow-flakes, light and feathery, fell on the
hard ground, and the waves seemed to leap
and sob heavily round the old church of
Revelstoke, when Lennard Melfort was laid
beside the now old and flattened grave
of Flora, and keen and sharp the frosty wind
lifted the silver hair of the Rev. Paul
Pentreath, whistled among the ivy or on the
buttresses, and fluttered the black ribbon of
the pall held by Florian, who felt as one in a
dreadful dream — amid a dread and unreal
phantasmagoria ; and the same wind seemed
to twitch angrily the pall-ribbon from the
hand of Shaftoo, nor could he by any effort
recover it, as more than one present, with
their Devonian superstition, remarked, and
remembered when other things came to
pass.

At last all was over ; the mourners departed,
and Lennard Melfort was left alone —
alone with the dead of yesterday and of ages ;

and Florian, while Duce was by his side and
pressed his hand, strove to commit to memory
the curate's words from the Book of Revelation,
* There shall be no more death, neither
sorrow, nor sighing ; for God shall wipe
away all tears from their eyes.'

Shaftoo now let little time pass before he
proceeded to inform Florian of what he
called their ' relative position,' and of their
journey into Scotland to search out Mr.
Kippilaw.

It has been said that in life we have sometimes
moments so full of emotion that they
seem to mark a turn in it we can never reach
again; and this sharp turn, young and startled
Florian seemed to pass, when he learned that
since infancy he had been misled, and that
the man, so tender and so loving, whom
he had deemed his father was but his
uncle !

How came it all to pass nozu ? Yet the
old Major had ever been so kind and affectionate
to him — to both, in fact, equally so,
treating them as his sons — that he felt only a
stunning surprise, a crushing grief and bitter

mortification, but not a vestige of anger ; his
love for the dead was too keen and deep for
that.

The packet, sealed and addressed to Mr.
Kippllaw, though its contents were as yet
unknown to him, seemed to corroborate the
strange intelligence of Shaftoo ; but the question
naturally occurred to Florian, ' For what
end or purpose had this lifelong mystery
and change in their positions been brought
about ?'

He asked this of Shaftoo again and again.

It seems we have been very curiously
deluded,' said that personage, not daring to
look the sorrowful Florian straight in the
face, and pretended to be intent on stuffing
his pipe.

Deluded — how ?'

^ How often am I to tell you,' exclaimed
Shaftoo, with petulance and assumed irritation,
that the contents of this packet prove that /
am the only son of Major Melfort (not
Mac I an at all), and that you — you '

What ?'

Are Florian Gyle, the nephew — adopted

as a son. Mr. Kippllaw will tell you all
about it.'

And you, Shaftoo ?' queried Florian,
scarcely knowing, in his bewilderment, what
he said.

Mean to go In for my proper position —
my title, and all that sort of thing, don't you
see ?'

And act — how !'

Not the proverbial beggar on horseback,
I hope. I'll do something handsome for you,
of course.'

I want nothing done for me while I have
two hands, Shaftoo.'

As you please,' replied the latter, puffing
vigorously at his pipe. ' I have had enough
of hopeless drudgery for a quarterly pittance
in the dingy office of old Carlyon,' said he,
after a long pause ; ' and, by all the devils,
ril have no more of it now that I am going
to be rich.'

Indeed, from the day of Lennard Melfort
entrusting him with the packet, Shaftoo had
done little else at the office but study the
laws of succession in Scotland and England.

'How much you love money, Shaftoo f
said Florlan, eying him wistfully.

Do I ? Well, I suppose that comes from
having had so precious little of it in my
time. I am a poor devil just now, but,' thought
he exultantly, ' this "plant" achieved successfully,
how many matrons with daughters unmarried
will all be anxious to be mother tome
! And Dulcis Carlyon I might have for
asking; but I'll fly at higher game now, by
Jove !'

As further credentials, Shaftoo now possessed
himself of Major Melfort's sword,
commissions, and medals, while Florlan
looked In blank dismay and growing mortification
— puzzled by the new position In which
he found himself, of being no longer his father's
son — a source of unfathomable mystery.

Shaftoo was in great haste to be gone, to
leave Revelstoke and Its vicinity behind him.
It was too late for regrets or repentance now.
Not that he felt either, we suppose ; and
what he had done he would do again If there
was no chance of being found out. In the
growing exuberance of his spirits, he could

not help, a day or two after, taunting Florlan
about Dulcis till they were on the verge of a
quarrel, and wound up by saying, with a
scornful laugh :

^ You can't marry her — a fellow without a
shilling in the world ; and I wouldn't now
if she would have me, which I don't
doubt.'

Poor Dulcis ! She heard with undisguised
grief and astonishment of these events, and
of the approaching departure of the cousins.

The cottage home was being broken up ;
the dear old Major was in his grave ; and
Florian, the playmate of her infancy, the
lover of her girlhood, was going away —
she scarcely knew to where. They might be
permitted to correspond by letter, but when,
thought Dulcis — oh, when should they meet
again ?

The sun was shedding its light and warmth
around her as usual, on woodland and hill, on
weave and rock ; but both seemed to fade out,
the perfume to pass from the early spring
flowers, the glory from land and sea, and a
dim mist of passionate tears clouded the

VOL. I. 6

sweet and tender blue eyes of the affectionate
girl.

He would return, he said, as he strove to
console her; but how and when, and to what
end ? thought both so despairingly. Their
future seemed such a vague, a blank one !

^ I am penniless, Dulcis — a beggar on the
face of the earth — twice beggared now, I
think!' exclaimed Florlan, In sorrowful bitterness.


^ Don't speak thus,' said she imploringly,
with piteous lips that were tremulous as his
own, and her eyes drowned In tears.

They had left the road now, and wandered
among the trees in a thicket, and seated
themselves on a fallen trunk, a seat and place
endeared to them and familiar enough in past
time.

He gazed Into her eyes of deep pansy-blue,
as if his own were striving to take away a
memory of her face — a memory that would
last for eternity.

And you really go to-night ?' she asked,
in piteous and broken accents.

Yes — with Shaftoo. I am in a fever.

darling, to seek out a position for myself.
Surely Shaftoo may assist me in that — though
I shrink from asking him.'

Your own cousin ?'

Yes — but sometimes he looks like a supplanter
now, and his bearing has been so
unpleasant to me, especially of late,' said
Florian. ' But you will wait for me, Dulcis,
and not be persuaded to marry anyone else ?'
he added imploringly, as he clasped each of
her hands in his.

I shall wait for you, Florian, if it should
be for twenty years !' exclaimed the girl, ina
low and emphatic voice, scarcely considering
the magnitude and peril of such a
promise.

Thank you, darling Dulcis !' said he
bending down and kissing her lips with
ardour, and, though on the eve of parting,
they felt almost happy in the confidence of
the blissful present.

How often shall I recall this last meeting
by the fallen tree, when you are far, faraway
from Revelstoke and — me,' said
Dulcis.

6—2

'You will often come here to be reminded
of me ?'

Do you think, Florian, I will require to
be reminded of you ?' asked the girl, with a
little tone of pain in her sweet voice, as she
kissed the silver locket containing his likeness,
and all the sweet iteration of lover-talk,
promises, and pledges went on for a time,
and new hopes began to render this last interview
more bearable to the young pair who
were on the eve of separation, without any
very distinct arrangement about correspondence
in the interval of it.

The sun was setting now redly, and amid
dun winter clouds, beaming on each chimney-head,
on Revelstoke Church, and the leafless
tree-tops his farewell radiance.

Florian took a long, long kiss from Dulcis,
and with the emotion of a wrench in his
heart, was gone, and she was alone.

A photo and a lock of red-golden hair were
all that remained to him of her — both to be
looked upon again and again, till his e^^es
ached, but never grew weary.

Dulcis's were very red with weeping, and

the memory of that parting kiss was still
hovering on her quivering lips when, ina
lonely lane not far from her home, she
found herself suddenly face to face with
Shaftoo.

She had known him . from his boyhood,
ever since he came an orphan to Lennard
Melfort's cottage ; and although she always
distrusted and never liked him, his face was
a familiar one she might never see more ; thus
she resolved to part with him as with the best
of friends, and to remember that he was the
only kinsman of Florian, whose companion
and fellow-traveller he was to be on a journey
the end of which she scarcely understood.
So, frankly and sweetly, with a sad smile in
her eyes, she proffered her pretty hand,
which Shaftoo grasped and retained promptly
enough.

THE SILVER LOCKET.

Shaftoo had just been with her father. How
contemptuously he had eyed the corner and
the high old stool on which he had sat in the
latter's legal establishment, and all its surroundings
; the fly-blown county maps of
Devon and Cornwall ; advertisements of sales
property, manhood wurzel, oats and hay,
Shirley's food for cattle, and so forth ; the
tin boxes of most legal aspect ; dockets of
papers in red tape ; the well-thumbed ledgers ;
day and letter books, and all the paraphernalia
of a country solicitor s office.

Ugh ! How well he knew and loathed
them all. Now it was all over and done
with.

The three poor lads in the office, whose

cheap cigars and beer he had often shared at
the Ashburton Arms, he barely condescended
to notice, while they regarded him with something
akin to awe, as he gave Lawyer Carlyon
his final ' instructions' concerning the disposal
of the lease of the Major's pretty cottage,
and of all the goods and chattels that were
therein.

Had Florian been present he would have
felt only shame and abasement at the tone
and manner Shaftoo adopted on this occasion ;
but worthy Lawyer Carlyon, who did not
believe a bit in the rumoured accession of
Shaftoo to family rank and wealth, laughed
softly to himself, and thought his ' pride would
have a sore fall one of these fine days.'

And even now, when face to face with
Dulcis, his general bearing, his coolness and
Insouciance, rendered her, amid all her grief,
indignant and defiant ultimately.

How piquant, compact, and perfect the girl
looked, from the smart scarlet feather in her
little hat to her tiny Balmoral boots. Her
veil was tightly tied across her face, showing
only the tip of her nose, her ripe red lips, and

pretty white chin — its point, like her cheeks,
reddened somewhat by the winter breeze from
the Channel. Her gloved hands were in her
small muff, and the collar of her sealskin
jacket was encircled by the necklet at which
her silver locket hung — the locket Shaftoo
had seen her kiss when Florian had bestowed
it on her, while he looked close by, with his
heart full of envy, jealousy, and hatred, and
now it was the first thing that attracted his eye.

'And you actually leave us to-night, Shaftoo ?'
she said softly.

'Yes, Dulcis, by the train for Worcester
and the north. My estates, you know, are
in Scotland.'

These changes are all strange and most
startling said she, with a sob in her slender
throat.

We live in whirligig times, Dulcis ; but I
suppose it is the result of progress,' he added
sententiously. * I wonder how our grandfathers
and grandmothers contrived to mope
over and yawn out their dull and emotionless
existence till they reached threescore and
ten years.'

^ I shall never see that age, Shaftoo.'

Who knows ; though life, however sweet
now, won't be worth Having for then, I
fancy

Dulcle sighed, and he regarded her In
admiring silence, for he had a high appreciation
of her bright and delicate beauty, and
loved her — if we may degrade the phrase —
in his own selfish and peculiar way, though
now resolved — as he had often thought vainly
to ' fly at higher game ;' and so, full of
ideas, hopes, and ambitions of his own, if he
had ceased to think of Dulcle, he had, at
least, ceased for a space to trouble her.

Florian will be writing to you, of course ?*
said he, after a pause.

Alas ! no, we have made no arrangement ;
and then, you know, papa '

Wouldn't approve, of course. My farewell
advice to you, Dulcle, is — Don't put off
your time thinking of Florian — his ship will
never come home.'

Nor yours either, perhaps,' said Dulcle,
angrily.

You think so — but you are wrong.'

Ah ! I know these waited-for ships rarely
do.'

I have read somewhere that ships of the
kind rarely do come home in this prosaic and
disappointing world ; that some get wrecked
almost within sight of land ; others go down
without the flapping of a sail, and sometimes
after long and firm battling with adverse
winds and tides ; but my ship is a sure craft,
Dulcis,' he added, as he thought of the packet
in his possession — that precious packet on
which all his hopes rested and his daring
ambition was founded.

Dulcis looked at him wistfully and distrustfully,
and thought —

Why is he so sure ? But his ideas were
always selfish and evil. Tide what may,'
she added aloud, ' I shall wait twenty years
and more for Florian.'

The more fool you, then ! And so die an
old maid ?'

I am, perhaps, cut out for an old maid.'

And if he never can marry you — or
marries some one else when he can ?' asked
Shaftoo viciously.

'Oh, then I'll take to sesthetlcism, or
women's rights, and all that sort of thing
said the poor girl, with a ghastly and defiant
attempt at a jest, which ended in tears, while
Shaftoo eyed her angrily.

How fond you are of that silver locket —
you never wear any other !'

^ I have so few ornaments, Shaftoo.'

And none you prize so much }'

None !' said Dulcis, with a sweet, sad
smile.

Is that the reason you wear It with all
kinds of dresses ? What is in it — anything ?'

That is my secret,' replied Dulcis, putting
her right hand on it and instinctively drawing
back a pace, for there was a menacing expression
in the cold grey eyes of Shaftoo.

Allow me to open it said he, taking her
hand in his.

'No.'

You shall !'

Never !' exclaimed Dulcis, her eyes
sparkling now as his grasp upon her hand
tightened.

An imprecation escaped Shaftoo, and with

his eyes aflame and his cheeks pale with
jealousy and rage he tore her hand aside and
wrenched by brutal force the locket from her,
breaking the silver necklet as he did so.

Coward !' exclaimed Dulcis ; ' coward and
thief — how dare you ? Surrender that locket
instantly !'

Not if I know it,' said he, mockingly,
holding the prized trinket before her at arm's
length.

But for Florlan's sake, I would at once
apply to the police.'

'A vulgar resort — no, my pretty Dulcis,
you wouldn't.'

Why ?'

Not for Florlan's sake ?'

Whose, then ?'

Your own, for you wouldn't like to have
your old pump of a father down on you ; and
so you dare not make a row about it, my
pretty little fury.'

Shaftoo, I entreat you, give me back that
photo,' said Dulcis, her tears welling forth.

No ; I won't.'

Of what interest or use can It be to you ?'

More than you Imagine,' said Shaftoo, to
whom a villainous Idea just then occurred.

1 entreat you,' said Dulcis, letting her
muff drop and clasping her slim little hands.

Entreat away ! I feel deucedly Inclined
to put my heel upon It — but I won't.'

This robbery Is cruel and infamous !' exclaimed
Dulcis, trembling with grief and just
indignation ; but Shaftoo only laughed in
anger and bitterness — and a very hyena-like
laugh it was, and as some one was coming
down the secluded lane, he turned away and
left her in the twilight.

He felt himself safe from opprobrium and
punishment, as he knew well she was loth to
make any complaint to her father on the subject
; and just then she knew not how to
communicate with Florlan, as the darkness
was falling fast, and the hour of his departure
was close at hand. She thought it not improbable
that Shaftoo would relent and return
the locket to her ; but the night was far advanced
ere that hope was dissipated, and she
attained some outward appearance of composure,
though her father's sharp and affectionate

eyes detected that she had been
suffering.

He had heard from her some confused
and rambling story about the family secret,
the packet, and the peerage, a story of which
he could make nothing, though Shaftoo's bearing
to himself that evening seemed to confirm
the idea that ' there was something In
it Anyway, Mr. Carlyon was not indisposed
to turn the event to account in one
sense.

Likely — likely enough, Dulcis lass,' said
he ; ' and so you'll hear no more of these
two lads, if they are likely to become great
folks, and belong to what is called the upper
ten ; they'll never think again of a poor
village belle like you, though there is not a
prettier face in all Devonshire than my
Dulcle's from Lyme Regis to Cawsand Bay.'

He meant this kindly, and spoke with a
purpose ; and his words and the warning
they conveyed sank bitterly Into the tender
heart of poor Dulcis.

By this time the cousins were sweeping
through the darkness in the express train by

Exeter, Taunton, and so forth ; both were
very silent, and each was full of his own
thoughts, and what these were the reader
may very well Imagine.

Heedless of the covert and sneering smiles
of Shaftoo, Florlan, from time to time, drew
forth the photo of Dulcle, and her shining
lock of red-golden hair, his sole links between
the past and the present ; and already he felt
as If a score of years had lapsed since they
sat side by side upon the fallen tree.

Then, that he might give his whole
thoughts to Dulcle, he affected to sleep ; but
Shaftoo did not sleep for hours. He sat
quietly enough with his face In shadow, his
travelling-cap of tweed-check pulled well
down over his watchful and shifty grey-green
eyes, the lamp overhead giving a miserable
glimmer suited to the concealment of expression
and thought ; and as the swift train sped
northward, the cousins addressed not a word
to each other concerning those they had left
behind, what was before them, or anything
else.

After a time, Shaftoo really slept — slept the

slumber which Is supposed to be the reward
of the just and conscientious, but which is
much more often enjoyed by those who have
no conscience at all.

Dulcis contrived to despatch a letter to
Florian detailing the outrage to which she
had been subjected by Shaftoo ; but time
passed on, and, for a reason we shall give in
its place, the letter never reached him.

Again and again she recalled and rehearsed
her farewell with Florian, and thought regretfully
of his passionate pride, and desperate
poverty too probably, if he quarrelled with
Shaftoo ; and she still seemed to see his beautiful
dark eyes, dim with unshed tears, while
her own welled freely and bitterly.

When could they meet again, if ever, and
where and how ? Her heart and brain
ached with these questions.

Dulcis did not bemoan her fate, though
her cheek paled a little, and she felt — even
at her early years — as If life seemed over
and done with, and in her passionate love for
the absent, that existence alone was left to
her, and so forth.

And as she was her father's housekeeper
now, kept the keys and paid all the servants,
paid all accounts and made the preserver, he
was In no way sorry that the young men were
gone ; that the ' aimless philandering,' as he
deemed It, had come to an end ; and that
much would be attended to In his cosy little
household which he suspected — but unjustly
had been neglected hitherto.

To Dulcle, the whole locality of her native
place, the breezy moors, the solitary hills, the
mysterious Druid pillars and logan stones,
the rocky shore, and the pretty estuary of the
Yealm, where they had been wont to boat
and fish for pilchards In summer and autumn,
were all full of the haunting presence of the
absent — the poor but proud and handsome
lad who from boyhood, yea from Infancy, had
loved her, and who now seemed to have
slipped out of her existence.

Spring melted Into summer ; golden sunshine
flooded hill and dale, and lit up the
waters of the Term, the Yealm, and the far-stretching
Channel, tinting with wondrous
gleams and hues the waves that rolled upon

VOL. I. 7

the shore, or boiled about the Mewstorre
Rock, and the sea-beaten promontory of
Revelstoke ; but to Dulcis the p'lorv was
gone from land and water : she heard no
more, by letter or otherwise, of the love of
her youth ; he seemed to have dropped
utterly out of her sphere ; and though mechanically
she gathered the fragrant leaves of
she bursting June roses — the Marshal Neil
and Gloire de Dijon — and treasured them
carefully in rare old china jars and vases, a
task in which she had often been assisted by
Florian, she felt and thought — 'Chabot!
Chabot ! the glory has departed !'

MR. KIPPILAW, W.S.

Shaftoo found himself a little nervous when
he and Florian were actually in Edinburgh, a
city in its beauty, boldness and grandeur of
rock and mountain, fortress, terrace, and
temple, so foreign-looking to English eyes,
and so utterly unlike everything they had
ever seen or conceived before.

Florian's thoughts were peculiarly his own.
His fathers death — though called an uncle
now, but Florian always felt for and thought
of him as a parent — the loss of Dulcis, their
abrupt departure from Devonshire, and rough
uproot of all early associations, had made a
kind of hiatus in the young fellow's life, and
It was only now when he found himself amid
the strange streets and picturesque splendour

7—2

of Edinburgh that he began — like one recovering
consciousness after a honos illness —
to gather up again the ravelled threads of
thought, but with curious want of concern and
energy ; while Shaftoo felt that he personally
had both, and that now he required to have
all his wits about him.

Florian stood for a time that night at the
door of their hotel in Princes Street looking
at the wonderful lights of the Old Town
sparkling in mid air, and some that were in
the Castle must, he thought, be stars, they
were so high above the earth. Scores of
cabs and carriages went by, eastward and
westward, but no carts or pains or worries,
such as one sees in London or Glasgow —
vehicles with bright lamps and well muffled
occupants, gentlemen in evening suits, and
ladies in ball or dinner dresses, and crowds of
pedestrians, under the brilliant gas lights and
long boulevard-like lines of trees — the ever-changing
human panorama of a great city
street before midnight.

How odd, how strange and lonely poor
Florian felt ; he seemed to belong to no one.

and, like the Miller o' Dee, nobody cared for
him ; and ever and anon his eyes rested on
the mighty castled rock that towers above
streets, monuments, and gardens, with a
wonderous history all its own, ' where
treasured lie the monarchy's last gems,' and
with them the only ancient crown in the
British Isles. ' Brave kings and the fairest
of crowned women have slept and been
cradled in that eyrie,' says an enthusiastic
English writer ; ' heroes have fought upon its
slopes ; English armies have stormed it ;
dukes, earls, and barons have been immured
in its strong dungeons ; a sainted
Queen prayed and yielded up her last breath
there eight centuries ago. It is an imperishable
relic — a monument that needs no carving
to tell its tale, and it has the nation's worship;
and the different church sects cling round its
base as if they would fight again for the

guardianship of a venerable mother

And if Scotland has no longer a king and
Parliament all to herself, her imperial crown
is at least safely kept up there amid strong
iron stanchions, as a sacred memorial of her

Inextinguishable independence, and, If need
were, for future use.'

Florlan was a reader and a thinker, and he
felt a keen Interest In all that now surrounded
him ; but Shaftoo lurked in a corner of the
smoke-room, turning in his mind the task of
the morrow, and unwisely seeking to fortify
himself by Imbibing more brandy and soda
than Florlan had ever seen him take before.

After a sound night's rest and a substantial
Scottish breakfast had fitted Shaftoo, as he
thought, for facing anything, a cab deposited
him and Florlan (who was now beginning to
marvel why he had travelled so far in a
matter that concerned him not, in reality)
at the residence of Mr. Kenneth Kippilaw,
W.S., in Charlotte Square — a noble specimen
of Adams Street architecture, having four
stately symmetrical corresponding facades,
overlooked by the dome of St. George's
Church.

Lawyers evidently thrive In Scotland,'
said Shaftoo, as he looked at the mansion of
Mr. Kippilaw, and mentally recalled the
modest establishment of Lawyer Carlyon ;

but foxes will flourish as long as there are
geese to be plucked.'

Mr. Kippilaw was at home — indeed he was
just finishing breakfast, before going to the
Parliament House — as they were informed by
the liveried valet, who led them through a
pillared and marble-floored vestibule, and
ushered them into what seemed a library, as
the walls from floor to ceiling were lined
with handsome books ; but every professional
man's private office has generally this
aspect in Scotland.

In a few minutes Mr. Kippilaw appeared
with a puzzled and perplexed expression 'in
his face, as he alternatively looked at his two
visitors, and at Shaftoo's card in his hand.

Mr. Kippilaw was now in his sixtieth year ;
his long since grizzled hair had now become
white, and had shrunk to two patches far
apart, one over each ear, and brushed stiffly
up. His eyebrows were also white, shaggy,
and under them his keen eyes peered
sharply through the rims of a gold pince-nez
balanced on the bridge of his long aquiline
nose.

Shaftoo felt just then a strange and unpleasant
dryness about his tongue and lips.

'Mr. Shafio Melfort? said Mr. KIppIlaw
inquiringly, and referring to the card again. ' I
was not aware that there was a Mr. Shaftoo
Melfort — any relation of Lord Fettercairn ?'

His grandson,' said Shaftoo unblushingly.

This gentleman with the dark eyes ?*
asked Mr. KIppIlaw, turning to the silent
Florlan.

No — myself,' said Shaftoo sharply and
firmly.

You are most unlike the family, who have
always been remarkable for regularity of
features. Then you are the son — of — of — '

The late Major Lennard Melfort who died
a few weeks ao^o '

Good Heavens, where ?'

On the west coast of Devonshire, near
Revelstoke, where he had long resided under
the assumed name of Maclan.'

That of his wife .^'

Precisely so — my mother.'

'And this young gentleman, whose face
and features seem curiously familiar to me,

though I never saw him before, he Is your
brother of course.'

No, my cousin, the son of my aunt Mrs.
Gyle. I am an only son, but the Major ever
treated us as if he had been the father of both,
so great and good was his kindness of heart.*

Be seated, please,' said the lawyer in a
breathless voice, as he seated himself In an
ample leathern elbow chair at his writing-table,
which was covered with documents and
letters all arranged by his junior clerk In the
most orderly manner.

This is very sudden and most unexpected
intelligence,' said he, carefully wiping "his
glasses, and subjecting Shaftoo's visage to a
closer scrutiny again. ^ Have you known all
these years past the real name and position of
your father, and that he left Kincardineshire
more than twenty years ago after a very grave
quarrel with his parents at Craigengowan }'

No — I only learned who he was, and who
we really were, when he was almost on his
deathbed. He confided It to me alone, as his
only son, and because I had been bred to the
law ; and on that melancholy occasion he

entrusted me with this important packet
addressed lo pott.'

With an expression of the deepest interest
pervading his well-lined face, Mr. Kippilaw
took the packet and carefully examined the
seal and the superscription, penned in a
shaky handwriting, with both of which he was
familiar enough, though he had seen neither
for fully twenty years, and finally he examined
the envelope, which looked old and
yellow.

If all be true and correct, these tidings will
make some stir at Craigengowan,' he muttered
as if to himself, and cut round the seal with a
penknife.

You will find ample proofs, sir, of all I
have alleged,' said Shaftoo, who now felt that
the crisis was at hand.

Mr. Kippilaw, with growing interest and
wonder, drew forth the documents and read
and re-read them slowly and carefully, holding
the papers, but not offensively, between
him and the light to see if the dates and
water-marks tallied.

The slow way this old devil goes on

would exasperate an oyster !' thought Shaftoo,
whose apparently perfect coolness and self-possession
rather surprised and repelled the
lawyer.

There were the certificate of Lennard's
marriage with Flora Maclan, which Mr.
KIppilaw could remember he had seen of old ;
the ' certificate of entry of birth of their son,
born at Revelstoke at 6 h. 50 m. on the 28th
October p.m., 18 — ,' signed by the Registrar,
and the Major's farewell letter to his old
friend, entrusting his son and his son's interests
to his care.

But, hallo r exclaimed Mr. KIppilaw^ after
he had read for the second time, and saw that
the letter of Lennard Melfort was undoubtedly
authentic, ^ how comes it that the whole of
your Christian name Is torn out of the birth
certificate, and the surname Melfort alone
remains ?'

Torn out !' exclaimed Shaftoo, apparently
startled In turn.

There is a rough little hole In the document
where the name should be. Do you
know the date of your birth .^' asked Mr.

KIppilaw, partly covering the document with
his hand, unconsciously as it were.

Yes — 28th October

And the year ?'

Shaftoo gave it from memory.

Quite correct — as given here,' said Mr.
Kippilaw ; ' but you look old for the date of
this certificate.'

I always looked older than my years
replied Shaftoo.

Florian, who might have claimed the date
as that of his own birth, was — luckily for
Shaftoo — away at a window, gazing intently
on a party of soldiers marching past, with a
piper playing before them.

'Another certificate can be got if necessary
said Mr. Kippilaw, as he glanced at the
Registrar's signature, a suggestion which
made Shaftoo's heart quake. ' It must have
come from the Major in this mutilated state,'
he added, re-examining with legal care and
suspicion the address on the envelope and
the seal, which, as we have said, he had cut
round ; ' but it is strange that he has made
no mention of it being so in his letter to me.

Poor fellow ! he was more of a soldier than a
man of business, however. Allow me to congratulate
you, Mr. Melfort, on your new
prospects. Rank and a very fine estate are
before you.'

He warmly shook the hand of Shaftoo, who
began to be more reassured ; and saying, ' I
must carefully preserve the documents for the
inspection of Lord Fettercairn,' he locked
them fast In a drawer of his writing-table, and
spreading out his coat-tails before the fire,
while warming his person In the fashion
peculiar to the genuine ' Britisher,' he eyed
Shaftoo benignantly, and made a few pleasant
remarks on the Fettercairn family, the
fertility and beauty of Cralgengowan, the
stables, kennels, the shootings, and so forth,
and the many fine qualities of ' Lennard' — ashe
called him — and about whom he asked
innumerable questions, all of which Shaftoo
could answer truly and with a clear conscience
enough, as he was master of all that.

The latter was asked ' what he thought
of Edinburgh — If he had ever been there
before,' and so forth. Shaftoo remembered a

little 'Guide Book' Into which he had
certainly dipped, so as to be ready for anything,
and spoke so warmly of the picturesque
beauties and historical associations of the
Modern Athens that the worthy lawyer's
heart began to warm to so Intelligent a
young man, while of the silent Florlan,
staring out into the sun-lit square and Its
beautiful garden and statues, he took little
notice, beyond wondering where he had seen
his eyes and features before !

ALONE IN THE WORLD.

And you were bred to the law, you say, Mr.
Melfort ?' remarked the old Writer to the
Signet after a pause.

Yes, in Lawyer Carlyon's office.' ^

Very good — very good indeed ; that is
well ! We generally think In Scotland that
a little knowledge of the law is useful, as it
teaches the laird to haud his ain ; but I
forgot that you are southland bred, and
born too — the more is the pity — and can't
understand me.'

Shaftoo did not understand him, but thought
that his time spent in Lawyer Carlyon's
office had not been thrown away now ; experience
there had ' put him up to a trick or
two.'

I shall write to Craigengowan by the first
post,' said Mr. Kippilaw after another of
those thoughtful pauses during which he attentively
eyed his visitor. ' Lord and Lady
Fettercairn — like myself now creeping up the
vale of years — (Hope they may soon seethe
end of it ! thought Shaftoo) will, I have
no doubt, be perfectly satisfied by the sequence
and tenor of the documents you have brought
me that you are their grandson — the son of
the expatriated Lennard — and when I hear
from them I shall let you know the result
without delay. You are putting up at — what
hotel ?'

At the Duke of Rothesay, in Princes
Street.'

Ah ! very well.'

Thanks ; I shall be very impatient to
hear.'

And your cousin — he will, of course, go
with you to Craigengowan ?'

Shaftoo hesitated, and actually coloured, as
Florian could detect.

'What are your intentions or views ?' Mr.
Kippilaw asked the latter.

He failed to pass for the army,' said
Shaftoo bluntly and glibly, ' so I don't know
what he means to do 7iow, I believe that he
scarcely knows himself

Have you no friends on your mother's
side, Mr. Florian ?'

None !' said Florian, with a sad inflection
of voice.

Indeed ! and what do you mean to do ?'

Follow the drum, most probably,' replied
Florian bitterly and a little defiantly, as
Shaftoo's coldness, amid his own great and
good fortune, roused his pride and galled his
heart, which sank as he thought of Dulcis
Carlyon, sweet, golden-haired English Dulcis,
so far away.

Mr. Kippilaw shook his bald head at the
young man's answer.

I have some little influence in many ways,
and if I can assist your future views you may
command me, Mr. Florian,' said he with
fatherly kindness, for he had reared — yea and
lost — more than one fine lad of his own.

It has been said that one must know mankind
very well before having the courage to

VOL. I. 8

be solely and simply oneself; thus, as Shaftoo's
knowledge of mankind was somewhat limited,
he felt his eye quail more than once under
the steady gaze of Mr. KIppilaw.

It Is a very strange thing,' said the latter,
that after the death of Mr. Cosmo In Glen-tilt,
when Lord and Lady Fettercairn where so
anxious to discover and recall his younger
brother as the next and only heir to the title
and estates, we totally failed to trace him.
We applied to the War Office for the whereabouts
of Major Lennard Melfort, but the
authorities there, acting upon a certain principle,
declined to afford any Information.
Advertisements, some plainly distinct, others
somewhat enigmatical, were often inserted In
the Scotsman and Times, but without the
least avail.

As for the Scotsman' said Shaftoo, * the

Major '

Your father, you mean ?'

Yes,' said he, reddening, ' was no more
likely to see such a provincial print in
Devonshire than the Roman Ditto or the
Prussian Kreitz Zeit^mg ; and the Times, if

he saw It — which I doubt — he must have
ignored. Till the time of his death drew
near, his feelings were bitter, his hostility to
his family great.'

I can well understand that, poor fellow !'
said Mr. Kippilaw, glancing at his watch, ashe
added — ' You must excuse me till tomorrow
: I am already overdue at the
Parliament House.'

He bowed his visitors out into the sun-lit
square.

You seem to have lost your tongue,
Florian, and to have a disappointed look,'
said Shaftoo snappishly, as they walked
slowly towards the hotel together.

Disappointed I am in one sense, perhaps,
but I have no reason to repine or complain
save at our change of relative positions, but
certainly not at your unexpected good fortune,
Shaftoo. It is only right and just that your
father's only son should inherit all that is
legally and justly his.'

Even at these words Shaftoo never winced
or wavered in plans or purpose.

It was apparent, however, to Florian, that

8—2

he had for some time past looked restless
and uneasy, that he started and grew pale at
any unusual sound, while a shadow rested on
his not usually very open countenance.

Betimes next morning a note came to him
at the Duke of Rothesay Hotel from Mr.
Kippilaw, requesting a visit as early as possible,
and on this errand he departed alone.

He found the old lawyer radiant, with a
letter in his hand from Lord Fettercairn (in
answer to his owen) expressive of astonishment
and joy at the sudden appearance of
this hitherto unknown grandson, whom he
was full of ardour and anxiety to see.

'You will lose no time in starting for
Craigengowan,' said Mr. Kippilaw. 'You
take the train at the Waverley Station and
go via Burntisland, Arbroath, and Marykirk
or stay, I think we shall proceed together,
taking your papers with us.'

Thanks,' said Shaftoo, feeling somehow
that the presence of Mr. Kippilaw at the
coming interview would take some of the
responsibility off his own shoulders.

^ Craigengowan, your grandfather says, will

put on its brightest smile to welcome
you.'

Very kind of Craigengowati,' said Shaftoo,
who felt but ill at ease in his new role of
adventurer, and unwisely adopted a free-and-easy
audacity of manner.

A cheque on the Bank of Scotland for
present emergencies,' said Mr. Kippilaw,
opening his cheque-book, ' and in two hours
we shall meet at the station.'

Thanks again. How kind you are, my
dear sir.'

I would do much for your father's son,
Mr. Shaftoo,' said the lawyer, emphatically. '

And what about Florian ?'

'The letter ignores him — a curious omission.
In their joy, perhaps Lord and Lady Fetter-cairn
forgot. But, by the way, here is a letter
for him that came by the London mail.'

A letter for him !' said Shaftoo, faintly,
while his heart grew sick with apprehension,
he knew not of what.

Mr. Florian's face is strangely familiar tome,'
said Mr. Kippilaw aloud ; but to himself,
Dear me, dear me, where can I have seen

features like his before ? He reminds me
curiously of Lennard Melfort.'

Shaftoo gave a nervous start.

The letter was a bulky one, and bore the
Newbury and other post-marks, and to
Shaftoo's infinite relief was addressed in ,the
familiar handwriting of Dulcis Carlyon.

He chuckled, and a great thought worthy
of himself occurred to him.

In the solitude of his own room at the
hotel, he moistened and opened the gummed
envelope, and drew forth four closely written
sheets of paper full of the outpourings of the
girl's passionate heart, of her wrath at the
theft of her locket by Shaftoo, and mentioning
that she had incidentally got the address of
Mr. Kippilaw from her father, and desiring
him to write to her, and she would watch for
and intercept the postman by the sea-shore.

Bosh,' muttered Shaftoo, as he tore up and
cast into the fire Dulcis's letter, all save a
postscript, written on a separate scrap of
paper, and which ran thus : —

You have all the love of my heart, Florian ;
but, as I feel and fear we may never meet

again, I send you this, which I have worn
next my heart, to keep.'

This was a tiny tuft of forget-me-nots.

Three stamps on all this raggabash !' exclaimed
Shaftoo, whom the girl's terms of
endearment to Florian filled with a tempest
of jealous rage. He rolled the locket he had
wrenched from Dulcis's neck in soft paper,
and placed it with the postscript in the
envelope, which he carefully closed and resumed,
placed near the fire, and the moment
it was perfectly dry he gave it to Florian.

If the latter was surprised to see a letter to
himself, addressed in Dulcis's large, clear,
and pretty handwriting, to the care of * Lawyer
Kippilaw,' as she called him, he was also
struck dumb when he found in the envelope
the locket, the likeness, and the apparently
curt farewell contained in one brief sentence !

For a time he stood like one petrified.
Could it all be real "^ Alas ! there was no
doubting the postal marks and stamps upon
this most fatal cover ; and while he was examining
it and passing his hand wildly more
than once across his eyes and forehead, Shaftoo

was smoking quietly at a window, and to all
appearance intent on watching the towering
rock and batteries of the Castle, bathed In
morning sunshine — batteries whereon steel
morions and Scottish spears had often gleamed
of old.

Though his soul shrank from doing so,
Florian could not resist taking Shaftoo into
his confidence about this unexplalnable event ;
and the latter acted astonishment to the life !
Was the locket thus returned through the
post In obedience to her father's orders, after
he had probably discovered the contents of It ?
But Shaftoo demolished this hope by drawing
his attention to the tenor of the pithy
scrap of paper, which precluded the idea that
it had been done under any other Influence
than her own change of mind.

Poor Florian !' sneered Shaftoo, as he prepared
to take his departure for Craigengowan ;
now you had better proceed at once to cultivate
the wear-the-wlllow state of mind.'

Florian made no reply. His ideas of faith
and truth and of true women were suddenly
and cruelly shattered now !

'She has killed all that was good in me,
and the mischief of the future will be at her
door !' he exclaimed, in a low and husky-voice.


Oh, Florian, don't say that,' said Shaftoo,
who actually did feel a little for him ; and
just then, when they were on the eve of
separation, even his false and artful heart did
feel a pang, with the sting of fear, at the
career of falsehood to which he had committed
himself; but his ambition, innate greed,
selfishness, and pride urged him on that
career steadily and without an idea of flinching.


After Mr. Kippilaw's remarks concerning
how the face of Florian interested him, and
actually that he bore a likeness to the dead
Major — to his own father, in fact — Shaftoo
became more than desirous to be rid of him
in any way. He thought with dread of the
discovery and fate of ' the Claimant,' and of
the fierce light thrown by the law on that
gigantic imposture ; but genuine compunction
he had none !

Well,' he muttered, as he drove away from

the hotel with his portmanteau, ' I must
keep up this game at all hazards now. I
have stolen — not only Florian's name —
but his place, so let him paddle his own
canoe !'

I'll write you from Craigengowan,' were
his parting words — a promise which he never
fulfilled. Shaftoo, who generally held their
mutual purse now, might have offered to
supply the well-nigh penniless lad with money,
but he did not. He only longed to be rid of
him — to hear of him no more. He had a
dread of his presence, of his society, of his
very existence, and now had but one hope,
wish, and desire — that Florian Melfort should
cross his path never again. And now that
he had achieved a separation between him
and Dulcis, he conceived that Florian would
never again go near Revelstoke, of which he
Shaftoo — had for many reasons a nervous
dread !

Full of Dulcis and her apparently cruel
desertion of him, which he considered due to
calm consideration of his change of fortune —
or rather total want of it — Florian felt humbly

indifferent to the matter Shaftoo had in hand
and all about himself.

While very nearly moved to girlish tears at
parting from one with whom he had lived
since infancy — with whom he had shared the
same sleeping-room, shared in the same sports
and studies — with whom he had read the
same books to some extent, and had ever
viewed as a brother — Florian was rather
surprised, even shocked, by the impatience
of that kinsman, the only one he had in all
the wide world, to part from him and begone,
and to see he was calm and hard as flint or
steel.

Different natures have different ways of
showing grief, I suppose,' thought the simple
Florian ; ' or can it be that he still has a
grudge at me because of the false but winsome
Dulcis ? If affection for me is hidden
in his heart, it is hidden most skilfully No
letter ever came from Craigengowan. The
pride of Florian was justly roused, and he
resolved that he would not take the initiative,
and attempt to open a correspondence with
one who seemed to ignore him, and whose

manner at departing he seemed to see more
clearly and vividly now.

The fact soon became grimly apparent.
He could not remain Idling in such a fashionable
hotel as the Duke of Rothesay, so he
settled his bill there, and took his portmanteau
in his hand, and issued Into the streets — Into
the world. In fact.

Shaft IN CLOVER.

About six months had elapsed since Shaftoo
and Florlan parted, as we have described, at
Edinburgh.

It was June now. The luxurious woods
around Craigengowan were in all their leafy
beauty, and under their shadows the dun
deer panted in the heat as they made their
lair among the feathery broken ; the emerald
green lawn was mowed and rolled till it was
smooth as a billiard-table and soft as three-pile
velvet.

The air was laden with the wafted fragrance
of roses and innumerable other flowers ; and
the picturesque old house, with its multitude
of conical turrets furnished with glittering
vanes, its crow-stepped gables and massive

chimneys, stood boldly up against the deep
blue sky of summer ; and how sweetly peaceful
looked the pretty village, seen In middle
distance, through a followed vista In the
woodlands, with the white smoke ascending
from Its humble hearths, the only thing that
seemed to be stirring there ; and how beautiful
were the colours some of Its thatched
roofs presented — greenest moss, brown lichen,
and stonecrop, now all a blaze of gold, while
the murmur of a rivulet (a tributary of the
Esk), that gurgled under Its tiny arch, * the
auld brig-stane' of Lennard's boyhood, would
be heard at times, amid the pleasant voices
of some merrymakers on the lawn, amid the
glorious shrubberies, and belts of flowers
below the stately terrace, that had long since
replaced the moat that encircled the old
fortified mansion, from whence Its last Jacobite
lord had ridden forth to fight and die for
James VIII., on the field of SherlfTmuIr —
King of Scotland, England, France, and
Ireland, as the unflinching Jacobites had It.

A gay and picturesquely dressed lawn-tennis
party was busy tossing the balls from

side to side among several courts ; but apart
from all, and almost conspicuously so — a
young fellow, in a handsome light tennis suit
of coloured flannels, and a beautiful girl were
carrying on a very palpable flirtation.

The gentleman was Shaftoo, and his companion
was Finella Melfort, Cosmo's orphan
daughter (an heiress through her mother),
who had returned a month before from a
protracted visit in Tyburniaia. They seemed
to be on excellent terms with each other, and
doubtless the natural gaiety of the girl's
disposition, her vivacity of manner, and their
supposed mutual relationship, had opened the
way to speedy familiarity.

She was a dark-haired and dark-eyed, but
very white-skinned little beauty, with a perfect
inignoniie face, a petite but round and compact
figure, gracefully formed, and very
coquettish and spirituelle in all her ways.

She had received her peculiar Christian
name at the special request of her grandfather,
that silly peer being desirous that her name
might go down in the peerage in connection
with that of the famous Finella of Fettercairn.

'A winsome pair they would make,' was
the smiHng remark of Mr. Kenneth Kippilaw,
who was of the party (with three romping
daughters from Edinburgh), to Lord Fetter-cairn,
who smirked a grim assent, as if it
was a matter of Indifference to him, which
it was not, as his legal adviser very well
knew ; and my Lady Drumshoddy, who heard
the remark, bestowed upon him a bright
and approving smile in return for a knowing
glance through the glasses of his gold
piiice-7zez.

In Craigengowan the adventurous Shaftoo
Gyle had found his veritable Capua — he was
literally 'in clover.' Yet he never heard
himself addressed by his assumed name
without experiencing a strange sinking and
fluttering of the heart.

The once-despised Lennard Melfort's
sword, his commission, and his hard-won
medals earned In Central India and the Terai
of Nepaul were now looked upon as precious
relics in his mother's luxurious boudoir at
Craigengowan, and reclaimed from the
lumber-attic, his portrait, taken in early life,

was again hung in a place of honour in the
dining hall.

What a fool my old uncle was to lose his
claim on such a place as this, and all for the
face of a girl !' was the exclamation of Shaftoo
to himself when first he came to Craigen-
gowan, and then he looked fearfully around
him lest the word tmcle might have been
overheard by some one ; and he thought — * If
rascally the trick I have played my simple
and love-stricken cousin — and rascally it was
and is — surely it was worth while to be the
heir of this place, Craigengowan. To reckon
as mine in future all this grand panorama of
heath-clad hills, of green and golden fields,
of purple maitland, and stately woods of oak
and pine where the deer rove in herds ; as
mine the trout-streams that flow towards the
Bervie ; the cascades that roar down the
cliffs ; the beautiful old house, with its stables,
kennels, and terrace; its cellars,, pictures,
plate, and jewellery, old china and vases of
marble and jasper, china and Japanese work ;
and I possess all that rank and wealth can
give !' and so thought this avaricious rascal,

VOL. I. 9

with a capacity for evil actions far beyond his
years.

To the fair Inheritance he had come to
steal he could not, however, add as his the
blue sky above It, or the waves of the German
Sea, which the North Esk flowed to join ;
but he was not without sense appreciative
enough to enjoy the fragrance of the teeming
earth, of the pine forests where the brown
squirrels leaped from branch to branch, and
on the mountain side the perfume of the
golden whin and gorse.

Appraising everything, these Ideas were
ever recurring to his mind, and It was full of
them now as he looked around him, and at
times, like one In a dream, heard the pretty
babble of the high-bred, coquettish girl, who,
to amuse herself, made ceillades at him ; who
called him so sweetly * Cousin Shafts and
who, with her splendid fortune, he was now
beginning to Include among the many goods
and chattels which must one day accrue to him.

Lord and Lady Fettercairn were, of course,
fully twenty years older than when we saw
them last, full of wrath and indignation at

Lennard for his so-called mesalliance. Both
were cold in heart and self-absorbed in nature
as ever. The latter was determined to be a
beauty still, though now upon the confines of
that decade ' when the cunning of cosmetics
can no longer dissemble the retribution of
Time the avenger.' The former was bald
now, and the remains of his once sandy-coloured
hair had become grizzled, and a
multitude of puckers were about his cold,
grey eyes, while there was a perceptible
stoop in his whilom flat, square shoulders.

He was as full of family pride as ever, aid
the discovery of an unexpected and authentic
heir and grandson to his title, that had never
been won in the field or cabinet, but was
simply the reward of bribery and corruption,
and for which not one patriotic act had been
performed by four generations, had given
him intense satisfaction, and caused much
blazing of bonfires and consumption of alcohol
♦ about the country-side; and smiles that were
bright and genuine frequently wreathed the
usually pale and immobile face of Lady
Fettercairn when they rested on Shaftoo.

9—2

We all know how the weak and easy adoption
of a pretender by a titled mother in a
famous and most protracted case not many
years ago caused the most peculiar complications
; thus Lady Fettercairn was more
pardonable, posted up as she was with documentary
evidence, in accepting Shaftoo Gyle
as her grandson.

We have described her as being singularly,
perhaps aristocratically, cold. As a mother,
she had never been given to kissing, caressing,
or fondling her two sons (as she did a succession
of odious pugs and lap-dogs), but,
throwing their little hearts back upon themselves,
left nurses and maids to ' do all that
sort of tiresome thing.'

So Finella, though an heiress, came in for
very little of it either, with all her sweetness,
beauty, and pretty winning ways, even
from Lord Fettercairn. In truth, the man
who cared so little for his own country and
her local and vital interests was little likely
to care much for any flesh and blood that did
not stand in his own boots.

Lady Fettercairn heard from her * grandson

' from time to time with — for her — deep
apparent sympathy, and much genuine aristocratic
regret and Indignation, much of the
obscure story of his boyhood and past Hfe, at
least so much as he chose to tell her ; and
she bitterly resented that Lennard Melfort
should have sought to put the ' nephew of
that woman, Flora Maclan,' Into the army,
while placing ' his own son ' Shaftoo Into the
office of a miserable village lawyer, and so
forth — and so forth !

Fortunate it was, she thought, that all this
happened In an obscure village In Devonshire,
and far away from Craigengowan and all Its
aristocratic surroundings.

She also thought it strange that Shaftoo —
(' Whence came that name ?' she would
mutter angrily) — should be so unlike her
dark and handsome Lennard. His eyebrows
were fair and heavy ; his eyes were a pale,
watery grey ; his lips were thin, his neck
thick, and his hair somewhat sandy in hue.
Thus, she thought, he was not unlike what
her husband, the present Lord Fettercairn,
must have been at the same age.

As for the Peer himself, he was only too
thankful that an heir had turned up for his ill-gotten
coronet, and that now — so far as one
life was concerned — Sir Bernard Burke would
not rate it amonsf the dormant and attainted
titles — those of the best and bravest men that
Scotland ever knew.

As for their mutual scheme concerning
Shaftoo and their granddaughter Finella, with
her beauty and many attractive parts, the
former was craftily most desirous of furthering
it, knowing well that, happen what might
in the future, she was an heiress ; that
marriage with her would give him a firm
hold on the Fettercairn family, though the
money of her mother was wisely settled on
the young lady herself.

Indeed, Finella had not been many
weeks home from London, at Craigengowan,
before Lady Fettercairn opened the trenches,
and spoke pretty plainly to him on the
subject.

Waving her large fan slowly to and fro,
and eyeing Shaftoo closely over the top of it,
she said :

I hope, my dearest boy, that you will find
your cousin Finella — the daughter of my
dead darling Cosmo — a lovable kind of girl.
But even were she not so — and all say she is
you must not feel a prejudice against her,
because — because '

What, grandmother ?'

Because it is our warmest desire that you
may marry her.'

Why, haven't I money enough ?' asked
Shaftoo, with one of his dissembling smiles.

Of course, as the heir of Fettercairn ; but
one is always the better to have more, and
you must not feel '

What ?' asked Shaftoo, with affected impatience.


Please not to interrupt me thus. I mean
that you must not be prejudiced against her
as an expected /^r/^?

Why should I ?'

One hears and reads so much of such
things.'

In novels, I suppose; but as she is so
pretty and eligible, why the dickens '

Shaftoo !'

What now ?' he asked, with some irritability,
as she often took him to task for his
solecisms.

Dickens is not a phrase to use. Exclamations
that were suited to the atmosphere
of Mr. Carlton's office in Devonshire will
not do in Craigengowan !'

Well — she won't look at me with your
eyes, grandmother.'
How — her eyes '

They will never seem so bright and
beautiful.'

Oh, you flattering pet !' exclaimed my
Lady Fettercairn, with a smile and pleased
flush on her old wrinkled face, for her *pet'
had soon discovered that she was far from
insensible to adulation.

Shaftoo certainly availed himself of the
opportunities afforded by * cousinship,' propinquity,
and residence together in a country
house, and sought to gain a place in the good
graces or heart of Finella ; but with all his
cunning and earnest wishes in the matter —
apart from the wonderful beauty of the girl —
he feared that he made no more progress

with her than he had done with Dulcis
Carlyon.

She talked, played, danced, and even
romped with him ; they rambled and read
together, and were as much companions as
any two lovers would be ; but he felt nearly
certain that though she flirted with him,
because it was partly her habit to appear todo
so with most men, whenever he attempted
to become tender she openly laughed at him
or changed the subject skilfully ; and also
that if he essayed to touch or take her hand
it was very deliberately withdrawn from, his
reach, and never did she make him more
sensible of all this than when he contrived to
draw her aside to the terrace on the afternoon
of the lawn-tennis party.

She had long ere this been made perfectly
aware that love and marriage were objects of
all his attention, yet she amused herself with
him by her coquettish ceillades and waggish
speeches.

Finella,' said he, in a low and hesitating
voice, as he stooped over her, ' I hope that
with all your flouting, and pretty, flippant

mode of treating me, you will see your way
to carry out the fondest desire of my heart
and that of our grandparents.'

Such a fearfully elaborate speech ! And
the object to which I am to see my way is to
marry you, cousin Shaftoo ?'

Yes said he, bending nearer to her half-averted
ear.

Thanks very much, dear Shaftoo ; but I
couldn't think of such a thing.'

Why '^, Am I so distasteful to you ?'

Not at all ; but for cogent reasons of my
own.'

And these are T

Firstly, people should marry to please
themselves, not others. Grandpa and
grand mamma did, and so shall I ; and I am
quite Independent enough to do as I please
and choose.'

In short, you will not or cannot love
me?'

I have not said so, you tiresome Shaftoo !'
said she, looking upward at him with one of
her sweetest and most bewitching smiles.

Then I have some hope, dear Finella ?*

I have not said that either.'

You may yet love me, then ?'

No ; not as you wish it.'

But why ?'

You have no right to ask me.'

His fair beetling eyebrows knit, and a
gleam came into his cold, grey eyes as he
asked, after a pause :

Is there anyone else you prefer ?'

'You have no right to inquire,' replied she,
and a keener observer miorht have detected
that his question brought a tiny blush to her
cheek and a fond smile to her curved lips ; ' so
please to let this matter drop, once and forever,
dear Shaftoo, and we can be such delightful
friends — such jolly cousins.'

And so ended one of many such conversations
on this topic — conversations that
developed indifference, if not quite aversion,
on the part of Finella, the clue to which
Shaftoo was fated to find in a few weeks after.

VIVIAN Hammered.

The persistent attentions of Shaftoo were
alternately a source of amusement and worry
to Finely Melfort ; and when she found them
become the latter, she had more than once
retreated to the residence of her maternal
grandmother, Lady Drumshoddy, though she
infinitely preferred being at Craigengowan,
where the general circle was more refined
and of a much better style ; for Lady Drum-cloddy
— natheless her title — was not quite
one of the ' upper ten,' being only the widow
of an advocate, who, having done without
scruple the usual amount of work to please
his party and the Lord Advocate, had been
rewarded therefor by an appointment (and
knighthood) in Bengal, where he had gone,

at a lucky time, with the old advice and
idea —

They bade me from the Rupee Tree

Pluck India's endless riches,
And then I swore that time should see
Huge pockets in my breeches.'

Thus Sir Duncan Drumshoddy's pockets
were so well filled that when he came home
to die, his daughter was heiress enough to be
deemed a 'great catch' by the Fettercairn
family, though her grandfather had been — no
one knew precisely what.

And now Finally, by education, careful
training, and by her own habit of thought,
was naturally so refined that, with all her
waggery and disposition to laughter and
merriment, Shaftoo's clumsy love-speeches
occasionally irritated her.

I have somewhere read,' said he, ' that a
man may get the love of the girl he wants,
even if she cares little for him, if he only
asks her at the right time ; but, so far as you
are concerned, Finella, the right moment has
not come for me, I suppose.'

Nor ever will come, I fear, cousin Shaftoo,'

she replied, fanning herself, and eyeing him
with mingled fun and defiance sparkling In
her dark eyes.

Ere Shaftoo could resume on this occasion
Lord Fettercairn came hurriedly to him,
saying,

Oh, by-the-bye, young Hammered,
from London, will arrive here tomorrow fora
few weeks' grouse-shooting before he
leaves for his regiment in Africa. You will
do your best to be attentive to him, Shaftoo.'

Of course,' said the latter, rather sulkily,
however, all the more so that he was quick
enough to detect that, at the mention of the
visitor's name, a flush like a wave of colour
crossed the cheek of Firiella.

Something in his tone attracted the attention
of Lord Fettercairn, who said,

'After the 12th I hope you will find a
legitimate use for your gun — you know what
I mean.'

Shaftoo coloured deeply with annoyance, as
his grandfather referred to a mischievous act
of his, which was deemed a kind of outrage
in the neighbourhood.

In the ruins of Finella's Castle at Fetter-cairn
a pair of majestic osprey had built their
nest, guarded by the morass around them,
and there they bred and reared a pair of
beautiful eames. No one had been allowed
to approach them, so that nothing should
occur to break the confidence of safety which
the pair of osprey acquired in their lonely
summer haunt, till soon after Shaftoo came to
Craigengowan, and by four rounds from his
breech-loader he contrived to shoot them all,
to the indignation of the neighbourhood and
even of my Lord Fettercairn.

Not that the latter cared a straw about
these eagles as objects of natural history ; but
the fact of their existence formed the subject
of newspaper paragraphs, and his vanity was
wounded on finding that one of his family
had acted thus.

So on the morrow, at luncheon, the family
circle at Craigengowan had two or three
accessions to its number — friends invited for
the 1 eth of August — among others Mr.
Kippilaw the younger, a spruce and dapper
Edinburgh Writer to the Signet, ' who,'

Shaftoo said, * thought no small beer of himself;'
and Vivian Hammersley, a captain of
the Warwickshire regiment, a very attractive
and, to one who was present, most decided
addition to their society.

His regular features were well tanned by
the sun in Natal ; his dark hair was shorn
short ; his moustaches were pointed well out ;
and his dark eyes had a bright and merry yet
firm and steady expression, as those of a man
born to command men, who had more than
once faced danger, and was ready to face it
again.

He was in his twenty-seventh year, and
was every way a courteous and finished
English gentleman, though Shaftoo, in his
secret heart, and more than once in the
stables, pronounced him to be * a conceited
beast.'

Hammersley had fished in Norway, shot
big game in Southern Africa, hunted in the
English shires, taking his fences — even double
ones — like a bird ; he had lost and won with a
good grace at Ascot and the Clubs, flirted ' all
round,' and, though far from rich, was a good

Specimen of a handsome, open-handed, and
open-hearted young officer, a favourite withall
women, and particularly with his regiment.
After luncheon he was seated beside Lady
Fettercairn ; he was too wise in his generation
to have placed himself where he would have
wished, beside Finella, whose little hand, on
entering, Shaftoo thought he retained in his
rather longer than etiquette required ; for if
Shaftoo's eyes were shifty, they were particularly
sharp, and he soon found that though
Finella, to a certain extent, had filled up her
time by flirting in a cousinly way with himself,
now that this fellow Hammersley had come,*
he was ' nowhere' as he thought, with a very
bad word indeed.

We have said that Finella had paid a
protracted and — to her — most enjoyable visit
to Tyburniaia. There at balls, garden parties,
and in the Row she had met Vivian Hammersley
repeatedly ; and these meetings had
not been without a deep and tender interest
to them both ; and when they were parted
finally by her return to Craigengowan, though
no declaration of regard had escaped him, he

VOL. I. lO

had been burning to speak to her In that
sweet and untutored language by which the
inmost secrets of the loving heart can be read ;
and now that they had met again, they had
a thousand London objects to talk about
safely In common, which made them seem to
be what they were, quite old friends in fact,
and erelong Lady Fettercairn began, like
Shaftoo, to listen and look darkly and doubtfully
on.

But when they were alone, which was seldom,
or merely apart from others, there was
between them a new consciousness now — a
secret but sweet understanding, born of eye
speaking to eye — all the sweeter for Its
secrecy and being all their own, a conscious
emotion that rendered them at times almost
afraid to speak or glance lest curious eyes or
ears might discover what that secret was.

What was to be the sequel to all this ?
Hammersley was far from rich according to
the standard of wealth formed by Lady
Fettercairn, and the latter had destined her
granddaughter with all her accumulated
wealth to be the bride of Shaftoo. Hammersley

knew nothing of this ; he only knew
his own shortcoming in the matter of ' pocket-ability
;' but then youth, we are told, * is
sanguine and full of faith and hope in an untried
future. It looks out over the pathway
of life towards the goal of its ambition, seeing
only the end desired, and giving little or no
heed to hills and dales, storms and accidents,
that may be met with on the way.' So,
happy In the good fortune that threw him
once more in the sweet society of bright
Finella Melfort, Captain Hemmersley gave
full swing In secret to the most delightful of
day-dreams.

In all this, however, we are somewhat anticipating
our narrative.

But, like a wise man, while the luncheon
lasted he was most attentive to his hostess,
from whose old but still handsome face, like
that of Tennyson's Maud, 'so faultily faultless,
icily regular, and splendidly null,' he ever and
anon turned to that of Finella — that mignonne
face, which was so full of varying expression,
warmth, light, and colour.

Try that Madeira, Captain Hammersley/

lO — 2

said Lord Fettercairn. * You will scarcely
credit how long I have had it in the cellar.
I bought a whole lot of it — when was it,
Grapeston ?' he asked, turning to the solemn
old butler behind him.

'The year Mr. Lennard left home, my
Lord.'

Everything at Craigengowan seems to
take date before or after that event,' said
Lord Fettercairn, with knitted brow. * Do
you mean for India, Grapeston ?'

Yes, my lord,' replied the butler, who
had carried ' Master Lennard ' in his arms asa
baby.

Such a rich flavour it has, and just glance
at the colour.'

Hammersley affected to do so, but his eyes
were bent on the face of Finella.

I hope you won't find Craigengowan dull,
but every place is so after London.'

True, we live so fast there that we never
seem to have time to do anything.'

And now, understanding that Shaftoo was
to be his chief companion at the copies on
the morrow, Hammersley talked to him of

harmless guns, of central fire, of the mode
of breaking in dogs, training setters, and so
forth ; and as these subjects had not been
included in Shaftoo's education at Lawyer
Carlyon's office, he almost yawned as he
listened with irritation to what he could not
comprehend.

If you care for fishing, Hammersley,' said
Lord Fettercairn, ' the Bervie yields capital
salmon, sea and yellow trout. Finella has
filled more than one basket with the latter,
but Shaftoo is somewhat of a duffer with his
rod — he breaks many a rod, and has never
landed a salmon yet.'

And the shootings ?' said Hammersley
inquiringly.

Well, the best in the county are ,
Masque, Hosea, and my own, as I
hope you will find tomorrow.'

Thanks — indeed, I am sure I shall.'

^ I have close on 5,000 acres, and the
probable bag of grouse and black game is
from 400 to 500 brace.'

After dinner that evening Finella was
found singing at the piano — singing, as she

always did, without requiring pressure and
apparently for the mere pleasure of it, as a
thrush on a rose bush sings ; but now she
sang for Vivian Hammersley, Shaftoo felt instinctively
that she did so, and his bitterness
was roused when he heard her, in a pause,
whisper :

Please, Captain Hammersley, let Shaftoo
turn the leaves. He likes to do it, though he
can do little else in the way of music'

This kind of confidence seemed to imply
foregone conclusions and a mutual understanding,
however slight ; but, to some extent,
Finella had a kind of dread of
Shaftoo.

Hammersley smiled and drew back, after
placing a piece of music before her ; but not
before remarking :

This song you are about to sing is not a
new one.

No — it is old as the days when George IV.
was king — it is one you gave me some
weeks ago in London, you remember ?'

Am I likely to forget ?'

Turn the leaves, Shaftoo, please,' said

Finella, adjusting her dress over the music-stool
; * but don't talk to me.' ~

Why ?'

It interrupts one so ; but turn the leaves
at the proper time.'

Captain Hammersley will do that better
than 1/ said Shaftoo, drawing almost sulkily
away, while the former resumed his place by
Finella, with an unmistakable smile rippling
over his face.

This song, which, it would seem, Hammersley
had given her, was an old one, long
since forgotten, named the ' Trysting Place,'
and jealous anger gathered in Shaftoo's heart
as he listened and heard Hammersley's voice
blend with Finella's in the last line of each
verse :

We met not in the sylvan scene

Where lovers wish to meet,
Where skies are bright and woods are green.

And bursting blossoms sweet ;
But in the city's busy din,

Where Mammon holds his reign.
Sweet intercourse we sought to win

'Mid fashion, guile, and gain ;
Above us was a murky sky,

Around a crowded space,

Yet dear, my love, to thee and me,
Was this, our trystiftg places

'They are who say Love only dwells

'Mid sunshine, light, and flowers ;
Alike to him are gloomy cells

Or gay and smiling bowers ;
Love works not on insensate things

His sweet and magic art ;
No outward shrine arrests his wings.

His home is in the heart ;
And dearest hearts like thine and mine,

With rapture must retrace —
How often Love has deigned to shine

On this our try sting place. ^

Miss Melfort, you have sung It more
sweetly than ever I' said Hammersley in a
low voice as he bent over her.

Confound him !' muttered Shaftoo to himself
; * where was this trysting place ? I feel
inclined to put a charge of shot into him tomorrow.
I will, too, if the day is foggy !'

Finella, though pressed, declined to sing
more, as the Misses Kippilaw, who were
rather irrepressible young ladies, now proposed
a carpet-dance, and she drew on her
gloves ; and while she fumbled away, almost
nervously, with the buttoning of one, she knew

that Hammersley's eyes were lovingly and
admiringly bent on her, till he came to the
rescue, and did the buttoning required ; and
to Shaftoo it seemed the process was a very
protracted one, and was a pretty little connivance,
as In reality It was.

Miss Prim, Lady Fettercalrn's companion,
was summoned, and she — poor creature —
had to furnish music for the occasion, till at
last Finally good-naturedly relieved her.

So a carpet-dance closed the evening, and
then Shaftoo, though an Indifferent waltzer,
thought he might excel In a square dance

•

with Finally ; but he seldom shone in conversation
at any time, and on this occasion his
attempts at It proved a great failure, and
when he compared this with the animation of
Hammersley and Finally In the Lancers, he
was ready puzzled and secrecy annoyed.
The former did not seem to undergo that
agony so often felt by Shaftoo, of having outrun
all the topics of conversation, or to have
to rack his brain for anecdotes or jokes, but
to be able to keep up an easy flow of well-bred
talk on persons, places, and things,

which seemed to amuse Finally excessively,
as she smiled brightly and laughed merrily
while fanning herself, and looking more sparkling
and piquante than ever.

'What the deuce can he find to say, to
her ?' thought Shaftoo ; but Hammersley was
only finding the links — the threads of a dear
old story begun In London months ago.

So passed the first day of Hammersley's
arrival at Cralgengowan, and Finally laid her
head on her pillow full of bright and happy
thoughts, In which ' Cousin Shaftoo ' bore no
share.

But while these emotions and events were
In progress, where, In the meantime, was
Florlan ? Ay, Shaftoo Gyle, where '^

AMONG THE GROUSE.

Nathless the vengeful thoughts of the unamiable
Shaftoo and his threats muttered In
secret, the shooting next day passed off
without any peril being encountered by
the unconscious Hammersley — unconscious at

•

least of the enmity his presence was Inspiring.
However, It was not so the second; and
Finally and her fair friends agreed that If he
looked so well and handsome In his heather-coloured
knickerbocker shooting-dress, with
ribbed stockings of Alloa yarn, his gun under
his arm, and shot-belt over his shoulder, how
gallant must he look when In full uniform.

In the field the vicinity of Shaftoo was
avoided as much as possible, as he shot wildly
indeed. By the gamekeepers, servants, and
people generally on the estate he was simply

detested for the severity of his manner, his
tyranny, his disposition to bully, and meanness
in every way ; though at first, when he came
to Craigengowan, they had laboured in vain,
and vied with each other in their attempts
to initiate him into those field-sports so dear
to Britons generally, and to the Scots in
particular ; but when shooting grouse
especially, the beaters or ' drivers' had genuine
dread of him, and, when fog was on, sometimes
refused to attend him, and he was, as
they said among themselves, *a new experience
i' the Howe o' the Means.'

I've seen as fu' a haggis doomed on a
midden,' said the old head-gamekeeper wrathfully,
as he drew his bonnet over his beetling
brows, * but I'll keep my mind to myself', and
tell my tale to the wind that laws o'er
Craigengowan/

Though well past sixty now, Lord Fetter-cairn,
hale and hearty, was in the field with
his central-fire run with fine Damascus
barrels. Shaftoo, Hammersley, young Kippi-
law, and four others made up the party.
The morning was a lovely one, and lovely

too was the scenery, for August is a month
richly tinted with the last touches of summer,
blended with the russet tones of autumn ; the
pleasant meadows are yet green, and over the
ripened harvest the breeze murmurs like the
ocean when nearly asleep.

Apart from the joyous exhilaration of
shooting, and that out-door exercise so dear
to every English gentleman, Vivian Hammersley
felt all that which comes from the
romantic beauty of his surroundings — the
scenery of the Howe of the Means, which
is a low champaign and highly cultivated
country, studded with handsome mansions,
and ornamented by rich plantations and
thriving vlllao^es.

Ere long the open mules were reached, and
the hill-sides, the steep, purple ridges of
which the sportsmen had to breast ; and,
keen sportsman though he was, Hammersley
had soon to admit that grouse-shooting was
the most fatiguing work he had yet encountered
; but soon came the excitements of
the first point, the first brood, and the first
shot or two.

To the eye chiefly accustomed to brown
partridges, grouse look dusky and even black,
and they seem to hug the purple heather, but
when one becomes accustomed to them they
are as easy to knock over as the tame birds ;
and now the crack of the guns began to ring
out along the hill-slopes.

Shaftoo and Hammersley were about twenty
yards apart, and twice when a bird rose
before the latter, it was brought down
wounded but not killed by the former.

Hammersley felt that this was ' bad form,'
as Shaftoo should not have fired, unless he
had missed or passed It ; but he only bit his
lip and smiled disdainfully. Lord Fettercairn
remarked the discourtesy, and added,

Shaftoo, I do wish you would take an
example from Captain Hammersley.'

In what way ?' grumbled Shaftoo.

He kills his game clean — few birds
run from him with broken wings and so
forth.'

I am glad to hit when I can,' said Shaftoo,
whose mode of life In Devonshire had made
him rather soft, and he was beginning to

think that nerves of iron and lungs Hke a
bagpipe were requisite for breasting up the
hill-slopes, and then shoot straight at anything.


Hammersley worked away silently, neither
looking to his right nor left, feeling that
though several elements are requisite for
sport,' the chief then was to kill as much
grouse as possible in a given time, but was
more than once irritated and discomposed by
Shaftoo, and even young Kippilaw, shooting ina
blundering way along the line even when
the birds were not flying high ; and he
proceeded in a workmanlike way to bringdown
one bird as it approached, the next
when it was past him, and so on.

The first portion of the day the Fettercairn
party shot to points, and then to drivers, and
in their fear of Shaftoo's wild shooting, the
latter kept shouting while driving, and, as he
loathed the whole thing, and was now ' completely
blown — pumped out,' as he phrased it,
he was not sorry when the magic word
Munch' was uttered; and Hammersley certainly
hailed it. for with the lunch came

Finella, and with her arrival — to him — the
most delightful part of the day.

She came tooling along the sunny pathway
that traversed the bottom of a glen, driving
with her tightly gauntleted and deft little
hands a pair of beautiful white ponies, which
drew the daintiest of basket-phaetons, containing
also Mr. Grapeston and an ample
luncheon-basket ; and the place chosen for
halting was a green oasis amid the dark
heather, where a spring of deliciously cool
water was bubbling up, called Finella's
Well.

Now, gentlemen,' said Lord Fettercairn,
please to draw your cartridges. I was once
nearly shot in this very place by a stupid
fellow who omitted to do so. So glad you
have come, Finella darling, we are all hungry
as hawks, and thirsty too.'

Lovely indeed did the piquante girl lookin
her coquettish hat and well-fitting jacket,
while the drive, the occasion, and the touch
of Hammersley's hand as he assisted her to
alight gave her cheek an unwonted colour,
and lent fresh lustre to her dark eyes, and

the soldier thought that certainly there was
nothing In the world so pleasant to a man's
eye as a young, well-dressed, and beautiful
girl.

You have had good sport,' said she to the
group, while her eye rested on Hammersley^
and then on the rows of grouse laid by braces
on the grass ; and she ' brought a breeze
with her,' as the gentlemen thought, and had
a pleasant remark for each. Her mode of
greeting the members of the party was
different, as to some she gave her hand like
a little queen, while to others she smiled, or
simply bowed ; but provoked an angry snort
from Shaftoo by expressing a hope that he
had not shot anyone yet.'

And then he grew white as he recalled his
angry thoughts of the preceding night.

'Why did you take the trouble to drive
here ?' he asked her. In a low voice.

Because I chose to come ; and I do so
love driving these plump darlings of ponies,'
replied the girl, patting the sleek animals
with her tiny, slim hand.

Old Grapeston would have done well

VOL. I. II

enough ; and why did you not bring one of
the Kippilaw girls ?'

'They are at lawn-tennis. If I thought I
could please you — not an easy task — I should
have tried to bring them all, though that Is
rather beyond the capacities of my phaeton.'

Shaftoo never for a moment doubted that
she had come over to superintend the
luncheon because ' that fellow Hammersley '
was one of the party ; and In this suspicion
perhaps he was right.

As for Hammersley, being Ignorant of
Shaftoo's antecedents, his present hopes, and
those of Lady Fettercairn, he could not comprehend
how the grandson and heir-apparent
of a peer came to be ' such bad form — bad
style, and all that sort of thing,' as he
thought ; and all that became rather worse
when Shaftoo was under the influence of
sundry bumpers of Iced Pompey Greco
administered by Mr. Grapeston.

As the sportsmen lounged on the grass,
and the luncheon proceeded under the
superintendence of old Jasper Grapeston,
Finella, the presiding goddess, looked unusually

bright and happy — a consummation
which Shaftoo never doubted, in his rage and
jealousy, came of the presence of Vivian
Hammersley, and that her brilliance was all
the result of another man's society — not his
certainly, and hence he would have preferred
that she was not light-hearted at all.

He could see that with all her espieglerie
Finella found no occasion to laugh at Hammersley
or tease or snub that gentleman as
she did himself, but the attentions of Hammersley
were delicately and seductively paid.
Deferential and gentle at all times, to all
women, he had always been so to Finella
Melfort, and she was able to feel more than
his words, looks, or manner suggested to
others ; and he imagined — nay, he was becoming
certain — and a glow of great joy came
with the certainty — that Finella's sweet dark
eyes grew brighter at his approach ; that a
rose-leaf tinge crossed her delicate cheek, and
there came a slight quiver into her voice
when she replied to him,

Was it all really so ?'

Fate was soon to decide that which he had

II — 2

been too slow or timid to decide for himself.


As he said one of the merest commonplaces
to her, their eyes met.

It was only one lingering glance !

But looks can say so much more than the
voice, the eyes surpassing the lips, breaking
or revealing what the silence of months, it
may be years, has hidden, and leading heart
to heart.

Grandpa,' said Finella, suddenly, and
just before driving off, ' do you shoot over
this sound tomorrow ?'

To a certain extent we shall — but why ?'

Shall I bring the luncheon here ?'

Yes, pet, to Finella's Well'

So, then, this shall be our trysting-place !'
said she, with a bow to all, and a merry
glance which included most certainly Vivian
Hammersley, to whom the landscape seemed
to darken with her departure.

Now is the time for shooting to advantage,'
said Lord Fettercairn, who knew
by old experience that when the afternoon
shadows, and more especially those of evening,

begin to lengthen, the slopes of the hills are
seen better, that the birds, too, lie better,
and that as the air becomes more fresh and
cool, men can shoot with greater care and
deliberation than in the heat of noon. But
Hammersley, full of his own thoughts, full of
the image of Finella and that tale-telling
glance they had exchanged, missed nearly
every bird, to the great exultation of Shaftoo,
who made an incredible number of bad and
clumsy jokes thereon — jokes which the young
Englishman heard with perfect indifference
and equanimity.

Shaftoo, however, scarcely foresaw the
result of the next day's expedition, and certainly
Hammersley did not do so either.

THE TWO PINELLAS.

Next day, when the grouse-shooting had
been in progress for an hour or two, a mishap
occurred to Hammersley. He twisted
his ankle in a turnip-field, fell heavily on
one side, and staggered up too lame to take
further share in the sport for that day at
least.

When Finella comes with the lunch in
the pony-phaeton, she will drive sou home,'
said Lord Fettercairn, who then desired
one of the beaters to give Hammersley
the assistance of an arm to the well,
where the repast was to be laid out as
before.

When Shaftoo saw his rival limping he was

delighted, and thought, ' This will mar his
waltzing for a time at least ;' but he was less
delighted when he heard of Lord Fetter-cairn's
natural suggestion.

It is likely a cunning dodge,' was his next
thought, ' to get a quiet drive with her to
Craigengowan.'

And Finella's look and exclamation of
alarm and interest were not lost upon him
when she arrived and found Hammersley
seated on the grass by the side of the welland
saw the difficulty with which he rose to
greet her, propping himself upon his unloaded
gun as he did so ; and soft, indeed, was the
blush of pleasure that crossed her delicate
face when she heard of * grandpa's arrangement
;' and certainly it met, secretly, with the
entire approbation of Hammersley, who anticipated
with delight the drive home with such
a companion.

After a time the luncheon — though skilfully
protracted by Shaftoo — was over, and
Finella and her ' patient ' were together in
the phaeton, and she, with a smile and farewell
bow, whipped up her petted ponies, Flirt

and Fairy, whom every day she fed with
apples and carrots.

Shaftoo thought jealously and sulkily that
she was In great haste to be gone ; but more
sulky would he have been had he seen, or
known that when once an angle of the glen
was reached where the road dipped out of
sight, the ponies were permitted to go at
their own pace, which ere long dwindled into
a walk, till they passed the vast ruined castle
of Fettercalrn. Finella and Hammersley
were, however, if very happy, very silent,
though both enjoyed the drive in the bright
sunshine amid such beautiful scenery, and he
quite forgot his petty misfortune in contemplating
the delicate profile and long drooping
eyelashes of the girl who sat beside him, and
who, with a fluttering heart, was perhaps expecting
the avowal that trembled on his lips,
especially when he placed his hand on hers,
in pretence of guiding the ponies, which
broke into a rapid trot as the lodge gates
were passed ; and glorious as the opportunity
accorded him had been, Hammersley's heart,
while burning with passionate ardour, seemed

to have lost all courage, for he had a sincere
dread of Lady Fettercairn, and suspected
that her interests were naturally centred in
Shaftoo.

At seven-and-twenty a man, who has
knocked about the world, with a regiment
especially, for some nine years or so, does
not fall over head and ears in love like a
rash boy, or without calculating his chances
of general success ; and poor Hammersley,
though he did not doubt achieving it with
Finella herself, saw deadly rocks and breakers
ahead with her family, and his spirit was a
proud one. To make a declaration was' to
ruin or lose everything, for if the family were
averse to his suit he must, he knew, quit
their roof for ever, and Finella would be lost
to him, for heiresses seldom elope now, save
in novels ; and he knew that in her circle the
motives for marriage are more various and
questionable than with other and untitled
ranks of life. Rank and money were the
chief incentives of such people as the
Melforts of Fettercairn. * Venal unions,'
says an essayist, ' no doubt occur in the

humbler classes, but love is more frequently
the incentive, while with princes and patricians
the conjugal alliance is, in nine instances
out of ten, a mere matter of expedience!


Craigengowan was reached, and not a
word of the great secret that filled his heart
had escaped him, for which he cursed his
own folly and timidity when the drive ended,
and a groom took the ponies' heads.

Yet the day was not over, nor was a
fresh opportunity wanting. Lady Fettercairn
and all her female guests had driven to a
flower-show at the nearest town — even
Mrs. Prim was gone, and the house was
empty !

Everything in and about Craigengowan
seemed conducive to love-talk and confidences.
The great and picturesque house
itself was charming. The old orchards
would ere long be heavy with fruit, and were
then a sight to see ; on the terrace the peacocks
were strutting to and fro ; there were
fancy arbours admirably adapted for flirtation,
and a quaint old Scottish garden (with a sun

and moon dial) now gay with all the flowers
of August.

On a lounge near an open window facing
the latter Hammersley was reclining, when
Finella, after changing her driving dress,
came into the drawing-room, and finely her
costume suited her dark and piquante style
of beauty. She wore a cream-coloured silk,
profusely trimmed with filmy lace, and a
cluster of scarlet flowers on the left shoulder
among the lace of the collarette that encircled
her slender neck ; and Hammersley, as he
looked at her, thought that ' beauty unadorned'
was rather a fallacy.

His undisguised expression of admiration
as he partly rose to receive her caused her to
colour a little, as she inquired if his hurt was
easier now ; but, instead of replying, he
said, while venturing slightly to touch her
hand :

Tell me, Miss Melfort, how you came by
your dear pretty name of Finella ? Not
from Finella in " Several of the Peak?'

Ah, I am very unlike her !'

You are certainly quite as charming !'

But neither dumb nor pretending to be
so,' said the girl, with one of her silvery little
laughs.

Finella !' said Hammersley, as if to himself,
in a low and unconsciously loving
tone ; ' whence the name ? Is it a family
one ?'

Don't you know ?' she asked.

How could I know ? I know only that I
will never forget it.'

Of course you could not know. The
origin of my name is one of the oldest legends
of the Howe of the Means.'

Howe — that is Scotch for '' hollow," I
believe.'

No ; ** hollow" is the English for hovel
replied Finella, laughing, as she recalled a
quip of Boucicault's to the same purpose.
You saw the great old castle we passed in
our drive home T

Yes.'

Well, I am called Finella from a lady who
lived there.'

After it fell into ruin ?'

No ; before it.'

Then she must have lived a precious longtime
ago.'

She certainly did — some — nearly a
thousand years ago.'

What a little quiz you are ! Now, Miss
Melfort, what joke is this ?'

No joke at all,' said she, quite seriously ;
you can read about it in our family history
or I shall read it to you in the " Book of
Fettercairn." '

She took from a table near a handsome
volume, which her grandfather — to please
whom she was named Finella — had in a
spirit of family vanity prepared for private
circulation, and as if to connect his title with
antiquity, prefaced by a story well known in
ancient Scottish history, though little known
to the Scots of the present day.

We give it from his Lordship's book
verbatim as she read it to Vivian Hammersley,
who — cunning rogue — was not indisposed
with such a charming and sympathetic
companion as Finella to make the
most of his fall, and reclined rather luxuriously
on the velvet lounge, while she, seated in a

dainty little chair, read on ; but he scarcely
listened, so Intent was he on watching her
sweet face, her white and perfect ears, her
downcast eyelids with their long lashes — her
whole self!

The Melforts, Lords Fettercairn (Strath-finally)
and of that Ilk, take their hereditary
title from the old castle of that name, which
stands in the Howe of the Means, and Is
sometimes called the Castle of Finally. It
Is situated on an eminence, and is now
surrounded on three sides by a morass. It
is enclosed within an Inner and an outer wall
of oblong form, and occupying half an acre of
ground. The Inner is composed of vitrified
matter, but no lime has been used In its
construction. The walls are a congeries of
small stones cemented together by some
molten matter, now harder than the stones
themselves ; and the remarkable event for
which this castle is celebrated in history Is
the following :

When Kenneth III., a wise and valiant
king (who defeated the Danes at the battle
of Luncarty, and created on that field the

Hays, Earls of Errol, Hereditary Constables
of Scotland, and leaders of the Feudal
cavalry, thus originating also the noble
families of Tweeddale and Kinnoull), was on
the throne, his favourite residence was the
castle of Kincardine, the ruins of which still
remain about a mile eastward of the village
of Fettercairn, and from thence he went
periodically to pay his devotions at the
shrine of St. Palladium, Apostle of the Scots,
to whom the latter had been sent by Pope
Celestina in the sixth century to oppose
the Pelagian heresy, and whose bones at
Gordon were enclosed in a shrine of gold
and precious stones in 1409 by the Bishop of
St. Andrews.

The king had excited the deadly hatred
of Finella, the Lady of Fettercairn, daughter
of the Earl of Angus, by having justly put to
death her son, who was a traitor and had
rebelled against him in Lochaber ; and, with
the intention of being revenged, she prepared
at Fettercairn a singular engine or ' infernal
machine,' with which to slay the king.

This engine consisted of a brass statue,

which shot out arrows when a golden apple
was taken from Its hand.

Kenneth was at Kincardine, engaged in
hunting the deer, wolf, the badger and the
boar, when she treacherously invited him, to
her castle of Fettercairn, which was then,
as Buchanan records, * pleasant with shady
groves and piles of curious buildings,' of
which there remained no vestiges when he
wrote In the days of James VI. ; and thither
the king rode, clad in a rich scarlet mantle,
white tunic, an eagle's wing in his helmet,
and on its crest a glittering clach-bhiai, or
stone of power, one of the three now In the
Scottish regalia.

Dissembling her hate, she entertained the
king very splendidly, and after dinner conducted
him out to view the beauties of the
place and the structure of her castle ; and
Kenneth, pleased with her beauty (which her
raiment enhanced), for she wore a dress of
blue silk, without sleeves, a mantle of fine
linen, fastened by a brooch of silver, and all
her golden hair floating on her shoulders,
accompanied her Into a tower, where. In an

upper apartment, and amid rich festooned
arras and 'curious sculptures' stood the
infernal machine.

She courteously and smilingly requested
the king to take the golden apple from the
right hand of the statue ; and he, amazed by
the strange conceit, did so ; on this a rushing
sound was heard within it as a string or cord
gave way, and from its mouth there came
forth two barbed arrows which mortally
wounded him, and he fell at her feet.

Finella fled to Den Finella, and Kenneth
was found by his retinue * btUlermid in his
blue.' •

Den Finella, says a writer, Is said, in the
genuine spirit of legendary lore, to have
obtained its name from this princess, who,
the more readily to evade her pursuers,
stepped from the branches of one tree to
those of another the whole way from her
castle to this den, which is near the sea, In
the parish of St. Cares, as all the country
then was a wild forest.

Buchanan deems all this story a fable,
though asserted by John Major and Hector

VOL. I. 12

Boyce, and thinks it more probable that the
king was slain near Fettercairn in an ambush
prepared by Finella.

So ended the legend.

As the girl read on, Vivian Hammersley
had bent lower and lower over her, till the
tip of his moustache nearly touched her rich
dark hair, and his arm all but stole round
her. Finella Melfort was quite conscious of
this close proximity, and though she did not
shrink from it, that consciousness made her
colour deepen and her sweet voice become
unsteady.

That is the story of Finella of Fettercairn,'
said she, closing the book.

'And to this awful legend of the dark
ages, which only wants blue-fire, lime-light,
and a musical accompaniment to set it off,
you owe your name ?' said he, laughingly.

Yes — it was grandfather's whim.'

It is odd that you — the belle of the last
London season, should be named after such a
grotesque old termagant !'

She looked up at him smilingly, and then,
as their eyes met, the expression of that

glance exchanged beside the well on the hills
came into them again ; heart spoke to heart ;
he bent his face nearer hers, and his arm
went round her in earnest.

Finella, my darling !' escaped him, and ashe
kissed her unresisting lips, her blushing
face was hidden on his shoulder.

And this tableau was the result of the two
days' shooting — a sudden result which neither
Shaftoo nor Hammersley had quite foreseen.

Of how long they remained thus neither
had any idea. Time seemed to stand still
with them. Finella was only conscious of
his hand caressing hers, which lay so willingly
in his tender, yet firm, clasp.

Hammersley in the gush of his joy felt
oblivious of all the world. He could think
of nothing but Finella, while the latter
seemed scarcely capable of reflection at all
beyond the existing thought that he loved
her, and though the avowal was a silent and
unuttered one, the new sense of all it admitted
and involved, seemed to overwhelm the girl ;
her brightest day-dreams had come, and she
needed, trembling and silent, by his side.

12 — 2

The unwelcome sound of voices and also
of carriage-wheels on the terrace roused
them. He released her hand, stole one
more clinging kiss, and forgetful of his fall
and all about It started with Impatience to
his feet.

Lady Fettercairn and her lady guests had
returned from the flower-show, and to avoid
them and all the world, for a little time yet,
the lovers, with their hearts still beating too
wildly to come down to commonplace, tacitly
wandered hand In hand Into the recesses of a
conservatory, and lingered there amid the
warm, flower-scented atmosphere and shaded
aisles, In what seemed a delicious dream.

Finally was conscious that Vivian Hammersley
was talking to her lovingly and
caressingly, In a low and tender voice as he
had never talked before, and she felt that
she was ' Finally' — the dearest and sweetest
name In the world to him — and no more
Miss Melfort.

TP •Jv TP

It would be difficult, and superfluous

perhaps, to describe the emotions of these
two during the next few days.

Though now quite aware that Finally and
Hammersley had met each other frequently
before, Shaftoo's surprise at their intimacy,
though apparently undemonstrative, grew
speedily Into suspicious anger. He felt
intuitively that his presence made not the
slightest difference to them, though he did
not forget It ; and he failed to understand
how 'this fellow' had so quickly
gained his subtle and familiar position with
Finally. '

It galled him to the quick to see and feel
all this, and know that he could never please
her as she seemed to be pleased with Hammersley
; for her colour heightened, her eyes
brightened, and her eyelashes drooped and
flickered whenever he approached or addressed
her.

Shaftoo thought of his hopes of gaining
Finally and her fortune against any discovery
that might be made of the falsehood of his
position, and so wrath and hatred gathered
in his heart together.

He was baffled at times by her bright
smiles and pretty, irresistible manner, but
nevertheless he 'put his brains in steep' to
scheme again.

AT REVELSTOKE AGAIN.

Meanwhile sore trouble had come upon
Dulcis Carlyon In her Devonshire home.

Her father had been dull and gloomy of
late, and had more than once laid his hand
affectionately on her ruddy golden hair, and
said in a prayerful way that ' he hoped he
might soon see her well married, and that she
might never be left friendless !'

Why such thoughts, dear papa ?' she would
reply.

Dulcis had felt a sense of apprehension for
some time past. Was it born of her father's
forebodings, or of the presentiment about
which she had conversed with Florian ? A
depression hung over her — an undefinable

dread of some great calamity about to happen.
At night her sleep was restless and broken,
and by day a vague fear haunted her.

The evil boded was to happen soon now.

With these oppressive thoughts mingled
the memory of the tall and handsome dark-eyed
lad she loved — it seemed so long ago,
and she longed to hear his voice again, and
for his breast to lay her head upon. But
where was Florian now ? Months had passed
without her hearing of him, and she might
never hear again !

Little could she have conceived the foul
trick that Shaftoo had played them both In the
matter of the locket ; but, unfortunately for
herself, she had not seen the last of that
enterprising young gentleman.

She felt miserably that her heart was lonely
and heavy, and that, young as she vas, light
and joy, with the absence and ruin of Florian,
had gone out of her life. She was alone
always with her great sorrow, and longed
much for tears ; but as her past life had been
a happy and joyous one, Dulcis Carlyon had
been little — if at all — given to them.

One morning her father did not appear at
breakfast as usual. As yet undressed her red-golden
hair, that the old man loved to stroke
and caress, was floating in a great loose mass
on her back and shoulders, and her blue eyes
looked bright and clear, if thoughtful.

She had, as was her daily wont, arranged
his letters, cut and aired the morning papers
for him, adjusted a vase of fresh flowers on
the table, with a basket of delicate peaches,
which she knew he liked, from the famous
south wall of the garden, with green fig
leaves round them, for Dulcis did everything
prettily and tastefully, however trivial. Then
she cut and buttered his bread, poured out his
tea, and waited.

Still he did not appear. She knocked on
his bedroom door, but received no answer,
and saw, with surprise, that his boots were
still on the mat outside.

She peeped in and called on him — * Papa,
papa !' but there was no response.

The room was empty, and the morning sun
streamed through the uncurtained window.
The bed had not been slept in ! Again she

called his name, and rushed downstairs in
alarm and affright.

The gas was burning in his writing-room ;
the window was still closed as it had been
overnight ; and there, in his easy chair, with
his hands and arms stretched out on the table,
sat Llewellyn Carlyon, with his head bent
forward, asleep as Dulcis thought when she
saw him.

Poor papa,' she murmured ; ' he has actually
gone to sleep over his horrid weary
work.'

She leaned over his chair ; wound her soft
arms round his neck and bowed grey head —
her lovely blue eyes melting with tenderness,
her sweet face radiant with filial love, till, as
she laid her cheek upon it, a mortal chill
struck her, and a low cry of awful dismay
escaped her.

What is this — papa ?'

She failed to rouse him, for his sleep was
the sleep of death !

It was disease of the heart, the doctors
said, and he had thus passed away — died in
harness ; a pen was yet clutched in his right

hand, and an unfinished legal document lay
beneath it.

Dulcle fainted, and was borne away by the
servants to her own room — they were old and
affectionate country folks, who had been long
with Llewellyn Carlyon, and loved him and
his daughter well.

Poor Dulcle remained long unconscious,
the sudden shock was so dreadful to her, and
when she woke from It, the old curate, Mr.
Pentreath, who had baptized Florian and
herself, was standing near her bed.

My poor bruised lamb,' said he, kindly
and tenderly, as he passed his wrinkled handover
her rich and now dishevelled tresses.

^ What has happened ?' she asked wildly.
'You fainted, Dulcle.'

Why — I never fainted before.'

'She don't seem to remember, sir whispered
an old servant, who saw the vague and
wild Inquiring expression of her eyes.

Drink this, child, and try to eat a morsel,'
said the curate, putting a cup of coffee and
piece of toast before her.

Something happened — something dreadful

— what was it — oh, what was it ?' asked
Dulcis, putting her hands to her throbbing
temples.

Drink, dear,' said the curate again.

She drank of the coffee thirstily; but declined
the bread.

I beat up an egg in the coffee said he ;
I feared you might be unable to eat yet.'

Her blue eyes began to lose their wandering
and troubled look, and to become less
wild and wistful ; then suddenly a shrill cry
escaped her, and she said, with a calmness
more terrible and painful than fainting or
hysterics :

Oh, I remember now — papa — poor papa
dead ! Found dead ! Oh, my God ! help
me to bear it, or take me too — take me
too!'

Do not speak thus, child,' said Mr. Pen-treat
gently.

How long ago was it — yesterday — a
month ago, or when ? I seem — I feel as if
I had grown quite old, yet you all look just
the same — just the same ; how is this ?'

My child,' said the curate, with dim eyes,

your dire calamity happened but a short time
ago — little more than an hour since

Her response was a deep and heavy sob,
that seemed to come from her overcharge-ed
heart rather than her slender throat, and
which was the result of the unnatural tension
of her mind.

Come to my house with me,' said the
kind old curate ; but Dulcis shook her head.

I cannot leave papa, dead or alive. I
wish to be with him, and alone.'

I shall not leave you so ; it is a mistake
In grief to avoid contact with the world.
The mind only gets sadder and deeper into
its gloom of melancholy. If you could but
sleep, child, a little.'

Sleep — I feel as if I had been asleep for
years ; and it was this morning, you tell me
only this morning I had my arms round
his neck — dead — my darling papa dead !'

She started to her feet as if to go where
the body lay under the now useless hands of
the doctor, but would have fallen had she not
clutched for support at Mr. Pentreath, who
upheld and restrained her.

The awful thought of her future loneliness
now that she had thus suddenly lost her
father, as she had not another relation in the
world, haunted the unhappy Dulcis, and
deprived her of the power of taking food or
obtaining sleep.

In vain her old servants, who had known
her from infancy, coaxed her to attempt
both, but sleep would not come, and the food
remained untasted before her.

A little water,' she would say; 'give mea
little water, for thirst parches me.'

All that passed subsequently seemed like
one honos and terrible dream to Dulcis. She
was alone In the world, and when her father
was laid In his last home at Revelstoke, within
sound of the tumbling waves, in addition to
being alone she found herself well-nigh penniless,
for her father had nothing to leave her
but the old furniture of the house they had
inhabited.

That was sold, and she was to remain with
the family of the curate till some situation
could be procured for her.

She had long since ceased to expect any

letter from or tidings of Florian. She began
to think that perhaps, amid the splendour of
his new relations, he had forgotten her. Well,
it was the way of the world.

Never would she forget the day she quitted
her old home. Her father's hat, his coat and
cane were in the hall ; all that he had used and
that belonged to him were still there, to bring
his presence before her with fresh poignancy,
and to impress upon her that she was fatherless,
all but friendless, and an orphan.

The superstitious people about Revelstoke
now remembered that in Lawyer Carlyon's
garden, blossom and fruit had at the same time
appeared on more than one of his apple-trees,
a certain sign of coming death to one of his
household. But who can tell in this ever-shifting
world what a day may bring forth !

One evening — she never forgot it — she had
been visiting her father's grave, and was
slowly quitting the secluded burial-ground,
when a man like a soldier approached her
in haste.

Florian !' She attempted to utter his
name, but it died away on her bloodless lips.

'tis but the old, old story.'
A poet says :

Not by appointment do we meet delight
And joy : they need not our expectancy.
But round some corner in the streets of life,
They on a sudden clasp us with a smile.'

Florian It was who stood before her, but
though he gazed at her earnestly, wistfully,
and with great pity In his tender eyes as he
surveyed her pale face and deep mourning,
he made no attempt to take the hands she
yearningly extended towards him. She saw
that he was In the uniform of a private soldier,
over which he wore a light dust-coat as a sort
of disguise, but there was no mistaking his
glengarry — that head-dress which is odious
and absurd for English and Irish regiments,

and which in his instance bore a brass badge
the sphinx, for Egypt.

He looked thin, gaunt, and pale, and anon
the expression of his eye grew doubtful and
cloudy.

Florian !' exclaimed Dulcis in a piercing
voice, in which something of upbraiding
blended with tones of surprise and grief ; and
yet the fact of his presence seemed so unreal
that she lingered for a moment before she
flung herself Into his arms, and was clasped
to his breast. * Oh, what is the meaning of
this dress ?' she asked, lifting her face and
surveying him again.

^ It means that I am a soldier — like him
whose son I thought myself — a soldier of the
Warwickshire Regiment,' replied Florian with
some bitterness of tone.

Oh, my God, and has it come to this !'
said Dulcis wringing her interlaced fingers.
Could not Shaftoo — your cousin '

Shaftoo cast me off— seemed as if he could
not get rid of me too soon.'

How cruel, when he might have done so
much for you, to use you so!'

VOL. I. 13

I had no other resort, Dulcle ; I would
not stoop to seek favours even from him, and
our paths In Hfe will never cross each other
again ; but a time may come — I know not
when — in which I may seek forgiveness of
enemies as well as friends — the bad and the
good together — for a soldier's life is one of
peril.'

Of horror — to me !* wailed Dulcis, weeping
freely on his breast.

This tenderness is strange, Dulcis ! Why
did you cast me off in my utter adversity and
return to me my locket ?'

Dulcis looked up in astonishment.

'What do you mean, Florian — have you
lost your senses .^' she asked In sore perplexity.
Where have you come from last ?'

Plymouth ; In a paper there I saw a notice
of your terrible loss, and resolved to see, even
if I could not speak with you.'

And you came '

To see you, my lost darling, once again.
Oh, Dulcis, I thought I should die If I left
England and sailed for Africa without doing
so. I got a day's leave and am here.'

T/S BUT THE OLD, OLD STORY.' 195

But why have you done this ?'

This — what ?'
Soldiering !'

Penniless, hopeless, what else could I do?
besides, I thought you had cast me off
when you sent me back this locket he added,
producing the gift referred to.

That locket was stolen from me on the
night you left Revelstoke — literally wrenched
from my neck, as I told you in my letter —
the letter you never answered.'

I received no letter, Dulcis — but your
locket was taken from you by whom ?' ^

shaft.'

The double villain ! He must have intercepted
that letter, and utilised the envelope
with its postmark and stamps to deceive me,
and effect a breach between us.'

Thank God you came, dearest Florian !'

I thought you had renounced me, Dulcis,
and now I almost wish you had.'

Why r

'It is little use to remember me now — I
am so poor and hopeless.'

After all,' said she, taking his face between

13—2

her hands caressingly, * what does poverty
matter if we love each other still ?'

And you love me, Dulcis — love me yet !'
exclaimed Florian passionately.

And shall never, never cease to do
so.'

^ But I am so much beneath you now in

position, Dulcis — and — and ' his voice

broke.

What, darling .^'

May never rise.'

Would I be a true woman if I forsook you
because you were unfortunate ?'

No ; but you are more than a woman,
Dulcis — you are a golden-haired angel I'

My poor Florian, how gaunt and hollow
your cheeks are ! You have suffered '

Much since last we parted here in dear
old Devonshire. But Shaftoo's villany surpasses
all I could have imagined !'

And where is Shaftoo now }'

With his grand relations, I suppose. I
am glad that we have unravelled that which
was to me a source of sorrow and dismay —
the returned locket. So you cannot take

back your heart, Dulcle, nor give me mine ?'
said Florian.

Nor would I wish to do so,' she replied,
sweetly and simply. ' Though poor, we are
all the world to each other now.'

Hard and matter-of-fact as our e very-day
existence is, there is — even in these railway
times — much of strange and painful
romance woven up with many a life ; and
so it seems to be with mine — with ours,
Dulcis.'

Oh that I were rich, Florian, or that you
were so !' exclaimed the girl, as a great pity
filled her heart, when she thought of her
lover's blighted life, their own baffled hopes,
and the humble and most perilous course that
was before him in South Africa, where the
clouds of war were gathering fast. * I, too,
am poor, Florian — very poor ; dear papa died
involved, leaving me penniless, and I must
cast about to earn my own bread.'

This is horrible — how shall I endure it }'
said he fiercely, while regarding her with a
loving but haggard expression in his dark
eyes.

What would you have done If you had not
met me by chance here?'

Loafed about till the last moment, and
then done something desperate. I wottld have
seen you, and after that — the Deluge ! . In
two days we embark at Plymouth he added,
casting a glance at the old church of Revel-stoke
and Its burying-ground. ' There our
parents He, Dulcle — yours at least, and those
that I, till lately, thought were mine. There
is something very strange and mysterious In
this change of relationship and position
between Shaftoo and myself. I cannot understand
it. Why was I misled all my life by
one who loved me so well ? How often have
I stood with the Major by a gravestone
yonder inscribed with the name of Flora
Maclan and heard him repeat while looking

at it —

A thousand would call the spot dreary

Where thou takes thy long repose ;
But a rude couch is sweet to the weary,

And the frame that suffering knows.
I never rejoiced more sincerely

Than at thy funeral hour.
Assured that the one I loved dearly

Was beyond affliction's power !

T/S BUT THE OLD, OLD STORY.' 199

Why did he quote all this to me, and tell
me never to forget that spot, or who was
buried there, If she was only Shaftoo's aunt,
and noi my mother ?'

Florlan felt keenly for the position of
Dulcle Carlyon, and the perils and mortifications
that might beset her path now ; but
he was too young, too healthy and full of
animal life and spirits, to be altogether
weighed down by the thought of his humble
position and all that was before him ; and
now that he had seen her again, restored to
her bosom the locket, and that he knew she
was true to him, and had never for a moment
wavered in her girlish love, life seemed to
become suddenly full of new impulses and
hopes for him, and he thought prayerfully
that all might yet be well for them both.

But when ?

To Dulcis there seemed something noble
in the hopeful spirit that, under her influence,
animated her grave lover now. He seemed
to become calm, cool, steadfast, and, hap
what might, she felt he would ever be true
to her.

He seemed brave and tender and true-tender

and true ' as a Douglas of old, and
Dulcis thought how pleasant and glorious It
would be to have such a handsome young husband
as he to take care of her always, and see
that all she did was right and proper and wise.

A long embrace, and he was gone to catch
the inexorable train. She was again alone,
and for the first time she perceived that the
sun had set, that the waves looked black as
they rounded Revelstoke promontory, and
that all the landscape had grown dark, desolate,
and dreary.

What a hopeless future seemed to stretch
before these two creatures, so young and so
loving !

Florlan was gone — gone to serve as a
private soldier on the burning coast of Africa.
It seemed all too terrible, too dreadful to
think of

Every morning and evening I shall pray
for you, Florlan,' walled the girl In her heart ;
*pray that you may be happy, good, and
rich, and — and that we shall yet meet In
heaven if we never meet on earth.'

T/S BUT THT OLD, OLD STORY.' 201

On the second morning after this separation,
when Dulcis was pillowed in sleep, and
the rising sun was shining brightly on the
waves that rolled in Cawsand Bay and
danced over the Keystone, a great white
trooper ' came out of Plymouth Sound under
sail and steam, with the blue-peter flying at
its fore masthead, her starboard side crowded
with red coats, all waving their caps and
taking a farewell look at Old England — the
last look it proved to many — and, led by Bob
Edgehill, a joyous, rackety, young private of
the Warwickshire, hundreds of voices joined
chorusing :

Merrily, my lads, so ho !
They may talk of a life at sea.

But a life on the land

With sword in hand
Is the life, my lads, for me !'

But there was one young soldier whose
voice failed him in the chorus, and whose
eyes rested on Stoke Point and the mouth of
the Yealm till these and other familiar features
of the coast melted into the widening
Channel.

Dulcis was roused to exertion from the

stupor of grief that had come upon her by-tidings
that a situation had been found for
her as companion — one in which she would
have to make herself useful, amiable, and
agreeable in the family of a lady of rank and
wealth, to whom she would be sent by influential
friends of Mr. Pentreath in London.

The poor girl thought tearfully how desolate
was her lot now, cast to seek her bread
among utter strangers ; and if she became ill,
delicate, or unable to work, what would become
of her ?

Her separation from Florian seemed now
greater than ever ; but, as Heine has it :

'Tis but the old, old story,

Yet it ever abideth new ;
And to whomsoever it cometh
The heart it breaks in two.'

To leave Revelstoke seemed another
wrench.

Dulcle had been born and bred there,
and all the villagers In Revelstoke loved
and knew Lawyer Carlyon well, and were
deeply interested in the future of his daughter ;
thus, on the day of her departure no one

T/S BUT THE OLD, OLD STORY! 203

made any pretence of work or working.
Heads were popping out and in of the windows
of the village street all morning, and a
cluster — a veritable crowd — of kindly folks
accompanied Mr. Pentreath and the weeping
girl to the railway station, for she wept freely
at all this display of regard and sympathy,
especially from the old, whom she might

never see adam.

When the train swept her away, and she
lost sight of the last familiar feature of her
native place, a strange and heavy sense of
utter desolation came over poor Dulcis, and
but for the presence of other passengers she
would have stooped her head upon her hot
hands and sobbed aloud, for she thought of
her dead parents — when did she not think of
them now ?

Oh !' exclaims a writer, * if those who have
loved and gone before us can see afar off
those they have left, surely the mother who
had passed from earth might tremble now
for her child, standing so terribly alone in the
midst of a seething sea of danger and temptations
}'

AT CRAIGENGOWAN.

With the new understanding — the tacit engagement
that existed between herself and
Vivian Hammersley — Finella writhed with
annoyance when privately and pointedly
spoken to on the subject of her ' cousin '
Shaftoo's attentions and hopes.

Grandmamma,' said she to Lady Fetter-cairn,
' I don't see why I may not marry
whom I please. I am not like a poor girl
who has nothing in the world. Indeed, in
that case I am pretty sure that neither you
nor cousin Shaftoo would want me.*

She must settle soon,' said Lady Fetter-cairn,
when reporting this plain reply to
Lady Drumshoddy. ' I certainly shall not
take her to London again, yet awhile.'

You are right,' replied that somewhat
grim matron ; * and when once this Captain
Hammersley, who, to my Idea, Is somewhat
too doris with her, Is gone, you can easily
find some pretext for remaining at Cralgen-
gowan ; or shall I have her with me ?'

As you please replied Lady Fettercairn,
who knew that the Drumshoddy uiSnage did
not always suit the taste of Finally ; ' but I
think she Is better here — propinquity and all
that sort of thing may be productive of good.
I know that poor Shaftoo's mind Is quite made
up, and, as I said before, she must settle

«

soon. We can't have twenty thousand a year
slipping out of the family.'

Finally thought little of their wishes or
those of Shaftoo. She thought only of that
passionate hour In the lonely drawing-room,
where she was alone with Vivian, and his lips
were pressed to hers ; of the close throb of
heart to heart, and that the great secret of
her young girl's life was his now and hers no
longer, but aware of the opposition and antagonism
he would be sure to encounter just
then, she urged upon him a caution and a

secrecy of the engagement which his proud
spirit somewhat resented.

He thought it scarcely honourable to take
advantage of Lord Fettercairn's hospitality,
and gain the love of Finella without his
permission ; but as both knew that would
never be accorded — that to ask for it would
cut short his visit, and as he was so soon
going on distant service, with Finella he
agreed that their engagement should be kept
a secret till his return.

And to blind the eyes of the watchful or
suspicious he actually found himself flirting
with one of the Miss Kippilaws, three young
ladies who thought they spoke the purest
English, though it was with that accent which
Basil Hall calls 'the hideous patois of Edinburgh
;' and, perceiving this. Lady Fetter-cairn
became somewhat contented, and
Finella was excessively amused.

Not so the astute Shaftoo.

It is all a d d game !' muttered that

young gentleman ; ' a red herring drawn
across the scent.'

Why do you look so unhappy, dearest T

asked Finella one evening, when she and her
lover found themselves alone for a few
minutes, during which she had been contemplating
his dark face in silence.

My leave of absence is running out so
fast — by Jove, faster than ever apparently
now !'

Is that the sole reason ?' asked the girl
softly and after a pause, her dark eyes
darkening and seeming to become more
intense.

No,' he replied, with hesitation.

Tell me, then — what is the other ?'
You know how I love you '

And I — you.'

But in one sense my love is so liable to
misconstruction — so hopeless of proof.*

Hopeless, Vivian — after all I have admitted
?' she asked reproachfully.

I mean because I am almost penniless as
compared to you.'

What does that matter .^ Surely I have
enough for two,' said she, laughing.

'And I fear the bitter opposition of your
family.'

So do I ; but don't mind it,' said the Independent
little beauty.

I have heard a rumour that one of the
Melforts who made a pure love-marriage was
cut off root and branch.'

That was poor Uncle Lennard, before. I
was born. Well — they can't cut nne off.'

They will never consent; and when I am
far away, as I soon shall be, If their evil
Influence '

Should prevail with me ? Oh, Vivian !'
exclaimed the girl, her dark eyes sparkling
through their unshed tears. * Think not of
their Influencing me, for a moment'

Thank you a thousand times for the
assurance, my love. It was vile of me to
think of such things. I have a sure conviction
that your cousin Shaftoo dislikes me most
certainly,' said Hammersley, after a pause.

I don't doubt It,' said she.

They mean you for him.'

They — who ?'

Your grandparents.'

I know they do — but don't tease me by
speaking of a subject so distasteful,' exclaimed

Finella, making a pretty none expression of
disdain.

He pressed a kiss on her brow, another on
her hair, and his Hps quickly found their way
to hers, after they had been pressed on her
snow-white eyeHds.

I love you with my whole heart, Finella,'
he exclaimed passionately.

And I you,' said the artless girl again, In
that style of iteration of which lovers never
grow weary, with an adoring upward glance,
which It was a pity the gathering gloom
prevented him from seeing.

As they walked slowly towards the house,
she quickly withdrew her hands, which were
clasped clinging to his arm, as Shaftoo approached
them suddenly. He saw the abrupt
act, and drew his own conclusions therefrom,
and, somewhat to Finella's annoyance, turned
abruptly away.

So that Is the amiable youth for whom
they design you,' said he in a whisper.

Did I not say you were not to speak of
him .-^ To tell you the truth, I am at times
somewhat afraid of him.'

VOL. I. 14

My darling — I must give you an amulet
a charm against his evil influence,' said
Hammersley, laughing, as he slipped a ring
on her wedding-finger, adding, * I hope it fits.'

What is this — oh, Vivian ! actually a
wedding-ring — but I cannot wear, though I
may keep it.'

Then wear this until you can, when I
return, darling,* said he, as he slipped a
gemmed ring on the tiny finger, and stooping,
kissed it.

My heart's dearest !' cooed the girl happily.
* Well, Vivian, none other than the
hoop you have now given me shall be my
wedding-ring !'

Had Lady Fettercairn overheard all this
she would have had good reason to fear that
Finella's twenty thousand a year was slipping
away from the Craigengowan family, all the
more so that the scene of this tender interview
was a spot below the mansion-house,
said to be traditionally fatal to the Melforts
of Fettercairn, the Howe of Craigengowan —
for there a terrible adventure occurred to the
first Lord, he who sold his Union vote, and of

whom the men of the Means were wont to
say he had not only sold his country to her
enemies, but that he had also sold his soul to
the evil one.

It chanced that in the gloaming of the
28th of April, 1708, the first anniversary of
that day on which the Scottish Parliament
dissolved to meet no more, he was walking
in a place which he had bought with his
Union bribe — the Howe of Craigengowan,
then a secluded dell, overshadowed by great
alders and whin bushes — when he saw at the
opposite end the figure of a man approaching
pace for pace with himself, and his outline
was distinctly seen against the red flush of
the western sky.

As they neared each other slowly, a strange
emotion of superstitious awe stole into the
hard heart of Lord Fettercairn. So strong
was this that he paused for a minute, and
rested on his cane. The stranger did precisely
the same.

The peer — the ex-Commissioner on Forfeited
Estates — 'pulled himself together,'
and put his left hand jauntily into the silver

14 — 2

hilt of his sword — a motion imitated exactly,
and to all appearance mockingly, by the
other, whose gait, bearing, and costume —
a square-skirted crimson coat, a long-flapped
white vest, black breeches and stockings
rolled over the knee, and a Ramlllie wig —
were all the same in cut and colour as his
own !

Lord Fettercairn afterwards used to assert
that he would never be able to describe the
undefinable, the strange and awful sensation
that crept over him when, as they neared
each other, pace by pace, he saw in the
other's visage the features of himself reproduced,
as if he had been looking into a
mirror.

A cold horror ran through every vein.
He knew and felt that his own features were
pallid and convulsed with mortal terror and
dismay, while he could see that those of his
dreadful counterpart were radiant with spite
and triumphant malice.

Himself seemed to look upon himself —
the same in face, figure, dress ; every
detail was the same, save that the other

clutched a canvas bag, inscribed '^^500' —
the price of the Union vote (or, as some
said, the price of his soul) — on seeing which
my Lord Fettercairn shrieked in an agony
of terror, and fell prone on his face — a
fiendish yell and laugh from the other making
all the lonely Howe re-echo as he did so.

How long he lay there he knew not precisely
; but when he opened his eyes the pale
April moon was shining down the Howe,
producing weird and eerie shadows, the alder
and whin bushes looked black and gloomy,
and the window lights were shining redly in
the tall and sombre mass of Craigengowaft,
the gables, turrets, and vanes of which stood
up against the starry sky.

He never quite recovered the shock, but
died some years after ; and even now on
dark nights, when owls hoot, ravens croak,
toads crawl, and the clock at Craigengowan
strikes twelve, something strange — no one
can exactly say what — is to be seen in the
Howe, even within sound of the railway
engine.

But to resume our own story :

Though a day for parting — for a separation
Involving distance, time, and no small
danger to one — was inexorably approaching,
Finella was very happy just then, with a
happiness she had never known before-and
with a completeness that made life — even to
her who had known London for a brilliant
season — seem radiant. She had been joyous
like a beautiful bird, and content, too, before
the renewal and fuller development of her
intimacy with Vivian Hammersley ; but she
was infinitely more joyous and content now.
'Twas but the old, old story ' of a girl's love,
and In all her sentiments and all her hopes
for the future Vivian shared.

The beautiful dreams of a dual life had
been partly — if not fully — realised through
him, who seemed to her a perfect being, a
perfect hero : though he was only a smart
kinsman, a handsome young fellow like a
thousand others, yet he possessed every
quality to render a girl happy.

Shaftoo felt that Hammersley had quite
^ cut the ground from under his feet ' with
Finella, as he phrased it ; and hating him Inconsequence,

and being a master in cunning
and finesse, wonderfully so for his years, he
resolved to get ' the interloper's ' visit to
Craigengowan cut short at all hazards, and
he was not long in putting his scheme in
operation.

The lovers thus were not quite unconscious
of being watched by eyes that were quickened
by avarice, passion, and jealousy ; yet, withal,
they were very, very happy — in Elysium, in
fact.

Finding that Hammersley had suddenly
become averse to gambling, after a long day
among the grouse, Shaftoo strove hard to lure
him into play one evening in the smoke-room.

Hammersley declined, aware that Shaftoo
was remarkably sharp at cards, having become
somewhat efficient after years of almost
nightly play in the bar-room of the Warrington
Arms at Revelstoke.

Shaftoo's manner on this evening became
almost insulting, and he taunted him with
taking deuced good care of such money ashe
had.'

Ton my soul, young fellow, do you know

that you are rather — well — ah — rude ?' said
Hammersley, removing his cigar for a
moment and staring at the speaker.

Sorry, but it's my way,' replied Shaftoo.

Perhaps you had better make that your
way,' said Hammersley, his brown cheek
reddening as he indicated the room-door with
his cigar. Then suddenly remembering that
he must preserve certain amenities, and as
guest — especially one circumstanced as he was
secretly — he pushed his cigar-case towards
Shaftoo, saying — ' Try one of these — they are
Rio Honos, and are of the best kind.'

Thanks, I prefer my own,' said Shaftoo,
sulkily.

At last, piqued by the manner of the latter,
and having been lured into drinking a little
more brandy and soda than was good for him
after dinner, the unsuspecting Englishman
sat down to play, and though he did so carelessly,
his success was wonderful, for, while
not caring to win, he won greatly.

Higher and higher rose the stakes, till a
very considerable sum had passed into his
hands, and, handsome though Shaftoo's quarterly

allowance from his ' grandfather,' paid
duly by Mr. Kippllaw, he could not help the
lengthening of his visage, and the growing
pallor of it, while his shifty eyes rolled about
in his anxiety and anger ; and Lord Fetter-cairn
and young Kippilaw, who were present,
looked on — the former with some annoyance,
and the latter with amused interest.

Quite suddenly, Kippilaw exclaimed :

Hey — what the deuce is this ? Captain
Hammersley, you have dropped a card.'

And he picked one up from that officer's
side, and laid it on the table.

The ace of spades ! By heaven, you have
already played that card !' exclaimed Shaftoo,
with fierce triumph.

It is not mine !' said Hammersley, hotly.

Whose, then .^'

How the devil should I know T asked
Hammersley, eyeing him firmly.

Your luck has been marvellous, but not
so much so when we know that you play with
double aces,' said Shaftoo, throwing down his
cards and starting from the table, as the other
did, now pallid with just rage.

Would you dare to Insinuate ?' began the
officer, In a hoarse tone.

*I Insinuate nothing; but the disgraceful
fact speaks for Itself ; and I think you have
been quite long enough among us In Crags
he added, coarsely.

Vivian Hammersley was pale as death,
and speechless with rage. He thought first
of Finally and then of his own Injured
honour ; and we know not what turn this
episode might have taken had not Lord
Fettercairn, who, we have said, had been
quietly looking on from a corner, said gravely,
sharply, and even with pain, as he started
forward :

Shaftoo ! I saw you drop thai card, where
Mr. KIppIlaw picked It up — drop It, whether
purposely or not I do not say — but drop It
you did.'

Impossible, sir !'

It is riot impossible,' said the peer. Irately ;
and I am not blind or liable to make
mistakes ; and you too manifestly did so ;
whence this foul accusation of a guest In
my own house — a gentleman to whom

you owe a humble and most complete
apology.'

Shaftoo was speechless with rage and baffled
spite at the new and sudden turn his scheme
had taken, and at being circumvented in his
own villainy.

My Lord Fettercairn, from my soul I
thank you !' said Hammersley, drawing himself
up proudly, looking greatly relieved in
mind, and, turning next to Shaftoo, evidently
waited for the suggested apology.

But in that he was disappointed, as the
heir ' of Fettercairn turned abruptly on his
heel and left the room, leaving his lordship
to make the amende, which he did in very
graceful terms.

As it was impossible now for both to remain
longer under the same roof after a fracas of
this kind, Hammersley proposed at once to
take his departure for the south by a morning
train ; but Lord Fettercairn, who, with all his
selfish shortcomings, had been shocked by the
episode, and by several other ugly matters
connected with his newly found 'grandson
would by no means permit of that movement

; and In this spirit of hospitality even
Lady Fettercairn joined, pressing him to
remain and finish his visit, as first Intended,
while Shaftoo, In a gust of baffled rage and
resentment, greatly to the relief of Finally
and of the domestics, betook himself to Edinburgh,
thus for a time leaving his rival more
than ever In full possession of the field.

'Whether she Is Influenced by Captain
Hammersley I cannot say,' were the parting
words of Lady Fettercairn to this young
hopeful ; ' but you seem by this last untoward
affair to have lost even her friendship, and It
will be a dreadful pity, Shaftoo, if all her
money should be lost to you too.'

And Shaftoo fully agreed with his ' dear
grandmother ' that it would be a pity
indeed.

As a gentleman and man with a keen sense
of honour, Hammersley disliked exceedingly
the secrecy of the engagement he had made
with Finally, and felt himself actually colour
more than once when Lord Fettercairn addressed
him ; but his compunctions about it
grew less when he thought of the awful

escape he had made from a perilous accusation,
that might have * smashed ' him in the
Service, and of the trickery of which Shaftoo
was capable — a trickery of which he had not
yet seen the end.

AT THE BUFFALO RIVER.

The evening of the loth January was closing
in, and the blood-red African sun, through a
blended haze of gold and pale green, red and
fiery, seemed to linger like a monstrous
crimson globe at the horizon, tinging with
the same hues the Buffalo River as its broad
waters flowed past the Itelizi Hill towards
Rorke's Drift.

There a piquet of the Centre or Second
column of infantry (of the army then advancing
into Zululand), under Colonel Richard
Glyn of the 24th Regiment, was posted for
the night. The main body of the piquet,
under Lieutenant Vincent Sheldrake, a smart
young officer, was bivouacked among some

mealies at a little distance from the bank of
the river, along the margin of which his
advanced sentinels were posted at proper
distances apart, and there each man stood
motionless as a statue, in his red tunic and
white tropical helmet, with his rifle at the
order,' and his eyes steadily fixed on that
quarter in which the Zulu army was supposed
to be hovering.

To reach the Buffalo River the various
columns of Lord Chelmsford's army could
not march by regular roads, as no such thing
exists in Zululand, and the sole guides of our
officers in selecting the line of advance
through these savage regions were the grass-covered
ruts left by the waggon-wheels of
some occasional trader or sportsman in past
times.

As the column had been halted for the
night, at a considerable distance in rear of
the outlying piquet, the men of the latter
had their provisions with them ready cooked,
and were now having their supper in a grassy
tonga or hollow. The earthen floor was
their table, and Lieutenant Sheldrake, being

more luxurious than the rest, had spread
thereon as a cloth an old sheet of the Times ;
but the appetites of all were good, and their
temperament cheery and hearty. Their rifles
were piled, and they brewed their coffee over
a blazing fire, the flame of which glowed on
their sun-burned and beardless young faces,
and a few Kaffirs squatted round their own
fire, jabbered, gesticulated, and swallowed
great mouthfuls of their favourite liquor
scoff.'

Sheldrake was too ill or weary to attend
closely to his own duties, and the moment
the evening meal was over, he desired the
sergeant of the piquet to 'go round the
advanced sentries.'

The sergeant, a young and slender man,
and who was no other than Florian, touched
the barrel of his rifle and departed on his
mission — to visit the sentinels in rotation by
the river bank, and see that they were incommunication
with those of the pickets on
the risrht and left.

The scenery around was savage and
desolate ; long feathery grass covered the

veldt for miles upon miles. The chief features
in it were some blue gum trees, and on a
koppie, or little eminence, the deserted ruins
of a Boer farm under the shadow of a clump
of eucalyptus trees ; and in the foreground
were some bustards and blue Kaffir cranes
by the river bank.

Short service and disease had given Florian
rapid promotion ; for our soldiers, if brave,
had no longer the power of manly endurance
of their predecessors under the old system.
According to General Crealock, the extreme
youth of our soldiers in South Africa rendered
their powers for toil very small ; while the
Naval Brigade, composed of older men, had
scarcely ever a man in hospital. The Zulu
campaign was a very trying one ; there were
the nightly entrenchments, the piquet duty
amid high grass, and the absence of all confidence
that discipline and that long mutual
knowledge of each other give in the ranks.
He added most emphatically that our younger
soldiers were unfit for European campaigning
; that half the First Division were ' sick ;'
there were always some 200 weak lads in
VOL. I. 15

hospital, ' crawling about like sick flies,' and,
like him, every officer was dead against the
short-service system.

The face of our young sergeant was handsome
as ever ; but it was strangely altered
since late events had come to pass. There
was a haggard and worn look in the features,
particularly in the eyes. The latter looked
feverish and dim — their brightness less at
times, while a shadow seemed below them.

Florlan having, as he now deemed, no
right to the name of Melfort, or even that of
Maclan, had enlisted under the latter name,
as that by which he had been known from
infancy, lest he might make a false attestation.
The name of Gyle he shrank from,
even if it was his — which at times he doubted !
His regiment was the brave old 24th, or
Second Warwickshire, which had been raised
In the eventful year 1689 by Sir Edward
During, Bart, of Surrenden-Dering, head of
one of the few undoubted Saxon families In
England, and it was afterwards commanded
In 1695 by Louis, Marquis de Puizar.

Second to none In the annals of war during

the reigns of Anne and the early Georges,
the 24th in later times served with valour at
the first capture of the Cape of Good Hope,
in the old Egyptian campaign, in the wars of
Spain and India, and now they were once
again to cover themselves with a somewhat
clouded and desperate glory In conflict with
the gallant Zulus.

Florlan in his new career found himself
occasionally among a somewhat mixed and
rough lot — the raw, weedy soldiers of the
new disastrous system — but there were many
who were of a better type ; and the thought
of Dulcis Carlyon — the only friend he had in
the world, the only human creature who loved
him — kept him free from the temptations and
evil habits of the former ; and he strove to
live a steady, pure, and brave life, that he
might yet be worthy of her, and give her no
cause to blush for him.

He got through his drilling as quickly ashe
could, and soon discovered that the sooner
a soldier takes his place in the ranks the
better for himself. He found that though
many of his comrades were noisy, talkative,

IS— 2

and quarrelsome, that the English soldier
quicker than any other discovers and appreciates
a gentleman. His officers soon learned
to appreciate him too, and hence the rapidity
with which he won his three chevrons, and
Mr. Sheldrake felt that, young though he
was, he could trust Florlan to go round the
sentinels.

Each was at his post, and the attention of
each Increased as the gloom after sunset
deepened, for none knew who or what might
be approaching stealthily and unseen among
the long wavy grass and mossy tonga that
yawned amid the country In front.

Hush, Bob !' said he to his comrade, Edgehill,
whom he heard singing merrily to himself,
' you should be mute as a fish on outpost
duty, and keep your ears open as well as your
eyes. What have you got In your head.
Bob, that makes you so silly? But, as the
author of the " Red Rag " says, we soldiers
have not much in our heads at any time, or
we wouldn't go trying to stop cannon balls
or bullets with them.'

Right you are. Sergeant,' replied Bob,

but I can't think what made you — a gentleman
— enlist,'

Because I was bound to be a soldier, I
suppose. And you ?'

Through one I wish I never had seen ?'

Who was that ?'

The handsome young girl,
With her fringe in curl,
That worked a sewing-machine,'

sung the irrepressible Bob ; and Florian

returned to report 'all right' to Mr. Sheldrake.


Though the actual cause of the Zulu war
lies a little apart from our story, It may be
necessary to mention that we Invaded the
country of Cetewayo after giving him a
certain time, up to the nth of January, to
accept our ultimatum ; to adopt an alternative
for war, by delivering up certain of his subjects
who had violated British territory, attacked a
police-station, and committed many outrages,
among others, carrying off two women, one
of whom they put to a barbarous death near
the Buffalo River.

But Instead of making any apology, or

giving an Indemnity, Cetewayo prepared to
defend himself at the head of an enormous
army of hardy Zulu warriors, all trained in a
fashion of their own, divided into strong
regiments, furnished with powerful shields
of ox-hide, and armed with rifles, war clubs,
and assegais — a name with which we are now
so familiar. The shaft of this weapon averages
five feet in length, with the diameter of
an ordinary walking-stick, cut from the assegai
tree, which is not unlike mahogany in its fibre,
and furnished with a spear-head. Some are
barbed, some double-barbed, and the tang of
the blade is fitted — when red-hot — into the
wood, not the latter into the blade, which is
then secured by a thong of wet hide, and
is so sharp that the Zulu can shave his
head with it ; and it is a weapon which
they can launch with deadly and unerring
skill.

• The Zulu king, says Captain Lucas, was
unable to sign his own name, * and was as
ignorant and as savage as our Norman kings,'
and he thought no more of putting women,

especially young girls, to death, than Bluff

King Hal ' himself ; yet a little time after all
this was to see him presented at Osborne,
and to become the petted and feted exile of
Mercury Road, Kensington.

This night by the Buffalo River was
Florian's first experience of outpost duty,
and he felt — though not the responsible
party — anxious, wakeful, and weary after a
long and toilsome day's march.

He knew enough of military matters to be
well aware that the importance of outposts,
especially when dealing with a wily and savage
enemy, could scarcely be exaggerated, for no
force, when encamped in the field, can Tdc
deemed for a moment safe without them.
Thus it was a maxim of Frederick the Great
that it was pardonable to be defeated, but
never to be surprised.

I don't understand all this change that
has come over my life,' thought he, as he
stretched himself on the bare earth near the
piquet fire ; ' but I wonder if my father and
mother can see and think of me where they
are. Yet I sometimes feel,' he added, with
a kind of boyish gush in his heart, ' as if they

were near me and watching over me, so they
must see and think too.'

Where was Dulcis, then, and what was she
doing ? How supporting herself, as she said
she would have to do ? Had she found
friends, or, months ago, been trodden, withall
her tender beauty, down in the mire of
misfortune and adversity ?

These were maddening thoughts for one
so far away and so utterly powerless to help
her as Florian felt himself, and rendered him
at times more reckless of his own existence
because it was useless to her.

The air around was heavy with the dewy
fragrance of strange and tropical plants, and
vast, spiky, and fan-shaped leaves cast their
shadows over him as he strove to snatch the
proverbial ' forty winks ' before again going
the rounds,' or posting the hourly reliefs, for
they are always hourly when before an enemy.

And when our weary young soldier did
sleep, he dreamt, not of the quick-coming
strife, nor even of blue-eyed Dulcis, with
her wealth of red golden hair, but, as the
tender smile on his lips might have showed.

of the time when his mother watched him In
his Httle cot, with Idolizing gaze, and when he,
the now bronzed and moustached soldier, was
a little child, with rings of soft dusky hair
curling over his white forehead ; when his
cheeks had a rosy flush, and his tiny mouth
a smile, and she fondly kissed the little hands
that lay outside the snow-white coverlet her
own deft Angers had made — the two wee
hands that held his mother's heart between
them — the heart that had long since smouldered
by Revelstoke Church.

And so he slept and dreamed till roused
by the inevitable cry of ' Sentry, go !' aft,
that duty over, as he composed himself to
sleep again, with his knapsack under his
head for a pillow, he thought as a soldier —

To-day is ours. To-morrow never yet
On any human being rose or set !'

ELANDSBERGEN.

Next morning when the piquet was relieved
young Sheldrake, who paid Hammersley's company
In absence of the latter, who was soon
expected with a strong draft from England,
said to Florlan —

Look here, Maclan, I've made a stupid
mistake. The company's money I have left
among my heavier baggage In the fort beyond
Elandsbergen, and I have got the Colonel's
permission to send you back for it. This
is just like me — I've a head, and so has a
pin ! The Quartermaster will lend you his
horse, and you can have my spare revolver
and ammunition. Have a cigar before you
go,' he added, proffering his case, *and look

sharp after yourself and the money. There
is a deuced unchancy lot in the quarter you
are o^olnef back to. We don't advance from
this till tomorrow, so you have plenty of
time to be with us ere we cross the river, if
you start at once.'

Very good, sir replied Florian, as he
saluted and went away to obtain the horse,
the revolver, and to prepare for a duty which
he intensely disliked, and almost doubted his
power to carry out, as it took him rearward
through a country of which he was ignorant,
which was almost without roads, and where
he would be single-handed, if not among
savages, among those who where quite as
bad, for in some of these districts, as in the
Orange Free State and Norland, there
swarmed broken ruffians of every kind,
many of them deserters ; and, says an
officer, ' so great, in fact, was the number
of these undesirable specimens of our
countrymen assembled in Harrysmith alone
that night was truly made hideous with
their bowling, respectable persons were
afraid to leave their houses after nightfall,

and the report of revolvers ceased to elicit
surprise or curiosity. I have been in some
of the most notorious camps and towns in
the territories and mining districts of the
United States, but can safely assert that I
never felt more thankful than when I found
my horse sufficiently rested here to continue
my journey.' There were lions, too, in the
wild plains, for some of our cavalry horses
were devoured by them ; the tiger-cat and
the garde-wolf also.

With a knowledge of all this Florlan
loaded his revolver, looked carefully to the
bridle and stirrup leathers of his horse,
received a note from Mr. Sheldrake to the
officer commanding the little fort near the
foot of the Drakensberg, and left the camp
of No. 2 column on his solitary journey,
steering his way by the natural features of
the country so far as he could recall them
after the advance of the loth January, and
watching carefully for the wheel tracks or
other Indications of a roadway leading in a
westerly direction ; and many of his comrades,
including Bob Edgehill, watched him with

interest and kindly anxiety till his white
helmet disappeared as he descended Into a
long grassy tonga, about a mile from Rorke's
Drift.

The evening passed and the following day
dawned — the Important 12th — when ^'ululand
was to be Invaded at three points by the three
columns of Lord Chelmsford ; the advance
party detailed from Colonel Glyn's brigade
to reconnoitre the ground In front got under
arms and began to move off, and Sheldrake
and others began to feel somewhat uneasy,
for there was still no appearance of the
absent one. *.

The country through which Florlan rode
was lonely, and farmhouses were few and
many miles apart. Its natural features were
undulating downs covered with tall waving
grass, furrowed by deep, reedy water-courses ;
here and there were abrupt rocky eminences,
and dense brushwood grew In the rugged
hoofs and ravines.

The air was delightful, and in spite of his
thoughts the blood coursed freely through

his veins ; his spirits rose, and, exhilarated
by the pace at which his horse went, he could
not help giving a loud ' Whoop !' now and
then when a gnu, with Its curved horns and
white mane, or a hartebeest appeared on the
upland slopes, or a baboon grinned at him
from amid the bushes of a kloof

Before him stretched miles of open and
grassy veldt, and the fiat-topped hills of the
Drakensberg range closed the horizon. The
vast stretch of plain, across which ever and
anon swept herds of beautiful little antelopes,
was covered with luxuriant grass, which
seemed smooth as abllllard-table, and over It
went the track, which he was always afraid of
losing. But, If pleasant to look upon, the
veldt was treacherous ground, for hidden by
the grass were everywhere deep holes burrowed
by the ant-bears, and into these his
horse's forelegs sank ever and anon, to the
peril of the animal and his rider too. Thus
Florian was compelled to proceed at a canter
with his reins loose, while he sat tight and prepared
for swerving when his nag, which was a
native horse, prepared to dodge an apparent

hole, which they can do with wonderful sagacity.


So Florian was not sorry when he left the
veldt behind him, and after a ride of about
thirty miles saw the earthworks of the small
fort at the foot of Drakensberg appear in
front with a little Union Jack fluttering on a
flagstaff.

This was about mid-day.

Anxious to return as soon as he could rest
his horse, he lost no time in delivering Sheldrake's
note to the officer in command,
and with the key of a trunk indicated
therein among his best uniform, and amid
girls' photos, bundles of letters, old button
bouquets, rare pipes, and an omnium-gathered
of various things, the bag was found,
with the company's money, and delivered to
Florian, who, after a two hours' halt, set out
on his return journey ; but he had not proceeded
many miles when he found that his
horse was utterly failing him, and, regretting
that he had not remained at the post for the
night, he resolved to spend it in the little
town of Elandsbergen, towards which he bent

his way, leading the now halting nag by the
bridle.

Elandsbergen consisted of a few widely
detached cottages studding both sides of a
broad pathway, amid a vast expanse of v^eldt
or prairie, with fragmentary attempts at cultivation
here and there ; and how the people
lived seemed somewhat of a mystery. Rows
of stunted oaks lined the street, if such it
could be called, and through it flowed a rill of
pure water, at which the poor nag drank

thirstily.

Elandsbergen boasted of one hostelry,
dignified by the title of the Royal Hotel,
where ' civil entertainment for man and beast *
was promised by the landlord,' Josh Jarrett.' It
was a somewhat substantial edifice of two
storeys, built of baked brick, square in form,
with a flat roof composed of strong lattice-work,
covered with half-bricks and with clayey
mortar to render it impervious to the torrents
of the South African rainy season.

In some of the windows were glass panes ;
in others sheepskin with the wool off, which,
in consequence of extreme tension, attains a

certain transparency. Giving his horse to a
Kaffir ostler, whose sole raiment was a waistcoat
made of a sleeveless regimental tunic,
Florian somewhat wearily entered the * hotel,'
the proprietor of which started and changed
colour at the sight of his red coat, as well he
might, for, though disguised by a bushy beard,
sedulously cultivated, and a shock head of
hair under his broad-leaved hat, he was one
of the many deserters from our troops,
already referred to, and, though apparently
anxious to appear civil, was secretly a ruffian
of the worst kind.

The room Into which he ushered Florian
was bare-walled, the furniture was of the
plainest and rudest kind, and the floor was
formed of cow-dung over wet clay, all
kneaded, trodden, and hardened till It could
be polished, a process learned from the Zulus
in the construction of their kraals.

A fly-blown map of Cape Colony, a cheap
portrait of Sir Battle Free, and the skull of
an eland with Its spiral horns were the only
decorations of the apartment, and the literature
of ' the day ' was represented by three

VOL. I. i6 .

tattered copies of the Cape Argus, Natal
Mercury, and the Boer Volksteem.

Josh Jarrett was dressed like a Boer, and In
person was quite as dirty as a Boer ; his loose
cracker-trousers were girt by a broad belt
with a square buckle, whereat hung a leopard-skin
pouch and an ugly hunting knife with a
cross hilt. In the band of his broad hat were
stuck a large meerschaum pipe and the tattered
remnant of an ostrich feather.

The Kaffir ostler now came hurriedly in,
and announced something in his own language
to the landlord, who, turning abruptly to
Florlan, said —

You are In something of a fix. Sergeant !'

How — what do you mean ?' demanded
Florlan.

That your horse is dying

^ Dying !'

Yes, of the regular horse-sickness.'
Florlan In no small anxiety and excitement

hurried out to the stable, in which two other
nags were stalled, and there he saw the poor
animal he had ridden lying among the straw
in strong convulsions, labouring under that

curse of South Africa, the horse-sickness, a
most mysterious disorder, which had suddenly
attacked it.

The animal had looked sullen and dull all
morning, and in the stable had been assailed
by the distemper and its usual symptoms,
heaving flanks, disturbed breathing, glassy
eyes, and a projecting tongue tightly clenched
between the teeth. Then came the convulsions,
and he was dead in half an hour,
and Florian found that he would probably
have to travel afoot for more than twenty
miles before he could rejoin the column an
the morrow.

Where have you come from, Sergeant ?'
asked Josh Jarrett, when they returned to the
public room.

The fort at the Drakensberg, last.'
Taking French leave, eh ?' said Jarrett,
with a portentous wink and a brightening eye.

Not at all !' replied Florian, indignantly.

Fellows do so every day now in these
short-service times.'

I was going to the front, when my horse
fell lame.'

1 6 — 2

Belong to the Mounted Infantry?'

The dismounted now, I think replied
Florian. ' I should like to rest here for the
night, and push on as best I can tomorrow ;
so what can I have for supper?'

Josh Jarrett paused a moment, as if he
thought a sergeant's purse would not go far
in the way of luxuries, and then replied :

Rasher of bacon and eggs, or dried beef
and a good glass of square face or Cape smoke,
which you please.'

The first will do, and a glass of the square-face,
which means Hollands, I suppose.
Cape smoke is a disagreeable spirit replied
Florian wearily, as he took off his helmet
and seated himself in a larQ^e cane-bottomed
chair.

Won't you lay aside your revolver?' asked
Jarrett.

Thanks — well, no — I am used to it.'

As you please said the other surlily, and
summoning in a loud voice a female named
Nan,' left the room.

The latter laid the table, brought in the
frugal supper, with a case bottle of squareface.

and, instead of leaving the room, seated herself
near a window and entered into conversation,
with what object Florian scarcely knew,
but he disliked the circumstance, till he began
to remember that she probably considered
herself his equal.

When his hasty repast was over, taking a
hint from a remark that he was weary, she
withdrew, and then Florian began to consider
the situation.

He was fully twenty miles from the regiment
; a rough country, not to be traversed
even by daylight, infested with wild animals,
and many obnoxious things, such as puff-adders,
perhaps Zulus, lay between ; and
unless Jarrett would accommodate him with
a horse, which was very unlikely (he seemed
such a sullen and forbidding fellow), he would
have to travel the journey on foot, and begin
betimes on the morrow as soon as dawn would
enable him to see the track eastward.

He examined Sheldrake's handsome revolver
and its ammunition, reloading the six
chambers carefully. Then he thought of the
company's money; and tempted, he knew

not by what rash impulse unless It was mere
boyish curiosity, he untied the red tape by
which the paymaster had secured the mouth
of the bag to have a peep at the gold.

He had never seen a hundred sovereigns
before, and never before had so much money
in his possession. Some of the glittering
coins fell out on the clay floor ; and as he
gathered them up a sound made him look
round, and from the window he saw a human
face suddenly vanish outside, thus showing
that some one had, hitherto unnoticed, been
furtively watching him, and he strongly
suspected It to be the woman Nan, prompted,
perhaps, by idle curiosity, and in haste he
concealed the gold.

He was the more convinced of the lurker
being she when, soon after, she entered, retook
her seat by the window, through which the
evening sun was streaming now, and began
to address him in a light and flippant manner,
as if to get up a flirtation with him for ulterior
purposes ; but his suspicions were awakened
now, and Florlan was on his guard.

He perceived that she had made some

alterations and improvements in her tawdry-dress,
and had hung in her ears a pair of
large old-fashioned Dutch ear-rings shaped
like small rams' horns of real gold.

She seemed to be about thirty years of
age, and was not without personal attractions,
though all bloom was past, and the
expression of her face was marred by its being
alternately leering, mocking, and — even in
spite of herself — cruel. Yet her eyes were
dark and sparkling. She wore a fringe of
thick brown hair close down to them, concealing
nearly all her forehead. Her mouth,
if large, was handsome, but lascivious-looking,
and Florian, whose barrack-room experience
had somewhat * opened his eyes,'
thought — though he was not ungallant
enough to say so — that her absence would
be preferable to her company, which she
seemed resolved to thrust upon him. But
guests were doubtless scarce in these parts,
and the ' Royal Hotel,' Elandsbergen, had
probably not many visitors.

She asked him innumerable questions — his
age, country, regiment, and so forth — and all

in a wheedling coaxing way, toyed with his
hair, and once attempted to seat herself on
his knee ; but he rose and repelled her, and
then it was that the unmistakably cruel expression
came flashing into her eyes.

*You are too young and too handsome
to be killed and disembowelled by the big
Zulus,' said she after a pause ; * they could
eat a boy like you. Why don't you desert
and go to the Diamond Fields T

Thank you ; I would die rather than do
that !'

And so you serve the Queen, my dear ?'
she said sneeringly.

Yes.'

For what reason do you fight the poor
Zulus ?'

Honour,' replied Florian curtly.

I have read — I have some book-knowledge,
you see — that when a Swiss officer
was reproached by a French one that he
fought for pay, and not like himself for
honour, ''So be it," replied the Swiss, 'ewe
each of us fight for that which he is most in
need of'"

I don't see the allusion in this instance :
a soldier, I do my duty and obey orders.'

Have a drop more of the square face —
you can't be so rude as to refuse a lady,'
she continued, filling up a long glass, which
she put to her lips, and then to those of
Florian, who pretended to sip and then put
the glass down.

He was at a loss to understand her and
her advances. Vanity quite apart, he knew
that he was a good-looking young fellow,
and that his uniform 'set him off;' but he
remembered the face at the window, and was
on his guard against her in every way.
Would she have acted thus with an officer .^
he thought ; and in what relation did she
stand to the truculent-looking landlord — •
wife, daughter, or sister 1 Probably none
of them at all.

Suddenly her mood changed, or appeared
to do so, and seating herself at a rickety old
piano, which Florian had not noticed before,
she, while eyeing him waggishly, proceeded
to sing a once-popular flash song, long since
forgotten in England, and probably taken

out by some ancient settler, generations
ago, to the Cape Colony :

If I was a wife, and my dearest life

Took it into his noddle to die,
Ere I took the whim to be buried with him,

I think I'd know very well why.

If poignant my grief, I'd search for relief —
Not sink with the weight of my care :

A salve might be found, no doubt, above ground,
And I think I know very well where.

'Another kind mate should give me what fate

Would not from the former allow ;
With him I'd amuse the hours you abuse.

And I think I'd know very well how.

'Tis true I'm a maid, and sort may be said

No judge of the conjugal lot ;
Yet marriage, I when, has a cure for the spleen,

And I think I know very well ivhaV

This she sang with a skill and power that
savoured of the music hall, and then tried
her blandishments again to induce Florian to
drink of the fiery square face ; but he resisted
all her inducement to take 'just one little
glass more.'

Why was she so anxious that he should
imbibe that treacherous spirit, which he
would have to pay for ? And why did the

landlord, who certainly seemed full of
curiosity about him, leave him so entirely
in her society ?

Suddenly the voice of the latter was heard
shouting, ' Nan, Nan !'

That is Josh,' said she impatiently ;
bother him, what does he want now ? Josh
is getting old, and nothing improves by age.'

Except brandy,' said Florian smiling, ashe
now hoped to be rid of her.

Right ; and square face, perhaps. Have
one glass more, dear, before I leave you.'

But he turned impatiently away, and she
withdrew, closing a scene which caused
Florian much suspicion and perplexity. He
remembered to have read, that ' man destroys
with the horns of a bull, or with paws like a
bear ; woman by nibbling like a mouse, or
by embracing like a serpent.' And he was
in toils here unseen as vet !

The light faded out beyond the dark
ridges of the Drakensberg, and Florian requested
to be shown to his sleeping-apartment,
which was on the upper storey.

You may hear a roaring lot here by-and-by,'

said his host ; ' but you are a soldier,
and I dare say will sleep sound enough. You
will be tired, too, after your ride.'

The man had now a sneaking and wicked
look In his eyes, which avoided meeting
those of Florlan, and which the latter did
not like, but there was no help for It then.

You will call me early If I sleep too
long,' said Florlan, as Jarrett gave him a
candle.

The hand of the latter shook as he did so
he had evidently been drinking heavily,
and his yellow-balled eyes were bloodshot,
and his voice thick, as he said :

Good-night, Sergeant ; you'll sleep sound
enough,' and closed the door.

With a sigh almost of relief Florlan found
himself alone. He set down the sputtering
candle, and turned to fasten the door. It
was without a lock, and secured only by a
latch, by which It could be opened from the
outside as well as within.

On making this startling discovery, Florlan's
heart glowed with Indignation and growing
alarm ! He felt himself trapped !

BAFFLED !

The room was small, low-ceiled, and its only-furniture
was a table, chair, and truckle-bed
all obviously of Dutch construction — and,
unless he could find some means to secure
his door, he resolved to remain awake till
dawn. The only window in the room
overlooked the roof of the stable where the
dead horse lay. The sash was loose, and
shook in the night wind, and he could seethe
bright and, to him, new constellations
glittering in the southern sky.

Florian contrived to secure the door by
placing the chair on the floor as a wedge or
barrier between it and the bedstead, on the
mattress of which — though not very savoury

in appearance — he cast himself, for he was
weary, worn, and felt that there was an
absolute necessity for husbanding his strength,
as he knew not what might be before him, so
he extinguished the candle.

Something in the general aspect and bearing
of the man Josh Jarrett, and in those of the
woman, with her efforts to intoxicate him, and
something, too, in his general surroundings
and isolated situation — for the few scattered
houses of Elandsbergen were all far apart —
together with the memory of the prying face
he had seen at the window, at the very
moment he was picking up the gold, all
served to put Florian on his guard ; thus he
lay down without undressing, and, longing
only for daylight, grasped ever and anon the
butt of his pistol.

For some time past he had been unused
to the luxury of even a truckle-bed or other
arrangements for repose than his grey
greatcoat and ammunition blanket, with a
knapsack for a pillow ; hence, despite his
keen anxiety, he must have dropped asleep,
for how long he knew not ; but he suddenly

Started up as the sound of voices below came
to his ear, and the full sense of his peculiar
whereabouts rushed on him.

Voices ! They were coarse and deep, but
not loud —-voices of persons talking in low
and concentrated tones in the room beneath,
separated from him only by the ill-fitting boarding
of the floor, between the joints of which
lines of light were visible, and one bright
upward flake, through a hole from which a
knot had dropped out.

Curse him, he's but a boy ; I could
smash the life out of him by one blow of
my fist!' he heard his host, Josh Jarrett,
say.

Others responded to this, but in low,
stealthy, and husky tones. Certain that
some mischief with regard to himself was on
the ^a/>is, Florian crept softly to the orifice
in the floor, and looked down. Round a
dirty and sloppy table, covered with drinking-vessels,
pipes and tobacco-pouches, bottles
of square face and Cape smoke, were Josh
Jarrett and three other ruffians, digger-like
fellows, with Nan among them, all drinking ;

and a vile-looking quintette they were,
especially the woman, with her hair all
dishevelled now, and her face inflamed by
that maddening compound known as Cape
smoke.

'When I was ass enough to be in the
Queen's service,' said Jarrett with a horrible
imprecation, ' these 'ere blooming officers and
non-commis. led me a devil of a life ; they
said it was my own fault that I was always
drunk and in the mill. Be that as it may,
I've one of the cursed lot upstairs, and I'll
serve him out for what they made me
undergo, cuss 'em. One will answer my
purpose as well as another. Nan, you did
your best to screw him, but he was weary —
infernally wary. Blest if I don't think the
fellow is a Scotsman after all, for all his
English lingo.'

*Yes, he did shirk his liquor,' hiccupped
the amiable Nan ; ' you should have drugged
it, Josh.'

But then we didn't know that he had all
this chink about him.'

That must be ours,' growled a fellow who

had not yet spoken, but was prodding the
table with a knife he had drawn from his
belt ; ' we'll give him a through ticket to the
other world — one with the down train.'

'And no return,' added Nan, laughing.

Florlan felt beads of perspiration on his
brow ; he was one against five — entrapped,
baited, done to death — and If he did not
appear at headquarters with the fatal money,
what would be thought of him but that he
had deserted with It, and his name would
be branded as that of a coward and robber.

Dulcle ! The thought of Dulcle choked
him, but It nerved him too.

Another truculent-looking fellow now came
in, making five men In all.

He has money galore on him — Nan saw
the gold — money In a canvas bag. How
comes he, a sergeant, to have all this In his
grab, unless he stole It .^' said Jarrett, in
explanation to the new-comer.

Of course he stole it — it's regimental
money, and evidently he Is deserting with
It,' said the other, who was no doubt, like
Jarrett, a Queen's bad bargain also ; for he

VOL. I. 17

added, ' What the devil do Cardwell's short-service
soldiers care about their chances of
pension or promotion — that's the reason he
has the bag of gold ; so why shouldn't we
make it ours ? It is only following a knife
into him, and then burying him out in the
veldt before daylight. Even if he was
traced here, who is to be accountable for a
deserter ?'

And this practical ruffian proceeded at
once to put a finer edge and point upon his
long bowie knife.

You forget that he has a revolver,' said
Nan.

I don't,' said Jarrett ; * but he ain't likely
to use it in his sleep, especially when we pin
him by the throat.'

He was but one against five armed and
reckless desperadoes ; and there was the
woman, too, whose hands were ready for
evil work. The stair that led to his room
was narrow — so much so that there was but
space for one on a step. The lower or outer
door he knew to be securely locked and
bolted. The window of his room, we have

said, overlooked the lean-to roof of the
stable, where he knew that two horses were
in stall — a sure means of escape could he
reach one ; but the door, he was aware, was
locked, and the key In possession of the
Kaffir groom.

He was maddened by the thought that his
barbarous and obscure death would brand
him with a double disgrace ; and death Is
more than ever hard when suffered at the
hands of cowards.

What is the use of all this blooming
talk ?' said one, starting from the table ; ' let
us set about the job at once !'

Look you,' said Jarrett, 'If roused he'll
perhaps try to escape by the stable-roof, so
while you fellows go up the stair, I go round
to the back of the house and cut off his
retreat.'

The stable-roof,' thought Florlan, * my
only chance lies that way.'

He opened the window at the very
moment that stealthy steps sounded on the
wooden stair, and a red light streamed under
the door, which their felon hands failed to

17 — 2

force, so firmly was the chair wedged
between It and the bed. He slid down the
stable-roof, and dropped safely on the ground,
to be faced by Josh Jarrett, who came rushing
on, knife in hand, but Florian shot him
down, firing two chambers into his very
teeth, and then he sprang away like a hare
out into the open veldt, leaving the ruffian
wallowing in his blood.

He knew not and cared not in what
direction he ran at first, as he could hear the
oaths and imprecations of his pursuers, over
whom his youth, lightness, and activity gave
him an advantage ; but after a time red-dawn
began to streak the eastern sky, and he
knew that was the direction which, if he was
spared, would take him to the bank of the
Buffalo River.

He continued to run at a good steady
double, saving his wind as he did so, and his
courage and confidence rose when he found
that he was distancing his pursuers so much
that he could neither see nor hear anything
of them.

As he ran on he thought for a moment or

two of the fierce gleaming eyes and glistening
teeth of Jarrett — of the blood he had shed,
and the life he had perhaps taken for the
first time, remorsefully ; but had he not acted
thus, what would he have been ? A gashed
corpse !

'Bah!' he said aloud, ' I am a soldier

why such thoughts at all ? Why should I
have mercy when these wretches would have
had none ?' and he began to regret that he
had not fired a random shot or two through
the room-door and knocked over some of
them on the staircase.

A sound now struck his ear ; it was the
thud of galloping hoofs upon the veldt, and
his heart sank as he remembered the two
horses In the stable, where his dead nag was
lying.

He looked back, and there, sure enough,
In the grey dawn were two mounted men
riding In scouting fashion, far apart, and he
could not for a moment doubt they were two
of Jarrett's companions In pursuit, thirsting
with avarice and for revenge.

He made his way, stumbling wildly and

VOL. I. 1 6

breathlessly down a wooded ravine to elude
their sight ; on and on he strove till a vine
root caught his foot : his hands outstretched
beat the air for a moment, and then he fell
headlong forward and downward into a
tonga full of brushwood.

For a moment he had a sense of strange
palms, and giant cacti, and of great plants
with long spiky leaves being about him, and
then he became unconscious as he lay there
stunned and bleeding profusely from a wound
in his forehead, which had come in contact
with a stone.

END OF VOL. I.

Billing &. SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

0112 046409675

MaMlH«nHHMMaM«apsaw«««<M'^'«a*«MMMawnMMMMM«<wMw«l If ■i M«i»»»»»>»«ri» i iii » iii ,i »Piii ^^ >»»»»»*«a—»»ap«>w»»— »—»—■)>

mt0mm»»^ttrmmmummimmmmi»»ammmm>*'*»>»>**f*'*»*'!'r***<>trr''''*''''»'''*''*^'**'^*»''''''^^ > " »»»T»»»»wipw»>»»» iii i iii i »»»»«»— wpioxyint

mmmmmmimmmmmmt^mm»mmmmm»mmmm»mmm»*rmmr*mimmm*mtmm—»mmmmffmmmmmfmmrmrmmm mmiii iiiir i«i »i i t,im*—mmmm |l ii f f^mmm^

JJJ,,,,J]t .j.jiji . I . I | - ■■■■■■ •[ ■ ■ ' i ■ I I I I -^ — -^ " "^ — — — — « I II ,^^,,^^^,^^^.^ ^ ^^j^

'i toi ''»*i v'iTJ *<'i \<55 ili ^^'j £!2s ?s?5 »!^ ^?5 di »'%

I? kv ^t? ^<y hI? v;:>< ^f? ^z>? t?? iv %I7 vg>^ rey v>^

Li!.!fu!!.!. - i . II mtTTiT^^^^^. n n ■ ••> ' " " un ii iiiiiiiiii < «iiii t i ' w«— >»—<«>iiii n i iii n as

■■■■ sVV*^

•i^^.*"**<

UIiCrjfE

By tt)© Atttljoj* of

e

ar)oe ofWar***

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or Ill Noise

V.2

/P^Z/

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books ore reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

APR

ij

m^

L161— O-1096

^ ^obcl.

BY

James GRANT,

AUTHOR OF 'THE Romance OF WAR,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1886.

[All Rights Reserved. '\

♦o^o«

FROM THE SILENT PAST. By Mrs. Herbert Martin.

2 vols.

COWARD AND COQUETTE. By the Author of 'The
Parish of Hilby.' i vol.

MIND, BODY, AND ESTATE. By the Author of ' Olive
Varcoe.' 3 vols.

AT THE RED GLOVE. By Katharine S. Macquoid.

3 vols.

WHERE TEMPESTS BLOW. By the Author of ' Miss
Elvester's Girls.' 3 vols.

IN SIGHT OF LAND. By Lady Duffus Hardy. 3 vols.

AS IN A Looking-glass. By F. C. Philips, i vol.

LORD VANECOURT's DAUGHTER. By Mabel Collins.
3 vols.

WARD AND DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. SEPARATED - I

II. AN UNWELCOME VISITOR - - "• ^3

III. A BRUSH WITH THE ZULUS - - - 20

IV. THE CAMP - - - - - 31
V. THE MASSACRE AT ISANDHLWANA - - 40

VI. ' HAS SHE DISCOVERED ANYTHING ?' - - $7

VII. FEARS AND SUSPICIONS - - - 71

VIII. BY THE BUFFALO RIVER - - - 84

IX. ON THE KARROO - - - - 98

X. FLORIAN JOINS THE MOUNTED INFANTRY - Io

XI. Dulcis's NEW FRIEND - - - - 122

XII. GIRLS' CONFIDENCES - - - - 134

XIII. THE EVENING OF GINGHILOVO - " 152

CHAPTER

PAGE

XIV. NEWS FROM THE SEAT OF WAR - - 1 72

XV. PERSECUTION - - - - - 187

XVI. A THREAT - 202

XVII. WITH THE SECOND DIVISION - - - dio

XVIII. ON THE BANKS OF THE ITYOTYOSI - - 233

XIX. FINDING THE BODY - - - - 248

XX. THE SKIRMISH AT EUZANGONYAN - - 256

■00>*<C

CHAPTER I.

SEPARATED.

Something must be done, and deuced soon
too, to separate this pair of spoons, or else
they will be corresponding by letter, somehow
or anyhow, after he has taken himself
off; and Lady Fettercairn is always saying it
is high time that something was definitely
arranged between the girl and me! But,
of course, Finella thinks him handsome
enough to be the hero of a three-volume
novel

Thus muttered Shaftoo, who, after a long
absence, had returned to Craigengowan again,
believing that Hammersley must now be

^•^ VOL. II. 1 8

gone ; but he found, to his extreme annoyance,
that two days of that officer's visit yet
remained ; so, with the futile fracas about
the cards in his mind, Shaftoo avoided him as
much as possible, and the house and grounds
were ample enough to give him every scope
for doing so.

He was sedulously bent on working mischief,
and Fate so arranged that, on the
second day, he had the power to do
so.

They were on the very eve of separation
now, yet Finella knew their love was mutual
and true, and a glow of exultation was mingled
with the sadness of her heart — a glow which
had a curious touch of fear in it, as if such
joy in his faith and truth could not be lasting.
It was a kind of foreboding of evil about to
happen, and when the time came that foreboding
was remembered.

On the day of Hammersley's departure, he
was to leave Craigengowan before dinner :
thus, after luncheon, he contrived, unseen, to
slip a little note into her hand. It contained
but two lines : —

Darling, meet me In the Howe of Craigen-

gowan an hour hence, for the last time. Do

not fall.

V. H.'

She read it again and again, kissed It, of
course, and slipped It Into her bosom.

To avoid everyone and to be alone with
her own thoughts, she ran upstairs to the
top of the house — to the summit of the old
Scottish square tower, which was the nucleus
whereon much had been engrafted even before
the Melforts came to hold It, and going through
a turret door which opened on the stone bartizan
— a pleasant promenade — she sat down
breathlessly, not to enjoy the lovely landscape
vi^hlch stretched around her, where Bervie
Brow and Gordon Hill were already casting
their shadows eastward, but to wait and re-read
her tiny note.

She put her hand Into her bosom to draw
it forth ; but It was gone — she had lost It —
and her first thought was. Into whose hands
might It fall !

She had a kind of stunned feeling at first,
and then a glow of indignation that she

18—2

should be treated like a child, In awe of Lady
Fettercairn, and In a state of tutelage.

Vincent Hammersley went to the trystlng-
place betimes — the shady Howe of Cralgen-
gowan. The evening air was heavy with
the fresh pungent fragrance of the Scottish
pines, the flat boughs of which nearly met
overhead thickly enough to exclude the sunshine,
which here and there found Its way
through breaks In the bronze-green canopy,
and fell like rays of gold on the thick grass
and pine cones below ; but there was no
appearance of Finally.

Shaftoo had resolved to achieve a separation
between these two, we have said, and evil
fortune put the power to do so completely
in his hands,

Before Finally could reach the meeting-place
among the shrubberies In the lawn, she
came face to face with Shaftoo.

Shaftoo !' she exclaimed, with Intense annoyance,
as she recoiled, * you here — I did
not know that you had returned.'

And didn't care, no doubt ? Yes — you
are on the way to meet someone else .^'

How do you know that ?'

I found his little note to you.'

Where ?'

At the foot of the turret stair.'

And you dared to read it.'

It was open. Dared ! — well, I like that.
Let us be friends at least.'

I have much to pardon in you, Shaftoo,'
said she, remembering the unpleasant trick
he had played Hammersley about the cards.

Let us understand each other, Finella,^

'I thought we did so already,' said she
defiantly, and impatiently at his untimely
presence ; * surely we have spoken plainly
enough before this.'

His face was pale, and there was an expression
of mischief in his eyes that startled
her. It was mere jealous rage that acted
love. He caught her hand, and, fearing him
at that moment, she did not withdraw it, but
did so eventually and sharply.

What folly is this ?' exclaimed Shaftoo ; ' do
not shrink from me thus, Finella, but allow
me to make a last appeal to you. I cannot
think that you are so utterly changed towards

me, but that you are wilfully blinding yourself.'


This is intolerable !' exclaimed the o^Irl
passionately, knowing that precious time was
passing, that Vivian had but a minute or two
to spare to receive a farewell kiss and last
assurance of her love.

You used to love me, I think, in past
days, before this man Hammersley came
here .^'

I knew and loved him in London before
I ever heard of your existence,' she exclaimed,
wound up to a pitch of desperation.
'Give me up my note — I see it in
your hand."

His note ?'

Mine, I say.'

You shall not have It for nothing then.'
What do you mean ?'

Precisely what I say, pretty cousin. I
must have some reward,' and holding the
note before her at arm's length he asfaln
captured her right hand.

Restore my property. Would you be
guilty of theft ?'

No,' replied Shaftoo, laughing now with
triumphant malice, as he remembered Dulcle
Carlyon and her locket. * But what will you
give me for It ?'

What cadi I give you ?'

Something better than your grandmother
will for it — a kiss, freely said he softly, ashe
saw what Finally did 7io^ see — Vivian
Hammersley between the shrubberies, pausing
In his approach, loth to compromise her,
yet perplexed and startled by the presence of
Shaftoo and the bearing of both.

Finella flashed a defiant glance af her
tormentor, but aware that he was capable
of much mischief, lest he might make some
troublesome use of the note with her grandparents,
of whom she certainly stood in some
awe, she was inclined to temporise with
him.

If I give you a kiss, cousin Shaftoo, will
you please give me my note ?' she asked.

Yes,' said he, and his heart leaped.

Take it, then.'

She put up her sweet and Innocent face to
his, but instead of taking one, he clasped her

close to his breast, and holding her tightly,
he daringly and roughly kissed again and
again the soft lips that he had never touched
before save in his day-dreams, and all this
was in sight of Vivian Hammersley, as he
very well knew, and the latter, to Shaftoo's
secret and intense exultation, silently drew
back and disappeared.

Shaftoo had certainly then his moment of
triumph !

Finella was greatly relieved when she
obtained possession of her note ; but her
proud little heart was full of fury and indignation
at the unwarrantable proceedings
of Shaftoo, who hung or hovered about her
just long enough to preclude all hope of her
meeting with Hammersley, and when, full of
sorrow, she returned to the house, she could
see nothing of him, but was told by Grape-son,
the old butler, that his departure had
been suddenly hastened ; that the trap was
already at the hall-door to take him to the
station, and the captain had charged him with
a note for her.

It was hastily written in pencil, and a

pencilled address was on the envelope. It
ran thus : —

I went at the appointed time. You did
not come, but I saw you elsewhere in the
arms of your cousin, who doubtless has been
hereabout for some time past, unknown to me.
Those were no cousinly kisses yon gave him,
God may forgive your falsehood, but I never
will !'

The room seemed to swim round her as
she read and re-read the lines like one in a
dream. As she did so for the second time
and took in the whole situation, a cry almost
escaped her. Then she heard some farewells
hastily exchanged on the terrace, and the
sound of wheels on gravel as the departing
waggonette swept Hammersley away to the
railway station, and no power or chance of
explanation was left her.

The false light through which he — so brave,
so true and honourable — must now view her
tortured and humiliated her, and unmerited
shame, mingled with just anger, burned in

her heart. And Shaftoo had brought all this
about !

Oh for language to describe her loathing
of him ! His was the mistake — the crime
to be explained ; but would it ever be explained
? And she dared not complain to
Lord or Lady Fettercairn, who openly
abetted Shaftoo's avaricious aspirations as
regarded herself.

She rushed away to her own room, lighted
candles, and locked herself in. She sat down
by the dressing - table ; was that wan face
reflected in the mirror hers ? She leaned her
elbows on the former, with her face in her
hands, and sat there sobbing heavily in grief
and rage without ever sighing, though her
heart felt full to bursting.

She pleaded a headache as an excuse for
non - appearance at dinner, and Lord and
Lady Fettercairn exchanged a silent glance
of mutual intelligence and annoyance, not
unmingled, perhaps, with satisfaction.

Finella sat in her room as if turned to
stone ; at last she heard the stable clock
strike midnight, and mechanically she proceeded

to undress without summoning her
maid.

A rosebud was In the rich cream-tinted lace
about her pretty neck. He had given It to
her but that morning, as they lingered on the
terrace, and with haggard eyes she looked at
it, kissed it, and put it In her white bosom.

This morning she was with him — her lover,
her affianced husband — her own — and he washers
— all to each other In the world — and
now !

He hates me, most probably,' she murmured.


A few days stole away, and she tried to
act a part, for watchful eyes were upon her.
Hammersley was gone ! Doubly gone !
How she missed his presence was known
only to herself. He was ever so sweetly
but not obtrusively tender ; so quick of wit,
ready in attention and speech, though the
envious Shaftoo phrased It, * he would coax
a bird off a tree.' He was so gentlemanly
and gallant — every way such Irreproachably
good style, that she loved him with all the
strength of her loving and passionate nature.

The memory of the past — of her lost happiness
— lost more than she might ever know,
through the deliberate villainy of Shaftoo, rose
ever before her with vivid distinctness ; the
evening on which their love was avowed in the
drawing-room — the evening in the Howe of
Craigengowan, when he gave her the two
rings, and many other chance or concerted
meetings, were before her now, and she could
but clasp her hands tightly, while a heavy sob
rose in her throat.

The wedding ring, he had given her to
keep, was often drawn forth fondly, and
slipped on her wedding finger in secret — a
temptation of Fate, as any old Scotchman
would have told her. She would have
written a letter of explanation to Hammersley,
but knew not where to address
him ; and ere long the announcement in a
public print that he had sailed from Plymouth
with a strong detachment of the 2nd Warwickshire,
for the seat of war in South Africa,
put it out of her power to do so, and she had
but to bear her misery helplessly.

More than ever were they now separated !

AN UNWELCOME VISITOR.

Lady Fettercairn was in the drawing-room
at Craigengowan, and talking with Shaftoo
seriously and affectionately on the subject of
Finella and the wishes of herself and Lord
Fettercairn ; and Shaftoo was making himself
most agreeable to his 'grandmother for he
was still in high glee and elfish good humour
at the mode in which he had * choked off that
interloper, Hammersley,' when a valet announced
that an elderly woman ' wished to
speak with her ladyship.'

What is her name ?'

She declined to say.'

Is she one of our own people ?'
■ I think not, my lady.'

But what can she want ?'

She would not say — it was a private
matter, she admitted

Very odd.'

She is most anxious to see your ladyship.'
It is some begging petition, of course,'

said Shaftoo ; ' desire her to be off.'

It may be so, sir.'

Then show her the door.'

She seems very respectable, sir,' urged
the valet.

But poor — the old story.'

Show her in,' said Lady Fettercairn.
The elderly woman appeared, and curtseyed

deeply twice in a graceful and old-fashioned
manner. Her once black hair was now
seamed with white ; but her eyes were dark
and sparkling ; her cheeks were yet tinged
with red, and her rows of teeth were firm
and white as ever, for the visitor was
Madelon Galbraith, now in her sixtieth year,
and with the assured confidence of a Highland
woman she announced herself by name.

I read in the papers,' said she, * that the
grandson of Lord Fettercairn had shot some

beautiful eaglets at the ruins of Finella's
castle. The grandson, thought I — that maun
be the bairn I nursed, as I nursed his mother
before him, and so I'm come a' the way frae
Ross-shIre to see him, your leddyshlp.'

'I have heard of you, Madelon, and that
you were in early life nurse to — to my younger
son's wife,' said Lady Fettercairn, with a
freezing stare and slight Inclination of her
haughty head ; but she added, ' be seated.'

'Yes — I was nurse to Captain Maclan's
daughter Flora,' said Madelon, her eyes
becoming moist ; * the Captain saved my
husband's life In the Persian war, but was
killed himself next day.'

What have we to do with this T said
Shaftoo, who felt himself growing pale.

Nothing, of course,' replied Madelon
sadly.

Then what do you want ?'

What I have said. I heard that the son of
Major Melfort — or Mac Ian as he called himself
In the past time — was here at Cralgen-
gowan, and I made sae bold as to ca' and see
him — the bairn I hae suckled.'

If you nursed my grandson, as you say
said Lady Fettercairn, ' do you not recognise
him ? Stand forward, Shaftoo.'

Shaftoooo — is this Mr. Shaftoooo!' exclaimed
Madelon.

Yes, my son Lennard's son

Shaftoo Gyle !' said Madelon bewildered.

What do you mean ?'

What I say, my teddy.'

This is Major Melfort's only son.'

Only nephew ! The bairn I nursed — the
son of Lennard Melfort and my darling Flora
was named after her, Florian, and was like
herself, dark-haired, dark-eyed, and winsome.
Where is he ? What is the meaning of this,
Mr. Shaftoo ? I recognise ye now, though
years hae passed since I saw ye.'

She is mad or drunk !' exclaimed Shaftoo,
starting up savagely.

I am neither,' said Madelon, firmly and
defiantly.

Turn her out of the house !' said Shaftoo,
with his hand on the bell.

There is some trick here — where is
Florian ?

How the devil should I know, or be
accountable for him to a creature like you ?'

Ay, ay, Mr. Shaftoo, as a bairn ye were
aye crafty, shrewd, and evil-natured, and if a
lie could hae chokit ye, ye wad hae been did
lang syne.'

This is most unseemly language, Madelon
Galbraith,' said Lady Fettercairn, rising from
her chair, ' and to me it seems that you are
raving.'

Unseemly here or unseemly there, it is
the truth,' said Madelon, stoutly, and, sooth to
say, Lady Fettercairn's estimation and knowledge
of Shaftoo's character endorsed the
description given of it by Madelon.

Florian was dark, and you are, as you
were, fair and cause too ; and Florian had
what you have not, and never had, a black
mole-mark on his right arm.'

Such marks pass away,' said Shaftoo.

No, these marks never pass away !' retorted
Madelon ; * there is some devilry at
work here. I say, where is Florian .-* Ay,
ay,' she continued ; * my bairn, Florian, was
born on a Friday, and a Friday's birth, like a

VOL. II. 19

Friday's marriage, seldom Is fortunate ; but
this Is no my bonnie black-eyed lad, Lady
Fettercairn — so whei^e Is he ?'

This is Intolerable !' said Lady Fetter-cairn,
whom that name by old association of
Ideas seemed to Irritate ; and, on a valet
appearing In obedience to a furious ring given
to the bel by Shaftoo, she added, ' Show this
intruder out of the house, and do so Instantly


The man was about to put his hand on
Madelon, but the old Highland woman drew
herself up with an air of defiance, and swept
out of the room without another word.

See her not only out of the house, but oft
the grounds,' shouted Shaftoo, who was almost
beside himself with rage and genuine fear.

Nay, I'll see to that myself,' he added.

Such lunatics are dangerous.'

Seeing her hastening down the avenue, he
whistled from the stable court a huge mastiff",
and by voice and action hounded it on her.
The dog bounded about her, barking furiously
and tore her skirts to her Infinite terror, till
the housekeeper dragged It off and closed

the gates upon her. Then she went upon
her way, her Highland heart bursting with
rage and longing for revenge.

Shaftoo was glad that Lord Fettercairn was
absent, as he might have questioned Madelon
Galbralth more closely ; but to his cost he
was eventually to learn that he bad not seen
the last of Florlan's nurse.

This visit taken In conjunction with the
mode in which Finella now treated him made
Cralgengowan somewhat uncomfortable for
Shaftoo, so he betook himself to Edinburgh,
and to drown his growing fears plunged Into
such a mad career of dissipation and extravagance
that Lord Fettercairn began to regret
that he had ever discovered an heir to his
estates at all.

While there Shaftoo saw in the newspaper
posters one day the announcement of the terrible
disaster at Isandhlwana, * with the total
extirpation of the 24th Warwickshire Foot !'

His regiment, by Jove ! I'll have a drink
over this good news,' thought the amiable
Shaftoo, and certainly a deep ' drink ' he did
have.

19 — 2

A BRUSH WITH THE ZULUS.

When Florlan recovered consciousness the
African sun was high in the sky ; but he lay
still for a space in his leafy concealment, ashe
knew not what time had elapsed since he
had last seen his mounted pursuers, or how
far or how near they might be off.

Dried blood plastered all one side of his
face, and blood was still oozing from the
wound in his temple. Over it he tied his
handkerchief, and with his white helmet off —
as it was a conspicuous object — he clambered
to the edge of the tonga and looked about
him.

The vast extent of waste and open veldt
spread around him, but no living object was

visible thereon. His pursuers must have
ridden forward or returned to Elandsbergen
without searching the tonga, and thus he
was, for the time at least, free from them.

In the distance he saw the Drakensberg
range, and knew that his way lay westward
in the opposite direction. It is the name given
to a portion of the Ouathlamba Mountains,
which form the boundary between the Free
States, Natal, and the land of the Basutos.
They rise to a height of nine thousand feet,
and their topography is imperfectly known.

Having assured himself that he was unwatched
and unseen, Florian quitted the
tonga, and, after an anxious search of an hour
or more, succeeded in striking upon the ruts
or wheel-tracks that must lead, he knew, to
the camp at Rorke's Drift, beside the Buffalo
River, and then he steadily, though weary
and somewhat faint, proceeded upon his
return journey.

How many miles he walked he knew not
there were no stones to mark them ; but
evening was at hand, and he had traversed a
district of ritggenSj as It is called there — a

succession of many grassy ridges — before an
exclamation of supreme satisfaction escaped
him when he saw the white bell-tents of
Colonel Glyn's column, pitched on the grassy
veldt beside the winding stream, and, passing
the advanced sentinels, he lost no time in
reporting himself to Sheldrake, and relieving
himself also of that unlucky gold which had
so nearly cost him his life.

Sheldrake sent instantly for Dr. Gallipott, a
staff-surgeon, who dressed Florian's hurt. In
the bearing of the latter as he related his
late adventures Sheldrake was struck with a
certain grave simplicity or quiet dignity — an
air of ease and perfect self-possession — far
above his present position.

You are " not what you seem to be," as
novels have it T said the young officer inquiringly.


I am a soldier, sir, as my ' (father was

before me, he was about to say, but paused in
confusion and substituted) ' as my fate decided
for me.*

Impressed by his whole story and the
terrible risks and toil he had undergone.

young Sheldrake offered a substantial money
reward to Florlan, who coloured painfully at
the proposal, drew back, with just the
slightest air of hauteur, and declined It.

You are somewhat of an enigma to me,'
said the puzzled officer.

Is there any news in camp, sir ?'

Only that we enter Zululand tomorrow,
and a draft from home joined us to-day under
Captain Hammersley.'

Florian heard the name of Captain Hammersley
without much concern, save that he
was one of the same corps. He little foresaw
how much their names and Interests would be
mingled In the future.

Here he comes,' said Sheldrake, as the
handsome officer In his fresh uniform came
lounging, cigar in mouth, into the tent, and
Florlan, with a salute, withdrew. Ere he
did so,

Tom,' said Sheldrake to his servant, * tell
the messiah to give the sergeant a bottle of
good wine ; he'll need It to keep up his
pecker after last night's work and with the
work before us tomorrow.'

Florlan thanked the officer and retired ;
and he and Bob Edgehill shared the contents
of the bottle, while the latter listened tj his
narration.

You have grown to look very grave,
Hammersley, said Sheldrake ; * of what are
you thinking so much?'

Nothing.'
nothing?'

Yes ; the best way to get through life
is not to think at all replied Hammersley
bitterly, for his thoughts were ever and
always of Finella and that fatal evening in
the shrubbery at Craigengowan, where he
saw her lift up her face to Shaftoo, who kissed
her as though he had been used to do so all
his life.

Colonel Glyn's column consisted of seven
companies of his own regiment, the 24th,
the Natal Mounted Police, a body of Volunteers,
two 7-pounder Royal Artillery guns
under Major Harness, and 1000 natives
under Rupert Lonsdale, late of the 74th
Highlanders.

At half-past three on the morning of the

1 eth of January, the colonel, with four companies,
some of the Natal Native Contingent,
and the mounted men, left his camp to reconnoitre
the country of SIrayo, which lay to
the eastward of It. With his staff, Lord
Chelmsford accompanied this party, which,
after a Tew miles' march, reached a great
tonga, in a valley through which the Basle
River flows, and wherein herds of cattle were
collected, and their lowing loaded the calm
morning air. though they were all unseen,
being concealed in the rocky grantees or precipitous
fissures of the ravine.

A body of Zulus now appeared on the
hills above, and Florlan regarded them with
Intense interest, while the mounted men
advanced against them, and his company,
with the others, pushed In skirmishing order
up the ravine where the cattle were known
to be.

He could see that these Zulu warriors
were models of muscle and athletic activity,
and nearly black-skinned rather than copper-coloured.
They were dressed In feathers,
with the tails of wild animals round their

bodies, behind and before ; their ornaments
were massive rings formed of elephants'
tusks, and their anklets were of brass or
polished copper ; they had large oval shields,
rifles, and bundles or shears of assegais, their
native deadly weapon, and they bounded
from rock to rock before our skirmishers
with the activity of tree-tigers.

With the assegai,' says Sir Arthur
Cunningham, ' the Zulu cuts his food, he
fights and does many useful things, and it
is used as a surgical instrument. Carefully
sharpening it, he uses it to bleed the human
patient, and with it he inoculated his cow's
tail. In the chase it is his spear, a deadly
weapon in his hand, and ready instrument
for skinning his game.'

The orders of the main body of this
reconnoitring force, which had suddenly
become an attacking one, were to ascend
a hill on the left, then to work round to
the right rear of the enemy's position,
and assault and destroy a kraal
belonging to the brother of SIrayo, whose
surrender the Government had demanded

as one of the violators of the British territory.


The moment the companies of the 24th
got into motion a sharp fire was opened
on them by the Zulus, who were crouching
behind bushes and great stones, and on the
Native Contingent which led the attack,
under Commandant Browne.

The latter had their own armament of
assegais and shields, to which the Government
added Martini Henrys or Fields, but
their fighting-dress consisted of their own
bare skins. Each company generally was
formed of a separate tribe, under its own
chief, with a nominal allowance of three
British officers ; but there were none of
minor rank, to lead sections, or so forth, as
these natives could not comprehend divided
authority. They were pretty well drilled,
and many were skilled marksmen ; but now
many fell so fast under the fire of the Zulus
that every efibrt of their white officers was
requisite to get the others on.

Dying or dead, with the red blood oozing
from their bullet-wounds, rolling about and

shrieking In agony, or lying still and lifeless,
they studded all the rocky ascent, while the
survivors gradually worked their way upward,
planting In their fire wherever a dark
head or limb appeared ; and when they came
within a short distance of the enemy's position,
the men of the 24th prepared to carry
it by a rush.

Hammersley's handsome face glowed
under his white helmet, and his dark eyes
sparkled as he formed his company for
attack on the march.

^ From the right — four paces extend !'

Then the skirmishers swung away out at
a steady double.

Florian was now for the first time under
fire. He heard the ping of the rifle-bullets
as they whistled past him from the smoke-hidden
position of the Zulus, and he heard
the splash of the lead as they starred the
rocks close by. Then came that tightening
of the chest and increase of the pulse which
the chance of sudden death or a deadly
wound Inspire, till after a time that emotion
passed away, and In Its place came the

genuine British bull-dog longing to grapple
with the foe.

The Zulus fired briskly and resolutely from
their rocky eyries ; and while one party made
a valiant stand at a cattle-kraal, another
nearly made the troops quail and recoil by
hurling down huge boulders, which they dislodged
by powerful levers and sent thundering
and crashing from the summit of the
hill till it was captured by the bayonets of
the 24th ; they were put to flight in half an
hour, and by nine in the morning the whole
affair was over, and Florian found he hM
come unscathed through his baptism of
fire ; but Lieutenant Sheldrake had his
shoulder-arm lacerated by a launched assegai
when leading the left half-company,

Sirayo's kraal, which lay farther up the
Basle Valley, was burned later in the day
by mounted men under Colonel Baker
Russell. Our losses were only fourteen ;
those of the Zulus were great, including the
capture of a thousand cattle and sheep. All
the women and children captured were sent
back to their kraals by order of Lord

Chelmsford, who, on the 17th of January,
rode out to the fatal hill of Isandhlwana,
which he selected as the next halting-place
of the centre column, and which was eventually
to prove well nigh its grave !

THE CAMP.

On the 20th of January the column began
its march for the hill of Isandlhwana, through
a country open and treeless. •

Where and how Is Dulcis now ?' was
the ever-recurring thought of Florlan as he
tramped on In heavy marching order in rear
of Hammersley's company. Oh, to be rich
and free — rich enough, at least, to save her
from that cold world upon which she was
cast, and in which she must now be so lonely
and desolate.

But he was a soldier now, and serving
face to face with death in a distant and savage
land, and, so far as she was concerned, hope
was nearly dead.

My position seems a strangely involved
one !' thought Florian, when he brooded over
the changed positions of himself and Shaftoo ;
f- there is some mystery in it which has .not
yet been unravelled. Am I to be kept In this
state of doubt and ignorance all my life —
but that may be a short period as matters
go now. My father ! Must I never more call
or consider him I deemed to be so, by that
name again !'

Four companies of the 24th Regiment
were left at Rorke's Drift when Colonel
Glyn's column reached Isandhlwana, which
means the Lion's Hill. Precipitous and
abrupt to the westward, on the eastward it
slopes down to the watercourse, and grassy
spurs and ridges rise from It In every direction.
The waggon track to Rorke's Drift
passes over its western ridge, and groups of
lesser hills, covered with masses of loose
grey stones, rise in succession like waves of
a sea In the direction of the stream called
the Buffalo.

When the column reached the hill and
began to pitch their tents, the young soldiers

of the * new system ' were sorely worn and
weary — ' pumped out,' as they phrased it.
We may laugh at the old stiff stock and
pipeclay school,' says a popular military
writer, * but it may be no laughing matter
some day to find out that, together with the
stock and pipeclay which could easily be
spared, we have sacrificed the old solidity
which army reformers should have * grappled
to their souls with hooks of steel,' and painfully
was that want of hardihood and foresight
shown in the tragedy that was acted on
the Hill of Isandhlwana. •

A long ridge, green and grassy, ran southward
of the camp, and overlooked an extensive
valley. Facing this ridge, and on the
extreme left of the camp, were pitched the
tents of the Natal Native Contingent. A
space of three hundred yards intervened
between this force and the next two regiments.


The British Infantry occupied the centre,
and a little above their tents were those of
Lord Chelmsford and the head-quarter staff.
The mounted infantry and the artillery were

VOL. II. 20

on the right, lining the verge of the waggon
track — road it could scarcely be called. The
camp was therefore on a species of sloping
plateau, overlooked by the crest of the hill,
which rose in its rear, sheer as a wall of rock.
The waggons of each corps were parked in
its rear.

The camp looked lively and picturesque
on the slope of the great green hill, the white
tents in formal rows, with the red coats
flitting in and out, and the smoke of fires
ascending here and there, as the men proceeded
to cook their rations.

Florian was detailed for out-piquet duty
that night, for the Zulus were reported to be
in force in the vicinity, and no one on that
duty could close an eye or snatch a minute's
repose. The circle of the outposts from the
centre of the camp extended two thousand
five hundred yards by day, lessened to one
thousand four hundred by night, though the
mounted vignettes were further forward of
course ; but, by a most extraordinary oversight,
no breastworks or other barriers were
formed to protect the camp.

Before coming to the personal adventures
of our friends In this story, we are compelled
for a little space to follow that of the war.

Early on the morning of the following day,
the mounted Infantry and police, under Major
Darrell, proceeded to reconnoitre the mountainous
ground In the direction of a fastness
in the rocks known as Matyano's stronghold,
while the Natal force, under Lonsdale, moved
round the southern base of the Malakota Hill
to examine the o^reat donors It overlooked.

Darrell's party halted and bivouacked at
some distance from the camp, to which he
sent a note stating that he had a clear view
over all the hills to the eastward, and the
Zulus were clustering there in such numbers
that he dared not attack them unless reinforced
by three companies of the 24th next
morning.

A force to aid him left the camp accordingly
at daybreak, In light marching order, without
knapsacks, greatcoats, or blankets, with one
day's cooked provisions and seventy rounds
per man; and with it went Lord Chelmsford.

These three detached parties so weakened

20 — 2

the main body In camp that It consisted then
of only thirty mounted Infantry for vignettes,
eighty mounted volunteers and police, seventy
men of the Royal Artillery, six companies of
the 24th, including Hammersley's, and two of
the Natal Native Contingent.

When these reconnoitring parties were far
distant from Isandhlwana, the Zulus in sight
of them were seen to be falling back,
apparently retiring on what was afterwards
found most fatally to be a skilfully preconceived
plan ; and, prior to making a general
attack upon them, Lord Chelmsford and his
staff made a halt for breakfast.

It was at that crisis that a messenger — no
other than Sergeant Florian Mac Ian — came
from the camp mounted, with tidings that
the enemy were in sight on the left, and that
the handful of mounted men had gone forth
against them.

On this Lord Chelmsford ordered the
Native Contingent to return at once to the
hill of Isandhlwana.

Soon after shots were briskly exchanged
with the enemy in front ; a vast number were

knocked over,' and some taken prisoners.
One of the latter admitted to the staff, when
questioned, that his King Cetewayo expected
a large muster that day — some twenty-five
thousand men ^.t least.

It was noon now, and a suspicion that
something might be wrong In the half-empty
camp occurred to Lord Chelmsford and his
staff, and this suspicion was confirmed, when
the distant but deep hoarse boom of heavy
guns came hurtling through the hot atmosphere.


Do you hear that?' was the cry on. all
hands ; ' there is fighting going on at the
camp — we are attacked In the rear !'

Then a horseman came galloping down
from a lofty hill with the startling tidings that
he could see the flashing of the cannon at the
hill of Isandhlwana, and that It was enveloped
on every side by smoke !

To the crest of that hill Lord Chelmsford
and his staff galloped in hot haste and turned
their field-glasses In the direction of the
distant camp, but if there had been smoke it
had drifted away, and all seemed quiet and

Still. The rows of white bell-tents shone
brightly In the clear sunshine, and no signs of
conflict were visible. Many men were seen
moving among the tents, but they were
supposed to be British soldiers.

This was at two in the afternoon, and the
suspicion of any fatality — least of all the awful
one that had occurred —-was dismissed from
the minds of the staff and Lord Chelmsford,
who did not turn his horse's head towards the
camp till a quarter to three, according to the
narrative of Captain Lucas of the Cape Rifles.

When, with Colonel Glyn's detachment, he
had marched within four miles of it, he came
upon the Native Contingent halted In confusion,
indecision, and something very like
dismay, and their bewilderment Infected the
party of the General, towards whom, half an
hour after, a single horseman came up at
full speed.

He was Commandant Lonsdale, the gallant
leader of the Natal Contingent, who had gone
so close to the camp that he had been fired
on by what he thought were our own troops,
but proved to be Zulus In the red tunics of

the slain, the same figures whom the staff
from the distant hill had seen through their
field glasses moving among the snow-white
tents.

Out of one of them he saw a Zulu come
with a blood-dripping assegai in his hand.
He then wheeled round his horse, and,
escaping a shower of rifle-bullets, galloped
on to warn Lord Chelmsford of the terrible
trap into which he was about to fall. The
first words he uttered were, ' My Lord, the
camp is in possession of the enemy!'

Of the troops he had left there that
morning nothing now remained but the dead,
and that was nearly all of them.

The silence of death was there! And now
we must note what had occurred in the
absence of the General, of Colonel Glyn, and
the main body of the second column.

THE MASSACRE AT ISANDHLWANA.

What the deuce Is up ?' cried Hammersley
and other officers, as they came rushing out
of their tents when the sound of firing was
heard all along the crest of the hill on the
left of the camp, as had been reported to
Lord Chelmsford ; and, soon after, the few
Mounted Infantry under Colonel Dartford
were seen falling back, pursued swiftly by
Zulus, who, like a dark human wave, came
rolling in thousands over the grim crest
of the hill, throwing out dense clouds of
skirmishers, whose close but desultory fire
fringed all their front with smoke.

There was no occasion for drum to be
beaten or bugle blown to summon the

troops ; in a moment all rushed to arms, and
the companies were formed and ' told off ' in
hot and nervous haste.

The Zulus came on in very regular
masses, eight deep, maintaining a steady fire
till within assegai distance, when they ceased
firing, and launched with aim unerring their
deadly darts.

Our troops responded by a close and
searching fire, under which the black-skinned
savages fell in heaps, but their
places were fearlessly taken by others.

The rocket battery had been captured. by
them in their swift advance, and every man
of it perished In a moment with Colonel
Russell.

Driven back by their furious rush and
force, the cavalry gave way, and Captain
Mostyn, with two companies of the noble
24th, was despatched at the double to the
eastern neck of the hill of Isandlhwana,
where the Zulus in vast force were pressing
along to outflank the camp, and on this
wing of theirs he at once opened a disastrous
fire.

Near the Royal Artillery guns the other
two companies of the 24th were extended In
skirmishing order ; this was about half-past
twelve p.m., and, as the mighty semicircle
the horns of the Zulu army — closed on
them, every officer and man felt that they
were fighting for bare existence now, and
only procrastinating the moment of extirpation.


The shock which Hammersley's heart
had received by the supposed deception of
Finella was still too terribly fresh to render
him otherwise than desperate and reckless
of life, and in the coming melee he fought
like a tiger.

He longed to forget both it and her — to
put death itself, as he had now put distance,
between himself and the place where that
cruel blow had descended upon him ; thus
he exposed himself with a temerity that
astonished Sheldrake, Florlan, and others.

D'Aquilar Pope's company of the 24th
was thrown forward In extended order near
the waggon track till his left touched the
files of the right near the Artillery. Facing

the north were the companies of Mostyn,
Cavaye, and Hammersley, with two of the
Native Contingent, all in extended order, andover
them the guns threw shot and shell
eastward. But all the alternative companies
were without supports to feed the fighting
line, unless we refer to some of the Native
Continent held as a kind of reserve.

The crest of that precipitous mountain
in front of which our luckless troops were
fighting with equal discipline and courage in
the silent hush of desperation, is more than
4,500 feet high ; but the camp upon, its
eastern slope had been in no way prepared,
as we have said, for defence by earthworks
or otherwise.

The tents,' we are told, ' were all standing,
just as they had been left when the
troops under Chelmsford and Glyn marched
out that morning, and their occupants were
chiefly officers' servants, bandsmen, clerks,
and other non-combatants, who, until they
were attacked, were unconscious of danger.
Fifty waggons, which were to have gone
back to the commissariat camp at Rorke's

Drift, about six miles in the rear as the crow
flies, had been drawn up the evening before
in their lines on the neck between the track
and the hill, and were still packed in the
same position. All other waggons were In
rear of the corps to which they were
attached. The oxen having been collected
for safety when the Zulus first came insight,
many of them were regularly yoked
in.'

It was not until after one o'clock that our
handful of gallant fellows on the slope of the
hill fully realised the enormous strength of
the advancing army, now ascertained to
have been fourteen thousand men, under
Dabulamanzi.

By that time the Zulus had fought to
within two hundred yards of the Natal Contingent,
which broke and fled, thus leaving a
gap in the fighting line, and through that
gap the Zulus — loading the air with a
tempest of triumphant yells and shrieks —
burst like a living sea, and in an instant all
became hopeless confusion.

Form company square,' cried Hammersley,

brandishing his sword ; * fours deep, on the
centre — close.'

But there was no time to close in or form
rallying-squares, and never again would our
poor lads ' re-form company.'

Before Mostyn's and Cavaye's companies
could close, or even fix their bayonets, they
were destroyed to a man, shot down, asse-gained,
and disemboAvelled, while the shrieks
and fiend-like yells of the Zulus began to
grow louder as the rattle of the musketry
grew less, and the swift game of death
went on.

Hammersley's company, which had been
on the extreme left, though unable to form
square, succeeded in reaching, but in a
shattered condition, a kind of terrace on the
southern face of the hill, from whence, as
the smoke cleared away, they could see the
Zulus using their short, stabbing assegais
with awful effect upon all they overtook
below.

Under the fire of the cannon, which had
been throwing case-shot, the Zulus fell in
groups rather than singly, and went down by

hundreds ; but as fast as their advanced files
melted away, hordes of fresh savages came
pouring up exultingly from the rear to feed
the awful harvest of death ; and, as they
closed in, ' Limber up !' was the cry 'of
Major Smith, the Artillery commanding
officer ; but the limber gunners failed to
reach their seats, and, save a sergeant and
eight, all perished under the assegai ; and
while in the act of spiking a gun, the Major
was slain amid an awful melee and scene of
carnage, where horse and foot, white man
and black savage, were all struggling and
fighting in a dense and maddened mass
around the cannon-wheels.

Notwithstanding the manner in which he
exposed himself, Hammersley, up to this
time, found himself untouched ; but his
subaltern, poor Vincent Sheldrake, whose
wounded sword-arm rendered him very
helpless, was bleeding from several stabs
and two bullet-wounds, which it was impossible
to dress, yet he strove to save his
servant Tom, who was lying In his last
agony, and who, in gratitude, strove to

accord him a military salute, and died in the
attempt.

Poor Vincent ! you are covered with
wounds !' said Hammersley.

Ay ; so many that my own mother — God
bless her ! — wouldn't know me ; so many
that If I was stripped of these bloody rags
you would think I was tattooed. It is no
crutch and toothpick business this !' replied
Sheldrake, with a grim faint smile, as from
weakness he fell forward on his hands and
knees, and Florlan stood over him with
bayonet fixed and rifle at the charge.

At that moment an assegai flung by a
Zulu finished the mortal career of Sheldrake.
But Florlan shot the former through the
head, and the savage — a sable giant — made
a kind of wild leap in the air and fell back on
a gashed pile of the dead and the dying. It
was Florlan's last cartridge, and his rifle-barrel
was hot from continued firing by this
time.

All was over now !

Every man who could escape strove to
make his way to the Buffalo River, but that

proved Impossible even for mounted men.
Intersected by deep watercourses, encumbered
by enormous boulders of granite, the
ground was of such a nature that the fleetwood
Zulus, whose bare feet were hard as
horses' hoofs, alone could traverse it, and the
river, itself swift, deep, and fordable, had
banks almost everywhere jagged by rocks
sharp and steep.

A few reached the stream, among them
Vivian Hammersley, his heart swollen with
rage and grief by the awful result of that
bloody and disastrous day, by the destruction
of his beloved regiment— the old 24th — for
which he could not foresee the other destruction
that ' the Wolseley Ring ' would bring
upon it and the entire British Army, and
the loss by cruel deaths of all his brother-officers
— the entire jolly mess-table. In that
time of supreme agony of heart, we believe
he almost forgot his quarrel with Finella
Melfort, but found the track to Helpmakaar
and Rorke's Drift, where a company of the
24th were posted under the gallant young
Bromhead ; but most of the fugitives were

entirely Ignorant of the district through
which they wildly sought to make their
escape, and thus were easily overtaken and
slain by the Zulus ; and so hot was the
pursuit of these poor creatures, that even of
those who strove to gain a point on the
Buffalo, four miles from Isandhlwana, none
but horsemen reached the river, and of these
many were shot or drowned In attempting to
cross It.

Lieutenant-colonel Henry Pulling of the
24th, on perceiving all lost, and that the
open camp was completely in the hands of
the savages, called to Lieutenant Melville,
and said,

As senior lieutenant, you will take the
colours, which must be saved at all risks,
and make the best of your way from
here !'

He shook warmly the hand of young
Melville, who, as adjutant, was mounted, and
then exclaimed to the few survivors :

Men of the old 24th, here we are, and
here we must fiofht it out!'

Then his gallant ' Warwickshire' threw
VOL. II. 21

themselves in a circle round him, and
perished where they stood.

Melville galloped off with the colours,
escorted by Lieutenant Coghlll of the same
corps, and by Florlan, who was ordered-to
do so, as colour-sergeant, and who, luckily
for himself, had found a strong horse. These
three fugitives were closely pursued, and with
great difficulty kept together till they reached
the Buffalo River, the bank of which was
speedily lined with Zulu pursuers armed with
rifle and assegai.

Melville's horse was shot dead In the
whirling stream, and the green-silk colours,
heavy with gold-embroidered honours, slipped
from his hands. Coghlll, a brave young Irish
officer, reached the Natal side untouched and
In perfect safety ; but on seeing his Scottish
comrade clinging to a rock while seeking
vainly to recover the lost colours, he went
back to his assistance, and his horse was then
shot, as was also that of Florlan, who failed
to get his right foot out of the stirrup, and
was swept away with the dead animal down
the stream.

The Zulus now continued a heavy fire,
particularly on Melville, whose scarlet patrol
jacket rendered him fatally conspicuous
among the greenery by the river-side at that
place. Two great boulders, six feet apart,
lie there, and between them he and Chill
took their last stand, and fought, sword in
hand, till overwhelmed. ' Here,' says Captain
Parr in his narrative, ' we found them lying
side by side, and buried them on the spot' —
truly brothers in arms, in glory and in death.

When all but drowned, Florian succeeded
in disentangling his foot from the stirrup-iron,
and struck out for the Natal side. A shrill
yell from the other bank announced that he
was not unseen ; bullets ploughed the water
into tiny white spouts about him, and many
a long reedy dart was launched at him — but
with prayer in his heart and prayer on his
lips he struggled on, and reached the bank,
where he lay still, worn breathless, incapable
of further exertion, and weakened by his
recent fall in the tonga, after escaping from
Elandsbergen; thus believing that all was over
with him, the Zulus ceased firing, and went in

21 — 2

Li .

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

search of congenial carnage elsewhere. And
there, dying to all appearance, in a reedy-swamp
by the Buffalo river, the tall grass
around him, bristling with launched assegais,
lay Florian Melfort, the true heir of Fetters
friendless and alone.

\*^ SP^ \t \* »(L

"i* 4\ 4\ %* VC

No Briton survived in camp to see the
complete end of the awful scene that was
acted there! And of that scene no actual
record exists. For a brief period — a very
brief one — a hand to hand fight went on
among, and even in, the tents, and the
company of Captain Reginald Younghusband
of the 24th alone appears to have made any
organized resistance. Making a wild rally
on a plateau below the crest of the hill, they
fought till their last cartridges were expended,
and then died, man by man, on the ground
where they stood. The Zulus surged round
and over them with tiger-like activity, frantic
gestures, remorseless ferocity, and lust of
blood, whirling and flinging their ponderous
robberies, or war-clubs, one blow from
which would suffice to brain a bullock.

Even the savage warriors who slew and
mutilated them were filled with admiration at
their courage, while tossing their own dead
again and again on the bayonet-blades to
bear down the hedge of steel. ' Ah, those
red soldiers at Isandhlwana !' said the Zulus
after ; ' how few they were, and how they
fought! They fell like stones — each man in
his place

There is something pathetic in the description
of the stand made by the last man
(poor Bob Edgehill, of the 24th), as given in
the Natal Times.

Keeping his face to the foe, he struggled
towards the crest of the hill overlooking the
camp, till he reached a small cavern in the
rocks. Therein he crept, and with rifle and
bayonet kept the Zulus at bay, while they,
taking advantage of the cover some rocks
and boulders afforded them, endeavoured by
threes and fours to shoot him.

Bob — that rackety Warwickshire lad —
was very wary. He did not fire hurriedly,
but shot them down in succession, taking a
steady and deliberate aim. At last his only

remaining cartridge was dropped into the
breech-block of his rifle ; another Zulu fell,
and then he was slain. This was about five
in the evening, when the shadow of the hill
of Isandhlwana was falling far eastward across
the valley towards the ridge of Isipesi.

*We ransacked the camp,' said a Zulu
prisoner afterwards, and took away everything
we could find. We broke up the
ammunition-boxes and took all the cartridges.
We practised a great deal at our kraals with
the rifles and ammunition. Lots of us had
the same sort of rifle that the soldiers used,
having bought them in our own country, but
some who did not know how to use it had to
be shown by those who did.'

Five entire companies of the list battalion
of the 24th perished there, with ninety men
of the 2nd battalion ; 832 officers and men
mutilated and disembowelled, in most instances
stripped, lay there dead, shot in
every position, amid gashed and gory horses,
mules, and oxen, while 1400 oxen and ^60,000
of commissariat supplies were carried off.

At ten minutes past six in the evening of

that most fatal day Lord Chelmsford was

joined by Colonel Glyn's force. A kind of

column was formed, with the guns in the

centre, with the companies of the 2nd

battalion of the 24th on each flank, and when

the sun had set, and its last light was lingering

redly on the rocky scalp of Isandhlwana, this

force was within two miles of the camp, where

now alone the dead lay. The opaque outline

of the adjacent hills was visible, with the dark

figures of the Zulus pouring in thousands

over them in the direction of Ulundi ; and

after shelling the neck of the Isandhlwana

Hill — where it would seem none of the

enemy were, for no response was made — the

shattered force, crestfallen in spirit, heavy in

heart, and after having marched thirty miles,

and been without food for forty-eight hours,

bivouacked among the corpses of their

comrades.

When, five months after, the burial parties
were sent to this awful place, great difficulty
was experienced in finding the bodies, the
tropical grass had grown so high, while
the stench from the slaughtered horses and

oxen was overpowering. Every conceal viable
article, with papers, letters, and photographs
of the loved and the distant, were thickly
strewn about. ' A strange and terrible calm
seemed to reign in this solitude of death and
nature. Grass had grown luxuriantly about
the waggons, sprouting from the seed that
had dropped from the loads, falling on soil
fertilised by the blood of the gallant fallen.
The skeletons of some rattled at the touch.
In one place lay a body with a bayonet thrust
to the socket between the jaws, transfixing
the head a foot into the ground. Another
lay under a waggon, covered by a tarpaulin,
as if the wounded man had gone to sleep
while his life-blood ebbed away. In one
spot over fifty bodies were found, including
those of three officers, and close by another
group of about seventy ; and, considering that
they had been exposed for five months, they
were in a singular state of preservation.'
Such is the miserable story of Isandhlwana.

HAS SHE DISCOVERED ANYTHING ?

Finely Melfort knew by the medium of
telegrams and despatches in the public
prints — all read in nervous haste, with her
heart sorely agitated — that Hammersley had
escaped the Isandhlwana slaughter, and was
one of the few who had reached a place of
safety. So did Shaftoo, but with no emotion
of satisfaction, it may be believed.

When the latter returned to Craigengowan,
Lady Fettercairn had not the least suspicion
of the bitter animosity with which Finella
viewed him, and of course nothing of the
episode in the shrubbery, and thus was
surprised when her granddaughter announced
a sudden intention of visiting Lady Drum-cloddy,
as if to avoid Shaftoo, but delayed
doing so.

At his approach she recoiled from him, not
even touching his proffered hand. All the
girlish friendship she once had for this newly
discovered cousin had passed away now,
crushed out by a contempt for his recent
conduct, so that it was impossible for her to
meet him or greet him upon their former
terms. She feared that her loathing and
hostility might be revealed in every tone and
gesture, and did not wish that Lord or Lady
Fettercairn should discover this.

To avoid his now odious society — odious
because of the unexplainable quarrel he had
achieved between herself and the now absent
Vivian — she would probably have quitted
Craigengowan permanently, and taken up
her residence with her maternal relation at
Drumshoddy Lodge; but she preferred the
more refined society of Lady Fettercairn, and
did not affect that of the widow of the ex-advocate
and Indian Civilian, who was
vulgarly bent on urging the interests of
Shaftoo, and would have derided those of
Hammersley in terms undeniably coarse had
she discovered them. And Lady Drum-cloddy,

though hard by nature as gun-metal,
was a wonderful woman in one way. She
could back her arguments by the production
of tears at any time. She knew not herself
where they came from, but she could 'pump'
them up whenever she had occasion to taunt
her granddaughter with what she termed
contumacy and perverseness of spirit.

On the day Shaftoo returned Finella was in
the drawing-room alone. She was posed ina
listless attitude. Her slender hands lay
idly in her lap ; her face had grown thin and
grave in expression, to the anxiety and
surprise of her relatives. Her chair was
drawn close to the window, and she was
gazing, with unseeing eyes apparently, on the
wintry landscape, where the lawn and the
leafless trees were powdered with snow,
and a red-breasted robin, with heart full
of hope, was trilling his song on a naked
branch.

It was a cheerless prospect to a cheerless
heart. She had drawn from her portemonnaie
(wherein she always kept it) the bitter little
farewell note of Hammersley, and, after

perusing it once more, returned It slowly to
its place of concealment.

Where was he then ? How employed —
marching or fighting, In peril or in safety ?
Did he think of her often, and with anger ?
Would he ever come back to her, and afford
a chance of explanation and reconciliation ?
Ah no ! it was more than probable their paths
in life would never cross each other again.

Tears welled in her eyes as she went over
in memory some episodes of the past. She
saw again his eager eyes and handsome face
so near her own, heard his tender and pleading
voice in her ear, and recalled the touch of his
lips and the clasp of his firm white hand.

Another hand touched her shoulder, and she
recoiled with a shudder on seeing Shaftoo.

What is this I hear,' said he ; * that you
think of leaving Craigengowan ?'

Yes,' she replied, curtly.

Because I have returned, I presume ?'
'Yes.'

His countenance darkened as he asked :
But — why so ?'

Because I loathe that the same roof

should be over you and me. Think of what
your Infamous cunning has caused!'

A separation,' said he, laughing malevolently,
' a quarrel between that fellow and
you ?'

Yes,' she replied with flashing eyes.

Can nothing soften this hostility towards
me ?' he asked after a pause.

^ Nothing. T never wish to see your face
or hear your voice again.'

Well, if you leave Craigengowan simply
to avoid me I shall certainly tell your grandmother
the reason ; and how will you like
that?'

You will ?'

By heaven, I will! That he and you
alike resented my regard for you ?'

To say that Shaftoo loved Finella, with all
her beauty, would be what a writer calls a
blasphemy on the master-passion ;' but he
admired her immensely, longed for her, and
more particularly for her money, as a
protection — a barrier against future and
unseen contingencies.

At his threat Finella grew pale with anticipated

annoyance and mortification ; but in
pure dread of Shaftoo's malevolence, and for
the other reasons given, she did not hasten
her preparations for departure, and ere long
the arrival of a new guest at Craigengowan
decided her on remaining, for this guest was
one for whom she conceived a sudden and
lasting affection, and with whom she found
ties and sympathies in common.

After being out most part of a day riding,
Shaftoo returned in the evening, and, throwing
his horse's bridle to a o^room, was ascending
the staircase to his own room, when,
framed as it were in the archway of a corridor,
he saw, to his utter bewilderment, the
face and figure of Dulcis Carlyon !

His voice failed him, and with parted lips
and dilated eyes she gazed at him in equal
amazement, too, but she was the first to
speak.

Shaftoo,' she exclaimed, ' you here — yotc ?'

Yes,' he snapped ; ' what is there strange
in that ? This is my grandfather's house.'

Your grandfather's house ?' she repeated,
and then the details of the situation came

partly before her. She Hated up her eyes,
wet with tears Hke dewy violets, for his voice,
if hard and harsh, was associated with her
home and Revelstoke, but she shrank from
him, and her lips grew white on finding herself
so suddenly face to face with one whom
she felt intuitively was a kind of evil genius
in her life !

Dulcis just then seemed a delightful object
to the eye. That pure waxen skin, which
always accompanies red-golden hair, was set
off to the utmost advantage by the dead
black of her deep mourning, and her plump
white arms and slender hands were coquettishly
set off by long black lace gloves, for
Dulcis was dressed for dinner, and her soft
white neck shone like satin in contrast to a
single row of jet beads, her only other ornament
being Florian's locket, on which the
startled eyes of Shaftoo instantly fell.

Dulcis saw this, and instinctively she placed
her hand — a slim and ringlets little white
hand — upon it, as if to protect it, and gather
strength from its touch ; but her bosom now
heaved at the sio^ht of Shaftoo, and fear and

indignation grew there together, for she was
losing her habitual sense of self-control.

You — here ?' he said again Inquiringly.

Yes,' she replied In a broken voice, ^ and
I wonder If I am the same girl I was a year
ago, when poor papa was well and living, and
I had dear Florlan — to love me !'

Dulcle here — d — nation !' thought Shaftoo :
first old Madelon Galbralth and now Dulcle ;
by Jove the plot Is thickening — the links maybe
closlnof !'

He had an awful fear and presentiment of
discovery ; thus perspiration stood like bead-drops
on his brow ; yet the mystery of her
presence was very simple.

Poor Mrs. Prim could stand no longer the
cold treatment and the ' whim-whims,' as she
called them, of Lady Fettercairn ; she had
gone away, and It was known at Cralgen-
gowan that a substitute — a more pleasing one,
in the person of a young English girl — was
coming as companion, through the instrumentality
of the Rev. Mr. Pentreath.

Shaftoo had been absent in Edinburgh when
this arrangement was made. Lady Fetter-cairn

had thought the matter too petty, too
trivial, to mention in any of her letters to her
grandson ;' Dulcle knew not where Shaftoo
was, and thus the poor girl had come unwittingly
to Craigengowan, and into the very
jaws of that artful schemer !

Few at the first glance might have recognised
in Dulcis the bright, brilliant little girl
whom Florian loved and Shaftoo had insulted
by his so-called passion. The character of
her face and perhaps of herself were somewhat
changed since her affectionate father's
death, and Florlan's departure to Africa In, a
position so humble and hopeless. The bright
hair which used to ripple in a most becoming
and curly fringe over her pretty white forehead
had to be abandoned for braiding, as
Lady Fettercairn did not approve of a
dependant' dressing her hair in what she
deemed a fast fashion, though sanctioned by
Royalty ; and now It was simply shed back
over each shell-like ear without a ripple If
possible, but Dulcle's hair always would ripple
somehow.

Shaftoo,' said Dulcle, in a tone of deep

VOL. II. 2 2

reproach ; ' what have you done with Florian ?
But I need not ask.'

By the locket you wear, you must have
seen or heard from him since he and I parted,'
replied Shaftoo, with the coolest effrontery ;
so what has he done with himself ?'

I should ask that of you.'
Of me !'

Yes — why is he not here ?'
Why the deuce should he be here ?' was
the rough response.

He is your cousin, is he not ?'

Yes : we are full cousins certainly,' admitted
Shaftoo with charming frankness.

Nothing more ?'

What the devil more should we be ?' asked
Shaftoo, coarsely, annoyed by her questions.

Friends — you where almost brothers once
in the dear old Major's time.'

We are not enemies ; he chose some way to
fortune. I suppose, when Fate gave me mine.'
And you know not where he is ?'
'No.'

Nor what he has done with himself "?

No — no — I tell you no !' exclaimed Shaftoo,

maddened with annoyance by these persistent
questions and her tearful interest in her lover.

Poor Florian !' said the girl, sadly and
sweetly, * he has become a soldier, and is now
in Zululand.'

Shaftoo certainly started at this intelligence.

In Zululand,' he chuckled ; ' he too there I
Well, beggars can't be choosers, so he chose
to take the Queen's shilling.'

Oh, Shaftoo, how hard-hearted you are !'
exclaimed Dulcis, restraining her tears with
difficulty.

Am I ? So he has left you — gone away
become a soldier ; well, I don't think that
a paying kind of business. Why bother about
him ?'

^ Why— Shafts'

It will be strange if you do so long.'

'Wherefore ?'

Because, to my mind, a woman is seldom
faithful, unless it suits her purpose to be so ;
and in this instance it won't suit yours.'

Dulcle's eyes sparkled with anger, though
they were eyes that, fringed by the longest
lashes, looked at one usually sweetly, 

— 2

idly, with an innocent and fearless expression.
Her bosom heaved, as she said —

Florian will gain a name for himself, I am
sure ; and if he dies ' Her voice broke.

If not in the field it will be where England's
heroes usually die.'

Where ?'

In the workhouse,' was the mocking
response of Shaftoo ; and he thought, ' If he
is killed by a Zulu assegai, or any other way,
to prevent exposure or public gossip, the
game will still lie in my hands.'

In the public prints Dulcis had of course
seen details of the episode of Lieutenants
Melville and Chill, and their attempts to
save that fatal colour, which was afterwards
found in the Buffalo, and decorated with
immortelles by the Queen at Osborne ; the
papers also added that the colour-sergeant
who accompanied them was missing, and that
his body had not been found.

Missing !

As no name had yet been given, Dulcis was
yet mercifully ignorant of what that appalling
word contained for her !

Already you appear to be quite at home
here in Craigengowan,' said Shaftoo, after an
awkward pause.

I am at home,' replied Dulcle simply ; ' and
hope this may be the happiest I have had
since papa died.'

(But she doubted that, with Shaftoo as an
inmate.)

I am glad to hear It ; but you don't mean
to treat me — an old friend — as you have done ?'

Friend !' she exclaimed, and laughed a
little bitter laugh, that sounded strange from
lips so fresh, so young and rosy.

You have not yet accepted my hand.'

Nor ever shall, Shaftoo Gyle,' said she
defiantly, and still withholding hers.
Melfort !' said he menacingly.

I knew and shall always know you as
Shaftoo Gyle.'

It was not quite a random speech this, but
it stung the hearer. He crimsoned with fury,
and thought — ' She Is as vindictive as Finella.
Has she discovered any tiling about me ?'

Shaftoo, do you know that the dressing-bell

was rung some time since ?' said Lady Fetter-cairn
with the same asperity, as she appeared
in the corridor.

Both started. How long had she been
there, and what had she overheard ? was in the
mind of each.

FEARS AND SUSPICIONS.

Well, Dulce said Shaftoo, who, full of his
own fears, contrived to confront her alone
before the dinner, which was always a late one
at Craigengowan, ' won't you even smile —
now that we are for a little time apart — for
old acquaintance sake ?'

How can I smile, feeling as I do — and
knowing what I do ?'

What do you know ?' he asked huskily,
and changing colour at this new and stinging
remark.

That poor Florian is facing such perils in
South Africa,' she replied in a low voice.

Pooh ! is that all ?' said Shaftoo, greatly
relieved ; * he'll get on, as well as he can
expect, no doubt.'

Amid all the wealth that surrounds you,
could you not have done something for
him ?' asked the girl, wistfully and reproachfully.


Poor relations are a deuced bother, arid
here they dislike his name somehow.'

As his fears passed away Shaftoo's aspect
became menacing, and knowing her helplessness
and her dependent position in the house
to which he was the heir, for a moment or two
the girl's spirit failed her.

Well, what do you mean to say now ?' he
asked abruptly.

About whom ?' she asked softly and
wonderingly.

Me r

I shall say nothing, Shaftoo — nothing to
injure you at least — with reference to old
times.'

What the devil could you say that would
injure me In the eyes of my own family ?'

Dulcis thought of the locket stolen from her
so roughly, of his subsequent villainy therewith,
and of his tampering with her long and
passionate letter to Florian, but remained

judiciously silent, while striving to look at him
with defiant haughtiness.

I am speaking to you, Dulcle ; will you
have the politeness to attend to me ?'

To what end and purpose ?'

She eyed him with chilling steadiness now,
though her heart was full of fear ; but his
shifty grey eyes quailed under the cold gaze
he challenged, and thought how closely her
bearing and her words resembled those of
Finally.

You don't like me, Dulcle,' said he with a
bitter smile, ' that Is pretty evident.'

No, I simply hate you !' said she, losing
all control over herself.

^ You are charmingly frank, Miss Carlyon,
but hate Is a game that two can play at ; so
beware, I say, beware ! I must hold the
winning cards.'

Oh, how brave and generous you are to
threaten and torture a poor, weak girl whom
you call an old friend, and under your own
roof !'

And the dear dove of Florian — Florlan
the private soldier !' he sneered fiercely.

How horrible, how cruel !' she walled, and
covered her eyes with her hands.

Never mind he resumed banteringly,
you have got back your locket again.'

I wonder how you dare to refer to it !' she
exclaimed, and for a moment the angry gleam
of her eyes was replaced by a soft, dreamy
smile, as she recalled the time and place when
Florian clasped the locket round her neck,
when the bells of Revelstoke Church were
heard on the same breeze that wafted around
them the perfumes of the sweetbread and wild
apple blossoms in the old quarry near the sea,
which was their trysting-place. How happy
they were then, and how bright the future
even in its utter vacuity, when seen through
the rosy medium of young love !

Shaftoo divined her thoughts, for he said
with jealous anger —

You used the term dare with reference to
your precious locket ?'

Yes ; the locket of which you, Shaftoo
Gyle, deprived me with coarse violence, like
like '

Well, what ?'

The garotters who are whipped in prison !'
His face grew very dark ; then he said —
We may as well have a truce to this sort
of thing. A quarrel between you and me,
Dulcis Carlyon, would only do me no harm,
but you very much. The grandfather wouldn't
keep you in the house an hour.'

How chivalrous, how gentlemanly, you
are !'

'Hush!' said he, with alarm, for at that
Instant the dinner-bell was clanging, and
Finella with others came Into the drawing-room,
Lady Fettercairn luckily the last,
though Shaftoo had warily withdrawn abruptly
from Dulcle's vicinity at the first sound of It.
Her first dinner In the stately dining-room
of Craigengow^an, with Its lofty arched recess,
where stood the massive sideboard arrayed
with ancient plate, Its hangings and full-length
pictures, was a new experience — a kind
of dream to Dulcis. The lively hum of many
well-bred voices In easy conversation ; the
great epergne with its pyramid of fruit,
flowers, ferns, and feathery grasses ; the
servants in livery, who were gliding noiselessly

about, and seemed to be perpetually
presenting silver dishes at her left elbow ; old
Mr. Cranston, the solemn butler, presiding
over the entire arrangements — all seemed part
of a dream, from which she would waken to
find herself in her old room at home, and seethe
waves rolling round the bleak promontory
of Revelstoke Church and in the estuary of
the Yealm ; and, sooth to say, though used to
all this luxury now, and though far from
imaginative, Shaftoo had not been without
some fears at first that he too might waken
from a dream, to find himself once more
perched on a tall stool in Lawyer Carlyon's
gloomy office, and hard at work over an ink-spotted
desk, the memory of which he loathed
with a disgust indescribable.

Seeing that Dulcis looked sad and abstracted,
Finella, who kindly offered a seat
beside her, said softly and sweetly :

I hope you won't feel strange among us ;
but I see you are full of thought. Did you
leave many dear friends behind you — at home,
I mean ?'

Many ; oh yes — all the village, in fact,'

said Dulcle, recalling the sad day of her departure
; * but, perhaps, I was selfish enough
to regret one most — my pet.'
What was it ?'

A dear little canary — only a bird.'
And why didn't you bring it ?'

People said that a great lady like Lady
Fettercairn would not permit one like me
to have pets, and so — and so I gave him
to our curate, dear old Mr. Pentreath. Oh,
how the bird sang as I was leaving him !'

Poor Miss Carlyon ?' said Finella, touched
by the girl's sweet and childlike simplicity.

For a moment — but a moment only —
Dulcis was struck by the painful contrast
between her own fate and position in life,
and those of the brilliant Finella Melfort,
and with it came a keen sense of inequality
and injustice ; but Finella, fortunately
for herself, was an heiress of money,
and not — as Lord Fettercairn often reminded
her — an unlucky landed proprietor, in these
days of starving crofters, failing tenants, Irish
assassinations, and agricultural collapses, with
defiant notices of impossibility to pay rent.

and clamours for reduction thereof. She was
heiress to nothing of that sort, but solid gold
shaken from the Rupee Tree.

When the ladles withdrew to the drawing-room,
Dulcis gladly accompanied them,
instead of retiring (as perhaps Lady Fetter-cairn
expected) to her own apartment ; we
say gladly, as she was as much afraid of the
society of Shaftoo as he was of hers — and she
had a great dread she scarcely knew of
what.

How, if this cold, stately, and aristocratic
lady, to whom she now owed her bread, and
whose paid dependant she was, should discover
that Shaftoo, the recovered ' grandson,'
had ever made love to her once upon a time
in her Devonshire home ?

Dulcis, as it was her first experience of
Craigengowan, did not sink into her position
there, by withdrawing first, and, more than
all, silently. She effusively shook hands
with everyone in a kindly country fashion,
but withdrew her slender fingers from
Shaftoo's eager clasp with a haughty movement
that Lady Fettercairn detected, and

with some surprise and some anger, too ; but
to which she did not give immediate vent.

Her hair is unpleasantly red,' said she to
Finella after a time.

Nay, grand mamma,' replied the latter;
I should call it golden — and what a lovely
skin she has!'

Red I say her hair is ; and she looks
ill'

Well, even if it is, she couldn't help her
hair, unless she dyed it ; besides, she is in
mourning for her father, poor thing, and has
had a long, long journey. No one looks
well after that — and she travelled third-class
she told me, poor girl.'

How shocking ! Don't speak of it.'
Dulcis had indeed done so. Her exchequer
was a limited one ; and farewell gifts to
some of her dear old people had reduced it to
a minimum.

She seems rather a Devonshire hoyden,'
said Lady Fettercairn, slowly fanning herself
; * but I hope she will be able to make
herself useful to me.'

Grandmamma, I quite adore her !' exclaimed

the impulsive Finella ; ' we shall be
capital friends, I am sure.*

But you must never forget who she Is.'

An orphan — or a lawyer's daughter, do
you mean ?'
^No.'
What then ?'

My paid companion,' said Lady Fetter-cairn
icily ; but Finella was not to be repressed,
and exclaimed :

I am sure that she is, by nature, a very
jolly girl.'

Don't use such a phrase, Finella ; it is
positive slang.'

It expresses a great deal anyway, grand-mamma,'
said Finella, who was somewhat of
an enthusiast ; and added, * There is something
very pathetic at times in her dark blue
eyes — something that seems almost to look
beyond this world.'

What an absurd idea !'

She has evidently undergone great sorrow,
poor thing.'

All these folks who go out as companions
and governesses, and so forth, have undergone

all that sort of thing, if you believe
them ; but they must forget their sorrows, be
lively, and make themselves useful. What
else are they paid for ?'

Lady Fettercairn had been quite aware atone
time that Shaftoo had been in the employment
of a Mr. Carlyon in Devonshire, and
Dulcis wondered that no questions were
asked her on the subject ; but doubtless the
distasteful idea had passed from the aristocratic
mind of the matron, and Shaftoo (save
to Dulcis in private) had no desire to revive
Devonshire memories, so he never referred
to it either.

Dulcis, her grief partially over and her
fear of Shaftoo nearly so, revelled at first in
the freedom and beauty of her surroundings.
Craigengowan House (or Castle, as it was
sometimes called, from its turrets and whilom
moat) was situated, she saw, among some of
the most beautiful mountain scenery of the
Means ; and, as she had spent all her life
(save when at school) in Devonshire, the
lovely and fertile surface of which can only
be described as being billowy to a Scottish

VOL. 11. 23

eye, she took In the sense of a complete
change with wonder, and regarded the vast
shadowy mountains with a Httle awe.

In the first few weeks after her arrival at
Craigengowan she had plenty of occupation,
but of a kind that only pleased her to a
certain extent.

She had Lady Fettercairn's correspondence
to attend to ; her numerous invitations to
issue and respond to ; her lap-dog to wash
with scented soaps — but Dulcis always doted
dearly on pets ; and she had to play and
sing to order, and comprehensively to make
herself * useful ;' yet she had the delight of
Finella's companionship, friendship, and —
she was certain — regard. But she was
imaginative and excitable ; and when night
came, and she found herself alone in one
of the panelled rooms near the old Scots
turrets, with their vanes creaking
overhead, and she had to listen to the boisterous
Scottish gales that swept through the
bleak and leafless woods and howled about
the old house, as a warning that winter had
not yet departed, poor little English Dulcis

felt eerie, and sobbed on her pillow for the
dead and the absent ; for the days that would
return no more ; for her parents lying at
Revelstoke, and Florlan — who was she knew
not where !

23—2

EY THE BUFFALO RIVER.

The morning of a new day was well in when
Florian, lying among the tall, wavy reeds
and feathery grass by the river-bank, awoke
from a sleep that had been deep and heavy,
induced by long exhaustion, toil, and extension
of the nerves. Ere he started up,
and as he was drifting back to consciousness,
his thoughts had been, not of the awful
slaughter from which he had escaped, but,
strange to say, of Dulcis Carlyon, the object
of his constant and most painful solicitude.

His returning thoughts had been of the
past and her. In fancy he saw her again,
with her laughing dark blue eyes and her
winning smile ; he felt the pressure of her
little hand, and heard the tones of her voice

SO soft and winning, and saw her, not as he
saw her last, in deep mourning, but in her
favourite blue serge trimmed with white, and
a smart sailor's hat girt with a blue yachting
ribbon above her ruddy golden hair ; then
there came an ominous flapping of heavy
wings, and he started up to find two
enormous Kaffir vultures wheeling overhead
in circles round him !

On every side reigned profound silence,
broken only by the lap-lapping of the Buffalo
was it washed against rocks and boulders on
its downward passage to the Indian Ocean.
A few miles distant rose the rocky crest of
fatal Isandhlwana, reddened to the colour of
blood by the rising sun, and standing up
clearly defined in outline against a sky of the
deepest blue ; and a shudder came over him
as he looked at it, and thought of all that had
happened, and of those who were lying unburied
there.

His sodden uniform was almost dried now
by the heat of the sun, but he felt stiff and
sore in every joint, and on rising from the
earth he knew not which way to turn. He

knew that two companies of the first battalion
of his regiment were at Helpmakaar, with
the regimental colour, and that one of the
second battalion was posted at Rorke's Drift,,
under Lieutenant Bromhead, but of where;
these places lay he had not the least Idea.
He was defenceless too, for though he had
his sword-bayonet he had lost his rifle when
his horse was shot in the stream.

He passed a hand across his brow as If to
clear away his painful and anxious thoughts
and was making up his mind to follow the
course of the river upward as being the most
likely mode of reaching Rorke's Drift when
a yell pierced his ears, and he found himself
surrounded by some twenty black-skinned
Zulus, with gleaming eyes and glistening
teeth, all adorned with cow-tails, feathers,
and armlets, and armed in their usual fashion
Zulus who had been resting close by him
among the long reeds, weary, as it proved
after their night's conflict at Rorke's Drift
and their repulse at that place.

Florian's blood ran cold!

Already he seemed to feel their keen

assegais piercing his body and quivering in
his flesh. However, to his astonishment,
these savages, acting under the orders of their
leader, did nothing worse then than strip him
of his belts and tunic, and, strange enough,
examined him to see if he was wounded
anywhere.

He then understood their leader to say —
for he had picked up a few words of their not
unmusical language — that they would give
him as a present to Cetewayo.

Their leader proved to be one of the sons
of Sirayo — one of the original causes of the
war, and has been described as a model Zulu
warrior, lithe, muscular, and without an ounce
of superfluous flesh on his handsome limbs ;
one who could launch an assegai with unerring
aim, and spring like a tiger to close
quarters with knife or knobkerie — the same
warrior who lay long a prisoner in the gaol
of Pietermaritzburg after the war was over.

They dragged Florian across the river at
a kind of ford, and partly took him back the
way he had come from Isandhlwana, and
awful were the sights he saw upon it — the

dead bodies of comrades, all frightfully
gashed and mutilated, with here and there
a wounded horse, which, after partially
recovering from its first agony, was cropping,
or had cropped, the grass around in a limited
circle, which showed the weakness caused by
loss of blood ; and Florian, with a prayerful
heart, marvelled that his savage captors
spared him, as they assegaied these helpless
animals in pure wantonness and lust of
cruelty.

All day they travelled Florian knew not in
what direction, and when they found him
sinking with exertion they gave him a kind
of cake made of mealies to eat, and a draught
of tttywala from a gourd. This is Kaffir
beer, or some beverage which is like thin
gruel, but on which the army of Cetewayo
contrived to get intoxicated on the night
before the battle of Ulundi.

Early next day he was taken to a military
kraal, situated in a solitary and pastoral plain,
surrounded by grassy hills, where he was
given to understand he would be brought
before the king.

Like all other military kraals, it consisted
of some hundred beehive-shaped huts, surrounded
by a strong wooden palisade, nine
feet high and two feet thick. He was thrust
into a hut, and for a time left to his own
reflections.

The edifice was of wicker-work made of
wattles, light and straight, bent over at
regular distances till they met at the apex, on
the principle of a Gothic groined arch. The
walls were plastered, the roof neatly thatched ;
the floor v»^as hard and smooth. Across it
ran a ledge, which served as a cupboard,
where all the clay utensils were placed,
and among these were squat-shaped jars
capable of holding twenty gallons of Kaffir
beer.

Ox-hide shields and bundles of assegais
were hung on the walls, which were thin
enough to suggest the idea of breaking
through them to escape ; but that idea no
sooner occurred to the unfortunate prisoner
than he abandoned it. He remembered the
massive palisade, and knew that within and
without were the Zulu warriors in thousands.

for the kraal was the quarters of an Impi or
entire column.

After a time he was brought before
Cetewayo, who was seated in a kind of chair
at the door of a larger hut than the rest,
with a number of induces (or colonels) about
him, all naked save at the loins, wearing
fillets or circlets on their shaven heads, and
armed with rifles ; and now, sooth to say, ashe
eyed this savage potentate wistfully and
with dread anxiety, Florian Melfort thought
not unnaturally that he was face to face with
a death that might be sudden or one of
acute and protracted torture.

There is no need for describing the
appearance of the sable monarch, with
whose face and burly figure the London
photographers have made all so familiar ; but
on this occasion though he was nude, all save a
royal mantle over his shoulders — a mantle
said to have borne ' a suspicious resemblance
to an old tablecloth with fringed edges' — •
he wore his other 'royal' insignia, which
these artists perhaps never saw — a kind of
conical helmet or head-dress, with a sort of

floating puggaree behind, and garnished by
three feathers, not Hke the modern badge of
the Prince of Wales — but like three old
regimental hackles, one on the top and one
on each side.

Near him Florian saw a white man, clad
like a Boer, whom he supposed to be another
unfortunate prisoner like himself, but who
proved to be that strange character known
as * Cetewayo's Dutchman who was there to
act as interpreter.

This personage, whose name was Cornelius
Viljoen, had been a Natal trader, and acted
as a kind of secretary to the Zulu King
throughout the war ; but latterly he was
treated with suspicion, and remained as a
prisoner in his hands, and now he was
ordered to ask Florian a series of questions.

Can you inspire the two pieces of cannon
captured by the warriors of Dabulamanza at
Isandhlwana ?'

These were seven-pounder Royal Artillery
guns.

I cannot,' replied Florian.

Why r

Because I am not a gunner — neither
am I a mechanic,' he replied, unwilling to
perform this task for the service of the
enemy.

The king desires me to tell you that if
you can do this, and teach his young menthe
way to handle these guns, he will give
you a hundred head of oxen, a kraal by the
Pongola River, where your people will never
find you, and you will ever after be a great
man among the Zulus.'

Again Florian protested his Inability,
assuring them that he knew nothing of
artillery.

When questioned as to the strength of the
three columns that entered Zululand, the
king and all his induces seemed incredulous
as to their extreme weakness when compared
to the vast forces they were to encounter,
and when told that there were hundreds of
thousands of red soldiers who could come
from beyond the sea, they laughed aloud
with unbelief, and Cetewayo said the more
that came the more there would be to kill,
and that when he had driven the last of the

British and the last of the Boers into the salt
sea together, he would divide all their lands
among his warriors.

Cetewayo waved his hand, as much as to
say the interview was over, and said something
In a menacing tone to Cornelius
Vlljoen.

You had better consider the king's wish,'
said the latter to Florian ; ' he tells me that If
you do not obey him in the matter of the
guns, you will be cut In small pieces with an
assegai, joint by joint, beginning with the
toes and finger-tips, so that you may be long,
long of dying, and pray for death *

For three successive days he was visited
by the Dutchman, who repeated the king's
request and threat, and, in pity perhaps for
his youth, the speaker besought him to
comply ; but Florian was resolute.

Each day at noon the latter was escorted
by two tall and powerful Zulus, one armed
with a musket loaded, and the other with a
double-barbed assegai, Into the adjacent
mealle fields, where, to sustain life, he was
permitted with his hands unbound to make a

plentiful repast on this hermit-like diet ; and
it was while thus engaged he began to see
and consider that this was his only chance of
escape, if he could do so, by preventing the
explosion of the musket borne by one of 'his
guards from rousing all the warriors in and
about the kraal.

Florian was quite aware now of the reason
why Methlagazulu (for so the son of Sirayo
was named) had so singularly spared his life,
when captured beside the Buffalo River, and
he knew now that if he failed to obey the
request of Cetewayo in the matter of inspiring
the two seven-pounders, or wore out
the patience of that sable potentate, he would
be put to a cruel death ; and he shrewdly
suspected, from all he knew of the Zulu
character, that even were he weak enough, or
traitor enough, to do what he was requested,
he would be put to death no doubt all the
same, despite the promised kraal and herd of
cattle beyond the Pongola River.

He had seen too much of ruthless slaughter
of late not to be able to nerve himself — to
screw his courage up to the performance of

a desperate deed to secure his own deliverance
and safety.

His two escorts were quite off their guard,
while he affected to be feeding himself with
the green mealies, and no more dreamt that
he would attack them empty-handed or
unarmed than take a flight into the air.

Suddenly snatching the assegai from the
Zulu, who, unsuspecting him, held it loosely,
he plunged it with all his strength — a
strength that was doubled by the desperation
of the moment — into the heart of the other,
who was armed with the rifle — a Martini-henry
taken at Isandhlwana — and leaving it
quivering in his broad, brawny, and naked
breast, he seized the firearm as the dying
man fell, and wrenched away his cartridge-belt.


The whole thing was done quick as
thought, and the other Zulu, finding himself
disarmed, fled yelling towards the kraal,
about a mile distant, while Florian, his heart
beating wildly, his head in a whirl, rushed
with all his speed towards a wood — his first
impulse — for shelter and concealment.

In the lives of most people there are
some episodes they care not to recall or to
remember, but this, though a desperate one,
was not one of these to Florlan.

He had the start of a mile In case of
pursuit, which was certain ; but he knew that
a mile was but little advantage when his
pursuers were fleet and hard-footed Zulus.

Whatever the reason, the pursuit of him
was not so Immediate as he anticipated ; but he
had barely gained the shelter of the thicket,
which, with a great undergrowth or jungle,
was chiefly composed of yellow wood and
assegai trees, when, on giving a backward
glance, he saw the black-skinned Zulus
issuing In hundreds from the gates In the
palpitating, and spreading all over the Intervening
veldt.

Would he, or could he, escape so many ?

A few shots that were fired at him by
some of the leading pursuers showed that he
was not unseen ; but, as the Zulus knew not
how to sight their rifles or judge of distance,
their bullets either flew high in the air or
entered the ground some sixty yards or so

from their feet ; and Florlan, knowing that
they would be sure to enter the wood at the
point where he disappeared in it, turned off
at an angle, and creeping for some distance
among the underwood to conceal, if possible,
his trail, which they would be sure to follow,
he reached a tree, the foliage of which was
dense. He slung his rifle over his back, and
climbed up for concealment, and then for the
first time he became aware that his hands,
limbs, and even his face, were lacerated, torn,
and bleeding from the leaves and thorns of
the sharp, spiky plants among which he
had been creeping'"

He had scarcely attained a perch where
he hoped to remain unseen till nightfall, or
the Zulus withdrew, and where he sat,
scarcely daring to breathe, when the wood
resounded with their yells.

The escape of Florian from the kraal is an incident
similar, in some instances, to that of Private Grander,
of Weatherly's Horse, after the affair at Inhumane.

VOL. II. 24

ON THE KARROO.

Heedless of the spikes and brambles of the
star-shaped carrion-flower and other Euphorbia,
prickly cacti, and so forth, as if their
bare legs were clothed in mail, the Zulus
rushed hither and thither about the wood in
their fierce and active search, and, as they
never doubted they would find the fugitive,
they became somewhat perplexed when he
was nowhere to be seen ; and after traversing
it again and again, they dispersed in
pursuit over the open country, and then
Florian began to breathe more freely.

He had lost his white helmet in the
Buffalo, and been since deprived of his
scarlet tunic ; thus, fortunately for himself,
his attire consisted chiefly of a pair of

tattered regimental trousers and a blue flannel
shirt, and these favoured his concealment
among the dense foliage of the tree.

Night came on, but he dared not yet
quit the wood, lest the searchers might be
about ; and he dared not sleep lest he
inlght fall to the ground, break a limb,
perhaps, and lie there to perish miserably.

When all was perfectly still, and the
bright stars were shining out, he thought of
<iuittlng his place of concealment ; but a
strange sound that he heard, as of some
heavy body being dragged through tie
underwood, and another that seemed like
mastication or chewing, made him pause in
alarm and great irresolution.

Florian thought that night would never
pass ; its hours seemed interminable. At
last dawn began to redden the east, and he
knew that his every hope must lie in the
opposite direction ; and, stiff and sore, he
dropped a fresh cartridge into the breech-block
of his recently acquired rifle, and then
slid to the ground and looked cautiously
-about him.

24 — 2

Then the mysterious sounds he had heard
in the night were fearfully accounted for, and
his heart seemed to stand still when, not
twenty paces from him, he saw a lion of considerable
size, and he knew that more than
one horse of the Kings's Dragoon Guards,
had been devoured by such animals in that
country. -

Florian had never seen one before, even
in a menagerie ; and, expecting immediate
death, he regarded it with a species of
horrible fascination, while his right hand
trembled on the lock of his rifle, for as a
serpent fascinates a bird, so did the glare
of that lion's eye paralyze Florian for a
time.

The African lion is much larger than the
Asiatic, and is more powerful, its limbs being
a complete congeries of sinews. This terrible
animal manifested no signs of hostility,
but regarded Florian lazily, as he lay among
the bushes near a half-devoured quagga, on
which his hunger had been satiated. His,
jaws, half open, showed his terrific fangs.
Florian knew that if he fired he might only

Around, not slay the animal, and, with considerable
presence of mind he passed quickly
and silently out of the wood into the open,
at that supreme crisis forgetting even all
about the Zulus, but giving many a backward
nervous glance.

It has been remarked in the Cape Colony
that a chancre has come over the habits of
the lion on the borders of civilization. In the
interior, where he roams free and unmolested,
his loud roar is heard at nightfall and in the
early dawn reverberating among the hills ;
but where guns are in use and traders'
waggon-wheels are heard — perhaps *the
'distant shriek of a railway engine — he seems
to have learned the lesson that his own
safety, and even his chances of food, lie in
silence.

Over a grassy country, tufted here and
there by mimosa-trees and prickly Euphorbia
bushes, Florian, without other food than the
green mealies of which he had had a repast
on the previous day, marched manfully on
westward, in the hope of somewhere striking
on the Buffalo River, and getting on the

border of Natal, for there alone would he be
in safety. But he had barely proceeded
four miles or so, when he came suddenly
upon three Zulus driving some cattle along a
grassy hollow, and a united shout escaped
them as they perceived him. Two were
armed with rifles, and one carried a sheaf of
assegais.

The two former beofan to handle their
rifles, which were muzzle-loaders ; but, quick
as lightning, Florian dropped on his right
knee, planting on the left his left elbow, and
sighting his rifle at seven hundred yards, in
good Hythe fashion, knocked over the first,
and then the second ere he could reload ; for
both had fired at him, but as they were no
doubt ignorant of the use of the back-sight,
their shot had gone he knew not
where.

One was killed outright ; the other was
rolling about in agony, beating the earth
with his hands, and tearing up tufts of grass
in his futile efforts to stand upright.

The third, with the assegais, instead of
possessing himself of the fallen men's arms

and ammunition to continue the combat,
terrified perhaps to see both shot down so
rapidly, and at such a great distance, fled
with the speed of a hare in the direction of
that hornets' nest, the military kraal

To permit him to escape and reach that
place in safety would only, Florian knew, too
probably destroy his chances of reaching the
frontier, so he took from his knee a quiet
pot-shot at the savage, who fell prone on his
face, and with a quickened pace Florian continued
his progress westward.

Compunction he had none. He only

thought of his own desperate and lonely

condition, of those who had perished at

Isandhlwana, of poor Bob Edgehill and his

song —

Merrily, lads, so ho !'

the chorus of which he had led when the
trooper ' came steaming out of Plymouth
harbour.

He had now to traverse miles of a genuine
South African karroo, a dreary, listless, and
uniform plain, broken here and there by
straggling copies, or small hills of schists or

slate, the colour of which was a dull ferruginous
brown. No trace of animal nature
was there — not even the Kaffir vulture ; and
the withered remains of the fig-marigold and
other succulent plants scattered over the
solitary waste crackled under his feet as he
trod wearily on.

Night was closing again, when, weary and
footsore, he began to feel a necessity for rest
and sleep, and on reaching a little tonga,
through which flowed a stream where some
indigo and cotton bushes were growing wild,
he was thankful to find among them some
melons and beans. Of these he ate sparingly ;
then, laying his loaded rifle beside him, he
crept into a place where the shrubs grew
thickest, and fell into a deep and dreamless
sleep.

Laden with moisture, the mild air cf
the African night seemed to kiss his now
hollow cheeks and lull his senses into soft
repose.

Next day betimes he set out again, unseen
by any human eye, and after traversing the
karroo (far across which his shadow was

thrown before him by the rising sun) for a
few more miles, a cry of joy escaped him
when he came suddenly upon a bend of the
Buffalo River and knew that the opposite
bank was British territory.

Slinging his rifle, he boldly swam across,
and had not proceeded three miles when he
struck upon a kind of beaten path that ran
north and south ; but, as a writer says, ' the
worst by-way leading to a Cornish mine, the
steepest ascent in the Cumberland hills which
draught horses would never be faced at, is a
right-royal Queen's highway compared with a
Natal road.'

Great was his new joy when, after a
time spent in some indecision, he saw a
strange-looking vehicle approaching at a
slow pace, though drawn by six Cape
horses. This proved to be Her Majesty's
post-cart proceeding from Greytown to
Dundee, via Helpmakaar, the very point
for which the escaped prisoner was making
his way.

It overtook him after a time, and he got a
seat in it among four or five men like Boers,

who, however, proved to be Englishmen.
It was a wretched conveyance, without
springs, and covered with strips of old
canvas, patched In fifty places, and fastened
down by nails. No luggage Is allowed for
passengers In these post-carts, which carry
the mall-bags alone.

A naked Kaffir running on foot, armed
with a whip, cut away Indefatigably at the
two leaders ; another on the box plied a
long jam.bok or team-whip of raw ox-thong,
urging the animals on the while In his own
guttural language, and only used English
when compelled to have recourse to abuse,
and after ten miles' progress along a road — If
It could be called so — encumbered by
boulders In some places, deep with mud in
others, Florlan found himself In the vlllap-e of
Helpmakaar, and among the tents of the few
survivors of the two battalions of the 24th
Regiment.

Then he heard for the first time of the
valiant defence of Rorke's Drift by Brome
and Chard, with only one hundred and
thirty men of all ranks against four thousand

Zulus, all flushed with the slaughter at
Isandlhwana.

He was told how the gallant few In that
sequestered post beside the Buffalo River —
merely a loop-holed store-house, a parapet of
biscuit-boxes, and a thatched hospital, wherein
thirty-five sick men lay — fought with
steady valour for hours throughout that terrible
night, resisting every attempt made
by the wild thousands to storm it, and without
other light than the red flashes of the
musketry that streaked the gloom ; how the
hospital roof took fire, and how six noble
privates defended like heroes the doorway
with their bayonets (till most of the sick were
brought forth), each winning the Victoria
Cross ; how no less than six times the
Zulus, over piles of their own dead, got inside
the wretched barricades, and six times
were hurled back by our soldiers with the
queen of weapons, which none can wield like
them — the bayonet.

Thank God that some of the dear old
24th are left, after all !' was the exclamation
of Florian, when among their tents he heard

this heroic story, and related his own desperate
adventures to a circle of bronzed and
eager listeners.

For the first time after several days he
saw his face in a mirror, and was startled-by
the wild and haggard aspect of it and the
glare in his dark eyes.

Surely,' thought he, ' I am not the same
fellow of the dear old days at Revelstoke —
not the lad whom Dulcis remembers — this
stern, wild-eyed man, who looks actually old
for his years ;' but he had gone through and
faced much, hourly, of danger, suffering, and
probable death. Could he be the same lad
whom she loved and still loves, and with
whom she fished and boated on the Erme
and Yealm, and feathered berries in the
Plymstock woods and the old quarries by the
sea ?

How often of late had he lived a lifetime
in a niimtte!

There were sweet and sad past memories,
future hopes, strange doubts, retrospection,
and present sufferings all condensed again
and again into that brief space, with strange

recollections of his youth — his dead parents,
the old home, the cottage near Revelstoke,
Dulcis, Shaftoo, and old nurse Madelon — a
host of confused thoughts, and ever and
always ' the strong vitality of youth rebelling
against possible death ' — for death Is always
close in war.

But it was not death that Florlan feared,
but — like the duellists in ' The Tramp
Abroad ^ — initiation.

FLORIAN JOINS THE MOUNTED INFANTRY.

Vincent HAMMERSLEY,wehave said, achieved,
with a few others, his escape to the Natal
side of the Buffalo River, and reached the
village of Helpmakaar, situated about five
miles therefrom, where two companies of the
first battalion of his unfortunate regiment
were posted, under the command of a field-officer,
and where for a few days he found
himself in comparative comfort, though he
and his brother-officers had a crushing sense
of sorrow and mortification for what had befallen
their corps at Isandhlwana; for regiments
were not then what they have become
now, mere scratch battalions, without much
cohesion in peace or war, but were happy,
movable homes — one family, indeed — full of

cameraderie, grand traditions, and old esprit
de corps; and often at Helpmakaar was the
surmise, which Is ever In the minds of our
soldiers at the scene of war, put in words,
What will they think of this at home ?
What are folks In Britain saying about
this ?'

Hearing of Florian's arrival, kindly he
sent for him to congratulate him on his
escape, and the Interview took place In what
was termed the ' mess-tent ' (an old tarpaulin
stretched on poles), where, seeing his worn
and wasted aspect, he Insisted on his taking
some refreshment before relating what he
and several officers were anxious to hear —
details of the gallant but fatal episode of
Melville and Chill, when they perished on
the left bank of the Buffalo. They then
heard his subsequent adventures and the story
of his narrow escape.

^ I should like to have seen you potting
those three fellows on the open karroo,' said
an officer.

It was a mercy to me that they knew not
how to sight their rifles, sir, or I should not

have been here to-day probably,' replied
Florian modestly.

By Jove !' said Hammersley, ' I can't
think enough of your act in the mealle-field,
polishing off the Zulu who had the rifle with'
the assegai of his companion, and so becoming
master of the situation. There were
courage and decision in the act — two valuable
impulses, for indecision and weakness
of character are at the bottom of half the
failures of life. You can't go about thus, in
your shirt-sleeves added Hammersley. * I
have an old guard tunic In my baggage : it
will be good enough to fight in, and Is at your
service.'

Thanks, sir,' replied Florlan, colouring ;
but how can I appear in an officer's tunic ?'

One may wear anything here,' said Hammersley,
laughing. ' By Jove ! you are sure
to be an officer some day soon ; but meantime
you may rip off the badges.'

Florian was glad of the gift, as all the stores
of every description had been captured at
Isandhlwana.

Hammersley had seriously begun the apparently

hopeless task of rooting Finella's
image out of his heart.

Forts and coquettes,' he would think, ' I
have met by dozens In society ; but I could
little have thought that the childlike, apparently
straightforward and Impulsive Finally
would form such a deuced combination of
both characters ! And, not content by bestowing
an engagement ring, I actually gave
her — ass that I was ! — a wedding one. Yet
I am not sure that I would not do all the
same folly over again. " Unstable as water
- — thou shalt not excel." So we have It In
Genesis.'

A hundred times he asked of himself, how
could she lure him Into loving her and then
deceive him so, and for such a cub as
Shaftoo ? — the bright, childlike, outspoken
girl. The act seemed to belle her honest,
fearless, and beautiful eyes — for honest,
fearless, and sweet they were Indeed. Oh !
it was all like a bad dream, that sudden
episode In the garden at Cralgengowan.
How much of that game had been going on
before and since .^ This thought, when It

VOL. II. 25

occurred to him, seemed to turn his heart to
stone or steel.

Hammersley was now, by his own request,
appointed to the Mounted Infantry. His
casual remark about the tunic had fired the
sparks of ambition In Florian's heart ; thus
he might run great risks, face more peril, and
thus win more honour.

He volunteered to join the same force, and
was placed in Hammersley 's troop, which
was to form a part of the column to relieve
Colonel Pearson's force, then Isolated and
blockaded by the Zulus at a place called
Etschowe, where he had skilfully turned
an old Norwegian mission-station Into a
fort.

Nearly on the summit of the Type Mountains,
more than two thousand feet in height,
it stood amid a district of wonderful sylvan
beauty. An open and hilly country lay on
the south, bounded by the vast ranges of the
UmkukusI Mountains ; on the north the
Umtalazi River rolled In blue and silver
tints through the green and grassy karroo.
On the westward lay the Hints forest of

dark primeval wood, and far away, nearly
forty miles to the eastward, could be seen
Port Dartford or the shore of the Indian
Ocean.

But there the Colonel, whose force consisted
chiefly of a battalion of his own regiment,
the 3rd Buffs, six companies of the
Lanarkshire, a naval brigade, some cavalry
and artillery, found himself undergoing all
the inconvenience of a blockade, with provisions
and stores decreasing fast ; and of
twelve messengers, whom he had sent to
Lord Chelmsford asking instructions and
succour, eleven had been slain on the way,
so there was nothing for it but to fight to the
last, and defend the fort till help came, or
share the fate of those who fell at Isandh-
Iwana.

Fort Tenedos (so called from her Majesty's
ship of that name) was thirty miles distant
from Etschowe, and formed the base from
which Lord Chelmsford went to succour the
latter place at the head of nearly 7,000 men
of all arms.

Hammersley's little troop was with the

25—2

vanguard of the leading division, which was
composed of a strong naval brigade, with two
Callings, or * barrel-organs,' as the sailors
called them, 900 Argyleshire Highlanders,
580 of the Lanarkshire and Buffs, 350
Mounted Infantry, and a local contingent;
and another column, similarly constituted,
under Colonel Pemberton of the both Rifles.
I am glad to have you on this duty
with me,' said Hammersley, as the Mounted
Infantry rode off in the dark hours of the
morning, * to feel the way,' en route to the
Tueela River.

I thank you, sir,' replied Florlan ; ' and
am proud to be still under your orders. I
only wish that Mr. Sheldrake were with us
too.'

Poor Sheldrake is lying yet unburied withall
the rest !'

With what solicitude,' thought Hammersley,
smiling in the dark, ' he used to caress
his almost Invisible moustache ! This
Mounted Infantry service is rather desperate
work,' he said aloud. * Why did you volunteer
for It ?'

To win honour and rank, If I can. But
you, sir ?'

To forget — If possible — to forget !' was
the somewhat enigmatical reply of Hammersley.
Then, after a long pause, he said
somewhat Irrelevantly, ' My Instinct told
me from the first that you are a gentleman,
though a sergeant In my company.'

Yes, I am a gentleman,' replied Florlan ;
I have passed through a school of adversity
to you unknown, Captain Hammersley.

Sorry to hear It — poor fellow.'

And yet, sir, If I may venture to make
the remark, from some things I have heard
you say, you seem to be at warfare with the
world.'

In one sense, at least, I am embittered
against It,' said Hammersley, and urged, he
knew not by what emotion, unless that Impulse
which Inspires men at times to make
strange confidences, he added, ' I have
learned the truth of what an author says,
*' That a woman can smile In a man's face
and breathe vows of fidelity In his ear, each
one of which Is black as her own heart'*

This Is the reason I volunteered for this,
rough work. Have you learned that too ?'

No, sir, thank Heaven !'

As yet you are lucky ; some day you maybe
undeceived

The noise made by the convoy, two miles
and a half long, descending towards the river,
could now be heard in the rear. It consisted
of 113 waggons, each drawn by twelve oxen ;
fifty strongly wheeled Scottish carts ; and
about fifty mules all laden.

Every man carried In his spare and extension
pouches 200 rounds of ball-cartridge.

As the sun rose, the appearance of the
long column, with the convoy, descending
towards the river, and leaving the forests
behind, was impressive and Imposing.
Brightness, colour, sound, and action, ail
were there.

Like a river of shining steel, the keen
bayonets seemed to flash and ripple in the
sunshine ; the red coats and white helmets
came out In strong relief against the background
of green ; the pipes of the Highlanders,
and the drums and fifes of the other

corps, loaded the calm moist morning air
with sounds, in which others blended — the
neighing of chargers, the lowing of the team-oxen,
the rumble and clatter of many wheels,
the yells and other unearthly cries of the
Kaffir drivers.

Rain had fallen heavily of late ; and the
Tugela, at the point at which the column
crossed, was six hundred yards in breadth.
The mounted infantry were first over, and
rode in extended order — scouting — each man
with his loaded rifle planted by the butt on
his right thigh. Florian was mounted on a
horse which he named Tattoo — as it wa's a
grey having many dark spots and curious
stripes — a nag he soon learned to love as a
great pet indeed. The country around was
open ; thus with the sharp activity of the
scouting force on one hand and the partial
absence of wood or scrub on the other, the
Zulus had few or no opportunities for surprise
or ambush, and the relieving column
had achieved half the distance to be traversed
before any great difficulties occurred.

Each night, on halting, an entrenched

camp or laager was formed, with a shelter
built twenty yards distant outside, and the
strictest silence was enjoined after the last
bundles had sounded. On the march the
column was joined by the 57th ' Regiment,'
the ' Old Die Hards ' of Peninsular fame,
whom they received with hearty cheers.

Some Zulus In their simple war array were
visible on the list of April; and during the
night many red signal-fires were seen to flash
up on the hills to the north, thus indicating the
gathering of a great force, and these continued
to blaze, though the rain fell heavily,
wetting every man in the laager to the skin,
as the column was without tents.

It was a night of anxiety, gloom, and
suffering. In fitful gleams, between masses
of black and flying cloud, the weird, white
moon shone out at times ; but no sound
reached the alert advanced sentinels, save
the melancholy howl of the jackal or the
hoarse croak of the Kaffir vulture expectant
of its coming feast.

The trumpets sounded at dawn on the
2nd of April. The mounted infantry sprang

Into their saddles and galloped forth to reconnoitre,
while the troops implied and stood
to their arms, though no one knew where the
wily and stealthy Zulus were. Captain Percy
Barrow, of the 19th Hussars, had reconnoitred
on the previous day eight miles to
the north-east, as far as Wamoquendo, and
could see nothing of them, and on the morning
Hammersley with his troop had ridden
as far In a westerly direction with the same
success, and yet ere the day closed the desperate
battle of Ginghilovo was fought.

dulcis's new friend.

And how fared it with Dulcis at Craigen-
gowan ?

The season was the early days of April ;
but in the Means they are usually more like
last days of March, when the Bervie, the
Finella River, and their tributaries were hurrying
towards the sea in haste, as if they had
no time to dally with the pebbles and boulders
that impeded them ; when the early-yeaned
lambs begin to gambol and play, and the
cloud and sunshine seem to chase each other
over the tender grass ; and when violets, as
Shakspeare has it, ' sweeter than the lids of
Juno's eyes,' give their fragrance to the passing
breeze.

As yet Dulcis knew nothing of what had
exactly befallen Florian, like many others
who had deep and thrilling interest in the
lists of the sergeants, rank and file.

Like Finella, Shaftoo knew that Hammersley's
name had not appeared in the list
of casualties, and he remembered him —
jealousy apart — with a bitter hatred ; for
1 utterly the former, even before the affair of
the cards, had been very cold, and ninny a
time, notwithstanding Shaftoo's position in the
house, used to honour him with only a calm
and supercilious stare. Now it has been
said truly that there are few things more irritating
to one's vanity than to be calmly
ignored. ' Argument, disagreement, even
insolence, are each in their way easier to bear
than that species of lofty indifference intended
to convey a sensation of inferiority and of
belonging to a lower class of beings altogether.
It gives the feeling of there being
something wrong about you without your
exactly knowing what!

But Shaftoo felt the falsehood of his position
whenever' he was with supposed equals]

and failed to assume perfect confidence or
proper dignity.

Though comfortable enough in her new
surroundings, Dulcis was somewhat changed
from the winsome and impulsive Dulcis whom
we first described in the sailor's hat and blue
serge suit at Revelstoke. Though her keener
grief had subsided, anxiety about Florian,
who had not another creature in the world to
love him but herself, and a natural doubt
about her own future had stolen the roundness
from her cheeks, and the roseleaf tints
too, while her skin in its delicate whiteness
had become waxen in aspect, and the coils of
her red golden hair seemed almost too heavy
for her shapely head and slender neck. But
she was far from idle. She had ^ my lady's '
lap-dog, a snarling little brute whose teeth
filled her with terror, to feed and comb daily;
she had much 'lovely china' to dust ; a wardrobe
to attend to, and rich laces to darn ;
she had notes innumerable to write ; and be
always smiling and lively as well as useful
when her heart was full of dull pain and despondency
concerning the unfortunate Florian,

winch at night especially put her In a species
of fever, and made her turn and toss restlessly
on her pillow, and start from sleep with a
little cry of terror as she flung out her arms
as if to ward off the frightful thoughts of
what might be happening, or had happened
already, so far, far away. And all this was
the harder to bear because she was then without
a friend or confidant with whom she could
share the burden of her secret sorrow.

She had been some time at CraicrenQ^owan
before she discovered in Its place of honour
the portrait of young Lennard Melfort, which
had been so long relegated to a lumber-attic,
and its resemblance to ' Major Mac Ian,' even
in his elder years, startled and amazed her ;
moreover, it was still more wonderful that
it so closely resembled Florlan, whom all at
Revelstoke were astounded to hear was only
the Major's nephew, and not his son, while
Shaftoo, she saw, bore no likeness to the picture
at all.

She was never weary of looking at it, and
asking questions of Finella about Lennard,
which that young lady was unable to answer,

as that which had happened to him occurred
long before she was born.

As for Shaftoo, he never dared to look at
this work of art. Though the portrait of
a young man, and his last memory of the
Major was that of a prematurely old one, the
likeness between the two was marvellous ;
and its deep, thoughtful eyes seemed to
follow, to haunt, and to menace him. He
loathed it ; and though one of the best efforts
of Sir Daniel Macnee, the President of the
Royal Scottish Academy, he would fain, if he
could, have found some plan for its destruction.
He avoided, however, as much as possible,
the apartment in which it hung.

To his annoyance, one morning, he found
Dulcis radiant with joy, and an ugly word
hovered on his lips when he discovered the
cause thereof.

She had been reading about the march of
the relieving column towards Etschowe under
Lord Chelmsford, and saw Florian's name
mentioned in connection with a brilliant
scouting exploit of the Mounted Infantry
under Captain Hammersley ; and a great

happiness thrilled her heart, for now she
knew that, up to the date given, he was alive
and well, and she thought of writing to him,
but would he ever get the letter ? — she knew
nothing of the camp postal arrangements, and
feared it might be futile to do so. Moreover,
she had an irrepressible dread of Lady
Fettercairn, whose bearing to her was as cold
as that of Finella was kind and warm.

Don't you ever wear flowers in your hair,
Miss Carlyon ?' said the latter, as she regarded
with honest admiration the glories of
Dulcis's ruddy hair shot with gold.

No.' •

Why ?'

^ So few tints go well with my hair : people
call it red,' said Dulcis.

People who are your enemies.'

I never had an enemy,' said Dulcis
simply.

That I can well believe. Then it must
be those who are envious of your loveliness,'
added Finella frankly.

A pink or crimson rose would never do
in my hair. Miss Melfort.'

But a white one would,' said Finally,
selecting a creamy white rose from a conservatory
vase, and pinning It In Dulcle's
hair, giving It a kindly pat as she did so.
Look, grand mamma ; doesn't she look
lovely now ?'

And the frank and Impulsive girl would
have kissed poor Dulcle but for a cold and
somewhat discouraging stare she encountered
in the eyes of Lady Fettercalrn.

'Somehow, Miss Carlyon,' she whispered
after a time, ' I don't get on well with grand-mamma.
It Is my fault, of course : I suppose
I am a little wretch !'

The friendship of these — though one was
a wealthy heiress and the other but a poor
companion — grew rapidly apace ; both were
too warm hearted, too affectionate and Impulsive
by habit, for it to be otherwise, and It
enabled them to pass hours together — though
young girls, like older ones, dearly love a
little gossip of their own kind — without any
sense of embarrassment or weariness ; for
ere long It came to pass that they shared their
mutual confidence ; and, as We shall show.

Finella came to speak of Vivian Hammersley
to Dulcle, and the latter to her of Florian.
But there was something in Dulcis's sweet
soft face that made people older than Finella
confide to her their troubles and difficulties,
for she was quick to sympathise with and to
understand all kinds of grief and sorrow.

One evening as they walked together on
the terrace, and tossed biscuit to a pair of
stately long-necked swans, the white plumage
of which gleamed like snow in the setting
sun as they swam gently to and fro in an
ornamental pond (a portion of the old moat)
that lay in front of the house, Dulcle said,
with tears of gratitude glittering in her blue
eyes —

You have done me a world of good by
your great kindness of heart to me, Finella —
oh, I beg your pardon — Miss Melfort I
mean — the name escaped me,' exclaimed
Dulcle, covered with confusion.

Call me always Finella,' said the other
emphatically.

Oh, I dare not do so before Lady
Fettercairn.'

VOL. II. 26

Then do so at other times, Dulcle. You
talk of doing you good — I do not believe
anyone could have the heart to do you
harm.'

-Why?'

You seem so good — so pure, so simple.
Oh, I do love you, Dulcis !' she exclaimed,
with true girlish effusiveness.

I thank you very much ; and yet we
think you Scotch folks are cold and stiff.'

We — who ?'

The English, I mean.'

They must be like the Arab who had
never seen the world, and thought it must be
all his father's tent,' said Finella laughing;
the insular, untravelled English, I mean.'

^ Such kindness is delightful to a lonely
creature like me. I have fortunately only
myself to work for, however.'

And no one else to think of ?'

'Oh — yes — yes,' said the girl sadly and
passionately ; ' but he is far, far away, and
every day seems to make the void in my
heart deeper, the ache keener, the silence
more hard to bear.'

Our emotions seem somehow the same,'
said Finella, after a pause. Then thinking
that she had perhaps admitted too much, or
laid a secret uselessly bare, Dulcle blushed,
and thought to change the subject by saying
reflectively, ' How many great and pleasant
things one might do if one had the chance
of doing so ; but such chances never come in
my way, for every change with me has been
for the worse.'

Not, I hope, in coming to Craigengowan ?'

Oh no ; they are painful matters I refer
to. First, I lost my dear papa, and was
thereby cast on the world penniless. Since
then I have lost one who loved me quite as
well as papa did.'

Another ?' said Finella inquiringly.

Yes ; but let me not speak of that,'
replied Dulcis hastily, and colouring deeply
again ; so Finella, like a lady, thought to
drop the subject, but somehow, with the
instinctive curiosity of her sex, unconsciously
revived it again, after a time.

Dulcis, however, perhaps forgetting her
present position, and remembering chiefly

26 — 2

her old acquaintance with Shaftoo, was mystified.
She thought 'the cousins' were free to
marry, so why don't they ? If engaged, they
act strangely to each other — Finella to him
especially — thus she said : —

Is there anything between Mr. Shaftoo and
you, Finella ?'

Yes,' replied the latter, growing pale with
anger.

What Is it ?'

Hatred on my part !'

And on his ?'

Pretended love and — and — avarice. He
knows I am rich.'

But why hatred ?' asked Dulcis, without
surprise.

That is my secret, Dulcis.'

I beg your pardon, I have no right to
question you. Surely you are one of those
people who always get what they wish for.'

Why ? — for riches do not always give
happiness.'

I mean because you are so good and
sweet.'

But Finella shook her pretty head sadly as

she thought of Vivian Hammersley, and
replied :

Young says in his *' Night Thoughts :"

" Wishing of all employment is the worst !"
and Young was right, perhaps

girls' confidences.

It was a sweet and mild spring morning, and
Finella and Dulcis, each with a shawl over
her pretty head, were again promenading
on the terrace before the mansion. Lady
Fettercairn was not yet down, and the 
had not yet been rung. The trees
were already making a show of greenery,
with half-developed foliage ; the oak was putting
out its red buds ; the laburnums were
clothed in green and gold, and the voice of
the cuckoo could be heard in the woods of
Craigengowan.

The cuckoo — listen !' said Dulcis, pausing
in her walk.

^ His note is, I believe, a call to love,' said
Finella softly.

The male only uses it ; and see, yonder
he sits on a bare bough.'

You can wish : one can do so when they
hear the cuckoo.'

And wish, as I often do, in vain,' said
Dulcis, with a tone of sadness unconsciously.

For what ?'

To hear from one who is far — far away
from me ; the only friend I have in the
world.'

He of whom you spoke some time ago —
a brother.'

I have no brother, nor a relation on this
side of the grave, Miss Melfort.' •

'Call me Finella,' said the latter, again
struck by Dulcis's desolate tone. ' Who is
it — a lover ?' she added, becoming, of course,
deeply interested.

A lover — yes,' replied Dulcis, with a fond
smile. ' The dearest and sweetest fellow in
the world !'

Yet he left you because your papa died
and you became penniless ?'

Oh ! — no, no ; do not say that. Do not
think so hardly of Florian !'

Florian ! — what a funny, delightful name ;
just like one in a novel !' exclaimed Finella.
So he is called Florian ?'

He, too, was poor. He could not marry
me, and probably never can do so.'

How sad !' said Finella, with genuine
sympathy, though from her own experience
she could not quite understand poverty.

Florian — my poor Florian !' said Dulcis,
quite borne away by this new sympathy, as
she covered her face with her white and
tremulous hands, and tried to force back her
tears, while Finella kissed, caressed, and tried
most sweetly to console her.

See !' said Dulcis, after a pause, opening
her silver locket.

Oh, what a handsome young fellow !'
exclaimed Finella. * Are you engaged T

Hopelessly so.'

Hopelessly ?'

^ I have said we are too poor to marry.'

I don't understand this,' said Finella,
greatly perplexed : * won't he become rich intime
?'

Never : he is a soldier, fighting in Africa.'

A soldier !' said Finally, becoming more
deeply interested ; ' not an officer ?'

His father or uncle was,' replied Dulcle
confusedly. ' Poverty drove him Into the
ranks

Of what regiment ?'

The 24th Warwickshire.'

Finally changed colour, and her breath
seemed to be taken from her, when she
heard the name of Hammersley's corps ; and
thus, after a time, a great gush of confidence
took possession of both girls.

I am rich,' said Finally ; ' I will buy him
back to you — I will, I will. Do not weep,
dearest Dulcle. The memory of a past that
has been happy Is always sweet ; Is it not ?'

Yes, even If the present be sad.'

I do believe, Dulcle, that tears agree
with you.'

Why ?'

Because they make those blue eyes of
yours positively lovely.'

Dulcle for a moment felt pleasure. Florian
had said the same thing once before, and she
only half believed him ; but to have it endorsed

by such a girl as Finally made it
valuable indeed to her.

'And Florian — I am quite an fait with his
name said Finella ; ' he is a gentleman ?'

Oh, yes — yes !' exclaimed Dulcis impetuously.


Poor fellow ! Then am I to understand
that there is a kind of undefined engagement
between you ?'

Something of that kind,' answered Dulcis,
simply. *We knew we might have to wait
for each other for years, if, indeed, we ever
meet again. We never spoke of marriage
quite. How could we, hopeless and poor as
we were ?'

^ But you spoke of love, surely ?' said
Finella, softly and archly.

Of love for each other — oh, yes ; many,
many times.'

Well, Dulcis, I shall purchase Florian's
discharge, as I have said. This kind of
thing can't go on said Finella decidedly,
unaware that neither officer nor soldier can
quit the service when face to face with an
enemy or at the actual seat of war.

Finally was in the act of closing Dulcis's
silver locket, when a voice said :

Please to let me look at this, Miss
Carlyon. I have remarked your invariable
ornament

The speaker was Lady Fettercairn, who
had approached them unnoticed.

Blushing deeply, Dulcis, with tremulous
little fingers, re-opened the locket, expectant,
perhaps, of reprehension ; but Lady Fetter-cairn
became strangely agitated.

Lennard !' she exclaimed. ' This is my
son Lennard as he looked when I saw him
last.' ♦

Oh, no, madam, that cannot be,' said
Dulcis.

Where got you it ?'

At home in Devonshire, where the photograph
was taken about a year ago.'

'Ah — true,' said Lady Fettercairn : 'when
Lennard was that age — the age of this young
man — the art was scarcely known. And
who is he ?'

Dulcis hesitated.

I have no right to ask,' said Lady Fetter-cairn,

hauteur blending with the certainly-deep
interest with which she regarded the
contents of the still open locket.

One who loved me,' said Dulcle, with a
kind of sob.

And whom you love ?' said the lady,
stiffly.

Yes, madam.'

It Is the Image of Lennard!' continued
Lady Fettercairn musingly ; ' but there sounds
the breakfast-bell,' she added, and turned
abruptly away.

What were the precise antecedents of
this girl. Miss Carlyon, who had been recommended
to her by her friend, the vicar, In
London ? thought Lady Fettercairn, as her
cold, passive, and aristocratic frame of mind
resumed Its sway. Yet, though she remained
silent on the subject, and disdained to Inquire
further about It, that miniature Interested
her deeply, and frequently at table and elsewhere
Dulcis caught her eyes resting on the
locket.

It filled her with a distinct and haunting
memory of one seen long ago, and not in

dreams, for Lady Fettercairn was not of an
imaginative turn of mind.

It may seem strange that amid all this
Dulcis never thought of mentioning that
Florian was the cousin of Shaftoo ; but she
knew how distasteful to Lady Fettercairn
was anyone connected with the family of
Lennard's dead wife, Flora Maclan.

When Shaftoo heard of all this, as he did
somehow, the qualms of alarm he experienced
on seeing first Madelon Galbraith and then
Dulcis at Craigengowan were renewed ; and
he resolved, if he could, to get possession
of that locket, and deface or destroy the
dangerous likeness it contained.

But Dulcis had an intuitive perception or
suspicion of this ; and finding that his evil
gaze rested upon it repeatedly, after a time
she ceased to wear it, but locked it away in a
secure place, from whence she could draw
It when she chose for her own private delectation.


When Finella, in mutual confidence, told
Dulcis of the manner in which Shaftoo had
brought about a separation between herself

and Vivian Hammersley, the girl expressed
her indignation, but no surprise. She knew
all he was capable of doing, and related the
two ugly episodes of the locket.

Heavens !' exclaimed Finally ; ' if Lord
Fettercairn knew of this business he would
surely expel him from Cralgengowan.'

No, no ; the person expelled would to a
certainty be poor me — an expulsion that
Lady Fettercairn would endorse to the full
on learning that Shaftoo had sought to make
love to me. Then I should again be more
than ever homeless ; so let us be silent, dear
Finally.'

Do you ever ride, Dulcle ?' asked the
latter.

How can I ride now ? In papa's time I
had a beautiful little Welsh cob, on which I
used to scamper about the shady lanes and
breezy moors in Devonshire. I can see still
in fancy his dear little head, high withers,
and short joints.'

You shall ride with me,' said Finally, in
her pretty, imperative way. ' I have three
pads of my own.'

But I have no habit.'

Then you shall wear one of mine. I
have several. A blue or green one will be
most becoming to you ; and though you areas
plump as a little English partridge, I have
one that will be sure to fit you.'

Thanks. Oh, how kind you are.'

Now, let us go to the stables. I go
there once every day to feed *' Fern," as you
shall see.'

Sandy Crupper, the head-groom, always
thought the stables never looked so bright
as during the time of Finella's visit. He
had known her from her childhood, and
taught her to ride her first Shetland pony.
He was a hard-featured and sour-visaged
old man, with that peculiarity of grooms, a
very small head and puckered face. He was
clad in an orthodox, long-bodied waistcoat,
in one of the pockets of which a currycomb
was stuck, and wore short corded breeches.
He was always closely shaven, and wore a
scrupulously white neckcloth, carefully tied.
His grey eyes were bright and keen ; his
short legs had that peculiar curve that indicates

a horsy individual. And when the
ladies appeared, he came forth from the
harness-room with smiling alacrity, a piece
of chamois-leather In one hand and a snaffle-bit
in the other.

Good-morning, miss,' said he, touching
his billycock.

Good-morning, Sandy. I want Fern and
Flirt for a spin about the country to-day
after luncheon ;' and the sound of Finella's
voice was the signal for many Impatient
neighs of welcome and much rattling of stall-collars
and wooden balls.

Fern, the favourite pad of Finella — a
beautiful roan, with a deal of Arab blood in
it — gave a loud whinny of delight and recognition,
and thrust forward his soft tan-coloured
muzzle In search of the carrot which
she daily brought to regale him with ; but
Flirt preferred apples and sugar. Then,
regardless of what stablemen might be looking
on, she put her arms round Flirt's neck,
and rubbed her peach-like cheek against his
velvety nose.

On hearing of the projected ride, at

luncheon, Lady Fettercairn's face grew
cloudy, and she took an opportunity of
saying :

Finella, you are putting that girl, Miss
Carlyon, quite out of her place, and I won't
stand It.'

Oh, grand mamma!' exclaimed Finella,
deprecatingly, ' this is only a little kindness
to one who has seen better times ;
and she had a horse of her own in devonshire


Ah ! no doubt she told you so.'

The horses were duly brought round intime
: Fern with his silky mane carefully
and prettily plaited by the nimble little
fingers of Finella — a process which old Sandy
Crupper always watched with delight and
approval. And Dulcis, mounted on Flirt, a
spotted grey, looked every inch a lady of
the best style, in an apple-green habit of
Finella's, with her golden hair beautifully
coiled under a smart top-hat, put well forward
over her forehead. She was perfect,
to her little tan-coloured gauntlet gloves, and
was — Lady Fettercairn, who glanced from the

VOL. II. 27

window, was compelled to admit silently —
very good form indeed.'

Escorted by Shaftoo and a groom, they
set forth ; and, save for the unwelcome
presence of the former, to Dulcis it was a
day of delight, which she thought she never
should forget.

Dulcis, we have said, had been wont to
scamper about the Devonshire lanes, where
the clustered apples grew thick overhead, on
her Welsh cob, and now on horseback she
felt at home in her own sphere again ; her
colour mounted, her blue eyes sparkled, and
the ofirl looked beautiful indeed.

She almost felt supremely happy ; and
Fidelia laughed as she watched her enjoying
the sensations of power and management,
and the independence given by horse-exercise
— the life, the stir, the action, and joyous
excitement of a thorough good ' spin ' along
a breezy country road.

Shaftoo, however, was in a sullen temper,
and vowed secretly that never again would
he act their cavalier, because the girls either
ignored him by talking to each other, or only

replied to any remarks he ventured to make
sand these were seldom of an amusing or
original nature. Indeed, he felt painfully
and savagely how hateful his presence was
to both.

Despite Lady Fettercairn, other rides
followed, for Finella was difficult to control,
and in her impulsive and coaxing ways
proved generally irrepressible. Thus she
took Dulcis all over the country : to the
ruined castle of Fettercairn, to Den Finella,
and to the great cascade — a perpendicular
rock, more than seventy feet high, over
which the Finella River pours on its way
from Garrick, where it rises, to the sea at
Johnshaven.

Returning slowly from one of these rides,
with their pads at a walking pace, with the
room a long way in their rear, Dulcis,
breaking a long silence, during which both
seemed to be lost in thought, said :

Troubles are doubly hard to bear when
we have to keep them to ourselves ; thus I
feel happier, at least easier In mind, now
that I have told you all about poor Florian.'

27 — 2

*And I, that I have told you about Captain
Hammersley,' replied Finally ; 'though of
course I shall never see him again.'

Never — why so ?'

After what he saw and what he no doubt
thinks, how can I expect to do so ? My
greatest affliction is that I must seem so
black In his eyes. Yet It is Impossible forme
not to feel the deepest and most tender
interest In him — to watch with aching heart
the news from the seat of war, and all the
movements of his regiment — the movements
in which he must have a share.'

Things cannot, nay, must not, go on
thus between you. The false position should
be cleared up, explained away. What Is to
be done ?'

Grin and bear It. as the saying Is, Dulcle,
Nothing can avail us now — nothing,' said
Finally, with a break in her voice.'

Finally, let me help you and him.'

How ?'

I shall write about It to Florlan. I mean
to write him now, at all events.'

Despite all she had been told about the

antecedents of the latter, Finella blushed
scarlet at the vision of what Hammersley —

the proud and haughty Vivian Hammersley
—would think of his love-affairs being put
into the hands of one of his own soldiers ;
bat Dulcis, thinking only of who Florian
was, did not see it in this light, or that it
would seem like a plain attempt to lure an
angry lover back again.

Unless you wish me to die of shame,' said
Finella, after a bitter pause — * shame and
utter mortification — you will do no such
thing, Dulcis Carlyon !'

The latter looked at the speaker, and saw
that her dark eyes were flashing dangerously
as she added :

He left me in a gust of rage and suspicion
of his own free will ; and of his own free will
must he return.'

Will he ever do so, if the cause for that
just rage and suspicion, born of his very love
for you, is not explained away ?*

No, certainly. He is proud, and so am I ;
but I will never love anyone else, and mean
in time to come to invest in the sleekest of

tom-cats and die an old maid,' she added
with a little sob in her throat.

And meanwhile you are in misery ?'

'As you see, Dulcis ; but I will rather die
than fling myself at any man's head, especially
at his, through the medium of a letter of yours;
but I thank you for the kind thought, dear
Dulcis.'

So the latter said no more on the subject
yet made up her mind as to what she
would do.

The circumstance that both their lovers, so
dissimilar in rank and private means, were
serving in the same regiment, facing the
same dangers, and enduring the same hardships,
formed a kind of sympathetic tie between
these two girls, who could share their
confidences with each other alone, though
their positions in life, by present rank and
their probable future, were so far apart.

They never thought of how young they
were, or that, if both their lovers were slain
or never seen by them again through the
contingencies of life, others would come to
them and speak of love, perhaps successfully.

Such Ideas never occurred, however. Both
were too romantic to be practical ; and both
the rich one and the poor one — only
thought of the desolate and forlorn years
that stretched like a long and gloomy vista
before them, with nothing to look forward
to, and no one to care for, unless they
became Sisters of Charity ; and Finella, withall
her thousands, sometimes spoke bitterly
of doing so.

THE EVENING OF GINGHILOVO.

Much about the time that the conversation
we have just recorded was taking place
between the two fair equestriennes, the
subject thereof, then with the troops in the
laager of Ginghllovo, was very full of the
same matter they had In hand — himself and
his supposed wrongs.

She never could have really cared fur
me, or she never could have acted as she
did, unless she wished with the contingencies
of war to have two strings to her bow,'
thought Hammersley, as he lay on the grass
a little apart from all, and sucked his briar-root
viciously. * Perhaps she thought it washer
money I wanted — not herself. Ah, how
could she look into her glass and think so!'

Ever before him he had that horrid
episode in the shrubbery, and saw In
memory the girl he loved so passionately In
the arms of another, who was giving her
apparently the kisses men only give to one
woman in the world — a sight that seemed to
scorch his eyes and heart.

Yes,' he would mutter, * one may be
mistaken in some things, but there are some
things there is no mistaking, and that affair
was one of them.'

Perhaps at that very instant of time
Finella was posed, as he had seen her last,
with ' Cousin' Shaftoo, and the thought made
him hate her! He felt himself growing
colder and harder, though his heart ached
sorely, for the ' soul-hunger of love' was in it.

Well, well,' he would mutter, as he tugged
his dark moustache ; ' what are called hearts
have surely gone to the wall in this Victorian
age.'

His bitter memories would have soon
passed away, could he have seen, as if in a
magic mirror, at that moment Finella, In her
riding-habit, on her knees in the solitude of

her own room, before a large photo of a
handsome young fellow in the uniform of the
24th (his helmet under his right arm, his left
hand on the hilt of his sword), gazing at it,
yet scarcely seeing it, so full were her soft
eyes of hot salt tears, while her sweet little
face looked white, woe-begone, and most
miserable. But now the bugles sounding on
the various flanks of the laager, when about
six in the evening a general hum of voices
pervaded it, and the order ' Stand to your
arms!' announced that the enemy was insight
of the trenches.

In front of the old kraal of Gino^hilovo,
behind an earthen breastwork and abattis of
felled trees, were the both Rifles, in their
tunics of dark green, and sailors of the S/iak
with their Gatling guns, which they playfully
called * bull-dogs and barrel-organs.'

They were flanked by some of the 57th
and two seven-pounders ; the Argyleshire
Highlanders, then in green tartan trews,
held the rear face ; and the defences were
prolonged by the Lanarkshire, the 3rd Buffs,

and some more of the Naval Brigade with a
rocket battery.

Every heart in the laager beat high, and
every face flushed with intense satisfaction,
as two sombre columns of Zulus appeared,
spreading like a human flood over the
ground, after crossing the reedy Inyezane
stream, deploying in a loose formation, which
enabled them to find cover behind scattered
boulders and patches of bush.

Now, when on the eve of an action,
Hammersley, like every other officer, felt
that new and hitherto unknown dread and
doubt of the result which has more than once
come upon our troops of all ranks, born of
the new and abominable system which in so
many ways has achieved the destruction of
the grand old British army — ' the army which
would go anywhere, and do anything' — by
the abolition of the regimental system, and
with it the power of cohesion ; but the worst,
the so-called ' territorial system,' had not yet
come.

Encouraged by the countenance and
praises of Hammersley, Florian left nothing

undone to win himself a name, and had
already become distinguished for his daring,
discretion, and acuteness of observation
among all the Mounted Infantry when
scouting or reconnoitring, and his further
promotion seemed now to be only a matter
of time.

Both courted danger, apparently with impunity,
as the brave and dashing often do :
Florian with a view to the future ; Hammersley
to forget. Soldiers will make fun,
even when under fire, so some of his comrades
quizzed Florian in his old laced tunic,
and dubbed him ' the Captain ;' but Vivian
Hammersley thought, how like a gentleman
and officer he looked in the half worn garment
he had given him.

Through the long, wavy, and reed-like
grass two columns of Zulus crept swiftly on
in close rather than extended order, and
furiously assailed the north face of the
square held by the Highlanders, flanked as
usual by extended horns, and all yelling like
fiends broken loose, while brandishing their
great shields and glittering assegais, till

smitten with death and destruction under
the close rowing Highland musketry.

They were commanded by a noble savage,
named Somapo, with Dabulamanzl and the
eldest son of SIrayo as seconds.

Almost unseen by the darkness of their
uniforms, the Rifles lay down flat behind
their shelter-trenches ; the barrels of their
weapons rested firmly on the earthen bank,
enabling them to take steady and deadly aim,
while dropping In quick succession the cartridges
into the breech-blocks without even
moving the left arm or the right shoulder,
against which the butt-plate of the rifle
rested, and their terrible fire knocked over In
writhing heaps the Zulus, who, In all their
savage fury and bravery, came rushing on
ten thousand strong and more.

Their white and coloured shields,' wrote
one who was present, ' their crests of leopard-skin
and feathers, and wild ox-tails dangling
from their necks, gave them a terrible unearthly
appearance. Every ten or fifteen
yards, and a shot would be fired, and then,
with an unearthly yell, they would again

rush on with a sort of measured dance, while
a hummlnof and buzzing sound in time to
their movement was kept up.'

Meanwhile the laager was literally zoned
with fire and enveloped with smoke ; yet
within It no sound was heard save the
rattling roar of the musketry, the clatter of
the breech-blocks, and triumphant bagpipes
of the Highlanders, with an occasional groan
or exclamation of agony as a bullet found its
billet.

In the fury of their advance and struggles
to get onward over their own dead and
dying, the Zulus from the rear would break
through the fighting line, jostling and dashing
each other aside, and rush yelling on,
until they too bit the dust.

The booming of the Gatling guns and the
dread hiss of the blazing rockets were heard
ever and anon amid the medley of other
sounds, and for half an hour the showers of
lead and iron tore through and through the
naked masses, where the places of the fallen
were instantly taken by others.

By half-past six the shrill yells of the

Zulus died away ; but in mute despair and
fury they still struggled in hope to storm the
laager, when, if once within its defences, the
fate of all would be sealed.

Four times like a living sea they flung
themselves against it, and four times by
sheets of lead and iron they were hurled
back from the reddened bayonet's point,
while some remained in the open, firing from
behind the bloody piles of their own dead,
which lay in awful lines or swathes of black
bodies with white shields, a hundred yards
apart, in rear of each other.

At last the survivors gave way, and all fled
in confusion.

Forward, the Mounted Infantry !' cried
Lord Chelmsford.

And these, under Captain Barrow and
Hammersley, sprang with alacrity to their
saddles, slinging their rifles as they filed out
of the laager.

Front form squadron !' was now the
order, and the sections of fours swept round
into line.

Come on, my lads !' cried Hammersley,

as he unsheathed his sword and dug the
spurs into his horse ; * forward — trot, gallop [
By Jove ! an hour of this work

» >

" Is worth an age without a name !

And away went the Mounted Infantry
over the terrible swathes at a swinging
pace.

Like most of the few officers of that
peculiar and extemporised force, Vivian
Hammersley had been accustomed to cross
country and ride to hounds, and to deem
that the greatest outdoor pleasure in life.

Tattoo, Florlan's horse, fortunately for
him in the work he had to do that evenings
proved to be a tried Cape shooting-horse,
accustomed to halt the moment his rein is.
dropped, and to stand like a rock when his
rider fires. An experienced shooting-horse
requires no sign from his master when
required to stand, and on hearing a sound
or stir in the bush is alert as a dog scenting
danger or game.

Florian loved the animal like a friend,
and often shared his beer with him, as

Homer tells us the Greek warriors of old
shared their wine with their battle-chargers ;
we suppose it is only human nature that we
must love something that is in propinquity
with us.

The Mounted Infantry overtook the
fugitive Zulus, and fell furiously, sword in
hand, upon their left flank, but not without
receiving a scattered fire that emptied a few
saddles.

The routed fled with a speed peculiarly
their own ; but Captain Barrow and his improvised
troopers were in close pursuit, and
from the laager their sword-blades could 'be
seen flashing in the evening sunshine, as the
cuts were dealt downward on right and left,
and the foe was overtaken, pierced, and
ridden over and through.

In this work the force necessarily became
somewhat broken, and Hammersley, who,
in the ardour of the pursuit, and being
splendidly mounted, had outstripped all the
Mounted Infantry and gone perilously
far in advance, had his horse shot under
him.

VOL. II. 28

'Captain Hammersley — Hammersley! He
will be cut to pieces !' cried several of the
soldiers, who saw him and his horse go down
in a cloud of dust, and in another moment
he was seen astride the fallen animal contending
against serious odds with his sword
and revolver. And now ensued one
of those episodes which were of frequent
occurrence in the service of our Mounted
Infantry.

Florian saw the sore strait in which Hammersley
was placed, and had, quick as
thought, but one desire — to save him or die
by his side. At that part of the field a
watercourse — a tributary of the Inyezene
River — separated him from Hammersley,
but putting the pace upon Tattoo, he rode
gallantly to face it. Rider and horse seemed
to possess apparently but one mind — one
impulse. Tattoo cocked his slender ears,
gave a glance at the water, sparkling in the
setting sun, and, springing from his powerful
and muscular hind-legs, cleared the stream
from bank to bank — a distance not less than
fifteen feet.

Well done, old man !' exclaimed Florlan ;
you are game !'

'Hurry!' burst from several of the troop,
some of whom failed to achieve the leap.
So Florian rode forward alone, and in less
time than we have taken to record it, was by
the side of Hammersley, who was bleeding
from a wound in the left arm from an
assegai launched at him by one of three
powerful savages with whom he was contending,
and in whom Florian recognised
Methagazulu, the son of the famous Sirayo.

The last shot in Hammersley's revolver
disposed of one ; Florian shot a second, and
drove his bayonet through the side of
Sirayo's son, whom others were now returning
to succour, and, lifting Hammersley on
his own horse, conducted him rearward to a
place of safety, covering the rear with his
rifle, pouring in a quick fire with an excellent
aim till a dozen of his comrades
came up and received them both with a
cheer.

Though wounded, Methagazulu did not die
then, for, as we have elsewhere said, the close

28—2

of the war found him a prisoner in the gaol of
Pietermaritzburg.

But for the succour so promptly accorded
by Florian, another moment would have
seen that savage, after wounding Hammersley
by one assegai, give him the cotta de
grace with another ; as it is a superstition
with the Zulus that if they do not rip their
enemies open, disembowelling them, as their
bodies swell and burst when dead, so will
those of the slayers in life ; and so firm is
their belief in that, that after the victory had
been won at Rorke's Drift many of the
Zulus were seen to pause, even under a
heavy fire, to rip up a few of our dead who
lay outside the entrenchment ; and cases
have been known in which warriors who
have been unable to perform this barbarous
ceremony have committed suicide to escape
what they deemed their inevitable doom.

Florian tied his handkerchief round Hammersley's
arm, above the wound, to stay the
blood, till he left him safely with the
ambulance waggons and in care of Staff-surgeon
Gallipot ; and though faint with the

bleeding, for the wound was long and deep —
a regular gash — Hammersley wrung the hand
of his saver, and said :

My gallant young fellow, you will have
good reason if I live — as I doubt not I will
to recall this evening's work with satisfaction.'


I shall ever remember, sir, with pride
that I saved your life — the life of the only
friend I have now in our decimated regiment
since I lost poor Bob Edgehill.'

It is not that I mean said Hammersley
faintly, 'but, If spared, I shall see to your
future, and all that sort of thing, you understands


I thank you, sir, and hope '

Hope nothing,' said Hammersley, closing
his eyes, as memory brought a gush of bitterness
to his heart.

Why, sir ?'

Because when one is prepared for the
worst, disappointment can never come

Florlan knew not what to make of this
sudden change of mood In his officer, and so
remained discreetly silent.

Have you any water In your bottle ?'
asked Hammersley.

A little, sir.'

Then give me a drop, for God's sake —
mine Is empty

Florlan took the water-bottle from his
waist-belt and drew out the plug ; the
sufferer drank thirstily, and on being placed
In a sitting position, with a blanket about
him, strove to obtain a little sleep, being
weary and faint with the events of the past
day.

Whoever he Is, that lad has good blood
In his veins, and he has no fear of lavishing
it,' was his last thought as he watched the
receding figure of Florlan leading away his
favourite Tattoo by the bridle.

Our total casualties at Ginghllovo were
only sixty-one ; those of the Zulus above
twelve hundred. The story of the encounter
might have been different had another column
of ten thousand men, which had been despatched
from Ulundi by Cetewayo the day
after the march of Somapo, effected a junction
with the latter.

Etschowe, the point to be relieved, was
now fifteen miles distant ; but Colonel Pearson
in his isolated fort must have heard of
the victory, for Florian, when out with a few
files on scouting duty, could see the signals
of congratulation flashed therefrom.

After the fierce excitement of the past day,
he felt — he knew not why — depressed and
almost sorrowful ; but perhaps the solitudes
among which he rode impressed him when
night came on.

Lighted up by hundreds and thousands of
stars, the clear sky spread like a vast shining
canopy overhead, and then the great round
moon shed down a flood of silver sheen on
the grassy downs where the black bodies of
the naked dead, with fallen jaws and glistening
teeth and eyes, lay thick as leaves in autumn,
and Tattoo picked his steps gingerly among
them.

And in such a solemn and silent time,
more keenly than ever, came to Florian's
mind the ever-recurring thoughts of Dulcis
Carlyon and of what she was doing ; where
was she and with whom — in safety or in peril ?

Next morning Florlan — ^as he was detailed
for duty to the front with the Mounted
Infantry, paid a farewell visit to Captain
Hammersley, whom he found reposing
among some straw in a kind of tilt cart, and
rather feverish from the effects of his wound,
and who had been desired to remain behind
in the laager for a little time, though he
could with difficulty be prevailed upon todo
so.

Preceding the march of the column, the
Mounted Infantry under Barrow filed forth
at an easy pace in search of the enemy.

It was scarcely a new experience to
Florian now, or to any man with the army in
Zululand, that of putting a savage to death.
Every rifle slew them by scores, when a
hundred rounds of ammunition per man were
poured into the naked hordes in less than an
hour's time.

Lord Chelmsford left some of the Kentish
Buffs, the Lanarkshire, and the Naval
Brigade to garrison the laager at Ginghilovo,
and marched for Etschowe with the 57th, the
both Rifles, and Argyleshire Highlanders,

escorting a long train of Scottish carts,
laden with food and stores, preceded by the
Mounted Infantry scouting far in advance.

The whole column wore the white helmet,
but the dark green of the Rifles and the
green tartan trews of the Highlanders varied
the colour of the scarlet mass that marched
up the right bank of the Inyezene river, with
drums beating and bayonets flashing in the
April sunshine.

Aloof the whole line of march were seen
shields, rifles, assegais, furs, and feathers
strewed about in thousands, cast away by the
fugitives who had fled from Ginghilovo, and
here and there the Kaffir vultures, hovering
in mid air above a tonga, or swooping down
into it with a fierce croak, indicated where
some dead men were lying.

Briskly the troops pushed on to rescue
Colonel Pearson and his isolated garrison,
which, during a blockade that had now
extended to ten weeks, had been in daily
expectation of experiencing the fate of those
who perished at Isandhlwana ; and surmounting
all the natural difficulties of a

rugged country, intersected by watercourses
which recent rains had swollen, by sunset the
mounted men under Barrow were close to
the fort, and heard the hearty British cheers
of a hungry garrison mingling with a merry
chorus which they were singing.

Under Colonel Pemberton, the Rifles
pushed on ahead with Lord Chelmsford, just
as an officer on a grey charger came dashing
round the base of the hill surmounted by the
fort.

Here is Pearson, gentlemen cried the
Commander-in-chief.

How are you, my friend ?'

Old fellow — how are you ?' and grasping
each other's hand, they rode on towards the
fort, where the General was received with an
enthusiasm which grew higher when the
Argyleshire Highlanders marched in with all
their kilted pipers playing * The Campbell
are coming.'

The fort was destroyed and abandoned,
and on the 4th of April the united columns
began to fall back on Ginghilovo, the
Mounted Infantry as usual in front, but clad

in the uniform of that service — a Norfolk
jacket and long untanned boots, all patched
and worn now.

It was justly conceived that the laager
would not be reached without fighting, as a
body of Zulus, led in person by Dabulamanzi
and the son of Sirayo, was expected to bar
the way, and consequently serious loss of life
was expected ; but so far as Florian was
concerned, he felt that he could face any
danger now with comparative indifference,
and his daily pleasure consisted in carefully
grooming and feeding Tattoo ; and Florian,
as he rode on, was thinking with some
perplexity of the farewell words of Captain
Hammersley.

Good-bye, sergeant — we have all our
troubles, I suppose, whatever they are, and I
should not care much if mine were ended
here at Ginorhilovo.'

I should think that you cannot have
much to trouble you, sir,' was Florian's
laughing response as he left him.

NEWS FROM THE SEAT OF WAR.

It was a soft and breezy April morning.
The young leaves had scarcely burst their
husk-like sheaths in the alternate showers
and sunshine ; the lambs were bleating in
the meadows, the birds sang on bush and
tree, the white clouds were floating in the
azure sky, and the ivy rustled on the old
walls of turreted Craigengowan, when there
came some tidings that found a sharp echo in
the hearts of Dulcis and Finella.

Arm-in-arm, as girls will often do, they
were idling and talking of themselves and
their own affairs in all the luxury of being
together alone, near a stately old gateway of
massive iron bars, hung on solid pillars,
surmounted by time-worn wyverns, and all

around it, without and within, grew tall
nettles, mighty hemlock, and other weeds ;
while the avenue to which it once opened had
disappeared, and years upon years ago been
blended with the lawn, for none had trod it
for 146 years, since the last loyal Laird of
Craigengowan had ridden forth to fight for
King James VIII., saying that it was not to
be unclosed again till his return ; and he
returned no more, so it remains closed unto
this day.

And it has been more than once averred by
the peasantry that on the 13th of November,
the anniversary of the battle in which he fell,
when the night wind is making an uproar
in the wintry woods of Craigengowan, the
low branches crashing against each other, a
weird moon shines between rifts in the black
flying clouds, and the funeral-wreaths of the
departed harvest flutter on the leafless hedges,
a spectred horseman, in the costume of Queen
Anne's time, his triangular hat bound with
feathers, a square-skirted coat and gilded
gambadoes — a pale, shimmering figure,
through which the stars sparkle — can be seen

outside the old iron gate, gazing with wistful
and hollow eyes through the rusty bars, as if
seeking for the vanished avenue down which
he had ridden with his cuirass troop to
fight for King James VIII. ; for sooth to
say, old Craigengowan is as full of ghostly
legends as haunted Glacis itself.

Finella had just told this tale to Dulcis
when a valet rode past the gate and entered
the lawn by another with the post-bag for
the house. From this Finella took out a
newspaper — one of the many it contained —
and with eager eyes the two girls scanned
its columns for the last news from Zululand,
and simultaneously a shrill exclamation, which
made the man turn in his saddle as he rode
on, escaped them both.

The paper contained a brief telegraphic
notice of the conflict at the laager of Gingham
and with it the following paragraph :

Captain Vivian Hammersley, of the
unfortunate 24th Regiment, led a squadron
of Barrow's Mountain Infantry ; and having,
with the most brilliant gallantry, pressed the

flying foe much too far, had his horse shot
under him, and was in danger of being
instantly assegaied by several infuriated
savages, who were driven off and shot down
in quick succession by Sergeant Florlan
Maclan, who mounted the wounded officer
on his own horse and brought him safely
into the lines, for which noble act of
humanity and valour he Is, we believe,
recommended for promotion by Captain
Barrow, of the 19th Hussars, commanding
the Mounted Infantry, and by Lord Chelmsford.
The fatal day of Isandhlwana has
made many commissions vacant In the unfortunate
24th Foot ; and we have no doubt
that one of them will be conferred upon this
gallant young sergeant.'

Oh, Dulcis, let me kiss you — I can't kiss
your Florlan just now !' exclaimed the impulsive
Finella, embracing her companion,
whose eyes, like her own, were brimming
with tears of joy and sympathy.

Hammersley had received a wound of
which no details were given ; and that

circumstance, by Its faculty, filled the heart
of Finella with the keenest anxiety. Oh, if
he should die believing what he did of her,
when she had been and was still so true and
loyal to him !

The intelligence rather stunned her ; and
for some minutes she remained paralyzed
with dismay. She was powerless, with all
her wealth, to succour in any way her suffering
lover, and no resolution could shape
Itself In her mind. He might be dying, or
already dead, for the fight had taken place
some days ago — dying amid suffering and
misery, while she remained idly, lazily, and
in comfort amid the luxuries of Craigen-
gowan. Even Dulcis failed to console her ;
and declining to appear at the breakfast-table,
she took refuge in her own room,
with the usual feminine plea of a headache.

Florlan, poor dear Florian ! so good, so
brave, so fearless !' said Dulcis to herself
aloud ; ' how glad I am he has achieved this,
for her sake !'

How sweet and soft grew her voice as she
uttered the name of the lost, the absent one,

SP

while an hysterical lump was rising in her
throat, and Shaftoo, who had seen the paper
and knew the source of this emotion, looked
grimly in her face, with twitching lips and
knitted brows.

I have no chance,' thought he, ' with these
two girls — either Dulcle the poor or Finella
the rich. Yet why should I not contrive to
bend both to my purpose ?' was his evil afterthought.
'Well,' said he aloud; 'you have
seen the news, of course ?'

Yes, Shaftoo,' replied Dulcle in a low
voice, while her tears fell fast.

So — he is not killed yet !'

She regarded him with bitter reproach.

Don't cry, Dulcle !' said Shaftoo, with a
little emotion of shame, 'or you will make
me feel like a brute now.'

I always thought you must have felt like
one long ago,' retorted the girl, as she swept
disdainfully past him.

As Lord and Lady Fettercairn had no
desire to bring the name of Captain Hammersley
on the tapis, no reference whatever
to the affair of Ginghilovo, or even to the

VOL. II. 29

•5j»

Zulu War, was made in the presence of
Finella.

Even If the latter had not been engaged, as
she still could not help deeming herself, to
Hammersley, and had she not a decided, repugnance
to Shaftoo, her pride and her whole
soul must have revolted against a mariage de
convenience. She had formed, girl-like, her
own conceptions of an ideal man, and beyond
all whom she met, in London or elsewhere,
Vivian Hammersley was her ' Prince Charming
;' and in a day or two her mind was
partially set at rest when she read a description
of his wound, a flesh one, inflicted by an
assegai, and which was then healing fast,
but, as she knew, only to enable him to face
fresh perils.

To be bartered away to anyone after being
grotesquely wooed did not suit her independent
views, and ere long her grandparents
began to think with annoyance that they
had better let her alone ; but Lady Fetter-cairn
was impatient and irrepressible.

Not so Shaftoo.

He had a low opinion of the sex, picked

up perhaps in the bar-parlour of the Inn at
Revelstoke, if not inherent in his own nature.
He had read somewhere that ' women love a
judicious mixture of hardihood and flattery
the whole secret lies in that ;' also, that If
their hearts are soft their heads are softer in
proportion.

Lady Fettercairn was somewhat perplexed
when watching the young folks at Craigen-
gowan.

She shrewdly suspected, of course, that
Finally's coldness to Shaftoo was due to the
influence of their late guest Hammersley,
though she never could have guessed at the
existence of the wedding-ring and diamond
keeper he had entrusted to her care ; but she
failed to understand the terms on which her
grandson ' was with her companion, Miss
Carlyon, and, though there was nothing
tangible or reprehensible, there was an undefined
something in their bearing she did
not like.

Sometimes when talking of Devonshire,
of Revelstoke, of the old town of Newton
Ferrara, the dell that led to Loss, of the

29 — 2

Yealm, the Erme, and the sea-beat Mew-stone
as safe and neutral topics, the girl
seemed affable enough to him, for memories
of her English home softened her heart ; but
when other topics were broached she was
constrained to him and icy cold.

Was this acting ?

To further the interests of Shaftoo by keeping
him and Finella isolated and as much
together as possible, Lady Fettercairn did
not go to London and thus seek society.
Fashionable folks — unless Parliamentary — do
not return to town till Easter ; but Lord
Fettercairn, though a Representative Peer,
cared very little about English and still less
about Scottish affairs, or indeed any interests
but his own ; so, instead of leaving Craigen-
gowan, they had invited a few guests there —
men who had come for rod-fishing in the
Bervie, the Carron and the Finella, with
some ladies to entertain them, thus affording
the girl means of avoiding Shaftoo whenever
she chose.

The stately terrace before the house often
looked gay from the number of guests

promenading In the afternoon, or sitting In
snug corners In wicker chairs covered with
soft rugs — the ladles drinking tea, the bright
colours of their dresses coming out well
against the grey walls of the picturesque old
mansion.

Among other visitors were the vinegar
Lady Drumshoddy, and Messrs.
KIppIlaw, senior and junior, the latter a
dapper little tomtit of a Writer to the
Signet, Intensely delighted and flattered to
be among such * swell ' company, believing
It was the result of his natural brilliance and
attractions, and not of respect for his worthy
old father, Kenneth KIppIlaw.

The latter — a vara avis., scarce as the dodo
and his kindred — was Intensely national — a
lover of his country and of everything
Scottish ; an enthusiast at Burns' festivals,
and singularly patriotic to be what Is locally
termed a * Parliament House bred man.'
Thus the anti-nationality or utter Indifference
of Lord Fettercairn was a frequent
bone of contention between them ; and so
bitterly did they sometimes argue about Scotland

and her neglected Interests, that It is a
marvel the Peer did not seek out a more
obsequious agent.

Like his uncle, the late Master of Melfort,
Mr. Shaftoo must go into Parliament,' said
old Mr. Kippilaw ; ^ but 1 hope he will make
a better use of his time.'

What do you mean }' asked Lord Fetter-cairn
coldly.

By attending to Scottish affairs, and
getting us equal grants with England and
Ireland for public purposes.'

Stuff — the old story, my dear sir. Who
cares about Scotland or her Interests ?'

Ay, who Indeed !' exclaimed old Kippi-
law, growing warm.

'■ She is content to be a mere province
now.'

The more shame for her — a province that
contributes all her millions to the Imperial
Exchequer and gets nothing in return.'

A sure sign she doesn't want anything,'
replied the peer, with one of his silent
laughs. ' I wish you would not worry me
with this patriotic "rot," Kippilaw — excuse

the vulgarity of the phrase ; but so long as I
can get my rents out of Craigengowan and
Finella, I don't care a jot if all the rest, Scotland
with all its rights and wrongs, history,
poetry and music, was ten leagues under the
sea !'

So thus, for two reasons, political and
personal, the ' Fettercalrns ' just then did not
go to ' town

On the terrace this very afternoon Lady
Fettercairn was watching Finella and Dulcis,
linked arm in arm conversing apart from all,
and her smooth brow clouded ; for she
knew well that the fact of Hammersley
owing his life to Florian Mac Ian would
make — as it did — a new tie between the two
girls.

You see, Shaftoo,' said she, 'how more
than ever does Finella put that girl out of
her place. Though most useful as she is tome,
always pleasant and irreproachably ladylike,
I think I must get rid of her.'

Not yet — not yet, grandmother,' said
Shaftoo, who did not just then wish this climax ;
do give her another chance.'

To please you, I will, my dear boy ; but I
fear I am rash

I wish Finella were not so beastly rich !'
he exclaimed.

Do not use such shocking terms, Shaftoo !
But why ?'

It makes me look like a fortune-hunter,
being after her.'

" After her" ? Another vulgarism — impossible
— you — you — the heir of Fettercairn !'

Well, it gives one no credit for disinterested
affection,' said this plausible young
gentleman.

We have said that Lady Fettercairn was
irrepressible in seeking to control Finella.

How quiet and abstracted you seem !
Why don't you entertain our friends .^' said
she, as the girl drew near her in an angle of
the terrace, where they were alone.

I am thinking, grand mamma,' said Finella
wearily.

You seem to be for ever thinking, child ;
and I wonder what it can all be about.'

I don't believe, grand mamma, it would
interest you,' said Finella, a little defiantly.

There you are wrong, Finally ; what
Interests you, must of necessity Interest me,'
said Lady Fettercairn, haughtily yet languidly,
as she fanned herself.

Not always.'

^ Is It something new, then ? I suspect
your thoughts,' she continued with some
asperity. ' Finally, listen to me again. You
and Shaftoo are the only two left of the
Melfort family ; we wish the two branches
united, for their future good — the good of the
name and the title ; and If Shaftoo goes into
Parliament, I do not see why he should not
perhaps become Viscount or Earl of Fetter-cairn.'


The old story ! I have no ambition,
grand mamma,' shrugging her shoulders, * and
certainly none to be the wife of Shaftoo, even
were he made a duke. So please to let me
alone,' she added desperately, 'or I may tell
you that of — of — Shaftoo you may not like to
hear.'

And in sooth now, Lady Fettercairn, like
her lord, had heard so much evil of Shaftoo

lately that she abruptly dropped the subject
for the time.

And now Shaftoo began once more to
persecute poor Dulcle — a persecution which
might have a perilous effect upon her future.

PERSECUTION.

Shaftoo felt, with no small satisfaction, that
he could, to a certain extent, control the
actions of both these girls. Finally could
not reveal the secret of her quarrel with him
without admitting the terms on which she
had been with Hammersley ; and Dulcle, he
thought, dared not resent his conduct, lest —
through his influence with Lady Fettercairn
she might be cast into the world, without
even a certificate that would enable her to
procure another situation of any kind. Thus,
to a certain extent, he revelled In security sofar
as both were concerned.

And deeming now that all must be at an
end between Finally and Hammersley, he
thought to pique the former perhaps by

attentions to Dulcle — attentions by which he
might ultimately gain some little favours for
himself.

In both instances vain thoughts!
■ He was aware that he had an ample field
of old and mutual Interest or associations to
go back upon with Dulcle ; thus he thought
if he could entangle her into an apparent
flirtation for the purpose of mortifying
Finella, and catching her heart on the rebound,
sore as it must be with the seeming
indifference of Hammersley, he would gain
his end ; and this mutual intimacy eventually
annoyed and surprised Lady Fettercairn, and
was likely to prove fatal to the Interests and
position of Dulcle, whom he felt he must
either win for himself in some fashion, and, if
not, in revenge have her expelled from
Craigengowan.

One day the girl was alone. She was
feeding the swans in the artificial lakelet that
lay below the terrace. It was a serene and
sunny forenoon ; the water was smooth as
crystal, and reflected the old house with all
its turrets, crow stepped gables, and dormer-fables

line for line. It mirrored also the
swans swimming double, bird and shadowlike
beautiful drifting boats, and the great
white water-lilies that seemed to sleep rather
than float on its surface.

It was indeed a drowsy, golden afternoon,
and Dulcis Carlyon, an artist at heart, was
fully impressed by the loveliness of her
surroundings, when Shaftoo stood before her.

Shaftoo ! — she quite shivered.

Oh r she exclaimed, as if a toad had
crossed her path.

A penny for your thoughts, Dulcis,' said
that personage smilingly, seeing that she had
been pondering so deeply that his approach
had been unnoticed by her.

They might startle you more than you
think,' replied Dulcis, with undisguised annoyance.


Indeed ; are you weaving out a romance
?'

Perhaps.'

With yourself for the heroine, or Finella ;
and that fellow Florin for the hero ? Then
there must be the requisite villain.'

Oh, he Is ready to hand said she daringly,
with a flash in her blue eyes.

Shaftoo's brow grew black as midnight,
and what coarse thing he might have said
we know not, but policy made him ignore her
reply.

Please not to remain speaking to me,' said
she, glancing nervously at the windows of the
house ; ' your doing so may displease the
friends of Finella.'

It Is of her I wish to speak. Listen,
Dulcis. I have not the Influence over her I
had hoped to have before yotc came among
us. If that interloper Hammersley had not
absorbed her Interest, no doubt, as matters
once looked, she might have pleased her
relations and bound herself to me, provided
she had never found out that I had loved a
dear one, far away in Devonshire, and
had but a half-concealed fancy for herself.'


Dulcis listened to this special pleading in
contemptuous silence.

I don't want to marry her now, any more
than she wants to marry me,' he resumed

unblushingly ; * but I may tell you It is
rather hard to be ordered to play the lover
to a girl who will scarcely throw me a civil
word.'

After the cruel trick you played her, is it
to be expected ?'

So — you are in her confidence, then ?*
But Dulcis only thought, ' What paradox

is this ? He dared again to make love to
herself, after all that had passed with reference
to Florian, and yet to be jealous of
Finella's profound disdain of him.'

Won't you try and love me a little,
Dulcis ?' said he, attempting his most persuasive
tone.

What do you mean, Shaftoo ?' demanded
the girl in great anger and perplexity ; * even
if I would take you, which I would rather
die than do, with all your wealth and prospective
title, you could not marry me and
Finella too T

Who speaks of marriage ?' growled
Shaftoo, under his breath, while a malicious
smile glittered in his cold eyes, as he added
aloud, * You know which I wish to marry.'

Then it cannot be me, nor shall It be
Finella either, for the matter of that'

Does she act under your influence ?'

Do not think of it — she is under a more
potent influence than I possess replied
Dulcis, who, bewildered by his manner and
remarks, was turning away, when he again
confronted her, and the girl glanced uneasily
at the windows, where, although she knew it
not, the eyes of those she dreaded most were
observing them both.

To marry Dulcis, even if she would have
him, certainly did not suit * the book ' of
Shaftoo ; but, as he admired her attractive
person, and hated Florian with unreasoning
rancour, as some men do who have wronged
others, he would gladly have lured her into a
liaison with himself. He knew, however,
her pride and purity too well, but he was not
without the hope of blunting them, and
eventually bending her to his will, under the
threat or pressure of getting her expelled
from Craigengowan, and thrown penniless,
friendless, and with, perhaps, a tainted name,
upon a cold, bitter, and censorious world.

I know you better than to believe that
you love me any more than I do you,' said
Dulcis, with ill-concealed scorn ; ' love is
not in your nature, even for the brilliant
Finally. You love her money — not herself.'


Dissembling his rage, he said in a suppliant
tone :

Why are you so cold and repellant to me,
Dulcis ?'

I do not know that I am markedly so.'

But I do : beyond the affair of the locket,
born of my very regard for you, what is my
offence ?'

What you are doing now, following me
about — forcing your society on me, and
tormenting as you do. I shall be compromised
with Lady Fettercairn if you do not
take care.'

I think you treat me with cruel coldness,
considering the love I have borne you so
long. Why should not we be even the
friends we once were at Revelstoke, and like
each other always ?'

After all you have done to Florlan !'
VOL. II. 30

What have I done to Florian ?' he demanded,
changing colour under the influence
of his own secret thoughts.

Cast him forth Into the world penniless.'

Oh, is that all ?' said he, greatly relieved.

Yes, that is all, so far as I know as
yet.'

Again his brow darkened at this chance
shot ; but, still dissembling, he said :

My dear little Dulcle, what is the use of
all this foolish regard for Florian and revengeful
mood at me ? We shall never see
him again.'

Oh, Shaftoo, how can you talk thus coldly
of Florian, with whom you went to school
and college together, played together as boys,
and read together as men — were deemed
almost brothers rather than cousins ! Shame
on you !' and she stamped her little foot on
the ground as she spoke. '

How pretty you look when angry ! You
do not care for me just now, perhaps ; but intime
you will, Dulcle.'

Never, Shaftoo.'

Surely you don't mean to carry on this
game ever and always ?'

Ever and always, while I am a dependant
here.'

But I will take you away from here, and
you need be a dependant no longer,' said he,
while his countenance brightened and his
manner warmed, as he utterly mistook her
meaning. ' My allowance is most handsome,
thanks to Lord — Lord — to my grandfather,
and he can't last for ever. The old fellow is
sixty-eight if he is a day. Forget all past
unpleasantness ; think only of the future, and
all I can make it for you. I will give you
any length of time if you will only give ijie
your love.'

Never, I tell you. Oh, this is intolerable !'
exclaimed the girl passionately, finding that
he still barred her way.

Beware, Dulcis,' said he, as his shifty
eyes flashed. ' The world and success in it
are for him who knows how to wait ; meantime,
let us be friends. Friendship is said to
be more enduring than love.*

Well — we shall never be even friends
again, Shaftoo.'

Why ?'

30—2

Well do you know why. And let me
remind you that all sin brings Its own punishment
In this world.'

If found out he Interrupted.

And In the next, whether found out here
or not.'

Why the deuce do you preach thus tome
?' he asked savagely, his fears again
awakened, so true Is It that

Many a shaft at random sent
Finds mark the archer never meant'

And what do you take me for that you
treat me thus, and talk to me in this
manner ?*

What do I take you for ? By your treatment
of me I take you to be an insolent,
cruel, and heartless fellow, who can be worse
at times.'

Take care ! the pedestal you stand on
may give way. It lies with me to smash It,
and some fine day you may be sorry for the
way in which you have dared to treat me,
Shaftoo '

Gyle,' Interrupted Dulcle almost spitefully.


Melfort, d n you !' he retorted coarsely,

and losing all command over himself.

Tears now sprang to her eyes, and then,
as he half feared to carry the matter so far
with her, he apologized.

Let me pass, sir,' said she.

'Won't you give me one little kiss first,
Dulcis ?'

She made no reply, but fixed her lovely
dark blue eyes upon him with an expression
of such loathing and contempt that even he
was stung to the heart by it.

Let me pass, sir !' she exclaimed again.

He stood aside to let her do so, and *she
swept by, holding her golden head haughtily
erect ; but Dulcis feared him now more than
ever, and certainly she had roused revenge
in his heart, with certain vague emotions of
alarm.

Of all the thousands of homes in Scotland
and England how miserable and unlucky was
the chance that cast her under the same roof
with the evil-minded Shaftoo ! thought the girl
in the solitude of her own room. But then,
otherwise, she would never have known and

shared the sweet and flattering friendship of
Finella Melfort ; and, as she never knew what
wicked game Shaftoo might play, he would
perhaps succeed in depriving her even of that
solace as the end of his persecution.

The whole tenor of the conversation or
interview forced upon her by Shaftoo impressed
her with a keen and deep sense of humiliation
that made her weep bitterly ; how much more
keen would the sense of that have been had
she known what in the purity of her nature
she never suspected, that, amid all his grotesque
love-making, marriage was no way
comprehended in his scheme !

Much as she disliked Shaftoo, an emotion of
delicacy, with a timid doubt of the future with
regard to Captain Hammersley, and what
was behind that future with regard to ' the
cousins as she of course deemed them to
be, induced Dulcis to remain silent with
Finella on the subject of his persistent and
secret attentions to herself, though she would
have deplored to see Finella the wife of Shaftoo.

The interview we have described had not
passed without observers, we have said.

Fettercairn, look how Miss Carlyon and
Shaftoo are flirting near the Swan's Pool !'
said the Lady of that Ilk, drawing her
husband's attention to the pair from a
window of the drawing-room.

What makes you think they are doing
so ?' he asked, but nevertheless with knitted
brows.

Cannot you see it ?'

No ; it is so long since I did anything in
that way myself that really I — aw '

See with what eiiiprxssement he bends
down to address her, and she keeps her head
down, too, though she seems to crest it up at
times.'

But she edges away from him palpably,
as if she disliked what he is saying, and, by
Jove, she looks indignant, too !'

That may be all acting. In suspicion that
she is observed, or It may be to lure him on ;
one never knows what may be passing In a
girl's mind — If she thinks herself attractive
especially.'

Well — to me they seem quarrelling said
Lord Fettercalrn.

Quarrelling — and with my companion !
How could Shaftoo condescend to do so ?'

That is more than I can tell you — he is
rather a riddle to me ; but the girl is decidedly
more than pretty, and very good style, too-and

hence the more dangerous. I must
speak with Shaftoo on this subject seriously,
or '

What then ?'

Get rid of her.'

'If we fail In marrying Shaftoo to Finally,
who can say whom he may marry, as his
Instincts seem somewhat low, and after weare
gone there may be a whole clan of low
and sordid prodigals here in Cralgengowan.'

And Radicals !' suggested Lady Fetter-cairn.


Desecrating the spots rendered almost
sacred by association with a great and famous
past,' said Lord Fettercairn loftily.

What this great and famous ' past ' was, he
could scarcely have told. It was not connected
with his own mushroom line, whatever
it might have been with the former lords of
Cralgengowan, whose guests had at times

been Kings of Scotland and Princes of
France and Spain.

Finella is young, and does not know her
ovvrn heart,' he resumed; * besides, I believe
It Is enough generally to recommend a girl to
marry a certain man, for her to set her face
against him unreasonably. But I think —
and hope — that our Finella Is different from
the common run of girls.'

'Not In contriving, perhaps, to fall In love
with the wrong man.'

You mean that young fellow Hammersley i^'

Yes ; I must own to having most grave
suspicions,' replied Lady Fettercalrn.

She Is a Melfort, and as such has no
notion of being coerced.'

Lady Fettercalrn thought of Lennard and
Flora Mac Ian and remained silent, remembering
that he too, the disowned and the outcast,
was a genuine Melfort In the same sense.

A THREAT.

To Finella, so pure In mind and proud Inspirit,
it was fast becoming utterly Intolerable
to find herself In the false and degraded
position the craft of Shaftoo had placed her
in with regard to so honourable a man as
Vivian Hammersley ; and the more she
brooded over It, the deeper became her
loathing of the daring trickster — a sentiment
which she was, by the force of circumstances,
compelled to veil and conceal from her guardians
: hence, the more bitter her thoughts,
the more passionate her longing for an explanation,
and more definite her wishes.

Hammersley, though still a fact, seemed
somehow to have passed out of her life, and

thus she often said in a kind of wailing way
to Dulcis :

Oh, that he had never come here, or that
I had never known or met him, in London
or anywhere else I Then I should not have
felt what it is to love and to lose him !'

Pardon me, darling, but take courage,*
replied Dulcis, caressing her. * I have
written to Florian at last, and his reply will
tell us all about Captain Hammersley, and
how he is looking, and so forth ; though
Florian, in a position so subordinate, cannot
be in his confidence, of course.'

She did not add that she had in her letter
told the whole story of the false position in
which Finella had been placed, lest the
latter's pride might revolt at such interference
in her affairs, however well and
kindly meant ; and lest the letter — if it proved
disappointing, by her lover remaining jealous,
suspicious, obdurate, or contemptuous, if
Florian ventured to speak on the subject,
which she scarcely hoped — should prove a
useless humiliation to Finella, who longed
eagerly as herself for the reply.

But Dulcle prayed in her simple heart
that good might come of it before the evil
which she so nervously dreaded fell upon
herself; for Shaftoo had made such humble
apologies for his conduct to heron the-day
he interrupted her when feeding the swans,
that, though she gave him her hand in token,
not of forgiveness but of truce, she feared
he was concocting fresh mischief; for soon
after, encouraged thereby, he began his
old persecution, but carefully and in secret
again.

Finding that his chances with Finella were
now apparently nil, even though all seemed
at an end between her and Vivian Hammersley,
Shaftoo, by force of old habit, perhaps,
turned his attention to Dulcis, who,
in her humble and dependent capacity, had
a difficult card to play, while feeling exasperated
and degraded by the passion he
expressed for her on every available opportunity.
Not that he would, she suspected,
have married a poor girl like her, as one
with money, no matter who, was the wisest
match for him, lest the discovery of who he

was came to pass, though that he deemed
impossible now.

Shaftoo had learned and imitated much
among the new and aristocratic folks in
whose circle he found himself cast ; and thus
It was that he dared to make secret love, and
to torment the helpless Dulcis with words

that spoke of —

Riches and love and pleasure,
And all but the name of wife.'

Had he done that, she would have treated
him quite as coldly and scornfully ; but she
could do no more than she did. Yet he was
fast making her life at Craigengowan *a
torture, and she feared him almost more than
his so-called grandmother, who was only a
proud and selfish patrician, while he — ah, she
knew too well what he was capable of; but
Dulcis had something more to learn yet.

One day, after having Imbibed more wine,
or eau-de-vie, than was good for him in Mr.
Grapeston's pantry, as he sometimes did, he
addressed the girl in a way there was no
misunderstanding. She trembled and grew
pale.

'Well, one thing I promise you if you
try to please me,' said he — * to please me,
do you understand ? — while you remain
under this roof, which I hope, darling, will
not be long now — I shall trouble you no
more

To please you, Shaftoo !' stammered the
girl ; ^ what do you mean ?'

I'll tell you that by-and-by, my pretty
Dulcis, when the time comes.'

She drew back with a pallid face and a
hauteur that would have become Lady
Fettercairn herself, while he in turn made
her a low mock bow, and stalked tipsy off
with what he thought a dignity of bearing,
leaving her sick with terror of a future of
insult and apprehension.

Somehow she felt at his mercy, and began
to contemplate flight, but to where ?

Watching closely. Lady Fettercairn observed
the extreme caution and coldness of
Dulcis's bearing to Shaftoo ; but, not believing
in it, or that a person in her dependent state
could resist advances of any kind from one in
his lofty position, supposed she had only to

wait long enough and observe with care to
find out if aught was wrong.

But why wait ?' said Lady Drumshoddy ;
why not dismiss the creature at once ?' she
added with asperity.

How comes it that you are so intimate
with this girl Carlyon ?' said Lady Fetter-cairn
one day.

Your companion ?' said Shaftoo.
Yes.'

How often have I told you that we are
old friends — knew each other in Devonshire
since we were a foot high.'

But this intimacy now is — to say the
least of it, Shaftoo — undignified.'

I am sorry you think so.'

Besides, she has a lover, I believe, whose
likeness she wears in a locket ; and though
she may be content to throw him over for
rank and wealth with you, surely you would
not care to receive a second-hand affection.'


How your tongue goes on, grandmother !'
said Shaftoo, greatly irritated ; ' you are like
Finella's pad Fern when it gets the bit
between its teeth.'

Thank you ! But this lover or cousin,
or whatever he Is, of whom Miss Carlyon
actually once spoke to me — who Is he, and
where Is he ?'

How the deuce should I know !' exclaimed
Shaftoo, growing pale ; ' gone to the dogs, I
suppose, as I always thought he would.'

It was of him that madwoman spoke ?'

Yes, Madelon Galbralth. He was named
Florlan after his aiint.^

Miss Maclan.'

That was enough for Lady Fettercairn,
who, dropping that subject, returned with
true feminine persistence to the other.

I don't like this sort of thing, I repeat,
Shaftoo.'

What sort of thing ?'

This secret flirting with my companion.
Miss Carlyon.'

I don't flirt with her ; and, by Jove, he'd
be a pretty clever fellow who could do so.'

Why ?'

She is so devilish stand-ofl^, grandmother.'

I am truly glad to hear it.'

But can't I talk with her } We are old

acquaintances, and have naturally much to
say to each other.'

Too much, I fear. You may talk, as you
say, but not hover about her.'

Anything more ?' asked Shaftoo rudely.

Yes, I wish you to settle down '

Oh ! and marry Finella ?'

Yes, that you know well, dear Shaftoo,'
said the lady coaxingly.

Oh, by Jove ! that Is easier said than
done. You don't know all the outs and Ins
of Finella ; and one can't walk the course, sofar
as I can see.'

Shaftoo withdrew, but not before he saw
the lace-edged handkerchief come Into use, to
hide the tears she did not shed at the brusque
manner of her ' grandson,' who had failed to
convince her, for she said to herself bitterly :

There is a curse upon Cralgengowan !
Our youngest son threw himself and his life
away upon a beggarly governess ; and now
our only grandson seems likely to play the
same game with my upstart companion! I
do like the girl, but, however, I must get rid
of her.'

VOL. II. ^i

WITH THE SECOND DIVISION.

Meanwhile the events of the war were
treading thick on each other in Zululand. A
fresh disaster had ensued at the Income
river, where a detachment of the both
Regiment was cut to pieces, and again old
soldiers spoke with sorrow and disgust of
the blunders and incapacity of those at
head - quarters, who by their newfangled
systems had reduced our once grand army
to chaos.

Such alarms and surprises, like too many
of the disasters and disgraces which befell
our arms in these latter wars, were entirely
due to the new formation of our battalions.
That the destruction of the regimental
system by Lord Cardwell has been the

original cause of all our reverses, surprises,
and humiliation, there can be little hesitation
in saying,' to quote Major Ashe. ' The men
at Isandhlwana were not well handled, it must
be admitted, but it has since leaked out that
many of them would not rally round their
officers, but attempted safety in flight.
Dozens of the men, sergeants, and other
non-commissioned officers, have since disclosed
that they did not know the names of
their company officers, or those of their right
or left hand men.'

Hence, by the newfangled system, there
could be neither confidence nor cohesion.
Elsewhere he tells us that the once-splendid
91st Highlanders, 'the envy of all recruiting
sergeants, could only muster 200 men when
ordered to Zululand,' but was made up by
volunteers from other regiments — men all
strangers to each other and to their officers,
and whose facings were all the colours of the
rainbow. Then, after the Income, followed
the storming of the Inhumane Mountain,
where fell the gallant Colonel Weathered,
and the no less gallant old frontier farmer

31— 2

PIct Nys, who was last seen fighting to his
final gasp against a horde of Zulus, across
the dead body of his favourite horse, an
empty revolver in his left hand, a blood-dripping
sabre in his right, and more than
one assegai, launched from a distance,
quivering in his body.

The cry went to Britain now for more
troops ; and fresh reinforcements came, while
the army in Zululand was reconstituted by
Lord Chelmsford at Durban.

There, amid a brilliant staff in their new
uniforms fresh from home, was one central
figure, the ill-starred Prince Imperial of
France, who had landed two days after the
battle of Tabula, and had been appointed
an extra aide-de-camp to the general commanding.


The army was now formed into two
divisions : one under Major-general Cream
Cab., and another under Major-general
Newgate, while a flying column under Sir
Evelyn Wood was to act independently.
Hammersley's squadron of Mounted Infantry
was attached to the Second Division, with

the movements of which our story has necessarily
alone to do.

The 1 6th of April saw it marching northward
of Natal, and on the 4th of May Lord
Chelmsford, who had joined it after church
parade — for the day was Sunday — suggested
that a reconnaissance should be made towards
the Valley of the Umvolosi River to select
ground for an entrenched camp, and for this
purpose Hammersley's squadron and Buller s
Horse were ordered to the front.

The local troopers under that brilliant
officer were now clad in a uniform manner —
in brown cord breeches, mimosa-coloured
jackets, long gaiters laced to the knee, and
broad cavalier hats, with long scarlet or blue
puggarees. The open collars of their flannel
shirts displayed their bronzed necks ; and
picturesque-looking fellows they were, allarmed
with sabres and rifles of various
patterns, slung across the back by a broad
leather sling. Their horses were rough but
serviceable, and active as mountain deer.

After riding some miles over grassy
plateaux and rugged hilly ground, tufted with

cabbage-tree wood, on a bright and pleasant
morning, the local Horse were signalled to
retire, as it was discovered that a great body
of Zulus were watching their movements.

Unaware of this, Hammersley, with-his
Mounted Infantry, rode on for three miles,
till they reached a great plateau near a place
called Sunken Nek, where the pathway, if
such It could be styled, was bordered by
mimosa thorns, and where two bullets mysteriously
fired — no one could tell from wherefor
no enemy was to be seen — whistled
through the little squadron harmlessly, though
both were as close to Florian as they could
pass without hitting him, and one made
Tattoo toss his head and lay his quivering
little ears angrily back on his neck.

At this time some officers who had cantered
to the front from where the division was
halted, saw the dark figures of many of the
enemy creeping along In the jungle, and
watching them so intently that they were all
unaware of their retreat being cut off by
twenty of the Mounted Infantry under a
sergeant — Florian,

Forward, and at them !' cried the latter,
as his men slung their rifles and galloped in
loose formation, sabre in hand, to attack the
savages, but suddenly found themselves on
the edge of some precipitous cliffs, some
three hundred feet in height, which compelled
them for a moment or two to rein up till a
narrow track was found, down which they
descended in single file in a scrambling
way, the hoofs of the rear horses throwing
sand, gravel, and stones over those in
front.

When the sounds made by the descent
ceased, and the soldiers gained a turfy
plateau, nothing could be seen of the foe.
and all was silence — a silence that could be
felt, like the darkness that rested on the land
of Egypt. Then there burst forth a united
yell that seemed to rend the welkin, and a
vast horde of black-skinned Zulus, led by
Methagazulu (the son of Sirayo), who had
recovered from the wound he received at
Ginghilovo, came rushing on, brandishing
their assegais and rifles.

This ambuscade was more than Florian

anticipated, and believing that all was lost,
and that he and his party would be utterly
cut off to a man, he gave the order to retire
on the spur, and they splashed, girdle deep,
through a ford of the UmvolosI, on whiche as
if by the guidance of Heaven, they chanced
to hit.

With yells of baffled rage the savages
followed them so closely that Florlan and
another trooper named Tom Tyrrelll, who
covered the rear, had to face about and fire
by turns, till the open ground on the other
side was reached.

A close shave that business said Tom
breathlessly. * I thought that In three
minutes' time every man Jack of us would
have been assembled.'

Galloping out of range, Florlan's party
now rejoined that of Hammersley, who congratulated
them on their escape, and they all
rode together back to head-quarters. But
these movements had alarmed the whole
valley of the White Umvolosi.

On every hand, in quick succession, signal
fires, formed of vast heaps of dried grass,

blazed on the hill-tops ; vast columns of
black smoke shot upwards to the bright blue
sky, and were repeated from summit to summit,
showing that the whole country was
actively alive with armed warriors, who in
many places could be seen driving and
goading their herds of cattle into rocky
hoofs and all kinds of places inaccessible to
horse and foot alike.

From the summit of the Sunken Nek a
full view of the beautiful valley through
which the Umvolosi rolls could be obtained,
and near a place there, called Conference
Hill, were seen, like a field of snow, the white
tents of the Second Division shining in the
bright, sunny light.

Twenty-three days it remained encamped
there, and during that time a vast amount of
useful information regarding the topography
of the country in which the coming campaign
would be, was furnished by the reports and
sketches made by Colonel Buller, the Prince
Imperial, by Hammersley, and even by
Florian, who was a very clever draughtsman,
and on many occasions was complimented

by the staff in such terms as made his young
heart swell in his breast.

But the sketches of none surpassed those
of the handsome and unfortunate Prince,
whose passion for information was boundless,
and the questions he was wont to ask of all
were searching in the extreme.

One day, when out on a reconnaissance,
the Mounted Infantry were suddenly fired
upon from a kraal, and in the conflict that
ensued many were killed and wounded, especially
of the enemy, who were completely
routed.

The great and unfathomable mystery of
death was close indeed to Florian on that
day, and around him lay hundreds who had
discovered it within an hour or less. He
had narrowly escaped it by skilfully dodging
a ponderous knobkerie flung at his head as
the last dying effort of a warrior whose black
and naked breast had been pierced by a
bullet from Tom Tyrrel rifle, and from
which the crimson blood was welling as if
from a squirt ; and so close was the weapon
to doing Florian a mortal mischief that it

took the gilt spike close off the top of his
helmet.

And now, on the very evening before the
division broke up its camp and marched,
occurred an event which proved to Florian,
and to his favourite captain too, the chief one
of the campaign.

How little those who live at home at ease
can know of the delight it gives an exile to
have tidings, by letter or otherwise, from
those who are dear to them in the old country
when far, far away from it ! No matter how
short the sentences, how few the facts, or
how clumsy the expressions, they all seem to
show that we are not forgotten by the old
fireside ; for even amid the keen and fierce
excitement of war the soldier has often time
for much thought of friends and home,
especially in the lonely watches of the
night, and a pang goes to his heart with
the fear that, as he is absent, he may be forgotten.


Florian had often envied the delight with
which his comrades, Tom Tyrrelll or poor
Bob Edgehill, who perished at Isandhlwana,

and others received letters from distant
friends and relatives ; but month after month
had passed, and none ever came to him, nor
did he expect any.

In all the world there was no one to
think of him save Dulcis Carlyon. How he
longed to write to her, but knew not where
she was.

At last there came an evening — he never
forgot it — when the sergeant who acted as
regimental postman brought him a letter — a
letter addressed to himself, and in the handwriting
of Dulcis I

His fingers trembled as he carefully but
hastily cut open the envelope. It was dated
from Craigengowan, a place of which he
scarcely knew the name, but thought he had
heard it mentioned by Mr. Kenneth Kippi-
law on the eventful day when he and Shaftoo
visited that gentleman at his office.

After many prettily expressed protestations
of regard for himself — every word of which
stirred his heart deeply — of joy that he was
winning distinction, and of fear for the awful
risks he ran in war, she informed him that the

situation obtained for her had been that of companion
to Lady Fettercairn, * and who do you
think I found installed here as master of the
whole situation, as heir to the title and a truly
magnificent property — Shaftoo ! Perhaps I
am wrong to tell you, lest it may worry you,
but he has resumed his persecution of me.
He often taunts me about you, and fills me
with terror lest he may do me a mischief
with Lady Fettercairn, as he has already contrived
to do with his cousin. Miss Finella (a
dear darling girl) and Captain Hammersley,
the officer whose life you so bravely saved at
Ginghilovo, and who, I now learn, is in your
regiment. It was an infamous trick, but it
succeeded in separating them and nearly
breaking Finella's heart.'

The letter then proceeded to detail how
Finella, to her extreme dismay and discomfiture,
had dropped Hammersley's pencilled
note ; how Shaftoo had found it, and
intercepted her in the shrubbery on her way
to the place of rendezvous, and would only
restore it on receiving, as a bribe, a cousinly
kiss, which she was compelled to accord, when

he rudely seized her and snatched several
before she could repulse him ; how Hammersley
had passed at that fatal moment, and
misconceived the whole situation, since when,
language could not express the loathing
Finella had of Shaftoo. That was the whole
affair.

You know Shaftoo and all of which he is
capable,' continued Dulcis ; *so poor Finella
is heartbroken in contemplating the horrid
view her lover must take of her, but is without
the means of explaining it away, nor will her
great pride permit her to do so.'

Dulcis under the same roof with Shaftoo,
and apparently the bosom friend of Hammersley's
love ! Florian had now a clue to
some of the bitter remarks that, in moments
of unintentional confidence, his superior had
uttered from time to time.

That Shaftoo and Dulcis were in such close
proximity to each other — meeting daily and
hourly — filled Florian's mind with no small
anxiety. He had no doubt of Dulcis's faith,
trust, and purity ; but neither had he any
doubt of Shaftoo's subtle character and the

mischief of which he was capable, and which
he might work the helpless and unfortunate
girl If he pursued, as she admitted he did, the
odious and unwelcome love-making he had
begun at Revelstoke.

As he read and re-read her letter In that
hot, burning, and far-away land, how vividly
every expression of her perfect face, every
Inflection of her soft and sympathetic voice,
came back to memory, till his heart swelled
and his eyes grew dim. How self-possessed
she was, with all her gentleness ; how self-reliant,
with all her timidity.

'Should I show this letter to Hammersley?'
thought Florlan. ' The communication In It
must concern him very closely — very dearly,
and my darling. Impulsive little Dulcle has
evidently written It with a purpose.'

Then Florlan remembered that though
suave and condescendingly kind to him,
especially since the episode at GInghllovo,
Hammersley was naturally a man of a proud
and haughty spirit, and might resent one in
Florlan's junior position Interfering in the
most tender secrets of his life.

Florian was keenly desirous of fulfilling
what was evidently the wish of Dulcis — of
befriending her friend, and perhaps, by
achieving a reconciliation, conferring an unexampled
favour upon his officer ; yet he
shrank from the delicate task, while giving
it long and anxious thought.

He tossed up a florin.

If it is a head, I'll do it. Head it is !' he
exclaimed, and went straight to the tent of
Hammersley, whom he found lounging on
his camp-bed, with a cigar in his mouth and
his patrol-jacket open.

What is up ?' he demanded abruptly, as
if disturbed In a reverie.

Only, sir, that I have just had a letter,'
began Florian, colouring deeply, and pausing.

From home ?'

Yes, sir.'

I hope it contains pleasant news.'

It is from one who Is very dear to me.'

Oh, the old story — a girl, no doubt T

Yes, sir.'

The more fool you : the faith of the sex
is writ in water, as the poet has it.'

I hope not, in my case and In some others,
Captain Hammersley ; but if you will pardon
me I cannot help stating that in my letter
there is something that concerns yourself
and your happiness very nearly indeed.'

Hammersley stared at this information.
Concerns me ?' he asked.

Yes, and Miss Finella Melfort : permit
me to mention her name.'

The red blood suffused Hammersley's
bronzed face from temples to chin, and he
sprang to his feet.

What the devil do you mean, Maclan ?'
he exclaimed sharply ; his supreme astonishment,
however, exceeding any indignation to
hear that name on a stranger's lips. * I
know well that you are not what you seem
by your present 'position in life ; but how came
you to know the name of that young lady ?'

She is mentioned in this letter, sir — the
letter of the only being In all the world who
cares for me,' replied Florlan, with a palpable
break in his voice.

Mentioned in what fashion ?' asked
Hammersley curtly and with knitted brows.

VOL. II. 32

Please to read this paragraph for yourself,
sir.'

Thanks.'

Hammersley took the letter, and saw that
it was written in a most lady-like hand. -

Dulcis ?' said he, just glancing at the
signature ; ' is she your sister?'

I have no sister. I think I have told
you that I am alone in the world.'

I have a delicacy in reading a young
lady's letter,' said Hammersley, whose hand
shook on perceiving by the next glance that
it was dated from ' Craigengowan.'

Florian indicated the long paragraph with
a finger ; and as Hammersley read it his
face became again deeply suffused.

Permit me again, my good fellow,' said
he as he read it twice, as if to impress its
contents on his mind ; and then, returning
the letter with unsteady hand to Florian, he
seated himself on the edge of the camp-bed
and passed a hand across his forehead.

Thank you for showing me this ! You
can understand what I felt and thought on
seeing the episode this young lady explains

SO kindly in her letter — God bless the girl !
It seems all too good to be true.'

*You do not know the vile trickery of
which this fellow Shaftoo is capable,' said
Florian.

I do,' replied Hammersley, remembering
the affair of the cards. * Finella !' said he, as
if to himself, ' how her memory haunts me !
By Jove, she Is a witch, a sorceress ! — like
that other Finella after whom she told me
she is named, and who lived — I don't know
when — in the year of the Flood, I think.
I thank you from my soul, Maclan, for the
sight of this letter, and it will be a further
incitement to me to further your interests in
every way within my power. Heaven knows
how gladly I would betake me to my pen ;
but this is no time for letter-writing. By
daybreak we shall be In our saddles, and on
the spur to the front.'

Florian saluted his officer and withdrew,
leaving him to the full tide of his new
thoughts.

So she was true to him after all ! The
whole affair, so black apparently, seemed to

32—2

be so simply and truthfully explained away
by Dulcle's letter that he could not doubt the
terrible misconception under which he had
laboured, nor did he wish to do so. The
tables were completely turned.

It was he — himself — who had cruelly
wronged, doubted, upbraided, and quitted
Finally, and now from him must the reparation
come. His mind was full of the repentant,
glowing, and gushing letter he would
write her, renewing his protestations of love
and faith, and Imploring her to forgive him ;
but when could that letter be written and
sent to the rear ? — for the division advanced
by dawn on the morrow, and there would
scarcely be a halt, he supposed, till it reached
Ulundi.

And how could a letter reach her from the
Cape at Cralgengowan unknown to Lady
Fettercairn ? — who, he knew but too well, was
bitterly opposed to his love for Finally, and
for many cogent reasons the adherent of
Shaftoo.

How would It all end with them both now.'^

In a runaway marriage too probably, unless

he got knocked on the head In Zululand, a
process he rather shrank from now, as life
seemed to be invested with new attributes,
greater hopes, and greater value.

Finally's mignonne face came before him ;
the small, straight nose, with thin, arched
nostrils ; the proud yet soft hazel eyes, with
thin, long lashes ; the firm coral lips ; the
abundant hair of richest brown ; and with all
these came, too, the memory of her favourite
perfume, the faint odour of jasmine that clung
to her draperies and laces.

In a similar mood to some extent, but
without the sense of having aught to explain
or a reparation to make, Florian lay in
another tent at some little distance, contemplating
the contents of a pretty white
leather toy, lined with pale blue satin — a case
containing a photo — altogether an unsuitable
thing for the pocket of a soldier's tunic, or
to place in his haversack, it may be among
cooked rations, shoe-brushes, and a sponge
for pipeclay; but it contained a poor reflection,
though delicately tinted, of Dulcis's own
sweet face.

He continued by turns to re-read her letter
and contemplate her photo till the daylight
faded and the moon, golden not silver
coloured, shone amid a sky wherein dark
blue seemed to blend with apple green at
the horizon, lighting up all the lonely landscape,
and making the blue gum trees and
euphorbia stand out in opaque silJiouette,
while the — to him — new constellations of
that southern hemisphere seemed to play
hide-and-seek, as they sparkled In and out
in the cloudless dome of heaven.

As there he lay, full of his own thoughts
and tender memories, he was all unaware of
two evil spirits that hovered near, and were
actually watching him. Both were evil-visaged
personages, and though clad in the
ordinary costume of Cape Colonists belonged
to the Natal Volunteer Force.

One had two hideous bullet wounds but
lately healed — one on each cheek — and his
jaws were almost destitute of teeth, as
Florlan's pistol had left them ; for this personage
was no other than Josh Jarrett, the
ex-landlord of the so-called hotel at Elands-bergen

; and the other was Dick of the
Droogveldt — one of the two ruffians that had
pursued Florian on horseback till his fall into
the bushy tonga concealed him from them.

On the destruction of the town of Elands-bergen
by the Zulus these two worthies, for
the sake of the ample pay given to the
Colonial troops, and being incapable of obtaining
any other means of livelihood, had
joined the Volunteer Horse, and while serving
in that capacity had discovered and recognised
Florian.

He's a boss now in the Mounted Infantry
; but I'll be cursed if I don't put a
lead plug into him on the first opportunity —
kill him as I would a puff-adder !' said Josh
Jarrett fiercely, as he mumbled the last words
into the mouth of a metal flask filled with
that villainous compound known as Cape
Smoke, while they grinned, but without fun,
and winked to each other portentously.

Opportunities we'll 'ave in plenty, with
the work as goes on here,' responded Dick
of the Droogveldt (which means a dry
district), ' and that cursed fellow shall never

quit Zululand alive, all the more so that they
say he is to be made an officer soon.'

For Dick, like Josh, was one of ' Card-well's
recruits,' as they are named, and had
been a deserter from a line regiment. - So
their appearance in camp probably accounted
for the two mysterious shots that Florian had
so recently escaped. *''"

For many interesting details of the Zulu War, I am
indebted to the narrative of Major Ashe; but more
particularly to the Private Journal of the Chief of the
Staff.

ON THE BANKS OF THE ITYOTYOSI.

It was bitterly cold in camp that night — one
of the nodes ambrosial in Zululand, as Hammersley
said laughingly; and on the morning
of the list June, when the thin ice stood in
the buckets inside the tents, the latter were
struck, and the Second Division began its
march from the Blood River towards the
ItelezI Hill.

My darling little Finella — may God love
you and bless you !' was the morning prayer
of Hammersley as he sprung on his horse,
and the squadron of Mounted Infantry went
cantering forward ; prior to which, Florian,
after fraternally sharing a ration biscuit with
Tattoo — while the animal whinnied and
rubbed his velvet nose against his cheek, as

if thanking him therefor — kissed him quite
as tenderly as Finally ever did Fern ; fora
genuine trooper has a true affection for his
horse.

As the squadron rode on In advance of the
column, Hammersley beckoned Florlan to
his side, and, as they trotted on together, he
asked him many a kindly question about
Dulcis Carlyon, of his past life and future
hopes and wishes, betraying a genuine interest
which touched Florlan keenly.

In due time the Itelezi Hill, a long mass,
the brown sides of which were scored by
rocky ravines and woody hoofs, the lurking-places
of many Zulus, who acted as spies
along the border, was reached ; and now, on
the bank of the Ityotyosi River, at a short
distance from the Natal frontier, a halt
was made, and another temporary camp
formed on ground selected by the Prince
Imperial of France, who had previously examined
it.

In advance of the whole force on the same
morning, the Prince had ridden on with instructions
to examine the nature of the

ground through which the march would He ;
and with an emotion of deep interest, for
which he could not account, Florian saw him
ride off at full speed, accompanied by-lieutenant
Carey, of the 98th Regiment, the
Deputy Assistant Quartermaster-General,
with six of Captain Bennington's European
Horse ; and pushing on over the open
and pastoral country, the Prince and his
party soon disappeared in the vicinity
of the Itelezi Hill, which he reached about
ten a.m.

On the same day Sir Evelyn Wood — with
orders to keep one day's march in front of
the Second Division — was reconnoitring in
advance of his flying column, when the halt
was made by the Ityotyosi River, where
despatches from the rear overtook the staff,
and a few minutes after, the General sent
his orderly for Florian, whom he found
carefully grooming and rubbing down
Tattoo.

Though ignorant of having committed any

faux pas, Florins first idea was that he had

fallen into a scrape, and with some trepidation

of spirit and manner found himself before
the General, who, wearing a braided
patrol-jacket and a white helmet girt by a
puggaree, was examining the country through
a field-glass.

Sergeant,' said he, holding forth his hand,
I have to congratulate you

^ On what, sir ?' asked Florian.

Your appointment to a second-lieutenancy
in your regiment, as the reward of your disinterested
bravery at Ginghilovo, and general
conduct on all occasions. It is duly notified
in the Gazette, and here is the letter of the
Adjutant-general.'

Florian's breath was quite taken away by
this intelligence. For a few moments he
could scarcely realise the truth of what the
general, with great kindness and interest of
manner, had said to him. He felt like one
in a dream, from which he might awaken to
disappointment ; and the white tents of the
camp, the Ityotyosi that flowed beside them,
the woods and distant hills, seemed to be
careering round him, and it was only when
after a little time he felt the firm grasp of

Hammersley's hand, and heard the warm and
hearty congratulations from him and other
officers, that he felt himself now indeed to be
one of them.

The first to accord him a * a salute as
Second Lieutenant ' (a rank since then
abolished) was Tom Tyrrelll.

Let me shake your hand for the last time,
sir, as your comrade,' said he.

Not for the last time, I hope, Tom,' replied
Florian, whose thoughts were flashing
home to Dulcis, and all she would feel and
think and say.

An officer — he was already an officer ! As
his father — or he whom he had so long
deemed his father — was before him. His
foot was firmly planted on the ladder now,
and with the thought of Dulcis's joy his
own redoubled.

Come to the mess tent,' said Hammersley.
We must wet the commission and drink the
health of the Queen after tiffin.'

For the first time on that auspicious afternoon
Florian found himself among his equals,
and the kindness with which they welcomed

him to their circle made his affectionate and
appreciative heart swell. Hammersley was
President of the Mess Committee, and was a
wonderful strategist in the matter of ' providing
grub,' as he said.

A few rough boards that went with the
baggage formed the table, and at ' tiffin ' that
day the meme comprised vegetable soup, a
sirloin of beef, an entrie or two, for a wonder,
with plenty of brandy-pawnee and 'square-face
;' and what the repast lacked in delicacy
and splendour was amply made up by the
general jollity and good humour that pervaded
the board, though, for all they knew,
another hour might find them face to face
with the enemy.

Would either Hammersley or Florian be
spared to write to the girl he loved ?

In the case of Florian it seemed somewhat
impossible, especially now, when he had — all
unknown to himself — two secret and unscrupulous
enemies on his trail, and intent on
his destruction.

Meanwhile a terrible tragedy, that was to
form a part of the world's history, was being

acted not very far off from where that jocund
circle sat round the board presided over by
Hammersley.

Sir Evelyn Wood, we have said, was reconnoitring
in advance of his column, which
was then on the march from Manila Hill
towards the Ityotyosi River. Scattered in
extended order among the growing undulations
and watercourses, the Horse of Red vers
Buller were scouting.

Rain had fallen during the night, but the
sky of the afternoon was clear, bright, and
without a cloud, from the far horizon to the
zenith.

Following, but at a distance, the line taken
by the Prince Imperial and his six reconnoitring
troopers. General Wood, after
issuing from a dense coppice of thorn trees,
interspersed with graceful date palms and
enormous feathery bamboo canes, came suddenly
on a deep and smooth tributary of the
Ityotyosi, and after contriving to ford it at a
place where its banks were fringed by beautiful
acacias and drooping palms with fan-shaped
leaves, to his astonishment some

mounted men appeared in his front, and all
apparently fugitives.

With twelve of his troopers the fearless
Duller, who had seen them also, now came
galloping up and rode on with Sir Evelyn,
and in rounding the base of a tall cliff they
came suddenly upon Lieutenant Carey, of
the 98th Foot, and four troopers of Betting-ton's
Corps, all riding at a furious pace, their
horses flecked with white foam, and with
sides bloody by the goring spurs.

They reined up pale and breathlessly, and
in another minute or two their terrible secret
was told.

Where is the Prince Imperial ?' cried Sir
Evelyn, as he rushed his horse over some
fallen trees in his haste to meet the fugitives.

But Carey, who seemed as dead beat as
his horse, was at first apparently incapable of
replying.

Speak, sir !' cried the General impetuously.
What has happened ?'

Still Carey seemed incapable of speech.

Sir,' said one of the troopers, ' the Prince,
I fear, is killed.'

The speaker was Private Le Toque, a
Frenchman.

Is that the case ? Tell me instantly, sir !'
resumed the General, with growing excitement.


I fear it is so,' faltered Carey, in a low •
voice.

Then what are yon doing here sir ?*

A veil must be drawn over the rest of the
interview, which was of a most painful
character, wrote Major Ashe in his narrative
of the occurrence.

A soldier — Tom Tyrrelll, encouraged by
the knowledge that his late comrade Florian
was there — came rushing into the mess-tent,
where Florian, with those who were now his
brother-officers, was seated in happiness and
jollity, bearing the terrible tidings, which
spread through the camp like wildfire, and all
who had horses mounted and rode forth to
discover if they were true, and all spoke
sternly and reprehensively of the luckless
Lieutenant Carey, who eventually was tried
by a court-martial, and died two years after
in India, some said of a broken heart.

VOL. II-IT,

As Florlan was one of the searchers for the
slain Prince, the story of this latter's tragic
death does not lie apart from ours.

It would seem, briefly, then, that the
charger ridden by the Prince, when he left
Lord Chelmsford's camp, and which in the
end chiefly led to his death, was a clumsy and
awkward animal, given to rearing and shying.
After crossing the Ityotyosi, then swollen by
the recent rains, the Prince and his party rode
on through a district covered with grass-like
rush, kreupelboom, and dwarf acacias.

The Prince, who from the time of his
landing had always sought out any Frenchmen
who might be among the local levies,
and frequently gave them sovereigns, was
riding with Le Toque by his side ; and the
latter, in the gaiety of his heart, and exhilarated
by the beauty of the morning, sang
more than one French song as they rode onward,
such as —

Eh gai, gat, gat mon officier /'

And as they began to ascend a still nameless
hill with a flat top, the Prince sang loudly
Les deux Grenadiers,' an old Bonaparte

ditty — Le Toque joining in the chorus of

Stranger's chanson : —

Vieux grenadiers suivons un vieux soldat,
Suivon un vieux soldat !
Suivon un vieux soldat !
Suivon un vieux soldat !'

On the summit of the kopple the party
slackened their girths, while the Prince made
a sketch of the landscape. *' We may here
digress to say,' adds the Cape Argus ^ ' that
the Prince's talent with pen and pencil, combined
with his remarkable proficiency in military
surveying (which so distinguished the
first Napoleon), made his contributions to our
knowledge of the country to be traversed of
great value.'

Amid the heat and splendour of an African
noon they now rode on to a deserted kraal,
consisting of five beehive-shaped huts, near
a dry tonga, or old watercourse, where they
unsaddled and knee-haltered their horses to
graze, while the Prince and his companions
chatted and smoked, all unaware that some
forty armed Zulus were actually stalking them
like deer, crawling stealthily and softly on

33—2

their hands and knees through the long
Tambookle grass and mealies, drawing their
rifles and assegais after them.

About four o'clock Corporal Grub, of Bet-langton's
Horse, got a glimpse of a Zulu,' and
warned the Prince of the circumstance.

Saddle up at once !' said the latter ; * prepare
to mount !'

The brief orders had scarcely left his lips
when a volley from forty rifles crashed through
the long Tambookle grass and waving reeds,
which bent as If before a breeze, and then
the ferocious lurkers rushed with flashing and
glistening teeth, bloodshot, rolling eyes, and
loud yells, upon the solitary party of eight
men.

Terrified by the sudden tumult, all the
horses swerved wildly round ; a trooper
named Rogers was shot dead with his left
foot In the stirrup, and those who actually got
Into their saddles found It Impossible to control
their horses, so terrific were the yells,
mingled with ragged shots, and they bore
their riders across the open karoo and
towards the deep and dangerous tonga.

Prince Napoleon's horse, a difficult one to
mount at all times, and sixteen hands high,
resisted every attempt at remounting in its
then state of terror ; thus one by one the party
rode or were borne away, while the unhappy
Prince endeavoured to vault into his saddle.

Mon Prince, depeckez-vous, sil vous plait /'
cried his countryman trooper, Le Toque, ashe
rushed past, lying across but not in his
saddle, and then the heir of France found
himself alone — alone and face to face with
more than forty merciless and pitiless savages !

Who can tell what may have flashed
through the brave lad's mind in that moment
of fierce excitement and supreme mental
agony — what thoughts of France and Imperial
glory — the glorious past, the dim
future, and, more than all, no doubt, of the
lonely mother, who was so soon to weep for
him at Chiselhurst — to weep the tears that no
condolence could quench !

When last seen by Le Toque, as the latter
gave a backward and despairing glance, he
was grasping a stirrup-leather in vain attempts
to mount the maddened animal, which trod

upon him, and broke away when the strap
parted ; and then, for a moment, the young
Napoleon covered his face with his hands —
deserted, abandoned to an awful death, which
no Christian eye was then to see.

All the obloquy of this tragedy was now
heaped upon Lieutenant Carey, a native of
the south of England. It was dark night
when he got to head-quarters, and at that
time nothing could be done to ascertain the
fate of the deserted one.

Scarcely a man slept in our camp by the
ItyotyosI River, and after ' lights out'' had been
sounded by the bugles, the soldiers could talk
of nothing else but the poor Prince Imperial.

The news of his death,' wrote an officer
who was In the camp, * fell like a thunderbolt
on all ! At first it was regarded as one of
those reports that so often went round. Bit
by bit, however, it assumed a form. Even
then people were Incredulous, only half
believing the dreadful tale. The two questions
first asked were — What will they say
at home '^. and, secondly, the poor Empress ?
All was wildest excitement, and brave men

absolutely broke down under the blow. To
them it looked a black and bitter disgrace.
The chivalrous young Prince, repaying the
hospitality shown him by England with his
sword — entrusted to us by his widowed
mother — to have been killed in a mere paltry
reconnaissance ! to have fallen without all his
escort having been killed first ! to lie there
dead and alone ! Many there were who
would have given up life to have been lying
with him, so that our British honour might
have been kept sacred.'

FINDING THE BODY.

Fall in, the Mounted Infantry !' cried the
voice of Hammersley, when with earliest
dawn strong parties were detailed from the
camps of the Second Division and Sir Evelyn
Wood to scout the scene of the tragedy ; and
as his squadron rode forth in the grey light
with rifle-butt resting on the thigh, just as
the dawn began to redden the summit of the
Itelezi Hill, Florian remembered that this
mournful search was his first duty as an
officer ; but the calamity clouded the joy of
his promotion, and would be always associated
with it.

He felt himself again the equal of Dulcis
Carlyon ; but, still, to what end ? He could
not go home to her, nor could she come thereto

him, a combatant in Zululand ; besides,
he knew well enough that an officer s pay,
unless when on service, is not sufficient for
himself without the encumbrance of a wife ;
and with this enforced practical view of the
situation he could only sigh as he rode on
and thought of poor Dulcis.

As some of the Volunteer Horse went to
the front, Florlan became conscious that two,
wearing huge, battered hats, who rode together,
were regarding him furtively, and
with a curiously hostile and scowling expression
; and his heart gave a kind of leap when
he recognised in these, two of the ruffians
whose odious features were Indelibly impressed
upon his memory by the adventures
of that horrible night in the so-called hotel at
Elandsbergen — Josh Jarrett and Dick of the
Droogveldt, with his short, thickset figure,
small, dull eyes, and heavy, bull-dog visage.

That they would work him some mischief,
If possible, in their new capacity he never
doubted ; and possibly enough it was their
design to do so, secretly and securely, amid the
often confused scouting and scampering to and

fro of the Mounted Infantry among bush and
cover of every kind. But, as they were then
going to the front, he thought it unwise to
move in the matter at the time ; besides,
they might be knocked on the head, and all
on the ground were thinking only of the
Prince Imperial.

A deep silence hovered over the ranks of
the various searching parties that rode round
by the base of the flat-topped Itelezi Hill.
The swallow-tailed banneret of the 17th
Lancers, who looked handsome and gay in
their white helmets and blue tunics faced and
labelled with white, fluttered out on the morning
wind ; but the iron hoofs of their horses
fell without a sound on the soft and elastic
turf of the green veldt. Occasionally a low
murmur would be heard as the searchers
drew nearer the fatal kraal, and the lance
was slung and the carbine grasped instinctively
when at times the black Kaffir vultures,
hinting of a dreadful repast, rose from among
the tall, feathery Tambookie grass, and,
croaking angrily, winged their way aloft as if
enraged and interrupted.

Driving out roughly by lance point and
rifle bullet about a hundred Zulus from some
holes and scrub, several of the Lancers under
Lieutenant Frith, their adjutant, and the
Mounted Infantry under Hammersley, next
drew near the fatal tonga, which some
officers crossed on foot. Among those who
were In advance of all the rest was Lieutenant
Dundonald Cochrane, of the Cornish
Light Infantry.

Look !' cried Hammersley to Florlan, as
Cochrane was seen to pause and with reverence
take off his helmet. Then a hum went
along the ranks of the searchers, who all
knew what he had found.

And there, on the sloping bank of the
tonga In the evening sunshine, with his head
pillowed on some sweet wild-flowers, nude ashe
came Into the world, save that a reliquary
and locket with his father's miniature were
round his neck — supposed to be potent
fetishes — lay the poor young Prince, the
guest of Britain, the hope of Imperial France,
and the only son of his mother, dead, and
gashed by sixteen assegai wounds, among

them the usual cruel Zulu cozt^p de grace — the
gash in the stomach.

It was found that, though an accomplished
swordsman, he had failed to use his sword —
the sword of his father the Emperor — which
had dropped from the scabbard In his attempts
to mount ; but that, seizing an assegai which
had been hurled at him, he had defended
himself till he sank under repeated wounds ;
and a tuft of human hair clenched in his left
hand attested the valour and the desperation
of his resistance.

His faithful little Scottish terrier was found
dead by his side.

All around him the ground was trampled,
torn, and stained by goats of blood.

A bier was now formed by crossed lances
of the 1 7th Lancers, covered by cut rushes
and a cavalry cloak. Reverently and almost
with womanly tenderness did our soldiers
raise the body, and on this bier, so befitting
to one of his name, Prince Napoleon was
borne by loving hands by the rough and
rugged track that led towards the hill of
Itelezi ; while all around the place where

they had found him were flowers of gold and
crimson tint, where In the goats and pools of
blood bright-winged moths and butterflies
were battening.

That the Prince was duly prepared to
meet any fate that might befall him the
remarkable prayer composed by him fully
attests. It was found in his repositories,
and was published in the papers of the
time.

The entire Second Division was under
arms to receive his remains when brought
Into the camp beside the river. The body
was borne through the lines on a gun-carriage,
wrapped in linen and shrouded by a
Union Jack ; the funeral service was performed
by the Catholic chaplain to the
forces, and Lord Chelmsford acted as chief
mourner. Though tolerably accustomed to
bloodshed now, a profound Impression of
gloom pervaded the faces of the troops.

By mule-cart the body was sent to Peters
and in passing through Lady-smith
there occurred a scene that was touching
from its simplicity. This is a small village

in the Division of Reversal or Kannaland,
where the body remained for the night at
the entrance thereof, in the bleak open veldt,
under a guard of honour ; but from the
school-house there came forth, and lined the
roadway, a procession of little black children,
who, to the accompaniment of an old cracked
harmonium, sang a hymn, as the soldiers of
the 58th Regiment took the body away, and
sweetly and softly the voices of the little
ones rose and fell on the chilly air of the
morning.

This,' says Captain Thompson, of the
Irregular Horse, in his narrative, * was but
one mark of the feeling that all in the colony,
whatever their age, colour, position, or sex,
had at the sudden and terrible close of that
bright young life. And it may safely be
affirmed that not one disassociated in his
mind from the thought of the dead son, the
recollection of the blow awaiting the widowed
mother.'

The next striking scene was at Durban,
the only port in Natal Colony, where the
troops handed over the remains to the blue-jackets

of H.M.S. Shah for conveyance to
England.

Here the poor old major domo of the
Prince was left behind. He was so Inconsolable
for the loss of his master, that It was
feared he would lose his reason, and more
than once he said, with simple truth and
bitterness :

My master would not have abandoned
one of them !'

THE SKIRMISH AT EUZANGONYAN.

The transmission rewards of the Prince's
remains causing a day's delay in the advance
of the division, Florian gladly availed himself
of it to write to Dulcis a letter full of love
and all the enthusiastic outpouring of his
heart to one who was so far away ; to express
his astonishment on learning that she was an
inmate of the same house with Shaftoo, their
bete noir of whom she was to beware, he
added impressively.

He told of his military success — of all that
might be in store for them yet ; for Florian
had, if small means at present, the vast
riches of youth and hope to draw upon, especially
in his brighter moments, and — if
spared — his future promotion from the rank

of second-lieutenant was now but a thing
of time.

There had not been much brightness in
his Hfe latterly ; but it was impossible for him
not to admit that the dawn of a happier day-had
come, and that he had made substantial
progress in his profession.

He told her — among many other things —
of Vivian Hammersley's friendship and
favour for himself, even when In the rank
and file, and of his pride and gratitude
therefor : of the change her letter to himself
had made in Hammersley's views of Miss
Melfort, for whom he sent an enclosure from
the Captain, lest watchful eyes — perchance
those of Shaftoo — might examine too closely
the contents of the Cralgengowan post-bag ;
and from old experience they knew what the
man was capable of — not respecting even * the
property of Hem. Postmaster General.'

For, now that Florian was an officer, his
friend Hammersley, though proud as Lucifer
and at times haughty to a degree, was, under
the circumstances, not loth to avail himself of
Dulcle's assistance in this matter, so necessary
VOL. II. 34

to his own happiness ; so the two missives in
one were despatched, and with an emotion
of thankfulness that was deep and genuine,
Florlan dropped It into the regimental postbag
at the orderly-room tent, for conveyance
with the mall to Durban.

The Second Division began Its forward
march on the 3rd of January, and encamped
half a mile distant from the kraal near which
the Prince Imperial had perished, while Sir
Evelyn Wood's column, advancing by the
left, proceeded along the further side of the
Ityotyosi. Already the bad rations to which
they were reduced — eight pounds of inferior
oats and no hay — were telling severely on
the horses of the 1 7th Lancers and Mounted
Infantry.

On the 4th, when encamped on the bank
of the Nondweni River, a cavalry patrol,
under Redvers Duller, Hammersley, and
others, had a narrow escape from being cutoff
by two thousand five hundred Zulus, of
whom, on the following day, the entire cavalry
column went forth In search.

When the whole mounted force was getting

under arms, Hammersley threw away the
end of a cigar before falling In, and said to
Florlan —

Look here, old fellow, I have been thinking
about you. I am not a millionaire, you
know, but I have enough and to spare. You
have not, I presume — pardon me for saying
so ; but now that you are an officer, and
must want many things, my cheque-book Is
at your disposal, If you wish to draw on old
Chink the Paymaster.'

*A thousand thanks to you, Captain
Hammersley,' replied Florlan, his heart
swelling and his colour deepening with
gratitude; *but I have no need to trespass
on your kindness — I want nothing here ;
we are all pretty much alike in Zululand —
officer and private, general and drum-boy.'

'Yes, by Jove! but in the time to come T

Thanks again, I say, dear Hammersley,
but I am inclined to let tomorrow take care
of tomorrow, especially while campaigning
in Zululand.'

Tiresome work I find that, with all my
zeal for the service,' observed Hammersley,

34—2

as the entire cavalry force moved off about
four in the morning, when the sky and
landscape were alike dark. ' We have much
bodily endurance, and run enormous risks
which the people at home don't understand
or fully appreciate, because our antagonists
are naked savages, though second to no menin
the world for reckless valour ; thus honour
may be accorded to us but scantily and
grudgingly, because they are savages and not
civilised enemies, or, as some one says of
the days of the Great Duke, when so many
thousand men in red coats and blue breeches
met and beat so many thousand men in blue
coats and red breeches

General Marshall, with the King's Dragoon
Guards and 17th Lancers, had reconnoitred
the country In advance as far as the Upoko
River, and there effected a junction with
Buller's command on the same ground where
the latter had escaped the ambuscade
referred to.

On a green plain below It a great mass of
Zulus, sombre and dark, spotted with the
grey of their oval shields, was seen hovering,

the flash of an assegai-head sparkling out at
times when the sun arose, and near them,
enveloped In smoke and all sheeted with
flame at once, were some kraals that had
been set on fire by the Irregular Horse ; so
the scene, If beautiful, was also a stirring one.

Above the vast mountain opposite, where
the Upoko (a tributary of the great White
UmvulosI, which flows towards the sea) was
rolling In golden sheen between banks
clothed with date palms, Kaffir plums,
flowering acacias, and thornwood, the uprisen
sun was shining In all his glory. The
mountain was torn by ravines and studded
with mimosa groups. On the left of the
troops rose the vast Inhlatzatye, or mountain
of greenstone, turned to crimson In the
morning sun, Its base clothed with lovely
pasture, and twenty miles In Its rear was
known to be Ulundl, the great military kraal
of Cetewayo, the chief object of the advance.

In the Immediate foreground was the force
of cavalry, with all their white helmets and
sword blades shining In the sun, the dark
blue of the Lancers, and the sombre uniforms

of the Irregular Horse, relieved and varied
by the bright scarlet of the King's Dragoon
Guards and the mimosa-coloured tunics of
the Mounted Infantry.

The sharp blare of the trumpets sounded
the advance.'

Buller's Horse to the left !' cried the
officer of that name, digging spurs into his
charger; 'Halley's to the right! Frontier
Light Horse and Hammersley's Mounted
Infantry the centre!'

Uncovering to the flanks, the formation was
made at a canter, and the forward movement
began. During the morning Florian had
more than once (till his men required his
attention) an unpleasant sense of the presence
of two secret enemies on the ground, which
made him look frequently to where the
oddly costumed volunteer troopers were advancing,
and before that day's fighting was
quite over he had bitter cause to know that
both were in the field.

The 1st King's Dragoon Guards had been
quartered In the same barracks with the
regiment to which these two deserters

belonged, and, feeling themselves now in
hourly expectation of recognition by some of
them, the camp of the Second Division had
become perilous for the two desperadoes, and
on that day they had resolved to ' levant,'
but not before effecting their villainous
purpose, if possible.

They knew well that by the rules of the
service, at foreign stations, when there is
no doubt as to the identity of a deserter,
he is sent at once to his own corps to be
dealt with there ; moreover, they know that
the fact of their serving with the Volunteer
Horse constituted another crime — that of
fraudulent enlistment ; and neither had any
desire to be tied to the wheel of a field-piece
and flogged as an example to others, for that
punishment had not been quite abandoned
yet.

While Colonel Buller's force was advancing,
the Zulus had moved off by companies in
singularly regular formation, and taken post
in the rocky ravines at the base of the
Euzangonyan Hill, which was covered with
thick scrub and high feathery reeds, that

swayed to and fro In the wind like a mighty
cornfield.

After crossing the river, the Irregulars
and Mounted Infantry at full speed advanced
to within three hundred yards of the foe, and
leaped from their saddles, with rifles unslung.
The horses were then led forward out of fire,
or nearly so, by every third file, told off for
that purpose.

Kneeling and creeping forward by turns,
the fighting line opened a steady fire upon
the partly concealed Zulus, whose dark
figures were half seen, half hidden amid the
smoke that eddied along the slopes of the
hill, and this continued till the watchful
Buller, who was surveying the position
through a field-glass from the summit of a
knoll, discovered from a flank movement that
the Zulus had a large force In reserve, and,
In a wily manner, were luring his troops onto
destruction.

He ordered his bugle to sound the ' retire '
and the whole to recross the river, but not
before several men were killed or wounded,
with fifteen horses placed Jiors de combat ;

then the Queen's cavalry were ordered to
advance to the attack with lance and sword.

In his saddle, Florian watched them
advance in imposing order, led by xh^X prefix
chevalier, Drury Lowe, the hero of Zurapore,
where the pursuit and the destruction of
Tanta Toper were achieved in the Indian
war. When Buller's scouting horse, skilled
marksmen even from the saddle, and mounted
on cattle nimble as antelopes, had partly
failed, he could scarcely hope to achieve
much with his heavy Lancers and still
heavier Dragoon Guardsmen ; but sending
a troop of the latter to guard against any
chance of the Zulus creeping down the bed
of the river, he led three troops of Lancers
close to the margin, where the marigold figs
grew in profusion, and the yellow Kaffir
melons, large as 40-pound shot, were floating
in the current ; and splashing through, he
deployed them on some open ground beyond,
full of that fiery confidence that there
Is nothing in war which the genuine dragoon
cannot achieve.

By Jove!' exclaimed Hammersley, 'but

it is sad to see these splendid Lancers going
in for this kind of work. It is hopeless for
them to charge such a position, and attempt,
at the lance's point, to ferret these savages
out of their holes and tonga.'

From the Euzangonyan Hill the Zulus
were now firing heavily, but as their rifles
were all wrongly sighted — if sighted at all —
their bullets went high into the air. Between
these and Lowe spread a mealie-field, which
he believed to be full of other Zulus, and
resolved to let all who might be lurking there
feel what the point of a lance is, he rode
straight at it.

Trot — gallop — charge !' sounded the
trumpets ; and with their horses' manes and
the banneret of their levelled lances streaming
backward on the wind, the 17th rushed
on, sweeping through the tall, brown stalks
of the dead mealies, but found no Zulus
there.

When clear of the mealies, Lowe ordered
some of the Lancers to dismount and open
fire with their carbines on those Zulus who
were lurking on the hill-slope among some

thorn-trees, and there many were shot down,
and their half-devoured and festering remains
were found by our soldiers in the subsequent
August.

After punishing them severely, the cavalry
were recalled, but not before there were some
casualties among the Lancers, whose adjutant.
Lieutenant Frith — a favourite officer —
was shot through the heart, and brought to
camp dead across the saddle of his charger.

From fastnesses that were quite inaccessible
to horsemen, the Zulus, covered by an undergrowth
of prickly thorns and plants with
enormous brown spiky leaves, continued to
fire heavily, wreathing all the hill-side in
white smoke, streaked with jets of fire ; while
another portion of them, yelling and running
with the swiftness of hares, lined the bed of
the river and opened a sputtering fusilade in
flank, rendering the whole position of our
cavalry most perilous.

Retire by alternate squadrons !' was now
the order for the cavalry, and beautifully and
steadily was the movement executed.

Fours about — trot,' came the order in

succession from the leaders of the even and
odd squadrons.

A front was thus kept to the Zulus, but
the hope to lure them from their fastnesses
by a movement they had never seen before,
and to have a chance of attacking them in
the open, proved vain ; and upon broken and
steep ground, on which it would have been
impossible for any cavalry force to assail
them, they were seen swarming in vast black
hordes round the flanks of the Euzangonyan
Hill, and still maintaining a sputtering but
distant though defiant fire, while the cavalry
and other mounted men fell back towards
their respective columns ; and now it was
that the calamitous outrage we have hinted
at occurred.

When the cavalry began to fall back by
alternate squadrons, it was remarked that
two men of the Irregular Horse lingered at
a considerable distance in the rear, still firing
occasionally, as if they had not heard the
sound of the trumpet to ' retire.'

Those rash fools will get knocked on the
head if they don't come back said Hammersley

to Florian, as they were riding
leisurely now at a little distance In rear of
their men. ' They are nearly six hundred
yards off. Well, we have not got even a
scratch to-days he added, laughing, as he
manipulated and proceeded to light a cigar ;
and now to get back to camp and have a
deep drink of bitter beer. By Jove, I am
thirsty as a bag of sand.'

And I too,' said Florian.

Again the ' retire ' was sounded, now by
two trumpeters together, but without avail
apparently.

At that moment two rifle-shots came upon
the speakers, delivered by the very men in
question, and then they were seen to gallop
at full speed, not after the retreating column,
but at an angle towards the north-west, on
perceiving that their shots had taken fatal
effect ; for Hammersley, struck by one, fell
from his saddle on his face, and rolled over
apparently in mortal agony, while Florian
felt Tattoo give a kind of writhing bound
under him and nearly topple over on his
forehead till recovered by the use of spur

and brldle-blt. Florlan at once dismounted,
for the horse was seriously wounded ; but he
could only give a despairing glance at his
friend, If he meant to act decisively and
avenge him. ^

These scoundrels are deserters doubly —
I know ; follow me, men, we have not a
moment to lose !' cried Florlan, In a voice
husky with rage, grief, and excitement, as he
leaped upon poor Hammersley's horse ; and
with a section of four men, one of whom was
Tom Tyrrelll, he spurred after them at full
speed, without waiting for orders given or
permission accorded.

If he was to act at all, there was no time
for either.

He never doubted for a moment that they
were Josh Jarrett and Dick of the Droops
who were boldly attempting to escape
in the face of the column after failing to
shoot himself, and who had now fully a
thousand yards start of him and his pursuing
party.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING & SONS, PRINTERS, Guildford.

ffiSH^5'oS''K

3 0112 046409683



SI

[^

"V

M l ii ) (i i iii >; ii ir; i D iii i i V i K il

W »i ". i . ii I

^mmmmmim n I m i j i

^^ /^ «'♦'»> v<?4 '^♦i v'C>i iii ^T-'i '^i^ 9'C'^i iii K^i £!i /C>i

ll? t^iv^ «? '^iv ^13? ^^:^ s:? ? ^/^ ^g k.^ \V W w ^^'

■i H. I . I I I III II . 1 i. i . i .M II I'

H| li |) l )l *<«l»«»W«««»>«»>»

I'

> i i r ii>iii» > i r> ^)ii > ii >rn iii



imtmttmi^iDfpim—'mm*

itt0m*m**ttmfrmirmimmi,^*»^»*<»»>»>»»'*

1S

i&j' t|)e Aut>>oit» of
II

T^l)© Fioxpar)ce of Wait**

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or Ill Noir



a764-el

V.3

u

'a4^^ty

^?^,

^^,

'2^?;>2^

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew coll Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

^jl« r\ ^

*#

L161— O-1096

31 §.obtl

BY

JAMES GRANT,

AUTHOR OF 'THE ROMANCE OF WAR,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. in.

LONDON :

WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

1886.

\ All Rights Reserved. }

• O'^O*

FROM THE SILENT PAST. By Mrs. Herbert Martin.

2 vols.

COWARD AND COQUETTE. By the Author of "The
Parish of Hilby." i vol.

MIND, BODY, AND ESTATE. By the Author of " Olive
Varcoe." 3 vols.

AT THE RED GLOVE. By Katharine S. Macquoid,

3 vols.

WHERE TEMPESTS BLOW. By the Author of "Miss
Elvester's Girls." 3 vols.

IN SIGHT OF LAND. By Lady Duffus Hardy. 3 vols.

AS IN A Looking-glass. By F. C. Philips, i vol.

LORD VANECOURT's DAUGHTER. By Mabel Collins.

3 vols.

WARD AND DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS, LONDON.

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. THE PURSUIT - I

II. WHICH TREATS OF LOVE LETTERS - - 20

III. IN THE HOWE OF THE MEARNS AGAIN - • 36

IV. EN ROUTE TO ULUNDI - - - - 55
V. THE LOADED DICE - - - - 72

VI. Shaft's HORIZON BECOMES CLOUDY - - 83

VII. THE SQUARE AT ULUNDI - - - 95

VIII. DISAPPEARANCE OF Dulcis - - - Ii

IX. FLIGHT 127

X. A STARTLING LETTER - - - - 1 38

XI. THE PURSUIT OF CETEWAYO - - - 149

XII. AT THE 'rag' - - - - - 159

XIII. A REVELATION - - - - "173

CHAPTER

Page

XIV. IN THE GNOME FOREST - - " I S3

XV. THE MAJOR PROPOSES - - - - 1 96

XVI. A CLOUD DISPELLED - - " - 2o8

XVII. FLORIAN DYING - - - " - 219

XVIII. THE TERRIBLE MISTAKE



XIX. Dulcis's VISITOR - " " - 24I

CHAPTER I.

THE PURSUIT.

A NEW emotion — a hot thirst for blood —
was in the heart of Florian now ; his whole
nature seemed to have undergone a sudden
and temporary change ; and to those who
could have seen him his face would have been
found deadly pale, and his dark eyes full of
sombre fury.

The longing for retribution and destruction
was keen in his mind at that time. Often he
reined up the horse he rode to take a steady
shot between the animal's quivering ears atone
or other of the two desperadoes ; but
always missed them, and found that time was
thus lost and the distance increased.

VOL. III. 35

•7 ^

His present charger was not so steady as
the old Cape nag, Tattoo, and Florlan's
hands, in the intensity of his excitement,
trembled too much for his aim to be true ; so
the fugitives rode on and on, without firing a
shot in return, thus showing that their ammu- '
nation had been expended, and they had
nothing to hope for or trust to but a successful
escape.

A cry left Florian's lips as the fugitives
disappeared into a tonga, and he thought he
had lost them ; but anon he saw them ascending
the opposite slope at a rasping pace.

He could only think of the generous and
chivalrous Vivian Hammersley, that good
officer and noble Englishman, shot down thus
in the pride of his manhood by the felon
hand of an assassin, whose bullet was meant
for himself — Hammersley, whose form stood
with a kind of luminous atmosphere amid the
dark surroundings that beset them both since
he (Florian) had come as a soldier to Zulu-land
; and then he thought of Dulcis's friend
Finella, whom he only knew by name.

Poor girl ! the next mail for Britain might

bring sorrowful tidings to her, with the very
letter his hand had so recently indited, full of
hope and expressions of happiness.

Crossing by flying leaps the Umvutshlnl
stream, a tributary of the greater Umvolosi,
the pursuers and pursued traversed an undulating
tract of country, scaring a great troop
of the brindled gnu, which were grazing
quietly there ; anon a terrified herd of the
koodoo — graceful antelopes, with magnificent
spiral horns — swept past them, where the
karoo shrubs and the silvery hair-grass and
wild oats grew ; elsewhere their horses' hoofs,
as they crushed or bruised the creeping
fibrous roots of the Akerrania, shed a fragrance
in the air.

The Umvolosi had now to be waded
through near a rocky kop which towered on
the right hand, and the opposite bank had to
be scrambled up at a place where the tree-fern
flourished thickly, and drooping date-palms
overhung the water.

Next they had to cross a nameless tributary
of the Upoko River, and then to skirt
the base of the Avenge Mountains (within

35—2

two miles of Fort Navigate), where, In
some places, an odour, sickly and awful, loaded
the evening air ; and by experience they
knew It came from the bodies of slain Zulus
lying unburied, or covered only by their
shields and a few loose stones.

In some places — one particularly — Florian
and his companions found their progress
almost arrested by spiky plants of giant size
the Doornboom, with Its ox-horn-like
prickles ; for there are thickets of those
through which even horses cannot pass —
odious and terrible plants which tear the
clothes to rags, and pierce the flesh to the
bone ; but they discovered two breaches
through which the fugitives had passed, and,
forcing a passage, they rode onward again,
and, in the fierce ardour of pursuit, Florian
was all unconscious, till afterwards, how he
and his horse too were lacerated, scratched,
and torn by the sharp spines as he rushed
through them at full speed.

One of the fugitives had evidently found a
cartridge, in a pocket perhaps, for he fired
one shot rearward, In Parthian fashion, but

fruitlessly, as It hit no one, and then he rode
wildly but steadily on.

Believing that if ever he returned to camp
it would only be to find his friend dying or
dead, Florian, plunged In grief, maddened by
rage and a thirst for dire vengeance, rode
furiously yet silently on, closely followed by
his four Infantry men.

His horse — Hammersley's — was a fine
English charger, and soon outstripped those
of his comrades, who erelong began to drop
rearward one after another, though Tom
Tyrrelll continued to head the rest ; but aster
a time Florian found himself almost alone ;
thus it was fortunate for him that those he
pursued were without ammunition.

Once or twice he lost sight of them, as
tonga or eminences intervened, and then a
low cry would escape him ; but by the aid
of his field-glass he ' spotted ' them again,
and gored his horse with the spurs anew.

Now broad before them lay the foaming
Nondweni River, with the lion-shaped hill of
Isandhlwana about seven miles distant, Its
rocky'crest then reddened by the western sun,

and Florian knew that now the pursuit had
lasted for more than twenty miles from the
Euzangonyan Hill.

Here the assassins reined up, and seemed
to confer for a moment or two, as if in
evident confusion and dismay. To remain
was to die, and to attempt to cross the
river would end In death by drowning, It
was so deep and swift, red and swollen by
recent storms of such rain as falls In the tropics
only.

Florian dismounted now, dropped a fresh
cartridge into the breech-block of the rifle
he still carried, and just as he threw the
bridle over his arm, Tom Tyrrelll came
tearing up and also leaped from his saddle,
prepared to fire at four hundred yards
range.

The two fugitives plunged Into the water,
where trees, branches, cartloads of enormous
leaves and yellow pumpkins were being
swept past, and strove to make their horses
breast the stream by turning them partly at
an angle to the current. More than once
the animals snorted with fear, throwing up

their heads wildly as their haunches went
down under the weight of their riders.

Tyrrelll fired and shot one in mid-stream ;
he threw up his hands in agony or despair,
and fell on the mane of his horse, which, with
himself, was swept round a rocky angle and
disappeared.

The other had gained footing on the opposite
bank, but at that moment Florian planted
a rifle bullet between his shoulders.

Sharply rang the report of the rifle, and a
shriek mingled with the rush of the world
of waters as the deserter and assassin fell
backward over the crupper of his struggling
horse, which gained the land, while his
rider sank to rise no more just as the last
red rays of the sun died out on the stern
hill-tops, and in its rush the river seemed to
sweep past with a mightier sound than ever.

Which of the two he had shot in the twilight
Florian knew not, nor did he care ;
suffice it that he and Tom Tyrrelll ' had
polished them off,' as the latter said, and
thereupon proceeded to light his pipe with an
air of profound contentment.

Hammersley was avenged, certainly.

Before setting out on his return, Florlan
paused to draw breath, to wipe the cold
perspiration from his forehead, and nerve
himself anew for auo^ht that might befall him
on his homeward way, for with tropical
speed darkness had fallen now, and he was
glad when he and Tyrrelll overtook the three
mounted men, as they had a most lonely
district to traverse back to camp, and one
in which they were not likely to meet
friends ; so they now rode somewhat slowly
on, breathing and enjoying what some one
calls the cool and mysterious wind of
night.

Zulus might be about in any number, with
rifle, assegai, and knobkerle ; but though
Florlan and his companions rode with arms
loaded as a precaution, they scarcely thought
of them, and were intent on comparing notes
and studying the features of the country as a
guide on their lonely way.

At last, with supreme satisfaction, after
many detours and mistakes, they saw the red
glowworm-like lights of the camp appearing

In the streets of tents, and knew thereby that
the last bugle had not sounded.

Ere long they heard the challenge of the
advanced sentinel of an outlying piquet, and
responding thereto, passed within the lines,
when Florian went at once to the headquarter
tents to report himself to the
Adjutant-general, together with the events
that had so recently transpired by the Nond-
went River.

^ You have done precisely what the General
commanding would have ordered you to do
said the Adjutant-general, ' and I am sure
he wall thank you for punishing the rascals
as they deserved. There are too many
of '' Cardwell's recruits " afloat in Cape
Colony !'

Is Captain Hammersley still alive ?'

Yes — but little more, I fear.'

He repaired straight to the sufferer's tent,
but was not permitted by the hospital
orderly, acting under the surgeon's strict
orders, to see him — or at least to speak with
him.

The ball had broken some of the short ribs

on the left side, nearly driving them into the
lung ; thus he was in a dangerous state.
Florian peeped into the bell-tent, and, by a
dim lantern hung on the pole thereof, could
see Hammersley lying on his camp-bed
asleep, apparently, and pale as marble ; and
he thought it a sorrowful sight to see one
whose splendid physique seemed of that
kind which no abstract pain or trouble
could crush — who could ever bear himself
like a man — weak now as a little child
levelled by the bullet of a cowardly
assassin.

Florian, though worn, weary, and sorely
athirst after the skirmish by the Euzangonyan
Hill, the subsequent pursuit, and all connected
therewith, before betaking him to his
tent, paid his next visit to Tattoo, for, after
his friend, he loved his horse.

A little way apart from where the store-waggons
were parked and the artillery and
other horses knee-haltered, Tattoo was lying
on a heap of dry brown mealie-stalks in a
pool of his own blood, notwithstanding that,
awaiting Florian's return and orders, a kindly

trooper of the Mounted Infantry had bound
an old scarlet tunic about the poor animal's
off thigh, where the bullet, meant for his
rider, had made a ghastly score-like wound,
In one part penetrating at least seven Inches
deep ; and where Tattoo had remained
standing for some time In one spot, the
blood had dripped into a great dark crimson
pool.

^ Can nothing be done to stop It ?' asked
Florlan.

Nothing, sir,' replied a Farrier-Sergeant
of the Royal Artillery.

But the horse will die If this kind of
thlno: o-oes on

The sergeant shrugged his shoulders,
saluted, and turned away, while Florlan put
an arm round the drooping head of the horse
caressingly ; and, as If sensible of his sympathy,
the animal gazed at him with his
large, soft brown eyes, that were streaked
with blood-shot veins now.

His vitals Is safe, sir, anyhow,' said Tom
Tyrrelll.

I can't leave him thus In the cold — for

cold It Is here, by Jove, at night ; bring a
blanket from my tent, Tom, and put It over
him.'

After belting the blanket about Tattoo, by
the light of a stable-lantern, Florian lingered
for a time beside the poor nag, who hung
his head with unmistakable symptoms of
intense pain, while his drooping eyes grew
dull and heaves

Without undressing, Florian threw himself
on his humble camp-bed, which consisted of
little else than a blanket and ground sheet,
but was unable to sleep more than ten
minutes or so at a stretch. The fighting, the
hot pursuit by hill and stream and karoo — •
the excitement of every kind, and the whole
work he had been doincr — had fevered his
brain, and ever and anon he started from his
pillow as if a snake had been under It ; and
so passed the few short hours till drum and
bugle announced the reveille, and that the
day-work of the camp had begun.

To those who saw him, he looked haggard
In the cold, grey, early light, as he quitted
his camp-bed, unrested and unrefreshed,

though mere repose of the body Is supposed
to be a relief, and, as it was too early to
disturb Hammersley, he went straight to
visit Tattoo.

He was standing up now among the
meshes of his Hitter, with his head drooping
lower and his bright eyes more dim than
ever ; but they actually seemed to dilate and
brighten at the sound of his master's voice.
The latter had brought him the half of his
ration-biscuit, soaked in water ; and Tattoo
looked at it with dumb longing, and turned
it over in Florian's palm with his hot, soft,
velvet nose ; but after trying to champ* it
once or twice he let it fall to the ground.
Tattoo was incapable of swallowing now.

There was little time to do much, as the
troops were soon to march; but Tom Tyrrelll
brought some hot water in a bucket, and
sluiced the wound with a sponge, and redressed
it with such rough bandages as could
be procured, and Florian got from Doctor
Gallipot some laudanum to mix with the
horse's drink to deaden the acuteness of the
pain he suffered ; but it was all in vain ;

Tattoo sank grovelling down upon his fore-knees
and rolled heavily over on his side,
and, as the wound welled forth again, he
turned his head and looked at his master,
and if ever eyes expressed a sense of gratitude,
those of the old troop-horse did so
then.

We march in a very short time, sir said
the senior officer commanding the Mounted
Infantry, as he reined in his charger for a
minute en passant; 'and in the cause of
humanity, as your horse cannot recover, it
had better be put out of pain.'

Shot r

Yes.'

Poor Tattoo !'

Florian turned away, sick at heart, as he
saw a soldier quietly dropping a cartridge
into the breech-block of his rifle in obedience
to the stern but necessary order, for if left
thus, the horse would be devoured while
having by the monstrous Kaffir vultures.

With carefully sighted rifle, and distance as
carefully judged, Florian had ' potted ' many
a Zulu at various hundreds of yards, in

common with his comrades ; he had shot,
as he supposed, Josh Jarrett without an atom
of compunction ; but now, as he hurried away,
he put his fingers In his ears to shut out the
report of the rifle that announced the death
of Tattoo.

As a souvenir of the latter — for Dulcle,
perhaps — he desired Tom Tyrrelll to cut off
one of the hoofs, and Tom polished the hoof
and burnished the Iron shoe till the latter
shone like silver — the hoof that never again
would carry Florlan across the wild karoo,
or to the front In the face of the enemy.

The Second Division now began Its march
to encamp on the fatal hill of Isandhlwana —
that place of 111 omen.

Hammersley was conveyed with other
wounded In an ambulance waggon, and It
was decided that If he recovered sufficiently
he should be sent home on sick leave to
Britain. Florlan occasionally rode by the
side of the waggon, the motion of which
was anything but easy or pleasant to those
who were In pain.

How pale, he thought, Hammersley looked.

with his delicate nostrils, clearly cut mouth,
and dark moustache ; and his mind went from
thence to Finella Melfort, the girl he loved,
who was so far away, and whom he might not
be spared to see again.

'Write gently about all this affair to Miss '
Carlyon,' said Hammersley feebly. ' But the
infernal telegrams will make poor little Finella
ait fait of my danger before details can
reach her,' Then he muttered to himself,
How truly it has been said that the indifferent
are often tied to each other irrevocably,
while those who love truly are
parted far as east from west.'

So you have fully avenged me, I hear ?'
he said, after a pause, while his features were
contracted by pain.

Of that there is no doubt,' replied Florian.

For that I thank you, old fellow, though
I am low enough — in that state, in fact, in
which, we are told, we should forgive our
enemies, and pray for those who despitefully
use us.'

These two rascals are past being forgiven
now. I dare say long ere this their bodies

have been swept into the White UmvoloskI/
said Florlan, who still felt somewhat savage
about the whole episode.

Well, I am going to the rear at last, but I
hope we shall meet again. If not,' he added,
with a palpable break In his voice, ' my ring
take and keep It In remembrance of me.'
And as he spoke Hammersley drew from
his finger a magnificent gipsy ring, In which
there was a large and valuable opal, and forced
it upon the acceptance of Florlan.

The opal Is said to be a stone of Ill-omen,'
said Hammersley with a faint smile, ' but It
never brought Ill-fortune to me.'

Florlan knew nothing of that, and, if he
had, would probably not have cared about It,
though reared In Devonshire, the land of the
pixies and underground dwarfs and fairies.

The only reason for the stone being
thought unlucky said Hammersley, smiling,
is that Mark Antony, Nadir Shah, and
Potemkin, wearers of great opals, all came to
grief.'

'Going home, I hear, Hammersley,' lisped a
smart young aide-decamp cantering up to the

VOL. III. 36

ambulance waggon. * Egad, I envy you —
you'll see something better than Kaffir
damsels there !'

Hammersley, in the midst of his acute
pain, somewhat resented the other's jollity,
and said :

The poor Kaffir damsels are content with
the handiwork of God, and don't paint their
faces red and white, as our English women
do in the Row and Regent Street, Villiers.'

You'll soon be home — there is no such
thing as distance now,' rejoined the young
staff officer.

Yes, Villiers, I am sorry [^ to leave you all ;
but I am going back to England — dear old
England — the land of fog, as Voltaire says,
with its one sauce and its three hundred and
sixty-five religions,' he added, with a feeble
smile, thinking he was perhaps rather sharp
in his tone to Villiers.

And you have lost your favourite horse,
I hear ?' said Hammersley to Florian.
Yes, poor animal.'

Then take mine. I need not ask you to
be kind to him. Who can say but you may

lend him to me one day for a run at Melton
again ? Now, good-bye, old fellow, God bless
you !'

They wrung each other's hands and parted,
Florian to ride on to the new camp at the
Isandhlwana Hill, prior to the march for
Ulundl, and Vivian Hammersley to go with
the rest of the wounded and sick to the coast
for conveyance to Plymouth.

36—2

WHICH TREATS OF LOVE-LETTERS.

The middle of July had come, and matters
remained almost unchanged In the family
circle at Craigengowan. Lady Fettercairn
had not yet carried out her threat of getting
rid of Dulcis Carlyon, though a vague sense
of dislike of the latter was fast growing in
her mind.

Hammersley seemed to be effectually removed
from Finella's sphere, though by what
means Lady Fettercairn knew not ; but still
Shaftoo made no progress with the heiress ;
thus she feared some secret influence was
exerted over him by ' this Miss Carlyon,' and
would gladly have had old Mrs. Prim back
aofaln.

It was July now, we say ; and July in
London, though Byron says,

The English winter ending in July,
To recommence in august,'

to the lady's mind was associated only with
dinners, concerts, races, balls, the opera,
garden parties, and so forth, all of which she
was relinquishing for an apparently hopeless
purpose, while she knew that all her fashionable
friends would be having strange surmises
on the cause of this most unusual
rustication, and inquiring of each other,
What are the Fettercairns about ?'

Dulcis was painfully sensible that the lady
of the house had become cold, stiff, and most
exacting in manner to her, even condescending
to sneer at times, with a well-bred tone
and bearing that some high-born ladies can
assume when they wish to sting dependants
or equals alike.

Finella's other grandmother, my Lady
Drumshoddy, had ceased to be quite so indignant
at her repulsion to Shaftoo, as she had
a nephew — son of a sister — coming home on

leave from India ; and she thought perhaps
the heiress might see her way to present herself
and her thousands to young Major
Ronald Garallan, of the Bengal Lancers, who
had the reputation of being a handsome
fellow and a regular ' lady-killer.'

Days and days and long weary weeks
passed by — weeks of longing — and no word
of hope, of love, or apology came to Finella
across the seas from distant Africa, evolved
as she hoped by the letter of Dulcis to
Florian, and her heart grew sick with hope
deferred, while more battles and skirmishes
were fought, and she knew not that a vessel
with the mail containing that missive which
Florian posted at the orderly-room tent had
been cast away in the Bight of Benin, and
that the bags had been saved with extreme
difficulty.

She contemplated Vivian Hammersley
facing danger in battle and sickness in camp,
marching and toiling in trackless regions, with
one belief ever in his angry heart that she had
been false to him — she who loved him more
truly and passionately every day. So time

seemed to pass monotonously on, and her unsatisfied
longing to be justified grew almost
to fever heat; and death might take him
away before he knew of her innocence. She
tried to be patient, though writhing under the
evil eyes of Shaftoo, the author of all this
mischief.

Could it be that Vivian had been driven
away from her for ever ? Daily she brooded
over the unhappy story of her apparent fault
and its bitter punishment, and she would seem
to murmur in her heart, ' Come back to me,
my darling. Oh, how am I to live on thus
without you ?'

And amid all this no sense of pride or
mortification came to support her.

By the two girls the Cape news was, of
course, closely and nervously watched. The
tidings of Florian's promotion stirred the
hearts of both ; but to anyone else in
Craigengowan it was, of course, a matter of
profound indifference, if remarked at all.

A telegram briefly announced, without
details, that Captain Hammersley had been
wounded after the skirmish at the Euzangon-

yan Hill, but nothing more, as the papers were
filled by the death of the Prince Imperial ;
so, in the absence of other information, the
heart of Finella was wrung to its core.

At last there came a morning when, in the
house postal-bag, among others at breakfast,
Shaftoo drew forth a letter for Dulcis.

A letter for Miss Carlyon from the Cape,*
he exclaimed ; * what a lot of post-marks !
Have you a friend there ?'

One,' said Dulcis in a low voice ; and,
with a sigh of joyous expectation, like a
throb in her bosom, she thrust it into her
bodice for perusal by-and-by, when no curious
or scrutinizing eyes were upon her, after she
had duly performed the most important duty
of the day, washing and combing Snap, the
pug ; and the action was seen by Shaftoo,
who smiled one of his ugly smiles.

When, after a time, she was at leisure,
Finella drew near her, expectant of some
message.

Come with me, quick,' said Dulcis ; ' I
have a letter for you !'

For me ?'

Enclosed In Florian's.'

Quick as their little feet could take them,
the girls hurried to a secluded part of the
shrubberies, where stood a tree known as
Queen Mary's Thorn. Often when visiting
her nobles, the latter had been requested to
plant a tree, as If emblematical of prosperity,
or In order that Its owners might tend and
preserve it In honour of their Illustrious guest.

Such a tree had been planted there by
Queen Mary in the days of the old and
previous family, when on her way north to
Aberdeen In the eventful year 1562, when
she rode to Inverness on horseback. Her
room Is still pointed out In the house of
Cralgengowan, and tradition yet tells in the
Howe of the Means that, unlike the beer-drinking
Elizabeth (who boxed her courtiers'
ears, and would have made Mrs. Grundy
grow pale when she swore like a trooper),
thanks to her exquisite training at the court of
Catharine de Medici, her grace and bearing
at table were different from those of her rival,
who helped herself from a platter without
fork or spoon, and tore the flesh from the

roast with her teeth, Hke a Soudanese of the
present day.

But, as Lord Fettercairn was greatly bored
by tourists and artists coming in quest of this
thorn-tree, under which the girls now seated
themselves, and he could not make money
out of it, at a shilling a head, like his Grace
of Thole for a glimpse of the Falls of Briar,
he frequently threatened (as he cared about
as much for Queen Mary as he did for the
Queen of Sheba) to have it cut down, and
would have done so long since, but for the
intervention of old Mr. Kippilaw the
nationalist.

The delight of Dulcis on unfolding her
epistles was only equalled by the delight and
gratitude of Finella on receiving hers.

Oh Dulcis, Dulcis !' ran the letter of
Florian (with the whole of which we do not
mean to afflict the reader), * while here —
thousands of miles away from you — how often
my heart sickens with hungry longing for a
sight of your face — for the sound of your
voice, the sound I may never hear again ;
for in war time we know not what an hour

may bring forth, or on each day if we shall
see tomorrow. But, for all that, don't be
alarmed about me. I have not the smallest
intention of departing this life prematurely,
if I can help it. I'll turn up again, never fear,
darling — assegais, rifles, and so forth, nevertheless.
The chances of our lives ever
coming together again seemed very small
when first we parted, yet somehow, dear
Dulcis, I am more hopeful now ; and something
more may turn up when we least expect
it ; and we never know what a day may
bring forth.'

Florian was far, far away from her, yet the
sight of his letter, perhaps the first he had
ever written to her, gave the lone Dulcis,
for a time, a blissful sense of love and protection
she had never felt since that fatal
morning when she found her father dead
in harness ' — dead at his desk. Oh, that
she could but lay her head on Florian's
breast !

And as Finellaread and re-read Hammersley's
letter a bright, sweet, happy smile curved
her lips — the lips that he had kissed in that

first time of supreme happiness, that now
seemed so long, long ago.

I have been cruel, hard, suspicious,' wrote
Hammersley, ' till that fine young fellow,
then a sergeant of ours — the sergeant of my
squadron — a lad of birth and breeding evidently,
showed me the letter of Miss Carlyon
at least that part of it which referred to us,
darling. I did not know till then how bitterly
I had been deceived, and how we had both
been imposed upon. Pardon me for the cruel
note I wrote you, and forgive me. But,
Finella, as we have often said before, what
view will your people take of us — of me ? I
am not quite a poor man, though very much
so when compared with you. Think if
monetary matters were reversed, and you
accepted a rich man who asked you to wed
him, would not people say it was his money
you wanted ?'

Fiddlestick !' whispered Finella parenthetically
; * what matters it what people say, if
we love each other ? We marry to please
ourselves, Vivian, not them !'

There are some arts that come by intuition

to some people continued Hammersley,
and, by Jove ! darling, that of soldiering
has come to your friend Miss Carlyon's
admirer. His career will be a sure one ; not
that I believe the marshal's baton is often
found in the knapsack of Tommy Atkins.
He was an enigma to me ; his youth and all
that belonged thereto seemed dead and buried
his past a secret, which he cared about
revealing to none ; but such are the influences
of camp life and camaraderie that I drew to
him, and now I am as familiar with the name
of little Dulcis with the golden hair — golden,
is it not ? — as yourself ; so give her a kiss forme.
I owe her much — I owe her the happiness
of my life in dispelling the dark cloud
that rose between us — in taking the load from
my heart that made me blind and desperate,
so that it is a marvel that I have not been
killed long ago.'

As she read on, to Finella it seemed that
it was all a dream that there ever had been
any bitterness between them at all ; that his
fierce, short note, pencilled in haste and delivered
by the butler, had ever existed, or that

he had left her abruptly and hastily, without
a word or a glance of tenderness — not even
uttering her name, perhaps, the musical name
he was wont to linger over so lovingly ; that
he had ever gone from her in a natural and
pardonable tempest of anger and jealousy.

And now how well and fondly she could
recall their first Introduction in London,
though it seemed so long ago, when their
eyes first met with a sudden and subtle
understanding, ' and their glances seemed
to mingle as two gases meet and take fire,' asa
writer says quaintly ; and though they had
spoken but little then, and well-bred commonplaces
only, each had felt that there were
looks and tones untranslatable, yet full of
sweet and hidden meaning to the sensitive.

For a time, as if loth to go back to the
work-a-day world, both girls sat under Queen
Mary's Thorn, each with letter in hand, lost
in a maze of happy dreams. They could seethe
shrubberies and the woods about the
mansion in all the glory of midsummer, the
smooth spaces of emerald greensward, the
balustrade terrace with its stately fights of

Steps, and the pool below it, where the white
water lilies and the white swans throated in
sunshine ; but all was seen dreamily, and to
their ears like drowsy music came the hum
of the honey-bee and the twittering and
voices of the birds, while a beloved name
hovered on the soft lips of each, and seemed
to be reproduced in the songs of the linnet
and thrush.

You will write to Captain Hammersley,
Finella,' said Dulcis, suddenly breaking the
silence ; * write to him and supplement all I
have written to Florian. You see he is
too good, too brave, not to be completely
forgiving.'

He has nothing to forgive,' said Finella,
with just a little soupgon of pride.

Well, of course not ; and his heart has
come back to you again, if it ever left you,
when he knows that you love him only, and
loved him always.'

He sends you a kiss, Dulcis !' said
Finella, pressing her lips to the girl's soft
cheek.

Be brave, Vivian,' urged Finella, when

she wrote her letter ; ' I mean to be so, so far
as I am concerned, and do not be discouraged
by any opposition on the part of grand-mamma.
I am rich enough to please myself.
Let us have perfect confidence in each other,
and we shall realize our dearest hopes, if
God spares you to me. Oh, you dear, old,
passionate silly ! — to run away in a furious
pet, as you did from Cralgengowan, without
seeking a word of explanation. How much
all this has cost me. Heaven alone knows ;
but it is all over now.'

Her long and loving letter was despatched
■ — posted by her own hand.

But his wound — his wound — when shall
I hear more of that ?' was her ever-recurring
thought.

Now Shaftoo had seen the Cape letter ere
Dulcle had time to conceal it in her bosom,
and watching both girls, he had seen them
intent on their missives under the shade of
Queen Mary's Thorn. So, knowing that
Dulcis's letter could only be from Florlan,
intent on making mischief, he went to Lady
Fettercairn, whom he found in her luxurious

boudoir, and asked her If she 'approved of
her companion corresponding with private
soldiers

Certainly not replied the dame sharply ;
was her letter this morning from such ?'

I am certain of It.'

This Is excessively bad form !' she exclaimed,
reclining In a blue satin easy-chair,
with one slim white hand caressing the
smooth, round head of her goggle-eyed pug
door. * Send her here.'

So you have a military correspondent,
Miss Carlyon, I understand ?' said she, when
the culprit appeared.

Yes, my Lady Fettercairn,' replied Dulcis,
colouring painfully.

Is he a relation ?'

No ; you saw, and — and were struck
with his likeness in my locket,' faltered poor
Dulcis.

Well — I do not approve, while under my
roof, of your corresponding with private
soldiers, or sergeants, and so forth!'

But my letter is from an officer of the

VOL. III-i^"]

24th Regiment,' said Dulcle, with a little
pardonable pride.

So much the worse perhaps — an officer ?*

Lieutenant Florlan Maclan.'

Indeed said Lady Fettercairn, languidly
fanning herself; ^ I remember the name now
he was so called after the girl Maclean
she added half to herself. ' Maclan ! what a
name! It Is quite a calamity. I do not care
to have you corresponding with these people
while here she added vaguely.

Dulcle was on the point of reminding her
that the unfriended Florlan was the cousins
of Shaftoo, but disdained to do so
when the latter so selfishly forgot that matter
herself, and bowing, withdrew In silence — too
happy to feel mortified.

When she and Finally went to bed that
night, though each knew every word of her
letter by heart — they slept with them under
their pillows — yea and for many a night —
that they might have them at hand to read
the first thing In the morning, so simply
sentimental had the proud Finally and the
fond little Dulcle become!

Dulcle's head was on her pillow, over
which her red-golden hair was tossed inglorious
confusion ; but no eyes saw it, save
perhaps those of the man in the moon, the
silver light of which shone on the carpeted
floor, and then slowly stole upward in a
white line upon her white coverlet bed,
and ere long its soft and tender radiance fell
upon the equally soft and tender face of the
young girl, whose heavy dark lashes lay
close on her rounded cheeks, and whose
rosebud lips were parted and smiling, for she
had a happy dream, born of her letter — a
dream of Revelstoke and the old days therewith
Florian, ere grief, sorrow, separation,
and the bitter realities of life came upon
them.

37—2

IN THE HOWE OF THE MEARNS AGAIN.

Dulcis was light of foot, young, bright, and
active, yet with all her lightness and activity,
times there were now when she failed to fly
fast enough for Madame's smelling-bottle, her
fan, her Shetland shawl, her footstool, or
down-pillow, especially when the latter had
her headache, or that 7nigraine which could
only be cured in the atmosphere of Belgravia,
and made her at times also most irritable with
Finally.

Dulcle could play well and sing well too,
not being one of those who think that, so
long as the music of a song is heard, the
words are quite unnecessary ; but Lady Fete
' snubbed ' her attempts at either,
and openly hinted that It was as much out

of place for a * companion,' however highly
accomplished or trained, to seat herself at a
piano in the drawing-room as to ride about
the country lanes with a daughter of the
house ; but Dulcis, who was neither highly
accomplished nor trained, but self-taught
merely, so far as her music went, could
scarcely believe that Lady Fettercairn meant
steadily to mortify and humble her, till one
day, when she thought she was alone, and
was idling over the keys of the piano, singing
softly to herself a verse of a little old song,
that was a favourite of Florian's, and seemed
applicable to herself :

I saw her not as others did,
Her spirits free and wild ;
I knew her heart was often sad
When carelessly she smiled ;

Although amid a happy throng

Her laugh was often loud ;
I knew her heart, her secret soul,
By secret grief was bowed,' —

she stopped suddenly on finding the cold
and inquiring blue eyes of Lady Fettercairn
focusing her with her eyeglass. Indeed, ina
somewhat undignified manner, Madame

seemed constantly on the watch for her now,
and was always appearing at unexpected
times and in unexpected places.

Please to cease this English ballad, Miss
Carlyon ; it sounds as if more suited to the
atmosphere of the servants* hall than my
drawing-room, I think.'

I thought I was alone,' replied Dulcis,
colouring deeply at this sharp and wanton
rebuke ; and with tremulous hands she softly
closed the piano and stole away, with difficulty
restraining her tears, and hastened to
her first morning work — the washing and
combing of Snap, the fat little ill-natured
pug, with an apoplectic-like neck, who was
furnished with a beautiful collar of silver and
blue enamel, and usually took his repose in a
mother-of-pearl basket, lined with blue satin,
in the boudoir ; and Snap had a pedigree
longer than that of the Melforts of Fetter-cairn,
and, unlike theirs, was not tarnished by
political roguery.

Impulsive Dulcis had, as we have shown,
unintentionally wound herself round the
heart of the equally impulsive Finella, for she

had an honest English truthfulness about her
which, united to her naturally happy and
loving nature, made her generally irresistible ;
and now the girls had a powerful secret tie
of their own between them, and to Finella
Dulcis carried her complaints of her treatment.

No woman of heart — no lady would be
intentionally unkind to you, Dulcis,' urged
Finella.

Not positively so ; but she might by a
glance or a word remind me of utter dependence
for food and clothing in a way that
would be felt more keenly than an open
insult ; and, truth to tell, Lady Fettercairn
speaks out plainly now. And then,* added
Dulcis with perfect simplicity, ' a governess
or companion, if pretty, is so liable to be
snubbed.'

But the petty tyranny was continued from
time to time.

Dulcis feared the dog Snap, yet, as she
had been accustomed to have pets at home
in Revelstoke, she succeeded in teaching it a
few tricks, and rewarding the educational
efforts by biscuits and lumps of sugar. Snap

ere long would sit erect on his hind legs with
a morsel balanced on the point of his remarkably
short black nose ; and when she
said, ' Ready — present — fire,' and clapped
her little hands, he shot it upward and caught
it skilfully with a snap in descending.

With girlish glee she was showing this feat
to Finella, when Lady Fettercairn appeared
and said with a hard, metallic voice :

Please not to teach my poor dog these
vulgar tricks, Miss Carlyon ; these words of
command — did you learn them from your
friend the corporal, or sergeant, or what is
he?'

Grandmamma !' exclaimed Finella, in a
voice of astonishment and reproach, while
Dulcis's heart swelled and her eyes filled
with tears, and as usual she withdrew.
How can you speak thus to her ?' asked
Finella.

I mean what I say,' was the cold response ;
moreover, as you seem in her confidence,
perhaps you will be good enough to tell her
that if I permit her in the drawing-room,
occasionally to make herself useful when a

little music or a hand at cards Is wanted, she
must not wear low bodies or short sleeves on
any occasion added Lady Fettercairn, who
had detected the eyes of more than one male
guest wander appreciatively to the beautiful
arms of Dulcle, that shone like polished
alabaster, especially when contrasted with her
black mourning costume.

And when Lady Fettercairn took the
trouble to be ill, which was pretty frequency
now, as she was worried by being kept away
so long from London and London gaieties,
for no purpose or end, apparently, so far as
Finally and Shaftoo were concerned, she
established a headache as a domestic institution,
during the prevalence of which no one
was to address her on any subject whatever
more than all, no one was to cross her.
But Shaftoo's extravagance and growing evil
habits were becoming a source of perpetual
thought to the Cralgengowan household
now.

If Dulcle had her troubles, so had also
Finally, for the family scheme * anent ' Shaftoo
was always cropping up from time to time.

Thus, when that young gentleman, who had
a very indifferent seat in his saddle, got a
terrible ' spill ' one day, in leaping a hedge,
and was brought home in a very prostrate
condition, which his addiction to wine considerably
enhanced, the episode gave the
cold, selfish, and unpatriotic peer, who had
no great love for his newly found heir, some
cause for thought and consideration.

Failing heirs male, the Peerage of Fetter-cairn,
being a Scottish one, made before
the Union, would go to Finella in the
female line (as so many similar peerage do,
to the endless confusion of family names
and interests), and to the heirs male of her
body.

It was a kind of consolation, but a sad one.
Whom might she marry ? ' That fellow
Vincent Hammersley perhaps !'

Finella,' said Lord Fettercairn, in his
hard, dry voice, and with the nearest attempt
at a caress that ever escaped him, ' if aught
was to happen to Shaftoo — which God forbid !
you will be the heiress to the title and
estates.'

Oh, don't talk thus, grandpa !' she exclaimed.


You care for the old name, child !'
I do indeed, grandpa.'

And would make a sacrifice for it, if
necessary ?'

Believe me, I would !'

To please me ?'

Yes

You are a good girl, Finella. I wish
then for you, apart from Shaftoo, who seems
going to the dogs,' he muttered bitterly, ' to
marry some worthy and suitable man, such
as I shall select for you,' he added sententiously,
and thinking, but not speaking,
of the home-coming Major Ronald Garallan.

Indeed, grandpa, I will do no such
thing,' said the wilful little beauty, firing up ;
I would rather select a husband for myself.'

A day will come, girl,' said he, with an
air of undisguised annoyance, * when you
will thank your grandmother and me, when
thinking of all this matter, so necessary for
consideration, when so much wealth and
rank are involved. You are a food and a

bright little pet, Finally, and I would not
urge these matters on your consideration but
for your own good.'

Yet Finally only sighed wearily, and
thought of getting away from Cralgengowan,
and viciously twisted up her laced handkerchief
with her nervous little hands.

But If Lord Fettercairn was beginning to
be hopeless of the affair of Shaftoo and
Finella, it was not so with the Lady of that
Ilk ; she was still bent upon her matrimonial
plans, and as a part thereof she remonstrated
in a somewhat unfeeling way with the innocent
and unoffending Dulcis, who became
desperate in consequence.

Until now, when she became the object of
unworthy suspicions, she had been contentedly
enjoying the present, made all the
more pleasant to her by the friendship of
Finella, not troubling herself too much about
the future, nor Indeed would the question of
that, if it meant ways and means, have been
very reassuring to her. She could only indulge
in the visions of ' love's young dream
and no more, as yet.

Your future is a serious consideration,'
said Shaftoo one day, with reference to the
subject, as he was airing his figure, with the
aid of a stick, on the terrace.

What does it matter to you — what do
you care about it ?' asked Dulcis impatiently.


A man must always feel interested In the
future of a girl he loves, or has loved, even
though she has deliberately thrown him
over, and flouted him, as you have always
done me.'

I never could nor can I care for you,
even as a friend ; so simply cease this 'old
annoyance, please,' she said angrily.

Beware, I say again,' said he, with knitted
brows.

Oh, you have been manly enough to
threaten me before, but you are not yet
the master of Craigengowan, and may never
be.'

This had only reference to his rash course
of life, and was but one of several random
speeches or shots made by Dulcis, which
always terrified and maddened Shaftoo, who

suspected that In some mysterious way she
knew more than he was aware of. At
these times he could have strangled her,
and now he grew pale with momentary
rage.

I will no longer submit to your cruelty
and cowardice,' said Dulcis, her blue eyes
flashing as she felt desperate.

What will you do — tell Lady Fettercairn ?'
he sneered.

No.'

What then .?'

That is my business,' replied Dulcis, who,
truth to say, was beginning to meditate a
flight from Craigengowan- — whither, she knew
not and cared not.

Shaftoo was again silent and alarmed. Withall
his brilliant surroundings, he never
knew what a day or night might bring
forth.

'After long experience of the world,' says
Junius, * I affirm before God that I never
knew a rogue who was not unhappy.'

We always want what we cannot have, I
suppose,' said Dulcis, after a pause. * You

are like the fox and the grapes, Mr. Shaftoo,
in more ways than one ; only the fox displayed
superior sense by retiring when he
found the coveted clusters beyond his reach,
in persuading himself that they were sour ;
hence I would advise you to Imitate the proceedings
of the fox.'

Shaftoo turned away and withdrew without
a word, as he beheld the almost noiseless
approach of Lady Fettercairn from a conservatory
door, with her cold, steel-blue eyes,
more steely than ever, her light-brown hair,
and firm aristocratic lips.

Like most fair women, she looked much
younger than her years, and, as we have
said in an opening chapter her really fine
face was without a line, as she had never had
a cross or care In the world, save the
alleged mesalliance of Lennard with Flora
Mac I an, and that, in a general way, was all
forgotten now.

As she fixed her ofaze on Dulcle, the
expression of her face was hostile and
lowering.

While feeling certain that something

unpleasant was impending, Dulcis tried to
greet her with a smile, though ' the faculty
of looking pleased when one's heart is sick
unto death — of fulfilling with equanimity a
hundred petty social exactions, which one's
wearied soul loathes — is a talent verging on *
the border-land of genius.'

Miss Carlyon,' began Lady Fettercairn,
most freezing, * to my surprise I overheard
you giving some advice in a remarkable and
apparently very familiar way to my grandson,
Mr. Shaftoo Melfort ?'

The remark was a question ; but before
Dulcis, in her confusion, could form any
reply. Lady Fettercairn spoke again.

I have remarked, and intensely disapprove
of these apparently secret meetings,
conferences, or confidences, which you will,
between persons In the very different relative
positions of my grandson, young Mr. Melfort,
and yourself. Miss Carlyon. They are, to
say the least of them, very unseemly.'

Lady Fettercairn ! ' began Dulcis,

almost passionately, and with crimsoned
cheeks. But the dame, full of one idea

only, moved her head and resumed again,
and pretty pointedly too :

You are no doubt perfectly aware, as you
have resided some months among us, that
my grandson is destined for his cousin. Miss
Melfort ; and if her friend — as you say you
are — you are somewhat too much in his
society.'

Can I help it?' said Dulcis, in the dependency
of her position compelled to temporize.
I do not thrust mine on him — quite the
reverse. Lady Fettercairn.'

Finella does not seem to affect her cousin,
I regret to say.'

I think so too.'

Thus, if she has mortified him, his heart
may be easily caught on the rebound.'

By me ?' asked Dulcis, in a straightforward
manner.

'Yes,' replied Lady Fettercairn, sharply
and icily.

My position in your house will never
permit me to dishonour myself.'

Hoity-toity — dishonour !'

A girl who would seek to ensnare a man

VOL. III. 38

as you hint — for wealth or position, certainly
does dishonour herself. Death were
better than such a life as this !' murmured
Dulcle wearily.

What do you mean by death, Miss Carlyon ?
I overheard your remark ; It Is not fashionable
or good form to talk of such unpleasant
things, so please don't do It In future. Besides,
at twenty, no one dies of grief or of mock-sentiment,
believe me. A little time will
show me whether you are or are not the
real friend of Miss Melfort, and whether
you have not been, perhaps, too long
here.'

'Too long, indeed, for my own peace,' said
Dulcle, in a broken voice.

I am responsible for the consequences. If
he chooses to make a fool of himself with
you,' said Lady Fettercairn, mistaking the
meaning of Dulcle's speech.

What do you mean, madam ?' asked the
latter, as a desperate and hunted feeling came
over her. ^^^

I am scarcely bound to explain myself,
but might act,' replied Lady Fettercairn,

astonished and almost discomfited by this
audacity on the part of a dependant, ' especially
so far as you are concerned. If I mistake
not, I employed you, Miss Carlyon, to be my
useful companion, and not to act as a monitress
to my grandson, and to turn your gifts
of beauty or accomplishments to the use you
are doing.'

Oh, this is indeed torture !* exclaimed
Dulcis, as hot tears rushed to her eyes ; and
as she thought of what her real relations were
with Shaftoo, and how she loathed him, she
exclaimed with genuine agony, ' how can you
how dare you be so cruel ?'

'Miss Carlyon, this tone to me? You
forget yourself.'

No, Lady Fettercairn,' retorted Dulcis,
with kindling cheeks and blue eyes sparkling
through their tears ; * too well do I know,
and have been made to feel, that I am a
dependant in Craigengowan ; but I brought
into it a spirit as honest and independent as
if our places had been reversed — I the rich
lady and you my poor dependant'

If I wrong you I regret it,' said Lady

;8— 2

3<

Mary

oJvtRsn. OF ilUHO^

Fettercairn ; ' so here, for a time, let this
unpleasant matter end.'

And, with a slight bow, she sailed away
into the conservatory.

But Dulcle felt that there the matter could
not and should not end, and she began to
think seriously of flying from Cralgengowan.

With a little stifled cry that broke from her
quivering lips, Dulcis rushed down the steps
of the terrace and fled through the shrubberies
like a hunted animal, looking neither
to the right nor left, till she reached the
sequestered spot where stood Queen Mary's
Thorn, and, flinging herself face downwards
in the grass, she uttered again and again her
father's name, as if she would summon him
to her protection and aid, amid a flood of
passionate tears — tears from the depths of her
despair and intense humiliation.

Unmindful of the flight of time, or whether
she was wanted for attendance on Lady
Fettercairn or Snap, she lay there a whole
hour, while the shadows of tree and shrub
were lengthening round her. She thought
her heart was breaking, so keen was her

sense of the affronts to which she had been
subjected ; for, with all her sweet humility,
Dulcle was not without innate dignity and
pride ; and in this mournful condition she
was found by Finella, who, suspecting from
her grandmother's bearing and aspect that
something was wrong, had kindly gone In
search of her.

She raised her up, caressed and kissed her,
and then heard her story with no small Indignation,
though she knew not what to do
In the situation.

I shall never, never forget you, Finella,'
sobbed Dulcle ; ' but when I leave this I
know not what will become of me.'

Leave this — why ?*

'Would you have me stay after what I
have told you, and to be treated as I am by
Lady Fettercairn ? But now, to me, it seems
that the future of my life will be gloomy,
Indeed, and full of torture and sorrow.'

^ Don't talk thus, Dulcle ; if ever a girl was
made for happiness and to give It to others It
is you, my plump little English pet !' said
Finella, taking Dulcis's tear-stained face between

her pretty hands, and kissing It on
both cheeks.

But Dulcis was determined to leave Crags
— to go that same night, Indeed.

For where ?' asked Finella.

Anywhere — anywhere !'

Impossible !'

And Finella, by gentleness and kindness,
soothed her over for a time, but a time only,
and during that period she was relieved of
the obnoxious presence of Shaftoo.

That personage found Craigengowan, when
there were no guests thereat, especially such
as he could lure into a game of carts, or
pool and pyramid, ' deuced slow,' so he took
his departure for Edinburgh, where, as when
in London, he often assumed the uncommon
name of * Smith ' when involved, as he not
unfrequently was, in rows and scrapes which
he wished kept from the knowledge of Lord
FettercaIrn, and which sometimes led to his
figuring before a presiding Bailie through the
medium of the night-police.

EN ROUTE TO ULUNDI.

On the 19th of June the Second Division,
the operations of which were now combined
with those of Sir Evelyn Wood's Flying
Column, resumed Its march to the front after
the failure of certain nude ambassadors from
Cetewayo to arrange with Lord Chelmsford,
who, on the i6th — three days before his
march began — had received the most mortifying
intelligence that he was to be superseded
in command of the South African Field
Force by 'the coming man,' Lieutenants
Sir Garnet Wolseley, ere whose
arrival took place, he hoped to end the war
by one vigorous blow delivered at Ulundi.

The troops were all in the highest spirits
• — full of fine ardour, and longing to wipe out

the stain cast upon them by the miserable
fate of the Prince Imperial.

The first movement of the division was
the ascent of the great and steep Ibabanango
Mountain, and when that was accomplished,
Sir Evelyn encamped on the left bank of the
River Vemhlatuz, where open country
stretched on the left flank towards where
Fort Marshall was built, .while the division
encamped in his rear on ground where dwarf
acacias grew, with tangled creepers, wild
vines, and cane-like plants.

Service and exposure had now made deep
the bronze of Florian's face and hands ; but
the former had matured its expression, and
the fine manliness of it ; a careless, not precisely
a rackety life — but a camp life, with
perils faced in the field — had made his features
and bearing less boyish than they where when
Dulcis bade him farewell at Revelstoke.

A generous friendship no cold medium
knows,' says Pope ; thus, when active operations
were resumed, Florlan became painfully
conscious how much he missed Hammersley
at the head of the squadron, a charge that

had now devolved upon himself; for Vivian's
spirit of camaraderie and bonhomie, his manly,
gentlemanly, and soldierly bearing in every
way, with the little secret they had to share
between them, even as with Dulcle and
Finella at Cralgengowan, formed an additional
link.

When would they meet again ? When
would they greet each other, if ever, more ?
And while surmising thus he viewed with
genuine regard the valuable ring bestowed on
him by Hammersley, and patted with affection
the fine charger with which he had also gifted
him ; but many more In the ranks of the old
24th missed Hammersley as well as Florian.

On the 20th occurred one of those skirmishes
with the Zulus which were of daily
occurrence.

Villiers, the young aide-de-camp, came with
orders for the Irregulars, Buller's Horse,
and Florian's little squadron of Mounted
Infantry to reconnoitre the ground between
two branches of the Umhlatoosi River, and
for this purpose they quitted the camp as
usual before dawn.

As they rode on in silence Florian's mind
- — for he was apt to get lost in thought — was
dwelling on a legend he had heard, that the
Zulu people were the descendants of certain
shipwrecked seamen of a fleet which Pharaoh,
King of Egypt, had sent to the Southern
Sea, and that Zululand, some say Sala, was
the ancient Ophir, where forests of cedar and
ebony grew, and gold, diamonds, and all
manner of precious stones existed in certain
geological strata.

As the Mounted Infantry rode on overground
where troops had never ridden before,
herds of spiral-horned koodoos, of eland, of
hartebeest and the striped zebra went
scampering before them.

What sport we might have here had we
not other work in hand !' exclaimed an officer
regretfully.

In two detachments they examined the
hills on the flanks of the way which was to
be the route of the division. Buller's Horse
took those on the right; Florian's Infantry
those on the left. The former soon unearthed
some Zulus, who fired a ragged volley and

then vanished over a steep crest, where It
was Impossible to pursue them.

Skirmishes of this kind went on almost
hourly till the 26th, when Florian became
involved In what seemed a fatal catastrophe.
It had now become evident to the Zulus that
these continued advances of the Second
Division menaced the great Royal Kraal of
Ulundi. Thus more and more of them were
visible daily. Their opposition was growing,
and they made resolute attempts to burn up
all the tall feathery grass along the route ; and
being dry as hay, it readily caught fire, to the
peril of ammunition in the pouches, boxes In
the gun-limbers and store-waggons.

On the 24th Sir Evelyn Wood's column
had reached a place called the Jackal Ridge,
and encamped on its summit, while the tents
of the division were pitched at its base in a
district where the valleys were full of beautiful
green bushes, where cotton trees and
castor-oil plants grew in the wildest luxuriance,
and the tall scarlet spikes and spear-like
leaves were varied by the green of the speke

and the melkbosh or spurge plants of
various kinds.

From the camp of the Flying Column on
the summit of the ridge a great kraal, supposed
to be Ulundl, was seen In the distance,
the kraal of which traders and native scouts
had circulated the most fabulous descriptions.


Vague stories of the wealth of the king
went about,' says Captain Thompson, adjutant
of Buller's Irregular Cavalry. * Splendid
visions of loot in the shape of ivory, ostrich
feathers, and diamonds filled the soldiers'
eyes. Incredible stories of the amount of
treasure taken at Isandhlwana were circulated.
It is needless to say these golden
visions were broken, not a man of the
regulars being a sovereign the better for any
loot taken. Some of the irregulars got
small sums from deserted kraals. The
amount taken altogether was small. . . .
From here a good view of Ulundl can be
seen — the sight we have waited six long
months for. The delight one felt must have
been similar to that which animated the ten

thousand at the first sight of the sea. One
was almost tempted to shout Ulundi! Ulundil
as they did Thalassa ! Thalassa ! From the
same height we could see the sea in the far
distance

Prior to attacking some kraals that were
in front, on the 25th Sir Evelyn Wood's
column pushed forward again, and crossed a
stream by laying across it matting of grass
a process that occupied fully seven hours
after which the Second Division followed.


Early on the morning of the 26th, the
day we have referred to, Lord Chelmsford
personally paraded a force to attack the
enemy.

It consisted of two squadrons of the 17th
Lancers, looking gay in their smart blue
tunics, faced and broadly labelled with white,
their swallow-tailed banneret fluttering out
upon the wind ; Buller's picturesque-looking
Irregular Horse, Florian's Mounted Infantry,
Major Bengough's wild-looking natives, with
rifle, shield, and assegai, and two pieces of
cannon.

The kraals to be attacked stood in a
spacious valley, five miles distant from the
camp, and a stern resistance was expected.

At a canter the horse and artillery took
a circuitous route, and gained an eminence
overlooking the kraals, which were speedily
set on fire by shells, and, being of dry and
inflammable material, were at once sheeted
with red flame.

In each of these military kraals were two
thousand ^^^ hundred huts, and the dark
smoke from them ascended in separate
columns of stupendous height into the clear
and ambient African sky, and to avenge
their destruction a great column of some
thousands of Zulus, like a sombre, moving
sea, studded with grey and glittering objects
bull-hide shields and assegai-blades — were
seen advancing swiftly along the green and
verdant valley.

This will be no crutch-and-toothpick
business !' exclaimed Villiers, the joyous
young aide-de-camp, laughingly ; * here they
come,' he added, looking through his field-glasses,
' led by a tearing swell, with cranes'

pinions on his head, and no end of cows'
tails at his waist, and a shield like a door, by-jove
!'

The words had scarcely escaped him when
his horse was shot under him, and he ' came
a cropper,' as he phrased it, in doing so nearly
swallowing his cigar.

But the Royal Artillery 9-pounders opened
on them, plumping shell after shell into their
dense dark masses, so they paused, wavered,
faced about, and fled with the wildest precipitation,
pursued by the fiery and active
Redvers Duller, of the both Rifles (who had
served in the China campaign of iso, and
with the Red River expedition under Sir
Garnet Wolseley), at the head of his Irregular
Horse, the Mounted Basutos, and Florian's
Mounted Infantry.

On they went, over the maimed and torn,
the dead and the dying, naked and bleeding.
Many were shot and cut down on every side,
and the casualties would have been more
terrible but for the awful state of the
atmosphere, which was steamy, hot, and
laden with the overpowering fragrance of

sheets of tropical flowers and plants that
clothed the two faces of the valley.

In the hot pursuit, as Florian was taking
his horse over a watercourse by a flying
leap, there occurred to him one of those
mishaps which, from one circumstance or *
another, few horsemen have not experienced.
In mid-leap, the fiery animal was suddenly
scared by a huge black aasvogel (a kind of
vulture), that flew upward from among the
dwarf bushes with a vicious croak, and
caused it to swerve under him in the saddle,
giving his whole frame a painful wrench that,
without a wound or bruise, rendered him for
the time incapable of riding a yard further,
and with difficulty he dismounted.

What was to be done ? Advance with
the mounted men under Duller he could not,
neither could he return rearward to the camp,
now some eight miles distant, alone !

In a solitary hut of the nearest kraal — a
hut that had escaped the conflagration of the
rest — he was placed till the force could pick
him up on its return. There Tom Tyrrelll
placed a cloak over him, loaded his revolver.

and left him to continue the pursuit ; while
his charger — the gift of Hammersley — was
meantime appropriated by Villiers, the staff
officer.

Perfect rest made the acute pain he was
enduring subside ; but he still felt weak and
worn, and there he lay alone, amid utter
silence now, * building castles in the air, with
conversations in the clouds ' — conversations
with Dulcis, and castles for her to Inhabit.

In the almost darkened hut, dome-shaped,
and roofed with thatch and enormous leaves,
and into which light came by the narrow
wattle-framed door alone, he lay thinking* of
her, and the unpleasantness of her life at
Craigengowan, and marvelled much what
manner of place it was ; for, till her letter
came, he had scarcely heard of it before, he felt
assured. He thought, too, of the chances — •
the problem of their meeting again — and that
problem stared him in the face in the light
like an unsolved question, or the game that
one goes to bed leaving unfinished ; but with
him and with her it would be the most important
move in the game of their young and

VOL. III. 39

at present, divided lives — the lives and loves
of two who were bound up in each other, all
the more that they had no one to care for in
this world save each other.

Meanwhile one anxious hour followed
another, and there came no sound of troops
on the sward — no clatter of accoutrements to
announce that the pursuing Horse were returning
his way,

The Second Division and Wood's Flying
Column had marched to a mountain called
the Entonjaneni, and there formed a camp
about twenty miles distant from Ulundi as
the crow flies. Vast quantities of thorn-bushes
grew on the left of it, and before it
spread an open plain ; and to this camp came
nearly the last envoys of Cetewayo, bearing
two elephants' tusks as a sign of amity, promising
a herd of cattle, and so forth. The
tusks were declined, and the original conditions
insisted on. However, Lord Chelmsford
agreed to delay his final advance till the
evening of the 29th of June.

Buller's Horse and the other mounted men
were returning slowly from their long pursuit,

when they drew near the kraals so recently
destroyed, and saw that one hut was burning
still, and casting a lurid light against the
evening sky. All thought this strange, as
before the repulse of the Zulus in the valley
the fire in every kraal was completely over,
as there seemed nothing more left to burn.

Suddenly Tom Tyrrelll cried out, in a voice
of the keenest excitement :

The hut in which we left our officer is inflames
— the poor fellow will be burned to
death !'

Who ?' exclaimed Villiers.

Our poor officer — Lieutenant Maclan.*^

God ! you don't say so !'

See for yourself, sir.'

It is too evidently as you say. Forward
at a gallop !'

The flames were sinking fast when they
reached the hut, now reduced to a smouldering
heap of ashes, and the horrible odour of
burned human flesh overpowered the perfume
of the wild flowers, amid which the great bees
were yet humming ; and poking amid the hot
debris with their lances, the men of the 1 7th

39—2

found the charred remains of what had
been evidently a human body ; and though
inured to war, to bloodshed, and dally human
suffering, the soldiers looked blankly and inquiringly
in each other's faces, pausing for
orders, and wondering what was to be done
now.

In the hut the luckless Florlan had lain fora
time on Its clay-beaten floor listening for
every sound. He had a natural fear of
Zulus coming upon him suddenly and assembling
him in cold blood — If Indeed the blood of
these fierce savages was ever cold till death
seized them.

The Idea was Intolerable ; and he writhed
on the hard floor and hearkened intently with
his ear placed close thereto.

Shots In the far distance announced that
fighting was going on somewhere — that
Redvers Buller, the unwearied, was * at it
again' — but told him nothing more. What
if the advanced troops were defeated — had to
fall back towards the Entonjaneni Mountain
by some other route, and had to abandon
him to his fate ?

In war, of what value Is one human life,
save to the proprietor thereof ?

Anon, amid these exciting and oppressive
thoughts, he became conscious of a singular
and awful odour pervading the place. He
had knowledge enough of it by ample past
experience to know that it came from the
body of a dead Zulu. He peered about, and
in a corner hitherto unnoticed, near a pile of
fresh bull-hides, intended doubtless for conversion
into long shields, partly covered by
one, lay the corpse of a Zulu warrior, whose
shaven head, with the military ring or fillet,
and bare feet, with anklets of burnished
copper, were visible.

Pah!

Such a companion as this proved too much
for his nerves, and at all risks — the risk of
being seen by scouting Zulus — he crawled out
of the hut into the pure and grateful air of
heaven, and contrived to reach a clump of
dwarf mimosa-trees at a little distance on the
slope of an eminence, and therein he lay to
await the return of his comrades.

He had with him his water-bottle and a

brandy flask ; and with the contents of these,
a sandwich or two (from his haversack) made
of tinned meat, and a ration of biscuit, he
made a meal, as mid-day was now past, and,
lighting a cigarette, strove to study the art of
being patient.

As he lay there and smoked, numbers of
insects, nameless to him — cicada, huge
moths and butterflies — huge in the tropics —
buzzed and flitted about him ; small birds,
the gold and emerald cuckoo, unbind and
finch, with beautiful plumage, flitted from
branch to branch overhead ; a lizard or
chameleon crawled along. Dazed by the
heat, and under the influence of the latter,
and perhaps of his cigarette, Florian dropped
asleep.

From this he was startled by a trumpet
sounding the advance, and was roused just intime
to see the detachment consisting of the
two Lancer Squadrons, the Mounted Infantry,
Frontier Horse, and Bengough's Natives
resuming their route to the camp, after investigating
the ashes of the hut he had quitted,
and which had no doubt caught fire from the

hot embers of others blown against it by the
wind.

But Florian's heart sank within him at the
contemplation of what might have been had
he slept on — had the trumpet not been
sounded, and the troops had ridden away,
leaving him helpless in that solitude.

THE LOADED DICE.

Shaftoo was located In a quiet hotel in St.
Andrew Square, Edinburgh, whither he had
come in hope to raise money to meet the
difficulties In which he had become Involved.
When away from the splendid thraldom of
Cralgengowan — for thraldom he deemed it
now — he was daily and nightly in the habit
of imbibing more than he would have
ventured to do there ; thus he was becoming
slow of speech, with the fishy eye
and the fevered breath of the habitual tippler,
even at his years, while in dress he adopted
a style that was a curious combination of the
dandy and the groom.

The many confiding tailors, jewellers,
horse-copers, wine-merchants, and others

whom he had honoured by his patronage
were now getting beyond all bounds with
their importunity and — as he thought — impertinent
desire to have their bills settled ;
while, disgusted with him, Lord Fettercairn
had been heard more than once to say, even
to old Mr. Kippilaw :

If Finella had been a boy I should not
have cared so much about there being no
other grandson of my own to ensure the succession
and carry on the title.'

But the peer did not yet know the worst.

Occasional visits to Edinburgh, and still
more those to London, were always involving
Shaftoo in one or other disgraceful scrape ;
for, notwithstanding a most liberal allowance,
he was often at his wits' end for money, and
was over head and ears in gambling debts.
Thus he was a bitter pill to the patriotic peer,
his * grandfather,' and he was on the verge,
he feared, of dire disgrace, as a whole lot of
post-obits might soon come to light — on the
fortune he reckoned would come to him on
Lord Fettercairn's death or his marriage with
Finella ; for with two such prospects the

Jew money-lenders and other scoundrels who
trade as such, in Pall Mall and elsewhere,
under double names, had seen things in a
rosy ' light, and let him thus have ' no end
of money.'

And now, as a means of recruiting his exchequer
for a time, he bethought him of
young Kippilaw, who had been left ;^30,ooo
unexpectedly by an uncle in Glasgow, and
his first thought was to flatter and fleece the
fellow if he could, though the spruce little
W.S. was on the eve of his marriage with
one of the many daughters of Lord Mackay,
the eminent senator of the College of
Justice ; so he invited that gentleman to a
quiet little dinner at his hotel, ' Just to pick
a bone — sharp eight.'

Little Kippilaw, who was always flattered
by the society of a prospective peer, as
something to talk about in the Parliament
House, accepted with a radiant countenance ;
and, as he had rather a showy-looking friend
who was passing through Edinburgh on his
way to Drumshoddy Lodge, he asked permission
to brinor him.

Certainly, of course said Shaftoo.

Major Garallan is a client of the firm.'
What ! the old woman Drumshoddy's
nephew ?'

The same.'

All right ; let us have him.'

So the Major came in due course. He
was the beau-ideal of a cavalry man — tall,
handsome, well set up and put together,
dark-complexioned and regular-featured, with
his ears and neck scorched by the Indian sun
to a hue in which red and bistre were
blended ; but an awkward accession he proved
to Shaftoo eventually.

The dinner, with its soup, fish, and many
entries, was all that could be desired, from
the curator to the coffee, and put Shaftoo's
two guests in excellent humour with themselves
and the world generally ; the cloth
was drawn, the wine and dessert put on, and,
seated at the head of the table, Shaftoo almost
forgot his troubles, as he took bumper after
bumper of sparkling Pommery-greno, while
from the tall windows could be seen the
space of the stately square, with its tall

central column crowned by the colossal
statue of Melville, and all its many-pillared and
palatial banks and public offices whitened by
the silver light of the summer moon.

The Zulu War was, of course, spoken of,
the mishaps at Isandhlwana and Income discussed,
though the subject was shirked by
Shaftoo, who cared nothing about it, save in
so far as the danger that then menaced
Florian ; but little Kippilaw, who was a full-blown
captain in the Queen's Edinburgh
Rifle Brigade, talked a vast amount of
'shop' to the amused Major Garallan, whom
he ventured to instruct in the ' new method
of attack,' and thereby drew out the latter
insensibly to talk a little of his Indian experiences,
for he had served in the expedition
to Perak, against the Malays, and the Jowaki
expedition on the frontier of Peshawur, and
been wounded at the storming of Jummoo ;
affairs that, though small in themselves, went
rather beyond a sham fight in the Queen's
Park, including the storming of St. Anthony's
Chapel and forming a rallying square in the
Hunter's Bog.

And now the conversation began to flag,
though Shaftoo had circulated the wine freely,
and he thought the time had come to propose

a little mild play.' One circumstance surprised
him — that though they were supposed
to be connected by marriage, the somewhat
haughty Major never made the slightest reference
to the subject.

A quiet rubber of whist, with a dummy,'
suggested KIppIlaw.

With a dummy, no,' said Major Garallan.

I like poker, but '

Poker be hanged !' Interrupted Shaftoo.

At this abrupt speech the Major, a well-bred
man, pushed back his chair a little way,
while Shaftoo paused and felt In his waistcoat-pocket
a little white square Ivory object — of
which more anon.

It was arranged that Shaftoo and KIppIlaw
should have a mild game of carte, while
Major Garallan smoked. Idled, and looked on,
a course that the first-named gentleman by
no means approved of, as, for cogent reasons,
he had an Intense dislike of having his play
overlooked.

KIppilaw, Inflamed by the wine he had
taken Inconsiderately — while Shaftoo, cautious
to a degree, had not, to use a phrase of his
own, * a hair of his coat turned ' — allowed
himself to be lured Into doubllnQf the stakes
again and again ; and Shaftoo, who had his "
own ultimate end In view, while playing to
all appearance with Intense care, allowed
himself to lose eventually the sum of ^^500,
for which, as he had not the most remote Intention
of paying It, he with great liberality
gave an * I O U ' to KIppilaw, who, not
being an habitual gamester, but by nature
and profession cautious and gentlemanly inspirit,
was rather scared In accepting the
document.

Then a pause ensued In the game, during
which more wine — Pommery-greno — was circulated,
fresh cards produced, and Shaftoo
Invited the Major to play, but he declined
somewhat curtly, as Shaftoo thought.

He then urged KIppilaw to let him have
his ' revenge,' and the latter was willing
enough to let him have back the I O U If he
won It, or any portion thereof, as he disliked

to possess such a document signed by the
son of a cent of the firm, and thought
secretly that he would not play a shilling
beyond that sum ; but he had partaken of too
much champagne, which, when the Major's
back was turned, Shaftoo contrived to dash
with brandy, and soon the demon of play,
rivalry and acquisitiveness overruled the
reason of Kippilaw ; but the nefarious action
of Shaftoo had not been unnoticed by the
Major, who had affected to be twirling his
moustache by the aid of a mirror above the
high black marble mantelpiece.

Shaftoo produced a dice-box ; he lost, and
Kippilaw won, as it was intended he should,
and a silly laugh of exultation escaped him.

Another I O U — you're in luck's way
to-night, Kippilaw !' exclaimed Shaftoo.

How much have I won .^'

A hundred and fifty

The play went on — the dice-box rattled
again and again, while the Major, with his
back against the mantelpiece, looked silently
and curiously, but darkly on. Shaftoo won
back — what he had lost as a lure — his ^500,

with wonderful celerity, and then another sum
of ;^ioo, for which Kippilaw gave him a
cheque, signed by a very unsteady hand.

Double or quits,' said Shaftoo, staking the
cheque, with his hand on the dice-box.

'Thanks — but I don't think I'll play anymore,"
said Kippilaw.

Oh — indeed — please yourself,' said Shaftoo
scornfully, while biting his lips with anger
and disappointment — ' but after gaining
;^5oo from me — the devil — are you afraid ?'

'No.'

What then ?'

^ I have played enough — more deeply than
I ever did before.'

Enough !' repeated Shaftoo contemptuously.

Yes.'

Too much, indeed,' said Major Garallan
suddenly ; ' and, by Jove, you do right to stop,
Kippilaw.'

What the devil do you mean ?' asked
Shaftoo, becoming pale with sheer fury.

What I say,' replied the officer coolly.

'Who the gave you a right to interfere
?' demanded Shaftoo in a bullying tone.

I have watched your play, sir, for sometime
past,' replied the Major quietly, 'and
know right well how and why the tide of
fortune turned so suddenly m your favour.'

An oath escaped Shaftoo, and snatching up
the cards, he hurled the pack to a remote
corner of the room.

What does all this mean ?' asked Kippilaw,
staring half tipsy and with a scared air at
the speakers.

It means, you goose, that you have been
playing with a fellow who is no better than a
blacken,' said the Major, with quiet scorn.
^ No, jj/^2^ dont he added, grasping, as if with
a smith's vice, the wrist of Shaftoo, who,
uttering a cry like a jackal, seized a cut-glass
decanter, with the fell intention of hurling it
at the speaker's head, but the latter cowed
him by one steady glance.

You shall repent this insolence,' said
Shaftoo, starting to his feet. ' I will teach you
to question a man of honour with impunity.'

Honour !' laughed Garallan.

You shall hear from me, sir.'

In what fashion — an action at law }'

VOL. III. 40

No ; one perhaps you may shrink from,'

Very probably. You don't mean a duel ?

I do.'

Where ?'

On the sands at Bologna.'

^ Fool ! People don't fight duels nowadays,
and if they did, I am not required to
fight with a — swindler ! That is the word, so
let us hear no more high saluting. A man of
honour, indeed !'

Garallan burst into a fit of scornful laughter
and Shaftoo, mad with rage and disappointment,
was rushing to grasp the poker, when
the former, in a moment, and before the
apparently helpless Kippilaw could interfere,,
if able to do so, in any way, had struck his
would-be opponent down, and wrenched from
his left hand, which he tore open by main
force, something that Shaftoo had attempted
to put in his mouth, and which, on examination,
proved to be — a loaded die.

Shaft's HORIZON BECOMES CLOUDY.

The Major had gone to the ' little dinner' at
the desire of Kippilaw, but unwillingly ; he
had evidently heard something about Shaftoo
knew him by reputation, and during the
meal had treated him perhaps rather cavalierly,
which Shaftoo was too self-assertive
or too 'thick-skinned' to perceive, though
Kippilaw did.

The little W.S., who had never been in a
scrimmage' since he left the High School,
was desperately scared by the whole affair, and
especially by the mauling given to Shaftoo, the
son of a client of the firm, the heir of Lord
Fettercairn, by the Major, who made very

light of the matter, and called him * a d d

cad, and worse than a cad.'

40 — 2

When Shaftoo gathered himself up they
were gone, and he heard their footsteps
echoing in the now silent square (where the
tall column stood up snowy white in the light
of the waning moon) as they turned westward
along George Street, and a feeling
closely akin to that of murder gathered in his
heart as he poured the most horrible maledictions
on the Major, and drank a deep draught
of foaming Pommery-greno, well laced with
brandy.

That fellow had spoiled his game, and his
nefarious plans against young Kippilaw,
whom he regarded as a wealthy pigeon to
pluck. No good ever came of a quiet third
party watching one's play. He would be
even with the Major yet, he muttered, as he
ground his teeth ; but how ? The Major had
carried off the loaded dice, and after splitting
it open, as doubtless he would, exposure
everywhere was sure to follow.

He was wrong in one supposition, however,
as the Major quitted Edinburgh next
morning for Drumshoddy Lodge, and, of
course, would be very unlikely to expose in

public one whom he deemed a connection of
his own.

Intending to attribute the whole affair of
the loaded dice — alleged to be loaded, he
would insist — to a tipsy brawl on the Major's
part, to a mistake or confusion, and carry it
off somehow, Shaftoo, driven to desperation
by want of money on one hand, even to
settle his hotel bill in St. Andrew Square,
and by some days of terrible doubt and depression
on the other, after writing a private
note to Mr. Kenneth Kippllaw about his
affairs, and fixing an hour for a visit * thereanent,'
ventured to present himself at that
gentleman's chambers, where a shock awaited
him.

As he passed through the hall, he saw
Madelon —-macedon Galbraith — seated in a
waiting-room.

Madelon here — for what purpose ?' thought
he, with growing anxiety, as he was ushered
into the presence of Mr. Kippllaw, who received
him with intense frigidity — even more
than frigidity — as he barely accorded him a
bow, and neither offered his hand nor rose

from his writing-table, but silently pointed to
a chair with his pen.

Despite this cold welcome, Shaftoo's constitutional
insolence of thought and bearing
came to him with a sense of the necessity for
action, for his grim reception by the usually
suave and pleasant old lawyer roused all his
wrath and spite to fever-heat.

So — so, sir,' began the latter, * so you, the
heir to the estates and title of Fettercairn,
actually tried to rob my simple son by means
of a loaded dice till exposed by Major
Garallan, to whom my warmest gratitude is
due ; the split fragments are now in my
possession ; but I presume it was not on that
matter you came to consult me. And, not
content with such vile conduct, you sought
to taunt, bully, and inveigle the Major into
a duel, in which perhaps your superior skill
or cunning might achieve his murder.
Duels, however, are out of date ; but penal
servitude is not, so beware, Mr. Shaftoo — •
beware, I say — there is a rod in pickle for
you, I suspect.'

And as he spoke the keen, glittering eyes

of the old lawyer glared at Shaftoo above the
rims of his pince-nez.

But you come to confer with me about
your private debts, Mr. Shaftoo,' he added,
lowering his tone.

Yes

You know the total amount, I presume ?'

Scarcely.'

How so ?'

Well, when letters come to me I open

the white envelopes and chuck all the d d

blue ones into the fire uninspected.'

A sensible proceeding — very ! How long
can it go on ?'

I don't know — perhaps you do,' was the
dogged reply.

As if it was useless to ask further questions,
Mr. Kippilaw looked over some papers which
Shaftoo had sent for his consideration, and his
countenance lowered and his white bushy
eyebrows became closely knitted as he did
so, while Shaftoo watched him with an aspect
of languid interest which he was far from
feeling, and sucked the ivory head of his
crutch-stick the while.

'Why, Mr. Shaftoo,' said Mr. Kippllaw,
this is rank dishonesty
What is ?'
This mess I am contemplating.'

Don't talk thus to me ; the greatest
robbers in the world, after one's own family
lawyers *

Sir !' interrupted Mr. Kippilaw, smiting
the table with his hand, and looking
dangerous.

To business, then,' said Shaftoo sulkily.

There's this bill of Reuben Levi, the
London money-lender, of which I have a
note, drawn originally for ^500, at three
months, bearing Interest at sixty per cent.,
and renewed three times !'

Well ?'

The money value to the drawer Is not
likely to be much at the close of the precious
transaction.'

D n, I think not.'

Lord Fettercairn will have to take up
these.'

A few more too, I suspect,' groaned
Shaftoo.

This is quite as disgraceful as your affair
of the cards at that Club in Princes Street.*

Which ?'

When you were found playing baccarat
with ever so many cards too much in the
pack. I am sick of you and your affairs, as
you call them. The man who can act as you
do, in these and other matters, is not likely
to discharge the duties that devolve on the
proprietor of Craigengowan and the title of
Fettercairn, alike teeming with temptations ;
therefore I think his lordship will put it out
of your power to make ducks and drakes of
the inheritance, if he takes my advice.'

Yotir advice !' thundered Shaftoo.

Precisely so,' said Mr. Kippilaw quietly,
as he thrust all Shaftoo's papers into a drawer
and locked it. ' Lord Fettercairn has lost all
patience with you, sir. People should not
incur debts they are unable to pay. I know
of no action more mean or contemptible than
to make some man — a poor one, perhaps — •
lose for another's amusements and enjoyments.
You ought to consider this.'

'Thank you, Mr. Kippilaw. You are, I

believe, a leading elder in your kirk, whatever
that may mean ; but I'll not have you
preach to me

A man should do anything rather than
defraud his neighbour.'

D n you, you old cur ! do you speak

of " defrauding" to me — you, a lawyer ?' said
Shaftoo, grasping his cane.

I do,' replied Mr. KIppIlaw firmly. Shaftoo
quailed under his gaze, and turned to leave
the room. * Mr. Gyle!' said the lawyer, ere
he could do so.

Shaftoo turned and faced him.

Ha ! — you answer to your stained I see !'

What do you mean 1:'

Simply that I begin to think you are an
impostor !'

Shaftoo glared at him, white with rage and
dismay, while a minute's silence ensued.

Perhaps the astute lawyer had read that
remarkable essay by Lord Bacon on cunning,
wherein he tells us that an unexpected
question or assertion may startle a man and
lay him open. ' Like to him,' he continues,
that having changed his name, and was

walking in St. Paul's, another came behind
him, and called him suddenly by his true
one, whereat straightway he looked back.'

An impostor, dare you say ?' exclaimed
Shaftoo, taking one pace to his front.

Considering your conduct, I begin to
think so.'

Shaftoo felt for a moment or so relieved,
and said :

What the devil do you mean ? You had
a properly attested certificate of my birth ?'

Attested — yes.'

Was that not all-sufficient, even for your
legal mind ?'

Not — now.'

Why not now ?'

Because I remember that it is mutilated.'

Shaftoo winced.

It is there, however said Mr. Kippilaw,
pointing with his pen to a green charter box
labelled * Fettercairn,' and Shaftoo thought
that if he did not adopt a high tone he might
fail in the matter.

You scoundrel,' he exclaimed, as he
smashed his cane on the writing-table,

scattering letters and documents In every
direction ; ' doubt of my Identity Is an Insult
now !'

Mr. Kippilaw did not lose his temper ; he
puckered up his eyebrows, actually smiled,
and looked cunningly at Shaftoo as he pulled
or twitched his nether lip with a finger and
thumb. He was evidently reconsidering the
situation in his own mind, and coming to
the conclusion that there was a mistake
somewhere.

Shaftoo was sharp enough to read this at a
glance ; he thought of Madelon, and his
heart became filled with black fury.

I think our Interview Is ended,' said Mr.
Kippilaw quietly, as he dipped a pen In the
ink-bottle and laid his left hand on a bell.
You will be good enough to leave my
chambers, sir, or I shall have you shown outby
the hall-porter.'

There was nothing left for him but to
withdraw, and as he did so, Madelon
Galbralth, who had been evidently waiting
an Interview, entered Mr. Kippilaw's room,
and as she passed she gave Shaftoo a terrible

glance with her black, sparkling eyes — a
glance of hatred and triumph — as she had
not forgotten, but remembered with true
Highland bitterness, the day of her rough
expulsion from Craigengowan, when he had
actually hounded a dog upon her.

Shaftoo shivered ; he felt as If an iron network
was closlnof round him, and that a
fierce legal light might yet be cast on his
secret villainy.

Guilt does not always look to the future.
It is as well perhaps, under any circumstances,
that we never can see that mystic
but certain period.

Smarting under Shaftoo's unbridled insolence
to himself, and acting very probably
on some Information accorded to him by
Madelon Galbraith, whom he desired to
remain at his house In Edinburgh, Mr.
Kippilaw took means to achieve more —
means which he should have adopted Immediately
after his first Interview with Shaftoo.

Discomfited, there was nothing left for the
latter now but to cast himself on the mercy
of Lord and Lady Fettercairn in the matter

of his debts and involvements ; and this,
after a few days of doubt, irresolution, and
much hard drinking, he resolved to do, and
so set out for Craigengowan.

In these few days the strands of Fate had
been twisting slowly but surely into a fatal
coil !

THE SQUARE AT ULUNDI.

In the camp at the EntonjanenI Mountain
the troops had two entire days' rest, which
enabled Florian to recover completely from
the effects of the accident which had befallen
him in the pursuit of the Zulus.

In the afternoon of the 28th a telegram
came announcing to Lord Chelmsford that
Sir Garnet Wolseley had arrived, that he had
assumed the entire command, and requesting
a plan of the campaign, which, apparently,
Lord Chelmsford, having conducted thus far,
was resolved to finish for himself, as he
did.

With the same messengers came the mails
for the troops, and, to Florlan's delight, there
came a letter from Dulcle — we say delight at

first, for that sentiment soon gave place to
one of anxiety.

At the sight of her handwriting, his heart
went back in a day-dream to the banks of the
Yealm and the Erme and to the exquisite
Devonshire lanes where they had been wont
to wander hand in hand together — lanes
bordered by banks of pale green ferns, while
the golden apples hung in clusters overhead.


Isolated now amid the different worlds in
which each lived, these two were tenderly
true to each other, at those years when they
who have been boy and girl lovers usually
forget, or form new attachments.

Florian was struck by a certain confusion
in the letter of Dulcis, which seemed to have
been written in haste and under the pressure
of some excitement, so that at times it was
almost incoherent.

I am not superstitious, as you know,
dearest Florian, but I dislike the brilliant
month of June more than any month in the
year,' she wrote. ' Papa died in June, leaving
me alone in the world and so poor — hence I

have always strange forebodings of unseen
evils to come — evils that I may be powerless
to avert ; thus June is ever associated in my
mind with sorrow, death, and mystery. It
is then I have restless nights and broken
dreams of trouble haunting me — even of
hideous forms seen dimly, and I leave my
pillow in the morning more weary than when
I laid my head upon it at night. It is June
again, and I am in trouble now.'

She proceeded then to describe her persecution
by Shaftoo, who was again returning
after an absence ; that his presence, conjoined
to the taunts, suspicions, and tone of Lady
Fettercairn, made life at Craigengowan a
burden to her, and that she had determined
on flight from the house — from Scotland
indeed — but where she was to go, or what
she was to do, she knew not. She had
resolved not even to consult her only friend
Finella, so that, by the time her letter reached
him, she would be out once again on the
bosom of the cold world !

So ended this distressing and partly incoherent
letter, which was the last Florian

VOL. III. 41

received from Dulcis Carlyon, and by the
tenor of It there seemed a futility In sending
any reply to Craigengowan, as too probably
she must have left it some weeks ago.

If killed to-day or tomorrow — anyway,
before Cetewayo is caught — I'll never know,
probably, how my darling gets over her
trouble,' thought Florian simply but sadly.

There came by the same post no letter for
the absent Hammersley, so Florian concluded
that Finella Melfort must have seen through
the medium of the public prints that he had
sailed for Europe on sick leave.

It was vain for him to Imagine where and
amid what surroundings Dulcis was now,
and doubtless with very limited means ; It
was a source of absolute agony to him at such
a time, when he was so helpless, so totally
unable to assist or advise her, and he seemed
as in a dream to see the camp, with Its streets
of white tents and soldiers In thousands
loitering about, or stretched on the grass,
laughing, chatting, and smoking In the sunshine.


In the immediate foreground, on the branch

of a tree, hung the skinned carcase of an
eland, from which a powerfully built Hottentot
of the Natal Contingent, all nude save
a pair of breeches, was cutting large slices
with a huge knife, and dropping them into
Madras cowrie baskets prior to cooking them
in small coppers half full of mealies.

A rich plain stretched away to the north ;
beyond It were mountains covered with grass
and dotted by clumps of trees, and in some
that grew close by the camp, numbers of
beautiful squirrels were hopping from branch
to branch In the sunshine.

Ulundl was now only sixteen miles distant
from our outposts, and from thence came the
last messengers of Cetewayo, bringing with
them as a peace-offering the sword of the
Prince Imperial — the sword worn by his
father, too probably at Sedan, with a secret
message — written by Cornelius Sign, the
Dutch trader — to Lord Chelmsford, telling
him that If he advanced on Ulundl to do
It with strength, as the forces of Cetewayo
were many, many thousands strong.

41 — 2

On the I St July the division marched
again.

Florian had been scouting with his squadron
all the preceding day and far into the night,
and lay in his tent weary and fagged on
a ground sheet only, without taking off either
accoutrements or regimentals. There, though
worn, he had dreams, not of Dulcis, but
of his dead comrade, jovial Bob Edgehill,
and the little song the latter was wont to
sing came to his dreaming ears :

Merrily lads, so ho !
Some talk of a life at sea ;
But a life on the land,
With sword in hand,
Is the life, my lads, for me.'

Then he started up as he heard trumpet
and drum announcing the * turn out ' — the
latter with the long and continued roll there
is no mistaking. A hasty breakfast was
taken — scalding coffee drunk standing beside
the camp fires — the tents were struck, the
waggon teams were inspanned, the Mounted
Infantry went cantering to the front, and the
march was begun.

Beautiful though the district looked when
viewed from Entonjaneni, the country to be
traversed proved a rugged one, covered with
tall reed-like grass of giant height, that
swayed slowly in the wind, interspersed with
mimosa scrub and enormous cacti, with leaves
like sabre-blades ; but by half-past one a.m.
the White Umvolosi was reached.

More scouting in a dark and moonless
night fell to the lot of Buller's Horse and
Florian's Mounted Infantry. They could
hear the war-song of the vast Zulu army —
unseen in the darkness, but chiefly posted at
fords on the river, loading the still, dewy air,
rising and falling with wild, weird, and
impressive effect, now apparently near, now
distant ; but so mighty ever and anon was
the volume of sound that it seemed to
corroborate the alarming message of Cornelius
Sign. Among other sounds were the
awful shrieks of a dying prisoner, whom they
had impaled on the bank of the stream.

Much scouting, scampering about, and
skirmishing by ' bank, bush, and scar *
followed for three days, and the 4th of July

saw the division on Its way to fight the great
and final battle of the war, before Wolseley
could come on the ground — Ulundi.

The sun was well up in the sky, when the
column crossed the river at a point where
sweet-scented bushes, graceful acacias,
gigantic convolvuli, and wild guava fringed its
banks, where the bees were humming, and
the Kaffir vultures hovering over the slain of
a recent skirmish ; and splendid was its aspect
in the brilliant morning light — the 17th
Lancers with their striking uniform and
pennoned spears, a stately grove ' — the
infantry, not clad in hideous ' mud-suits,' butin
their glorious scarlet, their polished
bayonets and barrels shining in the sun, while
in the hollows under the shadows of the
great mountains, shadows Into which the
light of day had scarcely penetrated as yet,
the imps or columns of the Zulus were
gathering in their sombre and savage
thousands.

The troops will form In hollow square !'
was now the General's order, and, with other
aides-de camp, Villiers, cigar in mouth, and

with flushed cheek and brightening eye,
went cantering along the marching column,
with the details of that formation for the
advance — the first Instance of such a movement
in modern war, since William Wallace
of Eldership, the uncrowned King of Scotland,
instituted such a system at the battle
of Falkirk, and consequently he, as Green
tells us in his ' History of the English People,'
was actually the first founder of * that unconquerable
British Infantry,' before which
the chivalry of Europe went down.

As formed by Lord Chelmsford on that
eventful 4th of July, the infantry on the
four sides of his oblong square marched
in sections of fours, with all cavalry and other
mounted men scouring the front and flanks,
Whetstone's Basutos covering the rear, with
the cannon In the acute angles of three faces
of the square ; all waggons and carts, with
stores and ammunition, in the centre.

This was about eight in the morning, and
with colours flying and bands playing merrily
in the sunshine, this huge human rectangle
marched in a north-easterly direction, past

two great empty kraals and a vast green
tumulus that marks the grave of King Panda,
the father of Cetewayo, who Is seated therein,
buried In a partly upright position, according
to Zulu custom.

To the right of the marching square were
hills covered with thorn trees overlooking
the White Umvolosi; to its left were other
hills covered with enormous loose stones,
and In Its rear was a rugged country tufted
with mimosa trees, and others that stood
up with feather-like foliage against the blue-green
sky. And in the centre of a species
of a natural amphitheatre stood three military
kraals of vast extent, the principal being
named Ulundi.

At the extremity of this amphitheatre
there was visible a long line of oval-shaped
shields, above which black heads and bright
points appeared — the Zulu imps marching
forward in double column with a cloud of
skirmishers on their front and flanks, precisely
according to European tactics.

The square was halted now, the ranks
closed up, all facing outwards ; the rifles and

cannon were loaded, the ammunition boxes
opened, and two of the kraals were set inflames
by the Irregular Horse; but one was
extinguished, lest the dense smoke from
it rolling across the plain might offer a cover
for the Zulu advance.

To lure them on, Florian was sent with
twenty Mounted Infantry, and, on seeing
so petty a force riding towards them, the
enemy wheeled back a portion of their front
as a trap.

Come on, lads,' cried Florian, brandishing
his sword, ' come on ! — though not a man
of us may return !' he thought.

But the twenty men only poured in a
rifle fire, wheeled about by fours, and,
galloping back, won the shelter of the square,
the four faces of which were fringed by steel
and garlanded with jets of fire and smoke,
while the roar of artillery shook the air, and
high overhead was heard the fierce rush of
the red rockets as they were shot into the
royal kraal of Ulundi and fired it in many
places.

With the rest of the mounted men, Florian

stood In the centre of the square, holding his
horse by the bridle and looking quietly about
him, and, like the rest, his heart beat high,
every pulse was quickened, and the excitement
became Intense, as the long, long horns
of the Zulu army In Its thousands closed
round the square, and as the circle contracted
and came within closer range It was a splendid
and thrilling but terrible sight to see the
masses mowed down like swathes of grass
beneath a mighty scythe.

The British troops were formed in ranks
four deep, two kneeling as If to receive
cavalry, the rifle-butt placed against the right
knee, and two erect, firing steadily, all with
bayonets fixed ; and In this dense formation,
sad Indeed would have been our casualties
had the Zulu fire been well delivered.

Closing upon their skirmishers rather than
permitting the latter to fall back upon their
lines, their attack embraced the four faces of
the vast hollow square, now shrouded with
white whirling smoke, and edged by glittering
fire and flashing steel. Out of the dark
masses that were pouring on came bullets of

every calibre, from the sharp singing cone of
the Martini Henry to the heavy whirring
charge of the long elephant-gun, and many
a man and many a horse was wounded and
done to death thereby. The old Zulu tactics
were pursued ; the attack was ever augmented
by fresh bodies of infuriated savages, with
the same dire results to them ; while all their
devotion and desperation could rarely carry
them past the verge of the cloud of smoke
enveloping the square ; and thus, of the
thousands who came on, only hundreds
remained to waver or prolong the attack.

Whole crowds of naked and sombre forms
seemed to lie as if suddenly struck dead,
each man where he stood ; and it was so.
Some, however, succeeded in flinging their
bare breasts upon the bayonet points, and,
with dying grasp on the rifle muzzles, went
down almost at the feet of the front rank
men, fierce, stern, fearless to the last, their
white teeth set, their eyeballs gleaming like
those of exasperated fiends, and their yells
rending the air.

Steady, men, steady,' the officers were

heard to cry again and again ; * fire low —
low, and not so fast !'

Drury Lowe was unhorsed by a spent
bullet, but vaulted into his saddle again.
Eight companies of the Perthshire Light
Infantry, flanked by seven and nine pounder
guns in one face of the square, fought welland
valiantly, though young soldiers, and in
physique unlike those of whom Sir Francis
Head wrote when at Paris in 1815, when he
stated * that a body of Scottish Highlanders,
or Lowlanders, standing shoulder to shoulder,
stretched over more ground than a similar
number of inhabitants, soldier or civilian, of
any other nation in Europe.'

The coolness of the men amid this close
strife, while the dead and dying fell about
them fast, was wonderful, the doctors attending
the latter ; and in several instances
the former, ere they were cold, were buried
to save time, while the chaplain stood by to
read the burial service amid a tempest of
bullets.

Have a cigar,' said an officer of the
Perthshire Light Infantry, seeing that Florian

was somewhat ' blown ' after his scamper
from the front to the shelter of the now
environed square.

Thanks,' said he, selecting one from the
speaker's silver case ; but ere the latter could
give Florian a light, a ponderous knobkerie,
flung with superhuman force at random — the
last force, perhaps, of some dying savage —
smashed his head to pulp in his tropical
helmet as completely as a half-spent cannonball
would have done, and covered Florian
with a sickening mess of blood and brains
together.

In imitation of the British formation, a
skilful Zulu Induna formed his men in a
hollow square and hurled them like a mighty
wave, with piercing war-cries and unearthly
yells, upon that angle of the great square
where six companies were posted under a
Crimean veteran of the Scots Fusiliers, with
two nine - pounder guns. The fight here
became hand to hand, bayonet against
assegai, and many a shield, by main strength
of arm, was dashed against the breasts and
faces of our men ; but speedily the Zulu

square was broken, rolled up, and the
survivors of it fled, stumbling as they ran
over their own fallen and the blood-soaked
ground on which the latter writhed and
weltered.

^ Under the sweeping fire of the Gratings
they went down as forest leaves do before
the last blasts of autumn, and in thirty minutes
from the first opening of our infantry fire
they were falling back in disorganized masses,
which speedily, under the storm of shells,
took the form of one vast mob in wild and
helpless flight, while the cavalry were ordered
in pursuit, and with a loud cheer the 17th
unslung their lances, and by fours led the
way through an opening made for them in
the rear face of the square. The Dragoon
Guards, Buller's Horse, and Florian's
Mounted Infantry followed in quick succession.


Front, form troop !' was the first cavalry
order.

^ Form squadron — form line — gallop —
charge f rang out the trumpets, as, sweeping
round on their left pivots, the Horse took

the formations indicated, and then, with the
united force of some dread and terrible
engine, fell swooping down upon the foe,
hewing through the shrinking walls of brave
human flesh, after the lances were relegated
to the sling and swords were drawn.

It was a terrible sight to see how, on right
and left, these now red sword-blades were
plied, every man rising in his stirrups to give
deadlier impetus to his stroke, even when
the shrapnel shells, fired with time-fuses,
were exploding amid the foe. From the
latter there came no cry for mercy nor for
quarter ; they looked for none, as they would
have given none ; and all who escaped the
slaughter of the pursuit did so by winning
the crests of some hills, where horses could
not follow them, and from which they opened
a lively fire of musketry.

Florian went on in this work like one in a
wild, bad dream ; and it was only when the
halt was sounded, followed by the order,
Fours about — retire,' that he became quite
aware of all he had escaped, had undergone
and done, and how mechanically he had

hewed about him — when he found the blade
of his sword, even his fingers, stained with
blood, and the sleeves of his tunic all ripped
and burst under the shoulders by the exertions
he had used.

Tom Tyrrelll came out of the strife with
his helmet gone, his head bandaged by a
bloody handkerchief, and his horse's flanks
bleeding from three assegais that stuck in
them ; but this was the case with several
others.

It is remarkable that after the battle of
Ulundi not one wounded Zulu was found on
the field. Of all the hundreds upon hundreds
who lay there helpless, every man of them
had been despatched in cold blood by our
native allies.

The power of the nation had departed
from it now; and as for Cetewayo, he fled
from Ulundi the day before the battle ; and
after the latter event his army began to melt
away, as the warriors returned to their distant
kraals, hopeless and sick of the war.

That named Ulundi was given to the
flames by the Irregulars and Mounted

Infantry, and its ten thousand dome-roofed
huts all blazing at once presented a striking
spectacle ; and after that event the Second
Division and Flying Column began their rearward
march to the camp at the Entonjaneni
Mountain, to effect a junction with the First
Division under General Crealock.

To Florian, as to many others, after the
fever of battle had passed away, there came
the usual revulsion of spirit that follows excitement
so intense, and the keen thirst after
that excitement and exertion so great, with
the philosophical and not unnatural emotion
of wonder as to * what it all had been about,
and to what end this terrible slaughter and
suffering !'

And he thought of the strange interments
of some of the dead in that hollow square
when under fire — young soldiers, instinct
with boyish, hopeful, and glorious life, ardour
and valour, struck down in death, and huddled
into a ghastly hole, over which the bullets
swept, ere their limbs were cold. * Death is
a surprise — a woeful and terrible surprise —
whenever it comes, even though we be by

VOL. III. 42

the bedside watching for it, dreading It, as
each breath leaves the Hps we love.' But
death seemed thus doubly grim on that day
at Ulundl !

The troops found their tents ready pitched
awaiting them at the camp beside the
mountain, and a welcome shelter they
proved, as the rearward march had been
performed under drenching torrents of
rain.

Stormy and windy was the night of the
6th of July, the second after the battle, and,
for some days and nights subsequent the
falling rain rendered all operations Impossible,
and added greatly to the sufferings of
the wounded, causing also a serious mortality
among the cavalry horses and commissariat
oxen.

Mall after mall came Into camp as usual
bringing letters, some for the poor fellows
who lay under the sod at Ulundl, but there
were no more letters from Dulcle now for
Florlan, and none from Hammersley, whom
he naturally supposed to be too ill to write
by a passing ship outward bound.

The letter he had received shortly before
the action at Ulundi was, as stated, the last
he ever had from Dulcle, and her sudden
and singular silence deepened his distress
and anxiety.

What had happened ? Was she ill, orwell
? How was she situated, and where ?
These thoughts occurred to him in endless
iteration amid his military duties, which were
not dull routine, but, so far as the pursuit of
the fugitive King Cetawayo was concerned,
were arduous, full of excitement and perils of
various kinds.

His heart grew heavy, and his future,' sofar
as it was connected with Dulcis Carlyon,
seemed dark and uncertain, like the episodes
of a dream. But It has been said that most
life-histories leave hanging threads that may
only be completed in the great web woven
by eternity, and eternity had often been
perilously close to Florian of late.

Dulcis was the only link he had In life —
she seemed to him as friend, sister, and
sweetheart, all In one.

42 — 2

DISAPPEARANCE OF Dulcis.

Since the reader last saw Dulcle Carlyon
she had become chilled and changed in
manner, under the influence of Lady Fetter-cairn's
bearing and remarks, to all save
Finella. All her natural jollity and espieglerie
of way were gone, and every hour that it
was possible to do so she spent in the
seclusion of her own room, one high up in a
square turret of the old house, with windows
that opened to a far vista of the Howe of the
Means, terminated by a glimpse of the
German Sea.

Here she was sometimes joined by Finella,
who could no longer persuade her to ramble
as of old in the grounds, and never again to

accompany her in the saddle when she took
Fern for a spin along the country roads.

*Are you not sick of crewel work, and embroidering
sage birds of shapes that never
existed upon brown bath-towels ?' asked
Finella. ' I know you do it by grand-mamma's
wish ; but what tasteless folly it is

I would rather, as I did at home, knit
stockings for the poor,' said Dulcis.

Better buy than knit them,' responded
the heiress, * and so save one's self a world of
trouble.'

It became too evident to Dulcis that the
time of her dismissal from Craigengowan was
drawing nigh ; that it was only delayed by the
absence of Shaftoo in Edinburgh, and she resolved,
ere he returned, to get the balance of
her little salary and quit the place, as it had
now become odious to her.

Dulcis had old Welsh blood in her veins,
and more than once had she heard her father,
Lewellen Carlyon, whose one ewe-lamb she
was, descant on how he could count kith and
kin into the remotest past, when his forefathers
wandered through the forest of carlton

— whence his name — had manned Offa's
Dyke, and shared the perils of Swain Slender.
To speak of such things now, even
to Finella, seemed to the girl vain folly,
but they were keenly in her heart nevertheless.


And so there came an evening, the last
she was to spend under the steep slate roof
of Craigengowan.

Lady Fettercairn was going for a drive
among the summer roads that were all like
leafy tunnels or long avenues of foliage, to
visit that famous senator, Lord Maccow-
kay, who was then at his country house of
Middyn Grange, and Finella, perceiving how
pale Dulcis was looking, said :

May Miss Carlyon come with us, grand-mamma
?'

Certainly not,' replied Lady Fettercairn,
with hauteur and asperity, though Dulcis was
within hearing, carrying Snap In his satisfied
basket. ' When Is this sort of thing to
end, Finella ?'

There came a time when the Lady of that
Ilk recalled this remark, and many others

similar, for just then she did not see certainly
where the future was to end.

So the two ladies drove away, and Dulcis,
for companionship, though then unaware that
It would be for the last time, took tea with
the kindly old housekeeper, whom she found
busy in her pantry and closets preparing for
that social meal ; and Dulcis helped her to
cut and butter the bread, polish the cups and
saucers and old silver spoons, to arrange the
brown tea-cakes, crisp biscuits, and luscious
Scottish preserves of home manufacture, and
all the while a sadness oppressed her, for
which she could not account.

This, however, seemed explained when, at
dinner that evening, Lady Fettercairn said,
while returning a letter to her pocket :

Shaftoo returns late to-night — or early tomorrow
morning.'

From where?' asked Finella, though, sooth
to say, she cared little where from.

• Edinburgh.'

'And not an hour too soon, I am afraid,'
said Lord Fettercairn, with his sandy-grey
eyebrows deeply knitted.

No one asked ' why so a silence ensued,
and a little later in the evening Finally said
to Dulcle :

Why are you so silent to-night ?'

Am I so ?'

Yes — even sad — triste!

Sad — you don't mean cross ?'

No, Dulcle dear, you never are cross.'

I am full of very weary thoughts, and wish
to retire, If Lady Fettercairn can spare me,'
she added, raising her voice.

Of course — go,' replied the latter ; and
Dulcle, painfully conscious that her employer
had been more than usually cold, hard, and
even bitter to her — all, no doubt, apropos of
Shaftoo's return — bowed and murmured * goodnight,'
with a soft and lingering glance at
Finally.

Shaftoo returning ! Dulcle was always
nervous about his future conduct and her own
position, and she could not prepare herself
again for dissembling In public and hating In
private — for the Inevitable meetings at table
and elsewhere. Over and above all was the
dread that by his Intense cunning he might

work her mischief — a mischief that to her
might prove social ruin.

Dulcis had writhed and winced under all
Lady Fettercairn's not always delicately veiled
hints as to the social gulf that separated
people and people — to wit, Miss Melfort, of
Craigengowan, and the paid companion, and
of young folks of bad taste and little discretion,
who were inclined to step out of
their proper sphere ; she knew the drift of all
this ; her heart swelled within her, and
now she withdrew with a stern and perhaps
rash resolve that took active form on the
morrow.

In the corridor before they separated for
the night, Finella thought that Dulcis kissed
and clasped her with more than usual tenderness
and effusion, and became aware that
there were tears on the girl's cheek ; but this
had been too often the case of late to excite
remark.

However, she remembered this emotion
with some pain at a future time.

In the morning the then small circle of
Craigengowan assembled in the charming

breakfast-room. Shaftoo had not come overnight
; Lord Fettercairn had not opened his
letters, but — though nothing of a politician —
was idling over a paper which the butler had
cut and aired for him.

Lady Fettercairn glanced at a handsome
antique French clock upon the grey marble
mantelpiece, and said, with as much irritation
as she ever permitted herself to show with
reference to Dulcis :

Not down vet — when she knows that
she has to preside at the tea-urn and so forth !
Is she giving herself the airs of a lady of —
what is the matter ?' she exclaimed, as a servant
whom she had despatched on an errand
of inquiry returned looking somewhat discomposed.
' I hope she is not ill, especially
with anything infectious .'^'

No, my lady — not ill.*

Not ill — that is fortunate.'

*No.'

'Where then is she — why not here ?'

She isn't there, my lady.'

There — where ?'

In her room— nor anywhere in the house.'

Finella remembered the peculiar bearing
of Dulcis the previous night, and her tremulous
sisterly kiss, with a species of pang, and
hurried upstairs to the square turret-room.

Of course she is interested !* said Lady
Fettercairn scoffingly.

There is always an exuberant vitality — a
great flow of animal spirits about Finella,'
replied her husband.

All of which I deem hoydenish and bad
form.'

Finella returned, looking pale and scared,
to report that Miss Carlyon's bed did not
appear to have been slept in last night, 'that
her wardrobe was all tumbled about, leaving
evident traces of selections and packing, and
that to all appearance she was gone from the
house.

Gone — then I hope it is not with Shaftoo !'
exclaimed Lady Fettercairn, paling at her own
idea.

Scarcely : is he not coming here, as his
letter yesterday announces ?' said Lord Fetter-cairn.


Gone — and in that rude and unceremonious,

and certainly most mysterious
manner, which through local gossip will find
its way in some odious mode into every local
paper !' said Lady Fettercairn, while she
grimly directed Finella to officiate at the tea-board.


She is away, poor thing, without a doubt,'
said the butler, who was carving at the sideboard
; * and must have left the house by the
conservatory door — I found it open this
morning.'

^ I hope that she has not '' but even

Lady Fettercairn, while surmising mentally
whether her jewel case was all intact, had
not the hardihood to put the cruel suspicion
in words.

It is most annoying,' said the Peer, with
his noble mouth full.

Very — she was so useful too — very — withall
her faults,' added Lady Fettercairn, tenderly
caressing Snap, who was relegated to a
housemaid for his morning bath.

She did not expect an escapade of this
sort ; the great luxury of the certain dismissal
had been denied her ; she sank back in her

chair for a minute or so, and sniffed languidly
at her gold-topped scent-bottle, as if nerving
herself to hear something horrible, while the
grounds were searched for traces of the fugitive
; and she had ideas of having the Swan's
Pool and the adjacent stream dragged.

Finella thought she would like to run away
too ; but with all her wealth it was less easy
for an heiress of position to do so than for
the poor and nameless companion ; and now
that Dulcis was gone, Finella felt that the
link between herself and Hammersley was
cut off.

Apart from that important item in heroine,
she was deeply sorry, as she had conceived
for Dulcis one of those sudden and so-called
undying friendships for which, we are told,
the female heart is specially remarkable.'

Finella felt that the cold and]inquiring eyes
of Lady Fettercairn were upon her, and knew
that. If she would not excite remark and draw
reprehension upon herself, breakfast must be
partaken of, even though her heart was
breaking. So she bathed her eyes, re-smoothed
her hair, and took her place at the

table with as much composure as she could
assume.

If her flight is not traced — though why
we should care to trace it I don't know,' said
Lady Fettercairn bitterly, ' and if her body-is
not found, we may conclude that she has
eloped with some low lover. I hope all the
grooms, gardeners, gamekeepers, and so
forth, are to be seen in their places,' she
added ; ' and with all her faults, in appearance
and style she was a great improvement upon
Mrs. Prim, with her iron-grey hair arranged
in corkscrew curls on each side of her face.'

Finella thought so too. Lord Fettercairn
thought his better half had been latterly too
severe upon the poor little companion, but
did not venture to say so.

FLIGHT.

Go I must murmured Dulcle, when in the
solitude of her own room she said her nightly
prayers on her knees. ' I cannot help it. I
may come to want bread by the step I am
about to take, but better death than enduring
this system of mortification and
degradation.'

She had received her slender quarterly
allowance some time before that crisis, and
as yet luckily none of it had been spent.
How small a sum it looked to face the world
with !

She packed and prepared all her clothes,
intending to write to the housekeeper for
them when she found another home. In an
ample Gladstone bag she placed carefully all

that was requisite for her immediate need,
and, weary with rapid exertion and heavy-thought,
laid her head on the pillow of a
sofa, fearing to undress or trust herself in
bed, lest a deep sleep might fall upon her.

All was silent in the great house, and no
sound broke the stillness of the warm summer
night save when some dog bayed at the
moon from the quadrangle of the stable-yard.


Midnight struck on a great and sonorous
clock in an adjacent corridor ; anon a little
French clock on her chimney-piece chimed
out two on its silver bell, but no sleep came
to Dulcis's eyes, nor did she desire to
court it.

Her mind was full of rambling fancies.
She thought of her parents lying so peacefully
side by side in old Revelstoke churchyard,
within sound of the sobbing sea, and of
what their emotions would have been could
they have foreseen all that was before her of
doubt and unhappiness ; and with the memory
of them she tenderly turned over some
withered leaves that lay in a little prayer-book

Mr. Pentreath had given her, and
while doing so recalled the sweet lines that
seemed so apropos to them :

Only a bunch of withered leaves,

Brought by a stranger's hand,
But they grew on a spot she dearly loved — •

They bloomed in the dear old land.
Father and mother lie there at rest

Beneath the soft emerald sod,
Under the shelter of-the cross,

And close to the house of God,'

close to the time-worn church of Revelstoke.
She thought of Shaftoo and the thorn he had
proved in her path, and felt a satisfaction
from the conviction that after this night too
probably she would never more look upon
his face.

She thought again and again of Florins.
Where was he then, and what doing '^. Too
probably sleeping the sleep of the weary and
worn, on the bare earth in some tented field,
awaiting the coming perils of the morrow,
and then with the idea of Finella came fresh
tears for parting thus from the only friend
she had.

After three had struck she dressed herself
VOL. HI. 43

quickly in the costume in which she meant
to travel, assured herself that her purse was
safe, that her hat, gloves, and sunshade were
at hand, and sat down by a window to watch
for the earliest streak of dawn.

With all this earnestness of preparation
and of purpose she had no settled plan for
the future — no very defined one at least ; her
sole desire was to anticipate the final mortification
of dismissal, and to get away from
the vicinity of Lady Fettercairn, of Shaftoo,.
and of Craigengowan.

Save the Rev. Paul Pentreath, far away in
her native Devonshire, and the vicar in
London through whom he had befriended
her, she had no one to whom to look forward,,
and, save for Florian's sake, she felt at times,
as if she cared little what became of her.
She would reach London, take a little lodges
ing there, and look about her for some employment
while her money lasted ; and when
it was gone — gone, what then ?

Again came the thought of Finella, whom
she loved with all the passionate earnestness,
of an impulsive young heart thrust back

upon itself, and yearning for friendship and
affection. Even with her regard it was impossible
that she could stay longer in the
same house with him who was now returning
Shaftoo — even were dismissal not hanging
over her. She could but go away ; her
presence was necessary to no one's happiness,
and none would miss her — perhaps not even
Finella after a time, for the latter lived in a
world — the world of wealth and rank — a
sphere apart from that of poor Duicie
Carlyon.

Amid these thoughts she started : dawn
was breaking in the east, but the world
around her was still involved in gloom and
sleep.

How long, long and chill, the night had
seemed ; yet it was a short and warm one of
July, when there is only a total darkness of
four hours, especially in a region so far north
as the Howe of the Means.

Red light stole along the waters of the
distant German Sea ; it began to tip the hilltops
and crept gradually down into the woods
and glens below, where the Bervie, the

43—2

Finally, and the Covvie brawled on their way
to the ocean.

As one In a dream, she sat for a Httle time
watching the dawn till the light of the half-risen
sun was streaming over the tree-tops
and through the parted curtains of her windows,
when she started up with all the
resolution she had taken overnight yet full
in her mind.

With rapid and trembling fingers she
assumed the last details of her travelling
costume, smoothed her golden hair, gave a
final glance at herself in the mirror, and saw
how pale and slept she looked after her
past night's vigil, tied her veil tightly across
her face, fitted on her gloves with accuracy,
took her travelling bag, and with a prayer
on her lips prepared to go out into the world
alone !

The clustering roses and clematis were
about the windows of the square turret-room,
notwithstanding its great height from the
ground ; the birds were twittering among
them, and diamond dewdrops gemmed every
leaf.

Light and shadowy clouds of mist, exhaled
upwards by the early morning sun, hung
about the summit of Moelmannoch and other
hills, and in the sunshine the insect world
was all astir : the bees were already abroad,
and the blackbirds where hopping about the
travelled terraces. To Dulcle it seemed that
they at least were at home.

She leaned for a moment out of the window
and drank — for the last time — a deep draught
of the pure air that came from the lovely
Scottish landscape over which her eyes
wandered, as it stretched away down the
fertile and peaceful Howe of the Mearns,'the
corn deepening into gold, the picturesque
houses, luxuriant orchards and gardens ; and
she bade to each and all farewell, with little
regret, perhaps, for with all their beauty they
were too intimately associated with the idea
of Lady Fettercairn and many a humiliation.

Opening her room-door she stole swiftly
down the great carpeted staircase, passed
through the drawing-rooms into the conservatory,
the door of which she knew she could
unlock more easily than that of the great door

which opened to reporte cohere. There was
no one yet astir in all that numerous household,
so, hurrying across the dewy lawn, she
turned her face resolutely towards the station,
where she knew she would reach the early
Aberdeen train for the South.

The country highway was deserted ; she
met no one but a gamekeeper returning from
a night's watch, perhaps, with his gun under
his arm. She thought he looked at her
curiously as she passed him, sorely weighted
by her travelling bag, but he did not address
her ; and so without other adventures she
reached the little wayside station of Craigen-
gowan just as the gates were being unclosed,
and, quickly securing her ticket, retired to the
seclusion of the waiting-room.

Her heart had but one aching thought —
the parting with Finella.

In her pride and indignation we must admit
that Dulcis, ever a creature of impulse, was
not acting judiciously. She had not stopped
to ask a letter of recommendation — ' a
character,' she mentally and bitterly phrased
it — from Lady Fettercairn ; neither had she

risked the opposition and kind advice of
Finella, but had thus left her present life of
irritation and humiliation to rush Into a new
and unknown world, that now, even when
she had barely crossed the rubicon, was
beginning, as she sat In the lonely and empty
wayside station, to chill and dismay her.

In the future that is before me, whom am
I to trust In again ? How am I to fight the
world's bate alone ?' she was beginning to
think, even while the clanking train for the
South came sweeping across the echoing
Howe.

Ay, she so pure, so artless, so unsuspecting
of evil In others !

At last she was in the train and off. She
gave one long farewell glance at the lofty
turrets of haunted Craigengowan, because
Finella was there, and felt that never again
would they ramble together by Queen Mary's
Thorn, the Swan's Pool, the old gate through
which the fated Lord rode forth to battle, or
by the old ruined Castle of Fettercairn withall
Its legends.

Dulcle experienced a kind of relief in the

swiftness of the speed with which the express
train flew past station after station, outstripping
the wind apparently ; villages and
thatched farms were seen and gone ; trees,
bridges, ruined towers, those features so
common in the Scottish landscape, fields and
hedgerows, swept rearward, telegraph wires
seemed to sink and rise and twist themselves
in one, the poles apparently pursuing each
other in the fury of the pace.

Now it was Arbroath, where the train
paused for a little time — Arbroath with its
mills, tall chimneys, and substantial houses,
amid which tower the remains of that noble
abbey which held the bones of William the
Lion, with Its huge round window, for seven
hundred years a landmark from the sea ;
anon came Brought Craig with its ancient
tower, under the walls of which have been
shed the blood of English, French, and
Germans, with Dundee, * the gift of God,'
amid the haze of its manufactories, to the
westward.

Here a kindly old railway guard — who
whilom as a list Royal Scot had shed his

blood at Alma and Inkermann — taking pity
on the pale and weary girl, brought her a
cup of warm tea from the buffet, and, as he
said, * a weel-buttered bap, ye ken,' and most
acceptable they were.

A little time and her train was sweeping
through Fife, and she saw the woods of
Falkland — those lovely woods wherein * the
bonnie Earl of Gowrie ' flirted with Anne of
Denmark. Soon Cupar was left behind, and
the Eden, flowing through its green and
fertile valley ; and then, worn with the vigil
of the past night and her own heavy
thoughts, Dulcis fell asleep, without the
coveted satisfaction of a dream of Florian or
Finella.

A STARTLING LETTER.

The step taken by Dulcle was a source of
great mortification to Lady Fettercairn.

She regretted that she had not anticipated
such an unforeseen event bv dismissal.
Visitors, she knew, would miss the bright-faced,
golden-haired English girl who — when
permitted — played with such good execution,
and sang so well and sweetly ; and Lady
Fettercairn could not, with a clear conscience,
say that she had given her her condor
why.

Miss Carlyon has put me in a most awkward
position,' she said querulously ; * her
conduct has been most unprincipled, in
leaving me thus abruptly, before I could
look about me for a substitute ; and I think

Mr. KIppilaw might be instructed to prosecute
her criminally. Don't you think so,
Fettercairn }'

But the Peer only smiled faintly and
applied himself to another egg.

Ere breakfast was over another event
occurred. Shaftoo appeared suddenly at
table. He had heard of Dulcis Carlyon's
absence or flight, and was in no way surprised
by the occurrence.

You are just in time, Shaftoo dear,' said
Lady Fettercairn, with one of her made-up
smiles ; ' tea or coffee ?'

Tea said he curtly, as Finella took the
silver teapot, Shaftoo all the while looking as
if he would rather have had a stiff and well-iced
glass of brandy and soda, for he had a
crushed and weary aspect.

We thought you would be here last
night,' said Lady Fettercairn.

Why ?' asked Shaftoo, who seemed inclined
to deal in monosyllables.

Your letter led us to expect you.'

Did it r

Yes.'

'Well — I missed the last train.*

You always do said Lord Fettercairn
somewhat pointedly.

*Ah thought Shaftoo, * the old fellow's
liver is out of order, and gout threatening,, of
course — a bad look-out for me.'

On that morning he did not like the expression
of Lord Fettercairn's face, so he
resolved to defer speaking of his * affairs ' till
a future time ; but in a little space, as we shall
show, the chance was gone for throwing himself,
as he had thought to do, * on the mercy '
of either Lord or Lady Fettercairn.

The evening before he had been among a
set of very different people — flashily dressed
roughs returning from a local racecourse,
their dirty hands over-bejewelled, with foul
pipes and fouler language in their mouths,
speeding hither and thither by train in search
of pigeons to pluck, with their jargon of
backing the favourite, making up books, and
playing shilling Nap and Poker by the dim
light of the carriage lamp, while imbibing
strong waters from flasks of all sorts and
sizes.

What a contrast they presented to his
present refined surroundings, with Finella
standing out among them, so pure, so
patrician, and so exquisitely lady-like ; and
in attendance upon him, with hands that
were white as alabaster — Finella, fresh and
fragrant as a white moss rose, attired in a
most ' fetching ' morning costume to the
feminine eye, suggestive of Regent Street.

Lord Fettercairn now addressed himself to
the task of opening his letters, after the contents
of the household postbag had been
distributed round the table by that rubicund
priest of Silenus, old Mr. Grapeston, the
butler.

There were several blue envelopes for
Shaftoo, which — with an unuttered malediction
on his lips — he thrust unopened into
the pocket of his tweed morning coat.

Among his letters Lord Fettercairn received
one which seemed to startle him so
much that, ignoring all the rest, he read it
again and again, his sandy grey eyebrows
becoming more and more knitted, and the
colour going and coming in his now withered

cheek, as Shaftoo, who was watching him ver)r
closely, could plainly see. He seemed certainly
very perturbed, and tossed aside all
his other letters, as if their contents could be
of no consequence compared with those of
this particular missive.

*Your letter seems to disturb you, grandfather,'
said Shaftoo.

It does — it does, indeed.'

Sorry to hear it : may I inquire what it is.
about — or from whom it comes }'

'It is a letter from Mr. Kippilaw, senior,'
replied Lord Fettercairn, darting from under
his shaggy eyebrows, and over the rim of his
pince-nez, a glance at Shaftoo, so keen and inquiring
that the latter felt his heart standstill
; yet summoning his constitutional insolence
to his aid, he asked :

And what is the old pump up to now ?'

Shaftoo !' exclaimed Lady Fettercairn,,
who detested slang.

He refers to something that may prove
very unpleasant,' said the Peer, carefully
smoothing out the letter.

To — to me ?'

Yes — and to me, I regret to say, most
certainly. He says there are many matters
on which he wishes to confer with me personally
; among others, "A visit from an old
Highland woman, named Madelon Galbralth,
a native of Ross-shire, who was nurse to Mr.
Lennard's wife in her infancy, and also to
their son. Her revelations, conjoined with
other things, now startle me, as they are
most strange, and must be probed to the
bottom." He also says that this woman —
Madelon Galbraith — visited Craigengowan
in my absence. Did such a visit take
place ?'

'Yes,' said Lady Fettercairn.

And she was expelled very roughly.'
'Well — I believe so — rather.'
'Why?'

Because she was mad or intoxicated — >
most insolent, at all events,' replied Shafts
with a choking sensation in his throat.

To you ?'
Yes — to me.'

Well,' resumed Lord Fettercairn, who
evidently seemed very much perturbed, ' she

has been with Mr. KIppIlaw, as I tell you,
and has made some strange revelations
requiring immediate and close Investigation.'

May I know what they are ?' asked
Shaftoo with a sinking heart, that only rose
when spite and hate and fury gathered
in It.

No — you may not, yet,' replied Lord
Fettercairn, as he folded up the letter and
abruptly left the table ; and that same forenoon
his lordship took an early train for
Edinburgh.

Shaftoo heard of this with growing alarm,
which all the brandy and soda of which he
partook freely In the smoking-room, and more
than one huge cabala, could not soothe.
Though fearing the worst, through Madelon
Galbralth, he thought that perhaps in the
meantime KIppIlaw's business referred to his
gambling debts, his bills and promissory
notes, and too probably to his ' row with
that cad, Garallan,' as he mentally termed
the affair of the loaded die.

He rambled long alone in the same stately
avenue down which Lennard Melfort had

passed so many years before, when, with a
gallant heart full of anger, wounded pride,
and undeserved sorrow, he turned his back
for ever on lordly Craigengowan.

There he loitered, full of anxious and most
unenviable thoughts, sulkily dragging down
his fair moustache ; and it has been remarked
by physiognomists that good - natured men
always twirl their moustaches upwards, whereas
a morose or suspicious man does just the
reverse.

From the avenue he wandered across the
lawn and under the trees, like a restless or
unquiet spirit, his unpleasant face wearing an
uneasy expression, and his eyes, which were
seldom raised from the ground, shifted always
from side to side.

I may have to make a clean bolt for it,'
he muttered as Finella came suddenly upon
him, and, though detesting him, she was too
gentle not to feel some pity for his crushed
appearance.

Shaftoo, why are you so disturbed T she
asked. * Of what are you afraid ?'

Of what ?' he queried almost savagely.
VOL. III. 44

'Yes.'

I don't know

Who then can know ?'

I tell you I don't know what to fear, but
things are looking infernally dark for me. I
am going down the hill at a devil of a pace,
and with no skid on.'

I do not understand your phraseology,'
said Finella coldly.

Understand, then, that many of my
troubles lie at your door,' said Shaftoo, turning
abruptly from her, as he thus referred to
her aversion to himself and certainly not
unnatural preference for Vivian Hammersley,
and that much of the money he had raised
had been advanced on the chances of his
lucrative marriage with her.

What is about to happen ? When will
old Fettercairn return, and in what mood ?
What the devil is up — perhaps by this time ?'
thought Shaftoo, as he resumed his solitary
promenade. ' I would rather face a hundred
perils in the light of day, than have one,
with a nameless dread, overhanging me in
the dark.'

And as he muttered and thought of
Madelon Galbraith, his shifty eyes gleamed
with that savage expression which comes
with a thirst for blood.

Meanwhile Lord Fettercairn, a man of
strict honour In his own way, though utterly
destitute of proper patriotism or love of
country, was being swept on to Edinburgh
by an express train ; he was full of
bitter thoughts, vexation, pain, even grief
and shame, for all that Shaftoo was evidently
bringing upon his house and home.

He had secured, he thought, an heir to
his ill-gotten title and estates, and with that
knowledge would ever have to drain the
bitter cup of disappointment to the dregs.

Finella never doubted that, owing to
their great mutual regard, Dulcle would
write to her, and tell of her own welfare,
safety, and prospects ; but weary, long, and
solitary days passed on and became weeks,
and Dulcle never did so. She had perhaps
nothing pleasant to relate of herself, and thus
the tenor or spirit of her letters to a friend so
rich might be liable to misconstruction. If

44—2

written, perhaps they were intercepted. So,
regarding Shaftoo and Lady Fettercairn as
the mutual cause of the poor girl's flight, and
perhaps destruction, Finella now resolved to
leave Craigengowan, and go on a visit to her
maternal grandmother, Lady Drumshoddy,
then in London, when that matron, having
now her favourite nephew with her, began to
mature some schemes of her own ; but carefully,
as she had read that ' the number of
marriages that come to nothing annually
because one or other or both of the innocent
victims suddenly discover they are being
thrown together with intention, is inconceivable.*


THE PURSUIT OF CETEWAYO.

Mail after mail came to head-quarters, brought
by post-carts and orderlies, from the rear,
but they brought no letters from Dulcle
Carlyon. So, whether she had, as she
threatened she would do, fled from Cralgen-
gowan, or remained there, found friends elsewhere
with happiness or grief, Florian could
not know, and the doubt was a source of
torment to him.

Horseback has been considered a famous
place for reflection, but one could scarcely
find it so when serving as a Mounted ,
scouting on the outlook for
lurking Zulus, with every energy of ear and
eye watching tonga, boulder, bush, and tuft
of reedy grass.

Sir Garnet Wolseley's orders to the army
reached the camp of Lord Chelmsford at
EntonjanenI on the 8th July, and the latter
prepared at once to resign his command and
return home.

Two days afterwards, that retrograde
movement which so puzzled and elated the
Zulus began, and after four days' marching
the Second Division and the Flying Column
reached Fort Marshall, on the Upoko River,
whence a long train of sick and wounded
were sent to the village of Locksmith, in
Kannaland, escorted by two companies of
the Scots Fusiliers and Major Bengough's
Natives, attired in all their fighting bravery
contains, copper anklets and armlets,
necklaces of monkeys' teeth, and plumes of
feathers.

Great changes are on the tapis ^ said
Villiers, as he lay on the grass in Florian's
tent, smoking, and sharing with him some
hard biscuits with * square-face ' and water.
'The 17th Lancers start for India; newgate's
column is to be broken up, and
chiefly to garrison that chain of forts which

Chelmsford has so skilfully constructed along
the whole Zulu frontier from the Blood River
to the Indian Ocean ; but Cetewayo Is yet to
be captured. Sir Evelyn Wood and the
heroic Duller are going home, and so is your
humble servant

•' You — why ?' asked Florian.

Sir Garnet has brought out his entire
staff, and I have not the good luck to be one
of the Wolseley ring', replied Villiers, with
a haughty smile, as he twirled up his moustache
and applied himself for consolation to
the ' square-face.'

When, on an evening in July, Sir Garnet,
with his new staff, amid a storm of wind and
rain, rode into the camp of the First Division
under General Crealock, the appearance of
his party, with their smoothly shaven chins,
brilliant new uniforms, and spotless white
helmets, formed a strong contrast to the war
and weather worn soldiers of Crealock, in
their patched and stained attire, with their
unkempt beards ; for the use of the razor had
long been eschewed In South Africa, where,
however, the officers and men of each column

trimmed their hirsute appendages after the
fashion adopted by their leaders ; thus, as
General Newgate affected the style of
Henry VIII., so did his troops ; Sir Evelyn
Wood trimmed his beard In a peak, pointed
like Philip II. of Spain, and so, we are told,
did all the Flying Column.

Sir Garnet Wolseley now arranged his
future plans for the final conquest of Zulu-land,
and stationed troops to hold certain
lines and rivers, while the rest were formed
in two great columns, under Colonels Clarke
of the 57th and Baker Russell of the 13th
Hussars, two officers of experience, the
former having served In Central India and
the Maori War, and the latter in the war of
the Mutiny, when he covered himself with
honours at Kurnaul and elsewhere.

With Clarke's column were five companies
of Mounted Infantry, led by Major Barrow,
and one of them was led by Florian, who had
now earned a high reputation as an active
scouting officer.

Clarke's orders were to march northwards
and occupy Ulundl, or all that was left of it.

Without the capture of the now luckless
Cetewayo, the permanent settlement of the
country was deemed impossible ; thus a kind
of circle was formed round the district in
which he was known to be lurking, to preclude
his escape.

The traitor Uhamu, with his followers,
occupied a district near the Black Umvolosi ;
the savage Swazis in thousands under Captain
M'Leod held the bank of the Pongola
River, armed with heavy lances and knob-series
; Russell advanced on a third quarter,
and Clarke on a fourth ; thus the sure capture
of the fugitive King was deemed only a
matter of time.

At a steep rocky hill overhanging the
Congo River the column of the latter, which
included three battalions of infantry, was reinforced
by five companies of the both (or
Staffordshire Volunteers), the Natal Pioneers,
and two Catling guns, to which were added
two nine-pounders on reaching once more
the Entonjaneni Mountain.

It was now reported that Cetewayo had
found shelter in a little kraal in the recesses

of the Ngome forest, a dense primeval wilderness
of giant wood and deep jungle. But
the meshes of the net were closing fast
around him.

Leaving the main body of his column at a
redoubt named Fort George, at the head of
only three hundred and forty mounted infantry
Colonel Russell, at daybreak on the
13th of August, rode westward beyond the
Black Umvolosi, into a district occupied by
many Zulus, in the hope of picking up the
royal fugitive.

The scouting advanced o^uard he entrusted
to Florian, whose men rode forward in loose
and open formation, with loaded rifles unslung.


The country through which they proceeded
was very wild, steep, woody, and rugged, and
on seeing how slender his force appeared to
be, the Zulus began to gather in numbers,
preparatory to disputing his further advance.

My intention,' said Baker Russell, * is to
reach Umkondo, where Cetewayo is said to
be lurking ; you will therefore show a bold
front and clear the way at all hazards.'

This left Florlan no alternative but to fight
his opponents, whatever their strength perhaps,
and the region Into which they were
now penetrating had the new and most unusual
danger of being Infested by lions, as
the I St King's Dragoon Guards found to
their cost.

Manning a narrow gorge fringed with
thornwood trees and date palms, with brandished
rifle and assegai and their grey shields
uplifted in defiance, a strong party of the
enemy appeared, led by a tall and powerful-looking
chief, whose large armlets and anklets
of burnished copper shone In the evening
sunshine, and It was but too evident that,
under his auspices, mischief was at hand.

That they remarked Florlan was an officer
was soon apparent, when two shots were
fired from each flank of the gorge ; but these
whistled harmlessly past, and starred with
white a boulder In his rear.

Pick off that fellow who is making himself
so prominent,' said Florlan, with some
irritation, as his two escapes were narrow
ones.

One of the 24th fired and missed the
leader.

What distance did you sight your rifle
at ?' asked Florian.

Four hundred yards, sir,' replied the
soldier.

^ Absurd ! He is certainly six hundred
yards off. Do you try, Tyrrelll.'

Then Tom, who was a deadly shot, reined
up, held his rifle straight between his horse's
ears, sighted at six hundred yards, and
pressing the butt firmly against his right
shoulder and restraining his breath, took aim
steadily at the chief, who stood prominently
on a fragment of rock, his figure defined
clearly against the blue sky like that of a
dark bronze statue.

He fired ; the bullet pierced the Zulu's
forehead, as was afterwards discovered ; he
fell backward and vanished from sight.

By Jove, he's knocked over, sir,' said
Tom, with a quiet laugh, as he dropped
another cartridge into his breech-block, and
closed it with a snap.

Bravo, Tom — a good shot !' said the men

of the 24th, while, with a yell of rage that
reverberated in the gorge, the Zulus fled,
and Florian's scouting party rode on at a
canter, and ultimately reached a deserted
German mission station at a place called
Rhinstorf

As they rode through the gorge, with the
indifference that is born of war and its details,
Tom Tyrrelll looked with perfect composure
on the man he had shot, and remarked
to Florian, with a smile :

These Zulus are certainly one of the connecting
links that old Darwin writes about,
but links with the devil himself, I think.' •

At the station of Rhinstorf Colonel Russell
now ascertained that fully thirty-five miles of
wild and rugged country would have to be
traversed ere he could reach Umkondo,
where Cetewayo was reported to be in concealment.
To add to the difficulties of proceeding
further, night had fallen, the native
guide, having lost heart, had deserted, and
many of the horses had fallen lame by the
roughness of the route from Fort George ;
thus Baker Russell came to the conclusion

that to proceed further then would be rash, if
not Impossible.

Cetewayo still resisted all the terms offered
him, acting under the influence of Tabular
who urged him to distrust the British,
in the hope that if the fugitive died of despair
in the forest of Ngome, he himself might
succeed to the throne of the Zulus.

While on this patrol duty our Mounted
Infantry came upon the remains of some of
our fellows who had fallen after the attack on
the Inhumane Mountain in March and lain
unburied for nearly six months, exposed to
the weather and the Kaffir vultures.

AT THE ' RAG.'

We now turn to a very different scene and
locality — to Regent Street, still deemed the
architectural chief cToetivre of the celebrated
Mr. Nash, though It is all mere brick and
plaster.

The London season was past and over,
but one would hardly have thought so, as the
broad pavements seemed still so crowded,
and so many vehicles of every kind were
passing in close lines along the thoroughfare
from Waterloo Place to the Bingham Hotel.

It was a bright sunny forenoon, and as
Vivian Hammersley, now a convalescent, and
In accurate morning mufti, looked on the
well-dressed throng, the shops filled with
everything the mind could desire or the

world produce, and at the entire aspect of the
well-swept street, he thought, after his recent
experience of forest and tonga, of rocky
mountain and pathless karoo, that there was
nothing like it in Europe for an idler — that it
surpassed alike the Broadway of Uncle Sam
and the Grand Boulevard of Paris.

Enjoying the situation and his surroundings
to the fullest extent, he was walking
slowly down towards where the colonnades
stood of old, when suddenly he experienced
something between an electric shock and a
cold douche.

Both well mounted, a handsome fellow
attired in excellent taste, with a tea rose
and a green sprig in his lapel, and a graceful
girl in a well-fitting dark blue habit, a
dainty hat and short veil, ambled slowly past
him — so slowly that he could observe them
well — and in the latter he recognised
Finella !

Finella Melfort, mounted on her favourite
pad Fern ; but who was this with whom she
seemed on such easy and laughing terms,
and with whom she was riding through the

streets of London, without even the escort of
a groom ?

Erelong quickening their pace to a trot,
they turned westward along Conduit Street,
as if intending to ' do a bit of Park and he
lost sight of them.

Her companion was one whom Hammersley
had never seen before, but he could remark
that he had all the manner and appearance of
a man of good birth ; but there was even something
more than that in his bearing — an
undefinable and indescribable air of interest
seemed to hover about them, and Hammersley
thought he might prove a very
formidable rival. But surely matters had not
come to that !

To letters that he had addressed to
Finella at Craigengowan, under cover to
Miss Carlyon,' no answer had ever been
returned. He knew not that Dulcis was
no longer there, and that the letters referred
to had gone back to the Post Office. And
so Finella's silence — was it indifference? —
seemed unpleasantly accounted for now.

He knew not her address In London.

VOL. III. 45

The house of the Fettercairn family was
shut up, and he could not accost her while
escorted by * that fellow,' as she seemed ever
to be, for on two occasions he saw them
again in the Row ; nor could he prosecute
any inquiries, as most of the mutual friends
at whose dances and garden parties he had
been wont to meet her in the past times
were now out of town.

It was tantalizing — exasperating !

Did she suppose he had been killed, and
had already forgotten him ? Did her heart
shrink from a vacuum, or what ? Thus pride
soon supplemented jealousy.

A few days after the third occasion on
which he had seen them, he was idling in the
reading-room of * The Rag ' — as the Army
and Navy Club is colloquially known, from
a joke in Punch, and the smoking-room of
which has the reputation of being the best in
London ; and few, perhaps none, of those
who lounge therein are aware that the
stately edifice occupies what was the site
till 1790 of Nell Wynne's house in Pall
Mall.

How goes it, Hammersley ?' said Villiers,
the aide-de-camp, who was also home on
leave, and en route to join his regiment,
being yet — as he grumblingly said — out of
^ the Wolseley ring.' Has no Belgravian
delle succeeded in capturing you yet — a
hero, like myself, fresh from the assegais
•of Ulundi and all that sort of thing ?'

'No — I am still at large ; but you forget
that by the time I reached town the season
was over.'

Talking of belles,' said an officer who
was lounging in a window, ' here comes gne
worth looking at.'

Finella and her cavalier, mounted again,
were quietly rambling into the square from
Pall Mall .

Ah — she is with Garallan of the Bengal
Cavalry,' said Villiers ; ' he has come in
for a good thing — has picked up an heiress, I
hear.'

About the most useful elinor a fellow can
pick up nowadays,' replied a tall officer
named Gore.

45—2

That girl is said to be always ahead of the
London season

How ?'

Dresses direct from Paris

Garallan?' said Hammersley, turning from
the window, as the pair had disappeared.

'A Major of the old Second Irregular
Cavalry, and gained the V.C. when serving
on the Staff at the storming of Jummoo.'

Jummoo — where the devil is that ?' asked
one.

*0n the Peshawur frontier,' replied another ;
he is now in luck's way, certainly.'

*They say,' resumed Villiers in his laughing
off-hand way, and who really knew nothing
of Finally, but was merely ventilating some
club gossip, to the intense annoyance of
Hammersley; 'they say that she is a
coquette from her finger-tips to her tiny
bal morals, and would flirt with his Grace
of Canterbury if she got a chance ; and yet,
with all that, she can be most sentimental.
There is Gore of ours — a passed practitioner

in the art of philandering '

'Villiers, please to shut up,' said Hammersley

impatiently In a sotto voce ; ' I know
the young lady, and you don't.'

The deuce you do ?'

Intimately.'

Villiers coloured, and lapsed Into silence.

I always look upon flirtation as playing
with fire,' said Gore ; * never attempt it, but
I get into some deuced scrape.'

How much money is muddled up with
matrimony in the world nowadays !' said
Villiers, thinking probably of the heiress's
thousands ; ' I suppose it was different in
the days of our grandfathers.'

Not much, I fancy,' said Gore.
Hammersley had now occasion for much

and somewhat bitter thought. Finella and
this officer were evidently the subjects of
club gossip and not very well-bred banter ;
the conviction galled him.

Where the deuce or with whom does she
reside T he thought ; ' but to find anyone you
want, I don't know a more difficult place than
this big village on Thames.'

The wrong person — like himself apparently
turning up at the wrong time is no new

experience to anyone ; but this Intimacy
of Finally and her cavalier seemed to bea
daily matter, as Hammersley had seen them
so often ; and how often were they too-probably
together on occasions that he could
know nothing of ?

The germ of jealousy was now planted
in his heart, and ' such germs by force of
circumstances sometimes flourish and bear
bitter fruit ; at others, nothing assisting, they
perish in the mind that gave them birth ;' buta
new force was given to the remarks of
Villiers by some that Hammersley overheard
the same evening in the same place — the
Rag.'

There he suddenly recognised Finella's
cavalier in full evening costume, eating his
dinner alone in a corner of the great diningroom,
and all unaware that he was sternly
and closely scrutinized by one man, and the
subject of conversation for other two, whose
somewhat flippant remarks from behind a
newspaper reached the ears of the former.

'Who is he, do you say ? His face is new
to me.'

Ronald Garallan, of the Bengal Cavalry —
a lucky dog.'

How so ?'

Is going in for a good thing, I hear.' •

For what ?'

His cousin with no end of tin.'

His cousin ?' questioned the other and
Hammersley's heart at the same time.

Yes — the handsome Miss Melfort with
the funny name — Finella Melfort.'

So they are engaged ?'

I believe so ; but I don't think from all I
hear that the Major has much of a vocation,
for domesticity.'

Even with Finella ?'

Even with Finella,' replied the other
laughing.

Hammersley felt a dark frown gather on
his brow to hear her Christian name — his
property as he deemed it — used in this
off-hand fashion, and he felt a violent inclina-nation
to punch his brother-officer's head.
However, he only moved his chair away
from the vicinity of the speakers, but not
before he heard one of them say to Garallan :

^ Been to many dances since your return ?
England, you know, expects every marriageable
bachelor to do his duty.'

The season is over,' replied the Major
curtly ; and then added, ' you forget that
I am on leave — the sick list, with a Medical
Board before me yet'

What a bore ! But you are bound for
some festive scene to-night, I presume ?'

Only to the Lyceum.'

The Lyceum — with her perhaps,' thought
Hammersley ; and to see the affair out to the
bitter end, he resolved to go there too.

He was cut to the heart again, and bit
his nether lip to preserve his self-control.
He had never heard of this cousin, Ronald
Garallan ; he certainly found his name in the
Army List, but did not believe he was
any cousin at all ; and this only served
to make matters look more and more
black.

Hammersley in his natural pride of spirit
rather revolted at going to the theatre, feeling
as if he was acting somewhat like a spy,
but he had a right to learn for himself what

was on the tapis with regard to Finella ; and
the Lyceum was as free a theatre to him
as to anyone else ; so a few minutes after
saw him bowing along the Strand in a
hansom cab.

He got a seat on the grand tier, but
with difficulty, and, fortunately for his purpose,
a little back and well out of sight; and,
oblivious of the stage and all the usual scenic
splendours there, he swept ' the house ' again
and again, with the same powerful field-glass
he had so lately used on many a scouting
expedition, but in vain, till the crimson satin
curtain of a private box was suddenly drawn
back, and Finella in a perfect costume, yet
not quite full dress, sat there like a little
queen, with many a sparkling jewel, and
Garallan half leaning on the back of her
chair, as she consulted the programme, after
depositing a beautiful bouquet and her opera-glass
on the front of the box before her.

Hammersley's heart seemed to give a leap,
and then stood still, while he actually felt an
ache in the bullet wound which had so nearly
cost him his life.

There they were, In a private box together,
and without a chaperone, which certainly
looked like cousinship, though every way
distasteful to Hammersley ; and Garallan
leant over her chair, ignoring the performance
entirely, and evidently entertaining her in
that original and delicious strain in which
Adam and Eve were probably the first proficient.'


And Finella was smiling upwards at times
with her radiant eyes and riant face, with
the bright and happy expression of one
who had nothing left to wish for in the
world; while he — Vivian Hammersley —
might be, for all she knew or seemed to
care, lying unburied by the banks of the
Umvolosi or the Lower Tugela !

He recalled the words of her letter, so
long and so loving, which he received so
unexpectedly in Zululand, in which she
urged him to be brave of heart for her sake,
and not to be discouraged by any opposition
on the part of Lady Fettercairn, as she was
rich enough to please herself, adding :

Let us have perfect confidence in each

Other ! Oh, you passionate silly ! to runaway
In a rage as you did without seeking an
explanation. How much It has cost me
Heaven alone knows !'

Now thought he, 'suppose all the explanation
she gave Miss Carlyon at Cralgengowan
of that remarkable scene In the shrubbery,
or that she was lured Into a scrape with that
cub Shaftoo, were mere humbug after all. It
looks deuced like It from what I see going on
here In London. And then the rings I gave
her — one a marriage hoop to keep — an
unlucky gift — ha ! ha ! what a precious ass
I have been !'

Vivian Hammersley, though a tough-looking
and well set-up kinsman, was of an
imaginative cast, and of a highly sensitive
nature, and such are usually well skilled In
the art of elaborate self-torture.

He now perceived that for a moment
she had drawn the glove from off her left
hand — what a lovely little white hand It was !
He turned his powerful field-glass thereon,
with more Interest and curiosity than he had
done while watching for Zulu warriors, and

172 Dulcis CARL YON.

there — yes — there by Jove ! — his heart gave
a bound — was his engagement ring upon her
engaged finger still — there was no doubt
about that !

So what did all this too apparent philandering
with another mean, if not the most arrant
coquetry ? Had her character changed within
a few short months ? It almost seemed
so.

But Hammersley thought that, ' tide what
may,' he had seen enough of the Lyceum for
that night, and hurried away to the smoking-room
of the * Rag.'

A REVELATION.

We have written somewhat ahead of our
general narrative, and must now recur to
Lord Fettercairn's visit to Mr. Kenneth
KIppIlaw In Edinburgh, at that gentleman's
request — one which filled the old Peer with
some surprise.

Why the deuce did not his agent visit
him ?' he thought.

Smarting under Shaftoo's Insolence, and
acting on Information given to him readily
by Madelon Galbralth, Mr. KIppIlaw took
certain measures to obtain some light on a
matter which he should have taken before.

You look somewhat unhinged, KIppIlaw,*
said Lord Fettercairn, as he seated himself
in the former's private business room.

I feel so, my lord,' replied the lawyer, ina
fidgety way, as he breathed upon and
wiped his spectacles ; * I have to talk over
an unpleasant matter with you.'

Business ?'

Yes ; perhaps you would defer it till after
dinner ?'

Not at all — Vvhat the deuce is it ? Debts
of Shaftoo's ?'

Worse, my lord !'

Worse ! You actually seem unwell ;
have a glass of sherry, if I may press you
in your own house.'

No thanks ; I am in positive distress.'
How — about what ?' asked the Peer impatiently.


The fact is, my lord, I don't know how to
go about it and explain ; but for the first
time since I began my career as a W.S. — •
some forty years ago now — I have made a
great professional blunder, I fear.'

Sorry to hear it — but what have I to do
with all that ?'
Much.'
Lord Fettercairn changed colour.

You wrote strangely of Shaftoo ?'

No wonder !' groaned Mr. Kippllaw.

How ?'

The matter very nearly affects your lordship's
dearest interests — the honour of your
house and title.'

The devil !' exclaimed the Peer, starting
up, and touched upon his most tender
point.

I have had more than one lone conversation
with the old nurse, Madelon Galbraith,
and therefore instituted certain inquiries,
which I should have done before, and have
come to the undoubted and legal conclusion
that — that '

What ?' asked Fettercairn, striking the
floor with his right heel.

That the person Vv^ho passes as your
grandson is not your grandson at all !'

What — how — who the devil is he then T
the son of a Miss Maclan who married

a Mr. Shaftoo Gyle.'

D n the name ! Then who and where

is my grandson and heir ?'

One who was lately or Is now serving asa
soldier in Zululand.'

My God ! and you tell me all this now —
now ?'

When Lennard Melfort lay dying at
Revelstoke he entrusted the proofs of his
only son's birth with his older nephew,
Shaftoo, who, with amazing cunning, used
them to usurp his rights and position. I
blame myself much. I should have made
closer inquiries at the time ; but the documents
seemed all and every way to the point,
and I could not doubt the handwriting or the
signatures of your poor dead son. The
result, however, has rather stunned me.'

And, d n it, Kippilaw, it rather stuns

me !' exclaimed Lord Fettercairn, in high
wrath. ' May it not be a mistake, this last
idea ?'

No — everything is too well authenticated.'


But, Kippilaw,' said Lord Fettercairn,
after a pause, caused by dire perplexity, ' we
had the certificate of birth.'

Yes — but not in Shaftoo's name. The
document was mutilated and without the
baptismal certificate, of which 1 have got

Iris copy from the Rev. Mr. Paul Pentreath.
The name in both is, as you see added Mr.
Kippilaw, laying the document on the table,
Florian, only son of the Hon. Lennard
Melfort (otherwise Maclan) and Flora, his
wife — Florian, called so after her.'

You have seen this young man ?'

Yes — once in this room, and I was struck
with his likeness to Lennard. He is dark,
Shaftoo fair. The true heir has a peculiar
mark on his right arm, says Madelon
Galbraith, his nurse. Here is a letter from
a doctor of the regiment stating that Florian
has such a mark, which Shaftoo has not ; and
mother-marks, as they are called, never
change, like the two marks of the famous
Claimant." '

I cannot realize it all — that we have been
so fooled !' exclaimed Lord Fettercairn,
walking up and down the room.

But you must ; it will come home to you
soon enough.*

Egad, so far as bills and debts go, it has
come home to me sharply enough already.
It is a terrible story — a startling one.'

VOL. III. 46

Few families have stones like it

And one does not wish such in one's own
experience, Kippilaw. It is difficult of belief
monstrous, Kippilaw !'

Monstrous, indeed, my Lord Fettercairn !*
chimed in Mr. Kippilaw, who then proceeded
to unfold a terrible tale of the results of
Shaftoo's periodical visits to Edinburgh and
London — his bills and post-obits with the
money-lenders, who would all be ' diddled '
now, as he proved not to be the heir at all ;
and though last, not least, his late disgraceful
affair of the loaded die, and the fracas with
Major Garallan.

Garallan I that old woman Drumshoddy's
nephew — whew !' His lordship perspired
with pure vexation. * I have to thank you,
however, for finding out the true heir at
last'

When there are a fortune and a title in
the case, people are easily found, my lord.'

Things come right generally, as they
always do, if one waits and trusts in God,'
said Madelon Galbraith, when she was admitted
to an audience, in which, with the

garrulity of years, she supplemented all that
Mr. KIppilaw had advanced ; and, as she
laughed with exultation, she showed — despite
her age — two rows of magnificent teeth —
teeth that were bright as her eyes were
dark.

Logie mo carl ! Logie mo carl !' she
murmured to herself ; ' your only son will be
righted yet.'

Every nation has Its own peculiar terms of
endearment, so Madelon naturally referred to
Flora in her own native Gaelic.

'And Florian Is — as you say, KIppilaw —
serving In Zululand ?' said Lord Fetter-cairn.


Yes.'

Serving as a private soldier ?'

He was '

Was — Is he dead ?' Interrupted the Peer
sharply.

No ; he Is now an officer, and a distinguished
one — an officer of the gallant but
most unfortunate 24th. I have learned that
much.'

Write to him at once, and meanwhile

46 — 2

telegraph to the Adjutant - General — no
matter what the expense — for immediate intelligence
about him. You will also write to
Shaftoo — you know what to say to him.^

With right goodwill Mr. KIppilaw hastened
to obey the Peer's Injunctions In both instances.


He wrote to Shaftoo curtly, relating all that
had transpired, adding that he (Shaftoo) could
not retain his present position for another
day without risking a public trial, and that if
he would confess the vile and cruel imposture
of which he had been guilty he might escape
being sent to prison, and obtaining perhaps
permanent employment ' in the Perth Penitentiary.


This letter — though not unexpected —
proved a most bitter pill to Shaftoo ! He saw
that * the game was up ' — his last card
played, that life had no more in it for him,
and that there was nothing left for him but
to fly the country and his debts together.

His face was set hard, and into his shifty
grey eyes came the savage gleam one may
see In those of a cat before it springs, but

with this expression were mingled rage and
fear.

With Mr. Kippilaw's letter were two
others, from different parties. In one he
was informed that legal proceedings had
been taken against him, and in default of his
putting in an appearance, judgment for
execution and costs had been given against
him in an English court, for ^847 i6s. 8d.,
in favour of a Jew, who held another bill,
which, though it originally represented ^400,
would cost ;soo before he parted with it ;
and Shaftoo actually laughed a little bitter
and discordant laugh as he rent the lawyers'
letters into fragments and cast them to the
wind.

Before departing, however, and before his
story transpired, he contrived to borrow
from the butler and housekeeper every spare
pound they possessed, and quietly went forth,
portmanteau in hand.

Did he as he thus left the house recall the
auspicious day on which he had first seen,
with keen and avaricious exultation, Craigen-
gowan in all its baronial beauty, its wealth of

pasture and meadow - land, of wood, and
moor, and mountain, and deemed that all —
all were, or would be, his ?

He turned his back on the Howe of the
Means for ever, and from that hour all trace
of him was lost !

\U ^5. *L ^ *'

The reply to Mr. Kippilaw's telegram to
South Africa gave him, and even his noble
client, cause for some anxiety.

It was dated from Headquarters, Ulundi,
on the last day of August, and stated that
Lieutenant Maclan 'was down with fever,
and not expected to live.'

So — if he died — the title of Fettercairn,
being a Scottish one, would go to Finella,
and the heir male of whosoever she
married.

IN THE Nome FOREST.

We now approach the last scenes of Florian's
foreign service.

By the 13th of August the cordon of
European troops and Native lines drawn
round the district in which the fugitive
King of the Zulus lurked had been drawn
closer, and it was now distinctly known at
headquarters in Ulundi that he had sought
refuge in the Forest of Ngome, a wild, most
savage and untrodden district between two
rivers (with long and grotesque names),
tributaries of the Black Umvolosi, and overshadowed
by a mountain chain called the
Ngome.

Various parties detailed for the pursuit,
search, and capture failed, till, on the 26th

August, the Chief of the Staff received Information
Indicator where Cetewayo was
certain to be found, and Major Marter, of the
King's Dragoon Guards, was ordered to
proceed next day In that direction with' a
squadron of his own regiment, a company of
the Native Contingent, Lonsdale's Horse,
and a few Mounted Infantry, led by Florian
and another officer. The former was already
suffering from fever caught by exposure to
the nlo^ht dews when scouting, and felt so
weak and giddy that at times he could barely
keep in his saddle ; but, full of youthful
ardour and zeal, fired by the promotion
and praises he had won, he was anxious
only, if life were spared him, to see the
closing act of the great campaign in South
Africa.

The early morning of the 27th saw the
Horse depart, the King's Dragoon Guards
leading the way, after the Mounted Infantry
scouts ; and picturesque they looked in their
bright scarlet tunics and white helmets, with
accoutrements glittering as they rode in
Indian file through the scenery of the

tropical forest, and then for a time debouched
upon open ground.

Nodding in his saddle, Florian felt spiritless
and sick at heart, wishing intensely that
the last act was over.

Far in the distance around extended a
range of mountains that were purple and
blue in their hues, even against the greenish-blue
of the sky, and vast tracts of wood,
tinted with every hue of green, red, and
golden ; in the foreground were brawling
streams dashing through channels of rock to
join the Black Umvolosi, under graceful date
palms, mimosa trees, and the undergrowth
of baboon ropes and other giant trailers.
Scared troops of the eland, grey and brown
herds of fleet antelopes glided past, and more
than once the roar of a lion made the wilderness
re-echo.

And this ground had to be traversed
under a fierce and burning sun till the valley
of the Ivuno River was reached, prior to
which three Dragoon Guard horses were
carried off and devoured by lions.

So passed the day. The party reached a

lonely little kraal on the summit of the
Nenye Mountain, and bivouacked there for
the night.

Stretched on the floor of a hut, after drinking
thirstily of some weak brandy and water,
Florian watched the blood-red disc of the
sun, mightier than it is ever seen in Europe,
amid the luminous haze, begin to disappear
behind the verge of the vast forest — the sea
of timber — that spread below, casting forward
in dark outline the quaint and grotesque
euphorbia trees that at times take the shape
of Indian idols.

Then a mist stole over the waste below,
and a single star shone out with wondrous
brilliance.

Florian was so weak in the morning that
he would fain have abandoned the duty on
which he had come, and remained in the hut
at the kraal ; but to linger behind was only
to court death by the teeth of wild animals or
the hands of scouting Zulus, so wearily he
clambered, rather than sprang as of old, into
his saddle.

Pull yourself together, if you can, my

dear fellow said an officer ; * our task will
soon be over. It is something after a close
run to be in at the death ; and it is waking
men with their swords, not dreamers with
their pens, who make history.'

I am no dreamer,' said Florian, scarcely
seeing the point of the other's remark.

I did not mean that you were,' said the
other, proffering his cigar-case ; ' have a
weed ?'

But Florian shook his head with an
emotion of nausea.

Forward, in single file from the right,'
was the order given, for the sun would soon
be up now. Already the bees were humming
loudly among the tall reeds and giant
flowers beside the stream that flowed downward
from the kraal, the forest stems looked
black or bronze-like in the grey and then
crimson dawn, while the stars faded out
fast.

In advancing to another kraal on the
mountain. Major Marter's force had to
traverse the forest bush, where trees of
giant height and girth, matted and interwoven

by baboon ropes and other trailers,
shut out even the fierce sun of Africa, and
made a cool green roof or leafy shade, where
the grass grew tall as a Grenadier, where
hideous apes barked and chattered, bright -
hued parrots croaked or screamed, and where
nature seemed to have run wild in unbridled
luxuriance since the Ark rested on Ararat,
and the waters of the flood subsided.

The mountains of the Ngome, and overlooking
the forest of that name, are flattered,
like all others in South Africa ; but
Major Marter found the western slope to be
dangerously precipitous, and thence he and
his guides looked down into a densely
wooded valley, lying more than two thousand
feet below.

About two miles distant, thin smoke could
be seen ascending amid the greenery, from a
small kraal by the side of a brawling stream,
and therein Cetewayo was known to be.

As cavalry could not reach the bottom
without making a very long detour, the
Major ordered all the mounted men to lay
aside their bright steel scabbards, and all

Other accoutrements likely to create a rattling
noise, and these, with the pack horses, were
left in charge of a small party, the command
of which was offered to the sinking Florian,
who foolishly declined, and rode with the
rest to a less precipitous slope of the hills
three miles distant, down which the Dragoon
Guards led their chargers by the bridle,
crossed the stream referred to, a small fence,
and a marsh, and, remounting, made a dash
for the kraal, sword in hand, from the north,
while the Native Contingent formed up south
of it on some open ground.

The capture of Cetewayo is an event too
recent to be detailed at length here.

It is known how his few followers, on
seeing the red-coated cavalry riding up,
shouted, in unison with the Native Contingent:

The white men are here — you are taken !'

Then the fallen royal savage came forth,
looking weary, weak, and footsore ; and
when a soldier — Tom Tyrrelll — attempted to
seize him, he drew himself up with an air of
simple dignity, and repelled him.

Touch me not, white soldier !' he exclaimed

; * I am a King, and surrender only
to your chief.'

With their prisoner strictly guarded, the
party passed the night of the 29th August in
the forest of Ngome, and Florian, as he flung
himself on the dewy grass, with fevered
limbs and aching head, felt an emotion of
thankfulness that all was over, and it was
nearly so with himself now !

The moon had not yet risen ; the darkness
was dense around the hut where lay Cete-way,
guarded by many a sabre and bayonet ;
and the jackals and hyenas were making
night hideous with their howling, mingled
at times with the yells of wild dogs.

Ever and anon the barking of baboons, as
they swung themselves from branch to branchy
seemed to indicate the approach of some
great beast of prey, and the crackle of dry
twigs suggested the slimy crawling of a
poisonous snake.

So passed the night in the Forest ot
Ngome. With dawn the trumpet sounded
To horse,' and again the whole party moved
on the homeward way to Ulundi. The

night in the dreary forest, lying out in the
open, had done its worst for Florian. On
reaching the camp he fell from his saddle
into the arms of the watchful Tom Tyrrelll,
and was carried to his tent, prostrate and
delirious.

Hence the tenor of the telegram received
from the medical staff by Mr. Kenneth .


How Florian lived to reach Durban, conveyed
there with other sick in the ambulance
waggons, he never knew, so heavily was the
hand of fever laid on him ; but many a time
he had seen, as in a dream, the horses struggling
through bridgeless torrents, and graves
dug amid the pathless wastes for those who
died on the route, and were laid therein,
rolled in their blanket, and covered up before
their limbs were cold, till at last the village of
Durban — for it is little else, though the principal
seaport of Natal — was reached, and he
was placed in an extemporised hospital.

In his weakness, after the delirium passed
away, he felt alway's as one in a dream. The
windows were open to the breeze from the

Indian Ocean, and the roar of the surf could
be heard without ceasing on the sandy beach,
while at night the sharp crescent moon shone
like a silver sabre in the clear blue sky, and,
laden with the perfume of many tropical
plants, the sweet air without struggled with
the close atmosphere of the crowded hospital
wards, in which our ' boy soldiers died like
sick flies,' as a general officer reported.

And there he lay, hour after hour, wasted
by the fever born of miasma and the jungle,
rigid and corpse-like in outline, under the
light white coverlet. For how long or how
short this was to last no one ventured to surmise.


He had ceased now to toss to and fro on
his pillow and pour forth Incoherent babble,
in which Revelstoke, Dulcis Carlyon, his
boyish days, and the recent stirring events of
the now-ended campaign were all strangely
woven together, while Tom Tyrrelll, now his
constant attendant, who nursed him tenderly
as a woman would have done, had listened
with alarm and dismay. And more than once
Florian had dreamed that Tom, bearded to

the eyes, bronzed to negro darkness, and
clad in an old patched regimental tunic, was
not Tom at all, but Dulcis, the girl he loved
so passionately, watching there., smoothing his
pillow and holding the cup with its cooling
draught to his parched lips.

They say that fever must run its course,
sir, whatever that means,* said Tom to the
doctor.

Ah ! a fever like this is a very 
affair,' responded old Gallipot, in whom
the telegrams from headquarters and from
Edinburgh had given a peculiar interest for
his patient.

Am I dying, doctor — don't fear to tell
me ?' asked the latter suddenly in a low,
husky voice.

Why do you ask, my poor fellow ?' replied
the doctor, bending over him.

I mean simply, is the end of this illness —
death ?'

To tell you the truth, I greatly fear it is
replied the doctor, shaking his head.

God's will be done !' said Florian resignedly.
' Well, well, perhaps it is better

VOL. III. 47

so — I am so far gone — but Dulcis !' he added
to himself in a husky whisper — 'poor Dulcis,
alone — all alone !'

His senses had quite returned now, but he
was so weak that he could neither move
hand nor foot, and his eyelids, unable to
uphold their own weight, closed as soon as
raised, and often while his parched tongue
clove to the roof of his mouth as he lay thus
he was supposed to be asleep.

Poor fellow !' he heard Tom Tyrrelll
whisper to an hospital orderly in a broken
voice ; * he's got his marching orders, and
will soon be off — yet he doesn't seem to
suffer much.'

How hard it was to die so young, with
what should have been a long life before him,
and now one with honours won to make it
valuable.

- Well, well, he thought, if it was God's will
it would be no worse for him than for others.
It seemed as natural to die as to be born —
our place in the world is vacant before and
after ; but yet, again, it was hard, he thought,
to die, and die so young in a distant and barbarous

land, where the savage, the wild
animal, and the Kaffir vulture would be the
only loiterers near his lonely and unmarked
grave.

There came a day when the scene changed
to him again. He was in the cabin of a ship,
lying near an open port-hole, through which
he could see the ocean rippling like molten
gold in the setting sun, the red light of which
bathed in ruddy tints the shore of Durban
and the white lighthouse on the bluff that
guards its entrance.

Anon he heard the tramp overhead of the
seamen as they manned the capstan bars and
tripped merrily round to the sound of drum
and fife, heaving short on the anchor, and
heaving with a will, till it was apeak. Then
the canvas was let fall and sheeted home ;
the revolution of the screw-propeller was felt
to make the great * trooper ' vibrate in all her
length, and the glittering waves began to
roll astern as she sped on her homeward
way.

Would he live to see the end of the
voyage ^. It seemed very problematical.

47—2

THE MAJOR PROPOSES.

Meanwhile Hammersley's suspicion and
jealousy grew apace, and it has been said
that when the latter emotion begins to
reason, we legally ' always hold a brief for
the prosecution in such cases, and admit no
evidence save that which tends to a conviction.'


In his rage he thought of quitting London
and going — but where ? He knew not then
precisely.

Oh, to be well and strong again !' he
would mutter ; ' out of this place and back to
the regiment and the old life. There is a
shindy brewing fast in the Transvaal, and
that will be the place for me.'

At other times he would think — * I wish

that recruit of Cardwell's had put his bullet
through my brain. I would rather he had
done so than feel it throb as it does now.'

Some loves may dwindle into Indifference
or turn to hatred, but seldom or never to mere
friendship. Yet it is not easy ' to hate those
we have once loved because we happen to
discover a weak point In their armour, anymore
than it is easy to love unlovable people
because of their resplendent virtues.'

No response had ever come to the letters
he had written Finella under cover to Dulce ;
thus he ceased to send them, all unaware that
these letters addressed to ' Miss Carlton ' had
been returned to the Post Office, endorsed,
by order of Lady Fettercairn, ' not known at
Craigengowan ;' and now the heavy thoughts
of Hammersley affected his manner and gait,
and thus he often walked slowly, as if he
were weary ; and so he was weary and sick
of heart, for the sense of hope being dead
within the breast will give a droop to the
head and a lagging air to the step.

Lady Drumshoddy rented a grand old-fashioned
house In that very gloomy quadrangle

called St. James's Square, the chief
mansion in which is that of his Grace of
Norfolk, and round the still somewhat scurvy
enclosure of which Dr. Johnson and Savage,
when friendless and penniless, spent many a
summer night with empty stomachs and
hearts heated with antagonism to the then
Government. About a hundred years before
that, Macaulay tells us that St. James's
Square ' was a receptacle for all the offal and
cinders, and all the dead cats and dogs, of
Westminster. At one time a cudgel-player
kept his ring there. At another an impudent
squatter settled himself there, and built a
shed for rubbish under the windows of the
gilded salons in which the first magnates of
the realm — Norfolk, Ormond, Kent, and
Pembroke — gave banquets and balls. It was
not till these nuisances had lasted through a
whole generation, and till much had been
written about them, that the inhabitants
applied to Parliament for permission to put
up rails and plant trees.'

Here, then, in this now fashionable locality,
had my Lady Drumshoddy pitched her tent,

and hence It was that Vivian Hammersley,
being almost daily at ' The Rag,' close by,
saw Finally and her cousin so frequently ;
yet it never occurred to him to think of the
old Scots Indian Judge's widow, of whom he
knew little or nothing.

The circumstance that Finella was undoubtedly
still wearing his engagement ring
made Hammersley, amid all his misery and
anger, long for some more certain information
than mere Club gossip and banter
afforded, and for that which was due from
her — an explicit explanation. He thought,
as a casuist has it, * that to know her false
would not be so bitter as to doubt. To
mistrust the woman we love is torture. To
have a knowledge of her guilt is the first step
towards burying our love. Our pride is then
thoroughly aroused, and that contempt for
treachery, Inherent in our nature, flames out.'

On her part, Finella had some cause for
pique — grave cause, she thought. She had
twice, at intervals, seen Vivian Hammersley
riding in the Row, when it was impossible
for her to address him or afford him the

least sign ; and now, knowing that he was
home, and in London, she naturally thought
why did he not make some effort to communicate
with her, in spite of any barrier Lady
Fettercairn might raise between them, if ,he
supposed she still resided at Craigengowan.
Thus she too was beginning to look regretfully
back to his love as a dream that had
fled.

A pretty kettle of fish they have made
of it at Craigengowan, my dear !' snorted
Lady Drumshoddy, when she heard of the
late events that had transpired there. ' They
have been imposed upon fearfully — quite
another '' Claimant " affair ; but I always had
my suspicions, my dear — I always had my
suspicions, I am glad to say,' she coolly
added, oblivious of the fact that she always
aided and abetted Shaftoo in all his plans and
hopes to secure Finella and her fortune.

It was convenient to ignore or forget all
that now.

My Ronald is all right,' snorted the hard-featured
old dame to herself ; * he is the
right man in the right place ; but, as for

Finella, she is like most girls, I suppose —
will not fall in love where and when it is
most clearly her duty to do so — provoking
minx !'

It was a prominent feature in the character
of my Lady Drumshoddy, contradiction,
though she would not for a second tolerate it
in anyone else ; and as Major Garallan was
temporarily a resident at her house in St.
James's Square, she, like Lady Fettercairn
on the other occasion, put great faith in
cousinship and propinquity.

What a different kind and style of cousin
Ronald Garallan was from Shaftoo, Finella
naturally thought ; not that as yet she loved
him a bit, as he evidently loved her, but he
was such a delightful companion to escort
her everywhere.

She had received plenty of admiration and
adulation during her short season in London
before, and to suppose that she was blind to
the young Major's attentions would be to
deem her foolish ; no woman or girl is ever
blind to that sort of thing. She, like the rest
of her charming sex, knew by instinct when

she had won a success ; but she also knew
that she had one powerful attraction — money
and knew too, that her heart was engaged
otherwise ; and this knowledge made her*
tolerably indifferent to the admiration of' her
cousin, while the indifference laid her open to
the appearance of receiving his close attentions.
Meanwhile the latter was enjoying his
Capua.

How delicious all this is !' he often
thought, as he lounged by Finella's side in
the drawing-room, or rode with her in the
Row, ' after sweltering so long in that hottest
and most hateful of up-country stations,
Jehanabad, on the shining rocks of which
the Indian sun pours all its rays for months,
till the granite at night gives out the caloric
it has absorbed by day, and so the roasting
process never ceases, and sleep even on a
charity becomes impossible, all the more so
that hyenas, jackals, and wild cats make
night hideous with their yells. This is
indeed an exchange he once added aloud,
*and all the more delicious that I have it
with, you, Cousin Finella.'

And Lady Drumshoddy, if she was near,
would watch the pair complacently through
her great spectacles, while pretending to be
intent on her only paper (after the Morning
Post the Queen, which she read as regularly
more so, we fear — than she read her night
prayers.

And while Garallan's attentions were
gradually warming and leading up to a
declaration, Finella was thinking angrily of
Hammersley.

Perhaps he has forgotten his love for me
nay, he would never forget that ! but
absence, time, change of scene, or a regard
for some one else may have come between
us. It is the way with men, I have been
told;

So, in the fulness of time, there came one
fine forenoon, when Lady Drumshoddy had
judiciously left the cousins quite alone, and
when Finella, in one of her most bewitching
costumes, was idling over a book of prints,
with Ronald Garallan by her side, admiring
the contour of her head, the curve of her
neck, her pure profile, the lovely little ear

that was next him, and everything else, to
the little bouquet in her bosom that rose and
fell with every respiration, let his passion
completely overmaster him, and taking caressingly
within his own her left hand, which' she
did not withdraw, he said :

I have something to ask you, Finella — -
you know what It is ?'

Indeed, I do not.'

Then, of course, I must tell you ?'

I think you waist,' said she, looking him
calmly in the face for a second.

For weeks you must have known It.'

Known — what ?'

That I love you !' he said in a low voice,
and bending till his moustache touched her
cheek ; ' and now I ask you to give me
yourself.'

The hand was withdrawn now ; she
coloured, but not deeply, and her eyelashes
drooped.

Give me yourself, darling,' he resumed,
'and trust to me for taking care of you all
the days of your life.'

Though she must have expected some

such ending as this to their late hourly
intimacy, she was nevertheless astonished,
and said, with a little nervous laugh at the
abruptness and matter-of-fact form of the
proposal :

Cousin Ronald, I can surely take care of
myself. But — but do you want to marry
me ?'

Of course !' replied Cousin Ronald, with
very open eyes, while tugging the ends of
his moustache.

Well— it can't be.'

Can't be ?'

No. I thank you very much, and like
you very much — there are both my hands on
that; but marriage is Impossible. Yet don't
let us quarrel, for that would be absurd, but
be the best of good friends as ever.'

And this is my answer ?' said he, with a
very crushed air.

Yes,' she replied, colouring deeply now ;
once and for all.'

^ I won't take it,' said he, with mingled
sorrow and anger. ' I will not, darling ! — I
shall come to it again, when, perhaps, you

may think better of It and of me. Till
then good-bye, and God bless you, dearest
Finally !'

Kissing both her hands, he abruptly withdrew,
and soon after leaving the house took
his departure for Brighton ; and now the luckless
Finally had to explain the reason thereof,
and to undergo the ever-recurring admonitions,
reprehension, parables, and absolute
scolding of * grand mamma Drumshoddy,'
who was neither quite so well bred nor so
calm In spirit and outward bearing as Lady
Fettercairn, then ' eating humble pie ' at
Craigengowan.

If Florian, the new heir, was indeed dying,
as reported, when he was embarked with
other sick and wounded officers and men at
Durban, a prospective peerage, with all the
estates, enhanced the value and position of
Finally in the eyes of Lady Drumshoddy, sofar
as a marriage with her nephew, the
Major, was concerned, and most wrathful
she was indeed to find that her schemes
were going *agee.'

Lord Fettercairn fully shared her ideas,

and knew that whoever married the only
daughter of the House of Melfort, though
he might assume the old name, it and the
title too went virtually out of the family.

Finella had remarked to herself that for
some time past Lady Fettercairn in her
letters never mentioned the name of Shaftoo,
or hinted of the old wish about marrying
Jim,

Why was this ?

She knew not the reason that his existence
was ignored, till Lady Drumshoddy bluntly
referred to ' the pretty kettle of fish ' made
lately by the folks at Craigengowan, and
then, in the gentleness of her heart, Finella
almost felt pitiful for the now homeless and
worthless one.

A CLOUD DISPELLED.

September was creeping on, and in London
then the weather is often steady and pleasant,
though in the mornings and evenings the
first chills of the coming winter begin to be
felt. The summer-parched and dust-laden
foliage of the trees droops in Park and
square, and the great gorse-bushes are all
in golden bloom at Wimbledon, at Barnes
Common, and other fern and heath-covered
wastes.

The Row and other favourite promenades
were now empty ; Parliament was not sitting;
and shooting and cub-hunting were in full
force in the country.

Sooner or later one runs up against everyone
in this whirligig world of ours ; thus

Hammersley, still lingering aimlessly in
London, coming one day from the Horse
Guards, in crossing the east end of the Mall,
found himself suddenly face to face with her
of whom his thoughts were full — Finella
Melfort !

Finella, in a smart sealskin jacket, with
her muff slung by a silken cord round her
slender neck, a most becoming hat, the veil
of which was tied tightly and piquantly
across her short upper lip.

Finella !'

Oh, Vivian !'

Their exclamations and joyful surprise
were mutual, but ' the horns and hoofs of
the green-eyed monster ' were still obtruding
amid the thoughts of Hammersley, though
she frankly gave him both her plump little
tightly gloved hands, which after a caressing
pressure he speedily dropped, rather to the
surprise of the charming proprietor thereof.

Did you know I was in London ?' she
asked.

Yes — too well.'

VOL. III. 48

And yet made no effort to see — to write
to me !'

I knew not where to find you.'

You might have inquired — that is, if you
cared to know.'

Cared — oh, Finella !'

And your wound — your cruel wound !
Have you recovered from it ?'

Nearly so — thus I have just been at the
Horse Guards about going on foreign service
again.'

Foreign service — again ?'

Yes ; there are wounds deeper and more
lasting than any an enemy can inflict.'

She evidently did not understand his
mood.

Are you not rash, Vivian, to be out in a
day so chill as this ?' she said.

A little chill, fog, or rain, more or less,
are trifles to one whose thoughts are all of
sad and bitter things.'

Vivian ? — your wound, was it a severe
one ?'

Very. I received a shot that was meant
for the assassination of another.'

Who ?'

Florian ; your friend Miss Carlyon's lover,
who, poor fellow, I hear sailed from Durban
in a bad way.'

Why do you look and speak so coldly,
Vivian — Vivian ?' she asked, with her slender
fingers interlaced, while he certainly eyed her
wistfully, curiously, and even angrily.

Why ?'

Yes,' said she, impetuously. * Why are
you so cruel — so hard to me ?' she added,
with a sob in her voice, as she placed a hand
on his arm and looked earnestly up in his
face. ' Surely it is not for me to plead
thus ?'

Why are you so touched ?'

Can you ask, while treating me thus ?'

Like a thorough Scotch girl, you answer
one question by asking another.'

Well, in constancy men certainly do not
bear the palm,' said she, drawing back a pace,
and inserting her hands in her muff.

I think you should be the last to taunt
me, at all events, as appearances go.'

There was a moment's silence, for both

48—2

were too honest and true to have acquired
what has been termed ' the useful and social
art of talking platitudes* when their hearts
were full.

'And this Is our long-looked-forwardrto
meeting ?' she said, reproachfully.

Yes — alas !'

Why do you regard me — not with the
furious rage that possessed you on quitting
Craigengowan — but with coldness, doubt, indifference
?'

Indifference ! Oh, no, Finella.'
Doubt — suspicion, then ?'
It may be,' he replied with a doggedness
that certainly was not natural to him.

What have I done ?' asked the girl, sorely
piqued now.

Nothing, perhaps,' he replied shrinking
from putting his thoughts into words.

Can it be that you are changeable and
inconstant ? When you saw me, and knew
that I was in London, why did you not come
to me at once ?'

Because I knew not where or with whom
you were residing.'

Did you go to Fettercairn House ?'
*No.'

Why ?' she asked curtly, for her suspicions
were being kindled now.

I knew the family were not In town.'

Then you might have asked for Lady
Drumshoddy, and, if not, somehow have
heard '

By tipping the butler or Mr. James Plush ?'

If I wanted to do anything I would grasp
at the first chance of achieving it,' said Finally,
her dark eyes sparkling now.

Men are seldom creatures of impulse I
reasoned over the matter, and put two and
two together.'

Reason generally urges men to do what
they wish. But what do you mean by putting
two and two together ?'

swell, frankly, I referred to you and Major
Garallan."

Do you make fotir of us ? Vivian, yon
are absurd,' said Finally, after a little pause,
during which she coloured and stamped a
little foot Impatiently on the ground.

Perhaps,' said he sadly and wearily ; * but

I heard so much at the Clubs and elsewhere
that I knew not what to think.'

About us you mean — Cousin Ronald and
me ;

eyes.'

You heard — what ?'

^ That you were about to be married — that
IS the long and the short of it.'

His face crimsoned with annoyance as he
spoke ; but hers grew pale.

And you, Vivian — you believed this ?' she
asked mournfully and reproachfully.

Much that I saw seemed to confirm it.
You and he were so much together.'

How unfortunate I am to have been suspected
by you twice ! Ronald Is only my
cousin.'

So was that precious Shaftoo !'

Why hark back upon that episode ?' she
asked, piteously. ' Have I offended you ^,
Misunderstanding between us seems to have
become our normal state.'

Your cousin may — nay, I doubt not, loves
you, Finally ; but why do you permit him todo
so ?'

Can I help it ? Ronald was a kind of
brother to me — nothing more,' she continued,
ignoring — perhaps at that moment forgetting
his recent proposal ; * but my heart has
never for a moment wandered from you.
See !' she added, while quickly and nervously
stripping the kid glove from her right hand,
your engagement ring has never, for a
second even, been off my finger since first
you placed It there.'

• My darling — my darling !' he exclaimed,
as all his heart went forth towards her. ' Oh,
Finella ! what I suffered when I thought I
had again lost you ! Yet I would almost
undergo it all again — for this !' he added, ashe
passionately kissed her, after a swift glance
round to see that no one was nigh.

So the reconciliation was complete ; all
doubts were dissipated, and they lingered
long together, talking of themselves and a
thousand kindred topics, in which foreign
service was riot included ; and more complete
it was, when, after escorting her home (Lady
Drumshoddy being absent at Exeter Hall),
in the solitude of the drawing-room, they had

a sweeter lingering still, Finella's head resting
on his shoulder, the touch of her cheek thrilling
through him, and like some tender and
tuneful melody her soft cooing voice seemed
to vibrate in his head and heart together. -

So they were united again after all !

At last they had to separate, and looking forward
to a visit on the morrow, Hammersley,
seeming to tread on air, in a state of
radiance, both in face and mind, hurried
across the square to the Club, where he came
suddenly upon Villiers, whom he had not
seen for some days, and who seemed rather
curiously to resent his evident state of high
spirits.

Well, Villiers,' said he, ' you do look glum,
by Jove ! What is the matter now — the
Wolseley ring, and all that — the service going
to the dogs !'

You know deuced well that it has gone —
went with the regimental system. No ; it is
a cursed affair of my own. I have been
robbed.'

Robbed — how — and of what ?'

My pocket-book, containing some valuable

papers and more than ^500 in Bank of
England notes.'

Good heavens ! I hope you have the
numbers ?'

No — never noted such a thing In my life.
Who but a careful screw would do so ?'

How came It about ?'

Well, you see,' said Villiers slowly, while
manipulating a cigar, * I took a run over to
Ostend, and there, as the devil would have It,
at the Casino, and afterwards In the mall boat
to Dover, I fell In with a charming Belgienne,
an awfully pretty and seductive creature, who



was on her way to London and quite alone.
We had rather a pronounced flirtation, and
exchanged photos — an act of greater folly on
her part than on mine, as the event proved ;
for, after taking mine from my pocket-book
(which she could see was full of notes), I
never saw the latter again. I dropped asleep,
but awoke when the tickets were collected —
awoke to find that she had slipped out at
some intermediate station, and the pocketbook,
which I had placed in my breast-pocket,
was gone too ! There had been no one else

in the carnage with me — Indeed I had quietly
tipped the guard to arrange it so. Thus, as
no trace of it could be found, after the most
careful search, she must have deftly abstracted
it. Here is her photo — a deuced dear work
of art to me !'

She is pretty. Indeed !' exclaimed Hammersley
; * such a quantity of beautiful fair
hair !'

It was dark golden.'

Surely it was rash of her to give you this ?'
It was vanity, perhaps, when the idea of

theft had not occurred to her.'

Throw it in the fire.'

Not at all.'

What do you mean to do with it — preserve
the likeness of a mere adventuress ?'

I shall give it to the police as a clue. It
may lead to the recovery of my money, and,
what is of more consequence to me, my correspondence.'


So the photo of the pretty Belgienne was
handed over to the authorities ; but neither
Villiers nor Hammersley could quite foresee
what it was to lead to.

FLORIAN DYING.

After her flight from Cralgengowan to
London, Dulcle had found sheer In the
same house wherein she had lodged after
leaving Revelstoke, In a gloomy alley tjiat
opens northward off Oxford Street. The
vicar, on whose protection and interest she
relied, was not in London, and would be
absent therefrom for fully a month ; so she
had written to Mr. Pentreath, who quietly,
but firmly rebuked her for her folly in
quitting Cralgengowan, and expressed his
dismay that she should be alone and unprotected
in London, and urged her to come
to him, in Devonshire, at once.

But Dulcle remembered his slender income,
his pinched household, and notwithstanding

all the dear and sad associations of
Revelstoke, she remained in London, thinking
that amid its mighty world something
would be sure to turn up.

The solitude of her little room was so
great that times there were when she thought
she might go mad from pure inanition and
loneliness ; but greater still seemed the solitude
of the streets, which, crowded as they were
by myriads passing to and fro, were without
one friend for her.

She was not without her occasional chateaux
en Espagne — dreams of relations, rich but as
yet unknown, who would seek her out and
cast a sunshine on her life ; but how sordid
seemed all her surroundings after the comfort
and luxury, the splendour and stateliness, of
Craigengowan !

Dulcis had once had her girlish dreams of
life in London, at a time when the chances
of her ever being there were remote indeed
dreams that were as the glittering scenes
in a pantomime ; and now, in her loneliness,
she was appalled by the great Babylon, so
terrible in its vastness, so hideous in its

monotony as a wilderness of bricks and
bustle by day, bustle and gas by night, with
its huge and dusky dome over all, with its
tens upon thousands of vehicles of every
kind — a whirling vortex, cleft in two by a
river of mud and slime, where the corpses of
suicides and the murdered are ploughed up
by steamers and dredges — a river that perhaps
hides more crime and dreadful secrets than
any other in Europe ; and amid the seething
masses of the great Babylon she felt herself
as a grain of sand on the seashore.

Our neighbours next door know us not,
nor care to know ; and to the postman, the
milkman, and the message-boy we are only
^a number* as long as we pay — nothing
more.

So times there were when Dulcis longed
Intensely for the home of her childhood, with
its shady Devonshire lanes redolent of ripe
apples, wild honeysuckle, and the sycamore-trees,
and for the midges dancing merrily in
the clear sunshine above the stream In which
she and Florian were wont to fish together :
and but for Shaftoo and Lady Fettercairn she

would have gladly hailed Cralgengowan, with
its ghost-haunted Howe, its old gate of the
legend, Queen Mary's Thorn, and all their
lonely adjuncts, could she but share them
with Finella ; but she was all unaware that
the latter was there no longer.

Her little stock of money was wearing
out, with all her care and frugality, and her
whole hope lay in the return of the vicar,
who, too probably, would also reproach her
with precipitation.

Things will come right yet — they always
do — if one knows how to wait and trust in
God,' said Dulcis to herself, hopefully but
tearfully ; ' and when two love each other,'
she added, thinking of Florian, ' they may
beat Fate itself.'

Dulcis had not written to Finella, as she
was yet without distinct plans ; she only
knew that she could not teach, and thus was
not ' cut out ' for a governess. Neither did
she write to Florian, as she knew not whereto
address him, and, knowing not what a day
might bring forth, she could not indicate
where she was to send an answer. So week

followed week ; her sweet hopefulness began
to leave her, and a presentiment came upon
her that she would never see Florian aorain.
So many misfortunes had befallen her that
this would only be one more ; and this presentiment
seemed to be realised, and a
dreadful shock was given, when by the
merest chance she saw in a paper a few
weeks old the same telegram concerning him
which had so excited old Mr. Kippilaw, and
which had found its way into print, as everything
seems to do nowadays.

The transport with sick and wounded was
on its homeward way ; but when it arrived
would he be with it, or sleeping under the
waves ?

It was a dreadful stroke for Dulcis ; her
only tie to earth seemed to be passing or to
have passed away. She had no one to
confide in, no one to condole with her, and
for a whole day never quitted her pillow ;
but, ' at twenty, one must be constitutionally
very unsound if grief is to kill one, or even
to leave any permanent and abiding mark of
its presence.' But she had to undergo the

terrible mental torture of waiting — waiting,
with idle hands, with throbbing head, and
aching heart, for the bulletin that might
crush her whole existence. He whom she
loved with all her heart and soul, who-had
been woven up with her life, since childhood,
was far away upon the sea, struggling it
might be with death, and she was not by his
pillow ; and the lips, that had never aught
but soft and tender words for her, might be
now closed for ever !

Already hope had been departing, we
have said. Her heart was now heavy as
lead, and all the brightness of youth seemed
to have gone out of her life. She began to
feel a kind of dull apathetic misery, most
difficult to describe, yet mingled with an
aching, gnawing sense of mingled pain.

Florian dying, probably — that was the
latest intelligence of him. How curt, how
brief, how cruel seemed that item of news,
among others !

She opened her silver locket, with the
coloured photo of him. The artist had
caught his best expression in a happy

moment ; and it was hard — oh, how hard ! for
the lonely girl to believe that the loving and
smiling face, with its tender dark eyes and
crisp brown hair, was now too probably a
lifeless piece of clay, mouldering under the
waves of the tropical sea.

She had made up her mind to expect the
worst, and that she could never see him
more.

It seems to me,' she thought, 'as if I had
ceased to be young, and had grown very old.
God help me, now !' she added, as she sank
heavily into a chair, with a deathly pale face,
and eyes that saw nothing, though staring
into the dingy brick street without ; and
though Dulcis's tears came readily enough asa
general rule, in the presence of this new
and unexpected calamity, nature failed to
grant her the boon — the relief of weeping
freely. ' There is a period in all our lives
says a writer, ' when the heaviest grief
will hardly keep us waking ; we may sink to
slumber with undried tears upon our face ;
we may sob and murmur through the long
night ; but still we have the happy power of

VOL. III. 49

losing consciousness and gaining strength to
bear the next day's trial

So Dulcis, worn with heavy thought, could
find oblivion for a time, and even slept with
the roar of mighty London in her ears. -

The vicar had not yet returned, so day
followed day with her, aimlessly and hopelessly.


She thought the public prints could give
her no further tidings now. She knew not
where to seek for intelligence, and could but
wait, dumbly, expectantly, and count the
hours as they drifted wearily past, in the
desperate longing that some tidings would
reach her at some time of her dearest, it
might be now her dead, one !

The Parks were completely empty then ;
the sunshine was pleasant and warm for the
season ; the grass was green and beautiful ;
and lured thereby one forenoon, the pale girl
went forth for a little air, when there
occurred an extraordinary catastrophe that,
in her present weakened state of mind and
body, was fully calculated to destroy her !

The afternoon passed — the evening and

the night too, yet she did not as usual return
to her humble lodging. The morning
dawned without a trace of her ; the landlady-began
to appraise her few effects ; the landlord
shook his head, winked knowingly, and
said, * She was far too pretty to live alone, ^
and deemed It the old story over again — a
waif lost in London,

49—2

THE TERRIBLE MISTAKE.

Dulcis had thought that no possible harm
could accrue to her from rambling or sitting
in that beautiful Park alone, and watching the
children playing with their hoops along the
gravelled walk. With whom could she go ?
She had no one to escort her. She knew
not that it was not quite etiquette for a young
lady to be there alone and unattended ; but
the event that occurred to her was one
which she could never have anticipated.

She had sat for some time, absorbed in
her own thoughts, on one of the rustic sofas
not far from Stanhope Gate, all unaware that
an odd-looking and mean-looking, but carefully
dressed little man had been hovering
near her, and observing her closely with his

keen small ferret-like eyes, and with an expression
of deep Interest, destitute, however,
of the slightest admiration, and with a kind
of sardonic and stereotyped smile in which
mirth bore no part.

He scanned her features from time to
time, grinned to himself, and ever and anon
consulted something concealed in his hand.

^ Golden hair — sealskin jacket — sable muff
hat and feather — a silver necklet — all
right,' he muttered, and then he advanced
close towards her.

Dulcis looked up at him with surprise,
and then with an emotion of alarm, mingled
with confusion, which he was neither slow to
see nor misinterpret —

May I ask your name ?' said he in a mild
tone.

Miss Carlyon — Dulcis Carlyon.'

Ah ! you speak good English.'

I am English.'

And not a furrlner ?'

No,' replied Dulcis in growing alarm.
But you reside in London, just now ?'

'Just now — yes,' said Dulcis, seeing that

he was comparing her face with that of a
photo in his hand.

With your family — friends ?'

I have no family — no friends,' said Dulcis,
with a sob in her throat, and starting up to
withdraw in great alarm.

'Just so — not here, but at Ostend, perhaps.'


Thinking her questioner was mad or
intoxicated, Dulcis, in growing terror, was
about to move away when he laid a hand
very decidedly on her left arm.

Leave me,' she exclaimed, and on looking
around her terror increased on seeing that no
male aid was near her ; * who are you that ask
these questions — that dare to molest me ?'

My name is Grabbley — Mr. Gilpin
Grabbley, of Scotland Yard — oh, you'll know
enough o' me, my dear, before I'm done with
you. Come along : you're wanted particular
you are. Will you walk with me quietly T

Perceiving that she was about to utter a
shriek, he grasped her arm more tightly, even
to the bruising of her soft tender skin, and
said in a sharp hissing tone :

Don't — don't make a row : 'taint no use,
my beauty — you must come along with
me.'

Oh, what do you mean ?' moaned Dulcis,
almost incapable of standing now.

Mean — why, that you are my prisoner,
that is all'

Am I mad or dreaming ? Oh, sir, this
is some dreadful mistake.'

No mistake at all,' said Mr. Grabbley
tauntingly.

They were out in Park Lane now, and
Dulcis cast a despairing glance at the many
closed and shuttered windows of the mansions
there, as if she would summon aid.

Look here, gal,' said the detective, for
such Mr. Grabbley was, ' I have orders to
arrest the original of this fotygraf — you are
that original — look ! don't you see yourself,
as if in a looking-glass ?'

Dulcis did look, with a kind of horrible
fascination, and recognised in it a very striking
resemblance to her face and dress — even to
the luckless silver locket and chain.

Mr. Grabbley utilised the moments of her

bewilderment. He stopped a passing cab —
half lifted, half thrust her in.

Marlborough Street,' said he to the driver,
and they were driven off

Of what am I accused?' said Dulcis, driven
desperate now.

Robbery on a railway — that's all ; and
you knows all about it — the when and the
where.'

If not the victim of some deliberate outrage,
she was certainly the victim of some
inexplicable mistake which might yet be
explained ; anyway in her ignorance and
in her wild fear she strove to elicit succour
from passers-by, till Mr. Grabbley closed the
rattling glasses of the cab and held her
firmly, while, like one in a dreadful dream,
she was rapidly driven through Berkeley
Square, across Bond Street and Regent
Street, to their destination, where, when the
cab stopped, she was quickly taken indoors,
through a passage, in which several police
officers and odd, repulsive-looking people of
both sexes were loitering about, and whence
she was conveyed by the inexorable Grabbley,

to whom all appeals were vain, and left
in a state of semi-stupefaction — after being
led down a long corridor, having many doors
opening on each side thereof — in a small
bare room — a den it seemed, and if not quite
a prison cell, yet dreary, cold, and comfortless
enough to suggest the idea of being
one.

She heard a key turned upon her, and
felt that now — more than ever — she was a
prisoner !

She had no sense of indignation as yet —
only a wild and clamorous one of fear or
dread, she knew not of what — of being disgraced,
and, it might be, the victim of a madman's
freak. She was in utter solitude, and no
sound seemed to be there but the loud beating
of her heart.

Past grief and anxiety had rendered her
very weak and unable to withstand the tension
on her nerves caused by this astounding
accusation and catastrophe, of which she
could neither calculate nor see the end.
Then an exhaustion that was utter and complete
followed, and for a time she was physically

and mentally prostrate — in that awful
sense of desolation and heart-broken grief
that God in His mercy permits few to suffer.
So passed the night.

A person — a gentleman,' said a commissionaire
at the Rag doubtfully to Villiers ashe
entered the vestibule, ^ has been waiting
here for nearly an hour for you, sir.'

Oh— it is you, Mr.— Mr. '

Grabbley, sir,' said the little man affably,
his ferret eyes twinkling, and his vulgar face
rippling over with a smile.

You have some news, I suppose ?'

Yes, sir, I've nabbed her.'
When ?'

Yesterday morning.'
Where ?'

In Hyde Park — nigh Stanhope Gate.
She speaks English uncommonly well to bea
farrier.'

That's sharp work ! You are a clever
fellow, Grabbley. Was my pocket-book found
upon her ?'

We did not search her, but she is locked up
at Marlborough Street, where I would like you

to see and identify her before making out the
matter in the charge sheet.'

All right — get a cab. Come with me,
Hammersley, and I'll show you my little
Belgienne.'

Hammersley went unwillingly, as it was
pretty close on the time he had now begun
to visit Finella at her grandmother's residence,
and he cast longing eyes at the
windows of the latter as he and his two companions
were driven out of the square.

A horrid atmosphere, and a horrid place
in all its details,' he muttered, when ,the
scene of Dulcis's detention was reached, and
throwing away the fag end of a cheap cigar
Mr. Grabbley, with an expression of no
small satisfaction, puckering his visage, unlocked
and threw open the door — a sound
which roused Dulcis from her stupefied state
and starting up she stood before them,
trembling in every fibre, with a hunted
expression in her dark blue eyes and a
gathering hope in her breast, to find herself
confronted by two such men of unexceptionable
appearance and bearing as Hammersley

and Villiers, who raised his hat, and turning
with astonishment and some dismay to the
police official said sharply :

This Is some great — some truly Infernal
mistake!'

A mistake — how, sir ?' asked Grabbley.

This young lady Is not the person whose
photo I gave you.'

They seems as like as two peas.'

The likeness, I admit, Is great, but the
Belgian girl, I told you, could not speak
a word of English, or scarcely so. I have
to offer you a thousand apologies, though the
mistake Is not mine, but that of this man,'
said Villiers, bowing low to Dulcle, greatly
impressed by the sweetness of her beauty
and terror of the predicament In which she
had been placed.

So it's a mistake after all, young gal,'
growled Mr. Grabbley, with Intense disappointment
and reluctance to relinquish his
prey.

And may I go, sir ?' said Dulcle piteously
to Villiers.

Most certainly — you are free,' replied

Villiers, who was again about to apologize
and explain, but the girl, like a hunted
creature, drew her veil tightly across her
tear-blotched face, rushed along the dingy
corridor, aud gained the street in an instant.


That she was a lady in every sense of tone
and bearing was evident, and Villiers felt
overcome with shame and contrition, and
swore in pretty round terms at the crestfallen
Grabbley.

This is a devil of a mistake !' said the
latter as he scratched his head in dire perplexity.


A mistake we have not, perhaps, heard
the end of. Who is she ?' asked Villiers.

I don't know.'

Did she give you no name ?'

Yes — here it is,' said Grabbley, producing
a dirty note-book ; ' Dulcis Carlyon.'

A curious and uncommon name.'

Who do you say — Dulcis Carlyon ?'
exclaimed Hammersley, who had hitherto
been silent, starting forward ; and on the
name being repeated to him once or twice,

Great Heaven !' he exclaimed, ' if it should
be the same !'

Same what — or who ?'

The girl to whom Florian is engaged :
you remember Florian of ours.'

Of course I do.'

Golden hair, blue eyes, under middle
height (how often he has described her tome),
and then the name — Dulcis Carlyon ; it
must be she — let us overtake her ! What an
astounding introduction !'

But that was easier proposed than accomplished.
On gaining the street the two
officers saw not a trace of Dulcis Carlyon, so
all hope of discovering her address was
gone.

How Dulcis made her way back to her
obscure lodgings she scarcely knew ; but she
was long and seriously ill after this startling
event.

There she felt as much at home as a
creature so poor and friendless could feel.
Often she lay abed and seemed unconscious,
but she was not so. Her eyes were wide
open, and their gaze wandered about ; her

lips were generally dry and quivering. She
was in the state which generally comes after
a severe mental shock ; her mind refused to
grasp the situation.

Until a drink was given her by Ellen,
the kind little maid of all work, she sometimes
knew not how parched her throat was
how sorely athirst she had been.

She was afraid to be left alone after that
horrible accusation. In her nervousness she
feared that she might see her double — feel a
touch, and on turning find herself face to face
with her own likeness, as that evil Lord of
Fettercairn did who sold his country.

Finella s astonishment to hear from Hammersley
the story of where and under what
circumstances he had met Dulcis Carlyon
was only equalled by his own on learning that
Florian, his comrade and brother-officer in
the Zulu war, and whilom private soldier in
his company of the 24th, was heir to a
peerage, and the cousin of his affianced wife,
Finella Melfort.

For so it was. Lord and Lady Fetter-cairn
had undergone so much in the mismanagement

of family matters latterly, and
in years long past, that they were now well
disposed to let Finella alone, and in all
conscience they could not expect her to
give to Florian (if he ever returned) the love
she had never given to the now vanished
Shaftoo.

Vivian, you must find out the address of
dear Dulcis said she.

If I can;

You must. I shall want her as one of
my bridesmaids.'

From this we may presume that matters
between these two were all in fair training

now.

Your wish would delight Villiers, my
groomsman, who has been sorrowing about
her ever since the time of that terrible mistake.


dulcis's visitor.

On an afternoon subsequent to this episode
Dulcis was lost in a day-dream, born of her
own sad thoughts, her soft blue eyes fixed
vacantly on the hideous and dingy brick
edifices of the thoroughfare In which she
dwelt ; and when roused therefrom by the
little maid of all work, she gazed at her with
a somewhat dazed expression.
What Is It, Ellen ?' she asked.

A gentleman, miss, wishes to see you.'
Alarm — dread, she knew not of what, washer

first Idea now.

Who Is he ?' she asked.
I don't know, miss.'

Is he old or young ?'

Young.'

VOL. III. 50

Then he can't be the vicar ?'

Oh, hawk, no, miss, he ain't a bit like a
clergyman replied the housemaid, laughing.


Ask his business, Ellen.'

She was almost relapsing into her dream
again, when she was started by seeing a
man appear beside her.

Dulcis ?' said a voice, that made her
heart thrill.

She sprang up to find herself confronted
by a gentleman, whose face, though thin and
worn, seemed deeply tanned by the sun, so
that his scorched neck was absolutely red ;
his dark moustache was thick and heavy,
his shoulders broad and square.

Dearest Dulcis, don't you know me ?'
said he, holding out his hands and arms.

Florian — is this you — really you ?'

I thought you would not quite forget

me.'

Forget you !' said Dulcis, in a low and
piercing voice, as she fell upon his breast,
and his loving arms went closely round
her.

Oh, Florian, I did not know you were in
England !'

We were landed at Plymouth three days
ago. I got your address from good old Paul
Pentreath, procured leave of absence, and
came on here without 'a moment's delay, my
own darling

For some minutes neither could find words
to speak, so supreme was the mutual happiness
of the sudden reunion.

*How brown you are! but how thin, and how
much older you look !' said Dulcis, surveying
him with bright but tearful eyes. ' I. can
scarcely believe you to be the same Florian
that left me only a year ago or so.'

Ay, Dulcis, pet ; but soldiering, especially
soldiering in the ranks, takes a lot out of a
fellow. But I am the same Florian that left
you then, with a heavy and hopeless heart
indeed.'

And now '

Now I shall leave you no more.*

What dreadful places you must have been
in, Florian; what dangers you have faced;
what sufferings undergone, my love !'

50—2

The thought of you lightened and
brightened them all to me, Dulcis said he,
while into her bright little English face came
that wonderful and adoring smile only-possible
on the lips and In the eyes of a
woman who is in love, and for the object of
her love.

She told him of her simple plans and
humble prospects, of her hope in the vicar,
why she had left Craigengowan, and how
she came to be in that poor and cheap
lodging-room near Oxford Street.

We must not lose sight of each other
now, my darling,' said he, as she nestled her
face on his breast. ' Let us get married at
once, love, and then it must be service In
India for me. Are you ready to face heat, it
may be fever, and Heaven knows what more,
Dulcis ?'

Every peril, if with you !'

My brave little soldier's wife ! But suppose
we grow tired of each other T

You wicked wag ! — why think of such a
thing ?'

Married folks do sometimes said he,
laughing.

Then we should part — I would runaway.'


As a preliminary to that we must be
united, Dulcle ; so when will you be ready
to marry me ?*

Oh, Florlan !'

You must say — we have little time to
lose.'

I have no trousseau to get — and no money
for it — we are so poor, Florlan.'

But rich in love — well then — when ?'

I don't know,' was the shy, coy answer.

This day three weeks — I can afford, even
a special license, Dulcle.'

So be it, dear Florlan.'

'Then I shall write to good old Paul
Pentreath about it, and then we must resolutely
think of turning our steps to India.
We could not afford to live at home.'

Their little plans — little, though of vast
importance to them — were all arranged, and
discussed so sweetly, so lovingly, again and
again, and at last he left her for his hotel,
which was not far off, in Oxford Street, with
a promise to call for her again betimes on

the morrow ; and to Dulcis it seemed as If
the sun had come with a glorious burst of
radiance at last into the cloudy atmosphere
of her life ; that joy had come with it ; and
that sorrow and tears — save those of happiness
— had gone for ever.

So, in three weeks the life of Dulcis
Carlyon would be over ; and the life of
Dulcis Mac Ian would begin.

Dulcis Mac I an — how odd it seemed to
sound !

And so, at the appointed time, Mr. Paul Pen-treat,
summoned to London for the special
occasion, tied the ' fatal knot ' of the matrimonial
noose for these two young people ;
and Dulcis, as in a dream, heard him ask :

Wilt thou have this man to be thy
wedded husband, to live together after
God's ordinance, in the holy estate of matrimony
?'

And in a clear and confident tone little
Dulcis said, ' I will,' as she loved, frankly —
loved ' as a fair honest English maiden may
with her heart on her lips, and all her soul
shining out of her truthful eyes.'

So the marriage passed quietly ; there
were no lawyers, dressmakers, outsiders, and
all those other folks who never keep time ;
no attendants, save Dulcis's landlady, the
clerk, and honest Tom Tyrrelll, whose ' time
being out,' contrived to turn up about this
crisis to wish, with all the ardour of his
gallant heart, his whilom comrade and officer,
with his fair young bride, ' God speed ;' and
after a quiet little honeymoon at Richmond
no further off — Florlan set forth to the
Horse Guards for the purpose of effecting an
exchange to a regiment In India ; but a letter
that came to him altered all his views and
plans.

It was from Mr. Kenneth KIppIlaw, W.S.,
who had seen the marriage announced in a
public print, and had written at once to
Florian and to Lord Fettercairn.

When About Hassan, the merchant of
Bagdad, woke up on that remarkable morning,
and he found himself In the palace of
Haroun al Rancid, and treated as the latter
by all the beautiful ladles of the Court, and
the black slaves around his couch, he was

scarcely more astonished than our poor
Lieutenant of Infantry, when he found himself
to be the heir of Cralgengowan and
Fettercairn !

He then knew all about Shaftoo's villainy,
yet in the gentleness of his spirit he joined
with Dulcis In saying :

Poor creature ! God help and forgive him,
as freely as I do.'

Sooth to say, Dulcis was perhaps less
astonished on finding Florian was the true
heir ; she had ever thought there was some
mystery In the new position and new relationship,
so suddenly assumed by the wily
Shaftoo, whose tissue of falsehoods had, as
usual in such cases, broken down by an un-thoughts
point.

Amid the sudden splendour of his prospects,
such was his simplicity of character,
that one of Florian's first thoughts was of a
cosy cottage at Cralgengowan for his comrade
Tom Tyrrelll !

The news spread like wildfire through all
the Means, Angus, and everywhere else. It
proved a great godsend, and the vicinity of

Inverbervie was besieged by folks connected
with the press, all eager to glean the last
authentic information from Cralgengowan, and
even Grapeston, the butler, and MacCrupper,
the head groom, were interviewed and
treated — the former with wine, and the latter
copiously with whisky and water — on the
subject.

To Lady Fettercairn the marriage of
Florian proved, of course, a cause of bitter
mortification.

Another mesalliance — like father, like
son r she exclaimed ; * now indeed we shall
be associated with Freethinkers, franchise
folks, dynamite, and all kinds of dreadful
people !' she walled out.

The first alleged and hurriedly accepted
heir had proved a ruinous blacken ; the
second and true one was Flora Maclan's son
beyond all doubt — a gallant young fellow,
who had * gone through the ranks to a commission
!' but, alas ! he had married Dulcle
Carlyon — the Devonshire lawyer's daughter
her * companion,' whom she had treated
with no small contumely at Cralgengowan,

where she was now to be welcomed as a
bride and the future Lady Fettercairn !

It was all too much for the aristocratic
brain of the present holder of that rank.

She sat In her boudoir at Cralgengowan ;
it was small, but wonderfully pretty ; the
chairs were all of Ivory and gilt ; the walls
hung with pale blue silk, embroidered with
flowers ; and she thought ruefully of the time
when — If her Lord predeceased her — she
would have to quit all that, and take up her
abode at Finally Lodge, the humble dower-house
— giving place to Dulcis Carlyon. It
was all too horrible to think of!

But the couple were coming, and already
she could hear the distant cheers of the
tenantry.

Several young ladies — among them the
daughters of Mr. KIppIlaw — were seated
about the room in expectation and In lounging
attitudes, their garden bonnets or riding
habits showing how they had been recently
occupied.

A distant sound — was It of carriage-wheels
made her lapdog bark.

Down, Snap — be quiet said Lady Fetter-cairn
with more asperity than was her wont
to that plethoric and pampered cur.

The volunteers were under arms on the lawn
to salute Florian Melfort as a hero from Zulu-land
; and a salute to his bride was boomed
forth from an old battery of 6-pounders
on the terrace ; a banner was flaunting
on the old tower, above all the vanes and
turrets ; bells were clashing in the distant
kirk spire, and the cheers of the Craigen-
gowan tenantry rang up amid the ancient
trees in welcome to the heir of Fettercairn
and his winsome young wife.

Lord Fettercairn received them at the door
with what grace he might ; but the hands of
many others were held forth to him, among
others those of old Kenneth Kippilaw,
Madelon Galbraith, the aged butler, and
Sandy MacCrupper.

All shadows had fled away, and the bright
sunshine of heaven was over Craigengowan
and in the hearts of all there.

Even Lady Fettercairn, when she met
Florian and saw how like her youngest son

and his portrait he looked, felt all that she
had of a mother's heart go forth to him as It
had never done to the vanished Shaftoo ; while
Florlan, modest and gentle Florian, whose
heart had never quailed before the enemy,
now felt, as he said to Dulcis, somewhat
dashed ' on being confronted by this tall and
aristocratic grandmother amid such splendid
surroundings.

Dulcis recalled with wonder the humble
position she had held at Cralgengowan, and
the many fears and mortifications to which
she had been subjected by Lady Fettercairn
and Shaftoo till the eventful morning of her
flight, and how strange It seemed to her to
be able to act as guide and cicerone over his
own patrimony to Florlan, and to show him
that she was quite at home in that hitherto
unknown land to him — the Howe of the
Means !

And in a week or two more Finally and
Hammersley were coming thither on their
honeymoon trip.

THE END.

BILLING i. Sons, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

r

w

?ir"

3 0112 046409691
