OF THE

Guard

r*«==

AUTHOR O^

L I E) Really

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS


G7&4eo

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

MAR 1



L161— O-1096

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES.

ALTHOUGH HE WAS A LORD. By Mrs. Forrester,

author of 'Viva,' 'Mignon," 'Omnia Vanity,' &c. 3 vols.

THE Witches head. By H. Rider Haggard, author

of ' Dawn.' 3 vols.

THE Carries. By William George Waters. 3 vols.
CYCLAMEN. By Mrs. Randolph, author of 'Gentianella,

Wild Hyacinth,' 'Little Pansy,' &c. 3 vols.

WEST OF SWARDHAM. By the Rev. W. O. Pile,

author of 'Tay.' 3 vols.

HURST & Blackett, 13, GREAT ilARLBOROUGH STREET

BY

JAMES GRANT

AUTHOR OF

THE Romance OF WAR," " THE Cameronian,'

THE SCOTTISH CAVALIER,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1885.

All rights reserved.

CHAPTER I.

B^IRKWOODBEAE.

You are a dear and good-hearted jewel,
Mary !' said Ellinor. * How you can constantly
face and soothe the sorrows and
miseries of all these poor people, I cannot
conceive ; I am not selfish, I hope, and
yet the frequent task would be too much
for me

*You are not without a tender heart,'
replied Mary, as she set down her little
hand-basket, now empty. * I have paid
but one visit to-day — a very sorrowful one
and I am glad to be back again in our

VOL. I. B

own pretty home. When I saw old Elspat
the funeral was over, and dear Dr. Wod-
row had brought her back to the little
lonely cottage from which her husband
had been borne away. It was so sad and
strange to see the empty bed, with a plate
of salt upon the pillow, and the outline
of his coffin still on the coverlet, and the
now useless drugs and phials on a little
table, close by — sad reminiscences that only
served to torture poor Elspat, whose grey
head the minister patted kindly, while telling
her, in the usual stereotyped way,
that whom He loved He chastened — that
man is cut down like a reed — all flesh is
grass, and so forth. But old Elspat shall
not live alone now — she is to come here,
and be a kind of factotum for us.'

That is like your kind, considerate
heart, Mary; always thinking of others
and never of yourself.'

'When I think of the brightness of
our own home, Ellinor — though death has

twice darkened it — and compare it with
that of old Elspat, my heart throbs with
alternate gratitude and sorrow.'

Poor Elspat Gordon

The speakers were sisters, two bright
and handsome girls, one of whom had just
returned from an errand of charity and
benevolence, while the younger was seated
in a garden before her easel and paint-block,
on which* she was depicting, for
perhaps the twentieth time, the features
of their home, Birkwoodbrae — works of
art in which their favourite fox-terrier
Jack always bore a prominent part ; and
Jack, his collar duly garlanded with fresh
rosebuds and daisies, was now crouched
at the feet of the fair artist.

Mary Wellwood was fair-haired, with
darkly-lashed eyes of violet-blue. Many
would call her very handsome, but few
merely pretty. She was far beyond the
latter phrase. With all its soft beauty
and dimples, there were too much decision

B 2

and character in her face to justify the
simple term prettiness, while it was a face
to haunt one a life long !

Two years younger than Mary, Ellinor
was now twenty. Her dark hazel eyes
were winning in expression, and, like
Mary's, lonely-lashed, and what lovely
lips she had for kisses ! Hers was no
button of a mouth, however. Critics
might say that it was a trifle too large ;
but her lips were beautifully curved, red,
and alluring, often smiling, and showing
the pure, pearl-like teeth within ; and yet,
when not smiling, the normal expression
of Ellinor's face was thoughtful.

The orphan daughters of Colonel Well-wood
— a Crimean veteran — the two girls
lived alone in their pretty sequestered
home at Birkwoodbrae. They had nota
female relation in the world whom they
could have invited to share it; and though
sometimes propriety suggested a matron
or chaperone as a necessity to two handsome

and ladylike girls, living almost
under the shadow of the manse, and
as the minister, Dr. Wodrow, had been
left by their father on his death-bed a
species of guardian to them, ' why hamper
themselves with some uncomfortable old
frump, when they could be perfectly happy
without her, with their father's old servants
about them ?' was always the after reflection
of each.

Thus for three years the time had glided
away, and Mary-life we shall show to
have been a busy, active, and useful one,'
adding to and nearly doubling indeed the
little income left them by their father,
through her own efforts in the production
and sale of the agricultural produce of the
few acres of Birkwoodbrae, with a skill
and independence of spirit that won the
admiration and respect of all who knew her.

Yet the house they loved so well, and the
patch of land around it, did not belong
to the orphan sisters.

The heir of the entail — for, according to
Shaw's Index,' small though the property
of Birkwoodbrae might be, it had been
entailed as far back as 1696, with date of
bailie 1694, by Donald Wellwood, a remote
ancestor, who was one of the many
victims of King William's treachery at
Darien — the heir of entail, we say, held a
lucrative diplomatic appointment abroad,
and left his two nieces in undisturbed
enjoyment of the house and lands.

Thus the latter, in Mary's care, had become
quite a little farm, the produce of
which, in grazing — even in grain — butter,
eggs, and poultry, doubled, as we have
said, the pittance left to her and her sister
by their father, the improvident old
colonel.

In the words of Herbert's Jacida Pni~
debitum, Mary Well wood's motto had ever
been, ' Help thyself and God will help
thee.'

The house of Birkwoodbrae was a little

two-storied villa, with pretty oriel windows,
about which the monthly roses,
clematis, and Virginia creeper clambered :
and it had been engrafted by the colonel
on an old farmhouse, the abode of his
ancestors, which had two crow* stepped
gables and a huge square ingle-lum — the
later being now the ample kitchen fireplace
of the new residence, and in the remote
quarter of the little household.

A lintel over the door that now led to
the barnyard told the date of this portion
of the mansion, as it bore the legend often
repeated by Mary : —

Bliss be God for al his gifts. R. W. 1642,'

and showed that it had outlived the wars
of the Covenant and the strife that ended
at Killiecrankie ; and by its wall there
grew a hoary pear-tree, called a longovil
the name of a kind of pear introduced
into Scotland by Queen Mary of Guise, the
Duchess of Montreville.

This part of the house was, or used to

be haunted by a goblin known as *the
Darien Ghost a spectre that used to
appear during the blustering winds of
March, on the anniversary of the storming
and sack of Fort St. Andrew by the Spaniards,
when a thousand Scotsmen perished,
among them, Ronald, the Laird or Gude-man
of Birkwoodbrae. This ghost was
a heavily-booted one, with spurs that were
heard to jingle as it went ; and it was
wont to appear by the bedside of some
sleeping visitor, over whom it would bend
with pallid face and gleaming eyes ; and
those who had found courage enough to
strike at the figure with hand or sword,
found, to their dismay, that notwithstanding
his heavy-heeled boots, by some idiosyncrasy,
peculiar perhaps to ghosts, the
stroke passed unimpeded through it; but
Mary averred that since the railway had
come through Strathearn, less and less had
been seen of the Darien spectre, and now
it came no more.

Around the house were groups of lovely
silver birches, the ' silver birds ' that gave
the place its name; in front the ground
sloped gently downward, till the little garden,
with its well-kept plots and parterres
of flowers, ended in a park of emerald
green grass, where the spotlessly white
sheep and brindled cattle grazed amid the
sweetest sylvan scenery, the vivid colours
of which were now brought forth by the
fleecy whiteness of the clouds, the deep
blue of the skj, and-the brilliance of the
sunshine ; and, as William Black has it, ' I
have heard Mr. Millais declare that three
hours' sunshine in Scotland is worth three
months of it at Cairo.'

When Mary came forth into the garden
again, she wore an old straw hat to save
her complexion from the glare, and had
the smartest and most becoming of lawn-tennis
aprons pinned over her dress, with
Swedish gloves upon her hands, as she
proceeded to snip and train some straggling

sprays of roses about the walls of
the house, and seemed to do so with loving
and gentle care, as if the said house
was a thing of life, and sensible of the
love she bore it ; while uttering many a
yelp and gurgle, Jack, the fox-terrier,
overwhelmed her with the wildest of
canine caresses.

Now Jack was deemed a wonderful
doggie ' in his way, and had been the
gift of Elspat's husband, an old Gordon
Highlander, who had followed Roberts to
victory, and had Jack by his side in more
than one battle in Afghanistan. Jack was
all muscle, and white as snow, save two
tan-coloured spots, one over the right eye
and the other in the centre of his back.
He was the perilous enemy of all dogs,
and cats too, and at the sight of one or
other his muscles grew tense, his hair
bristled up, and he showed his molar
tusks ; but otherwise he was absurdly

meek aDcl gentle, and in appearance belied
his combative nature.

Is it not strange, Ellinor,' said Mary,
resuming the subject of their conversation,
'that Elspat's husband, who never
recovered from the wound received three
years ago in a battle in India, had a presentiment
that he would die of it, and on
the anniversary of the very day, hour, and
moment he was hit, he expired ? Yes,
Jack, and you, my dear little doggie, were
there too,^ she added, nestling Jack's head
in her pretty neck. * In spite of all that
Dr. Wodrow said and inveighed against
superstition, the piper would lead the
funeral party thrice deisal-wise round the
burial-ground before entering it.'

And no doubt the doctor would quote
his ancestor's famous Anahcta^ said
Ellinor.

On that occasion he did not,' replied
Mary ; * but it's too bad of you, Ellinor, to

quiz the dear old man, who does his duty
so well. I always recall what papa used
to say, that no one who does not try
with all the strength one possesses to do
some good to those about them, can possibly
say they do their best to live usefully
and honestly. Oh, Ellinor, what a
delicate arum lily you have there !' Mary
suddenly exclaimed.

I am putting it in my foreground. It
came with some lovely peaches.'

From Eobert Wodrow ?'

Yes,' replied Ellinor, with a soft and
pleased smile, for thereby hung a tale, as
young Eobert Wodrow (of whom more
anon), the minister's only sod, from his
boyhood had sighed for Ellinor, and was
never perfectly happy but when with her,
and, like the lover of Rosamond Gray,
he could make her admire the scenes he
admired, fancy the wild flowers he fancied,
watch the clouds he was watching,
and not unfrequently repeat to her the

poetry which he loved, and make her love
it too.'

And so, in early youth, the boy and girl
had grown fond of each other — far fonder
than either of them at first suspected.

'By the way,' said Mary, suddenly, and
pausing in the act of snipping off a decayed
rose with her garden scissors, ' the
Dunkeld family are back at Craigmhor.'

With visitors, of course ?'

*As usual — gentlemen to shoot when
the season opens in. a week or two ; and
one, a Captain Colville — a very handsome
man — is, I hear, the intended of that
haughty girl, Blanche Galloway

'Well, I am not ill-natured,* said Elinor,
with her pretty head on one side, as
she reproduced Robert Wodrow's lily in
flake-white; 'but the man who marries
Blanche won't have his sorrows to seek.
However, we shall not call, unless they do
so first, of course ; so these people are
nothing" to us.'

Nay,' said Mary ; ' with visitors at
Craigmhor, the housekeeper must necessarily
require more eggs, fowls, flowers,
and I knows not what.'

Sending these things to market at
Perth or Forteviot is all very well, but
I do dislike orders from the great folks
at the manor house.'

So do I, but needs must, you know,
Elinor

What should papa have thought ?'

Had he thought more at times we had
not been reduced to such shifts — not that
I upbraid him, poor old man.'

I detest catering for these great folks,
"who ignore our existence, save by a bow
more often a stare — at church,' persisted
Ellinor.

I care not — together w^c are independent,
and happy here as the day is long :
are not you so, Ellinor ?'

Yes ; but how if one of us were to get
married ? Such things happen.'

Don't speculate on that, though I think
Eobert Wodrow does,' said Mary, with
something between a laugh and a sigh, as
she took her way to the hen-court to see
after her fowls.

CHAPTER II.

mart's adventure.

On the following day, after seeing old
Blspat duly installed in one of the cosiest
rooms of the old portion of the mansion
as a kind of housekeeper, Mary Wellwood
put on her garden-hat, brought forth her
fishing-tackle, tied a pretty basket round
her waist, and, taking her rod, a dainty
little one —-the gift of Elinor admirer,
Robert Wodrow — set forth, accompanied
by Jack, to get a trout or two from the
May, for Mary was an expert angler, giving,
ere she departed, a last look at her
favourite hen, with a callow brood of
primrose-coloured chickens, over which she
clucked noisily in the sunshine amid a

wisp of straw, while eyeing Jack the
terrier with keen alarm and antagonism.

Mary left Ellinor again at her easel, and
smiled when she saw that the latter had
given some finishing touches to her costume,
and had stuck a sprig in her lace
collarette, in expectation of a visit from
Eobert Wodrow and his mother. She
knew well of the loving friendship and
incipient regard that had long existed
between Eob and Ellinor; and that as
friends of years' standing each had begun
she hoped — to feel that in all the world
the other was the dearest, and a union for
life would of course follow.

But young Yv^'odrow, who was now past
his twentieth year, had ' his way to make '
in the world, and, till he had graduated
in medicine, matrimony was not to be
seriously thought of.

She had one or two errands of mercy
to fulfil ere she reached the river side,
and began to put her rod together, and

VOL. I. c

deftly did so with purpose-like little hands,
that were cased in her garden-gloves, while
Jack kept close by her side. In the woods
there were no cats to worry, but he had
sharp eyes for the rabbits that scudded
about — sharp as any poacher or gamekeeper
could have.

The day was a bright and lovely one
in summer. The pale primrose had come
and gone, and the bluebells were already
fading out of the woods ; the sorrel was
becoming redder, and the wild strawberry,
with its little white flowerets, was peeping
out in unlikely places. The grass in the
meadows was green and studded with
golden buttercups, and the voice of the
cushat dove could be heard at times
among the silver birches — the 'silver birds'
that cast their quivering and aspen-like
shadows on the waters of the bonnie May,
"which is a fine "stream for trout, ten miles
in length, from its rise among the Ochils
to its confluence with the lovely Earn.

Everywhere here the scenery is rich and
beautiful, and the banks of the May are
very varied. In one part a long and deep
channel has been worn by its "waters
through the living rocks which almost
close above it, and far down below they
gurgle in obscurity with a deep and mysterious
sound. At another place the pour
in silver spray over a linn, thirty feet in
height, and form a beautiful cascade, and
everywhere the glen scenery is picturesque
and richly wooded with the graceful silver
birch, which is so characteristic of the
Scottish Highlands, where it climbs
boldly the brows of the steepest hills and
rocks, though the oak prevails in the
valleys of the Grampians.

There had been recently a ' spate,' or
summer flood in the river, so the trout
took to the fly greedily, and intent on her
task Mary had nearly filled the little
basket that hung at her waist with fish —
two or three of which weighed heavily —

c2

and cost her little fingers no small trouble
to disengage the hook from their gills, ere
she became aware that she had a companion
in her sport, of which she was very
fond. But though Mary loved to dangle
a little rod over a brook that teemed with
finny denizens, it was, of course, quite
beyond her strength or skill to hold a big
rod over a river for the chance of hooking
a pounder.*

Mary Well wood had reached a part of
the stream where it was more difficult to
fish, as its banks were thickly wooded,
when she saw near her, similarly occupied,
a gentleman, who, though he did not seem
to watch her, certainly did so, for to his
eyes angling seemed an odd amusement
for a young girl — a lady especially —
though it is not more so than archery, and
certainly not so much as bringing down a
grouse upon the wing, a feat attempted by
some damsels now-a-days.

Clad in a rough tweed suit, with fishing-boots

that came above his knees, a straw
hat, the band of which was garnished with
flies and lines, he was a man above the
middle height, apparently nearer thirty
than twenty, handsome in figure and in
face. The latter was of a rich, dark complexion,
with regular features ; a heavy,
dark brown moustache, and unmistakably
keen hazel eyes. He was a man with a
fine air and of decided presence.

He had been observing Mary Wellwood
for some time before she was aware of his
presence or vicinity, and the consequence
was that for each trout he caught the
girl caught three ; for while she was solely
intent on making the fly, with which her
hook was baited, alight on the eddying
water in the most delicate manner directly
above where she supposed the fish to be,
he was, as he would have phrased it,
taking stock ' of her lissom and graceful
figure, which her tight costume showed to
the utmost advantage as she stooped over

the stream ; the perfect form of her
thoroughbred ' ears and hands, and the
exceeding fairness of her skin, which was
of that snowy kind which usually accompanies
light brown hair, and Mary's was of
a brilliant light brown, shot with gold,
when the ruddy flakes of sunshine struck
it through the trees aslant.

Desirous of getting away alike from his
observation and vicinity, Mary lifted her
line in haste, but, alas ! it was caught by
the root of a silver birch, which held it fast
a little beneath the water, and from which,
after drawing off her gloves, she sought
in vain to disentangle it. Here was a
dilemma.

Permit mc ?' said the stranger, planting
his rod in the turf, and lifting his hat
as he came towards her. He at once
succeeded in releasing lier hook and line,
while Jack at once fraternised with him.

Thanks — thank you so much,' said
Mary, colouring a little, as she quickly

wound the line up, and with a bow passed
on to a part of the stream some yards
further down; the stranger had looked
at her shapely white hand, as if he longed
to take it within his own, and, as if by
magnetism, was strongly attracted towards
it.

But Mary — who intended to catch just
one more fish — had barely resumed her
operations before a most unforeseen mishap
occurred to her. After a ' spate,' the
water of the May is often dark in some
places, and to reach a pool wherein she
knew by past experience some fine trout
were sure to be lurking, by the assistance
of a stone she reached a flat boulder fully
six feet from the bank, but her foot —
light thought was — had barely left the
former ere it turned over in the current
and vanished, leaving her isolated amid
the stream, whereat her terrier yelped and
barked furiously.

The distance was too great for her to

leap ; moreover, the bank was steep there,
and to fall would end in a complete immersion,
and, gathering her skirts above
her little booted feet, she looked around
her with a comical air of perplexity and
dismay, which her companion of the rod
was not slow to perceive, and again he
instantly approached, but this time with
an absolute smile rippling all over his
face.

You cannot leap this distance without
risk, and so must permit me to assist you
again,' said he, stepping at once into
the water, which rose midway up his long
fishing-boots. He put an arm round hera
strong arm she felt it to be — and at
once lifted her to the bank.

^I have to thank you again, sir,' said
Mary, blushing in earnest now.

I am so glad that I was within sight —
you were quite in a scrape, perched on
that fragment of rock, with the dark water
eddying round you,' said he, again lifting

bis hat ; * but perhaps you can repay me
by indicating the nearest path to Craig-moor
?'

Mary did so, on which, still lingering
near, he remarked,

And so these are the Birds of Inver-may,
so famed in Scottish song, and story,
too, I believe? It is indeed a lovely spot !'

Lovely, indeed replied Mary, as the
praise of her native glen went straight to
her heart ; ' even we, who live here all the
year round, never tire of its beauty.'

'lam here for the first time ; I came to
this quarter only yesterday, and the alternately
bold and sylvan nature of the
scenery impressed me greatly. You must
be fond of fishing,' he added, with a well-bred
smile, 'and seem more expert with
your rod than I.'

*But I only know the May,' replied
Mary, taking her rod to pieces as a hint
that she was about to withdraw, on which
the stranger began to do the same.

I have fished for trout in many places
even in the Lake of Geneva,' said he,
*and, curiously enough, the fish there
are precisely the same as those in Lough
Neagh in Ireland.'

*In weather so clear and light as this
even after flood — it is no easy task to
lure them to destruction here replied
Mary, ' and a light enough basket is often
carried home, even from the best parts of
the stream.'

Such has been my fortune to-day,' said
he, as he quietly proceeded by her side ;
but now Mary remembered that the path
she had indicated to him as leading to
Craigmhor was also the one she had to
pursue to reach Birkwoodbrae.

Our May trout are very beautiful, and
are as good in quality as in appearance,'
remarked Mary, scarcely knowing what to
say.

*I hope you do not venture to such
places as this in winter,' said he, pointing

to some rocks that overhung the shaded
stream.

Why ?' asked Mary, laughing.

Because, when the water freezes — as I
suppose it does — and these rocks are covered
with snow, there must be danger.'

I fear you look at them with a Londoner's
eyes.'

I am a Londoner — in one fashion —
Captain Colville of the Guards.'

Oh, I do not fear the snow,' said Mary ;
I have been up on the summit of yonder
hill when it was covered deep with snow
she added, pointing to a spur of the Ochils,
while her eyes kindled, for under the
shadow of those mountains she was born ;
but I vv^as only a child then.'

And what object took you up at such a
time, may I ask ?'

To save a wee pet lamb, that else must
have perished in the snow.'

And did you carry it down ?'
^ Yes — of course.'

By Jove !' exclaimed the Guardsman,
twirling his moustache.

We call that place Crow Court,' said
Mary.

'Why?' he asked.

Because sometimes in summer the
crows collect there in such numbers that
the green hillside is blackened with them,
as if they „ had all been summoned for
the occasion ; and sometimes they have
been known to wait for a day or two
while other crows were winging their way
hither from every quarter of the sky.
Then a great clamour and noise ensue
among them, and the whole will fall upon
one or two crows that have been guilty of
something, and after picking and rending
them to death they disperse in flights as
they came.'

The Guardsman knew not what to make
of this bit of natural history, and could
only stroke his moustache again.

Something in this girl's sweet but determined

profile — something ia the freshness
of her character, and her slightly
grave manner, as that of one already accustomed,
but gently, to rule others, had a
strange charm for Leslie Colville — for
such was his name — though he was evidently
a man accustomed to the ways of
West-end belles and Belgravian mammas.
Yet this girl never flattered him even by a
smile, and her violet-blue eyes met his
keen dark hazel ones as calmly as if their
sexes were reversed, while her whole manner
had the provoking indifference and the
conscious air of self-possession which can
only be acquired in the best society ; and
yet, to his very critical eye, her costume
was rather unsuited to the atmosphere of
Elegant Street and Tyburniaia, being extremely
plain, and destitute of every accessory
in the way of brooch, bracelet, ring, or
even the inevitable bow.

To him it seemed quite refreshing to
talk to a girl who, with all her loveliness,

evidently seemed not to know how to flirt
or even think about it.

'I must now bid you good-mornings
said Mary, on reaching a hedge-bordered
path that led to her home.

What is the name of that house so
charmingly embosomed among birches T
he asked.

Birkvv'oodbrae.'

Birkwoodbrae — indeed !' he repeated,
with a start that Mary detected, but believed
it to be simulated, and felt somewhat
offended in consequence.

^ The name seems to interest you,' said
she, coldly, almost with hauteur.

*Do you reside there?' he asked, while
regarding her so curiously that Mary felt
her natural colour deepen.

Yes, and have done so since my father's
death,' and, bowing again, she quickly
withdrew, while he, with hat in hand,
looked after her.

^ These are the last trout we shall

have for a time — of my own fishing at
least, Elinor said Mary, as lie relieved
herself of the basket and told of the forenoon
adventures.

why?'

1 have no wish to be escorted by an}^ of
the visitors at Craigmhor; least of all by
Captain Colville, the fiance, as I understand
he is, of that intolerable girl,
Blanche Galloway.'

I should think not,' replied Ellinor,
laughing at her sister's unusual air of
annoyance.

But the sisters had not heard the last of
Captain Leslie Colville.

CHAPTER III.

THE Introduction.

A DAT or two after the rencontre we have
narrated, when the sisters were quietly
reading in their little drawing-room, the
curtained windows of which opened to the
lovely glen, through which May flows,
visitors were announced — two strangers
and their old friend the parish minister.

The latter entered, hat in hand, with the
cheery confidence of one who knew he was
welcome, saying,

'My dear girls, allow me to introduce
two new friends — Captain Colville and Sir
Redmond Sheath — Miss Well wood — Miss
Ellinor Wellwood.'

A few well-bred bows, with the subsequent

inevitable remarks about the
weather followed, and as all seated themselves,
Dr. Wodrow said,

We have had a long ramble bj the
Linn, and even as far as the King's
Haugh, and have just dropped in to have
a cup of afternoon tea, my dears.'

Mary sweetly gave a smile of welcome
and assent, as her hand went to the bell.

The old minister, who knew that for
reasons yet to be explained, Captain Colville
was anxious to see once more the
fair girl whom he had met and succoured
by Wayside, had artfully arranged
the proper introduction, which had now
come to pass, and the end of which he —
good, easy, and unthinking man — could
little then foresee.

Sir Redmond, as he was introduced to
Mary, took his glass out of his right eye,
where it had hitherto been, and placed it
in his left to focus Ellinor when introduced
to her, each time bowing very low, yet

VOL. T. . J>

with an expression of appreciative scrutiny
in his face.

The transference of his glass from eye
to eye was perhaps a small matter in
one way, yet in another it was very indicative
of the man's cool insouciance of character
and bearing.

On the unexpected arrival of these
visitors, the first thoughts of the sisters
were that their household furniture was
decidedly the worse for the wear, that it
was all old-fashioned, and that the curtains,
carpets, and chairs were all toned
down by time ; yet everything was scrupulously
clean, and in all its details Birk-woodbine
was evidently the home of gentlewomen
of taste and refinement. Flowers,
artistically sorted, were distributed where-over
they might be placed with propriety,
with all the pretty trifles and nick-nacks
peculiar to the atmosphere of ' the British
drawing-room,' while the nearest music lay
upon the open piano, and Colville's observant

eye quickly detected the latest novels
and illustrated papers too.

*Miss Wellwood and I are already old
friends said Captain Colville, with a
pleasant smile, as he slid at once into
conversation with Mary, laughingly, about
their meeting by the river.

'You have not been fishing for some
days past, Miss Wellwood,' he remarked,
incidentally.

*No, I have been otherwise occupied,'
replied Mary, as she thought 'he has been
looking for me, or has missed me,' and she
knew not whether to be flattered or provoked
by the discovery, while, with secret
pleasure, Colville was looking into her
minute and handsome face, with its starry
blue eyes, and tender, mobile mouth — a
face as rare in its candour and innocence
of expression as in its delicate beauty.

Sir Eedmond Sheath — of whom more
anon — was tall, fair-haired, and undoubtedly
handsome, with a tawny or blonde

D 2

moustache, and regular features. He was
every way the style of man to please a
woman's fancy, yet to those who watched
him closely it was evident that his blue
eyes — for they were a species of cold
China blue rather than grey — had a shifty,
almost dishonest expression, and that no
smile ever pervaded them, even when his
lips laughed.

He was in morning costume, with accurately
fitting, light-coloured gloves, and a
dainty 'button-hole' in the lapel of his
black coat ; while Colville wore a dark
velvet shooting-coat and tan gaiters, his
thick, brown hair carefully dressed, his
dark moustache pointed, a plain signet
ring glittering on his strong brown hand
an onyx, which bore, as Ellinor's sharp,
artistic eye observed, the Well wood crest,
or one uncommonly like it — a demi-lion
rampant ; but then the crests of so many
families are the same.

Dr. Wodrow, the minister of Invermay

(called of old the Kirktown of Miller),
was a tall, stout, and more than fine-looking
man, with aquiline features, and
a massive forehead, from which his hair,
very full in quantity, and now silvery
white, seemed to start up in Jove-like
spouts, to fall behind over his ears and
neck. He had keen, dark-grey eyes,
always a pleasant smile, with a calm,
kind, and dignified, if not somewhat pompous,
manner, born, perhaps, of the consciousness
that, after the laird, he was a
chief man in the parish.

His one little vanity, or pet weakness,
was pride in his descent from the pious
but superstitious old author of * Analecta
Scotica,' and other almost forgotten works,
but who was a great man in his time,
before and after the Treaty of Union, and
in honour of whom he had named his
only son ' Robert.'

The afternoon tea proceeded in due
course, served in fine old dragon china,

brought in by old Elspat, a hard-featured
little woman, in deep black, owing to her
recent bereavement, who curtseyed in an
old-fashioned way to each and all, and
with whom the minister shook hands,
somewhat to the surprise of his London
friends.

What a splendid type of dog you have
here, Miss Wellwood — all muscle and
sinew — half bull, half fox terrier,' said
Orville, in a pause of the conversation,
patting Jack, who was nestling close to
Mary's skirt, for the captain deemed rightly
that her dog was a safe thing to enlarge
upon.

He is indeed a pet — the dearest of
dogs,' she replied, tickling Jack's ears,
and getting a lick of his red tongue in
return.

Are you not afraid of him ?' asked Sir
Redmond, a little nervously.

Afraid of Jack — I should think not !'
replied Mary, laughing.

But somehow Jack seemed to have an antipathy
for the baronet, and growled and
showed his molar tusks very unmistakably
each time that personage focussed him
with his eyeglass.

The cabinet portrait of an old officer, in
uniform with epaulettes and one or two
medals, seemed to attract the interest of
Leslie Colville.

That is papa,' said Mary, in an explanatory
tone.

Ah, he was in the service, then,' said
the captain, smiling. ' So am I — in the
Scots Guards.'

The Scots Guards ! Then perhaps
you know our cousin, Captain Wellwood.'

Of course I know him intimately,' he
replied, with some hesitation, while colouring
deeply.

Mary thought there was something
strange in his manner, as he spoke in a
low and indistinct voice, heard by herself
alone, so she pursued the, to her, rather

distasteful subject no further, but the captain
added,

A lucky dog — he has succeeded lately
to a pot of money — quite a fortune, in fact

Lucky indeed assented Sir Eedmond.
By Jove, there is nothing like money for
enabling one to enjoy life. Don't you
think so, doctor ?*

No replied the minister, shaking his
Yv^hite head, ' I agree with my worthy
ancestor, who remarks, in the third volume
of his Anaemia, that " wealth is apt to
abate the godly habits of a people." Of
course, Sir Redmond, you have read Wod-
row's AnalectaJ

Sorry to say, my dear sir, that I never
heard of it.'

Indeed. It was the labour of twenty-seven
years. Thus, you may see that he
was unlike Hue, the learned Bishop of
Branches, who used to say that all human
learning could be comprised in one volume
folio.'

Sir Eedmond felt himself somewhat at a
loss here, and ignoring the minister,
whom he deemed ' an old parish pump,'
he turned again to Ellinor Wellwood,
some of whose framed landscapes drew
attention to her merits as an amateur
artist, and led to the production of a portfolio
of her sketches, over which the
baronet hung, as well as over herself, in
real or well-simulated admiration.

The latter could scarcely be, as Ellinor
had so many personal attractions, her
long lashes imparted such softness to her
dark hazel eyes, and the contour of her
head and neck seemed so graceful and
ladylike as Sir Eedmond stooped over
her, and complimented her artistic efforts.

Meanwhile Jack, with his hair bristling
up, and his bandy legs planted firmly on
the carpet, was growling, snarling, and
showing such manifestations of making
his tusks acquainted with the baronet's
calves or ankles, that he had to be ignominiously

taken out of the room by
Elspat.

Dog's have strange instincts and antipathies
said Dr. Wodrow, rather unluckily,
and unaware of all his words implied.
*Ah,' he added, as Ellinor displayed one
of her drawings, ' that is the Holy Hill of
Forteviot, and these stones you see depicted
among the turf possess a curious
legend — the story of a miller's daughter
who married a king — a story you must
get Miss Wellwood to tell you one of these
days. And so you have given old Elspat
a home here, Mary he added, smoothing
her bright hair with his hand, as he had
been wont to do when she was a child,
caressingly.

'Yes, for Ellinor and I both love the
poor old creature.'

You are one after God's own heart,
Mary said the minister, his grey eyes
kindling as he spoke.

We have never forgotten the strange
weird dream — if dream it was — she had
in the winter night before dear papa died.'

And this dream ?' said Captain Colville,
inquiringly, and regarding the girl's face
with genuine interest.

*Was a waking one — tell him, Mars
said Dr. Wodrow, seeing that she hesitated
to speak of such things to an utter
stranger.

When papa was on his death-bed,' said
she, *the winter snow covered all the hills;
it lay deep in the glen there, and even the
great cascade at the Linn hung frozen
like a giant's beard in mid-air. About
the solemn gloaming time Elspat saw from
her cottage window a strange, dim, flickering
light leave our house here, and proceed
slowly towards the village church, by a
line where oho road lies, and pass through
the churchyard wall at a place where no
gates open, and then, at a certain point,

it vanished ! At that precise time papa
died, and when the funeral day came — a
day never to be forgotten by us — the
roads were so deep with snow that the
procession took the way traversed by the
light, and, as the gates were buried deep,
the. wall was crossed at the point indicated
by the light, and the grave was
found to have been dug where the light
vanished.'

Mary's gentle voice broke as she told
this little story, and whatever Colville
thought oF it, though a town-bred Scotsman,
no unbelief was traceable in his
face.

We know not what to think of such
things,' said Dr. "Wodrow, with one of his
soft smiles ; ' but, as Sir William Hamilton
says in his metaphysics, ''to doubt and be
astonished is to recognise our own ignorance.
Hence it is that the lover of wisdom
is to a certain extent a lover of the
mythic, for the subject of the mythic is

the astonishing and the marvellous." But
the corpse-light is a common superstition
here, as the tomb-fires of the Norse used
to be of old.'

CHAPTER IV.

ROBERT WODRO W.

Leaving Elinor and Sir Redmond occupied
with the contents of the portfolio,
Mary, accompanied by the other two
visitors, issued into the garden, where all
the flowers of summer were in their brilliance.
They lingered for a time at the
door of the barnyard, surmounted by the
quaint legend, and beyond which they
could see Mary's cow standing mid-leg
deep among luxuriant clover, while at the
sight of her all the fowls, expectant of a
feed, came towards her noisily in flights ;
nor were they quite disappointed, as the
pockets of her lawn-tennis apron were
not without some handfuls of corn, and

Colville could not help thinking what a
charming picture she made at that moment,
as she stood with her sheeny hair
in the sunshine expatiating on the good
qualities of her feathered subjects, among
whom many of Lord Dunkeld's pheasants
came to feed as usual, but the birds
looked so beautiful in their brown and
golden-tinted plumage that Mary had
never the heart to drive them away.

That is a beautiful Cochin China said
she to Colville ; ^ she consumes a gallon of
barley every ten days ; and is not that
black Spanish cock a splendid fellow? His
feathers are like the richest satin, and how
strongly his plumage contrasts with ray
snow-white workings ; and are not these
chickens like balls of golden fluff — dear
wee darlings !'

And as she spoke, and scattered some
grains among them from her quick white
hands, the birds fluttered in flights about
her, as if she was the mother of them all ;

and, as sbe gave Colville some corn to
throw among them, the Guardsman, withall
his admiration of her, could not resist
a covert smile at himself and. his surroundings.


She looked so fresh and so innocent,
and so ready to tell him all her little plans
and of her local interests.

To him, a club man — a man of the
world — accustomed to the giddy whirl of
London life, the Parks, the Row, buckingham
and Lille Bridge ; Lord's Cricket
Ground, garden and water-parties, ' feeds '
at the ' Star and Garter,' and heaven only
knows all what more — it was a new
sensation this, and a wonderfully pleasant
one.

He was next obliged to visit her ducks

as they swam to and fro in an artificial

pond —

With glassy necks of emerald hue,
And wings barred with deepest bine
That sapphire gives ; and ruddy breast
By the clear dimpling waters pressed,'

as Dr. Wodrow quoted the poet ; and then
her brown owl, which had been caught by
Robert Wodrow, nearly at the risk of his
life, in the ruined tower of Invermay, and
now sat in a hollow of the garden wall
secured by a net, behind which it winked
and blinked and waited for a sparrow or a
field-mouse ; and the girl seemed so bright
and independent, so happy and so busy
with all the objects which formed her
little cares, that Leslie Colville surveyed
her with a kind of wonder and curiosity,
for, while being perfectly ladylike, perfectly
bred and delicately nurtured, she was so
unlike any woman he had ever met before ;
her world was, in many respects, one altogether
apart from his.

Meanwhile Sir Redmond, the very picture
of bland laziness, though secretly
keen as a ferret, with his glass in his left
eye and his hands thrust into his trousers
pockets, and his hair parted like a woman's
in the middle, was standing before Ellinor,

VOL. I. E

and contemplating her with evident satisfaction,
for he was a vaurien by nature.

And you have come here to shoot ?*
said she, as the portfolio was relinquished
at last.

To shoot —-yes,' he replied ; * this will
be my first turn at the game in Scotland.'

Robert tells me that the glees have
sucked half the grouse eggs this season.*

^ Glees — what are they — nasty little
boys ?'

They are a kind of crow,' replied Elinor,
laughing excessively.

'And who is Robert?' asked Sir Redmond,
slowly, readjusting his eyeglass.

The son of Dr. Wodrow,' replied Ellinor,
colouring a little, as he could perceive.

He prognosticates a bad look-out for
us on the 1 eth of next month ?'

The normal expression of Sir Redmond's
face, which was perhaps lazy insolence,
seemed to change when a smile spread
over it, and then the sensual lips, partly

hidden by their fair moustache, became
almost handsome. In Ellinor's sketches
there had been ample food for ready conversation.
Sir Redmond had seen all the
picture galleries in Europe, and, whether
he understood it or not, could talk of art
with all the ease and fluency of a well-bred
man of the world who was desirous of
pleasing, and he had watched with growing
interest her changing face and the
brightening expression of her sweet eyes
that had become trained to observe all
things; but now that the portfolio was
closed, the conversation had begun to flag
a little.

Robert also told me,' said Ellinor, to
fill up an awkward pause, ' that as the
grouse had been seen close to the barn
and orchard walls, it is a sign of a severe
winter.'

'It is too soon to think of winter yet;
but he seems to be an authority in

zoological matters, this Mr. — Mr. '

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF

Wodrow/

Ah, yes — Robert Wodrow.'

He is here to speak for himself,' said
Ellinor, with just the slightest soupqon of
confusion or of annoyance in her manner
as a young man entered unannounced, and
was at once introduced to Sir Eedmond
Sheath, who, in responding to his bow,
proceeded at once to focus him with his
eyeglass.

With a well-knit, well set-up figure,
Robert Wodro\y was an active-looking
young fellow, somewhat less in stature
than Sir Redmond, less dignified in air
and bearing, yet not less like a gentleman.
He had his father's regular features, his
open character of face, and honest dark-grey
eyes, in which at times there was a
thoughtful expression, the result of hard
study. At others a merry, 
one, the result of life among the
rollicking medical students of a great
University.

Without adverting to any subject on
which the two had been talking with
reference to himself, he proceeded at once
to address Ellinor.

'I have brought the ferns you wished
for said he, placing in her hand a tuft of
sprays.

Oh, thanks ; my wish was so slightly
expressed

It was a command to me he said, in a
low voice.

How far did you walk for them ?'

More than ten miles down Burnside.'
Ten miles V

Near to Strath Allan.'

*Dear me — the Allan Water!' said Sir
Eedmond. ' Is that the place where the
miller's lovely daughter so sadly misconducted
herself in the sweet spring time of
the year ?'

Eobert's reply to this question was only
a cold and haughty stare, under which
even the baronet's insouciance nearly failed

Lira, but from that moment the two men
instinctively felt themselves enemies.

Why did you take so much trouble fora
mere trifle, Robert?' asked the girl.

Because I heard you express a wish to
have that particular fern, Elinor replied
the young fellow, whose eyes seemed to
say that he would have gone ten times
the distance ungrudgingly for one of her
old smiles, or for the smile she was now
according, not to him, but to her strange
visitor, whose eyebrows were slightly and
inquiringly elevated, as he glanced at the
speaker, who seemed so much en famille at
Birkwoodbrae, and called Ellinor by her
Christian name, and who saw that she
placed the fern leaves on the table, and
soon — Eobert Wodrow thought too soon —
forgot all about them apparently.

*You have known Robert long, I presume,
Miss Ellinor?' said Sir Redmond,
with a twinkle in his cold, china-blue eyes,

and as he would have spoken of a boy or a
child.

I have known him all my life she replied.

Indeed !' drawled the other, who now
rose and took up his hat, as Colville and
Dr. Wodrow appeared, and were about to
depart, and, bidding adieu to the ladies,
the two visitors from Craigmhor bent their
steps in that direction, while the minister
lingered behind.

Isn't she pretty !' exclaimed Sir Redmond,
as they proceeded along the highway
that seemed like a private avenue, so
thickly was it bordered and over-arched
by beautiful and drooping silver birches.

She — who — which ?' asked Captain Colville,
with a slightly ruffled tone.

Ellinor — the youngest sister.'

^ Miss Ellinor Wellwood,' said Colville,
with an accent on the word, * is downright
lovely, man ; but you think every girl
pretty, especially when in the country.'

And away from contrasts, you mean ;
but excuse me ; I am neither so facile nor
so inflammable as that comes to ; yet I do
know a handsome girl when I see one ; and
by Jove, little Elinor is one to cultivate.
Two such girls living there alone seems a
singular proceeding.'

In your eyes, I have no doubt,' replied
Colville, stooping to light a cigar, and hide
the expression of annoyance that crossed
his face ; ' but it is not so much, perhaps,
in the place where their parents have been
respected ; and where all know them welland
seem to love them.'

Dressed as I could dress her,' continued
Sheath, still pursuing one thought, and
that an evil one, ' she would make quite a
sensation — never saw such hair and eyes,
by Jove.'

What do you mean ?' asked Leslie
Colville, coldly.

Well, among other things, I mean that
she is a deal too pretty to be thrown away

upon that Scotch country clodhopper, who
is evidently spoony upon her — has known
her all her life, and all that sort of thing,
don't you know

Whom do you mean now?'

This — well — ah — what's his deuced
name — Eobert Wodrow.'

The son of a very worthy man — a
friend of mine, Sir Redmond.'

Oh — ah — indeed.'

Colville's face darkened and grew rather
stern.

Why?

We shall be able to let a little light on
his secret emotion in time to come.

Meanwhile the speakers were the source
of some speculation among those they had
just quitted.

*Who are those gentlemen, Dr. Wod-
row?' asked 'Mary.

'Captain Colville, of the Household
Brigade, and Sir Eedmond Sheath, a
baronet, and wealthy, I believe, friends

of the Dunkeld family, come here for
the Twelfth. Are you pleased with them T

Oh, yes,' replied Ellinor, but Mary
remained silent.

Perhaps one may prove like the hunter
who came in the olden time to hunt here,
and wooed the pretty maid of Forteviot,'
said the doctor, laughing, and pinching
her soft cheek.

And Captain Oolville is engaged to
Blanche Galloway, is he not?' she asked.

So I believe. A man of undoubted
wealth, he has lately succeeded to property
of various kinds, and means, it is
said, to urge his claim in the female line
to the peerage of Ochiltree, which has
been dormant since the death of David,
fourth lord, in 1782. He has thus
assumed the name of Oolville.'

Lord Oolville of Ochiltree,' said Mary,
softly and thoughtfully.

Yes — he claims that peerage, my dear,'
replied Dr. Wodrow. ' I have a great and

melancholy respect for our dormant, extinct,
and — more than all — for our attainted
peerage. The men who held
them were generally, if not all, true to
Scotland, which is more than we can say
for our mongrel and often cockney-born
peers of the present day ; but Captain
Colville would be one, good, honest, and
true, I doubt not.'

^ And his own name ?'

I do not precisely know replied the
minister, whose son listened to all this
with a lowering brow, but lingered a little
behind his father, and, while the latter
was striding along the green lanes towards
the manse, Eobert was telling Ellinor over
again of all his hopes and plans, and his
expectation of certainly graduating in
medicine at Edinburgh, and that he would
get his diploma very shortly ; and then —
and then — Vv'hat then ?

A kiss given in secret seemed more
than a reward for all his labours and consumption

of the midnight oil in a lonely
lodging up a common stair near the old
Academia Jacobi VI. Scotorum Begins,' and
where he had pored for many a weary
hour over 'Quain's Anatomy christian's
Dispensatory,' 'Balfour's Botany and so
forth, inspired by his love for Ellinor
Wellwood, and now he left her, with his
heart full of happy dreams of the future.

Why did Dr. Wodrow bring those two
strange gentlemen here?' remarked Ellinor.

You may well surmise said Mary ; ' to
visit two girls living alone as we do. It
is so unlike him and his usual care.'

That Captain Colville struck me as
being very inquisitive about us and our
surroundings.'

I do not think so,' replied Mary ; ' but
his friend appeared a very blase man of
the world indeed, if I am a correct judge.
But, if afternoon tea was merely their
object, why not have gone to the manse?'

Gentlemen visitors — especially of such

a style as these two — one a baronet, the
other a Guardsman and claimant of a
peerage — were not very usual at Bu^k-
woodbine ; so, apart from the natural surmises
as to why the old minister, usually
so wary, chary, and shy about all introductions,
should have brought these two
to pass, the two girls had much to speculate
upon that proved of considerable
interest to both.

Old Colonel Wellwood, as we have said,
when on his death-bed, had verbally left
his two orphan daughters in the care and
custody of his old friend the minister, and
faithfully and kindly had the latter and his
worthy better-half taken the trust upon
them.

But no influence could induce the sisters,
Mary especially, to quit Birkwoodbrae and
reside at the manse. There was a strong
spirit of independence in the girls, and
believing in self-help they continued to
reside in the house wherein their parents

died, undisturbed, as we have said, by
their kinsman, who was far away abroad.

Till the next Sunday in church the
sisters of Birkwoodbrae saw nothing of
their two visitors. The latter — io^norinof
the service, or seeming at least rather indifferent
about it — were in Lord Dunkeld s
joe, a large, old-fashioned one, panelled
with carved oak, lined with crimson velvet,
and having a little oak table in the centre
of it. An arched window, in which some
fragments of the original stained glass of
pre-reformation times remained, was near,
and through it the sunshine streamed on
the handsome face and unexceptionable
bonnet of Blanche Galloway, who barely
accorded the sisters a bow, and then bent
her over her book, which she shared with
Captain Colville.

Her father, the old lord — of whom more
anon — seemed to doze, while Sir Redmond,
when not glancing towards Mary and
Ellinor Wellwood, seemed to occupy himself

with studying the faces, not of the
hard-featured country congregation, but of
the Scots-Norman chancel arch, which exhibited
elaborate zig-zag rows of heads of
fabulous figures and animals, characteristic
of church architecture in the days of
William the Lion and Alexander I. A
few coats armorial were discernible here
and there, emblems of races, conquests,
honours, and dignities of later times, all of
which had passed away ; tombs where
whilom hung the helmets, banners, and
swords of those who defended Scotland
when Scotland was true to herself, and the
days when she would sink to be a neglected
province were unforeseen.

Of Dr. "Wodrow's sermon Ellinor took
little heed. With the watchful and loving
eyes of Robert upon her she was only
anxious to get away from church without
being addressed by Sir Eedmond Sheath,
and as the latter and his friend the
captain were on ' escort duty ' with the

fair Blanche, Mary fully shared her anxiety
and wish ; thus both sisters were on
the wing by the close of the last psalm,
that sound so welcome to the shepherd-dogs,
who were coiled under their
master's pews, and at the first notes
thereof were seen to yawn and stretch
forth their legs in anticipation of a fight
in the churchyard, or a scamper after the
sheep on the breezy sides of the hills.

Leslie Colville and Sir Redmond were
not, however, though we have said it,
'friends.' Their natures were too dissimilar
for that; they were merely acquaintances,
and, like some other guests,
had met for perhaps the first time at
Craig mil or.

Both were — to the casual eye — unexceptionable
in manner and appearance ;
but Oolville's nature and disposition were
open, manly, candid, and genuinely honest ;
while those of Sir Redmond, whose baronetcy
dated from ' yesterday,' were crooked,

selfish, and secretly prone to many kinds
of dissipation and evil. He had gone
through the worst curriculum of both that
the worlds of London and Paris can
furnish. His very eyes and lips, at times,
told as much.

Discovering speedily that Leslie Colville
resented any loose or slighting remarks
concerning the young ladies at Kirkwood
and that he still more would be disposed
to resent any attentions on his part
towards them, though ivliy or wherefore
seemed very mysterious, Sir Redmond
Sheath contrived to pay more than one
visit, and to bestow more than one attention
in secret, at least unknown to Colville
; he, a sly Englishman of the worst
type, conceiving that the other was only
a ' sly Scotsman,' with views of his own,
as he himself had.

On the pretence of bringing books,
music, flowers, and so forth to the sisters,
but more particularly Ellinor, Sir Redmond

VOL. I. p

had found his way to the little villa rather
oftener than Dr. Wodrow, and still more
than the latter's son, would have relished.
Hence, one day when Eobert came to
Birkwoodbrae, he saw the wished-for ferns
he had gone so far and so lovingly to
procure — not planted in her little fernery,
but — lying dead, withered, and forgotten
in a walk of the garden.

Robert Wodrow made no remark on
this, but the neglect seemed somehow to
tell a bitter tale to his heart.

CHAPTER V.

THE Ducked Family.

Ah, London is the true place for life !
One exists only in the country, but in
London we live !' exclaimed Lady Dunkeld.

You are right, my Lady Dunkeld !' exclaimed
Sir Eedmond Sheath ; but life in
London had for him some elements to his
listener unknown — or, if so, not cared for
flirtations with pretty actresses, dinners
to fast fair ones at the ' Star and Garter,'
cards, billiards, pool, and pyramid, all
very nice things in their way, but ruinous
if carried to excess, even by a bachelor of
Sir Redmond's means.

I agree with you also, mamma,' said

her daughter ; ' but what is it to be — a

f2

ball, or dinner-party, or a garden-party we
must give, if not all the three ?'

A garden-party by all means, Blanche
And Blanche shrugged her shoulders
with the quaint foreign gesture which she
inherited with her French blood, and took
a sheet of paper from her desk to make
out a list of names, to which her father,
the old peer, listened with perfect indifference,
if he listened at all.

Though descended from Patrick Galloway,
who was minister of the Gospel at
Edinburgh in the reign of James VI., the
Dunkeld family, as the Scottish Peerage
tells us, were first ennobled in the person
of Sir James Galloway of Carnage, in Fife-shire,
who was Master of the Requests to
James YI. and Charles I., Secretary of
State and Clerk to the Bills, and was
created Lord Dunkeld by patent on the
15th of May, 1645.' After intermarriages
with the families of Haddington and Dud-hope,
we come to ' James, third Lord Dun-held,

who was bred to the army, and

was accounted a very good officer,' says

Douglas ; ' he joined Lord Dundee when

he raised forces for King James Il, and

was with him at the battle of Killiecrankie

There he was one of the foremost in

that heroic charge, before which

Horse and man went down like drift-wood

"Wien the floods are black at Yule,
And their carcases were whirling
In the Garry's deepest pool.'

Outlawed, he became a colonel in the
French service, and fell in battle but long
after ; his name appears as ' my Lord
Daniell ' in the Liste des Officiers Genereaux
for May 10, 1748.

James, the fourth lord, vas also a general
in the French army, and was a Grand
Cross of St. Louis.

His grandson, the present lord, proved
untrue to the old traditions of his race
a very different, useless, and mediocre
Scottish peer, of the type too well known
in our day. He had no property in Scot-laid,

and no more interest in her people,
morally, practically, or politically, than a
Zulu chief. He was proud of his descent
and title, nothing more, and, not being
very wealthy, thought, like his wife, that
Leslie Colville would be a very eligible
son-in-law ; while at his death his title
would inevitably pass to a second cousin,
Colonel Charles Edward Galloway, chef
cTescadron of a cavalry regiment, then
quartered at Chalons-sur-Marne.

Lord Dunkeld had one pet vanity — a
real or fancied resemblance in his profile
to those of the Grand Monarque and the
later Louis of France ; a facial angle indicative
of weakness certainly, if not of
worse ; but, if the idea pleased him, it did
no one any harm.

Though thoroughly English bred, and
English in all her ideas, as taken from her
mother, the Hon. Blanche Gabrielle — so
called from her grandmother, Gabrielle de
Fontaine-Martel (daughter of the marquis

of that name) — bad considerable French
espieglerie in her manner, and many pretty
foreign tricks of it, with her eyebrows and
hands, but she was naturally cold, ambitious,
selfish, and vain.

It was the luncheon-time at Craigmhor,
which Lord Dunkeld only rented. The
shooting had not yet begun ; the circle
therefore had some difficulty in getting
through the days, and the necessity for some
amusement being devised, * something being
done,' was on the tapis.

Blanche wore a dress of plain blue serge,
with a simple linen collar and lace collarette
encircling her slender neck. Her hair, of
a light golden tint, was dressed in the
most perfect taste by the deft fingers of
Mademoiselle Eosette, her French maid.
In contrast to her hair, her eyes were dark
large eyes, full of observation and expressive
of sensitiveness -, she had delicately
cut lips, which always seemed to droop
when she did not smile.

She had a general air of great softness
and sweetness, which was most deceptive,
as Blanche Galloway was secretly strong,
with all the strength of one who in love,
hate, or ambition could be fearless, and
wily as fearless. Lastly, she had that
which so often comes with foreign blood
in a girl's veins, the faintest indication of
a moustache, or down, at the corners of
her red and mobile lips.

Luncheon, we say, was in progress.
Colville, Sir Eedmond, and some other
guests (who have no part in our story)
were busy thereat ; and the old family butler
— in some respects an old family tyrant,
who resented any alteration in the daily
domestic arrangements as something bordering
on a personal affront — was carving
at the sideboard.

It was high summer now. The chestnuts
were in full leaf, and their shadows
were lightened by the silver birches. The
garden around Craigmhor was red with

roses ; the stone vases on the paved terrace
were teeming with fragrant blossoms,
and the stately peacocks, their tails studded
with the fabled eyes of Argus, iridescent
and flashing in the sunshine, strutted to
and fro.

Craigmhor (or the Great Rock) was
neither a Highland stronghold of the
middle ages nor a Scots-French chateau of
the latter James's, but a very handsome
modern villa, with all the appurtenances
and appliances that wealth and luxury can
supply in the present day, otherwise my
Lady Dunkeld could not have endured it.

Once a belle in Mayfair, she had many
remains of beauty still, as she was not
over her fortieth year. Sooth to say —
and we are sorry to record it — she did
not like Scotsmen very much, but she
rather approved of Leslie Colville. He
was now very rich — the probable inheritor
of a title nearly as old as that borne by
her husband ; and having been educated

at Rugby, and being now in the Guards,
he was a kind of Englishman by naturalization,
a view which perhaps Colville would
have resented.

For many reasons Lady Dunkeld did
not care about a ball in the country ; it
was so difficult where to draw the line
with regard to the invitations.

In London her balls were always a success
— no one knew precisely how or why
yet they were so, though organised just
like those of other people. Her cards of
invitation were always in keen request,
and, though she had the reputation of
yearly launching into society, and getting
excellent matches for a bevy of lovely
girls, her daughter Blanche, now in her
twenty-fourth year, was still upon her
hands.

So the idea of a garden-party was
carried nem. cons as suitable to ' all sorts.'

They might have in the garden and
lawn those with whom they could not

be intimate in the house. It was easy
to entertain with ices, wine, and fruity
music, and chit-chat those whom they
cared not to have at their mahogany, or
to meet in the tolerably perfect equality
of a ball-room. Oh, yes, a garden-party
was just the sort of thing to have for
the people about Craigmhor, who were not
county people.

So, while some of the gentlemen withdrew
to smoke and idle in the gun-room
or stables, Blanche seated herself at her
davenport, and, with a dainty gold pencil,
proceeded to make out the list for her
mamma.

Certain names were put down as a
matter of course ; those of adjacent landholders
or the renters of shootings — many
of whom were English idlers of good
position ; also ' a paper lord v/ho lived
in the vicinity, for, in absence of the
real article, as Sir Redmond said, with a
laugh, Hhe factitious rank that accrues

to the Scottish bench was always acceptable
in Scotland.' But though Sir Redmond
was a baronet, he came of a farail}^
which, like that of Mrs. Grizzle Pickle,

was not to be traced two generations
back by all the powers of heraldry or
tradition.'

A country doctor and a clergyman or
two, with their families, come next, including
the Rev. Dr. Wodrow, of course.

'The Misses Wellwood, mamma?' said
Blanche, inquiringly, as she looked up
from her list. ' I saw them at church on
Sunday.'

Are these girls living alone — still ?'
asked Lady Dunkeld, * without even an
old maid to play propriety.'

^ It is clearly against the rules of society,
mamma.'

As laid down by Mrs. Grundy. Have
them, by all means,' said Lord Dunkeld ;

but for their extreme goodness, charity,
and spotless lives, uncharitable people

might say uncharitable things. We must
have them, Blanche ; their father was a
brave old officer.'

Whether it was some French associations
and his half-blood that influenced
]him, we cannot say ; but Lord Dunkeld
by no means shared in the prejudices
of his wife and daughter against the two
orphan girls at Birkwoodbrae, more especially,
as he admitted, their father had been,
like himself and his fathers before him, a
man of the sword,

put their names down, Blanche,' said
Lady Dunkeld ; adding mentally, ' men like
Sir Redmond will be sure to get up a
flirtation, which these cottage girls will be
sure to misunderstand.'

But will they come, mamma ?' said
Blanche. ' You know we have never
called on them.'

That is a matter easily remedied —
deliver your invitations in person,' said old
Lord Dunkeld.

And if we invite them here, are we
also to invite the elder girl's shadow T
asked Blanche.

Her shadow !' exclaimed Lady Daniel.
Who do you mean ?'

That young man — I do not rightly
know his name — to whom she is, Rosette
tells me, engaged.'

Of course not ; where would your list
end if we went on thus?'

Blanche either meant Ellinor's lover, or
made a mistake ; but somehow both Colville
and Sir Redmond Sheath noted her
words.

After a time it was discovered that ' the
young man ' referred to was Dr. Wodrow's
only son, so his name was included in the list.

How many such acquaintances as these
people are made in a year and then
dropped,' observed Blanche, unaware that
Captain Colville coloured with something
of pain and even annoyance at her remark.

To all this sort of thing Sir Redmond

Sheath listened with attention. "We need
not conceal the fact or circumstance that
this enterprising baronet had marked out
the soft, dreamy, artistic, and gentle
Ellinor for a kind of affaire clu coeur peculiarly
his own. Mary Wellwood, from her
natural strength of character, he knew to
be beyond the range of his nefarious views
or schemes; and eventually, the warmth
of bis attentions to Ellinor were only
curbed in public or veiled by a wholesome
fear of his new acquaintance, Captain Colville,
who, he thought, was identically
smitten' by a fancy for or interest in
Mary, for a time, of course, he supposed,
as these things never lasted ;' and he
hoped, when the Guardsman went back to
town and was fully under the influence of
Blanche and her mother, to return to the
vicinity of Birkwoodbrae on any pretence,
and then have the field to himself.

For a man like Sir Redmond there was
a strange fascination in achieving the conquest

of, or in 'running to earth,' as he
would have phrased it, a girl so pure and
confiding as Ellinor, and whose beauty
and helplessness inspired him with a kind
of love, as he thought it, but a selfish love
peculiarly his own.

It may excite surprise that such worldlings
as Lord and Lady Dunkeld did not
prefer a baronet as a parti for their
daughter's hand ; but Leslie Colville was
by far the richer of the two, and possessed
landed property in various directions ;
and, however Sir Redmond might admire
Blanche Galloway, he dared not raise his
eyes to her, for very sufficient reasons yet
to be explained.

Finding that Colville, as we have said,
was curiously disposed to resent some of
his off-hand remarks about Mary and
Ellinor Wellwood, he began to take refuge
in professions of the greatest esteem for
them both, and occasionally urged his
regard for the youngest.

In love again — you — and with, a little

country lass?' said Colville, laughing.

You who were over head and ears, as the

saying is, with Lady Sarah, all last season,

as repute said.'

When she loved me — if she was capable
of it,' replied Sheath, with a dark look,
she was indeed my Queen of Hearts.'

And now, having married that millionaire
fellow, she is Queen of Diamonds.
But what could you expect of a girl who
was engaged to two men at once, and wore
the ens^aofement rinofs of both T

Of course her heart was no longer her
own when the millionaire solicited. She
accepted him, and made a hecatomb of my
letters and those of another fool, who is
now broiling with his regiment in South
Africa. '' The world well lost for love "
is poetic, certainly, but devilish stupid
practically.'

Though entirely opposite and different
in character and disposition, both these

VOL, I. G

men looked forward with pleasure to the
anticipated garden-party — Colville with
real satisfaction to the hope of meeting
Mary Wellwood once more ; and Sir Redmond
to the chances of furthering his
own particular views.

CHAPTER YI.

THE VISIT.

Putting some constraint upon themselves,
we are sorry to say, Lady Dunkelcl and
her daughter on the following afternoon
drove over to Birkwoodbrae, and sent in
their cards to Mary and Ellinor Well wood,
who were busy in their little drawing-room
with some piles of freshly-cut flowers ; and
though both were startled — or certainly
surprised — by this unusual visit, nothing
of that emotion was perceptible in their
manner; yet the arrival of the London
carriage, with its showy hammersmith,
with the Dunkeld arms on the panels, a
row of plated coronets round the top, the
elaborate ' snobbery.' if we may call it so,

g2

of rank — Scottish rank, too often without
patriotism — was there — excited something
akin to terror among the old servants ;
and the way in which one of the tall
matched footmen ' pulled the door bell,
and the other banged down the carriage
steps, went quite ' upon the nerves ' of
old Elspat Gordon, and the visitors sailed
in, displaying those perfect toilettes which,
were suited to the Row, and which London
alone can produce.

The beauty of the day, of the weather
generally, more than all the beauty of
Birkwoodbrae and its garden, ' which
seemed quite a love of a place, with all
its roses and flowers,' were all discoursed
on rapidly and fluently by Lady Dunkeld
and Blanche Galloway, while their observant
eyes took in every detail of the
sisters, their appearance, dress, and surroundings,
with all of which they felt
secretly bound to admit that no solid fault
could be found, though the carpets, hangings,

and so forth had certainly seen better
times.

We are to have a garden-party in a
few days Miss Wellwood,' said Lady
Dunkeld, * and hope to have the pleasure
of seeing you and Miss Ellinor. Lest you
might be out, I have brought your cards ;
but, being a country gathering, it will be,
I fear, rather a tame affair,' she added,
smiling, as she laid the embossed and
scented missives on the table.

Mary's long lashes quivered as she
glanced at Ellinor. Both bowed an assent,
and murmured thanks, adding that they
led very quiet lives now, and seldom went
much abroad.

What are you making with all these
beautiful flowers?' asked Blanche Galloway
; ' two funeral chaplets apparently.'

They are so — green ivy leaves, white
roses, and lily of the valley,' replied Mary.

For what purpose ?'

To lay on the graves of papa and

mamma. To-morrow is the anniversary
of her death — she died in summer, papa
in winter,' she added, with the slightest
perceptible break in her voice.

Oh, indeed ; how good of you !' murmured
Lady Dunkeld.

How pretty !' cooed her daughter, one
of those young ladies so carefully trained
as to think it ' awfully bad form ' to betray
any emotion or feeling that was in anyway
natural.

Sir Redmond Sheath was so enchanted
with your drawings, Miss Elinor,' said
Lady Dunkeld, to change the subject, as
woful ones were eminently distasteful to
her. ' He is never weary of singing their
praises

This was not strictly true, for the
baronet had just barely mentioned the
matter once, but poor Ellinor blushed with
real pleasure.

He is very good-natured,' said Miss
Galloway, lest the listener might value Sir

Redmond's praises too highly ; * but fastidious
— oh, very fastidious. Don't you
think he has handsome eyes ?'

*I did not observe them.'

Indeed ! They are a lovely blue.'

I never before heard a man's eyes called
lovely,' said Mary, laughing.

And he is such a flirt!'

blanche, child !' expostulated her mother.

But he has strange ideas — people say
he will never marry,' added the ^ child,'
who was determined that, whatever Elinor
might think, she was not to flatter
herself that she had made anything approaching
a conquest. * He has been
everywhere, and, of course, has seen everything.'


And is a male flirt, you say ?' said Mary,
smiling.

Too awfully so -, but then, most of the
young ladies he knows are not disinclined
to a little flirtation, and can take very good
care of themselves.'

As Miss Galloway spoke, there was the
slightest derisive erection of her delicate
eyebrows, and the pointed intonation of
mockery in her well-bred voice. All this
was meant for Ellinor's edification, and
she did not entirely forget it ; but to Mary
there seemed something discordant, flippant,
and strange in thus discussing a
visitor's ways or character.

*We all travelled together said Lady
Dunkeld, ' and came straight from London
to Perth. As for tarrying in Edinburgh,
that was not to be thought of.'

Of course not,' added Blanche, shrugging
her shoulders. * I don't think even
Captain Colville with all his patriotism
could stand the dulness, the narrow ideas,
and the bad style of people there. All
provincial towns are so unbearable after
London.'

Mary Wellwood resented, but silently,
their ungracious remarks. Her memories
of Edinburgh were experiences never to

be forgotten ; and she thought of the lovely
valley gardens, the veritable river of greenery
under the vast Castle Rock, the glorious
white terraces of the New Town, the
dark and history-haunted masses of the
Old — the Regalia, Mons Meg, and all the
rest of it, as she had seen them in the
happiest days of her girlhood ; and she
felt pleased when Lady Dunkeld said :

Captain Colville had not been there for
years ; and he was disposed to stay a day
or two behind us.'

Surely not for the sake of any beauty
he sa,' exclaimed Blanche, laughing ;
but in many ways he is very different from
Sir Redmond.'

He was indeed, we are glad to say ; butin
what particular manner the Hon.
Blanche referred to, the sisters were not
fated to know, as Lady Dunkeld now rose,
the carriage was summoned, and saying
with one of her sweet but stereotyped
smiles, ' we shall expect to see you at our

little affair, gave them the tips of her
gloved fingers and swept away.

Mars and Ellinor looked at each other
with a little expression of surprise and
bewilderment in their faces, and both felt
that Blanche Galloway had, to say the
least of it, disappointed them by her general
style.

Their emotions varied — one moment
they felt flattered and pleased by the recognition
of their own position and that
once held by their parents in society which
the sudden visit from the ladies of the
great house implied.

At another moment they felt the reverse
feared they were being patronised, and
thought they should decline the invitation.

Yet why ?

To do so would be, perhaps, to adopt
the position of an inferior ; and the invitation
might be the result of real kindness
of heart, after all.

They knew not that they were indebted

for the whole affair chiefly to a few friendly
remarks made by Lord Dunkeld, and more
especially by Leslie Colville, though those
of the latter caused some afterthoughts.

Men are very weak,' surmised Lady
Dunkeld ; ' but, of course, a man in Captain
Colville's position can mean nothing
more than simplest kindness, but the girls
are pretty — unfortunately for themselves,
I think, more than pretty.'

The pride, admiration, and half-alarm
of Elspat Gordon and other old servitors
on the subject of the visit, which proved
their nine days' wonder, amused while it
annoyed Mary. She had her own ideas — ^
it might be fears for the future — and,
though she said little, she thought a good
deal.

The acceptances were written and despatched
; and costumes were the next
thing to be considered for the entertainment,
of which Robert Wodrow heard the
tidings with a very dark expression in his
face indeed.

'Of what are you thinking, Ellinor?'
asked Mary, softly, seeing the dark eyes
of her sister fixed apparently on vacancy.

Only of how differently the lives of
some of us are allotted, and how pleasantly
some ]people are circumstanced, compared
with others.'

Meaning ourselves and such as Blanche
Galloway ?

Well, yes

Never mind, Ellinor dear,' replied
Mary ; ' I always say, blessed be God for
all His gifts she added, thinking of the
legend over the old doorway.

CHAPTER VII.

DREAMS And DOUBTS.

The sun of a soft and balms summer
afternoon was, as the song has it,

Glinting bright
On Invermay's sweet glen and stream,'

on all the silver birches that grow thereby,
on the rocky gullies through which the
stream gurgles and babbles as it forces a
passage towards the Earn, and on the
green mound of the Holy Hill, of which
its ceaseless current has swept so much
away, when Mary Wellwood, alone, or attended
only by her dog, and full of her
own happy and innocent day-dreams, took
a narrow path that leads northward down
the side of the sylvan strath.

Her dress was plain, but fitted well her
lithe and slender figure. She had on the
daintiest of white cuffs and collar ; a sunshade
over her head lined with pink imparted
to her soft face a glow that it did
not naturally possess, and over her left
arm were the two chaplets she and Elinor
had been so lately preparing.

No sound but the rustle of leaves and
the twitter of birds broke the sunny stillness,
till she eventually heard Jack, her
fox-terrier, who was careering in front
of her, barking and yelping with all the
satisfaction of a joyous dog that has met
with a friend, and almost immediately
afterwards a turn of the rocky pati
brought her face to face with Captain
Colville, who, rod in hand and basket
on shoulder, had just quitted his fishing
in the May after a satisfactory day's sport,
and about whose well-oraitered leo:s Jack
was leaping and bounding noisily.

when Jack was here, I knew ibis
mistress could not be far off,' said Colville,
lifting his fly-garnished wideawake
and presenting a hand with his brightest
smile. 'You know the saw, Miss Well-wood,
*love me, love my dog," but it
would seem that Jack loves me. And
Jack is a travelled dog, I understand — one
who has seen the world?'

Yes ; Jack was a soldier s dog — was
with Eoberts' army in India, and in more
than one battle,' replied Mary.

I too have been in India — a bond between
Jack and me,' said Colville, as he
produced a biscuit from his pocket, and
the dog caught it with a snap.

He wags his dear old tail quite as if
he recognised a comrade,' said Mary,
laughing, while Colville accompanied her
along the narrow path over which the
silver birches drooped their graceful foliage.

And so you and your sister, Miss Elinor,

are cousins of my brother-officer,
Wellwood ? said Colville, af acer a pause,
and a little abruptly, as Mary thought.

I am sorry to say we are

Why sorry — he is not half a bad
fellow ?'

Well, I have no reason to be otherwise
than quite indifferent on the subject of
his existence. It was some family matter.
Our parents were never friends, and he —
he '

What ?'

Has chosen to forget there were such
persons in the world 'as Ellinor and I;
and considering that we have so few relations
— none else nearly now ' Mary

paused, and her eyes fell on the chaplets
through which her slender arm was passed.

He could never have seen you said
Colville, earnestly ; ' had he done so he
would never have forgotten you, believe
me ; and when I tell him '

Tell him nothing, pray.'

As you please, Miss Wellwood. I knew
him in India, before I was in the Guards.'

Indeed.'

Yes ; I remember his first dinner with
our mess at Lahore — got screwed, as the
phrase is; and how do you think he was
taken to his bungalow ?'

In a cab, perhaps suggested Mary.

We carried him through the lines
shoulder-high upon a door, with the bugles
playing the " Dead March in Saul," before
him.'

Then he is dissipated ?'

Oh — awfully — a wild fellow, in that
sense.'

He was wounded in an affair with a
hill tribe ?'

So was I. Had your odious cousin
been shot, I suppose you would not have
cared much ?'

'Nay — nay — nay'' exclaimed Mary; 'can
you think so vilely of me? Perhaps I
might have wept for him ?'

VOL. I. H

'Indeed. Why?'

In the knowledge that, like Ellinor and
myself, he had no father, mother, or other
kindred to sorrow for him.'

Her voice, musical at all times, and
sweetly modulated — for a chord seemed to
run through every word — broke a little
just then ; and she coloured on seeing
how earnestly her companion was regarding
her.

For what purpose are those wreaths of
flowers ?' he asked, softly, after a pause.

To lay upon our graves. '

Our graves,' he repeated.

Papa and mamma's graves, I mean.'

A melancholy duty.'

The only one that is left us now.'
*May I accompany you?'

If you choose. Captain Colville.'
And where are they buried ?'

Here replied Mary, as she gently
opened the gate of the churchyard, and
they entered together.

It was an old and sequestered burying-ground
— older than the days when For-down,
the Father of Scottish History,
wrote of the district as Fortevioch, a
supposed corruption of the Gaelic for distant
and remote. Old headstones, spotted
with lichens and green with moss, were
there half sunk in the ground amid the
long rank grass ; but the two graves that
Mary sought so lovingly, were smoothly
turfed and adorned with flowers planted
by the hands of herself and Elinor.

As she knelt to deposit a chaplet at the
head of each, Colville read the inscription
on the modest tombstone to the memory
of Colonel Wellwood, of the Scots Fusiliers,
and Ellinor his wife, and Mary,
glancing upwards, saw that as he read a
soft expression stole into his face, while he
hastily, almost surreptitiously, lifted his
hats and then looked more kindly, if possible,
at her.

Well,' thought the girl, 'he is, at least,

h2

the best of good fellows to feel this interest
in total strangers. It is, I suppose,
what poor papa used to call ^' the Freemasonry
of the service." '

Anon came other thoughts that were
less pleasing to her. Did real emotion
and kindness prompt all this, or was it buta
cunning attempt, by an affectation of
sympathy and friendly interest, to gain her
favour.

But she repelled the suspicion as something
unworthy of him and of herself.

Quitting the churchyard in silence, he
softly closed the gate, and they continued
to walk on slowly a little way together,
and Colville was silently recalling Mary's
curious legendary story of the funereal
light seen by Elspat, the old soldier's
widow.

Mary Wellwood's manner and bearing
proved to Colville wonderfully attractive.
Easy, unaffected, and apparently unconscious
of her own beauty, she was charming.

She was equal, in all the attributes
of good society, to any girl he had met,
and Leslie Colville was no bad judge, ashe
had been brought up in an exclusive
set, among whom any faults of breeding
were discrepancies never to be atoned for.

And she — how was she affected towards
him ? Stealing a glance at his handsome
face and figure from time to time, and
listening to his very pleasant voice, Mary
somewhat of a day-dreamer — was thinking
how delightful it would have been had
Crowd given her and Ellinor such a man asa
brother to guide, love, and protect them.

It began to seem to both that they had
been friends — companions certainly — for a
longer time than they had known each
other ; they discovered so much in common
between them, so far as sentiment
and opinion went ; but remembering Mr.
Wodrow's assurance that Captain Colville
was engaged to Blanche Galloway, she
compelled herself to be somewhat reserved

in her manner towards him, yet more
than once it thawed unconsciously. However,
she was a little startled when, after
a pause, he said suddenly, in a low and
earnest tone, while looking down into her
face,

Tell me something of your life here at
Inverma}^ Miss Wellwood ?'

Something of my life — what a strange
request !' exclaimed Mary, her dark hie
eyes dilating as she spoke. ' What can I
tell you that could be of interest to you ?'

Pardon me — how your time passes, for
instance, I mean.'

As you see,' she replied, smiling, * and
as you have seen ; my daily duties but
repeat themselves. iTiave my little household
to look after, accounts and taxes to
pay — thanks to cur kind kinsman abroad
(for Birkwoodbrae is entailed) we have
no rent to pay ; I have my feathered
family in the yard to supervise; my garden
sith its flowers and fruits ; my poor pensioners

in the village and all round about.'

*A grey life for one so young and
winning, * thought Colville ; ' and with
you he added aloud, * so runs the world
away ?*

*Yes;

And all your people love you, Dr.
Wodrow tells me ?'

*I hope so — nay, I am sure they do,'
replied Mary, with one of her brightest
smiles.

And you love the scenery here ?'

Yes — every rock and tree and stream ;
they have all their old stories and young
associations to me.'

And your old home at Birkwoodbrae ?'
he added, smiling at her enthusiasm.

Yes — dearly, every stone of it !'

He paused a little, as if lost in thought,
and then said,

But surely you must miss something
in your life. Miss Wellwood — you must be
lonely amid these birchen woods ?'

Lonely with Ellinor and all my work ?
Oh ! no. I assure you I am not

But you cannot expect to have her — a
girl so very handsome — always with you ?'

^ Perhaps not,' said Mary, and her long
dark lashes drooped, as her thoughts hovered
between poor Robert Wodrow and
his probable rival, the tawny-haired
Englishman.

Nor can she always have you ; and
what then?' said Oolville, lightly touching
her hand, and lowering his voice in a way
that to some there would have been no
mistaking; but Mary, devoid of vanity,
was all unconscious of it, and, disliking to
talk about herself, now talked of other
things.

Again and again Colville thought, in
her perfect sweetness, humility, and composure,
how utterly dissimilar she was in
many ways from the town-bred girls he
had been wont to meet in his London life
especially, where the beautiful was so

often combined with the artificial, and
even youth with utter hollowness of heart.
Amid dinners, garden-parties, the Eow,
and the general role of his life as a Guardsman,
the pet of many a woman and her
fair brood, all the more that he was now
the inheritor of a revenue that was .great,
he had been conscious of all that.

To Mary — who was a close observer in
her way — it sometimes seemed that there
was in Captain Colville's face, when he
addressed her, a half-amused expression,
mingling with much of undoubted admiration.
The first was occasionally a source
of pique to her ; and the other was a
source of pique, too, rather than pleasure ;
for, if he was the fiance of Miss Galloway,
he had no business to amuse himself with,
or bestow admiration on, any other young
lady, and these ideas made her manner to
him reserved at times.

In being assisted over an awkward stone
stile, though she required no aid, yet she

was compelled to take his proffered grasp,
but even then unconsciously her

Very coldness still was kind,
And tremulously gentle her small hand
Withdrew itself from his, but left behind
A little pressure, thrilling, and so bland
And slight, that to the mind 'twas but a doubt.*

As her slim hand was quickly withdrawn
from his, and she murmured her * thanks
Mary's first thought was that it was cased
in a somewhat too well-worn glove, and
Colville perhaps remarked this too, for he
said,

Do you always wear gauntlet gloves T

'' No ; but then I am so much in the
garden among thorns and bushes that
ordinary gloves are useless, and I used to
get through so many of six and a quarter

Surely even that is too large for a
hand like yours,' said he ; and Mary now
fairly blushed at the tenor of the conversation,
and when he attempted again
to take her shapely little hand in his

she resolutely withheld it, and, thinking
of Blanche Galloway, said,

Please don't, Captain Colville ; and now
I must bid you farewell, with many thanks
for your escort

And Colville, who was under the impression,
from Blanche Galloway's mistaken
remark, that Eobert Wodrow was
the lover of the elder sister,' thought he
would not just then press his society
further upon Mary Wellwood. Nor could
he have done so, for just where the little
wooded path they had been pursuing
opened upon the highway, a well-appointed
little park phaeton, drawn by a pair of
beautiful ponies, and driven by Blanche
Galloway, was seen drawn up under the
trees about forty yards off.

The time has passed so quickly when
with you. Miss Wellwood,' said Colville,
lifting his hat with an air of positive confusion,
* that I forgot — I quite forgot '

'What, Captain Colville?'

'that Miss Galloway's pony carriage
was to meet me here, and drive me home.
Ah, there it is '

And she too, I think,' said Mary, turning,
and growing pale with absolute pain
and annoyance at the whole situation ; yet,
after all, there was nothing in it. However,
the Honourable Blanche, after a
glance at Mary from under her tied veil,
turned away also; and Mary, with pride
awakened and a sense of mortification,
pursued the path to Birkwoodbrae.

But Jack, as if loth that the two should
part, scoured backwards and forwards between
them, till, after a time, he finally
followed his mistress, and even from this,
probably, Blanche angrily drew deductions.

"We fear the captain did not enjoy much
his drive home, though driven by a Park
beauty in that luxurious pony phaeton, as
Blanche put her own construction on the
meeting and sudden parting — a construction
far apart from the reality. She was

sorely piqued, and he was not surprised
by her taciturnity, though he strove to
ignore it, and expatiated on the beauty of
the scenery, on lights and shades, tints
and effects, as if he had been a Oval
Academician ; nor was he surprised when
she remarked to him very pointedly and
plainly in the drawing-room after dinner,
when she was idling over the piano,

1 don't think mamma will approve
much of your cultivating those strange
girls at Birkwoodbrae.'

I do not do so,' said he, stooping close
to her pretty head ; *but did not you and
Lady Dunkeld call for them the other
day?'

Out of curiosity — and urged, perhaps,
by Dr. Wodrow, who greatly affects to
favour them.'

Surely this is severe ?' urged Colville,
gently.

Men, like women, cannot be too wary
of chance medley acquaintances,' persisted

Blanche, cresting up her handsome head.

I have somewhere read,' said her mamma,
who was now au fait of the whole
episode, ' that men may study women as
they do a barometer, but only understand
them on a subsequent day.'

It may be so,' said Colville, ' but what
then?'

I agree with Blanche in her views of
these Wellwood girls. People may do
much in town that they cannot do in
country places, where everyone's actions
are, as it were, under a microscope ; where
every trivial movement is known, freely
commented upon, and often exaggerated
by menials and the vulgar. Thus,' continued
Lady Dunkeld, with a very set expression
on her usually placid face, * I am
not sure — nay, I am quite certain — it does
not agree with what society calls les convenances,
visiting these young girls.'

In some respects you are right,' replied
Colville, colouring with real pain ; * but I

was not visiting. I only met Miss Well-wood
near the old burning-ground — moreover,
they are ladies, she and her sister,
perfect ladies !' he urged, with a gleam in
his dark eyes, which Lady Dunkeld was
not slow to detect.

But living so eccentrically alone ?'

^ So independently, let us says he continued.


Captain Colville is quite their champion,'
said Blanche, with a laugh that was
not very genuine ; and then the subject
dropped.

Lady Dunkeld exchanged a quick glance
with her daughter, and slowly fanned herself
with an inscrutable expression on her
certainly aristocratic face, and adopting
the imperturbable placidity generally peculiar
to her class and style.

Her somewhat motherly and selfish
views deeply pained Colville, for reasons
peculiarly his own, but had quite an opposite
and most encouraging effect upon the

enterprising mind of Sleatb, who had listened
in attentive silence.

A day or two subsequently a parcel
came for Mary, addressed to Birkwoodbrae,
but having with it no other clue than the
vague one of the Edinburgh postmark. It
contained, for both sisters, two beautiful
boxes of gloves, all of the most delicate
tints and finest quality. Each box was a
miracle of carved white Indian ivory, lined
with blue satin, a sachet of perfume on
the under side of each lid, and their initials
in silver on the upper.

Remembering what had passed at the
stile, Mary Well wood could not doubt who
the donor was, and she flushed hotly with
pleasure ; yet it could all mean nothing —
nothing but gallantry.

To decline the gifts would seem churlish
and ungracious. She could not write, and
resolved to wait for the first meeting with
Colville to thank him.

Ellin or was quite in a flutter about the

gifts — more so than Mary, who really felt,
after a time, some confusion and dismay,
for in the course of her simple life no such
episode had occurred before ; and she was
all unlike the fair Blanche, to whom boxes
of gloves were as nothing, and who could
book her bets for far more than gloves on
the winner of the Oaks or the Derby with
the prettiest air of sang fr old in the world.

Mary's mind became filled with pleasant
dreams, that joined with unpleasant
doubts.

Was Colville really becoming an admirer
of hers ; or dared he be so, if the rumour
about Blanche Galloway was true ?

VOL. L

Chapter VIII.

A TRUCE.

Robert WoDEOW, full of thought, pursuing
his way through a green hedge-bordered
lane that led to Birkwoodbrae from the
manse, suddenly heard the shrill yelp of a
dog, followed by an execration, and at a
little distance perceived Sir Robert Sheath,
issuing from the garden gate at the mansion,
in the act of picking up a large stone
to hurl at Jack — Mary Wellwood's pet.
Jack, by dashing through the hedge,
shirked the stone, as all wise dogs do, but
if the baronet had bestowed upon him a
kick, as Eobert never doubted, the terrier
had enough of the bull in his blood to

remember it well, as Sheath found to ibis
cost when the time came.

Closing the garden gate, he found himself
face to face with young "Wodrow. He
had his hat partly on the back of his head,
his hands thrust into the back pockets of
his morning coat, a cigar in his mouth, and
with an insouciant stare, and a species of
dry nod that was supremely insolent and
infinitely worse than no recognition at all,
he passed on his way without speaking.
Robert Wodrow, whose heart was already
sore enough in more ways than one, felt it
swell with passion as he entered the
garden, which was still in all the beauty of
summer.

He had lately felt in many ways that a
change had come over Ellinor, but he had
been, as yet, too proud to notice it to
herself.

The baronet was shooting now everyday,
and "Wodrow thought that, even if
Ellinor was under that person's influence,

I 2

she might give bim a little more of her
society, as of old — even twenty minutes ;
but no, be could seldom or never see her
alone ; and while love and sorrow made
him humble at one time, jealousy and
disappointment made him proud and rancorous
at others.

The sweetness of his disposition had
departed ; his studies were becoming confused
or neglected ; and none saw the
change that was coming over him with
more pain and anger than his mother.

Of all the men that had seen and
admired Elinor, his instinct told bim that
this man Sheath would prove the most
dangerous ; yet to his own sex the manners
of the latter seemed far from winning.

And already Elspat Gordon and other
old servants, with the keen observance and
love of gossip peculiar to their class, had
begun to prognosticate a more brilliant
future for Ellinor Wellwood than the
obscure career of a country doctor's wife,

and sav her the lady of *a real live
baronet and riding in a chariot to which
that of Cinderella was as nothing in comparison
; and, as if to make the mischief
worse, rumours of their surmises and of
their hopes reached somehow — but readily
enough in a sequestered district — the ears
of Robert Wodrow, and were as gall and
wormwood to his soul.

All this might be mere wretched gossip ;
and though Ellinor might not actually
have any regard for Sir Redmond, yet
Eobert Wodrow feared that somehow she
was already in a dumb way yielding to or
feeling his influence and power.

The subtle homage, the studied phraseology,
and flattering air of gallantry and
devotion which Sir Eedmond infused into
his conversation when alone — but only
when alone — with Ellinor, had somewhat
turned the girl's little head, and led her to
draw comparisons between all that kind of
thing and poor Robert Wodrow's ' use and

wont ' style of attention and ' matter of
course' position, as the lover of her
maidenhood expanded from the playmate
of her childhood.

Mary was away on some of her errands
of mercy or work ; Ellinor was alone when
Robert approached, and found her idling
in the garden, with a sunshade over her
head ; and his heart, of course, foreboded
that there she must have been with the
obnoxious visitor who had just departed.

Elspat had been brushing out her long
and flowing dark brown hair, that was so
rich and heavy as to seem almost a burden
to her shapely head and slender neck ; and
Eobert reflected savagely that thus she
must have appeared before ' that fellow.'

She was adjusting with slender and
deft little fingers, while a sweet, soft, self-satisfied
smile rippled over her face, in her
lace collarette, a tuft of stephen otis with
two buds of a particular kind of rose that
Robert knew grew in the conservatory of

Craigmhor alone ; and his eyes fastened
angrily on them at once, though she made
no reference to them, or how they came
to be there. The presence of the personage
he had just passed fully accounted for
that ; he had doubtless transferred them
from his own buttonhole to her hand, and
E-obert knew quite enough of 'the language
of the flowers ' to know what two
rosebuds, so given, implied. And now
her face wore — so Eobert thought — just
such a smile as that of Faust's Marguerite,
when plucking the mystical rose-leaves in
her garden.

Robert felt that the gap between them

»

was widening; he did not present his
hand, nor did she offer hers, but continued
to adjust her little bouquet, while he stood
before her with his hands thrust into the
pockets of his grey morning-coat, and
kicked away a pebble or two that lay in
the gravelled walk.
Ellinor !'

Well, Roberts she replied, a little nervously
; ' you have come to tell me that
you have passed, I suppose ?'

^JSTo.'

Why— what then ?'

Because I have not passed

Not passed !' said Elinor, looking at
him with genuine regret.

'No — on the first of this month the
medical degrees were conferred as usual,
but not on me — not perhaps that you care
much now,' he added, in a thickening
voice. * I shall have to try again — if,
indeed, I ever try more.'

Why, Robert, what has come to you
that you talk to me thus? I am most
sorry for you indeed.' She looked him
earnestly, but Eobert thought not honestly,
in the face,

You are more intent on your own flirtations
than my failure — a failure perhaps
caused by yourself.'

Who can I flirt with here ?'

You know best,' replied Robert, sulkily.

'Really, Robert, you are very unpleasant
!' exclaimed the girl, tears almost starting
to her eyes, though there was a
provoking twinkle in their hazel depths,
nevertheless.

Now perhaps I am ; but how long do
you think I am going to stand this sort of
thine?'

What sort of thing ?'

The dangling after you of that English
fool who has just left.'

This is going from bad to worse,
Robert,' replied Ellinor, with a pout on
her beautiful lip. ' It is being downright
rude, and national reflections are in the
worst possible taste.'

You have not been treating me well
for some time past, Ellinor ; you seem to
grudge every moment you give me, and
the little time you do spend with me, you
seem no longer your old pleasant ami
hopeful self, but abstracted and distracted

You are always worrying me retorted
the girl, * and hinting of broken promises
when I have never made any.'

Between us, they were scarcely necessary,
Ellinor, and yet you have made me
scores.'

I — when?'

'since we were children.'

Oh — of course, when we played at being
sweethearts, and all that sort of thing.'

Played ! It has been no child's plaj^
with me at least.'

Such child's play is ended now — and I
won't be scolded thus.'

She had never adopted this tone to him
before, and young Wodrow was shocked,
startled, and enraged ; but still he dissembled,
for love will tame and subdue the
proudest heart, and his was full of great
love for the girl who now stood before
him, biting her nether lip, and shuffling
the gravel with a little impatient foot.

Ellinor,' said Eobert, yet without attempting

to take her hand, ' if you did
not quite encourage my love, you permitted
and adopted it — you accepted it since
we were happy little children that toddled
and played about together' — and that love
has gone on, growing with my growth and
strengthening with my strength ; and I
never dreamed of, never thought of picturing
the time when you might cast me
off. And now I never doubted that when
I graduated '

Oh, Robert interrupted the girl, nervously,
' you are too romantic ; too much
of a boy '

I am not a boy now, and I won't be
called one ! and as for a romance — certainly
you have become very matter-of-fact,
when 1 have heard you laugh at even
a competence as not being sufficient.'

Shall I tell you what I think it should
be ?' said Elinor, a little defiantly.

Do,' he responded, gloomily.

I think it means a handsome house —

nofc a cottage (love in that is all very well,

'but may be apt to fly out of the windows) ;

fine furniture — beautiful pictures and

dresses — lots of servants — a carriage '

Oh, stop, please ! Since when have
you found all these things necessary for
existence? Dear Ellinor, people can be
very happy together with less.'

Quiet as our lives have been here,
Eobert, poor Mary and I have often had
wrung hearts and harassed spirits to keep
up an outward and an empty show.'

What is enough for one, as mother
often says, is enough for two.'

Perhaps, and perhaps not,' said Ellinor,
with a waggish expression.

Robert Wodrow did not reflect just then
that erelong there might be more mouths
than two to feed.

And all these new views of our prospects
and of life generally, have occurred
to you because '

Because what ?'

This man Sheath has come to Tnver-
maj.'

Elinor grew pale. There were a few-moments'
silence, and when Robert Wod-
row spoke again his voice sounded strange
even to himself.

I was never half good enough for you,
Elinor — I know that said he, humbly,
'yet I will never give you up until — until
I bear you are fully engaged to him.'

Engaged ! How your tongue does run
on, Eobert,' replied Elinor, with a curious
laugh. ^ He has never even spoken to mein
any very pointed manner ; but rather
than be worried thus,' she added, with a
swelling in her slender throat, ' I must ask
you to forget me — do.'

'Men such as I am do not forget so
easily, Elinor.' The angry colour died
out of Wodrow's dark face, and, clenching
his hands, he muttered under his thick
moustache — ' Curse him !'

He would not speak thus, Robert, if it

is Sir Redmond you mean. He has seen a
great deal of the best of society.'

And a great deal more of the ivorst, I
suspect,' said her lover, more exasperated
by the slightest defence of his supposed
rival ; but, nerving himself to be calm, he
asked — ' Am I, then, to suppose that you
have not promised your future — the future
that I have a right to say was not yours to
assign — to this stranger — to this sudden
interloper ?'

I have not. But why be so mysterious,
tragic, and absurd, Robert ?' she exclaimed,
with a little gasping laugh that nearly
became a sob ; for, sooth to say, Ellinor's
secret heart upbraided her, and she felt
that she was treating the lover of her girlhood
and the friend of all her years with
duplicity.

Then,' said he, ' why do you permit attentions
that are purposeless to you, and
most distasteful to me ?'

Eobert, what do you mean ?' she asked,
plaintively.

I mean, why do you permit that tawny-haired
fellow to flirt with you, and excite
the comment of lookers-on ?'

He does not flirt with me, Robert.'

Do you mean to say that his attentions
are more serious than what is called
flirtation ?'

I say nothing about them,' said Ellinor,
annoyed and alarmed by his vehemence and
categorical questioning.

Ah — indeed !' he hissed through his
clenched teeth.

I cannot prevent him saying things
sometimes— without — without making a
scene. Do not be hard upon me, Robert —
I do love you — I always loved you ; not
perhaps as you wish — but — but '

She paused, sobbed, and laid her sweet
face upon his arm, which went caressingly
round her bent and beautiful head, withall

its wealth of dark brown flowing
hair.

*you love me !' he whispered, softly.

As an old friend — oh, yes.'

He withdrew, and again eyed her gloomily
and silently.

'Advise me, Eobert,' said she, imploringly.


In what can I advise you, if your own
heart does not ?'

We are both so miserably poor.'

And your new admirer is so rich ?'
They were drifting among shoals again,

so Ell i nor made no reply.

'I suppose he loves you? To judge by
my own heart, Elinor, I don't wonder at
it — but if so, why does he not at once come
to the point and end his dangling ? Why
delay, and why conceal ?'

*Do not let us quarrel, Robert,' said the
girl, gently and sweetly, with her soft hazel
eyes full of unshed tears ; * we have always
been such chums — such friends. Someone

is coming — kiss me once more — and
kiss me quickly !'

A light step was heard on the ground
near the garden gate, and the welcoming
bark of Jack announced it was that of Mary
returning.

The mutual kiss was swiftly given and
taken ; but to neither did it seem like the
kisses of old.

Robert Wodrow felt that it sealed only
a truce between him and Ellinor Well-wood
; that neither were happy now, and
that her heart was drifting away from him.
Their farewell seemed to be like the summary
of Lord Lytton's advice,

In short, my deary, kiss me and be quiet.'

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IX.

colyille's warning.

Despite the disparaging remarks or comments
so ungenerously made by Lady
Dunkeld and her daughter, a subsequent
afternoon saw both Sir Redmond Sheath
and Leslie Colville seated in the pretty
drawings-room of the sisters at Kirkwood


Sir Redmond had inadvertently dropped
a hint that he meant to visit there, and,
greatly to his annoyance, Colville proposed
to accompany him.

It was an early day in August, and
every breath of air was still ; not a leaf
was stirring in the silver birches without,
or among the monthly roses that clambered

round the open windows wliicli faced the
pretty garden. "Within the room all was
arranged with care and taste, while the
polished grate, filled with fresh flowers,
the bouquets in jars and vases, the snow-white
curtains, and other etcetera bore
token of feminine diligence and skill.

Stretched on a deer-skin. Jack lay with
sleepy eyes, half open to watch the movements
of his mistress, when 'visitors ' were
announced by Elspat, with a peculiar and
provoking smirk of satisfaction on her
hard Scotch visage, and the costumes for
the forthcoming garden-party, on which
those clever fingers of the sisters were
busy, were hastily tossed aside ; the two
gentlemen were ushered in, and Jack
snarled and barked so furiously at Sir
Eedmond that he had to be carried bodily
out of the room by Elspat.

The baronet affected to laugh, but felt
in his heart that nothing would please him

k2

better than to get * a quiet pot-shot at that
d d cur !'

We merely dropped in when passing
said Sir Eedmond, who, strange to say,
seemed to be constrained, even awkward,
in manner, and Elinor vas somewhat
silent and abashed too.

It is kind of you to visit us,' replied
Mary, addressing herself, however, to Colville
; * we have so little amusement to
offer ; there is so little attraction ; we live
so quietly here at Birkwoodbrae.'

Colville looked as if he thought there
was a good deal to attract, and his dark
eyes seemed to say so as he looked into
Mary's, which drooped beneath his gaze.

*Your presents came, Captain Colville.
They are beautiful, and fit to perfection.
Elinor and I cannot sufficiently thank
you,' she said, in a low voice.

Oho !' thought Sir Redmond, ' he has
been sending them presents. Eh ! a sly
doir/

'A few gloves are not worth mentioning
replied Colville, hurriedly. And then
he added — ' How beautiful is the view all
round this place, especially that with the
silver birches and the stream glittering
under their shadow. Ere I leave this,
Miss Wellwood, you must show me some
of your favourite places, your pet nooks —
the scenery here is so full of picturesque
spots.'

elinor knows all such places hereabout
better than I do. They employ her pencil
freely said Mary, diffidently ; ' and they
are the very abode of old legends, fairies,
and so forth.'

I know that she is an artist possessed
of both taste and skill,' said Colville; *but
is she also the musician ?' he asked, turning
to the piano, which was open.

I am chiefly,' replied Mary, smiling ;
but I think you should hear Ellinor sing
the " Birds of Invermay." '

Who — or what are they ?' asked Sir
Redmond, with a drawl.

Those very birches you see from the
window,' replied Mary, laughing.

And there is a song about them ?'

There are several.'

Do let us hear at least one, Miss
Elinor,' urged Sir Redmond, as he placed
the piano stool before the instrument.

Accordingly Elinor, without further
preface or pressing, seated herself, and
sang with great sweetness and pathos
neither David Mallet's affected stanzas nor
Bryce's ludicrous lines, but the simple old
song of the sixteenth century to its wonderfully
beautiful air : —

The evening sun was glinting bright
On Invermay's sweet glen and stream ;
The woods and rocks in ruddy light
Appeared as in a fairy dream.
In loving fear I took my path
To seek the tryst that happy day,
With bonnie Mary, young and fair,
Among the Birds of Invermay.

It wasna till the pale moonshine
"Was glancing deep in Mary's ere,
That with a smile she said, " I'm thine,
And ever true to thee will be !"
One kiss — the lover's pledge — and then
We spoke of all that lovers say,
And wandered homeward through the glen,
Among the Birds of Invermay.'

At the mention of Mary's name in the
song, the eyes of Colville involuntarily
sought those of her who bore it, and she
coloured perceptibly. The performance of
Ellin or was duly applauded by Sir Redmond,
though he afterwards confided to
Colville it was 'the silliest piece of Scotch
twaddle ' he had ever heard. Yet his
admiration of Ellinor personally was open
and unconcealed, perhaps too much so,
and of its own kind was no doubt genuine
enough, and while she sang, Ellinor was
inwardly hoping her hair was tidy and
looked well, as she felt conscious he was
gazing straight down on it; while Mary
had an uncomfortable feeling that visits
from these gentlemen might be misconstrued

by Lady Dunkeld, their hostess,
aud still more so by her daughter — a
conviction that at times made her almost
cold in her manner to Captain Colville,
whom she believed to be that young lady's
especial property. And she blamed herself,
and blushed for herself, in the consciousness
that she sometimes treasured
up, and repeated to herself, little things
he had said—appeals to her taste, her
opinion, and so forth. While Colville,
however he was situated with regard to
Miss Galloway, made no secret of how he
delighted in the quaint frankness of Mary
Wellwood since the afternoon he had first
met her, when both were fishing in the
May.

And so this locality is full of old
legends of fairies and so forth ?' said Colville,
referring to a previous remark of
Mary's.

Yes ; but then every foot of ground in
Scotland has about it something historical

or legendary — all teems with the past.'

The present is more to my taste, Miss
Ellwood said Sheath, twirling out his
straw-coloured moustache.

It would not be so if you lived always,
as we do, under the shadow of the Ochil
mountains.'

I agree with you, by Jove.'

But Mary did not perceive that they
misunderstood each other.

Sir Redmond is guiltless of romance as
any man living, I believe, Miss Ellwood
said Captain Colville, ' but London life
makes one sadly prosaic and incredulous.'

Has it made sou so ?'

I hope not — I can scarcely say. But
did not my old friend Dr. Wodrow hint
that some old legend is connected with
those stones, or the ruin, on yonder knoll
by the river ?'

The Holy Hill ?'

'Yes.'

Ah,' said Mary, as a smile rippled over

her bright face, ^ that is not a legend — it
is history.'

About what ?'

A miller's daughter who married a kiniz/

Then it is a tale of the days

•'When King Cophetua loved the beggar maid." '

Something of that kind. But in the
remoter ages of Scottish history the Holy
Hill was the site of a royal residence ; for
there King Kenneth II. died, and there
Malcolm III. was born — he who married
Margaret of England.'

These things didn't happen yesterday,'
said Colville, smiling down into her earnest
and animated face.

In those days there was an old miller
here in Forteviot who had one daughter
named Edana, a girl of rare beauty, and
who was famed therefor throughout all the
land between the Earn and Forth.'

And, of course, she had lovers in
plenty r'

So the story says ; but she would listen
to none, nor was her heart stirred, till
one morning, about Beltane time, when
filling a jar with water at the May, there
came ridings under the silver birches — for
silver birches were here then as now — a
marvellously handsome young knight on a
white horse, alone and unattended, and
courteously he besought her for a draught
of water, saying that he had ridden that
morning from the Molehill of Scone, and
was sorely athirst.

He wore an eagle's feather in his helmet,
from under which his golden hair fell
upon his shoulders like that of a girl. His
mantle of striped scarlet, violet, and blue
was fastened on his breast by a brooch of
g-old, and the rino-s of his coat-of-mail
shone like silver in the morning sun.

Edana had never looked on such a face
and figure before, and he seemed equally
taken by her great, if rustic, loveliness.
He lingered with her long in the birchen

wood ; thither he came again and again,
and love between them ripened fast, as it
seems always to have done in the olden
time, if we are to believe song, ballad, and
story.

The miller ere long heard of these
stolen meetings, and his heart filled with
alarm lest the so-called handsome stranger
who had bewitched or won his daughter's
heart might prove some evil spirit of the
Flood or Fell ; but Edana said he could
be no evil spirit who wore a crucifix round
his neck, and daily said his prayers in the
old chapel of Kirktoun Miller.

But the miller uttered an execration
under his silver beard, put his battle-axe
to the grindstone, and kept watch when
next the voungr knight came ; and then,
behold, his heart seemed to die within him
as he recognised' — the king !

And so in time it quickly came to pass
that Edana became the wife of Duncan,
King of Scotland — the same king who was

slain at Candor — and the mother of Malcolm
III., who was born at the Holy Hill,
and hence an ancestress of Queen Victoria.'


With a soft yet strange smile on his
face, Colville listened to this old story,
and, brief though it was, Sheath, as it was
not to his taste, would have yawned, had
not good breeding forbade him.

Perhaps love and romance, too, still
linger among the Birds of Invermay,*
said he, laughingly, and with some point
in his manner; and there came a time
when Mary recalled these words and saw
their meaning ; and now, deeming that
their visit had been protracted long
enough, the gentlemen rose to depart —
Sheath only lingering to kiss his hand to
Elinor — surreptitiously, as he thought,
but the jaunty action was detected by
Colville.

Somehow, Mary thought she wished that
Captain Colville — Miss Blanche Galloway's

fiance — had not called that afternoon ;
yet, if asked, she could not have told the
reason why.

Was an interest in him growing in her
heart unknown to herself — one beyond the
wish that she and Ellinor had such a
brother ? It almost seemed so, for she
felt altered in some way, but in what way
she knew not, though the present and the
future became curiously mingled in her
thoughts, as they were just then in those
of Ellinor.

Sheath was fast winning the fancy of the
latter, if not her heart. She had been
content with the love of Robert Wodrow
and the prospect of a future with him ; she
thought now how different it would be to
become the wife of a man who would give
her rank, position, wealth, and she thought
the time and ' the prince ' had now come.

Yet with all this it was strange that her
heart never thrilled at his voice or approach,
nor did her pulses quicken at the

touch of bis hand, as they had often done
at the honest clasp of Robert Wodrow.

^ Why was this?' she asked of herself.

You are very silent, Colville,' observed
Sheath, as they walked homeward together
cigar in mouth.

There is something; in that mrs face
which seems familiar to me, as if I had
foreshadowed it in some dream !' exclaimed
Colville.

Which girl's face?' asked Sheath,
sharply.

Mary's — Miss Wellwood,' replied Colville,
colouring with annoyance at having
been betrayed into confidence with a man
he disliked.

Stuff,' said Sir Redmond ; ' as if people
foreshadowed faces in the Row or Regent
Street ! What would the fair Blanche
think of this idea? And what a cock-and-bull
yarn that was about the "gracious
Duncan " and the miller's daughter.'

Why doubt it ? — the story is a pretty

one, any way said Colville, with annoyance
in his tone.

Let us skip Mary — it is her sister I
admire.'

Your demeanour to that young lady is
rather strange, Sir Redmond,' said Colville,
with a gravity of manner and eye
that did not fail to strike his listener.

Strange — how ?'

A very short intimacy seems to have
placed you on rather friendly terms.'

Rather,' replied Sir Redmond, tugging
at the end of his mustachios, with a very
self-satisfied smile on his hlase face. * She
is an unsophisticated kind of Jeanie
Deans, or Effie rather, whom one may flirt
with, patronise, or quarrel with and make
it up again ; treating her with any amount
of chic when so inclined, and '

Whatever in his profound vanity or
spirit of insolence Sir Redmond was about
to add, he paused. There was a dark,
stern, and indignant expression in the face

of Leslie Oolville that there was no misunderstanding
just then.

Hey — how — what the devil — are you
smitten in that quarter too?' asked Sheath.

No — what do you mean ?'

Thought you were, perhaps, that's all
was the somewhat sulky response.

I am not what you think,' replied Melville,
quietly. ' I only warn you to adopta
different tone in reference to these young
ladies, and to take care what you are about !'

^ Stow, what the devil is all this to Mm V
thought the baronet, malevolently ; and he
had hardihood enough to give his thought
expression, on which Colville's face grew
darker still.

Sir Redmond,' said he, ^ there is no use
in beating about the bush with you. I
have often heard you say that there was
but one excuse in this world for matrimony.'


Yes— well?'

Miss Ellinor Wellwood is poor, as you

VOL. I. L

may say, yet you seem very attentive in
that quarter

Confounded at what he deemed the
presumption of all these queries, Sheath
stuck his glass into his right eye, and
glared through it at his companion with
undoubted surprise.

Attention,' he muttered ; * not at all !
Who is thinking of matrimony ? And if
I were so, may I ask what it is to you T

More than you think,' replied Colville,
with suppressed passion, as he adjusted
his shirt cuffs; 'but enough of this subject
here is the gate of Craigmhor.'

Colville said no more; but he thought
a good deal, and he muttered to himself a
Spanish proverb,

Puerto abierta^ al santo iiento — the open
door tempts the saint ; and, by Jove, this
fellow is no saint — so I shall keep my eye
on him !*

Hitherto it had seemed to Elinor, but to
Mary chiefly (as she had no special admirer),

that life had been dull and colourless
— if a happy and contented one — at
Birkwoodbrae ; and already the days thereof
— before these visitors came — seemed
to be part of another and remoter
existence; for love and the illusions of
love were shedding their haloes over the
present.

I hope dear Mary Well wood will not
make a fool of herself with that Captain
Colville,' said Mrs. Wodrow to her spouse,
with reference to this very subject. ' I
hear that he has been calling at Kirkwood
again, though engaged, they say, to
Miss Galloway. She is old enough to
know that officers are the greatest flirts in
the world — men not to be trusted. When
/ was a girl, I always heard so.'

Dr. Wodrow laughed softly, as he looked
up from the notes of his next sermon, and
said,

*I don't think, my dear, you ever had
much experience of them out of novels ;

l2

but I will own to you that officers nowadays
are not like what they were atone
time. Even my worthy ancestor, in
1724, deplores in his ^Analecta' that
Christian officers had left no successors
to such men as Colonel Blackwater, of the
Cameronian, Colonel Erskine, and Major
Gardiner, of Stair's Grey Dragoons — all
men who could expound on the Gospel
better than I.'

CHAPTER X.

THE Garden-party AT CRAIGMHOR.

It was the afternoon of a hot day early
in August, when the sunlight bathed in
glory all the scenery — green mountain
and rocky glen, wood and water — about
Craigmhor, giving alternately strong light
and deep shadow, with a warmth of colouring
over all, turning into a sheet like
molten gold an artificial locket, where the
ducks and coots swam together among
the great white water-lilies.

On the balustrade terrace before the
house, the rustic baskets of carved stone
were ablaze with beautiful flowers ; the
hum of bees and the twitter of birds were

all about, but were unheard amid the buzz
of many voices and the music of a rifle
volunteer band that played on the smooths
lawn that stretched away before
the house till it ended in the woodland
greenery of the park, or ' policy as it is
called in Scotland — greenery that now
showed blotches of yellow and russet upon
the ferns, that whilom had seemed great
green fans of emerald hue, amid which the
dun deer rested when dewy evening fell.

But now the deer had all gone to the
hill-sides, for promenading on the lawn
and in the beautiful gardens, or seated
near the tall, French windows that opened
on the terrace, and the lace curtains of
which were wafted gently on the breeze,
were the many guests of Lady Dunkeld,
whose garden-party was now, as Sir Redmond
Sheath scantily said, ' in full blast.'

Mellowed by distance among the trees
came the murmur of the unseen May over
its rocky bed.

There were lawn-tennis courts, and the
all but obsolete croquet, for those who
were so minded; and in a gaudy-striped
marquee ices, creams, jellies, champagne-cup,
et cetera, distributed by solemn
valets in showy liveries with powdered
heads.

There were winding paths between 
shrubberies, bordered by
flowers of gorgeous hues ; there were leafy,
tunnel-like vistas, and long and stately
conservatories nth tesselated floors, wherein
to flirt when the heat of the day proved
too great ; and there were bright-coloured
rugs and soft cushions spread upon the
grass, Whereon the lazy might lounge or
loll ; and, as the guests were pouring in
from carriage, phaeton, and dogcart. Lady
Dunkeld, in the richest of London toilettes,
received them nth the same insipid and
stereotyped smile for each and all — her
words of welcome or ofl*er of her hand
varying only according to the social

position of those who approached her.

The second of the Wellwood girls who
are coming here to-day is something of an
artist, I hear,' observed Lord Dunkeld.

I believe so,' replied his lady ; ' and I
hope she will not make her appearance a
limp figure, aesthetically-dressed in a large-pattered
gown of Anglo-saxon fashion,
With a lily in her hand. Oh, here they
are ! Dressed in the best taste, too !'

"Weak, yet aristocratic though his profile.
Lord Dunkeld looked every inch a peer in
style and bearing. He was undoubtedly a
striking-looking, elderly man, nth hair
now white as the thistledown, his person
erect and unbroken as Ashen he led his

battalion against the Russian trenches at
Sebastopol, and he received the two sisters,
Mary and Ellinor Wellwood, with a warmth
and courtesy that nearly made them forget
the limp hand and wan smile of Lady
Dunkeld, and the ill-concealed coldness,
annoyance, and secret pique of Blanche

Galloway, though she veiled them under a
well-bred smile of welcome, while resolved
it should be their last, as it was their first,
entertainment at Craigmhor, and such it
eventually proved to be.

Nor were her emotions lessened by seeing
how Colville hurriedly quitted a group
to welcome them, and how smilingly Sir
Redmond approached Ellinor from a conservatory,
adjusting as he came a buttonhole
bouquet which he had recently received
from the hand of her — Blanche
Galloway, v/ho was quite inclined to attract
both gentlemen if she could.

Whatever views Lady Dunkeld and her
daughter, the fair Blanche, may have had
in the matter of the now wealthy Captain
Colville and Sir Redmond Sheath, two
little episodes in which these gentlemen
were concerned developed themselves during
the garden-party, which where rather
beyond the calculations of the two ladies,
and proceeded to some extent unknown to

them — but to some extent only, as Mademoiselle
Rosette was abroad in the grounds,
and had her shrewd French eyes remarkably
vide open.

And Blanche Galloway became disagreeably
surprised when she learned on what
friendly terms ' the sisters were with
those two gentlemen, who as visitors at
Craigmhor she had rather been disposed
to consider as her own peculiar property.

Robert Wodrow was there too, not to
enjoy himself, but to watch Sir Redmond
and Ellin or, as the latter could read
only too distinctly in his lowering and
upbraiding yet tender eyes, though he affected
to converse gaily with Colville and
others.

Let me get you some iced champagne
cup,' said Sir Redmond, in a low voice, ashe
offered Ellin or his arm and led her
away, adding, with one of his unpleasant
laughs, ' Here is old Dr. Wodrow, with his
Sabbath-day smile, and his wife, in her

awful toilette — our sulking friend the son
too. They have been among the first to
come, and will be the last to go away — like
all stupid people. How like fish out of
the water they look !'

Ellinor, to do her justice, felt a swelling
in her throat at these remarks on those
she had been so long accustomed to view
as her dearest friends, and fanned herself
almost angrily.

And how is Jack, that surest of curs,
who always snaps and snarls at me as if I
were a tramp or a beggar ?' asked Sir
Redmond.

Elinor laughed now, and soon found
herself chatting away with the glib Sir Redmond
as if she had known him not only a
few days, but a few years. How different
he was in his fluency of speech, his perfect
tone of manner and softness of voice,
from Robert Wodrow.

Poor Robert Wodrow !

• What smooth tongues these southron

fellows have,' lie was thinking, savagely,
as his eyes followed the pair ; ' and how
she seems to listen to him, drinking in
every word, like a moonstruck fool !'

And already he felt all the tortures of
jealousy, ^ the injured lover's hell.'

A suspicion that he was watched or suspected
by Colville, after the latter's very
distinct and open warning inspired Sir
Eedmond Sheath with a secret emotion of
revenge against him — a curiously mingled
hatred and desire to triumph in his love
affair with Ellinor ; and since that warning-had
been given a coolness had ensued
between the baronet and the guardsman —
a coolness that outlasted their visit to Lord
Dunkeld.

To Sir Redmond it seemed, as he
thought over and over again, that a
couple of fatherless and motherless girls
living as they curiously did together, and
alone ^ with no one to look after them but
an infernal old pump of a Presbyterian

parson,' were fair game to be run after in
his own fashion, and Ellin or, as the one
possessing less firmness of purpose, was
certain to be the most easily netted.

As Sir Redmond led Ellinor away, Colville's
brow grew dark as that of Robert
Wodrow, and the baronet was not slow to
detect this emotion and defy it.

was this jealousy and love of Ellinor?
Did he admire her and Mary
too ?' thought the baronet. ' By Jove, it
seems so.'

They were long absent from the main
body of the guests, none of whom missed
them perhaps, save Robert Wodrow and
Miss Galloway. How long Colville did
not precisely know, as he contrived to be
elsewhere eno:ao;ed himself.

While Mary was talking to old Mrs.
Wodrow, who was indulging the while ina
few peculiar and not very well-bred, if
knowing, nods and smiles in the direction
of Miss Galloway, over whose chair on the

terrace Captain Colville was stooping, she
overheard him say, while the former was
prettily making up for him a button-hole
of stephen otis, with a white rosebud and
maiden-hair fern — and say — with empressement
but laughingly,

If lusty love should go in search of beauty,
Where should he find it fairer than in Blanche ?
If zealous love should go in quest of virtue,
Where should he find it purer than in Blanche ?
If love, ambitious, sought a match of birth.
Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanche V

He was only quoting Shakespeare, and
did so laughingly, and not at all with the
tenderness of love, Mary thought ; but
Blanche Galloway was evidently delighted,
tapped him with her fan in mock anger,
and then adjusted her bouquet in his
capelle.

On ivliat terms were they, these two ?

Mrs. Wodrow had evidently no doubt
about it, as she Whispered to Mary,

How sweet it is to watch young lovers !
I was right, you see.'

Mary felt something closely akin to pique
and pain, and resolved to be upon her
guard, while Mrs. Wodrow was, womanlike,
appraising the cost of Lady Dunkeld's
dress — ' The best Lyons purple — must have
cost a guinea a yard.'

Captain Colville has been in love, or
fancied himself so, a great many times, I
hear,' resumed gossipy Mrs. Wodrow, ' but
never got the length of being engaged until
lately, I believe.'

Then he is her fiance' thought Mary ;
M3ut what matters it?'

Sooth to say, it was for her behoof, perhaps,
that Mrs. Wodrow pressed these hints
upon her.

'Come with me, Miss Wellwood,' said
Captain Colville, suddenly approaching
her ; ' permit me to show you some of the
grounds — the rosaries are indeed beautiful
after we have visited the refreshment
marquee.'

He lightly touched her hand, and — followed

the while by a somewhat cloudy and
inquiring glance from Blanche Galloway —
she permitted herself to be led away from
the terrace, and though resolved to be, as
we have said, on her guard, and studiously
indifferent, she could not help the increased
beating of her heart, for the voice and eyes
of Colville were very winning.

From the refreshment marquee they
wandered through the rosaries, round the
shrubbery, and past the artificial pond, till
they reached the skirts of the lawn, and
the hum of the voices there, and even the
music of the band, became faint, and conversing
with her, she scarcely knew on
what, he led her to a seat — a rustic sofa —
under the trees that formed the boundary
of the pleasure-grounds.

^ Do you know that in the sunshine your
hair is quite like gold. Miss Wellwood ?*
said he, gazing upon her with unmistakable
admiration.

^ I would it were real gold,' replied
Mary, laughing.

'I would rather possess it as it is, and
so would any man,' said Colville, while
Mary cast a restless glance at the distant
groups of gaily-dressed promenades, as
aught approaching tenderness just then
alarmed and annoyed her.

After a pause he said,

Those scarlet berries do not become
your complexion. They are suited to a
dark beauty, not a fair one.'

Ellinor pinned them in my collarette,*
replied Mary, colouring now.

Give me the berries, and I shall substitute
this,' he urged, taking the little
bouquet of stephen otis buds and ferns
from his capelle. ' Do exchange with me,'
he added, softly and tenderly.

But Miss Galloway — her gift to you —
what will she think?' urged Mary, timidly.

She mil never notice the change ; and
if she does, what then ?'

VOL. I. M

Mary thought this strange and ungallant,
but ere she could prevent him, his
deft hands had quickly achieved the exchange,
and her scarlet berries were in his
button-hole.

I cannot have you wear these, even if
I wear your rosebuds. Give them back to
mCj please, Captain Colville.'

And she stretched out her hand imploringly,
but he shook his head and smiled
with a curious satisfied smile ; and again
Mary insisted on a re-exchange of the
flowers.

Please, do not urge me,' said he, also
adopting an imploring tone. ' I wish to
keep them — to keep them for ever, if you
will permit me ; whatever has touched
your cheek — your hand, must be sacred tome,'
he added, with perfect earnestness of
manner.

Do not talk to me thus — for your own
amusement. Captain Colville,' said Mary,
her eyes suffused with tears.

Amusement !' he repeated, mali a low
tone of pain. • Can you think so meanly
of me? If you knew the genuine emotion
of my heart towards you, Mary Wellwood,
and the true regard with which you have
inspired me '

^ I cannot, must not, listen to this,' said
poor Mary, attempting to rise in alarm,
and most loth to precipitate a scene, but a
touch of his hand restrained her.

'Not listen to me! And why not?'
asked Colville ; and then he remembered
Blanche Galloway's insinuation about
young Wodrow, and paused.

It is unbecoming your position and
mine, I feel that you are but amusing
yourself ^Yith. me,' continued Mary, repressing
a sob in her slender white throat
with difficulty. 'You are a rich man of
fashion — a man about town, I believe the
term is ; I am but the orphan daughter of

a very poor one '

M 2

^Of a gallant old officer,' said Colvilley
softly.

ft/

True.'

And you actually think me a snob ? It
is very hard. Ere long I shall get another
to plead for me,' he added, laughing.

What can he mean ?' thought Mary.

^ You pardon me just now,' said he
looking down upon her with great tenderness.


Yes,' said Mary, sweetly and simply ;
but do not offend me again.'

And bright though the sunny landscape
around her, it seemed for a moment to
grow brighter to her eyes, and her pulses
quickened, for she felt a thrill at the tone
of his voice and the expression of his eyes.
She felt too, somehow, as if the world
would never seem quite the same to her
afterwards ; and with this Alas blended an
emotion of pain that these feelings were
excited in her breast aimlessly and uselessly
by the affianced of another !

It was almost a relief to her when he
laughed, and, breaking the silence of a full
minute or so, said,

Now, I am about to rival your sister,
Miss Ellinor, in the achievement of something
artistic,' and, opening a pocket-knife,
he proceeded to carve on the fine smooth
bark of a tree that overshadowed the rustic
sofa the letters ' M. W.'

My initials,' said Mary, watching his
work.

Yes.'

I don't think Lord Dunkeld will thank
you for injuring his timber thus.'

'I don't care about Dunkeld's timber.
I've a good mind to be like that fellow in
Shakespeare — what's his name ? — Orlando,

and

Carve on every tree
The fair, the chaste, and unexpressive she."

Queer phrase that — means inexpressible, I
suppose. See !' he added, as he quickly
cut three other initials beside Mary's —
L. W. C. — and the date.

Please, don't — please, don't,' urged Mary,
almost with tears in her tremulous tones.

'Why?' he asked, looking doAvn upon
her with a bright and winning smile.

These initials may be seen.'

By whom — and what then?'

Mary was silent, but thought only of
Miss Galloway, though that young lady
seldom favoured the woods with her
society ; and now Colville completed his
work with a most orthodox true lovers'
knot, Mary growing more and more
appalled as it proceeded.

'You have a middle name?' she asked,
timidly.

Every fellow has now-a-days — snobbish,
isn't it ? In my case I cannot help it.'

And the middle name ?'

'Don't ask it — you know me but as
Leslie Colville, and that is my genuine
baptismal appellation . '

'This bit of wood engraving may be
deuced unfair to lier if young Wodrow see

it,' was the not ungenerous tliou<^iit of
Leslie Colville.

'What if Blanche sees it?' was the timid
reflection of Mary ; thus, mentally, these
two were at cross-purposes. ' Do restore
to me or cast away that bunch of berries,'
she again said to him.

I cannot think of it ; but I shall conceal
it, if you will permit me,' said he, ashe
kissed her little bouquet, and placed it
in his breast-pocket.

His tenderness seemed very true, but
might be — nay, Mary thought, must be —
mere flirtation. He had said, ' Ere long I
shall get another to plead for me.' Who
was that other ; and to plead for what ?

It was all very mysterious, and for a
moment or two Mary felt as one in a
dream. Under the old trees where they
lingered were cool and grateful shadows,
and on the soft breeze from the gardens
and shrubberies came the. perfume of roses
and heliotrope, with the drowsy hum of

modulated voices and the music of the

band.

Listen,' said he, touching her hand

lightly, while his features brightened ; ' do

you hear the sweet low air ?'

^ It is " The Birds of Invermav." '
'How it bring's the words of the sweet

song back to me —

It wasna till the pale moonshine
Was glancing deep in Mary's ere ;
That with a smile she said ' I'm thine,'
And ever true to thee swill be !"

You see how it and the name have
impressed me.'

'Don't, please. Captain Colville,' said
Mary, withdrawing her hand ; ' you should
not go on this way. It is not honourable
in you, and is annoying to me.'

What a puzzle you are !' said he, looking
at her With undisguised admiration,
mingled with — to her annoyance — the
slightest soupqon of amusement in his
handsome eyes, • as she proceeded slowly
across the lawn to rejoin the garden-party,

from which Mary felt he had purposely
lured her.

Meanwhile, he was closely scrutinising
the soft and downcast face of Mary —
downcast because she was too conscious
of the fervour of his regard.

With all her beauty, Mary Wellwood
had not yet had a lover. No man had
addressed her in terms of admiration or
love, and this fact, together with the somewhat
secluded life she led, made the (perhaps
passing) attentions of Colville of
more importance than they would have
seemed to a young lady living in the
world like Miss Galloway, and, if the gallant
Guardsman was only amusing himself,
it was rather cruel of him ; so Mary's emotions
were of a somewhat mixed nature.

Could she but fashion her little tell-tale
face for a brief period, and make it stony
as that of a sphinx !

A curious sense of wrong, of deception
even probable sorrow and affront, possessed

her, mingled with that of a new and
timid delight.

The touch of his hand seemed to magnetise
her, and yet she longed to get away
from the reach of his eyes, his subtle and
detaining voice, for were they not the
property of Blanche Galloway !

Why should he wrong her and love meas
I actually think he does ?' surmised
Mary. ' What can I be to him more thana
flower perhaps by his wayside of life, to
be passed and forgotten when he goes
back to that gay world which is peculiarly
his — the great whirling world of '' Society."
Worthy of him; I so poor can
never hope to be, and that proud, imperious
girl would soon teach him to forget
me !'

So thought and mused the girl — fondly,
sadly, and bitterly — and turning from the
music of the band, and the gay groups
that laughed and chatted around her, she
gazed down a vista of silver birches that

led towards the house, and saw their stems
glittering like silver columns in the flecks
of sunshine.

Blanche Galloway was not long in discovering
that the little bouquet her own
hands had assorted for Colville was now in
the breast of Mary Wellwood's dress, and
as she turned bluntly away from the latter,
Dr. Wodrow, who knew not the cause
thereof, remarked to his better-half that
their young hostess had given Mary ^a
dark look — such a look as Jael, the ife
of Heber the Recite, might have given.'

Leslie Colville too ere long detected dark
looks in the face of Robert AYodrow, who
abruptly took his departure ; and the former
felt piqued and annoyed to find himself,
as he believed, the rival of a mere
bumpkin,' all unaware that Ellinor was
the cause of Robert's wrath ; and meanwhile
where was that young lady ?

CHAPTER XL

IN THE CONSERVATORY.

In an atmosphere of drooping acacias,
little palms curious ferns, cacti, and other
exotics in tubs and pots, where the light
was subdued by the greenery overhead
and around, and where the plashing of a
beautiful bronze fountain alone broke the
stillness, for in the nook of that great conservatory
to which Sir Redmond Sheath
had successfully drawn Elinor alone, the
music of the band and the merry voices of
the garden party were scarcely heard, they
were seated together on a blue velvet
lounge ; and he, having possessed himself
of her fan, was slowly fanning her, while

he hung admiringly over her — a process
to which she submitted with a soft,
dreamy smile in her speaking hazel eyes ;
while with every motion of the fan the
ripples of her fine dark hair were blown
slightly to and fro.

Certainly a short intimacy had put these
two on terms of familiarity, for he said, ashe
ceased to fan her, and settled down on
the lounge by her side, with one arm,
casually, as it were, thrown along the back
thereof,

I am not a stranger to you now.'

His voice was pleasantly modulated ashe
stooped over her, and looked down on
her drooping eyelashes.

Oh, no — not now,' replied Ellinor.

I am so happy to hear you admit this.'

'Why?'

Ellinor felt her question to be foolish, as
it was a leading one.

Can you ask me ?' said Sir Redmond,
in a still lower voice, and venturing to

touch —-just to pat — lier hand ; 'there are
many persons whom we may know for
years, and yet find them somehow strangers,
but it is not so with you and I.'

He now took her hand in his, and saw
that it Alas delicately white — for she had
drawn a glove off — and felt soft as velvet ;
he saw, too, that her white-veined eyelids
with their long lashes drooped under his
earnest gaze, and that her red lips quivered.
Was he actually influencing her
already? He could scarcely believe it,
even with all his unparalleled assurance.

She glanced nervously round her.

^ Do not be alarmed, dear girl — darling
Ellinor, let me say,' whispered Sheath, in
his most honeyed accents, for who was to
call him to account for his impertinence,
if impertinence it really was ? ' I shall be
content to wait — to wait and win your
love, if you will but let me hope. Some
day — say one day you will listen to me,
and I shall tell you more freely, more

boldly low I love you — how I shall make
you my own !'

Ellinor trembled as she listened to these
stilted phrases that came so glibly from
his tongue — how often he had said them
to others she little knew; and — even
Robert Wodrow apart — she had never
played with a man's heart as Sheath was
now playing with hers.

He said much more, running on in the
same inflated style, feeling quite a zest in
the, to him, well-nigh worn-out game of
love-making ; and Ellinor listened. She
was far from being a fool, yet she failed to
realise that his tones were very secondhand
indeed, and that the real expression
of his blue eyes, if triumphant, was also
false.

Her voice trembled so that she made no
response, and the flowers in the breast of
her dress rose and fell with the quickened
beating of her fluttered and, we are sorry
to say, happy heart.

A conviction troubled her, nevertheless
and would not be put aside — that he would
master her and compel her to love him
blindly by the mere force of his — practised
will, and she strove to resist it.

^ You are over-confident, though flattering
me, Sir Redmond,' said she, a little
defiantly at last.

'And what does that prove?'

'That you are not, perhaps, what you
really profess to be — sin love.'

'With you?'

Yes,' she replied, in a breathless voice.

Have you ere this learned what love
is ?'

I know what it should be like — timid
and diffident,' she replied, uneasily, as her
thoughts flashed sorrowfully to poor studious
Robert Wodrow.

'You fear I do not love you ?' he asked,
reproachfully.

I do not fear it.'

Look into my eyes.'

She did look, and her own lowered, for
she saw that which so often passes for love
with the unthinking or unwary — deep and
burning passion ; and again she glanced
nervously around her, but felt impelled to
remain where she was. Sir Redmond detected
the motion, and, misconstruing it,
said, with a contemptuous smile that was
too subtle for her to perceive,

You and that — a — Mr. Robert Wodrow
were sweethearts, as it is called, when you
were children, I have heard.'

Indeed !'

swell?'

The very reason, if true, that we should
wish to be no more to each other,' replied
Elinor, with some annoyance, remembering
certain angry and bitter speeches of
Robert's when last they meet and parted,
and some of his dark looks within the last
hour.

Sir Redmond was radiant at this response.
She drew on her gloves, and was

VOL. I. N

about to rise, when he detained her, and,
drawing her suddenly towards him, boldly
kissed her, not once, but t^yice !

She grew very pale, and drew back, and
felt as if about to weep.

Why do you shrink from me, Ellinor ?'
he asked, nth tenderness, while detaining
her hands.

I do not shrink ; but — but all this has
been so sudden.'

Listen to me, dearest — dearest Ellinor.
With all your artistic tastes, you must of
course appreciate pretty things ?'

I do,' she replied, tremblingly, not
knowing what was coming next.

Do you admire this ?' he asked, drawing
from a pocket and unclasping a scarlet
morocco case, on the blue satin lining of
which there reposed a necklace of virgin
gold, with a locket attached, studded with
coral and diamonds, both miracles of the
jeweller's art.

^ It is lovely !' exclaimed the girl.

I am glad you like it, for it is yours.'

Mine !' said the 2firl, in a breathless
voice, as she felt herself grow pale, and
recognised the costliness of the jewel, but
scarcely knowing what she did or what she
said, while a curious mixture of dumb joy
in her new lover and remorse for the former
one seized her.

She heard hurried and passionate words
poured into her ear ; she felt the firm,
warm clasp of Sir Redmond's hands on
hers as he begged permission to clasp the
necklet round her slender throat, Awhile
yieldingly she turned towards him, and
deftly — he was not unused to episodes
such as this — as he touched her soft, white
skin, he clasped it on, his eyes glowing
with fire and animation as he bent over
her sweet little face.

The latter was pale rather than flushed,
and her mobile lips were quivering as he
pressed his to them, pursuing his advantage
with all the courage, skill, and tact

N 2

his past rascally experience had given him ;
while the force of his sudden love, if it
scared, also delighted Ellinor, though the
upbraiding and set visage of Robert

Wodrow seemed to rise between them.



One day I shall see the family diamonds
of the house of Sheath sparkling
on your brow and bosom, love,' said he,
kissing her eyes, as gravely as if the said
house of Sheath had come in with the
European rabble of the Conqueror. ' And
you promise to be mine, Ellinor ?' he
added, pressing her close to him.

Yes,' she replied, in a scarcely audible
whisper.

There arc some men who can love
several women in succession — or imagine
they do so. I am not one of these, believe
me, darling ! I have never — could never
have done that. You, Ellinor, are the
first love of my heart — my first and only'
one!'

Ho^v he talked, this man who knew well

what passion was, but never loved, and
the girl was too truthful generally herself
to doubt ; so her heart throbbed as his
honeyed words fell on her willing ear.

And so, love, we shall soon be made
one now,' he whispered, with another
caress.

After a time she said, timidly and blushingly,



You will tell — you will talk with Dr.
Wodrow about all this, Redmond?'

'How delicious to hear my name on
your lips ! But — Dr. Wodrow — why — is
he a relation ?'

No.'

Why then — what then ?'

He is a kind of guardian ; papa, on his
deathbed, bequeathed Mary and me to his
care.'

Consult him — impossible!' said Sir Redmond,
whose face darkened. ' Why should
we condescend to consult that old pump
with the Sabbath-day face, when our own

hearts agree ? Besides, if my uncle, from
whom I have great expectations, knew that
I had married a Scotch girl — he has such
curious prejudices '

'Your uncle?' queried Ellinor, timidly.

I have, unfortunately, an old and
strangely-tempered relation in that degree.
He is dying under an incurable disease,
and probably cannot live out this winter
certainly not next spring. I am the
heir to all his estates, and it is his fancy
that I should marry into a family of title — '

'Otherwise?'

'I shall lose every shilling — every one!'

Poor man ! If the end is so near,
surely we can wait, Redmond — nay, of
course, we must wait,' she added, coyly
and fondly.

I cannot wait, my love for you will not
permit me, yet I am, though well enough
off, not so rich that I can afford to lose a
great inheritance. Could we — can we —
but keep our marriage from his knowledge

? But we will talk of all this another
time, darling. I am too hasty, too
impetuous, with you. People are coming
this way. Take my arm ; let us go !'

And he led her out into the sunlight
lawn in such a state of bewilderment that
but for the chain and locket, of which, to
avoid explanations, she divested herself,
she would have deemed the whole episode
a dream.

So 'the song was sung, the tale was
told, and the heart was given away.'

Ellinor, on rejoining her friends, looked
about her, and felt somewhat of a relief
that she could nowhere see Robert Wod-
row, who, as we have said, had abruptly
taken his departure, and even amid the
splendour of Sir Redmond's proposal — fora
splendid one it seemed to poor Elinor —
an emotion of reproach for loyalty to
Robert Wodrow, the first and early lover
of her girlish life, rose up in her mind.

While her soul was yet loaded with the

memory of that, to her. most naturally
great episode in the conservatory, on
which all her future life was to turn, we
may wonder what she would have thought
had she overheard a few bantering words
that passed between Sir Redmond Sheath
and the Honourable Blanche Galloway as
they were looking towards her and evidently
talking about her, while Mrs. Wod-
row, who was near, strained her ears to
listen.

'A wife, you say? No, my dear Miss
Galloway; I can't afford such a luxury
in these times, and consequently cannot bea
marrying man, unless '

'Unless what?'

I found one facile enough to have me,
and with the necessary amount of acreage,
coalpits, money in the Funds, or elsewhere.'

If so, why are you so attentive in that
absurd quarter, where there is no money
certainly?' asked the lady, pointing to
Ellinor with her fan.

^ Why, indeed !' thought Mrs. Wodrow,
exasperated about her son Robert.

Sir Redmond paused.

'Why?' asked the young lady again,
categorically.

'pour passer le temps' replied Sir Redmond,
with one of his insolent smiles, as he
twirled out the ends of his tawny mustachios.


Mrs. Wodrow did not hear his answer,
though she saw the expression of his face ;
and at this reply Miss Galloway smiled
triumphantly and disdainfully while slowly
fanning herself.

CHAPTER Nil

AFTER THOUGHTS.

There are generally two distinct sets of
people at every country entertainment
carrying out the principle of ' pig-iron
that looks down on tenpenny nails ;' but
Lady Dunkeld's garden-party Alas voted a
charming gathering. She had a special
skill for assorting her guests, and did so
accordingly, though some of our dramatis
jjersonw assorted themselves ; and the result
was so far harmony, apparently — we
say apparently, for it was not universal.

Thus Blanche Galloway was displeased
with the manner in which Leslie Colville
hovered about Mary Wellwood, while Colville,

and more especially Robert WodroWy
were both displeased by the conspicuous
absence of Sir Redmond and Ellinor.
Robert knew not where they had been
and somehow never thought of looking in
the conservatories, and probably would
not have done so had the idea occurred to
him.

He had not been near her all day, and
he was now, more than ever, beginning to
realise bitterly that the girl he had loved
so well all these years past, and who, he
certainly thought, loved him, was going
out of his life as completely as if she had
never existed. Yet he could not relinquish
her without another effort — another
last appeal ; though he quitted the gaieties
of Craigmhor early with a sore and swollen
heart.

The evening was far advanced when the
sisters returned to Birkwoodbrae.

There was a letter lying on the diningroom
table addressed to Ellinor in the

familiar handwriting; of Robert Wodrow.
Why did lie write to lier now when he
lived so close by, as a hedge only separated
Birkwoodbrae from the glebe ? unless
to tell her what he dared not trust his lips
to do ; and her heart foreboded this.

The letter lay almost beneath her hand
white and a^larino; in the last flush of the
sunset ; but, until Elspat had retired and
Mary had followed on some household
matter intent, she did not trust herself to
open it.

Then when there was no one by to observe
her, she slowly opened the letter of
the lover who too truly feared he had been
supplanted by another.

Line after line — though it was brief —
the words were loving and tender, but
ended in bitterness and upbraiding; passion
made them eloquent, and they burned
into the heart of the girl as the eyes and
voice of Robert haunted her ; but she felt
besotted by this new and showy admirer,

he was so different from homely, honest,
Robert Wodrow — so different from any
man she had ever met before ; and why
should Robert, who was only her friend —
her old playmate, she strove to think, but
with much sophistry, attempt to compete
with him and control her movements.

I must give you up, Robert,' she half
whispered to herself; and then the idea
occurred to her, ^ would she have done so
had she never met Sir Redmond Sheath ?'

The letter had a postscript : —

My darling, the windows of your room
face mine over the orchard wall. If you
have not cast me utterly out of your
heart, for pity sake give me some sign
then tomorrow — place a vase of flowers
upon your window-sill, and I shall know
the token.'

But Robert Wodrow next day, from
earliest dawn till morn was long past,
looked and watched in vain for the sign,
but none was given to him ; for though

the heart of Ellinor Wellwood was wrung
within her, she was too completely under
a new and baleful influence now, and the
old love was fast being forgotten.

To do her a little justice, we must admit
that her first impulse had been to accord
the poor fellow the token for which his
soul thirsted.

A vase of flowers, sent to her but that
morning from Sir Redmond by the hands
of his valet, was on the mantelpiece. She
put her hands towards it mechanically, as
if she would have placed it on her windowsill
in obedience to that pitiful letter ; but
strange to say the flowers were all dead —
already dead and withered !

Why was this ?

Something superstitious crept over the
girl's heart as she looked on them ; she
turned away — and the token was not
given.

Robert, we have said, watched with
aching heart and aching eyes in vain.

Had the postscript escaped her notice ? It
might be so; and to this straw, like a
drowning man, he clung. So the day
passed on ; and Ellinor began to think
she had done wisely in not raising hopes
only to crush them, and gave herself up to
thoughts of Sir Redmond, and the secret
contemplation of his beautiful gift.

Sir Redmond had poured into her ear
much of love, of passion, of admiration,
and so forth, certainly ; but even to
Ellinor's unsophisticated mind his proposal
of marriage seemed a strange one.

Each sister had ample food for her own
thoughts. Mary was rehearsing over andover
again the cutting of the initials on
the tree, and the manner of Colville to
herself. If he really was engaged to
Blanche Galloway (of which she had no
positive proof), it was not flattering to
either of them ; yet the expression of his
eyes seemed ever sweet, candid, and honest ;
and she gave fully her confidence to Ellinor.

The latter, who had never a secret to
keep from her sister before, felt with
shame and compunction that she had one
now — one of vast importance to them
both ; but Sir Redmond had bound her to
secrecy for a little time, and she could but
trust ; so fondly she thought over that
scene in the conservatory — his proposal, a
dazzling one, for would she not one day be
Lady Sheath, proud, wealthy, and independent
of all the world ?

Even her parents, who were lying in
their graves, with all their love of her, had
never in their proudest and most exultant
moments pictured for either of their children
a future like this !

So she seemed to live in an enchanted
world, out of which the figure of Robert
Wodrow faded. ' Once in our lives,' says
a writer, ^ Paradise opens for all of us out
of the dull earth, and moments, golden
with the light of romance, shine upon us
with a radiance like unto no other radiance

of time, and we do not stay to count the
cost of the bitter desolation that follows.
For Eve herself would scarcely have surrendered
one memory of Eden for all the
joys to be found upon earth.'

Colville, when in the solitude of his own
room, overlooking the woods of Craigmhor,
was full of his own thoughts, some of
which were not very pleasant, as he was
dissatisfied with himself. He had a little
plan he wished to carry out, as we shall
show in time, and he felt perhaps that he
was acting foolishly. He had come from
London with the Dunkeld family, who
evidently expected more from him in
regard to Blanche than he had yet evinced,
and the rumour of their engagement was a
false one.

He had also come nth his mind inspired
with doubt, indifference, even prejudice
against some of those he had met, the
Wellwood sisters in particular ; and, instead
of finding them objectionable in any way,

VOL. I.

they were far more refined than himself,
the ' curled pet ' of many a Belgravian
drawing-room.

Many a fair face in these regions was
forgotten now, and his thoughts were all
of Mary Wellwood — more than he dared
acknowledge to himself Though he had
seen so little of her, he felt — was it the
result of some magnetic affinity ? — as if he
had known her all his life; as if a full
knowledge of her character had suddenly
crept into his heart, and yet this was impossible
just then.

'Mary Wellwood !' he murmured to
himself.

He had heard of Colonel Yell wood's
daughters in London more than once, from
one who should have befriended them, but
always omitted to do so, and whose views
and opinions of two friendless girls were
ever slighting and hostile ; and now that
he met and knew them, Colville despised
himself for some of the thoughts in which

he lead first indulged concerning; them, and
the more tenderly lie thought of Mary the
more reproachful of himself he grew.

He had made no declaration — no; he was
neither so rash nor so foolish as that yet,
with all his romance, if the object of her
regard was Mr. Robert Wodrow.

Of her feelings towards himself he could
not form the slightest idea, and her manner
was a source of perplexity. One moment
she was frank, genial, and without restraint
; but the next, if he became in the
least degree tender, she grew retiring,
distant, and cold ; and, though he knew it
not, this bearing was born of the rumours
concerning Blanche Galloway, and he was
all unaware how local gossip had mixed up
his name with that of this young lady.

On one occasion he suspected that Mary
avoided him, and once she seemed nearly
to dislike him ; thus he was pleased that
he had not too formally committed himself,
and so, until he could put the matter



'to the touch, to win or lose it all,' he
would but torment himself with doubts
and fears in the way usual to all lovers ;
but ere the time came, events were to occur
which, though in some measure caused by
himself, the bitter issue of them he could
never have foreseen.

The two chief episodes of the garden-party
were of course well known to the
two ladies at Craio:mhor, as Mademoiselle
Rosette had two bright and sharp French
eyes in her head, and knew perfectly well
how to use them.

I don't like the conduct of Sir Redmond,
of course, Blanche,' said Lady Dun-held,
' and have no wish that he should
involve himself with an obscure girl whom
he met in our house.'

I believe it to be all nothing more thana
mere coquettes de salon,' said Lord Dun-held.
' Sheath is not a marrying man.'

'And Captain Colville's conduct with
the other sister, wandering away into

remote parts of the ground ; I suppose
that was a coqvxtterie de salon too, mamma,'
said Blanche, her eyes sparkling with
anger, while she shrugged her shoulders,
and briskly used her dark blue and bronze
green fan of peacocks' feathers.

'What— how?'

They strolled away from everyone together,
and were absent ever so lono;.'

This is intolerable ; but men will be
men, you see, Blanche. If Miss Wellwood
had been a married lady it would not have
mattered so much. I think when a young
man is attached to a married lady it keeps
him out of harm's way,' said Lady Dun-held;
' however, we must take some decided
measures with Miss Wellwood, and with
Captain Colville too.'

Dear mamma !' cooed Miss Blanche
Galloway, and she laughed that worldly
little laugh of hers, which was so indicative
■of her character.

The result of all this was that, when

Mary and Ellinor called ceremoniously
shortly after the garden-party, Lady Dun-held,
who was seated at one of the
drawing-room windows, on seeing them
approach, rose hastily and retired.

No one was at home.'

Next day the sisters were scarcely noticed
by Lady Dunkeld and her daughter
at church.

Other persons were not slow to remark
this, and the surmises thereon — though
the two girls knew nothing about them —
were the reverse of pleasant or flattering.

Mary observed the absence of Captain
Colville, Who was not in the Dunkeld
pew ; and on the following day she felt a
keen pang on learning that he was gone
for a few days to shoot with Lord Dunkeld
in the Forest of Altho

he had gone without paying her a
farewell visit, thought Mary.

He is to return in a fortnight,' said
her informant, Mrs. Wodrow, near whose

chair Mary was seated on a tabourette in
the cosy manse parlour, making up a gala-cap
for the old lady ; and near her crouched
Jack, watching the process.

The parlour was a pretty apartment,,
neither morning-room nor boudoir, though
somewhat of both, with many indications
of a woman's presence.

Rare old china was disposed in odd
nooks, and china bowls with roses freshly
gathered from the garden ; and the furniture,
if old-fashioned, and pertaining to
the early days of Mrs. Wodrow's homecoming
to the manse as a young wedded
wife, was all polished to perfection. On a
shelf was an imposing row of the ' Wodrow
Society's ' religious publications, including
The Last Words of My Lady Coldness,'
Of My Lady Anne Echo,' the life of the
gallant Covenanter, Sergeant John Nisbet
of Sandhill, and so forth.

'Apropos of Captain Colville,' said the
old lady, looking down on her young

friend, ' I hope you have not lost your
heart to him, Mary ?'

'I should think not,' replied Mary,
stoutly, but colouring so deeply, nevertheless,
tlip.t Mrs. Wodrow could see how the
crimson suffused even her delicate neck.

That is well, Mary ; mischief enough
has been wrought among us already,' resumed
Mrs. Wodrow, her benign old face
becoming cloudy.

Mary knew to what she referred, but
seemed, or affected to seem, wholly intent
on the cap ; and Mrs. Wodrow looked admiringly
and affectionately down on her
dimpled wrists and little white hands.

I do wish I had something nice and
fresh for trimming !' she exclaimed, as she
twirled round the cap for inspection. ' I
think these rosebuds will do with this
spray of ivy,' she added, searching a
flower-box, and putting her head meditatively
on one side.

'Then, Mrs. Wodrow,' she exclaimed,

^if I fail to please you, you must be a
dreadful coquette, you old dear !'

Thanks, pet Mary ; when did you ever
fail to please me ?' said the old lady, caressing
the girl's head, and adding, anxiously,
^ You do not look well, Mary ; where were
you this morning ? Not in the clachan, I
hope, as I hear there is scarlatina there.'

I have no fear ; I took a kind message
from Robert about a sick baby. I fear it
is dying, and God pity the poor mother,
the only light of whose life is likely to go
out in darkness.'

You have a tender heart, Mary.
Robert, poor Robert ; you know he has
failed to pass, Mary?'

Yes ; I am so sorry, and so is Ellinor.'

Ellinor may well be,' said Mrs. Wodrow,
with some asperity.

'Why?' asked Mary, her colour deepening
attain.

Because her fair face has come between
him and his wits, poor fellow, and

I shouldn't wonder if we lose him altogether.'


^ Lose him !' repeated Mary, in a breathless
voice ; ' how ?'

^ He seems desperate and says that
rather than slave for another session at
college he will go for a soldier.'

Oh, never, never think of such a
thing !'

He and Ellinor seem to have quarrelled.'


Quarrelled — surely not ! About what
or who ?'

That man Sir Redmond Sheath, and his
attentions to her.'

They will make up this quarrel as they
have made up others long ago,' said poor
Mary, cheerfully, as she little knew to
what a crisis the baronet's admiration for
her sister was coming — nay, had come.
She knew nothing of the scene in the conservatory
and other minor scenes, of the
present of jewellery, of utterances and

promises. She believed the whole affair
was only a lovers' quarrel, stimulated by
jealousy on Robert's part, and vanity on
that of Ellinor ; and meantime she sympathised
with Mrs. AYodrow, and would have
done so with Robert had he been there,
but he was fully and painfully occupied
elsewhere at that precise time.

As children — as boy and girl, they may
have quarrelled, Mary ; but this affair will
be a serious one for both, for Robert
especially. His studies are neglected, his
appetite is gone, and he looks the ghost of
himself.'

Mary knew not what more to urge, as
she had seen, with some anxiety, Sir Redmond's
admiration of her sister, and said,
after a pause,

I wonder what manner of man Sir Redmond
is?'

Judging by the little I saw of him at
the garden-party — where the mischief
seems to have been done — not a goodman,

Mary dear — not a good man, though
a handsome one in his way, and to a young
girl, I doubt not, fascinating, Yet I would
rather see my daughter dead, if I had one,
than married to a man with eyes so cold,
so cruel and shifty.'

'But who is thinking of marriage?' said
Mary, with a slight laugh, little knowing
that it was a contingency as remote from
the thoughts of Sir Redmond as her own.

'And I don't think that Captain Colville
— for all that Dr. Wodrow seems
to like him so much — can be good in every
way if he has such a friend or companion
as Sir Redmond Sheath,' said the old lady,
shaking her head.

These provoking words haunted Mary
for weeks after, as the tormenting fragment
of a song or air will haunt us — not
because we like it, though it will recur
again and again. Then he had gone without
the formality of a farewell visit. Had
the Dunkcld ladies aught to do with that?

Mary's heart foreboded that they had.

Mrs. Wodrow was full of indication
at the worry and humiliation undergone
by her son, and even the doctor was not
disinclined to inveigh against o^arden-
parties and such-like gatherings, as his
ancestor did against theatres — ' those seminaries
of idleness, looseness, and sin,' as he
termed them in Analecta Scotia.

The peaceful current of the sisters' life
the life they led at bonnie Birkwoodbrae,
was soon to be roughly disturbed now,
and events were to occur which they could
never have foreseen.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE LAST APPEAL.

Robert Wodeow, on the afternoon referred
to in our last chapter, was, we have said,
eno:ao:ed elsewhere than at the manse, and
yet he was not very far away.

Incidents-trivial at the time had now
recurred with convincing and accumulating
force to his feverish mind on one
hand; on the other, he feared that he
might have been too hasty in his condemnation,
and too summary in his suspicions,
in quitting the party at Craigmohr as he
had done ; yet lieve were these two all the
time he had missed them, and what was
the subject of their discourse while he had

been lingering amid the gay groups in the
sunshine, and was grotesquely tortured by
the music of the band ?

And the token he had prayed for had
not been accorded ! How he loathed the
little world in which he lived ; how he
longed to eschew everyone there, and get
far away from the Birds of Invermay, for
to see Ellinor among these nth another,
and that other 'the slimy Sheath,' as he
thought, would drive him mad.

To think of Ellinor — to meet and hans:
about her ; to anticipate her every wish
and want, so far as lay in this humble
power, had been for years — in the intervals
of his hard studies — the daily occupation
of Robert Wodrow's life ; and now all this
was at an end; his ' occupation,' like
Othello's, seemed gone.

Knowing that Mary was at the manse,
he thought he would find Ellinor at home
alone, and he was right, so he ventured
near Birkwoodbrae to make a ' last appeal ;'

and yet even in this he had been, to a
certain extent, interfered with by his rival

The latter, well aware of the time when
Mary Wellwood was generally abroad
among her poor people, or otherwise employed,
had sent his valet, John Gaiters —
a well-trained rascal — with a beautiful
bouquet and a perfumed note to Elinor.

In the note he urged her by every
means in her power to preserve secrecy
close as the grave concerning the terms on
which they were, lest his expectations
might be destroyed, and-smith them her
own ; and then he pressed her to meet him
at a certain point near the Linn on the
May, at a given time, when he would tell
her more.

This missive was curiously and most
warily worded to be the production of one
who professed to be such an ardent lover.
It did not bear even his signature, but
only his initials mysteriously twisted into
a species of monogram. To one more

worldly wise or less foolish than Ellinor,
some doubts would have been inspired by
its tenor alone, but she had none, and
simply felt joy and tumult in her breast.

She clasped the golden locket round her
neck, and A\ith brightness spreading over
her sweet face, contemplated herself in a
hand mirror, while indulging in day-dreams
of her future as Lady Sheath, being
driven in a splendid carriage to Buckingham
Palace, or down St. James's Street,
With bare shoulders in broad daylight,
with a train some yards long and diamonds
in profusion, to be presented at the
drawing-room in the gloomy old palace of
the Tutors, surrounded by handsome fellows
in snowy uniforms, who murmured
compliments about her beauty.

Had '■ dear Redmond ' not described to
her, too, something of the life they would
lead together? Returning from Tyburn
and Belgravian balls at 6 a.m., breakfasting
at mid-day, and then going for ' a

VOL. T. P

spin ' in the Row, where cavaliers would
surround her, or canter by her side and
beg for waltzes at Lady A.'s and the
Countess of B.'s. Then dress again fora
flower fete at the Botanical Gardens ; for
pigeon-shooting at Buckingham (wherever
that was — poor Ellinor had not the ghost
of an idea !) Sunday at the Zoo, and a
dinner at the ' Star and Garter,' or it might
be at the ' Trafalgar ' in Greenwich, which
she supposed to be one of H.M.' ships.

Suddenly, amid visions such as these,
unheard or unannounced, Robert Wodrow
stood before her, hat in hand, and in his
eyes, keen and dark grey, a brooding light
that boded evil to some one !

He was pale almost to ghastliness, and
her eyes drooped, as if a weight oppressed
their full white lids when they met his
fixed gaze. However, he took her proffered
hand mechanically, and then she tried
to talk gaily, not knowing what she said ;
but the talk proved a miserable failure.

How he longed to take her in his arms
once again ; to kiss her glossy brown hair,
her damask cheek, her rosy lips ; to implore
her to love him still and share his
humble future ! But no ; it would be
more cowardly to take any advantage then
of any passing remorse she might feel ;
and better was it, perhaps, that she should
marry this other man, if he really loved
her, and forget — if she could — that there
was such a poor fellow as Robert Wodrow
in the secluded world she would leave
behind her ; and he said something of this
to her in faltering accents, and for a time
the heart of Elinor faltered too — but fora
time only.

The new vision was too bright to fade
quickly away !

I am eating my heart out with sorrow
and uncertainty — I am sick of suspense,
Elinor,' he said, after a pause ; ' our happy
meetings, our walks, our talks, our plans

p2

for the future — are they all as nothing to
you now, Ellin or?'

'That is it, Robert,' she said, making a
prodigious effort to be calm and cool;
you see, Robert, we have been so much
together.'

All our days, Elinor !'

'■ Too much so — yes, all our days ; so it
never struck me that — that '

'What, darling?'

You cared for me in that way.'

Indeed ! Your doubts come too late.'

Or I might have learned to care too,'
she said, with confusion.

You did love me, and care for me too,
before that fellow Sheath came among us,'
said Robert, gloomily ; for it seemed hard
indeed that, after the happiness of their
boyhood and girlhood, after all the budding
hopes of riper years, under this man's
new and hateful influence, she made liszt
of him and his love — mocked him, it
seemed, laughed at him for being so foolish

to care for her 'in that way,' as she
phrased it.

Robert,' said she, after a pause, ' why
be so angry about a little flirtation ?'

She spoke deprecatingly, and her face
wore a sickly smile.

'To flirt was never your wont, and I
have read that the essence of flirting is
that it is a stolen pleasure, the future
results of which cannot be foreseen.'

It would be tame between such old
friends as you and I, Robert.'

'Tame indeed — and unnatural,' said he,
huskily.

His eyes, which hitherto had been fixed
upon her colourless face, now fell upon the
ornament she was wearing — an ornament
he had never seen before ; and from its
apparent value his heart too surely foreboded
who the donor was ; yet he disdained
to refer to it, though he said, upbraidingly,


Oh, Ellinor, how I have loved, and still

love yon, is known only to Heaven and
myself; yet never again shall my hand
touch yours ; never again my arm go round
you ; never more shall my lips touch yours,
though yearning — oh, God only knows
how intensely — lono^ino; to do so once
again — only once again !'

She evinced no sign of a truce in this
position, and was devoutly hoping that
Robert Wodrow would adopt some other
role than that of lover.

Robert,' she said, nervously, ' are we
not friends ?'

'No;

Can we not be friends again ?'
friends! How can you ask me? It
was, you well know, always understood,'
he continued, making an effort to be calm,
that when I could afford to marr', you,
Ellinor, would be my wife. Why take all
my love and give me back not an atom
now ?'

She accorded no answer.

^ You have ceased to be true to me. I
have known and felt it for weeks past,' he
continued, ' and yet I cannot regain my
freedom of heart.' .

Her head was weary, but her heart was
beating wildly and painfully ; and Robert's
eyes, as he surveyed her with all their
sadness of expression, were expressive of
the fondest love.

Never before had these two spoken or
confronted each other with bitterness of
heart until now, and each felt that for the
other all was over, and that the tender
past, 'the grace of a day that was dead,'
would never come again.

Robert, I have always hated the idea ot
being poor,' urged Ellinor, as if to extenuate
herself, ' and with you, a young, struggling,
country practitioner, supposing the
summit of your ambition won, I should
never be otherwise. Pardon me,' she

added, recalling the Alnascliar visions his
visit had interrupted, ' if I speak unkindly.'


Say, rather, cruelly, and you A\ill be
nearer the truth, Ellinor Welhvood ; yet I
am sorry for you.'

• Be not so, Robert. I repeat that I
would never be happy poor — now,' she
added, involuntarily.

'You have made that discovery since
this interloper came !'

She was silent, but her silence was assent,
and he took it as such.

Not happy even at dear old Kirkwood
or the home I meant to provide close
by it ?' he said, reproachfully.

Be reasonable, Robert ; happen what
may, we can always be dear friends.'

Friends — again !' he exclaimed, sternly;
*you and I, Ellinor?'

Then his manner changed, for the greatness
of his love made him very humble, and
he said.

Do you know what you are doing — do
you fully think of it even ? You cannot
love this man, Ellinor, whom, I suppose,
you are going to marry, as you loved me.'

marriage, Robert!' said she, blushing
deeply now ; ' how fast your thoughts run.'

How ?'

If that is to be, it is in the future, of
course — but just now '

She paused with some confusion, as she
thought of the injunctions laid by Sheath
upon her.

'You cannot love him?'

Perhaps not quite exactly yet, Robert,'
replied Ellinor, not knowing really what
to say, and feeling some shame at
the part she was acting ; ' but think of
his position, and the place he can give
me — a poor, almost penniless, girl — in
society.'

And in that place you expect to be
happy ?'

1 shall have substantial surrounds for

happiness, and I think, Robert dear, 3'ou
wish me well.'

'Heaven knows I do, though you are
learning fast to forget. Search your heart,
Ellinor,' he continued, piteously ; ' think
over our past, darling — of our mutually
anticipated future, in which each seemed
to see only the other. Against reason,
hope, and all I hear I cannot forget, and
hence I love you — love you still, Ellinor.'

He stretched out his hands to her, and
his eyes grew very dim.

For a moment she was tempted to throw
herself upon his loving breast, and there
sob out her remorse and seek his forgiveness
; but the demons of pride and ambition
ruled her heart too strongly now, and
she withheld or crushed the emotions of
pity and generosity that so fleetly inspired
her.

When that emotion came again they
were far apart, and it came too late — too
late !

How this last meeting might have ended
it is difficult to say ; but Robert Wodrow,
thinking it was useless to protract the
agony he felt, pressed his tremulous lips
to her right hand, and, without trusting
himself to look again in her face, swiftly
withdrew, and quitted the house.

Poor Robert ! She was indeed sorry for
him — sorry that the old friendly relations,
as she strove to deem them now, should be
broken up. ' They had been such chums '
Robert, more justly, deemed it 'lovers'
in the dear past time that would never
could never — come again !

Better a thousand times, if it was to be,
that they parted now, and that it Alas overall
over and done with, thought Elinor,
after a time.

Amid all this there was a strange and
conflicting — a mysterious foreboding in
her mind, that by casting off the honest
love of Robert Wodrow she might be entailing
future misery on herself.

The last appeal had been made, and,
though in vain, young Wodrow did not
regret that he had made it, but he feared
that Ellinor might be following a shadow
and missing the substance. So true it is
that Hhe golden moments in the stream
of life rush past us, and we see nothing
but sand; that angels come to visit us,
and we only know them when they are
gone.'

CHAPTER XIV

GRETCHEN AND FAUST.

sand you have quarrelled with poor
Robert?' said Mary, somewhat reproachfully,
to her sister.

Nay — not quarrelled, exactly replied
Elinor.

'What, then?'

Agreed to part.'

After— a//; oh, Elinor !'

'All what?'

Well, you know what I mean.'

We have always been in the habit of
calling each other by our Christian names,
and by pet names, too, such as Robbie
and Ellie — a bad system — and — and — in

fact, you know, Mary, we regarded each
other rather as brother and sister than as

-as-

Lovers — and in this new view of the
situation you are no doubt influenced by
Sir Redmond Sheath ?'

Perhaps,' replied Elinor, doggedly, as
she watched the hands of the clock.

If he means honourably — and he dare
not mean otherwise — you are perhaps
worldly-wise. But poor Robert !'

The exclamation, though uttered low,
found an echo in the heart of Ellinor.
Yet she was inexorably intent on keeping
her invited appointment, of which Mary
had not, of course, the least suspicion.

I do not like Sir Redmond,' said Mary,
with a tone of decision.

Why ?' asked Ellinor, changing colour.

^ He never looks me straight in the face,
and at times, with all his insouciance he
can do nothing but tug out his moustache,
as if to show off his white, useless hands.

He certainly has hung about you, Ellinor,
more than I — considering; our friendless
and lonely position — have quite relished.'

Not perhaps more than Captain Colville
has hung about you, Mary,' retorted Ellinor,
softly ; ' and I may as well admit
that Sir Redmond always speaks to me of
his love, and has asked me to love him in
return.'

He has done this ?' exclaimed Mary,
grooving pale.

Yes,' replied Elinor, kissing her sister,
perhaps to hide her own face.

Has he asked you to be his wife ?'

The look of unrest — sorrowful unrest —
she had detected more than once in Ellinor's
face crept over it now. The latter
cast her sweet eyes down and made no
reply, as in this important matter she was
as yet tongue-tied.

'Be wary — be wary, pet Ellinor, for it
has been truly said that common-sense
and honesty bear so small a proportion to

folly and knavery that human life at least
is but a paltry province.'

*Is this out of one of Dr. Wodrow's
sermons ?' asked Ellinor, with some annoyance.
^ Surely I am the best judge of
what is for my own happiness.'

Perhaps ; but remember the proverb,'
said Mary, thinking of the absent Colville
and fading hopes. 'Happiness is like an
echo which answers to the call, but does
not come.'

'What an old croaker it is !' said Ellinor,
as she laughingly kissed her sister again
and slipped away from her.

She re-read Sir Redmond Sheath's letter
the first love-letter she had ever received,
if we except the sorrowful and
upbraiding epistle from Robert Wodrow.
It seemed orthodox enough, as it began
My darling,' but had no genuine signature,
and there was very little devotion
expressed in it, and was brief and curt.

Perhaps Sir Redmond disliked letter-writing

— most men do ; but there seemed
something wanting in this letter — something
she could not define, and the lack of
which she felt and sighed over. Were
Mary's words of warning affecting her ?
It almost seemed so ; but she put the
document carefully away in the most
secret recess of her desk, and hastened to
hold the meeting it solicited — and like the
Gretchen of Goethe hastening to meet
Faust, took her way to the trysting-place
near the Linn, and long after in Elinor's
mind was the sound of the May, as it
poured over the steep cascade, associated
with this meeting and all the pain it
caused her.

When she arrived. Sir Eedmond was not
there, and was ungallantly late in keeping
his appointment ; but he and Lord Dun-held
had lately betaken themselves to sling
away the evenings at ecarte, though
the baronet had a way of turning a king
that would have made the fortune of any-vol.

I. , Q

one compelled to pluck wealthy pigeons.

He came just when Ellinor was very
much disposed to pout, and framed the
most humble of apologies, as he was resolved
to lose no time in carrying out his
nefarious plans in absence of the Guardsman,
who seemed to have — he knew not
why, unless for evil schemes of his own —
a mysterious interest in these two girls, of
one of whom he stood somehow rather in
awe.

Pressing Ellinor close to his heart, with
her face nestled in his neck, he told her
why he had asked for this meeting, and
what he had now to propose for their own
happiness, and that to deceive his wealthy
uncle, from whom their marriage must be
kept a secret— there could be no public
ceremony — no notice in the newspapers,
more than all !

Dare you trust yourself to me, darling
Elinor, and marry me privately ; and then
then, before spring comes, assuredly — '

My heart recoils from such treachery
to Mary — from all this secrecy ; is it — can
it be necessary ?' asked the girl, weeping.

Most necessary for our future, if it is
to be a brilliant one, as I have no doubt
you wish,' he continued, caressing her,
and then added, with a sophistry that
would have been plain to anyone less
simple or less easily deluded than Ellinor,
^ I am quite prepared to acknowledge our
marriage to all the world, provided it does
not, as it must not, reach my uncle's ears.'

I have heard that trusting to Providence
in the shape of elderly relations is
often fatal,' said Ellinor, with a sickly
smile.

I shall get a special licence, if that will
satisfy you, Ellinor darling !' he urged,
ignorant of the fact that in Scotland such
a document was unknown, and that there
the Archbishop of Canterbury had no more
power than ' General Booth.'

He left nothing unsaid to play upon her

q2

weakness, but it was long before he could
obtain a half silent consent from her, and,
ere he did so, more than once an ugly
gleam came into his eyes.

Though not unhandsome, the face of
Sir Redmond was not always a pleasant
one to look upon. A certain force about
it there was, and those who watched it
felt that its owner was not a man to be
trifled with in anything that touched his
self-interest or his evil purposes ; that he
was a man ready for emergencies and heedless
of obstacles if he had an end in view.

Like a character recently described by
a novelist, ' his great weapon was his inflexible
will, aided by the reputation he
had achieved of never allowing himself to
be defeated. I need not say that he held
women in the most supreme contempt, and
openly expressed his opinion that every
woman had her price. The only merit he
assumed was in knowing; the exact article
of barter each had set her heart on.'

Such Alas the pleasant personage who
had supplanted Robert Wodrow, and even
while he was softly caressing the girl and
subjecting her to his endearments, he was
thinking of the time to come — the time
when she would find herself separated
from her loving sister, her only tie on
earth — alone in the world, penniless and
in his power, her character and position
utterly lost, and when none would believe
her most solemn protestations of innocence
; then would be his hour of supreme
triumph, when, like a bruised and wounded
bird, she would come fluttering to him for
succour and protection, and when he might
be generous, and make her over to ' that
yahoo, Robert Wodrow.'

I shall have a splendid house in which
to enshrine you when the time comes and
I am free,' continued the tempter ; ' you,
my darling, have known no home but this
sequestered one — apart from all the world
a world of which you know nothing.'

And poor Mary — how can I leave her T

Nor need you do so — once we are away
and have been made one we shall send for
her ; it will only be the matter of a post or
two. I shall so love and cherish you both,'
urged Sheath, half laughing in his mind at
the conviction that she would never see
Mary again until — well, until he was tired
of her. ' Courage, little one, and you will
be Lady Sheath — it is a second edition of
the miller's lovely daughter.'

I am not quite so humble as she was,'
said Ellinor, making a little moue.

Nor I so exalted as the " gracious
Duncan." To-morrow night, then, dearest
Ellinor, at this hour — nine o'clock, I shall
await you with a hired carriage at the
corner of the lane below Birkwoodbrae,
and a short drive will take us to the station
where we shall get the up train for London
and the south !'

Ellinor answered only by her tears, and
the silently-accorded kiss that gave consent,

and went shuddering back to her home,
feeling as if she was hovering on the verge
of an abyss.

And she was so in more ways than one !

CHAPTER XV.

HOW FAUST SUCCEEDED.

The day, an eventful one, indeed, to Elinor
— wore on ; the ' tomorrow night ' of
Sir Redmond's arrangements had become
to-night,' and the horn' of nine seemed to
be approaching swiftly.

Mary's warnings to Elinor to ' be wary
recurred to the latter persistently and
reproachfully, yet she never wavered or
swerved from her purpose, though with
reference to marriage there came to her
memory the words of a writer who says
it is a solemn thing when you come to
think of it, that if you make a mistake in
the matter you are in for it, and nothing
can pull you out again.

Ellinor's ambition was, as we have
shown, dazzled on one hand, while love
and novelty lured her on the other. Her
heart was wrung by the duplicity with
which she was treating her sister, and the
contemplation of what that sister's emotions
would be when she was missed ; but
Sheath's brilliant promises and visions of
the future that was before them, deadened
the sense of the present for a time. .

She wrote a farewell letter to Mary,
which the latter would in time find on her
toilet table.

The first step is taken now, I cannot
retrace it,' thought Ellinor, as she closed
this letter, a very incoherent and blurred
one ; ' and now to begone — to steal away
without seeing darling Mary, whom I could
not look in the face.'

Nervously and hurriedly she went
through her drawers and repositories, selecting
and thrusting into a hand-bag those
articles which she thought were necessary

for her journey or flight. Now and then
something turned up which reminded her
of happy past hours, of Mary's love, and
their parents' memory ; she gazed with
tear-banded eyes on some faded photographs,
and kissed them passionately as if
she could neither look on them Ions: enough
nor part with them.

At last her assortment was made, and,
fearful of meeting Mary, she threw on her
hat and cloak, grasped her bag, slipped
softly from the house by a back way,
and passing through the old doorway nth
the date and legend on its lintel, went
quickly towards the place of meeting, with
her heart beating wildly, painfully, and all
her pulses tingling.

The anxiety — the craving that had possessed
her at times to get away from the
reproachful eyes of Robert Wodrow and
the upbraiding speeches of his mother, was
about to be relieved now ; for under the
mal-influence of Sheath the girl's nature

seemed to have been changed, but the last
words Mrs. Wodrow^ had said to her were
in her memory then : —

You took the love of my boy — the one
deep love of his life it seemed to be —
made a plaything of his heart, and then
cast it aside to break and wither, it maybe
to die !'

Anyone who saw Elinor at this juncture
would have found a curious rigidity
in the usually soft outline of her sweet
face, and a perplexed and troubled expression
in her hazel eyes as she walked
onward, feeling it was not yet too late to
return.

But she had passed her word, plighted
her troth, given her promise to this man,
and why should she not redeem her
pledge? She was leaving a homely and
dull, a grey and sequestered, if perfectly
peaceful life, for the new and brilliant
one to be shared with him, dio loved her
so well, and she would fulfil her contract.

Some — no doubt many — there would be
wbo might have no pity for the rash imprudence
of a motherless girl yielding to
the temptation given her and eloping thus ;
and her name, her story, and her transgression,
in many a false version, might be
bandied from lip to lip, a conviction that
galled and fretted her naturally proud
spirit ; but the consciousness of all this
was inferior to a sense of what she knew
Mary would feel, on finding herself deceived
thus and left alone — alone to face the
scandal, gossip, esclandre, and reprehension
to which her act would give rise ; and
the knowledge gave Ellinor acute mental
agony.

She had been that morning at the
churchyard, as if to bid her parents farewell
in spirit, and saw the last chaplets
that she and Mary had woven lying on
their graves, all withered now, and she had
marvelled when flowers from her hands
would be laid there again.

T

All was still around her now ; she could
hear, however, the voice of Mary's tame
owl in its nest in the garden wall, and the
rush of the May over its rocky bed.

When might she hear that familiar
sound in the sweet moonlight again ? Ay
Ellinor, when ?

Perfectly cool and audacious Sir Redmond
Sheath was at the appointed place
betimes, and though an intrigue or adventure
of this kind was nothing ncAV to him
his heart was certainly beating faster than
usual under his well-cut coat as he quitted
the hired brougham at the end of the lane
which diverged from the highway towards
Birkwoodbrae.

The moon, a sickly and slender one,
was waning, and the chill, pale light of its
crescent cast the shadows of the tall silver
birches across the pathway as he picked
his way forward to where the outline of
the house at Birkv/oodbrae came before
him, with its grey walls and endows half

covered by masses of monthly roses and
Virginia creepers. The house and all
around it seemed still as the grave. He had
come betimes, we say, and was thus at his
post a little before Ellinor came forth to
meet him.

He heard no sound and saw no sign, and
to him seconds seemed like minutes —
minutes hours. Could anything have
happened? Had Mary baffled the plans
of Ellinor, or had the courage of the latter
failed her at the last moment ? He had
known of such things ; and there was a
curious suppressed gleam — a latent glitter
in his cold blue eyes that would not have
been pleasant to see.

He heard the house clock strike the
hour of nine, and just as the last stroke
sounded he saw the waving of a dress and
of a white skirt, the wearer of which
turned into the lane, and he smiled as
such men smile over the triumph of their
own selfishness and heartlessness ; but now

Ellin or, for she it was, paused in her
approach, for something between a yell
and a hoarse oath escaped Sir Redmond,
Mended with fierce growling, and he felt
as if his right leg had been caught in the
sharpest of satraps.

True to the instincts of hate and vengeance
for more than one kick administered
by Sheath, Jack, the bull terrier, who
had been upon the prowl, had caught the
baronet by the calf of the leg and held
him fast !

Now, whether it was a docs, a cat, a
hare, or a rabbit on which Jack fastened,
he never relaxed his hold while life remained
in his victim ; and so, after tearing
Sir Redmond's trousers from heel to
waistband. Jack's sharp teeth were closed
nigh to meeting in the muscles of his
enemy's right leg.

And well might Ellinor pause in wonder
and affright as she shrank under the
shadow of a hedge, for to the fierce imprecations

of Sir Redmond, and the angry
snarling of the dog, were added the swearing
of the valet, John Gaiters, and the
shouts of the brougham driver.

By the time the dog let go and trotted
leisurely to the house, there was nothing
left for Sir Redmond and his two attendants
but an ignominious retreat, and they
drove oiF accordingly.

To Sheath it was a matter for the fiercest
exasperation that his carefully matured
and well-laid scheme to entrap a beautiful
and well-nigh friendless girls scheme on
the very verge of its fruition — had been
baffled, and baffled so absurdly, so grotesquely,
and with so much physical
agony, by san accursed cur vv^hich he
would yet shoot like a rat,' as he hissed
through his clenched teeth.

And Sheath was, strange to say, the
more furious because he had meditated a
perfidy towards Ellinor.

Terror of the dog's bite and probable

hydrophobia made her would-be lover
nearly beside himself. He came no more
near Birkwoodbrae, so, for the present, she
was safe from him. His pedestrianism was
effectually marred for several days, and
even had he been able to concoct any
fresh nefarious scheme, events were about
to occur at Birkwoodbrae beyond the conception
of all.

However, on the day of the projected
elopement, he had made all his arrangements
for leaving; Craio;mhor, and, having;
formally bade adieu to Lord Dunkeld's
household, he could not return, and had
to carry out his plans for travelling south
without the fair companion whom he intended
should accompany him. In the
snug comfort of a Pullman car he gave
loose to the rage and mortification naturally
inspired by his most humiliating and
grotesque defeat. He drank heavily, and
there was a fiendish expression of determination
in his face that terrified even his

VOL. I. R

usually stolid valet, Mr. John Gaiters.

Thouo:li she heard the shrill voice of
Elspat crying,

Oh, Miss Wellwood, Jack's been up to
mischief — fighting with something ; his
jaws are all over nth blood !'

Ellinor knew not precisely what had
happened : she only felt that all was over,
how or why she knew not ; but a revulsion
of feeling took possession of her, a
flood of tears relieved her, and on her
knees by her bedside she thanked Heaven
for her escape !

CHAPTER XVI.

EVIL TIDINGS.

That night before retiring to rest, when
seated near Mary, and affecting to read
to Ellinor quietly by the light of a pleasantly
shaded lamp, all the stirring and
startling events of the recent hour or two
seemed a kind of dream — an unreality —
though the illusion was apt to be dispelled
by Mary's wondering surmises as to what
Jack had been fighting with, and who
made all the noise prior to the dog's return
with somewhat ensanguined teeth and
jaws !

Ellinor, as she looked furtively from time
to time at Mary's sweet and placid face,

ii

with its downcast looks and soft, yet firm
expression, felt inclined to cast herself on
her breast and confess all the story of the
late escape. But her heart failed her ; it
was too full of shame for her duplicity,
with doubt, bewilderment, and a strange
kind of hope in the future.

Her day-dreams, as we have described
them, were too bright and too recent to
be quite dispelled or abandoned yet.

And both sisters were quite unaware
that they owed the fact of their being
placidly seated as usual together at that
time to Jack the terrier, who lay asleep
with his head resting on Mary's feet, yet
snarling; from time to time and shows:
his teeth ; for he was dreaming — as dogs
will dream — of his late encounter and
revenge. For though Jack had snarled
fiercely when assailed by Gaiter's foot and
the driver's whip, he had made his first
attack Smith that savage and insidious
silence' which, as Bell in his British

quadrupeds says, indicate the character
of the bull-dog ; and, though called a fox-terrier,
the gallant Jack had a strong cross
of the bull in him.

Betimes next morning Ellinor sought
the spot where she was to have met Sir
Redmond. There the wayside grass was
bruised, torn, and spotted with blood,
which the dew of the August night had
failed to wash away, and there lay a half-smoked
cigar and a gentleman's kid glove.
On the latter. Jack, who accompanied her,
nth cocked ears and tail, and with his
bandy legs looking more impudent and
confident than usual, pounced with a snort
of triumph, and tore it to shreds with his
teeth and paws, thus giving Ellinor the
first light she had on last night's mystery.

There were marks close by where horses'
hoofs had been planted, and the deep ruts
of carriage wheels — a carriage brought for
her ; all silent witnesses that Sir Redmond
had been there !

And all this had happened but last
night — exactly twelve hours ago ; yet it
looked as if a score of years had passed
since she stole silently from her room and
approached the shaded lane !

Troubles and hopes always look brighter
by day than by night, in sunshine than
under clouds and rain : so Ellinor beofan
to consider the Avhole affair with more
composure.

To her it had seemed that, 'although
love in a cottage is a very fine thing, love
in a Belgravian mansion was decidedly preferable
;' but all that just then seemed to
be over and done nth, when, during the
day, she heard incidentally through old
Elspat of Sir Redmond's sudden departure
from Craigmhor — the departure in which
she was to have shared !

She loved Sir Redmond with her head
only, and not with her heart ; and though
Robert Wodrow might not have quite

divined the difference, yet a difference in
such love there is.

And Ellinor as she reflected, vowed to
herself that never again would she risk
the loss of position as Colonel Wellwood's
daughter (even to be a baronet's wife), or
place herself so foolishly in a comparative
stranger's power, till he was free to claim
and wed her, despite relations and wealth.

Little did the simple Ellinor know the
reality of the escape she had so narrowly
made from the pitfall prepared for her.
Vce viclis ! is the watchword of civilisation,'
says a writer ; ' a trustful, loving
girl succumbs to the artifices of a scoundrel,
and society punishes her by averting
the light of its countenance from her,
while the man who has committed a crime
only next to murder in atrocity is let off
scot-free. And so the world wags, my
venerable masters ! and it is a jolly one,
take it at its worst aspect.'

Ignorant of the baffled elopement, of
course, and perhaps of Sir Redmond's departure
from the neighbourhood of Inver-may,
Robert Wodrow, intent on jA^ns of
his own, came near Ellinor no more, and
seemed to ignore her existence.

And, strange to say, ere long she became
indignant that he made no sign or advance
; while rumour said he was perhaps
going away, no one knew whither. There
has seldom been a woman who liked to see
a once avowed lover slip from her grasp ;
and Robert Wodrow certainly had been
Ellinor's lover till the serpent entered her
paradise in the shape of rank and
ambition.

But we are somewhat anticipating the
events of the day subsequent to her
intended flight.

Mary, after evening fell, and having
been round among some of her poor
people, was seated somewhat thoughtfully
alone, and seemed to have lost most of her

usual buoyancy of spirit. Was it a prevision
of coming evil, she thought, or the
result of the weather ? The sun had sunk
like a red, glowing ball behind the hills,
and there was in the air an extraordinary
stillness which produced a depressing
effect upon her spirits.

The recent visits of Captain Colville and
Sir Redmond Sheath, on the one hand, and
the cold and haughty demeanour of Lady
Dunkeld and her daughter, on the other,
had begun to impress upon her the necessity
for making a change in their little
household, and having some pleasant,
motherly, and elderly lady to reside nth
them as a chaperone ; and her mind was
full of thought on this matter when Dr.
Wodrow was announced. She welcomed
him with pleasure, as usual, all unaware
that he was the bearer of tidings that
would render all her plans for the future
unavailing !

He noticed the cloud on Mary's face

through her smile of welcome, and, taking
her hand kindly in his own, he said,

Mary dear, is there anything you particularly
dread?'

How strange that you should ask me
this,' replied Mary, ^ for I am rather
ashamed to say that I feel as if something
of evil were about to happen — but the
emotion is vague and undefined.'

Then you believe in presentiments?'

I do — sometimes — do not you, Dr.
Wodrow?'

I am afraid I do,' said he, with increasing
kindness and gravity of manner. ' So
Robert and Ellinor have completely quarrelled?'


I fear so.'

George Eliot says that " Every man
who is not a monster, a mathematician, ora
moral philosopher is the slave of some
woman or other." But I came not to speak
of Robert, poor fellow, but of something
concerning yourself.'

Of me !' said Mary, startled by the
grooving gravity of his manner.

Yourself and Ellinor ! I have wanted
much to see you all day, my dear.'

'Why?'

I have news for you.'

Good news or bad?'

Bad, I grieve to say, my dear bairn,'
said he, as he paused again with something
pitiful in his handsome old face, while
Mary's colour changed, and her heart
began to beat quicker with pain and apprehension.


Have you had a letter from a Mr. Luke
Sharpe?'

No— who is he ?'

A lawyer — a writer to the signet in
Edinburgh — who is the legal agent of your
cousin Wellwood.'

What is all this to me — to us ?'

Your uncle is dead. Your cousin is
the next male heir — heir of entail — so
Birkwoodbrae, and everything else of

which your uncle died possessed that is
entailed, goes to him, and you and Elinor
can reside here no longer — so Mr. Sharpe
has written me.'

He evidently said this with an effort —
with manifest difficulty, and as if he dreaded
to look in the face of Mary, who for
some moments felt as if stunned, and gazed
at the lawyer's letter, which he placed
before her, as she would at a serpent, and
scarcely taking in its meaning.

'Understand me, child. Your father's
elder brother, who permitted you to live
unmolested here — as Birkwoodbrae Alas
but a moiety of the entailed property — is
dead, and young Wellwood, the guardsman
of whom Captain Colville spoke so often,
claims all.'

And we must go away?' said Mary, ina
low, strange, wailing voice, all unlike
her own.

Away — yes — but where ?'

God only knows !'

And as she spoke the girl wrung her
slender interlaced fingers, while the old
minister kindly patted her head, as he had
often done in her childhood. After a
pause, Mary said, in a voice broken more
than once by a hard dry sob,

Our uncle in Australia would seem to
have died months ago according to this
letter, yet we only hear of the event now.'

Yes.'

And we have been living here in another
person's house, though we deemed it
our own — another person's, and not thinking
of rent?' she added, bitterly.

Yes.'

Mary thought the doctor took the matter
somewhat placidly, and felt indignation
mingle with her grief.

And for the roof that covered us, Elinor
and I have actually been indebted for
months to our cousin Wellwood, the cold-blooded
son of a cold-blooded father, who
died at feud with ours, and amid the whirl

of London life never troubled himself
about our existence, even when we were
left as orphan girls upon the world. So
we have been living here in dear, dear
Birkwoodbrae in a fool's paradise, after all
after all !' continued Mary, with going
bitterness of tone and heart.

" The paradise of fools — to few unknown,"
as Milton has it,' said the doctor,
sententiously.

To turn us out of Birkwoodbrae is nothing
less than the most cruel injustice !'
resumed Mary, with anger.

But legal. It is the law of entail.'

Birkwoodbrae is twice as valuable now
as it was when poor papa settled here
some twenty years ago, and he and we
have made it so. It is hard, it is bitter,
our home — our dear home — we have known
no other ; and so near where they lie — papa
and mamma — so near this house in which
I closed their eyes.'

I doubt not that if your cousin

Wellwood were properly appealed tone

should die rather than appeal to
him !' interrupted Mary, impetuously,
Awhile stamping her little foot upon the
floor. ' To do so would be enough to
make papa turn in his grave. Though
Birkwoodbrae is inexpressibly dear to
Ellinor and to me. Papa used to say of
cousin Wellwood as a boy, though he
never saw him, that he was a puzzle to
the whole family.'

'How, Mary?'

Well, as — as — like a treacherous
cuckoo's egg that is dropped into a sparrow's
nest and becomes a puzzle to the
poor sparrow, which wonders and compares
it with her own little brood.'

What an odd simile, my dear,' said Dr.
Wodrow, his face actually rippling over
with a smile brighter than Mary relished
under the circumstances, and recalled the
aphorism of that unpleasant fellow, J. J.
Rousseau, that many people feel an internal

satisfaction at the troubles of even
their best friends.

Then you "will not trust a little to
humanity and to Wellwood ?'

Death were preferable, I repeat !' exclaimed
Mary, though her tears were falling
fast now.

Consider — blood is thicker than water,
among us in Scotland particularly.'

Ellinor and I will never stoop so low,'
replied Mary, alternately interlacing her
fingers in her lap, and mechanically caressing
the head of Jack, who had placed his
nose on her knee, and regarded her wistfully
with his great black eyes, as if he
knew instinctively that something distressed
his mistress by the expression of her face.

Well, what will be, will be !' said Dr.
Wodrow, from his fatalist or Presbyterian
point of view, as he cast his eye upward
to the ceiling.

Mary heard his voice as one hears in a
dream. The flies buzzed in the window

curtains, the last of the birds still twittered
about among the climbing creepers at the
open sash, the roses sent forth their fragrance
still, and the drooping foliage of
the silver birches was gently stirred by
the soft evening breeze.

The old clock ticked loudly on the
mantelpiece — unnaturally so — as Mary
thought it seemed to do 'when mamma
and papa died ;' but when the minister
urged again that she should attempt to
temporise,

No,' she exclaimed, emphatically, ' we
shall not accept a farthing or a farthing's
worth of what belonged to our common
ancestors. It would ill become Colonel
Wellwood's daughters to do so now.'

Lady Dunkeld, I doubt not, has great
influence with your cousin Well wood.'

She knows him, then ?'

Yes ; people in " Society," as it is
called, all know something of each other.'

And you would have me seek his in-vol.

I. s

terest through her ? Enough of this, dear
Dr. Woclrow. I think you should know
me better said Mary, covering her eyes
with white and tremulous fingers, as if
she would thrust back her tears.

The recognition of the inevitable inhuman
affairs often brings composure when
all else fails, we read somewhere,' said the
minister.

Whatever is, is doubtless best, and this
apparent stroke of evil fortune may — nay,
must be so,' said Mary ; ' yet it is hard to
bear just now — hard to bear.'

Dr. Wodrow retarded her bowed head
with a soft, kind, and admiring smile.

'All will come rio'ht in the end, dear
Mary,' said he, confidently, and then added,
almost laughingly, ' I am sure Captain
Colville's advice may prevail with you ;
and he will be back before I can return
from Edinburgh, whither I must go on the
morrow morning early.

Mary's pallor increased at the mention

of Captain Colville's name ; but she said,
firmly and doggedly,

He is the last man in the world whose
advice I would seek.'

But before the well-meaning old minister
came back from his journey the crisis
in the sisters' affairs seemed ended andover.


At last he was gone, and Mary sat for a
time in the tmlio'hted old dining-room as
one who was stunned or in a dream, while
the beloved and reverend figures of her
dead parents seemed once again to occupy
in fancy their favourite places by the
hearth.

The good old honest furniture of the
room was all of the ' old school,' and had
been familiar to her from her childhood ;
the vast sofa with its wide arms and cosy
cushions ; the dark mahogany sideboard
that was like a mural monument, with two
urn-like knife-boxes thereon, and over
which hung an old, old circular convex



mirror, surmounted by an eagle with a
glass ball in its beak. The horsehair
chairs were ranged in rank and file along
the wall ; and all these household features
spoke to Mary's heart so much of the past
and of home that the details of the room
gave her a sensation of acute agony, as
she caught them at a glance and covered
her face with her hands.

She tried to realise the new life — the
homeless life — that must lie before her and
Ellinor now, and the rocks, the shoals,
and pitfalls that too probably would be
ahead.

Her first emotion of relief — if it could
be called so — came when she shared her
grief with the startled Ellinor ; and far into
the August night sat the two crushed
creatures talking; over the storm-cloud
that had so suddenly enveloped them — a
cloud that must have descended at sometime,
though as yet they had not quite
foreseen it.

I cannot believe it — I cannot realise
it !' said they both, conjunctly and severally,
again and again, as they mingled
their tears and caresses together, each
clinging to the other as if for consolation
and help.

'What on earth will become of us!'
exclaimed Ellinor, pushing back the masses
of dark brown hair from her forehead.

We shall go away, and at once, in
search of a new home — a little nest somewhere
far away from all who know us,
Ellinor ; for the condolence, the wonder,
surmises, and pity of neighbours would
prove intolerable to me !' exclaimed Mary.
we shall have to put our shoulders to
the wheel, as poor papa used to say when
in money straits. I must turn my French
and music to account.'

And I my drawing,' said Ellinor.

Yes, dearest,' added Mary, kissing her,
'my few accomplishments will require
some brushing up, but your pencil is always

a ready one ; and people never know
what they can do till they try. But then,
Birkwoodbrae — dear, bonnie Birkwoodbrae
to think we shall never see it more !' exclaimed
Mary, relapsing into a storm of
ofrief ao^ain ; after which she became more
composed, and began resolutely to think of
the future that must be faced — the future
which would necessarily begin for them on
the morrow ; and as Mary was by nature
independent and self-reliant, as she thought
on the pittance left them by their father,
she said that, by God's help, they might
battle with the world yet ; and battle with
it too in London.

The human mind, it has been said, is
naturally pliable, and, provided it has the
most slender hope to lean upon, adapts
itself to the exigencies of fortune, especially
if the imagination be a gay and
luxuriant one.

The dreary night of their new and great
sorrow wore on till the small hours of the

morning came, and at last the sisters
slept ; and ' sleep is a generous robber that
gives in strength what it takes in time.'

So the worthy old minister had gone to
Edinburgh.

Mary conceived not unnaturally that
this visit to the Scottish metropolis meant
one to Mr. Luke Sharpe with reference to
her cousin Wellwood, and the monetary
affairs of herself and Elinor ; but she was
determined on having no temporising, no
patronage, or half-measure from that
quarter ; and resolved to leave Kirkwood
and to go forth to find another home
in another land, and to this end she began
restlessly, but resolutely, to take the
means at once.

Strange to say, Elinor, the romantic
and volatile, did not seemed so much cast
down after a time. She had her own
secret hopes, thoughts, and ambition, in
Which Mary had no share, or of which she
had no exact knowledge as yet ; but to the

latter to leave Birkwooclbrae, to see no
more the kind old folks at the cosy manse ;
to see no more her pensioners her feathered
pets, and flowers, the hills, the
glen, the rock bound stream, and the ' silver
birds ' that shaded it — to be far away from
all and everything that was dear — to lose,
more than all, the dawning love of her
young heart — was indeed a catastrophe
hitherto unlooked for, and at times her
soul seemed to die within her. But she
was more often in those moods to which
the young are said to be subject in time of
trouble — 'in which the existing alone seems

unendurable, and anything better than
what is'

CHAPTER Xiii.

may's preparations.

Greatly to the chagrin of Lady Dunkeld,
there seemed no chance of extracting a
proposal from Captain Orville, the rumour
of whose engagement to her daughter was
simply provincial gossip, and as for Sir
Redmond Sheath, for certain cogent reasons
of his own, perhaps he dared not make
one, even if dazzled by the fair Blanche
Galloway.

The invitation to Craigmhor seemed to
be a failure as yet, so far as the former
was concerned, for after the shooting
began on the 12th of August, when not
on the moors, he spent much of his tim

most provokingly immersed in correspondence
concerning the property to which he
had succeeded and his peerage claim —
both circumstances that greatly enhanced
his value in the eyes of such a matchmaking
mother as my Lady Dunkeld.

He vas often found closeted in consultation
with Doctor Wodrow, with whom he
seemed to stand high in favour, and it was
noted that they always separated in high
good humour ; so the supposition was, that
the latter was seeking the wealthy Guardsman's
good offices for his son Robert.
What other matter could they have in
hand ?

Lady Dunkeld was therefore not sorry
when Captain Colville took his temporary
departure to shoot in the forest of Alyth,
trusting to a change on his return.

If she had flattered herself that, amid
the somewhat secluded life all led at Craig-moor,
any fancy Colville had for Blanche
would speedily manifest itself, she was

doomed to disappointment — angry disappointment,
and worse ; for, if the stories
Mademoiselle Eosette told were true, the
captain had spent somewhat too much of
his time wandering, rod in hand, on the
banks of the May, and tarrying for afternoon
tea at Birkwoodbrae.

The result of all this was that Mary and
Elinor had become painfully conscious
that many who were their friends before
had now begun to view them coldly and
distantly, why or wherefore, in their innocence,
they knew not, because they were
ignorant of malevolent hints regarding
them dropped to chance visitors at Craig-moor,
by. elevation of the eyebrows, shrugs
of the shoulder, or the impatient wave of
a fan, if their names were mentioned ; the
ladies there — mother and daughter — were
leaving nothing undone to injure them in
the estimation of all, and even spoke of
them as ' young women who were above
doing their duty in that state of life

to which Providence had called them
A consciousness of all this added to
their new mortification, and increased their
anxiety to be gone, and they worked away
at their arrangements in a species of suppressed
excitement, and Dr. Wodrow was
still in Edinburgh.

It was neither a Sacramental Fast-day
nor a Sunday at Birkwoodbrae, yet a
strange stillness, as if death were there
again, brooded over all the place ; the
house with its roses and creepers, the
garden with its now untended flowers, the
empty meadow, and the lovely silver
birches; and poor Robert Wodrow, as
sadly he approached the house for the
last time, felt conscious of this as he
passed, and with a bitter sigh looked
around him.

Even Jack's bark was unheard ; the
scythe lay among the rich clover, the gate
that led to the highway stood wide open,
and near it lingered some cotta people,

with mouths agape, old and ^^oung, with
grave and anxious faces, even with tears,
for some of the young girls' ' belongings '
had already been sent away, the gazers
knew not where.

Something strange they thought had
come to pass, yet the sunshine of the first
of September lay golden on the woods, the
pastures, the cattle, and the flower-gardens,
though beneath was a great shadowlike
that of death over all, and Eobert
Wodrow, impressionable at all times, felt
it ; for the sisters were on the eve of departure,
and another day or two — so
quickly had Mary's preparations been made
would see all ended.

The bright sunshine of the autumn
evening was touching, we have said, with
fiery light the smooth silver stems of l^he
tall birch-trees, and the birds still sang
sweetly under the feather-like foliage that
hung gracefully downward, stirred by
the faintest breeze, when, looking from

an open window on the scene lie loved so
well, Mary Wellwood paused in the bitter
task of making up a list of their household
effects ere she left the roof of Kirkwood
for ever. After she was fairly gone,
a letter to Dr. Wodrow would inform lira
of all their wishes, she was thinking, when
suddenly Robert stood by her side, and put
an arm kindly round her.

Why, you will kill yourself with all
this work and anxiety ; dear Mary, let me
help you,' said he.

I am nearly done,' said she, wearily,
and with a quivering lip ; * there are but a
few relics, books and so forth, I wish to
keep '

Leave it with me ; save you, Mary, and
the old folks at the manse, I have no one
left to care for now.'

Poor Robert !' said she, kissing his
cheek, for she knew his meaning well.

No one can ^ minister to a mind diseased '
like a mother, it has been said ; but Mrs.

Wodrow, to her sorrow, had signally failed
to so minister to her son Robert.

And you have failed at the University,
Robert ?' said Mary, after a pause.

Utterly !'

How — and why ?'

I don't know — at the last moment,
somehow,' said he, despondently, looking
down on the carpet.

Ellinor, no doubt, was the cause r' said
Mary, softly.

He smiled bitterly, but made no reply.

You will try again, Robert dear ?' said
Mary, patting his hand.

'Never, Mary,' he replied, in a low,
husky voice ; ' God only knows how I toiled
and toiled, at botany, anatomy, and chemistry
— Balfour and Quain and Miller, and
with ivJiat object ; but I have taken my last
shot, and shall grind no more.'

And what do you mean to do, Robert ?'

Heaven knows — you will hear in time,
Mary.'

She eyed him wistfully and sorrowfully,
act then said,

After your quarrel with Ellinor '

Don't call it a quarrel, Mary — say coldness.
Well?'

It is very kind of you to take the trouble
to come here now.'

Kind — trouble ; why, what has come to
you, Mary, that you speak thus, and tome
? A farewell letter might have done,
but I — I preferred to come to the old place
once again.'

Pardon me, Robert, but I am so crushed
— so confused — that I scarcely know
wl]at I say.'

But is the step you are about to take
absolutely necessary, and in such hot haste
too?'

What step ?' asked Mary, as if to delay
trio bitterness of the admission.

Leaving Birkwoodbrae ! I can't make
out the mystery of it at all !'

*Alas! we must go; this house was

never ours — we dwelt here on sufferance ;
and the place is another's now — another
whom we know only by name and in family
feud;

Can it be that God's world belongs
only to rascals !' exclaimed young Wodrow,
bitterly.

Well, the rich and cruel seem to thrive
best, for a time at least,' said Mary, a
little infected by his mood.

But to go away so far — so far as London
?' he urged, with an air of bewilderment.


The further the better now, Robert.'

But the idea of making your own livelihood
in that awful human wilderness, you
and Ellinor, seems so strange — so perilous
and unnatural.'

Why so — don't thousands work?'

And starve and die of broken hearts !'

robert, you are not encouraging.'

I would that I could be so.'

We must make the attempt as others

VOL. I. T

do and have done. We are well-nigh penniless
now; without Birkwoodbrae and its
accessories we could not live alone on the
pittance poor papa left us, and here we
could not add a penny to it. I don't think
I am fit for much, Robert,' continued Mary,
sadly and humbly, with tears in her soft,
sweet eyes. * No one will give me a high-class
situation, my education has been so
very simple, and beyond a little music' —
her voice broke fairly now — 'and Ellinor's
pencil, she is very clever, you know '

I wish I could see this infernally grasping
cousin of yours !' surmised E-obert,
angrily and reflectively.

Don't think of it — I would not accepta
favour from his father's son ; for that
father was — through life — the enemy of
mine !' •

Why — and about what ?' asked Robert.

Some quarrel about a lady in their
youth, as subalterns, I believe.'

Oho — the old, old story !' said Robert,

gnawing his nether lip, and taking up his
hat, but lingering still.

You will see Elinor, Robert dear,' said
Mary, timidly and pleadingly. ' I can
call her from her room — it will be for the
last time.'

The cloud on young Wodrow's face
deepened, as he said, in a low voice,

No, Mary — thank you — I dare not —
would rather not see her again.'

Why ?' asked Mary, taking his hands
caressingly between her own.

All my love for her might — nay, would
break out for her with renewed force, for
I am in some ways weak and unstable of
purpose. Better not — better not — never
again — never again,' he muttered, huskily,
and Mary kissed him with her eyes full of
tears, for just then her heart was very
sore indeed.

Besides, Mary, I have schooled myself
for the future.'

And t\i?it future, Robert.'

T 2

You will learn in time. Curse that
fellow,' he suddenly exclaimed, his eyes
flashing, as he referred to Sheath, ' what
evil chance brought him among us here ?
How I can recall his eyes, alternately
sleepy and shifty, and the air of would-be
high-bred tolerance aud boredom with
which he condescended to survey us all
and everything here !'

In the gust of jealous anger that now
possessed him, Mary knew that it was useless
to urge again that he should see Elinor,
and after making her all offers of
assistance and proffers of kindness, he
strode suddenly away, muttering to himself
the lines of Edmonstone Aytoun.

Woman's love is writ in water,

"Woman's faith is traced in sand,
Backwards, backwards let me wander,
To the noble northern land.'

The little money that Mary could spare

from what she had been able to realise by

the hasty sale of two pet cows and the

stock of her fowl-yard, she bestowed, as far

as she could, upon Elspat and other old
servants, all of whom were bowed down
with wonder, grief and alarm at movements
and changes so unexpected ; and she
felt that she would be glad when the parting
with all — the final wrench —-was over.

Between her and these subordinates
there vas a closer bond of sympathy than
usually exists between mistress and servant
— even in Scotland — now-a-days, and
can scarcely be found south of the Tweed.
My English readers,' says an English
writer on this subject, ' will probably ridicule
such a feeling on the part of a servant,
for the majority of them are of the
belief that money is the only connecting
link of a household. So long as wages are
regularly paid and the ordinary meals
provided, a servant has only to do her
duty properly, and leaves it as utter a
stranger as when she entered it. There is
no obligation on either side, and, if she goes,
some one will be found to take her place.'

But it is not quite so yet iu the kindly
north country, especially the father north
we go ; for the influences of the old feudal
system, and of the still older and dearer
ties of clanship, linger among the hills
and glens, knitting all ranks and conditions
of men together, and long, long may
they continue to do so.

CHAPTER XVIII.

ON THE BRINK.

Of a more nervous organisation than Mary,
Ellinor, suffering from reaction of spirits
and a keen sense of all she had recently
undergone, was far from well, and, amid
the bustle of preparation for departure,
remained much in the seclusion of her
own room.

It was September now, we have said.
The autumnal weather and autumnal tints
had come somewhat early, and occasional
showers brought coolness and freshness to
the birchen woods, and pleasant odours
came from them and even from the dusty
highway and the parched meadows, where

the rich after-grass was ready for the
scythe, and the grouse on the Perthshire
hills had become but too fatally familiar
with the crack and clatter of the breech-loader
in the heathery glens.

Mary Wellwood had of late worked hard,
very hard, rising earlier and going to bed
later — so much so that her sweet face was
beginning to look thin and careworn, and
old Elspat remonstrated that she did not
give herself time to take her meals, but
^ was for ever think, think, thinking and
worrying over accounts and market-books.'

She had neither Dr. Wodrow nor Robert
to advise or assist her then. The former
was detained in Edinburgh on clerical or
other business, and the latter absented
himself for obvious reasons ; so Mars
worked alone, but no new or Stowing:
cares could change the sweet and grave
expression of her face or the calm steadfastness
of her violet eyes, yet a startled
expression certainly came into them when

one evening Captain Colville was suddenly
ushered in upon her, looking so handsome,
brown, and ruddy from exposure among
the hills.

There flashed upon Mary's mind the time,
but a short space ago, when she had been
thinking of a chaperone for herself and
Elinor : but all was changed since then,
and there would be no need of one now.

He had just returned that morning from
shooting in the forest of Alyth^ had heard
a rumour of their approaching departure,
which the half-dismantled aspect of the
drawing-room seemed to confirm. Why
was it so ?

He spoke so pleasantly and sympathetically
as he seated himself near her, and she
felt all the glamour of his proximity, of
his presence, and her breast heaved tumultuously
in spite of herself. She became
nervous, and her eyes suffused deeply.

'Tears, Miss Wellwood ?' said he, inquiringly.


We are going far away, Captain Colville
— leaving this place for ever.'

I have heard something of it ; but
why leave Birkwoodbrae?' he asked, smilingly.


Mary told him why.

And, on leaving, whither do you mean
to go ?'

London.'

Is that not a rash scheme ?'

When the will is strong the heart is
willing; and we never know what a day
may bring forth.'

He gazed down upon her tenderly, admiringly,
and, making a half effort to take
her hand, paused and said,

You surely did not mean to spend all
your life in this old tumbledown place,
Miss Wellwood?'

Don't call it tumbledown, please,' said
Mary.

I beg your pardon ; but '

It is very dear to me, as the place

There they lived and died,' interrupted
May, with a little break in her voice.

They— who ?'

Papa and mamma. It seems like yesterday
when he died in the room above
ns, and when he said in a low, weak voice
" Don't cry, Mary darling — don't cry so ;
our separation is only for a time ;" and
then added, "Is that the daybreak?"
*' No," said I. " It is— it is— and so bright T
he exclaimed, and then died. Oh, Captain
Colville, the light he saw must have been
that of the other world, for just as he expired
the clock struck midnight, and the
lamp was burning very low.'

Poor old gentleman ! But take courage,'
said Colville, with a soft smile, as he
patted her shoulder; 'you have not yet
left Birkwoodbrae.'

What can he mean by this !' thought
Mary, with a slight sense of annoyance, as
she woke up from her dark dreamland.

And your father, the colonel — he — he

pardon me, left you little more than
Birkwoodbrae when he died ?'

His blessing was the best he had ;
Birkwoodbrae, I have said, was not his to
leave. We have lived here on sufferance —
Ellinor and I.'

Colville sat for a time silent, and Mary
thought his question a very strange one,
unless he had a deeper interest in them
both than she thought he could possibly
have ; and, still pursuing a personal theme,
he said,

I have heard from Dr. Wodrow that
his son Robert was your sister's admirer,
and that they have quarrelled. Is not this
to be regretted?'

Regretted indeed !'

You always seemed interested in him.'

As Ellinor's lover — yes.'

I always thought he was yours,

Mine — who said so ?'

Miss Galloway, repeatedly.'

She had no authority for any such

statement said Mary, upon whom a kind
of lio^bt was beginning: to break, and Colville
drew a little nearer, as be seemed
very muck disposed to take up the thread
of the ' old story ' where he had left it off
on the afternoon when he carved their
initials on the tree, carried off the bunch
of berries, and gave her in exchange the
bouquet of Blanche Galloway, before he
went to Alyth.

Is it not strange, Captain Colville,'
said Mary, ' that day after day passes, and
yet we hear nothing more of this new heir
this usurper of our poor little home — or
of any special notice to quit Birkwoodbrae?'

'Amid the world he lives in, he may
forget.'

He and his father before forgot us always.
But still, there is one patrimony
of which he cannot deprive us — one near
the churchyard wall !' said Mary, bitterly.
However, things are at the worst with us
now, and they will be sure to mend

He was observing the rare delicacy of
her hand, as she caressed the head of Jack
resting on her knee.

How you must loathe that cousin !'
said he.

Ob, no ! Heaven forbid ! He has
never done us any active harm ; yet we
Ellwood are very unforgiving in our
feuds.'

So it would seem.*

I must never, never see him, and am
most anxious to get away before he comes
here, if he cares at all to visit so poor a
place.'

He might fall in love with you — nay,
would be sure to do so,' said Colville,
stooping nearer her, and lowering his voice.
Love, with cousinship, soon develops, and
he might marry you.'

I would not marry Mm if there was
not another man in the world !' exclaimed
Mary, reddening in positive anger, with
a choking and half smothered sob in her

throat ; and Colville laughed excessively at
her increased but momentary annoyance
at his suggestion, which indeed was far
from being: an unnatural one.

If he saw you, he would certainly leave
you in undisturbed possession of 


A speech meant to be gallant ; but he
shall not see me if I can help it.'

He laughed again, and Mary felt piqued.

From what I hear of all the matter,' he
began, ' from what I know of you '

Of me. Captain Colville — what can you
know of Jiie?'' asked Mary, almost petulantly.


^ Shall I say, then, from what I know of
your cousin Wellwood '

Well — quick ; from what you know of
him ?'

Which I do as well as one fellow can
know another in the same battalion, I am
sure he would never dispossess so charming
— two such charming cousins.'

^ Indeed ! you have said something like
this already

Would you not write to him and ask — ^

Emphatically — no !'

'Allow me, then?' asked Colville, in his
most persuasive tone.

Never ! I — we shall be beholden to
none ! I thought, small as it is, that
Birkwoodbrae was almost our patrimony ;
ifc proves to be his, so let him have it.'

And you '

Have the world wide before me,' she

replied, with a quiver of her sweet upper

lip ; ' with us — Ellinor and me — it may be

as in Strathallans Lament —

Ruin's wheel has driven o'er us,
Not a hope may now attend ;
The world wide is all before us,
But a world without a friend." '

Heaven ! I hope not,' said he.

Why does he continue on this distasteful
subject,' thought Mary, ' unless to
prolong the conversation ?'

He now proceeded to pat Jack's head,

and as be did so his hand came more than
once in contact with hers, and each touch
sent a' thrill to his heart, while with that
mysterious instinct which tells a girl of
the emotions with which she is inspiring
an admirer, Mary, without turning her
head, knew that the fond gaze of Leslie
Colville was bent upon her.

What did he mean? To desert Blanche
Galloway, or was ho simply amusing himself
with her, or with both? Her pride
revolted at the idea. However, their
acquaintanceship would soon be at an end,
as he would be leaving like herself; and
as if he divined her thoughts, he said
something of his approaching departure.

I hope you will have some pleasant
memories to carry away with you ?' said
Mary, and then she could have bitten her
tongue for making the surmise, and added,
I shall have none but sad ones — though
Invermay is so lovely.'

Yes ; but there are some memories of

VOL. I. u

it that will ever be dear to me — the hours
I have spent here at Birkwoodbrae.'

If he was betraying himself, he paused,
and Mary could feel how her heart was
vibrating.

For a moment her long dark lashes
flickered as she glanced at him timidly,
and thought how happy his avowed love
would make her was he at liberty to do
so ; and she remembered that when he was
away at Alyth how she had felt a void in
her heart, till adversity brought her other
things to think of.

As Colville looked down on the ripples
of the girl's golden hair and on her saddened
face, a great pity that was allied
with something warmer and dearer stirred
his heart, and bending over her downcast
head, he lightly touched her hair with his
lips.

Poor child !' said he, and Mary drew
haughtily back. She saw there was a
smile on his face ; it was a very fond one,

but she misjudged it, and felt assured that
no lover would smile at such a time.
Thus his manner perplexed her, so she
said,

Do not forget yourself. Captain Colville,
and that you are engaged to Miss
Galloway

Engaged — to — Miss Galloway!' be repeated,
with genuine surprise and annoyance.
' Not at all. Who on earth put
that into your little head V he added, with
a laugh.

'Mrs. Wodrow always told me so,' replied
Mary, covered with confusion, but
feeling very happy nevertheless.

Silly, gossiping old woman ! No, Miss
Well wood : I am, thank Heaven, a freeman
— as yet.'

Here was a revelation — if true.

He was gazing on her now with eyes
that were full of admiration and ardour,
while the clasp of his hand seemed to infuse
through her veins some of the force

u2

and love that inspired him. In the glance
they exchanged each read the other s secret,
and he drew her towards him and
kissed her. * There are moments in life
it is said, * when joy makes us afraid : and
this was one ' — to Mary at least, and she
shrank back — all the more quickly and
confusedly that a visitor was approaching ;
and a half-suppressed malediction hovered
on the lips of Colville as the portly Mrs.
Wodrow was ushered in — ushered in at
that moment !

He rose with annoyance, and still retaining
Mary's hand in his, said hurriedly,
and in a low tone, with a little laugh
that was assumed to cover her confusion,

Promise me that in the matter of leaving
Birkwoodbrae you will do no more till
I see you again io-morrow

*I promise,' replied Mary, trembling
very much, and scarcely knowing what
she said ; and, bowing to Mrs. Wodrow,
Colville took his departure, while the

pressure of his hand seemed to linger on
Mary's heart. ' Who does not know says
the authoress of ' Nadine,' * the magnetic
thrill — the strange and subduing sense of
soul-communion, which sometimes lingers
in a hand-clasp ;' and with this thrill in her
veins Mary addressed herself to the task
of talking commonplace to old Mrs. Wod-
row.

He had been on the brink of a proposal
without doubt, yet none had been made.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE Departure.

To-morrow came, and the next day, and
the next, but there was no sign of, or letter
from, Captain Colville, so Mary resumed
her arrangements all the more briskly
and bitterly.

Ellinor had heard of his interview with
Mary, and felt much tender interest and
concern. Had he spoken of Sir Eedmond
Sheath, or his movements, she marvelled
sorely ; but failed to ask.

Meanwhile May's recent thoughts were
of a very mingled and somewhat painful
kind. The memory of his great tenderness
of manner, of the kiss he had snatched,

and the assertion that he was not the
Jinnee of Blanche Galloway were all ever
before her in constant iteration, with the
consciousness that no distinct avowal had
preceded, and no proposal had followed
the episode.

A kiss ! Their lips had met but once,
yet the memory of such a meeting often
abides for ever.

How dared he kiss me ! Why did I
not prevent him ?' she thought, while her
cheeks burned, and the conviction that he
had been only amusing himself with her
grew hourly stronger in her heart. She
remembered, too, that he had laughed
once or twice during the most earnest
parts of her conversation about her troubles,
and she thought that most people
could hear of the misfortunes of others
with tolerable equanimity.

Was he really engaged to Blanche Galloway
after all ? and was she the means of
preventing the promised visit on ' the morrow

' — the visit that never took place ?

His visit to Birkwoodbrae on the very
day of his return from Alyth was certainly
duly reported to that young lady by Mademoiselle
Rosette, who had watched and
followed him — and smiled brightly as she
did so — for where is the French soubrette
to be found who does not feel a malicious
pleasure in knowing that her master or
her mistress is being deceived ?

The first day of Colville's absence after
that thrilling visit dragged wearily on,
and, when evening came and the sun set,
Mary marvelled was it eight hours since
she rose that morning. It looked more
like eight hundred, and still longer looked
the days that followed, till anger began to
mingle with her depression, anxiety, and
sense of unmerited humiliation, all of
which enhanced her desire to be gone.

How little could she conceive that,
wounded in the right hand by the explosion
of a friend's fowling-piece when shooting,

he was confined at first to bed, and
then to his room at Craigmhor; that he
was thus unable to write to or communicate
with her ; and that thus, too, probably
she would never see him again, forby
the evening of the third day the
arrangements for the departure of Ellinor
and herself were finally completed.

Would that I could peep into our
future, Mary said Ellinor, tearfully, on
their last evening in their old home.

Ah ! the future is indeed a mystery tous,'
said Mary ; ' but blessed be God for all
His gifts r she added, in a broken voice,
as she thought of the legend over the old
doorway, through which they would pass
no more.

Many relics were packed and sent to
the manse, there to be kept till better
times came ; everything else was left in
care of the still absent Dr. Wodrow, to be
sold for their behoof ; but, for reasons to
be given, strange to say, nothing was sold.

Though the apparently strange conduct
of Captain Colville in teaching her to love
him, and exciting brilliant hopes in her
heart only to let them fade, had so deeply
mortified Mary that already his image was
passing out of her busy thoughts, or
seemed as only something to be forgotten
as soon as possible, she was not without
strong though vague hope of the future
for Ellinor and herself ; but hope has often
been likened to the mirage of the desert
and as being often quite as illusory.

Ellinor, we have said, had thanked heaven
for her escape from what must have
proved a great and perilous esdandre ; yet
by one of those idiosyncracies of the female
heart she also thanked heaven that London
was to be the place of their exile ; Sir
Redmond was there, no doubt, and she
felt assured that he loved her still. Mighty
though the modern Babylon was — and of
that mightiness she had not the slightest
conception—they might meet again ; and

even, if not, it would be pleasant to walk
in the same streets where he walked or
rode ; to breathe the same air that was
breathed by him : to be in the same place
where he was.

So she had, to enliven the path before
her. a little element of romance that was
unknown to, and denied to the poor but
more practical Mary ; and to her, foolish
girl, it seemed that perhaps the dear old
tale might conclude, after all, with wedding
bells and vows of wedded love.

Why she should have indulged in these
dreams it is difficult to say. Days upon
days had passed, and, like Colville, the
impassioned baronet, with whom she had
been on the point of sharing her future,
gave no sign, and she could make none.
But she was yet to learn that * all the fine
old Grandisonian notions of honour and
delicacy towards woman held by our grandfathers
were exploded, or else deemed
absolutely antediluvian and absurd.'

Now she longed to be gone — gone even
from Birkwoodbrae. ' She wanted to see
life ' (she thought), ' as poets and painters
and young ladies picture it — a sort of
misfcj, delicious paradisiacal existence of
excitement, unfailing amusement, and perpetual
delight.'

The old peace of mind was gone ; she
wished to leave all connected with it behind
; and, poor girl, she little knew what
was before her — it might be of penury,
struggle, and despair !

Every movement, as the hour of departure
approached, brought a fresh pang to
the tender heart of Mary. She had parted
with her pets and household cares. Her
tame owl she had cast loose, and she
watched him as he winged his way back
to his eyrie in the ruined tower, from which
Eobert Wodrow in happier times had
brought him.

Wearily and sadly she had all the dear
familiar spots, and the cottage who dwelt

among them, to visit for the last time —
hard and shrivelled hands to press and
children to kiss. How should she ever get
through it all ?

She picked up a few daisies from the
graves where her parents lay, and placed
them between the leaves of her Bible, and
then it seemed as if there was nothing
more to do.

The evening seemed painfully sweet and
silent and still when the sisters quitted
their home for the last time, and to Mary
it seemed that even ' the grasshoppers were
silent in the grass.'

The keys were to be handed over by
Elspat Gordon to a clerk of Mr. Luke
Sharpe's when he chose to come for them.
Elspat received the instructions drowned
in tears, and as a spell against evil put in
her pocket some grains of wheat, as it is,
or was, a superstition in Scotland that
in every grain there is the representation
of a human face, said to be that of the

Saviour, and hence the efficacy of the spell.

In the railway-carriage Jack crouched at
Mary's feet, and, looking up in her eyes,
whined and whimpered, for dogs have
strange instincts. All that was left to the
sisters of Birkwoodbrae was the bunch of
freshly-gathered roses which each carried
in her hand, and many times did Mary
bury her hot and tear-stained face among
their cool and fragrant leaves.

Good-bye !' she whispered in her heart
to many an inanimate but familiar object,
as it seemed to Hy past and vanish, till the
darkness of descending night shrouded all
the scenery. Then Mary closed her eyes,
and strove to think, while the clanking
train glided swiftly and monotonously on.

The past, the present, and the future,
so far as Colville was concerned, seemed
to have melted into thinest air ; or perhaps
the past alone, with its brief life and glow
of love and hope, thrust itself poignantly
forward.

CHAPTER XX.

THE HEIR OF ENTAIL.

The sudden departure of the sisters from
Birkwoodbrae, few knew precisely for
where, caused something like consternation
— at least, a great deal of commiseration
— in the place they had left behind
them. Their sweet, soft, ladylike faces
and presence were missed erelong from
the pew in which they had sat on Sundays
from childhood; countless acts of
kindness, goodness, charity, and benevolence
were remembered now and rehearsed
by cottage hearths and ' ingle-hums ' again
and again, and all deplored that the places

which knew them once would know them
no more !

When, two days after their departure,
Captain Colville, with a magnificent diamond
ring for Mary, and intent on taking
up the story of his love where he had left
it off, rode over to Birkwoodbrae, he went
in hot haste to the manse for intelligence,
and then he and Dr. Wodrow looked
blankly in each other s face.

Gone — what does it all mean T impetuously
asked the captain, whose wounded
hand was in a black silk sling, and who
looked pale and thin,

Tt simply means that they have abruptly
left us, and we may never see them
again,' replied Dr. Wodrow, with unconcealed
grief and irritation.

*Gone — gone !' exclaimed Colville, changing
colour, or losing it rather; * why did I
not sooner tell them who I was — why act
the part I did, and lure you into doing so,
too?'

*Ay — why, indeed,' groaned the poor
minister. ' You see what strength of character
they both possess — Mary, certainly,
at least.'

'And they have left no address — no
clue ?'

None.'

'Mary wrote a farewell note to Mrs.
Wodrow, saying she had not the heart to
bid her good-bye verbally. Her friends of
the past, she wrote, were no longer for
her now — she had a new sphere of action
to enter upon, a new life to lead, and new
duties to fulfil, with much more to the
same purpose, and that erelong she would
write from London.'

'London!' exclaimed Colville, striking
his right heel on the floor.

It would be an insult, perhaps, to the
intelligence of the reader to assume that
he or she has not already suspected that
Leslie Colville and the encroaching cousin
Leslie Well wood were one and the same

VOL. I, X

person. Apart from his entailed property,
lie had succeeded to other possessions, requiring
him with reference to his peerage
claim to add to his own the name of Colville,
and hence the incognito he had — for
reasons of his own — been enabled to assume
to his cousins, to Mrs. Wodrow, and
others, including even that very acute
party Sir Redmond Sheath. In short, save
the minister, no one knew the part he
wished to play.

The little drama from which you promised
yourself so much interest, generous
and romantic pleasure has been thoroughly
overdone,' said Dr. Wodrow, somewhat
reproachfully.

Overdone, indeed !'

And doubtless has caused, and is causing
great pain.'

Poor girl ! Could I have believed that
Mary '

Possessed so much individuality, decision,
and independence of character.*

'Most true; the drama has been overdone,
but can be quickly amended by a
pleasant epilogue. And it would have
been so some days ago but for this
wretched accident to my right hand, which
prevented me from writing to Mary or to
you. Prejudiced, as you know, by my
father against them, I wished to learn
the real disposition and character of these
o'irls before befriending; them, as I inch

O '

tended to do ; and, even while learning to
love Mary, T carried my romantic schemes
too far. Why the devil did we make all
this mystery !'

We. It was your own suggestion and
wish — not mine,' said Dr. Wodrow, testily ;
and now they have anticipated everything
by going forth into the wide waste of the
world and leaving us no clue.'

Colville bit his nether lip, twisted his
moustache, and remained silent and perplexed.
So the minister spoke again.

x2

^ Captain Colville, I feared you meant
to go on for ever playing at cross-purposes
with the poor girls. How I wish
I had interposed, as it was my duty to
have done, ere it was too late ; but you
bound me to secresy, as you know, and
now they have gone far away, and with
sore, sore hearts, you may be assured.'

And this secret, of which the Dunkeld
family knew nothing, may explain the
curious and laughing manner of Dr. Wod-
row when speaking of Mr. Luke Sharpe
the lawyer, and announcing to Mary the
existence and intentions of the heir of
entail.

Poor Mary — poor darling !' said Colville,
in a low voice. 'Why did I plays
with her feelings and my own so long [
Fool that I was not to declare my love
and propose to her on the spot ?'

Ay, fool indeed !' commented Dr. Wod-
row, roughly. ' Think of all this worry,
mischief, pain, and separation !'

In studying her character I shall have
deceived her as to my own

She always seemed to think you were
engaged to Miss Galloway.'

I know that now. Why did you not
undeceive her?'

I had not your permission to move or
explain in the matter.'

And we have parted like strangers
almost ! What must Mary have thought
of me — what can she think of me still ?'

That you were only amusing yourself
with her.'

Hence the strangeness and coolness of
her manner towards me at times. Oh,
Dr. Wodrow, I never knew how much I
loved that girl till now !' exclaimed Colville,
as he now realised fully in that time
of pain and surprise that Mary Well wood
was the one woman in all the world for
him.

About her there was an originality which
struck him. She was unlike any other

girl he had seen ; she had a freshness and
depth of thought which delighted as much
as her beauty bewildered him; and he
must have loved her as a cousin if he had
not loved her as something more.

And now she and Ellinor had gone —
fled, as it were — to London in a kind of
desperation and sorrow, brought about by
his own folly and mismanagement — to
London, of all places in the world for girls
ignorant of it — beautiful, helpless, and
poor !

But they will soon discover the trick
we have played them, Dr. Wodrow,' said
Colville, looking up after a silent pause.

How ?'

If they look in the Army List they will
see that there is only one Wellwood in the
Guards — myself, Leslie Wellwood Colville.'

That is where they will never think of
looking,' replied Dr. Wodrow ; and he was
right — the sisters never did ; besides, Army
Lists were seldom in their way.

Had that confounded old gossip, Mrs.
Wodrow, not come in at the time she did
all would have been explained — I was on
the point of telling my darling all !' thought
Colville, bitterly and angrily ; ' all would
have been so different now, and I should
have won the confidence, as I had evidently
won the love of Mary Wellwood. And now
to follow and to find her !'

Where ?' asked Dr. Wodrow, pithily
and sharply.

True — true ; I must be patient, and
wait for tidings through you,' said Colville,
with something like a groan. ' By the by,
doctor, your son seems cut up about the
departure of my cousins.'

• No wonder, poor fellow — since boyhood
Miss Ellinor was the apple of his eye.'

'Ellinor?'

'Yes — and they both seemed happy
enough in their hope of each other till Sir
Eedmond Sheath came hovering about her.'

Colville's face grew very dark.

*I did Dot like your friend's character,'
said the minister.

Friend — he was no friend of mine !' said
Colville, bluntly.

I saw through him soon after he first
came here ; I have had my experience of
evil faces, and I could read his like a book.'

And what were his views regarding
Ellinor ?'

'Matrimony, on the death of an uncle,
I have heard, from whom he has great
expectations.'

He has no uncle by male or female side.
This was some specious falsehood !' exclaimed
Colville, with knitted brows.

How do you know this ?'

As you may know it — by looking in the
Baronetage.'

In the days that succeeded the departure
of Mary and Ellinor most eagerly were
letters looked for at the manse of ,
but none came from either,
though both sisters had promised to write

whenever they had found a ne borne,
however temporary, and periodically the
path through the fields, by which the postman
always came, was watched by anxious
eves.

How was this ? — what had happened ?
were the constant surmises of Dr. and
Mrs. "Wodrow, as they looked gravely in
each other's face, while more than once
each day Colville came to the manse in
hope of having tidings. Were both ill —
stricken down by some sudden ailment and
among strangers — they so gentle, so tenderly
nurtured, and so refined in nature ?

The doubt and perplexity were intolerable
! And the upbraiding, almost despairing
looks of Dr. Wodrow cut Colville
to the heart.

With their departure by railway all clue
was lost, and as the days ran on to weeks
the anxiety that preyed on the minds of
the good people at the manse became sore
indeed, and to Colville, who knew what

London is, doubfc was simply maddening !

From the heir of entail Mr. Luke Sharpe
received instructions that everything: was
to remain intact and untouched at Birk-woodbine
till the sisters should come back
and once more sit by its hearthstone ; and
old Elspat, who had been installed therein
charge, held for a time a kind of daily
levee of humble neighbours, whose inquiries,
comments, and regrets were reiterated
and ever recurrent.

But days, we have said, passed on and
became weeks and more, and no tidings
came of the lost ones, for so those among
the Birds of Inverraay began to consider
them.

Captain Colville had rejoined his regiment
in London ; Sir Eedmond Sheath was
no one knew precisely where, and Robert
Wodrow, whose evil genius he had been,
abandoning his studies in a kind of despair,
had disappeared. Thus a great gloom

reigned over the old manse, and the worthy
descendant of the author of ' Analeota
Scotica' could not find in any page thereof
a passage to soothe him in his great
sorrow.

With Colville's return to London a
slight hope had grown in the old minister's
heart that he might be the means of casting
a little light on this painful mystery,
but ere long that hope died away too.

September stole on, and October came,
with its red, yellow, and russet autumnal
hues ; the leaves were falling on the empty
air ; hardy apples yet hung in the otherwise
bare orchards for the coming frosts
to ripen ; dark berries clustered on the
elder trees ; long rushes waved in the
wind by the banks of the May, which
careered the same as ever through its bed
of rock towards the Earn ; the call of the
partridge and the few notes uttered by the
remaining birds of the season came on the

low sighing breeze ; winter was close at
hand, and yet there came no tidings of
Mary Wellwood or her sister.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

London : PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

Orville

OF THE

Guard s

AUTHOR Q:?^

TkE Romance of War

II I [ ■■■■C J I ' I

tamHemtftmmemmt

IfV

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

MAR 1 !'>»

Loci— O-1096

VOL. n.

BY

JAMBS Grant

AUTHOR OF

"THE ROMANCE OF WAR," "THE Cameronian,"

THE SCOTTISH CAVALIER,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IL

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1885.

All rights reserved.

G- 7(21 /CO-

Melville OF THE GUARDS.

CHAPTER I.

THE queen's shilling.

Robert Wodrow, we have stated, had disappeared
from his home.

Ellinor had apparently passed out of his
life, and he felt as if he had nothing more
to hope for in it ; but the influence of her
memory hung over him still.

Even the love he bore his poor old
mother failed to restrain his wild impulse,
his craving, to begone, he cared not where ;
thus her influence also failed in getting
him to resume those medical studies which

VOL. II. B

he once pursued with enthusiasm, but now
relinquished with indifference or disgust ;
and, under the disappointment and mental
worry produced by Ellinor's falsehood to
himself, he failed to graduate at the expected
time.

My poor boy !' his mother said again
and again, while stroking his dark brown
hair caressingly with her now shrivelled
hand ; * that cold-blooded girl has come
between you and your wits.'

Don't call her so, mother. Perhaps I
did not deserve her,' said he, humbly.

T used to sit and watch you both when
children many a time and oft, and think
what a winsome couple you would be in
the days to come. Ah me, Robert, your
one ewe lamb, and that stranger took it
from you, to be but a plaything for his
idle hours too probably V

Mother, you torture me by all this kind
of thing !' exclaimed Robert.

It is perhaps but a sudden girlish fancy

hers for that man Sheath. It may pass
away and all yet be well.'

Never for me, mother. And you think
so meanly of me as to take that view of
the matter? I would not and could not
with my knowledge of the present seek to
have the past over again, and never more
can I look upon Ellinor Wellwood or think
of her save as I would of the dead The
charm is broken, the flower has lost its
fragrance, and the peach its bloom

Why should the weakness or falsehood
of one person — one person only — wreck
the whole life of another?' asked his father,
with some asperity. ' It should not be
so.'

The old and the young view these
matters differently, father, ' said Eobert,
gently.

True. I have read that " in youth grief
is a tempest which makes you ill ; in old
age it is only like a cold wind which adds
a wrinkle to your face and one more white

block

to the others. Yet there are people
who can feed themselves on their grief till
they grow fat on it." '

But arguments proved unavailing. The
vicinity of Birkwoodbrae had become intolerable
to Robert now, and he resolved
that he would go far away from them and
the pleasant birds of Invermay ; and he
openly announced his intention of becoming
a soldier, adding that nothing would
make him swerve from his purpose, as by
that means he would be taken to other
scenes and be under other influences.

Most evil ones, I fear !' exclaimed the
doctor, striking his hands together.

Oh, my poor infatuated boy !' added his
mother, while her tears fell hotly and fast,
and his father started from the table on
which the untasted dinner was spread, tore
open his waistcoat as if he was suffocating,
and paced about the room with impatient
strides, his whole form agitated with a
kind of convulsive agony that cut Robert

to the soul, but did not make him swerve
from his bitter purpose.

^ Consider the society and profligacy you
have to encounter — yea, such as even our
ancestor, in the third volume of his Ana-tecta,
details when describing the schools of
profanity in 1726.'

Then, after a time, finding that all his
opposition was vain, he said, in a very
broken voice,

God bless and protect you, Eobert, and
may He forgive you for all the sorrow you
are causing us, as by such a course you
will be lost to us and to yourself, after all
our care and affection, after all your painful
anxieties at college, and after all your
good training and religious education.'

In three years I shall be an officer,'
exclaimed Robert, confidently, * and won't
you and the dear old mother be proud of
me then ?'

But the minister shook his silver head.

Your future ' he began, and paused.

Who can see the future ?'

One above, Eobert. And may He give
you the grace to think overall this terrible
purpose again.'

Robert did think again, as he had
thought before, deeply and decidedly, and,
to avoid more painful scenes and partings,
he quitted hrs bed next morning while the
sky was dark, and no ray of light gilded
as yet the Ochil peaks. He dressed himself
in haste, took a few necessaries in a
handbag, and after kneeling softly and
saying a prayer at the door of the room in
which his parents were asleep, he tore
himself as it were out of the house and set
forth on his new path in life, the path which
there might be no returning.

In that time of supreme bitterness little
could the poor fellow see all that was
before him.

The morning was still dark, but the sky
was clear and starry ; the great hills and
tall silver birches in the foreground stood

blackly up against it, and he could hear
that sound so familiar to his ears — the
rush of the May over its rocky bed.

He gave a lingering farewell glance at
the roof of the old house which had been
his home since first he saw the light there
the abode, with all its old-fashioned but
substantial furniture, to which his mother
had come a smiling and blushing bride in
the past time — the abode, till now, of so
much peace, frugality, and happiness — and
with a bitter sigh he turned his eyes resolutely
away.

Then, if aught was required to nerve
him, it was the next feature in the still
and sombre landscape ; the smokeless
chimneys and darkened windows of Birk-woodbine
— the now empty shrine where
so long his idol had been.

Oh, all I have ever loved !' he exclaimed,
and, wringing his hands, set outwith
all speed upon his way, haunted,
however, by the coming grief of those he

was leaving behind when his place was
found empty; when his mother's eyes
would have a vacant chair to contemplate
and his father's reverend head was bent
with sorrow, as it would be in the separation
that was to come ; and what is separation
to the loving but a living death ?

The next day found him among the
wide and stately streets of the Modern
Athens, willing to enlist in the first regiment
any member of which came in his
way, for he was drawing a chance in the
lottery of life now, and to him all regiments
were alike ; so, as Fortune had it,
he met a hussar, to whom he expressed his
wishes, and from whom he soon received,
with all due formality, that magic coin the
Queens Shilling, and became what is termed
a Headquarter Recruit,' enlisting for ^ short
service ' — i.e., six years with the colours.

Six years ! In these days of steam the
progress of events is so rapid, what might
not happen in that brief space ?

He had answered all the usual questions
by those entitled to make them as to his
age, name, parish, and calling, with others
that were less pleasant, as to whether he
had ever served before, or been marked
D. or B. c. ; this formality over, and oath
of attestation taken before a bailie of the
city — the oath to 'be faithful and bear
true allegiance to Her Majesty, her heirs
and successors ; obey all orders of Her
Majesty, her heirs and successors ; and of
all the generals and officers, &c.,' set over
him — being concluded, a night intervening
between enlistment and attestation, nothing
remained, as his new friend, Sam Surcingle,
said, ' but to have a drink over it.'

This opinion was concurred in by several
smart but long-legged fellows in
braided trousers, and tight jackets, with
caps like scarlet muffins, jangling jack-spurs,
and riding switches, who seemed all
opportunely at hand, and suffering from
chronic thirst, all the more so as the new

recruit seemed to have some loose cash ;
and a suitable tavern (the ' Scots Grey ')
being at hand, Robert Wodrow soon found
himself acting as host to a military circle
which made up in heedless jollity and
noise what it might lack in rank and distinction.


Yet among the half-dozen or so of his
new friends were, at least, two of those
ill-starred fellows so frequently to be
found in our cavalry regiments at all
times, but more especially just now, those
who by extravagance and dissipation or
failing to achieve the insane * cramming '
of the present day, had lost their chance
of commissions, and taken ' the shilling *
from sheer love of the service, and the
desperate hope of rising in it.

One of these was a mere youth, who,
as Sam Surcingle said, ' had a long pedigree
behind and a long minority before
him ;' the other, Toby Chase, the heir to
an ancient baronetcy, was older, and

drank fast to drown care, shouting, with a
laugh,

To-day — to-day is for me ; tomorrow
is the paradise of the fool ! Your health
and promotion, Wodrow, old fellow !'

Glass succeeded glass ; toasts and anecdotes
— some of the latter not very classical
— followed each other fast, till the
sharp trumpets blew ' the last post ' in the
adjoining barrack square of Piershill, and
the hussars had to hurry to quarters, and
we are sorry to admit that for perhaps
the first time in his life — even during
his college career — Egbert Wodrow had
contrived to get disreputably tipsy.

He had no care for the present and no
anticipation of the headache and shame
of the morrow, with the disgusts of the
rough riding and ' barrack fatigue,' such
as carrying coals or refilling mattresses
with fresh straw ; neither was he troubled
with the natural reflection of what would
be the emotions of his highly-principled

and purely minded old father and mother
could they have seen him then, when he
had spent the last of his cash on his new
comrades, and was voted the king of good
fellows, and with one of the before-mentioned
scarlet muffins on his head, but
cocked very much over the right ear, he
flourished a riding whip, while joining, but
with a somewhat ' feathery ' voice, in the
song,

How happy 's the soldier that lives on his pay,
And spends half-a-crown out of sixpence a day !
Little cares he for the bailiff or bum,
"When he pays all his debts with a roll on the drum.'

And so, for a time, Robert Wodrow
passes out of our story ; but a time only.

CHAPTER 11.

IN LONDON.

Ellinor was thinking of Redmond Sheath
when was she not thinking of him ! —
during all that long, long journey from
the North to London, and Mary had been
painfully struck by her alternate nervous
anxiety and dull, mechanical acceptance of
her own attentions and care during its
progress. She seemed at times like a
somnambulist — one moving in her sleep
rather than one to whom the journey
should have been an excitement and a
novelty after the long years of quiet and
seclusion at Birkwoodbrae, hence the strain

upon her overwrought nerves was ere long
to bring a serious illness upon her.

A cab — a genuine London cab, one of
those clumsy four-wheeled ^ growlers peculiar
to the modern Babylon and to no
other place — cramped, damp, frowsy, far
from sweet-smelling, and sorely perilous
for ladies' dresses — had conveyed the sisters,
both feeling somewhat scared and
disconsolate, from the Northern Railway
to the classic region of Paddington by
day, and luckily for them not by night.

The long drive westward by the Euston
and Mary-le-bone Roads had seemed apparently
interminable, and most weary
after a long journey by rail ; and then the
architecture, construction, and material of
the houses — brick, always and for ever
brick — looked strange and foreign to their
eyes, and so ere long they reached the
Terrace, which adjoins Paddington Church.
They had read of and heard a deal about
the famous old Court suburb of Kensington,

and thought the locality to which a
chance had taken them might prove something:
like it.

Mrs, Fubsby, their landlady, whose address
had been given to them by her
nephew, Joe Fubsby, guard of the northern
train (the chance above referred to), and
hence their selection of such a singular
place, received the weary travellers kindly
enough. She seemed a motherly, well-disposed
woman, but soured in disposition
by past wrongs or sorrows.

She was about forty years of age, had
some remains of beauty, and had seen
better days and had other hopes (as usual
with her class), all of which she was not
long in hinting.

The sitting-room into which she ushered
them, though scrupulously clean, had a
mouldy odour, suggestive of the adjacent
hideous churchyard ; it looked small, poor,
and shabby. Gaudy artificial flowers in
vases of Derby spar were on the little

mantelpiece, and some highly-coloured
prints in Oxford frames were hung upon
the walls.

The air felt close and heavy— oh, so
heavy, the girls thought, after the fresh,
pure breezes of Invermay ! In fact, there
seemed to be no air at all.

Their sweetness and gentleness of manner,
together with their undeniable beauty,
attracted and won the — at first suspicious
landlady, who bustled about and prepared
tea for them. She, however, put
great weight upon an introduction coming
through her nephew Joe ; and her confidence
grew apace when she found Mary
scrupulously correct in her weekly payments,
and others of every kind, and thus
she complacently tolerated the presence of
Jack in her household. To have parted
with him would have stricken Mary's
heart.

Ere the first day of their residence with
her was past, they were in full possession

of Mrs. Fabsby's personal history, which
she thrust upon them with that loquacious
communicativeness peculiar to the English
lower orders — at least so much of it as
she cared to tell — how her maiden name
was Seraphina-maryland — how she had
married a gentleman, who, however, did
not behave as such in the end, as he had
left her years ago, and she was now reduced
to have lodgers or boarders, and so
forth.

Coming from a secluded country place
like their Perthshire parish, Mary and
Ellinor had no real idea of the world or of
life, as it is called — more than all, the
bustling, busy, tearing, selfish, and suspicious
life of London, or the mighty and
close race for existence there. They knew
not yet that without friends and introductions
employments in teaching music or
drawing were all bat unattainable.

A few days passed on. Advertisements
were studied daily and replied to secus

II. C

loudly; but no answer came. They could
not know that for each of these employments
there might be two thousand applicants
! So their poor hearts grew hopeless
and weary — often sick with alarm as
money dwindled away; and day by day
they looked out, either on the frowsy
churchyard, where not a blade of grass
grew between the closely packed tombstones,
or the equally frowsy canal, with
its barges cleaving the muddy water and
oozy slime ; and as they were totally ignorant
of London, for a time, the poor
girls supposed it must be all like their
then sordid surroundings.

Paddington, where Francois Thurot, the
famous corsair, won the bride in whose
arms he died in battle, and where in the
last century the Guards coming from
Hounslow were wont to halt for the night,
prior to marching for the little London of
George IL, was, some fifty years ago, a
kind of suburban village, a rural and

pretty place, with its grassy green and the
old * Wheatsheaf ' Tavern, where Ben Jonson
drank his beer, even after its quaint
Gothic church, where the Sheldon were
entombed by its solemn yew-tree, was replaced
by the present hideous square edifice,
with its pillared portico and trumpery
cupola starting from amid that
veritable stoneyard of grave slabs, among
which lie the remains of the beautiful Mrs.
Siddons and of the luckless painter Haydn
an odious and festering place, where.
Dr. Ashburner tells us in his work on
The Dynamics,' his nervous patients were
wont to see nightly the pale and lambent
dead-lights rising from the corrupted
soil.

Whether it was the result of all she had
undergone of late, or that the atmosphere
of the place affected Ellinor, Mary never
knew ; but her colour faded out — the ruddy
tint left her lips, and her dark hazel eyes
grew dull as she became prostrated by a

c2

nervous illness, which added sorely to the
cares, the troubles, and expenses of the
latter, for Ellin or required wine and nanny
little luxuries.

Energy seemed to have left her. Elinor
was but twenty, but already her life
seemed over and done with !

And now that her secret love affair was
apparently a thing completely of the past,
Ellinor showed Mary the gift of Sir Redmond,
and bursting into a flood of hysterical
tears told her all — of the baffled elopement
; and then Mary, catching up Jack,
covered the dog with kisses.

There were at least two reasons why
no letters ever reached Dr. AYodrow, and
that, to him, the movements of the sisters
seemed involved in painful mystery.

Two letters that Mary wrote to him had
miscarried, and, as no answers came to
them, with over-sensitiveness and doubt,
she misconstrued the silence of her good
old friend, and, believing that he resented

Ellin or's treatment of his son, would now
honore their existence.

I shall write no more,' said Mary.
Can it be that Lady Dunkeld has ruined
us among those who knew us ? If so,
there is one use in adversity — we can tell
our friends from our enemies.'

So in sorrowful doubt she did not write
again ; seeking for employment and nursing
Ellinor occupied all the thoughts of
Mary, who became almost distracted with
a fear that the former might be sent by
Mrs. Fubsby tor a common hospital. INfo-thing,
perhaps, was further from the good
-woman's thoughts ; but Mary had heard,
or read, of such things. Thus, fully
occupied, she wrote no more ; and, as
time went past, the mystery grew at the
manse of Kirktoun-Mailler, and in the mind
of Colville also. Everything painful, horrible,
and disastrous was fancied, and advertisements
put by the latter in the Times
however carefully yet pointedly crowded.

were never seen by Mary. So in these
our days of penny post and cheap telegrams,
they remained lost, untraced, and
undiscovered by those who loved them
best.

She had both confidence and patience ;
and patience is mental strength concentrated.
Her religious education had also
taught her resignation, and she felt that
let the sands drop through the glass ever
so slowly, there is a time when they end ;
there is a time for us all ; no matter the
hour, for God thinks it the best.'

Yet often as she sat, busy with crewel
work for sale, by Elinor s bedside, the
notes of the passing bell in the cupola of
the adjacent church — a toll unknown in
Scotland — smote a gloom upon her heart
with every measured stroke.

No pessimist was Mary Wellwood in
temper or heart, and no manufacturer of
artificial sorrow ; yet the idea occurred to
her with terror — what if she should lose

Ellinor, and be left alone in this bitter
world ?

As petty trifles, like airs and scraps of
frivolous songs, will haunt the mind intimes
of dire calamity, even of death,
Mary's thoughts would run persistently on
the feathered pets and flowers she had once
at home — even on the sparrows for which
she was daily wont to spread crumbs,
where they would find none now ; and she
actually envied her old owl ; he, at least,
was at home in his ivied ruin, that looked
down on Invermay.

Thinking thus, Mary would sit in the
evening twilight by the open window,
through which came the roar of mighty
London ; but not the flower-scented air
that hovered over their lost home ; and
while the stars, dimly seen in the smoke-laden
sky of London, stole into sight, she
thought of the green Ochil peaks, over
which the same stars were shining brightly,
like vast diamonds set in azure.

Ellinor recovered and gained strength,
but still able to do little with her pencil.

Evenings walks, as amono^ the green
lanes and shady paths in the glen where
the May flows, they could have no more
now. They seldom saw the sun set ; and
when evening fell the streets in their
vicinity became filled by people whose appearance
appalled them. There were
vicious-looking men and more vicious-looking
women from the adjacent Edward
E/Oad ; vendors of carrion on wooden
skewers, known as * cat's-meat ;' vendors
of roasted potatoes and chestnuts ; boiled
oranges ; of plums, the bloom of which was
due to clothes-blue ; vendors of milk, the
component parts of which made one shudder;
of queerly-painted pugs and yellow-painted
sparrows ; of red pots of earth,
with rootless twin's of flowers stuck in

o

them — another London dodge — yet declared
by the vendors to be 'all a-growing — all
a- bio wing.*

With such plants as these Mrs. Fubsbj
was not to be ' took in,' and so preferred
paper flowers.

Ellinor contrived to finish one of her
best landscapes — a view on the May — and
room ' was given it by a kind of picture-dealer
close by, but it remained in his window
unsold, and apparently unnoticed by
all — save the flies, who did not improve it.

Mary's confidence at times began to
desert her when she felt how hard it would
be for them, all unaided as they were, to
win their daily bread and add to the little
pittance they'd, among that vast human
tide of busy, cold, careless, and apparently
sympathising people who poured past
her in the streets.

Her sweet-face began to look anxious,
sorrowful, and pale under the ripples of
golden brown hair that fell softly over her
broad low forehead ; and ere long the two
sisters began to want many things to which
they had been accustomed.

What is to be the end of it all ?' Mary
would think, as she came slowly back to
tell Ellinor o£ some fresh disappointment,
or that her picture was still unsold. Mary
was growing paler, Ellinor could see — yes,
she looked older; her figure seemed less
round, though graceful as ever. Her
street dress was beginning to look poor
and even shabby. Oh, how sad and
horrible it was !

Mrs. Fubsby pitied the girls for their
want of success, while she admired their
perseverance. A well-meaning woman, she
had some suggestions to ' offer,' as she
said, which made Mary's blood run cold.

Among these were two — that, as she
was * so 'handsome,' she might get a situation
in the mantle department of some
great shop, or as a species of lay-figure to
show off the goods, and who knew but one
of the 'walkers' might take a fancy to
her ? or to work a sewing-machine in the
window in the gaze of all those men and

boys who would be certain to crowd thereat,
and flatten their noses against the glass
while critically surveying her. Another
suggestion was to sell poor Jack, whom
Joe Fubsby said was well worth ' a ten
pun' note ;' but Mary would rather have
starved than parted with her dog.

With a burning cheek and a beating
heart, and feeling certain that she would
be viewed with suspicion, and perhaps
insulted, she ventured into a shop in the
Edward Road, where an * honest ' dealer
gave her less than the third of the value
for Sir Eedmond's chain and locket. This
sum helped them on a little ; but again
finances began to fall, and, clasping her
slim white hands, Mary began to think it
was useless attempting to struggle anymore.


CHAPTER III.

]S0. 60, Park LANE.

In a work of fiction, says a writer, 'the
reader will find a hundred strange meetings
and coincidences — old lovers coming
face to face after years of separation,
friends thought dead rising up at the
corners of the streets, and the good characters
appearing ad libitum to confound all
the bad in the concluding chapters. Critics
he adds, ' laugh at all these wires which
pull the Minerva puppets, but real life has
often, more than one imagines, its strange
meetings and coincidences too — old lovers
and friends do start as from Hades into
our presence sometimes, and if a good

genius in the shape of a father, or big
brother, or a policeman did not come to
the rescue at times when the last hope was
failing us, what a deal more misery there
would be in the world.'

Thus it was, through this doctrine of
strange chances, that Mary Wellwood was
soon fated to meet Colville on two occasions,
and they came to pass as follows.

Mary had clever little hands, and had
frequently made up such caps for Mrs.
Fubsby, and arranged her ribbons and
laces so nicely, that she conceived the idea
of obtaining some employment for her
needle, as Elinor still required many little
things that were procured for her with
difficulty.

With high beating heart she one day
entered a millinery establishment, and
timidly suggested that she was clever as a
worker, at trimming, cap and bonnet-making,
and entreated a trial to be given
her. Her soft voice and pleading face

went for nothing. She was repelled coldly,
even superciliously, and the door was
pretty plainly indicated to her; so she
issued forth into the bustle of the Edge-ware
Road again with a heavy, bitter, and
irrepressible sigh.

It was a dull and depressing day early
in October, when what remains to us of
foliage ad sunshine are held on a precarious
tenure indeed, and people become
conscious of *snow in the air;' when the
gardener's work consists chiefly of ' sweeping
up' the leaves that come rustling down
and tidying borders after the blasts of
wind. Frost, however, had not come, and
the parterres of Hyde Park, the phloxes
and the late gladioli, still continued to
make a brave show, though the dahlias
drooped heavily when the dews fell. Overhead
the sky was dull and leaden, of the
usual London tint, and no one could tellin
what quarter of it the sun was hidden.
Mary peeped into the dealer's window,

and another sigh escaped her. Elinor's
landscape was still there, and, of course,
unsold ; so again she thought to herself,
'■ what was to be the end of it all?'

As a last effort she sought a music shop,
where she had often given specimens of
her accomplishments on the piano, and
where she had frequently applied, without
success, for pupils.

The proprietors liked her voice, but her
pale face, with its rare charm of expression,
and soft violet-blue eyes, was beginning
to have a sad and hunted look.
They also (for they were judges) liked her
manner — who did not? — so faultless and
graceful in its self-possession even yet, and
her tones so sweetly modulated and pleasant;
thus they were honestly anxious to
help her if they could, and had hinted if
she took to the stage she might make a
fortune in * the profession.'

They had heard of no pupils yet ; but
music — a musician — an accomplished pianist

was wanted for a dance, to be given on
the morrow night — two guineas were the
hoDorarium — would she accept it?

She thought what the sum might get
for Ellinor, and accepted the proposal at
once.

The money would be paid her at the
house.

Where is it ?' she asked.

No. 60, Park Lane.'

And her informant added that she must
go nicely — at least neatly — dressed ; and
she hurried home with a lighter heart. Distasteful
though the position and occupation,
it was at least a beginning, and no
one knew aught of her or her antecedents.

Next night she attired herself with care,
gracefully, and, perhaps, artistically, in a
soft and clinging lace-trimmed dress of
creamy Indian muslin. It was perhaps
rather too much for the role she had to
play ; but it was one of her best costumes,
with lace at her white slender throat,

and shading her bare and very lovely
arms, while her only ornament was a single
white rose in her breast. So, gloved,
shawled, and with her roll of music, she
drove away in a ' growler the last words
she heard being expressions of admiration
at her appearance from Ellinor and Mrs.
Fubsby.

On past the Marble Arch, and into that
aristocratic line of varied and strange-looking
houses, Park Lane, which, in the
time of Queen Anne, was generally known
as ' the lane leading to Tyburn,' where
the gallows bore its ghastly freight.

Number sixty,' she again told her cabman,
when he suddenly pulled up, and
she now remembered that she had omitted
to ask to whose house she was going.
Though she ought to have been there
among, or prior to, the first arrivals, the
position was so new to her that she was
a little late, and already several carriages
were on the line before her, ' setting

l/OL. IJ. D

down,' at a lighted portico, duly furnished
with a striped canopy and carpeted steps.
Thus, during the brief pause that ensued,
she was enabled to see that it was a
stately house she was bound for. Though
October, the night was fine, and the windows
were open. She obtained, through
them, a glimpse of a splendidly-furnished
double drawing-room, with blue silk curtains
festooned within an arch ; already
several guests were gliding to and fro,
and the fragrance of flowers and perfumes
was wafted outward on the night air.

A painted and partially curtained verandah
overhung the garden — a verandah
made like a fairy abode by shrubs and
flowers, by Chinese lanterns, ottomans,
and couches ; and she felt a strange, spasmodic
tightening of the heart, for there
was a figure that seemed familiar to her
hanging over a lovely girl, who was flirting
languidly with her fan.

As one in a dream, she found herself

deposited at the door, and ascending with
her music-roll the fast crowding staircase
that led to the dancing-room, attended by
a footman as a guide ; but the lady of the
house, whoever she was, did not condescend
to receive her. And her pretty bare
arms were noticed as she seated herself
at the piano-stool. She had too much
dress 'for one in her position,' some
matrons thought suspiciously, all the more
so that many men remarked and admired
her ; but she adjusted her music and
programme, bent her sweet face closely
over the former, and played on, and on,
and on, till her little fingers ached, oh, so
wearily, into the hours of the night and
the early hours of the morning.

But ere the latter came one or two
episodes occurred.

She discovered, first, that she was in
the house of Lord Dunkeld I Parliament
was sitting, and his lordship, as one of
the precious sixteen called ' Represented



time Peers,' was consequently in town ;
but for all the good he ever did Scotland
or her interests he might as well have
been at the North Pole.

To Mary Wellwood, v/ith her sensitive
pride and memories of the past, this was
a sickening discovery to make ! There
was, however, no retreating now. She
resolutely kept her face from the guests,
and played on as one in a dream, with
the soft patter of feet and whirling of
skirts in her ear.

Once or twice she thought that the cold,
calm eyes of Lady Dunl^eld recognised
her, and then, flushing deep to the nape
of her delicate neck, she bent lower still
over her music. If it was so, the pale
and handsome peeress made no sign, and
gave not the slightest evidence of recognition.


The longing to be gone in Mary's heart
was intense, and to her the hours of that
night seemed interminable.

Though ' town was empty as she heard,
she was thankful that the rooms were
crowded to excess; that the dancers had
scarcely room to move, and thus she had
the less chance of recognition.

Mouthing fools with lisping lips, parted
hair, and a great display of shirt-front
were there, and men of brilliant intellect
too, with many stately women and lovely
girls such as London alone can boast ; and
Blanche Galloway moved among them
like a bewitching little queen, superbly
dressed by all the care of Eosette.

Suddenly Mary had another shock and
tightening of the heart when two familiar
voices fell on her ear, and she discovered
near her Colville — Colville and Sir Redmond
Sheath, the latter, as usual in accurate
evening costume, with his tawny
moustache, insouciant air, and china-blue
eyes.

The sense of Oolville's presence suffocated
her, and memory went back to that

last interview in which he suddenly drew
her towards him and kissed her so tenderly
and hurried away on their being interrupted,
leaving unsaid what he was bound
in honour to say, but urging her to do
nothing rash until ' tomorrow ' — the morrow
that never came !

Hah, when did you come to town ?'
asked Sir Redmond.

'More than a month ago,' replied Colville.


'From Craigmhor?'

Yes ; you left before I did, you remember
T

Sudden business called me to town.
When you left how were our fair friends
at Birkwoodbrae?'

It was terrible for Mary to sit there
helplessly and overhear this conversation ;
but there was a buzzing sound in her ears,
and she failed to catch Colville's answer;
and Sheath spoke again —

1 knew you were deuced spooney on the

eldest one. Got over it all uow, of course
pour passer le temps'

Spooney ? I do not choose to have this
term applied either to myself or the lady
referred to

As you please. But surely you had no
more intention of committing yourself
seriously with her than I had with her
younger sister ?'

What do you mean by talking of these
young ladies in this style to me ?' asked
Colville, in a voice that seemed to have
suppressed passion in it, for at that moment
he was recalling some of Doctor
Wodrow's communications regarding the
speaker.

Why, what on earth are they to you ?
demanded Sheath, focussing him with his
eyeglass.

Mary did not hear the response, but was
aware that Sheath started and said,

What new dodge is this ?'

I am thinking of going to India again

said Colville, bluntly, to change the subject.


Again — with all your wealth — what
folly !^

I seem to have neither kith nor kin to
care for, or aught to keep me here now.*
^ All — that red-coat business !'
What do you mean ?'
As some one says, " We all know that
half a man's life is often spent in wanting
to put on the red-coat, and the other half
in wanting to put it off." *

No part of your life is likely to be
spent in either, Sir Redmond,' said Colville,
as he turned on his heel and left him.
To India again,' whispered Mary in her
heart ; ' he thinks of going to India ! Well
what is he to me — what am I to him ?'

Mary observed that he danced little, if
at all, and that he certainly looked grave
even sad and preoccupied, as he had
never done at Birkwoodbrae.

Colville had never enlightened the Dun-held

family, even before leaving Craig-moor,
of his relationship to the missing
sisters, or of those views, intentions, and
the little romantic plan between himself
and Dr. Wodrow, which had proved the
cause of so much distress and mischief.

Blanche Galloway, her rival, as Mary
began to deem her again, was the gayest
of the throng there, and, leaning on Colville's
arm cl in gin ugly after a long swinging
waltz, was fanning herself, and laughing
at some remark that was, in her own parlance,
^ quite too awfully funny

Intent on Colville and on others too,
smiling her brightest upon them all, but
on him in particular, and bestowing flowers
with great empressement from her ample
bouquet, as she sat with them in the
dimly-lighted conservatory, and flirted with
a science born of her partly French blood,
she never bestowed a thought on the
weary and silent musician, any more than

on the angulated valets who took about
the jellies and ices, etc.

Mary saw that Colville sat out dances,
often with pretty companions, over whom
his handsome head was bent low in confidential
conversation, while he fanned
them with gallant assiduity.

You play most brilliantly, my dear !'
said a soft, sweet voice suddenly in Mary's
ear.

No one, as yet, had addressed her that
night, and she looked up with a startled
air to see a very handsome and motherly -
looking woman regarding her with kindly
interest.

You have a most exquisite touch,' she
continued ; * how I should like my youngest
girl to have some lessons from you —
even as a permanent musical governess.
May I speak to Lady Dunkeld about it ?'

Do not — please do not !' replied Mary,
imploringly ; ' she knows nothing about

me ; but I have another reason for declining
'

Indeed.'

Yes, madam.'

A serious one?'

Very — a sickly sister whom I cannot
and would not leave to live alone.'

A most creditable reason to give,' said
the elderly lady, and was about to add
something more, when Lady Dunkeld suddenly
drew near, and in a hard, metallic
voice said,

'Dear Mrs. Deroubigne, a word with
you before supper.'

So, as the lady left her side, Mary
learned that Deroubigne was her name,
and, with gratitude in her heart for the
little bit of praise, recognition, and sympathy,
Mary thought she would never
forget her.

The guests filed off to the supper-room,
whence ere long came the murmur of
voices, the sounds of laughter, the clink

of plates and glasses, and looking round
the empty drawing-room, strewed with
fragments of flowers, lace, muslin, and so
forth, Mary, like a hunted creature, thought
only of escape, but was informed that
refreshment for her was set apart from
all the rest in a private apartment.

It was a pretty place, with carved oak
furniture, valuable pictures, and the subdued
light of a beautiful lamp was shed
on the dainty napery, silver and quaint
blue and gold service of the repast set
before her; but Mary was incapable of
eating — food would have choked her. She
held a glass of wine to her tremulous and
dry lips, but so tremulous too were her
fingers by long playing that she had to set
it down untasted.

She then told the valet who attended
her that she was too ill to remain longer,
to make her apologies to Lady Dunkeld,
and to get her shawl and cloak from the
women in charge of the cloak-room.

He did so with some surprise, that increased
when, on proffering her two guineas
on a silver salver as her fee, she said,
s bar ply,

Thanks. Keep the money, or spend
it in the servants' hall,' and hurried away.

Off her blessed chump, by jingo !' muttered
^ James,' as he thrust the money
into the pocket of his yellow-plush
breeches.

Escaping recognition by Mademoiselle
Eosette, who was having a flirtation in the
hall with John Gaiters (Sir Redmond's
man), Mary, in a tumult of distracting
thoughts, crabbed it back to St. Mary's
Terrace, so called, though it is a narrow
street; but that matters nothing in London,
where thoroughfares are called roads,
that are streets or squares, terraces or
crescents, and even hills, such as Lydgate,
or vales, such as Maid, without being the
slightest approach to anything of the kind ;
but such are some of the many idiosyncrasies

of Babylon that puzzle the intelligent
foreigner.

Mary was a wise girl ; she knew that
the wounded heart of Ellinor, suffering
from certain remorse at her treatment of
the loving: Robert Wodrow, and mortification
at the conduct of Sheath in never attempting
to visit or seek an explanation,
would not be healed by telling all that
she had overheard, and more that she
suspected, now only said that she had
recognised him and Colville at the ball
and nothing more.

But this reticence proved rather a mistake
eventually.

CHAPTER IV.

^ so Near AND YET SO FAR !'

After that night at Number 60, Park
Lane, a terrible sense of humiliation oppressed
Mary, and she knew not what todo
next. Such rencontres, she thought,
were not likely to happen in the mighty
world of London; yet the next meeting
she had with Colville occurred very soon
after, and gave her nearly as great a shock
as that at the ball.

It was on a murky October Sunday
afternoon when Mary, finding herself near
Westminster Abbey, entered the vast
building, lured alike by curiosity to see

ifc and bear the service, for wliicli the bells
were tolling.

For a moment she looked about her and
saw how the mighty cruciform church
towered skyward above the dingy houses,
shops, and streets that lie so near it on
one side, and the handsome, open space,
with all its railings and statues, on the
other, and, tripping lightly over the flat
gravestones, she entered by the gloomy
northern door, and, after a little timid
doubt and hesitation, proceeded to an
empty pew in the north transept.

The vast height of the shafted columns,
the darkened roof that sprang from them,
the dusky depths and ghostly uncertainties
of the edifice, which was of a size
and space beyond her conception ; the
faint, leaden light of the London afternoon
that stole through its lancet windows,
and the grim aspect of the tombs
which crowd and disfigure the long drawn
aisles, were all solemn and oppressive to

Mary, yet curiosity detained her, and she
was glad to see a few persons — but how
very few they seemed — gathering to hear
the service, while the black-robed vergers
glided about, imparting, she thought, something
spectral to the vistas of the place ;
and to her unaccustomed eyes the white
floating surplices of the officiating clergymen
and of the choir-boys seemed something
spectral too.

A great sense of awe came over her as
she thought of all the mighty dead who
lay there, the dead of ages, beneath her
very feet — politicians, warriors, judges,
princes, and nobles, philanthropists, actors,
and physicians — the Pantheon of all the
English great — who in fighting the battle
of life have added to the renown of their
country. For a time she was drawn from
the constant sense of herself, of her own
sorrows, and the contemplation of thinking
how hard it was to win one's daily bread
in a vast city.

VOL. II. E

Her veil was up, and had any there regarded
her face, they would have seen how
pale and sad it looked under the edge of
her little hat, and the ripples of her golden
brown hair that fell over her forehead, and
how pathetic was the expression of her
long-lashed, violet blue eyes.

The bells had ceased to clash overhead,
and a few people were seated or kneeling
on hassocks in the chancel seats, while
some gas jets began to flicker out as the
afternoon light faded from the pointed
windows ; and then the deep swell of the
organ, and the sweet voices of the choristers
stirred Mary's heart, and moved her
to tears, she knew not why, for the solemnity
of the scene soothed, while the music
comforted her, and to hide her emotion she
drew down her veil closely.

While the psalm was being chanted
three ladies entered the pew before her,
and as there was not room in it for a gentleman
who accompanied them he took his

seat behind them, in the pew occupied by
Mary, and close to her side.

Her heart stood still, and again the
sense of suffocation came with a spasm into
her slender throat, for he who sat beside
her was Colville, and the ladies were
Blanche Galloway, Lady Dunkeld, and Mrs.
Deroubigne !

She respired with difficulty, and then her
heart beat fast ; the service was forgotten
unheard, all save the swelling of the
organ, which only seemed an element in
the phantasmagoria around her now ; and
she strove — but that was impossible — to
forget who was by her side, and almost
touching her.

She wondered if he would recognise her
figure ; he could scarcely fail to do so, if he
looked at her; but he never did so, and
seemed wholly intent on looking into the
dusky obscurities of the church, or was
lost in his own thoughts. He had placed
a hand unloved, with a gold signet ring

E 2

thereon — a ring the crest of which Mary
remembered well — on the edge of the pew
in which Blanche was seated ; and making
a half turn round, with a bright and coquettish
smile, she rested her back against
his fingers, as much as to say, she felt
them there caressingly.

Mary observed this, and also that after
a time he withdrew his hand, with an air
of unconsciousness, she thought.

Blanche wore a magnificent sealskin
paletot, which contrasted powerfully with
Mary's somewhat faded jacket and equally
faded dress. How happy and bright and
well nourished she looked. There was no
care, no thought, no anxiety in her sparkling
dark eyes. Unlike Mary, she had no
dark or dubious future looming far away
before her.

Mary remembered — when was she likely
to forget ? — that he said he had no one to
care for, and was going a way to India ; and yet
he seemed to be on remarkably intimate and

pleasant terms with these Dunkeld people.
She fancied that Blanche bad given him a
conscious and disappointed glance, when
he left her to take his seat behind her, as
if she seemed to think his proper place was
by her own side ; and perhaps Mary might
have seen a disappointed look in his face,
had she seen it at the time.

They might only be friends, but somehow
Blanche gave the silent watcher the bitter
conviction that she was certainly something
more.

Mary knew that Colville had denied
being engaged to Blanche, and ridiculed
the rumour as Mrs. Wodrow's gossip. True
but he might be engaged to her now.

If he still cares for me,' she thought,
what a different answer would I give him
now. If not engaged, why are they thus
together, and why does she give him these
conscious and confident glances? Was he
deceiving me at — at Birkwoodbrae ?'

When Mary had taken her seat in that

pew, she felt a sense of awful loneliness ;
but she felt many, many degrees more
lonely now. She felt also far, far removed
from him, and those whom he accompanied,
in her homely life and sordid surroundings
at Paddington. A vast gulf seemed thereby
to have opened between her and Colville,
such as did not exist at Kirkwood
; and she thought of the day when
they fished together in the May, and other
days of delicious walks and rambles under
the drooping birches by the sparkling linn,
or among the scented pine woods that
were overlooked by the lovely green hills,
amid the bright sunshine and the odour of
the purple heather — of thoughts that came
and went — of hopes that dawned, and of
words that were uttered, or left unuttered.
At last the service was over, and the
few people who assembled to hear it —
many of them strangers only come to view
the church from curiosity — were hastening
away.

As Mary rose, Colville did so too that
slip might pass him.

Still there was no recognition on his
part ; his eyes were on Blanche Galloway,
and Mary quickly glided, out of the church.
The rain was beginning to fall in the chill
October evening, and drawing her shawl
close about her she set out on her way
homeward, feeling that she would be
thankful for a seat in an omnibus.

When she looked back, with an impulse
she could not resist, she saw Colville come
forth with Blanche, the other two ladies
following, as if the arrangement was a
tacit one. They all entered the stately
Dunkeld carriage, the driver and servants
of which wore ample fur tippets. The
door was closed with a bang, and they
drove off, passing Mary on the way, and
bestowing on her a few spots of mud.

To be so near — and yet so far !' she
thought, with a greater bitterness of heart
than she ever thought to feel — she was

usually so resigned and sweetly patient;
but she seemed to know the worst now,
and that all was over at last.

The very circumstance of her having to
wander alone and unescorted through the
streets of London on such an evening
seemed to impress upon her still more the
difference of position, and the gulf that
lay between her and those she had seen
whirling away, as she doubted not, to No.
60, Park Lane.

That she had been recognised by someone
there on the night of the ball, she
thought she had mortifying proof when
next she presented herself before the
hitherto friendly proprietors of the music-shop
in quest of pupils or some employment.


She found their manner curt, changed,
and cold.

You need return no more,' she was
told.

'Why?'

You failed to give satisfaction when we
found you employment last.'

'In what way?' asked Mary, in a
breathless voice.

Lady Dunkeld informed us that you
left the house abruptly and in a mysterious
way.'

Lady Dunkeld ! So she in the plentitude
of her wealth, power, and position
was following up with a vendetta poor
Mary Wellwood.

CHAPTER V.

SOME DAY.'

The sale of Ellinor's landscape for a sum
beyond what she had expected for it, came
like a gleam of hope to the two lonely
girls, and the place iii the window where
it had hung so long was now empty.

I wonder who bought it ?' said she.

That matters little,' replied Mary ; ' his
fancy, however, will give you encouragement,
nevertheless.'

Ellinor blushed with pleasure. Her
picture was sold, but she little knew to
whom.

She was now convalescent, able to go
abroad, and, like Mary, she had also the

coincidence of a strange and unexpected
meetings.

One day, when the weather was clear
and sunny for the season, she went to
Hyde Park with her sketch-book, encouraged
to fresh efforts by her success, to
make another drawing. The subject was
to be some quaint old trees she had
noticed, and which she hoped might find
a purchaser in some one who knew the
locality.

October had given these old oaks its
choicest tints, and, while some of their
leaves were russet-green, others were like
burnished bronze, and were red of many
hues ; and, all the better for artistic purposes,
the chief of these venerable and
gnarled trees had a story, for under it
Horace Walpole, as he tells us, was robbed
in the winter of 1749 by the fashionable
footpad Maclean.

One night in the beginning of November,'
he writes, ' as I was returning from

Holland House by moonlight, about ten
o'clock, I was attacked by two highwaymen
in Hyde Park, and the pistol of one
of them, going off accidentally, razed the
skin under my eye, left some marks of
shot on mj face, and stunned me. The
ball went through my hat, and, if I had
sat an inch nearer to the left side, it must
have gone through my head.'

This event occurred within half-a-mile
of Piccadilly, and Ellinor, thinking how it
would enhance the value of her little landscape,
set to work in sketching the group
of trees.

So intent was she with her pencil that
for some time she was unaware that she
was observed, or that anyone was near her
in that part of the then usually deserted
Park, till she suddenly saw a soldier — a
hussar — standing before her.

Robert — Robert Wodrow !' she exclaimed,
in a strange voice all unlike
her own, as the pencil dropped from her

nerveless hand. * What does this dress
what does all this mean ?'

Ask yourself, Ellinor.'

Tears started to her eyes at the familiar
voice, and so glad was she to see his
familiar face that, but for his too probable
misconception Of her feelings and
the eyes of passers-by, she would have
thrown her arms round his neck and
kissed him.

All unaware that he was so near her,
Robert Wodrow had been strolling through
the Park, thinking the while of a song
that Ellinor had been wont to sing to him
often in past days —

Some day, some day I shall meet you —

Love, I know not when or how —
Only this, only this, that once you loved me :
Only this, I love you now, I love you now !'

The tender and passionate refrain was
in his mind, and actually hovering on his
lips, when the face and form of Ellinor
came suddenly before him.

So you can amuse yourself thus,' said
he, picking up her pencil, ' and in spite of
all the misery that has fallen on me.'

I am working thus for daily bread,
Eobert; and, oh, I knew not that you had
taken this terrible step

'Becoming a soldier?'

'Yes.'

Robert Wodrow was again face to face
with the girl he loved with a love so unselfish
and passionate, and so ungrudgingly
given in all its fulness and tenderness,
yet he made no attempt to take her hand.

She thought that he never looked so
handsome as he did then, in his smart
hussar tunic — blue, faced with red and
braided with yellow. Club drill and sword
exercise had developed every muscle, while
setting-up drill and the riding-school had
given him that air and bearing our light
cavalrymen alone possess.

Why cast away thus your prospects in
life ?' she asked, sadly.

I have none — I lost them with you.'

"What dear friends we might have been
nay, were, if with friendship you would
have been content, Robert !'

A view you only adopted after Sir
Eedmond Sheath came.'

Her pale face coloured deeply, and perhaps
guiltily, at this response, and he
regarded her earnestly. She was pale
certainly, and her lips had a pathetic little
droop in them, though their wonderful
sweetness of expression yet remained, but
her cheeks had lost some of their girlish
roundness and bloom.

The atmosphere of most classic Haddington,
with its frowsy canal and foetid
churchyard, was truly somewhat different
from 'the breeze that swept the Ochil
ranges and down through the Birds of
Invermay.

Robert realised at that moment how
dear, how inexpressibly dear to him, was
the girl he had lost, and between whom

and himself lie had now opened a complete
social gulf, and how their past friendship
and love had crept into his heart and settled
there, making her still more precious
to him than life itself.

Ashen he spoke again his voice was
strained and husky, and the tones of it
were as those of a man in mortal pain.

How is dear Mary P'
Well— very well

From a remark you let fall about daily
bread, Ellinor,' said he, playing nervously
with the lash of his riding-switch, ' I can
gather that you are not married to that
man.'

Most certainly not. I have never seen
him since we left home — for to us home is
not here.'

Thank God for your assertion ! I have
heard a good deal about him among our
fellows ; he is a deuced bad lot, and may
yet find you out. If he does, I beg oi you
to pause, however brilliant his offers of

SOME DAY. 65

marriage may be. He dare have no other
view ; if he had, if he had,' continued
Robert Wodrow, with his teeth set under
his dark moustache, ' and the grave had
me, I would come back to have vengeance
on him ! Remember my words, I implore
you, Ellinor, by memory of the pleasant
past, when we were boy and girl together.
It is the last favour I can ask of you, and
too probably this is the last time we shall
meet on earth !'

What do you mean, Robert ?' she said,
in an agitated voice.

I am only here for a day from Hounslow
Barracks, and in about a week the
regiment embarks for India — for Afghanistan,
thank God !'

How bitterly you speak !'

I gave up father, mother, home, peace,
and profession when I lost you ; but, pardon
me, I did not mean to upbraid.'

Forgive me for all I have made you
suffer,' said Ellinor, humbly ; ' I feel how

VOL. ir. F

unworthy I am of all this great regard
she added, taking his hand caressingly
between hers ; and then, conscious of how
her touch thrilled through him, she withdrew
her clasp, and both seemed on the
verge of tears, and might perhaps have
indulged in them but for the vicinity of
one or two observant and inquisitive nurse-maids,
who marvelled at the interest the
young lady evidently took in the handsome
hussar.

'And now I must go,' said the latter,
but lingered still, and, cut to the heart
with sorrow for him, Ellinor pressed her
hands upon her breast, as she yielded to
her better nature, but felt that now it was
impossible to retrace or reverse the past.

And you leave England for that faraway
land so soon ?'

The sooner the better.'

Won't you come and see Mary ere you

go?'

I should indeed like to see dear Mary

once again — she was always true to me
said Robert.

Do come, then,' urged Ellinor, heedless
of the deduction.

'Not now, for I am almost due at
Hounslow ; but when I come, I must be
-in uniform.'

That matters nothing ; no one here
knows us or cares for us. Oh, how happy
she will be to see you in one sense, and so
sorry in another ! The uniform is but a
trifle in one way.'

Moments make the year, and trifles
life said E-obert, with bitter smile, quoting
Young's satire.

Ellinor gave him their address — they
shook hands like friends, these two who
might have been all in the world to each
other, though in the world their paths in
life would lie far apart now — there was a
minute's pause, and in a moment more
Ellinor was alone.

Her drawing was effectually marred for

f2

the day ; her head swam and her hand
shook, and forgetting all about Horace
Walpole's tree, she slowly quitted the park.
Poor fellow !' she thought, as the
hitherto restrained tears flowed under her
veil, * I have used him ill— and yet how
soft and gentle he is with me !'

Chapter VI.

JACK SHOWS HIS TEETH.

[Fortune seemed to be looking kindly on
Mary and Ellinor now, when the former,
through an advertisement, got a
couple of pupils, little girls, in the neighbourhood
of Portman Square, and the
latter had actually sold her landscape, and
started another.

^ The Linn on the May ' had caught the
eye of Sir Eedmond Sheath when passing
the shop window, not that he particularly
cared about pictures or art of any kind,
save the culinary one, but he thought he
recognised the subject — even the style
and the landscape — and on looking more

closely, after adjusting his inevitable eyeglass,
an exclamation of surprise or satisfaction,
perhaps both, escaped him on discovering
the initials ' E. W.' in one of the
lower corners, and he entered the shop at
once to inspect the landscape more closely.

I think I know the artist,' said he
to the bowing dealer, who was not much
accustomed to visitors of Sheath's style
and bearing. * A young lady, is she not ?'

Yes, sir — yes — Miss Ellinor Wellwood.'
I thought so. I'll take her work.'
Thank you, sir. Shall I send it to
your address, your club, or where, sir ?'

Neither. I'll take it with me.'
Cautious in his plans, Sheath was reluctant
to give his address, but the price
was soon agreed upon, and the money paid.

I want a pair, and will order just such
another,' said he. ^ Perhaps you can give
me Miss Ellinor Wellwood's address ?'

Certainly, sir. She lives very near this.'

Near this ! By Jove !'

He obtained the number and the street,
av.d went off with the landscape, and with
curious emotions of hope and evil blended
exultantly in his heart.

Paddington ?' he muttered, as he walked
off towards the Marble Arch. ' D — ne,
what a game ! Are they so reduced, or
so ignorant, as to hang out there ? Courage,
Redmond, my boy, and that charming
bit of muslin may be your own yet.'

Sheath had been told plainly enough,
and sternly too, by Colville, at Lady Dun-held's
ball, that Mary and Ellinor were his
cousins, who were ignorant of his identity ;
but the too-knowing baronet did not believe
a word of his assertions, and, seeing
the matter through the medium of his own
evil mind, supposed the story was *only
a red herring drawn across the scent' — a
dodge for purposes of the Guardsman's
own — so he sought counsel of Mr. John
Gaiters, while the latter prepared for him
some brandy and seltzer-water.

^ I am awfully spoony on a girl, Gaiters,'
said he.

That is nothing new, Sir Eedmond ;
but it won't last.'

It never does, I fear.'

Certainly not with you, sir,' was the
flippant reply of the valet.

there is her name and address. You
will know her again when you see her, but
she must not know you. Find out all
about her — who she is living with, and all
the rest of it — and you will do for me
that which nothing can repay.'

*By jingo, sir, I would rather do something
that could be repaid.'

Here is a fiver, anyway, and now be off.'
Duly instructed, a couple of days afterwards,
and disguised by a false beard
and moustache, and clad in a tolerably
accurate morning suit, Mr. John Gaiters,
turning up his already tip-tilted nose at
having to traverse so aristocratic a
locality as Paddington, soon found the

terrace and the number, and after an external
survey of the house, by means of
the knocker brought to the door a little
maid-of-all-work, on whose cheeks was the
black smudge so usual to her class.

Is your mistress at home ?' he inquired,
blandly.

Yes, sir.'

'Ah, is she handsome ? But I need not
ask,' he added, insinuatingly.

Why, sir T

Because, unless her beauty were not of
a more than ordinary character, she could
not afford to have one so excelling as you
by her side.'

This high-fiovvn speech, which Gaiters
copied from some of his master's, caused
the little housemaid to think he was mad
or tipsy, and she was about to close the
door with some precipitation, when Mrs.
Fubsby appeared, and, on inquiring for
Miss Elinor Well wood, he was informed
she was at home.

The dealer bad promptly informed Elinor
that a companion was wanted for ber
landscape, and while intent among the
many in ber portfolio, sbe was not surprised
when Mrs. Fubsby announced a
gentleman visitor, who knew ber face instantly,
tbougb sbe failed to recognise the
bearer of many gifts of flowers and game
when at Birkwoodbrae.

With all bis vulgar assurance, the valet
felt himself for a little time daunted or
abashed by the presence and bearing of
Ellinor, to whom with some hesitation be
told the object of bis visit — be bad bought
her picture, and a friend of bis wished one
precisely like it ; and while he was speaking.
Jack, the terrier, with a dog's strange
instincts, maintained a most unpleasant
snarling under the sofa, and Gaiters, remembering
the episode of his master, felt
correspondingly uneasy. For ' though love
be proverbially blind, hatred has a sharp
sight,' and so had Jack, who showed his

white glittering teeth from time to time.
Human beings have their instinctive likes
and dislikes, and why not dogs ?' asks a
writer. ' We cannot tell what expression
of countenance they consider malevolent,
or menacing, or murderous ; but certain it
is that they often exhibit unaccountable
antipathy to some individual, while most
affectionate and amicable towards all the
rest of the world.'

So Jack's antipathy to Sheath now extended
to his emissary Gaiters.

The landscape was soon agreed about —
money was no object to the visitor, who
quickly selected a subject from a rough
sketch, which Ellinor perceived with some
surprise he held upside-down, a curious
fancy in a connoisseur and patron of art,
and, in the interests of his knavish master,
Gaiters, anxious to learn the entire carte
du jpays^ said,

Do you live here alone, Miss Well-wood
?'

I am not Miss Wellwood — my sister
is.' replied Ellin or, with a little hauteur of
manner.

Is she, too, an artist ?'

^No.'

And you live together — so sorry I had
not the pleasure of seeing her.'

Elinor thought this evinced curiosity ;
bat, thinking she might advance the interests
of Mary, she said, as Mr. Gaiters
took up his hat,

At this hour she is usually with her
pupils at Portmore Square

^Ah — at this hour; we must make a
note of that,' thought Mr. John Gaiters,
and, forgetting* ao^ain to refer to the landscape,
he bowed himself out, hailed a hansom,
and drove away, having obtained all
the information his master wanted — to
wit, that the sisters were living together,
unprotected, in somewhat humble lodgings,
and that Elinor, at the particular time
mentioned, was always alone.

Such a pleasant and affable gentleman,
and with such 'ransome whiskers
commented Mrs. Fubsbj. * Drat that dog
why did it dorrit so about him !'

The report made to Sir Eedmond b}^
his subservient emissary piqued and encouraged
him in his nefarious schemes.

'Every woman has her price,' thought
he, as he sipped his wine that evening
after a cosy dinner at his club, and dreamily
gazed down the gas-lighted vista of
Pall Mall ; * if not to me, this little one
will become the prize — the prey of some
other fellow ; so, with the basis I have for
future operations, why not to me ? On
some pretence or other I shall get her
wheedled over to the Continent, and then
the game is my own.'

In his instance it could not be said that

Evil is wrought by want of thought,
As well as want of heart,'

for he gave his whole thoughts, and his
heart too — such as the latter was — to the

consideration and perfection of his schemes,
and exulted in the idea of outwitting Colville,
if he knew — as Sheath scarcely doubted
he did — the residence of the sisters.

CHAPTER VII.

THE DAUGHTER OF NOX.

Ani you Lave actually found us out —
here ? How strange !' exclaimed Ellinor,
blushing deeply with pleasure and surprise.
Through my appreciative friend — appreciative
in art, I mean — who bought
your charming landscape, the view of that
dear old — what is it ? — Linn — Linn of the
May — yes, darling,' replied Sheath — Sheath
the slimy, with the china-blue eyes and
Mephistopheles smile, as he twirled out
his tawny moustache, and regarded the
girl with a passionate expression rippling
over his face. *" Acres moi le deluge! you
will think, perhaps; but now, darling

Ellinor, that I have found you at last, we
must not part again.'

Ere leaving Birkwoodbrae Ellinor had
felt mortified, even insulted, on finding
that Sir Eedmond, after the. mg-ht of the
frustrated elopement, made no sign that
he remembered her existence ; but the
moment she saw him the barriers she had
mentally raised between them fell at once,
and she no more sought, as she had done
of late, to erase him from her heart.

Poor foolish Ellinor !

I had ever a hope,' said Sheath, caressing
her, ' that I would come upon j^ou
suddenly again, and take you by surprise
with the earnestness and passion of my
love; and, Ellinor, the time has come —
thank heaven, the time has come !'

And he cast his eyes upward and sighed
sentimentally to the ceiling.

An age seems to have elapsed since
that night,' he added.

I was at the appointed place,'

said Ellinor, softly, and colouring deeply;
So was I,' said Sir Eedmond.

And why — why '

Did I not appear, you would ask ?'

Yes — though perhaps it was as well
not now.'

I was pinned by the leg by that accursed
brute of your sister's.'

Jack.'

D — n him — yes ! Pardon me ; but
there was something grotesque, humiliating,
and exasperating in the whole
episode.'

I was certain it was thus ; but — but
why did you never write to me ?'

'Never write to you !' exclaimed Sheath,
with well-feigned surprise ; ' you left —
what's its name — Birkwoodbrae '

^ Early in September.'

Exactly — that is the reason you did
not get my letters.'

You wrote, then ?' exclaimed Ellinor,
her soft face brightening with pleasure.

VOL. II. G

A score of letters, and they were all
returned to me from the Post Office,' replied
Sheath, unblushingly.

So Ellinor thought, * I have wronged
him ; it was but a short time ago since
this man loved me passionately, and so he
must love me still. No love worthy of the
name would die in a couple of months.'

I always wrote in fear, too, dearest
Ellinor.'

Fear of whom ?'

Of your sister — of that old devil-dodger
Wodrow, that sly, spying fellow Colville —
my uncle, too, who is ailing still, but
whose wealth will all be ours — ours,
Ellinor ! In my heart of hearts I have
ever looked forward to the time when — on
finding one who loved me truly — I should
settle down into a quiet life and be happy,
in a cottage near a wood, and all that sort
of thing if necessary, my wants are so few
so simple ; but that is not required ; we
shall have a mansion in Belgravia, a moor

in the Highlands, a bog in Ireland for the
snipe shooting, a place in the Midlands,
and a yacht at Cowes, and heaven only
knows all what more — when my uncle
dies.'

And as he folded her caressingly to his
heart and nestled her face in his neck, the
poor little fool believed every word he
uttered ; and then Sheath began to talk to
her of that dangerous and fascinating past
the days of their early meeting among
the Birds of Invermay.

Even while caressing and fondling her,
his practised eye took in the whole details
of the room in which they were seated,
with its furniture and appurtenances.
There was an air of poverty — even meanness
— ho thought (for his eye was accustomed
to luxury and splendour) within the
place, and this, with the ugly and sordid
prospect without, as seen through the
windows, encouraged him greatly in his
insolent and daring projects.

g2

Ho would try again to carry off the girl
somehow — anyhow and without delay.
Who was to punish him, or who was thereto
protect her ?

That ' cousin * story of Colville's was, of
course, all bosh ! The very circumstance
of her residence in such a place as Paddington
proved it to be so.

By a man of his address and past experience
in all manner of worldly rascality,
her timidity, coyness, or scruples must, he
thought, be eventually overcome. He had
entered stakes on the race ; he would not
readily drop out of the hunt — the pursuit
of a helpless girl ; if it did not redound to
his credit, it would at least afford him
pleasure, and if successful would flatter
his vanity, for her beauty was undoubted.

Moreover, he strangely felt somewhat
revengeful for the trouble she had already
given him, and to this sentiment the downfall
of her pride and the destruction, iE
possible, of her delicacy and purity of

nature would be soothing to his spirit.
Even amid his caresses and love-making
there was an easy insolence in his manner,
born of his innate and perverse vulgarity
of race and nature, and encouraged by the
girl's unprotected condition, without
parents or brothers ; but it was so veiled
that poor Ellinor never suspected it till he
said, with something of irritation in his
manner,

As for the old devil-dodger, we do not
require his consent now, I suppose ?'

Who — what ?' asked Ellinor, with perplexity.


Doctor Wodrow — the psalm^singing
old beggar.'

Do not speak of him so irreverently
said Ellinor, imploringly ; * he made a pet
of me from my infancy, and I love him as
if he was my father.'

Oh said Sir Eedmond, jealously, * and
his son, too, I suppose ?'

How can you speak to me thus ?' asked

Ellinor, as the agonised face of the young
hussar she had seen in the park came upbraidingly
before her. How little Sheath
knew or appreciated the depth of her pure,
innocent, and dreamy nature, albeit that,
through fanning her ambition, he had
taught her to be false to Eobert Wodrow.

After a pause, resuming his softest tone
he said, while holding her hands in his,
and looking fondly and admiringly down
into her soft hazel eyes,

Then, dearest, you will, as before, consent
to a private marriage ?'

If Mary will give me permission,' replied
Ellinor, slowly and with hesitation.

Mary — is she your keeper ?'

She is my dear and only sister.'

'But — but will she accord her permission ?'

I can only hope so.'
If not ?'

Then we can but wait.'
^My uncle's death, for he will never
consent.'

It is a sad event to look forward to.'

Very,' replied Sheath, with difficulty repressing
a smile ; ' but I cannot wait.'

There must be no running away — no
attempt at eloping again,' said Elinor,
firmly.

Sir Redmond thought of Jack's teeth,
and looked nervously and furtively about
him.

Jack is with Mary,' said Ellinor, who
detected the glance.

As you will — what you please, darling,
so that you'll be mine. I'll see a sky-pilot
I mean a clergyman — on the subject,'
he added, thinking that, after a little
coaching. Gaiters might officiate in that
capacity ; but then how about the registrar
and a church ? * Well, that is agreed
upon, and we shall soon be one.'

To change the subject for a time, that
he might consider the further development
of his nefarious scheme,

'How on earth did you come to select

such a queer locality as this to reside in ?'
asked Sleatb, looking with genuine surprise
at the humble but neat apartment,
where, however, there were now many
traces of ladies' hands and work.

It was a chance. We were, and are,
so ignorant of London.'

And your landlady — you have one, I
suppose ?'

Is the kindest, most attentive, and
dearest old thing; not that she is very old
either. And she has seen better days, it
would seem.'

'Of course. I never knew a landlady
who had not. And so she is kind to
you?'

And to Mary — unvaryingly so.'
'Ah, I must thank her for all this.'
Here she comes to lay the tea things.
Mrs. Fubsby,' said Ellinor, as the latter
entered the room, ' this is the gentleman

"who bought '

Fubsby !' interrupted Sleatb, in a dismayed

tone. * What the devil — Seraphina
Fubsby !'

Gentleman !' shrieked Mrs. Fubsby, letting
her tray fall crash with all its contents
on the floor. 'Villain ! double-dyed villain,
do we meet again — again after all
these years ?'

She is mad !' said he, starting to his
feet and keeping the table between herself
and him.

This is Sir Redmond Sheath !' exclaimed
Ellinor, in tones of terror and explanation.

The same man who married me under
the name of Eedmond, and then deserted
me in France. My husband at last, after
all these years of cruel desertion.'

Your husband ?' said Ellinor, in a voice
like a husky whisper.

Yes ; and look at the white-faced craven.
He does not deny it. Listen, Miss Ellinor,
though what has brought him here I know
not. No good, you maybe assured. I was
waiting-maid to Lady Dunkeld in Paris

when he and I became acquainted on the
Boulevards, and he married me under the
name of Redmond.'

You married me, you mean, or thought
you did, you artful and accursed Jezebel,'
exclaimed Sheath, choking with rage.

Oh, what is all this I hear ?' moaned
Ellinor, overwhelmed with horror, dismay,
and humiliation.

The bitter truth, young lady,' said
Mrs. Fubsby, beginning partly to take in
the situation.

You have no proofs now of what you
say, you infernal Jezebel, who in your
maturer years entrapped me in my boyhood
!' thundered Sheath.

No proofs !'

^No — the old devil-dodger — the cur
who performed the ceremony, as I suppose
you will call it, was shot in the days of the
Commune.'

True, but the records of his chapel
still exist.'

What is all this to me ?'

You will soon learn to your cost, now
that I have discovered you under your
true name.'

As related, Mrs. Fubsby (who had resumed
her maiden name) was not without
personal attraction ; but she was wasted in
aspect, though only about forty — perhaps
forty-five — years of age ; and now her dark
eyes were ablaze with rage and grief.
Thus she spoke the truth when she said,

I was a pretty young woman, Miss
Elinor, when I first met this wretch inhuman
form; but disappointment, disgust,
neglect, and shame, too, have all made me
what I seem now — old-looking, wasted,
and blasted !'

At this crisis Robert Wodrow came
upon the scene. Entering abruptly and
unannounced, he regarded the trio with
extreme bewilderment. He saw Mrs.
Fubsby, whom he knew not, convulsed
with just indignation ; Ellinor in tears on

a sofa, her bowed face hidden in her
hands, her whole air that of one completely
crushed, and sitting gathered in a heap, as
it were ; while Sheath, pale with rage, spite,
and baffled knavery, was about to withdraw.


Robert Wodrow never stopped to make
any inquiry. He could only conceive one
thing — that Ellinor had been somehow
insulted or wronged. All the jealousy,
fury, and hatred that had so long swelled
in his. heart now gushed up in fiercer heat,
and, endued with thrice his usual strength
thereby, he sprang upon Sheath, grasped
him by the collar behind, and, with many
a kick and heavy lash of his riding-switch
thrust him from the room, down the stair,
and headlong into the street, where by one
final impetus from his foot he flung him ina
half breathless heap by the kerbstone,
and then closed the house door.

Gathering himself up quickly, Sheath
hastened away, registering a truly infernal

VOW of vengeance — a vow all the deeper
that it was unuttered.

Thus had light been suddenly and
luridly thrown on the great secret of his
life — the secret which prevented him from
raising his eyes to Blanche Galloway, as
stated in the fifth chapter of our first volume
— which he dared not do as a married
man.

He was decidedly unfortunate in his
views regarding Ellinor Wellwood ; and
now the daughter of Nox — inevitable
Nemesis — had overtaken him !

Panting with exertion, and with something
of a grim laugh, Robert Wodrow returned
to the room, muttering to himself,

He'll not forget that last kick with my
regulation boot, in the region of the os
coccygis. By Jove, I haven't forgotten my
Quain and Turner ! And now to find out
what all this was about.'

We need scarcely say that Ellinor's
soul almost died within her at the contemplation

of the two narrow escapes she had
from ruin and despair !

Eobert Wodrow literally ground his
teeth when he heard of all that had just
transpired.

He looked worn and haggard, and amid
her own mortification Ellinor's heart bled
for him, for she knew that his life had
been crushed by her; while she was ever
to him

'His love that loved him so,
His love who loved him years ago.'

I don't think, Ellinor, said he, ' that
even in my dear old governor's " Analecta"
would he find a quotation suitable to this
fellow's rascality ; but I agree with Calvin
and Knox in their views of some men.'

How ?'

'That they are born to be damned, and
this fellow Sheath is one of them.'

If men or women are bad they often
become so through the faults of each other,'

said the landlady ; ' but I'll bring my man
to book if there is law to be had in London.'

And now Mary arrived, accompanied by
her faithful four-footed friend, who recognised
Robert Wodrow, despite his hussar
uniform, and was profuse in his delight,
leaping almost to his face at times.

The minutes of this farewell interview
sped like lightning !

Robert Wodrow, without a thought of
himself, had always loved Ellinor in the
past, and he loved her still, ' for true love
can live even in despair,' says a writer;
but true love is scarce as the phoenix;
and he had for Ellinor, despite her ill-usage
of him, all the reverence that went out with
the age of chivalry.

I am going far away,' said he, while
hot tears rolled over the cheeks of both
girls, and his own too ; * and when we
meet again, if ever — if ever, Ellinor — we
shall both be old and cold perhaps — old inexperience,

and — thank God — cold in heart
old and cold, and feeling none of the
bitterness of an hour like this !'

A few days after the public prints announced
the departure of the Hussars for
India, and the sisters thought sadly that,
too probably, never would they see or hear
of Robert Wodrow again.

CHAPTER VIII.

MRS. DEROUBIGNE.

The advent of Sheath, and perhaps the
influence she had upon the life of Robert
Wodrow, had a crushing effect upon the
overwrought nervous system of Ellinor.
She was again ill — ailing with something
mental rather than bodily — and many little
comforts were necessary for her, thus taxing
Mary's slender exchequer sorely, and
adding to her anxieties.

Colville had passed out of the life of
the latter, but not quite out of her
thoughts. He was going to India — she
had heard him say so.

Perhaps he was already gone. So far

VOL. II. H

as the newspapers were concerned, she
had seen no notice of his marriage to
Blanche Galloway, an engagement with
whom he had so distinctly disavowed.

For a moment vanity whispered to
Mary's heart, was he going far away that
he might forget herself ?

In this idea she was, perhaps, nearer
the truth than she knew. Her first and
only love affair — if such it really was —
had been a dream, and she thought,

^ Life and the world and mine own self are changed
For a dream's sake.'

And Colville might, to a great extent,
have applied the quotation to himself, as
"we may soon show.

Times there were when Mary thought
bitterly, ' Why did he teach me to love
him, and then neglect me so ? It was
cruel, cruel ! I was so happy and content
till he came

And often did this idea haunt her while
she taught her little pupils to play the

sweet, low ' Birds of Invermay/ But erelong
a shock awaited her.

On leaving the house of these pupils
one day near Portman Square, she incidentally
saw, when taking her parasol off
the hall table, the visiting-cards of Lady
Dunkeld and the Hon. Blanche Galloway
lying there, and a thrill, a presentiment of
coming evil, filled her heart ; this emotion
was verified when, on calling next day, a
brief note was handed to her, enclosing a
little cheque, with the blunt information
that her services were dispensed with.

Her name had by some means caught
the ears of these malevolent ones, and
this, she knew, was . the result of their
influence and enmity ; and, gentle though
her nature, a rush of anger and disgust,
not unmingled with dismay, filled her
heart.

How was she to break this new calamity
to poor ailing Ellinor — the tidings of her
rude dismissal? And, loth to return

h2

to ber home, lie wandered through the
streets for a time in aimless misery.

To add to the gloom of her spirit, it
was a foggy November afternoon, and she
felt the most intense depression, all the
more so that she was as yet unaccustomed
to the breathless atmosphere, or rather
want of atmosphere — peculiar to London
generally, and never so much as in that
season — the month of death, as the French,
call it.

Walking onward in the aimless way
described, she found herself at the end of
Upper Brook Street, where it opens into
Grosvenor Square, and there a lady was
stepping from her carriage before one of
the stately mansions. Mary, full of her
own sad thoughts, nearly jostled her, and,
pausing, apologised.

The lady, a tall and handsome woman,
paused too, and Mary recognised Mrs.
Deroubigne, who had complimented her
upon her playing, and spoken so kindly to

her at Lady Dunkeld's dance ; and something
pleading and pathetic in Mary's
whole air and face now made Mrs. Serous
regard her attentively for a moment.

We have met before,' said she. * You
are the young lady I had the pleasure of
hearing play at lumber 60, Park Lane ?'

eyes, Mrs. Deroubigne,' replied Mary,
in a low voice.

You know my name !'

I heard it mentioned incidentally, and
the kindness of your manner made it
dwell in my memory.'

You look both pale and ill, my dear,'
said the lady ; ' come in, and let me give
you a glass of wine — it will do you good.'

Mary thought of Lady Dunkeld, with
whom she had last seen this lady, and,
pausing, muttered her thanks, and accepted
the invitation, but hesitatingly.

Little could she foresee that her whole
future life hinged — if v/e may use the
old parliamentary expression — upon that

chance meeting with Mrs. Deroubigne 1

The latter would not, we may be assured
for she was very aristocratic in her
tastes and proclivities — have noticed an
ordinary * person,' young or old, employed
to furnish music for any dance she had
been at; but there was something so
sweet and pathetic, as stated, in Mary's
face and manner — more than all, something
so perfectly ladylike in her bearing,
that Mrs. Deroubigne felt attracted towards
her.

Mary did not get the proffered wine a
moment too late ; so much was she overcome,
mentally and bodily, by the bitter
mortification to which she had that day
been subjected, that the stately drawing-room
in which she found herself seemed
to be whirling round her.

As you know my name, my dear,' said
Mrs. Deroubigne, ' may I inquire yours ?'

'Mary Wellwood.'

The lady's colour changed a little.

Wellwood ?' she repeated ; ' that name
was very familiar to me once. I knew a
captain — latterly he was colonel — Well-wood,
who left the Array, and went to
reside near Invermay in Scotland. Perhaps
he was a relation ?'

He was my dear father,' replied Mary,
in a broken voice.

Indeed — your father ! He was my
dearest friend.'

How very dear he had been to her once,
the old lady did not say then ; but thereby
huns: a tale !

Your face seemed strangely familiar tome,'
she said, while regarding Mary with
tender interest, and patting her hand as
she held it between her two. ' Your father
is dead?'

'And mamma too, otherwise I might not
have been reduced to accept the occupation
in which you found me.'

This is sad — very sad !' said Mrs.
Deroubigne, her eyes suffusing as she

spoke. ' Your father, I repeat, was the
clearest friend of my girlhood — how long,
long it seems ago now — my dear girl,
I might have been your mother, and for
his sake I should like to act as one to
you now.'

Mary's heart went forth to the speaker,
and then she thought of Ellinor. The
words of Mrs. Deroubigne came as a kind
of revelation to her; she had heard a
rumour of some old and early love affair
of her father's, which had led to the bitter
family quarrel referred to in the first
chapters of our story.

And you knew mamma?' asked Mary,
wistfully.

Well, indeed ; she was the queen of
our regiment and the belle of every town
where it was quartered. I can say so
now, when I am old and widowed.'

Ellinor is thought very like her.'

'Who is Ellinor?'

My only sister.'

If so, she must be very handsome.
And are there only you two left in the
world ?'

^ Yes,' replied Mary ; and little by little
Mrs. Deroubigne, with growing commiseration,
elicited from her some information
about herself and sister — their plans and
hopes in coming to London ; and on hearing
them she muttered something about
her own ' two little girls,' as if unsparingly,
and shook her head sorrowfully.

Mrs. Deroubigne was evidently a very
charming woman, who had seen much of
the world, and as a friend and companion
was clever and delightful. After a little
pause, she said, suddenly,

Of course you know your cousin, Captain
Wellwood, of the Scots Guards ?'

Only b}^ name, and an unfortunate
reputation.'

Oh, I forgot — there was a family quarrel.

He is one of my dearest friends —
Leslie Wellwood Colville, as be calls himself
now.'

Wellwood — Colville !' said Mary, inquiringly.
* I beg your pardon, Mrs. Serous
but are there two officers of that
name in the Scots Guards ?'

jSFo, only one — Wellwood, who added
Colville to his name as successor to a large
property — your cousin, in fact — and the
peerage he claims, Lord Colville of Ochil-
tree.'

A light seemed to break on Mary ; she
knew not what to think ; she had no voice
to reply. She felt that she changed colour,
while a sudden dryness came over her
lips and tongue.

She heard the door-bell ring, and knew
that Mrs. Deroubigne was speaking again
yet scarcely understood what she said.

He starts for India in a day or two,
and is to lunch with me this afternoon.

To meet you — a cousin so charming — will
be quite a little surprise for him ; and here
he comes !' she added, as the door was
opened, and Colville — the identical Colville
of Birkwoodbrae — was ushered in !

CHAPTER IX.

WAS IT NOT A DREAM ?

He came forward through the long 
with his usual easy bearing, his
head well set up, his military air, and
calm, unflinching eyes, which dilated on
seeing Mary Wellwood, and then he
paused.

For fully a minute there was dead silence
— the silence of dumb bewilderment,
and Mary felt how loudly and painfully
her heart was beating ; while to both Colville
and Mrs. Deroubigne it was apparent
how much she was agitated, thereby involving
a secret which the latter was yet
to learn.

Mary had felt that she had cause to be
indignant and to feign indifference. As
the lover who had trifled with her, as she
thought, and gone to the very verge of a
declaration or proposal, and then paused,
and he — the obnoxious cousin, the heir of
entail, one and the same person — stood
before her, in her eyes of deep violet blue
there came for a brief space the light of a
sudden determination, with something of
a horrified stare ; but ere Mrs. Deroubigne
could approach an explanation or introduction,
Colville sprang towards the pale
and trembling girl, and took both her
hands within his own.

^ Mary — Mary Well wood !' he exclaimed,
in a voice full of passion and pathos ; 'you
here ! — and do we meet again after all ?
What mystery is this ?'

Probably a portion of that which seems
to have involved all your actions of late,'
replied Mary, with the slightest soupcon of

hauteur in her manner, while with difficulty
restraining her tears.

But are you not glad to see me again —
you whom I loved, and love with all my
heart ?'

Captain Colville,' said Mary, attempting,
but in vain, to withdraw her hands,
this painful and degrading mode of treating
me must not to be resumed !'

Painful and degrading ? Mary, you
know that I love you.'

You never told me so. I wish I had
never seen you, or that I were dead !'
exclaimed Mary, a little incoherently, while
averting her face, and feeling her determination
giving way.

^ Never told you so — but you knew ; and
we were interrupted when we parted last ;
and then I met with that accident, the
wound in my right hand, which prevented
me from writing or going to Birkwoodbrae
in time to prevent you and Ellinor from
vanishing, without trace, as you did.'

By this time she had wrenched her
hands away, and, thinking with alarm and
dismay of how Mrs. Deroubigne might
view this singular scene, she covered her
face with them.

Captain Colville !' she exclaimed, with
a tone of expostulation, as he gently pulled
them down, while triumph and joy sparkled
in his eyes.

Now, don't look vexed with me anymore,'
said he, in a tone of tender entreaty,
while kissing her hands. ' My dear,
dear cousin — dearer than all the world
to me,' he added, as the mingled expression
of indignation, perplexity, and doubt
passed out of her sweet, pale face ; ^ let me
explain all, and tell you how I love you !'

Mary was so shaken by all she had
lately undergone that she could only weep
now ; thus for a moment or two she
yielded to him; he pressed her to his
heart, and covered her eyes and lips with
fast-falling kisses, forgetful of the presence

of Mrs. Deroubigne, who looked
laughingly on. The good old lady seemed
to like the romance of the situation, and
of the episode she had so unwittingly
brought about.

And how is Ellinor ?' he asked, as Mary
drew blushingly back towards their hostess.

Far from well. Of late she has suffered
much '

Through my folly ?'

And other matters too.'

Mary felt her poor little head in a whirl,
with some difficulty recognising the whole
situation.

So the Colville she had learned to love
and her cousin Wellvvood were one and
the same person ! Thus, much which had
puzzled her on many occasions in the
bearing of Dr. Wodrow was accounted for
now. They had been in the plot together.
Many things that had seemed perplexing
and strange were now clear as day. She
recalled the initials, and the mystery he

made about the W that stood for the
middle name, and remembered that she
had seen the Wellwood crest — a demi-lion
on his signet ring ; nay, it was on it
now ! She recalled, with some shame and
bewilderment, all her sharp and antagonistic
utterances about him and his father,
and she cast down her long dark lashes as
these things came to memory.

And so it was of himself he had spoken,
and to himself he had referred, as having
been the worse for wine in the cantonments
at Lahore ; himself he had referred
to as being ' not a half bad fellow,' and
being wounded in action with the hill
tribes ; himself on whose supposed coldness
and selfishness he heard her descant;
and it was regard for her as a beautiful
and friendless girl, with the charming tie
of cousinship hitherto unknown, that had
inspired him as he stood with her side by
side at her parents' grave !

I knew not what love really was till I

VOL. II. I

knew you, Mary said he, caressing lier
again. ' In the world I live and move id,
I never thought it would touch me as it
did, for there money seeks money or rank.
Out of novels and plays, I doubted its
existence; but I have learned the sweet
lesson at last, and you — the dear cousin
who loathed my very name — were my preceptor,
Mary !'

But why — oh, why all this mystery —
this concealment of your real position,
name, and relationship ?'

Can you ask me, after what I have
said ? I wanted to know you thoroughly,
after all Dr. Wodrow had told me about
you and Ellinor. I then wanted you to
love me, not as the owner of a landed
estate — not as a lounging Guardsman —
not for the pretty woods of Birkwoodbrae,
that I could perhaps give to you, and
would have done so had they not been
entailed ; but, like the hero of a romance,
Mary, for myself alone.'

And now to lunch, dears,' said Mrs.
Deroubigne, as lie laughingly kissed
Mary. ' I am tired of playing the part of
Gooseberry.'

How much they had to talk about, to
describe, to explain to each other, out of
all the cross-purposes, confusion, and pain
that had arisen from her cousin's scheme,
the little romance he had concocted, and
the end of which he had not foreseen ;
while, worse than all, but for the doctrine
of chances, they might never have met
again 1

He heard with astonishment of the two
episodes of Lady Dunkeld's dance and
Westminster Abbey.

To think that I should be so near you,
and have no consciousness of your presence
!' he exclaimed. * Where were my
eyes — where was my heart ? My poor
little Mary, had you only thought of looking
in the Army List, you would there
have seen that your wicked cousin and

t2

Leslie Colville were one and the same
man !'

The astonishment of the latter, on hearing
of the recent cruel conduct of Lady
Dunkeld and her daughter, was only
equalled by his just indignation.

Oh, for the rarity of Christian charity !'
he exclaimed.

I can forgive them 7iow,^ said Mary, ina
tremulous voice, and with a swift, bright
glance at Leslie Colville.

I cannot,' said he ; ' forgiveness is indifference,
or nearly so, but no one can
quite forgive a wrong like this. But I
see the origin of this hostility to one who
was helpless against it. When I think
how — as you know, my dear Mrs. Serous
— how that half-French brat, Blanche
Galloway, in her flirty. Continental way,
has sung to me, played at me, talked
to me, and made ceillades, I am disgusted.'


Come now, Captain Colville,' said Mrs.

Deroubigne, ^ that is scarcely fair ; did you
not encourage her a little a la soldat T

Not at all ! She was ever admiring
the rose or flower I had in my button-hole,
and when I begged her acceptance thereof,
it duly figured in her bosom or hair afterwards,
while she flattered herself, no doubt,
in the depths of her French imaginings —
but I shall teach these Dunkelds a sharp
lesson ere I go.'

*Now that you talk of it — and now
especially — I do not see why you should
go to the East at all,' said Mrs. Serous
while Mary grew paler than before,
and felt as if roused from a startling
dream.

True, true, but needs must now. In

sorrow for the loss of Mary, I volunteered

for special service abroad ; and so I find

her but to lose her again,' exclaimed

Colville.

ft
Special service !' she asked, in a strange

voice. ' What is that ?'

It means detached for staff work where
where operations are in progress said
he, evasively.

Speak to the point, Captain Colville,'
said Mrs. Deroubigne. ' You go to the
north-west frontier of India.'

India !' repeated Mary, with whitening
lips. ' Has life so little joy for you ?'

It had but little till within this hour,
dearest Mary.'

Can you not withdraw your application
?' said Mrs. Deroubigne.

As a soldier's widow, you should know
that, unless overtaken by illness, I could
not do so with honour.'

You are right. How unfortunate it is ?'

So, my darling and I have met but to
part again.'

Mary heard all this with more dismay'
than she dared exhibit just then, or trust
herself to speak about, and it was with a
mingled sense of joy she found herself

pledged, before Mrs. Deroubigne, to be
Leslie Colville's future wife, and saw flashing
on her engaged finger the same diamond
ring he had brought for her acceptance
on that eventful day at Birkwoodbrae,
for then, as now, Mary Wellwood was the
one woman in the world for him. * Whether
our passion be prudent,' says Hawley
Smart, ' whether the woman we have asked
to tread life's path with us is likely to be
approved in our maturer years, we reck
little. She is the one woman, so far as weare
concerned just now, and has she not
pledged herself to be so always ?'

But no doubt of himself or of his choice
came into the heart of Colville. She had
already been tried like gold in the fire ;
and he was yet to be further tried to an
extent he little expected.

When the time came to depart, Mary
left Mrs. Deroubigne with a heart too full
of regard and gratitude for utterance in

words. She could only sob on her ample
and motherly breast ; and Colville, when
conveying her in a cab to that home which
he had resolved she must change for one
more suitable, heard of its locality with
sorrow and dismay, and with emotions
very different from those of Sir Redmond
Sheath when he obtained the address of
Ellinor.

Paddington — Paddington Green ! My
Heaven, how came you to select such a
place ?' he exclaimed.

Through the o^uard of the train. We
asked his advice replied Mary, simply.

This is intolerable ! Such a hole — such
a den — such a locality ! You must quit it
without delay,' he added, as the only homes
he knew were in Mayfair, Tyburniaia, and
Belgravia ; and though his heart was full
of joy the first genuine laugh that escaped
him was when he heard the address he was
to inquire for.

Mrs. Seraphina Fubsby ! Good heavens,

where did she pick up such a name ?'

Mary had no time then to inform him
that the good woman was fully entitled to
another. She was too full of her own
thoughts, and, though the fog of that
horrible London November day had deepened
and darkened all around her, in her
heart there seemed sunshine now !

Could it be that so much had passed —
that events to her so momentous had occurred
— since she had turned away in
gloom and almost in despair from the
great door of that house near Portman
Square, afraid even to tell and crush poor
Ellinor's heart by tidings of the new misfortune
that had overtaken them ?

"Was it not all a dream, from which she
would awake to a world of bitterness ?

But, no. Leslie Colville's betrothal ring
was on her finger ; his strong, firm and
loving hand was clasping hers ; and all
about her was truth and reality.

What tidings I bring, dear Ellinor !' she

thought, as the cab stopped at the door of
their humble abode, and Leslie Colviile
sprang out to assist her to alight as they
heard Jack's bark of welcome.

CHAPTER X.

GOING TO THE FRONT.

So they were solemnly engaged at last,
plighted to each other, these cousins, and
to be married ; but when ? For Colville
had now to face the perils of the war in
Afghanistan ere that event could come to
pass.

He was going straight and almost immediately
to the scene of strife among the
savage passes there, and for Mary to accompany
him was impossible just then,
and as Elinor could not be left alone she
would have to go too ; so the idea was not
considered for a moment.

They could but wait the future in trust

and hope, and amid the brief joy of the
present time was a dread of that future,
for he who was departing might never —
retinal

is unchanged at Birkwoodbrae, and
old Elspat is there in charge, dearest Mary,'
said Colville, ' so you and Ellinor may return
if you will, and live there till I come
back from the East.'

The temptation to do so was strong —
the crave to be at home again, to see the
faces of old friends, the dear familiar hills,
the silver birds, and the fast-flowing May.
But though understanding each other fully
as the cousins did now, and though their
positions as such were changed and
strengthened, Mary in her independence
of spirit and character thought she would
prefer to struggle on as they were, till he
could take her there as his wife.

For her kindness to the sisters, Colville
slipped quietly into Mrs. Fubsby's hand a
cheque for an ample sum, saying, after he

bad heard her story, that it would help
her in her plans to prove herself Lady
Sheath and punish her wrong-doer.

This was on the following day, when
Mary told him the simple story of all their
recent troubles, while he gazed down upon
her with eyes full of truth and tenderness,
and her heart was beating tumultuously
with its new-found joy. She knew that
he loved her now, he whom she felt inclined
to adore.

Yet the future seemed to loom darkly
before her. There was this terrible campaign
in Afghanistan, with its certain and
far separation, its remote and fearful contingencies
to be faced, endured, and undergone
; so Fate seemed still to be cruel to
her.

When, in broken accents and with
mingled emotions of anger and shame,
while her head reclined upon his breast,
Mary told Colville of Sir Redmond Sheath's
systematic attempts, though secretly married,

to lure away her unsuspecting sister
Ellinor, great was the wrath and fury of
her lover.

Whip in hand, he would assuredly have
taken condign vengeance on the back and
limbs of the parvenu baronet, but that the
latter had to quit London — even England
just about that time, in some haste and
in dire disgrace.

At his club he had gambled deeply with
Lord Dunkeld and others, from whom he
had won great sums of money — more than
the peer especially could well afford — and
before it was discovered that his wonderful
success was due to the use of marked cards.

During a game of quinze one of the
players — a brother-Guardsman of Colville's
noticed that several of the cards were in
some way indicated, and, after a careful
examination, it was found that all the fives
and the court cards were marked by the
prick of a needle at the corners, and some
in the centre, too.

These marks, though almost invisible to
the eye, were recognisable bj the sense of
touch. A storm of indignation burst over
Sheath. He was flung down the club
stairs, had to eat very ' humble pie ' indeed,
and was now gone to the Continent, none
knew or cared precisely where, with a
congenial friend, Mr. Adolphus Dewsnap
(of whom more anon) ; so whatever legal
plans Mrs. Fubsby meant to adopt to relinquish
her maiden name and insist upon
the adoption of that of Lady Sheath, were
partially frustrated or delayed for a time
by the baronet's disappearance.

On the very day after the engagement,
Mary and Ellinor bade her farewell — it
could scarcely be said with regret, though
the good woman shed abundance of tears
on the occasion.

Colville, who resented as absurd and
infra dig. Mary's desire of maintaining
herself and adding to the slender patrimony
their father had left them, brought

an invitation from Mrs. Deroubigne, in
whose care they were to be left for the
future — certainly for a time at least ; and
she received them with open arms, and a
welcome all the more warm that she was
just then alone, her two little daughters
being absent at a boarding establishment ;
and, amid the new comforts and ease that
surrounded her in Grosvenor Square, Mary
forgot for a time the old wish of her heart
to go ' home as she ever considered Birk-woodbine
her home.

At the commencement of the present
century, Malcolm says * that this square is
the Levy focus of feudal grandeur, religion,
fashion, taste, and hospitality, and that
the novel-reader must be intimately acquainted
with the description of residents
within it, when the words " Grosvenor
Square " are to be found in almost every
work of that species written in the compass
of fifty years past.'

Before the house of Mrs. Deroubigne

were still to be seen iron link-extinguishers,
a remnant of the past, when links were
carried before carriages at the West-end
till 1807. Though old-fashioned, the mansion
was a lofty and stately one ; and
Mary, when she gazed upon the tall windows
on the spacious square and the
landscape garden in the centre, with its
old trees planted by Kent, wondered if she
was the same Mary Wellwood who for so
many weeks past had contemplated the
frowsy view from the windows of her late
abode.

In her regard for Colville, and inspired
no doubt by memories of the past and the
dead, Mrs. Deroubigne, to do her justice,
was unwavering in her kindness and hospitality
to her new friends ; and times
there were when she actually, amid her
dream-thoughts, seemed to forget her own
married life, and her heart yearned, warmly
and strangely, to the two orphan girls of
her old lover — the girls who might, she

VOL. II. K

averred laughingly, have been her own
daughters, had fate so arranged it.

Your face, Mary, always reminds me
of your father,' she would say, taking the
girl's dimpled cheeks caressingly between
her hands ; * but yours, Ellinor, suggests
to me more of your mamma — you have
the same dreamy hazel eyes. And you are
romantic, no doubt ?' she added, with a
fond smile.

Perhaps ; every girl has, it is said, at
least one romance in the course of her
life,' said Ellinor, thinking of poor Robert
"Wodrow and the wretched Sheath.

And, certainly, I have had mine I' said
Mrs. Deroubigne, kissing Mary, while old
memories floated through her mind, known
and clear to herself alone.

Mary thought that though it might be
delightful in summer to visit Kirkwood
with Mrs. Deroubigne as a chaperone,
she would never go back to it as a
home on sufferance — on that she was resolved

; and until she was a wedded wife
she could but wait in hope, love, and
confidence ; besides, Mrs. Deroubigne, at
Colville's suggestion, had a plan for a little
tour on the Continent to occupy some of
the time of his absence, and to make the
sisters forget some of the mortifications
they had recently undergone.

Though the temporary loss of Mary
and the mystery involving her movements
her very fate after leaving Perthshire —
had so tortured the heart of Colville that
he had resolved to seek for change amid
the stirring scenes of Eastern war once
more, he felt that he could now leave
England with emotions of comparative
happiness and content.

He knew that she was in safety — surrounded
by every comfort, even by splendour
— and had been saved from much he
could not quite foresee, by the slender but
blessed chance of her meeting with Mrs.
Deroubigne !

K 2

To bim and Mary the few meetings
before his departure seemed heaven-sent
though a sorrowful separation was at
hand — the happiest of all their past
existence.

Neither seemed to question, as yet, how
they would feel or could exist during the
months — perhaps the more than year — of
separation that had to come.

Steer, never would she forget the time
when he placed the engagement-ring upon
her engaged finger, and when their eyes
met in one long and deep glance — a
glance that, though no word was uttered,
proved the silent compact of his avowed
and her accepted love.

So the fatal day came inexorably at last;
after a farewell dinner to him at the
Guards' Club in Pall Mall.

Good-bye, dear girls,' said he, cheerily ;
^ good-bye, love Mary — another kiss and
another. I'll bring you back such wonderful
things from India — tiger-skins, and

tiger claws set in gold; Delhi jewellery
from Channel Chow ; ivory carvings,
and I know not what more,' he added, and,
in spite of himself, strove to be cheerful ;
and when I do come back, Mary, you will
be my own darling little wife till death
parts us.'

So the hour, the supreme moment, had
come at last, and Leslie Colville was gone !

His letters were Mary's only solace after
that ; long letters full of loving and passionate
expression, to be read and re-read
again ; from Suez, burning Aden, and
beautiful Bombay; they came regularly,
but became fewer and further between ashe
proceeded up country by railway, and
his last, before they left London for the
Continent, informed her that he had been
appointed to the staff at Jellalabad, where
Sir* Samuel Browne was concentrating his
forces prior to an advance on Cabul. Thus
he would soon be eroino^ to the Iron.

CHAPTER XL

AT Allahabad.

Well, Colville, how do you like India
from what you have seen of it?' asked
Colonel Spatterdash, as he sat smoking in
his shirt and pyjamas, for, though the
month was March, the solar heat was
already considerable in that part of Afghanistan,
and quite disagreeable by eight
in the morning.

I don't like it at all,' replied Colville ;
besides, I have been in India before, and
you forget, colonel, that this is not India,
but rather beyond it.'

^ True, I ' am not likely to forget that,
when the rocks are bristling with Afghan

quails ! But, if you don't like it, what
tie deuce brought you out now ?'

To have a new sensation, to see a little
more of the world again,' said Colville,
evasively, as he was not disposed to tell
his thoughtless listeners — some four or
five officers — assembled for tiffin {i,e.,
lunch) about his romance, and the temporary
loss of Mary Wellwood.

'A ne sensation !' exclaimed Ally Behaved,
a handsome young captain of the
10th Hussars, who had just entered the
bungalow ; ^ you are likely to have it soon
enough. Have you heard the news that
has just come in from the front, colonel ?'
he added to Spatterdash.

No — what the devil is up ?' growled
the old field-officer.

Fresh complications are likely at Cabul
the Ameer Shere Ali has gone to visit
the Russian general at Tasked.'

Whew !' whistled old Spatterdash ;
that will likely precipitate matters. I

always thought the invasion of British
India by Russia would be as practicable a
few years hence as that of Italy by Austria,
and now, by Jove, we seem close upon it.'

And since the date we write of the
Russians have pushed on to Mere in
Turkomania !

The group of officers who were invited
to the colonel's table were all happy and
heedless young fellows belonging to Sir
Samuel Browne's column, and high in
anticipation of a protracted ' shindy ' with
the Afghans, as a force was being concentrated
at Jellalabad.

A couple were on the staff, like Colville ;
one — Redhaven — belonged to the Royal
Hussars ; two others to a native infantry
regiment ; all were somewhat airily attired,
and, till tiffin made its appearance, all
were smoking cheroots so industriously
that clouds of their pale smoke curled
among the rough rafters and straw roof
of the bungalow.

Jellalabad, where the fortune of war
had then cast them, the winter residence
of the Cabul monarchs since the consolidation
of the Dooranee Empire, is situated
in an extensive valley of considerable
beauty and fertility, eight-and-twenty miles
long by about four broad, and the town
had before this been rendered memorable
by the heroic stand which Sir Robert Sale,
v;ith a handful of British soldiers, made
in it against the Afghans some forty years
before.

In importance it was originally only
next to Cabul and Candahar, but its fortifications
had been completely destroyed
by General Pollock after the war that
ended in 1842. Like all Afghan cities of
note, it had its Balla Hissar, half palace
and half citadel, with a poor population
estimated at from three to ten thousand.

Many streams fertilise its valley — namely,
the Oabul Ever, which flows near the
walls ; the Surkh Eut, or Red River, and

the Kara Su, or Black River, while around
it are numerous castles, and picturesque
villages, and groups of forest trees, though
an arid desert spreads in its immediate
vicinity.

Nearly four months had elapsed since
Leslie Colville had parted from Mary
Wellwood, and already as many ages
seemed to have elapsed since the few brief
days of reunion they had spent together
at Grosvenor Square ; and now he knew
that many more months must elapse, must
be faced and endured, ere he could hope to
turn his steps towards Europe ; and even
while sitting there, among these bantering
and somewhat noisy fellows, he looked
around him as one in a dream, whose
thoughts were far away, while Mary's soft,
sad features came vividly before him in
memory and in their beauty, though the
latter, as some old poet says,

Is in no face, but in the lover's mind."

How silent you are, Colville !' exclaimed

old Spatterdash, relinquishing the mouthpiece
of bis hookah for a moment. ' Gad,
I believe the fellow's in love.'

So full were his thoughts of Mary at
that precise moment that he almost coloured
as if they had been read by the
colonel, who continued, in a tone of banter,

With you, I suppose, it is,
—to bid me not to love

Is to forbid my pulse to move,

My beard to grow, my ears to prick up ;

Or, when I'm in the mood, to hiccup."

Is it SO? Well, anyway, stick to the brandy
pawnee till tiffin comes.'

Again the old familiar sound of the
cantonment hurries, or gong-bells, as they
were clanged for the change of sentries,
was in his ear, and the view from the open
windows of the bungalow was strange and
striking.

Far away above the misty horizon rose
amid the clouds — and cloudlike themselves,
so bright and varied were their tints — the
majestic mountains that tower between

the shallow valley of Jellalabad and the
ramparts of Cabul, and chief of them is
the stupendous Suffaidh Koh, fourteen
thousand feet in height, then covered with
dazzling white snow ; and if wondrously
beautiful by day, it was perhaps still more
so by night, when the full moon lit up its
chasms and peaks with its Asiatic splendour.


In the immediate foreground, just before
the windows of the bungalow, a curious
scene — one illustrative of the distant
region and the manners of our Indian
fellow-subjects — was in progress.

The Poojah of a battalion of H.M. Native
Infantry, a Hindoo regiment, was being
celebrated towards evening.

The battalion, in full marching order,
with its colours, was drawn up in a circle.
At each cardinal point of the compass was
a small clod of earth, with barley and rice
on it; and in the centre were the attendant
Brahmins with a beautiful young goat.

wbicli had been sprinkled with pure water,
barley, and rice. Then the sacrificer drew
a huge Ghoorkali knife, and, after muttering
some prayers, by one trenchant slash
severed the head of the goat from its body.
At the moment of immolation twelve guns
boomed through the air and drums were
beaten, after which the battalion was-wheeled
back into line, and marched by
fours into its lines, with band playing and
colours flying.

Colonel Spatterdash, Colville's host, was
a thorough Indian officer of the old school,
who had broiled for so many years in
Bengal that he had lost much of his European
identity, all memory of home nearly,
and religion too, and had become so
bronzed that evil-disposed fellows used to
hint — but not in his presence — that he had
a dash of the tar-brush in him — was fourteen
annas to the rupee,' and so forth.

The wags of the station at Chutuey-
pore declared that he wore a gold bangle

given to him by the orange-visaged Rani
of that place, who liked him as ' a wicked
old man,' that squeezed her brown paws
when he assisted her into the silk-curtained
howdah of her great tusker elephant, which
had carried ' Colonel Wellesley's ' baggage
at the battle of Assay.

He was full of old Indian memories of
the Rangoon Rangers and Bhurtpore Bulldogs,
as he had heard of them when he
came out from Addi«combe a cadet and
griffin ; and had many a story to tell of
the pre-railway times, when, if not marching,
people travelled by dak night and
day, in palanquins ; when the old Bengal
colonel was a father to his regiment, the
guide of his subalterns, and was never so
happy as when he had a dozen or so at his
table, all eager for Kowab^ fresh eggs, with
Phillibut rice, ledger, &c., and Bhola in
plenty.

He was a captain when the mutiny
occurred ; and its horrors, with the dismay

that his beloved Sepoyss — the Spatterdash
so-called from his father — should
prove untrue to their salt, nearly broke his
heart ; and he thought the end of the
Vv'orld had come when they flung him down
a well at Gungawallah ; but he was hard
to kill. Albanian-tree that grew half way
down broke his fall, and to that he clunof
till rescued by some Highlanders, after
which he solaced himself mightily by
blowing whole batches of dandies' from
his guns.

And now tiffin came, curried chickens,
rice, green chills, mutton and chutney,
&G.f&G., with plenty of wine and brandy,
all laid out by his faithful old Kitmutgar,
wearing an enormous white turban.

Anything,' said the colonel, ' is better
than bitter beer that has been boiling on
the dusty road between Peshawur and
Jellalabad, till the cask hoops grow hot in
the sun.'

So he took a huge beaker of brandy

pawnee, as he reclined in the cane easy-chair
in his well tattered bungalow, with
punkah walls crouching in the verandah
outside, and smoked his hookah, for he
preferred such a residence to a double-poled
tent or a tumble-down brick house
in that city of earthquakes, till the troops
marched.

I knew your uncle, Wellwood, thoroughly,'
said the colonel to Colville. ^ He
and I were great chums, and I once saw
him do a plucky thing — a very plucky
thing, by Jove ! — when we were giving a
fellow a tight flogging under fire.'

A flogging under fire — that was remarkable,
surely?'

Not so in those days; we were never
squeamish about anything then.'

And this plucky thing ?' said Redhaven,
the hussar.

Convinced me that Wellwood was
pretty reckless of life. . He had been
soured by some disappointment in love,

we heard — the idea of such a thine !'

And, while old Spatterdash laughed a
little contemptuously at the thought of a
tender passion, Colville, remembering the
secret episode of Mrs. Deroubigne's life,
listened with some interest.

It came about in this way, you see,'
said the colonel, after taking a long pull
at his hookah. * After we advanced upon
Jhansi under Sir Hugh Rose to crush the
rebellious Sepoyss who held the place
(which was a town and fortress of the
Mahratta of old), we bombarded it heavily
for four days, but not without resistance,
for the shattered remains of the
Gwalior contingent, augmented to twenty-five
thousand bayonets and sabres, and
eighteen pieces of cannon from Kalpee,
came marching along the right bank of
the Jumna, hoping to raise the siege, d — n
them !

In that, however, the Pan dies were
disappointed. During the bombardment,

VOL. II. L

when we were pitching shot and shell into
each other, a great thirteen-inch bomb
from an old mortar happened to fall close
by where the soldier of a European regiment
was tied up to '' the halberds' as we
still called the triangles, to receive a hundred
and fifty lashes for insubordination
when mad with drink and heat. The
sudden appearance of this great missile,
with its fuse burning and hissing, caused
such confusion and consternation that the
companies, formed in hollow square, fell
back on all sides, even breaking their
ranks, for none could composedly await
such an explosion under their noses.

Instead of yielding to this natural impulse,
Wellwood took from his pocket a
penknife, and, walking up to the helpless
and terrified creature who was bound to
the triangles, he cut the cords that bound
his wrists and ankles, setting him free,
and both had barely time to retire a little
way and throw themselves flat on the

ground, when the great shell burst, and
a hurricane of iron swept over them and
all around. Thus did he save this poor
fellow, who must inevitably have perished
from his inability to save himself; and
Wellwood did more, for, in consideration
of the mental agony the man had undergone,
he remitted the remainder of the
punishment; and, by a curious coincidence,
the culprit perished a few days after in
the action of Eoohea when saving the life
of Wellwood, whom some rebels were about
to bayonet as he lay wounded and helpless
on the ground.'

This will be an episode in her father's
life to tell Mary of when next I write to
her,' thought Colville. And now the conversation
drifted into the subject then
uppermost in the minds of all — the probability
of serious complications if Russian
intrigues proved successful at Cabul, and
none could expect them to be otherwise
when the Ameer Shere Ali had departed

l2

openly to visit General Kauffmann at
Tasked, in Central Asia, which place,
however, he was fated not to reach.

The subject that caused our dispute
with him, and brought our troops to Hellas
and elsewhere upon his frontier,
was the dispute known then as the " Resident
" question, because he rather favoured
the Russians, and thus refused to have
any such British official at his court for
three reasons — firstly, the person of a
Briton would not be safe there ; secondly,
that European officers might make demands
that would occasion quarrels ; and
thirdly, that if Britain was represented,
Russia would expect to be represented
also. But it was known that he was inclose
correspondence with General Kauffman,
and only feared that a British Resident
might, if present, throw some light
upon it ; and in the end a convention was
signed, by which Russia bound herself to

give at least moral support to the existing
Afghan dynasty.

An envoy sent by our government to
Cabul never reached it, being forced back
at a place called Ali Musjid. For this an
apology was demanded, and Afghanistan
was entered by a British army in three
columns that won several victories, and
the Ameer finding his case hopeless started
for Tasked, but died on the way, and
was succeeded by his son, Yakoub Khan,
who eventually showed a disposition to
come to terms with us ; but in this we area
little anticipating the events of our
story, for, at the time Leslie Colville joined
the staff at Jellalabad, Sir Samuel Browne
was, as stated, collecting a force there,
while General Maude relieved his post between
that place and Dakka, and the gallant
Roberts, posted further forward at the
Peiwar Pass, was improving the difficult
mountain road between that place and

Cabul for the passage of guns and baggage.


So thus it was that our troops were now
engaged in what was known as the second
Afghan War — to counteract Russian influences.


As the evening: advanced and darkness
closed in, some yells and oaths in Hindostan
and Pushtoo were heard at a little
distance outside the hedge of the colonel's
compound, and Colville, who had been
looking from a window, now started to his
feet.

I can't look on and permit that !' he
exclaimed.

Can't permit what ?' asked Spatterdash,
tartly.

A lot of fellows '

Budmashes, no doubt, by the row they
make.'

Ill-using one man ; and now, as it is
time for me to go, colonel, I shall interfere
en passant J

Don't think of it — don't bother!'
But they may kill him.'

'What the devil does it matter? A
nigger less in the world won't be missed
growled Spatterdash, who had lost all sympathy
with the natives since the Mutiny.

Call the nearest guard — the picket — or
some chowkeydars,' said Redhaven and
others ; * but don't interfere in a row of
this kind.'

Colville, however, buckled on his sword
and revolver, lit a fresh cheroot, laughingly
bowed himself out, and hurried away ; forsooth
to say, he was a little tired of old
Spatterdash, and as no one actually
thought he would interfere in a native row,
no one followed or accompanied him.

The lying pickets have been doubled
to-night by order of the general,' said the
colonel.

Why ?' asked some one.

'Because rumour says that the Sirdir
Mahmoud Shah, a tearing Afghan devil,

has come to lead the Mohmunds against
us

With what object ?' asked Redhaven of
the Hussars.

A row, of course.'

Chapter XII.

THE HADJI.

The world is a small place, after all !'
thought Colville, as lie left the Colonel's
bungalow behind him. ' Think of hearing
here that anecdote of dear Mary's father
from that old subadar ! Well, well, "life,"
as some one says, "is a perpetual enigma,
to which no theological system offers a
satisfactory solution — against the reefs of
which all philosophies break into foam and
empty bubbles." But here are more than
bubbles, by Jove ! Now what is all this
deuced row about?' he added, drawing
his sword, on seeing before him the authors

of the noise he had heard, engaged still ina
wild and fierce melee.

This was in a sequestered part of the
town, and near some of the ruins of houses
shaken down by the earthquakes some
forty years ago. One man was contending
single-handed against no less than
five, and in the clear starlight Colville
could see the flash of their gleaming eyes,
their set teeth, their dark and infuriated
faces. The man assaulted wore an Afghan
costume, a cloak, a kind of blouse with
loose sleeves, and on his head a loonjee.
The others had flowing garments and large
turbans, and were armed with heavily-loaded
clubs, against which the stranger
was defending himself with no small dexterity
with only a pilgrim's staff ; for, by
his wallet, gourd, and beads, he was evidently
a hadji, who had become involved
in a quarrel with some Wahabis, who, it
seemed afterwards, had been mocking him
for praying at the tomb of a Canton, and

told him be should call on GocI, and on no
imaginary saint, on which he had proceeded
at once to lay about him with his
pilgrim's staff.

To call a man a Wahabi,' says Stern-dale,
* is, to nine-tenths of Englishmen in
India, to call him a fanatic, a rebel, a sort
of Mahometan fenian, one whom the police
should take under special surveillance, and
whose every action is open to suspicion.'

Like the English Puritans, they — in
audition to deriding the intercession of
saints — despoiled the mosques of their
lamps and decorations, broke down all
shrines, prohibited music and dancing, and
smoking was denounced as a mortal sin ;
and now those whom Colville found himself
opposed to would undoubtedly — but
for his sword and revolver — have made
short work of it with the unfortunate
hadji.

He drove them back a few paces, and
the hadji, while panting for breath, and

streaming with blood from more than one
contused wound, continued to revile them
bitterly.

Wahabis — accursed Wahabis !' he exclaimed,
' dare they speak to me ? I ama
Soonee, not a dog ! I am not a Shiah,
the follower of Ali, but an orthodox
Soonee, like my forefathers, blessed be
God and His Prophet ! Wretches,' he
added, with all the ferocious rancour of
religion and race, * your souls will yet
defile hell !'

Begone, and leave the man to go on
his way,' said Colville, authoritatively, ashe
waved his sword, for he knew enough
of Arabic and Hindostan to understand
what was said and the nature of the
brawl.

Dogs !' resumed the irate hadji, encouraged
by his presence and succour;
know ye not that the time is coming
when the Wahabis shall be judged according
to their deserts, and each in passing a

dead man's grave shall sap, " Would to
God that I lay there !" '

Dog: of a Soonee, when will that time
come to pass ?' asked one, jeeringly.

When the sun rises in the west
shrieked the hadji, frantic with rage ;
when the beast shall rise out of the earth
near Mecca ; when a smoke shall cover the
earth, and the Mahdi shall come to everyone
and fill the earth with righteousness.'

And much more to this effect did he
vow with singular force and fluency, for
the hadji was an Afghan, and, so far as
regards the external forms of their religion,
the Afghans are wonderfully devout,
and so much of their conversation, whatever
the subject, is so tinged with their
religion and the Koran that one would
imagine the whole people, from the Ameer
to the humblest camel-driver, were engaged
in holy reflections, and scarcely is
a sentence uttered by them without some
reference to the Deity.

One of the Wahabis now seemed to lose
what little remains of sense or temper he
had left, and, uttering a savage yell, swung
aloft his ponderous lohbunda or staff, which
was heavily shod with iron — a weapon one
well-directed stroke from which would
have spattered the brains of the hadji on
the street — but Colville, quick as lightning,
warded off the blow with his sword,
in the process of which his right arm
tingled to the shoulder ; and as at that
moment the tramp of a patrol from an
lying piquet was heard approaching,
the brawlers took to flight, and Colvillo
was left face to face with the man whose
life he had saved.

Sahib, I have to thank you gratefully
for this prompt and courageous succour,
but for which these dogs would no doubt
have slain me,' said the pilgrim in English ;
as it is, they have handled me so roughly
that I am barely able to stand.'

You speak English very fluently said

Colville, with genuine surprise. ' How is
this ?'

My uncle was a muhafez duster or
keeper of the records, in the office of the
district magistrate, near Peshawur, who
educated me to work in his office ; but at
his death I went back to the hills and
became an Afghan soldier under Shore Ali

And now '

I am a poor harmless hadji, Mahomet
Shah, seeking but to save his soul,' said
he, lowering his keen and glittering eyes,
as he looked steadily around him. ' In
saving me you have done a good action,
and what says the fourth chapter of the
Koran ? " Verily, God will not wrong
anyone, even the weight of an ant, and, if
it be a good action, He will double it, and
recompense it in His sight with a great
and just reward." But these thrice accursed
Wahabis,' he added, grinding his
teeth with rage, and making thereby a
very unpleasant sound, ' may be swallowed

up by the earth as the accuser of Moses

was.'

Colville looked around him warily. In
the dark, unlighted, and tortuous streets
of the city this poor man might easily be
overtaken and murdered by these fanatics,
if they were— as Colville did not doubt —
still lurking watchfully about, so he said,

Come with me to the Balla Hissar ; I
am quartered there, and can keep you in
safety for the night ; besides, your wounds
must be dressed, and in the morning I
would advise your instantly quitting Allahabad.'


As-staff ur-ullah ! that will I, sahib ; and
by the five keys of knowledge, T will never
forget your kindness.'

The citadel was close by. There Colville
took his new acquaintance past the
sentries to the rooms assigned as his quarters,
quaint and lofty apartments with
marble floors, and walls covered with
beautiful arabesques, splendid but comfortless,

and, summoning the soldier who
acted as his servant, with lights, some
wine and bandages, he desired him to
bathe and bind up the wounds of the old
Afghan wanderer, who was on the point
of sinking, and would have done so, but
for some water which he took, dashed with
brandy, despite the precepts of the Koran.

You have had a narrow escape !' said
Colville, looking at some of his bruises.

^ It is perhaps useless to bind these
wounds.'

Why ?'

Because if a man is to die he will die.'

But if a man is ailing surely he maybe
cured ?'

Yes,' replied the hadji, ' through the
Koran.'

Koran again !' thought Colville. ' You
mean by faith in it ?'

Yes ; by writing therefrom some holy
sentences on paper, and drinking the water
wherein that paper has been washed clean.'

VOL. II. M

*You have heard, I suppose, that the
Ameer has gone over to the Russians ?*
said Colville to change the subject.

'Yes, sahib,' replied the hadji, in whose
eyes a strange light now appeared, ' but
he is dying of mortal disease, and will
never reach Tasked.'

Then Yakoub Khan will succeed

Yes ; the man who has already aspired
to sit on a musnud (throne) is little likely
to content himself with a carpet, especially
if supported by the bayonets of the Hora
hogue. By the Prophet, no !' added the
hadji, referring to what was well known —
that Yakoub Khan had conspired against
his father, who, in consequence, had kept
him for years imprisoned in a dungeon
without light.

The hadji seemed a genuine Afghan,
and considerably past middle-age. He
was tall, spare, and muscular, with aquiline
almost Jewish — features ; high cheekbones,
and strong, black, glittering eyes,

with an intensity and keenness in their
expression that reminded Colville of those
of a mountain eagle. He was fairer complexioned
than most of his people, among
whom even red hair is sometimes met with ;
but his face had been cleft from temple to
chin by a tulwar stroke in some past battle
or brawl; and now the livid mark of that
terrible slash could be seen distinctly as
altering, and in some measure distorting,
features that were naturally very regular.

After partaking of a little food of the
plainest kind, he performed the ablutions
enjoined by his faith, spread a white cloth
over his kneeling-carpet, and, turning his
face in the direction of Mecca, said his
salt al Moghreb, or evening prayer, while
Colville took himself off to the mess-room ;
and when he returned the hadji was lying
on the verandah outside, fast asleep, and
cosily muffled up in his dark-coloured choga,
or camel-hair cloak.

In the morning he had left the Bala

M 2

Hissar, and gone, none knew where, save
that he had been seen going towards Cabul
by the way of the Ali Musjid Pass.

It never occurred to Leslie Colville, in
performing the acts of kindness he had
done to this stranger, whether there might
be peril or evil evolved from them in the
future; or whether the man was — as he
ultimately proved to be — a keen and observant
spy, come to watch and note the
strength, preparations, and object of Sir
Samuel Browne's column ; and, poor
though the hadji looked, Oolville's servant
a more than usually sharp example of
Private Thomas Atkins — had found him
in the early morning reckoning over a
quantity of gold in his wallet, and one of
these which he dropped was found to be of
the last Russian mintage.

CHAPTER XIII.

A FIGHT WITH THE MOHMUJ^DS.

Save for flying rumours cantonment life at
Jellalabad had been a little monotonous
for some time past. Paper hunts had been
resorted to, and polo was played every
afternoon by officers of the 10th Hussars,
riding Cabul ponies upon a piece of ground
cleared for them by their men about two
miles from the city.

Other officers exercised their skill in
potting,' with the freeholder, quails,
and the beautiful partridge, called the
hill chuckle ' by the Afghans, wild
sheep, and antelopes, while some of the
more adventurous brought down a wolf

or hyena, but as these were chiefly to be
found at a distance some personal risk
was incurred, and one might be Spotted'
in turn by the ^juzail' of some hill-man
lurking: unseen behind a rock or tree.

The counterbalance to these little amusements
were visitations of wind and dust,
or torrents of rain, that pattered like a
storm of dry peas on the tents of the
troops who were in camp near the city, so
when the weather had become settled, all
hailed with considerable satisfaction the
advent of the expedition under General
Macpherson to look after a gathering of
the Mohmunds — a tribe of about fifty
thousand souls, whose fighting men were
reported as mustering for mischief on the
other side of the Cabul river, in the southwest
corner of the Jellalabad Valley, opposite
to Girds Kas, where the stream flows
away towards Charter.

The staff were in their saddles betimes,
and on the ground in front of the city.

Good morning, gentlemen,' said old
Spatterdash, as he came cantering up on
his Arab in the dark. ' What is the hour ?'

Colville adroitly caught a firefly, and
placing it for a moment on the glass of his
watch, saw the time.

Four o'clock, colonel.'

We have other work this morning than
pig-sticking or potting jackals and foxes ;
but there is time yet for a cup of coffee
dashed with brandy — a cheroot, and then
away.'

The bugles are sounding, and there go
the trumpets of the Hussars and Lancers
blowing " boot and saddle." '

Disdaining the use of a regulation
sword, which he stigmatised as an *army
tailor's blunt knife,' Colonel Spatterdash
rode with an enormous tulwar by his
side — a weapon once wielded by the great
rebel Tanta Toper — one literally for
slicing, and having such an edge that
he miofht have shaved with it. He was

in high spirits, and being still practically
under the influence of his potations overnight,
was humming the song of ' The
Sepoy Grenadiers ' —

The spirits of our sires,

Who gathered such renown
From clouds of battle fires,
With stern delight look down,

To Delhi and to Deep they point,

Those stars of other years ;
And bid us still uphold the fame
Of the Sepoy Grenadiers V

^Tm not likely to die from "waste of
nervous tissue," as the doctors call it,
whatever the devil it may be,' he added,
as he unsheathed his tulwar, that flashed
in the paling starlight ; ' we'll have a
barra khan' {i.e.^h'ig dinner) 'when we
come back, after polishing off these Mound
fellows.'

At least all who are able to partake

of it;

Don't be gloomy, Colville ; d — n it, I
never am.'

The force for this expedition was made
up of detachments from the column ; there
were some of the Rifles, with some of the
Ghoorkas, 1st Sikhs, and 20th Punjab
Infantry, one hundred of the 10th Hussars
under Captain St. Quintain, and one hundred
of the 11th Bengal Lancers, in blue
uniforms faced with red, under Major
Prince. De Latour's Hazard Mountain
Battery came clattering up, and two Royal
Horse Artillery guns, which latter, with a
small force, proceeded at once on observation
down the right bank of the Cabul
river, in case any of the Mohmunds might
have taken post in that direction.

At half-past four in the morning the
whole force — not much over a thousand
men — after forming in silence and as
quickly as possible, without further sound
of drum or bugle, moved off, and, with St.
Quintain's hussars in the van, crossed the
river by the new bridge erected by our
Royal Engineers, and advanced into the

dark country beyond, moliere the only
sounds heard were the wails of an occasional
jackal, replied to by those of a pack
of his forfeited brethren.

In galloping from point to point, when
the troops were forming under arms and
then in columns of march, giving the
general's last orders or directions, Colville
had not much time for abstract reflection,
yet a certain idea did occur to him, and he
muttered, with a glow of the purest satisfaction,


If I fall to-day or any other day, thank
God I have made all square for my dear
girl and her sister, too.'

This referred to a secret visit paid by
him to Lincoln's Inn ' anent ' codicils to
his will the day before he left London ;
and now he recalled with astonishment the
time when he either disliked these unknown
cousins or forgot that they existed.

Though Mohammed, Khan of Laura
and chief of the Mohmunds, had made

complete submission apparently to Sir
Louis Cavagnari at Dakka, in the preceding
year, it did not prevent his people
from opposing us now in arms, like many
other mountain tribes.

After the hoofs of the cavalry and wheels
of the artillery had made the planks of the
trestle-bridge resound, silence again fell
on the column ; and when the moon came
out in its oriental splendour, amid some
weird, windy, and fast-flying clouds, there
was light enough to see the column distinctly.


The sheeny bayonets of the infantry and
the spear heads of the lancers (denuded
pro temp, of their fluttering banneret)
glittered brightly, as did the sword-blades
of all the officers ; and our cavalry are
generally so gaily appointed that, when
the 10th Hussars went cantering to the
front, the flashes of light reflected from
their accoutrements, if they added to the
picturesque, also added to the peril of the

occasion, if any scouting Mohmunds were
about, as this alone would have revealed
the advance of the force, which from its
sombre costume would have been, otherwise,
almost invisible — but the tropical
white helmets were always prominent
objects amid the gloom.

At this time, all our troops in Afghanistan
wore Cashmere parties, or leg-bandages,
made of strips of woollen cloth, two
yards and a half long, with a tape stitched
on at the end. They were worn round
the calf of the leg from the ankle to
the knee, where the tape secured them.
For cavalry and infantry alike they were
a useful and warm addition to the clothing
in cold weather; and there was but one
objection — the time necessary for binding
them on.

Some natives acted as guides, and in the
cold moonlight the cavalry and artillery
went clattering over rough stones, and
more than one of the former fell from his

]horse, and of the latter off the limber-seats,
as some sudden and deceitful ditch
or water channel had to be crossed. The
enemy was in front ; no one knew precisely
when or where he might be fallen on, and
this added to the zest and excitement of
the time and occasion.

The orders of the cavalry were to spur
on in front ; to get in between the Mounds
and the hills, for the purpose of
cutting off their retreat ; and a picturesque
sight were the Hussars and Lancers, as
they dashed through the Kunar River
(which joins the Cabul about five miles from
Jellalabad), in its descent from Shinar,
and flashes of light came from their glancing
accoutrements as they vanished away
from the sight of the infantry in the gloom
ahead, when a cloud passed over the face
of the moon.

Next came the infantry splashing through
the Kunar, which rose to the men's waist-belts,
and was broad at the point where

ifc was crossed ; and a bath sncli as it
gave was not a desirable beginning in a
cold morning with the work they had in
hand.

At one place the route lay over what
seemed to have been an old Mohammedan
burial-ground. Coffins are not used in
the East, the body being simply rolled
np in a sheet, and placed in the grave
with only a foot or two of earth spread
over it. Into these receptacles the wheels
of the guns stuck fast in succession, compelling
the gunners to quit the limber-seats
and draof them out, crushing: and
grinding the human bones beneath, and
causing an expression of much rough language
unfitted for ears polite. If the
superstition of the Afghans, who greatly
venerate burial places, which they call
Cities of the Silent,' be true, that the
ghosts of the dead sit at the head of their
own graves, invisible to mortal eyes, enjoying
the odours of the flowers planted

there, the said ghosts must have been
somewhat scared by the row Her Majesty's
gunners made till they got their seven-pounders
free from this succession of
traps, and once more on solid ground ;
and also by old Spatterdash, who was
impatient to get his Sepoyss forward, and
swore in English and Hindostan.

Though the Kunar river, which takes
its rise near the great Pair Steppe and
Bam-i-Duniah, or ^ the Roof of the World,'
was left in the rear, the troops had to
splash through several tributaries of it ere
they obtained higher ground, and then
they began to look upon scenery wild and
mighty, rugged and uncultured, where
wolves peopled the forest, the elk and deer
haunted the brook, and the crane and the
stork hovered about the watercourses, andover
all, desolate and savage, towered the
mountains of Shinar, many thousands of
feet in height.

Sometimes the route lay between groves

of dark poplars, of pale green willows, or
dwarf palm, sunk amid which the tributaries
of the Kunar flowed like streaks of
silver ; and sometimes between vegetation
familiar to the British eye — the ash, the
oak, the chestnut, and hawthorn, though
mingling with the cedar, the olive, and

fig-major
Louis Cavagnari, a handsome

dark-complexioned man, whom Colville

now saw for the first time, came riding

up and joined the staff, accompanied by a

brilliantly attired and accoutred Afghan

horseman, whom he introduced as the

Khan of Besoot, from whom much useful

information could be gathered, among

others that a range of hills in front was

full of the enemy under a fanatic named

Moollah Khalil.

The Ghoorkas, who were leading, were

now ordered to seek cover as soon as they

had left in rear a village near these hills,

while the cavalry swung round to take

these in flank or cut off the retreat of the
enemy, and with that force went Colville
with a message from the general.

While galloping on to overtake them he
could see the files who were to skirmish
dart out in extended order with unslung
carbines, and soon the cracking of exchanged
shots quickened every pulse as
they were heard among the hills.

Push forward the mountain battery V
was now the general's order.

It was galloped to the south side of a
projecting ridge, while old Spatterdash,
with some of the Punjaub infantry, began
to scale its rocky crest. There the Mounds
were in position, but so dingily
were they attired, or so much did the
colour of their costume blend with that of
the rocks and trees, that, though not a
single man of them could as yet be separately
distinguished, the existence of their
masses was known by the flashing of their

VOL. II. N

178 Melville OF THE Guards.

arms in the sunshine, or by the fluttering
out of a red or green village banner against
the sky-line.

While measures were thus being taken
to have them on the flank and an attack
was delivered in front, De Latour got his
mountain guns ready for action, and sent
a shell at a thousand yards' range whistling
through the air. Curving in its course, it
fell and burst among them high up on the
ridge, scattering death and mutilation.
Another and another fell, and then, as the
arms ceased to glitter, it was known that
the Mohmunds were falling back.

Again the flashing of their weapons in
the sunshine, and the jets of white smoke
from their long quails, levelled over bank
and rock, but fired at long and almost
useless distances, announced a rally or
pause in their retreat, the line of which
lay along a plain that extended away to
the eastward, and onward through that
space and clouds of rising dust swept the

cavalry, followed by the infantry at the
double.

The skirmishers of Redhaven's troop
having, in the ardour of pursuit, advanced
too far into a dell, became suddenly exposed
to a galling fire, which emptied
more than one saddle ; and Colville dashed
forward with orders for their recall.

The trumpet sounded the * retire and
it was obeyed by all but one hussar,
who continued to load and fire, while
the juzail balls whistled about him, and
knocked up jets of sand about his horse's
hoofs.

Sound again !' said Lieutenant Red-haven
to the trumpeter, who sat with the
bell of the trumpet planted on his thigh.

Again he blew, but in vain.

He is too far — he does not hear it —
the fellow will be lost !'

Oh, he hears it well enough, sir,' replied
the trumpeter ; ' but just now he pretends

to be deaf.'

■n2

Deaf ! — what the devil does he mean ?'
To throw his life away ?'

Looks like it, from what 1 have seen of
him more than once.'

He is a brave but reckless fool !' exclaimed
Redhaven, impetuously, as he was
now seen engaged with four Afghan horsemen,
after having slung his carbine, and
drawn his sword ; and by this time Colville,
full of pity and admiration, inspired
also by the passing remarks of the trumpeter,
was already on the spur to succour
him.

'Allow me, sir, that officer can't go
alone ; besides, the poor fellow is my own
comrade,' said a hussar, who, without waiting
for Redhaven's consent, dashed the
spurs into his horse, settled himself well
down on the saddle, and in less than a
minute was among the cloud of dust,
where Colville and the other hussar were
in close melee with the four Afghans, one
of whom was the Moollah Khalil, who was

armed, not with a tulwar, but an enormous
maul, furnished with a round knob of gilt
metal.

Allah Akbar, Mohammed resool ilia,'
he was shrieking, with blazing eyes, as he
goaded his horse in the fray, and laid about
him like a madman, and by one blow
brained or stunned the horse of the skirmishes
whose rashness had brought this
combat about, and during which the juzail-
cheek had ceased firing, lest they might hit
their own leader.

Ere the hussar could free himself from
his stirrups the maul was about to descend
on his head, when a thrust from Colville's
sword, delivered under the right arm,
pierced the lungs of Moollah Khalil, who
fell to rise no more, and, protecting the
hussar by a great circular sweep of his
sword, Colville dragged him up by his
bridle hand, and mounted him on the
Moollah's horse. His follower had now
disposed of a second Afghan just as his

horse was shot under him, and the two

others, terrified by the fall of the Moollah,

fled at a gallop, on which the juzailchees

resumed firing, and the shot whistled and

whirred past Oolville and his companions.

Quick — run as best you can,' said he,

«
putting his horse to a trot, but loth to

leave the two soldiers behind.

A wailing cry escaped one as a shot
evidently struck him, and Oolville paused
by checking his bridle. The man was
mortally wounded and ghastly pale, yet he
walked on for some thirty paces, erect and
steadily, his eyes fixed on vacancy ; then
he paused, and fell dead on his face.

Poor Sam Surcingle !' exclaimed the
other, and at that moment Oolville also
dropped from his saddle, struck by a ball
in the left ribs.

Luckily it was a spent one, and only
knocked the breath out of him ; but not a
moment was to be lost, as a few of the
Mound juzailchees were creeping back,.

filled with the maddest rage at the death
of their fanatic leader, who had believed
his life to be charmed.

The hussar dragged Colville up, and
almost lifted him into the saddle, and
taking the bridle applied one spur to both
horses, and brought the officer into the
lines faint, worn, and with his mouth full
of blood.

When safe out of fire Colville dismounted
near a pool covered with crimson water-lilies
— the sacred lotus of Brahma — and
then 'he hussar whose life he had saved,
and who had succoured him in return,
opened his blue patrol jacket and proceeded,
after bathing his face and giving him a
draught from the pool, to examine his hurts
with a skilful hand.

Not a rib broken, sir, thank God !' said
he ; *oily a contusion, and the consequent
discolouration will pass away in a few
days. I haven't forgotten my Quain and
Turner.'

Melville OF THE Guards.

Robert Wodrow !' exclaimed Colville,
recognising for the first time the ex-medical
student.

Yes, Captain Colville — Robert Wod-
row it is,' replied the other, with a sad
smile, as lie proffered his brandy-flask.

Thanks — I have my own,' said Colville,
struggling into a sitting position. * Mary
and Ellinor Wellwood told me of the step
you had taken — a very rash one I think it
when you failed in 3''our studies through
the mischief wrought you by that scoundrel
Sheath.'

So you met them ?' '

Yes — and left them well and ever; way,
1 hope, happy.'

It is an unexpected pleasure to see you
here, sir.'

My poor fellow, if I can befriend you,
I shall, believe me,' said Colville, $having
Robert's hand.

Thank you, Captain Colville; my officers

and comrades like me already, thank God ;
and I am now a corporal.'

They are right who assert that there is
nothing certain but the unexpected,' said
Colville, laughing, yet wincing the while
with pain ; ' and this meeting with you has
been most unexpected by me.'

But not by me, sir.'

How so ?'

I have seen you in and about Jellalabad
for days and weeks past.'

And why did you not speak to me ?'

I am not now what I was — when hoping
to be a graduate of the Edinburgh
University, but a poor hussar — un simple
soldat'

Simple, indeed, to throw your chances
in life away thus — and even your life too,
as you so nearly did a few minutes ago.'

I had none left — none that I cared for,'
said Robert, hoarsely.

While this conversation was taking

place, the infantry and artillery had
halted, and the brigadier, with all the
cavalry, had pushed on in pursuit of
the fugitive Mohmunds as far as a place
called Gurdao, in a gorge, where the
Cabul river flows out of the valley of Allahabad.


On an islet in the river there are the
remains of an old Buddhist monastery,
surrounded by a tope of hoary trees. For
here had once been the worship of Buddha
a worship which, though now almost
banished from India, has spread over
countries of an almost wider area, and is
usually ranked as the ninth avatar of
Vishnu.

Here a few of the Mohmunds made their
last stand, till the best cavalry marksmen
picked them off with their carbines, and
the whole troops began a retrograde movement
towards Jellalabad.

Colville was once more in his saddle,

and, by E;eclhaven's permission, Robert
Woclrow attended to him on the march.

I wish I understood the law of crises
says the author of Altera Pero, 'I suppose
it has an intimate connection with
that other mysterious problem, the law of
chances . I have always had a theory
he adds, ' that from time to time our lives
culminate to crises. Then the crisis bursts,
and we begin again, and slowly or rapidly,
as the case may be, culminate to another
crisis.'

Well, here was a crisis and something
more in connection with the law of chances.
The two men who loved the two sisters,
Mary and Ellinor Wellwood, under circumstances
and with success so different,
by the birds of Invermay, were now face
to face and together in that far-away land
of peril.

After hearing Colville's little narrative
of what had transpired before he left London,

Eobert Wodrow looked at him for a
time in silence, and thought how different
were their fates and probable future in the
world.

Colville had hope and wealth, he (Wod-
row) neither, and life seemed so valueless ;
yet a couple of Afghan bullets might solve
all difficulties for both of them 1

While the artillery made a detour to
avoid the pitfalls of the Mohammedan
burial-place, Wodrow was remarking to
the officer by whose side he rode,

It would seem. Captain Colville, that,
as some writer says of the romance of life,
ours seems to be overtaking us pretty
quickly.'

Romance, do you call it r'

Bitterness, in my case, would be nearer
the truth. I am a broken and ruined
man,' said the other, after a pause. * Ellis
the last ray of sunshine out of
my life. She told me plainly that she
could not marry a poor man for the world,

nor wait till he became rich — a knowledge
that only came to her after Sir Redmond
Sheath found his way to Birkwoodbrae.
She was wiser, perhaps, but her wisdom,
poor girl, brought her nothing — nothing !
My love was only an ideal after all, Captain
Colville ; and though life does not
seem to me worth living, it must be lived
till ended — after all.'

Colville made no reply, but proffered his
cigar-case to the speaker, v/ho accepted a
cigar with a courteous bow and blush of
pleasure ; the very act was a kindly recognition
that they had once been equals, and
were still friends.

You must quit this sort of thing, "Wod-
row, and go back to your studies at Edinburgh,'
said Colville ; ^ back to Quain and
Turner, to Balfour's Botany, Jackson's
Materia Medica, and all the rest of it. If
you want money for that or anything else,
consider me your banker.'

But Eobert Wodrow shook his he§.d with

an air of decision. ^ Sir, I thank you from
my heart's core, but no, Captain Colville —
never again

^ Puts ; we'll talk about all this another
time said Colville, kindly, hoping to bring
him to a right way of thinking and acting.

Yet while he declined all proffers of
assistance, Robert Wodrow's mind was full
of thoughts — soft, subduing, and kindly
thoughts — of his reverend father, his mother
so sweet and meek, so abiding and
confiding in the will and goodness of God,
and the old sequestered manse embowered
among the bonnie birds of Invermay — the
manse of Kirktoun-Mailler.

By midnight the returned expedition
marched into the lines of the camp at
Jellalabad.

You have acted bravely to-day, Captain
Colville,' said the brigadier, shaking his
hand as the troops were dismissed to their
tents ; ' and so sure as the stars look down
on us you shall have your Y.C. for saving

the rash hussar and killing the Moollah
Khalil. I wish you had polished off Mohammed
Shah, too, while you were about

it;

Who is he ?' asked Colville, to whom
the name seemed somehow familiar.

One of the girders of the Ameer, and
a very distinguished one, now with the
Mohmunds.'

By Jove ! that was the fellow who pretended
to be a hadji, and whom I had fora
night in the Bala Hissar — in the citadel
actually.'

A lesson for you to be more careful
and less hospitable in future said the
brigadier, laughing.

Colville was duly complimented in
general orders, and weeks after the latter
was read and duly appreciated by
one who then was — far, far away !

CHAPTER XIV.

IN THE Ploughman VALLEY.

The death of the Ameer, and succession
of Ms son, Yakoub Khan, were now confirmed
beyond all doubt at Jellalabad;
but troubles and skirmishes seemed to be
on the increase, and no man's life was safe.
In the country of the Shinwarris, a
district on the Afghan frontier, a surveying
party was attacked near Maidonak,
though escorted by old Spatter dash and
his Punjaub Infantry. To the natives it
seemed that knocking little pegs into the
ground, sticking spittle flags, and taking
the altitude of heights by a theodore
could only be the blackest sorcery. Other

instruments which were looked through
in a mysterious manner, with the notes
made on paper, were all' deemed damnable
charms, and indications of tasmania power,
and the sirdar named Mahmoud Shah, who
was roving in that quarter, together with
Abdullah Mir, another adherent of Yakoub
Khan, reminded the people — as all Muslims
believe firmly in magic — of the evil
wrought. by the wicked genie Scar, the
inveterate foe of Solomon, of Eblis or
Denial, who, according to the Koran, was
that enemy of the human race who accomplished
the downfall of Adam, and much
more nonsense to the same purpose ; so
the surveying party were furiously attacked
by a band of fanatics, armed with
tulwar, dagger, and juzail, in a solitary
place near the base of the Suifaidh Koh.

In the conflict that ensued a non-commissioned
officer was killed, a captain of
the Royal Engineers wounded perilously
by the blade of a clara, a subaltern of

VOL. II. O

native infantry received a ball through his
shoulder, and several Sikhs were killed ;
but Spatterdash laid about him vigorously
with Iiis tulwar, split one or two heads
through the long floating loungers like
pumpkins, and brought the party off;
after which General Tatler, at Maidonak
and Girds, burned the two villages, blew
up seven fortified towers, and seized hostages,
to be kept in irons till a heavy fine
was paid.

In due time Colville got his V.C. for
the affair with the Mohmunds, and Robert
Wodrow was recommended for promotion,
and, as the coming general war in the
heart of Afghanistan was likely to make
many a vacancy, if spared, he was sure to
get it.

In consequence of the skirmish at Mai-dona
and threatened attacks by the hostile
tribesmen in the vicinity of Jellalabad
and the Lughman Valley, early in starch
an expedition was ordered into the latter

quarter, under Major-GeneralJenkins, and
with it Colville went on the staff. It
proved a very successful movement, with
many important political consequences.

The first news he heard of it was after
a supper in old Spatterdash's bungalow.

Turn in if you can, lads,' said he, when
the cantonment hurries clanged midnight ;
and I must have a nap, too. We get
under arms before daylight tomorrow.'

For what ?' asked Colville.

To fight, of course. Have you not
seen the general orders ?'

'No — I was at polo all afternoon with
the 10th. But to fight — where?'

That depends upon where we find the
enemy, Who are gathering as usual for
mischief; so let us have a nightcap of
brandy-pawjiee^ and then to roost.'

Colville stretched himself in a corner
of the bungalow, and was soon in the
Land of Nod. ' The soldier ofi* duty and
the sailor when his watch is over have the

o2

faculty for getting snatches of sleep at a
moment's notice, which is denied to most
other mortals, and a blessed gift it is.'

An hour before dawn the beetles sounded,
and the troops detailed for the expedition
fell in.

It was then known that the destination
of the force was the Lughman Valley,
where the sirdar Mahmoud Shah was the
active and ruling spirit.

Considerable annoyance and mortification
y\^ere felt by Colville at the frequently
recurring mention of this personage's
name, the Hadji S2:>y in Jellalabad whom
he had succoured and protected, a circumstance
for which he had been much quizzed
and ' chaffed,' for, as Lever has it, ' a little
bit of fun goes a long way in the army.'

A fine fellow to have fostered, Colville,'
said Colonel Spatterdash, as he mounted ;
d — n him, he is worse than a Peshawur
scorpion, and we all know what it is, for
size and venom.'

While the infantry rolls were called, the
companies proved, and the battalions formed,
the battery of artillery were also getting
in order ; the horses were chasing
their bits, pawing the ground, and laying
back their ears as if impatient for the
trumpet call. The gunners stood by them
one examining the harness finally to see
that all Vv^as right, another altering his
stirrup-leathers by a hole or two, a third
adjusting a comrade's accoutrements, a
fourth grasping the bow of his saddle
ready to mount at the blast of the trumpet,
after which he knew his horse would
no longer remain still ; while the trumpeter
stood near the commanding officer,
breathing into the mouthpiece of his brass
instrument, occasionally as if to keep it
ready for sounding.

Anon the men are mounted or on the
limber-seats ; the trumpet rings out, the
word march is given ; the drivers ease the
reins and close their legs to the riding

horses, throwing their whips gently over
the necks of the oiF-horses so as to ensure
their starting together ; and it is a rule in
artillery that the spurs are for the ridden
horse, the whip for the off one, and to be
applied over the shoulder or neck, but
never in the rear of the pad.

So the guns went clattering to the front,
and the infantry broke into columns of
march, with a cavalry advance-guard, just
as the sun began to lighten the summit
of the Suffaidh Koh and other snow-clad
mountains.

The Lughman Valley lies north of
Jellalabad, and is overlooked by the
Himalayas, though extending to the
lower ridges of the Hindoo Koosh, while
Kaffiristan borders it on the east.

Colville, of course, rode With the staff, and
the ill-fated Louis Cavagnari accompanied
it.

Many narrow valleys, with torrents traversing
their boulder-strewn beds, and

sides covered with beautiful vegetation
were passed in succession, with several
villages, each marked by an enormous
lunar or Oriental plane — perhaps by two
or three placed near each other for shade,
where the Moola might bring forth his
Koran, and recite it for the information
of others.

As the troops proceeded the rocks around
them seemed to grow darker and darker,
owing to the lead ore among them, while
enormous boulders of every kind of stone
were strewn about far away from their
original beds out of which the torrents of
ages past had torn them.

Shaggy goats and broad-tailed cloombas,
or Persian sheep, where seen grazing near
the villages, where at first the people came
forth peacefully to gaze with wonder upon
the Ferino'hees. No untoward event occurred,
till a tradesman drew near where
a party of hussars were halted, carrying
a sharp axe concealed behind his back,

and evidently bent on mischief, as he was
known by his white dress to be a Ghazi,
or fanatic devoted to death.

With his weapon, he was about to aima
blow that must have proved a deadly
one on an unsuspecting corporal, when,
quick as thought. Robert Wodrow, who
had his sword drawn, clove his head to the
teeth.

This was a signal for strife. Alarm fires
soon began to shoot up redly on several
eminences ; yells and shouts came upon
the mountain wind from armed parties
mustering' fast amono- the rocks and
eyries ; and ere long a sputtering fire of
quails, or native rifles, was opened on the
column, and men began to drop dead or
limp about wounded.

Out of these lofty places the tribesmen
were shelled, but not without difficulty,
and ultimately driven by t\\Q rifle-fire of
our skirmishers into a narrow, rocky defile,
which proved a kind of natural ,

out of which there was little or no
exit ; and there into the wedged mass, shell
after shell at a thousand yards went smoking
and whistling till it plumped and exploded
among them with terrible effect ;
hut it was necessary to teach these treacherous
people a lesson, and a severe one it
proved.

Four days the expedition remained in

the Lughman Valley, and on the fourth,

>
when passing on the do^Miward route the

place where the conflict had ensued, and
where rifle and shell fire had decimated
the enemy, Colville, who for a considerable
time past had been somewhat
unused to strife and slaughter, looked with
a kind of horror upon the scene around
him.

Save the vultures and carrion crows no
living creature had ventured to approach
the gorge where the dead, and dying yet
lay — a picture of human anguish and
human passions indescribable.

The bodies of the torn and mutilated
lay thickly there, either stark and stiff in
the refuge of death, or writhing and
struggling, as if to escape the doom of
those beside them.

If this scene seemed dreadful by day,
more dreadful and ghastly did it seem to
those in the rear of the column, who passed
it after nightfall, and the moon shed its
cold light over the Katcha mountains, and
the rear-guard of Hussars, under Redhaven,
had to pick their way amid bodies lying
half-naked, in every conceivable position,
with dark and bloody faces on the broad
and ghastly grin, distorted and battered
limbs, with clenched hands and staring
open eyes ; while some of the dead sat bolt
upright against rocks and boulders, vrith
jaws dropped, and stiffened fingers grimly
pointing at vacancy.

The next expedition towards the Ploughman
Valley was marked by a terrible

disaster, the story of which went through
the length and breadth of the British
Isles.

CHAPTER XV.

THE FANCY BALL.

From such a scene as that in the Lughman
Valley we gladly turn to one of a very
different kind.

It was an evening of the early days of
April, when the elms begin to show their
half-developed foliage, the buds of the oak
are red, and the sprays of the beech gleam
like emeralds against the blue sky, and the
laburnum is clothed in green and gold,
that Mary and Elinor Wellwood sat in a
beautiful flower garden while idling over
some ' crewel work,' and watching a glorious
sunset as it shone on the broad waters
of the Elbe.

We have said that for change of air and
of scene Mrs. Deroubigne, who acted to
them as a second mother, had taken them
with her to the Continent, and, after wandering
through France and Holland, they
now found themselves installed in a pretty
villa near Altona, about two miles from
the gay, busy, and hospitable city of Hamburg,
whose merchants are so famous for
the excellence of their dinners, and the
splendour of their entertainments.

It was a lovely spring evening ; the
Elbe, studded with shipping under sail or
steam, was rolling in light, its blue blending
into crimson ; and beyond it lay the
low, green hills of Hanover, now no longer
a petty kingdom, but an integral portion
of the great German empire.

The sun was setting, and such a sunset !

Separated from Hamburg only by a
space called the Field of the Holy Ghost,
where daily the spike-helmeted Prussian
troops could be seen at drill, the wharves

and warehouses of Altona join those of the
city, as they stretch along the waterside
with stately rows of pale green poplars
behind them.

Beyond the last of these, in a little
wooded creek, and on the summit of a
green bank overlooking the river, stood
the charming little villa occupied temporarily
by Mrs. Deroubigne, from the windows
of which the great panorama of the
Hansetown was visible, with the lofty redbrick
toAver of St. Michael's Kirk (a hundred
feet higher than the dome of St.
Paul's at London), bathed in ruddy gold,
and casting its mighty shadow half-way
to Altona ; and, as the evening sky grew
redder, the spires of St. Katharine and St.
Nicholas grew redder too ; and now, impressed
by the beauty of the evening and
of the scene, the influence of the season
and the soft purity of the ambient air, the
two girls, in the new happiness of their
hearts, sang together a duct from ' II

Flauto Magic,' of Mozart, all unaware
that a young Prussian officer — a smart
uhlan, in bright green uniform — was lingering
admiringly near them.

We need scarcely mention, though Hamburg
is famous for the beauty of its women,
the officers of the garrison, the uhlans, and
the Hanoverian infantry in the Dammthor
Barracks always welcomed the appearance
of the two ' charming English messes ' and
their handsome chaperone at the consul's
balls, the opera, the fetes in the Botanischer
Garden, or when the bands played in the
fashionable Jungfernstieg (or Maiden's
Walk), the beautiful tree-shaded promenade
by the side of the Alster, which is
always covered with gaily-painted pleasure-boats.


These amusements, with fancy work,
music, and novels — Tauchnitz editions, of
course — made the sweet spring days pass
quickly with Mary and Ellinor in that gay
city, Adhere, it is said, that in summer the

inhabitants appear to work all day and
amuse themselves all night.

Before their departure to the Continent
great had been the astonishment of Lady
Dunkeld and the fair Blanche Galloway
when they heard of the near relationship
of Colville to the sisters, of his engagement
to Mary, and that they were to be
chaperoned by Mrs. Deroubigne till the
marriage came to pass.

The marriage !' How Blanche elevated
her eyebrows and shrugged her shoulders.
It was bitter to lose thus the future Lord
Colville of Ochiltree.

Both those aristocratic ladies would fain
have extended their patronage and countenance
to the sisters now ; but, aware of
their past malevolence, Mary and Ellinor,
though far from revengeful, steadily declined
all intercourse with them. Nor did
Mrs. Deroubigne attempt to control their
actions or wishes in the matter. Thus a
coldness amounting almost to a ^ cut ' ensued

between her and the Dunkeld family.

Leslie Colville's last letter to Mary from
Jellalabad had narrated the episode of his
meeting with Robert Wodrow, and the
mutual good services they had done each
other ; and Mary, who had read of the
personal conflict in the war correspondent's
news, felt her heart sink within her at the
contemplation of the many and incessant
perils her lover — her affianced husband —
had to encounter.

And how often did Mary recall their
parting, when he had held her face tenderly
and caressingly between his hands
while he gazed down into her tear-blinded
eyes, so sweetly and so passionately, posed
as they both were like the pair in ' the
Huguenot ' of Millais's picture ; while she
looked up to him as sweetly and as passionately
too.

His departure had seemed to Mary but
the beginning of the end. Yet who could
foresee amid the terrible contingencies of

VOL. II. p

war and climate what that end might be ?

Thankful she felt as each day passed,
and with it a portion of the time of separation
; but who might know what that
day had seen or brought forth far, faraway
among the wild mountains of Afghanistan
? And so, with curious and persistent
ingenuity, thoughtful and anxious fancy
often tormented her.

Yet under different influences and happier
auspices, and amid new scenes, both
sisters regained the old glow of health and
beauty they had possessed each in her own
degree in former days at pleasant Birk-woodbine.


Meanwhile with Ellinor, as the conviction
of her own sudden selfishness and
folly grew strong in her heart, and the
now odious image of Sir Redmond Sheath
faded out of it, the memory of Robert
Wodrow and of other days took their place
there ; but what would that avail either
of them now ?

The sisters ceased their duet suddenly,
when Jack the fox-terrier, who had been
nestling against Mary's skirts, started upto
greet with many a yelp of delight the
young officer who fed him so often with
biscuits and chocolate creams.

Pardon my interrupting a song so
sweet,' said he, in good English, ' but my
purpose must be my excuse,' he added,
with a military salute, for the Baron Ro-hapsburg
— a visitor of Mrs. Deroubigne's
belonged to the Uhlans, and, like all
Prussian officers, was seldom or never
seen out of uniform, the green laced with
gold of the dashing Lancers.

He was a fair-haired and handsome man,
barely thirty years of age, and in his fifteenth
year had the glory of being the
first Prussian to enter Paris, for he it was
who galloped his horse amid scowling and
assembled thousands through the Arc de
Triomphe after-winning the iron cross at
Sedan ; and now he had brought ' for

p2

Madame Deroubigne ' and her two young
ladies, tickets for a most exclusive fancy
ball, to be given in the Theatre of Hamburg,
which is one of the largest in Germany
; for, though there are many public
ball-rooms in that pleasure-loving city,
they are never patronised by the upper
classes.

The baron had been the sisters' escort
to all 'the lions' of Hamburg — to the
churches, the stately and crowded Horses
to Readings Museum, the tomb of Klopstock,
the great garden kept by a Scotsman
at Wandsbeck, overlooked by the house of
Tycho Brahe, and they had lingered again
and again on the summit of the Stintfang,
from whence there is such an extensive
view of the harbour, the Elbe, and the
opposite coast of Hanover, and his hand
had often assisted Ellinor in her sketches
of the Highlanders in their picturesque
costume and of their boats laden with
glowing fruit, flowers, and vegetables.

Mrs. Deroubigne deemed there was no
harm in all this. It amused the girls,
drew them from their own sad thoughts,
and so far as she could see the admiration
and attention of the young baron were
pretty equally divided between them, or if
he had a preference it was for Mary, as it
seemed ere long.

But the tickets for the fancy ball — a
ball of a kind so peculiarly flattering to
female vanity and taste in costume and so
forth — seemed to crown all his previous
good offices and kindness, and they accepted
them with a genuine delight that quite
flattered him.

Bouquets (selected by those pretty Vier-landed
flower girls, whose picturesque caps
and embroidered bodices make them quite
a feature in Hamburg), gloves, music, even
a fan or two, had come from the Baron
Rolandsburg, but always at appropriate
times, with reference to a stall at the opera
or an afternoon dance.

There was no reason why Mary should
not accept such gifts ; yet she would rather
that they did not come, as their acceptance
seemed a kind of treason to him who wa
then so far, far away.

For some days their fancy dresses were
an all engrossing source of thought and
topic with the girls and their chaperone ;
but, after many changes of mind, costumes
of the reign of Mary Stuart were selected
by them, Mary choosing blue, slashed and
trimmed with white, as suited to her
blonde complexion, and Ellinor rose
colour, trimmed and slashed with black, as
suited to her dark hair and hazel eyes,
and wonderfully handsome and piquante
they looked.

On the forenoon of the ball the baron
arrived with three magnificent bouquets
and two beautiful fans for the sisters — the
best that could be obtained in the Never
Wall.

'How charming — how kind!' exclaimed
both, blushing with pleasure.

For our dance to-night,' said Roland
in his most insinuating tone, to
Mary, ' how many waltzes are you to give
me ?' he asked, in a lower voice.

How many do you want?' asked Mary,
coquettishly.

I would like them all of course — save
those I may have with Miss Ellinor ; but
that is too much to expect.'

As all this implied more than words,
Mary appeared not to hear, and addressed
Mrs. Deroubigne.

In due time they were attired, and
drove through the brilliantly lighted
streets to the Start Theatre in the Damns
Strasse, where the Burgher Guard,
in quaint uniforms, were under arms to
receive the burgomasters and four Syndics
of the city, who wear on state
occasions high-crowned hats and black

velvet cloaks, with ruins and swords ;
and there, about the entrances, were a
crowd of blooming Vierlander flower-girls,
selling bouquets and button-holes,
their quaint hats or gold-embroidered caps,
their bodices of crimson or black, covered
with gold-broidery, and their short blue
skirts, making each a picture.

I shall dance with no one else but you
to-night,' said the uhlan, in his softest
tone, to Mary.

No one else ?' said she.

Save your sister.'

Our poor uhlan is evidently playing
with edged tools, Mary,' said Mrs. Serous
with a smile, while the baron was
intently pencilling on their programmes
and his own.

The stage and floored pit of the theatre,
which had been converted into one vast,
brilliantly lighted and gaily decorated hall,
was filling fast with guests in every real
and fanciful costume that can be conceived,

and already the great orchestra in their
places were playing a kind of overture;
but their music was to be alternated by
the great brass band of the uhlans; and,
though many handsome, even rarely beautiful
girls were present, Mary and Ellinor
Wellwood were remarked amid them all.

• Scion ! scion !' (beautiful, beautiful)
muttered many, as they passed to their
appointed place nth Mrs. Deroubigne.

^ En verite !' exclaimed a gallant little
French consul ; ^ ces dames sont charmantes
!'

But the ball itself has less to do with
our story than what it preluded.

Many of the dresses were gorgeous in
texture and decoration — silk, velvet, gold
and silver jewellery, and the richest lace,
fairy-like in delicacy of fashion and tint,
and when the dancers in hundreds flew
round in the waltz it seemed a glimpse of
the land of Elphin.

The music was divine, and Mary felt

every nerve and fibre of her frame respond
to it as she sped round with slippered feet
over the well-waxed floor on the arm of
Rolandsburg, whose step and time suited
hers to perfection.

There were beautiful Jemsh matrons
from the fashionable mansions on the
Alster Damn, with broods of black-eyed
and equally beautiful daughters ; for the
Jewish ladies of Hamburg, in style, beauty,
and delicacy of feature, excel all others of
their race ; but the blonde beauties of
Holstein and North Germany far exceeded
them in numbers and glow of complexion.

Off the dancing-hall were artificial conservatories
and refreshment-rooms for ice-cream,
jelly, and flirtation, where servants
were in attendance clad like Turks, with
turbans and slippers, pistols and yataghans,.
and where, with a sound like file-firing,
the champagne corks flew up to the gilded
ceilings.

Amid the dazzling scene, as Mary paused

in a waltz, panting, palpitating, and blushing
to see her own reflection in a mirror,
as she almost clung to the arm of the
baron in his green uhlan uniform, and
found herself the object of so much attention
and admiration, her mind reverted
with a kind of dull and painful wonder to
the past days of their obscure abode in
frowsy Paddington ; to her struggles for
employment, and her lonely wanderings in
unfamiliar streets, where often her beauty
subjected her to such observation and insolent
annoyance that often she longed to
be old and ugly ; and when her chief hope
had been to fill the place of governess to
some one's children — well-bred or ill-bred,
yet not without a faint vision of future
good fortune, position, and admiration —
perhaps even riches ; she was too young
to be without such fancies and hopes.

Ellinor thought she would never forget
the splendours and enjoyments of the
fancy dress ball; in all its features and

details it was so new to her, and from a
subsequent event she was fated to remember
it long.

The baron, always attentive and full of
empressement was enchanted to be the
privileged cavalier to two such English
belles.

Mary, in her piquant Mary Stuart cap,
with a little ruin round her delicate neck,
her sleeves puffed and slashed, her peaked
bodice, all blue satin, with seed pearls,
quite dazzled him, and matured the passion
for her that was growing in his heart ;
and at last, in the intervals of the dances,
though he yielded her with undisguised
reluctance to other uhlans, dragoons, and
gunners, who crowded about her, programme
in hand, he ventured to speak
on the subject — not to her, but to Mrs.
Deroubigne, and thus spared her some
pain and confusion.

Madame,' said he, while conducting her
to a refreshment-room, ' you evidently love

these two young ladies as if they were
your own daughters !'

'I do indeed — and they might have
been was the somewhat enigmatical reply
of Mrs. Deroubigne, with one of her bright
sweet smiles.

Ah ! who would not love them, the
blue-eyed one especially.'

Mary ?'

^ Yes, madame. I thought generally that
love only existed in plays and novels.'

And when were you undeceived ?'

When first I knew Ji&r.'

Baron, you must dismiss such thoughts,'
said Mrs. Deroubigne, with some dismay.

Why, madame ?' he asked, smiling.

'The young lady is engaged.'

Engaged — is that betrothed?'

Yes.'

His countenance changed instantly.

To an officer — a dear friend of mine —
now in Afghanistan.'

In Afghanistan !' he repeated, angrily ;

^ a fiance there is next to no fiance at all,
for a bullet may — nay,' said lie, pausing,
^ this thought is ungenerous of me, and I
would not like another to think thus of
Rolandsburg. Got in Simnel, how unlucky
I am !'

I am so sorry to hear all this.'

So am I — so am I,' exclaimed the baron,
pulling his long fair moustaches, for a
betrothal in Germany gives a young girl a
kind of wife-like sanctity among the homely
and domestic Teutonic people ; and Mrs.
Deroubigne, who dearly loved the romantic,
felt for him ; the young man's hopes had
been cruelly crushed at the very moment
when he thought them brightest.

One cannot have everything they
want — it is not given to anyone on earth
to be perfectly happy, I suppose,' said he,
with a sigh, and there was a sadness, with
a ring of sincerity, in his voice that certainly
touched Mrs. Deroubigne.

Have you spoken of love to her ?' whispered

lie, behind her fan ; ' but I hope not !'

No — I have never spoken — but she
must have inferred what I felt,' replied
the baron, who, like most German officers,
spoke English well.

^ Inferred it — I scarcely think so, with
her mind so occupied with the thoughts of
another.'

But, any way, I think it does a girl
good to know that a man loves her ; and
then, if the proverb be true about one love
begetting another, she may incline her
heart to him.'

Not in this instance, baron.'

For Rolandsburg now the charm of the
ball was over ; the music sounded faint,
the lights seemed dim, and he was glad
when the great festivity ended, and he,
after escorting the ladies to their carriage,
took his way slowly through the streets to
his barracks near the Dammthor Wall.

For his disappointment — and it was a
sudden and sore one — he had no one but

himself to blames he felt, as Mary yells
had never given him the least
encouragement to fling his heart away ashe
had done.

And now for the sequel to the night's
adventures.

Talking gaily, as girls will talk after a
ball, criticising costumes and partners, and
comparing notes, Mary, Elinor, and Mrs.
Deroubigne reached home when day was
beginning; to dawn, and the blue waters of
the Elbe were beginning to brighten.
Elinor, teasing and quizzing Mary about
the baron, had been singing to her —

Illa lassie has her laddie,
But ne'er a one have I ;'

and Mary, in hot haste, anxious to see the
very latest news, threw open a London
paper which had come over night, but, as
she eagerly scanned it, a cry of dismay
escaped her as she read a brief telegram :

Terrible disaster to the lOtJi Hussars. — A

hole squadron drowned in the Cabul Ever,
and two officers holier attempting to save the
life of Corporal Wodrow'

The hearts of the sisters stood still as
they read and re-read this startling notice.

The attempt to save Robert Wodrow
had evidently been a failure — so he was
gone !

Who had made the attempt and perished
with him ? Mary's agitated mind at once
suggested Colville. Both girls felt completely
stunned.

The returning' and p-rowino' love — a love

O O O

blended with great pity — that had been
developing itself in Ellinor's heart for poor
Robert Wodrow was now absorbed and
swallowed up in a gush of bitterness and
intense remorse at being the cause of his
sorrowful and untimely fate.

How true it is that suffering; is our
most faithful friend; it is always returning.
Often has it changed its dress, and

VOL. II. Q

even its face ; but we can easily recognise
it by its cordial and intimate embrace.'

And how was it, then, at the old ivy-clad
manse of Kirktown-Mailler, where the
same terrible telegram had gone like the
dart of death ?

There the blinds were drawn down, as if
the hussar who had found his grave in the
Cabul River was lying dead in the bed he
had slept on in boyhood and manhood,
and across which his mother now lay
stretched in hopeless grief.

And a sad-eyed and sympathetic congregation
watched the venerable minister
when, with bent eyes, and slow, unsteady
steps, he entered his pulpit next Sunday.

All knew the dire calamity that had
befallen him, and one and all their kindly
Scottish hearts bled for him, when his
voice failed, his sermon escaped him, and
stretching; out his trembling hands on the
pulpit cushion, he bent down his handsome

old head upon them — a head now white as
the thistledown — and begged his people to
excuse him, ' as all night long he had been
in the Valley of the Shadow of Death !'

Then his elders led him into the vestry,
and those who saw him descending; the
stair of that pulpit, wherein he had ministered
unto them faithfully for more than
thirty years, never forgot the painful
episode.

q2

CHAPTER XVL

THE 10th Hussars.

And now to detail how the catastrophe
referred to came about.

The evening of Monday, the 31st of
March, saw Leslie Colville in his saddle,
and busy conveying orders in the camp
and cantonments of Jellalabad, where
drum and bugle gave the notes of preparation
for the field.

This was between five and six o'clock,
when two columns were suddenly ordered
out for another expedition towards the
Lughman Valley.

One, to be led by Brigadier Gough, was
to consist of seven hundred men furnished

hj the 17tli and 27tli regiments, three
hundred native infantry, four Royal Horse
Artillery guns under Major Stewart, and
two squadrons of the dashing Guide
Cavalry.

This column, according to the orders
repeated by Colville, was to march out atone
o'clock next morning.

'■ In what direction V asked old Spatterdash
and others.

^ I know not,' replied Colville ; ' but
Lughman, I suppose, is the object in view
with it, as well as the other column, under
Brigadier Macpherson.'

The command of the latter consisted of
three hundred Rifles, six hundred Ghoorkas
and Punjaubees, with a mountain battery
under Lieutenant E. J. de Latour, of the
Royal Artillery, who had served in the
expedition of 1863 against the tribes on
the North West Frontier, some sappers,
and a squadron each from the 10th Hussars
and 11th Bengal Lancers, who, like the

former corps, wear blue uniforms faced
with red and laced with fold.

The latter column was to be in readiness
to march at nine that evening, "with four
days' provisions in the haversacks.

The moon, in a sky flecked with clouds,
was gleaming brightly on the Balla Hissar,
the domes and walls of Jellalabad, thous!!
it was little more than a quarter old, as
Macpherson's column got under arms ;
and the rolls were called, the ammunition
served out, the inspection of saddlery and
accoutrements was proceeded with.

Our soldiers always muster merrily for
work such as they had in hand that night ;
and, before they where called to attention,
Redhaven had on more than one occasion
to speak almost sharply to Robert AVod-
row, who was — for him, at least — unusually
noisy and jubilant.

Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow
we die !' he heard him say.

'Can't make that countryman of yours

out, Colville,' said the hussar-officer, as he
scraped a vesta and lit a cigar. * He is
usually the most silent and taciturn fellow
in the troop, and to-night he makes as much
noise as all the Ghoorkas put together.

And that puzzles you ?'

Yes ; he looks like a man with a past.'

He has indeed a past history, poor fellow,
a sorrowful and not a happy one.'

Every broken-down fellow takes to the
cavalry now,' grumbled Redhaven ; ' but I
was certain he has some secret by the
expression of his eyes, and the inflections
of his modulated voice at times.'

Poor fellow 1' said Colville again.

He knew, what Redhaven did not, that
Robert Wodrow was often a prey to sad
and bitter thoughts ; that in the dreams of
the night and of the day when asleep in
the wet-flapping tent or the comfortless
bivouac — when on solitary vidette duty,
under the blazing Afghan sun, he saw
oftener before him — not the fair face of

her for whom he had sacrificed everything,
and whom, he doubted not, would soon
become the bride of another — but the face
of his loving mother — a kind and happy
old face — that ever beamed with love for
him ; and opposite her fancy saw his silver-haired
old father, reading some good or
musty volume — Wodrow's Analecta Scotica
perhaps ; and often from such visions of
home he was roused by the trumpet blowing
'boot and saddle,' or the yell of an
Afghan scout armed with ^z^^az'/ and char ah.
As a Scotsman, Colville was superstitious
enough to reo-ret that at such a time
the young fellow should show such exuberance
of spirits as the foreboding of evil,
and was in the act of uroino; his horse
forward to accost him kindly, when the
brigadier came on the ground, the component
parts of the column were called to
attention,' and in a few minutes after, the
whole force was on the march, and, with
the glittering of sword and bayonet blades,

section after section quickly disappeared
from the eves of those who watched them
in the cold wintry moonshine that had
turned to diamonds the thick hoarfrost on
every wall and tree ; and the march began
which was to prove the last to many in
this life.

The line of ground between Jellalabad
"and Cabul, so far as it is connected with
India,' says a writer, ' is a line of tragedy
and misfortune. That line of tragedy and
misfortune may now be extended a couple
of miles further to the east, for that will
give very nearly the point where forty-six
lives were on that Monday evening suddenly
swept out of existence.'

The troops moved westward, the cavalry
leading. The squadron of the 10th Hussars
was under Captain D'Esterre Spottiswoode,
that of the Bengal Lancers was under its
own captain, and Major E. A. Wood of the
first-named corps commanded the whole.

Guided by an Afghan mountaineer who

had offered his services, and to whom Colville
paid a high bribe therefor, the orders
of the officers were to cross the Cabul
river at a point Adhere most unluckily a
temporary bridge had shortly before been
removed. On achieving that, they were
to move up the left bank of the stream, to
march through Besoot and Daunt, and
enter the Lughman Valley, to which the
infantry were moving by the Jellalabad
side of the Cabul.

The guide, who was mounted on a
powerful and wiry yahoo, or Cabul pony,
was a singularly taciturn fellow, and
Colville remarked a circumstance which
soon became a painful memory, that by
twisting the end of his loonghee, or headdress,
across the lower part of his face he
effectually concealed his features, permitting
little more than his keen, black, and
glittering eyes to be seen, reminding him
of the muffled men he had read of in old
Scottish Border forays.

Macpliers oil's column had not been long
gone when the troops at the camp of
Jellalabad were roused and alarmed by
numbers of cavalry horses, all riderless,
galloping wildly among the tents, with
their bridles trailing, and their saddles,
valises, and trappings soaked in water.

What has happened — what can have
happened?' were the questions asked on
every side.

No one could anticipate the catastrophe
that had really occurred, as at that season
the bed of the Cabul is not always full;
but when the sun melts the accumulated
snow in the Katcha range and other mountains
it is not so. The Vater then rolls
through many channels, and it was in
anticipation of this that the wooden bridge
had been removed to a point further up.

Where our cavalry Averse to cross at the
Fort of Isaac, the stream now formed two
branches ; the first was thirty feet broad,
with an average of only thirty inches of

water, and the crossing was to be made
under the light of a dim and fitful moon,
at a point where an irrigation channel
diverged at right angles from the stream.
Beyond that point stood a kind of sandy
islet covered with great boulders, and
again beyond it lay a hundred and fifty
feet of water ; but as the line of this fatal
ford was not straight, three hundred and
fifty feet of water had to be traversed upon
it, as the ford formed at one point an
acute angle.

Led by the local guides, the squadron of
Bengal Lancers crossed in safety, wheeling
at the given point on the acute angle.

The mules of the squadron followed
next, our hussars, now riding at ease,
waiting till their turn came to cross ; and
to amuse the rest, one of them, the identical
Toby Chace, who was one of Robert
Wodrow's earliest comrades, and well
known as a reckless fellow, began to sing
a soldier's ditty, part of which ran thus :

There's Bill Muggins left our village,

Just as sound a man as I ;

Now he goes about on crutches,

"With a single arm and eye.

To be sure he's got a medal

And some twenty pounds a year
For his health, and strength, and service,

Government can't call that dear ;
Not to reckon one leg shattered,

Two ribs broken, one eye lost ;
Tore I went in such a venture,

I should stop and count the cost.

Lots o' glory, lots o' gammon '

Silence there — in front !' cried the coni-handing
officer, and Colville, Who had
some undefinable suspicion of the hussar
guide, placed himself near that personage,
With his revolver case loose and at hand.

'Do not lose the direction, men,' cried
an officer, ' but keep well up against the
stream,' he added, knowing that when
crossing thus there is always a tendency
to edge lower down With the current.

The leading sections began to enter the
stream, the rippling eddies of which went
past them, tipped with silver by the pale

iiioonliglit ; the rest followed closely, the
o^uide directing', and erelons^ Colville and
others found the water rising to their feet,
then it rose as high as their knees, and
was beginning to get higher, while the
pony of the guide had quitted the angled
line of the ford, and was swimming away
to another point.

Treachery,' thought Colville ; at that
moment the loonghee fell from the face of
the guide, and he recognised Mahmoud
Shah, the sirdir with the slashed cheek —
Mahraoud, the hadji, whom he had saved
from the Wahabees !

This is getting awkward !' exclaimed
Newhaven, ' there must be some mistake.'

'We are betrayed !' cried Colville.

He put his hand to his pistol-case, but
too late, for now his horse rolled over, and
yat\\ an exulting shriek in English of

Pigs ! dogs ! Kafirs ! — drown and be
damned ! Eblis and hell await you ! In
vain will ye seek the Lord of the Daybreak

!' cried the treacherous guide ; then
he* reached the Jellalabad side in safety and
vanished — pony and all.

All was confusion, consternation, and
death now, for the water, flowing at the
rate of nine miles an hour, had risen to
the saddle bows and holsters of the Hussars,
whose spirited horses, finding their footing
gone, ignored the use of spur and bridle.

The line of the ford was lost now ; the
current pouring over it soon forced the
horses downward into deeper water, sweeping
the squadron away towards the swifter
rapids, and in a mass of confusion our
gallant Hussars, with their terrified horses,
were struggling desperately and madly for
existence, under the dim moonlight and
amid the fiercely rushing waters, while the
bewildered Bengal Lancers could only sit
in their saddles and look helplessly on.

An officer whose horse had kicked Robert
Wodrow, rendering him nearly insensible,
failed to escape, and both were swept away,

SO, natheless, his reckless quotation from
St. Luke's Gospel, there was to be no ' tomorrow
' for the latter.

Captain D'Esterre Spottiswoode — afterwards
colonel — was mounted on a very
splendid and powerful horse, which was
able to smm well, and bore him to the
other bank in safety, but not to the end of
the ford.

In dangerous quicksands it sank twice
to its girth, on the last occasion falling on
its rider, whose head was thrust so far
below water that he was nearly drowned
ere he scrambled breathlessly to dry land.

Colville, who had been riding with the
captain and three subalterns at the head
of the troop, which mustered seventy-six
sabres, felt his horse become restive when
the water flowed over his holsters ; the
animal kicked and plunged till at last he
was thrown oiF its back, and found himself
floundering in deep water. Being a
good swimmer he thought to get rid of

his sword and belt, but failed, as lie sank
each time in making the attempt, and each
time he came to the surface with an invocation
to heaven on his lips.

The men in the squadron were all in
heavy marching order, fully accoutred and
supplied vrith ammunition — circumstances
sufficient to drag down a good swimmer
even in smooth water. Nearly all were
thrown by their terrified horses, which, as i
they rolled over and over, lashed out with
their hoofs, maiming and stunning; many
of our poor fellows as they were swept
into the dark rushing current of the
rapids, and where these ceased lay a little
pool of deep water, and there it was that
all who had strength left to struggle succeeded
in reaching the land, but many
failed, alas !

As Colville was swept dowuAvard, while
in the desperate agonies of seeking to save
his own life, he could take-in the terrible
details of the tragedy, and saw how the

VOL. II, R

river was crowded Avitli men, horses, and
white helmets rolling past ; how heads,
hands, and spurred heels rose momentarily
and vanished to rise again, and then sink
for ever beneath the cruel and greedy
current.

Amid all this scene of death and horror,
there came not one cry from our perishing
hussars : each battled with the waters
of the hostile river as they would have
battled With the afghans.

Colville struck out to reach the bank,
after he sank a third time ; but, encumbered
by his heavy boots and parties (or
leg bandages), his sword, revolver, and
ammunition, he was unal:>le to keep himself
afloat, and the agony of a helpless
death was in his heart !

He knew that at the time all this was
happening Mary Wellwood would probably
he sleeping, sweetly and peacefully,
on her pillow; and even in that moment
of supreme anguish and terror, he wished

that if death came, his soul might flash
home to her in a dream — a farewell dream!

He felt himself sinking at last, as he had
only been getting occasional breaths of
air ; the last of his strength seemed going,
and all hope with it, when suddenly his
feet touched the bottom, and a prayer rose
to his lips.

Rousing himself for a final effort, he
pushed forward, and hope began again to
dawn on him as he found the water getting
shallower ; but he was too Aveak to
reach the river's bank, and, grasping some
wild jasmine trailers that" grew between
two boulders, he propped himself up to
rest and breathe.

At this point, seeing neither man nor
horse near him, he thought that all must
have perished — perished through the diabolical
hatred and treachery of Mahmoud
Shah !

Suddenly he heard a voice cry out,

Is this you. Captain Colville ?'

u 2

The questioner, whose grammar was not
very choice, proved to be the hussar Toby
Chace, who was sitting bareheaded, dripping,
and disconsolate on the river bank.

Colville was almost voiceless, so Toby
waded in, and assisted him to dry land,
where he could scarcely stand from exhaustion,
but was able ultimately, with
the assistance of Chace, to reach the camp,
where he found that his horse had arrived
before him.

All the troop horses were heard to snort
wildly as the current swept them away,
and, being over weighted by their saddles,
the slung carbines, and other trappings,
they beat the air with their hoofs as
they rolled about ; but only twelve were
drowned.

When the roll was called, forty-six
hussars, who would never hear it again,
were missing, with Lieutenant Harford
and another officer. Many of their bodies,
when found, showed broken limbs, the result

of kicks from iron-shod hoofs, and many
of them had their hands raised to their
heads, either for protection or through
pain from blows, and in that position
they had stiiFenecl in death.

One poor fellow was swept a long way
down the Cabul river, but clambered into
a native boat, where he was found next
day, dead from exhaustion and cold.

An awful calamity ! A devil of a
business !'

How did it happen ? Whose fault was
it?'

Such were a few of the exclamations
heard on every hand in camp, from whence,
on the first arrival of the riderless horses,
soldiers had rushed to the river side with
lanterns and ropes, and staff-surgeons with
restoratives.

Ten rupees reward was offered for everybody
recovered from that fatal river, and
some were buried severally near the places
where they were found. Colville made

ijuiiiy inquiries al)out that of Colbert AYod-
inv. as the one in whom he was personally
most interested, but no trace of him
could be discovered.

In one eddy of the river nineteen of
our gallant hussars were found huddled
together in one ghastly heap.

These and the bodies of others were all
buried in one vast grave at the western
end of the camp ; and those who saw that
solemn scene — that grim row of bodies,
each rolled in a blanket, and lying side
by side in close ranks, shoulder to shoulder
never forgot it.

Neither did they forget the funeral
service of the following; evening' when
the body of Lieutenant Francis H. Harford
and that of a private of the Leicestershire
Regiment, who had been mortals
in action, were interred about
dusk.

Solemn and strikingly' impressive was
the episode.

The reel Afghan sun had set amid dun
and sombre clouds beyond the snow-clad
summits of the Ramkoond Mountains, but
some ruddy light yet lingered on the
awful peaks of the Suffaidh Koh. There
had been rain and thunder all afternoon,
and the clouds were gathered in sombre
masses that were edged by the radiance
of the now nearly full moon.

Athwart the clouds ever and anon shot
gleams of ghastly lightning, producing
strange and sudden effects of lioiit and
shade, adding to the weird effect of the
funeral cortege — the coffins on gun-carriages,
draped with the Union Jack, followed
by officers and other mourners in
long, spectral-like cloaks, preceded by the
dark-clad band of the Rifle Brigade playing
a low and wailing dirge-like piece of
music.

So ended the tragedy of the 10th
Hussars.

In the meantime, in perfect ignorance of

that event, our troops under Macpherson
and Gough had proceeded to the scene of
then' services elsewhere, to fight the Khu-
giants and Ain the little of Futteabad,
which, as Leslie Colville was not present,
lies somewhat apart from our story.

After the defeat of the Khusfianis and
the subsequent dispersal of the Afreedis,
the summer of the year Alas drawing on,
and as Yakoub Khan showed a disposition
10 come to terms with Great Britain, and
the hostilities seemed to be drawing to a
close, Leslie Colville began fondly to hope
that he might with honour resign his appointment
for 'special service,' and return
home after the treaty of peace was signed.

The negotiations for the latter were
placed in the hands of Major Louis Cave
and, after some hesitation on the
part of the new Ameer, it was eventually
signed in the British camp at Gundamack
that place of ill-omen, where the Red
Hill of Lai Teehah marks the spot on

which the last men of Elphinston's army
perished under Afghan steel in the year
1842.

Its chief objects were to place the foreign
affairs of Afghanistan under British
(control, and to guarantee that country
against Russian aggression by the aid
of our money, arms, and troops, to provide
for the maintenance of a British
Embassy in the dominions of the Ameer,
and other details.

Thus the war came to an end — as i\Iary
Wellwood, with many more at home, read
with joy, and our troops in the valley of
Jellalabad were withdrawn within the new
frontier, lest the prolonged presence of
foreigners might inflame the ready susceptibilities
of the fiery Afghans, and render
them less amenable to the influence of
Ayoub Khan.

For some reasons the latter was suffered
to depart from Gundamack to Cabul
alone, and the despatch thither of a

British resident Alas deferred for a time.

When the time came, Leslie Colville —
afterwards to his own great regret — instead
of resigning: and returning home,
suffered himself to be named in general
orders as one of the staff to accompany
the new Resident — Major, then Sir Louis
Cavagnari — on that perilous and, as it
proved, most fatal and calamitous mission,
and when Mary heard of it she sighed bitterly
^y\ih. apprehension, she knew not of
what.

He should not have allowed himself to
be thus prevailed upon — surely he has
done enough for honour, by winning his
Victoria Cross !' exclaimed Mrs. Serous
with surprise, and poor Mary quite
agreed with her ; but Colville was under
certain military influences which they
could not quite understand.

Thus he Avrote to Mary, stating that,
when once the Embassy was fairly established,

he would lose no time in returning;
home.

Does he not know hoar I am yearning
for him,' thought the girl in her heart.

CHAPTER XVII.

LOST.

Damped and disconcerted by the sudden
hopelessness of his regard for Mary Well-wood
on learning; that she was betrothed
to another, the young baron — after leaving
cards subsequent to the night of the ball
did not visit the villa so frequently as
had been his wont ; but the society there
was so pleasant and attractive, that he
began to drop in during the afternoons and
evenings for a little music and singing,
in both of which, like most foreigners, he
could bear his part very well.

That Elinor had undergone some
grief — he knew not precisely what it was

he was perfectly aware, idiot her story
was not one on which Mrs. Deroubio^ne
cared to enlighten him fully. He could
also see that she wore black or sombre
dresses, A^dth suites of jet ornaments, for
Ellinor felt that to do so was at least all
that she might indulge in, as a proper
tribute to the memory of one who had
loved her well.

The sisters were to have been photographed
in their sixteenth century ball
costumes for the delectation of Colville ;
but this frivolity they abandoned after
hearing of Robert Wodrow's catastrophe.

Ellinor often recalled the night of that
brilliant festivity, when she had waltzed
and promenaded to and fro as one in a
dream of delight, and spoke in a hushed
tone as if she feared to waken from it to a
real and commonplace life, for never before
had she been in so gay and glittering a
paradise ; but now that was all over — gone
like a dissolving view, and she could but

think of the poor heart that had loved her
so well and so fondly now lying cold
and stiff in the waters of the Cabul
river.

Mrs. Deroubigne knew of Robert Wod-
row only by name. Thus her natural
equanimity on the subject of his fate,
combined with her social qualities and
equally natural brightness, helped much
to calm, even to soothe, the equally natural
grief, and also perhaps the remorse of
Elinor, who, of course, became in time
composed and consoled over the inevitable,
though she was still too terrified or too
much pained to write to his parents — a
task which she relegated to Mary.

And in her quiet and subdued grief, most
generous, unvaryingly kind and sympathetic
was young Rolandsburg, though he
knew not (suite the cause from which it
sprang ; and charmed by her sadness, softness,
and beauty, finding that the elder
sister was lost to him, it seemed to Mrs.

Deroubigne that lie vas already turning
his attention to the younger.

Elinor had — as she said to Mary —
wept her eyes out for poor Bob Wodrow;'
and thus, after a time, the elasticity of her
volatile nature began to reassert itself, to
the delight of the baron.

Nature, we are told, abhors a vacuum ; so
did the heart of the handsome young
Uhlan ; hence he adopted a new role in
his bearing to Ellinor, all the more easily
and all the more readily that he had not
committed himself with Mary.

Blooming as the German girls are,
Ellinor's softer beauty was a new experience
to him ; she was like a tea-rose, a sea-shell,
a wonderfully delicate and tinted bit
of feminine nature, and as before, he first
made Mrs. Deroubigne his confidant.

Ah, madame !' said he, clasping his
hands melodramatically, while drooping his
head on one side till it nearly touched his
gilt should entrap, ' I suppose she could

not understand anyone dying of love — of
love of her T

I think not,' replied Mrs. Deroubigne,
laughing excessively at this leading remark
when remembering that he had been in the
mood of ' dying for love ' of Mary but some
weeks before.

Yet he was a pleasant, handsome fellow,
with so much honliommie about him that it
was impossible not to be pleased with him.
all the more that the iron cross on his
breast showed that he had comported himself
gallantly in the field.

The Fraulein Ellin or is very cold and
very calm.' said he ; ' she can take a man's
heart — take all his love and give him none
in return.'

It is not so,' replied Mrs. Deroubigne.

How, madame, then ?'

You do not know her story ; but why
should I recur to it ?'

'Her story — she has had, then, an affaire
du coeur T

One at least, certainly,' said Mrs.
Deroubigne, laughing again at the baron's
expression of face and tone of pique.

Der Teufel ! One at least ? How sad
it is to think of a young lady having a
story ! And this — or these — render her
indifferent to me?'

^ Perhaps,' replied Mrs. Deroubigne, who,
much as she liked the young Prussian, did
not wish to flatter his hopes, but he was
not the less resolved to put the matter to
the issue.

Calling one afternoon when Mrs. Serous
and Mary had driven into Hamburg,
he intercepted Ellinor in the garden, with
her little camp-stool, easel, and colour-box,
about to go forth and sketch ; and though
he had but a few minutes to spare, as his
horse was at the gate to take him back to
barracks, he resolved to utilise them.

Shaded from the declining sun by a
broad garden-hat, he thought Ellinor's
face never looked so charming before.

VOL. ir. s

Her eyes were peculiarly her greatest
beauty; they were of the clearest and
most luminous hazel — not very dark, and
sweetly trustful and straightforward in
expression ; but they drooped now and
sought the flower-beds, for something she
read in those of young Rolandsburg told
her Avhat was coins.

In the physical nature of some people
who love keenly there is a mysterious
sympathy that draws them together, and
the baron, thinking that she was inspired
by that now, put out his hand to touch
hers, but she withdrew it.

This was not encouraging, but he drew
nearer her half-averted ear, and whispered
bluntly enough, but tremulously, nevertheless,


This is a great joy finding you alone —
alone, that I may tell you what I have
been longing — dying to tell you for weeks
past — that I love you, Ellinor, and you
only !'

In his foreign accent and half-broken
English, the avowal sounded very pretty
and simple, but did not touch Ellinor
much, though she trembled and grew pale,
for no woman can have such things said
to her and remain quite unmoved.

Love me — how strange !' said she,
scarcely knowing what to say.

To you it may seem so,' he continued,
slowly and earnestly ; ' for I know or suspect
that you cherish some dead — some
mysterious memory, and that you cannot
or may not care for me as I ^\dsh you todo;
but that does not prevent me from
loving you, and you may never understand,
even dimly, how much I do love
you, and I can keep this secret untold
no longer.'

'I respect you much, baron,' replied
Ellinor, for his declaration was more
formal than impetuous ; 'but mere talking
to me will not make me love you in return.
I feel quite confused — most unhappy to

Shear

all this ; and we shall have to go
away from Altona.'

Go from Altona?'

Yes;

I only tell you because I can not
control — can not help myself,' said he,
humbly and sadly, and not without an
emotion of pique at the ill-luck of his
second venture.

I thank you, baron, but it cannot be,'
said Ellinor, shaking her pretty head
decidedly.

You cannot — love me.'

No — not as you wish.'

'Well,' said he, after a pause, during
which he had been eyeing her downcast
face with an expression of disappointment
and chagrin, ' be it so ; but I trust you
will pardon any unpleasantness my perhaps
abrupt avowal has occasioned you ;
and I also trust that in the future you
will always view me as your friend — as
one who will ever be ready and eager to

hold out the hand of a brother to you,
Miss Ellinor. Even with that conviction
I shall be ha^^py,' he added, with a voice
that certainly broke a little nth emotion.

She now gave her hand frankly, and he
pressed it kindly, and then, proceeding to
fill with tobacco his consolatory meerschaum
pipe (that dangled at his buttonhole)
prior to riding back to the Dammthor
Wall, he said, with a sigh,

Each — I will get over this, no doubt !'

'As you must have got over others, no
doubt,' said Ellinor, laughing now, but
piqued by his philosophy, and to see that
he could so calmly canvass the prospect of
ceasing to care for her already. But what
does it matter ? Robert Wodrow had loved
her as no man had ever loved her, and
what had been his reward ?

Now leave me, please, baron,' she said,
a little bluntly ; ' the tide is far out, and I
^vish to sketch the creek and villa from
yonder bank of dry sand ere the sun sets.'

I must go — for parade awaits me ; but
must I recur to this dear subject no
more ?'

'Yes — no more,' said Ellinor, T\atli decision,
yet with a smile nevertheless.

The baron felt that all was over when he
saw that smile ; indeed, when with Ellinor,
he always felt that he was in the presence
of some feeling deeper than he could
fathom ; and, bowing low, he turned sadly
away. Then in a few minutes the clatter of
his horse's hoofs was heard as he cantered
ois towards the Millernthor, and so ended
another little romance in Elinor's life — at
least, she thought so. And the baron
knew that now never again could they
enjoys each other's society as they had
done so innocently till that afternoon.

Proceeding over the firm dry sand left
by the far retreating tide, she selected a
point upon a rough pebble-covered knoll,
a quarter of a mile from the little wooded

creek, set her sketching-block upon her
tiny easel, and, seating herself upon a
little camp-stool, proceeded, with her back
to the setting sun, to outline the creek,
With the trees, the garden, and sandy beach
in foreground, and the villa in the middle
distance.

She was very full of her work, to have
it as a souvenir of Altona, but it proceeded
very, very slowly ; she was too full of the
late episode to do much with her pencil —
much successfully at least, and paused
ever and anon to sink into deep thought
over the past, the present, and the future.

When Mary and Mrs. Deroubigne returned
home to a late dinner, Ellinor was
not to be seen, she was not in the villa,
and she was not in the garden, nor in
the adjacent shrubberies, so the house-bell
was rung for her in vain ; and to Mrs.
Deroubigne, Ellinor, always dreamy, delicate,

and in temperament excitable, had
been somewhat of a responsibility, more
than her sister Mary.

Dinner was served up, but remained
on the table untasted, while search after
search was made without avail, and sunset
was at hand.

She had last been seen in the garden,
with Baron Rolandsburg-with her drawing
materials and apparatus, going forth to
sketch.

With the baron !

Could she have eloped with him ?'
thought Mary, while her heart sank —
recalling Ellinor's former folly — the folly
she had been on the brink of committing
with Sir Redmond Sheath.

Oh, that was very unlikely ! Ellinor
was a changed girl, and less confiding,
and the young baron was too confident
in himself, his position, wealth, and resources
to love mystery or mischief when
neither were needed.

A presentiment of evil — an emotion that
she could not have explained — came over
Mary's mind. Vainly she sought to settle
her thoughts to some fixity of purpose.
A vague terror seized her, and she could
scarcely even think.

She remembered when Ellinor was ill
how the robins: of the Passing; Bell in the
adjacent church appalled her with the
dread that she was about to lose her —
her only relation in the world ; and had
she lost her now ?

Was she going far to sketch ?' Mrs.
Deroubigne suddenly inquired of her now
scared domestics.

No, madame ! Only to the sands beside
the river, when the tide Alas out.'

'The tide !' exclaimed Mrs. Deroubigne ;
and, accompanied by Mary, she rushed to
the foot of the garden, to find the creek
full and the Elbe at flood tide and more.

'My God — oh, what can have happened?'
exclaimed Mrs. Deroubigne, who

was aware of a periodical event of which
Mary knew nothing.

It was this. When the wind is from
the west, and especially if violent, the
waters of the Elbe become swollen to such
a degree that the canals of Hamburg overflow
their banks, the cellars, magazines
and all channels, become gorged and inundated
— that, in fact, the tide suddenly'
rises, sometimes to the height of twenty
feet, with a rapidity that is alike dangerous
and terrible. So the gorged tide,
swollen by the incoming waves of the
German Sea, was rolling inshore now, and
Ellinor had been on the sands — the temporary
dry sands, to sketch !

A wild waste of water was rolling and
boiling there now, and where was she ?

'Ellinor — oh, Ellinor !' cried Mary, again
and again, in a voice of agony ; but, save
the sough of the waves, there was no
response.

Soaked to pulp her sketch-book was
found at the foot of the creek washed
inshore, and, if other evidence of a tragedy
was wanting, something was seen floating
in the oozy waves about ten yards
distant.

Jack, the terrier — that dog which had
such amazing facility for getting into
canine troubles — sprang in, and yapping
and yelping laid that something at the feet
of his mistress, who recognised at once her
sister's garden-hat ; and a low cry of despair
escaped Mary as she turned it over
in her trembling hands, and painfully and
vividly it brought before her the face,
figure, and whole individuality of the lost
one.

A torrent of tears escaped Mrs. Serous
but Mary seemed to have lost the
power to shed one.

Even as the angry waves came rolling
into the creek, so did wave after wave of

sorrow seem to be coming upon her again,
dark and sharp as ever.

^ Oh, Lord — how long; — how lonsr !' she
wailed in her heart.

She stretched out her hands as if
clutching the air for support, she swayed
a little, and then, her strength failing her,
she would have fallen on her pallid face
had not Mrs. Deroubio;ne caught her fast
in her motherly arms.

Night drew on and day came again without
a trace of the lost one, dead or alive.

Baron Rolandsburg, who was appalled
by a catastrophe so sudden and unforeseen,
corroborated the story that she had gone
on the stretch of dry sand to sketch, and
no doubt remained till the sudden tide
had overtaken and overwhelmed her !

He now made himself invaluable in his
exertions for intelligence. Rewards were
offered to boatmen and river-pilots, and in
the Hamhurger Nachrichten and other journals
' for her remains ' (how horrible did

this sound), but unknown to Mary, Who
was for several days and nights all but
unconscious. He also put himself into
communication with their Herrshaften
(their Excellencies) the four Burgomasters
and four Syndics, and the Windermere,
but all in vain.

Other traces of Ellinor than those which
the hungry waves had washed to Mary's
feet were never found !

The latter was now a prey to two emotions,
when a time came that she could consider
calmly. One was an intense longing to
got away from Alton a as a place which
had now become hateful to her, as the
scene of so much sadness ; and the other
was an affectionate repugnance to leave it,
until her sister's fate was made certain,
and her remains found.

But the latter might have been washed
out to sea, and never — never might be
heard of more.

The inexorable had to be accepted, but

we fear that poor Mary Wellwood could
not do so with the calmness of a disciple
of Epictetus, the stoic.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE SEQUEL.

Ellinor's sketching, as we have said, did
not progress much.

She was full of thoughts, yet none of
pride, of flattered vanity, or exultation
were in her mind, but a dull and curious
sense of fear and shame — a vague consciousness
of doubt and wrong.

Could it be that she — unwittingly — had
in any way given encouragement to this
young baron, or done aught that led up to
the sudden declaration he had made ?

She could not tax herself with having
done so. She liked him very much — who
would not that knew him? — he was so

suave, so gentle, and so manly. But love,
no-she had no heart for him; and how
were they to meet now, after this ?

She felt as if suddenly wakened from a
dream ; but a more terrible awakening was
soon to come upon her.

'Nonsense!' she thought; 'this silly
young officer must evidently love or flirt
With some one. Latterly it was Mary,
now it is Ellinor.'

The Baron Rolandsburg was — as Sheath
had been in her eyes apparently — the
possessor of all she had wished for, and
learned to worship — position, rank, riches,
and luxury ; but neither could love her as
poor Bob had done ! And now Ellinor
was — when too late for the sake of the
latter — changed from a somewhat selfish
and frivolous girl into a woman of thought,
and one capable of much endurance and
self-sacrifice.

Through Sir Redmond Sheath her pride
had received a severe shock ; she had long

since come to loathe the very idea of him ;
as for his name, it never escaped Mary or
Mrs. Deroubigne, and her soul sickened
when she thought of all she had sacrificed
for his unworthy sake, and of the horrible
pitfall he had prepared for her.

But why recall these things now, she
thought, as she resumed her pencil.

The deep red tints of the golden sun,
setting amid fiery haze beyond the Elbe
and the tiny hills of Hanover, lay in all
their richness on the creek, on the villa
and its flowers and shrubs : on Altona in
the background, with all its rows of poplars
and pointed roofs ; and Ellinor often
paused in her work, and, wooed by the
lap, lap, lapping and murmur of the tide,
sank into a kind of dream.

The present fled — the past returned.

She no longer saw the rows of lofty
poplars, the long Palwaille, and the great
church of Altona, or the house on the hill
where Dumourier dwelt. She was back in

VOL. II. T

the old summer garden of Birkwoodbrae,
with the fragrance of its roses and honeysuckle
around her ; she heard the familiar
hoot of Mary's pet owl — the owl that
Robert Wodrow had risked his life to
secure ; she heard again the murmur of the
May and the song of the thrush mingling
with the rustle of the silver birches that
shadowed the roof under which her parents
died.

So, lulled by the beauty of the evening,
by the warmth of the sunshine, and the
murmuring wavelets of the glorious river,
she dropped asleep.

She could not have sat thus above
twenty minutes when she was suddenly'
awakened by the flow of water over her
ankles, and, starting up, found herself
surrounded by water — water on all sides,
and water between her and the shore,
which was nearly a quarter of a mile
distant, but seemed to be much further ois,
the once dry sands being now covered by

the incoming flood tide — a tide that flowed
With exceeding violence and fury.

A half-stifled shriek escaped her, and
she started to her feet. Her easel had been
swept away ; she attempted to run shorewards
; but as the water deepened and
rose to her knees she uttered a despairing
cry, and rushed back to the sandy knoll
on which she had planted her chair, andover
which the encroaching; water was
rising and deepening vnih every inward
flow of the waves.

She was lost !

From the beach (that seemed now so
awfully distant) not a soul seemed to
observe her terrible predicament.

From being shrill and continuous, her
despairing shrieks became hoarse and faint,
and, worse than all, the ^\ind seemed to
sweep them seaward. Wild and black
despair, with the terror of immediate
death, filled her heart. What terrible
retribution was this ? Was she to perish

T 2

by drowning — to die the same death that
Robert Wodrow had died — to perish and
leave poor Mary alone in the world — all
alone !

She parted the rich brown hair from
her brow, and, casting her eyes upward
to the flushed evening sky, prayed for
strength to die, and for submission to the
swill of heaven ; and, even as she prayed, a
wave that rolled nearly to her knees made
her stagger. The sandy knoll was completely
covered, and the water was rising
fast.

A very few minutes more and she would
be swept off her feet, to sink and drown 1
Across the waters of the broad river, the
red sun, now level with them and the flat
horizon, shed his dazzling rays into her
eyes, that were becoming half-blinded by
the rising spoon drift torn from the waves
by the storm.

It all seemed an unreality — a horrid
nightmare.

She liearcl, or imagined she heard, a cry
of encouragement — of coming succour;
but, blinded by terror and despair, she
knew not whence it came, whether from
the land or the water.

A numbness seemed to creep fast over
her — a sensation, or rather the want of it,
that threatened speedily to paralyse alike
thought and feeling.

Human endurance, in the weak and
delicate form of the girl, could stand no
more ; an incoming wave, stronger than
the rest, struck her above the waist, and
she fell backwards into the water, and, as
the latter rose over her head, her senses
left her, and darkness closed around her.

Anon she breathed again, and the light
flashed into her eyes. She found herself
in a boat, encircled by the strong and
protecting arm of a man, and closed her
eyes With an invocation to heaven, believing
that she was being rowed shoreward,
for she could hear the regular dash

of the oar-blades, and the hard breathing
of those who pulled them ; but she remained
passive and voiceless, with closed
eyes, incapable of volition, almost of
thought, and certainly of speech.

After a brief space the boat jarred
against something. It was the side of a
vessel, and she felt herself lifted upward
up — up — and placed in the arms of a
man, whose exclamation gave her a species
of electric shock.

It was the voice of Sir Redmond Sheath,
and it was his astonished and certainly'
bewildered face that she found close to
her own when she opened her eyes, only
to shut them once more, as Weakness and
horror took away her senses again.

Sleatli^!

CHAPTER XIX.

THE HAKIM About AYOUB.

I AM on the eve of departing with Sir
Louis Cavagnari to Cabul,' Colville had
written. ' With his mission the chances
of future war are over, and then I can
come home with honour — home to you,
love Mary.'

But while the British troops were now
retiring from every point within the new
frontier, Colville, to whom activity or
action of any kind was a species of relief
till he could once again see her whose
varying expression of feature defied alike
artist or photographer to fix or do justice
to, gladly undertook to convey to the

viceroy ?tt Simla that letter from the
Ameer which brought the embassy into
existence — the embassy which was doomed
to have such a fatal end — and a portion
of that fulsome, false, and deluding
document ran as follows, after the usual
solemn invocation which preludes every
chapter of the Koran, and the words of
which, when sent down from Heaven,
caused, says Giaab, the clouds to fly eastward,
the winds to lull, the sea to moan,
all the animals of the earth to erect their
ears and listen, while the devils fell headlong
from the celestial spheres : —

Be it known unto your High Excellency
that since the day of my arrival in
Cabul from the British camp at Gunda-
muck I have been happy and pleased with
the reception accorded me by the British
officers. I had resolved to visit Simla and
give myself the boundless pleasure of a
joyous interview with your Excellency, for
the purpose of strengthening our friendly

relations, but circumstances prevented me
carrying my intention into effect . . .
After completing my tour through the
country, during which I shall inspect the
frontiers, I intend, God willing, to have a
joyful meeting with your Excellency, for
the purpose of making firmer the basis
of our friendship and drawing closer the
bonds of our amity and affection.

'Further, what can I Avrite, beyond
expressions of friendship ?'

So, encouraged by this letter, which was
framed in the genuine Oriental spirit of
fraud and treachery, a brilliant embassy
was arranged.

After delivering to the viceroy, the
letter with which he had been entrusted
at head-quarters, Leslie Colville lingered
for a few days at beautiful Simla, where
the Court Sanatorium is in a deep and
woody dell, called — doubtless by some
old Scottish officer — Annandale, where the
forests are thickly inhabited by grinning

baboons, having white bodies with black
hands and feet, and where a savage tribe,
named the Quarries, dwell among the
hills, some of which are so vast — though
mere vassals of the Himalayas — as to seem
like the barriers of the world on the left
bank of the Indus, from which they slope
do^ni to the steppes of Tartary, the deserts
of Gobi, and the marshes of Siberia ; and
then he hastened again to the front to
join Cavagnari.

The embassy and escort, the fate of
which will never be forgotten in the history
of British India, consisted of seventy-six
men of the brilliant Guide Corps,
twenty-six of whom were troopers, the
rest infantry, under Lieutenant Hamilton,
Y.C. Their uniform was drab colour,
piped and faced with scarlet. The ambassador
was accompanied also by a staff
of medical and other officers, including
his secretary, Mr. William Jenkins, of the
Punjaub Civil Service.

All set out on their perilous though apparently
peaceful mission in high glee,
while the master spirit of the whole was
Major Sir Louis Cavagnari, then in his
thirty-seventh year, a gallant officer who had
served with the Bengal Europeans in the
Rude campaign, was present at the capture
of a brigade of o-nns at Shahelut-
lunge, and served with the Kohat column
at the capture and destruction of Gara.

He was popular personally with the
natives, as he could speak several of their
languages with fluency, while his bronzed
features and dark hair enabled him to
assume when he chose, any Oriental costume
^\ith facility, and thus he was invaluable
in all cases where courage,
promptitude, and adroit demeanour were
necessary.

All our columns having, as stated, fallen
back, the only British troops now beyond
the new frontier of Afghanistan were his
slender escort, with which he left Ali Musjid

on the 17tli of June, and rode through
the savage defiles of the Khyber Pass by
Laura, Chardeh, and once more in sight
of Jellalabad, pursuing the course and
bank of the Cabul river.

They had now traversed about sixty
miles of their journey amid some of the
most stupendous scenery in the world,
and the evening of the second day's march
was closing in when, near the Surkab, a
stream which joins the Cabul at the foot
of the Shah Koh, a man was seen gesticulating
violently and making signs to them,
on which the whole party halted in obedience
to command.

Was he the harbinger of danger, the
announcer of an ambush ; had armed sun-salis
been formed across the path, or what ?

Carbines were unslung, revolver cases
opened, sword-blades loosened in the
sheath, and there were whispers of treachery
on every hand, and every man's face
darkened, and his brows were knit, in anticipation

of a barbarous struggle and having
to sell Ills life dearly, for they were all
picked and tried soldiers, second to none
in Her Majesty's Indian army for daring
and discipline. All were splendid horsemen
too — the mounted guides — and, like
their infantry, picturesque-looking fellows
in their uniform and bearing.

^ The man is not an Afghan, but a European,
so far as one can judge by his face,'
said Colville, who, with his bridle reins
dropped on his holsters, had been using
his field-glasses intently.

He wears a scarlet loonjee^ said another
officer, ' and his dress seems a uniform.
Strange, is it not ?'

By heaven, he is one of the 10th Hussars
!' exclaimed Colville.

What is he doing here ? His regiment
fell back nth the rest of the army weeks
yes, two months — ago. Can he be a
deserter?' suggested Hamilton.

^ Scarcely, when making for us in this
frantic fashion,' replied Colville.

He came close up to the party, and,
halting within ten paces, saluted. Then
all could see that he was a hussar, but
wan, pale, bearded, and with his braided
uniform sorely worn and tattered.

Come on, my man,' cried Sir Louis
Cavagnari ; ' come on and tell us how you
happen to be here ?'

I am here through God's mercy, sir,'
replied the hussar, coming forward, adding,
Captain Colville — Captain Colville, don't
you know me ?'

Robert Wodrow — Heavens above !' exclaimed
the latter, holding out his hand,
which the former grasped warmly and
energetically ; ' so you did not perish in
the river ?'

It was a pretty close shave, sir, — I shall
never be nearer death again, but once,'
replied Wodrow, Who seemed so faint that
he could scarcely stand, and received with

gratitude a pull from an officer's brandy
"Hask.

'Have you been a prisoner?' asked
Cavagnari.

No, sir — I was honos ill in the hands of
the enemy, and was well treated.'

Then you were not escaping ?'

No, sir — but making my way to your
party when I saw it on the march, and I
blessed God when I first heard of it, for I
was told that the whole army had fallen
back, and that I — alone — was left behind,'

You are one of the Hussars who were
swept away at the ford ?' queried an officer,
suspiciously.

Yes, sir, and my story is rather a long
one.'

We shall hear it in a few minutes,' said
Sir Louis, and, riding on slowly, the party
reached the villa ore of Balabao'h, where it
halted for the night, and where the party
found quarters.
The story of Robert Wodrow, who was

full of joy to find himself among comrades
again, was a very simple one, and, though
made in the form of a species of report or
explanation to Sir Louis Cavagnari as the
senior officer present, was principally directed
to Leslie Colville, whom, of course,
he viewed as a friend, and from whom he
heard, with no small dismay, of the actual
extent of the catastrophe to the squadron.
Though kicked more than once by his
own charger after he fell into the stream,
he had, after a time, got his feet free from
the stirrups ; but was swept away like a
cork by the current after he had passed
through the rapids. Being a good swimmer,
he contrived to keep his head above
water, but was incapable of reaching the
banks, as they were steep, rocky, and in
many places rose sheer like walls from the
bed of the Cabul. Thus he was borne for
nearly three miles below the point where
so many of his comrades perished ; and,
feeling that he could struggle with fate no

more, was about to relinquish further
effort when suddenly voices caught his
ear; he saw some strange white figures
near the bank of the river — figures like
those of witches or spectres as seen by
the radiance of the stars (as the moon was
under a cloud now), and by some strange
and lambent lights that were floating;
on the surface of the water, and in the
very midst of which he suddenly found
himself, but with a current which shallowed
so fast that he could make good his
footing.

Among the Mahometan and Hindoo
there is a pretty custom — which the former
have no doubt borrowed from the latter,
as they both practise it — of going to a
river or tank after the fulfilment of a vow,
and setting afloat, as an offering, small,
saucer-like lamps of earthenware, each
containing oil, nth a lighted wick.

After having said the fatiha?^ or necessary
prayers, they watch their votive lamps

VOL. II. U

as they float down the stream, and girls
often augur their success in love by the
steadiness of the journeying down the
darkening waters.

There are certain seasons of the year,
such as the Shabibarat feast in the month
of Shaban, when this ceremony is carried
out on a vast and beautiful scale.

It was a fleet of votive lamps amid
Which Robert Wodrow now found himself,
and for a moment or two he had a striking
view of some groups of Indian girls clad
in white floating drapery, their long black
hair unbound, their arms bare to the
elbow, their other limbs to the knee, half
lost in shadow and half seen in light, upon
the steps of a Temple-ghaut — we say for a
moment or two only, as on beholding him
rising, as it were, from the water, they fled
with shrill cries of affright.

Worn and faint, and heedless of what
became of him, he reached the marble

steps of the ghaut, and lay there for a
time oblivious of everything.

When he recovered a little, though well-nigh
dead with cold and exhaustion, he
could see by the light of the moon, which
now shone out clearly, a tall, thin, and
venerable-looking Afghan bending over
him.

His ample beard was snowy white, his
eyes were keen and glittering, his features
were of the Jemsh type peculiar to the
country, while his costume was that of the
]primitive Afghan — wide pantaloons of blue
stuff, a brown canine with flowing sleeves,
and a black fur cap.

Putting a hand on Wodrow's head, he
told him in Afghanii — which is the Pushtu
language spoken by all the Afghans, and
the origin of which is unknown — to take
courage, as he would protect him ; and
Robert Wodrow, having picked up a little
Sanscrit from his father, the old minister,

u2

made a shift to understand him, and knew
also that he quoted the fourth chapter of
the Koran, which recommends charity and
protection to all helpless strangers.

And between cold and exhaustion, added
to more than one kick from his horse, poor
Wodrow was helpless indeed, but he had
fortunately fallen into excellent hands —
those of Abou Ayoub, a good, pious, and intelligent
hakim, or physician of the adjacent
village, the inhabitants of which were friendly
to the British, or to anyone who would
protect them from the Afreedies on the one
hand and the Khyberees of the SufFaidh
Koh on the other, and for defence against
these the village, which consisted of a
mosque, a tank, and some sixty houses,
was surrounded by a strong wall pierced
with double rows of loopholes for musketry.

He conveyed him to his house, and
there on a charpoy^ or native truckle bed,
Robert Wodrow lay for days and weeks in
fever and delirium, attended by the hakim

and his three daughters and a Beloocli
slave. The former had skill enough to
dose his patient with ipecacuanha, with
infusions of manna, and food, including
rice, tamarinds, and stewed prunes ; but he
and they believed much more in sentences
of the Koran, written on paper, and washed
oiF into the drink he imbibed, which was
generally cool tamarind sherbet, that proved
in times of feverish thirst a delicious
draught, especially from the hands of
Ayesha, the eldest and prettiest daughter
of the three.

Among the Afghans women are not
secluded from all male society, as they are
strictly in other Mahometan communities,
for the women of the middle and
lower orders share in all the domestic
amusements of their husbands, who generally
content themselves ^\dth one wife,
and in the country the latter is unveiled.

Young unmarried women are distinguished
by wearing their hair loose and by

their trousers being white. Thus Ayesha
and her two sisters wore their long black
hair loose, but interwoven with gold chains
and strings of Venetian sequins. And the
hakim, who never omitted an opportunity
of quoting the Koran, duly informed
Robert Wodrow that she Alas so named
from Ayesha — one of the four perfect
women, and a wife of Mahomet the Prophet
a lady who had a very terrible adventure
in the sixth year of the Hejira.

After a few weeks of their care, Robert
became convalescent. He was young,
courageous, and buoyant nth hope ; he
felt a trust in his own resources and exertions,
and, encouraged by the praise he
had won from . Colville and other officers,
had begun, to take a new interest in life —
to have some hope for the future, and a
desire to grapple with any difficulties and
dangers that lay before him ; but certainly
he felt something akin to consternation
when informed by the hakim that the

Treaty of Gundamuck had been signed;
that Great Britain had made peace with
the Ameer ; that all our troops had retired
towards the Indus, and that he himself
was left behind among the ^\dld mountains
by the Surkhab, some seventy miles from
the frontier — a distance which he could
scarcely hope to traverse alone on foot in
safety, amid such perilous surroundings.

Death cometh to everyone — even though
he be in a lofty tower, saith the Koran,
but your time, Feringhee, is not come yet,'
said the Hakim Abou Ayoub to his guest,
while smiling at the scared expression of
his face.

The house of Abou Ayoub was a low but
comfortable-looking building, surrounded
by groves of tall palm-trees ; it had a flat
roof and a verandah, where Robert and the
Hakim sat at times in the evening smoking,
talking of the time when the former
must make an effort to get away, or listening
to the girls playing the saying, or

native guitar, and singing monotonously
the odes of Rebman, the Khan of the
Khutticks.

In this verandah the Hakim received
his poor patients, who gazed with wonder
and awe when the door of his sanctum
or surgery was open, though therein were
only a few boxes of books and drugs — a
great vase of rose-water, and a three-lipped
brass lamp suspended from a tall iron
rod — for with them the science of healing
was associated with something of sorcery
and witchcraft. Robert Wodrow, withall
the Hakim's kindness, wearied of the
routine of the daily life there — the perpetual
prayers and ablutions of his host.
At each meal the old man always poured
water into a brass basin, in which Robert
had to dip his hands ere he could plunge
them into the pilao, which Ayesha had
prepared ; though, sooth to say, the Hakim,
after uttering the invariable Bis-
millah, usually had his fingers in first,

selecting the most delicate morsels for his
guest, as knives and forks are unknown
in the land of Saber. Then would come
little cups of savoury curries, chutnees,
and sweetmeats; and, when evening fell,
ablutions again ; a white cloth was spread
over the carpet, and, turning his bowed
face in the direction of Mecca, old Abou
Ayoub devoutly said his prayers for the
night.

There is a language of the eye, and a
freemasonry when hand touches hand that
all women know or learn ; and ere long
Robert Wodrow discovered, to his alarm,
that the eldest daughter of his host had
eyes for him alone — we say to his alarm,
for, if he did not respond, her heart might
crow revengeful.

This made his situation perilous amid
society so strange, and more intently did
he long to be gone, though the girl was,
in her own way, very pretty, very fair
for an Afghan, and coquettishly wore the

brightest coloured cases, embroidered
vests, and laced trousers of the finest
muslin to attract him,

When the Hakim was absent, there was
no mistaking her languishing demeanour,
which sorely perplexed the hussar.

If she loved him, as he doubted not, heat
least did not know how to fall in love
again, and to what end could it be with
her ?

Too intensely had he passed through
the passion not to know how it was crushed
out of him by the agony of loss ; and
he had but one desire, to get well and
strong, and at all risks evade this new
peril.

One morning the Hakim came to him
with a face expressive of excitement and
pleasure ; it was to announce that a
tchoppei% or Cable mounted courier, had
ridden through the adjacent pass and seen
British troops marching north-westward
from Jellalabad.

British troops !' exclaimed Wodrow,
starting up, and at the moment in haste to
be gone.

Bismillah, not so fast, my son,' said the
Hakim ; ^ you must have food ere you go.'

In haste Ayesha prepared for him a
kafta nawab, or dish of savoury meat balls,
with her own hands, and, unseen by Wod-
row, her tears dropped into the pipkin as
she did so ; but he could scarcely eat of it,
he was in such haste to be gone.

From the loopholes in the village wall
the Hakim showed him the gleam of arms
as a party of troops came defiling into the
narrow valley, through which the Sure-ab
flows to the Cabul river, and then they
wrung each other's hands in farewell.

Peace be upon you !' cried Wodrow,
who knew enough of the language to say
this.

And likewise on you be peace and the
mercy of God !' cried the Hakim, in his
sonorous Afghanii, and another moment

saw Robert Wodrow hurrying down the
hillside, and leaving the walled hilla or
village, fast behind him.

Things in this world wag strangely,' said
Robert Wodrow to Colville, and forgetting:
that others heard him. ' As you may know,
I didn't care to live ; but I pulled through —
pulled through when those with a happier
future and more hope might have succumbed.'


What followed has already been narrated.


After the kindness of that old Hakim
to me, I shall ever think well of these
Afghan fellows in future,' said Robert.

Quite right too, Wodrow,' responded
Leslie Colville ; ' but we have yet to see
how we get on with them at Cabul.'

He had his doubts, and, curiously
enough, they were prophetic.

With a sigh of genuine thankfulness,
Robert Wodrow accepted a few cigars
from the proffered case of young Hamilton,

of the Guides (a gallant fellow who had
already won the V.C.), as luxuries he had
not known for many a day.

And now for the march towards Cabul
nearly eighty miles from the village of
Calabash. As I have a spare horse, you
shall ride him, Wodrow,' said Colville.
I shall never forget your kindness, sir.'
This was all Robert Wodrow said, but
his heart was very full, for Colville's
manner and bearing to him were kind and
considerate in the extreme ; and he knew
that — the latter's generosity of nature
apart — much of this sprang from their
mutual regard for Mary and Elinor Well-wood.


CHAPTER XX.

AT Cabal.

For Robert Wodrow to attempt to make
his way alone to where his regiment was
now quartered far in the rear, through
passes filled by savage tribes, was not to
be thought of; thus nothing was left for
him but to proceed with the ambassadors'
escort to Cabul.

He was safe now, and had escaped from
that terrible catastrophe at the Ford of
Isaac; but poor Robert was only a corporal,
and the public papers barely recorded
the circumstance. Now he was once more
with Europeans; his whole bearing rapidly
changed ; his weakness and illness seemed

to leave bim, bis step resumed its buoyancy,
his eyes their fire and, if sad, old
devil-may-care expression.

Though Robert Wodrow, by enlisting in
the hussars, had opened a considerable
social gulf between himself and Captain
Leslie Colville of the Guards, it was impossible
for them both not to have many
sympathies in common ; thus oblivious of
that gulf the two rode frequently together,
talking of the Well woods and the Birds of
Invermay, on the route by Gundamuck,
Suffaidh Sang, and Hazardaracht.

On service the bonds of rank and even
of discipline, so to say, are often loosened,
for the experience of fighting side by side
makes the finest qualities of the soldier,
forming the true and loving link between
the officer and his men. It fires the sense
of esjorit'de- corps, and blots out all the
ignoble phases of garrison and barrack
life, teaches self-reliance, inspires came-reverie
and patriotism, and makes men

less coarse in speech and kindlier to each
other in spirit, and more grave and earnest
"with the work in hand.

After halting for the nisfht near ,
or the ' Place of the Thousand
Trees,' Sir Louis Cavagnari and his party
pushed upwards to the famous Shutar-
garden Pass, which is eleven thousand
five hundred feet in height, and from
thence the road to Cabul lies through
narrow and rock-bound defiles.

Immediately below this mighty mountain
eminence lie lesser hills that diminish
in height as they slope down into a vast
plain in the richest state of cultivation,
dotted by numberless villages, all of the
most picturesque aspect.

At Shutargardan the embassy found
themselves in the land of the powerful
and most warlike Ghilzie tribe, whose
fiorhtiuo: force was estimated at nearly two
hundred thousand men ; but there they
were received with every outward honour

by an escort of the Ameer's regular troops,
whose equipment caused some surprise
and even merriment among the Europeans
of the escort.

By Jove, Colville, here are some countrymen
of yours !' cried a staff officer,
choking with laughter, as some of the
Ameer's ' Highlanders ' presented arms.

The Ameer had actually dressed a body
of his troops in tartan kilts, in imitation
of the Gordon Highlanders, whose costume
had greatly impressed him, and these
they wore over baggy cotton breeches ;
while the cavalry who accompanied them
wore the same nether garments (minus
the kilt) with red tunics, white belts, and
helmets of soft grey felt, and in addition
to tulwar and pistols, every man rode with
a whip, the wooden handle of which, when
not required, was stuck into his right boot.

They had smooth-bore carbines slung
over the right thigh, muzzle downwards.

A precious set of dark-looking duffers

VOL. II. X

they are was Eobert Wodrow's off-hand
comment, as he surveyed them.

Escorted by these troops, Sir Louis
Cavagnari and his companions continued
the remaining forty-five miles of the journey
to Cabul, passing Kushi and other
fortified villages, and it was not without
emotions of interest and anxiety too, that
they found themselves on the 24th of
June, entering the gates and traversing
the streets of that hitherto openly — perhaps
yet secretly — hostile capital, which
is surrounded by low, barren, and rocky
hills, but amid a plain which time and
human industry have made wondrously
fertile and beautiful.

The dark-visaged and motley crowds in
the streets — Afghans, Kuzzilbashes, Persians,
Tajiks, and Jews — scowled very
unmistakably at the Feringhees, whose
presence they did not want, whose prowess
in recent wars they feared, and whose
race and religion they loathed.

The streets through which the visitors
rode were all built of sun-dried bricks and
wood, about two storeys high, with flat
roofs, and low, square doorways, now and
then a larger one, with a mulberry-tree
overhanging a mud wall, indicating the
residence of a great man.

The city is three miles in circuit, and
is dominated by the Bala Hissar, in which
the embassy took up their quarters, a
place incapable of being defended, though
the citadel, in consequence of the ruinous
condition of its walls and ramparts. It
has, however, a wide ditch, and stabling
for a thousand horses.

It is half-a-mile long by a quarter of a
mile broad, and presents externally a
cluster of lofty, square, embattled towers,
with its chief strength, or inner citadel,
high up on the slope of a hill.

As they entered its arched gate between
two circular towers, Colville heard a voice

x2

amid the scowling crowds exclaim, with
uplifted hands,

La Ilah ilia Allah ? Why does not He
shrivel them all up by a flash of lightning,
and cast them into hell for ever ?'

The speaker mingled with the multitude,
but not before Colville recognised
his figure, and remembered Mahmoud
Shah, the sham hadji of Jellalabad ; but
it would have been alike unwise to notice
or pursue him at that crisis.

In the Bala Hissar there were assigned
by the Ameer apartments for the use of
the ambassador and his suite and escort —
apartments having marble floors and walls
covered with arabesques, old as the days
of Tamerlane and Saber perhaps, certainly
as old as those of Nadir Shah, and for a
time the whole party were to all appearance
well received by the Sovereign and
his people ; but after a little space the
former, notwithstanding his hollow protestations

and fulsome letter to the Viceroy
at Simla, grew cold and haughty, and
daily saw less and less of Sir Louis Cavag-
neri, while the mobs without began to
manifest alike turbulence and insolence,
and the isolated embassy was doubtless
involved in peril.

Roving brigands infested all the roads
around the city, yet the months of July
and August passed, quietly enough, though
some Afghan troops who had marched in
from Herat used threatening language
against Sir Louis and insulted the soldiers
of his escort, on one occasion compelling
Colville and two of the guides to draw
their swords.

It has been said — but we know not upon
what authority — that Cavagnari received
distinct information that the lives of himself
and all his companions were in imminent
peril, but the letters which those
gentlemen sent to India, and those which

Mary Well wood received at long intervals
from Colville, gave no indications of apprehension.


Yet a stormy cloud "was gathering over
the picturesque towers of the Bala Hissar.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED AT DUNCAN MACDONALD BLENHEIM House.

yiLL

OF THU

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

MAR 1 19!!3

L161— O-1096

VOL. in.

BY

JAMES Grant

AUTHOR OF

"THE ROMANCE OF WAR," "THE Cameronian,"
"THE SCOTTISH CAVALIER,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1885.

All rights reserved.

V. 3

COLVTLLE OF THE GUARDS.

CHAPTER I.

THE * FLYING FOAM.'

When Ellinor, whom we left some pages
back in a very perilous predicament, opened
ber eyes again it was on an unfamiliar
scene — the cabin of a ship — and on several
male faces, all of which were also unfamiliar
save one ; and her eyes half closed
again, as she was too weak and exhausted
to disentangle the confusion of her thoughts
and, half imagining she was in a horrible
dream, would have striven to sleep but for

VOL. Ill, B

the wet and sodden garments that clung
to her.

What has happened ?' she moaned.
Where am I ?'

Safe aboard the " Flying Foam," ' said
the voice of the man who had rescued her,
the sailing-master of that vessel, Mr.
Rufane Ringbolt, whom we shall erelong
describe more fully.

Her miserable plight and imminent
peril had been seen from the deck by that
personage, who at once had a boat lowered
from his craft, which lay at anchor in the
Elbe. He had saved her, and in a spirit
of mischief — or not knowing what else todo
with her — had brought her on board
the yacht of his employer, Mr. Adolphus
Dewsnap, whose present companion and
bosom-friend was Sir Redmond Sheath,
whose first emotions of perplexity and evil
on Ringbolt bringing off a lady changed to
those of blank astonishment and hio*h

l^riumpli on recognising in the half-drowned
girl — Ellinor Wellwood !

Devvsnap rubbed his hands with satisfaction.
They had just landed two or
three peculiar lady friends at the 
to go back to London by
steamer, or remain in gay Hamburg as
they listed, and already the Flying Foam
seemed a little lonely.

By Jove, you look more beautiful than
ever, Ellinor !' exclaimed Sheath, taking her
hands in his, as she reclined helplessly on
a sofa. ' My friend, Mr. Dewsnap' — let
me introduce him — Miss Ellinor Wellwood.
This is a most unexpected joy !'

I am glad of the accident which gives
me the honour of making your acquaintance.
Miss Ellinor,' responded Mr. Dew-snap,
near whom she recognised the
grinning visage of Mr. John Gaiters,
Sheath's devoted valet.

Seeing the helpless and terrified 



ditiou she was in, Mr. Ringbolt almost
forced her to imbibe a little weak brandy
and water from a liqueur-frame that stood
on the cabin-table ; and then, as there
were no female attendants on board the
yacht, with considerable readiness and
forethought, brought down from the deck
a Highlander boat-woman, who had come
off with vegetables for the steward and
cook, to attend upon Ellinor.

The Vierlander had some doubts and
scruples at first ; but when a few twenty-gretchen
pieces were slipped into her hand
these evaporated, and a smile of acquiescence
spread over her wreath er-beaten but
pleasant-looking countenance, for she had
soft, dark eyes, a nez retrousse decidedly,
and, if rather a large mouth, full red lips,
as Mr. Ringbolt could remark appreciatively.


She took Ellinor into an inner cabin,
and soon changed her wet garments for

some that the late fair voyagers had left
behind them ; and when, in fear and terror,
she implored to be set on shore, she was
told that it was impossible, as a heavy fog
had suddenly settled down on the land and
river.

Oh, heaven, what will become of me ?
Mary ! Mary !' wailed Ellinor, as she clung,
as if for protection, to the hands of the
picturesquely-clad Highlander.

Hope I haven't brought you a Scotch
prize aboard, gentlemen,' said Mr. Ringbolt,
winking knowingly, as he mixed
himself a glass of grog.

'A Scotch prize — what the devil is
that?' asked Mr. Dewsnap, whose cognomen
among his chums was generally
Dolly.'

Well — it means a mistake — worse than
no prize — one likely to hamper the captors
with heavy legal expenses.'

A Scotch prize, and no mistake !' exclaimed

Sleatb, as Ellinor, weak, tottering,
and scarcely able to stand or articulate,
appeared with her new attendant at the
door of the cabin, which was now so
darkened b}^ the evening fog that the
steward was lighting the lamps.

Sheath, approaching, attempted to take
her hand.

'Don't, sir— dare to touch me!' she
cried, in a weak voice, while starting back.

She knows you, Sheath, by Jove !' exclaimed
Mr. Dolly Dewsnap, becoming
interested.

Rather,' said Sheath, with an ugly wink.
'Are you not glad to see me so unexpectedly,
Elinor ?'

Glad !' said she, shudderingly.

Her old repugnance was now increased
tenfold, and mingled with genuine terror.
A man with such a bearing and with such
an expression as she read in the cold blue
eyes of Sheath, would, she knew, have no

mercy, so she turned to Dewsnap; but
there was little to encourage her in his
leery and hlase^ though rather rubicund,
visage.

Put me on shore, sir, I entreat you
she said.

It is impossible — utterly impossible, till
the fog lifts,' said he, emphatically.

I shall die 1' exclaimed Ellinor, in a
low, husky voice, as the light seemed to
leave her eyes.

She put her tremulous hands to her
slender throat, for a painful lump seemed
to rise there — nay, vas there — catching
her breath, while this meeting again,
under all the circumstances, with Sir
Eedmond Sheath seemed ' one of those
strange and almost incredible things
which, however, we meet with every day
in that marvellous volume of romance,
real life.'

She cowered and shrank back before

Sheath as if he were some wild animal,
Tvhich only excited in him a spirit of anger
and banter, while his friend Dewsnap
knew uot what to think of the situation
as yet.

Altona agrees with you said the baronet,
jauntily. ' You are handsomer than
ever. Womanhood gains instead of loses
by maturity. But don't be so devilish
stuck up ! And ivliat were you doing in
Altona ?'

She made no reply, but now glanced
imploringly and appealingly to Ringbolt,
while Sheath resumed in this fashion —

I did not entrap you this evening — I
did not run away with you,' said he. surveying
with admiration the volume of her
rich brown hair, which was then brushed
out, and floated damp and at full length
over her shoulders, and she figured now
in a species of costume such as she had
never worn before, including a tailor-made

jacket and a round felt hat, part of the
wardrobe of one of Mr. Dolly Dewsnap's
recent fair voyagers, left for conveyance
back to London, and now likely to prove
exceedingly useful. And Ellinor was
almost passive in the hands of those
among whom Fate had so suddenly cast
her.

After her recent narrow escape from a
dreadful death, and now her present misery,
she was too feeble and too full of fear
to summon proper pride and just indignation
to her aid.

Fate has given you to me again,' continued
Sheath, ' so, why not stoop — yield
to the inevitable, and the delight of living
for and loving each other ! We shall
remain on the Continent now, Ellinor,
and never again set foot in that cold-blooded
England.'

A comical expression twinkled now in
the eyes of Mr. Dewsnap, who was an

•andersized, but fleshy and flasbj, personage,
about thirty years of age, and vulgar
in style and aspect, though dressed inaccurate
yachting posture, with gilt buttons
and glazed boots. He knew not what
to think of the situation, we say. Though
far from straitlaced — though a thoroughpaced
scamp, in fact — he was puzzled and
doubtful what to think of the past relations
of his chum Sir Eedmond and this
young lady, who, he saw at a glance, was
neither fast nor vicious, as most of the
baronet's lady friends were ; that she was
no dove from St. John's Y7ood, or ' girl of
the period ' in any way.

While Ring-bolt beckoned Gaiters on
deck to obtain some information on the
subject from him, Sheath began again, in
low and softer voice, while hanging over
her.

We were about to run away together
before, and would have done so, but for

the brute your sister's clog. Now, Ellinor,
darling, we shall elope ia earnest, and we
shall not be the first couple who have
done so, and lived happy ever after, like
couples in the old story books.'

Don't be alarmed — don't fear, Miss
Ellinor,' said Dewsnap, thinking it necessary
to say something, as she turned her
haggard eyes on him, and ignored the
presence of Sheath.

Don't fear !' says a writer. ' How often
in this world of terror and trouble has that
phrase been spoken, and how often will it
yet be spoken — in vain.'

Oh, sir, will you, in mercy, if you are a
man, set me on shore ?' she implored again.

Dewsnap shrugged his shoulders, and
looked at Sheath, while muttering something
about * the foot.'

CD O

Sto !' exclaimed the latter, emphatically
; * and no accident but one sent from
heaven or hell shall rob me of you now !'

he added, almost savagely, through his
set teeth, as he recalled the castigation
he had met with at the hands of Robert
Wodrow and his own muttered vow of
vengeance.

She gave him but one glauce, yet it was
expressive of loathing and fear that were
unconquerable — as though he were something
of horror ; but somehow her strength
of purpose and defiance piqued or attracted
him, and he loved her with all the coarseness
of his low nature.

How she fears that fellow !' thought
Eingbolt, who was peeping down the skylight.
* There is some secret — some
strange story in all this.'

Of this strange interview, the Highlander
woman could make nothing ; but, seeing
that her charge was about to sink at
their feet, she conveyed her into the little
cabin or state-room, in which Ellinor's
attire had been changed, and, closing the

door, laid her on a bed to recover strength
and composure, and there, fainting, feverish,
and well-nigh delirious, she clung
wildly, as if for protection, to her attendant.


Meanwhile the night darkened, and the
fog undoubtedly deepened, so the yacht's
bell was clanged ever and anon, while the
two ' gentlemen,' with the sailing-master,
Ringbolt, and the mate sat down to a
luxurious dinner produced by Joe Lobscouse,
cook of the Flying Foam, who, asa
chef, was not equal to that of Dewsnap
at home, Ragout — but Monsieur Ragout
flatly declined to go to sea with that vessel,
or 'any oder Roam,' as he always said.
But in cooking Joe Lobscouse chiefly excelled
in the famous olla podrida which
bears his name, and is a compound of salt
meat, biscuits, potatoes, onions, and spices,
all minced and stewed together, and though
dearly loved by those before the mast

siicli a dish was never seen in the cabin,
of course.

The wine went freely round, for Dew-snap
was lavish with his Aliquot and
Mum's extra dry.

^ With all her air of ineffable innocence,
I believe that girl to be a deep one,' said
he, with a wink to Sheath, as he had no
belief in female purity whatever, and had
detestable views of society in general.

She agreed, to run away with me once,
so why should I not go in for running
away with her now ?'

Right you are, my boy !' said Dewsnap.

You remember that cad, Colville of the
Guards?' said Sleatb, viciously.

I have heard of him,' replied Dewsnap,
evasively. ' Well ?'

'He trumped up a story about this girl
being a cousin of his to keep her, and her
sister too, by Jove, to himself — a fact,
Dolly ; told me in London they were ibis

cousins, thoiigli he never said so when we
were at Dunkeld's place in Scotland. But
now he has gone to Cabul, and the devil
go with him r

What are we to do if the Vierlander
woman won't remain on board after the fog
lifts r' asked the sailing-master, E-ino^bolt.

In that case we should have little difficulty
in getting a sharp girl to attend, or,
better still, some knowing and suggestive
elderly party,' said Sheath.

All right, sir — one has not far to lookin
Hamburg for what you want.'

'Dash it all !' exclaimed Dev/snap, who
was fast becoming rather inebriated (this
was not precisely what he said, but it looks
milder in print). ' This girl of yours,
Sheath, is likely to give us a deal of bother.'

Not at all. I shall soon find a Vv^ay to
put an end to her nonsense,' growled Sir
Redmond.

Like the latter, Dewsnap always suspected

everybody until be knew they were
innocent, and, if innocent, he deemed them
fools. Thus he never doubted in his mind
that the apparent repugnance of Ellinor
was all coyness and affectation.

Mr. Adolphus Dewsnap, son of the late
Alderman Sir Jephson Dewsnap, Knight
a soap-boiler in Bow, where he made a
colossal fortune, was a fool and a cad of
the first water, who looked up to Sheath,
having a title, as one of Hhe upper ten,'
though Sheath's father had been, like the
said alderman, a boy of the Foundling
Hospital, from whence perhaps emanate
many of the grotesque names we find in
London.

The story of their titles is simple, and
one of everyday recurrence.

The fathers of Sheath and Dewsnap had
been made respectively a baronet and a
knight for services rendered to the Ministry;
but as those of the former, though

equally important, bad been performed
-witb less scruple, be bad been rewarded
with the diploma of a baronet of Great
Britain, and a coat-of-arms, wbicb taxed
the ingenuity of the entire College of
Heralds.

Sir Redmond Sleatb was a man of
violent temper naturally, especially when
bis will was thwarted ; thus be felt himself
humiliated, and, when inflamed with
wine, rendered almost savage by the spirit
of opposition and dismay be encountered
in Ellinor Wellwood, whom be still viev»^ed
as a poor girl, without parents, friends, or
protector other than Leslie Colville, and
be now was far away indeed.

Dewsnap occasionally bad balf- tipsy
thoughts of pretending to befriend this
stray girl, and getting ber away some-bow
'on bis own book,' as be phrased
it to himself.

But be bad a wholesome fear of vSleatb,

VOL. III.

for, notwithstanding all his wealth, the
latter had obtained somehow a great
ascendency over him.

She knows too much about ime now,'
muttered Sheath to himself. ' The marriage
dodge and the ailing uncle won't do
again — so how to deceive her?'

'■ " Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more,
Men are deceivers ever."

SO says Shakespeare said Dewsnap, tipsy
rolling his head from side to side ; ' and
he was right ; devilish few of us are worth
sighing for, I think.'

Dolly Dewsnap turned moralist !' exclaimed
Sheath, with a scornful laugh.

Steward, some more moist !' cried Dew-snap.
'We'll drink Miss What-her-namc's
jolly good health. What says Byron, or
some other fellow?

Man, being reasonable, must get drmik ;
The best of life is but intoxication'*

So let us — drink — drink as longest —
there's — a shot — in — the — locker I' he
added, in a voice that became every
moment more thick and * feathery.'

So in these perilous hands was Elinor
Wellwood now.

But for the presence and companionship
of the honest Highlander woman to whom
she clung, though of whose patois of
Danish or North German she could make
little or nothing, Ellinor thought she must
have died.

Her own clothes had been destroyed by
her immersion, and meantime, when quite
conscious, she felt it something odious and
repellant to wear the clothes of others of
whom she knew nothing, but suspected
much.

How long was this atrocity to be continued
?

She remained resolutely in the little
cabin, declining to enter the saloon, orc

2

take food or refreshment of any kiDd, and,
when sense quite returned, she watched
from the little eyelefc-hole — the port was
nothing more — of her sleeping-place for a
passing ship or boat, to which she might
shriek for aid ; but dense dark mist obscured
everything, and she cast herself on
the bed in despair.

The Flying Foam was cutter-rigged, and
sat in the water gracefully. She was
about a hundred and fifty tons burden,
and consequently had an immense 
boom-mainsail. Her deck was of
narrow deal planks, and was always white
as snow — white as swab and holystone
could make it. Her ten guns were all
burnished brass ; the binnacles and bitts
were of polished mahogany ; the cabins
were all panelled maple, with gilded moulding;
everything there was alike luxuriant
and recherche; for the purse the old
soap-boiler left to his only son and heir

was a pretty long one ; yet he was sometimes
a little in debt, and found yachting
then convenient.

The crew consisted of twelve men all
told, including the sailing-master and Joe
Lobscouse, the cook.

The former, Rufane Ringbolt, was, if
not a good, not a bad-looking man, about
forty years of age ; his eyes were clear,
blue, and penetrating, but cunning, leery,
and shifting at times. The expression of
his mouth, about the curves especially,
was sinister and lascivious. There was a
self-confident and reckless bearing about
him too aggressive to be that of a gentleman
or officer, for he had been the latter
once, having served in Her Majesty's navy,
but been — dismissed.

He and his captain had both fallen in
love with one of those fast young ladies
who are to be met with on the promenades
of Portsmouth and Plymouth ; but, as she

preferred the youn lieutenant to the
elderly captain, the latter was always
'down' on the former, who from that
moment became what is known in the
service as ' a marked man.'

His temper was sorely tried, and he
soon found himself before a court-martial,
charged with neglect of duty and insubordination.
Never while he lived did Ringbolt
forget the day of that court-martial in
the cabin of the Victory and amid his
potations it always came most vividly
before him in its bitter details, with the
sunshine streaming through the cabin windows,
the ripple on the harbour waves,
and Portsmouth Hard in the distance.

There was the exulting and malevolent
face of the prosecutor when the court was
cleared for * finding ;' there was the ringing
of the bell that announced it was reopened,
and in custody of the master-at-arms, with
cocked hat and drawn sword, he — the

prisoner — appeared before the court, all
captains in full uniform, whose faces were
graven on his memory.

During the proceedings his sword had
been laid on the table, with the point
towards the president and the hilt towards
himself ; now he saw that its position was
reversed and he knew that all was over,
and he went down the ship's side into a
shore boat a broken and degraded man 1

And as the young lady, the cause of all
the mischief, soon afterwards bestowed
her hand upon the elderly captain who had
smashed him,' Ringbolt had ever after
but a very poor opinion of womankind.

He felt some natural curiosity about the
damsel he had been the means of bringing
on board the cutter, but there all further
interest in her ended.

He thought if Sir Eedmond Sheath,
whose general character was well known
to him, knew the lady it was all right; he

had DO fear of being deemed an accessory
in an abduction ; for though Mr. Eiugbolt
did not fear God, like many other men in
the world, he mightily feared the police.

As for the Vierlander woman, she thought
the ailing girl was the wife of one of the
two Hollanders, though she saw no wed-lingering
on her finger ; but then, like all
foreigners, she thought the Englanders
very eccentric.

For several days the fog, consequent to
swollen tides, rested on the Elbe, and the
cutter rode with her foresail loose, Sheath
having proposed a trip to Heligoland ; but
Ellinor was ill — almost oblivious of everything,
while Dewsnap dared not land her,
and yet feared to keep her on board,
thinking that Sheath's story of her utter
friendlessness might be falsehood after all.

CHAPTER IL

Elinor.

Sir Redmond Sheath had do pity for the
suspense and agony of mind now endured
by Mary ; and as for Dewsnap and Ringbolt,
they knew nothing about her.

During the days just mentioned the
clanging of the ship's bell from time to
time, and the din of fog horns from vessels
passing with less than half-steam up, informed
Eliinor that the fog still rested on
the river ; yet every morning she heard the
rasping of the milestones as the deck was
cleaned, and the mysterious cry of 'soak

and send ' — the order to pass the wet
swabs along.

The terror she had undergone, the subsequent
affronts, unblushing and terrible —
for such she deemed Sheath's love-making
—and the uncertain future, all throbbed
in hot and wretched thought wildly
through her heart, till at last, when the
yacht was fairly under way, fainting-fits
and the torment of sea-sickness made
reflection, fear, and regret alike impossible,
for a kind of delirium came upon her, and
she grew oblivious of her surroundings ;
but we are anticipating.

The girl may die on our hands, if this
sort of thing goes on,' said Dewsnap, ' and
that might prove deuced awkward for us
all'

I have thought of that, sir,' said Ringbolt
; ' but one may as well whistle psalms
to the staff-rail '

As attempt to move me — you are right,

Mr. Ringbolt,' interrupted Sheath ; but
there is no dying in the case.'

'Why not send her ashore — — ?' began
Dewsnap.

'And relinquish her? Not if I know it

I mean to the boarding-house of the
old Frau Wyburg, near the Bleichen Canal
you know the place.'

Few rascals in Hamburg don't. She
would keep her safe enough for me — it
is not a bad idea ; but I shall try my
luck with her again before resorting to
that'

At the cruelty Dewsnap's suggestion
involved, even Ringbolt shook his head
dissenting, and said,

Whatever you do, steer clear of her
husband — the Herr Wyburg, as he calls
himself — he is a dangerous and a shady
party — worse than the devil himself.'

'You know Hamburg, then, Mr. Ringbolt?'


Rather !' replied the other, with a wink
that inferred a great deal. .

If this affair of Ellinor's abduction found
its way into any of the social weeklies, it
might form a very awkward thing for her ;
but neither for Sir Eedmond or his friend,
Mr. Adolphus Dewsnap, as both were now
rather out of the social ' scratch race.'

A pleasant story for the fair Blanche
to hear,' surmised Sheath, as he laughingly
made up a cigarette.

Who is she ?' asked Dewsnap.

The daughter of Lord Dunkeld.'

He is, of course, a top sawyer,' said
Dewsnap, superciliously, as, notwithstanding
his wealth, he had been rather ignored
in society, ' and speaks in the House, I
suppose ?'

Yes.'

But I have never heard of a word he
said.'

Likely enough — he never gets beyond

*' Hear, hear !" He is a Scots' representative
peer.'

With a family tree, of course. D — n'm,
J would rather have a good gooseberry-bush
V

The little state-room or cabin occupied
by Ellinor she saw had evidently and
recently been used by ladies before. In
the drawers of the dressing-glass were
hair-pins, an old kid glove, a broken jet
bracelet, and other etcetera.

The door had a bolt on the inside.

One night she found, to her terror, that
this had been removed !

Her heart grew sick within her ; but,
with the assistance of her attendant, she
contrived to barricade the door most efficiently
by placing a chair between it and
her bed, on which, without undressing,
she lay down with her temples throbbing
like every other pulse with terror.

All grew still in the cutter, and not a

sound was beard but the ripples that ran
alone-side as she strained at her anchor —
so very still that Ellinor was about to
sleep, when a sound startled her, and she
sprang up in dismay.

Some one without was attempting to
force her door. Who that some one was
she doubted not ; but, after a time, finding
himself completely baffled, with a
half-suppressed malediction, he went

away .

Ellinor lay awake in an agony of mind
till morning dawned, when she opened the
eyelet port of her cabin, and looked out.
The fog was less thick, and a gasp of joy
escaped her on seeing a boat with several
men in it approaching. She shrieked to
them for succour, and waved her handkerchief.
On this they paused on their
oars, and seemed to confer with each
other, but, instead of drawing nearer, they
laughed, kissed their hands .to her in

mockery, resumed their pulling, and vanished
into the mist.

Had any boat's crew actually boarded
the yacht to make inquiries, Sheath was
quite prepared to assert that the lady onboard
was his demented wife.

With the fog resting on the Elbe, she
could see nothing of the land, and as the
cutter might — she thought— have shifted
her position in the night — she knew not
where she was. Altona, she thought,
might be miles away, yet it was only a
rifle-shot distant. But for its extreme protraction,
she might, at times, have thought
she was in a dream, and that all her
mental misery was but a provoking and
ghastly phantasmagoria.

Days had elapsed now since her separation
from Mary and Mrs. Deroubigne.
They must, she knew, deem her dead —
drowned — and might have gone away, she
knew not where.

Torn in this outrageous fashion from
the society of the only persons she loved
on earth ! Exiled from happiness, doomed
to probable disgrace and misconstruction
of conduct.

Her whole soul was wrapped up in one
idea — escape ! But how was she to achieve
it, out of that accursed vessel, unless she
cast herself headlong into the river ? She
certainly shrank from self-destruction, and
hoped that something — That vague something,
the forlorn hope of. the desperate'
might intervene to save and set her
free.

Sir Redmond's persistent love-making
could draw no response from her.

This enraged him; he ground his teeth,
while longing to take her in his arms, and
kiss her whether she would or not ; yet
he dared not attempt to molest her when
he was sober and in daylight ; something
in the girl's purity and disgust of him

repressed him. He dissembled, and said,
submissively,

With your love, Ellinor — in offering
mine — I would be a very different man
from what I have been

Your love !' she muttered, in a low
voice of scorn.

Yes.'

Dare you offer it again to me after all I
know?'

What a little tragedy spit-fire it is !
Well, it is perhaps too much to ask you to
love me, so I will only crave permission to
love you.'

Insult on insult ! Oh, this is intolerable
!' exclaimed Ellinor, covering her face
with her hands. ' It is useless to remind
a man like you of his marriage.'

Sheath's eyes gleamed dangerously. He
and Ellinor were alone in the saloon, as
Dewsnap and the sailing-master were
smoking on deck, and the companion-way

VOL. 111. D

was kept bolted to prevent any attempt at
escape.

What did I know of life, of the woi^d,
or of human nature when I met that artful
woman with the absurd name, Fubsby, and
took vows — if vows they were — for a lifetime.
Married ! Well, even if I were so
legally — which I don't quite admit — what
then ? In the society in which we move — '

'We?'

Dewsnap and 1 — flirtation forms the
great occupation — even accomplishment —
of married life on the part of those who
are bound by it. You have much to learn
yet, my simple little Ellinor.'

'Do you call this conduct of yours flirtation
— this illegal and punishable abduction
of me — and insulting, loathly love-making? »

Loathly — an unpleasant phrase to use.
Instead of the wretched life you lead at
Paddington, I can give you one well worth
living,' said he, as if he addressed a girl at

a bar or a buffet, and in ignorance of all
that had passed since he had discovered
their residence in St. Mary's Terrace ;
'and in turn, Elinor, you will learn that a
faithful old lover is not to be despised.'

*I have already learned that,' said
Ellinor, her tears beginning to fall hotly
as she thought of Robert Wodrow.

I am glad to hear you say so,' said
Sheath, thinking of himself, ' and to find
that after all you cannot forget a man who
has once loved you — and loves you so
fondly still, in spite of the coldness you
manifest and the oblique you heap upon
him. How grand it is to forgive !' he
continued, attempting to take her hand.
The literary bear Samuel Johnson never
seemed so wretched as a man and a moralist,
than when he gloried in loving a good
hater. ^

Ellinor prevented him from capturing
her hand by shudderingly retreating to

d2

the oilier end of the saloon. The contrast
between the two men — the one who had
sought, and still sought, to ensnare, and
he whom she had wronged — who loved her
so well, and had found, as she thought, a
grave in that far away land, burned itself
into her heart and brain with growing
intensity, and wringing her hands, his
name escaped her in a low voice.

Robert — oh, Robert !'

Would time ever heal — ever conquer her
reproachful heart-wound ?

Fury gathered in the heart of Sheath.

So,' said he, ' our mutual friend, Mr.
Robert Wodrow, was not born to be
hanged, if the newspaper accounts were
true, by Jove ; ha ! ha !'

'Sir?' said Ellinor, scarcely understanding
his brutal jest.

Cheated the gallows — that is all.'

In that speech he revealed the underlying
brutality of his nature — of the parvenu

— the son of the foundling; and, in
his wrath, he followed it up by another
home-thrust.

'What will be said of you — what
thought, when it becomes known that
you have been alone, cruising on board
this yacht with us — with me T

He saw without pity the start, the
pained flush and pallor that crossed her
face by turns, as he coarsely put into words
the fear that had been hovering in her
own mind.

She tried to reply to his cruel mockery ;
her white lips unclosed, and then shut
again, for her voice died away upon them.

With all his love-making, never once
did Sheath's heart — or what passed for
that organ — really soften towards the
helpless girl, and times there were
when he regarded her as a wolf might
have done. He still made a mockery of
the 'cousin story,' as he called it, and.

though Ellinor on one occasion condescended
to partially explain it, he did not,
and could not, believe it to be anything
else than some cunning scheme of Colville
; and as that individual, whom he
hated, was now in India, he had nothing
to fear from him, and only hoped he
might soon get 'knocked on the head.'

At times there was something — what
shall we call it ? — almost savage in the
admiration and exultation with which this
man regarded the creature who was so
entirely at his mercy, and who had been
brought to him as flotsam from the sea !

He keenly relished, too, in one sense,
all blase as he was, the air of resistance
with which she repulsed him ; her bearing
was so different and apart from that of
most of the conventional girls he had
generally met — not that he much affected
the society of ladies generally.

But he regarded them chiefly as a means

of excitement — like champagne, an unruly
horse, or a close run at ecarte] and, so far
as Elinor was concerned, he had a firm
desire to prove that his will was the
stronger of the two.

At last he left her and went on deck.
She stretched out her arms on the saloon
table, and bowed her head on them in a
kind of dumb despair, as she thought overall
the degrading speeches to which she
had been subjected.

Oh,' thought she, ' that I could bury
my hot face among the cool, dewy roses
that bloom at Birkwoodbrae ! There I
think I should get well — get well — get
strong and be myself again perhaps.'

But instead, she was fated to get worse,
fDr the moment the fog lifted, sail was
made on the yacht, and — as stated in the
beginning of this chapter — the horrors of
sea-sickness assailed her, and she lay
prostrate in the little cabin.

She had often been afraid to eat or
drink, lest what she partook of might be
druofp^ed ; she had read or heard of such
things ; but she was past all such reflections
or considerations now.

There was something daring and lawless
in the conduct of Sir Redmond with reference
to the whole affair ; but of that, too,
she was — for the present time — oblivious.

CHAPTER III.

THE GALE.

Tne crew of the cutter knew not what to
make of the solitary and singular passenger
they had on board, and whom the
Yierlauder woman agreed to attend till
they reached Heligoland.

They had often seen ladies on board
during runs to the Mediterranean and elsewhere,
who were certainly not quite the
creme che la crime ; but that was no business
of theirs, and now, though Sheath would
have disdained to acknowledge it, and
Ellin or knew it not, the presence of Dew-soap

and Ringbolt (though neither of them
were very meritorious characters) proved
a species of protection to her, but the
sturdy, honest Vierlander more than all.

Thus her tormentor resolved that he
would take her ashore with him in some
place, where she would be more completely
at his mercy among absolute strangers and
dependent upon him for existence.

The crew of the yacht had saved her
life, so they could scarcely be accused of
abduction in keeping her on board during
the bewildering fog or the blowy weather
that succeeded it ; but, without making the
slightest effort by the use of a well-manned
boat to put her ashore at Altona, they
were now beating against a rough, headwind,
and attempting to get out of the
Elbe for sea.

To where and for what purpose? Heligoland
could only be touched at in passing.
Were they to haul up for England after

that ? Such. were a few of the surmises
among the men forward.

Mid-day after the fog lifted saw the
Flying Foam under weigh, with canvas set,
the foresail braced sharp up, the jib and
fore-and-aft mainsail set, the boom of the-latter
well on board, as she was 
against a head wind for the
mouth of the Elbe, some eighty miles distant,
and making long tacks as the river
Reddened.

Altona and then Blankets, a tiny
fishing village, with its houses scattered
along the green slope among the trees,
terraced over each other, were soon left
astern, and the head of the cutter pointed
towards Hamburg and then Stade, with
the Prussian flag flying on the ramparts of
Swingerschanze, where the White Horse
of Hanover will never fly again.

The wind was blowing half a gale, and
some reefs were taken in the boom-mainsail

when the low batteries of Gluckstadt,
on the Danish side of the river, were insight,
and darkness fell soon after the
last rays of the sun faded out on the spire
of Orenburg ; and still the close-hauled
cutter, with her lights hung out, laboured
on, and ere long, as the river, with all its
treacherous shoals, widened, she became
assailed by impetuous attacks of the sea.

The past day had been dull and hazy,
and the half-gale now subsided almost
entirely, but then the cutter rolled heavily,
adding to the misery of the unfortunate
Ellinor. Then the wind, blowing from
the level coast, would recover its strength,
and, changing its direction, become furious,
while a heavy swell came on, and
when dawn stole in the Flying Foam, still
close-handed on the port tack, was standing
over towards Cuxhaven, the shore of
which is so low that the only objects seen
against the sky were the flagstaff of a

battery and the guns of the latter mounted
en barbette.

There the river pilot went on shore,
when the cutter, lying on the next tack,
headed off to seaward, steered by Ringbolt
himself, close to the wind, with her
head just so near it as to keep the sails
full without shaking: them.

The baffling head-wind soon increased
to a tempest ; the timbers of the cutter
groaned as she strained in the trough of
the sea one moment and rode over a great
wave the next, while the water poured in
volumes over her deck, gorging the scuppers
and carrying every loose article to
leeward, and ere long the canvas was reduced
until none was left than what was
necessary for steering purposes.

All on board, even Dewsnap and Sheath,
had donned their ' storm toggery,' and
appeared on deck in oilskin jackets, with
southwestern tied under their chins, the

baronet making vows, as ever and anon
lie clutched a belaying pin, floundered into
the loose bight of a rope, or had to oppose
his back to a drenching sea, that if he
were once safe on German or Danish soil,
he would tempt the perils of ' the briny '
no more.

All day the cutter, though so beautifully
modelled and built, beat against the wind
without making progress, and now one of
those tempestuous gales that so often
sweep the North Sea began to spend its
fury on her.

Rufane Ringbolt began to look thoughtful
; he had the well sounded ; glanced at
the binnacle and aloft ever and anon ; put
a fresh quid of tobacco in his cheek, and
took a survey of the weather.

A cloud darker than usual and lower
down obscured the sky, spreading over the
zenith. A lambent glare of lightning shot
through its darkest or densest part ; another

and another followed, and like the roar of
artillery the thunder hurtled through the
stormy air.

The wind lulled for an instant, permitting
the Flying Foam to right herself from
her careen, but again the wind bellowed
over the sea, tearing away the foam and
snow-white spoon drift from the wave-crests,
and again the cutter was pressed
down to her bearings by its force and
fury.

Pitchy darkness came on, but the vivid
lightning flashes were incessant.

Owing to the obscurity, the difficulty of
the watch on deck in passing ropes to
each other became great, and the alternate
gleams, with a deluge of rain,
so blinded them that they were scarcely
able to execute an order; so, hoarsely
and angrily, Ringbolt summoned on
deck the watch below, and as they were
somewhat tardy in obeying, he resorted,

we are sorry to say, to much strong language.


Show a leg and turn out !' he bellowed
down the forecastle hatch, ' tumble up the
watch — quick, you infernal chowderheads,
you'll find it no child's play now.'

As this reinforcement, only three or
four in number, came 'tumbling up,' half
dressed, the wind suddenly burst — but fora
few minutes only — from an unexpected
quarter, taking the cutter aback and
throwing her nearly on her beam-ends.

The man steering was hurled right over
the wheel, the rest, with coils of rope and
whatever was loose or had become loosened,
were heaped in a mass of confusion
among the lee scuppers. In alarm that
the craft was foundering, Sir Redmond
Sheath, forgetting all about Elinor, then
praying on her knees with arms stretched
over her bed — praying till sickness again
overpowered her — sought some Dutch

courage in the steward's pantry by imbibing
more than one stiff glass of brandy.

Ringbolt was the first to gather himself
up. With an oath he reached the wheel -,
the spokes revolved rapidly in his powerful
grasp, and the cutter was righted in time
to save the mast, but still intense darkness
reigned — the lights of Cuxhaven had long
since melted into the sea — with tremendous
peals of thunder, while vast masses
of water passed over the buoyant and
gallant cutter, and the blinding rain
and the bitter salt spray were mingled
together.

The lamp still burned in the binnacle,
and the wetted garments and bronzed
visage of Rino^bolt shone in its wavering
gleam as he grasped the spokes of the
wheel, planted his feet firmly on the deck
grating, and looked from time to time
aloft, though he could discern nothing.

Day began to dawn, but the gale still

VOL. III. E

continued. The cutter was in the Elbe
mouth, though no land was in sight ; but
Ringbolt knew that the two sandbanks
between what is called the Southern and
Northern Elbe lay ahead, but northward
of Newark Island ; and, just as this reflection
occurred to him, the mate came
aft in the grey dawn, his face expressive
of concern, to report ' the lower mast
sprung !'

This startling intelligence proved true,
for Ringbolt found the mast had been thus
injured in the gale — a great crack ran
obliquely through it, rendering it quite
unsafe for carrying the usual quantity of
sail thereon, and he knew that unless
instant precautions were taken the cutter
might speedily become a wreck aloft, tidings
which made the teeth of the selfish
Sheath chatter in his head.

With all his errors and backsliding,
Ringbolt was equal to the occasion, and

became the English seaman and the officer
at once.

Sprung it is, by heavens !' he exclaimed.
Take in sail — away aloft to the cap with
the top-maul, out with the fid, stand by the
mast-rope, and lower away the topmast.'

Three active fellows were soon up at the
cross-trees. A stroke or two of the maul
knocked out the square bar (with a shoulder
at one end) that supported the weight
of the topmast, which quickly slid down in
front of the foremast through its upper
and lower cap, and was at once made
fast.

This eased alike the cutter and the
mast, but it was necessary to put her
before the wind, and run up the river
again, as it would have been rashness to
venture into the North Sea with a crippled
mast. The storm had nearly spent itself,
but thunder could still be heard in the
distance between the lulls of the wind.

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS UBRARt

So the Flying Foam was once more
running up the Elbe, to be repaired at
Hamburg, with her topsail-yard down on
the cap, her jib and staysail set, her fore ,
and aft mainsail close reefed, and the
boom so well eased off that its end skipped
the waves at times as she rolled
heavily before the wind.

At Cuxhaven another pilot, to take her
up the river, came on board from the
yacht, which, by their statutes, the inhabitants
of that place are bound to have
always at sea, or near the outermost buoy,
to conduct any vessel requiring assistance ;
and, aided ere long by a tug-steamer, the
Flying Foam passing Altona in the night,
when dawn came in again, was moored
for repair in the outer portion of the
Binnen Haven, under the shadow of the
lofty and wonderfully picturesque old
houses of the Stubbenhuck.

And now, having recovered from his

fear and tribulation. Sir Eedmond Sheath
began to consider in what way he could
delude his luckless victim ashore.

CHAPTER IV.

ALONE !

In furtherance of bis own cruel and
nefarious schemes against Ellinor, Sir
Redmond bad forbidden the Vierlander
attendant to inform ber of were the yacht
was now, and a few silver passengers
effectually sealed ber lips, while Ellinor,
still confined to ber little cabin, was prostrate
in strength, and only thankful that
the din of the storm bad passed away, and
the awful pitching and rolling of the cutter
was at an end.

Dewsnap bad fortified himself with so

many potations of brandy and water during
the last few hours that he was scarcely
sober now, and swayed about on his feet
swearing it was still ' the roll of the ship.'

My watch has stopped said he, in a
thick voice, to Sheath.

Indeed,' said the baronet, not much
interested in the matter.

I tried to wind it up last night, and
mistook the corkscrew for a key.'

After such a devil of a time as we have
had of it I don't wonder at anything.'

Meanwhile Sheath was still considering
how he vrould induce Ellinor to trust
herself on shore with him, after writing to
announce her coming to the Fran Wyburg's
residence, or pension as she was pleased
to call it ; and Dewsnap was busy imbibing
a ' pick-me-up ' of iced seltzer and brandy,
while conning over the sporting intelligence
at several recent meetings — the
plates run for, the bets at starting, the

"Welter sweepstakes, and so forth, without
even caring to open the letters the steward
had brought him from the Poste Restante
at the Post Strasse, when suddenly a loud
interjection escaped him.

'What is up?' asked Sheath, looking up
from Iiis coffee.

The devil to pay in the East !'
How ?'

'A Renters telegram announcing the
murder of Sir Louis Cavagnari, and massacre
of the entire embassy at Cabul !*

The entire lot?'

Escort and every man-jack of the
Europeans !'

Sheath was of coarse interested, and
read for himself the brief and alarming
despatch.

So that cad Colville is wiped out then
a devilish good job too !' was his first
comment, and he contrived soon to let
Ellinor Wellwood know the fate of her

cousin,' as he called Colville in mockery.

Her first thoughts were of Mary.

More than ever did Ellinor long to be
with her now. She strove to leave her
bed, but sank helplessly back upon the
pillow, and lay there still choked by dry
sobs, her face pallid to the lips ; in her
half-closed eyes an unnatural gleam that
came of mental and bodily suffering, while
her hands were clenched at times till the
nails almost cut the tender palms.

Ringbolt, the sailing-master, had a keen
appreciation of the charming in female
nature, and was able to admire every
variety of the sex that came under his
observation.

The wonderful beauty and delicacy of
Ellinor inflamed his fancy. He saw that
she seemed, somehow, utterly helpless — a
mysterious waif, cast upon the waters; he
saw that she trembled under the unpleasant

gaze of Devvsnap, and simply loathed
Sheath, who sought to make himself the
arbiter of her destiny; so Mr. Kufane
Kingbolt thought why should he not enter
stakes for this prize? Why should not
he try to make his innings when others
failed ?

She had been picked up like a derelict
craft, and by himself, too ; and then Hamburg
— dissipated Hamburg — filled with
people of many races and creeds — was
just the place where people may play the
wildest pranks with ease.

Thus Ringbolt had been a kind of protection
in one way to Ellinor, over whom
he kept an eye, on his own account, and,
as Sheath bes^an to think, was always on
the watch, as he was one who took what
he called ' dog watches or ' dog snoozes/
and could sleep by night or day with wonderful
facility, and apparently with one
eye open.

And now that the yacht was moored
along the quay of the Binnen Hafeu, close
by such thoroughfares as the Deich Strasse,
and would soon be dismasted and in the
riggers' hands, he thought the time had
come when he might venture on some
scheme of gaining Ellinor's gratitude
first by pretending to succour and free
lier.

And, as these ideas occurred to him, his
eyes sparkled, the colour in his grog-pimple
cheeks deepened, and he mumbled
about with his lips like a man who had
been in the habit of chewing twist tobacco,
which was the case with Ringbolt after he
was turned out of the navy and took to
the yachting line of business.

The watchfulness we have referred to
had not been unnoticed, and Sheath began
to suspect that, if Ringbolt was not doing
this for himself, he must be acting in the
interests of Mr. Dolly Dewsnap, and thus

some action on his own part was imperatively
necessary.

He was becoming exasperated, piqued,
and disgusted, moreover, with Ellinor's
trembling abhorrence of him, and began
secretly to arrange with the faithful and
unscrupulous Gaiters a scheme for having
her more completely in his power ashore,
and luring her quietly from the yacht on
the pretence of restoring her to Mrs.
Deroubigne.

The embassy massacred — every officer
and soldier destroyed !' exclaimed the
latter, when she read the same startling
telegram that gave Sir Redmond such
extreme satisfaction. 'The hope of her
future — her soul — her existence gone —
poor Mary ! Poor darling ! How am I
to break this to her ?'

But broken it had to be, and then to
Mary came hours of agony — such hours
as in our lives count for years !

'Ellinor drowned and — and Colville
slain.'

Mary Well wood was stunned and sorely
stricken, and bowed her head as if the
waves of Destiny were rolling over her.

She read the paragraph, so comprehensive
and ye: so terrible in its brevity
again and again, till it seemed to pierce
like burning needles into her heart and
brain.

So Leslie Colville was gone — dead —
destroyed in what manner or after what
torment she would never, never know.

His face and figure — his voice and smile
came vividly and poignantly to memory as
she sat like one turned to stone, with the
kind arms of Mrs. Deroubigne around her,
caressing her head on her bosom.

The dire calamity she had hourly dreaded
might happen, had come at last, and
yet there seemed to be an impossibility in
the realisation of it.

«

■i Ob, why did men become soldiers ?

Alone — alone in the world now!' wailed
Mary.

My darling, you have me and my little
girls to love you as sisters,' said Mrs.
Deroubigne, folding the deathly-pale girl
again and again to her motherly breast ;
but, passionate though her sympathy and
regard, Mary shivered, and thought who
could ever replace Ellinor as a sister, apt
felt, as she said, most fearfully alone.

Her mind at times became confused.
Something more had happened to her —
she scarcely Ime what it was.

Never again did it seem possible that
she could take any interest in the life of
the world and its daily routine. She was
apathetic — careless of what was done with
herself or anything around her.

Existence and its ties seemed over and
done with, yet her present calamity seemed
also a kind of dream to her. 'Sometimes

in great trouble says a writer, Hae brain
acts in this way of itself — it will return to
events of long ago and recall thei^i^ vividly,
while the immediate moment becomes remote.
But the reaction is all the more
intense for this mental rest; and when the
mind returns to the contemplation of *^ the
present it is to see with greater vividness.'

The embassy massacred to a man !'
How often was she to reiterate mentally
that appalling line ?

It was now Mary's evil fortune to feel
perhaps — nay, surely — more keenly than
her sister had done this new calamity, for
poor elinor had certainly ceased for a
time to love, though she had never failed
to respect Eobert Wodrow, now deemed
also with the dead.

All was silent in that pretty villa by
the broad and shining Elbe — shining in
the light of the moon. The fire glowed in
the tall, cylindrical, porcelain stove in a

corner of the room ; that room ere while
decorated and prepared for her and Ellinor
so lovingly by Mrs. Deroubigne, and there
she lay restless, sleepless, and alone, too
bewildered to realise the dire calamity that
had befallen her, and been acted in blood
and wrath so far, far away, and yet but a
few hours ago.

The curtains were drawn back, and the
red glow of the half-open stove and of
the night-light shed a radiance on her
surroundings, but whenever her eyes wandered
they seemed to see something that
was familiar and yet strange to them.

Her mind was every way confused and
involved, and poor Jack from time to time
licked her hand unnoticed.

There was, however, always the one
prominent idea. Leslie Colville, the one
love of her heart, her affianced husband,
was dead — killed cruelly — horribly, she
doubted not, but in what fashion she

knew not, and, fortunately perhaps, should
never know.

And ever and anon aching memory went
back to that sunny noon when she first
met him, yet knew him not, as they fished
together by the bonnie Birds of Invermay.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER V.

IN THE BALA Hussar.

Our advanced post was in the Kurram "Valley
— the only part of the Afghan border
which had been trodden by the foot of a
Briton since the previous Oabul war — a
post, the boundary of the so-called ' scientific
frontier,' which had been held by a
body of our troops, European and native,
for some three months during the summer
of this eventful year; and all had been
suffering more or less from the breathless
heat and malaria, dulness, and that growing
ennui which a languid game of polo or

lawn-tennis (without ladies) utterly failed
to ameliorate ; and all thought that, as
anything exciting was better than nothing,
a brush with the Mongols, the Aimed, or
Hassan Keels would be a relief.

Many officers began to think, even to
talk, hopefully of leave of absence to visit
India, to look up old chums in Peshawur,
Raoul Pinch, or Lahore ; or when longer
leave for Europe must be given ; when
news of the attack on the Residency at
Cabul, and the massacre of the envoy and
his people fell upon them like a clap of
thunder !

These terrible tidings were brought by
Taimur, a Usbeg Tartar, who served as a
trooper in the Guide escort — a man of
undoubted daring, bravery, and hardihood
who had achieved his escape from the
city of blood by the aid of some of his
own race who were among the Cable
troops that bad come in from Herat.

f2

After twelve days' wandering, and enduring
great suffering in those savage and
stupendous mountain gorges that lie between
Cabul and the Kotal oE Lundikhani,
he reached the advanced post in the Curran
Valley, in rags, famished, and every
way in a deplorable state of destitution, to
make his report, which was instantly telegraphed
by the officer commanding to the
Viceroy at Simla.

Everyone cut off as close as a whistle !
By Jove, colonel, we'll have to be up and
doing something,' said Ally Beethoven, the
hussar, as he lounged, pipe in mouth, and
hands in the pockets of his pyjamas, into
the tent of old Spatterdash.

The early summer months had been
passed peacefully and pleasantly by our
embassy at Cabul, notwithstanding the
petty insults and annoyance we have
already referred to. In the cool, breezy
morning, when the sun was coming up

above the bills that look down on the clear,
shallow, and rapid Cabul flowing towards
the Indus ; or in the evening, when he was
setting behind the summits of the Haft
Kotal, Sir Louis Cavagnari, attended by
Colville and others, escorted by a few of
the Guide Corps, rode through the city to
view places of interest in the neighbourhood,
sometimes towards the Chardeh
Valley eastward, or the plains of Kills
on the west.

Their quarters in the picturesque and
ancient Bala Hissar were rendered as
comfortable as furniture of English style
and make — relics of Elphinstone's slaughtered
army and plundered cantonments —
could make them ; but the walls of the
rooms were scribbled over with ribald
pencillings, anti-English hits and insolent
political allusions there was no mistaking,
left there by members of the late Russian
mission ; while ' from the Ameer himself,

as from the commandant, talis of fruit
and vegetables, fish, milk, and sweetmeats
were daily provided ; and whatever Cabul
could offer in the way of entertainment or
amusement was readily forthcoming.'

All seemed so peaceful, and the chances
of renewed hostility so remote, that Colville
was about to make arrangements for
quitting the Embassy, resigning his
appointment, and procuring an escort
through the passes to Lundi Khan Khotal
ill the Kurram Valley on his homeward
way.

He also intended to take with him-egbert
Wodrow. The latter had changed
greatly of late for the better. In his
face, that which had been mere good looks
had deepened into earnestness of purpose
in every feature. If, under the heat of
the summer sun, his cheek was browner
and less round, his mouth, in expression,
was a trifle harder and more set, changes

indicative of one who was aware that he
had his way in the world to hew out, and
due to Colville's influence, presence, and
friendly encouragement.

He found him one day whistling loudly
while grooming his horse in the stables of
the Bala Hissar.

Wodrow, old man,' said Colville, laughingly,
' by Jove, I am glad to hear you
whistling. Your lips seemed only capable
of sighing once. But the air you indulge
in is a sad one.'

It is '' The Birds of Invermay," sir. I
was thinking as usual of old times, and of
those from whom we are so far away.'

Many a thousand miles, even as the
crow flies.'

All remained, to all appearance, peaceful,
we say, at Cabul, till one fatal morning,
about eight o'clock, when the Turkestan
and Ordeal Regiments, consisting
of several battalions in the Ameer's

army, were mustered for arrears of pay in
one of the stately courts of the Bala
Hissar.

Daud Shah, a sirdir or general of the
army — a venerable soldier — could only
distribute one month's pay, but, with shrill
and vehement shouts that made every
carved arcade and shaded balcony re-echo,
they demanded two.

Two months' pay or blood !'

The sirdir attempted to remonstrate
with them, on which tumult and disorder
pervaded their ranks, and they broke out
into open mutiny.

Then another sirdir — whose name is not
unknown to the reader — exclaimed, with a
voice loud enough to be heard above the
fast-growing disturbance,

Let us kill the Envoy and then the
Ameer who would sell us to the Fering-lees
!'

'Been ! teen ! teen and death,' shouted

all, and, rushing into the greater court of
the palace, they proceeded to stone and
loot without mercy the servants of the
Residency.

Enraged by this rough treatment, Tai-mur,
the Usbeg Tartar, and some of his
Guide comrades, without temporising or
waiting for the orders of their officers, betook
them to their carbines and opened a
fire upon the multitude from the open
windows and stately galleries overlooking
the court.

Colville and other officers called upon
them to cease firing, and they did so for a
time.

Then it was that the Sirdir Mahmoud
Shah, a man whose fanaticism made him
all but a Ghazi, shook his hand upwards
at the gallery where they stood, and called,
with a shrill voice,

Brutes ! beasts ! vermin ! filthy Fering-lees
! Enjoy the pleasures of life for a

brief time, but your speedy departure shall
be into the flames of hell, with water like
molten brass to drink, and ye shall say, as
the Koran tells us — " Oh, Male, intercede
for us, that the Lord may end us by annihilation."
'

He spoke in Afghanii, yet many understood
him, and an officer said,

These beggars quote their Koran as
glibly as Cromwell's Puritans did the
Bible, and with the same view to blood
and slaughter.'

Led by Mahmoud chiefly, the mutineers
rushed away to procure their arms and
ammunition, with which they returned ina
few minutes, inflamed by all the hate
and rancour of race and religion, and
pitilessly resolved to massacre all.

The time of their absence has been given
as about fifteen minutes, and, with horses
at hand, it is said that all in the Residency
might have made their escape, had they

chosen to attempt it, but either they
trusted to the sacred character of the
embassy, underrated the actual amount
of peril, or, like bold Britons, were determined
to face it, and show fight.

The roof of the Residency was an untenable
place, being commanded by the flat
roofs and windows of loftier houses, yet
there Sir Louis Cavagnari and his little
band were gathered, and there, making
a kind of rampart or shelter-trench with
what they could collect, they resolved to
sell their lives as dearly as possible in
conflict with the savage hordes — the sea of
human beings that surged around them.

The mutineers, all well-armed with rifles
and bayonets, and supplied with excellent
ammunition, were now joined by the fanatical
multitudes of the city, by robbers
intent on plunder, budmashes, and villains
of every kind, seeking blood and outrage,
brandishing long quails, sabres, and

charles, or deadly native knives, with
points like needles and edges like razors
blades that flashed and glanced in the
sunshine like their bloodshot and malevolent
eyes ; their strange garments, wide-sleeve
cases, sheepskin cloaks, and
bright-coloured loonghees or caps, adding
to the picturesqueness of the savage and
bewildering scene, overlooked by the pii
dared arcades, sith horse-shoe arches, and
the carved balconies on ponderous marble
brackets projecting from the palace walls,
and all half revealed and half hidden amid
the eddying smoke of pistols and musketry.

All were yelling, till their yells ended
in a death-shriek, as a shot struck them
down ; many were quoting the inevitable
Koran, or hurling offensive and abusive
epithets, as they crushed upon and jostled
each other, while seething and surging
around their victims.

Hope of victory — even of successful defence

— the latter could have none. For
them nothing was left now but to struggle
to the last of their blood and breath, and
until the last man perished in his agony !

Colville, while handling the carbine of
a Guide who had fallen near lira, even in
that desperate time, thought how hideous
looked the sea of human faces into which
he was sending shot after shot, as fast ashe
could drop them into the block of the
freeholder.

The faces of the Afghans,' says a
writer, ' often develop into those of the
most villainous-looking scoundrels. Shylock,
Caliban, and Sycorax and his dam
all have numerous representatives, though
I think the first is the commonest type,
on account of the decidedly Jewish cast
of most Cabuli features, and the low cunning
and cruelty which supplies the only
animation in their otherwise stolid countenances,
true indices of the mind beneath

fatalist by creed; false, murderous, and
tyrannical by education. In this descriptions
he adds, ' I do not include the Kuz-
cil Bash (Persian), or Hindoo settlers, who
preserve their own distinctive features,
both mental and physical

For five hours had the unequal conflict
been waged, when Sir Louis Cavagnari,
who was in the thick of it, was wounded
in the forehead by a ball that had ricochetted
from a wall near him.

Close and terrible was the fire poured
by the Guides with their carbines and by
the few European officers into the dense
masses of the foe beneath, and deadly that
fire proved — the front files, if they could
be termed so, melted away or fell over
each other in heaps, but fresh men pushed
forward from the rear and took their
places, serving only to feed the harvest of
death gathered at the hands of those who
fought not for existence — the hope of that

was quite lost now — but for vengeance.

Allah ! Allah ! Allah ! Been I Been !
Been !' were the shouts that loaded the air
below, rising above the sputtering roar of
the firearms. On the other side was no
sound, but a yell or a groan as a man fell
wounded, too often mortally. ' La Ilah
ilia Allah !' (' There is no God but God')

Yet devilry, cruelty, and slaughter were
there supreme.

I wish we could make a headlong rush
on them and clear the square by a charge
cut our way through,' cried Colville ;
^ but we have not men enough, and then
Sir Louis Cavagnari and all the wounded
would be butchered if left behind.'

How fast the devils fire !' exclaimed a
young officer ; ' my revolver barrel is quite
hot already.'

You'll soon get used to the whizz of
the bullets,' replied Colville, whose face if
now pale with desperation, was filled with

an expression of determination too. ' Keep
cool, men — aim well, and let every shot
tell.'

But amid that dense mob below — a
literal sea of upturned and dark, revengeful
faces, with glistening teeth and flashing
eyes — no bullet could miss a mark ;
while all around were heard the crash of
falling bricks, beams, and plaster, the yells
of the Afghans, the shrieks of their women,
and the roar of the fast gathering flames.

Mark that fellow !' cried several officers,
indicating a leader in a green loonghee, who
seemed to have a charmed life — Mahmoud
Shah, in fact.

I should like to pick that devil off,' said
Eobert Wodrow, dropping a cartridge into
the breech block of his carbine. ^ He
seems to be head cock and bottle-washer
of the whole shindy !' he added, in the
phraseology of his student days. His
ballet sped, but only grazed the shoulder

of the old fanatic, and added to the latter's
fury.

A soldier of the Guides who had been
wounded in the temple fell headlong from
the flat roof into the mass below, and was
hewn by bulwark and charles to pieces —
literally chopped into ounce pieces.

In the desperation of their circumstances
it was resolved to appeal for succour and
protection to the Ameer, who, while all
this deadly work was in progress, remained
with indifference apparently in his palace,
and amid the ladies of his harem.

The ambassador, whose wound had been
dressed by Dr. Kelly, desired a moonshine to
write a letter imploring royal aid, but the
scribe was so terrified by the uproar that
his fingers were unable to hold the pen ;
so one was written in Afghanii by Tamar,
the Guide, and this missive Robert Wod-
row boldly volunteered to deliver in
person.

VOL. III. G

You are throwing your life away,
Wodrow,' said Colville. ' The risk is
frightful

So be it, Captain Colville; but better
mine than yours. You have something to
live for. What have I ?'

Untwisting a couple of cartridges into a
saucer, he made a species of black paste
therewith, and, blackening his face before
a mirror, contrived still further to disguise
himself with some Afghan clothing that
was found in the Residency — a brown
canine with loose wide sleeves, a furred
chocja or mantle, a loonghee^ and armed with
a tulwar and shield, like a budmash. He
placed the letter in his pocket, and issuing
from a secret underground doorway passed
from the Bala Hissar unnoticed by the
crowds which surged around it, and brandishing
his weapon and shouting ever and
anon like the rest, ' Been ! Been !' ho contrived
to reach the Ameer, to whose hands

he forwarded the letter through Daud
Shah, a friendly sirdir or general.

It was speedily brought back with a
brief reply written upon it by the prince —

If God willet. I am just making
arrangements.'

The brave Wodrow experienced many
difficulties in making his way back, for the
hostile crowds were increasing every moment,
and to reach the Residency he had
at one time literally to act the part of a
leader, and risk the fire of his own friends,
among whom, however, he soon found
himself, and delivered the message of the
Ameer to the half-conscious Cavagnari,
who was suffering sorely from his wound.

But no succour came, and the hopeless
and desperate resistance was continued.

A second letter to the Ameer was now
despatched ; but its bearer, a Hindoo, was
discovered and^cut to pieces.

After two hours more fighting — hours

g2

that added to the heaps of dead and dying
below the Bala Hissar walls, and to the
fearful casualties in the ranks of the small
band fighting for existence within the
Residency — Lieutenant Hamilton sent out
Taimar, the guide, with an open letter
promising the Ameer's mutineers six
months' pay if they dispersed.

Courageous Taimar, clad in his uniform
as a guide-soldier — drab, laced, piped, and
faced with scarlet — went among them, but
he was not listened to. The letter was
torn to shreds ; his uniform was rent off
him ; he was robbed of all he had, severely
beaten, and tossed into a vault, where he
lay insensible till he made his escape under
cloud of night; and that he was not slain
outright was simply due to his Usbeg
blood and features. And eventually he
reached our outpost at Lundi-khan Kotal
in the Kurram Valley.

After his return to the Eesidency, amid

the confusion and defence of so many
points of the roof on which the whole of
its slender garrison were now gathered,
Eobert Wodrow for a time was unable to
discover Colville, and feared that he had
fallen.

After a little time he discovered him on
the summit of an isolated tower, wherewith
four men, he had taken post to
enfilade the fire of the mutineers ; but his
four soldiers were all shot down in quick
succession. Wodrow saw him turn them
on their faces, take the ammunition from
their pouches, and proceed single-handed
to defend with a musket the tower which
was now in flames, and was ere long
enveloped in smoke.

When a puff of wind blew the latter
aside for a moment a cry escaped Robert
Wodrow, for Colville had vanished, and ina
few minutes after, the tower fell thundering
down in a mass of blazing ruins.

The assailants had now discovered that
loftier buildings, as stated, commanded
the fiat i^oof of the Residency, the upper
storey of which was open on every side
being merely a sleeping place during the hot
months of the year, and consisting of a
roof, wattled and plastered, resting on
slender pillars of wood, painted and gaily
gilded.

Thus the insurgents were enabled by a
fire, chiefly directed from the loftier windows
and roof of the arsenal, to drive the
desperate and now despairing defenders
downward from floor to floor, till they
ultimately reached the last, upon the
ground ; and there, for no less than four
hours more, they made a noble and heroic
resistance against the fanatical and furious
multitude which hurled its strength
against them, so close at times that the
young officers of Cavagnari's suite were
seen to fire their pistols right into the

mouths and eyes of their savage assailants.

Weary, breathless, and suffering from
an intense thirst, incident to hot exertion
and fierce excitement — a thirst they had
neither the means nor the time to allay
their eyes bloodshot, their lips baked,
their undressed wounds in many instances
streaming with blood, their faces pale as
death — the death that was so soon to overtake
them all— the handful of Europeans
and Guide soldiers maintained the unequal
conflict with a heroism that mingled with
despair.

It was at this crisis in their fate that
Daud Shah, a fine old Afghan sirdir, came
riding from the Ameer's palace, through
the crowds of people, and called upon
them ' to desist from their infamous crime!*

He was a man above fifty years of age,
with a stern face of a decidedly Jewish
type, an aquiline nose, and high cheekbones,
dark and restless eyes, having beetling

brows tufted with grizzly hair, and
a long grey beard that descended to his
shawl-girdle.

But his appearance only added to the
rancorous fury of the people and the mutineers.
Blushing on him with rage, Mah-
moud Shah tore him from his saddle ; he
was wounded by a bayonet, severely stoned,
and borne away to the palace, covered
with blood and in a dying condition.

Two other officers of high rank — one a
sirdir or general — also strove to quell the
disturbance, but were fired on and compelled
to seek safety in flight.

That portion of the Bala Hissar assigned
as a Residency was far too large for the
little garrison that had then to defend it,
and it was now surrounded on its four
sides by that ferocious multitude of armed
men bent on slaughter and cruelty, led on
by an equally frantic band of moollahs.

They are flinging lighted brands on

the roof from the arsenal,' cried someone,
and overhead the roar of flames
was soon heard as the open upper storey
we have described became sheeted with
hire.

If that is the case, a little time will
see us all gone to the bow-wows !' cried
Eobert Wodrow, whom danger always
seemed to exhilarate and make more
reckless.

Despairing of all succour from the false
Ameer, and as if eager to die hard, and in
doing so to anticipate their doom, the few
surviving heroes of the little garrison
charged out sword in hand, and plunged
thrusting with the point, and hewing
with the edge — into the human sea that
filled the court between the Bala Hissar
gate, just as night was closing, and there
they all perished to a man, save one —
perished just as the roof of the Residency
came crashing down amid black smoke and

crackling flames, thus preserving the bodies
of Sir Louis Cavagnari, of Dr. Kelly, and
several others from the last insults of a
savage enemy.

Aided by the wild confusion, the sudden
darkness of the tropical night, and not a
little by his disguised visage and native
costume, Eobert Wodrow achieved a passage
into the streets of the city, and
from thence, as all thoroughfares save
those in the vicinity of the Bala Hissar
were deserted, into the open plain near
the city, and there he threaded his way
without molestation among the apple,
citron, and olive groves, the mud forts and
garden walls, till he found a plantation of
sugar-canes, and then, weary, worn, covered
with bruises, famished, and athirst —
ready almost to weep — after the past excitement
of that terrible day, and the loss
of all his friends and comrades — last, not
least, Leslie Colville, he flung himself on

the ground to recover breath and to think
over the situation.

Day was dawning, and tipping with red
and gold the summits of the Bala Hissar,
when Wodrow awoke to find that he had
been asleep for some hours, and now rose,
stiff and sore in every limb. The flames
of the conflagration had died out, but a
black pall of smoke overhung the towers
and battlements of the ancient and picturesque
palatial fortress, which, with a
recklessness of courage for which it is
difficult to account, he actually resolved to
revisit, as if to see the last — the end of
everything.

He had the caution, however, to readjust
his disguise, to carefully load his
revolver, and by untwisting another cartridge
and mixing the powder in a dew-laden
leaf, to carefully retouch his face,
using the case of his watch as a mirror,
and to re-blacken his hands and wrists.

before be ventured near the scene of the
last night's horrors.

Of the Residency, the blackened walls
and smouldering ashes alone remained,
and as these furnished no ' loot,' the place
was deserted by all save the dead.

Of the latter there lay heaped over each
other, and soaked in each other's blood, some
five hundred Afghans, attesting — irrespective
of wounded — of the stubborn vigour
of the defence, for every cartridge fired
by the desperate few must have told more
than double among the masses.

The marble arches and pillars of the
beautiful carved arcades and open galleries,
the walls and pavement, were all
spotted and starred by the bullets of rifles
and carbines, and clots and splashes of
blood were everywhere, with the corpses
of the Europeans and Guides, easily distinguished
by their uniforms. The solitary
survivor saw the body of the young and

gallant Hamilton, stripped of his braided
jacket and woefully gashed, lying across a
mountain gun, over which he had fallen
or been flung by his slayers, ' and beyond
it, in a trench which the Afghans had failed
to storm, were heaped, thick and charred
by fire, the corpses of the heroic Guides.
Each man had died where he stood, and in
their rear were the smouldering ruins of
the building wherein Cavagnari, Kelly, and
others were lying

Robert Wodrow gave a glance at the
blackened ruins of the tower on the summit
of which he had last seen Colville,
rifle in hand, resisting to the last, and a
bitter sigh escaped him as he quitted the
city, and resolutely turned his face and
steps towards the passes, through which
he hoped to reach our outpost at Lundi
Khan Kotal, more than a hundred and
fifty miles distant, amid hostile tribes and
savage ways, by the Lapland Pass, ,

Gundamuck, and the Khoord Khj-
ber, at the very contemplation of which
his heart sank with despair.

All about the city,' said a print of the
time, There were Afghans enough — the
whole hive seemed restless with multitudinous
motion ; but when the solitary
traveller (after the hideous uproar of the
past night) had cleared the city precincts,
the old desolation of the dreary hill
country lay stretched before him, and
along the ragged ways hardly a man was
moving.'

Yet the rugged paths through the stupendous
passes had many dangers for
the disguised hussar. Tigers, wolves, and
hyenas were to be met with, making sleep
and night alike perilous and horrible ; and
to these were added by day the chance
of discovery by the equally savage tribesmen,
and a death by torture, such as
only the Oriental mind can conceive, at
their merciless hands.

Yet, though aware of all he had to
encounter, Robert Wodrow took to the
hills as a mountaineer born, and strode
resolutely and manfully on.

CHAPTER VI.

THE FORT OF MAHMOUD SHAH.

Resolutely had Leslie Colville defended
the summit of the somewhat isolated tower
on which he had taken post with only
four chosen marksmen, intending to enfilade
the front attack on the Residency,
and pick off the best shots in possession
of the lofty arsenal roof ; but he had soon
the mortification to see each of his men
perish in quick succession, and to find
the tower in flames beneath him, cutting
off his descent, and leaving him helplessly
exposed to a fire from those who must

soon hate smitten him down but for the
frantic fury with which they impeded each
other's aim and operations ; and while thus
perilously situated he heard friendly voices
or such he thought them to be — calling
to him from below in Hindustani.

He looked down, and on a gun-platform
about twenty feet from where he stood
were four natives, Hindostanees, as appeared
by their costume — the turban, with
a couple of scarfs each, one wrapped
round the body, and the other over the
shoulders, leaving the rest of the body
uncovered — holding outstretched a strong
horse-rug or blanket, into which they invited
him to drop himself, and trust to
them and to their united strength for
breaking his fall.

Hullo, sahib — glee chute !' (come
along, sir — the balls are flying) cried one.

Hullo, bai — hullo, sultana sahib !'
(Come on, brother — come, battalion officer)

VOL. III. H

cried the other three, also in a kind of
Hindustani ; so Colville never doubted but
that they were Hindooss — perhaps camp-followers
— and Hindooss they certainly
were.

He paused for a moment, irresolute
whether to trust to them or — what? Meet
death amid the flames which had cut off
his retreat, and all chance of rejoining
his struggling companions — the flames
that were fast ascending in the tower
from storey to storey, and would soon be
bursting through the flat roof on which
he stood, for already the smoke was rising
like a black column through the trapdoor
by which he had reached it.

He failed to see the fierce expression of
mockery and derision which was in the
dark faces of the four men below, and,
deeming it wiser to risk and trust them
than to perish amid the flames, he dropped
into the rug, in which they received him

with shrill yells of triumph, for the plunder
of his person, combined with his murder,
were their objects.

But Colville was too quick for them.
In leaping over he had relinquished the
rifle he had been using for his sword, and
with the latter, after baffling an attempt
they made to muffle or bundle him up in
the rug, while they were staggering beneath
his weight, he waved them back just
as they rushed upon him with their sharp
charles, and such blind hate and fury that
they all wounded each other.

He then put his back against the wall,
and kept them at bay with his sword-blade
and levelled revolver, which, although they
knew not, was unfortunately empty.

Streaming with blood from the wounds
they had inflicted on each other, they
strove to close in upon him, and speedily
several budmashes with sword and shield,
and other villains variously armed, came

h2

Upon the scene, and their cries were loud
and fierce.

AstafferuUah ! put his head in a bhoosa
bag, or one stuffed with achilles !'

No, let it be in a bag of red pepper,
and then let him die the death of the
doomed !'

That he would have been bayoneted or
shot and cut to pieces there and then was
beyond a doubt, had not a horseman furiously
intervened by dashing his steed between
him and the rabble, who recoiled
in recognition of his presence and authority
as a sirdir, and he presented his right
hand to Colville, exclaiming,

I ate of your bread and salt on that
night when you saved me from the Wahabi
dogs in Jellalabad, and when I swore hj
the Koran and by the Five Keys of Knowledge
never to forget your kindness — nor
do I now !'

As he spoke Colville, even in that supreme

moment of excitement and most
deadly peril, recognised again Mahmoud
Shah, the mock Hadji, with the israelitish
features, the complexion fairer than
most Afghans, and the livid sword-mark
that traversed his right cheek.

The fanatic, for such he was, had for
Oolville gratitude, and when that exists
there is always good-will.

Mechanically the latter grasped the hand
held out to him, while the scowling mob,
with gleaming eyes and weapons, dark and
scowling visages, drew back.

So — sirdir — you and the Hadji Mah-
moud are the same ?' exclaimed Colville.

One and the same — I am that eater of
dirt !' he added, to show his humility.

He ordered Colville to give up his arms,
and, sending him under a strong escort of
his own people out of the city, once more
addressed himself to the congenial task of
pressing the attack upon the Residency —

a task which he continued to the bitter
end.

Meanwhile Colville was conveyed, a
prisoner, to one of the many forts which
stud the plain of Cabul and the heights of
Beymaroo that overhang it.

Mahmoud had suddenly become his
protector in fulfilment of the old precept
of being true to his salt ; and Colville,
who in his heart was intensely thankful to
Heaven for the succour afforded to him,
while so many poor fellows where perishing
without mercy, felt confident that
while with Mahmoud, or under his care,
he was tolerably safe ; for it is well known
that after eating the bread and salt of
another, or even salt alone, one, according
to Oriental ideas, comes under peculiar
obligations of protection and friendship.


As an illustration of this, Lane tells us,
in one of his valuable notes to the ' Arabian

Tales,' of a daring robber, who, one
night, excavated a passage into the palace
of the Governor of Sijistao, where he made
up a great bale of gold and jewels ; he
was in the act of carrying it off, when, in
the dark, his foot happened to strike
against something hard on the floor. Believing
it to be a jewel of some kind — perhaps
a great diamond — he picked it up,
and on applying his tongue to it, found
that it was nothing else but a lump of rock
salt.

Bitter was his disappointment, ' for having
once tasted the salt of the ocean, his
aversion gave way to his respect for the
laws of hospitality ; and throwing down
his precious booty, he left it behind him,
and withdrew empty-handed to his habitation.'


But Colville remembered, as old Colonel
Spatterdash had told him scores of times,
how Asiatics can quibble in this very matter

; and that in the great Mutiny how
often the Sepojs swore 'to be true to their
salt,' and not to murder their officers, but
stood placidly and approvingly by while
the Dandies of other regiments slaughtered
them.

In this fashion Mahmoud Shah might be
true to his salt. Who can say or fathom
the cruel duplicity of the Oriental mind
and nature ?

And, with these painful surmises and
doubts in his mind, Colville heard the roar
of the conflict in and around the doomed
Presidency dying away in the distance as
the gates of the fort by the Cabul river
were closed behind him.

As he entered, he looked back to the
fatal Bala Hissar. The smoke of the
conflict, mingled with that of the conflagration,
was eddying about its picturesque
towers and embattled masses on the mountain
slope, all bathed in ruddy splendour

by the setting sun. What was being enacted
there now ? he thought. Was allover
now? Had the last of the brave
fallen ? ^

After sunset Mahmoud Shah arrived at
the fort, which was his own patrimonial
stronghold, and assured Colville that
all was ended — the last man was slain,
and the valour of the Cables had been
successful.

Success shows the hand of God, and of
Mahomet the Prophet, blessed be their
names !' he added.

His arrival at the fort was the signal fora
species of ovation among his followers,
who mustered some hundreds, all villainous
but picturesque tatterdemalions,
whose arms were as varied as the fashion
and colours of their costume. Many had
girdles of leather, from which hung bags
for bullets, slugs, and flints, powder-horns
and cases for cartridges. Others had

cummerbunds, in which were stuck pistols,
daggers, charles, and British bayonets in
such numbers that it would have been
puzzling to find room for one weapon
more.

In addition to all this paraphernalia,
every man had a tulwar, and a juzail, or
flint or match-lock rifle, in his hand.

Colville was compelled to dissemble his
hatred and horror of those who had so
wantonly slaughtered his brave companions,
many of whose bright, joyous, and
handsome English faces came so painfully
to memory at that time, all lying cold and
gashed and bloody among the ruins of the
Residency ; and that horror was blended
with a great disgust of his host and protector,
when he recalled the tragedy his
treachery was supposed to have brought
to pass with the squadron of the 10th
Hussars; that he was a spy who had
imposed upon himself at Jellalabad, and

had led the Ameer's rebel tribes against
us on more than one occasion ; but withall
this, policy, and his own personal
safety, and hope of ultimate freedom compelled
him to dissemble.

Are you thirsty, sahib ?' was the first
question Mahmoud asked him on quitting
his saddle.

Yes ; dying with it ! Who could be
otherwise after the horrors and exertion of
the past day ?' exclaimed Colville.

Drink, then — the commands of the
Prophet are nothing to you,' said Mahmoud,
as he gave him a large cup filled with
Cabul wine (which has a flavour not unlike
full-bodied Madeira), and with it a bunch
of the grapes of Ghuznee, which are greatly
superior to those that grow in the plain
of Cabul ; and Colville, half-sinking with
exhaustion caused by bodily fatigue and
fierce over excitement, thought he had
never had refreshment more grateful and
acceptable.

Built of mud and sun-dried bricks, the
fort of Mahmoud was strong and spacious ;
it was square, with a squat, round tower
at each angle and a keep in the centre,
well loopholed for musketry, armed with
fingal, and those huge swivel blunderbusses
named zumbooracks, which, as firearms,
are often as perilous to those who
work them as to those at whom they are
levelled.

The fort had two gates, in its eastern
and western faces ; these were protected
by demi-bastions, and there was a moat,
once filled by the Cabul, but now dry,
neglected, and overgrown by vines and
orange-trees.

The courtyard was spacious. In the
keep was Dewan-i-Ain, or audience-chamber,
surrounded by a divan or continuous
seat; beyond it was the Dewan-i-Kas, or
principal private apartment, and in the
towers were lodged the servants of the

establishment ; apart from all was a zenana,
or women's apartments, and elsewhere, in
every corner, were stowed away the
garrison, composed of the hudmashes and
other tatterdemalions just described.

When not in the courtyard or on the
summit of the keep — always closely watched
— Colville was generally in the 
where he shared the meals of the
Mahmoud. Here carpets were laid on the
floor, and there was a kind of chair or
stool of state, with cushions for arms, and
before it lay the tulwar, shield, and pistols
of the sirdir, as in a place of honour.

The fort stood — and no doubt still
stands — close to a bend of the clear and
otherwise shallow Cabul, a river which is
formed hj the junction of the Ghorbund
and Panjshir, and after dividing into three
branches it reunites and flows into the
Indus, three miles above the great fortress
of Attack.

And Colville, in his prison in the fort —
for a prison to all intents and purposes it
was — lay for many a weary hour on a
charpoy^ or native bed, listening to the
murmur of the stream as it flowed over
its pebbled bed towards the mountain
passes that led to India, and marvelled
what was in store for him ; hove long his
captivity would last; whether Mahmoud
wanted a ransom or held him as a kind
of hostage : for that the destruction of the
embassy would be amply avenged none
could doubt. Then how would it fare
with the crafty Ameer?

He is the son of an animal !' said Mah-
moud, on one occasion, scornfully ; ' he
plays fast and loose with your people and
his own. According to an old fable, every
man bears on his back a wallet in which
are deposited his weaknesses and his vices,
which, though concealed from his own
eyes, are open to the inspection of those

of others. Thus we see that the Ameer,
if Dot the tool of Britain, will be the slave
of the Russ

Through his duplicity I am a prisoner.'

Better that than lying yonder in the
Bala Hissar,' said Mahmoud, with a cruel
leer in his glittering black eyes.

I am most unfortunate !'

It was to be, and so it is.'

The doctrine of fatalism meets and
covers everything with the Mussulman,
who can thus throw on the Deity the
results of their own negligence.

If it is God's will that a man should
die, let him die said Mahmoud, sententiously.
' If it be His will that he should
live, let him live.'

Colville thought this was uncommonly
like the creed of the ' Peculiar People,' in
the city of London.

Though somewhat bored by the prayers
and piety of Mahmoud Shah, and greatly

disgusted by his ferocity, Colville bad not
much otherwise to complain of during his
detention in the fort ; and preferred those
times when he was left to himself, when
the sirdir secluded himself in his zenana,
or was absent at the many weighty and
evidently important conferences which
were being daily held in the palace of
Yakonb Khan. sit is not good that man
should be alone,' we are told ; so, as Mah-
moud the pious had at least four wives in
his zenana, he spent much of his precious
time there.

The food which he shared with his host
was excellent — it could not be said at
table, as it was spread on the floor ; but,
as knives, forks, and spoons are things
unknown as yet under the shadow of the
Hindoo Rush, it was rather repellant to
our fastidious Guardsman to see Mahmoud
rend asunder with his fingers a boiled
chicken or daintily roasted hill hickory

(or Greek partridge), to hand him a piece
with his brown-hued digits, which ever
and anon he put half-was down his throat.

Eat, sahib he would say ; ' remember
the proverb — touch the stomach and you
injure the vitals, but cherish it and you
gain heart.'

^ But my heart sinks when I think of
the friends I have lost through vile
treachery.'

'It was the will of God your people
should perish in the Bala Hissar,' replied
Mahmoud, quietly, as he filled his mouth
with a handful of boiled rice and green
achilles. * What says the Koran ? "When
God willet evil on a people there shall be
none to avert it, neither shall they have
any protector beside Him. It is He who
cause the lightning to appear unto you,
to strike fear, to raise hope, and who
fortieth the pregnant clouds." Praise God
for His bounty ; eat and have no heavy

VOL. III. I

thoughts. The Prophet has written every
man's fatal hour upon his forehead. It is
done at his birth. Yours had not come, on
that day in the Bala Hussars

Then Colville would think how strange
and striking were his surroundings, and
from the bearded face of the sirdir who
squatted on a carpet opposite to him his
eyes would wander round the Dewan-i-Kas
where they were eating the evening meal.

A piece of raw cotton floating in oil that
Alas held in an old ladle wedged into the
bare stone wall cast its fitful and lurid
glare on the dark faces, the gleaming eyes,
the quaint costumes, and oriental weapons
of the sirdir's men, who marvelled that he
fed and housed an unbeliever, instead of
cutting his throat and tossing his carcase
to the jackals of the Beymaroo hills ; an
unbeliever, who shaved his chin and not
his head ; but Allah ! how strange were
the customs for the Feringhee-logue !

And fortunate it was for you,' Mah-
moud resumed after a time, when ibis
chibouque was brought him, ' that your
hour had not come ; but come it well, and
how will it fare with you then ? The
paradise which is promised to the pious is
not for you,' he continued, plundering at
once, as usual with the Afghans, into the
Koran ; ' therein are rivers of incorruptible
water and of milk, the taste whereof
change not ; rivers of wine, pleasant
unto those who drink ; and of clarified
honey ; and therein shall be fruit of a
thousand kinds, and a pardon from the
Lord. Shall the man for whom all these
are prepared by the Lord of the Daybreak,
be as he who must dwell for ever in the
fires of hell, and will have boiling water
given him to drink, which shall burst his
bowels ?'

And ever and anon Colville was treated
to quotations much to the same purpose.

I 2

Seeing him one day gazing at a photo
of Mary Wellwood, the sirdir became at
once full of curiosity.

^ One of your wives ?' he asked.

No ; but one who is to be my wife, 1
hope.'

She cannot be of rank — she has no
ring in her nose. Is she moon-faced ?' {i.e.,
handsome.)

Very ; as you see.'

And you love her very much ?'

I do indeed.'

'Better than your best horse, your
camels, and all your fat-tailed sheep ?'

Better than all the world.'

Inshallah ; perhaps you may see her
soon again.'

'Please God, I shall.'

Do you keep her locked up — in care of
your father, or who — as you are absent,
and gone to the wars?'

Why should I do so T

'Many of our people, if of rank, lock up
their wives when they travel.'

'Why?'

They may be false and artful.'

And what do you do then ?'

He only smiled grimly, and touched the
carved silver hilt of the cJiarah in his
crimson shawl girdle.

You treat them with a spirit of selfishness,'
said Colville ; ' but I know that even
Christian men do the same, by making
more severe laws for women than themselves,
forgetting that by so doing they
raise them above themselves.'

But the sirdir knew not what to make
of this idea, and so remained silent.

Nearly three weeks had passed since
Colville became a prisoner in the fort of
Mahmoud Shah, and no tidings had reached
him of what was doing in the world
of India, beyond the Kyber and other
passes, or of what was transpiring in the
city of Cabul.

He knew that tidings of the massacre
then must have been flashed home by the
electric telegraph long since, and that poor
Mary would now be mourning for him, as
one who was no more !

CHAPTER VII.

THE FUGITIVE.

Ignorant that Taimur, the Usbeg Tartar,
the Guide soldier, was preceding him,
Eobert Wodrow— full of longing for dire
and terrible vengeance on those who had
destroyed his comrades and friends, among
them more especially Leslie Colville, ashe
never doubted — trod resolutely on to
reach Lundi-khan Kotal. or any outpost
at the head of the Kurram Valley.

From the circumstance of Robert Wod-
row being a gentleman by birth and education,
and that both had loved two sisters,

there had been a bond of friendship between
the staff-captain and the luckless
private of hussars.

They were Europeans — another tie ; and
more than all, when so far away from all
who loved them, they were ' brother Scots.'

Hungry and athirst — though the latter
suffering could be appeased at any passing
stream — the evening of the day after the
massacre, when Wodrow finally turned
his back upon the smoking ruins of the
Eesidency, saw him disguised and armed
as we have described, resolutely pursuing
the mountain-path which led, he knew,
from Cabul, past Buthak towards the Lata-band
Pass, a distance of twenty-two miles ;
but, disguised though he was, he felt that
it was necessary for his safety to avoid all
towns and villages, among which, no doubt,
news of the destruction of the Feringhees
must have spread like wildfire.

He found himself in a solitude — a place

of the most intense loneliness, so he paused
to rest himself awhile beside a runnel that
trickled down the rocks, and to gather a
few wild apples and grapes. On one side
rose the Katcha mountains to the height
of eight thousand feet ; on the other were
mountains quite as lofty. It was such a
scene and place as would require the pencil
of Salvator Rosa to depict, so deep Averse
the shadows in the dark and savage passes,
so red the light that glowed on the eastern
slopes of the mighty hills as the sun veered
westward.

Vast groves of jelgoozeh pines, black
and solemn, cast a gloom in some places ;
in others the sturdy, snake-like roots of the
banyan-tree curled and twisted themselves
among the rocks, and through the holes
and crevices of a little ruined musjid, or
wayside house of prayer, built of red
and white marble, which was open and
empty.

Wodrow looked at it wistfully, as if he
would select it as a place wherein to pass
the night and escape the mountain dews ;
but he thought of the snakes he had seen,
and scorpions too, and remembered, with
a shudder, the huge and venomous reptiles
of that kind he had seen on the plains of
Peshawur.

He selected a crevice in the rocks where
a quantity of dry and dead leaves had been
drifted by the wind, put his Afghan shield
and tulwar under his head as a pillow,
muffled his furred choga around him, and,
soldier-like, accustomed to sleep anywhere,
anyhow, or at any time, he slept till morning
was well in, so much had he been
overcome by the weariness of the preceding
twenty-four hours.

Another ten miles would bring him, he
knew, to JugduUuk — that place of evil
omen and blood — towards which the lonely
fugitive trod on through black and frowning

gorges, where fantastic rocks, savage
and weird, flung grey and purple shadows
that road the deeper passes dark as midnight,
and there the waters of the mountains
could be seen reflecting the sky
above, as they rolled through the obscurity
so far down below.

In some parts the mountains rose the
perfection of naked desolation, appalling
in their silence and sublimity, looking like
the scene of some Titanic conflict in age
unknown, and yet every foot of the way
there had been traced in British blood —
the blood of Elphinstone's massacred army
in the war of 1841.

At one point, as Robert Wodrow was
proceeding along a narrow ledge above a
giddy precipice, where the mists of a
foaming torrent streamed upward from
the deep dark chasm below, he had a narrow
escape, at the thought of which his
blood ran cold.

At one place, treading over a loose spot,
the earth and splintered rock gave way
beneath his feet, and before he could recover
himself he fell upon a lower ledge,
some fifteen feet beneath, where he lay fora
time, half stunned and scarcely daring
to breathe.

At that moment death seemed close
indeed !

He was only fine yards from the edge
of a precipice, the height of which his
mind failed to fathom, and, as one in a
dreadful dream, he crawled upward and
away from it on his hands and knees, till
a surer and less perilous route — path it
could not be called — was won, and he resumed
his way with a prayer of thankfulness
on his lips and in his heart — one of
the prayers he had learned as a child at
his mother's knee in the old manse of
Kirktoun-Mailler.

His anxiety and disquietude were increased

now by hearing more than once
amid these profound solitudes the moaning
yell of a hyaena, responded to by that other
peculiar sound which seems to be something
2: between the wail of a child and

CD

the howl of a dog — the cry of the jackal ;
thus, the peril of hostile men apart, he was
not sorry when he came suddenly upon a
species of village in a hollow of the hills —
we say a species of village, as it did not
consist of built houses, but only some seven
or eight huts.

The dwellings, poor and mean, were
formed of stakes cut from the adjacent
forest, with walls formed of wicker-work
plastered with mud, and called * wattle and
dab ;' leaves of trees and jungle grass
formed the roof, and all around them was
jungle tainting the air, and to the European
very suggestive of fever and miasma.

The inhabitants were rude and simple
shepherds, whose dogmas, or fat tailed

Persian sheep, were grazing in the neighbouring
valley, and they seemed somewhat
awed by the gaunt, tall, and keen-eyed
warrior, who, with shield and tulwar, pistols
and dagger, his floating longer and
cloak, alike stained with what was too
evidently blood, suddenly appeared among
them and asked for food, offering for it a
handful of kusiras^ or Afghan pence.

From them he got milk, chattels, and
a ciiddoo, or gourd full of curry and rice,
of which he ate like a famished kite, while
the wondering shepherds looked on without
questioning, and evidently impressed
by the swagger and adopted ferocity oi:
his bearing, believing he could be no other
than ' a very devil of a hiidmash ' (or
swashbuckler) steeped in the blood of the
Feringhees.

Refreshed now, he resolved to lose no
time in pushing on, saying that he was
going to Tezeen, which was not the case,

as it lay some miles on his right, but pursued
the path towards the Suffaidh Sang,
and was warned at parting to beware of a
certain place, marked by some ruined
walls, which were the abode of the Globule
Biaban.

Had these shepherds penetrated his disguise
or doubted him ? He almost feared
so, as he saw a little group of them, clad
in their loose blouses and conical caps of
black fur, conferring together and watching
him as he disappeared over a hotalj a
place where the road dipped down.

Sunset and falling darkness — after
which it was perilous to travel in such
localities — found him at the ruined walls
referred to as the abode of the Globule,
and there in a little clump of wild pistachio
trees he took up his quarters for
the night, rightly supposing that all natives
would sedulously shun a place
haunted by such a dreadful demon as the

Globule Biaban, or Spirit of the Waste — a
gigantic and hideous spectre, with a red
tail and claws like a sykes sickle, who is
supposed to haunt all lonely places in
Afghanistan and devour any passenger
whose evil fortune casts him in his
way.

No globule came to Robert Wodrow in
his sleep, but a delightful dream, which
made him long remember the pistachio
tope amid the lonely waste — a dream of
Ellinor Wellwood !

So powerful, so vivid, was this dream
that he almost said to himself was it in
sleep she came before him ?

He dreamed that she was beside him
and imploring his forgiveness, took his
hands in her own, and pressed her lips
passionately to them. Then her cheek
seemed to touch his, and he could feel her
soft sweet breath, and her dear eyes looked
tenderly into his.

So vivid was that dream that he turned
his head on the root of the tree against
which it rested, towards the vision, if we
may use the term, and then, of course, it
vanished, and the light of the African sun
streamed between the branches into his
eyes.

Eobert Wodrow's heart beat hopefully
and happily; he felt that he had looked
into the face of his other soul, with the
assurance that they would one day meet
again; and that notwithstanding their
separation, and all that had come to pass,
they were — perhaps — kindred spirits after
all ; and that phrase has a deeper signification
than most people think. * It is my
solemn belief,' says a recent writer, ' that
spirits are wedded before their birth into
this world, and that somewhere, perhaps
separated by barriers of space and circumstances,
there exists for every soul its fellow,
its complement, whose imperfections

VOL. III. K

joined to that other's, will make a perfect
whole, if only men and women would not
so rashly take the counterfeit for the
real.'

So Robert Wodrow flattered himself that
Ellinor, perhaps in a dream of her own,
had somehow come to him in the spirit, a
wild and mystic idea ; but, as he examined
his arms and ammunition before again
resuming his journey, he found that there
had been perilously near him in the night
something as bad, if not worse, than the
Globule Biaban !

Amid the sandy mud of a runnel that
ran not far from the ruined walls there
were distinctly traceable the prints of
tigers' feet, quite fresh, like the paw-marks
of a gigantic cat ; so on this night, when
he thought that by the influence of superstition
he was unusually safe, he had been
in more than usual peril !

A few miles more would bring him to

Gundamuck, a walled village, twenty-eight
miles west of Jellalabad, surrounded by
luxuriant wheat-fields and tall groves of
sombre cypresses — the place where Yakoub
Khan and the ill-fated Cavagnari had
signed that treaty of peace which the
former had so basely violated ; but Gunda-
muck was a place to be avoided by the
fugitive, who kept among the mountains
above it, thus having to ford more than
one tributary of the Surkh-ab river, and
while sighing to think he had still nearly
seventy miles to travel on foot before he
would hear the sound of a British bugle,
he struck manfully into paths which presented
themselves here and there, but
seemed to be only marked by the tread of
beasts of prey.

Among rocky mountains, divested of all
verdure and green clothing, his way lay
now for miles, and, if the utter loneliness
of the scenes ensured safety, it was at

k2

times not the less impressive and appalling
to the solitary man, and made him think,

The silent gloom around hath power
To banish aught of gladness ;
The good with awful dreams to thrill,
The guilty— drive to madness !'

CHAPTER VIII.

THE GHILZIE.

In avoiding the village of Gundamuck by
making a detour to the right, Robert
Wodrow came upon a handsome Moslem
edgar built in a solitary place. The
mausoleum — for such it was, erected over
the remains of a wanton or holy man — was
built of white marble, with a dome and
finely carved horseshoe-shaped entrance
door.

The oleander and rose shed perfume
around it, with many a flower grown wild,
as the garden which once environed it.

either by dissensions incident to Afghanistan
or the departure of a tribe, was
completely neglected now. The custard
apple, the pomegranate, and the citron
hung their golden but untasted fruit
around it, and the snow-white blossoms of
the sweet jasmine hung in garlands from
tree to tree.

The tomb looked solemn and picturesque,
and Eobert Wodrow was in the act of
pausing in his lonely way to admire it,
when, somewhat to his consternation,
there stalked forth from the interior a tall
and grim-looking Afghan warrior, completely
armed.

His rosary of ninety-nine beads — each
representing an attribute of the Diety —
dangled at his left wrist ; thus he had
evidently been saying his prayers at the
shrine of the wanton.

By some of the details of his costume
he was evidently a Ghilzie, a tribe above

seven hundred thousand in number, who
occupy the central portion of that mountainous
district which lies between Kandahar
and Cabul — fierce, hardy, and warlike
people, led always by many chiefs of
undoubted valour, under whom they have
always given, and will yet give, the British
troops infinite trouble.

His long, aquiline face was fair for an
Afghan, being what they term ' wheat-coloured,*
but his glittering eyes were
dark and keen, and his beard was
black as the conical fur cap that surmounted
his beetling and shaggy eyebrows.


Seeing that Wodrow's hand instantly
wandered to the hilt of his sword, as if
instinctively he saw a foe, the Afghan
became alarmed, suspicious, and, pausing
close by the door of the edgah^ scrutinised
the stranger ; and whether it was that
some of the dark paste had left the latter's

face, or that there was some discrepancy
in bis costume, it is impossible to say, but
the Afghan unsheathed his sword and
shouted,

Feringhee !*

He then levelled a pistol at the head of
Wodrovv', but it hung fire, and the latter,
ere he could draw another, instantly closed
with him.

He was a man of enormous stature and
great muscular strength ; he was, moreover,
fresh and well-fed, while the luckless
Eobert Wodrow was faint, weary, and
worn, having been feeding on fruit and
wayside herbs, or little better, since the
morning that saw the slaughter at the
Eesidency inaugurated.

Wodrow carried an Afghan shield of
tanned buffalo hide, elaborately gilded and
furnished with four brass bosses ; but simply
as a portion of his disguise, which the
Ghilzie had so quickly penetrated, but he

knew not how to use it effectively, while
his antagonist had a small one, not much
larger than a dinner-plate, on his left
arm, and when grasped in his left hand, it
proved a defence which he used with
wonderful skill and dexterity.

Both men were brave, completely master
of their weapons, full of perfect confidence
in themselves, and what Wodrow afterwards
called *a rattling set-to, in which
the pot-lid,' as he styled the little Afghan
shield, ^ bore a great part now ensued.


The Ghilzie fought in the spirit of
rancour, excited by difference of race and
religion ; Eobert Wodrow in a spirit of
desperation, to preserve his life and liberty,
and to achieve this nothing v\ras left
him but to kill his assailant outright, if
he could ; but all that he had been taught
by the hussar drill-sergeant and fencing-master
— cut one and left point — two and

right point — three and right point again
cut four and left point, &c. — was useless
here.

They both used bulwark of equal weight,
keenness, and length, but the Ghilzie was
fresh for the combat, and his tiny shield
of tempered steel grasped by a strong
and active hand, if small, was handy, impenetrable,
and was ever opposed to the
shower of cuts and thrusts that Wodrow
intended for its owner.

Ever and anon they paused to gather
breath, though they panted rather than
breathed, and their eyes glared into each
other, as the rage of conflict and lust of
destruction grew in their hearts — Wodrow
the while feeling that every moment was
to him most precious, as he knew not what
succour or comrades his foe might have at
hand.

He hewed, slashed, and thrust away,
but there was no circumveutinsf the use

of that pestilent little iron shield, which
rang and emitted red sparks beneath
his strokes, and which there seemed no
means of getting over, under, or roundabout.


The Ghilzie warrior was compelled, by
the activity and desperation of Wodrow's
attack, to stand more on the defensive than
he expected, and his mountain blood waxed
hot. Drawing back a pace or two, he
hurled three pistols in succession, which
he snatched from his girdle, at the head
of Wodrow, who adroitly ' dodged ' them,
and suddenly closing, struck the Ghilzie's
tulwar from his hand to the distance of
some yards.

The sudden wrench this action occasioned
his wrist disconcerted him, and
Wodrow's sword having completed the
sweep of the stroke, was descending on
his head ere he had time to draw the
deadly clara which, among other weapons,

was stuck in his girdle, when up went the
tiny shield, and in saving his head he left
his face exposed, and right into it Robert
Wodrow planted his clenched hand with
such force and fury that the Ghilzie stumbled
backward, and in falling was twice
run through the body and slain. Choking
in blood, his last words were :

I am gone. Oh, place my feet towards
the Keblah.'

Eobert Wodrow felt neither pity nor
remorse just then, as his blood was boiling
in fever-heat, and the Ghilzie had sought
his own destruction.

The victor cast a rapid and furtive
glance around him, and then hurried on
his way. Save the dead man, no other
enemy was in sight.

In a little time Wodrow looked back to
the place where the Ghilzie lay, and already
he could see hovering over the latter in
mid-air several great black vultures wheeling

in circles prior to swooping down to
begin their horrible banquet.

That his disguise had been seen through
by this unfortunate fellow greatly disconcerted
E-obert Wodrow, and deprived him
of much of the confidence he had hitherto
possessed, and he thought of travelling
only by night, and lurking in the woods or
among rocks by day ; but his ignorance of
the country, and the necessity of studying
such landmarks as he remembered, and
keeping to the beaten path as much as
possible, together with the necessity for
procuring food at all risks, compelled him
to relinquish the idea.

He untwisted another cartridge, and
again, with water from a runnel, made
some dark dye in a leaf, and carefully rubbing
therewith his face, neck, and ears,
betook himself to the mountain ridges that
overhung Bazar ; the latter is only twelve
miles from Gundamuck, but so rugged was

the way lie had to pursue, and so many
the detours he had to make to find fords
on the streams he had to cross, that
evening was drawing on by the time
he had passed on the right flank of the
village.

He continued his way a few miles beyond
it, and then, feeling overcome by
profound weariness and prostration after
the events and toil of the past day,
he lay down among some thick, soft
grass a little way apart from the road,
and, oblivious of snakes, wild animals,
and dew, dropped into a deep and dreamless
sleep.

How long he lay thus he knew not, but
he was roused by voices and other sounds.
Starting up he found a moon of wonderful
brilliance shining clearly as if a second
day had dawned, and close by him a
group of men with laden camels — a group
that had halted on finding him prostrate

there, in doubt whether he was alive or
dead.

On seeing the turbans and dark faces,
Wodrow thought all was over with him,
and his hand went at once to the hilt of
his sword, and he longed for the ring of
Gyges, or anything that would render him
invisible.

But the men among whom he found
himself evidently took him for an Afghan,
and evinced no sign of hostility, though
they were all well armed.

They proved to be five merchants from
Ghuznee, having camels laden with those
dried fruits which constitute the principal
article of trade between Afghanistan and
India, and these, together with oranges,
citrons, tobacco, and jars of red and yellow
Derehnur wine, they were now conveying
to the banks of the Indus to exchange for
British goods, or sell, if possible, at the
first British fort.

Like themselves, their sykes and hheesties
(grass-cutters and water-carriers) were all
well armed, but were Hindooss, and with
the whole party Eobert Wodrow had no
occasion for much fear, as his residence in
the house of the Hakim, together with
his knowledge of the natives, picked up
elsewhere, stood him in good stead
now.

What are you ?' asked one of the merits



chants.

*A chopper of Cabul,' replied Wod-
row.

Then where is your horse ?'

He fell under me on the way,' replied
Wodrow, seeing at once his mistake, for
in Afghanistan, as in Persia, State despatches
are carried by mounted messengers
called tcJioppers, or mounted couriers,
and private letters by cousins, or foot-messengers,
who will sometimes travel seventy
leagues in four consecutive days.

Then you are the bearer of a royal
despatch ?'

From the Ameer, whom God long preserve,
to the officer commanding the outpost
at the Lundi-khan Kotal. In the
name of the Prophet, give me some food ;
I am starving.'

The unsuspecting merchants hastened
to supply his wants, and one said,

Your despatch, no doubt, refers to the
vengeance of heaven which has overtaken

the Feringhee dogs at the Bala Hissar ?'

I presume so,' replied Wodrow, eating
cold meat and buttered chupatties with
infinite relish. ' If it isn't an angel they
are entertaining unawares, they little think
it is one of the 10th Hussars,' was his
thought. ^ As for the Feringhees, they
are now eating other food than this,' said
lie aloud.

True,' added the merchant ; * the tree
of Al Zakkum, which issue from the

VOL. III. L

bottom of hell, and the fruit whereof
resemble the heads of devils

May all their kindred come, as they
have done, to a knowledge of their fiendish
idolatry said another, his voice becoming
hoarse in the extremity of his hatred ; * the
heathens — the savages that they are — dogs
who come among us to cast a slur upon
civilised men and a holy religion — who
eat of the unclean pig, a brute like
themselves ; but we shall not cease to
strike and slay, Bismillah ! till not one
of them remain alive on this side of attack
!'

Oho, my friend,' thought Eobert Wod-
row ; ' by Jove, I must keep my eye upon
you, now that I know the amiability of
your sentiments.'

He then learned with extreme satisfaction
that they meant to pass Lundi-khan
Kotal. He was accommodated with a seaton
one of the camels, which, though laden,

-travelled at a good average pace, and he
resolved to be very taciturn and careful in
this bearing and demeanour, especially after
the morning dawned.

Fate and fortune have long: seemed
dead against me thought he; 'yet, heaven
knows, it is not because I have been faint
of heart ; and heaven always helps those
who help themselves.'

With these merchants he now travelled
in ease and security for the remainder of
his journey, passing undiscovered through
Sapor, Bare, Basal, and other villages,
and traversing the upper end of savage
Khoord Khyber Pass. Ere long he found
himself approaching Lundi-khan Kotal,
a post two thousand four hundred and
eighty-eight feet above the level of the
sea, just as dawn was breaking, and there
came to him on the morning wind a sound
there was no mistaking — the pipers of a
Highland regiment playing the morning

l2

reveille, ' Hee, Johnnie Cope,' among the
white tents of the British camp, and then
he knew that he was safe.

CHAPTER IX.

A Near SNARE.

In detailing the adventures of Leslie Colville
and Robert Wodrow in the distant
land where fate and the fortunes of war
had cast them together, we have somewhat
anticipated the time and the troubles
brought upon Ellinor by the daring of
her unscrupulous abductor.

The snares that had been laid for her,
the loyal heart she had lost and now believed
to be cold in the grave — all came
before the girl with painful vividness, and
she loathed herself for ever having listened,

as she had done at Birkwoodbrae,
to the artful wretch who from first to last
had sought to lure her to destruction by
so many specious falsehoods ; for, in many
ways, the baronet had now become so
degraded in character that, so far as truth
went, he was like the man mentioned b}^
Mark Twain, who had such a sacred regard
for truth that he never by any chance
used it.

Sooth, however, to say, prudence and
weariness at times suggested to Sir Redmond
the abandonment of his enterprise
and designs regarding Elinor i at other
times, obstinacy, distorted pride, and,
more than all, inflamed passions and her
apparent helplessness, spurred him on in
his schemes. He felt now that, if these
were unsuccessful, they could only be relinquished
at peril and expose to himself.

Her inertia provoked and alarmed him.
He would have preferred some of her

former desperate energy, even thongs accompanied
by undisguised repugnance of
himself.

He knew that now, with Mary Well-wood,
the luckless Ellinor must be numbered
with the dead ; the last despairing
advertisements he had seen in the Ham-hunger
Nachrichten and other journals led
him to infer that such must be the case,
and that the sorrowing sister had no doubt
left Altona in a state of grief, for which
he cared not a jot.

He knew also that Ellinor was ignorant
of Mary's precise whereabouts, whether
she was still in Altona or had gone back
to London or Birkwoodbrae ; that she
could not communicate with her, even by
letter, save through him, and was thus
completely in his power, as a baby or a
bauble might have been ; and he vaguely
thought that if he could get her away, on
any pretence, to Brussels or some quiet

little village in the Netherlands, she would
be still more so, and for the contingencies
of the future he drew heavily on his
bankers through Herr Burger, in the
Ores Keller.

For the future — let the future take care
of itself ! He had broken with English
society, if not with the police. Who was
there, as a relation, to call him to account,
and who had the right to do so ? he asked
of himself.

As he was not without fears or suspicions
of his friend Mr. Adolphus Dew-snap,
he resolved to get her away from
the yacht.

Tears — always tears V said he, angrily,
on the day after the Flying Foam was
moored alongside the jetty in the Binnen-
haven. * I daresay, like your sister, you
are sorry for that fellow Colville — your
'' cousin " as he called himself — a good
joke that ! Very terrible, of course — cutoff

by the Cabul niggers, and so forth ; but
we can only die once. Hope he was duly
prepared, as the devil-dodgers say, and all
that sort of thing.'

In furtherance of his plan to get her
away from the yacht he said, quite deliberately,


Your friend Mrs. Deroubigne has left
Altona.'

Left it — gone !' exclaimed Ellinor, in a
weak voice, and grieved but not surprised.

Yes.'

For where ?'

To another residence in Hamburg,
whither I shall shortly take you and leave
you to relate your own adventures, for I
am deuced tired of this kind of work.'

A gush of joy, but joy without the least
gratitude, welled up in the heart of Elinor,
and she prepared with wonderful
alacrity to accompany him, never suspecting
that he was cajoling her and meant to

put her in the hands of Frau Wyburo^, who
for a sum paid down had promised to
keep her safely till he made other arrangements.


He could not take her to the Iron prince,
UEuroye^ or any of the great hotels, for
there she would have claimed and found
protection, and for him she would, he
knew, be quite helpless in the hands of
Frau Wyburg and her husband ; thus he
resolved to keep his own counsel on leaving
the yacht as to where he was taking her ;
but Mr. Dolly Dewsnap and Eingbolt too
had shrewdly their own ideas on the
subject.

Sorry we are not to have your company
to the coast of France, Miss Ellinor,'
said Dewsnap, as he pressed a glass of
wine upon her ere she departed.

I don't think you'll miss much,' said
Ringbolt, as the pale girl made no reply.
There you get sour wine, and they call it

vin ordinaire and all kinds of offal cooked
with fine French names, so that I defy you
to tell whether you are eating a bird of the
air or a fish of the sea. Ah, there is no
place like Old England.'

Mr. Dolly Dewsnap was about this time,
as his subordinate Ringbolt said, * three
sheets in the wind,' even before going to a
late dinner at Hotel de Eussie in the Jung-bernstein,
and he was propping himself
against the cabin table while sipping his
sherry, and regarding Ellinor with a leering
expression of admiration.

Won't you have a cigarette, Miss Elinor?'
said he, suddenly producing his
cigar-case.

Scotch girls, and English ones too,
don't smoke,' said Sheath, angrily.

Why not ?' responded Dewsnap, sharply
; ' by Jingo, I knew a Russian Princess
the Princess Wroguenoff — who always
smoked Turkish tobacco in a Manzanita

pipe ; and a charming woman she was.'
So you don't know her now, Dolly ?'
show do you know?' asked the other,
who was disposed to be quarrelsome just
then.

You speak of her in the past tense
The droski waits, sir,' said Gaiters, suddenly
appearing in the companion-way.

Sir Redmond gave his hand to Elinor,
who was ready, hatted and shawled, and
barely gave a bow of farewell to Dewsnap,
as she ascended to the deck, and bade
adieu to her Vierlander attendant.

Evening had fallen now, and the gas-lamps
were reflected in the murky and
muddy waters of the Binnenhafen, as she
stepped ashore, and entered a close droski
(as those cabs are named which ply for
hire in all the principal thoroughfares of
Hamburg) unnoticed by any but some
dock porters, and an organ-grinder with
a monkey ^ appropriately dressed in Highland

costume,' as Sheath remarked while
putting his head out of the window, and
telling Gaiters, who was seated beside the
driver,, where the were to go.

The vehicle proceeded slowly, and Elinor,
while in a fever of impatience, and
without hearing what Sir Redmond was
saying to her, looked forth from the
windows alternately, and recognised the
church of St. Nicolai as they passed
through the Hopfen Market, the street
called the Gras Keller, and the long and
stately Neuerwall, after which they seemed
to traverse streets that were unknown to
her, old, mean, and dirty.

*Need I urge upon you how strangely
our paths seem to cross each other — how
strangely our lives seemed linked together,
Ellinor?' said he, attempting to take one
of her hands caressingly.

This roused her, and she withdrew it
sharply.

Still perverse !' he resumed, with knitted
brows. ' Fate has thrown us together
for a third time. You escaped me twice ;
but the third time mine you shall be, so
sure as you hear me speak !'

She made not the slightest response,
and surveyed with surprise the network
of canals and wet ditches the droski crossed
by a succession of iron bridges.

Elinor said Sir Eedmond again, ' you
are over-excited ; you have not recovered
from the terror of your accident — the sickness
and storm at the river mouth.'

Her face was pale and rigid ; her eyes
alternately flashing fire at the prospect of
freedom, and then growing cold as steel
with indignation.

To her it began to seem impossible that
Mrs. Deroubigne and Mary could have left
their pretty and airy villa at Altona, on
the grassy bank of the Elbe, to dwell
in such a locality as that in which she

found herself when the droski stopped.

'Here we are, sir,' said Gaiters, jumping
down and touching his cockaded hat.

A bell that emitted a dismal sound resounded
to the downward pull of the iron
handle, and a large door — but all the doorways
are large in Hamburg — unfolded,
showing a gloomy porch, lighted only by
the oil-lamp that burned feebly before a
madonna perched on the wall to give the
house an external air of respectability.

After a conference with some one
within, Gaiters reappeared at the droski
window.

Madame Wyburg/ he said, ' tells me
that Mrs. Deroubigne has left this place
two days ago, and gone, she believes, to
Brussels.'

To Brussels !' exclaimed Ellinor, sick
with disappointment and dismay, as she
sank back on her seat. * I cannot go there
vaguely in search of them '

Of course not ; so what then ?'

^ Oh, let me get back to London — to
Grosvenor Square !'

You are too ill to travel just now, and
must remain with kind Madame Wjburg
for a few days till the exact address of
Mrs. Deroubigne is found said Sheath, in
the most persuasive tone he could adopt ;
'but here comes the master of the house
he added, as a very singular figure
appeared.

A man short in stature, but thick-set
and powerfully built, with leery grey eyes,
dissipated and bloated features, and a ragged
red moustache, wearing a quaint garb,
entirely black, with a plaited ruff round
his neck, a wig curled and powdered, ia
short Spanish cloak, and a long Toledo
sword, with a Mother Hubbard hat on his
head, sharply pointed, and about two feet
high.

This strange apparition of the sixteenth

century doffed his steeple-crowned hat to
Ellinor, who after a time discovered that
the Herr Wyburg, among various other
less respectable avocations, whereby to eke
out a living, was one of the sixteen Reiten-
Dinner, or hired mourners, who — instead
of the friends of the deceased — attend
funeral processions in Hamburg, carrying
out Charles Dickens's well-known definition
of such a ceremony as * a masquerade
dipped in ink He had just come from
having a ' deep drink ' with his comrades
after an interment at the Begrabnissjjlatze,
or grand cemetery, outside the TJlricus
Bastion, for in their ways these fellows are
precisely like the human carrion crows we
may see dail'' perched on the top of London
hearses returning from Kendal Green,
Crompton, or elsewhere, in a state of hatband,
jollity, and gin.

He also bowed low and leeringly to Sir
Eedmond Sheath.

VOL. III. M

This was not the first of the baronet's
acquaintance with these people. He had
been aided by the Fran Wyburg in more
than one nefarious intrigue, the victim of
which had dropped out of society, and by
her husband in more than one shady gambling
transaction in a ' hell ' of the Adolphus
Plate, ere he succeeded to the title
his father's shady politics had won ; so the
trio knew each other thoroughly.

Elinor, conceiving that she must be
safer in the care of one of her own sex
than on board the yacht, agreed to remain
with Frau Wyburg till she proceeded to
London or Brussels, and from that moment
found herself more than ever a hopeless
prisoner.

The frau was a pale, little woman, with
black hair, wicked dark eyes, a square and
resolute-looking jaw, a cruel mouth, and a
face generally on which, after a time,
Ellinor could not look without a shudder

when the woman's real character became
known to her ; but as yet she was disposed
to cling to her as a friend — a protector —
in her helplessness and excessive debility
after all she had undergone, and she gratefully
accepted at her hands a cup of hot
coffee in her cosy parlour, with its gay
chintz curtains and polished oak floor,
while her husband, with an eye to monetary
business, drew Sir Eedmond aside to
another apartment.

M 2

CHAPTER X.

THE HOUSE BY THE FLEETHEN.

The abode of Herr Wybarp^ was situated
in the oldest part of Hamburg, where the
streets are narrow, crowded, irregular,
and, if picturesque, squalid. They are
generally of great height, built in the
Dutch fashion of brick and wood, and
those inhabited by the lower orders have
their narrow windows so near each other
as to give them the aspect of huge manufactories,
but with a heavy and gloomy
character about them.

Many of these brick-nogging, tumbledown

dwellings are admirable subjects for
the pencil. Numerous canals called Fleet-hen
intersect this quarter, and run along
the backs of the houses, giving the streets
a resemblance to those of Holland. In
summer the muddy exhalations from these
are very unwholesome, and might prove
pestilential, were it not for the agitation
in them caused by the current of the Elbe.

In this odious and unsavoury, but picturesque
part of the city, which escaped
the great fire of 1842, and which has
undergone little change since the days of
the Hanseatic League, the back wall of
Herr Wyburg's house was washed by the
waters of the Fleethen, while on one side
it was isolated from the haggard district
in which it stood by a large market-garden.

The original frame of the house had
been altogether wood — Baltic pine — but
would seem to have been patched and
repaired with bricks.

The arms of Holstein and Schleswig,
the nettle leaf and two lions respectively,
were reproduced in various parts of it,
for in other times it had been a residence
of the old Counts of Holstein, the ancient
Lords of Hamburg, a dignity claimed by
the Kings of Denmark till 1768; but in
rank it had come sorely down in the
world, just as in Scottish towns we find
the ancient abodes of nobility, and even
of royalty, now abandoned to the squalid
and the poor.

Its walls were in some places panelled
with almost black mahogany, quaintly, if
nncouthly, carved, and much discoloured
by damp from the adjacent Fleethen. The
windows were high, jealously grated with
iron, and admitted but a foggy kind of
light, even by noonday, and the whole
edifice had a general aspect of dreariness
and desolation that sunk like a weight on
the young heart of Elinor Wellwood.

The back windows alone were engraved,
but then they overlooked the Fleethen,
that system of canals and intersecting
ditches which conceal many a crime, and
where the body of the murdered — if found
before being swept into the Elbe — passes
often for that of a suicide.

When Wyburg withdrew with Sir Redmond,
he offered that worthy his hand,
but the latter ignored the action, and did
not respond to it. In this he only acted
snappishly,' not because he knew the
other to be a finished rascal; and over
the face of the latter there passed a flush
of rage and affront, while a dangerous
gleam came into his watery eyes.

It is no use, Sir Eedmond, your attempting
to come the fine or arrogant
gentleman over me,' said Herr Wyburg;
you and I are too old acquaintances for
that.'

His English was remarkably distinct,

though of course the foreign accent was
very marked. He had been a billiard-marker
in the Strand, but had to quit
London in some haste, having become too
well-known in the vicinity of * Lester
Square.' Hence it was that he knew
English well, and London too, in all its
worst, foreign, and most disreputable
phases.

He was a billiard-marker and gambler
still, and ready to do any rascality for
which he was sufficiently paid. His wife
the Frau Wyburg — had once been a
dancer in the Schweitzer Pavilion and
Ambiguity Circus, during her less disreputable
days, and was no more above
taking a bribe than himself.

Sir Eedmond,' said he, pocketing the
gold by which his services were to be
secured, ' I have seen some pretty faces in
my time, but the fraulein is downright
beautiful !' he added, as he thought with

genuine admiration of the clear, creamy
skin wliicb so often accompanies such
hair and dark-blue eyes as those of El-lin
or.

This young lady is my wife said Sheath,
a little emphatically ; ' and J. wish you and
your worthy frau to take all requisite care
of her for me — for a time

Herr Wyburg closed one eye, and, with
intense cunning in the other, surveyed the
speaker.

Your wife ?' said he.
'Yes

She has no wedding-ring.'

If it is not on her finger, it ought to
be.'

And you wish us to take care of her —
that she does not escape, you mean ?'

Precisely.'

Why ?'

Need you ask me why ?' said Sheath,
with irritation. ' She is ill — strange he

added, putting a finger to his forehead.
Poor girl — you understand ?'

Herr Wyburg winked his cunning eye
again. He did understand, and shrewdly
disbelieved that the girl was Sheath's wife ;
yet her bearing, her fear, repugnance, and
bodily weakness all puzzled him, and, like
his wife, he knew not what to think, save
that Sheath's golden sovereigns were very
acceptable, and the latter now prepared to
depart — his droski was still at the door —
and he bade Frau Wyburg * good-night,'
after she had recommended him not to
insist on again seeing Ellinor, who had
retired to her room.

Ah,' said the frau, with one of her
detestable but would-be suave smiles, * the
Fraulein has got what the French call a
grain — perhaps it is periodical — any way
the kindness and love of mein Herr,' she
added, curtseying, ' will soon make it pass
away'.

Ellinor felt intense relief when Sir Redmond
drove away, and strove to hope that
he had wearied or repented of his persecution,
and would really discover the address
of Mrs. Deroubigne ; but how was she to
travel without money, and she had scarcely
a trinket about her !

She was left, with a slipshod girl in
attendance, in a tolerably comfortable little
room, with panelled walls, and having in
one corner a pretty little bed (with one of
those enormous square pillows peculiar to
Germany), in another corner a tall cylindrical
iron stove, in which a fire was glowing
redly across the polished floor and on
the panels of an antique clothes wardrobe.

She looked from the casement window,
and saw the lights in houses opposite about
fifty yards distant, and between them the
still, deep, and gloomy Fleethen ditch, or
canal, in which these lights were tremulously
reflected; and something in the chill

aspect of the water, or what it suggested,
as it lay just beneath her window, made
her shudder involuntarily.

She was soon to find that she was snared,
and more a helpless prisoner than she had
been when on board the Flying Foam ; for
Sir Eedmond had placed her in this abode,
knowing where he could find her again
when he chose, and where, if he did not
choose, she might disappear, as so many
entrapped English girls do on the Continent,
and never be heard of again ; and in
gambling, dissipated, and dissolute Hamburg
the muddy waters of its Fleethen
hide many an unknown crime and many a
secret sorrow.

Lenclien (or Ellen), the girl who attended
her, if slipshod, was pretty and
rosy, but saucy and flippant, though clad,
like the usual Hamburg housemaid, with
a piquant lace cap, her white arms bare
to above the elbow, always scrupulously

clean, and when she went to market wore
long kid ;gloves and the gayest of shawls,
so disposed under the arm as to conceal
the basket, which is always shaped unpleasantly
like a child's coffin, but containing
butter, cheese, eggs, or whatever
has been purchased.

Ignorant of the German language, and
ignorant also, as yet, of the true character
of the Fran Wyburg and her attendant
Lenchen, and as their broken English
gave — as it always rather absurdly seems
to do — an idea of childish innocence even
to the most rascally foreigner, Ellinor
became inspired by a new sense of protection
in the presence of these females —
especially of Lenchen ; but this confidence
might have received a shock had she seen
how that young lady comported herself
with Rolandsbarg's uhlans, and other
soldan in the vicinity of the Dammthor
"VYall and the Burger Militaire Kauslie.

Three days passed, during which she
saw and heard nothing of Sir Redmond.
The truth was, that worthy member of
the ' upper ten ' and his Fidus Achates —
his friend Dolly Dewsnap — having, through
the tipsy insolence of the latter, become
involved in a street row at night with a
member of the Neidergericht, or Inferior
Court, to avoid the police, who ' wanted
them,' had remained closely on board the
yacht in the Binnenhafen, where she was
now remained, and fast becoming ready for
sea in Ringbolt's skilful hands.

As the evening of the third day was
approaching, Elinor, feeling stronger and
more impatient of action and restraint,
attired herself for the street in the best
of the garments found for her in the
yacht.

For what purpose r' asked Frau "Wy-burg,
angrily.

To have a walk in the city,' replied
Ellinor.

Mein Got, alone ! and for what reason ?'
To make some inquiries for myself at

the post-office, or elsewhere.'

It cannot be permitted !' said Herr
Wyburg, emphatically, and with knitted
brows, as he interposed.

why?'

The Herr Sheath has forbidden such ;
moreover, it is not safe !'

Not safe in the streets of Hamburg ?'
questioned Ellinor, while tears started to
her eyes. ' I am not a child !'

^JSTo.'

'Then why?'

There were disturbances abroad, he told
her ; trade-union mobs were about, and
the uhlans from the Dammthor were patrolling
the streets with lance and carbine.

This was not true, but Ellinor was compelled
to believe it, and relinquished the
attempt with a sigh of bitterness and
disappointment.

Leben daily brought her fresh flowers
from market, as she said, by order of
Herr Sleet.

The latter had often heard Ellinor say
at Birkwoodbrae that she was never dull
or lonely if she only had flowers about
her.

But his gifts of flowers were unheeded
now, she loathed them as if their petals
exhaled not fragrance but poison.

Yet once she could not resist toying with
some of them — the Dijon roses especially,
and with their odour across the tide of
memory there stole gently and subtly a
memory of the past.

Who has not some association of this
kind?

Ellinor's were of happy years at Birk-woodbine
and Robert Wodrow, and a torrent
of tears came with the memory, and
a kind of lethargic despair came over her
as the little hope that dawned upon her

began to die again — the hope that Sheath
had relented and really meant to relinquish
his persecution and restore her to her
friends.

VOL. III. N

\,

CHAPTER XI.

IN Hamburg STILL.

Ellinor was altogether unlike any other
girl on whom the evil eyes of Herr Wy-burg
had rested, in Hamburg at least.
Her face was so clearly cut, with pride in
its contour, a dreamy thought its eyes,
and something almost angelic in its purity
— as Tennyson has it,

A sight to make an old man young.'

The three days' unexpected absence of
Sir Eedmond rather alarmed Herr Wy-burg.
He knew not how to account for

it, and mightily, with all his ruffianism,
dreaded the gendarmes ; thus he was genuinely
glad when, in the dusk of the third
day, the baronet presented himself at his
house and inquired for his charge.

She is silent and dull as usual, and
anxious for the address of a lady friend,'
replied Wyburg. ' I don't understand all
this,' he added, in a growling tone; * have
you made a fool of this girl or of yourself ?'

Of myself as yet, I think,' replied Sheath,
with an oath.

Every man does so, once in his life at
least, and generally oftener,' said the German
; ' but I thought you were too wide
awake for that now. With her sadness
and her tears this girl is a profound bore
to us, even if paid for ! I wish you would
take some means to cheer her — to please
her — if you can.'

Don't talk to me about the idiotic vagaries
of a girl !' snapped Sir Redmond.

n2

I do not wish to do so, mein Herr ; but
what would you have mo say ?' replied
Wyburg. 'Look here — it is all stuff and
gammon about the Fraulein being your
wife. I lived too long in England not to
have my eyes opened.'

Well ?'

You love her in your own fashion, I
suppose ?'

^ And she ?'

Seems to hate you replied the German,
with a grin.

^ Perhaps she is not the first of her sex
who has said no when she meant yes.'

You don't mean to marry her, I suppose
?'

I have a wife, already,' replied Sheaths
as he carefully manipulated and prepared
a cigar.

Der Teufel !' said Herr Wyburg, puffing
out a cloud from his huge meerschaum,
but such things will happen.'

I have been engaged in many a lark
and scrape, as you, Wyburg, know well
enough, but never in one so peculiar as
this. The girls who eloped with me before
were always willing enough

She may turn ill — downright ill — on
our hands unless some change is brought
about, and may have to be sent to the
Krankenhaus ; and then — what then ?'

Sheath had not thought of this contingency,
so he became alarmed and asked to
see Ellinor.

On his entrance she rose at once and
came towards him, her eyes dilated with
hope or expectation and her lips parted,
but without offerings him a hand.

'You have news for me at last?' she
said.

News — about what — about whom ?'
Mrs. Deroubigne and Mary.'

1 have sent or gone daily to the postoffice
in the Post Strasse, but neither by

telegraph nor inquiry can I discover their
whereabouts in Brussels he replied, unblushingly
; ' and even if we went there — '

There ! that is not to be thought of.
I shall take the steamer for London,' exclaimed
Ellinor, looking round her as if
she would start that moment.

No, you won't, my dear girl — yet a
while, at least.'

I shall go mad — mad if I am kept here
prisoner for another day !' exclaimed Elinor,
wildly, as she wrung her hands and
then pressed them on her temples, while
Herr Wyburg looked with a kind of gloomy
scorn from one to the other.

He had many experiences in his career,
but this was to him one somewhat new.

Ellinor was so painfully agitated that
Sir Redmond was fain to resort to the
most specious falsehoods to soothe and
calm her ; he promised most solemnly to
write or telegraph to the British Ambassador

at Brussels, to the postal authorities
there, and so forth ; and, with intense
anger and mortification in his heart at his
bad success, he left her to rejoin Dewsnap,
and have a ^ deep drink' at the Hotel Eussie,
and perhaps a turn into the Schweitzer
Pavilion, feeling inclined on one hand —
all inflamed as he was with her beauty
and helplessness — to force her in someway
to love him ; and on the other, to sail
away with his friend in the Flying Foam
and leave her to her fate in the hands of
Herr Wyburg !

He did neither for a day or two yet, but
showered presents upon her ; he ransacked
the Never Wall and the Alster Wall for
all kinds of pretty things, and bought up
the best bouquets of theYierlander flower-girls
by the score ; and Frau Wyburg only
looked forward to the time when she could
appropriate all the presents, when the girl
was away or — dead.

All his presents and pretty trifles, over
which Lenchen wont into ecstasies, remained,
as he saw, untouched in their
cases or packing paper.

You disdain all these things which I
feel such delight in offering you,' said he,
reproachfully.

She wrung her interlaced fingers, but
made no reply.

A red gleam shot out of Sheath's eyes ;
he bit his lip, and the Frau Wyburg laughed,
while her black orbs glittered mischievously,
and her mouth wore its cruel expression
more unpleasantly than usual.

But for his early entanglement with his
mothers maid — Seraphina Fubsby, whose
absurd name he loathed now — an event
which too probably had warped his whole
life, he felt at times — but at times only —
that he would gladly have offered his hand
and all he possessed to the sweet and gentle
Ellinor ; and, though he knew how she

shrank from him, and loathed him, he
could not help trying to play the old game
he had begun at Birkwoodbrae, by urging
again and again that his marriage was
untrue, illegal, that he would prove it so,
and also urging his wild, blind passion for
herself, on the plea of her wonderful
beauty, as Richard of England did his
passion for the Lady Anne, having rarely
found an appeal to a woman on that score
fail him.

But he might as well have spoken to a
statue now, and as she could extract no
tidings of her sister or Mrs. Deroubigne
from him, she thought only of escaping
from the house of his odious friends. She
was now aware that she had been entrapped
by a specious story, and that
neither Mary nor Mrs. Deroubigne would
seem to have resided with them after
leaving Altona, as Frau Wyburg and her
husband, though * coached ' by Sheath and

Gaiters, evidently knew nothing about
them save their names, and a new dismay
seized the unhappy girl.

Escaping — but how ? The avenues to
the street were too closely secured, and
the window of her room was too high
above the water of the Fleethen to afford
the least chance of escape there ; while the
only boats that passed were those of the
Highlander people, laden with vegetables
pulled swiftly along at rare and distant
intervals.

To appeal to the Wyburgs she knew
would be vain. Her pure, pale face with
its dreamy eyes, into which there now
came a hunted expression, failed to win
either their pity or commiseration ; but
escape she must, or die !

Ellinor knew now that in Sheath the
animal nature predominated, and that she
might have to suffer from his cruelty and
violence if she remained in his power*

But how was sbe to escape without money,
without a knowledge of the language, of
the very locality in which he had placed her,
without bodily strength, and with only
intense horror and aversion to nerve and
inspire her?

On whom could she cast herself ?

Certainly not the repulsive Frau "Wyburg,
with her wicked black eyes and square,
resolute jaws, or her equally repellent
husband, with the leering eyes and ragged
red moustache ? What had she done that
Fate should have cast her into such unscrupulous,
and to her altogether inconceivable,
hands ?

She grows paler, if possible, every day,'
said Wyburg to Sheath. ' If this sort of
thing goes on, it will be an affair for the
Krankenhaus/ he added, in a growling
voice, referring to the great public hospital
in the suburb of St. George.

Dewsnap's yacht was getting ready for

sea, and was now anchored by the dolphins,
outside the Binnenhafen, and Sheath was
resolved to end his affair with Ellinor in
some fashion or other, for the hints of
Wyburg alarmed him.

So he recommended to Ellinor a drive
in an open droski, attended, not by himself
he was too wary for that — but by the
Era Wyburg and Gaiters, who was to
have a seat on the dickey. He thought
there was little to fear in this, as Ellinor
knew not a word of German, and Gaiters
was a careful fellow.

Indeed, Mr. John Gaiters — though to all
appearance a thoroughly well-bred English
serving-man, automaton-like in movements,
reserved, and when it suited him most civil
in speech, and without an atom of scruple
had one redeeming bull-dog feature in
his character, and that was intense fidelity
to his dissolute, yet liberal, master.

The afternoon was beautiful and sunny.

The drive along the Jungfernsteig and
Alster Damn was charming enough to
rouse even Ellinor from her lethargy, but
not to still her resolution to escape, if
she could.

The scene, after all she had undergone
of late, proved a gay and enchanting one
the rows of stately mansions ; the quadruple
lines of trees in full leaf; the
deep blue of the Dinner Alster, its bosom
studded by pretty pleasure-boats, tiny
steamers, and flocks of snow-white swans ;
and the German bands playing before the
great hotels, which were all gaily decorated
with the flags of various nations, as if fora
holiday. But ere long there occurred
that which to her was a crushing episode.

While Frau Wyburg stopped the droski
to listen to a band that was playing amid
a group of people before the great Iron
Prince Hotel, Ellinor perceived a handsome
open carriage close by, and in it were

seated an elderly gentleman and two
ladies, who had their eyes fixed on her.

The trio were Lord and Lady Dunkeld
with their daughter, Blanche Galloway !

Ellinor started from her seat, as they
were quite within earshot, and in their
power lay succour — help — rescue !

'Lady Dunkeld — Lady Dunkeld — Mrs.
Deroubigne !' she exclaimed, wildly; *you
can doubtless give me her address ? You
know me — you know me — Ellinor Well-wood
!'

They all heard her ; but Lord Dunkeld
looked steadily askance, showing only the
facial angle which he thought so like that
of the Grande Monarque, while the two
ladies gazed with wonder at first, and then
with frigid hauteur ; and Blanche, who,
we have said, was strong in love, ambition,
and hate, said something to the coachman,
who drove away at once, while the usually
imperturbable Gaiters, in some alarm, took

the droski in an opposite direction, and
Ellinor sank back despairing on her seat,
as she was conveyed at a galloping pace
back to the gloomy house overlooking the
Bleichen Fleet. The deadly and sickening
surmises of what these cold-hearted people
thought, of what the world might say,
think, or suspect, seemed now to take a
tangible form, and the soul of the girl
seemed to die within her.

It was so fated, however, that the secret
of her adventures was never to be made
known to the world of Mrs. Grundy — by
the lips of Sir Eedmond Sheath, at least.

While this daring and extraordinary
conspiracy against the freedom and peace
of Ellinor was in progress in that obscure
and gloomy house, among the damp and
miasmatic districts of the Fleethen, her
sister Mary and Mrs. Deroubigne were
still in the pretty villa at Altona.

The former was now in deep mourning;
so deep that it was almost the same
as the weeds of a widow, for she felt herself
a widow in heart, indeed ; and by
the double loss she had endured the girl
thought that Fate was very cruel to her.

She had received a pleasant, a 
letter from old Dr. Wod-
row, condoling with her on the sad news
from Cabul, all ignorant as he was yet
of the escape of his son amid the new
calamity in that fatal city — fatal to
Britons, at least.

Any place in which v/e are perfectly
happy is a place we glorify aud transform
says a writer : and in the joy of her engagement
to Leslie Colville, notwithstanding
the perils he had to face, Mary had
glorified their pretty abode by the Elbe at
Altona.

That was all ended and over, and now
the place had become to her one of double

gloom, and associated with a double
sorrow.

Ah, Madame Deroubigne,' said the
young Baron Rolandsburg, 'your charming
villa has now not unnaturally become
to you a place of calamitous associations —
most unlovely,' he added. ^Ja-ja/it is
always so after misfortunes come.

And now as Altona had become so
repugnant — a place of such horror to both
Mary Well wood and Mrs. Deroubigne, the
time was fast approaching when they were
to take their departure for London.

VOL. III. O

CHAPTER XII.

THE PLOT THICKENS.

Finding that his visits were fast making
Ellinor seriously ill, Sir Redmond, at the
request of Herr Wyburg, did not intrude
upon her for a day or two, yet he called
and left a sham message concerning
his continued inquiries for Mrs. Serous


Where are the friends of the Fraulein ?'
asked Herr Wyburg, twisting his coarse,
red moustache ; ' in England ?'

^No, I rather think not,' replied Sir
Redmond.

Where, then ?'

They were in Altona last, I believe,'
said the other, unguardedly.

'Altona! In Altona ! Each Got ! Then
she is the Fraulein for information concerning
whom, alive or dead, such rewards
were offered by placards in the Bourse and
in the Hamburg Naclitrickten!

Nonsense,' said Sheath, discovering that
the admission was a mistake.

It is no nonsense,' exclaimed Wyburg,
trying to remember the amount of the
reward offered, his cupidity at once excited
by the consideration whether or not it
was worth his while to betray his employer.


After the latter departed, he remembered
the cunning and avaricious gleam that
came into the watery grey eyes of the
German, and a suspicion of his fidelity
began to assume tangible shapes in the
tainted mind of Sheath.

o2

The chances that after all his trouble,
care, cunning, and expense she might be
delivered from his snares, taken from his
power, an expose made, and doubtless an
appeal to the police of the city, to the
British consul and the four burgomasters,
before his intrigue had been successfully
developed and Ellinor's voice silenced,
filled him with exasperation ; and cursing
his own imprudent admission to Herr
Wyburg, into whose hands he had thus put
himself, he drank so deeply at his hotel
that night that, between his passion for
Ellinor, and fierce suspicion of his German
tools, his mind became named to a dangerous
degree, and he resolved that before
the church bells tolled midnight he would
visit the persecuted girl, for the purpose
of making assurance doubly sure with her
and his two paid creatures.

'Yes,' he hiccupped, with an oath, as he
was taken in a droski across the Adolphus

and the Nuerwall, ' I'll end it all,
or knovY the reason why ! I have played
the whining fool too long. Am I to pass
my days in slaving to study her whim-whims
? — to overcome her prudery and
sham scruples ? Am I a fool or a boy ?
Of what or of whom am I afraid ? I will
now listen only to the dictates of my own
mind.'

He muttered much more to the same
purpose aloud, and, quitting the droski at
the corner of the Grosse Bleichen, thrust
a double-mark into the drivers hand,
and, without thinking of change, proceeded
on foot to the house of Herr
Wyburg.

A mass with three pointed gables, and
each storey overhanging the other on
beams of timber, rose before him. All
was dark in and around it when he approached
the door, and, tipsy though he
was, he could hear — he thought — the

beating of his heart, and for a moment
but a moment only — an emotion of
timidity, even of slime, came over
bim.

Pshaw !' be exclaimed, with a malediction,
and rang the bell.

After some delay and parleying, he was
admitted by the drowsy Benches, Tho
surveyed him with more annoyance than
respect in her visage ; but he strode past
her without a word, and ascended to Herr
Wyburg's sitting-room.

He found that worthy attired in his
grotesque Reiter-Diener costume, with his
steeple-crowned hat and toledo on the
table beside him. He was asleep in an
easy-chair, and, after being at a funeral,
bad drank and smoked himself into a state
of partial insensibility.

^ I wish to see the Fraulein,' said Sheath
to Frau Wyburg, who glanced at him.
inquiringly.

She must be asleep was the answer.

I must see and speak with her.'

'Ah, you have found her friends, then?'
said Frau Wyburg, with one of her detestable
leers.

Sheath made no reply, but, snatching a
candle from the table, proceeded at once
towards the apartment of Ellinor, with a
strange pallor in his face, his bloodshot
eyes aflame, and his steps unsteady.

He hesitated a moment, and then turned
the handle of the door. It was locked on
the inside, and refused to yield.

He might naturally have expected this ;
but it served to surprise and exasperate
him, for at that moment he was in the
mood to fight with his own shadow.

Ellinor, rouse yourself — I have news
for you — news at last !' he exclaimed, and
knocked on the door-panels more noisily
than respectfully.

But there was no response from within.

He applied bis ear to the keyhole ; there
was not a sound to be heard, and, ashe
had been given to understand that
young girls generally slept lightly, it
was impossible he could fail to waken
her.

He knocked more loudly again, but
failed to elicit the slightest response.
Then he heard the mocking laugh of
Frau Wyburg, who was listening at the
foot of the staircase, and, believing that
already he was being deluded, a gust of
fury seized him, and applying his foot to
the door, and as it was old and worm-eaten,
he dashed it open with ease, and
entered the darkened room.

It was empty, and no cry of alarm or
consternation followed his furious irruption
into it. The upheld candle showed him
in a moment that its occupant was no
longer there. Ellinor was gone !

Her bed had been un slept in ; her hat

and the jacket she bad got on board the
Flying Foam were lying on it.

Where was she? Where hidden away ?

That double villain Wyburg had deceived
him after all, was Sir Eedmond's
instant thought, and, impressed by the
rewards offered in the Hanihurger NacJiU
richter and elsewhere, had 'sold' him and
given her up to Mrs. Deroubigne.

Though infuriated with rage and disappointment
he became sober in a moment,
and turned to confront Wyburg and his
wife ; and, to do them justice, their astonishment,
incredulity, and alarm had not
the least appearance of being simulated,
but were genuine.

She was concealed from him perhaps in
some other apartment.

Frau Wyburg emphatically denied that
she was.

^ Silence, hag !' exclaimed Sir Redmond ;
had you lived three centuries ago, you

would have been burned before the Rath-
laus as a witch !'

Her black eyes gleamed dangerously at
this injurious remark, and on Sir Redmond
turning away to prosecute a search elsewhere
in defiance of the palpable evidence
that the door had been locked on the
inside, and that the key was still in the
lock, Herr Wyburg, who was mad with
consternation and drinking, roughly barred
his way.

On the second finger of his right hand
Sir Redmond wore a cluster of diamonds ;
so prominent and sharp were they that
they cut through his tightly-fitting kid
glove. These brilliant, as he dealt Tyburn
a facer, laid his cheek completely open
and nearly tore his left eye out, thus a
terrible and most unseemly brawl ensued.


Wyburg was a man of enormous strength,
and for whom the enervated baronet was

no match in any way. Maddened by pain,
the sight of his own blood flowing freely,
by absinthe and eau-de-vie^ inspirited by
revenge and greed together, he resolved
to make Sheath a victim now, and, though
suffering from what the French call the
folie paralytic which the two compounds
referred to produce, he was simply savage,
yet methodical, in his proceedings.

Rushing upon Sheath like an infuriated
bull, he closed with him, and hurling him
down the staircase flung him in a heap,
bleeding and senseless, at the bottom.

When he recovered, Sheath. found himself,
secured in an attic of Wyburg's house,
a prisoner, bound securely with ropes, stiff,
sore, and bruised, his face and shirt front
all plastered with blood.

Mr. John Gaiters, all the subsequent
day, and indeed the day after, was sorely
perplexed by the non-appearance of his
master at the Hotel Russia, especially as

the yacht of Mr. Dewsnap was now reads
for sea.

Frau Wyburg assured him that they had
seen nothing of Sir Redmond for several
days, and as the young lady had gone he
had most probably accompanied her ; and
with this perplexing intelligence the valet
was compelled to content himself.

This story or suggestion seemed to receive
a certain corroboration when Gaiters,
who was v/ell-nigh at bis wit's end, on
pursuing his inquiries at Herr Burger's
bank in the Gras Keller, where Sir Redmond
had letters of credit, found that a
cheque, duly signed by him, had been
presented there on the preceding day and
cashed for a pretty large sum.

Meanwhile, unable to communicate with
the external world, Sir Redmond remained,
bound hand and foot, a wretched prisoner
ia the power of the Wyburgs, one of whose
first measures was the extortion of the

cheque in question as the price of his
freedom ; but, though the money was duly
paid, they still kept him in their hands,
being somewhat doubtful whether to release
or destroy him.

He knew not whether they had actually
betrayed him and given over Ellinor to
her sister and chaperone, Mrs. Deroubigne,
and in some respects he cared not now.
In his innate selfishness of heart, he cursed
her bitterly as being in one sense the cause
of his present predicament, and he longed
with a savage energy to be free that he
might turn his back on Hamburg forever.


He strove with all his strength and
energy to burst his bonds, while the veins
in his forehead swelled and the perspiration
poured over it, but strove, in vain,
while Herr Wyburg, with his hideous
visage tied up in a blood-stained cloth, sat
mockingly his chair, smoking his meerschaum,

and sipping absinthe from time
to time out of a green cup-shaped German
glass.

The care with which the cheque had
been executed and cashed induced Herr
Wyburg and his spouse to extort at all
risks another, for their greed and cupidity
were thoroughly awakened now, and they
had the miserable man completely in
their power ; and the circumstance that
the funerals of one or two opulent burgers
one of them actually that of a senator
of the city — were taking place, in which
the Herr with his battered visage could
take no part, and consequently pocket no
fees, made him the more resolved on extortion
-J and, if the worst came to the
worst, there were the waters of the Flee-then
below the windows of the house.

You'll never see that girl again unless
you sign this other little cheque said Fran
Wyburg, with grim decision.

I don't care a doifc about the girl ; keep
ber replied Sleatb through bis clenched
teeth. ' For God-sakes he added, imploringly,
* give me something to drink ; I am
perishing of thirst

'Well, perish, then, if you won't sign
this paper — it is stamped and ready ; bat,
till you sign it or die, the water remains
in this flagon,' replied Wyburg, placing a
tall German beer-jug full of sparkling
water in tantalising proximity to the
wretched man's lips, and then putting it
on the table, while madame looked on approvingly,
her black eyes gleaming, her
pale face radiant with malice and greed,
her jaw looking more square, and her tiger
mouth more tigerish than ever.

Somehow the words of Wyburg seemed
to introduce a practical and reasonable, if
intensely obnoxious, element into what
seemed the phantasmal horror of a prolonged
nightmare to Sir Eedmond Sheath.

What is the sum ?' he asked, huskily.

Three hundred pounds English money
He groaned with rage at this renewed
extortion ; but, if money is precious, life
is more precious still, and these Wyburgs
he knew to be wretches without an atom
of scruple, so he signed the cheque, which
the Herr, who knew his autograph perfectly
well, folded and handed to his
better-half with a smile of grim satisfaction.


Unbind me now,' said Sheath, faintly.

Not if I know it, yet awhile,' replied
the ruffian, who, though he acted so methodically,
was half mad with revenge for
his gashed visage, and the imbibing of
absinthe and Danish corn-brandy.

^ What are you about to do with me ?'
asked Sheath, imploringly, and with mortal
fear in his face and accents.

Wyburg made no reply, but proceeded
with great deliberation to bore two holes

in the wainscot of the attic, and, passing
through them the ends of the ropes which
bound his prisoner, told him that they
were being secured by the Fran to a little
cask of powder on the other side of the
partition, and inserted in which there was
a loaded and cocked revolver, and that the
instant he moved or attempted pursuit or
flight the tension of the ropes would cause
an explosion that would blow him and the
house to pieces !

Herr Wyburg had made that which to
him was a small fortune out of Sir Redmond,
and dared not face any inquiry incase
of that individual escaping and appealing
to law ; he was far in arrear with
his house rent ; he had sold his furniture
twice over to different Jews in the Scars
and now resolved to quit Hamburg
for purer air ; and, inspired by malice
and revenge, he and his wife took their
immediate departure, leaving the wretched

VOL. III. P

Sheath minus watch, purse, and rings, and,
as we have described, face to face with
a miserable death, if he attempted to
escape !

CHAPTER XIII.

WITH Egbert' column.

Welcome back from the other world, Bob
Wodrow r exclaimed Toby Chace. * The
stable-call won't be new to you, though
a good meal and a deep drink may be,
I have no doubt. So we are to have a
shy at these Afghan beggars again 1' and
while e^rooming: his horse he bes^an to
sing the stable-call in verse, while rubbing
down his charger after hissing away
through his teeth in the most orthodox
fashion,

p2

Come, come to your stable as quick as you're able,
Come, come to your stable, my jolly dragoon ;
See your horse groomed well, and give him some hay,.
With corn and water for night and for day ;
Then come to your stable as fast as you're able,
Then come to your stable, my jolly dragoon.'

So sang to YVodrow that jovial English
trooper, Toby Chace, light of heart, if
unsteady of purpose, while bustling about
his horse — Chace, who, in his more palmy
days, had more than one hunter of his
own in stall; who had once handsome rooms
in Piccadilly, a snug corner in his club,
and was never without an invitation for
cub-hunting in the shires, or to pot the
deer in the Highlands ; the heir to an old
English baronetcy, and yet, in his fallen
estate, was wont to designate himself 'jolly
as a sandboy, whatever the devil kind of
boy that is !'

Left behind his regiment sick, Toby
Chace was now, like Eobert TVodrow,

attached ]pro tern, to a squadron of the
9th Lancers ordered to the front.

So we march tomorrow to clear off the
score we owe these fellows at Cabul,' said
he.

In that business, then, I have lost the
best friend man ever had said Wodrow,
sighing ; ^ Captain Colville.'

A right good sort ; we'll drink his
health — his memory, I mean. I wonder
if Red Roberts will let us sack the
town?'

I think not, Toby — but why ?'

It would be rare fun prying into the
harems, or having them escaladed by
reprobates in regimentals.'

Toby's naturally elastic spirits rose at
the prospect of more fighting, for his disposition
was always to make the best of
everything, and it served him in good
stead now.

Ignorant of all that was transpiring to

those most dear to him far away in
Europe, Colville was still a prisoner in
'the hands of Mahmoud Shah.

The cruel and barbarous murder of the
young and gallant Hector Machin, after
he had been so many weeks the prisoner
and guest of Ayoub Khan, proved that
our Afghan enemies could be true or false
to their salt, exactly as suited their caprice
or cruelty ; thus, though Leslie Colville
was in precisely the same position in the
Cabul fort, it by no means followed that
this life might not be taken in any moment
of fear or hatred.

Life in India has often been described
as one long and listless yawn, born of
weariness, heat, and indolence ; but it was
certainly not so at this crisis on the borders
of Afghanistan, which, to the average
British mind, is considered a part of
India.

An army was now detailed to punish the

infatuated fanatics who had destroyed our
Embassy, but, though infatuated, they were
also

Soils made of fire and children of the sun,
With whom revenge is virtue !'

So we now resolved to take a leaf out of
their own book, and have our revenge in
turn.

Once more our troops would have to
toil along the stony and boulder-strewn
banks of the gloomy Khyber, up and down
the awful chasms of the Lundi Khan
Kotal, by the mountain clefts and deep
defiles of Khoord Cabul, with every prospect
of being harassed, perhaps decimated,
by thousands of hardy hillel — the Khy-
berees, Afreedees, Shinwarris, Mormons,
Mongols, and Gillies.

The gallant and active Sir Donald
Stewart again seized Candahar; Massey
occupied the Shutargardan Pass ; Baker

took Kusbi, and Eoberts — whose name is
second to none in glory — was soon ready
to begin that campaign which all hoped
would end in the conquest of the bloodstained
Cabul.

The Viceroy of India made the greatest
efforts to grapple with the new difficulty,
and hurry forward the army that was to
uphold the power of the fickle Ameer as
our nominal ally — for nominal indeed he
was — and there was every prospect of his
being slain by his insurgent troops, led by
Mahmoud Shah and other girders, unless
he took to flight, or put himself at their
head against us as intruders and unbelievers.


^ This devil of an Ameer,' remarked old
Colonel Spatterdash, ' is true to the words
of Swift — " The two maxims of every great
man are always to keep his countenance,
and never to keep his word." '

Three columns were to advance simultaneously,

and open communication between
Cabul and Peshawur, but we shall
confine ourselves briefly to that under Sir
Frederick Eoberts, which consisted of
three batteries of Artillery, a squadron of
H.M. 9th Lancers, some Bengal and Punjaub
Cavalry, the Gordon and Albany
Highlanders, the 67 th Regiment, 3rd
Sikhs, 23rd Pioneers, and Spatterdash's
Punjaubees — making a total of barely
eight thousand men.

Scarlet, blue, and gold, had for the time
been discarded by the cavalry, and, like
most of the infantry, they wore harkee^ or
mud-coloured costumes — uniforms they
could scarcely be called — with the inevitable
tropical helmet, and parties or linen
leg bandages. The Scottish infantry, however,
retained their tartans, wearing respectively
the green Gordon and red Royal
Stuart ; but the Lancers laid aside their
scarlet and white bannerettes.

The 19tli of September saw our advanced
parties reconnoitering close to Kushi,
within thirty-five miles of Cabul, where
twelve strong battalions with many guns
were reported to be in garrison ; and on
that night the Duke of Albany's Highlanders
were suddenly fired into, when all
was supposed to be quiet in the vicinity,
and a group of officers were chatting and
smoking round a wood fire, which was
instantly scattered and extinguished that
the enemy might have nothing to aim
by.

The Highland pickets stood to their
arms, and by a few half-random volleys
swept away the assailants, who proved to
be Ghaziss or religious fanatics, armed with
quails, or long matchlock guns, with a
forked rest, which enables the marksman
to take a steady aim. They are formidable
weapons in mountainous districts, and,
though their range exceeded that of old

brown Bess,' it is far inferior to that of
the rifles now in use.

Three days after, the Mongols attacked
a convoy of provisions, borne on mules, ina
solitary pass, and killed about twenty-three
of the escort, chiefly by knives, and
resistance proved useless, as the mountain
band was so numerous that they next

attempted to storm a tower at the summit

t.

of the Sirrah Kotal, or Red Pass, so named
from the peculiar colour of the narrow
path which led to it, but were repulsed
and finally driven off by two companies of
the Albany Highlanders. But skirmishes
such as these were now of daily occurrence.


A few days after saw General Baker,
O.B. and V.C., with the brigade of cavalry
at Kushi (or ' the Village of Delights '), ina
very barren district, whence, however,
could be seen the lovely Logur Valley —
fresh, green, and fertile ; aud then he

pushed his patrols and reconnaissance
along the Cabul Road towards Zargun
Sbahr.

The advanced camp at Kushi received
some very unexpected guests on the 23'rd
of September, when, at the head of twenty-five
splendidly clad and accoutred horsemen
— including old Daud Shah — the
Ameer Yakoub Khan rode in and surrendered
himself !

I have no longer any power left,' said
he ; 'I have been dethroned by my own
mutinous troops ; but Inshallah ! it is the
will of God !'

What his true reason for this startling
step may have been, we never knew wrote
an officer, ' certainly not the one he gave,
for no Afghan ever told the truth intentionally.'


Handsome tents were given to him and
his suite, and a guard of honour, furnished
by the Gordon Highlanders, was accorded

him. ISText day General Eoberts and ibis
staff rode in amid the cheers of the troops,
and every face brightened, as all knew
that the stern work of vengeance was soon
to begin, and the pitiful slaughter of the
gallant Cavagnari and his companions
would be atoned for.

Stolidly proud or stupidly unfashionable,
the Ameer did not condescend to
leave his tent, but lounged on a silken
divan in the doorway of it, with a lorgnette
in his hands, and evinced no excitement
till he heard the pipes of the Gordon Highlanders,
and saw the kilted sentinels
around him.

He is a man of about six or seven and
thirty,' says Major Mitford, of the 14th
Bengal Lancers, in his narrative, * with a
light almond complexion and a very long,
hooked nose, the lower part of the face
hidden by a black beard and a moustache,
the eyes having a dazed expression like

those of a freshly caught seal. This is
said to have been caused by the five years'
confinement in a dark cell to which his
father, Shere Ali, subjected him, for conspiring
against him.'

By order of the Viceroy, Sir Frederick
Roberts issued a manifesto to the Afghan
people to the effect that the British troops
were advancing on the capital to avenge
the treachery of its armed inhabitants, but
that all who were peaceful would be unmolested
; and non-combatants, women,
and children were advised to leave Cabul
and betake themselves to places of safety.

After some necessary interviews or consultations
with the dethroned and fugitive
Ameer, General Roberts concentrated his
whole force at Kushi prior to attacking
the city or any force it might send into
the field against him.

Meanwhile the so-called guard of honour
furnished by the Gordon Highlanders kept

a close watch over Yakoub Khan, as all in
camp mistrusted him, and believed that
he only made a pretence of giving himself
up, and had in reality come to sp}'- our
numbers and weak points.

CHAPTER Xii.

THE BATTLE OP CHARASIAH.

That something was on the pains, and
something like preparation, and very like
consternation too, existed in and about
Cabul, became evident to Leslie Colville,
"who suspected, though he was ignorant
of the truth, that it was caused by the
advance of a British army.

From the square keep of Mahmoud
Shah's fort he could see mounted scouts
and regular cavalry patrols hourly scouring
the road, while crowds of Ghilzies and
other hillel, with banners waving and

arms glittering hovered on the mountain
sides ; caravans of camels laden with stores
from Ghuznee, Samian, Parian, and elsewhere
in the rear passed daily into the
gates of Cabul, and more than one train of
cannon too.

All this he saw, but made no comment,
and he asked no questions ; he was only
glad and thankful to heaven when night
fell or day dawned, that another twelve
hours of durance were passed, and that he
was still in the land of the living, or not,
perhaps, sold as a slave to the Brooches
or Usbeg Tartars, till one morning, about
an hour or more before dawn, Mahmoud
roused him from the charity on which he
slept, and curtly told him that he must
come forth.

Leslie Colville's heart beat painfully,
and his thoughts flashed home to Mary
Wellwood. Was death — such a murderous
death as that by which Machin died

VOL. III. Q

about to be meted out to him after
all?

He was without arms — helpless ; nor
would arms have availed him much in
that tower, garrisoned as it was by the
fanatical cut-throats of Mahmoud Shah,
whom he followed into the court, where
two horses saddled and ready for the road
were standing.

^ Mount said Mahmoud ; ' mount and
come with me, while the morning is yet
dark — we have not a moment to lose.'

They quitted the tower by its western
gate, and took together at a hard gallop
the road that led, as Colville knew by past
experience, along the left bank of the
Cabul river, and, leaving all the scattered
forts, walled gardens, and orchards behind,
runs by Khoord Cabul and the
Suffaidh Sang towards the Shutargardan
Pass ; and now for the first time genuine
hope began to dawn in his heart.

Hark !' cried Mahmoud ; ' what sound
is that ?'

A British trumpet call replied Colville.

Yes— and look !' said his guide, whom
Colville nov\^ perceived was clad completely
in spotless white, the costume of a Ghazi,
assumed by those Moslem fanatics who
devote themselves to death in battle for
their Faith, and to achieving the death of
all unbelievers.

Day was breaking now, and already the
snow-clad peaks of some of those hills
which are above eleven thousand feet in
height, tipped with rosy dawn as with
fire, stood sharply up against the deep
blue sky, and, after a ten miles' ride from
the vicinity of the city, Mahmoad Shah
drew his reins, and again said, ^ Look !'

Then Colville could see the gleam of
arms in the distance, and as the gleam
was steady he knew it was a sign of
troops advancing.

q2

Your people are there,' said Mabmoud ;
join them, but keep out of ray way for
the future, and tempt me no more ; for
never again, had we eaten a peck of salt
together, will I spare the life of an unbeliever;
I have sworn it by the ninety-nine
holy attributes and the Black Stone
of Mecca ! Go — and go with God, though
Eblis is more powerful yonder. There
are the unbelievers who say the blessed
Koran is a lie, and who seek to turn
us aside from the gods our fathers worshipped,
and of whom it was written on
that Night of Power, when the word came
down from Heaven, they shall taste the
fires of hell, which like molten metal will
devour their entrails !'

His dark eyes flashed as he spoke, and
he ground his set teeth in the fury of his
fanaticism.

Allah Shook !' he exclaimed, and, without
waiting for a single word of thanks

from Colville, wheeled his horse sharply
round, and galloped away towards the
distant city at full speed; and a picturesque
figure he looked, in his snowy
canine and loose mantle, his long, white
loonghee floating in the morning breeze,
his juzail slung across his back, and the
head of his tall, tasselled lance gleaming
in the sunshine.

Colville devoutly hoped they would
never meet again ; yet he had not seen
quite the last of Mahmoud Shah.

He now rode joyfully on towards the
two parties of British cavalry which were
then in sis^ht, and who were — though he
knew it not — about to inaugurate those
operations which brought on the battle
of Charasiah — or ' The Four Water Mills,'
a spot about twelve British miles from
Cabul.

The troops of Roberts had encamped
there for the night, after passing through

the picturesque defile called the .
All the vicinity had been
scoured by our cavalry patrols, and, little
aware that they were on the eve of a
bloody engagement, the soldiers, weary
with a long day's march, had turned in
early.

Daybreak on this eventful day saw two
cavalry patrols pushing along the roads
that lead from Charasiah to Cabul. Captain
Neville, of the 1 with Bengal Lancers,
with twenty men of that corps, took that
one which, after crossing the Chardeh
Valley, enters the south-western suburbs
of the city, while the southern road, leading
through the Sung-i-Navishta, vias
taken by Captain Apperley, with twenty
of the 9th Lancers, and Robert Wodrow,
as he had so recently trod the ways thereon
foot, now rode with him as a guide.

At nine a.m., a puff oE smoke came
suddenly from the loopholed-wall of a

village, and TVoclrow's horse fell under
him, killed by a musket ball. Apperley
reported that he had occupied another
village, and was now hard pressed by the
enemy, on which a field-officer and twenty
more Lancers came on to his succour,
while some native infantry went at the
double in the direction of Captain Neville's
party.

Robert Wodrow was in the act of getting
his carbine unstrapped from his dead
horse when a mounted man suddenly came
upon him clad in a sorely frayed and tattered
blue patrol jacket, and wearing on
his head a scarlet Afghan loonghee, and
great was his astonishment and noisy and
genuine his joy on discovering that this
solitary and unarmed rider was Leslie
Colville, whom he had long since numbered
with the slain among the ashes of the
Eesidency.

They shook hands again and again

warmly. Each lead a hundred questions
to ask the other, but both had little information
to give, as Colville had been
mewed up in Mahmoud's fort since the day
of the massacre, and no tidings from home
in any way or of any kind had reached
Egbert Wo drew.

And now, without a moment's delay, I
must report myself at headquarters,' said
Colville.

The General and staff are as yet some
miles in the rear, sir,' replied Wodrow,
recalled by the remark to their relative
positions, * and I shall guide you. By the
carbine and musketry fire in front our two
cavalry patrols seem to be catching it, and
I must somehow get another horse. We
have plenty of time. The infantry have
yet some miles to come !'

Wodrow seemed now alternately in
very sad or in the wildest spirits. With
Colville's presence, his voice and kindly

face, the young fellow's thoughts and
memories went keenly and vividly back to
the past time at Birkwoodbrae, to the
manse of Kirktoun-Mailler, and all the old
associations of Ellinor Wellwood and his
home.

Then, indeed, he forgot for a time that
he was only a corporal of Hussars, as Colville
did that ho was an officer of the
Guards, and they chummed like old friends
together.

'Share with me the contents of my
haversack and flask, Captain Colville/ said
Eobert Wodrow, as they sat for a few
minutes by the banks of a wayside runnel.
We are going into action again — that is
pretty evident. " Few, few shall part
where many meet " — you know what the
poet says ; and I care little if it be my
chance to fall — after all — after all I have
undergone.'

Don't say so, Wodrow/ said Colville,

in a tone of reprehension. ^ Why
the deuce are you so low in spirit
now ?'

I should not be, now that I have met
you again, Captain Colville/ replied Wod-
row, as he received back his flask and took
a long pull at it ; ' but I feel — I feel — I
don't know how to-day. It is not fear,
but as if something was about to happen
to me ; and a song — a song that she —
Elinor — used to sing seems to haunt my
memory now

What song ? ** The Birds of Inver-may
r

No — another, and at this moment her
very voice seems in my ears,' he said, in
broken accent.

And this song of Ellinor s '

Ran thus,' said Wodrow, and, with a
low voice and a certain humidity in his
eyes, he actually sang a now forgotten
song —

Thy way along life's bright path lies,

"Where flowers spring up before thee,
And faithful hearts and loving eyes

Assemble to adore thee.
The great and wise bend at thy shrine,

The fair and young pursue thee,
Fame's chaplets round thy temples twine.

And pleasure smiles to woo thee.

Yet, 'mid each blessing time can bring,

Thy breast is still repining ;
'Tis~cold as Ammon's icy spring,

O'er which no sun is shining ;
And friendship's presence has no charm —

And beauty's smiles are blighted.
Nor joy, nor fame the heart can warm,

That early love has slighted.'

And lighted has mine been, as you
know, Captain Oolville,' lie added, more
sadly than bitterly.

Come, Wodrow, don't pose as a " blighted
being," any way,' said the other, who
saw with pain the emotion of his comrade,
and feared it sprang from one not unfrequently
met with on service, the presentment

of coming death. ' Here comes a
Hussar on the spur from the front.'

Toby' Chace !' exclaimed Wodrow, as
that individual came powdering along the
road, but reined up sharply for a moment
or so. * Whither so fast?'

I am sent back to report that the enemy
in great force are advancing from the
direction of the city, and occupying the
defile and range of hills between this and
Cabul, completely barring our advance.
The Ghilzies are all mustering, and the
road to Zahidabad, where the fifth division
lias encamped, is threatened.'

That is the road by which General
Macpherson is advancing with a great
convoy of stores and ammunition.'

Yes — so no doubt we shall have to
carry the heights before evening.'

Toby Chace now recognised that Colville
was an officer, though in somewhat dilapidated
garments, and saluted Iii, colouring

cheaply', almost painfully, as he did
so.

My comrade, Toby Chace, Captain Colville,'
said Wodrow ; ' he is like myself, a
reduced gentleman, and will die, I hope, a
baronet.'

I am not in a hurry about that,' said
Toby, and, as Colville bowed to him, he
saluted again, and proffered his brandy-flask,
a silver hunting one, on which a
coat of arms was engraved — a relic of
better days at Melton and elsewhere. ' I
have only a ration biscuit to offer you, sir,'
said Toby, laughing ; ' but once into Cabul,
we shall have luxuries galore — coteries de
mouton a TA meer — mutton chops and green
chills. And now to deliver my report !'
he added, and, putting spurs to his horse,
rode off in the direction of Kushi, while
Colville and Eobert Wodrow followed him
as fast as they could. There was no
time to be lost now, as the events of the

day were rapidly developing themselves.

Colville reported himself to General
Baker (whose brigade was coming on),
and joined that officer's staff, on procuring
arms, while Wodrow bade him farewell,
and joined the squadron of Lancers to
which he was attached.

Captain Apperley's command of the
latter he had now dismounted, and posted
in a shallow ditch that surrounded a square
mud fort, in which he placed the chargers.
A range of steep hills rose in front of this
improvised post, and through them lay
the Sung-i-Navishta Pass — which means
the 'Place of the Written Stone,' from an
ancient Persian inscription carved on a
mass of rock in the centre of the defile,
stating that the road then had been made
in the reign of Shah Jean, who was
crowned at Agra in 1628.

Hills, steep, barren, and stony, were on
the left of this post, and there were grey

garden walls, from which the Afghans
were firing briskly, but as most of their
balls went into the air, it was evident that
they were ignorant of how to sight the
rifles they were handling.

A small party of the 12th Bengal Cavalry
dismounted, held a walled garden on the
right of this post, and kept up a rattling
carbine fire on the enemy, who took cover
among ground so rough and broken that
no cavalry in the saddle could act against
them.

To succour these advanced parties,
whose posts were now enveloped in whirls
of eddying smoke, streaked by incessant
jets or flashes of fire, the Royal Artillery
guns came on under Major Parry, with a
wing of the Gordon Highlanders under
Major Stewart White, with some of the
23rd Pioneers and two squadrons of the
5th Punjaub Cavalry, all sent by General
Baker, who assigned to this mixed but

slender force the severe task Ol carrying
these garrisoned heights.

Old Spatterdash as he went to the front
had just time to wring Colville's hand and
congratulate him, but in doing so reeled a
little in his saddle. In fact, at that early
hour he was still groggy from his potations
over night, and said, in a feathery
voice,

Secure me, Colville, but that infernal
bullet I got at Lucknow is troubling meas
usual.'

A few minutes more saw Spatterdash
lying on his back, shot through the head,
and a riderless horse galloping rearward
with loose reins, while very heavy firing
on the left announced that Baker was
pushing on towards the hills, and all along
their green slopes could be seen the white
smoke of cannon and rifles eddying and
rolling before the soft morning breeze.

As Major White pushed on with his

somewhat mixed command, Colville could
see the rocky heights on both flanks of
the Sung-i-Navishta Pass manned bj dark
masses of the enemy, all ranked under
numerous standards that streamed in the
breeze, red, blue, green, white, and yellow,
the colours of the different mountain
tribes, or of the fortified villages from
which they came.

There, too, were the sombre battalions
of the Ameer's revolted infantry, clad in
brown tunics faced with scarlet; and, most
conspicuous of all, were a horde of Ghaziss,
furious and inflamed fanatics, in purest
white, led by several chiefs, but most
notably by Mahmoud Shah.

Parry's battery now opened fire on the
crowds that covered the nearest hill,
and, while yells of defiance mingled with
the din of the guns and musketry, four
Afghan rifled mountain guns in the Pass
replied, making very good practice against

VOL. III. jj

ns indeed, and waking the echoes of the
rocks that overhang the Logur river.

'Let the guns continue to advance, and
pound the nearest hill where these fellows
with the standards are said Major White,
adding proudly and confidently, ' With my
Highlanders alone I shall sweep the enemy
from those hills on our right.'

Parry then advanced his guns to within
fifteen hundred yards, and again opened
fire. His cavalry escort was commanded
by Major Mitford, who says, ' We had
thus leisure to watch the advance of the
92nd, which was a splendid sight. The
dark green kilts went up the steep rocky
hillside at a fine rate, though one would
occasionally drop, and roll several feet
down the slope, showing that the rattling
fire kept up by the enemy was not all display.
Both sides took advantage of every
atom of cover, but still the gallant kilts
pressed on and up, and it was altogether

as pretty a piece of light infantry drill as
could be seen.'

Meanwhile Parry's guns were sending
shell after shell with beautiful precision to
the crest of the hill he was ordered ' to
pound.' They exploded with dreadful
effect whenever and wherever the enemy
could be seen preparing to charge. The
Ghaziss and Ghilzies lay over each other
in heaps, torn, mangled, and disembowelled,
and the white robes of the former
were seen to be splashed and stained with
blood ; but still the living yelled and brandished
their swords and standards, and by
four p.m., Parry's guns had completely
silenced the four that had been thundering
in the echoing pass.

And. now it was that the gallant commander
of 'the Gay Gordon,' who were
still advancing, won his Victoria Cross, ashe
stormed the crowded hills in person.
Advancing with two companies of his

k2

regiment says the London Gazette she
came upon a body of the enemy, strongly
posted, and outnumbering his force by
eighteen to one. His men being much
exhausted, and immediate action necessary.
Major White took a rifle, and going on by
himself, shot the leader of the enemy.'

The fall of this personage, who was
deemed invulnerable, so intimidated the
enemy that they fled down the mountain
side, while the Highlanders crowned its
crest with a ringing cheer and then,
plunging with their bayonets into the dark
defile of the Sung-i-Navishta, they captured
the four mountain guns, the horses of
which lay disembowelled, dead, or dying
in the limber traces. So swift was the
rush of the Gordon Highlanders that they
had only nine casualties at this point.

With the Albany Highlanders in the
van, General Baker pushed along the road
towards Chardeh, the 5th Ghoorkas, 5th

Panjaubees, and 23rd Pioneers following
them, till the whole were opposed on
strong and precipitous ground by four
thousand Afghans ranged under six large
and brightly-coloured standards.

Upward and onward went our troops
under a withering rifle fire, the echoes of
which reverberated a hundredfold among
the hills, as they were tossed back from
peak to peak. For two *hours the fight
went on, our troops loading and firing
v/ith great coolness and deliberation ; and
then was seen the fearful triumph of the
breach loading weapon of precision when
properly-sighted, for each successive row
of swarthy men, as they crowned the
ridges of rock, was mown down by a
deadly fire, as wheat goes prone to the
earth before the scythe of the mower, till
after a time it seemed that scarcely a man
stood up alive after the delivery of these
thundering tempests of lead.

The deadly Gatling guns (the pepper
castors, as the soldiers named them) proved
of little use, owing to the acute angle of
elevation; but at last the heights were
taken in rear by a flank movement of the
Gordon Highlanders, who, with colours
flying and all their pipes playing, came
storming up the steep slopes, and, crowning
the summits, swept the enemy away, or
all that remained of them.

By four o'clock the Afghans were everywhere
in full flight to Cabul, with the loss
of many colours, twenty pieces of cannon,
and a host of killed and wounded.

Strong pickets were posted for the night,
as the Ghilzies and Mahmoud Shah's Ghaziss
were hovering about. The troops bivouacked,
as the tents and bao^g^aofe were all
packed for the advance to Cabul on the
morrow.

During all the events of this most
exciting day, by the difference of their

rank and duties, Colville bad, of course,
seen nothing of Robert Wodrow, and feared
that his presentiment had been fulfilled,
till he heard from one of the staff what
the general had recorded in the last paragraph
of his despatch — a paragraph that
excited utter bewilderment, and joy too, in
the hearts of some that were far away, and
had heard nothing of the absent one since
the terrible catastrophe in the Cabul
river : —

Corporal Eobert Wodrow, of the 10th
Hussars (doing duty with the squadron of
H.M. 9th Lancers), having carried a
message for me, on the spur, through a
most disastrous fire, after two aides-de-camp
and an orderly officer had fallen
wounded successively in attempting this
perilous duty, I have the honour to recommend
him for a commission in the
infantry, and also for the Victoria Cross.'

After they had read this, his old parents,
as they looked from the manse windows of
Kirktoun-Mailler, knew why their kindly
parish folk lit that huge bonfire which
they then saw blazing on the summit of
Craigmhor.

With hearts that were very full the
kindly old couple stood hand clasped in
hand, as when he had first won her girlish
love among the ' silver ' Birds of Invermay,
and, though they were very silent now,
their souls were filled with prayer and
prayerful thoughts.

CHAPTER XV.

EKOtJGH DONE FOR HONOUR.

The morning of the day after the battle of
Charasiah saw the cavalry all in their
saddles for an early movement. The dead
had not been buried as yet,

And their executors, the knavish crows,
Flew o'er them, impatient for their hour,

when about five o'clock, in a cold and
bitter wind, Colville was sent with instructions
for the Lancers and Bengal cavalry
to move off.

They did so at a rapid pace, and entering

a narrow part of the Sung-i-Navisbta
pass, pursued a winding and stony road
where the deep Logur stream flows between
rocks and slabs of granite, and there
seized a number of guns and brought them
into camp.

Though Cabul had been abandoned by
the insurrectionary troops, whom the
results of Charasiah had stricken with
terror, a considerable body of fresh Afghan
forces, who had returned from Kohistan,
had formed an entrenched position on a
high hill which overlooks the Bala Hissar,
and to dislodge them was necessary before
entering the city ; so, with eight squadrons
of horse, General Massy swept round it
northward to watch the roads that led to
Samian and Kohistan, while General Baker
made a direct attack in front.

During the events of the day Leslie
Colville had been conscious of a blow on
his left shoulder, received in a skirmish,

and believed it to be inflicted by some
soldier in swinging his musket about.
But it proved to be a juzail ball, almost
spent, and lodged in the flesh, out of
which it was cut by Robert Wodrow, who
bathed and dressed the wound for him.

The enemy failed to meet Massy and
fled in the night, abandoning their camp
and twelve pieces of cannon ; and under
Massy and Colonel Gough the cavalry
went in pursuit, through that difficult
ground which lies in the vicinity of Cabul,
and is encumbered by isolated forts like
that of Mahmoud Shah, and loopholed
garden and orchard walls, all affording
sure cover for skirmishers.

To keep as far as possible from these
the cavalry rode by the way of the Shah
Sung, or Black Rock. As they proceeded,
on their left rose the grand and picturesque
masses of the Bala Hissar, towers
joined by curtains rising above each other

in succession, round, square, and octagon,
all crenelated, and glowing in the red radiance
of the morning sun, where not sunk
in shadow. Loftily these masses rose
above even the smoke of the great city,
the background of all being the ridgy
crest of the Tukt-i-Shah, or Emperor's
seat, and the great rocks of Asmai, on
which hordes of the enemy were gathered.

The heights there are precipitous, a
thousand feet above the valley of Cabul,
and there the dark figures of the Afghans,
with their arms glittering in the sunshine,
could be seen, clustering thick as a swarm
of bees against the grey granite of the
cliffs, up the eastern flank of which our
infantry, with the Highlanders as usual in
the van, were now creeping with some light
mountain guns.

When the shells of the latter began to
explode among the Afghans they raised
yells of derision, waved their standards.

and danced like madmen ; and, heavy
tbougli the cannonade, they manifested
no design of abandoning the heights of

c1 CD O

Asmai,

Leaving two squadrons of the 12th and
i4th Bengal Regiments to watch their
movements, General Baker led the rest
of the cavalry brigade into the plain of
Chardeh — where a clear and beautiful
stream flows — and then the horses were
watered, while the din of cannon and musketry
showed that the attack and defence
of Asmai sieve proceeding.

Baker now rode on to watch a camp
that had been formed at a village round
Del Musing, en route to which his native
guides abandoned him, but where overtaken
and shot on the spot. The whole district
was now encumbered by half-dispersed
hordes of the enemy, which, as the cavalry
overtook them, resisted more or less, and
after the sun set the duty became full of

peril in unknown ground. Thus, when
darkness fell, many of the dragoons went
astray; some fell into ambuscades, and
several were killed or wounded before the
villages in the Plain of Harder, where
they were to bivouac for the night, were
reached.

Amonsr the latter who suffered was

CD

Wodrow's reckless and light-hearted comrade,
Toby Chace, whom, v/hen Leslie
Colville came up with Baker's staff, he
found divino' of a dreadful tulwar wound,
inflicted in combat against great odds
after his horse had been shot under him.

This was just outside the village named
Kill Kali, which was surrounded by a
very high loop-holed wall, within which
the native cavalry had dismounted for the
night, each trooper lying beside his horse.

Toby's wound had been given by one
dreadful slash, and extended from the
chest to the thighs, laying the body so

completely opoD, that water as he drank
it from Robert Wodrow's wooden bottle,
actually trickled from his viscera, yet he
was wonderfully composed, and by his
own medical skill Wodrow, who supported
Toby's head, knew that it was all over
with him.

Ah, Bob, I'll be gone in a brace of
shakes,' said he, speaking slowly at long
intervals, and while his teeth chattered
with agony and the dew of death glittered
on his forehead in the bright moonlight ;
the folks in England, who live at home
at ease, know nothing of this sort of thing,
thank God ! Take my silver flask, Bob,
and keep it — keep it in memory of poor
Toby Chace. It is all I have now worth
offering you. A girl gave it to me in — in
happier times at Ascot, one whose shoes I
was not worthy to tie — but she married
another fellow anyhow.'

After this his voice died away, his senses

seemed to wander, and whispering, with a
sudden tenderness of manner, ' Mother,
kiss me,' he turned his face to the right
aod ceased to live.

After a time Robert Wodrow, carefully
and tenderly as a brother would have done,
rolled the dead hussar in a horse-rug and
buried him under one of the tall poplar-trees
that shade the village wall, and there
he was left in his lonely grave, v/hen next
morning the cavalry rode oi? for a reconnaissance.


So narrow were the paths they had to
pursue that they proceeded in single files
till they struck on the great road to Ghuz-
nee and swept along it at a gallop, finding
at every pace of the way abandoned tents,
baggage, cooking utensils, and dying Cabul
ponies — the abandoned spoil of the Kohis-
tanies, Ghilzies, Locris, and others who
had come to fight the British, but had lost
heart and fled.

Four days afterwards Leslie Colville
found himself entering Cabul, when Sir
Frederick Roberts rode into it publicly,
accompanied by the son of the Ameer, for
Yakoub Khan, imbrued as his hands were
with the blood of the Embassy, and inculpated
with the actors in its destruction,
was too cunning to accompany the British
forces, at the head of whom rode the
squadron of the 9th Royal Lancers.

Possession of Cabul was now taken in
the name of Queen Victoria. The royal
standard was hoisted on the Bala Hissar ;
our Horse Artillery guns thundered forth
a salute, and three ringing' British cheers
rang along the ranks for the Empress of
India.

The punishment of the perpetrators of
the outrage at the Residency, the terrible
explosion at the Bala Hissar, and the
fighting that ensued at the Shutargardan
Pass and the Sirrah Kotal, lie somewhat

VOL. iir. s

apart from our narrative ; but we cannot
omit that which ensued at the Khoord
Cabul and other defiles.

On the 7th of the month after the capital
was taken, Macpherson's Flying Column
marched down the savage valley, clearing
it of straggling bands of the enemy, from
the tomb of Baba Issah to the banks of
the Cabul river, but not without a sharp
fight at the former place, where Mahmoud
Shah and a band of select and most desperate
Ghaziss had taken post and resisted
to the last, courting that* death in battle
to which they had vowed and devoted
themselves.

'Everyone who said "Lord, Lord !" two
hundred years ago was deemed a Christian,'
says Charles Reade ; ' but there are
no earnest men now.'

However, Mahmoud Shah and his Gillies,
like the Mahdi and his followers
in Egypt, were terribly in earnest about

their work of religion and slaughter.
Shouting 'Allah! Allah! Allah!' they
resisted with juzail and tulwar, shield,
pistol, and clara, till they were all shot
down, and lay over each other piled in one
great heap, all clad in white, but gashed
and bloody, and among the last who fell
was Mahmoud Shah, who was last see,
with his back to the holy tomb of Baba
Issah, standing across the dead body of
his favourite white Arab, with eight of the
5th Ghoorkas dead at his feet, an empty
horse-pistol in his left hand, a blood-dripping
tulwar in his right, and six
bayonet wounds in his body,

The least a death to nature !'

By this time there had been hanged in
Oabul more than sixty Afghans for complicity
in the slaughter of the Embassy.

The European troops were now quartered
in the barracks of Yakoub Khan's

slate

army in the adjacent cantonments
at Sberpore, and soon after an amnesty
was granted to all who had fought against
lis, while a proclamation was issued by
Sir Frederick Roberts to the effect that,
in consequence of the abdication of the
Ameer, ' and of the outrage at the British
embassy, the British government were
now compelled to occupy Cabul and other
parts of Afghanistan, and he invited the
Afghan authorities, chiefs, and girders to
assist him to enforce ^Drder in the districts
under their control, and to consult with
him conjointly. The population of the
occupied districts would — it was added —
be treated with justice and benevolence ;
their religion and customs would be respected,
and loyalty and good service to
the British crown Avould be suitably rewarded.
On the other hand, all offenders
against the new administration would be
severely punished.'

We have restored order in Cabul, and
punished all the guilty wrote Leslie Colville
to Mary. *I have resigned my appointment
on the staff, deeming that I
have done enough for honour darling ; and
now I am coming home !'

And now we must return to Elinor and
her fate, while Colville is speeding homeward
as quickly as steam could carry him
over land and sea.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE FATE OF Elinor.

We left Ellinor smarting keenly under the
memory of how Loi^d Dunkeld and the
two ladies of his family ignored all recognition
of her presence in the Jung-fern
stein, and the despairing mood of
mind in which she was brought back by
Gaiters and the Era Wyburg to the
gloomy house by the Bleichen Fleet.

The expression of her face at that time
seemed to tell simply of one who endured
life till death might come.

Escape from this — oh, how to escape T

she wailed, as she wrung her slender bands
in bitter helplessness.

Her windows were always fastened beyond
her power of opening them, and the
water of the Fleet was fully twenty feet
below them, so escape in that direction
was not to be thought of.

The evening of the fourth day of her
intolerable captivity was drawing to a
close when Ellinor made a discovery by
the merest chance.

That which appeared to be the back
of the antique wardrobe in her room
proved in reality to be a door, though
partially concealed by garments hung on
pegs screwed into it.

A door ! Whither did it lead ? To ask
Lenchen would at once excite suspicion,
and perhaps deprive her of the power of
utilising it if possible. This discovery
excited her alarm more than hope or
curiosity, for though she was able as yet

to secure her chamber-door on the inside
at night — or was permitted to do so —
her privacy might, she naturally thought,
be violated at any time by this new and
unexpected avenue, which she resolved to
explore.

The door-handle yielded to her touch ;
it fell backward, and she found a comfortable,
but narrow, old oak stair, the steps
of which were mouldy, damp, and worm-eaten.
It descended at an angle within
the thickness of the solid wall, some forty
steps or so, and ended in an opening that
was without any door, and immediately
overhung the canaL Rusty hinges in the
jambs showed that a door had once closed
this entrance to the house, but it had
probably fallen to pieces and never been
replaced.

In short, it was simply one of the many
back entrances from the water, of which
the mercantile community in many parts

of Hamburg still avail themselves, and
slip-wed that at one time, and before that
of its declension, the house of Herr Wy-burg
had been the residence of some
wealthy trader, whose boats had been rowed
or pulled up to his private door from
the Brandenburg Haven and under the
Scharstein Bridge.

Here was a source of escape suddenly
found, and of which she might avail herself;
but the only boats she had ever seen
pass that way were those of the Vierlander
vegetable dealers, and how was she to
make known to these people her peril and
her wishes?

Frau Wyburg had said to her more than
once, ' When in tribulation there is nothing
like keeping your mind easy and
trusting in the unexpected.'

And now the unexpected had come.

Dusk was closing — almost darkness — as
she stood there looking at the gloomy and

turbid water of the Fleet, across which
lights from the house windows were
already casting dim and tremulous lines of
radiance, while she felt her heart beating
wildly as prayer and agony mingled in her
soul together ; but the former was responded
to, for even while she stood there
she saw a boat approaching, pulled along
by four seamen, and containing about
a dozen soldiers, to whom she called
aloud for succour. They responded by
banter, and were about to push past on
their way when a cry of despair escaped
her, and then she heard the voice of one
who seemed to be in authority issue an
order.

The boat was steered in close to the entrance,
and she sprang on board to find
herself among a party of Uhlans, who
were all armed with their carbines, and
were under the command of him who had
just spoken — the fair-haired young Baron

Kolandsburg — and were a patrol of the
picket from the Dammthor Barracks in
pursuit of two conscript deserters.

Overcome by the intensity of her agitation,
Ellinor was about to sink down in a
kind of heap, as it were, when his arm
went round her in support.

My God !' he exclaimed ; ' my God, it
is the Fraulein Ellinor!'

He gave a wild, inquiring glance at the-house
from which she had come, but its
sombre mass gave him no information ; he
then took her death-cold hands in his caressingly,
and looked entreatingly — encouragingly
— into her drawn and tragic
face.

To him a great pity and horror, with
much of blank wonder, were emphasised
by its haggard expression, and her dazed,
sunken eyes, as she clung to him, and he
felt he had no time then — as military duty
sternly required him to proceed — to inquire

into the what, the therefore, and the
how she came to be there !

He felt only sorrow and intense dismay
lie knew not of what, but was only certain
that she had escaped death, or that
something else very dreadful must have
occurred.

He felt thankful, however, that he had
saved her in this sudden and unexpected
manner from some of the ' perils of nineteenth
century civilisation,' as the author
of ' Altera Peto ' calls them.

By his order, the boat's head was put
round, and pulled away for the nearest
landing-place — the Pulverthbrugge, from
whence he could have her conveyed at once
to Altona.

When again he saw her on the following
day in the pretty drawing-room of the
villa, with her head resting on Mary's
shoulder and Mary's arm round her, and

Mrs. Deroubigne hovering near, though
colourless as a lily, she was scarcely like
the same ghastly and hunted creature he
had rescued in the boat, from whom he
had so much to learn, and whose adventures
had been so perilous.

She looked so pretty — so beautiful indeed
— in her simple cotton morning dress,
with its delicate crisp puffs and shillings,
with her gentle eyes and pure, perfect
face, that the young baron sighed to think
she was not, and never might be, his !

And set she owed him, by the chance
of fate, a mighty debt of gratitude.

Her story was barely concluded when,
with something that sounded very naughty
on his lips in his anger, he put his sword
under his arm and departed to look after
that schelm Sheath and the Wyburgs too.

Poor foolish Ellinor,' thought he, as he
galloped his horse towards the Eathhaus
Strasse, ' if she could not love, she always

had a look of passionless affection for me
warm friendship shall I call it? Yet
her bright face was somewhat delusive,
for she would never love, nor flirt, nor
even chatter nonsense with me

Elinor knew not exactly the names of
those who had been in league with Sheath
against her, nor could she describe the
exact locality of the house in which they
had detained her, but the baron knew
where he had found her, and with the
police and some of the Uhlans vvdio had
been with him on the preceding night,
proceeded by boat up the Bleichen Fleet ;
but, just as they were about to penetrate
by the open back entrance, a loud explosion
was heard high over head, and a
quantity of bricks, tiles, and old timber
came tumbling down to splash in the
canal.

Der Teufel ! what is this !' exclaimed
the baron, are we at the siege of Paris
again ?'

But, though the house was closely examined,
the mingled tragedy and catastrophe
which Herr "Wyburg's revengeful
scheme had brought about was never quite
explained.

Mr. John Gaiters heard betimes of a
dead and mangled body, answering to the
description of his master, being discovered
in the half-blown-up house ; and found
himself without a place and also without a
character.

He applied a cambric handkerchief — one
of Sir Redmond's — to his eyes, and then
anathematised them. He then took possession
of his late master's portmanteaux
at the 'Hotel Russia,' lit a cigarette, and
went leisurely on board the London steamer
at the Hafenbasin, and Hamburg knew
him no more.

The public prints had made all interested
therein, aware that Leslie Colville and
another, described variously as Taimar of

the Guide Corps, and Corporal Wodrow of
the loth Hussars, had escaped the massacre
and were safe.

Colville safe and living still ! What an
awful burden was now doubly lifted from
the heart of Mary — a heart too full for
words.

It was natural for her to have hope at
her years ; but the tidings of the slaughter
at the Presidency seemed to crush all hope
for ever.

A telegram first came from Colville, and
ere long there was actually a letter from
Egbert "Wodrow.

Forgive me, beloved Elinor, as I have
forgiven and forgotten a portion of our
past,' he wrote, gently and humble ' Because
that fellow Sheath was a rascal, you
do not mean to go through life ^'a maiden
all forlorn." And so you still stick to me
alone, in spite of what people may say — a
poor corporal of Hussars as yet. When I

think of you sought after, admired, and
doubtless loved by dozens of fellows, better
a thousand degrees than luckless Bob
Wodrow ; I can but trust to your heart
holding the memory of me against them
all — for a memory it may be, Ellinor, as I
am not out of this perilous Afghanistan
yet — and a year ago I never thought to
be here,

The poison is yet in my brain, love,
The thorn in my flesh, for you know
'Twas only a year ago, love,
'Twas only a year ago." '

And Ellinor wept as she read the words
his hands had traced.

A few more references to history.

A clasp for Oharasiah was ordered to be
worn with the war medal, but ere he saw
Ellinor, Robert Wodrow had yet to win the
bronze star awarded to all who shared in
Roberts's famous march to Candahar.

After all the peril faced and glory won,

VOL. Tll. T

are we to give up Canclaliar — after alle
was the ever-recurring question among the
soldiers of our army, as they marched
back to India, and felt that, though
Eoberts had restored our prestige, all the
honour gained in battle would be lost if
we failed to retain Candahar.

Through the gates of that city have all
the great conquerors of India come —
Alexander and Timor, Genghis Khan and
Nadir Shah ; it bars the approach to India
from the north and west, and the power
that holds it — as one day Russia will —
commands both Cabul and Herat.

The facilities for attacking India from
it are innumerable, and, as Sir Edward
Hamlet has it, * I believe the concurrent
testimony of all Indians is that there is no
territory on which it would be more perilous
to give our enemy the chance of winning
a battle than our Indian Empire.'

General Roberts, in a minute to the

Government, 29tli May, 1880, urged ' that
our grasp on Candahar should never be
loosened and that its military retention
was of vital importance to us in all wars
connected with the Afghans or Russians
in Central Asia. Lord Napier of Magdalen,
Sir George Lawrence, Sir Henry Rawlinson,
and all other high authorities on Indian
military affairs, have spoken or written in
the same tone on this all-important subject
; yet, in defiance of their opinions,
Candahar was handed over to the Ameer,
and since then the Russian eagle has laid
its talons on Mere !

T 2

CHAPTER Xiii.

AMONG THE Birds OF INVEEMAY.

Home at last !' exclaimed Leslie Colville,
aloud but to himself iu the excess of his
joy, as his train from Dover went clanking
in to crowded and busy Charing-Cross
Station. ' Home at last ! How jolly it is
to see the English faces, the familiar sights
and hear the familiar sounds acjain — and
to be once more in mufti !'

Globe — Graphic — 'Lustraied News —
Punch'' He listened to the calls of the
newsboys as if they sang sweet music ;
and for days past he had thought of,

whistled, and hummed the burden of an
old Scottish song he had heard his nurse
sing long ago —

Hame, hame, hame, oh, fain wad I be ;
Hame, hame, hame, in my ain countries !'

And the desire had become a realization—
a fact.

And now to meet my darling !' he
thought, as he plunged into a well-horsed
hansom, and, leaving his luggage to follow,
was driven at a tearing pace towards
Grosvenor Square, for which the residence
at Altona had been gladly quitted by Mrs.
Deroubigne and her two charges,

Journeys of a few hundred miles are
no longer described in these days of ours,'
says Charles Reade ; nor those of thousands
at the rate we travel, so we have
not detailed the journey of Colville.

At last it was ended, and he was with
her.

Mary's pulses were leaping with excitement
when they met, and she felt herself
in his tender and prolonged embrace,
though it all seemed a delicious and delirious
dream, from which she might waken
and again weep for him as dead, or as still
expecting him.

It was well-nigh a year since they had
parted, a year of many startling events,
months since a line had been exchanged
between them ; and who could blame them
if, for a little time, they forgot all the
world, and everything else, but each other ?

How strange to think that this is the
last walk we shall have together as lovers,'
said Mary, in a soft, cooing tone, as they
loitered by the Serpentine one evening.

Yes, when next we promenade thus it
will be as sober married folks,' said Colville,
with his brightest smile.

Dear — dear Leslie !'

Our courtship days have been chequered
certainly, but the end is a happy one.'

Happy we have been from the moment
we had perfect faith in each other, with
one dreadful interval,' said Mary, with a
little sob in her throat, as she thought of
the first tidings from Cabul ; ' could I but
see my pet Ellinor even half so happy !'

Her days for fullest happiness will
come in time — and, dearest Mary, if all
these lawyer fellows. Horning and Bailie,
tell mo is true, I shall put a coronet on
your golden hair, and you shall be my
Lady Colville of Ochiltree,' said he, laughingly.


Oh, to go home again !' said Mary, who
was thinking more of Birkwoodbrae thana
peerage and a house in Tyburniaia. * I was
always a great knitter at odd times, Leslie,
and half the old people at Kirktoun-Mail-
her benefited thereby. I was born among
my old people, and long so much — amid

my own great happiness — to see them
Once again. It seems ages since I came
away.'

^ And see them you shall in a little time
now, darling, for there we shall spend our
honeymoon.'

And then that season, so important inhuman
life and human love, was spent as
Colville had promised, and to Mary supreme
was the delight of wandering over all the
old familiar places again and again with
him— the trout-pool where they had first
met and he had lifted her ose the stone ;
the Linn ; the Molehill ; the Miller's Acre ;
under the old gate with the legend on its
lintel, and where again she could train her
flowers, and feed her chickens that looked
like balls of garden fluff, while the ' silver
birds' — the Birds of Invermay — cast their
shadows over her again.

She was back again in her old groove
as if she had never left it — to train her

roses and clematis, to sow mignonette and
sweet-scented stocks, and plant white lilies
for Ellinor to paint from ; and, with Jack
by her side, with a solid silver collar
(though one with spikes would better have
suited his pugnacious propensities), to
wander when dewy evening was falling,
when the sheep were nibbling the grass
briskly and monotonously ; and a gleam
came from the old ingle-lum of the kitchen,
where Elspat was rolling out barley-meal
cakes, and where everything spoke of
home — now more than ever home !

You see, Leslie darling,' said she, ' I
feel for this place — we feel, Ellinor and I
as no one else ever could, having always,
during the lifetime of papa and ever after,
looked upon it as our own.'

And your own it is, pet Mary.'

And no other place, however grand or
beautiful, could be like a home to us.'

The luxuries with which Colville could

surround her — luxuries too great for a
mansion so small then — her carriage-horses,
her pair of ponies, her white Arab
pad (all stabled as yet at the ' Dunkeld
Arms '), her set of sables, her jewellery,
and Parisian toilettes, her retinue of servants
were the topics of ' the countryside,'
and were duly descanted on by Mademoiselle
Eosette Patchouli for the edification
of her ladies ; and the Honourable Blanche
Gabrielle, with her elevated eyebrows,
foreign tricks of manner, and incipient
little French moustache, thought with
anger of all she had lost.

The pompous old lord, with his facial
angle a la Louis XIV., and his cold-blooded
yet perfectly aristocratic lady,
would gladly have shed the light of their
countenances over Birkwoodbrae, but there
Mary's Christianity ended ; and she would
have nothing of them, despite all good old
Dr. Wodrow could urge.

Robert was returning au officer, with a
well-earned cluster of medals on his breast,
and he was coming straight to Kirktoun-
Miller and to her. So Eliinor often
seated herself on a mossy bank, and, leaning
her head of rich brown hair against
the white stem of a silver birch, would
give herself up to memory, and many a
happy and repentant thought ; while tears
fell from her eyes — she was so happy !

A little time ago it would have been
fortune for Eliinor to look upon scenes so
associated with Robert Wodrow, the lover
she had wronged and lost and mourned
for ; and it was painful still to do so,
though her heart throbbed with hope and
joy, as he was returning to her with the
rank and position he had predicted to his
mother.

So Robert Wodrow will win the one
woman of his heart I Hand and hand
they will go forward together into that

new existence — that new world of tame,
married life, as it is deemed ; but to them,
a world of trust and love it will be ; while
explanations and memories of the sweet
and bitter and perilous past will come indue
course with the current of their own
happy and mutual thoughts.

THE END.

LONDON : Printed BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

HURST & BLACKETT'S

STANDARD LIBRARY

LONDON:
IS, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

A woman's thoughts

ABOUT WOMEN.
A LIFE FOR A LIFE.
NOTHING NEW.
MISTRESS AND MAID.
THE woman's KINGDOM.

christian's mistake,
a noble life.

HANNAH.

THE UNKIND WORD.
A BRAVE LADY.
STUDIES FROM LIFE.
YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

WORKS by GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D,

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

DAVID ELGINBROD.
ROBERT FALCONER.

ALEC FORBES.
SIR GIBBIE.

WORKS by MRS. OLIPHANT.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

(T WAS A LOVER AND HIS

LASS
THE LAIRD OF Norland
ROSE IN JUNE.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSS-gray.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.
AGNES.

THE LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

WORKS by the A Author of ' SAM SLICK:

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN

NATURE. .
WISE SAWS AND MODERN

INSTANCES.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE

IN A COLONY.
TRAITS OF AMERICAN

HUMOUR.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

LONDON: HURST AND BLACKETT.

OF CHEAP EDITIONS OF

POPULAR MODERN WORKS.

ILLUSTRATED BY

Sir John Gilbert, J. E. Millais, Holman Hunt, Birket Foster,
John Leech, John Tenniel, J. Laslett Pott, etc.

Each in a Single Volume, with Frontispiece, price 6s.

I.— SAM SLICK'S NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"The first volume of Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's Standard Library of Cheap Editions
forms a very good beginning to what will doubtless be a very successful undertaking
'Nature and Human Nature ' is one of the best of Sam Slick's witty and humorous productions,
and well entitled to the large circulation which it cannot fail to obtain in its
present convenient and cheap shape. The volume combines with the great recommend i-
tions of a clear, bold type and good paper, the lesser, but attractive merits of being well
illustrated and elegantly bound." — Morning Post.

IL— JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and
this his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one
of nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one.
The work abounds in incident, and many of the scenes are full of graphic power and true
pathos. It is a book that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

This story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife is
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children; and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

Il— THE CRESCENT AND THE CROSS.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

"Independent of its value as an original narrative, and its useful and interesting
information, this work is remarkable for the colouring power and play of fancy with
which its descriptions are enlivened. Among its greatest and most lasting charms is its
reverent and serious spirit." — Quarterly Review.

Mr. Warburton has fulfilled the promise of his title-page. The ' Realities of Eastern
Travel' are described with a vividness which invests them with deep and abiding interest;
while the 'Romantic' adventures which the enterprising tourist met with in his
course are narrated with a spirit which shows how mach he enjoyed these reliefs from
the ennui of every-day life." — Globe.

lY.— Nathaniel

JULIA KAVANAGH.

"'Nathalie' is Miss Kavanagh's best imaginative effort. Its manner is gracious and
attractive. Its matter is good. A sentiment, a tenderness, are commanded by her which
are as individual as they are elegant. We should not soon come to an end were we to
specify all the delicate touches and attractive pictures which place ' Nathan ' high among
books of its class." — Athenaeum.

v.— A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

BY THE AUTHOR OP "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These thoughts are good and humane. They are thoughts we would wish women to
think: they are much more to the purpose than the treatises upon the women and daughters
of England, which were fashionable some years ago, and these thoughts mark the
progress of opinion, and indicate a higher tone of character, and a juster estimate of
woman's position." — Alienum.

"This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and ia
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit." — Morning Pest.

VI.— ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

•"Adam Gramme' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Maitland ' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of it
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed." — Morning
Post.

VII.— SAM SLICK'S WISE SAWS AND
MODERN INSTANCES.

"We have not the slightest intention to criticise this book. Its reputation is made, and
will stand as long as that of Scott's or Buller's novels. The remarkable originality of
its purpose, and the happy description it affords of American life and manners, still continue
the subject of universal admiration. To say thus much is to say enough, though we
must just mention that the new edition forms a part of the Publishers' Cheap Standard
Library, which has included some of the very best specimens of light literature that ever
have been written." — Messenger.

Vii— CARDINAL WISEMAN'S RECOLLECTIONS
OF THE LAST FOUR POPES.

A picturesque book on Some and its ecclesiastical sovereigns, by an eloquent Bom&n
Catholic. Cardinal Wiseman has here treated a special subject with so much generality
and geniality that his recollections will excite no ill-feeling in those who are most conscientiously
opposed to every idea of human infallibility represented if Papal domination."
Athenaeum.

IX.— A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman."

"We are always glad to welcome Mrs. Creak. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to
pay, but to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is
fortunate in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect The
reader, having read the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion)
to return and read again many pages and passages with greater pleasure
than on a first perusal. The whole book is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy;
and, in addition to its other merits, it is written in good careful English." —
Athenaeum.

"' A Life for a Life ' is a book of a high class. The characters are depicted with a
masterly hand ; the events are dramatically set forth ; tho descriptions of scenery and
sketches of society are admirably penned; moreover, the work has an object — a clearly
defined moral — most poetically, most beautifully drawn, and through all there is that
strong, reflective mind visible which lays bare the human heart and human mind to the
very core." — Morning Post.

X.— THE OLD COURT SUBURB.

BY LEIGH HUNT.

"A book which has afforded us no slight gratification." — Athmseum.

From the mixture of description, anecdote, biography, and criticism, this book is very
pleasant reading." — Spectator.

A more agreeable and entertaining book has not been published aiuoe Boswell prefaced
his reminiscences of Johnson." — Observer.

XI.— MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " THE VALLEY OP A HUNDRED FIRES,"

We recommend all who are in search of a fascinating novel to read this work for
themselves. They will find it well worth their while. There are a freshness and originality
about it quite charming, and there is a certain nobleness in the treatment both of
sentiment and incident which is not often found." — Athenaeum.

Xn.— THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

BY SAM SLICK.

A peculiar interest attaches to sketches of colonial life, and readers could not have a
safer guide than the talented author of this work, who, by a residence of half a century,
has practically grasped the habits, manners, and social conditions of the colonists he describes.
All who wish to form a fair idea of the difficulties and pleasures of life in a new
country, unlike England in some respects, yet like it in many, should read this book,"
John Bull.

Xm.— DARIEN; OR, THE MERCHANT Prince.

BY ELIOT WARBURTON.

This last production of the author of ' The Crescent and the Cross ' has the same
elements of a very wide popularity. It will please its thousands." — Globe.

Eliot Warburton's active and productive genius is amply exemplified in the present
book. We have seldom met with any work in which the realities of history and the
poetry of fiction were more happily interwoven." — Illustrated News.

XIV.— FAMILY ROMANCE ; OR, DOMESTIC ANNALS
OF THE ARISTOCRACY.

BY SIR BERNARD BURKE, ULSTER KING OP ARMS.

"It were impossible to praise too highly this most interesting book, whether we should
have regard to its excellent plan or its not less excellent execution. It ought to be found
on every drawing-room table. Here you have nearly fifty captivating romances with the
pith of all their interest preserved in undiminished poignancy, and any one may be read
in half an hour. It is not the least of their merits that the romances are founded on factor
what, at least, has been handed down for truth by long tradition — and the romance
■of reality far exceeds the romance of fiction." — Standard.

XV.— THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. 'The Laird of Norlaw' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

'The Laird of Norlaw' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
-exquisite of modern novels." — Observer.

XVL— THE ENGLISHWOMAN IN ITALY.

BY MRS. G. Bretton.

"Mrs. Bretton had opportunities which rarely fall to the lot of strangers of becoming
acquainted with the inner life and habits of a part of the Italian peninsula which is the
very centre of the national crisis. We can praise her performance as interesting, unexa^
grated, and full of opportune instruction." — The Times.

"Mrs. Bretton's book is timely, life-like, and for every reason to be recommended. It
is impossible to close the book without liking the writer as well as the subject The doric
is engaging, because real'" — Athenaeum,

XVII.— NOTHING NEW.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax
one of the most popular works of the day. There is a force and truthfulness about there
tales which mark them as the production of no ordinary mind, and we cordially recommend
them to the perusal of all lovers of fiction.' — Morning Post.

XVIII.— LITE OF JEANNE D'ALBRET, QUEEN OF

NAVARRE.

BY MISS FREER.

"We have read this book with great pleasure, and have no hesitation in recommending
it to general perusal. It reflects the highest credit on the industry and ability of MisB-
Freer. Nothing can be more interesting than her story of the life of Jeanne D' Alb ret.
and the narrative is as trustworthy as it is attractive." — Morning Post.

XIX.— THE VALLEY OF A HUNDRED FIRES.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " MARGARET AND HER BRIDESMAIDS."

If asked to classify this work, we should give it a place between ' John Halifax ' and
The Cantons.' " — Standard.
The spirit in which the whole book is written is refined and good." — Athenaeum.
This is in every sense a charming novel" — Messenger.

XX.— THE ROMANCE OF THE FORUM ; OR, NARRATIVES,
SCENES, AND ANECDOTES FROM COURTS OF JUSTICE.

BY PETER BURKE, SERJEANT AT LAW.

This attractive book will be perused with much interest. It contains a great variety
of singular and highly romantic stories." — John Bull.

A work of singular interest, which can never fail to charm and absorb the readers
attention. The present cheap and elegant edition includes the true story of the Colleen
Sawn." — Illustrated News.

XXL— ADELE.

BY JULIA KAYANAGH.

"'Adfele' is the best work we have read by Miss Kavanagh; it is a charming story,
full of delicate character-painting. The interest kindled in the first chapter burns brightly
to the close." — Athenaeum.

' Adfele' will fully sustain the reputation of Miss Kavanagh, high as it already ranks."
john Bull.

' Adfele ' is a love-story of very considerable pathos and power. It is a very clever
novel" — Daily News.

Xxii— STUDIES FROM LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"These 'Studies ' are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet, genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
for all things good and beautiful" — Morning Post.

"These 'Studies from Life ' are remarkable for graphic power and observation. Th
Book will not diminish the reputation of the accomplished author." 5a(wrtfaj/ Review.

XXm.— GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We commence 'Grandmother's Money' to readers in search of a good novel. The
characters are true to human nature, and the story is interesting." — Athenaeum.

XXIV.— A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.

BY JOHN CORDY Jefferson.

A hook to he read and re-read ; fit for the study as well as the drawing-room table and
the circulating library." — Lancet.

This is a pleasant book for the fireside season, and for the seaside season. Mr. Jeffrey
has, out of hundreds of volumes, collected thousands of good things, adding thereto
much that appears in print for the first time, and which, of course, gives increased value
to this very readable book." — Athenaeum.

XXV.— NO CHURCH.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.

"We advise all who have the opportunity to read this book. It is well worth the
study." — Athenaeum.
"A work of great originality, merit, and power"— *Sfancfard

XXVI.— MISTRESS AND MAID.

BY THE AUTHOR OP " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A good wholesome book, gracefully written, and as pleasant to read as it is instructive."
— Athenaeum.

A charming tale, charmingly told." — Standard.

All lovers of a good novel will hal with delight another of Mra Crank's charming
stories." — John Bull.

XXVn.— LOST AND SAVED.

BY THE HON. MRS. NORTON.

' Lost and Saved ' will be read with eager interest by those who love a touching story.
It is a vigorous novel." — Times.

■' This story is animated, full of exciting situations and stirring incidents. The characters
are delineated with great power. Above and beyond these elements of a pood novel,
there is that indefinable charm with which true genius invests all it touches." — Daily News.

XXVIII.— LES Miserable.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
Authorised Copyright English Translation,

"The merits of 'Les Miserable s ' do not merely consist in the conception of it as a
whole ; it abounds with details of unequalled beauty. M. Victor Hugo has stamped upon
every page the hall-mark of genius." — Quarterly Review.

XXIX.— BARBARA'S HISTORY.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"It is not often that we light upon a novel of so much merit and interest as
'Barbara's History.' It is a work conspicuous for taste and literary culture. It is a very
graceful and charming book, with a well-managed story, clearly-cut characters, and
sentiments expressed with an exquisite elocution. The dialogues especially sparkle with
repartee. It is a book which the world will like. This ia high praise of a work of art
and so we intend it" — The Times.

XXX.— LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. ' Irving's Life ' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation." — Saturday Review.

Xxxi— ST. Slave's.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JANITA's CROSS."

This novel is the work of one who possesses a great talent for writing, as well as
experience and knowledge of the world. The whole book is worth reading." — Athenaeum.

■' ' St. Slave's ' belongs to a lofty order of fiction. It is a good novel, but it is something
more. It is written with unflagging ability, and it is as even as it is clever. The author
has determined to do nothing short of the best, and has succeeded." — Morning Post.

XXXII.— SAM SLICK'S TRAITS OF AMERICAN Humour.

Dip where you will into this lottery of fun, you are sure to draw out a prize. These
Traits ' exhibit most successfully the broad national features of American humour." — Post.

Xxxii— CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

A more charming story has rarely been written. It is a choice gift to be able thus to
render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths with such a searching sagacity, and
to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the writer's own." — Times.

XXXIV.— ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit. Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie." — Pall Mall Gazette.

XXXV.— AGNES.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

'Agnes ' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — Athenaeum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there
pre always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement 'Agnes ' is
n story whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers." — Morning Post.

Xxxvi— A NOBLE LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"Few men and no women will read 'A Noble Life' without feeling themselves the
better for the extort." — Spectator.

"A beautifully written and touching tale. It is a noble book." — Morning Post.

' A Noble Life ' is remarkable for the high types of character it presents, and the
skill with which they are made to work out a story of powerful and pathetic interest"
—Daily News.

XXXVII.— NEW AMERICA.

BY W. HEPWORTH DIXON.

"A very interesting book. Mr. Dixon has written thoughtfully and well"— 7Ym«.
"We recommend everyone who feels any interest in human nature to read Mr.
Dixon's very interesting book"— (Saturday Review.

XXXVIII.— ROBERT FALCONER.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

' Eobert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest. It is a hook to he returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings." — Athenaeum.

XXXIX.— THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEiVL^N."

' The Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
and noblest kind of domestic stories." — Athenaeum.

' The "Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest. The characters are
masterpieces, Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax." — Morning Post.

XL.— ANNALS OF AN EVENTFUL LIFE.

BY GEORGE Webb DASENT, D.C.L.

A racy, well-written, and original novel. The interest never flags. The whole work
epurklea with wit and humour." — Quarterly Review.

XLI.— DAVID ELGINBROD.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D.

"A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers." — Times.

XLII.— A BRAVE LADY.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags'' — Post.

"'A Brave Lady' thoroughly rivets the unmingled sympathy of the reader, and her
history deserves to stand foremost among the author's works"— Z)a% Telegraph.

XLIII.— HANNAH.

BY THE AUTHOR OF " JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

"A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle of readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard.

"A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successful efforts of a
successful novelist." — Daily Neics.

XLIV.— SAM SLICK'S AMERICANS AT HOME.

This is one of the most amusing books that we ever read." — Standard.
'The Americans at Home' will not be less popular than any of Judge Halliburton's
previous works." — Morning Post.

XLV.— THE UNKIND WORD.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

These stories are gems of narrative. Indeed, some of them, in their touching grace
and simplicity, seem to us to possess a charm even beyond the authoress's most popular
novels. Of none of them can this be said more emphatically than of that which opens the
series, ' The Unkind Word.' It is wonderful to see the imaginative power displayed in
the few delicate touches by which this successful love-story is sketched out" — The Echo.

XLVI.— A Ease IN JUNE.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

"•A Bose in June' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

XLVII.— MY LITTLE LADY.

BY E. FRANCES Pointer.

"This story presents a number of vivid and very charming pictures, Indeed, the whole
book is charming. It is interesting in both character and story, and thoroughly good of
its kind"— (Saiwrcfaj/ Review.

XLVIII.— Phoebe, JUNIOR.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn." — Academy.

XLIX.— LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE.

BY PROFESSOR CHARLES DUKE YONGE.

A work of remarkable merit and interest, which will, we doubt not, become the most
popular English history of Marie Antoinette." — Spectator.

L.— SIR GIBBIE.

BY GEORGE MAC DONALD, LL.D,

•* ' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius." — Pall Mall Gazette.
This book has power, pathos, and humour." — Athenaeum.

LI.— YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF *' JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN."

'Young Mrs. Jardine ' is a pretty story, written in pure English." — Tfw, Times.
"There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome." — Athenaeum.

Il— LORD Brandenburg.

BY AMELIA B. EDWARDS.

"A very readable story. The author has well conceived the purpose of high-class
novel-writing, and succeeded in no small measure in attaining it There ia plenty of
variety, cheerful dialogue, and general ' verve ' in the book." — Athenaeum.

Lni.-IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

In ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. It would be
worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of one ancient Scottish spinster,
who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret Maitland." — Times.

LIV.— THE REAL LORD BYRON— THE STORY OF
THE POET'S LIFE.

BY JOHN CORDY Jefferson.

Mr. Jeaffreson comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature; and it may reasonably be anticipated that this book will be
regarded with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame of this
great English poet." — Tie Times.

'SAM SLICK, THE CLOCKMAKER.'

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS.

Each in One Volume, Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s.

NATURE AND HUMAN NATURE.

"We enjoy our old friend's company with unabated relish. This work is a rattling
miscellany of sharp sayings, stories, and hard hits. It is full of fun and fancy"— ^^Aencewm.

Since Sam's first work he has written nothing so fresh, racy, and genuinely humorous a&
this. Every line of it tells ui some way or other— instructively, satirically, jocosely, or
wittily. Admiration of Sam's mature talents, and laughter at his droll yarns, constantly
alternate as with inhaling avidity we peruse the work. The Clockmaker proves himself
the fastest time-killer a-going." — Observer.

WISE SAWS AND MODERN INSTANCES.

This delightful book will be the most popular, as beyond doubt it is the best, of all the-author's
admirable works " — Standard.

The book before us will be read and laughed over. Its quaint and racy dialect will
please some readers — its abundance of yarns will amuse others. There is something to
suit readers of every humour." — Athenaeum.

The humour of Sam Slick is inexhaustible. He is ever and everywhere a welcome
visitor ; smiles greet his approach, and wit and wisdom hang upon his tongue. We promise
our readers a great treat from the perusal of these ' Wise Saws,' which contain a
world of practical wisdom, and a treasury of the richest fun." — Morning Post.

THE OLD JUDGE ; OR, LIFE IN A COLONY.

By common consent this work is regarded as one of the raciest, truest to life, most
humorous, and most interesting works which have proceeded from the prolific pen of its
author. We all know what shrewdness of observation, what power of graphic description,
what natural resources of drollery, and what a happy method of hitting off the
broader characteristics of the life he reviews, belong to Judge Haliburton. We have all
those qualities here ; but they are balanced by a serious literary purpose, and are employed
in the communication of information respecting certain phases of colonial experience
which impart to the work an element of sober utility." — Sunday Times.

TRAITS OF AMERICAN HUMOUR.

No man has done more than the facetious Judge Haliburton, through the mouth of the
inimitable ' Sam,' to make the old parent country recognise and appreciate her queer
transatlantic progeny. His present collection of comic stories and laughable traits is a
budget of fun, full of rich specimens of American humour." — Globe.

Yankees, portrayed in its raciest aspect, constitutes the contents of these superlatively
entertaining sketches. The work embraces the most varied topics — political parties,
religious eccentricities, the flights of literature, and the absurdities of pretenders to learning,
all come in for their share of satire ; while we have specimens of genuine American
exaggerations and graphic pictures of social and domestic life as it is. The work will
have a wide circulation." — John Bull.

THE AMERICANS AT HOME.

"In this highly entertaining work we are treated to another cargo of capital stories
from the inexhaustible store of our Yankee friend. In the volume before us he dishes up,
with his accustomed humour and terseness of style, a vast number of tales, none more
entertaining than another, and all of them graphically illustrative of the ways and manners
of brother Jonathan. The anomalies of American law, the extraordinary adventures
incident to life in the backwoods, and, above all, the peculiarities of American society, are
variously, powerfully, and, for the most part, amusingly exemplified." — John Bull.

"In the picturesque delineation of character, and the felicitous portraiture of national
features, no writer equals Judge Haliburton, and the subjects embraced in the present
delightful book call forth, in new and vigorous exercise, his peculiar powers. 'Th&-
Americans at Home ' will not be less popular than any of his previous works." — Post.

LONDON : Hast AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS,

Each in One Volume Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s.

JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN.

This is a very good and a very interesting world. It is designed to trace the career
from boyhood to age of a perfect man — a Christian gentleman, and it abounds in incident
both well and highly wrought. Throughout it is conceived in a high spirit, and written
with great ability. This cheap and handsome new edition is worthy to pass freely from
hand to hand as a gift-book in many households." — Examiner.

' The story is very interesting. The attachment between John Halifax and his wife in
beautifully painted, as are the pictures of their domestic life, and the growing up of their
children, and the conclusion of the book is beautiful and touching." — Athenaeum.

The new and cheaper edition of this interesting work will doubtless meet with great
success. John Halifax, the hero of this most beautiful story, is no ordinary hero, and this
his history is no ordinary book. It is a full-length portrait of a true gentleman, one of
nature's own nobility. It is also the history of a home, and a thoroughly English one
The work abounds in incident, and is full of graphic power and true pathos. It is a book
that few will read without becoming wiser and better." — Scotsman.

A WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ABOUT WOMEN.

A book of sound counsel. It is one of the most sensible works of its kind, well written,
true-hearted, and altogether practical. Whoever wishes to give advice to a young lady
may thank the author for means of doing so." — Examiner.

These thoughts are worthy of the earnest and enlightened mind, the all-embracing
charity, and the well-earned reputation of the author of ' John Halifax.' " — Standard.

"This excellent book is characterised by good sense, good taste, and feeling, and is
written in an earnest, philanthropic, as well as practical spirit" — Post.

A LIFE FOR A LIFE.

We are always glad to welcome this author. She writes from her own convictions,
and she has the power not only to conceive clearly what it is that she wishes to say, but
to express it in language effective and vigorous. In ' A Life for a Life ' she is fortunate
in a good subject, and she has produced a work of strong effect The reader, having read
the book through for the story, will be apt (if he be of our persuasion) to return and read
again many pages and passages with greater pleasure than on a first perusal The whole
hook is replete with a graceful, tender delicacy ; and in addition to its other merits, it i»
written in good careful English." — Athenaeum.

NOTHING NEW.

"nothing New' displays all those superior merits which have made 'John Halifax'
one of the most popular works of the day." — Post.

The reader will find these narratives fully calculated to remind him of that truth and
energy of human portraiture, that spell over human affections and emotions, which have
stamped this author one of the first novelists of our day." — John Bull.

THE WOMAN'S KINGDOM.

"the Woman's Kingdom ' sustains the author's reputation as a writer of the purest
hind noblest kind of domestic stories. The novelist's lesson is given with admirable force
and sweetness." — Athenaeum

'• ' The Woman's Kingdom ' is remarkable for its romantic interest The character
Re masterpieces. Edna is worthy of the hand that drew John Halifax." — Post.

STUDIES FROM LIFE.

These Studies are truthful and vivid pictures of life, often earnest, always full of right
feeling, and occasionally lightened by touches of quiet genial humour. The volume is remarkable
for thought, sound sense, shrewd observation, and kind and sympathetic feeling
flor all things good and beautiful." — Post.

[continued on next page. J

JOHN HALIFAX, Gentleman

(continued

CHRISTIAN'S MISTAKE.

A more charming story, to our taste, has rarely been written. Within the compass
of a single volume the writer has hit off a circle of varied characters, all true to nature —
some true to the highest nature — and she has entangled them in a story which keeps ua
in suspense till its knot is happily and gracefully resolved ; while, at the same time, a
pathetic interest is sustained by an art of which it would be difficult to analyze the secret
It is a choice gift to be able thus to render human nature so truly, to penetrate its depths
with such a searching sagacity, and to illuminate them with a radiance so eminently the
writer's own. Even if tried by the standard of the Archbishop of York, we should expect
that even he would pronounce 'Christian's Mistake ' a novel without a fault." — The Times.

This is a story good to have from the circulating library, but better to have from one's
bookseller, for it deserves a place in that little collection of clever and wholesome stories
that forma od'* of the comforts of a well-appointed home." — Examiner.

MISTRESS AND MAID.

••A good, wholesome book, as pleasant to read as it is instructive." — Athenaeum.
This work is written with the same true-hearted earnestness aa ' John Halifax,' Inspirit
of the whole book is excellent." — Examiner.
"A charming tale charmingly told." — Standard.

A NOBLE LIFE.

"This is one of those pleasant tales in which the author of 'John Halifax' speaks out
of a generous heart the purest truths of life." — Examiner.

"Few men, and no women, will read a 'Noble Life' without finding themselves the
better." — Spectator.

A story of powerful and pathetic interest." — Daily News.

A BRAVE LADY.

A very good novel, showing a tender sympathy with lilian nature, and permeated
by a pure and noble spirit." — Examiner.

A most charming story." — Standard.

"We earnestly recommend this novel. It is a special and worthy specimen of the
author's remarkable powers. The reader's attention never for a moment flags." — Post.

HANNAH.

A powerful novel of social and domestic life. One of the most successor efforts of a

successful novelist." — Daily News.

A very pleasant, healthy story, well and artistically told. The book is sure of a wide
circle ol readers. The character of Hannah is one of rare beauty." — Standard,

THE UNKIND WORD.

The author of ' John Halifax ' has written many fascinating stories, but we can call to
mind nothing from her pen that has a more enduring charm than the graceful sketches in
this work. Such a character as Jessie stands out from a crowd of heroines as the type of
all that is truly noble, pure, and womanly." — United Service Magazine.

YOUNG MRS. JARDINE.

«• « Young Mrs. Jardine' is a pretty story, wri ten in pure English."-2%« Times.

•• There is much good feeling in this book. It is pleasant and wholesome. —Athenaeum.

A book that all should read. Whilst it is quite the equal of any of its predecessors
It. Privation of thought and style, it is perhaps their superior m interest of plot and
dramatic intensity. The characters are admirably delineated, and the dialogue is natural
*nd clear." — Morning Post.

Hurst akd Blackett, Publishers, i3, Great Marlborough Street.

MT^S. Oliphant.

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS.

Each in One Volume, Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, price 5s.

ADAM GRAEME OF MOSSGRAY.

' Adam G-raeme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret Mainland' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed." — Morning
Post

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

"We have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett's
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never flags." — Sunday Times.

' The Laird of Norlaw ' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modem novels." — Observer.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

In 'It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story is
a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret
Maitland"— TYT/ie*.

AGNES.

' Agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — Athenaeum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there are
always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement. ' Agues ' is a story
whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers." — Morning Post.

A ROSE IN JUNE.

' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Carlingford.' "times.

Phoebe, JUNIOR.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn"— J.cade/ny.

LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

"A good book on a most interesting theme." — Time.

"A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. 'Irving's Life' ought to have a niche
in every gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation." — Saturday Review.

LONDON : Hurst AND Blackett, Publishers.

GEORGE MAC DONALD, LLD.

NEW AND CHEAP EDITIONS.

Each in One Volume, Illustrated, and Uniformly Bound, price 6s.

ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie." — Fall Mall Gazette.

The whole story is one of surpassing excellence and beauty." — Daily News.

This book is full of good thought and good writing. Dr. Mac Donald looks in his stories
more to the souls of men and women than to their social outside. He reads life and
Nature like a true poet" — Examiner.

ROBERT FALCONER.

' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest It is a work to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings." — Athenaeum.

This story abounds in exquisite specimens of the word-painting in which Dr. Mac
Donald excels, charming transcripts of Nature, full of light, air, and coIovlt.''— Saturday
Review.

This noble story displays to the best advantage aU the powers of Dr. Mac Donald's
genius." — Illustrated London News.

• Robert Falconer ' is the noblest work of Action that Dr, Mac Donald has yet produced."
— British Quarterly Review.

The dialogues in ' Robert Falconer ' are so finely blended with humour and pathos as
to make them in themselves an intellectual treat to which the reader returns again and
again." — Spectator.

DAVID ELGINBROD.

A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers. " — Times.

There are many beautiful passages and descriptions in this book. The characters are
extremely well drawn." — Athenaeum.

"A clever novel. The incidents are exciting, and the interest is maintained to the
close. It may be doubted if Sir Walter Scott himself ever painted a Scotch fireside with
more truth than Dr. Mac Donald." — Morning Post.

"David Elginbrod is the finest character we have met in fiction for many a day. The
descriptions of natural scenery are vivid, truthful, and artistic; the general reflections are
those of a refined, thoughtful, and poetical philosopher, and the whole moral atmosphere
of the book is lofty, pure, and invigorating." — Globe.

SIR Gibber

Sir Gibbie ' is a book of genius." — Pall Mall Gazette.

This book has power, pathos, and humour. There is not a character which is not
lifelike. There are many powerful scenes, and the portraits will stay long in our
memory." — Athenaeum.

' Sir Gibbie ' is unquestionably a book of genius. It abounds in humour, pathos,
insight into character, and happy touches of description." — Graphic.

'sir Gibbie' contains some of the most charming writing the author has yet produced."
— Scotsman.

' Sir Gibbie ' is one of the most touching and beautiful stories that has been written
for many years. It is not a novel to be idly read and laid aside ; it Is a grand work, to be
kept near at hand, and studied and thought over." — Morning Post.

LONDON : HUEST AND BLACKETT, Publishers.

Standard Edition, in one vol. crown 8vo, 5s.,

THE REAL LOUD BYRON:

THE STORY OF THE POET'S LIFE.
By JOHN CORDY Jefferson.

From the Times.
Mr. Jeaffreson comes forward with a narrative which must take a very important
place in Byronic literature. Almost every chapter contains material which may be fairly
called new, and the book differs from many biographies of Byron in one very important
point — it is scrupulously just to every person concerned, the facts dealt with being placed
before the reader in a judicial spirit. It may reasonably be anticipated that this volume
will be regarded with deep interest by all who are concerned in the works and the fame
of this great English poet."

From the Athenaeum.
No other book relating to the history of English literature in the nineteenth century
has appeared of recent years that can claim to contain so much novel information as Mr.
Jeaffreson's. He has produced a work that throws a flood of new light on the most critical
periods of Byron's life, and that every future critic of modem English poetry will have
lo read and re-read."

From the World.
This is a masterly performance, and one of the most important contributions to literary
biography published for many years. Mr. Jeaffreson writes not only like a student,
but a man of the world, and his entire analysis of the relation between Byron and his
wife is admirable."

From the Daily Telegraph,
Byronic literature receives an important accession in Mr. Jeaffreson s new work, an
ably-written review of the great poet's character and life. It abounds with facts and new
matter worthy of careful reflection. The author has had access to valuable sources of
information, and he has used his material with great skill and judgment"

From the Globe.
"We strongly advise all who feel interested in arriving at a true conception of Lord
Byron's character and nature to read this very able volume. The author has taken hia
materials from all available sources, and has so deftly handled them that the result is a
piece of genuine art workmanship in literary portraiture."

From the St. James's Gazette.
Mr. Jeaffreson's book will be widely read, as it deserves to be, were it only for the fine
impartiality he has displayed in judging characters so strangely antithetical that a critic
with a mind less perfectly balanced must have swerved unduly to one side or the other.
"We can heartily recommend it, therefore."

From the Graphic.
The admirers of Byron will read this book with interest, and may flatter themselves
that they have got a version of his history which no future revelations are likely to add
much to or impugn."

From the Morning Post.
Everybody will read this work, many for the sake of the great poet, whose biography
forms the subject, and others simply on account of the extraordinary amount of interesting
gossip which it contains about the famous personages who flourished in the days of
our grandfathers. It is a very able book, admirably written, and evidently entirely unprejudiced."


From Notes and Queries.
'* Mr. Jeaffreson may claim to have produced a work which establishes itself at once as
standard, and which, for grace of style and intrinsic value, will retain a permanent place
in literature. It is not easy to imagine a narrative more dramatic, more stirring, and at
the same time more trustworthy, than this."

LONDON : HURST AND Blackest, PUBLISHERS.

MESSRS. HUEST MD Blackens

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

And Sixteenth Centuries. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.
Vols. 1 and 2 demy 8vo. SOs.

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes FROM THE PlR.EU3 TO Pests. By MaJOR E. C. JoHNSON,

M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 illustrations
by the Anther. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

THE PICTORIAL PRESS : Its Origin and Progress.

By Mason Jackson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With 150
Illustrations. Pigs.

This volume U full of curious information and quaint illustrations. Mr. Jackson's
account of the fortunes of the Illustrated London Xevs, and of the spread of
illustrated journalism all over the world, is a striking chapter in the history of
newspaper enterprise." — Daily News.

"This work is full of interest to the general reader, and possesses a permanent
value as a reference book, which every editor should have on his shelves"' — Pall
Mall Gazette.

'• Mr. Mason Jackson's learned and exhaustive work on the ' Pictorial Press,'
with its rare and curious illustrations, should be acquired and appreciatively consulted,
not only by those amateurs of the art, in the exercise, criticism, and bibliography
of which Mr. Jackson is so skilled a proficient, but by students of the
history of journalism'' — G. A. S. in Illustrated London News.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

WOFFIXGTOX : With Pictures of the Period in which She
Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Mollot, Author of " Court Life
Below Stairs," &c. Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With
Portrait. 21s.
Mr. Molloy gives a series of vivid pictures of the period in which Peg Washington
lived, and of the men and manners of that time." — Graphic.

'these volumes are very agreeably written. In dealing with the literary and
dramatic personages of the period, Mr. Molloy is a faithful chronicler not only in
spirit but also as to facts. There is no prominent personage about whom a number
of characteristic anecdotes are not told. The author also gives a brilliant
sketch of life in the Irish capital half a century before the Union." — <S'^ Barnes's
Gazette.

Peg Dodington makes a most interesting central figure, round which Mr.
Molloy has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama of London life in
the middle of the eighteenth century. He sees things in the past so clearly, grasps
them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly, that they come to us without
any of the dust and rust of time. Horace "Walpole, Lord Hervey, Colles Cibber,
Dr. Dora, Lord Macaulay, George Anne Bellamy, Macklin, and other authorities,
are laid undauntedly under contribution for the biographies which the author narrates
and the good stories that he tells; but he has a gift and a charm which are
peculiarly his own" — G. A. S. in Illustrated London News.

"As a story this life of Peg Wofflngton is excellent reading. The character of
the lively actress is fairly illustrated in those scenes in which she bears a part,
whether humorous, sentimental, pathetic, or tragic. Mr. Slowly has filled up the
pages intervening between his sketches with anecdotes, and has succeeded in
presenting a picture of the stage world in the days of the second George which
could not easily be surpassed. Of Kitty Clive, of Garrick, of Macklin, of Foots the
witty, and of Johnson the ponderous, many lively stories are told." — Post.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of " The Devil's Advocate,
"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

"Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully
succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout"' — Morning Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power
and brilliancy. It i.«! eminently suggestive and stimulating"' — Scotsman.

'• This is the work of a man full of thought upon a number of highly important
subjects, and of strong convictions strongly enunciated, which no one can read
without benefit"' — Morning Advertiser.

Mr. Greg"s speculative works are always worth study, and this certainly not
the least of them. It is a powerful and instructive book for the doubter to read,
and the author has given us many discussions of great subtlety and depth'" —
Spectator.

SIBERIAN PICTURES. By Ludwig Niemojowski.

Edited, from the Polish, by Major Szulczewski. 2 vols. 21s.

This book contains a good deal of interesting matter. M. Niemojowski"s description
of Siberian game and the hunting of it is clearly valuable, and shows
that he really has lived among the people. His work is not without interest to
biographers, for it deals with almost every race that inhabits Siberia — tongues
and Tartars, Samoyedes and Sticks, the Burials of Lake Baikal, and the
Gilliacks of the Pacific coasts." — Saturday Review.

Major Szulczewski has done a service by translating from the Polish the interesting
account which Mr. Niemojowski has given of the dreary land in which
he spent so many years of exile. The book contains a number of very interesting
stories." — Athenaeum.

"This book contains by far the most exhaustive and reliable account which has
yet been given in English of Siberia"' — British Quarterly Review.

REMINISCENCES OF MILITARY SERVICE

WITH THE 93rd SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS. By
Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., C.B., Formerly Surgeon of the
Regiment. 1 vol. demy 8vo. los.

"This is a book of interesting recollections of active military campaigning life.
It is told in a frank, simple, and unpretentious manner." — Illustrated London News.

"This book is not only bright and lively, but thoroughly good-natured. What
makes these reminiscences exceptionally readable is the amount of illustrative
anecdote with which they are interspersed. The author has a keen appreciation
of humour, with the knack of recalling appropriate stories"' — Saturday Review.

There is much in these interesting reminiscences that will gratify while it
pains the reader. A book like this, which portrays the horrors and not merely
the showy side of war, has distinct usefulness. Dr. Munro recounts many incidents
with pardonable pride." — Pall Mall Gazette.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.

"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Mitford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the readers delighted and serious attention'" — Daily Telegraph.

"In this singular and probably unique book Miss Mitford is painted, not in
letters of her own nor in letters written of her, but in letters addressed to her;
and a true idea is thus conveyed of her talent, her disposition, and of the impression
she made upon her friends. It seldom happens that anyone, however distinguished,
receives such a number of letters well worth reading as were addressed
to Miss Mitford; and the letters from her correspondents are not only from interesting
persons, but are in themselves interesting'— <Sf. James's Gauite,

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic." — Athenaeum.

These volumes bring us face to face with a host of celebrities — Pitch, Ked-gate,
Caldecourt, and Mr. Aiilabie at cricket; Sir G. Smart, with Cramer, lindsey,
and Dragonnetti at the Wordsworth Installation Odes ; Miss Helen Faucit,
Brooke, Kean, and the elder Barren at the Cambridge Theatre ; Wheel in his
college, Professor Willis, Professor Henslowe, and others." — Graphic

"Mr. Glover has produced an amusing book. He has notes and anecdotes
about Sterndale Bennett, Charles Simeon, Coke of Oldham, Sir George Smart.
Sims Reeves, Malian, Abraham, Henry Phillips, Lindsey, and other musical giants
of those days." — Scotsman.

A TWO MONTHS' CRUISE IN THE Mediterranean
IN THE Steam YACHT "CEYLON." By Surgeon-general
MuNRO, M.D., C.B. Author of " Reminiscences of
Military Service Avitb the 93rd Sutherland Highlanders." 1 vol,
crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.
"A frank, hearty record of an experience which those who shared it mup*^
remember with cordial pleasure." — Pall Mall Gazette.

In this delightful cruise Dr. Munro saw much that was picturesque ana interesting.
The book will give pleasure to many readers." — Morning Post.

This book is characterised by a simple-minded kindliness of tone which makes
it very pleasant reading'' — Graphic.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —

1849. By the Count H. mandeville. Edited, from the French,

by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

Marshal Bugeaud was a grand sol lier, a noble-minded, patriotic citizen. His

Algerian career was brilliant, eventful, and successful, both as regards military

command and civil administration'' — Times.

This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of Bugeaud's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity He was, indeed, a general who
may serve as a pattern to all countries, and his name deserves to live long in the
memory of his countrymen. His sagacious, far-seeing opinions on military as
well as civil matters they will do well to ponder and take to heart." — Athenaeum.

The present biography of Marshal Bugeaud is very interesting, and it is so
well translated that it reads like an original work." — Daily News.

GRIFFIN, AHOY ! A Yacht Cruise to the Levant,

and Wanderings in Egypt, Syria, The Holy Land, Greece, and
Italy in 1881. By General E H. Maxwell, C.B. One vol.
demy 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.
The cruise of the Griffin affords bright and amusing reading from its beginning
to its end. General Maxwell writes in a frank and easy style— J/orni/?^ Post.

General Maxwell ia always genial and pleasant. His explorations are related
with much liveliness and vigour." — Globe.

WITH THE CONNAUGHT RANGERS in Quarters,

Camp, and on Leave. By General E. H. Maxwell, C.B.,
Author of " Griffin, Ahoy I" 1 vol. 8vo. With Illustrations. 15s.

"A warm welcome may be presaged for General Maxwell's new work. It is an
eminently readable book, quite apart from the special attraction it must possess for
all who are, or who have been, connected with the gallant seth." — Daily telegraph.

When General Maxwell made his debut in that capital book, 'Griffin, Ahoy!'
we expressed a hope that we should soon meet him again. This expectation is
now fulfilled, and again we have to congratulate the author on a distinct success
Scarcely a page in his volume but has its little anecdote, and these stories have
real touch of humour in them." — Globe.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.
"With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest,
and is able to tell her readers a good deal of the present condition and prospects
of the people who inhabit the couhtrs'." — St. James's Gazette.

"Every lover of Greece must hail with pleasure each new book of travels in
that country which tends to increase the interest of English people in Greece, and
spreads the knowledge that it is not only delightful, but quite safe, to travel there.
Miss Smith's 'Glimpses ' are lively and pleasant"' — Academy.

"These 'Glimpses ' are presented to us in a very bright and sensible fashion.
It is a very agreeable and instructive book. The chapter on the language and
character of the modern Greeks is well worth reading for the sound judgment
and knowledge of the subject which it displays." — Fall Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.

2 vols, large post 8vo. With Portrait. 24:S.

"This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called tho ' Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, Bernstein, Dr. von Billow,
Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit. He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of our native artists: Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mac-barren,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Barnett, Mr. HuUah, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The
volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenaeum.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subject." — Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. Julius
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly And even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of theliie."— British
Quarterly Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of '' John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown Svo. 10s. 6d.

"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of there
of real importance'' — St. James's Gazette.

DONOVAN:

A MODERN ENGLISHMAN.
By Edna Lyell,

Author of " AVe Two," &c.

"donovan' is a good story of its kind. Donovan's character is developed
with patience, and the reader will find in him a good deal to like." — Athenaeum

' Donovan ' is distinctly a novel with a high aim, successfully attained. The
character-drawing is vigorous and truthful'" — Pall Mall Gazette.

This novel is distinguished by marked ability iu the portraiture of exceptional
forms of character. Donovan himself is a finished study." — Globe.

"A powerful tale, with a high purpose." — Guardian.

WE TWO.

By Edna Lyell,

Author of " Donovan," &c.

"This book is well written and full of interest. The story abounds with a good
many light touches, and is certainly far from lacking in incident'' — Times.

' We Two ' contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyell is a capable writer and a clear-headed thinker." — Athenaeum.

'■ We recommend all novel-readers to read this novel, with the care which such
a strong, uncommon, and thoughtful book demands and deserves." — Spectator:

THE Grandees.
By the Right Hon. A. J. B. Beresford Hope, M.P.,

Author of " Strictly Tied Up."

In ' The Brandies ' we have a sequel to Mr. Beresford Hope's clever novel of
Strictly Tied Up,' and we may add that it is a decided improvement on his
maiden effort Mr. Hope writes of political life and the vicissitudes of parties
with the knowledge and experience of a veteran politician. The novel is one
which will repay careful reading'" — Times.

SOPHY:

OR THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE.

By Violet Fane,

Author of "Denzil Place," &c.

*' ' Sophy ' is the clever and original work of a clever woman. Its merits are of
a strikingly unusual kind. It is charged throughout with the strongest human
interest. It is, in a word, a novel that will make its mark." — World.

This novel is as amusing, piquant, droll, and suggestive as it can be. It overflows
with humour, nor are there wanting touches of genuine feeling. To considerable
imaginative power, the writer joins keen observation." — Daily News.

MY Lord AND MY LADY.

By Mrs. Forrester,
Author of "Viva," "Mignon," &c.

This novel will take a high place among the successes of the season. It is as
fresh a novel as it is interesting, as attractive as it is realistically true, as full of
novelty of presentment as it is of close study and observation of life." — World.

HIS LITTLE Mother.

By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."

This is an interesting book, written in a pleasant manner, and full of shrewd
observation and kindly feeling. It is a book that will be read with interest, and
that cannot be lightly forgotten." — Rt. James's Gazette.

Lodge's PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

Fifty-fourth EDITION FOR 1885.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work hat
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, tht
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary KoU of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood Royal.

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers. s

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We cau safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modern works on the &\x\>iecV'— Spectator

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Pos(.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE MAN SHE CARED FOR. By Few. Robinson

Author of " Grandmother's Money," &c. 3 vols.
"A genuinely pleasant tale. The interest accumulates as the story proceeds.
It contains some passages and some delineations of character which may compare
with ilr. Robinson's uiost successful work." — Athenaeum.

RALPH RAEBURN. By John Berwick Haywood,

Author of " Lady Flavian," &c. 3 vols.

"Mr. Haywood is a powerful, picturesque, and at the same time vivacious
writer." — St James's Gazette.

"In these volumes readers will be able to find a good deal of genius entertainment.
Mr. Haywood shows considerable fertility in the invention of stirring
incidents and trying situations, and his style is strong and clear'" — Scotsman.

LOVE AND MIRAGE. By M. Bentham-Edwards,

Author of " Kitty," " Bridget," &c. 2 vols.
A singularly refined and beautiful story, in which we know not whether to
admire most the fair landscape, rich in ideal and real loveliness, or the simple
figures moving before ic." — Spectator.

THE DOUBLE DUTCHMAN. By Catharine

Child, Author of " The Future Marquis," &c. 3 vols.

"This very readable book is above the average of novels of its kind. It deals
brightly with scenes of modern social life'" — Athenaeum.

This novel is striking, amusing, and full of surprises. The story is graphically
written, and abounds in stirring incident"' — Post.

THE COUNTER OF THIS WORLD. By Lilies

Waterman and Isabella Meddle, Authors of "A Man of the

Day," " David Armstrong," &c. 3 vols.
"A powerfully-written story. Many of the situations possess a strong dramatic
interest. The tale has a wholesome ring about it." — Globe.

This novel is powerfully written, and will repay perusal." — Post.

JOY. liy May Crommelin, Author of " Queene,"

Orange Lily," &c. 3 vols.

"Miss Crommelin has here produced a powerful novel. It is as healthy and
pure as it is strong and original." — British Quarterly Review.

A powerfully written tale. The plot is dramatic and full of human interest.
There is much to commend in this novel" — Morning Post.

LADY Water's COMPANION. By the

Author of " St. Slave's," " Janita's Cross," &c. 3 vols.
Pure in tone and abounding in incident, this novel deserves warm commendation.
" — Morning Post.
The characters are well dra^vn, and exceedingly natural." — Guardian.

INCOGNITA. By Henry Cresswell, Author of

A Modern Greek Heroine," &c. 3 vols.
This novel has in it much to please and satisfy. Most of the characters are
finely drawn, but the heroine is more skilfully described than any of the rest.' —
Athenaeum,

ON THE SPUR OF THE MOMENT. By John

Mills, Author of " The Old English Gentleman," &c. 3 .vols.
"There are many graceful and pathetic scenes in this book. The chapters on
sport are bright, graphic, and full of movement"— J/oz-nuij? Post,

PUBLISHED BY HUEST & BLACKETT.
LESTER'S SECRET. By Mary Cecil Hay.

Author of " Old Myddelton's Money," &c. 3 vols.

IN AND OUT OF FASHION. By Richard

Davis Perry. 3 vols.

A SIMPLE LIFE. By Lady Hope, Author of

Our Coffee-room," " A Red-brick Cottage," &c. (In March:)

ALTHOUGH HE WAS A LORD. By Mrs

Forrester, Author of "Viva," "Mignon," &c. Second Edition.

3 vols.

"Mrs. Forrester is a lively story-teller: a few hours may be pleasantly whiled

away in her company. Her book is not wanting in contrasts of light and shade,

nor is it difficult to detect evidence of considerable vigour and imagination." —

Athenaeum.

"Mrs. Forrester is a very entertaining writer, and there is really not a dull
page in the whole of these yoXume?,:' —Academy.

Melville OF THE GUARDS. By James

Grant, Author of " The Romance of War," &c. 3 vols.

"It is pleasant to congratulate a veteran. Mr James Grant has in his present
novel described the recent campaigns in Afghanistan with fidelity, and such
domestic life in Scotland as is to be found in the humble domicile of Mary and
Ellinor Wellwood is turned to use as a quiet background to more stirring scenes."
Aiheih' um.

In this novel Mr Grant tells the deeds of daring done by our gallant troops as
no other novelist can tell them, in eloquent and heart-stirring words'— J/orHinr/
Post:

THE WITCH'S HEAD. By H. Rider Haggard,

Author of " Dawn." 3 vols.

"Here is a novelist of Kingsley's school, a successor in the art of truly patriotic
and adventurous fiction. Mr. Eider Haggard's delightful romance has made
us laugh and made us cry"— Pall Mall Gazette.

"There is plenty of excitement; and high colouring in this lively story. The
reader's attention is retained thvoxiglioxxt:' —Athemvum.

"Throughout this novel Mr. Haggard exhibits a great deal of power, originality,
and knowledge of his B\xh]ect.''— Saturday Review.

THE Carries. By William George Waters.

3 vols.

Mr. Waters has succeeded in constructing a very fair novel. His sketches of
country society are accurate, and bear traces of an intimate acquaintance with
the originals." — Athenaeum.

'•A carefully and strongly written novel"— Z)rt?7i/ Xetcs.

TMs novel is readable throughout"— .IcacZeHi?/.

CYCLAMEN. Bv Mrs. Randolph, Author of

Gcntianella," "Wild Hyacinth," &c. 3 vols.

"Mrs. Randolph novel deals with every-day life, and shows a keen faculty of
observation." — Morning Post.

A thorough readable and harmonious novel ; it is wholesome and graceful." —
Literary World.

WEST OF SWARDHAM. By the Rev. W. O.

Pestle, Author of •' Tay." 3 vols.
"Mr Pile is a pleasant writer, as long as ho is dawdling along and sketching
manners, life, or character from his experience; he is quite at home on country
matters and rustic incident." — Times.
