j/U

m

^-r^

i> ■T'^mm mi

LI B RAR.Y

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS

82 3

The person charging this material is responsible
for its return to the library from
which it was withdrawn on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from

the University.

To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

ilAR Q



L161— O-1096

VOL. 1.

AT ALL THE Liberties.

THE MAN SHE CARED FOR. By F. W. Robinson,

author of ' Grandmother's Money,' ' No Church,' &c. 3 vols.

WE TWO. By Edna Lyell, author of ' Donovan,' &c.

3 vols.

THE PITY OF IT. By Mrs. M. E. Smith, author of

It Might have Been,' ' Tit for Tat,' &c. 3 vols.

DAWN. By H. Rider Haggard. 3 vols.
OMNIA Vanity : A Tale of Society. 1 vol.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

EV

JAMES GRANT

AUTHOR OF

THE ROMANCE OF WAR," "THE Cameronian,'
THE SCOTTISH CAVALIER,"

ETC. ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

THE MISTER OF ABEPtFELWE.

CHAPTER I.

STALKING THE DEER.

I don't know what Olive will think, or
how she may view my loitering here, after
all these years of absence, instead of has
tending home to meet her ; but, truth to
tell, the temptation to have a shot on the
purple heather after sweltering so long in

India was so great '

2" ' What does it matter what she thinks ?'
^ interrupted the elder man, laughing.
^ * When two persons are to spend the whole
J term of their natural lives together, they

YOL. I. B

can surely spare a few days for pleasure
apart !'

But consider, I have not seen my little
-fiancee for seven years.'

You will find her a pretty tall fiancee
now,' replied the other, ' and as handsome
as any girl in Scotland, Allan.'

The speakers were Lord Aberfeldie (he
was viscount in the Peerage) and his son
Allan, the Master, then at home on leave
from the Black Watch, in which he was a
captain ; and now, side by side, they were
creeping up a steep and stony corrie in
search of the red deer, but paused for a
few minutes to breathe and converse.

The Master — so entitled as the son of a
Scottish baron (we may add for the information
of most English readers even in
these days) — was, like his father, a tall
and soldier-like fellow, with closely-shorn
dark brown hair, straight features, and an
almost black moustache, which partly concealed

lips that were handsomely curved,
and expressive of no small degree of firmness
and decision. He carried his head
erect, and spoke rather with the air of one
used to command when addressing men,
but with great and subtle softness when
conversing with women of every station
and degree ; and already, under home
influences, his dark hazel eyes were losing
the keen and somewhat hawk-like expression
they had worn when daily facing
death and suffering on active service.

Both father and son were handsome,
though there were nearly thirty years
between them in age, and both were, from
head to foot, unmistakably thorough-bred
men — the latter tanned deeply by a tropical
sun, and his forehead scarred by a wound
from a tulwar blade.

Lord Aberfeldie, now above fifty, had
taken a turn of service for a few years in
the Black Watch till his succession to the

b2

title required this presence at home, though
an enthusiastic soldier ; and soon af et* his
place in the regiment which he loved so
well was taken by his only son and heir,
the Master, then fresh from college.

Father and son both wore plain 
and jackets of coarse heather-coloured
stuff, with handsomely-mounted
sprang and skeins ; other ornaments they
had none, unless we except the crest of
Graham — their surname — an eagle talking
a stork, in their glengarries ; and the
peer, who was a keen fisherman, had his
head-dress further garnished by various
flies and old fish-hooks.

When en route home to the family seat
at Dundargue, in the Carse of Gowrie, the
Master had been tempted by his father to
join him at their shooting-box among the
lovely Perthshire hills, where, at present,
the party consisted of only four — Mr.
Hawke Holcroft, an English guest, and

Evan Cameron, a sub. of the Black Watch,
also on leave; and these two, attended by
a keeper and gillies, were creeping up
another corrie, rifle in hand, about half a
mile distant.

'You have had this — a — Mr. Holcroft
with you for some time at Dundargue V
said Allan Graham, questioningly.

Yes — for some weeks — before we came
up to the hills here.'

He cannot know anything about the
implied engagement — that of Olive Raymond
with me?'

Implied ?'

Well — the peculiar arrangements that
exist under her father's eccentric
will.'

Probably not — nay, undoubtedly not,'
replied his father, eyeing him keenly ; ' it
is no business of his — so, whence the question,
Allan ?'

Because he showed me, rather vauntingly,

a very fine photo he keeps in his
pocket-book.'

A photo of Olive ?'

Yes.'

The deuce he does. I have thought
her sometimes too eris with our horsey
friend Hawke Holcroft, and thus longed
for your return. They renewed at Dun-argue,
an acquaintance formed last season
in London, when Olive made some
sensation, I assure you ; and, now that you
have seen her photo, what do you think of
her — pretty ?'

'Pretty! She is downright beautiful!'


Ah — wait till you have seen her. She
does credit to your mother's rearing and
her governess's tutelage ; but you have
not exhibited much impatience hitherto.
Gad, when I was your age '

You forget that she was such a child
when we parted,' interrupted Allan, stroking

out his long dark moustache. ' But
Alas it not rather cool of him to show me
her likeness ?'

Perhaps ; but then it was done in ignorance
of the situation, and it is probably
the result of some conservatory
flirtation.'

But just as he showed it to me, was it
not strange that I heard the cry of a
plover overhead, and '

Lord Aberfeldie interrupted his son by a
hearty laugh, and tossed away the end of
his cigar.

After eight years' soldiering with the
Black Watch, do you actually retain the
superstition that the plover is a type of
inconstancy, and the bird of ill-omen
Burns, Scott, and Leyden describe it as
being ?'

Allan laughed, too ; but now, when
among his native mountains and the
scenes of his childhood, he could not help

old Scottish impressions returning to him,
though certainly the ranks of his regiment
were the last place in which he was
likely to forget them.

The silver-haired and silver-bearded old
game-keeper, Dugald Glas (whose real
name was Mackinnon), a hawk-eyed Celt,
with a weather-beaten visage, and bare
knees that were brown as mahogany, now
urged silence and no more smoking. He
had discovered by the aid of his circulars
a couple of deer grazing, but pretty
far apart, upon the hill-side ; and once
again by private signal the two parties
began mutually their stealthy approach
upward in the two carries that concealed
them in the forest for so it was called,
though destitute now of trees.

*A forest, as the word was strictly
taken in ancient times says Sir Thomas
Dick Lauder, * could not be in the hands
of anyone but the king, yet in later periods

forests have become the property of
subjects, or have been erected by their,
though without being protected by forest
laws. The royal forest in the Isle of
Wight, in which there is not a single
tree, is not the only English example remaining
of the view taken of this old
meaning of the word.' Hence, he adds,
Let not the Cockney suppose that the
word forest necessarily implies a district
covered with oaks, chestnuts, or trees of
any other description.'

A powerful and gigantic staghound,
wiry, sinewy, and iron-grey — the noble
dog that Landseer loved to depict — saw
the deer already without the aid of glasses
and strained hard upon his leash, an iron
chain, which was twisted round the muscular
wrist of the old keeper, who soothed
and patted him, while muttering in Gaelic,
Mar e Bran, is e hraithair /' (If it is not
Bran, it is his brother), alluding to Fingal's

favourite stag hound, which he was thought
to resemble, as his hair was iron-grey, his
feet were yellow, with erect ears of a
ruddy tinge.

The forenoon was brilliantly clear, so
the deer-stalkers had not the weather to
contend with, as that, if untoward, may
render all strategy vain.

Lord Aberfeldie and his son were as
well aware as their skilled old keeper that
in stalking the chief things to regard are
the eyes and nose of the deer. His vision,
quick as that of an eagle, can detect a
human head above a ridge of rock or belt
of bracken, and he can scent an intruder
on his ' native heath,' if the breeze blows
from the former, at a wonderful distance ;
and old Dugald Glas, who had brought the
father and son to the forest at dawn with
as much care and secresy as if an assassination
was in hand, had long scanned the
vicinity with his glasses before he discovered

the stags in qiiestioD, and gave the
concealed stalkers the signal to approach
them.

The two animals were rather far apart •
both were quietly feeding, and — as the
season was considerably advanced — both
in colour were marvellously like the grey
stone and brown heather around them,
and both were, as yet, all unalarmed as
Lord Aberfeldie, the Master, and Dugald
Glas, while pausing and holding ever and
anon a council of war in low whispers,
crept up the stony corrie, keeping carefully
to leeward of the quarry they had selected,
leaving Cameron of Stratherroch and
Hawke Holcroft to approach the other as
best they might ; but it was in the present
instance absolutely necessary that both
parties should fire at the same instant, or
one of the stags would vanish at a gallop,
perhaps to the most distant limit of the
forest.

In crawling after such game the bead
must be foremost when going up a hill,
and the feet foremost when going down,
and the stalker must creep on his stomach
and knees ; and all this, when done in the
kilt, over rough rocks, sharply-pointed
heather, and mossy bog, is not to be
effected without considerable toil and even
discomfort.

Nearly an hour of this kind of work had
gone on, the father and son creeping side
by side, softly and in silence, dragging
their rifles after them, old Dagald following
in the same fashion, with Bran straining
on his iron chain ; and once or twice
they had actually to traverse the bed of a
mountain burn that brawled hoarsely
downward over its brown-worn pebbles
and boulders.

The stag was still feeding quietly, and
all unconscious of the approach of death ;
and the stalkers were, they thought, within

a safe distance now, and that ifc could not
escape them ; so Dugald Glas dropped behind,
after whispering to the Master in
Gaelic,

Blood upon the skein, Allan !'

Then the heart of the latter began to
beat highly as the moment for shooting
drew near, for after all their care and toil
it was quite possible that a grouse might
whirr up from the heather, and with a
warning cry scare the stag to full speed.

You take aim, Allan,' whispered Lord
Aberfeldie, ' and I shall reserve my fire.
It is years since you had a shot at a dun
cow, my boy.'

Inch by inch the Master cautiously inserted
his double-barrelled rifle between
the stiff tufts of purple heather that fringed
the bank of the hollow up which they had
been creeping, and brought the sights to
bear upon the beautiful and graceful animal
that cropped the herbage, with hi

brandling antlers lowered ; and Allan, in
the excitement of the moment, felt his
pulses beating wildly.

If I miss — if I fail !' he muttered.

Tut — there is no such word as fail T
replied his father, unconsciously quoting
^ Richelieu

Allan drew a long breath, while his dark
eye seemed to flash along the barrel, and
fired. Bang went a couple of rifles in the
distant corrie, but Aberfeldie and his son
took no heed of them. The latter's single
shot had sped true, piercing the stag above
the left eye. and now it lay prone on the
heather, tearing up tufts and sandy earth
with its hoofs in the agonies of death.

Allan's skein-thu was promptly in his
hand ; the stag was galloped, and Dugald
Glas, waving his bonnet, shouted loudly
for Blister Bane and Hector Crutch (or
lame Hector), two gillies, to bring up the
pony, on which the dead animal was slung,

and then the party set out for the place
appointed for luncheon, as mid-day was
now honor since past.

'AVhat the deuce are Stratlierroch and
Holcrof t about ?' exclaimed Lord Aberfel-
die, while shading his eyes with his hand ;
and to their success in sport we shall refer
in the next chapter.

CHAPTER II.

HAWKE HOLCROFT.

The process of creepiDOf in serpent fashion
over sbarp.pointed heather, rough stones
and occasionally in the bed of a mountain
stream, as we have already described,
proved intensely tiresome and distasteful
to a ^ man about town ' like Mr. Hawke
Holcroft, who could not entirely conceal
his genuine disgust thereat, and at the
slowness of the whole affair, though reminded
by Dugald's son Angus, a smart
young under-keeper, of the big hart of
Tenore, which was stalked • for seven
long summer days before it was killed.

But, for the Lord's sake, sir, keep quiet,'
whispered Angus. ' We are now close on
one of the finest of Macgilony's dun cows.'

I see no dun cow !' grumbled Holcroft.

He means yonder deer,' whispered
Cameron, a fair-haired and pleasant-looking
fellow. ' Macgilony was a famous
hunter in the olden time, and his dun
cows, as he called them, were the red
deer of the Grampians.'

But to Holcroft, whose idea of hunting
the stag was to have a scared and bewildered
creature — a fallow deer, fed on
oats and hay, perhaps — cast loose from a
game-cart in a smooth, grassy park, the
perseverance, courage, and labour required
for stalking in the Highlands seemed a
simple waste of time and an inconceivable
bore.

Stop for a minute,' whispered Angus,
as they crept ujo the loins ; ' the stag can
smell with more than its nostrils.'

VOL. I.

As the stoppage took place directly in
the bed of a brawling burn, where they all
lay on their stomachs, Holcroft not unnaturally
asked, with no small irritation,
what he meant ; and the wiry young Highlander,
who was whiskered and moustached
to such an extent that, with his shaggy
eyebrows, he somewhat resembled a Skye
terrier in visage, explained his theory — no
uncommon one, though, of course, not
admitted by naturalists — that the red deer
can both smell and breathe through the
curious aperture beneath each eye, even
if their heads are immersed in water
when in the act of drinking.

Dioul !' muttered Angus, as they crept
forward again, but on dry heather this
time, ' we can't be too cautious, whatever !
A deer's eye is as keen as an eagle's, and
his nose acute as that of a foumart.'

The first shot shall be yours, Holcroft,'
said Cameron. ' I shall reserve my fire.

He seems a powerful animal, and, if yon
only wound him, we may have the devil
to pay !'

Thanks — but how ?' whispered Hole


If the dogs bring him to bay, he may
turn upon us ere another cartridge can be
dropped in the barrel, and gore deep with
his horns

English sportsmen generally prefer having
the deer driven to stalking them, for the
bodily exertion requisite in the latter case
tries so severely every muscle and sinew ;
but, to the true Highland hunter, one deer
shot after a long and adventurous stalk, is
worth a hundred knocked over after a
successful drive by gillies, when the herd
is urged in wild confusion through some
narrow pass well garrisoned by breech-leaders
in secure ambush.

While Holcroft and Cameron crept softly
forward nearer the browsing deer, the

c2

young keeper threw his plaid over the eyes
of the stag hound Shiuloch, and held it in
by main strength, though his wrist was
nearly dislocated by the strain of the leash,
and the ill-suppressed whimpers of the
animal were lost amid its muffling.

Now,' whispered Angus, hoarsely, full
of excitement — ^ now is your time, sir !'

Holcroft took a long aim ; in his intense
anxiety, and perhaps inspired by vanity,
he overdue his aim ; he fired at the precise
moment Allan's shot was heard in the
distant corrie, but only wounded the stag
in the shoulder, and, just as he let fly the
contents of the other barrel (and missed),
it fled away with the speed of the wind,
followed by the swift and powerful hound,
which, quick as thought, Angus let slip,
and both vanished down a deep glen, overhung
by silver birches, close by.

Shone a Dia ! but he has missed it,
after all — it is no use guiding a Sassenach

whatever 1' muttered Angus, under ibis
thick, ruddy moustache ; yet, as Cameron
could read by the expression that twinkled
in his hazel eyes, secretly not ill-pleased
at the result, however.

I almost did it — hit him, at all events !'
said Holcroft, with intense mortification,
as he was too much of an Englishman not
to wish to excel in everything that appertained
to sport.

Almost !' repeated Angus, who added
to Cameron, in a low voice, " Cha d'rinse
throb riomh secdg P {i.e Almost, never
killed the game).

Better luck next time,' said the young
Laird of Stratherroch, consolingly. ' Allan
has knocked over his deer, I see.'

Attempt and Did-not were the two
worst hounds of Fingal,' muttered Angus,
in his Perthshire Gaelic, with a furtive
glance, fall of meaning, at Stratherroch.

To the genuine Highlander,' says a

recent English writer, 'it is a fixed article
of belief that there never yet was a Sassenach
who knew more about the wind and
weather, or about the innumerable other
mysteries which furnish the stalker with
the tact and skill required to perfect him
in his difficult craft, than a cow understands
of conic sections. With true Celtic
caution and prudence, the gillies tolerate
the opulent tenant from the south out of
respect for his cheque-book and his frequent
drafts upon it ; but in their hearts
they look upon him as an intruder, and are
not sorry when they contemplate his receding
form, as he turns his face homewards,
and leaves moor, loch, and mountain,
glen and forest to' their natural denizens.'

And in this spirit Angus was secretly
regarding the unconscious Mr. Holcroft,
who had the genuine Southern idea that
no man of • woman born could undervalue
him.

So the little sliootiDg-partj united now,
and, not unwillingly, all sat down to have
luncheon, as they were sharply appetite
by long exercise in the keen mountain air,
and on no other tablecloth than the purple
heather ; the ample contents of a hamper
game pies, cold beef, bread, champagne
(cooled in an adjacent runnel), whisky,
and so forth — were laid out by the active
hands of the gillies, expectant of their
own repast when the time came.

They lunched near the mossy ruins of a
clachan — some of those melancholy ruins
so common over all the Highlands, the
traces of a departed people who have
passed away to other lands, evicted by
grasping selfishness to make way for
grouse and deer.

There, the low, shattered gables, an old
well, some gooseberry bushes that marked
where a garden had been,' were all that
remained of a once populous village,

whose men had often gone forth to fight
for Scotland in the wars of old, and whose
descendants in latter years had manned
more than one company of the Black
Watch in Egypt and the Peninsula.

On the sunny hill-slope close by, a ruined
wall, low and circular — above which appeared
the grey arms of a solitary Celtic cross,
an aged yew-tree, and where long grass
waved in the wind — marked where lay the
last of the clan, whom no human power
could evict or send towards the setting
sun ; and these imparted a melancholy to
the solemn scenery, for solemn it was withall
its beauty.

It was of that kind peculiar to some
parts of Perthshire, where the subordinate
hills, rising a thousand Feet and more
above the valley, are entirely covered with
dusky pines, taking away all that appearance
of blackness and desolation presented
by naked mountain masses, and adding

softness and beauty to the landscape, which
would otherwise be stern and grim. Nor
were the glassy loch and the murmuring
torrent wanting there, nor those passes
where the mountains approach each other,
and make them, like that of Killiecrankie,
excel even the famous Vale of Tempe.

Though not very impressionable by Nature,
Holcroft, influenced by the good
things he was imbibing, said something
about the beauty of the scenery, to which
Lord Aberfeldie responded, adding, with a
laugh,

I do enjoy life in a shooting-box, and
of all the entrancing sports to me there is
none like stalking the deer.'

With his sodden knickerbocker suit drying
slowly upon him in the mountain
wind, Holcroft could only assent to this
faintly, and wished, perhaps, that, like
Stratherroch, he wore a kilt, and could
wring the water out of the plaits thereof.

Of old in Scotland resumed Lord
Aberfeldie, as he lit his briar-root pipe,
'no man was deemed perfect in the craft
of hunting till he had landed a salmon
from the pool, shot an eagle on the wing,
and killed a stag. But, when here in a
shooting-box, I always thank heaven that
I am at least fifteen miles from a telegraph
wire, that letters can only come once a
day, and just before dinner, and bills and
lawyers' letters seldom or never at all.
Have a glass of something before you
lunch, Dugald,' he said, addressing his
venerable keeper ; ^ I know you will prefer
Glenlivet to all the Aliquot and Most in
the world.'

'A chess, thank you kindly, my lord,'
replied Dugald, touching his bonnet,
though my mouth can hold more of whatever
it be.'

And, bowing to the company, Dugald
drained it in quick time.

^ I daresay, Holcrof t,' said Allan, ' you
would prefer the deer driven to being
stalked ?'

Infinitely !' replied the other, as he
quaffed a bumper of sparkling Moselle.

'Well, I for one do not,' said the Master,
emphatically.

The Highlander of old would follow a
stag for days, or even for weeks, if necessary.'
observed Lord Aberfeldie, with
kindling eyes, ' sleeping in his plaid among
the heather, he would lie where night
found him. With his long gaff he would
catch a salmon between the water and the
sky ; but when stalking he had no conception
of the brutal German battues now so
common in the Highlands, and so degrading
to sport,' he added ; in his energy, forgetting
that there was something of rebuke
in his remarks, which certainly made
Holcroft's cheek redden with annoyance
and his rather shifty eyes to lower.

The Master, aware tlaat this subject was
rather a hobby with his father, hastened
to change the conversation by observing,

How strange it seems, Stratherroch,
that you and I should be so suddenly here
after all these past years with the regiment
— here among the purple heather and
green bracken again.'

And a few weeks hence will see us
with it again, and back to the old pipeclay
routine said Cameron.

'Regiments are now no longer what
they were in my time,' said Lord ,
a little irrelevantly, perhaps, but
pursuing his own ideas. ' Examinations,
cramming and useless pedantry, promotion
by selection and compulsory retirement
for the officers, with short service among
the men, render corps no longer what they
were in the old days, each a happy, movable
home. The time when a young
officer often said, with just pride and

noble ambition, "My father and my grandfather
have both commanded this regiment,
and, please God, I hope at some period todo
the same," can never come again ! And
what Highland officer now, in the Black
Watch or any other of our national regiments,
is followed to the colours by a band
of his own name and kindred, or can
speak of his comrades as "my father's
people' or " the men from our glen ;"
and yet such was the case when yonder
ruined clachan was instinct with village
life, and the voices of children were heard
around its humble hearths.'

The hero of Ghuznee had a theory that
no Scotsman was fitted to command a
regiment,' said Stratherroch, laughing.

I know that he detested Scotsmen, and
brought six officers, all Scotsmen, to a
court-martial ; and it was then he is said
to have made the statement which cost
him so dear in India.'

How ?' asked Holcroft.

'Because, within an hour after, old
Colonel Wemyss, of the 52nd, paraded
him in rear of the cantonment, and planted
a bullet in his body by way of curing him
of prejudice for the future. Father a
convincing argument, old Wemyss thought
it,' added Aberfeldie, laughing, as he knocked
the ashes from his cherished briar-root,
put it in its case, and dropped it into his
silver-mounted sporran.

Talking of regiments, I saw yours at
Portsmouth, Graham,' said Holcroft ; ' and
I thought the men looked graceful indeed,
with their kilts over their left shoulders
and their black sporrans waving above
their bronzed faces.'

Whether this was meant as a joke or a
sneer, it is impossible to say ; but his
hearers took it as the former, and laughed
accordingly, on which Holcroft added,

'I mean their plaid-shawls over their

shoulders. I remember that Miss Raymond
laughed heartily when I made the
same remark

I don't wonder at that said Lord .
' Olive is a girl who laughs on
very slight occasions.'

You have not seen her since your return
y said Holcroft to Allan Graham.

No ; but I shall very soon now.'

She is a very handsome girl ; what the
deuce have the men been about to leave
her all this time Miss Eaymond ?'

All this time ? Why, she has not yet
seen her twentieth year,' exclaimed Allan,
with some annoyance, as he thought of the
photo.

Her costumes are chic,' continued Hole
' chic to a degree ! How I admired
her portrait in the Grosvenor Gallery ; and
wise was the artist to label it "Fair to
See"'

Allan glanced at his father, and his face

clouded to hear all this — praise though it
was — in the mouth of Hawke Holcroft.

you have an appreciation of beauty,
apparently,' said young Cameron.

Who has not ? Thus, as Disraeli says,
the action of lovely woman on our
destiny is increasing," and, as Miss Raymond
'

I am Miss Raymond's uncle and guardian,'
said Lord Aberfeldie, rather stiffly,
and to Mr. Holcroft, as it seemed, a little
irrelevantly, though cutting short whatever
he meant to say ; for the peer winced
at the way in which his guest referred to
his niece in the hearing of gillies and
gamekeepers, and, more than all, in the
presence of Allan, whose dark eyes wore
rather a lowering expression ; but, as all
had hearty appetites after their recent
exercise and long exposure in the keen,
bracing mountain air of an autumn day,
they were inclined to use their knives and

forks rather than their tongues, and the
subject, however pleasing to Mr. Holcroft,
was dropped.

The latter was not a pleasing type of
Englishman, though his air and bearing-were
thoroughly those of a gentleman.
He had a good square figure, but his legs
were somewhat of the spindle order, as
his knickerbocker suit revealed. He was
flaxen-haired, fair-skinned, and somewhat
freckled, with a tawny moustache and
pale grey eyes ; and strange it was that
these, though weak-looking, cunning, and
shifty, would assume at times, but covertly,
a defiant, even ferocious expression, if
evil passions excited him.

He was almost destitute of eyebrows,
but had a massive chin ; and as Allan Graham
regarded him, as he lay stretched
upon the grass leisurely smoking, he by no
means showed his father's sentiment of
friendship for this son of an old friend ;

VOL. I. D

and there grew in his breast a mysterious
instinct — almost a presentiment — that
Holcroft would in some way or other bring
trouble upon them conjunctly or severally.

After the keepers and gillies had their
repast, the luncheon apparatus was packed
up, and, shouldering their rifles, the
party set out for the shooting-box, which
was situated in a pretty glen a few miles
distant.

Angus, who was — as his father boasted
strong as Cuchullin, again lifted the
deer to the pony's back, and preceded by
the family piper, Ronald Gair, with his
pipes in full blast to the air of ' The
Birks of Aberfeldie/ they departed down
the winding path towards the dark blue
loch that lay at the foot of the solemn,
pine-clad hills.

Like the gillies and keepers, Ronald
was never seen without a sprig of the
Buaidh crash na Laihhreis (the laurel-tree

of victory), the badge of the Grahams, in
his bonnet.

Ronald Gair's locks were silver now,
but they had been dark enough when he
played the Black Watch up the green slopes
of the Alma, through all Central India, to
the gates of Lucknow, and in later times
to the corpse-encumbered swamps of
Coomassie.

Holcroft winced at what he deemed the
dissonance of the pipes, and cursed their
sound in his heart ; but he was too well-bred
or too prudent to say anything on
the subject as he strode by Cameron's
side down the strath, with a huge regalia
between his teeth. Indeed, he might have
been pretty well used to their sound by
this time, as Ronald Gair roused the household
with them in the morning, preceded
many a meal — dinner always — and seemed
to spend most of his time in incessant
tuning up ' between.

d2

^ I have a suspicion that lie is bad form,,
this Holcroft,' said Allan to his father, as
they could converse, unheard by the other
two, amid the din of the pipes, which Ronald
blew as if to wake the Seven Sleepers of
Ephesus, or Holkar Danse in his cavern
at Elsinore. * I have heard that he half
lives on play and his betting-book, and that
his little place in Essex, or rather what
remains of it, is dipped over head and ears.
Indeed, he admitted jocularly to Cameron
that it was mortgaged for thrice its value,
three times over, a fact which would
teach the holders prudence for the future.
Why did you have him here or at Fund
argue ?'

Well — his father and I were old
friends, as you know ; his father, in fact,
by an act of great bravery, saved my life
at the Alma, when three Russians were at
the point of bayoneting me, as I lay helpless
on the field ; so you see, Allan, I cannot

help being at least hospitable to the
poor fellow, and certainly his friend.'

Indeed, Lord Aberfeldie had always been
the latter to Holcroft, and not seldom his
banker / but of this Allan knew nothing,
nor was ever likely to know, so far as his
father was concerned.

He seems to consider Olive an heiress,'
said Allan, after a pause.

As — of course — she is.'

And he dared to speak of her under
the slangy name of " cash " to Stratherroch,
as I, by chance, overheard.'

Lord Aberfeldie knitted his dark brows,
and said,

I detest slang — it is deuced bad form ;
but Holcroft belongs, I know, to a horsey
set;

The sun was setting now, and gradually
his crimson glory was paling in fire on the
hill tops, till it faded out and died away,
and the shadows of the September night

crept upward step by step from the
deep glens below, and one by one the stars
came out above the trees — a sea of dark
and solemn pines that covered all the
mountain slopes — and ere long the red
lights from the curtained windows of the
luxurious shooting-lodge were seen to cast
long lines of wavering radiance across the
bosom of the loch, by the margin of which
it stood.

Ere this, the great greyhound Shiuloch
(whose name means speed) had returned,
drenched with water (showing that he had
pursued the stag into some distant loch)
and bloody with more than one wound inflicted
by antlers.

The sharp-set hunters had dined luxuriously,
and cigars with brandy and soda
had become the order of the night, when
the Master said to his father,

I think I have had enough of deer-stalking
— three weeks nearly — and tomorrow

I shall start for Dunclargue/

I think you are wise to do so,' replied
Lord Aberfeldie, with a pointed glance.

Sorry to lose you, Graham,' said Hole
concealing under a bright smile his
secret annoyance, envy, and alarm, of all
which more anon.

In this sudden resolution Allan Graham
was influenced, perhaps, by some remarks
of his father, the viscount, and pique at
those of Hawke Holcroft, together with a
natural longing to see his mother and
sister, and a growing consciousness that he
had been somewhat remiss and, to say the
least of it, ungallant to his cousin. Thus,
next day, he took his departure for Dun-argue
; but he could little foresee all the
bitter complications that were to arise, and
to culminate in the future, through his
merely lingering to stalk deer in his father's
forest.

When he went off, none shook his hand

more warmly than Hawke Holcroft, though
the latter muttered under his breath,

'Fool that I was, not to make my
innings before this fellow came ; but if
some people could be put out of the way,
that others might take their place, how
much pleasant this world would be — to
other people, at least.'

Little did the family of Aberfeldie know
that in Hawke Holcroft they had among
them an unscrupulous adventurer and most
dangerous guest !

CHAPTER III.

UNCLE Raymond's WILL.

^ Marriage, indeed !' exclaimed Olive Raymond,
'it will be time enough to speak of
that when this 'haggard in love," your
brother, turns up here at Dundargue. Besides,
all women don't marry, so why
should I ?'

*Most pretty ones do, and marry you
must !' replied, with a merry little laugh,
Eveline Graham, the sole daughter of the
house of Aberfeldie, to her English cousin,
as she usually called her.

Such stuff all this is ! Does not the
author of "The Red Rag" say that ''if

there is a circumstance calculated to breed
mutual detestation in the minds of two
young people, it is the knowledge that
their respective parents have destined them
for each other !" '

How readily you quote,' said Eveline.

Because I have the subject at heart

They were posed like a couple of Du
Manner's fashionable girls, and were
leisurely sipping afternoon tea at a pretty
Chippendale table from an exquisite
"Wedgwood service, and, for freedom to
gossip, had dispensed with all attendance.

Both the cousins were handsome girls,
whose bearded, belted, and collected ancestors
— portraits of whom hung on the
walls, and who had often

Carved at the meal with gloves of steel,'
in that same Castle of Dundargue — would
have regarded such a repast and such a
beverage as ' afternoon tea ' with no small
wonder, and, perhaps, disgust.

Eveline Graham was very softly featured
and slender in figure ; but Olive Raymond,
who was the taller of the two, was
more fully developed, yet looked slim as a
Greek goddess in a dress of deep blue that
became her pure complexion and rich
brown hair, with only a tiny bouquet of
white flowers in the brooch at her bosom,
and a multitude of silver bangles — emblems
of conquest, perhaps — like silver fetters,
on her slender and snowy wrists. She
was fair and colourless, with dark grey
violet eyes that looked black under their
jetty fringes at night.

Eveline was more dazzlingly fair, but
more loetite^ with soft, hazel eyes, and
bright, brown hair that was shot with
gold. She had exquisite hands and feet,
and though petite, as we say, and slender,
she had a peculiar grace and dignity of
manner that only required a brocade-dress,
ruff, and lonsf stomacher to make her like

one of Lier stately 'forbears,' whose portraits
by Jameson were in the room in
which she sat — a modern portion of the
grim old Castle of Dundargue, the aspect
and construction of which edifice were
very different from those of the additions
that had been made to it in later times.

And as the girls sit there, in the tempered
light of the afternoon sun streaming
through the French windows that open to
a stately balustrade terrace, and sip their
tea leisurely, their conversation will throw
some light upon the past, and perhaps the
future, of certain of our dramatis personae.

When Allan returns — ' began Eveline.

Oh, don't talk to me again of Allan !'
interrupted Olive Raymond, with a petulant
toss of her pretty head, ' or I will
begin to tease you about Stratherroch.'

How ?' asked Eveline, colouring perceptibly.


He loves you — and you know he does.*

Yes,' said Eveline, as a soffc smile stole
over her mignonne face ; ^ I cannot doubt
it, though no word from which I could
infer it has ever escaped his lips ; but
poor Cameron has little more than his pas.
His paternal acres are mortgaged to the
full — even the shootings and fishings, I
believe, don't come to him. I heard
papa express to mamma his surprise that
Cameron could " pull through'* as he
phrased it ; that he would have no ineligible
in future dangling about me,
and that — as I have nothing — I must
marry money! That was the word — oh,
how selfish it sounds, and how hateful !'
added the girl, while her rosy little nether
lip quivered. 'Poor Evan!' she murmured,
dreamily; and as she uttered his
name her voice, which was soft even as
Cornelia's, became like that of Annie
Laurie, ' low and sweet.'

Ineligible !' said her cousin ; ^ and yet

he invited here Mr. Holcroft, who is well-nigh
penniless, and against whose attentions
Aunt Aberfeldie specially warned
me.'

*In the interests of Allan, of course

Allan — absurd !' exclaimed Olive, shrugging
her handsome shoulders. * You all
seem to forget that he can only remember
me as a little girl.'

Still you are his fiancee'

In a manner of way.'

Distinctly so, if the tenor of your papa's
will is to be observed.'

Then I think he might have had some
curiosity about me, instead of spending
days at that stupid deer-forest. For all
he knows, I might have been a veritable
fright !' added Olive, with growing pique,
as she glanced at the reflection of her own
beautiful self in an adjacent console-mirror.
If he thinks that, as Master of ,
he has only to come and see, and

conquer, I shall teach him that he is very
much mistaken.'

Olive — how can you talk thus ?' expostulated
soft little Eveline ; ' his delay
is probably all papa's fault.'

I am sure that I shall hate him then !'

Query ?' said Eveline, with a saucy
smile on her lovely lips.

There is no query in this case,' persisted
Olive, as she set down her cup with
a jerk ; for in her spirit of freedom there
was at times a curious but unexpressed
antagonism in her heart to the family of
Aberfeldie, as if she felt herself somewhat
in their power, and even to her own disadvantage,
and this spirit, which Holcroft
was not slow to discover, had rather encouraged
his hopes.

'He will be sure to love you, at all
events, Olive dear, if he has any sense or
power of observation at all — you are so
pretty — nay, so charming.'

Any fool may love a pretty face, and
generally does so.'

But you possess much more than a
pretty face, Olive.'

Yes — the fortune which I am to
share with him ere my twenty-fifth year.'

Or, if you refuse '

One half of it goes to him, and the
other, or nearly so, to charitable institutions,'
exclaimed Olive, her sweet face
paling with absolute anger.

He will love you for yourself alone, I
am assured,' persisted Eveline, in defence
of her brother. ' You are beautiful, Cousin
Olive; you ride, row, dance, play lawn-tennis,
and flirt to perfection. Are not all
these qualities calculated to excite admiration
in a young officer; and then, more
than all, you have such dear, funny ways
with you.' And the warm-hearted girl concluded
by laughing and kissing her cousin
on both cheeks effusively.

The tenor of this remarkable will,
which has been referred to more than
once, was, to say the least of it, peculiar.

Some years before this period, Olive
Raymond arrived at Dundarg'ue an orphan
left in charge of Lord Aberfeldie — the
child of his only sister, Muriel Graham,
who had married a Mr. Raymond, a poor
man whom means furnished by the 
family enabled to become one of the
wealthiest planters in Jamaica. Both her
parents had died early, and after her location
at Dundargue she became a species of
sister to Eveline and Allan Graham.

Happy, indeed, was Olive alike in her
Scottish home in the lovely Carse of Gown
and when the family took up their
abode, according to the season or the
sitting of Parliament, at their West-end
residence in London.

By will, Mr. Oliver Raymond left his
entire fortune, which was very considered.

I. E

able, to his daughter ; but, in gratitude to
the family of his wife, on the strange condition
that she was to marry his nephew,
Allan Graham, whose death alone was to
free her from that contingency. If she
unreasonably refused, then, in that case,
after her twenty-fifth year, she was to forfeit
all that would accrue to her, save a
very slender allowance — the share so forfeited
to become the inheritance of her
cousin Allan ; and if he declined to wed his
cousin Olive, then, in that case, the money
so forfeited was to go to such Scottish
charitable institutions as Lord Aberfeldie
and the other trustees might select.

This will was, undoubtedly, a strange
one ; but then Mr. Eaymond had been a
strange and eccentric man, animated by
an intense regard and esteem for the
family of his deceased wife, the Grahams
of Aberfeldie, to whom he felt all his good
fortune had been due.

As children, the tenor of this tyrannical
swill in no way affected the relations of
Olive and Allan with each other ; and the
latter — a manly and sturdy lad, when at
home from the College of Glenalmond,
where he pursued his studies and cultivated
cricket, boxing, and football — petted
and made much of the violet-even and
brown-haired little cousin, who had dropped
among them as if from the clouds ; but
after he had joined the Black Thatch as a
subaltern, and years passed on, and they
began to be talked of and deemed in the
family circle as an engaged couple, betrothed,
affianced, and all the rest of it,
the young beauty and heiress began to resent
the terms of the will bitterly, perhaps
not unreasonably ; she became, as we
have said, antagonistic, and was perplexed
to think that her father could not have
foreseen some difficulties on the part of
his two legatees.

e2

Thus, as they both grew older, she
seldom replied to the letters which Allan
wrote to her, by his parents' desire, perhaps,
rather than his owt, till he ceased to
write to her at all, on which she became
severely piqued ; and once when she was
a little way on in her ' teens,' and when
Allan was at home for a very brief period
before departing to India, she treated
him with an indifference — almost animosity
that made him deem the girl wayward,
cold-hearted, even purse-proud, and everything
unpleasant ; and with this fatal impression
he rejoined the Black Watch, and
amid many a flirtation might soon have
forgotten the heiress that was growing up
for him at Dundargue, but for the letters
he received from thence, and in which
ample references to her and her beauty
and accomplishments were never omitted ;
while she, on the other hand, when she
became of a marriageable age, seldom

ceased to stigmatise the will as outrageous,
indelicate, grotesque, and unjust.
And now that her cousin Allan was coming
home — nay, had come home — for a protracted
period on leave of absence, she felt
that a crisis was at hand in her fate — a
crisis in which she, like a hunted creature,
knew not how to escape.

Yes, Allan will soon learn to love you
for your own sake,' returned the gentle
Eveline, after a pause.

How can I ever be certain of that ?
Oh, I owe little indeed to papa, who by
such a will as his seeks to degrade both
your brother and myself,' replied Olive.

Degrade !' exclaimed Eveline, her hazel
eyes distending.

Yes — by forcing us into a marriage on
one hand, or to accepting starvation on the
other.'

Starvation !— such strong language,
Olive,' said Eveline, in a tone of rebuke.

Of the alleged tie that bound her to
Allan Graham, and of the latter himself,
personally, she had never thought so seriously
as she had done of late; and, truth
to tell, in the opportunities afforded by
mutual residence in a country house — that
great rambling castle especially — Mr.
Hawke Holcroft, by his subtle attentions
when no one else was near, had begun to
interest her more than Lord or Lady 
could have relished or conceived ;
and to her it seemed that for some time
back at Dundargue (continuing a sentiment
he had striven to rouse during a
past season in London) his eyes had been
telling in imploring and passionate glances
what his lips had not yet the audacity to
utter ; but then the girl was young, enthusiastic,
impressionable, and far from insensible
to admiration and flattery.

Though she did nob and could not regard
Allan Graham as a lover, and disliked

thus to view him in the light of her intended
husband, circumstances now compelled
her to tliinh of him ; and though she
remembered him chiefly as the playmate
of her childhood, she was piqued that he
seemed in no haste to meet and see her,
but instead had openly manifested, as she
thought, indifference and lack of interest
or curiosity, by shooting at Aberfeldie Lodge
for days.

Thus pique made her not indisposed to
encourage the attention of others, especially
of Hawke Holcroft, as we shall show,
when he returned to Dundargue before his
departure for London.

Olive Raymond in her pride of heart
bitterly resented the tenor of her father's
will. She knew that by the chances of
war, climate, and foreign service generally,
she might never have seen her cousin
again ; but now the inevitable seemed at
hand, and she felt herself in a measure

set apart for him as fairly as if she had
personally betrothed herself ; but was she
to be bound, while he was absolutely free ?
And stories she had heard — some of them
artfully and casually dropped by Holcroft
of more than one flirtation at Chatham
and elsewhere, added to the pique in which
she was indulging.

Lady Aberfeldie now came in through
one of the open French windows for her
cup of afternoon tea, with a bright scarlet
shawl loosely' floating over her handsome
head and shapely shoulders, quitting the
terrace, where she had been amusing herself
by feeding the peacocks.

She was looking unusually radiant as
she announced that Angus, the young
keeper, had just come from the shooting
lodge to inform her that the Master would
be home that afternoon, and that this
rooms must be put in order for him without
delay.

So, on bearing this, the wilful Olive resolved
to pays a protracted visit elsewhere,
and to be absent when he did arrive.

'No woman understood the art of dressing
better than Ladj Aberfeldie, and well
was she aware how truly a dainty maize ora
coral colour with rich black lace trimmings
became her brunette tints, her dark
hair and eyes, her pure, yet slightly olive
complexion. Her whole air was graceful
and queenly, as befitted one who was always
to ' walk in silk attire.'

Lady Aberfeldie never forgot that she
had been the belle of three seasons in Belgravia,
and an heiress to the boot, though
the memories of others might be less
retentive ; and now, in her fortieth year,
she was a very handsome blooming woman
still.

We must have some dinners and no
end of dances and lawn-tennis parties,
mamma, in honour of Allan's return,' said

Eveline, as she assisted her mother to
tea.

Thank God, my dear boy is home —
home again — and safe at last — after all he
has faced and undergone said Lady ,
with a bright and fond expression
in her fine face. ' Why, it seems but yesterday,
Olive, that you and he were little
chits playing together on the lawn or at
Nannie's knee — when you had rag dolls,
and used to sing together of the old woman
that lived in a shoe, or " High upon
Highlands and low upon Tay," or of

"Alexander, King of Macedon,
Who conquered the world but Scotland alone ;
When he came to Scotland his courage grew cold,
To find a little nation courageous and bold,
So stout and so bold — "

You remember the nursery song, Olive ?'

I have forgotten it, aunt.'

Then I hope you will remember in its
place the adage '

^"What adao^e?' interrupted Olive sharply.

That a good, son makes a good husband,'
said Lady Aberfeldie, archly, and
laughing as she tapped her niece's soft
cheek with her teaspoon.

Adages are not to my taste, aunt.'

Child, what makes you seem so cross
to-day?'

The weather, perhaps,' suggested Eve-line.


But Olive, who had rather a mutinous
expression in her soft face, remained
silent.

This is bad form in our day of joys
said Lady Aberfeldie, who had been eyeing
her closely. * In society well-bred people
always control their emotions — their feelings.'


Easy enough for them, aunt,'

'How?'

Because they have seldom any feelings
to control.'

And to prevent more being said with
reference to Allan — a subject she dreaded
Olive Raymond withdrew.

CHAPTER lY.

THE GRAHAMS OF DUXDARGUE.

Who would have imagined that within a
few beards of the elegant and stately
modern drawing-room in which these three
handsome women of the best style were
chatting and sipping their tea, there still
existed within the old walls of Dundargue
a hideous oubliette or bottle dungeon, like
those that were in the Castle of St. Andrews
and ancient peel of Linlithgow — so
named from the French word to ' forget.'

Shaped like a bottle, it was— and is — >
totally dark and of great depth, with no
outlet but its narrow mouth, through

wliicli prisoners were precipitated and left
to die. ' Dante says Victor Hugo, when
describing that in the Bastille, ' could find
nothing better for the construction of his
hell. These dungeon-funnels usually
terminated in a deep hole like a tub, in
which Dante has placed his Satan, and in
which society placed the criminal condemned
to death. "When once a miserable
human being was interred there — farewell
light, air, life, and hope ! It never went
out but to the gibbet or the stake. Sometimes
it was left to rot there, and human
justice called that forgetting. Between
mankind and himself the condemned felt
an accumulation of stones and jailers,
and the whole prison was but one enormous
and complicated lock that barred
him out of the living world.'

From such places the shrieks and wails
of despair and death — death from thirst
and hunger —never reach the upper air.

When the oubliette of Dundargue was
examined a few years ago there was found
in it a mass of unctuous-looking mould
that made those shudder who looked upon
it. It was full of skulls and human bones.
Of whom those beings had been even
tradition was silent; but, as some coins
of Edward I. of England were found
among the ghastly remains, they were
supposed to have been certain English
prisoners or fugitives, who, when flying
from the siege of Perth, had fallen into
the hands of Sir Malise Graham of Dun-argue,
in the Carse of Gowrie, a relentless
enemy of the invaders of his country,
who said, grimly, ^ A few Englishmen less
in the world would make the world all the
better,' and, dropping them successively
into the oubliette, placed a huge stone
over the mouth of it, and ' forgot ' all
about them.

From a short distance beyond Dundee,

called ' The Beautiful ' in the days of old,
the lovely and fertile Carse of Gowrie, so
famed in Scottish song, stretches far westward,
bounded by the Firth of Tay on
the south, and a line of undulating hills
on the north, till it narrows to a vale
among the rocky eminences that overlook
the fair city of Perth.

The Carse is not quite a dead level,
for here and there slope up wooded or
cultivated elevations, named Inches, serving
to show that in the ages they won
their name the Carse had been a wide,
open lake ; but above one of these inches
towers the abrupt, though not very lofty,
rock crowned by the Castle of Dundargue,
an edifice on which the surrounding hills
have looked down for centuries.

Bronze or iron rings, to which the
Romans are said to have moored their
galleys, were lately to be seen in the
rock of Dundargue, and cables have been

found at the foot of the Sidlaw Hills,
relics of the time when an inland sea
rolled its waves against their now grassy
slopes.

The original castle, or strong square
tower, starts flush from the edge of the
rock, out of which its oubliette and lower
vaults are hollowed, standing clear and
minute against the sky, and its machicolated
battlements rise high above the
more florid modern additions of the days
of James VI. and Queen Anne.

From its stone bartizan can be seen the
sweep of the broad, blue Firth of Tay,
with its vessels, the varied surface of the
beautiful Carse of Gowrie clothed with
leafy timber, narrow stripes of sand-edged
land, and long stretches of cultivated
ground, studded with curious old orchards
and ancient and hoary forests of dwarf
oak ; and on the north and west the glorious
blue mountains, piled over each other

VOL. I. F

in ranges, and capped, afar off, by the
historic Grampians.

The earliest portion of the edifice is
said to have been built by Sir Malise Graham,
and possesses the battlemented bartizan,
which was a decided feature in the
architecture of Scotland long before her
intimate connection with the Continent ;
and the tenures of many houses in the
vicinity are still held by owners who, if
they had to fulfil the original obligations,
would be compelled to bring to the castle
coal for its fires, beer and beef for its
tables, and oats for the chargers of the
men-at-arms, with cords to bind and hang
prisoners condemned to the duke-tree.

The Grahams, Viscounts of Aberfeldie
and Barons of Dundargue in the peerage
of Scotland, had the barony bestowed on
them in 1600, in consequence of the
bravery of the then laird at the battle
of Benrinnes, six years before, and the

viscounty in 1648, for doughty deeds done
in the wars of the Covenant ; but they
had been lairds of Dundargue in days that
were remote indeed — the days of that
Graham who, when expiring of a mortal
wound on the field of Dunbar, gave his
sword — the same weapon now preserved
in the house of Montrose — to his son,
^ the Graham ' of future battles, ' the Right
Hand of Wallace,' in whose arms he expired
of a wound, after the battle of Falkirk,
leaving the patronymic of ' gallant '
to all his descendants.

In one apartment hung with Gobelin
tapestry stood a bed wherein Charles II.
had reposed before his coronation at Scone;
and another had been occupied by his
nephew, James Viii., of the Scottish Jacobites,
before he went to visit Castle Lyon,
the guest of John, Lord Aberfeldie, who
declined to sit in the Union Parliament,
and who, to the end of his days, even when

f2

George III. was king, was wont to assert
that green peas and the other edibles
were always a month later, after that vile
and degrading incorporation,' and that
many a sweet flower never blossomed
again after the White Rose was destroyed
at Culloden.

In right of gift to an ancestor, the
present peer was Hereditary Keeper of
the Royal Palace of Falkland, and as such
wore a key and chain of silver at his neck
on collar days at Windsor and elsewhere.

It was a September afternoon — almost
evening — when the pastures had become
parched, the foliage shrivelled and of various
tints, and high-piled pains came rocking
over the furrowed fields and through
green lanes as the harvest was led home,
that a horseman ' might have been seen '
(to use the phraseology of Mr. G. P. R.
James) — nay, was seen — to ride leisurely
down the Carse and take a flying leap over

a hedge into the great lawn of Dundargue,
and then, after trotting his horse between
belts of trees, he drew his bridle for a few
minutes, while he lingered and regarded
fondly and admiringly the old structure,
which he had not seen for well-nigh seven
years ; and Allan, the Master of Aberfeldie
for he the rider was — thought there was
not in all the Carse of Gowrie another
residence to compare with Dundargue for
the many stories and characteristics that
circle about a house which has been forages
the home of one family, with all its
historic memories, its traditions and patriotism.


The shadows of the great old trees
under which more than one Scottish king
had blown his hunting-horn fell far along
the turf, that was green as an emerald and
soft as velvet. A semi-transparent haze,
mingling with the sunshine, pervaded the
Carse land ; the smoke of an adjacent village

ascended from the hoary orchards
around it, and far eastward fell the shadow
of the tall and weather-worn keep of Dun-argue,
with all its nouvelles, or Scottish
turrets, tinted redly by the rays of the
setting sun ; and Allan's heart swelled ashe
looked around, for the love of his native
land was strong within him, and he recalled
the words of an English writer, who
describes it as the place chosen by Nature
as the mirror of her beauty :

^ She has planted it in the northern seas,
with its mountains fronting the western
sun, and watered its plains and valleys
with a thousand streams, over which the
lights of heaven are poured with an illumination
and a glory, with an entanglement
and a mingling of all the colours that can
make earth beautiful. There is no land
in all the world which, for the softer splendours
of mountain and fell, wood and
stream, surpasses Scotland !'

And Allan now remembered that the
green ridge on which he had reined up
his horse for a moment or two had been
to him a place of fear, when a child, as
the abode of the Daphne Shi — the goblins
or fairies — who could be heard at work in
the heart of the knoll, busily opening and
shutting great chests, the contents of
which were alleged to be the pillage of
pantries, larders, and meal-girls ; and
once an old housekeeper at Dundargue,
who contrived to circumvent them by
securing the door of her premises, was
struck with blindness, from which she did
not recover till the barrier was removed.

Allan saw a lady suddenly appear upon
a path close by that which led to the
avenue ; and she proved to be no other
than Olive Raymond, who, intent on being
absent when he arrived, came thus upon
him face to face, yet neither knew the
other.

On her arm she bore a little basket, with
some presents for her poor pensioners.
The cordiality and kindness of Olive to
the poor and labouring people made the
periodical return of the household from
London and elsewhere more than a matter
for local rejoicing. There were none about
Dundargue but loved her, as they also did
Eveline Graham, though the latter did
less among them ; and the Scottish peasantry,
it must be borne in mind, unlike others
elsewhere, are usually too self-reliant and
full of proper pride to accept aid from
Dorcas, blanket, food, or coal societies.

Well mounted, Allan had substituted a
light-grey tweed suit, which well became
his dark complexion, for his shooting-kilt
and jacket, and as a sudden light or conviction
came upon him, aided by a memory
of the photo he had seen in Holcroft's
possession, he sprang from his horse when
the young lady drew near.

I beg your pardon said he, as he
threw the bridle over his arm and lifted
his hat ; ' I cannot be mistaken, changed
though you are — you are my cousin, Olive
Eaymond ?'

She blushed deeply, and said,

And you — are Allan Graham !'

Yes, Olive. Oh ! how good, how kind
of you to come and meet me,' he replied,
his heart beating lightly as he looked into
her beautiful face and deftly possessed
himself of her hands.

'Far from it,' she replied, seeking to
release herself, and now growing pale with
positive annoyance at his supposition. ' I
have some duties to do at the village. I
hope you enjoyed your shooting excursion
?' she observed, after a pause.

I did — and yet '

So much so, indeed, that you were in
no haste to come home,' said she, laughing
to conceal her secret vexation at the
rencontre.

Allan found his intended wife all that he
could have wished, and more than he could
have imagined. The little girl he had left,
had now expanded into a tall, proud, and
lovely one — lovelier than he had ever
dreamed of her being ; and under her
pretty black velvet hat her grey-violet
eyes regarded him with a curious mixture
of shyness and confusion in their expression,
and — though he did not then detect it
resentment.

When he had last seen his ' little wife
as he was wont to call her then, she
was a madcap girl, with all her golden
hair flying far and wide from a pearly
neck and brow, rippling and unconfined.
1^0 w her braided hair was of the richest
brown, and she was the belle of a London
season, and he could not help acknowledging
in his heart the many charms she
possessed, and suddenly becoming very
appreciative thereof.

I hope Mr. Holcroft is enjoying his
sport among the hills ?' said she, after another
pause.

Never mind Holcroft,' replied Allan, a
little piqued by her manner ; ' have you no
welcome for me, Olive?'

Of course you are glad to be home
again,' said she, evasively.

I have always loved dear old Dunbar
even when I came home as a boy
from school, and now I shall love it more
than ever.'

'Why?'

Can you ask me — when you are its
permanent inmate ?'

I may not be so always,' said she,
pointedly. ' Nothing lasts for ever ; but
as we are cousins — ' she was about to add
something, yet paused.

^ And more than mere cousins can ever
be to each other. You might at least give
me your hand, Olive,' said he, drawing

nearer to her as she looked up at him, earnestly,
shyly, and then, he began to think,
rather defiantly, with those wonderful
violet-grey eyes of hers. She gave him
her right hand, and, though cased in a
tight glove, a soft and warm little hand it
felt ; but he drew her towards him, and,
ere she could avert the act, was softly and
swiftly kissed by him.

Dont she exclaimed, as she snatched
her fingers from his clasp. ' How dare
you ?' she added, repelling him with both
lauds outspread, and a laughing indignation
that was not all laughter ; but he
looked at the sweet red lips as though he
longed to offend aofain.

Olive, how can you treat me thus, after
all these years ?' he asked, with an emotion
of annoyance. ' Have you forgotten
what jolly playmates we used to be ; how
we went nutting and seeking birds' nests
together, made rag dolls, and chorused

"Alexander, King of Macedon," and so
forth, with our old nurse, Nannie ,
the wife of Dugald Glas?'

I have not forgotten ; but I had
thought, or hoped, that you had done
so.'

'Why?'

I cannot say,' replied the wilful beauty,
pouting and yet confessing in her secret
heart how handsome he looked, and how
winning he was in eye and manner.

I remember, too,' said he, laughingly,
'the scores of times we used to wander in
the garden, or on the heather braes, seeking
bees to hloh and get the honey out of
them ; and when on May mornings you
used to catch a snail by the horns, and
toss it over your left shoulder as an omen
of luck in marriage.'

Allan, such odious and absurd things
should be forgotten.'

We were children, then ; and what

fun we had when fishing with indies in
the burn for minnows and pow-wits
under the old brig-stone. Do you remember
how I used to climb to get birds' nests
for you, and how we wove fairy caps of
rushes and bluebells in many a green howe
of the Sidlaw Hills ?'

How can you treasure such childish
memories, Allan?' she asked, but with
momentary softness in her manner.

Because such were very dear to me
when far away in other lands and other
scenes, when the Indian sky was like a
sheet of heated iron overhead, and the
breeze that came from the sandy desert
was like the breath of the death-blast ;
when cattle perished by the empty tanks,
the birds sat on the dusty trees with eyes
closed and beaks agape, and when strong
soldiers died on the line of march, stricken
down by sunstroke or sheer exhaustion.'


Poor Allan !'

'And you are going to the village?'
said he, inquiringly, seeing that she
manifested no desire to return with
him.

Yes.'

But won't you accompany me home,
now that I have returned ?'

You must excuse me — I do so enjoy
a walk in the evening before
dinner.

I have not seen my mother for seven
years,' he said, reproachfully; 'yet, if
you will permit me to accompany you to
the village, I shall do so, and then escort
you home.'

I cannot trespass on your time so
much,' she replied, with a slight soupcon
of sarcasm in her tone ; ' besides, what
would Aunt Aberfeldie think of your
being in no haste to see her, after lin-offering
so long: at the deer-forest ?'

Allan thought rightly that he now detected
the true source of her pique and
peculiar greeting ; but he knew nothing
yet of her bitter opposition to the terms
of her father's will.

Aunt and Eveline are anxiously waiting
you, so do not let me detain you longer.
If an escort back is requisite, I shall doubtless
find one with ease,' and, nodding her
head smilingly, she tripped down the tree-shaded
avenue and left him ; thus he had
no choice, though looking after her with a
sigh, but to remount and ride towards the
house, or rather the castle, of Dundargue.

So — so she had so little interest in him,
in his return and his society — that she
would neither turn back with him nor permit
him to escort her, but had left him ta
pay some trumpery visits which she could
do at any other time, day, or hour.

How was this ?' he asked of himself.
Holcroft has certainly something to do

with it. Why the deuce did my father
bring the fellow here ?'

Allan's hitherto languid interest in her
had become quickened by the sight of her
undoubted beauty and grace, and he was,
perhaps, a little unreasonably piqued by
her open indifference as to his return from
remote foreign service, and to his views
and whole affairs. Thus the breach between
these two — if such we may call it —
seemed likely to widen.

In a few minutes more the affectionate
effusiveness of the welcome home accorded
him by his mother and his tender sister
consoled him, but it contrasted in his mind
powerfully and painfully with that of his
cousin ; yet he could scarcely expect that
she would have flung her soft arms round
his neck and kissed him again and again
with hungry affection on both cheeks as
they did.

The pater, dear old fellow, will be

VOL. I. G

home in the course of a day or two said
he. ' Mr. Holcroft is coming with him,
and Stratherroch, of Ours, too,' he added.

He noticed that Eveline's pale cheek
coloured for a moment at the name of the
latter.

^ Ah, you know him, it seems ?' said he.

Yes, very well,' replied Eveline, frankly.

He has been at home with the depot
lately. A right good sort is Evan Cameron,
but desperately hard up, poor lad. I often
think he will have to exchange for India
or something of that kind, though it would
break his heart to leave the Black Watch.'

Eveline's long lashes drooped as her
brother said this, all unconscious that his
casual remarks were secretly wounding
her.

The expression he could plainly detect
in the sweet and expressive face of his
sister at the mention of Evan Cameron
gave Allan some occasion for thought.

He loved aud esteemed his friend and
brother-officer, but felt it would be a
serious misfortune indeed if any affection
took root between him and Eveline ; for
Evan was poor, as we have hinted, his
estate valueless to him, and * at nurse ;'
and there was, moreover, a necessity for
Eveline making a wealthy marriage — indeed,
her father, Lord Aberfeldie, had
already a suitor in view for her.

^ I am so sorry that our dear Olive is
out.' said Allan's mother, breaking a little
pause ; ' but we knew not at what hour to
expect you.'

I met her in the avenue '

And you knew each other — how
strange !' exclaimed Lady Aberfeldie, with
a brightening face.

Yes, after a minute or two. She seems
as charming a girl as one — to use a soldier
s phrase — might see in the longest
day's march.'

g2

And such she is. She did not turn
back with you ?'

No, mother,' he replied, with hesitation.

But she was, of course, glad to see
you?'

I can't say that she was particularly,
mater dear ; and she got into a regular
pet because I dared to kiss her, even in a
cousinly way.'

Dared, my darling boy !' exclaimed his
mother, indignantly.

^ Fact, mater,' said the Master, smiling
and twirling up the ends of his long dark
moustaches.

Lady Aberfeldie and her daughter exchanged
a swift and mutual glance; but
the latter knew more of the views of the
young lady in question than the former did.

I am glad you are pleased with Olive,'
said she; 'and when your acquaintance is
fully resumed you will find the dear girl all
you could wish.'

She has wonderful blue-grey eyes ; they
seem violet-blue when she rules, and black
when she is angry.'

Angry T said Lady Aberfeldie, inquiringly.


"Well, she rather looked so when I
ventured to kiss her in the avenue,' said
Allan, laughing, and referring to a kiss
that, though snatched, he was never to
forget, perhaps, in the long years that
were to come.

She lias grown the very image of her
mother, your poor Aunt Muriel, who was
one of my bridesmaids.'

By visits to the minister's manse and
elsewhere Olive had wilfully and petulantly
contrived to protract her absence from
home to the last moment; the dressing-bell
had rung, and before dinner she was
hastily giving a few touches to her costume
not that she cared to attract her cousin

(quite the reverse) ^ — but she dismissed her
foreign maid, Clairette Patchouli, on a sign
that Eveline wished to talk with her alone,

Now, Olive,' began the latter, ' that you
have seen Allan '

I saw him years ago,' interrupted Olive,
pettishly.

He was a boy then ; but now that he is
a man, and not the boy you remember
what do you think of him ?'

Olive made no reply, but continued to
slip her bangles on the whitest, roundest,
and most taper pair of arms that ever bewildered
the senses of man.

'Isn't he very handsome?' persisted
Eveline.

To partial eyes, perhaps, but there are
plenty of men in the world quite as handsome
— even more so, I doubt not. I like
him already, but don't let him think so ;
besides, I also like our English visitor, Mr.
Holcroft.'

*I do not said Eveline, decisively.
'Why?'

He is horsey in bearing, and his face,
though handsome, T grant you, often wears
a sinister, sharp, and supercilious expression.'


How tanned Allan is by the Indian
sun !'

I think his face and head both grand
and handsome !' exclaimed his sister, with
affectionate enthusiasm; 'he quite reminds
me of the old Greeks.'

I was not aware you knew any of them,'
laughed Olive.

Their sculptures, I mean,' replied Eve-line,
as they swept down the great staircase
to the dining-room.

CHAPTER Y.

OLIVE AND ALLAN.

A FEW days had now passed since Allan
Graham's return to Dundargue, but he
seemed — though greatly attracted by his
cousin Olive, and in a manner compelled to
think of her as something more than a
mere cousin — to make no progress in her
favour at all. Sometimes he smoked beside
her in utter silence, while she swung in a
hammock between two trees on the lawn,
deep — or affecting to be so — in the last
three-volume novel that had come in the
box from Edinburgh ; and, when they stole
furtive glances at each other, his were

curious and hers, under the shadow o£
her gorgeous Japanese umbrella, were
hostile, defiant at least, and thus not
without a certain drollery ; but few remarks
were interchanged of a more exciting
nature than that ' the weather was lovely,'
or ' the leaves were falling.'

In these days, and for long after, Olive
was terribly uncertain in her moods, and
to Allan Graham it seemed at times as if
she almost disliked him.

When they were alone together, which
was seldom, she scarcely spoke to him,
and thus his enforced silence disposed her
to be more silent still. To Olive the whole
situation was one of miserable unrest ; she
felt that there was something grotesque
in it, and she longed intensely to be anywhere
else than at Dundargue.

While Allan, admiring her rare beauty
and pretty, petulant ways, was already
learning to love her, he found his tongue

loaded, as it were, tied up, and his tenderness
cramped by the strange tenor of
her father's will, which made him feel that,
love her as he might, that love would never
seem pure, or without the taint of selfishness.


He had procured for her at Malta a
complete suite of gold and pearl-mounted
Maltese jewellery, the best that could be
found in the Strata San Paoli, costing
him more than even he could well afford ;
but now so cold and repellant was her
demeanour that he had not the courage as
yet to present the elaborate trinkets — so
rich in fretwork and fine as a gossamer
web — so they were left to repose in their
purple velvet cases.

Yet his thoughts about her were becoming
persistent now. Times there were
when he conceived that he would treat her
judiciously, but tenderly, and in such a
fashion that her feelings must slide into a

species of sisterly, or at least cousinly,
interest in him ; but then — at these times
a flash of her dark grey-blue eyes cast
these intentions to the winds, though
Allan began to feel nothing but passionate
love for her.

To him, as to her, the situation imparted
an awkwardness now, that of course he had
never been conscious of when a boy. He
did not want the money of his cousin or of
anyone else, as he muttered to himself
while tugging and twisting his thick, dark
moustache ; and thus, with all the tenderness
that was growing in his heart for
Olive, he often unconsciously adopted towards
her a studied courtesy and almost
indifferent bearing that somewhat galled
her ready pride, and made her think ' this
indifference to me, and the beauty all men
aver I possess, can only spring from a love
he bears some one else ; and, with that
love in his heart, he seems actually ready

to conform to the outrageous wishes of
papa !'

And more convinced of this suspicion
did she become when she found that he
evinced no more desire to seek her society
than that of his mother or sister ; but this
was the result of her own bearing.

Allan was ere long in sore perplexity.
The slightest attempt at tenderness she
repelled or seemed to shrink from, as a
sensitive plant shrinks from the touch ;
and, on the other hand, the lack of it
seemed to increase her coldness and rouse
her sense of pride.

What the deuce is the meaning of
this ?' muttered Allan, as he chanced upon
a volume one day. It was a very handsome
and expensive edition of some of
Byron's poems, which had been given by
Hawke Holcroft to Olive as a birthday
gift, and on turning over the leaves of
which he found innumerable paragraphs

and lines pencilled on passes that seemed
to fall naturally open, where these marks,
all of which referred to love and passion,
were most plentiful.

All of these seemed to have been selected
with an ulterior view for her perusal
and study. Allan knit his brows and
tossed the volume to the other side of
the table.

So, so thought he, ' Cousin Olive has
had a guide for her reading, and the guide
is that fellow Holcroft. He has made
good use of his time, hang him !'

Olive, who had been watching him under
the deep fringes of her eyes, smiled when
she saw the action, and, instantly divining
the reason of it, resolved not to leave her
Byron lying about in future ; and now a
new mood seized her.

'Tell me, Allan,' she said, suddenly
looking up from a piece of music she was
studying, 'did you ever think of me at

all when you were all these years faraway
in India T

shave you forgotten what I told you on
the evening we met on the lawn?' said he,
reproachfully, yet surprised by her taking
the initiative in a conversation, especially
of this kind. ' Often, indeed, did I think
of you !'

How — in what fashion ?'

^ As my merry little playmate when I
was a mere youth — the droll girl to whom
I was somehow tied up under Uncle Kaymond's
will.'

You phrase it rightly,' said she, biting
her coral nether lip. ' Tied up ; yes, but
I won't be so. Yet you did think of meas
a droll little playmate ?'

Yes ; how else could I think of you ?
Not as the lovely girl I find you now,
Olive.'

^ You may know by this time that I hate
all flattery,' said she, blushing hotly at

what she had brought upon herself by a
blunt reference to a hitherto ignored subject
— their mutual relation to each other.

I have here a gift I brought you from
India,' observed Allan, timidly, as he unlocked
his desk and thought of the Maltese
ornaments, but did not dare refer to them
as yet.

A gift ?' said she, coldly, with face half
averted.

A little silver idol of Siva, beautifully
carved and chased — will you accept of it ?'

Thanks — with pleasure,' said she, trembling
lest it had been a ring. ' How curious,
and yet how grotesquely hideous it
is !' she added, turning it round, and then
balancing it in the white palm of a slim
and delicate hand.

'And rather a curious story attends it
if you care to hear.'

Please to tell me,' said she, her curiosity
roused. ' Why, the funny thing has

ever so many heads, and a dozen of arms
at least !'

We were in cantonments at Hurdwur,
in Delhi said Allan, glad to secure her
attention even for a few minutes, * when
a subadar-major of the 10th Native Infantry,
a disciple of Siva, wishing to sacrifice
to his little idol, placed it by the bank of
the river there, which is one of the greatest
places for Hindoo purification, and the
resort of thousands of pilgrims from every
part of Hindostan. While he turned aside
to get the ghee with which to anoint it,
some person adroitly carried it off. After
searching for it in vain, with consternation
in his soul, the unfortunate subadar-major
went to the priest of the nearest temple,
and, with tears in his eyes, related his loss.

" Dog !" exclaimed the priest, " you
have lost your god, and must prepare to
die, for death alone can soothe the wrath
of Siva."

'' If die I must," replied she wretched
subadar-major, with clasped hands and
trembling knees, though a brave man, as
the medals on his breast proved, "it shall
be by drowning in the holy river ; so come
with me to the edge thereof, and give me
your blessing."

The priest consented, and followed him
to the Ganges, into which he went deliberately.


" Be courageous, my son — die with joy,
and perfect happiness awaits you," exclaimed
the priest.

^ " My dear master," said the subadar,
before I perish, lend me your god that I
may adore it — the water is already up to
my neck."

The priest consented, and handed his
idol to the subadar-major, who, as if by
accident, let it drop in the deep water.

*^'Ah! master," he exclaimed, as if in
horror and dismay, " what a new mis-vol.
I. H

fortune ! Your god is also lost, and so we
must die together — for you must drown,
too, and go with me to the throne of
Siva !"

And, approaching the priest, he strove
to grasp the hand of the latter, who stood
pale and trembling on the lowest step of
the ghaut or landing-place.

" What trash do you speak ?" the priest
suddenly exclaimed, in great wrath ; "can
there be any harm in losing a little image
of baked clay, not worth an anna ! I have
dozens of such in my temple close by ; let
us each choose one, and keep silence on the
subject !"

The subadar did so then, but chose
this fine silver one, which he bestowed on
me for kindness shown to him when
dying of a wound received in a skirmish,
and I brought it home as a bauble for you,
Cousin Olive

She placed the idol on the table, and

remained silent, while Allan eject her
wistfully.

Why is my presence so distasteful to
you ?' he asked, after a minute's pause.

Distasteful ! Oh ! Allan, don't say so,'
said she, impressed by the pathos of his
tone, but for a moment only ; ^ it is you
who think, or seem to think so.'

Olive !' he exclaimed, a little impatiently
and reproachfully as he drew near her.

There — there — that will do,' said she,
starting up, ' don't bring down the ceiling
on me — auntie more than all 1'

o

And she swept from the room, leaving
the idol behind her.

Allan sighed with annoyance, and addressed
her no more during the whole of
that day. She was conscious of this, for
she remarked to Lady Aberfeldie in the
evening,

How odd— how strange Cousin Allan

is to me !'

H 2

Strange ?'

Yes, aunt.'

I know not what you mean, Olive,' she
replied, a little gravely and severely; * but
to me it seems that you've always strange,
• and not my son, the Master.'

Lady Aberfeldie had a soft, but set face
of the classic type, with a mouth that,
though beautiful and aristocratic, could
become very fixed in expression at times,
and it seemed so now to Olive, thus that
young lady withdrew.

Our Allan is young and handsome,
noble and most unselfishly in love with
her, as I am beginning to hope, Eveline, so
what more would Olive Raymond wish
for ?' said Lady Aberfeldie to her daughter.

She would have that, which she has
not, mamma, perfect freedom to accept or
refuse whom she chose. Unselfish in love
I' know Allan must be ; but that is precisely
the point which Olive is left to doubt.'

Wherefore ?'

Through that unlucky will, which
makes a kind of bondsman of her.'

I would to heaven the silly document
had never been framed ! I have often
feared that it might lead to all our attention,
care, and affection being misconstrued
by her ; but Allan might have been sickly,
weakly, even deformed, and, with the terms
of this will hanging over her, what would
she have thought then ?'

Then, as I have heard her say, the will
might be reduced by a court of law.'

At this reply a clouded expression came
into the fair, colourless face of Lady
Aberfeldie, but just then a servant in the
Graham livery, yellow and black, approached
with a note on a salver.

From papa !' she said, while cutting it
open with a mother-of-pearl knife. ' Justa
line or two to say he will be home in a
couple of days, and is certainly bringing

with him Mr. Hawke Holcroft, ^'the son
of his old friend," and that other young
detrimental, Stratherroch. He is well-nigh
penniless, but, with your papa, to be
in the Black Watch is quite equal to a
patent of nobility.'

Eveline felt her colour fade, while a sad
expression stole over her soft face, and
her mother, after glancing at her narrowly,
added,

He also brings our wealthy friend, Sir
Paget Puddicombe. the M.P. for ,
in Yorkshire. You remember
him in London last season, and how much
he admired you, dear ?'

Eveline did remember him, and how the
rich but elderly baronet's attentions, encouraged
by her parents, were the ridicule
of her girl friends and the bane of her
existence ; yet she^pnly sighed and remained
silent, and, passing through a French
window, quitted the drawing-room to join

her brother, who was smoking a cigar on
the terrace, and teasing the peacocks as
they sat on the stately balustrade.

He was in rather a similar mood. He
felt the demeanour of Olive after the little
episode of the idol keenly, and, remembering
the pencilled Byron, was, of course,
inclined to connect Hawke Holcroft with
that demeanour ; so he had certainly become,
for a time, cold and constrained in
manner to his cousin.

When was that photo of Olive done ?'
he asked, rather abruptly.

The one in the ball dress ?'

Yes.' •

When we were last in Edinburgh ; but
I do not remember where the studio was.'

She gave one to that Mr. Holcroft.'

I was quite unaware that she did so,*
said Eveline, with some annoyance of
manner.

Look here, Eve, if, when in London,'

grumbled Allan, ' she shies her photos
about in this fashion they will soon be in
every fellow's possession, and we may,
ere long, expect to find them, like those
of professional beauties, on glove and
match-boxes.'

What a funny and horrid idea !' said
his sister, passing her arm through his and
nestling her head on his shoulder, while
he, stooping, kissed her mignonne face with
a smiling caress. ,

There is nothing funny about it,' he
replied, though, like her, he could little
foresee the trouble that unlucky photograph
was to cost in the future. * And, to
say the least of it, Olive treats me with
almost hostility at times.'

She does not conceal from me a resentment
at her lack of free will.'

As for Uncle Raymond's arrangements,
I would to goodness that he had left all
he had to his old housekeeper and her

infernal screeching cockatoo with the yellow
tuft.'

Certainly Olive does not seem to be the
kind of girl to be disposed of against her
wish, Allan; you may read that in the firm
tread of her little feet, in the carriage of
her head, and the perfect possession of her
manner

But surely she may be won — though
she will not understand me.'

I hope she will ere long ; but is there
not a writer who says, Allan, that while
the world lasts the difficulty of women
understanding and making allowance for
the feelings of men in what pertains to
love, " will be probably one of the great
sources of darkness and confusion in the
social arrangement of things." '

What a dear little casuist it is,' said he,
as she raised her petite figure on tip-toe to
kiss his well-tanned cheek ; ' but he added,
' I am in a state of great uncertainty

Uncertainty can always be ended ; but
then perhaps how bitterly — how very bitterly,'
replied Eveline, who was not without
some harrowing thoughts of her own ;
and something in her tone caused Allan
to regard her soft hazel eyes, and sweet,
shy face, with tenderness and inquiry.

Of what are you thinking, or of —
whom?' he whispered, as his arm went
caressing round her, and he stroked her
bright, sheeny hair.

T may trust you, Allan ?' she said, in a
broken voice.

To death, petite. You are thinking of
of Evan Cameron ?'

Eveline sobbed now.

Has he spoken of love to you ?' asked
Allan, in a low voice, and with a troubled
expression in his face.

Never ; he knows it would be hopeless,'
she replied, huskily.

Poor Evan ! and the governor is bringing

him again— a grand mistake ! How
the deuce is all this to end with us ? But
don't sob so, my little darling,' he added,
as he drew her closer to him.

Yet, despite her brother's sympathy and
tenderness, Eveline Graham let her tears
flow freely, and he promised to keep her
secret that she and Evan Cameron cherished
an unspoken and hopeless love for
each other ; and in a brief space they were
to meet again !

Meanwhile, though somewhat relieved
by having her brother for a confidant, she
was both restless and unhappy. She
strolled upon the terrace to feed the peacocks,
or wandered listlessly in the garden,
going from occupation to occupation, taking
up a book — one of Muche's last — only
to toss it aside ; seated herself before the
piano, rose then and left it. Anon she
resorted to her sketching-block, sorted her
colours, selected a brush, only to quit any
attempt to work with a hopeless sigh.

CHAPTER YI.

THE CHAGRIN OF LOVE.

Lord Aberfeldie duly arrived at Dundargue
with his three gentlemen visitors, their
approach being heralded by the pipes o£
Donald Gair, who was perched on a seat
of the game-laden wagonette as it bowled
sup the avenue.

On the first day of his return the peer
was anxious to learn upon what footing
the cousins were — if Allan had made a
proposal, or ' even opened the trenches,'
and if so, with what success. On these
points he was enlightened by Lady ,
and, though not very much surprised

to find matters as they were, lie trusted
to propinquity and cousinly feeling of intercourse,
as trump cards in the game, and
was sure that all would come right in the
end, and before Allan's leave of absence
was out.

There was no selfishness in this desire
of Lord Aberfeldie. He had no power to
alter the matter as it stood, for if she did
not marry Allan if he was willing to marry
her, ' then and in that case,' as the will
had it, her patrimony would be lost even
to herself. Allan's death alone would save
it for her.

Great indeed, thought the girl with bitterness,
must have been her father's regard
for the house of Aberfeldie !

*What friends — such lovers we might
be but for the confounded plans of that
eccentric old fellow !' was the ever-recurring
thought of Allan.

You are at least fond of her?' said the

peer, as lie and his son smoked their
cigars together on the terrace that overlooked
the far stretching vista of the Carse
of Gowrie, then bathed in the ruddy splendour
of the setting sun.

Fond of Ove ! Yes, as much as she
will permit me to be. She is my cousin,
of course replied Allan.

There is something evasive — doubtful
in your answer ; but you must at sometime
or other propose to her. You know
precisely the terms of her father's remarkable
will.'

Yes, and that it hangs like a millstone
round the necks of us both, rendering
what may be the dearest wish of our
hearts liable, perhaps, to the grossest misconstruction.
She has more than once
told Eveline that to gain freedom of action
she would face poverty — anything.'

Puts ! Romantic rant ! Much sie
knows of what poverty is. But why

should she even think of facing it?'

To be free and unfettered, as I have
said.'

Relinquishing to you all that portion
of her fortune which does not go to charitable
institutions ?'

Yes.'

Poor girl ! A silly and impetuous
threat. But she will think better of it,
Allan, by-and-by, and we have fully five
years to count upon yet.'

But it did not seem as if the fair Olive
was likely to change her mind soon, to
judge by her bearing that evening, when,
after dinner, the guests and family at
Dundargue assembled in the drawing-room.


The repast was over, and thereafter,
ere the ladies withdrew, Ronald Gair, withall
his drones in order, his Crimean,
'Indian, and Ashanti medals glittering on
his breast, had marched thrice round the

table, according to his daily wont, in ' fall
fig looking as only a Highland piper or a
peacock can look ; and, to the amazement
of Sir Paget Puddicombe and the disgust
of Hawke Holcroft, winding up 'The
Birks of Aberfeldie ' by several warlike
skirts at the back of his master's chair —
the dinner, we say, was over, and the
gentlemen had joined the ladies in the
stately drawing-room, which was lighted
by more than one glittering chandelier.

Lord Aberfeldie, his son, and Strangers
as they wore the kilt, had, of course,
substituted for their rough shooting-jackets
others of black cloth, with the
irreproachable white vests and ties as
evening costumes and had also assumed
their silver-mounted dirks ; while Hole
and one or two more were de rigueur
in the funereal attire, which a writer calls
the butler-suit, the most hideous clothing
yet hit upon by our species.'

In that brilliant drawing-room, grouped
with well-bred people, were some curious
elements of secret doubt and future discord
that did not quite meet the eye.

Holcroft hung over the chair of Olive
so closely that, at times, the tip of his
long and waxed tawny moustache nearly
touched her head, while she played with
her fan, opening and shutting it listlessly
as they conversed in low tones, he adopting
a sentimental oue, though it was ever
his boast that he ' was not one of those
fools who hoard by them dried flowers,
locks of hair, and all that sort of thing.'

Quietly watched by Lady Aberfeldie,
whose lips wore their set expression, Evan
Cameron was entirely occupied with her
daughter, while Allan seemed quite as
intent on a new guest, Miss Logan of
Loganlee, a girl possessed of considerable
personal attractions ; and his father talked
politics with Loganlee himself, the parish

VOL. I. I

minister, and Sir Paget Puddicombe, a
short, pompous, and squat, but rather
pleasant little man, with a prematurely
bald head, which he had a way of jerking
forward from his neck like a turtle, a
rubicund face, two merry eyes, and whose
age was rather doubtful, but too old anyway
for a girl of Eveline Graham's years,
though he affected considerable juvenility
of manner.

Lord Aberfeldie. who generally about
that time, when at Dundargue, was wont
to enjoy a quiet little game of chess or
bezique with Olive or Eveline, was rather
bored by the empressement with which the
clergyman. Sir Paget, and Loganlee discussed
politics and the prospects of the
ministry.

The latter, a sombre man, whose air of
respectability was almost oppressive, was
one of a style of men common enough in
Scotland. A small landed proprietor, he

had contrived to become M.P. in the
Liberal interest for a cluster of Scottish
burghs (each of which, if in England,
would have had two members), and
he was chiefly noted — being ^ Parliament
House bred' — for neglecting Scottish interests
and toadying to the Lord-Advocate,
and consequently obtained the usual legal
reward, a sheriffship, or something of that
kind, with a thousand a year or so.

He "seldom opened his mouth, save to
talk on politics ; he was tall and tho, with
very square shoulders, grizzled, sandy,
mutton-chop whiskers, apple-green eyes,
and nothing more about him remarkable,
save a curious air of perpetual self-assertion,
combined, as we have said, with an
oppressive one of respectability.

His host began to change the tenor of the
conversation by hoping that Sir Paget found
his quarters comfortable last night, adding
that he occupied * the Johnson Ptoom.'

i2

^ Whj7 is it SO called r' asked Sir Paget,
jerking forward his bald head.

^ Dr. Johnson slept a night in Dundargue
when on his famous tour.'

Of which Boswell makes no mention ?'
said Mr. Logan, inquiringly.

Because my ancestor did not pay Insufficient
deference ; and, indeed, I fear
we should scarcely ever have heard of the
literary bear of Bolt Court and Fleet Street
but for that Scotch toady of his. Though
he alleged that the most valuable piece
of timber in Scotland was his walking-stick,
he might have seen some fine trees
at the Birks of Aberfeldy. We must ride
over there, Sir Paget, and I will show you
the cradle of the Black Watch, my old
regiment of immortal memory.'

'How?'

It was first mustered there on the 25th
of October, 1739.'

'Ah!' said Sir Paget, who was not so

much interested in the matter as the
speaker.

Sir Paget was a childless widower, and
had been left a noble fortune in many
ways, including nearly the whole of
Slough-cum-Sloggit, of which his father
rose by his own merits to be mayor. He
had entered the town a tattered lad, with
only a sixpence in his pocket, and, indue
time, the sixpence became the basis
of colossal wealth. He had been made
a baronet by the ministry of the day — no
one knew precisely for what ; but the
wealth he left behind him gave his son
an interest in the eyes of Lady Aberfeldie
he was unlikely to attain in the soft hazel
orbs of her daughter.

Sir Paget generally stood with his chest
puffed out, reminding one of a pouter-pigeon,
his little, fat hands interlaced behind
his back, and often as not under
the tails of his coat, his round, good-humoured

face and twinkling eyes turned
up to the faces of those with whom he
conversed, as most men, and women, toothed
the advantage of him in stature.

With a gold pince-nez balanced on his
very pug nose, he was what young ladies
described as ' an absurd little man ' whose
tender speeches they laughed at — none
more than Eveline — till matters took a
serious turn, though he failed to feel the
truth of the aphorism, 'Let no lover
cherish sanguine hopes when the object
of his choice has grown to look upon him
in the light of the ridiculous.'

Evan Cameron, we have said, sighed
for Eveline ; hopeless as his undeclared
love had been, the presence of the wealthy
English baronet, in conjunction with certain
rumours he had heard, made it more
hopeless than ever ; and, unattractive
though Sir Paget's years and figure, he
felt intuitively that in him he had a
dangerous rival.

When be found that this most eligible
parti was again on the tapis — one whose
name had been associated with that of
Eveline in at least one ' society ' paper
during the last London season, poor Strath-errol's
heart sank down to zero. He
felt and knew that, with Lady Aberfeldie
especially, he was literally ' nowhere ' by
his want of wealth, though, like a true
Highlander, he could trace his lineage
back into the misty times of Celtic antiquity
; but, aristocratic though she was,
the peeress set little store on that.

Eveline Graham seemed as much beyond
his reach as the moon. He felt that, for
his own peace of mind, he ought to quit
Dundargue as soon as possible, yet he
clung desperately to the perilous delight
of the girl's society.

To all appearance, the pair were simply
looking over, almost in silence, a large
book of clear-skies and strongly-shadowed

photos of Indian scenery brought home
by Allan, yet both their hearts had but a
single thought, and, when the downward
glance of his soft grey eyes met hers, she
felt that, in spite of herself, there was
something in it like a magnetic spell.

Passionate and pleading eyes they were,
generous and loving in expression, telling
the tale his lips had not yet uttered, and
might never do so ; and the girl lowered
her white lids as if a weight oppressed
them, and the diamond locket on her white
bosom sparkled as a sigh escaped her.

A little way off, in something of the
same pose, Ilawke Holcroft, with a glass
in his pale, sinister eye, was hanging, as
we have said, over Olive Raymond, doing
his utmost in sotto voce to fascinate that
young lady, while pretending to translate,
as suited the occasion and himself, for the
edification of his fair listener, the lettering
of one of the Chinese or Japanese

fans that were strewed about the tables.

Now, Mr. Hawke Holcroffc knew nothing
about the terms of Mr. Raymond's will, or
of the existence of any such document, and
might never know. He was only certain
that Olive was undoubtedly an heiress ;
that he himself was very impecunious, and
ere long might be well-nigh desperate ; and
so he did not see why he should not, to
use his own horsey phraseology, * enter
stakes as well as another.'

Rumour, certainly, had linked the names
of the cousins together ; ^ but if she is engaged
to Graham,' thought the observant
Holcroft, ' it is strange that she wears no
engagement ring.'

lie knew not that, separated as the pair
had been almost from childhood, no such
little formality as the presentation of a
ring could have been gone through; and
7iow^ as the Master did not see his way to it
as yet, Holcroft was 'scoring,' or thought so.

He was leaving nothing unsaid to enchain
her attention. He seemed very
clever : at least he could converse fluently
on many subjects ; seemed to have been
everywhere and to have seen everything
worth seeing, or pretended to have done
so, which was most likely.

However they stand, her heart is not
in it,' was his ever-recurring thought ; ' and
if so, why the deuce shouldn't I try my
hand ? She has a pot of money — indeed,
no end of money, I hear; but, then, if her
noble aunt and uncle have made up their
noble minds to pounce upon her as a
daughter-in-law, how is she to resist, unless
she elopes, if " Barks " (meaning Allan)
"is willing"? They can make her life a
burden to her until she gives in, or — or I
run away with her, and why the devil
should I not ?'

Holcroft was an artful man, and well
acquainted with every phase of dissipated

life ; he had suave manners when he chose
and an unexceptionable appearance. With
many debts and secret passions, he was
cold and selfish ; a man who never made a
move in any way without forecast and calculation
; and who might commit a crime
if driven to it, but never precisely a folly.

He was closely watching Olive while he
conversed with her ; he admired her beautiful
person, but still more her ample purse.
She dared to trifle with him at times, he
thought ; and then, even when looking
down upon her satin-like hair, her dazzling
white shoulders and innocent violet eyes,
with a vengeful feeling he mentally vowed
that he would compel her to love him, or
accept him, he cared not which, if human
will and cunning failed him not !

He had a love — a passion for her— in a
strange fashion of his own, yet times there
were when he almost hated her for fencing
with him ; and little could the soft, bright

beauty, who raised her fine eyes from time
to time to his and conversed so laughingly
with him, have conceived the conflicting
emotions that were concealed in his breast
under a smiling exterior, or the shame and
agony he was yet to cost her.

Even when he attempted to look loving,
there were a cold expression and lack of
colour in his eyes, and there was something
very significant of an iron will about
his lips and powerful chin.

Olive had no warm feeling for Holcroft,
and save for the obnoxious will would
infinitely have preferred her cousin Allan
in the end ; but she affected just then to
believe in Platonic friendship (blended
with a little judicious flirtation) so firmly
that, to pique Allan, she showed a great
apparent preference for his would-be
rival.

Olive and Holcroft knew that this seeming
flirtation was perilous work, and might

compromise them both with Lord and
Ladj Aberfeldie, and with Allan, too, if it
attracted attention ; but Holcroft had a
game to play. Olive's proud little heart
was full of resentment and pique, and then
anything with a spice of danger in it is
always curiously fascinating.

More than all, Olive was beginning to
feel conscious that, under the circumstances,
it was strangely awkward to be in
the same house with Allan Graham — the
intended husband to whom her father had
bequeathed her. But whither could she
go?

In more than one instance, in the 
at Dundargue, that night was
illustrated the aphorism that language is
given us to conceal our thoughts, and
much was exhibited of what the French
not inaptly term the chagrin or peevishness
of love.

CHAPTER VII.

LE CHAGRIN d'aMOUR.

Allan Graham, with all his quies and
growing love for Olive, seeing how she
received him, neither petted her as he was
wont to do in his boyhood, nor after a time
had attempted any tenderness with her ;
but trusted to the progress of events and
the necessity for fulfilling her father s wish
rather than to his own influence or power
of persuasion, aware that she could only
become the bride of another, penniless, or
nearly so, a circumstance which militated
sadly against himself.

But this assumed coldness and calmness

withal, Olive could feel, with a woman's
acuteness in such matters, how much the
expression of his dark eyes and the tone
of his voice changed and softened, unconsciously,
when he looked at and addressed
her. She was of his own blood, like a
sister, whom he might treat with formality
or affection, coldly or playfully, according
to the occasion or the mood, and whom he
might love as much as he liked, or she
would permit. Ah ! this tender and
mysterious tie of cousinship must give
him, as he thought, 'a great pull' over
Hawke Holcroft, and every other man.

On this evening, how handsome she
looked, in all her wilfulness ! How Allan
longed that he might take her in his
embrace, to kiss her starry eyes, her
peach-like cheek, and sheeny hair with an
ardour he had never felt in his boyhood,
when he had done so may times ; but
now, somehow, he dared scarcely think of

such a thing, and there was that fellow
Holcroft, with all his easy insouciance and
with the smile of one who never laughed
really in his life, hanging just rather too
much over her, with a considerable amount
of empressement in his eyes and manner,
pouring his flowery nothings into her
apparently willing ear, and Lady ,
who could stand this no longer,
became secretly provoked, and opened and
shut her fan of heavy mother-of-pearl with
such vehemence that the sticks rattled.

And, with the emotions we have described
in his heart, Allan, as if the further
to play out the game of cross-purposes, ina
spirit of pique, doubtless, remained inclose
attendance on Miss Ruby Logan.

Now the latter was not the heiress of
Loganlee, as she had several brothers ; but,
even had she been so, it would not have
enhanced her value in the ambitious estimation
of Lady Aberfeldie.

But Ruby was a very handsome girl,
with a skin pure, transparent, and delicate
as the lining of a shell, while her fine hair
was ample in quantity, and of the darkest
amber ; her eyes large, deep-blue, and
fringed by dark lashes. She was large,
full in form, and altogether a bright and
attractive-looking girl, and Olive felt conscious
that she might prove rather a formidable
rival if she ever had to view her as
such.

Replacing the three daughters of the
minister of Dundargue, who had been
a£Qicting the company with much boarding-school
Mozart and Chopin, who would have
deemed anything national vulgar, to say the
least of it, compared with some lachrymose
drawing-room ballad, and who in a ditty of
great length and mystery, which we quote at
second hand, had informed their hearers —

Mermaids we be.
Under the blue sea ' —

VOL. I. K

replacing them, we say, E^uby Logan sang
to Allan in a rich mezzo-soprano voice,
and with a suppressed emotion, born perhaps
of a coquettish desire to dazzle and
please him, as a handsome young fellow of
good position, all of which proved a fresh
annoyance to my Lady Aberfeldie, who
deemed music at times ' a convenient noise
for drowning conversation, and under
whose shelter the old people talk scandal
and the young people make love,' and who
knew that Miss Logan, like Olive, had
that wonderful charm, which is, perhaps,
one of the greatest any girl can possess, a
lovely and ever-changing expression ; and
even Allan, as he gazed down into the
depths of her dark-blue eyes (while she
sang at him), and anon glanced furtively at
Olive, thought to himself,

How the dickens will our little game of
cross-purposes end ?'

Lady Aberfeldie was just then indulging

in the same surmise, as, full of watchfulness,
she occupied an ottoman in the
centre of the inner drawing-room, cresting
up her white throat and well-shaped head ;
looking in her stately beauty like the
heroine of some grand old Scottish romance
of the days of Montrose or Prince
Charles, for there was something of a past
age in her style and bearing, though
attired in the latest fashion by a modiste
of Princes Street.

In her maidenhood, Lady Aberfeldie
had still that subdued charm which was
not now the beauty of youth, yet stood
very much in place of it ; but, with all her
softness of manner, she was a proud and
determined woman, capable of doing much
to accomplish a purpose of her own, and
the marriage of Eveline to Sir Paget
Puddicombe was certainly her purpose at
present.

Thinking that it was high time to make

k2

some change in the general grouping, the
moment Miss Logan's musical performance
was dene she summoned Allan to her side
by a wave of her fan.

So glad I am that your father, who so
often mistakes, invited dear Sir Paget
here,' she said, in low voice.

He is rather a good sort,' replied Allan,
in his off-hand way ; * capital cellar and
preserves, I have heard.'

So rich, and not very old ; he always
admired Eveline, and she certainly cares
for no one else — thus I have great hopes
for her, Allan,' she added, confidently ; but
Allan sighed ; he knew better, and recalled
the tears of his gentle sister on the terrace,
and her half murmured admissions of
deep interest in that winsome young
brother-officer, whom he loved so well ;
and, as he remained silent, his mother
spoke again.

Mr. Holcrof t seems to be fairly absorbing

Olive; be has been talking to her quite
long enough, and this will not do ; ask her
to play something at my request, and do
you lead her to the piano.'

We are anticipated,' said Allan, as he
saw his sister seat herself at the instrument
with young Cameron by her side,
busy among the leaves of her music ; and
a shade of annoyance deepened in the face
of Lady Aberfeldie as she glanced at her
husband, whose eyes were turned also towards
the pair, and she knew from personal
experience how much may be inferred
or deduced from the words of a song, and
also how many a tender speech, an accompaniment,
however ill or well executed,
may conceal.

Lord Aberfeldie, of course, would never
consent to Eveline having a suitor with
means so limited as those of her young
admirer; but, though the idea of such a
contingency had not occurred to him. Lady

Aberfeldie was much sharper and more
suspicious ; she saw ' how the tide set,'
and was much opposed to Cameron being
even a visitor at Dundargue in anyway,
as an utter 'detrimental,' and declined
to see how his being one o£
Ours ' — the Black Watch — altered that
matter.

And now, after a considerable amount
of preluding, much unnecessary whispering,
as ' my lady' thought, much glancing
and many reciprocal smiles, Evan Cameron
began to sing, accompanied by her daughter;
and more annoyed became the matron
on finding the theme chosen one of love
and tenderness that could be, and was,
sung with considerable point — a now forgotten
little Scotch song, which the author
adapted to the air of ' Rousseau's Dream,'
and with the desire to excel before the girl
he loved better than life, young Cameron
gave his whole soul to the lyric.

See the moon o'er cloudless Jura

Shining in the loch below ;
See the distant mountain towering

Like a pyramid of snow.
Scenes of grandeur — scenes of childhood —

Scenes so dear to love and me !
Let us roam by bower and wild wood,

All is lovelier when with thee.

On Jura's hills the winds are sighing.

But all is silent in the grove ;
And the leaves with dewdrops glistening

Sparkle like the eye of love.
Night so calm, so clear, so cloudless.

Blessed night to love and me ;
Let us roam by bower and fountain,

All is lovelier when with thee*

And it was not unnoticed by Lady 
that at the closing word of each
verse the eyes of the pair unconsciously
met. Ere Eveline could be prevented,
she had acceded to Cameron's softly uttered
desire that she would sing anything for
him ; and she frankly did so, throwing into
her voice the thrill and tenderness that
are sure to come into a ofirl's utterances

when singing to the man she loves. The
heart of Cameron responded to this mysterious
influence, and, as the girl regarded
him furtively from time to time, she
thought, with his crisp wavy hair, his clear
grey eyes, general expression and bearing,
he looked every inch what he was, the descendant
of that Sir Evan Cameron of
Lochiel who met Cromwell's men in combat
under the shadow of Ben Nevis ; yet
to other eyes he seemed just a good sample
of an infantryman who had across his forehead
the genuine denmark of his craft,
made under the line of his forage-cap by a
scorching tropical sun.

And now when Lady Aberfeldie, to stop
any more musical performances between
these two, prevailed upon Olive to replace
her cousin, she was quick enough to detect
that the former, displeased or piqued
by Allan's apparent attention to Ruby
Logan, swept past him with the most

subtle little touch of disdain in the carriage
of her handsome head.

Now Cameron had once more to give
place to pudgy little Sir Paget, who — puffing
out his chest and jerking forward his
bald shining head — began to do his best
to make himself pleasing to Eveline, while
the latter, under her mothers watchful
eye, was compelled to listen and appear to
act with compliance and complacency ; and
poor Eveline, like Olive, often felt with
some compunction that her mother's general
bearing — which a certain quiet yet
lofty dignity seemed never to forsake —
was more calculated to inspire respect than
love.

And Cannon, while he found himself
talking rather absently on regimental matters
with Lord Aberfeldie, as he looked at
Eveline from time to time, was thinking
sadly in his honest heart,

Oh, what madness it is in me to love

her as I do, and how wicked if I lure her
into loving me ! Can I expect her ambitious
mother or her calculating father ever
to view with favour one so penniless as I
am ? Would it be honourable in me to
profit by her girlish prepossession in my
favour, and so preclude her from reaping
those advantages of wealth, position, and
rank which she is entitled to expect, and
to which her parents looked forward ? and
alas ! as the wife of Sir Paget — if such be
her fate — poor Eveline will be lost for ever
to me.'

His breast felt torn by such thoughts
as these ; and, sooth to say, it is as often
amid the splendour and luxury of life, as
amid its squalor and poverty, that some of
its bitterest tragedies are acted out.

But now the party began to break up —
the ladies to seek their respective apartments,
and the gentlemen to adjourn fora
time to the smoking-room.

As the two cousins, each so different in
her style of loveliness, crossed the great
apartment, the soft frou-frou of their long
silken dresses seemed to mingle with their
soft laughter and silvery voices. Sir Paget
jerked forward his head and remarked to
his hostess that 'they made a charming
picture.*

Each had a sore place in her heart, but
there was no appearance of it then.

Though resenting the position in which

she was placed, and much inclined to resist

it, Olive Raymond — such is female caprice

also resented Allan's having hovered so

much about the amber-haired beauty, and,

when she bade him adieu for the night,

she could not help singing softly, with

some point and waggery, as she glanced

back at him, the lines of Tennyson's song :

I know a maiden fair to see,
Take care !
She can both false and friendly be,

Beware, beware !
Trust her not, she is fooling thee.'

But whether she applied the words to herself
or Ruby Logan it puzzled him to divine.

Olive and Eveline were of an age, and
able to sympathise with each other in
every thought or fancy. They had grownup
together like sisters, Olive, as an
orphan, doubtless being the most petted
of the two by the household ever since she
came a little child to Dundargue, and both
were frank, both were open-hearted, and
proud of each other's personal attractions ;
and now, dismissing their maids, they
brushed out each other s shining hair that
they might have a quiet gossip together.

So ends a tiresome night said Eveline,
shrugging her white shoulders, which
shone like ivory in the light of the toilette
candles : ' a night when the conversation
of everyone seemed of a nature so antagonistic,
or as if it was all broken up into
wrong duets.'

Like her father, Eveline was anxious to

discover how the cousins were affected towards
each other now ; yet the course of
this evening, in which Allan had plainly
flirted with Ruby Logan, while Olive
seemed to have been engrossed by Mr.
Holcroft, did not seem to promise much,
and she hinted this pretty plainly.

I do think Holcroft loves me, or leads
me to infer that he does said Olive, with
a soft smile on her downcast face, as she
took off her rings, bangles, and bracelets,
and tossed them on the marble toilette-table.'


And you — what is your feeling for
him?' asked Eveline, with some anxiety
in her face and tone ; ' not love, I hope.'

I don't know what I feel — perhaps it
is only a girl's emotion of gratitude and
vanity.'

I hope it will never be anything more.
You scarcely spoke to poor Allan to-night ?^
said Eveline, interrogatively.

Rather say he scarcely spoke to me I
But we are fated to see quite enough of
each other, I suppose replied Olive, as
with slender fingers she coiled and knotted
up the silky masses of her rich brown hair.
*How absurd it is,' she added, petulantly,
to think, as I have said a hundred times,
that I have a lover cut and dry for me —
Sb fiance — ever since he was in jackets and
knickerbockers !'

After a pause, during which she was
critically and approvingly regarding herself
sideways in the swinging cheval-glass,
she said,

When I heard that he was returning
to Dundargue, I was quite prepared to
dislike him intensely.'

Olive !'

Fact, dear ; and since then he must
.have been sorely puzzled by my various
moods towards him.'

You speak but with truth in this ; and

yet he seems to have been somewhat the
same with you.'

Poor fellow — but ever so good and
kind;

And — and you think, Olive dear, that
you are beginning to love him as mamma
wishes?'

• Nay — nay, I cannot admit that.'

Even to me ?' said Eveline, caressing her.

Even to you. Did you not see his
manner to-night with Ruby Logan ?'

To pique you, if possible, Olive ; but
when Allan proposes to you, as I am sure
he will, and must do -'

Must do !' interrupted Olive. ' Yes —
there it is.'

'Well?'

Then, and in that case, as the will has
it, I shall tell him that, however I may
esteem and regard him as my cousin, he
can never be more, or nearer, or dearer
than as such.'

Eveline sighed and smiled ; but she told
this reply next day to Allan, and hence he
became less in a hurry to bring matters to
an issue, though love was growing in his
heart, nevertheless.

Oh, why is it that women cannot speak
their minds as men do ? I wish I dared
run away !' exclaimed the petulant beauty,
beating the carpet with a little impatient
foot. ' To-day I saw two great brown
eagles winging their way skyward from
the rock of Dundargue ; and oh ! Eveline,
you can't think how long and wistfully I
watched them till they dwindled into tiny
specks.'

Why ?'

They seemed such free agents, and, as
such, to be envied. They had no wills or
last testaments made by others to control
their actions — no parents to rule them in
the matters of love and marriage.'

How droll you are, Olive ! To whom

but you would such speculations occur?
I hope you did not express them to — =
to '

Allan ?'

Yes;

'Not to Allan.'

To whom then ?'

Mr. Holcroft.'

Then, you were very wrong to do so
said Eveline, almost severely ; * he will be
certain to draw his own deductions therefrom.'


In something else I was, I fear, wrong
too.'

How ?'

I permitted him to try one of my gold
bangles — one sent me by Allan from Delhi
on his arm, and it would not come off
again.'

And the bangle ?"'

Is still there,' said Olive, laughing, but
not without a little emotion of alarm.

VOL. I. L

Oh, Olive !' exclaimed Eveline, with
something of dismay, ^ how could you ?
This is worse than the photo.'

CHAPTER VIII.

THE sliding-PARTY.

For some time the days passed on as they
generally do in a country-house like Dun-argue,
and there was all the usual flow
of life and — with three exceptions, Sir
Paget, Holcroft, and Cameron — change of
guests and visitors, with the amusements
wealth can give.

First came the partridge-shooting, and
then the pheasants were to be knocked
over, while the ladies drove almost daily
to the preserves with the luncheon in the
drag or large pony-carriage ; there were
hunting days, dinners, luncheons, musical

l2

evenings, carpet dances, and so forth, and
the inevitable lawn-tennis, with the ladies
in bewitching costumes ; but still Allan,
damped perhaps by his sister's communications,
' made no way ' with his tantalising
cousin, and Hawke Holcroft, on Lord
Aberfeldie's invitation, was still lingering
at Dundargue.

To Allan, Olive had become a part of
his life, and each day seemed only to begin
when he met her at breakfast in her
charming morning toilette, fresh from her
bath and the hands of Mademoiselle Clair-este,
her hair dressed to perfection, and
her face radiant with health and beauty.

How often do T wish she had not a
sous /' sighed Allan. ' Then she might
learn that I love her for herself alone.'

The curious position in which they were
placed relatively made the cousins most
strange to each other, involving much
constraint.

They are fencing with their feelings,'
was Lord Aberfeldie's conviction.

To Evan Cameron, however, it was evident
that Holcroft was * making all the
running he could ' during Allan's absences
after the game, or apparent occupation
with laughing Ruby Logan, while it became
evident to Sir Paget and more than one
other guest that he got up many a quiet
game at ecarte — that most rooking of all
games — and many a match at billiards
after the ladies had retired ; and it was
soon remarked by the same close observers
that he was a singularly successful player,
often pocketing large sums, seldom losing,
and then very slenderly, as if to keep up
appearances.

At Dundargue he felt himself in clover !
He knew, or was aware instinctively, that
neither Lady Aberfeldie nor the Master
cared much about him ; but he also knew
that his host was inspired by the kindliest

feelings towards him as the only son of an
early friend and gallant old Crimean comrade
who had gone to his long home.

If any rule governed the erratic life of
the horsey and gambling Holcroft, it was
that of resolutely shutting his eyes against
tomorrow, and letting it take care of
itself ; and, now that there was a prospect
of winning a wife with money — and such
a chance seldom came his way — could he
but play his cards well and surely, his
fortune would be made !

He was a mass of absolute selfishness —
the result either of his innate nature or of
his nomadic habits. A life-long bankrupt,
he had been ever readier to borrow than
to lend, to smoke any other fellow's cigars
than his own, and to take every advantage
of the honourable and unsuspecting.

Such was the perilous inmate which a
mistaken sense of kindness, gratitude, and
hospitality had induced Lord Aberfeldie to

make one of the family circle at Dunbar
during the shooting season; and to
whom the advent of the bangle — which,
though it slipped easily upon his wrist,
most mysteriously would not come oS it —
and other adventitious circumstances, the
real cause of which he did not know, gave
a considerable amount of what he termed
to himself ' modest assurance ' and confidence
of ultimate success.

I should like to come into a nice little
pot of money — a fortune, if you will — but
riot with a girl tacked to it,' he said, on
one occasion, to throw Allan ' off the
scent,' as he thought. ' I am neither domestic
nor ambitious. A few thousands
would do.'

And make you content ?'

Content ! I should feel as happy as
more than once I have been at Monaco,
when I have seen the croupier's rake
pushing a jolly pile of gold across the

trente'et-quarante table towards me, bj
Jove.'

It did not occur to him that by little
speeches like this and anecdotes about his
own acumen in the betting rin, he let a
little light in upon the general tenor of
his past and present life, and, all unconscious
that Sir Paget and others listened
with slightly elevated eyebrows, he would
produce a sealskin cigar-case of portentous
dimensions, draw therefrom a great Eio
Hondo cigar, and after carefully manipulating
it, begin to smoke it with intense
satisfaction.

Hawke Holcroft, like Mr. Micawber,
was always waiting for something to ^ turnup
' in the way of good for himself, and
now thought he had found that something
in Olive Kaymond — an heiress free, he
deemed, to choose for herself — free to be
wooed and won ; and on a day when she
proposed a riding-party to visit Macbeth's

Castle of Dunsinane he very nearly had
the hardihood to learn his fate — in the
words of Montrose's song, to put it ' to the
touch, to win or lose it all.'

Drives, riding-parties, and rambles to
visit artistic bits of scenery and the rural
lions the neighbourhood afforded every
opportunity to those who wished to cultivate
each other's society at Dundargue,
and the expedition proposed by Olive to
visit the ruins of the usurper's castle,
proved the occasion of Mr. Hawke Hole
attempt to advance his own interests.


Whatever Lady Aberfeldie's views were,
her husband had never been called upon
to fulfil the duties of a vigilant guardian
or parent, and to study the difference between
' detrimental ' and married parties,
so he left the guidance of the whole affair
in the hands of Allan, and remained closeted
with his solicitor.

By judicious manoeuvring, Holcroft contrived
to pair off with Olive, while Allan
thus became the escort of Ruby Logan,
and Eveline, of course, fell to Sir Paget,
who soon found the truth of the vulgar
adage about two being company, &c., on
their being joined by Stratherroch.

It was a clear and brilliant day early in
October, when the blue sky was flecked
by fleecy clouds, and the far-stretching
scenery of the fertile Carse, overlooked
by the long chain of heights, named the
Sidlaw Hills, lay steeped in sunshine.

The parks of Dundargue, with their
broad acres of velvet-like turf, their stately
oaks and towering beeches, among the gnarled
branches of which legions of glees were
cawing to each other, and brown squirrels
were gliding to and fro ; their hedges of
ancient thorn, and others where the
hawthorn berries showed red and the wild
roses were blooming — the parks, we say,

were left behind, with all their groups of
deer, and the party, certainly a merry and
a well-mounted one, accompanied by the
staghounds Shiuloch and Bran, careering
joyously on either hand, followed by a
couple of splendidly-horsed grooms, cantered
along the highway, and ere long
broke, or fell, into that slow and ambling
pace which is suited for conversing with
ease. And Holcroft, who was well versed
in all horsey details, and had a very
appreciative eye, could see that his fair
companion's tout ensemble her riding
costume, her hat, veil, and gauntlets were
all perfect, from the coils of brown glossy
hair to the little foot that rested warmly in
its tiny stirrup of burnished steel ; and
that foot was indeed a model — arched,
small, and always full of character in its
elasticity of tread ; and, more than all,
intoxicated by the ambient air, the
sunshine, her own high spirits, and the

pleasure of being mounted on her own
favourite pad, Olive Eaymond was looking
her brightest and her best.

He had, while engaging all her attention
in conversation, contrived, unknown to
her, by the pacing of his horse, to leave
the trio referred to at some distance behind
; while, luckily for him, Allan Graham,
lured on by Euby Logan — who was
something between a flirt and a hoyden —
had gone ahead with her suddenly at a
hand-gallop, and now the pair were out of
sight.

There could be no engagement, despite
all rumour thereof — not even a passing
fancy — between the cousins, was now
Holcroft's conviction, and of his own ultimate
success with Olive he began to have
little doubt, could he but warily mould her
to his purpose; and already in fancy he
saw her thousands — how many there were
he knew not — firmly in his grasp.

Though swallowed up by mortgages,
his place in Essex — or the few acres that
nominally still remained to him there —
caused the retention of his name among
the ' landed gentry of England,' and he
based much upon that circumstance as
aiding his designs on Lord Aberfeldie's
ward, to whom he had sometimes dropped
glowing hints of possession that were not
nor ever had been his.

Something undefined in Olive's manner
rather encouraged him on this day. She,
to show that she resented the apparent
indifference of Allan as being a ' laggard
in love,' even while resenting the tenor of
that family compact which was meant to
bind them together, was disposed to flirt
with Holcroft, out of pique rather than
precise preference, and to annoy Allan.

With the latter present now, Holcroft
became at times a species of difficulty to
Olive. During a past season in London

there had been sundry, not exactly love-passages,
but little coquetting and lingering
in conservatories that nearly amounted
to such ; and he, in ignorance of the footing
in which she was regarded by the
family, was quite inclined, penniless as he
was, or nearly so, to revive, if not improve,
past relations ; and this had been
his object from the first day he came to
Dundargue.

And now 'that muscular idiot the Master,'
as he was in the habit of mentally
calling Allan, having cantered out of sight,
he addressed himself more fully to his
companion and the matter in hand.

I enjoy town to the full — none can do
so more — when I am there, but I love —
oh, I do love — the country !' replied Olive,
in reply to a remark of Holcroft's about
their last London season.

It is always very romantic, of course,
and all that sort of thing.'

*And with pleasant people about one,
the country becomes so delightful for a
time ; and then we girls have such perfect
freedom here.'

^ Even an escort is not necessary at
times

'Unless in the park — beyond that I
always like to have one,' said Olive.

Are you pleased to have iii for one ?'
he asked, in a low voice, and pretty
pointedly.

Of course,' she answered, frankly.

How charming to be at hand in case
of danger !'

What possible danger ?' asked Olive,
with surprise.

Oh, the untimely appearance of an infuriated
stag or the proverbial mad bull
of the three-volume novel.'

"Why not a brigand or a Bengal tiger ?'
said Olive, laughing ; then, suddenly becoming
grave, she added — ' But, by the

way, talking of Bengal, please to give me
back my bangle.'

Why ?'

Simply because I cannot permit you
to retain it,' she replied, little foreseeing
to what the natural request might lead.

Do not deprive me of it !' he urged,
softly and entreatingly.

Why ?' asked she, in return ; ' for what
reason. It is impossible — what may people
say ?'

What they please, if seen, which it
never shall be.'

What might they not think ?'

Oh, what does it matter ?' he urged
again, with much would-be sadness and
tenderness.

Little to you, perhaps, but much tome,'
retorted Olive ; ^ but I do not choose
that aught should be either thought or said
about it. We shall certainly be accused of
flirting.'

No, no, Miss Raymond — ob, no,
Olive '

Olive !' she repeated, in a startled
manner.

'Pardon me — none could ever accuse
me of flirting with you — that were an impossibility
— for deeper thoughts '

^ My bangle, please, Mr. Holcroft, and at
once !' she said, imperatively, in dread of
what more he might say.

She held forth her hand, but the trinket
either would not come off his wrist, or he
pretended that such was the case. Olive
tried to remove it, but in vain, and glanced
round her, red with vexation. Her
hand was gloved, otherwise she would
have felt how unpleasantly cold and clammy
were the fingers of her would-be
lover.

'Allow me to retain it, even for a time
though would that I might wear it in
my grave — for a time, in memory of the

VOL. T. M

darling hopes I have dared to cherish,' he
whispered, in a manner there could be no
mistaking now.

Spare me this melodramatic sort of
thing, Mr. Holcroft/ said Olive, growing
rather pale ; ' I cannot — must not listen
to you.'

Why — what do you mean ?'

That there are obstacles between us,
even were there not the want of liking,'
she replied, decidedly, but with an agitated
voice.

Obstacles?' he repeated, inquiringly,

sadly, and certainly with an air of disappointment;

'ami now to understand that

you are engaged to the Master of Aberfel-

die, as these absurd Scots people call him ?'

Olive bit her ruddy nether lip at this
home question ; but made no reply.

What enigma is this ? You either are
or you are not. If not, why may not I '

I dare not listen to this style of conversation,'

interrupted Olive, with positive
annoyance ; ' and you have no right to
force it upon me.'

After all that has passed ?' said he,
reproachfully, and rather feeling as if his
hopes were melting into air.

I do not understand you,' replied Olive,
whose conscience certainly did reproach
her.

If I force this conversation — ' he began
in a bitter and rather upbraiding tone,
then pausing ; ' pardon me if I offend,' he
resumed, with what seemed growing sadness,
while attempting to touch her hand,
yet withdrawing his own in apparent timidity.
' But am I wrong in deeming your
engagement — or alleged engagement, as
rumour says, made when you were a child
one in which your woman's heart and
wishes have not been consulted ? Tell me
for 1 may have to leave Dundargue soon
now.'

M 2

She was in some respects but a weak
girl ; he a crafty and wily man of the
world ; and, though he knew it not in the
least, he was touching her on a very tender
point — yet she replied, firmly enough,

You have no right to question me ; but
say, what has Allan done to you that your
face should darken at the mention of his
name ? Is he not your friend ?'

He was.'

And now '

He is no longer so.'
'Why?'

He is my rival.'

She coloured to her temples at this
blunt reply, and all it inferred.

I loved you long before you ever cared
for me,' he resumed, coolly.

Sir — how dare you say I ever cared for
you?' exclaimed Olive, her cheeks aflame
now; 'let this subject cease, and be resumed
no more !'

It breaks my heart to bear you speak
thus.'

Hearts don't break now-a-days, even in
such romantic places as Dundargue,' said
she, with a sharp little laugh ; ' and here
this matter ends.'

He bowed in silence ; but, fatally perhaps
for Allan's interests and her own, she
thought, and her vanity was flattered by
the idea :

Holcroft loves me, despite the tenor of
papa's will — loves me, for myself, of
course ; while Allan knoivs its value to
himself ! Surely there is a difference in
this !'

But it was precisely because Holcroft
knew neither of the will nor its spirit that
he took the courage to address her as he
did. Had he done so, that enterprising
gentleman would speedily have ' dropped
out of the hunt,' and, so far as he is concerned,
we should then have no story to tell.

Meanwhile he did not lose heart, and
thought he had only to wait the fulness of
time for the certainty of winning her, and
with her, wealth — ^of joy or happiness he
took no heed at all.

By this time, greatly to Olive's relief,
Eveline and her two swains had overtaken
them, and so the matter dropped, though
the minds of both, from two points of
view, were full of it. She would now
have to endure the double annoyance of
being daily in the society of a lover who
had addressed her as such, and of an
intended lover who had scarcely yet approached
the subject !

And, for some reason only known to herself,
she did not tell Eveline, though her
bosom-friend, of what had passed between
herself and Holcroft. The latter, however,
still retained the golden bangle on
which her name was engraved ; but for a
time now there was something in her

manner little to the liking of Hawke Hole
— full as he was of dreams of her, or
of her fortune rather — of the risks he ran,
and the shifts to which he might be put
ere he handled it.

CHAPTER IX.

THE PICNIC AT DUNSINANE.

Ambling on together and urging their
horses, but at an easy pace, they soon
drew near the object of their destination —
Macbeth's famous castle of Dunsinane —
whither the portly old butler, Mr. Appleton,
had preceded them in a wagonette,
freighted with a luxurious luncheon ; and,
leaving their cattle in charge of the grooms,
they began the ascent of that peak of the
Sidlaw Hills which has been immortalised
by Shakespeare.

With her riding-skirt thrown over her
left arm, Eveline acted as their guide, and

it may easily be supposed that she solicited
the assistance of Cameron's arm, rather
than that of Sir Paget Puddicombe, who
had quite enough to do in assisting himself
up a path vv'hich proved to him, as he said,
^ rather a breather.'

It was a winding road cut in the rock,
all the other sides being steep and difficult
of access, and ere long, on reaching the
flat and fertile summit, which commands a
magnificent view of Stratford and ,
they found themselves within the
strong rampart and deep fosse of what has
once been a great military station of oval
form, two hundred and ten feet long, by
one hundred and thirty broad ; and there
they found Allan and Ruby Logan, who
had preceded them, in full possession of
the highest point, whence he was directing
her attention to the chief features in the
scenery, including, of course, Birnam
Wood, fifteen miles distant, ' The Lang

Man's Grave,' a great stone, under wliicli
Macbeth is said to lie — Ruby the while
clinofinof to his arm in the exuberance of
her delight, and carrying her riding-hat
in her hand, as she was quite aware that
her hair alone, in its wonderful luxuriance,
made her very attractive, it being an unruly
mass of rich, rippling golden amber in
hue, shot with a redder and brighter tint
at times when the sunlight struck it.

Under the splendour of a glorious noon,
while a soft breeze rippled the verdant
grass, the luncheon was proceeded with ;
fowls were dissected, pies investigated,
champagne and hock, cool from the ice-pails,
uncorked ; all the requisites for a
merry party were there, and yet in the
party itself the chief element of high
spirits was wanting, unless in the instance
of Euby Logan, who began to flatter herself
that she had made — or nearly so — a
conquest of the Master of Aberfeldie.

Oppressed with the tenor of the conversation
that had so recently passed
between herself and Mr. Holcroft, Olive
Kaymond was unusually silent, and, for
her, distraite; and he, remembering the
somewhat decided ' snub ' she had so unexpectedly
given him, was somewhat silent
too, but sought consolation in champagne,
while listening rather abstractedly to Sir
Paget Puddicombe descanting on the traditions
of the neighbourhood, as, in guide-book
fashion, he knew all about the
predictions of the weird sisters, the defeat
and death of the usurper, and was full of
the probability that the great dramatist
had visited Dunsinane in person.

But Holcroft only quaffed his liquor,
tugged his tawny moustache from time to
time, and listened with an air of boredom,
mingled with a quizzical expression of
mistrust in his pale grey shifty eyes.

He had seen Macbeth on the stage, of

course, and endured him more than once ;
but of the Thane of Candor he knew no
more than what he had seen of him behind
the footlights, and had cared to learn no
more ; and now it was with some genuine
Cockney bewilderment, as he looked at
the massive trenches around him, he began
to think that ' some such fellow had existed
then.'

Eveline and young Cameron, under Sir
Paget's eye, were both reserved and triste,
and no wine seemed capable of rousing
animation in the lover. He had but one
thought — the end of his leave was approaching,
and when he left Dundargue
he might never again see Eveline Graham.
His heart was heavy.

When the trio were riding together, it
was not that the eyes of Eveline disappointed
him, or that she did not converse
with him fully and earnestly ; but he had
detected in the manner of Sir Paget a provoking

air of proprietary and confidence
with regard to her that keenly piqued him,
and could only have been born, he rightly
conjectured, of some recent confidential
arrangement with Lord Aberfeldie ; but
the young girl herself was sweetly unconscious
of it all.

His responses had been brief, and he
had ventured on few remarks, aware that
little would escape unnoticed ; thus he had
been somewhat silent, while Sir Paget's
easy-going old roadster ambled between
the horses of himself and Eveline, going
pace for pace, Sir Paget's head at each
jerking forward in turtle fashion.

The trio still remained together when
seated on the grass at luncheon, for
neither of the gentlemen were disposed
to quit the side of Eveline, whose colour
might have been noticed to heighten at
a question Sir Paget asked Cameron, of
whom he certainly had a certain jealousy.

Where does your property of Strangers
lie, Mr. Cameron ?'

In Inverness-shire.'

Ah ! — mountainous, of course — good
shooting for those who care for such
things — not that I do. Is the land very
remunerative now ?'

To others — not to me,' said Cameron,
a little bitterly. ' A fair inheritance would
be mine, Sir Paget, were Stratherroch
unencumbered. My father was a wild
fellow in his day — as what Highland laird
is not ? How some acres were mortgaged
in succession, how others went in into,
heaven only knows — I don't. The estate
is at nurse now ; one day it will be mine
again — but not for years ; and I was too
long foolishly sentimental about it.'

How ?' asked Sir Paget.

I thought I would rather that the manor-house
fell to ruins than pass, even temporarily,
into the possession of strangers

of others than a Cameron ; and now, by
Jove ! it has been for years occupied by
one Jones Smithson, of Manchester.'

Whose rental is clearing it ?'

Yes ; and meantime I have little more
in this world than my claymore and commission
in the Black Watch,' said Cameron,
with a somewhat hollow laugh and a swift,
sad glance at Eveline ; while Sir Paget
smiled complacently as he thought of the
balance at his bankers, and the fat, unfettered
acres that lay round .


I hope you do not find Dundargue dull,
Sir Paget ?' said Eveline, to change a conversation
that rather oppressed her, as she
was sharp enough to divine the thoughts
of both men.

Assuredly not, Miss Graham ; how
could it be so when I am enabled to renew
my intimacy with one who can cast, as it
were, bright sunshine in the most shady

place ?' he replied, with an unusual jerk of
his head, a glance of eye, and accentuation
of voice that annoyed her greatly, while
Cameron's lip quivered under his moustache
with mingled irritation and amusement.

And now at luncheon, inspired by a few
bumpers of Aliquot, Sir Paget's glances at
Eveline took occasionally the fashion of
grotesque and languishing leers.

The wealthy baronet was older than she
by a great many years, but they by no
means warranted him being safe from a
love, or passion rather, that might prove
cruel as the grave — the passion of a middle-aged
man for a very handsome young girl,
whose parents were f ally disposed to further
his views and their own. It has been
said that ' people for the life of them
cannot be said to believe in the love pangs
of a man over forty, or of a woman over
twenty-nine,' but people may at times be
wrong.

The present epoch was rather a trying
one to Cameron and Eveline. As she had
admitted to Allan, she knew that he loved
her with a love unselfish and unspoken ;
and he felt intuitively that he was far from
indifferent to her — knew it by the indescribable,
untaught, and nameless signs by
which a man learns instinctively that a
woman loves him — in a first passion, a
most intoxicating conviction ; yet circumstances
blended the happiness of Cameron
with much that was alloy.

To avoid attentions or would-be tender
speeches that might annoy poor Cameron,
Eveline found herself compelled to talk
intently to Sir Paget about local traditions
and superstitions, and, thanks to her old
nurse Nannie, she had — for a fashionable
young lady of the present day — a curious
repertoire of stories about wraiths and
warnings, Daione Shi and other fairies,
who were wont in pre-railway times to

VOL. I. N

haunt the carries, cairns, and rocks.

Have you no gloss in or about Dun-argue
?' asked Sir Paget. ' A grand old
mansion is scarcely complete without some
such spectral visitor.'

Surely that oubliette, whatever it is, of
which J have heard more than once, must
contain something of the kind ?' said Hole
in a covert, but detestable kind of
sneering tone, which he could adopt when
his own interests were not concerned.

In the gallery that leads to it I have
heard of something strange,' said Allan.

Oh, do tell us — what is seen there ?'
exclaimed Ruby Logan.

Nothing — but old servants have a story
to the effect that if anyone remains long
there,' replied Allan, laughing, ' they are
certain to have a strong sense of shadowy
forms — intangible presences — hovering
near them, and dare not turn their heads
to see what they are.'

*We have no decided ghosts, thank
Heaven !' said Eveline, laughing, and all
unconscious of Holcroft's manner. ' There
are none even in the palaces of Holjrood
or Falkland, where terrible things have
been done, so why should there be in poor
old Dundargue ? But a spot close by
where we are now lunching is the alleged
scene of a curious event — a very dark
tradition in our family history.'

Why recur to a story so absurd ?' said
Allan.

But she was pressed to explain herself,
and with a shy, sweet smile in her eyes
as she glanced from time to time at Evan
Cameron, and a wonderfully musical modulation
of voice, she told her tale, but not
quite as old nurse Nannie had told it to
her.

The deep, rocky dell that lies between
this and Dundargue, a few miles distant,
was ever in past times what we find it

N 2

now, covered with dense forest-trees, mingled
with alders and silver birches so thickly
as to exclude the rays of the sun, and
it was said to be the haunt of a Urisk or
mountain-goblin — a species of fiend which,
Sir Walter Scott says, tradition avers to
have had a figure half-man and half-goat.'

In short, the Grecian satyr of classical
antiquity,' said Allan, laughing.

Be that as it may, the existence of this
particular Urisk was never fairly proved
until the days of one of our ancestors,
Malise Graham of Dundargue, who fought
at the battle of Ben Innes against the
Reformers, and had in hiding in the
'* Priest's Hole," as it is still called, in
the keep, a wandering Scottish Benedictine,
known only as James of Jerusalem.

Now, Malise Graham had an only
daughter, Muriel, a girl possessed of that
rare and soft beauty '

Which is still the inheritance of her

family,' said Sir Paget, with a most portentous
jerk of his head.

Please not to interrupt me, or I shall
stop,' exclaimed Eveline, with unconcealed
annoyance. ' Muriel, in her walks near
Dundargue, had made — unknown to her
family — the acquaintance of a handsome
young stranger of winning manners and
prepossessing appearance.

In the secluded life led in those days
by a maiden of rank, such an event was
of deep and peculiar interest ; love speedily
became the sequel, and in truth the
object of it seemed to have been a very
Loveable fellow. Thus it was, with many
bitter tears, that one evening she told him
that her frequent absence from home had
been remarked, and that she must meet
him no more in that wooded hollow, especially
as it was the haunt of goblins and
other evil spirits.

On hearing this, the handsome stranger

laughed till all the dell seemed to re-echo,
caressed her tenderly, and, after urging heron
peril of her truth and soul to come
to the trysting-place at least once again,
left her in haste, as some one was seen to
approach them.

This proved to be James of Jerusalem,
who is still remembered as the Black
Priest of Dundargue. He wore nothing
that was canonical ; to have done so
would have been as much as his life was
worth in those days ; thus he was clad ina
sable Geneva cloak and doublet, with
falling bands, and a calotte cap of black
velvet with long lappets.

'He looked deadly pale, and was trembling
in every limb, while he crossed himself
again and again, and said, in a low and
agitated voice,

^' Child Muriel, who is he that left you
in such hot haste just now ?"

But Muriel,

Crimson T\^th shame, with terror mute,"

terror of her father, who was a stern and
rigid man, remained silent.

" Speak, unhappy girl !" urged the
priest.

'"I know not his name," she replied,
faintly.

"why?"

" He conceals it from me."

*'^ And why?"

" I know not ; but oh, father, guide and
counsel me, for I love him dearly, as he
loves me."

" You must meet him -"

" Once again," she urged, piteously.

'' Never more, I meant to say — nevermore.
But why say you once again ?'

" I have promised, on my soul's peril."

" On your soul's peril indeed !" groaned
the priest, in great tribulation ; but, in
defiance of all he could urge, Muriel,
though she lived in an age of dark superstition,

of omens and dread, inspired by
her love, stole forth at the usual hour and
entered the dell to meet her lover, for the
last time, as it proved.

Perhaps it was a prevision of this that
made the wood seem so dark and gloomy,
and even the knots and gnarled branches
of the trees to look like those in the forest
to Undine, fiendish faces and freakish
limbs.

'Muriel knew in her heart that such
meetings were wrong, unbecoming to her
position, and sinful because she concealed
them ; but a spell seemed upon her, and
she could not resist it. She took no heed
of the future ; she had but one thought, to
be again with him.

"And oh ! why should this meeting be
our last one?" she wailed in her heart,
as he drew her to him, looking so
handsome the while in his black doublet
slashed with red, his ruff and scarlet plume.

*' My own !" said he, caressingly ; " my
OWE, 1 am aware that yonder dotard, fool
and knave, the mass-monger, has been
seeking to influence your mind against me,
and to part us."

'' And here he stands prepared to do
so !" exclaimed the black priest, as he suddenly
appeared beside them, his eyes sparkling,
but strangely with fear, rage, and
triumph mingling in their expression.
Muriel's lover clasped her to his breast,
and wrapped his scarlet mantle round her.
Then, while his eyes glared with a fire
which fortunately she did not see, he
exclaimed,

" Stand back, canting liar — stand back,
and begone !"

" Child Muriel, come to me, in the
name of God !" cried the priest, in sore
agony ; but she still clung to her lover, who,
at the 7iame uttered, cowered and shrank,
as in the opera we see Mephistopheles

cower and shrink before the cross-hilted
swords of the soldiers.

" Muriel, Muriel, you are mine !" exclaimed
her lover, attempting to lift her
from the ground.

" Take heed, child, ere it is too late,"
urged the priest.

" Dare you advise ?" asked the stranger,
mockingly ; " does not one day judge
another ?"

" Yes, and the last day judges all — even
such as you !" cried the benedictine ; then,
making a sign of the cross in the air, he
exclaimed, ' In nomine Patris et Filii ; et
Spiritus Sancti!"

Scarcely had he done so when, under
the power of his exorcism, the mantle,
ruff, and plume of the pretended knight
turned to bracken leaves, his goblin chain
to wild holly, and he stood forth in all his
deformity, a horror to the eye, half man
and half goat, with the face of a baffled

and exasperated fiend — the Urisk, or wood
goblin ; and, with a malignant yell, he
vanished down the fast-darkening dingle !'

And Muriel ?' asked Holcroft, who had
listened to all with such a smile as his face
might be expected to wear.

Was saved, of course said Eveline.

And lived happy ever after ?'

"Well — content at least, let us hope.
She died a nun in the house of the English
Benedictines at Paris — now the convent of
the Val de Grace.'

'And has this legend a moral?' asked
Holcroft, mockingly.

Of course it has,' answered Allan, rather
bluntly, yet with a quiet smile ; 'it gave a
good hint to the girls at Dundargue to
beware of the attentions of unaccredited
strangers.'

Holcroft's colour changed for a moment,
and not unnoticed by Allan ; for perhaps,
reading between the lines, all this seemed

somewhat a parable to the former, who
tugged at his yellow moustaches in a way
he did when irritated, heedless that pomade
hon2:roise was disastrous to straw-coloured
gloves.

The angry gleam that crossed the eyes
of Holcroft was also noticed by Evan
Cameron, who, for some reason as yet
only known to himself, could not abide
him ; though certainly the latter did not
cross him by any attentions to the penniless
Eveline Graham.

Her little tradition came as a pleasant
interlude to nearly all, for save Sir Paget
always confident and genial — no one
seemed quite at ease, as a sense of cross-purposes
brooded over them.

^ Tappleton,' cried Allan to the butler,
another glass of champagne all round ;
and then to be off,' he added, swinging
Olive adroitly into her saddle, and thus,
as he thought, anticipating Holcroft,

though the latter, remembering keenly
his recent ' snub had no intention of
offering his services just then.

Allan, fearing that he had gone rather
too far with Ruby Logan in attempting to
pique his cousin, now resolved to leave
that young lady to the care of anyone else
in their homeward ride, much to her surprise
and disappointment, and took his
place by the side of Olive, in obedience to
a half-inviting glance she gave him.

He and his sister were, of course, familiar
since childhood with the ruins of Dunsinane
and all their surroundings ; but to two
or three of the party, as they turned to
depart, and saw the vast ramparts reddened
by the setting sun, there came to
memory the scene they had so often witnessed
on the stage — Malcolm's army with
the boughs of Birnam in their helmets,
the * alarms and excursions,* the fierce
and protracted melo-dramatic combat, the

downfall of Macbeth beneath the sword
of Macduff, and the cries of * Hail, Kin
of Scotland — King of Scotland, hail !'

CHAPTER X.

THE GOLDEN BANGLE,

A WRITER says ' there is the beauty of
youth, and surely there is the beauty of
love, too,' and the latter certainly shone in
the soft eyes of Eveline Graham as she
caracoled her horse in the homeward ride
by the side of young Cameron, and her
eyes, which were ever the mystery of that
face, had now their sweetest smiles for
him. She saw how his face was lighted
up, and was aware how his voice softened
when he addressed her as it softened to
no other woman ; and yet, withal, though
no word of love had passed between these
two, right well did they know the secret

of each other's hearts ; but poverty fettered
his tongue, and her parents' ambition
and known wishes nearly repressed all
hope in the heart of Eveline.

With all her regard for her father she
had a fear of him, and still more so of her
mother. All their prejudices were in
favour of wealth ; but Evan Cameron appeared
to her altogether so dear and irresistible
that she, poor girl, could not imagine
anyone being proof against him, and
with this conviction, and the knowledge
that Allan loved him, she permitted herself
occasionally to live in a kind of fool's
paradise, wherein Sir Paget Puddicombe
had no part.

When her mother was not present, she
played to Evan Cameron, and sang his
favourite songs ; she showed him her
drawings for hints and suggestions, discussed
her favourite books, and let him
hang over her chair ; and at such times.

though nothing of love was said, there
was a subtle tenderness in Cameron's eye
and voice that made her impulsive heart
quicken, as no man's eye or voice had ever
done before, and young though she was,
Eveline had heard more than one declaration
of love.

And now for a time he had the joy of
having her all to himself, as they contrived
to distance the rest of their party.

But what availed it ? Evan knew that,
if once he passed beyond what appeared
to be the merest friendship, his visit to
Dundargue might come to a speedy end,
and its hospitality could never be extended
to him again.

To Evan, Eveline Graham proved, it
we may say so, a kind of revelation after
the rough life he had led of late years in
India — something from another world, as
it were — and thus much of adoration mingled
with his love for her. If dying could

VOL. I.

have served Eveline, there and then would
Evan Cameron have died for her !

Whether such enthusiastic passion
might last it was impossible to say, but
time may show.

We have referred to the quiet confidence
of Sir Paget Puddicombe — a confidence
borne of his consciousness of wealth and
assured position. However, he was sharp
enough to see to some extent how Cameron
was attracted by Eveline , and to feel
how the latter preferred the young subaltern's
society to his own ; but in a very
short time he knew that the ' detrimental,'
as Lady Abergeldie called him, would be
again with his regiment, the Black Watch,
perhaps under orders for foreign service ;
then he would have the course all to himself,
and doubted not, as Holcroft would
have said, ' to win in a canter.'

Cameron thought the proverb right
about there being no fool like an old one ;

but the, every old fool had not Sir Paget's
bank-book, and the preference and influence
of parents to back up his folly. But
with a handsome figure, and his Y.C., how
much more was Cameron like the object of
a young girl's eye than Sir Paget could
ever be !

It was in the Curran Pass, in Afghanistan,
that you gained the Victoria Cross,
Mr. Cameron?' said Eveline, breaking a
pause in the conversation, and shortening
her reins, while he checked the pace of
his horse, and replied, with a pleased
smile,

Yes ; but how do you know that. Miss
Graham — from your brother, the
Master?'

'No.'

I have never spoken of it.'

I read it in the Army List,' replied
Eveline, candidly, and to hear her say so
made the bronze cross of more value to



him than the Garter would have been.

She had read it, and committed the episode
to heart too — how ' the Queen had
been graciously pleased to signify her intention
of conferring the decoration of the
Victoria Cross ' on Lieutenant Evan Cameron,
of the — th Foot, and now of the
Black Watch, for a daring act of bravery
on a date given, when the retreating forces
were attacked by Afghans in great
strength, the latter having pushed forward
upon the position at daybreak, and Lieutenant
Cameron, accompanied by only five
soldiers, captured a nine-pounder gun,
shooting down or bayonetting all the gunners,
and thus preventing the destructive
use of the piece, which he brought off with
the loss of one man, but in the conflict
received three severe tulwar wounds.

Cameron was an enthusiast in his profession,
and with outwardly the air of a
well-bred man of the world, and thoroughly

SO that of a j^oung Line officer, he had in
his nature a deep sentiment of nationality,
of clanship, and Highland romance, with
an intense pride in his regiment. He had
entertained Eveline often with sketches,
anecdotes, and traditions of the Black
Watch, but of himself and his Y.C., of
course, he never spoke.

What a proud moment it must have
been for you, when you knew that you had
won the cross !' said the girl, with a flush
on her soft cheek.

Stirred in his soul by the interest she
took in him, the great secret of his heart
was trembling on his lips, but he repressed
it, and a shadow came into his face and a
wistfulness into his eyes.

Prouder would I have been, Miss Graham,'
said he, ' if — if — I '

What ?'

I had then been known even by name
to you,' he replied, in a low voice, and

With a manner there was no mistaking.

Nothing more was said then ; yet they
both felt, while eye met eye, that their
first words of love had been spoken.

More might, perhaps, have passed, as
the subject could easily have been enlarged
on ; but just then they were abrupt
joined by Allan, who came up at a trot and
reined in his horse sharply by their side,
with a dark expression on his face, which
Eveline thought augured ill for his success
with Olive, whom he had suddenly left in
the care of Mr. Ilawke Holcroft.

After quitting the ruins, as Allan rode
on by his cousin's side, his memory had
gone back to the days when she was a girl
of some twelve years or so — a bright-eyed
hoyden, who could fish, even take a shot
from his gun, climb trees, eat apples right
off the branch, play marbles with him,
grasp a trout darting in the burn under
the long yellow broom or purple brambles,

and was this companion in many a ramble
and out-door frolic ; and now inspired by
that memory, the scenery and beauty of
the evenings he felt himself disposed to
treat with considerable tenderness the lovely
girl he hoped to make yet his own.

On the other hand, Olive cared little to
please him, and for a time sbe almost repelled,
and yet by doing so she greatly
lured and attracted him.

The friendship of Allan and Olive was a
source of some perplexity, if not amusement,
to Eveline Graham, but of irritation
to her mother, to whom they never seemed
to act as lovers at all, unless in ' the Scots
fashion ' of pouting and quarrelling.

To the eyes of all interested in the matter,
it did not seem that she cared for him
in the least. She never altered a ipldn or
hastened her pace to meet him, or go where
he might chance to be — in the library, on
the terrace smoking, or in any of the

quaint corridors that traversed the old
house. She never adopted a dress, a
ribbon, or ornament to please his eye,
though she sometimes did, coquettishly,
he thought, to flatter Hawke Holcroft ;
and even now, as they were slowly traversing
the dark, woody dell of the legend
the Coire-nan-Urishin — she was humming,
half in warning, half in waggery, Tennyson's
song :

She can both false and friendly be,

Beware ! beware !

Trust her not, she is fooling thee !'

And yet, as she glanced at her soldierly
cousin from time to time under her long,
dark lashes, she thought that, though he
looked stately in the kilt, he seldom looked
better than now when in riding costume,
with the smartest of light grey cover coats.
The girl's mind vibrated curiously between
her over-sensitive pride, her wishes,
her doubts, and half convictions.

If pique at her position in the family
with Allan had made her accept, with a
certain degree of equanimity, the attentions
of Holcroft. she now began to feel a
pleasure that she had not more fully encouraged
them.

At such moments as the present Allan
felt that this fair girl, who had ever been
his friend — cherished as a sister — this
sweet cousin with the violet eyes and rich
brown hair — was dear to him with a tenderness
to which he could scarcely give a
name, unless it were purest love ; and she
might have read it in his eyes, intense and
strong, but for that spirit of wilfulness
which led her to temporise — was it to
tyrannise ? — or play with it and him.

But may a girl really love a man till she
is certain of being loved in return ? For
Allan, baffled by her manner, had said
nothing very pointed as yet, as if he based
all their future on her father's will ; and

times there were when in pique he dropped
this way of treating her half playfully, half
deferentially, and became absolutely cold.

In fact, the thoughts of Olive, apart
from her jealous pride, were somewhat
difficult to analyse ; but, as yet, she
deemed that she could only regard him
with a kind of sisterly attention ; while he,
when not irritated by the presence of
Holcroft, would say to Eveline,

^ When we are alone, and can slip back
into our old memories, I shall soon teach
her to love me.'

But meantime,' replied his sister, * you
are the most tiresome couple in the
world.'

I wish Mr. Holcroft or some one else
would join us,' said Olive, looking round
in her saddle.

'Why, it is always Mr. Holcroft!' exclaimed
Allan.

^ You are so provokingly silent. For

more than a mile you have not once
spoken to me. It is stupid to be so triste !
Surely there is some one else whose society
you prefer, or with whom you would be
more lively ?'

Olive !' said he, on hearing this blunt
and pointed remark — both curiously so for
her. ' You are surely not jealous of anyone?'
he added.

Jealous !' echoed the girl, with a strange
but affected kind of lazy scorn ; ' why
should I be so, and of ichom T

Well may you ask, of whom could you
be so?' replied Allan, pointedly — so much
so that she coloured ; ' though I, of course,
matter little to you.' *

Allan, you are very wrong to say so
said the girl, softly.

Then I am not quite indifferent to
you ?' urged Allan, impulsively now ; ' you
do care for me a little?'

^ Certainly — a good deal, if it is any

satisfaction to you ; but there — don't touch
my bridle hand, or you will make my horse
shy. How can you be so tiresome !'

Allan sighed, and yet he regarded her,
in her loveliness and insouciance, with an
expression just then of mingled amusement,
annoyance, and regard in his dark
hazel eyes.

With all the love that had been growing
in his heart for Olive, he had been in no
hurry to urge his suit, for, though impetuous
by nature, he could be reserved and
cautious enough at times ; but now his
heart flew to his head, and he said,
bluntly,

' Dearest Olive, will you promise to love
me — to marry me?'

Why require any promise about the
matter ?' she replied, as all her wilfulness
returned ; ' has not my father promised forme
— bequeathed me to you like a bale of
goods, or condemned me to poverty !' she

added, with a bitter laugh on her lips that
curled with anger. ' I wonder that he did
not order that I was to be locked up and
fed on bread and water till I gave my
consent to marry you, or that I was to be
dropped into that oubliette which exists
somewhere in Dundargue.'

Cousin Olive,' said he, reproachfully,
why this pride and doubt of my purpose ?
You are as cruel as you are beautiful.'

This is worse than anything you have
ever said to me,' she cried, with angry
laughter still.

Worse ?'

'Yes, an attempt at gross straightforward
compliment, as if I was a girl at a
railway buffet.'

Don't you like to be complimented ?'

By some people — yes,' was the petulant
reply.

All the girls I have ever known have
liked pretty, flattering speeches.'

^ But I am different, I hope, from most
of the girls you have known.'

'B}'- Jove you are !' replied the Master,
twisting his moustache till he made himself
wince ; ' but will I never be more to
you than I am now ?'

Never more than my cousin — what
would you desire to be? But here comes
Mr. Holcroft, to whom I certainly made
no sign,' she added, with some annoyance,
as she thought of what had so lately passed
between them ; and then, so variable washer
emotion, that she laughed as she
thought — ' Two proposals in one day, and
both made in the saddle too — how droll !'

Allan misinterpreted her silent laugh asa
welcome to Holcroft, and shrank from
his own angry fears — they were not convictions
yet — lest he should adopt that
meanest passion of the whole category —
jealousy without a just cause— jealousy
of oue inferior to him in social position.

and certainly in personal attractions.

When reduced to act cavalier to Miss
Euby Logan, who certainly did not want
him, Hawke Holcroft had looked darkly
after the cousins as they rode off together,
and thought that nothing short of death
Twould prevent him from accomplishing
the object he had now in view ere he left
Dundargue.

From something in the manner of the
cousins, he — a close observer — augured
that Allan had not made his ' innings '
with the heiress, yet he cantered up to
Allan's side, and said, smilingly to Olive,

May I smoke. Miss Eaymond ? The
road is quite lonely, and if not disagreeable
to you '

Certainly,' said she, curtly.

'And I shall join you,' added Allan.
*Can you oblige me with a light, Hole


Cigars were selected, and Holcroft

handed his silver matchbox to Allan, who,
with a leap of his heart, though without
changing colour or a muscle of his dark and
sunburned face, saw on his rival's wrist
his own gift sent from Delhi, the gold
bangle, which Olive had, perhaps, for the
time forgotten, and on which was her own
name in raised Roman letters.

He had seen Holcroft in rather close
proximity to her during the most of the
day, and if piqued thereat, more than ever
was he piqued and startled now, and
abruptly wheeling round his horse, he
muttered some excuse and joined his sister
and his friend Cameron, while the words
of the song came ominously back to

memory —

Trust her not, she is fooling thee.'

The bangle ! He blushed to think of it,

and shrank as yet from speaking of it,

even to Eveline, for he was altogether

unaware of under what circumstances

Holcroft came to possess it, or the effort
Olive had reade to procure its return
without success, but imagination and
jealousy now did much to fill his heart
with secret fury.

Would the future hold love or hatred
for these two cousins? It seemed just
then difficult to say.

Like Eveline, he thought the gift of the
photo a trifle when compared with this, yet
the photo was eventually to prove the
most serious and troublesome gift of the
two.

Wounded self-esteem, disquiet, and intense
mortification reigned supreme in the
mind of the somewhat proud young Master
of Aberfeldie ; but he felt himself necessitated
to dissemble. Hawke Holcroft was
his fathers guest, the son of his father's
oldest and most valued friend ; and while
at Dundargue it would be necessary to
treat him with courtesy, though Allan

VOL. I. P

never doubted that he was a Meg,' and
resolved that his courtesy would be blended
with watchfulness, if — bitter thought —
Olive was now worth watching over !

Unprepared for such a crisis or catastrophe
as the discovery of the bangle, and
ignorant that Allan had made it, when a
carpet-dance took place that evening at
Dun d argue, though Olive was arrayed in
one of her most becoming toilettes for
him, and him alone, he never even addressed
her or looked near her; and, black
though his brow, he entirely occupied himself
with Euby Logan ; and, provoked by
this, Olive again endured the attention of
Holcroft, and thought to play — or affect to
play — with them both.

In this, however, the little scheme was
doomed to be disappointed by the
events of the following day.

I shall quit Dundargue for London, or
give up my leave and go back to the regiment,

and never look upon her fair, false
face again till I have schooled myself into
merely regarding her with a brotherly —
well, say cousinly — eye !' thought Allan,
with great bitterness of spirit.

But how about that absurd will and the
settlement of the money ?

p2

CHAPTER XL

Eveline's suitor.

Verily,' says a writer, ' we miss our opportunities,
and live our lives as i£ they
were all to come twice over ; not as if each
passing sunset brought us nearer that
day when the pulse must cease to beat,
and the heart with all its emotions must be
stilled for ever.'

Olive was now experiencing the truth of
this to a certain extent.

She had been — in spite of herself —
touched by Allan's earnestness, and on
retiring to her room her first act was to

have his neglected gift — the little silver
idol — the bequest of the grateful subadar
duly installed on a pretty Swiss bracket,
and next morning she determined to discover
why his manner, after their return
from Dunsinane, had been so marked and
disagreeable to her, even if she should
take the initiative, and have to recur to
the conversation which ended so abruptly
on the preceding evening.

She entered the breakfast-room full of
the subject, and dressed — so far as lace
and blue ribbons went — in a most attractive
and coquettish morning costume ;
but Allan was not there — he was at the
stables, no doubt, or at the kennel. How
tiresome men were, she thought.

Good morning, Olive darling ! how
charming you look — I must positively give
you a kiss !' exclaimed the not usually
effusive Lady Aberfeldie, touching the
girl's cheek with her lips.

The last to appear at the breakfast-table
was her husband, who entered with a note
in his hand, and an expression of surprise
on his face.

Here is a strange thing, Eveline,' said
he to Lady Aberfeldie. ' Tappleton has
just brought me this note from
Allan '

'- From Allan !' exclaimed one or two
voices.

^ Stating that lie would leave by dawn
this morning to take the train for the
south, and might be absent some time,
and this without further explanation.'

How odd — how unlike him !' exclaimed
Lady Aberfeldie. ' Do you know of any
business engagement or invitation he
had?'

No — I know of nothing.'

Or you, Olive — or you, Mr. Cameron
?'

All professed ignorance, and the matter

was canvassed by the family circle in
vain.

It will be explained, of course. Allan
never acts without reason,' said his father,
addressing himself to the morning
meal.

Allan gone — how odd — how unaccountable
!' was the thought of Olive, whose
heart rather reproached her ; and now, fora
little time, she missed the handsome
cousin whom she had so teased, worried,
and mortified ; and she began to dread
that he had resigned his leave of absence,
and gone abruptly to rejoin his
regiment.

Olive,' said Lady Aberfeldie, ' do go on
with your breakfast.'

Oh, auntie, I have finished.'

Finished ! — child, you have taken nothing
: Tappleton will get you a little
grouse-pie.'

Oh, no — thanks,' replied Olive, and, rising

from the table, she quitted the room.
The eyes of her aunt and Holcroft followed
her, as each had thoughts of their own.

The love the latter professed for her was
destitute of jealousy, but was not without
fear; and his face just then would have
been a picture had anyone cared to study
it.

There might have been read satisfaction
that by Allan's unexpected departure he
had the field all to himself ; annoyance, for
the Dundargue despatch-box often brought
him, and on this morning had done so,
epistles in blue envelopes, which he cared
not to receive ; greed, as he thought of the
prize that might yet be his ; and hot impatience
to find it in his grasp ; and thus,
while affecting to listen to Lord Aberfeldie,
who was describing to him and Sir Paget
a cover they were to shoot over that day,
his mind was revolving how he might
succeed in entrapping Olive Kaymond into

some kind of Scotch marriage (whatever
that was) in fun, or jest, and then declare
it was a true and solemn ceremony. He
thought he had heard of such things being
tried and done, but was not quite certain.

However, he took fresh courage now
that he would have her all to himself, and
thought, with Buller, that ' thrones and
bread man wins by the aid of others.
Fame and woman's heart he can only gain
through himself.'

Not that he cared much for fame or
woman's heart either ; bat he could mightily
appreciate her fortune.

Whatever was the secret thought of
Olive about the sudden and unexpected
departure of Allan, she felt some renewal
of her pique, but of a different kind, when
told by Eveline of the magnificent suite of
Maltese ornaments he had brought home.

For whom ?' she asked.

You, of course.'

Then lie lias never offered them for my
acceptance.'

Think of your manner to him, Olive

They are for Ruby Logan more likely.
He has met Ruby before we all know.'

^ I should not be surprised if they become
a gift to Ruby now replied Eveline,
who was quietly provoked by Olive's
treatment of her brother ; ' though, when
he got these jewels at Malta, I question if
he knew of that yellow-haired damsel's
existence.'

And now, greatly to the vexation of
Eveline, and the amusement perhaps of
Olive, the latter's bangle remained on the
wrist of the enterprising Mr. Holcroft,
though none of them knew the mischief
that the discovery of it had wrought in the
mind of Allan Graham ; but in the latter's
absence poor little Eveline was doomed to
have — unsupported by his presence and
advice — some heavy trouble of her own.

Lord aucl Lady Aberfeldie were in consultation
in the latter 's boudoir, a little,
old-fashioned room of octagonal shape, the
panelled walls of which were hung with
rich silk — a sanctum long sacred to the
Chatelaines of Dundargue, and the whole
appurtenances of which had that combined
air of ease, repose, and grandeur peculiar
to the furniture of an ancient and long-descended
race.

Kelpie — a currish-looking terrier, but
her ladyship's pet — had got his morning
repast of cream and macaroons from her
own white hands, and, this important duty
over, she and her husband began to converse
on family matters.

Lady Aberfeldie amid these, indulged in
some angry surmises as to how long they
were '' to have the society of Mr. Hole


I cannot say that I care much personally
for Hawke Holcroft/ replied her husband

; ' but his father, as you know, saved
my life at Alraa, and won therefore the Y.C.
I have told you, Eveline, I think, that when
Colin Campbell's Highland brigade advanced
in echelon of regiments along the
Kourgane Hill, the Black Watch, of course,
led the way, and, just about the time the
Russian Kazan column broke, no particular
sound had followed our firing but the yells
of their wounded ringing through the
smoke. With the next volley we heard a
rattling sound, as our bullets fell like hail
upon the tin kettles they carried outside
their knapsacks, as all the great grey-coated
blocks of infantry were right about face now,
in full retreat. It was just then, as our
calvary and guns swept after them in pursuit,
that I fell wounded, and would have
been bayoneted on the spot by four Russians,
wholayamongsome caper bushes shamming
death, had not old Major Holcroft cut them
down like ninepins, and protected me till

some of our fellows returned. I cannot
forget all that, you know.'

Lady Aberfeldie, who had heard all this
fifty times at least before, sighed with impatience,
and said,

His son certainly appears to have some
attraction for Olive ; and what would you
think if Allan, repelled by her, was actually
to fall in love with Ruby Logan and her

amber locks ? What a complication that

1.

might be.'

Don't suggest such a thing for a moment.
I hope he with prove himself every
way worthy of one who has so long occupied,
like Eveline, the place of a daughter in our
hearts.'

Talking of Eveline, it is high time she
was informed of Sir Paget's views and
wishes; and while on the subject may I
ask,' she added, with some asperity of
tone, ' how long Mr. Cameron is to be
here ?'

A week yet, and then he must report
himself at head-quarters.'

A whole week ?' muttered lady Aber
eddie, who was far from inhospitable when
she approved of the objects to whom she
thought hospitality should be extended.

I do like Stratherroch. He is like his
father, old Angus of the Cameron Highlanders,
yet not so lively ; for Angus was the
king of good fellows, and used to keep the
mess-table in a roar.'

Yet I would his son were with the regiment
again, or anywhere else but here.'

I think he admires Eveline.'

I am certain of it, and the sooner their
intimacy terminates the better. Eveline
and Strath — good heavens !' exclaimed
Lady Aber eddie, with her' white jewelled
hands uplifted, ' never again must their
names be mingled, even in our family
circle, especially under pending circumstances.'


They do seem intimate,' said the peer,
moodily ; ' but have not at least progressed
so far as the use of Christian names.'

That would be intolerable;' and, ringing
the bell, Lady Aberfeldie desired a servant
to summon her daughter, who appeared ina
very coquettish and becoming lawn-tennis
costume, for a game on the lawn, where
the courts were already set and some friends
awaited.

She entered with a bright smile, which
soon died away, for she read an expression
in the faces of her parents, especially
that of her mother, which seemed to her
sensitive heart prophetic of evil.

If it be true, as Madame be Steel asserts,
that ' love occupies the whole life of a
woman,' it need not be a matter of surprise
that the sex can discover each other's love
secrets with ease ; thus, though Lady
Aberfeldie fully suspected what filled the
heart of her daughter — so closely had she

watched her — she was somewhat pitiless
now.

With all her queenly manner and soft
grace, her unexceptionable toilettes and cavity
of manner, Lady Aberfeldie had a will
of iron, yea, of adamant in some things,
and her daughter's marriage with Sir Paget
was one of them.

She was told plainly and bluntly that he
had proposed for her hand ; had asked permission
to address her on the subject ; had
offered magnificent — yea, princely settlements
; and it was expected the marriage
would take place, when the family returned
to London, next season.

The long dreaded cloud had burst upon
her at last !

She grew white as a lily on hearing this
sentence, clung to a console table for support,
and then burst into a torrent of tears,
while her father drew her tenderly towards
him.

Be calm, child,' said he, ' we shall give
you plenty of time to think about it ; marriage
is a serious thing at all times.'

Eveline thought it was doubly serious
with such a bridegroom, but could only sob,
while her mother eyed her gloomily, as
she thought this excessive grief and repugnance
augured worse for her scheme than
indignation or defiance would have done ;
but poor Eveline was all softness and
gentleness.

What folly is this ?' she asked.

I am your only daughter, mamma,'
urged Eveline.

Hence it is your first duty to your
family, to yourself, and the world to make
an early, eligible, and wealthy marriage.
Every season brings many such to pass in
our own circle.'

'Are we so poor, mamma?'

We are not rich, and know not what
may happen,'

VOL. I. Q

Did Lady Aberfeldie speak prophetically
? If so, it was an utterance made
unawares.

^Eveline darling,' said her father, 'you
were content enough with the attentions of
Sir Paget, and to accept even his presents
in London, a season or two ago

I was but a girl then fresh from school,
and — and joined other girls in laughing at
my having an old lover. I — I knew no
better,' she continued, sobbing.

And had not met Cameron of Strath-errol
!' said her mother through her set
teeth, and quite forgetting the role she had
so recently suggested.

No,' thought Eveline, * and had not
learned to love him.' She shivered as if
she had been struck when her mother spoke,
and then said, with all the firmness she
could assume,

You must mistake us in some way,
mamma. Mr. Cameron has never addressed

a word to me that he might not have addressed
to yourself.'

'I am glad of it — then I shall taunt you
with his name no more said her mother,
kissing her forehead. ' People generally,
but young ladies especially, should never
indulge in strong emotions.'
Perhaps, mamma ; but why ?'
They age the face so much by lining it.'
Eveline covered with her handkerchief
her whole sweet face, which was quivering
with emotion now. She felt that the romance
of her young girl's life was quite passing
from her, and that, even if she escaped
a marriage with Sir Paget, she must think
of Evan Cameron and his silent love no
more !

Think of Sir Paget's princely settlements,'
said Lord Aberfeldie. ' But how
difficult it is,' he added, as if to himself, ' to
imbue a woman — a pretty girl more than
rj^ll — yvith any idea of the seriousness of

q2

pounds, shillings, and pence ! To her they
are as the sands upon the seashore, unless
she has known want

Do reflect on all this, Eveline,' urged
her mother.

I cannot ; and why should I do so ?'

Because most of the great evils of life
might be avoided if we would only take
time to reflect.'

In a matter like this, mamma said
Eveline, taking courage from her desperation,
and hoping by temporising to gain,
at least, time, ' reflection might lead to
madness. Can wealth or princely settlements
make up for that disparity of years
which will excite ridicule in all the girls
who know me, and cover me with contempt
as a mean, sordid, and covetous creature
in marrying a man I do not and can never
love, and who cannot really care for me,
whatever he may think or say ? So, so, I
am to be taken to market, as it were, and

sold to the best advantage. That is the
plain English of it !'

Eveline, how can you adopt a tone so
little like you ?' said her mother, reproachfully.
' Sir Paget will be sure to address
you on this subject, as he has your papa's
permission, and, when he does so, be sure
that you comport yourself as becomes my
daughter she added, rather haughtily, and
rather ignoring her husband in the matter.
But go ; I hear Olive and Miss Logan
calling for you.'

Eveline hurried away, bathed her eyes,
and then, hat in hand, descended from the
terrace to the sunny lawn, where Olive,
Euby, and other girls were flitting about,
radiant with smiles and in gaily-coloured
costumes, with saucy and bewitching hats,
talking and laughing merrily ; but the girl
felt as one in a dream, a nightmare. A
dark cloud seemed to envelop her, amid
which she heard the voices of her friends,

and it may be imagined with what emotions
in her breast she saw in the tennis-court
opposite her, Cameron, looking so
handsome in a kind of athlete's flannel
dress, and the rotund figure of Sir Paget
in a tight morning coat, out of the neck of
which his round, shining head was jerked
ever and anon in the turtle fashion we
have described.

Never while she lived, Eveline thought,
should she forget the horror she had of
that game of lawn-tennis ; the part she had
to act in it under a glorious sunshine, and
the desire she had for the seclusion of her
own room, for by contrast with the chaos
in her own heart the whole bright scene
became a species of grim phantasmagoria.

Her heart seemed full of tears ; her
naturally buoyant and happy spirit was
crushed. She dared hardly trust herself
to address even Cameron, who saw, with a
lovers instinct, that something, he knew

not what (unless with reference to Sir
Paget), had gone decidedly wrong.

We have already adverted to the strong
passion an elderly swain like Sir Paget
may conceive for a young girl ; and, encouraged
by her parents' permission, he
was now giving full swing to it, as he
watched her slender, lithe, and willowy
figure in the various postures incident to
the game, which tested /iZi^ powers of action
severely, and during a pause in it he approached
her with a smile rippling on his
rubicund old face, and displaying a set of
teeth that were first-rate as to cost and
quality.

My dear Miss Graham,' he said, with a
most insinuating jerk of his head, ' why do
you avoid me ?'

I am not aware that I avoid you ; I
hope I don't do so,' replied Eveline, colouring
with annoyance, and at the conviction
that she certainly had done so. Then, asa

kind of hunted feeling came over her,
she added ; ' but I do not think, Sir Paget,
that I am bound to account to you for all
I do.'

Of course not said he, with a bow, and
Eveline coloured more deeply at the ungraciousness
of her own speech; ^ of course
not, my dear young lady — assets he added,
under his breath.

At last she pleaded illness, fatigue, and
headache, threw down her hat, and fairly
fled to her own room.

CHAPTER XII.

A REVELATION TO HOLCROFT.

The sudden, unexpected, and unexplained
departure of Allan Graham from Dunbar
(a reason for wbicli will be given indue
time), if it puzzled his family, still
more puzzled and piqued Olive, especially
after what passed between them on their
homeward ride. But then, says Lefanu,
'Women are so enigmatical; some in
everything— all in matters of the heart.'

The monetary matters of Mr. Hawke
Holcroft were approaching a species of

crisis now, and lie was daily getting
orange-coloured missives and messages
wired ' in mysterious terms from jockeys,
bookmakers, and other horsey folks that
added to his tribulation, for things seemed
to be going wrong with him, and he felt
that now or never must he attempt to
secure the heiress, who, he thought, was
only waiting to be carried off.

Even loo and ecarte in the evening
with such pigeon-like players as Sir Paget
were beginning to fail as resources.

Odd fellow in his way,' remarked the
baronet to Cameron. *A trifle too lucky
at cards for my taste.'

Or mine,' said Cameron, grimly.

Turns up the king too often after the
early hours of the morning.'

Yet when niofht came assail and the
small hours of the morning, the somewhat
simple M.P. for Slough-cum-Sloggit was
again a heavy loser to Holcroft.

He lias some secret about him said
the former.

Most men have some secret which they
generally keep to themselves replied
Cameron.

'Secrets certainly, which they seldom
tell to their wives or sweethearts,' said the-baronet,
laughing.

We have said that Olive had a secret
thought that might prove somewhat fatal
to Allan's success with her, a mistaken
idea that Holcroft loved her — loved her
for herself — and despite the tenor of her
father s will ; while Allan might love her
because he knew the value of its tenor to
himself.

And, now that the latter was so unaccountably
absent, Holcroft was full of confidence,
and, the ice having once been
broken, thought it would be easy to go
back to where he had left off on the ride
home from Dunsinane.

In his own selfish way he loved her ;
but then she was beautiful. Loved her !
Oh, poverty of language, that we must so
often use the word love!' exclaims a writer.

It was some days before his inevitable
departure from Dundargue (and not an
hour too soon for that), when he and
Olive were somewhat earlier, and before
anyone else, in the breakfast-room, and
the notes of Donald Gair's pipes, playing
his morning reveille, ' The Black Watch,'
a slow and wailing air, were dying away
on the terrace outside.

Holcroft's face looked worn and haggard
— more freckled, and the eyes more
than usually shifty in their expression.
He had received some letters and telegrams
the evening before that upset him
so much that he failed even to win at loo
or ecarte, and the live-long night he had
been heard by Cameron pacing to and fro,
as if unable to rest.

Olive was struck by his pallid appearance.


They exchanged 'Good-mornings,' and
then a few minutes' silence ensued.

We may have rain soon,' was the not
very original remark of Holcroft.

The sky looks very like it. Rain always
comes when the mist is Adhere we
see it now, on yonder low spur of the
Sidlaw Hills,' replied Olive.

She was kneeling on a bearskin, beside
the great staghounds, Shiuloch and Bran,
with her little white hands . outspread
before the fire for warmth ; and a charming
picture she made, in her morning costume,
fresh and lovely as a fairy, with the
dogs in the foreground, and the great
carved stone arch of the baronial chimney-piece
for a frame.

Hawke Holcroft turned from the window
and came to her side, though curiously
enough the hazel eyes of the hounds

glistened, and they showed their teeth at
him, suggestive of kicks secretly administered.


'We are down earlier than usual this
morning said she.

All the better

Why ?'

I want so particularly to talk to you
said he, with all the softness he could
assume.

And I with you,' said Olive, • with a
frankness that was a curious mistake. * You
leave us soon, I believe?'

'Yes

'For London?'

For London,' he replied, mechanically,
as it were.

I thought you came to stay out the
grouse-shooting ?'

Till the tenth of December ! I have
not been asked he replied, gnawing his
yellow moustache ; and then, after a pause,

added, ' would you wish that I stayed ?'

Certainly, if you are enjoying yourself,'
was the girl's frank but — after what he
had urged some time ago — rather rash
response.

His eyes sparkled — he drew nearer.

Miss Raymond — Olive !' he exclaimed,
but paused, as, at that moment, Lady 
swept into the room ; ' on the terrace
the terrace after breakfast,' he whispered,
hurriedly, and then turned to receive his
hostess's morning greeting, which was so
froid that he feared she had overheard
him call her niece by her Christian name.

Holcroft was rather abstracted at breakfast;
thus Euby Logan, who had been
watching him, said,

I would not, if I were you, put more
sugar on the devilled turkey ; it won't improve
it.'

^ Forgot it was not salt ; thanks, Miss
Logan,' stammered Holcroft.

Now, whether the charming Olive was
inspired by coquetry, curiosity, caprice, ora
strange desire to play with fire, we know
not ; but when breakfast was over she laid
down a novel she had been reading, or
affecting to read, at intervals during the
meal, and, assuming her garden hat, withall
the laces and ribbons of her bright
morning dress fluttering about her, while
everyone else at table was deep in his or
her letters and papers, went forth upon —
the terrace !

Now Mr. Hawke Holcroft never read
novels or anything else unless for a purpose.
He glanced at the page which Olive
had left open (the work was 'Miss Forrester
') and the passage struck him as
most apropos to himself :

^ I never pretended to goodness. I have
certain views for myself. I never pretended
to fooling. I am clever. What
stands between me and my ambition I will

remove ; of whatever can administer to it
I will avail myself. Beyond this, it seems
to me, I am as good as other people.'

Hawke, my boy, yourself to a hair !'
thought he, as he quietly sought the terrace,
not by the French window, as Olive had
done, but by going through a corridor and.
the entrance hall.

As coolly as if she had no prevision of
what he was sure to urge, Olive, who wore
a waggish yet shy expression under her
garden hat, and who kept her hands deep
in the pockets of her morning dress, said,

What have you to say to me here that
you could not have said in the vicinity of
the tea-urn ?'

All that I have to say may be said in
three words.'

Three ! say it then.'

I love you ; a confession that has hovered
on my timid lips many a time.'

I cannot listen to this, and I wish to

VOL. I. R

have back my bugle. If Allan were to see
it — good heavens !'

I have said that it shall be buried with
me. Do give me some hope.'

'Of what; permission to retain the
bangle ?'

No ; that you may one day love me.'

I cannot.'

^ Say rather that you will not.'

Barring, in an angle of the terrace, her
attempts to leave him, he continued, in an
earnestness that was born of monetary pressure
and desperate hope, to plead his passion.

I am greatly honoured,' replied the girl,
growing cold as he waxed warm, and
glancing nervously at the windows of the
mansion ; ' but I am very sorry '

That you don't love me.'

Yes.'

But you may in time. Oh, how I could
teach you to do so ! Let me wait and
strive, Olive. You deem me wild, perhaps

horsey, and all that sort of tliiu^^ ; but
do you think a man never changes, never
grows better, under a woman's softening
influence? Are you entirely to let this
family compact, whatever it may be, Olive
pardon mee, Miss Raymond,' he added, ashe
saw how her face clouded by the reference
to her position — ' are you intending
to let it stand between you and all other
chances of marriage ?'

You have no right to question me thus,
or to assume this interest in my affairs,
Mr. Holcroft.'

Pardon me, but I have a love for you
that will last while life does.'

He did not add that it was the love of —
her money.

If there is only the Master, your cousin,
between us, that is no barrier, as I know
you don't love him.'

Then you know more of me than I do
of myself,' said Olive, provoked by his blunt

r2

brusquerie of manner, and failing to be
flattered by his pertinacity just then.

^ Perhaps yon deem me an heiress ?'
said Olive, as a new light suddenly broke
upon her.

*My dear Miss Raymond stammered
Holcroft, colouring with surprise at the
abruptness of her question. ^ I never
thought upon the subject ; I only knew
that — that — I am not just now a man of

fortune ; my place in Essex ' he paused,

thinking the less he said about it the better.
But who thinks of pelf when the heart is
full of passion 1' he added, magnanimously.
But tell me now,' said he, in his most suave
tone, ^do you care for anyone else more
than for me ?'

I don't care for you at all — sat least
in the way you mean,' she replied, defiantly.


He ground his teeth, even while he
smiled, and thought,

I must have patience before I tempt
mj fate again !'

Hawke Holcroft had made it so much a
habit during his sojourn at Dundargue to be
in close attendance upon Olive — especially
when they're alone together — that his
overtaking took her less by surprise. Ina
spirit of pique she had permitted him to
dangle, and to play — if we may use the
term — at admiration for herself; but, udw
that he had become serious a second time,
she became alarmed.

The remark which had escaped her had
excited some surprise in the mind of Hole
as it interested him deeply ; thus he
said, in a low soft voice,

you referred to your not being an
heiress. Miss Raymond, as if that could
possibly make any difference with one who
loves you as — as '

There, there, that will do !' interrupted
the impetuous Olive ; ' I am not an heiress.

in one sense, but very much of a beggar, if
you knew all,' she added, in a voice that
faltered.

He regarded her with some bewilderment,
as well he might, and said,

My dear Miss Eaymond, what am I to
understand by this paradox ?'

'Understand that I must marry my
cousin Allan, or forfeit papa's fortune — it
goes to him if I refuse, or to charities.'

Her distinctness and vehemence carried
conviction with her words. Holcroft was
confounded ; but, being a practised dissembler,
he only smiled, and said,

A most remarkable arrangement, and a
tyrannical one for you. But suppose the
Master had died in his boyhood — or were
to die now ?'

The will would be worthless in effect,
of course, I suppose,' replied Olive, whose
cheeks now burned scarlet, for — always a
creature of hot impulse — she now thought

hvhy should I have permitted myself to speak
to him, one, almost a stranger, or to any
man, of papa's will ? What must he think
of me ! Oh, what will Aunt Aberfeldie say?'

For half a minute Holcroft was silent.
He was thinking, ' this must be all bosh ! —
a cock and a bull, or a madman's will ; she
doesn't know what she is talking about
no woman or girl ever knows business.
Well — I've a pull on her anyway ; a viscount's
niece isn't in a fellow's power everyday,
as she will find herself in mine.'

What he referred to we shall show erelong.


While Olive was still crimson with reflections
on her own imprudence, Holcroft
took possession of her passive hands, and
said, in a partly assumed voice of agitation,

You told me. Miss Eaymond — let me
say Olive — a minute or two ago that you
did not care for me. I shall not take that
as your final answer ; and ere I leave

Dundargue, when I again venture to speak
to you on the subject nearest my heart,
your reply '

Will too probably be the same replied
Olive, wrenching away her hands, as steps
were heard near, and she hastily re-entered
the house.

The footsteps heard were those of Allan,
who came leisurely up the flight, a broad
and stately one, which led to the terrace.
He had, while proceeding down the avenue,
observed the pair together, and, as it seemed
to him, in rather too close proximity.
He also remarked Olive's abrupt departure,
at Ms approach as he supposed, and his
soul become ireful within him ; but he felt
himself, as he gave a hand to Holcroft,
compelled to dissemble.

So did the latter who met him smilingly.

Welcome home to Dundargue,' he exclaimed
; * you have come back as unexpectedly
as you went ; but whither ?'

Only as far as Edinburgh.'

Ah.' The reply seemed rather to relieve
Holcrof fc. Nothing was known about
him there, he thought.

A lady was on the terrace with you
just now ?'

'Yes — Miss Raymond

So I thought — sorry she did not stay.'

Why — particularly?'

^I have some news that may interest
her.'

About whom ?'

Herself.'

Hope they are pleasant ?'

That will depend upon how she may
view them,' said Allan, with a nod, as he
entered the house.

Now, what the deuce has he been up to
this fellow, with his hair cut to the
military pattern— Newgate crop, I should
call it— he looks queer this morning,' muttered
Holcroft, as he selected a cigar from

bis case, bit the end off with his sharp
white teeth, and proceeded to smoke it with
brief, augrj, and une joy able puffs that
indicated a mind full of bitterness and ill
at ease. Olive's communication had been
a sudden revelation to him.

CHAPTER XIII.

ALLAN PROVES MYSTERIOUS.

If Allan's sudden departure and unexplained
absence excited some curiosity in the
minds of his family, his return excited it
afresh when he declined to make any
explanation until he had held an interview
with his cousin, Olive Eaymond, who, fora
time, secluded herself in her own room
on the usual feminine plea of having a
headache.

Eveline, who had so longed for his return,
now with tears told him of her
fathers frequently expressed wish — nay.

command, and Sir Paget's forthcoming
proposal; but, full of his own miseries, he
could only caress her and say,

God bless you, little one. I wish you
well over all this

Sir Paget had left Dundargue pending
the final arrangements, as he thought ; thus
the cloud and the dread were hanging over
her still.

Has Olive received back her gold bangle
my gift — from Mr. Holcroft ?' asked
Allan, with knitted brows.

I — I think not. How did you learn he
had it ?'

Plainly enough — I saw it on his
wrist !'

Where he put it, in play — not she.'
I should hope not, by Jove !'
I know she has asked him for it repeatedly.'


Can't make the bescarar out.'

I can — he thinks Olive an heiress.

Allan's dark brow became more deeply
knitted.

'She thinks that if she married you,
Allan dear,' said his sister, after a pause,
she would be sacrificing her own pride and
liberty, and that you might marry her
though not caring for her '

But for that wretched money ?' said
Allan, with a kind of snort. ' Poor Olive
she views the situation in this light ! I
certainly shall not ask her to make any
sacrifices for me, and, so far as I am concerned,
she shall be free as a bird in the air.'

His sister regarded him now with some
perplexity, not understanding what he
meant, but said,

'You have just come in time for a little
carpet-dance we have arranged as a farewell
treat to Ruby Logan, Mr, Holcroft,
and — and Evan Cameron, who are about
to leave Dundargue.'

Allan noted the inflection of her voice

as she uttered the name of his young brother
officer, and then hurried away, as their
mother entered the room, and with rather
a cloudy expression in her face, though he
hastened to kiss her.

You have been to Edinburgh, I have
heard,' she said.

Yes.'

About what, Allan ?'

That you will learn in time, mother. I
must speak with Olive first.'

Lady Aberfeldie was full of irrepressible
curiosity, but Allan declined to gratify it
just then.

Have your recent movements any reference
to Olive?'

You will learn in time, mother.'

Lady Aberfeldie's face shaded with annoyance,
for, only the day before, she and
the petulant young lady in question had
indulged in a gift between them.

Perceiving a wistful look and fitful manner

about Olive, and that lie was more
than usually restless and irritable, Lady
Aberfeldie had unwisely spoken to her on
the subject of Allan's regard for her.

Olive had sat for a moment or two, with
her delicate hands tightly interlaced in her
lap, and then, turning defiantly to her
aunt, she said,

I will never marry Allan !'

*You must marry Allan, my dear girl,'
replied Lady Aberfeldie, calmly and firmly.

Why ?'

You know your father's wish
Oh, the will, of course ! So I am to be
treated like a child? Well, if so, I may
prove a wilful and dangerous one !'

Her aunt's report of this conversation
made Lord Aberfeldie more than ever
anxious for the return of his son.

You are very mysterious, Allan. You
and Olive seem a pair of enigmas,' said
Lady Aberfeldie. 'But your father waits

you in the library, and perhaps you will
condescend to confide in him, if not in me,
I must own it will be a fatal thing for your
future happiness if Olive thinks you seek
her for gain ; but for what does Mr. Hole
so evidently seek her ?'
Allan smiled disdainfully.

T have tried to think, mother dear, that
she is not affected by this person Holcroft,
but begin to own to myself that '' the faith
that worketh miracles" is not in me.'

When questioned by his father, Allan
made the same reticent reply, that he must
see Olive before making any explanations.

The time has come now, Allan,' said
Lord Aberfeldie, ' when you are bound in
honour to make your cousin an offer, for
in this peculiar entanglement — for such,
I grant you, it is — you and she do not stand
in the position of most engaged persons.'

But suppose I have no wish to
marry '

Absurd — outrageous !'

Or may not marry at all ?'
*By the refusal of Olive?'
Yes.'

Then her fortune, or most of it, becomes
yours, in terms of the will '

Which has been a curse to us both. In
her mind, and in the eyes of all who may
come to hear of it, we must lie under the
degrading imputation of a mercenary
motive.'

'Not if you act with tact and delicacy,
and surely your boy-and-girl attachment
must remain unchanged,' said Lord ,
in a voice that was soft, rather than
indignant, as his memory went back to the
day when Olive first came a little orphan
child to Dundargue— a tiny and graceful
creature, with tender, wondering, and beseeching
eyes — a child that climbed upon
his knee, clung to him with sympathetic
love, and played with his watch-chain or

VOL. I. S

the tassels of his sash, if he was in uniform.
sand so he added, after a pause, ' sou must
propose to the dear girl as a mere matter of
form.'

I have already done so,' said Allan, recalling,
what he was not likely to forget,
all that had occurred during the homeward
ride from Dunsinane.

'Well, sir?' asked his father.

I was laughed at — mocked, I may say.'
'Impossible! The girl must have been

jesting with you.'

I do not think so,' said Allan, both sadly
and bitterly as he thought of the bangle
and many other circumstances, the inevitable
' trifles light as air.'

Wei], you are bound to renew your
proposal.'

I do not think so, nor shall I again,
unless some change comes over her.'

If I exert my authority as guardian
and trustee '

She may run away. Olive is a proud
and restless girl with a defiant spirit, though
she has a very affectionate heart.'

But you cannot expect that she is to
propose to soil

I do love her, father — love her dearly ;
but fear that she views me too much as a
brother to love me otherwise.'

This is rank nonsense. Think of your
separations, and of your last — one well
nigh seven years — with the Black Watch.'

But might it not be the case that she
may have 2i, penchant for some one else ?

For whom ?' asked Lord Aberfeldie,
angrily.

Well, say for your friend Mr. Holcroft.'

Penniless Hawke Holcroft ! absurd —
the man has seen but little of her.'

Quite enough in London and here to
learn to admire, if not to love her. I would,
however, rather see her laid in her grave
than married to Holcroft,' said Allan, in a

s2

stern but broken voice, adding under
his breath, as he left his father's presence
and cut short an unpleasant interview,.
but, so far as I am concerned, she shall be
free to choose for herself — free as the wind.'

What the deuce can all this mean T
exclaimed Lord Aberfeldie, in great perplexity
; ^ was ever an unfortunate man
more troubled with two intractable girls,
than I am with Eveline and Olive !'

It has been said that, ' if exceedingly few
men and women understand each other
when they are in their sober senses, how
must it fare when they are under the
blinding influence of love ?'

But Allan's course of action was decided
now.

CHAPTER Xii.

OLIVE CHANGES HER MIND.

You are pleased to see me again, Olive ?*

Of course, Allan — why do you ask me ?'
she exclaimed, putting both her hands into
his in vt^elcome.

He retained them with a tender pressure
for half a minute, looking the while wistfully
into her violet eyes, and then he let
then drop from his clasp.

You wish particularly to speak with me,
I understand ?' said Olive, nervously thinking
it must refer to the tete-astute he had
overseen on the terrace.

eyes — particularly, dear Olive.'

When he saw her tender beauty, her
grace, and her witchery, and felt all the
subtle charm of her presence, his heart
was wrung by the thought that, by the
very act he had the power to do, and the
suggestions he was about to make to her,
he might place her at the entire disposal of
Hawke Holcrof t, of whose real character he
now knew more than formerly.

How variable had been the emotions she
had, ever since his return from India, exhibited
towards him ! By turns she had
been changeable and indifferent apparently
; playful, petulant, and imperious ; yet
always bewitching and sweet.

Seeing the cloudy and sad expression
of his eye, Olive said,

You have not come to scold me for
anything, Allan. We are at least
friends.'

Would we were more,' said Allan, remembering

what his father had urged but a
few minutes before.

Surely to be cousins is a near enough
relationship.'

Olive said he, reproachfully, ^ unless
you have formed a distinct attachment for
some one else, I must say I do not understand
you.'

'I don't want you to understand me,'
she replied, with half-averted face.

Why are you so hard with me ?' he exclaimed,
with a wistful, longing, and miserable
expression in his eyes.

She made no reply, so he spoke again.

^ I have had a long consultation with our
family agent in Edinburgh.'

About what ?'

Your affairs and mine, Olive.'

'i¥7/ affairs?'

Yes, and I have obtained the opinion of
Ruby Logan's father, and of counsel of
much higher — yes, of the highest — repute

on the vexed subject of your fathers
will — vexed at least between you and I,
Olive.'

She gazed at him with something of
vacant surprise blended with inquiry in her
face.

What I am about to suggest may be
dangerous, as I do not know the terms on
which you permit yourself to be with this —
Mr. Holcroft — but I have had excellent
legal advice, and '

Legal advice — oh, indeed !' she interrupted,
with a toss of her pretty head ; * that is
well, for the laws as made by you men rank
us women with children and lunatics. And
what says this advice ?'

That you can be freed from the trammels
of your father's will — free, and the
inheritrix of your own great wealth.'

She regarded him for a minute with
blank astonishment; then as bright joy
like sunshine spread over her sweet face

and sparkled in the depth of her eyes, she
exclaimed, in a low voice,

Free, do you say, free in my own actions,
and free to bestow papa's money how and
on whom I please ?'

On whom you please,' replied Allan,
thinking with intense mortification on Hole
and Holcrof t only ; for personally he
was far above thinking of the fortune that
might otherwise be his own, as the stars
are above the earth. ^ Let me but see all
this matter fully arranged and then I shall
be content,' said he, after a pause, during
which they had been regarding each other ;
he, her with sadness, and she him with bewilderment.
' There are rumours in the
air of a turn-up with the Turks, and of a
war in Egypt, and right glad I am of that !'

Why, Allan ?'

Because I'll get attached to the first
army corps that sails, even if the Black
Watch is not going ; but that it is sure to

be, as, thank God! the dear old corps is
always in everything.'

^ And why this joy T

To get as far away from you as possible
he replied, bluntly, in a hollow tone.

Must you do so, Allan ?'

Yes, unless I mean to drive myself
mad.'

*Do you really love me so much — and —
and,' she paused, for she seemed touched,
her sweet lips were quivering now.

What more ?'

For myself alone,' she asked, softly.
Love you — oh, Olive.'

There now, don't ! ' she exclaimed,
turning away her face, and Allan shrank
back.

^ Playing with me, after all — after all 1'
he muttered. * Will you please to look at
the opinion of counsel,' he added, drawing
from his pocket a folio document, stitched
with a red thread, and with a broad margin.

What a long story !' she exclaimed, as
she glanced at and read,

Chambers, Edinburgh.
Copy of Counsels opinion referred to in
letter of 20th October, 1882, on the will of
the late Oliver Raymond, Esq, of Jamaica,
with note of fees thereon.'

What a fearful long story !' exclaimed
Olive again. ' Tell me all about it, Allan ?
but pray don't read it.'

The will of your father is herein denounced
as eccentric — one that no court of
law would enforce, nor could uphold, as in
more than one instance it is not conceived in
strictly legal terms, and, to all intents and
purposes, can be put aside if you choose.
Thus, Olive, you are free — free from all
the bonds — if such ever existed — that seemed
to bind you to me ; and I thank God that
it is so, and I shall go to Egypt, perhaps,
with a lighter heart. All that now remains

to be done is to take the means, if such
are necessary, to have the document set
aside as so much waste paper, and you duly
made mistress of your inheritance, as you
are now of age, in England, at least, where
it is invested. Thus, you see, Olive, this
opinion of counsel is most valuable to you.'

Her soft eyes were brimming over with
tears now, as she mechanically took the
document in her tremulous fingers.

And thus you relinquish me ?' she said.

I relinquish, gladly, your fortune, and
all control over your actions, if — you
choose.'

*Bat I don't choose! Oh, Allan, how
generous all this is of you. But I shall not
be less so, nor will I act upon this opinion
of counsel.'

*How?'

See, thus !'

And, tearing it into pieces, she cast them
into the fire-orate.

Illegal as it may be, papa's will must be
now a law to me more than ever.'
And you, Olive ?'

Love you, dear Allan, and love you dearly,'
cried the wilful and impulsive girl, as
all her heart went forth to him, and he
pressed her to his breast at last.

Doubt, pride, defiance, and petulance
had all passed away, and Olive was all softness,
love, and joy now ; and to the pair
time seemed for a term to stand still, and
save their caressing words softly murmured,
and the twitter of birds among the ivy
without, silence appeared to reign in this
room ; and nothing seemed to disturb them,
till Olive suddenly started from Allan's
arms.

What is it, love ?' he asked.

A face at the window !'

Whose face ?'

I know not,' she replied, with some
agitation. ^ It has just vanished.'

She thought, nay, she was sure, it had
the features of Hawke Holcroft, but she
did not say so. If it were he, how much
had he overheard, how much overseen 1

But she soon forgot the episode, and that
night at dinner she looked more radiant
than ever, in her suite of Maltese jewellery
gold set with orient pearls.

It is usual for engaged ladies to have a
ring,' Allan had whispered, as he slipped a
magnificently jewelled hoop upon her
mystic finger.

Fool that I have been 1' thought the
girl. ' How near was I estranging one of
the best and dearest of men in the world,
not for the sake of one immeasurably his
inferior, even worthless perhaps, but in a
spirit of vanity, pique, and suspicion !'

Allan,' she whispered to him softly,
when an opportunity came, * I see now how
foolish I have been and wilful — oh, so wilful
! But we all make mistakes in life, and

require at times each other's pity aud forgiveness.'


How sweetly and shyly she looked and
spoke.

Hawke Holcroft felt intuitively, and
indeed saw, that there was some sudden
change in the bearing of the pair to each
other, and that a sudden brightness had
come into the faces of all — even that of
Eveline, usually now so triste and pale — and
under his sandy moustache he ' wondered
what the devil it all meant,' till his watchful
eyes detected the new and brilliant ring
on the engaged finger of Olive Eaymond !

If Mr. Hawke Holcroft imagined he had
nothing to dread personally from the Master's
sudden visit to Edinburgh he reckoned
without his host, as he would have found
had he overheard a brief conversation
which took place between Allan and his
comrade, young Cameron, as they loitered

in the gun-room looking over old Joe-cantons,
new rifles, and central-fire breech-leaders,
&c.

He was not slow to perceive very soon
that Allan, usually so suave and pleasant
in manner, treated him now with a kind of
stiffness that was almost hauteur ; but he
dissembled his rage and so did Allan, who
had a keen sense of the laws of hospitality,
with the genuine British dread of aught
that might approach a ' scene,' more than
all as the visit of Holcroft was nearly
ended.

Poor wretch! he strove well to keep a
brave front in society, while letters that
often lay beside his plate at breakfast were
seen to cloud his brow with perplexity, for
they alluded to wrong horses backed,
I. 0. U.'s, bills, and cheques ' referred to
drawer,' and so forth, and he must have
left Dundargue before this, but for a friendly
slip of paper, which he had received from

Lord Aberfeldie, that * Fool of Quality,' ashe
thought him.

Look here, Cameron,' said Allan, as the
twain smoked their cigars in a quiet place.
*It is little wonder to me that yon, Sir
Packet Puddicombe, and one or two others
lost at cards with Holcroft as you did. I
dined with our fellows at the mess in the
Castle when I went to Edinburgh. There
his name cropped up by the merest chance,
and I was told by Carslogie of Ours that
he was present at a shindy in London,
where this fellow Holcroft, after having an
unprecedented run at cards at a place in
St. James Street, was accused of having the
ace of trumps up his sleeve, from whence
it fell when he was shying a bottle at the
accuser's head. He talks to the pater
largely of his '' place in Essex," or what remains
of it. Involved in debt to a ruinous
extent, he gave bills right and left, which
were dishonoured. £10,000 hadbeen rais-vol,

I. T

ed upon "his estate, in wliicli he lead only a
reversionary interest, and, when the mortgagees
called in their money, and the estate
was sold, it did not suffice to pay a tithe of
the sums he had raised in every conceivable
way, and everyone lost their money all
round. Sharp that ! Yet he scraped
through without punishment.'

By Jove !'

Worse still. Carslogie told me he was
suspected of causing a horse to fail in a race
through having the bit poisoned ; and how
he left a young fellow in the Hussars at
Maidstone in the lurch, by refusing at the
last moment to ride for him a peculiarly
vicious horse, which he had solemnly undertaken
to do, and so causing him to lose the
race, on which he had most imprudently
made a ruinously heavy book.'

And how did it end ?'

The report of a pistol that night in the
cavalry barrack announced that the Hussar

had shot himself — that is all ! And this
is the '' young man of the period " whom
mv father's confiding simplicity has made
a welcome guest for some weeks back at
Dundargue, and thrown into the society of
my sister and Olive ! But I shall fully open
his eyes the moment our visitor is gone.'

But it was rather a pity for his own sake
that Allan did not ^ open' Lord Aberfeldie's
eves a little before that event, and such be-ingle
character of Mr. Hawke Holcroft the
reader may feel less surprised at some of
the things we may have to record of him
ere loner.

T 2

CHAPTER XV.

THE Carpet-DANCE, AND WHAT CAME OE IT.

Though somewhat of the nature of an
impromptu affair, the 'carpet-dance' partook
of something of a more important kind.
Many guests were invited ; the ladies were
in semi-toilet and. the gentlemen in evening
dress : but the great dancing-room at Dun-argue
was decorated to perfection bj the
care of Mr. Appleton, the butler, the
housekeeper, and gardener, with the rarest
plants, flowers, and ferns the conservatories
could produce, disposed in China and Japanese
jars on pedestals and marble console

tables of the time of Louis Xii., at whose
court a Lord Aberfeldie had once been
ambassador.

The fete had been brought about by the
two fair cousins as a farewell treat to the
last of their present guests, who were
departing — Ruby Logan, Stratherroch,
and — Mr. Hole oft !

Greatly to Eveline's relief, Sir Paget was
gone, but, as if to worry her further, Sir
Paget left for her — with Lady Aberfeldie
a letter referring to his admiration and
regard for her since the last season in
London, and with it a handsome diamond
necklet — the sight of which in its fragrant
Russian-leather case she loathed — with
the hope that she would accept and wear
it, in token that she was holding out brilliant
hopes to him when ' they met in town
again.'

Eveline flatly declined to accept and wear
the jewellery, so, to her intense annoyance,

it remained as yet in her mother's hands.
She was 'biding her time

The wealthy suitor had attained a battered
middle-age, while Eveline was still in
the glory of her youth. True, but he had
both wealth and rank to offer, for though
she was an ' Honourable Miss,' he was a
baronet, and so far as his love went, if it
came late in life, it was, nevertheless, a
kind of overmastering passion.

The new emotions of her heart caused
Eveline to reflect more than perhaps she
had ever done before. It seemed but yesterday
since she and Olive conned their
tasks and practised their scales together
under the eyes of a governess ; since they
had gathered bouquets of wild flowers from
the clefts of the rocks of Dundargue, and
made fairy caps of rushes and harebells by
the burnside ; happy children both ; but
how miserable she was now that she was on
the verge of womanhood, and had learned

to love and to hate ; for she loved Evan
Cameron, and hated — yes, and she blushed
as she admitted it to herself — she did hate
that smiling and rubicund old interloper.
Sir Paget.

^ And you will not wear the necklet ?^
said Lady Aberfeldie, for the last time.

Do please to excuse me, dearest mamma
I cannot — yet a while.'

Lady Aberfeldie was pleased by the half
obedience these words implied.

What ornaments will you wear then ?'
she asked. * You have so many to choose
from.'

Let me wear the lovely diamond necklace
that lies in the strong casket in your
room, mamma.'

Lady Aberfeldie's calm, patrician face
darkened.

I would rather you wore no diamonds
at all, child; and these I never wear myself.'


'But why, mamma?'

Because that necklace always brings
evil to whoever wears it

So I have heard. But it is a silly
superstition, and they are such lovely
stones ! But what is the story of them ?'

The wife of a cavalier who died with
Montrose on the scaffold of Edinburgh
gave them to an ancestor of ours to save
his life. This was the first viscount, who
was a zealous Covenanter, and the bosom
friend of Lord Garrison. He certainly
took the jewels from the poor sorrowing
wife '

And the cavalier ?'

was beheaded by the Maiden at the
market-cross, and a kind of curse seems to
have attended these diamonds ever since.'

A cruel story.'

But a true one.'

Eveline laughed at the superstition, kissed
her cold, proud mother, and carried her

point ; thus, at the time when carriage after
carriage was depositing guests at the great
arched entrance hall, Eveline was surveying
her figure and face in the mirror withall
a young girl's satisfaction and thinking
that her slender white throat never looked
as it did then, when encircled by the
sparkling diamonds of the luckless widow,
and Olive at the same time vas looking
radiant in the Maltese suite of Allan.

How the two last named enjoin-ed the
carpet-dance ! Perfect confidence was so
sweetly established between them, they had
so many little secrets to tell, so many
revelations to make, so many comparisons,
of mutual hopes and fears, and so forth,
while each seemed to exult in the affection
of the other, and felt in their hearts the
words ascribed to old Catullus : —

Let those love now who never loved before.
Let those who always loved, now love the more !'

Those two young fools seem to understand

each other and each other's interests
at last !' whispered Lord to Lady ,
with a smile of amusement.

'But there are two other young fools
present who are doing their best to mar
each other's interests was her cold and
warning response.

Hawke Holcroft's shifty eyes lowered ashe
watched the cousins and whirled in a
waltz with Ruby Logan or any other girl
who came to hand. He was in utter perplexity
to find the new footing on which
these hitherto strange lovers so suddenly
were, and that he himself was, as he felt
and thought, ' nowhere !'

W hat could she mean ? There was something
of radiance in the faces of all the
family — even of the sweetly pensive Eve-line
— all indicative of a new movement that
he was out of.

'As for Olive,' he muttered, while a sentiment
of rage, mingled with avarice and

jealousy, grew strong in this heart, ' she is
an infernal weather-cock, but a deuced
handsome one !'

Ruby Logan was equally puzzled, but
found consolation with young Carslogie of
the Black Watch, whom Allan had invited
to the festivity, and who styled her, with
reference to her hair, ' the amber witch.'

Happy Olive and Allan,' thought Eve-line,
as she rested for a minute on the arm
of Cameron, ' they may have as many round
dances as they choose without remark,
while mine, with him must be few and far
between.'

Her dress was white silk, trimmed with
little laurel leaves and crowberry — the latter
a delicate attention to Evan, as it is the
badge of the Cameron.

Will you wear my colours to-night ?'
she asked, as they promenaded at that end
of the room which was furthest away from
papa and mamma.' She broke off a spray

and made him a button-hole. ^ Allow me
to fix it for you,' said Eveline, and deftly
she put it in his lapel, while Evan's heart
thrilled to feel the touch of her beloved hand
even though gloved — so near his heart, as
they swept into another waltz.

Aberfeldie/ said the hostess to her husband,
* I feel certain that Evan Cameron
is in love with our Eveline/

Lord Aberfeldie had no doubt about it
whatever now, but he only said,

He would be a fool to be otherwise.'

But that is not what we seek !'

Certainly not ; but all young fellows
have fancies ; and he will be gone from
this in a few hours now.'

Thank Heaven, yes !' responded Lady
Aberfeldie, devoutly.

By the way, why did you permit her to
wear those unlucky diamonds ?'

She pled so hard, and then the idea of
their bringing evil is so behind the age.'

Behind the age or not, something untoward
or unlucky always accompanies their
appearance in public. They should have
been sent to Bond Street long ago.'

And Lord Aberfeldie smiled on her affectionately,
as at that moment he could not
help thinking how handsome and young
his wife looked in her costume of rich ruby
velvet, trimmed at the square cut neck and
arms with the finest white old lace, while
jewels that an empress might have worn
glittered in her ears and hair.

Replacing sometimes the professional
musicians, making themselves useful at the
piano, and playing certainly good dance
music were two — the ' mermaids,' as Hole
called them — the minister's daughters,
who were usually so fond of warbling that
they * were under the blue sea.'

He knew nothing of what Allan had
learned concerning him — of the light Cars-logie
had thrown on his private life ; thus,

whatever change had come over the spirit
of Olive's dream, he deemed it necessary to
ask her for, at least, one round dance as
usual ; and Allan watched them with a
haughty grimace on his features as they
danced it in a silent manner that was peculiar
and rather oppressive to both. The moment
it was over, and he handed her back to
a seat, Holcroft took refuge in the ,
where Mr. Tappleton gave
him a foaming glass of sparkling champagne.


Young Cameron was rather grave, Allan
thought, but the former was oppressed by
one idea then, that on the morrow he would
have to report himself at the headquarters
of the Black Watch, and he gazed like one
in a dream at the dancers whirling round
him ; so Allan took him to task and strove
to rally him.

Why so sad, old fellow ? You're down
on your luck, somehow,' said he.

Because, Graham,' replied Cameron,
with a forced smile, ' there aise times when
I am inclined to ask with Mr. Matlock, " Is
life worth living ?" '

Of course it is — but how with you ?'

^ Well,' replied Cameron, with whom just
then one bitter thought was more than
usually keen, ' dipped nigh to sinking as
my place of Stratherroch is, I don't see so
much to live for, and certainly deuced little
to live upon.'

Don't take this gloomy view, old fellow
said Allan, cheerfully.

It is very well for you to take a
jolly view of the world, Allan — you, the son
of a peer, and engaged to '

Take heart, man ; we've lots of life before
us — life in Egypt perhaps. There is
Eveline sitting alone ; take another turn
with her, and then we'll have some of
Mummy' extra dry together.'

Eveline had opened an album as Cameron

drew near her, but closed it instantly as
the first photo that met her eyes was a
fine cabinet one of Sir Paget. There was
an expression of pensive sweetness in her
otherwise radiant face, for she, poor girl,
never for a moment forgot that a parting —
too probably a final one it might prove —
was close at hand now, and, after the two
past delightful months, how dreary would
the future seem !

Are you tired ?' said a tender voice in
her ear ; ' it is our dance, I think — but
would you rather sit it out ?'

A little promenade rather.'

He bowed, and, rising, she took his proffered
arm. They made a circuit of the
room once or twice, and then, lured no
doubt by the coolness and seclusion of a
long corridor, entered it, unnoticed as they
thought ; but the watchful gaze of Lady
Aberfeldie had followed them.

There was much to see in this long,

stately, and vaulted corridor, and its deeply
embayed windows overlooking the rock on
which the oldest part of Dundargue is
perched. Its floor was of parqueterie ; its
walls of wainscot, with massively framed
old pictures ; some trophies of arms and
family armour hung there, and the
windows were furnished with ancient stone
seats and modern stained glass, through
which the radiance of the setting sun
was contending with the dim shaded
lamps.

Specimens of unique china and frail goblets
of Venetian glass, with other objects
of ' bigotry and virtue,' as Holcroft had
called them, were there in oaken cabinets
and on exquisite brackets. Among other
things, on a pedestal, skilfully stuffed, the
last golden eagle that had been shot at the
Birks of Aberfeldie, by the gun of Dugald
Glas, a glorious bird that measured five
feet from tip to tip of his shining pinions ;

VOL. I. U

yet none of these things caught the attention
of the two promenaders.

Her hand was on his arm ; involuntarily
that arm pressed the soft and tremulous
fingers which rested there, and in another
moment his hand stole over them without
their being withdrawn — nay, it seemed as
if their load became more heavy.

Eveline was not unaware that there
was something morally wrong in the situation
; but, then, ' the situation had its
charm.'

Eveline !'

Cameron had never before ventured to
call her by her Christian name, nor, until
it passed his lips half unconsciously now,
had he an intention of so uttering it ; but
that utterance seemed scarcely a new
revelation to the girl.

Soft and lovely was the shy smile upon
her upturned face as they stood within the

deep bay of a window. Was it that smile,
or what, that dazed Evan Cameron and
swept his senses away ; but he caught her
suddenly in his arms and kissed her lips
and eyes, whispering,

Oh ! Eveline, my darling — my darlings
r

And then there was a pause, full of
sighs of happiness. ' The stone was cast
into the water, and the still lake broke up
into a stormy sea, where there would be
peace and quiet no more !' No more, at
least, unless the future held some happiness
for these two poor loving hearts.

Have I done wrong ?' said Cameron, ina
breathless voice, after a little time ; ' God
knows I never meant that you should see
how dearly, how desperately, and how hopelessly
I love you when I let the precious
secret escape me as I did ; but it is done
now.'

u2

She was pale as death and trembling
violently, as she thought of her mother;
yet she nestled closely and clingingly to
him.

You love me, Eveline ?'

Can you ask ?' she whispered. ' Yes —
oh, yes — Evan.'

He was intoxicated, and drew her close
to him again. Such a moment comes but
once in life — once only !

*Let us go now — we shall be missed
said Eveline.

Oh, stay one moment longer, darling.'


Mamma, if we could only get her to
be our friend, all might be right and go
well.'

Even with my poverty, Eveline ?'

'Don't call it so. Yes, papa always
gives in to her in the long run.'

Cameron sighed.

Are sou two practising for amateur
theatricals, or admiring the stars through
the stained glass ?' said the voice of Lord
Aberfeldie, suddenly.

We have said that the eyes of his wife
had followed the pair, and hence no doubt
his lordship's sudden appearance in the
dimly-lighted corridor. Both were painfully
confused.

How much had Lord Aberfeldie overseen,
how much had he overheard, or how
little of both ? It was impossible for
them to guess, but he good-naturedly
affected not to see all that his mind
took in.

Cameron felt that he had nothing to
explain, to urge, or to utter, but bowed,
smiled a very hollow smile indeed, and led
his partner back to the dancing-room,
where neither waltzed more that evening,
as the impromptu affair was over, the

guests were departing, and Lord 
was beginning to think that the
diamonds of the legend were already
producing their evil results in this the first
untoward event in the young life of his
daughter.

Allan and Cameron, avoiding Holcroft,
sat long that night in the former's room
smoking and imbibing brandy-and-soda,
but no word escaped the lover of what
had passed in the corridor ; and, sooth to
say, full of Olive and himself, Allan had
never missed the pair from the dancing-room.


Cameron was to leave Dundargue betimes
next morning, so he bade farewell
to his comrade, who charged him with
remembrances to ' all our fellows of the
Black Watch ;' and anon Cameron found
himself alone with his own loving, exulting,
sad, and anxious thoughts, and with

the little bouquet — a dwarf laurel leaf and
sprig of crowberry — dearer to him then
than even his Victoria Cross !

Again and again did he rehearse that
sweet episode in the dimly-lit corridor, and
again and again in the time to come would
it return with sorrowful reiteration to his
heart and memory; !

Eveline loved him ! Her own lips had
acknowledged it, her kisses seemed still to
linger on his lips ; but to what end — my
God ! he exclaimed, in bitterness of heart,
to what end ? Ao;ain and ao-ain he thought
over her plaintive and child-like wish, ' if
we could only get mamma to be our
friend,' and all that wish suggested. Her
mother suspected much, he feared, and
that her father knew all. Sir Paget, with
his colossal wealth, was looming in the
distance like a simoon to the newly
dawned love ; and poor Evan could but

come to the terrible conclusion that, like
too many others, his penniless love could
only be a hopeless one.

So wore the night away — the last,
Cameron was assured, he would ever
spend in Dundargue ; and morning came.

Slept, Cameron made rapidly the
prosaic preparations for his departure, and
a valet had borne off his portmanteaus, rugs,
and gun-case to the entrance hall, where
the sleepy Mr. Tappleton and a wagonette-awaited
him.

As he was about to descend the great,
silent staircase, suddenly Eveline, fully
dressed for the day and softly slippered,
stood before him, her mignonne face very
pale, and her soft hazel eyes inflamed bypast
weeping.

Evan !'

'My darling!'

No housemaids were about as yet,

and no prying eyes were there, nor had
Ronald Gair with his pipes blown reveille,

I could not let you go without — without
one word of farewell,' she sobbed.

Long and mute was their embrace, and
the heart of Cameron swelled as if to bursting
with mingled love and gratitude. He
pressed her to it. It was their parting
embrace, and both seemed to feel in it
that which a writer has described as * the
vibration of an agony.'

I feel as if I were bereft of reason !' he
whispered.

'My poor Evan — my own dear love!'
cooed the girl. One kiss more, and he was
gone.

When or where, if ever, would they meet
again ?

Eveline had nervously and sedulously
avoided Sir Paget till the time of his departure
; and, when he did leave Dundargue

in the dawn, he was only seen off by the
old butler ; but Evan Cameron had an unexpected
farewell caress, the memory of a
sad, soft, and clinging kiss that he was to
take away with him to what he deemed the
land of bondage, and tearful eyes watched
his wagonette as it passed down the
avenue and out upon the high-road that led
to the railway.

Evan looked backwards at the tall and
stately pile of Dundargue, on which the
rays of the rising sun shone redly, and
deep in his heart he envied Carslogie, who
was to remain behind for a couple of days'
shooting. Yet wherefore should he envy
any man while Eveline loved him ? was his
afterthought.

And she, poor girl, seemed to feel herself
left most terribly alone with all her
sorrow — alone amid her loving family and
splendid surroundings, and with Evan's

words of love lingering in her ear she was
soon bidden to school herself to think of
Sir Paget, and Sir Paget Puddicombe only !
The human creature,' it has been written,
^ who would have suited us to every fibre of
our being we have not found, or, having
found, have not possessed ; but (perhaps)
undervalued, and so allowed to pass out
of our lives.'

These tv/o suited each other ' to a fibre,'
as our author quaintly puts it, and in perfect
unanimity of sentiment ; and yet for all
that they may be compelled to pass out of
each other's lives, and live those lives far,
far apart.

Under her mother's scrutiny Eveline
strove hard to dissemble, and on receiving
her morning kiss said,

Well, mamma, no evil has come of the
wearing the diamonds — Dundargue has
not taken fire.'

No, child — indeed, good has come !'

How, mamma?'

'This morning's mail has brought an enclosure
for you — the formal proposal of
Sir Paget;

Eveline was stricken dumb, but thought
to herself,

Unhappy I — evil has come !'

And ere noon was passed she was taken
to task by her father in the library, prompted
by her mother, no doubt.

He drew her to him caressingly, and, interlacing
his fingers upon her head, drew
her soft cheek upon his breast.

I think, Eveline,' said he, ' you may
know by this time how well I love
you.'

I do, indeed, papa,' replied Eveline,
in a low voice, but feelings her heart
sink under this unusual prelude nevertheless.


And yet you have been deluding
me.'

^ Deluding you — I, papa ?'

Yes;

'Oh, how?'

^By encouraging — pardon me, not that
rather by permitting a visitor to encourage
certain hopes. That, you know, it is
impossible I should view with favour.'

You mean — you mean ' stammered

Eveline, recalling the episode in the
corridor.

Evan Cameron.'

He is gone,' said she, with difficulty
restraining her tears.

To darken the door of Dundargue no
more ! Not that I have any fault to find
with poor Cameron — a brave fellow who
has won his Y.C., and is a Black Watchman
to boot ; but he is Laird of Strath-errol
only in name; his purse does not

come up to the requisite standard, and
may never do so till both your heads are
grey ; but he is gone, as you say, and we
shall think of him no more. I have other
brighter, better, and richer views for you,
my dear child, and I hope you will not
disappoint us all. Sir Paget loves you
and you will think seriously over all
this?'

'How can I do otherwise, papa?' was
the dubious response, and the girl stole
away to her own room. So wearing the
diamonds seemed only to be bringing
about a sudden crisis in the affairs of
herself and the banished Evan Cameron,
for such she deemed him.

And, ere she went to bed that night,
Eveline, poor girl, strove to pray that she
might have some guide or assistance up
the stony and thorny path which she
feared was before her now in life ; but she

no longer now bad the deep and unbroken
sleep that had ever been her lot the
moment her soft cheek touched the pillow.
Too nervous to sleep alone, she crept in
beside Olive, and, nestling her little face
in the white bosom of her cousin, wept
long and bitterly.

But events were now to occur that
caused even the brilliant proposal of Sir
Paget to be forgotten.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

m^ii^m

'^-MJk^^Ml

a 'i

%

3 0112 046409923

^^1

.-^fea±-l!ffj-^' l JJAAiS

m\ih-

jK^sni

^'

^^i>

-'^«S'-?'.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

HAk

m4

L161— O-1096

BT

JAMES Grant

AUTHOR OF

THE ROMANCE OF WAR," " THE Cameronian,'
"THE SCOTTISH CAVALIER,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

THE MASTER OF ABERFELDIE.

CHAPTER I.

MYSTERY.

So all the guests had quitted Dundargue
DOW but Hawke Holcroft. In two days
he was to depart for what he called ^ his
chambers in town ;' thus Allan was compelled
to continue his polite dissimulation,
and be on suave and apparently easy terms
with him as a guest, though the latter felt
that there was an undefinable change in
his manner towards him.

Indeed, it was only by a great effort of

VOL. II. B

self-control that the Master of Aberfeldie,
a man with the highest and keenest sense
of honour, and knowing all he did, continued
to treat Holcroft with politeness ;
but he writhed and shivered when he
heard him, in the drawing-room or elsewhere,
address Olive or Eveline.

All the forenoon after Cameron's departure,
when poor little Eveline was most
triste and miserable, our other pair of
lovers were very ^^PPJ- They had what
they were pleased to call ^ a picnic ' on the
tower-head of Dundargue. Allan's portion
thereof was cigars, and Olive's a little
basket of purple grapes and luscious
strawberries (though the season was autumn)
from the hothouses.

So with these two, the hours passed
sweetly and swiftly, with the blue sky
overhead, while far away in the distance,
and steeped in sunny haze, stretched the

lovely Carse of Gowrie ; and talking of
themselves, their past folly, their present
joy, and the brilliant future that was to
come, they billed and cooed after the
fashion of all lovers since flowers grew in
Eden.

Allan lolled at length on the stone
bartizan of the tower whence molten lead
and arrows had more than once been
launched on a foe beneath, Olive with her
fair head reclined against his shoulder
toying with her fruit, while he did so with
her silky hair, or kissed her lips and hands,
and called her all manner of funny and endearing
names that would look rather odd
in print ; and yet amid their present happiness
it was strange that each wondered
more than once, if coldness or estrangement
would ever come between them
again.

Never — oh, never.

b2

You complained that the gardeners saw
me kissing you in the rosery yesterday,
Olive,' said Allan. snow, little woman,
who should I kiss if I don't kiss you ?
Well, only the crows overhead can see us
up here, at all events.'

But now as he toyed with her hands,
marvelling as he did so at their whiteness
and beauty, and anon played with the
bangles that encircled her rounded arms,
he bethought of the one worn — yes, actually
lorn — by Holcroft, and silently he
resolved to possess himself of it without
delay; so, ere the bell rang for luncheon,
he made an excuse, conducted his cousin,
with many a pause and long delay which
were not idly spent, down the dark and
winding staircase from the head of the
tower.

In his new-found happiness until now
he had forgotten all about the bangle.

which — perhaps for some ulterior purpose
of his owu — Holcroft seemed to have
quietly appropriated, and by whom he
wished it returned without any fuss or
explanation.

To this end he sought that personage
after luncheon was over, and was sure he
would find him either practising strokes in
the billiard-room, in the "smoking-room, or
stables, watching the horses and catching
hints from the grooms.

He found him in the first-named place,
cue in hand.

Ready for a game ?' said he.

No, thanks;

Sorry ; Cameron, and everyone is gone.
I'm reduced to playing the right hand
against the left.'

And while playing I perceive that you
have a gold bangle of Miss Raymond's on
your left wrist ?'

Yes replied Holcroft, leisurely — Allan
thought impertinently.

Did she give it to you ?'

Why do you ask ?'

Did she give it to you ? ' repeated
Allan, with a dangerous gleam in his dark
eyes.

No.'

How comes it to be there, then ?'

Don't take to high saluting. I slipped
it on in mere fun, and it will not come ose
again.'

'Indeed ! allow me.'

And Allan, in a moment, by twisting
the ductile Indian gold, wrenched it off,
and Holcroft's eyes had a malevolent flash
in them as he stooped to strike a ball.

Thanks,' said Allan, pocketing the bangle.
' Now we shall have a cigar.'

For a moment he felt a little ashamed of
his sudden irritation, and proffered his

cigar-case to Holcroft, who smiled his
thanks and accepted a Havana.

The Master was younger and handsomer
than he ; the heir to an ancient title and
estate ; he had the envied prestige of having
borne himself bravely when under fire
with the Black Watch, and had a goodly
crop of medals — not so many as my Lord
Wolseley, of course — but still, when in
uniform, a goodly display.

He had all the advantages over Hawke
Holcroft that one man could have over
another ; and in his heart of hearts the
other hated — yea, with a bitter and deadly
hate — Allan Graham — a hate beyond his
love, real or supposed, for Olive Raymond,
natheless all Olive's beauty and her money
his chief lure and incentive.

While conversing and joking together in
the smoking-room, or on the terrace, amid
the pleasures of the table, knocking the

balls about at billiards or so forth, how
little could the unconscious Allan have
dreamed that his father's guest — the son
of his old friend — had been pondering over
the art of ' Killing no murder ;' of accidents
brought about in the hunting-field, at cover
shooting, or hill-climbing ; even of dynamite
cigars ! Had he not heard of such
things at Monaco, Homburg, and elsewhere.


He knew that there was quite a manufactory
of such cigars at Tern es war, in
Austria ; but wherever were such pleasant
gifts ' to be obtained in an out-of-the-way
hole like the Carse of Gowrie ?'

His teeth under his moustache glittered
or glistened whitely when such ideas occurred
to him ; though he chatted away
with perhaps forced insouciance and
gaiety", under all his assumed ease of manner
there smouldered a lava-like glow —

mingled hate of Allan and coveting of
Olive, but with an emotion of a much
coarser nature, combined with greed.

Seeing Clairette, Olive's maid, passing,
Allan made up the bangle in a little packet
as he still wished no more explanations on
the subject, and desired her to give it to
her mistress,

You and Miss Raymond seem exceedingly
good friends now,' said Holcroft.

We were never otherwise,' replied
Allan, curtly, and displeased by the remark.


What a prize in matrimony such a girl
must be, with so much beauty and —
wealth

It is sometimes a misfortune for a girl
to be rich, or to be thought so,' said
Allan.

Why r

Because she may become the prey of

some needy fortune-hunter or enterprising
scamp.'

Holcroft winced at the reply, though it
was made casually and without the least
design by Allan.

But in marrying, Miss Raymond might
perhaps be poor enough.'

What paradox is this ?' asked Holcroft,
thoroughly interested, while Allan felt
some disdain at discussing such matters
with such a man.

Yes, poor as a church mouse, unless — '

Unless what ?'

She marries me replied Allan, who,
with perhaps pardonable pique, only
thought of provoking a man who had
tried to rival him, and whom he deemed
a needy and adventurous gambler.

This seemed only to corroborate what
Holcroft had heard before, and gave him
some occasion for thought.

I have heard rumours of a family compact
— a most fortunate one for you,' said
be, smiling ; ' but suppose you — excuse
me for saying so — were to predecease
her ?'

Then my pretty cousin would be a free
woman ; but I don't mean to die yet awhile.
Let us take a turn before dinner,' he added,
to change the conversation he had no
desire to continue.

Where ?'

Anywhere you like ; but, as the
evening has become chill, suppose we
smoke our cigars in the picture-gallery ?'

All right, I am your man.'

Had Allan looked at Hawke Holcroft
just then he might have perceived a
lurid gleam in his stealthy eyes, and
how his hands were clenched till the
nails of his fingers bruised the palms
thereof.

Olive received her bogle, and though
startled by the abruptness with which it
was returned, without message or explanation
from Allan, as Clairette told her, she
thought less of the circumstance then than
she did a day or two after.

Dinner was announced; Holcroft appeared
in accurate evening dress as usual,
and, after waiting a few minutes for Allan
who did not appear, the meal was proceeded
with in the slow fashion peculiar to
Dundargue, though only five were seated
at table.

Ere dessert came, Jj^dy Aberfeldie dispatched
a servant to Allan's room in search
of him. He was not there, though his
evening dress was laid out as usual.

Where can he be ? Where can he
have gone ?' were the queries on all hands,
which, as night began to draw on without

his appearing, took the foro of alarm,
and what can have happened ?'

Did Allan drop hints of goings ^QJ-^
where ?' asked Lord Aberfeldie.

All answered ' No.'

It is most mysterious.'

Still more mysterious did it appear when
the night passed without his being seen,
and when his place was still vacant at the
breakfast-table next day. Lord Aberfeldie
was in dire perplexity ; the ladies were pale
and already betook themselves to tears.

If Allan has left the house as suddenly
as he did before, he has taken neither
clothes nor portmanteau with him, as Tappleton
assures me ; so what can it mean ?
exclaimed Lord Aberfeldie.

A gun was missing from the gun-room.
Could Allan have gone to shoot with Logan
at Loganlee? But Olive deemed it
impossible that he would do so without

consulting her, and on looking at Hole
she thought he looked rather hot and
disturbed.

The bangle, the bangle !' thought the
girl, with sudden terror. . ' Can he have
gone in a fit of jealousy. Mercy ! if it
should be so.'

Inquiries proved that Allan had not
passed out by the entrance gates, as the
lodge-keeper affirmed, and no trace of
footsteps could be found at any of the
private gates to the grounds ; and it
was soon discovered that he had not
taken a ticket for any place at the railway
station.

What terrible mystery was here ?
The family began to look with growing
alarm and dismay blanklj/- into each other's
pale faces.

Keepers and gillies, strong, active, and
keen-sighted fellows, Hector, Blister Bain,

Ano^us and Ducal Glas — even old Ronald
Gair, the piper — searched, but in vain, the
grounds, plantations, even the adjacent
hills and glens ; but not a trace was found
of the missing Allan.

He seemed suddenly to have dropped
out of existence.

As this, his last day at Dundargue, drew
on, none made himself more active in
searching and riding about the roads than
Holcroft, and so preoccupied were all that
no one — even Olive — noticed that his face
was pale and cadaverous — and wore a very
disturbed expression, and that his pale
eyes seemed to glare defiantly if anyone
looked at him, while he sedulously kept his
rigid hand gloved.

How are we to relate all that really had
happened.

CHAPTER IT.

A MODERN USE FOR A MEDIEVAL INSTITUTION,

The world is not a bad world, after all
said Allan, as be and Holcroft, after a
casual glance at the long lines of portraits
panelled in the wainscotting of the gallery,
together with many a Cuyp, Zuccbero,
Canaletti, and so forth, now looked out
from one of the lofty windows upon the
fair domain of bis family, that spread for
miles around Dundargue.

It is easy enough for you to talk thus
of the world thought Holcroft, ' but if,
like me, you bad only debts and difficulties

for your patrimony you might take a different
view.'

'I was born here in Dundargue, and
all the happy memories of my childhood
centre round it,' said Allan. ^ Everyman^
woman, and child in the place are known
to me ; every rock and hill, glen and
woodland, familiar, with all their stories
and traditions ; and wherever I might be
with the Black Watch, in England on the
staff, far away in central India, or in the
gorges of Afghanistan, ray memory always
fled home to dear old Dundargue and all
its surroundings.'

How pathetic !' sneered Holcroft, silently,
and puzzled to understand the mood of
Allan, who, in the consciousness of his own
happiness with Olive, felt at that moment
rather inclined to take a soft and generous
view of the world at large.

It certainly is a fine old ancestral house

VOL. II.

one to be proud of,' said Holcroft, aloud,
with a special history, and all that sort
of thing. I have heard a devil of a deal
about its oubliette — where is it ?'

Let me show you — come this way,' said
Allan, lighting a fresh cigar.

Smoking together, Allan, and Holcroft
following, wandered up and down circular
stone stairs in narrow turrets, where the
steps had been worn and hollowed by the
feet of long departed generations ; through
dusky corridors where, in some places,
moth-eaten arras hung upon its rusty
tenter-hooks, and where, as Holcroft said,
there was ' a loud smell of mice ;' through
secret doors and past ' the priest's hole,' in
which James of Jerusalem abode, till they
reached a narrow stone passage near the
summit of the great tower, closed by a
massive little door.

Allan threw this open, and the black,

round moatli of the oubliette, about four
feet in diameter, yawned before them.

The great, horizontal stone slab or flagstone,
which in ancient times had closed
the mouth of this horrible accessory to
feudal tyranny, had long since given place
to a massive trap-door of oak, which was
held up by a wooden prop, under which
the cold, dark vault showed its mysterious
profundity.

By Jove ! it is a strange affair ; more
like a draw-well than anything else.'

'But supposed to be twelve feet diameter
at the bottom— a fine old relic of the
days when '' warriors bold wore spurs of
gold," and the rack and the red-hot ploughshare
were aids to the orthodox opinions
of society in religion and politics.'

And Allan laughed as he spoke.

How foetid its atmosphere is ! That
door has not been open for an age, and

c2

may be closed for as long again. No one
ever comes here.'

Peering downward, as if into a well, they
saw the outlines of their heads reflected ina
little pool of water at the bottom, but
how far down it was impossible to say.

Once upon a time said Allan, when
parts of the Carse of Gowrie were underwater,
in wet seasons especially, it flowed
in here, how no one knew, unless through
fissures in the rock, and drowned like a
rat any luckless wight who was thrown into
be — to be '

*What?'

Forgotten. So the phrase went then ;
hence its name.'

And do you mean to say that no one
who was dropped into that confounded
hole ever came up again T

eyes.'

Were their cries not heard ?'

No ; the walls around are so thick, and
the bottom is in the living rock on which
Dundargue stands.'

By Jove !' exclaimed Holcroft again, as
if perplexed, so much so that he had let
his cigar grow cold. ' And their bones ?' he
asked, after a pause.

Were found in quantities by certain
explorers, who went down with torches,
some years ago. I have not looked into
this place for years — not since I left for
the regiment in India,' said Allan, stooping,
somewhat dangerously — and, to Hole
sudden idea, somewhat temptingly
over the dangerous profundity, into
which he was striving to peer.

With all the rapidity of light, many
terrible thoughts now crowded into the
mind of Holcroft. He hated Allan Graham
with deadly rivalry and hate combined.
Never again, in the desperation of

his affairs, might he have the chance of an
introduction to such a prize as Olive Raymond,
or be on such a footing, as he had
recently found himself with her.

He loathed Allan for all Allan possessed
and, as we are told, ' a coward who knows
himself to be at once despised but unchastised,
for a woman's sake, can hate.'

If he lost his chances with Olive, beggary
stared him in the face ; drops of perspiration
started to his forehead, and
chance now confirmed his diabolical resolution.
The gloomy fiend was uppermost,
his revenge, and perhaps future triumph,
stood embodied before him. He did not
pause, and all these dire thoughts occurred
to him in less than the space of one vibration
of a pendulum.

Had the Master of Aberfeldie turned
sharply round he might have read in Hole
white face an expression that was

not pleasant to look upon just then — the
face of one that would work him mischief
if he could ; but the unwitting Allan was
doing what he had not done since boyhood,
he was peering with vague curiosity into
the profundity below.

A fury, a clamorous anxiety, seemed to
blaze up in the heart and brain of Hole
who was a practised * bruiser,' and
he suddenly gave Allan an awful blow under
the left ear — a blow hit right out from
the shoulder — that shot him headlong into
the vault.

He vanished from the light ; there was
a heavy thud far down below, and then all
became still — unnaturally so ; but Holcroft
could hear the beating of his own pulses,
while the blood seemed to be surging about
his throbbing temples.

Was he acting in a dream From which
he would waken to find himself in bed ? or

was all this happening, not to him, but to
some one else ? No, there was the bruised
right hand, from which the violence of
his blow had torn the skin.

He had read of dark crimes, of murders,
but little did he think he would ever become
the participator in such a deed ; but
opportunity is always the devil's game.

For a minute — an eternity it seemed, by
the chaos of his mind, the sudden invert
sion of all thought — he did not breathe,
he scarcely seemed to live.

There was a whisper of ^ murder ' on his
lips, and it seemed to have an echo, that
terrible whisper, but whether from the
walls, the trees that waved below them,
the blue sky, or the crows that were winging
their way through it, he knew not.
He seemed to whisper the awful word to
himself, with quivering lips, again and
again, as if he required an assurance of

its truth, and then sought to rouse himself
from his lethargic stupor, quit the scene
of his sudden crime, and seek safety in
flight— flight !

But, then, to quit Dundargue thus would
fix suspicion on himself. Had not Clair-este,
the French maid, seen him but lately
with Allan ? And flight would mar the
very object for which he had committed the
crime.

Should he — could he — at all risks to
himself and his fortune, ere it was too
late, strive to undo what he had done; to
give an alarm, and make some excuse or
explanation ere life had departed from the
shattered frame of his victim, or leave the
latter to his obscure fate — a grave under
his father's roof !

Cowardice and meanness, hatred, jealousy,
and avarice all suggested the latter.

He knew not the depth of this strange

prison, or how far down beneath the foundations
of lofty Dundargue and into the rock
on which it stands, the sill or floor of the
noisome vault might be.

He listened ; not a sound came upward,
nor was there any, save the wild beating of
his own heart and the buzzing and singing
of blood in his ears.

He softly closed the wooden trap-door,
let the enormous iron hasp thereof drop
over the rusty staple ; he closed the massive
external entrance, and stealthily crept
or glided away.

There seemed a silence all around him
now ; such a silence as must have appalled
the soul of the first murderer when he
rose up against Abel, his brother, and
slew him.'

So the tragedy — the dark crime — was
acted as suddenly as it was weird.: — suggested
by a whisper of the devil ! There

was nothing very tragic in the accessories
of the scene ; but, as an author says, ' Are
not real tragedies, the social tragedies that
go on about us in our every-day life,
enacted like comedies, until the last moment,
when the curtain falls, and all is
dark ?'

Pale as death in visage (he felt himself
to be so), stealthy in step and eye, he
stole away to his own apartment in a
modern part of the mansion. How he
reached it he never knew, but mechanically
of course, and he blessed his stars
that he reached it unseen.

He took a long pull at the brandy
flask — tore off his collar and necktie, and
cast himself half fainting on his bed,
where he lay panting and gasping
heavily.

Every sound that came to his ear, every
step that approached, seemed to Hawke

Holcroffc the herald of discovery, and he
longed with the most intense nervous
intensity to leave this loathed Dundargue
behind him !

Was the Master dying there or dead
outright ? Where he lay no sound could
ever reach the external air. But had not
his victim assured him that no cry could
ever come from there — the place was so
deep — so remote ?

Would the next evening, when he was
to depart, never come ? Then he had the
meals, the family, and their surmises to
face !

He had a haggard and hunted look that
evening and all next day, which Lord
Aberfeldie, in the kindness of his heart,
amid all his own new anxiety, attributed
to the pressure of his monetary affairs.

CHAPTER III.

HOLCROFT DEPARTS.

It was a considerable relief to Holcroft'&
round to perceive that this second abrupt
disappearance of Allan excited more surprise
than alarm in his family circle ; and
in her own thoughts Lady Aberfeldie
secretly connected it with some lovers'
quarrel between him and Olive ; it was so
like their past relations that some such
folly should intervene.

The bell for dinner sounded much earlier
than usual, as Mr. Holcroft was to depart
for the south that evening, and to see him

in the drawing-room dressed de rigueur in
black, with spotless shirt-front and diamond
studs, with tie and collar perfect, his
hair brushed with precision and the ends
of his tawny moustache waxed out to
sharp points, who could have imagined
him an actor in that scene in the distant
arched passage, or connected him with ivhat
was lying at the bottom of that deep, dark
oubliette !

Holcroft always thought that great
games involved serious hazards ; but now
this was a hazard beyond all his previous
calculations.

The greatest chance of fortune he had
ever seen in his varied life seemed to be
slipping — or to have speedily slipped —
away from him, when Olive Raymond and
her cousin suddenly appeared on such
amicable terms ; savage emotions of mingled
disappointment and revenge filled his

heart, and certainly lie had given full
swing to them !

Now, what he had done was over ; the
rubicon had been passed. He was — what
he dared not name himself ; the thought
of all that Allan Graham must endure ere
he died (if he was not already dead) was —
at times, but at times only — maddening
even to his destroyer ; and he felt that he
could not too soon place miles upon miles
between himself and Dundargue ; and that,
happen what might, he would never set
foot in Dundargue again.

Seated at that luxurious table with the
hospitable father, the patrician-like mother,
the tender sister and brilliant fiancee of him
he had slain, with stately-liveried valets in
attendance, while longing for the conveyance
or carriage that was to take him to
the station, he did feel more than once
as if he would go mad if it lasted

much looser — this action — fchis tension ot
the heart — but, as we say, for a time only.
He was too near the scene of his awful
crime not to feel his soul shrink with
selfish horror and dismay, which made him
nervously twist up, roll, and unroll his
serviette, as it is called in Scotland.

Was it only a few hours since he had
heard that terrible thud amid the darkness
and the clash of the oak trap-door ? And
there were Ms family all seated with him
Holcroft — at the same table, all unconscious
of what was lying within a few yards
of them, and yet not considering him the
blackest criminal in the world, but a departing
guest to be treated with kindness
and courtesy.

Thank heaven he would be far away
from them ere Allan would be found to
be hopelessly gone, and he would see
nothing of their growing misery.

To drown thought care, and memory,
Holcroft, after the ladies retired to the
drawing-room, imbibed systematically more
than usual. Ere this, Olive had thought
his manner excited — strange only. Unused
to see men under the influence of
wine, she thought no more of it. But, as
Holcroft took to ' lacing ' his aliquot with
brandy when occasion served, that may
account for some of the peculiar remarks
to Olive yet to be recorded.

From an early period Eveline had conceived
a shuddering kind of aversion of
Holcroft — an emotion not rare in certain
nervous organisations like hers ; nor could
she have explained why more particularly
7iowhis presence, though at table as usual,
had filled her with an undefined distrust
and dread ; yet so it was.

But in the drawing-room her own
thoughts came more than ever back to

VOL. II. D

her, and these were all of Evan Cameron.

^ He is gone !' she was always whispering
to herself ; ' too probably for ever and forever.
We shall never meet again. How
dull my world will seem without Evan,
and how old and queer I begin to feel
already !'

But poor Eveline knew not what a small
place the world is — now-a-days especially.

'You seem rather out of sorts,' said
Lord Aberfeldie, who had been eyeing 'his
old friend's son,' while pushing the decanters
towards him ; ' I hope there is nothing
wrong with you, especially as this is your
last evening here.'

'No, nothing very wrong,' stammered
Holcroft, scarcely knowing what to say,
but driven to shelter himself under what
was his normal condition ; ' it is only —
only '

what?'

I have had more than one annoying
letter he said, with a kind of gasp, and
paused.

About money — of course ?' said Lord
Aberfeldie.

One was a threat from a tailor replied
Holcroft, making a terrible effort to appear
facetious, ' who says if I don't pay him he
will take means to make me do so.'

And you ?'

Wrote back that I was delighted to
hear he had the means, as this was more
than I had.'

Well, my dear fellow, your father was
one of my oldest friends ; for his sake can
I square it for you ?'

Oh, Lord Aberfeldie, don't think of
that !'

What's the total r' asked the other,
opening a davenport.

Close on £500/ said Holcroft, with an

d2

effort, which certainly was an emotion, but
not gratitude.

There, Holcrof t — pay me when you
can, or chooses said Lord Aberfeldie,
throwing down his pen, closing the davenport,
and handing a cheque for the sum
named to his guest, to stop whose thanks
he plunged at once into the inevitable story
of the charge of the Black Watch along
the Kourgane Hill ; how he fell wounded ;
and how, but for Holcroft's father, ' a squad
of infernal Russians,' et cetera, and so forth.

Another glass of Meet, and then we
shall join the ladies.'

Life is a hard game with some of us
now,' said Holcroft, as he pocketed his
cheque. * As some one has written, '' Men
cannot go freebooting or looting now, except
in business ; and it is quite a question
whether a modern promoter is not quite
as respectable a member of society as a

river used to be, in the old days when
right was might"'

And Dundargue was built,' added Lord
Aberfeldie, laughing.

I did not say so.'

Ah, but you thought it.'

And now they rose from the table.

Holcroft was not the better, but rather
the worse for his potations. He had eaten
little and drunk much. Thus he looked
very pale — almost ghastly; and a strange
fixed grimness replaced occasionally the
usual restlessness of his shifty pale eyes
and freckled face.

Curiously enough he had hovering in
his mind a kind of vengeance just then at
Olive. But for her sudden, and, as he
thought, capricious preference for her
cousin, and throwing him so completely
over, the deed he had committed would
never have been done.

Eveline lead withdrawn to her rooni^
whither her mother had followed her, benton
worry and expostulation no doubt;
Lord Aberfeldie was required by his
steward, and Holcroft found Olive seated
alone in a bay window of the drawing-room,
watching the last rays of the sun
fading out behind the Sidlaw Hills.

Another hour — even less, Miss Raymond
— and my place here will be vacant,'
said he, in a low and unnatural voice,
while attempting to hang over her chair in
his old fashion.

I got back my bangle, thanks,' said shea
little irrelevantly, but feeling a necessity
for saying something.

Have you forgotten all that passed between
us before and after you allowed me
to retain it.'

I never allowed you to retain it, nor
aught of mine, save perhaps a bud from

a bouquet. I have not forgotten that
you, apparently, sought to do me a
great honour, Mr. Holcroft; but I scarcely
thought, even then, that you were
serious.'

Serious ! Did you not know that I
loved you better than my own life.'

I cannot listen to this kind of thing
said she, rising with positive hauteur and
annoyance in her face and manner ; ' you
forget yourself.'

When with you I always do — forgive
me!'

I cannot forgive you for talking to me
thus.'

'You used not to dislike me, I know ;
and now there is no sacrifice I would not
make to win your love '

Permit me to pass !' exclaimed Olive,
but he barred her way, and now a glow
of half-tipsy rage seemed to possess him.

'Listen, Olive Eaymond,' said lie, in a
low, concentrated and almost fierce tone ;
I have dared and risked much for you —
more than you can conceive. There has
seldom been aught that I have sworn to
possess that has not in time been mine —
mine, do you hear ! To those who wait,
their time and turn always come. I have
sworn to possess you, and woe to the man
who comes between us.'

She regarded him with a haughty and
scared yet scornful eye. She saw now
that this melo-drama was the result of
wine.

Do you think you could compel me to
love you ?' she asked, with a provoking
smile.

'No.'

What then ?'

To marry me.'

Under what pressure, sir ?'

That is my secret— in time you may
find it out,' he added, bowing to her with
ominous, not mock, politeness, as she passed
him with a haughty stare, and left the
room. ' She forgets that I have yet her
photo, with her own name written on the
back in her own hand ; and if ever man
put the screw on a woman by such a little
thing as that, I shall put it on you, Olive
Raymond, if you continue to play my Lady
Disdain to me !'

And for a moment he cast after her retiring
figure a glance of sardonic hate a
devil might have emulated.

Good-bye,' he muttered, mockingly, ' is
an unpleasant thing to say ; with us let it
be au revoir rather ; perhaps she may yet
wave a damp pocket-handkerchief from the
outward wall as I ride away ; who knows.'

Sorry to say time is up, my dear fellow,'
said Lord Aberfeldie, entering the room

with his hat and driving gloves ; * make
your adieux to the ladies. There is little
doubt that Allan has gone to Loganlee — the
covers are first-rate there. I'll just drive
over and see, dropping you and your traps
at the railway station en passant '

A few minutes more and the pair were
tooling down the avenue in a smart mail
phaeton, drawn by a pair of fine, high-stepping
dark greys. So Lord Aberfeldie drove
'the son of his oldest friend' to the station,
and, as the distance increased between himself
and Dundargue, Holcroft's spirits revived,
as if nothing had happened there at
all ; he actually said,

And you think to find Allan at
Loganlee ?'

I haven't a doubt of it — some gift with
Olive, no doubt.'

Au revoir, Lord Aberfeldie ! and a thousand
thanks for all your kindness to me —

never shall forget it, by Jove ! but I shall
have the pleasure of seeing you all again
in town, of course.'

To this expression of pleasure Lord
Aberfeldie made no response, but shook
Holcroft's hand, whipped up his greys, and
was off, thinking,

I am glad he has gone ; he looks sadly
strange and queer, poor fellow.'

Holcroft was intensely relieved when
the peer had left, and, making straight
for the railway buffet, imbibed glass after
glass of pretty potent Glenlivat, conversing
affably the while with the young damsel
thereat.

Of what are you thinking, sir, that you
stare at me so ?' she asked, with a giggle.

Only that your mother must have been
a sweetly pretty girl !'

The train was late ; thus he had to spend
some time in staring aimlessly at the flaming

advertisements on the station wall
an Anglo-American fashion now spread
to Scotland — advertisements of some one's
cocoa, some one's corsets, some one's whisky,
and so forth; and, after glancing with a contemptuous
malediction at the thick bible
left by the Scottish something society in
the little waiting-room, he smoked a cigar,
had himself weighed, had a brandy and soda,
had some more chaff with the pretty girl
at the buffet, till the night train came snorting
and clanking in, when he took his seat,
spread his rugs, aud was off, as he thought,
to security at last !

Though he was not without reasonable
and selfish dread for the future, as the
night train sped on its swift way, and left
the Carse of Gowrie far behind, he felt no
genuine compunction for the atrocity he
bad committed.

He did not possess a single spark of honour,

gratitude, compunction, or compassion.
By unfair play he had rooked many ; he had
hocussed horses ; and once ruined a poor
lad in the Lancers, on whom he contrived
to cast the suspicion of his own act. The
Lancer was dismissed the service by sentence
of a court-martial, and shot himself next
day; and Hawke Holcroft took his luxurious
luncheon quietly in the same inn where the
inquest was held, at the same time. He
had extorted money in many ways — he had
never precisely robbed ; but never before
had he been in the dark abyss of assassination
and death till now !

The annals of our courts of justice contain
many a terrible tale of guilt ; but, says
a novelist with truth, these would appear
like nothing with the history of undiscovered
and unpunished crime. 'The assassin
who accomplishes his terrible purpose so
craftily as to escape detection is a cool and

calculating fiend, by the side of whose supreme
villainy, the half-premeditated crime
of the ordinary shedder of blood, is dwarfed
into insignificance.'

So on and on sped the swift night train,
and there seemed every probability that
the deed of Holcroft would be one of the
crimes referred to, that are neither discovered
nor punished.

He gave a last look into his pocket-book
to assure himself that the cheque and the
photo of Olive were safe, and then tried to
compose himself to sleep.

Let us hope that the attempt was
vain !

He could not help pondering over the
remark of Allan about how foetid the air
of the oubliette was — that the door had
not been opened for an age, and no one
ever thought of going near it.

CHAPTER lY.

SUSPENSE.

Lord Abeefeldie drove home in some
alarm and dismay. Allan was not at
Loganlee, nor bad be been near it !
When Ruby, the amber-barred little
beauty, beard of bis visit and its object,
sbe was not slow to connect Allan's second
disappearance with some lover's quarrel
between him and Olive, and to gather
certain jealous and pleasant hopes therefrom,
for Allan was decidedly ' a weakness '
of Ruby's.

Uncertainty and suspense were increasing

now in all their minute horror at Dun-argue
; while surmises proved endless,
futile, and unavailing.

He was gone — but where, or how, and
why ■?

Something has happened — something
fatal — to mj son !' wailed Lady Aberfeldie.
Give me back those fatal diamonds, Eve-line.
They are never worn, that sorrow
does not come to Dundargue !'

Take courage, my lady,' said old Tappleton,
the butler ; ' ill news aye travels
fast enough, and if ought was wrong withe
Master, we should hae heard o't ere
now.'

Evan Cameron, now with his regiment,
and the legal agents of the family at
Edinburgh, were alike perplexed on the
receipt of letters from Lord Aberfeldie
inquiring anxiously if they knew anything
of the movements of Allan, and both telegraphed

back that they could give no
information on the subject.

With these telegrams the last hope
passed away, and when the third day of
his disappearance began to close a kind of
horror seemed to settle over the household,
and again a general, and, of course,
unavailing, search was made through the
entire neighbourhood.

On the face of the servants, male and
female, there was never a smile now, as
they all loved Allan well ; it was no assumed
expression they wore ; but they went about
their daily work with a hushed and subdued
air as if there was death in the
house, and they fully felt the weight of
the mystery.

And ever at table stood the vacant
chair, while covers were laid as usual for
the absent one.

An accident must have happened ; but

VOL. II. E

of what nature ? Lord Aberfeldie was
beginning to think grimly, vaguely, and
painfully of the future. If aught fatal had
happened to Allan — his only son — an idea
from which his soul shrunk — his cherished
title and the grand old house of Dunbar
would pass to a remote cousin, one
who, by long residence in England, by
inter marriage there, by training, breeding,
and habit of thought, cared no more for
Scotland and her interests, or for the
traditions of the Grahams of Aberfeldie,
than for those of Timbuctoo.

Such ideas and fears had occurred to
him once before, he could remember, when
Allan's name appeared among the list of
severely wounded in that episode of the
Afghan affair, which won him the Victoria
Cross.

To Lady Aberfeldie, such ideas, if they
occurred at all, were minor indeed to the

memories of Allan as the babe she had
nursed in her bosom, and the curly-haired
boy who had prattled at her knee ; and on
whom, in manhood and his prime, she had
gazed with such maternal pride and admiration
when she saw him with the tartan and
plumed bonnet, in all the bravery of the
Black Watch.

As for poor Olive and Eveline they could
only weep together from time to time in
all the girlish abandonment of woe.

So hour by hour the silent time stole on
at Dundargue.

Till now Olive had never known how
deeply and truly she loved Allan, of the
hold his image had upon her heart ; and
how she had repented the pain her petulance
must have cost him.

Her eyes in the morning light looked
weary, and yet there was an unnatural
sparkle in that weariness ; her rich brown

e2

UltwaWiTY OF ILLINOIS

hair, to the dismay of Mademoiselle Clair-este,
was left almost undressed, and was
pushed back from her throbbing temples ;
her lips, though scarlet still, looked hard,
dry, and cracked, while the whole expression
of her face seemed changed.

What was to be the clue, if ever there
would be one, to this dreadful mystery !

Meanwhile it might be inquired by the
reader whether Mr. Hawke Holcroft was
troubled by his conscience. He certainly
never betrayed any outward signs thereof
though conscience has been described as
making cowards of us all — but he was not
without certain reasonable and wholesome
fears of discovery and connection of the
crime with himself.

He was far away from Dundargue and
all its influences. In fact, it seemed a kind
of dream to him the circumstance of ever

having been there at all ; and as weeks
passed on nothing could exceed his perplexity
and astonishment, though located in an
obscure corner of London to avoid his
creditors and, pro tern., everyone else, to
hear nothing of the affair at Dundargue or
of the Master being missing.

Sedulously he searched the daily prints,
sedulously he watched the sensational portions
of the evening third and fourth editions,
but the matter was never referred to.
No advertisements appeared offering rewards
; no detectives, or the usual machinery
seemed to have been put in motion.
What could it all mean — this silence and
mystery ?

Everything however trivial finds its way
into print now, and the son of a peer — and
an officer in Her Majesty's service, too —
does not vanish every day !

At last he got a shock, when a poster

proclaimed in large capitals ' The mysterious
outrage at Bun — ' but his sight failed him
for a moment, and when again he looked
he perceived that it was not Dundargue,
but ' Dunecht,' that was mentioned with
reference to the affair of a past time.

But in all this we are somewhat anticipating.


CHAPTER V.

THE OUBLIETTE.

In these unromantic, plodding, prosaic
days of railways, telegraphs, and telephones
who would imagine that the fine old family
mansion of Dundargue would be the scene
of a crime — of a tragedy — suited only to
the days of the Sir Malise Graham of the
fourteenth century?

Yet so it was.

Allan was not killed — he was perhaps one
of those fellows who are not easily killed —
but he was severely injured by the fall and
concussion, and it was long before he

began to struggle back into a consciousness
of existence, as he had fallen partly on his
head and left shoulder.

The former had suffered from that circumstance,
and from the dreadful blow
dealt him by Hawke Holcroft ; and he
was not slow in discovering that his left
arm was useless — broken above the elbow.

Thank heaven, it is not my sword arm !'
he whispered, huskily, as he strove to stagger
up ; but only to sink helplessly down
again on the cold stone floor of his prison.

He was too weak — too confused to feel
either just rage or indignation yet. There
was a horrible dream-like sense of utter
unreality in the whole situation in which
he so suddenly found himself, and sometime
elapsed before the whole episode with
Holcroft — his unfortunate offer to show
him this fatal place, the situation and character
of which had suddenly suggested the

crime — their idling in the picture-gallery,
smoking and wandering through corridors,
up and down ancient stairs, with eventually
a sudden recollection of the whole adventure
— surged into his brain, and a gasp
of rage escaped him.

Accursed coward and villain !' muttered
Allan, looking upward ; but all was darkness
there and around him.

The hours stole on. He staggered up,
and at last began to explore the place in
which he found himself — a somewhat needless
act, as he knew it but too well, having
many a time, when a boy, with fear,
awe, and curiosity, lowered down a candle
at the end of a string, and seen it swaying
to and fro far down below till the damp
vapour extinguished the flame.

Yet he felt with his right hand the circular
wall of massive masonry which enclosed
him, carefully again and again, in the desperate

hope of finding some outlet, though
he knew well by the history and traditions
of the place that no such thing could ever
have existed ; but he could not remain still
or withstand the nervous desire for exertion
— to be up and doing something ; till
again he sank on the floor in utter weariness
of heart, albeit that heart was aflame
with rage.

He uttered shouts for help from time to
time, till his voice became hoarse and began
to fail him, and his spirit too, as he knew
the enormous thickness of the old walls
around him ; and tears of rage almost
escaped him as he pondered over the cold
and calculating villainy, of which he was
now so mysteriously the helpless victim.

He had no doubt that the hours of the
night were now stealing on, and that long
ere this his absence must have been discovered,
and speculation would be rife. He

had bis watch, but he was in utter and blackest
darkness, and his box of cigar lights
having dropped from his pocket he had no
means of consulting the dial.

He could but lie there in great pain and
passive misery — a misery that seemed so
unnatural that it was like a nightmare, an
unreality, that must pass away as suddenly
as it had come upon him.

How terrible and indescribable, however,
grew his aching thoughts as the weary
time went on !

He might die of cold, of hunger, of agony
die within a few yards of his own hearthstone
— die thus under his father's roof, and
close by where at that very moment the
whole family were a prey to bewilderment
and distress by his sudden disappearance !

Oh, it was all too maddening to think of.
So there he could but lie, buried, immured,
entombed in darkness ; chill as death, nota

breath of pure air in his nostrils ; not the
faintest glimmer of light, and no human
sound in his ears. As the hours crept on
he could scarcely distinguish waking from
sleeping, a dream from reality ; and at times
all seemed to become chaos, and he could
think of nothing unless it were a buzzing
in his head and the acute agony of his
broken arm.

Anon he would utter a feeble shout for
help,' but his own voice seemed to return
to him; beyond the walls that enclosed him
it would not go. He knew that there are
situations in life incident to misery and painful
excitement, when the human machinery
by the rapidity of mental action is worn
out sooner than its alloted time, and he
began to consider how long it was possible
to exist without food or water.

Wearily, agonisingly the hours dragged
on.

By this time be was certain that night
had passed and day had come again ; and
what must the thoughts of his people be ?
Inquiries and searches would be made he
knew, but who would ever dream of
searching for him where he was then.

He had not yet begun to suffer from
hunger, but he had a considerable thirst,
and hunger would come too.

He thought of all he had read of the
endurance of men on rafts and in open
boats at sea ; of entombed miners buried
deep in the bowels of the earth, and his
hair seemed to bristle up at the recollections.
Hunger, thirst, and an unknown
death — or death at such craven hands.

Oh, God,' he moaned, ' will aid never —
never come ?'

In that gruesome place and time there
occurred to him — ghastly memory ! —
thoughts of the unknown and forgotten

dead whose matted bones had been found
in it by antiquarian explorers, as he had
mentioned to Holcroft — the remains of
unfortunate creatures fluno^ in there by his
forefathers.

Could it be that this unlooked-for fate
of his was to be a species of expiation for
them ? And was he to die now by this
death, when life had become to him so much
dearer than ever ?

If his disappearance remained utterly
unaccounted for, and his death became
■ — as of course it would be — a thing of the
past, and forgotten even by those to whom
he was dear, might not Hawke Holcroft
regain such influence as he had ever
possessed over Olive and make her his own?
She would be free then ; there would be no
obstacle, and no other rendering of the
will necessary, now that he was removed.

Never ao^ain to see her face or the faces

of those be loved and who loved him so ;
to die a rat's death, within arm's length of
them almost ! Could his ancestor have
foreseen, when he formed this infernal trap,
that one of his own race was to perish
therein, and thus !

After a time, amid all this tangle of
terrible thoughts, he began to forget where
he was ; his senses partly left him ; he
believed himself to be with the regiment —
the Black Watch, with their dark tartans
and historic crimson plumes ; he heard the
crash of the drums, the braying of the
pipes, and saw many familiar faces around
him, those of Cameron and Carslogie
among others. Now the regiment was
going into action ; he saw the line forming,
the eyes of the men lighting grimly up as
they loaded, and the sunshine flashed upon
the ridges of levelled steel. The dream
seemed a palpable one, and, with a shout

louder than lie thought he could utter, he
called upon them to follow him in the
charge !

His own cry awoke or roused him; the
glorious vision of the charging line melted
into opaque darkness, and now Allan found
himself weaker than ever. He thought all
was nearly over with him now. He turned
his thoughts to prayer, ere it might be too
late, and from pondering on release and
vengeance and the things of this life, he
began to think, as his powers ebbed, of the
life to come.

He felt that he must resign himself to
the inevitable, and to die — to die thereafter
all, and at last he became totally
insensible.

CHAPTER YL

Chap MILLE Moloch !

The shout uttered by Allan in his delirium
had not been uttered in vain.

It chanced that Mr. Tappleton, the
silver-haired old butler, who had been
custodier of the wine inns and the massive
old plate in its iron-bound chest, since
the present Lord Aberfeldie was a baby in
long clothes had entered his dusty and
cobwebbed repositories, and was seeking
through their stone shelves for some fine
old crusted port of a peculiar vintage,
kept alone for the use of his master and

A'-QL. II. . F

himself, when the cry of Allan and some
other strange sounds reached his ears, as he
thought, and seriously startled him.

We say he thought, for the recess of his
wine inns was an unlikely place to hear
any other sound than that made by a scared
rat.

It was now the dead, dull silence of
midnight, when the sounds that are unknown
amid the buzz of mid-day life are
heard, and seem so oddly, so preternaturally
loud and strange — a crack in a door
panel or wainscot, the tap of a moth against
the window-panes, distant noises that come
we know not how or from what on the still
damp air.

In a country house at night there is
usually a solemn stillness that is painful
and oppressive to the wakeful ; and it was
amidst this silence, the cry — for a human
cry it was — reached the butler's startled ear.

But whence had it come ? Out of the
stone wall, or from the ground beneath, or
from the throat of a raven in one of the
great chimneys of the old house ?

'Impossible!' thought Tappleton ; 'it
was the voice of a man — or a ghost

At the latter idea he closed the wine-inn
door, and retired with precipitation to
his cosy room, and thought the matter
over as he stirred and sipped his hot
whisky toddy, but feeling ever and anon
that wild throbbing of the heart, and ' that
electric chill and rising of the hair which
accompanies supernatural panic'

The old man had a most uncomfortable
feeling about the voice he had heard, and
its strangely muffled sound seemed to come
in fancy to his ear again and again ; and
now he, not unnaturally, began to associate
it with the mysterious disappearance of
Allan, the Master.

f2

With earliest dawn he betook himself to
his wine cellar again, and felt that he was
a bolder man in daylight than in the gloom
of midnight ; but ' most men are,' says
Charles Dickens ; yet when an unmistakable
moan or two reached his ears, his fear
of the supernatural so nearly gained the
ascendancy that he was about to take to
flight again.

However he paused, while his old heart
beat painfully, and began to think of what
adjoined his cellars, and at once there
flashed upon his memory the locality of the
horrible old vault ; for the butler knew all
the ' outs and ins ' of Dundargue as well as
if he had built it.

In the course of modern alterations
and repairs a portion of the originally
enormous wall of the vault had been thinned
and cut away. There were crannies
in the masonry, and it was through these

the voice of the imprisoned had reached
the butler during his casual visit to his
cellar.

Some one is there. Good Heavens ! if
it should be the Master — the Master after
a' !' exclaimed Tappleton ; and, quick as his
old leo's could carry him, he rushed upstairs,
through the picture-gallery, along
the arched corridor, and reached at last
the oak trap-door; but when he saw it,
with its great iron hasp over the rusted
staple, hope died away, and his soul sank
within him.

Loth to linger in a place where, as we
have stated, superstition believed that
those who did so, had a creeping sense of
having near them shadowy forms and intangible
presences, he was on the point of
turning away, when, controlling his silly
fears, he thought he might as well pursue
this investigations further.

He raised the trap-door, and almost immediately
a voice ascended to his ear from
the darkness below. He peered down, but
could see nothing.

Wha is there — wha spoke ?' asked the
butler.

I— I, the Master,' replied the weak
voice of Allan Graham.

You, sir — heaven be gude tae us ! You
sir ! hoo in God's name cam' ye to be toon
there?' cried Tappleton, in mingled joy,
horror, and great perplexity.

'Summon help — there's a good old
fellow ; get me out, and then you will know
all — quick, Tappleton, or — or I shall not
last much longer,' replied Allan, faintly,
and at intervals, in a voice so low that his
last words seemed to die away, while Tappleton
rushed off as fast as his years would
permit, to seek Lord Aberfeldie and alarm
the whole household, which he did very

effectually by a sudden and furious application
to the great house-bell, causing a
very general idea of fire, and bringing all
from their rooms in various kinds of
deshabille at that early hour of the morning.
The Master's found — the Master s
found!' he kept shouting on every hand.

Where — where ?' asked twenty voices.

Ay, ye may weel ask whm\ was the
tantalizing response.

In the breast of Lord Aberfeldie and all
his household incredulity at first, and then
profound astonishment, reigned for a time
on the butler making himself understood,
and all hastened to the scene of his
discovery.

The Master — the Master down tliere^
muttered the servants, looking inquiringly
in each other's faces. ^ How came such a
thing to pass ?'

They jostled and impeded each other;

but Lord Aberfeldie's authority and soldierlike
promptitude soon defined a line
of action.

Lights — lights and ropes ; look alive,
men !' he exclaimed.

These requisites were soon brought.

Lower away — take courage — we'll soon
have you out,' exclaimed his father. ' Tie
the ropes tightly round you.'

Allan, in a faint voice, made them aware
that this was impossible, as his left arm
was broken, tidings which added commiseration
and grief to the blank amazement
of Olive, Eveline, and his mother.

Who will o^o down ?' asked Lord ,
looking around him.

^ I and I— and I !'

Every man in the house was ready to
descend, but Angus Glas, the active young
deerstalker, slid down the rope with a
lanthorn in his hand, followed by the

prayer of Olive, who would not be kept
back, her eyes wild, her now pale lips apart,
her sweet face blanched, and a strange stiffness
in all her usually lithe limbs.

Pale as death, his face plastered with
dried blood — blood that had flowed from a
contusion in his head — livid and helpless,
his left arm hanging limp as an empty
sleeve by his side, his eyes half closed, as
if unable to endure the glare of the day
after being so long in the dark, Allan was
brought up, and, on beholding him, the
exclamations of commiseration and astonishment
redoubled; and yet it could be
seen that he was almost past questioning,
and mounted grooms were instantly despatched
to summon all the medical aid of
the district.

Had the butler's nocturnal visit to his
inns been twenty-four hours later, Allan
Graham must have perished, and his fate

might never have been known in his own
generation perhaps.

The whole catastrophe seemed so strange,
unintelligible, unnatural, and harrowing
that the nerves of Lady Aberfeldie were
terribly shaken by it ; so were those of her
daughter and Olive, and each needed all
the comfort and support the other could
give.

Some wine, which he drank thirstily,
first revived the patient after he was conveyed
to his room.

How in the name of heaven, Allan,
came you to fall into that place ?' asked his
father.

I did not fall in,' replied Allan, in a
species of husky whisper.

How then ?'

Holcroft !' was all Allan could utter,
when the room seemed to swim round him
and he became insensible.

Lord Aberfeldie knew not precisely
what to make of the reply, but suspicion
gave him a certain clue to what he thought
had happened, and the same idea seemed
to occur to young Angus, the gillie, who
was assisting to undress his master and
put him to bed, for his eyes gleamed under
their shaggy brows, aod he could only
mutter from time to time,

Head milk malachi P

A malediction in which Lord Aberfeldie
heartily concurred.

When ultimately the Peer learned all
that had transpired, the incident of the
cheque he had so innocently and generously
given Holcrof t was completely forgotten.
He felt only rage, mingled with utter
stupefaction, that a man could act so basely
as his recent guest had done. It was
altogether out of his calculation and experience
of human life in every way.

But what is to be done now — to search
out and punish this malignant scoundrel?'
he exclaimed ; while Lady Aberfeldie, all
her motherly feelings outraged, was for
raising fire and sword, and letting loose
all the terrors of the law on Holcroft's
head.

Lord Aberfeldie, however, after a time
thought differently. He had a horror of
publicity, of newspaper gossip and scandals,
of making bis honoured and ancestral
home and the affairs of his family a point
clapped, as he said, for such things — a
world's wonder, even for a time ; and thus
he declined to. attempt to punish Holcroft
for an outrage none had seen him commit.

He would leave that to the course of
events, and to Time, the avenger.

More than all, the name of Olive Raymond
might crop up in the unseemly
matter.

His father was a brave, good fellow,
and my dearest friend !' said Lord Aberfel-
die sadly ; ' how comes his son to be such
an utter villain ? He has drawn his evil
tendencies from some past generation ; it is
said that such a kind of poison is at times
transmitted in the blood, and that no human
being can truly value the resistance of sin
or folly.'

But Lady Aberfeldie was stormy, and
declined to be pacified.

We have the future to think of,' said
her husband again ; ' evil tongues to guard
against for the sake of Olive, our whole
family, and my old comrade the General,
who is now in his save — the father of that
foul ingrate.'

Thus it was that no mention of the
affair was made by the daily prints, to the
surprise, certainly, and perhaps the relief, of
Holcroft's mind.

Say no more on this subject, Eveline/
said Lord Aberfeldie, as lie sought to soothe
his wife. ' Gladly would I forget that we
had ever sheltered at Dundargue a guest
so degrading in character ; gladly would I
forget as soon as possible — if it be possible
the hours of intense suffering we have
undergone, more than all that Allan must
have undergone in that horrible place, and
yet under his own roof !'

Many a silent and reproachful tear Olive
shed in secret, as she knew, in the recent
past time, how much her pride, petulance,
and suspicion had done to further jealousy
and resentment in the mind of Holcroft
against her cousin; and she felt that too
probably she had caused all this.

But Holcroft was a bankrupt and a black-leg
now, and never more, at London
or anywhere else, she thought, could he
cross hei' path again. Till now she never

believed that the world could contain a
man so utterly unprincipled, so thoroughly
base !

The household servants supposed that
the Master had fallen into that gruesome
vault by accident, and they were allowed
to adopt the idea.

But who closed the trap and dropped
the hasp over the staple ?' thought old
Tappleton ; yet eventually he allowed himself
to be talked into the idea that he had
made a mistake in that matter.

Allan lay long ill and delirious after all he
had undergone ; but when it was announced
that he was past danger, great was
the rejoicing of all the servants and the
household at Dundargue, for all loved the
Master well, and were faithfully attached
to the family by ties of residence and
clanship, even in this Victorian age. ' The
devoted loyalty of the clansmen to their

chiefs existed undiminished for generations
after the system of clan government was
abolished in 1746,' said the Standard newspaper
recently ; ' and it would be wholly
erroneous to contend, even now, that the
peculiar affection between the people and
their chief, altogether different in nature
and degree from any relationship known
in a Saxon community, has died away

But the family of Aberfeldie had riot
seen the last of Mr. Hawke Holcroft.

CHAPTER VII.

LOVERS.

The early days of the spring subsequent to
the events we have narrated, found the
Aberfeldie family located at Maviswood, a
handsome modern villa to the west of
Edinburgh, whither they had removed from
Dundargue, that Allan, on whom a kind of
protracted illness had fallen, might avail
himself of the great medical skill which is
always to be found in the Scottish Metropolis.


By what means Allan was discovered
and got out of the vault into which he had

VOL. II. G

been flun, and, as Hawke Holcroft hoped,
was entombed for ever, the latter never
knew, from the plan adopted by the family,
but the public prints had informed him
more than once, that ' the Master of 
had met with an accident — a fall —
from the effects of which he was slowly
recovering ; wounds received when on service
with the Black Watch retarding his
progress to health.'

Evan Cameron, Oarslogie, and others of
the regiment, then in the Castle of Edinburgh,
heard of Allan's affair or illness ina
vague way, as Lord Aberfeldie shrunk
from all gossip, publicity and surmise ;
and the first-named learned that Eveline's
marriage had been delayed in consequence
of that illness, chiefly through a letter
written to him by Olive, at Allan's request.


So the early days of spring were passing

OD, and no particular change had taken
place in the relative positions of our characters
since we last saw them at Dun-argue.


Eveline was alone one afternoon in a
room at Maviswood — a room of vast proportions.
The ceiling was divided into
deep panels of oak colour ; a dado of dead
gold tint was carried round the walls to
within eight feet of the cornice, and the
chairs and ottomans were upholstered in
blue maroquin leather, studded with
elaborate gilt nails. The hangings were
blue, with yellow borders, lining and
tassels ; great china bowls, full of conservatory
flowers, stood on ornate tables and
pedestals, within the recess of a great
triple bay window, beyond which spread
away southward the lovely landscape that
is bounded by the Pentland.

Spring is a lovely and joyous season

g2

everywhere, but nowhere is it lovelier than
in the fertile Lothians ; and nowhere may
the eye rest upon a more varied and beautiful
landscape than that which spreads
from the southern slope of Corstorphine's
wooded crags to the base of the green
and undulating Pentlandss, the highest
summits of which range from sixteen hundred
to nearly nineteen hundred feet.

There are corn-fields teeming with fertility,
rows of stately trees, pretty cottages,
stately white manor houses, and cosy
farms embosomed among old woods and
orchards ; the picturesque rocks of wooded
Craiglockhart, wherein the kites and kestrels
build their nests ; the rich alluvial
land, where for ages a great loch once
spread its waters; the quaint old village
church, on the spire of which the red sunset
loves to linger ; and westward the
Queen of the North, in all the glory of

castle rock, and hill and crag, spire,
tower, and countless terraces ; and on all
of these the wistful eyes of Eveline Grahame
were wandering dreamily.

A golden glory was cast along the eastern
slopes, the fleecy clouds were every
moment assuming new forms and lovelier
colours ; the woods were budding forth ;
the Leith and its tiny tributaries were
brawling along as if their waters had no
time to toy with the brown pebbles.
Seated, at times, sideways on their horses,
the happy ploughboys were already going
home from their labours. The early-leaned
lambs were frisking about the ewes,
and cloud and sunshine seemed to chase
each other over the tender grass, where
the wild white gowan was opening its
petals, and old folks were remembering
that ' a peck o' March dust was worth the
ransom o' a 

late, Eveline's bursts of girlish merriment
had been few and far between. She
was fretful — unusually so for a girl who
by nature was so sweet and gentle, and at
the mere mention oE the name of Sir Paget
to whom she felt herself doomed, as it
were, or allotted — she became more fretful,
silent, and abstracted.

She shrank from smiling people, turned
her back upon inquisitive ones, and often
was found to answer briefly and beside the
point.

In short, the pretty Eveline's heart or
mind was quite unhinged.

The tenth day of her residence at Mavis-wood
was creeping slowly on, and she was
pondering, full of thought, alone in that
stately room, when a servant startled herby
announcing and ushering in ' Mr. Evan
Cameron,' and, though her mind was full
of him — of the evening of the carpet-dance

at Dundargue, and the hour of joy iu the
half-lit corridor, a kind of gasp escaped her
as she rose from her seat to receive him.

But why should he not call, reason suggested
to her.

The Grahams had been for ten days, we
have said, at Maviswood ; and Cameron,
who had been counting every hour of those
ten days, and watching the villa with his
field-glass from his quarters in the distant
castle, had now ventured to make an
afternoon walk, and found, beyond his
hopes, that Eveline was alone.

Allan and Olive were out together in a
pony-phaeton ; Lord and Lady Aberfeldie
were he cared not where ; anyway, they
were absent too.

Olive, feeling that she was in some way
responsible, by her past thoughtlessness,
petulance, and flirting with the daring and
unworthy Holcroft, for much that had

befallen Allan, now ' waited on him hand
and foot as the old nurse Nannie phrased
it. She was with him from hour to hour,
and, though their marriage was delayed,
how happy they seemed to be !

Fearing interruption as before, Cameron,
too tender and true not to be a timid lover,
found a difficulty just then in taking up
the thread of the old story, and they stood
in the bay-window talking commonplaces,
while heart was speaking to heart and eye
to eye. But ' what is speaking or hearing
when heart wells into heart T

Cameron heard all she chose then to tell
him about Allan's 'accident,' the bewilderment
and alarm of the family, and so
forth. Many friends were spoken of, but Sir
Paget was of course referred to by neither.

Eveline, though so young, had the frank
and perfect air of repose in her manner
that came of gentle breeding, and made

her seem older than she was, but gave an
assurance that whatever she said, or whatever
she did, was said and done in the
right way. Without coquetry, her manner
was full of simple fascination ; but it was
undeniably nervous now, for she read by
Cameron's softened voice, and in his
brightening eye, the clear necessity for
something else than common-place talk,
when he discovered by a casual remark that
Lord and Lady Aberfeldie were not in the
house.

Eveline felt that she had given herself
to Evan, and that the tenor of their interview
in the corridor amounted tacitly to
an engagement.

An engagement ! But to what end ?
It all seemed but a dream, a delicious
dream, of which there was nothing to remind
her, not even a ring, a lock of hair,
or the tiniest note.

Unlike Cameron, Eveline, while loving*
him dearly, had, singular to say, no
thought of marriage with him in the ordinary
sense of the word ; for, hemmed
round as she was, and destined as she was,
the idea was a hopeless one, judged from
her parents' point of view. She only felt,
poor girl, that she loved, and was full of
sad joy — if we may use the paradox —
in the belief that she was truly loved in
return.

How silent you have become,' she said
in a low tone, after a nervous pause.

I know not what to say ; but love has
no need of words, Eveline, nor needs he
many at au}^ time,' he replied, drawing
closer to her. Then he took a conservatory
rose from a vase and exclaimed,
Eveline darling, you love me well and
truly, don't you?'

Well and truly, you know, dear Evan

she replied, as his arm went round her,
and her head dropped on his shoulder.
What need to ask me ?' she whispered, ina
breathless voice.

Because I cannot hear the beloved assurance
too often.' He kissed her tenderly,
we cannot say how many times, nor
would it matter, while she lay passive in
his arms, and then he said, ' Shall we try
our fate with this rose ?'

*How?'

By plucking it, leaf by leaf, saying each
time " Lucky, Unlucky'' till the last leaf
comes.'

Something a la Marguerite,'

'Yes:

No, decidedly no, dearest Evan.'

You are superstitious. Well, so am I.'

Thus an omen would only torment
us, and surely we have enough —
enough ' Tears choked her voice

and she could only add, ^ Trust, dearest
Evan, trust.'

In what, my darling r'

^ The great goodness of God.'

The spell of a great love was on
both. Their lips met in a long and silent
kiss, and the rose fell at their feet between
them.

A sound roused them — nay, startled
them. They had only time to separate
and affect a sudden interest in the artistic
effects produced by light and shadow on the
landscape, when Lord and Lady Aberfeldie
Entered the room together, a pretty palpable
cloud of annoyance resting on the
brows of both as they politely, but far
from warmly, greeted the visitor.

The peer, who had evidently been outriding,
appeared in a black morning coat
and white cords, whip in hand, and the
lady, who had been in the grounds, wore

her garden hat and shawl. She had seen
a visitor ride up to the door from a distant
part of the lawn, and had hurried home,
her heart foreboding truly ivho that visitor
was.

And now, while their hearts were vibrating
with tenderness, and with their lips
yet tremulously sensible of the sweetness
of kisses — the first kisses of a new and
early love — they had to talk enforced commonplace
— or, at least, Evan did so, while
Eveline remained silent — of the news of
the day, the expected plans of the ministry,
the probable despatch of a fleet to Egyptian
waters, of the chances of an army following
it, of Arabi Pasha and the Khedive,
the plot formed by the Circassian officers,
and so forth, till it was time for the lingering
Cameron to resume his hat and
depart at last.

Cameron tried to ignore that which,.

inter other and more prosperous circumstances
would have galled and roused his
haughty Highland spirit — Lord Aberfel-
die's coldness of manner when he spoke
even of the regiment, and how certainly it
would go to the East, ' as the Black Watch,
thank God, was always in everything, and
always with honour,' while Evan's eyes
irresistibly wandered to the face of Eveline,
and memory went back to the twilight
corridor at Dundargue.

But so did the memory of my Lord .


The peer must have undergone a good
deal of training or " drilling " lately at the
hands of Lady Aberfeldie before he could
have brought himself to behave so coldly
to one he really liked so well as young
Stratherroch, and one of the Black "Watch
especially ; but then, perhaps, he was justa
little soured by the sequel to the hospitality

and kindness accorded to " the son of
bis old friend," wHch son bad contrived
by skilful lettering and figuring to add the
sum of eighty pounds to bis cheque.

As be bade them adieu Stratberrocb observed
that Lord Aberfeldie did not ask
bim to call again at Maviswood, and keenly
did be feel the omission and all it implied,
and with it came the conviction that he
must call no more !

Slowly be rode back to bis quarters full
of alternately exultant and bitter thoughts
exultant that Eveline loved bim and
would never cease to love bim, but bitter
ones as be asked himself, to what end !

If poor Cameron had vague and lingering
hopes to which he clung (and doubtless
he had) — hopes when seeing Eveline, of
proposing or hinting of meeting elsewhere
in the future — they were doomed to blight,
for no such bore fruition; and they had

BOW parted, and her father and mother
thought they should part, as mere friends,
who might meet casually in society, but at
all events had better not meet again.

And Cameron feared that, so far as monetary
matters stood with him, his friend
Allan might endorse the same view of the
situation.

Stratherroch is a gentleman by birth
and position, but poor, miserably poor,'
said Lady Aberfeldie, after he had gone ;,
so was that precious Mr. Holcroft, and
when a declension takes place in tone,
manner, and habits, as in his instance, we
never know where it may end,' she added
pointedly to Eveline.

How can you speak of the two men in
the same sentence !' exclaimed the peer,
with an asperity for which his daughter
thanked him in her aching heart.

At any time when Eveline looked southeastward

from Maviswood she could see tho
Castle of Edinburgh, and the towering
mass of the western barrack, with all its
windows shining in the sun, and she always
did so with tenderest interest, as she knew
that lie was there ; but, natheless, her experience
of at least one London season,
there was much of the guileless child and
mere girl in Eveline still, and she was
so sweet and soft, so pliable, and so impressed
with her mother's will and her
father's authority, that — that how could
Evan Cameron tell what pressure might
be brought to bear upon her, to make her
seem to transfer the allegiance of her heart
to another — even to the wealthy old
English baronet. Sir Paget Puddicombe ?

Alas ! there was to be, in time, a pressure
that none could then foresee.

VOL. ir.

CHAPTER VIII.

AT MAVISWOOD.

The reports which Mr. Hawke Holcroft
spinning out his precarious existence by
skill with the billiard cue, cards, and the
betting ring — heard concerning the health
of his intended victim, one whom he still
absurdly and grotesquely deemed his successful
rival, were undoubtedly true.

With all his natural strength, Allan
Graham recovered but slowly from all he
had undergone, and the many hours he had
lingered in that vault with his fractured
limb unset, together with the effect of certain
sabre wounds received when he served

in India, retarded his progress to restoration
; but amid his protracted convalescence
how sweet it was, as the pleasant days of
sunny spring stole on at Maviswood, to have
the society, the hourly care and attendance
of Olive, in whom he was always, he thought,
discovering some new charm of mind or
grace of manner, with much soft tenderness
of heart and hand.

Thus, twice — once in India and again
at home — rescued, as it were, from the
verge of death, he had learned the sweetness
of life, and that, whatever its sufferings
and sorrows may be, what a priceless
gift it is — a reflection that never occurred
to him when o-oins^ under fire, or leading:
a line of Highlanders in their headlong
charge.

Lady Aberfeldie was content and happy;
Evan Cameron seemed now a banished
man ; even Allan never spoke of him, and

h2

the progress of matters between the cousins
proved all she could desire.

Nothing could be more fortunate, dearest
Olive, than the attachment which now
subsists between you and Allan ; it fulfils
all your father's fondest wishes,' said she,
as she met them one day in the garden,
slowly promenading between the flowerbeds,
Allan leaning, or affecting to do soon
the soft, round arm of Olive.

'Yes, mother dear — I agree with you,
and also with Peter Simple,' replied Allan,
smiling.

In what ?'

That the life of a man seems to consist
of getting into scrapes, and then getting
out of them again.'

And you forget now that I ever teased
and tormented you so, my poor Allan,'
said Olive, patting his rather pale cheek
with her pinky palm.

Of course I do, darling. I am not
much of a philosopher, but Balzac is right
in his view of human life — that it would
be intolerable without a vast amount of
forgetting

'• And forgiving, too, he might have
added,' said Olive, as she tendered her lips
playfully and poutingly for a kiss, which
he was not slow in according.

Poor Eveline, as she watched this happy
pair daily under her eyes, sighed with
natural and irrepressible envy ; she thought
of her own love for Evan Cameron — secret,
ignored, and so liable to excite maternal
scorn and bitterness, with paternal reprehension,
when it came on the pains ; while
even Allan, at all times so loving and so
brotherly, amid the great selfishness or
absorption of his own passion, seemed, as
she thought, to have withdrawn his sympathy
from her now.

One circumstance she deemed most
fortunate — Parliament was sitting, and Sir
Paofet Puddicombe was in London.

It would seem, then, that between the
botheration of Ireland and the interests
of Egypt the affairs of Slough-cum-Sloggit
monetary, municipal, and commercial —
were as likely to be forgotten and ignored
as if that quiet borough had actually been
an integral part of Scotland — a state of
matters not to be tolerated. So Sir Paget
was in his place at Westminster, jerking
his head and puffing out his chest more
than ever, and Eveline was freed for a
time from his presence, and the would-be
lover-like regard of his suspicious and
keenly-critical old eyes.

And she knew not that almost daily, the
moment that he was free from duty or
parade was over, Evan, drawn by an irrepressible
craving and desire to be near her

to see the roof under which she dwelt,
the windows through which she might
be looking, the trees under which she
might be walking, was always hovering iu
the vicinity of Mavis wood; while, by a
strange fatality, she, filled by a similar
desire, might be riding with her father, or
driving with her mother, through stately
George Street, along the magnificent terrace
of Princes Street, and other great
thoroughfares, looking eagerly, but in
vain, for a chance glimpse of him, and
perhaps a bow — a mere bow, and nothing
more.

Circumstanced as they were, what more
could she look for ?

Twice only, and at long intervals, did
she see Evan, and on each occasion how
wildly did her loving heart beat as she
detected his well-known figure ; but he saw
not her, as she rode slowly on by her

father's side, who, if he saw Evan on the
first occasion, steadily ignored the fact,
and stared up at the Castle ramparts, where
the sentinels of the Black Watch trod
slowly to and fro.

Certainly Evan did not see her. He
was on the garden side of Princes Street
the wooded walk which somewhat resembles
a continental boulevard — in close conversation
with a young lady, who seemed
to listen to all he was saying with great
empressement.

The second time she saw him was after
an interval of some days, in the same place,
at the same hour, and with the same fair
companion, to whom her father — thinking,
no doubt, to utilise the circumstance — drew
her attention somewhat pointedly.

Cameron again f said he ; ' our friend
seems to find other attractions in the
gardens than trees or spring flowers.'

Eveline's heart beat painfully, and the
second episode gave her occasion for much
and rather harassing thought. Her father,
by this remark, showed that he had observed
Evan before ; but who was the latter's
companion ?

Eveline blushed violently up to where
the brim of her smart riding-hat pressed
her bright brown hair upon her brow, and
down to where a stiff and snow-white
linen collar encircled her slender white
neck ; then she grew very pale with constrained
emotion, which, fortunately, her
father did not detect.

She did not speak, but pretended to
smile, with an effort of self-mastery, while
a lump seemed to rise in her slender
throat ; for though the circumstance of
Evan, who was debarred from coming to
see her, being seen there again with the
same young lady might be a casualty, a

trivial coincidence, and quite explainable,
her pride was piqued and her affection
wounded.

Still more were they piqued and wounded
when, some days after, as she was
seated in the carriage at the door of a
shop in which Lady Aberfeldie was giving
some orders, she saw this girl loitering in
the same spot, looking anxiously around
her, as if waiting for some one who did not
come, and whom Eveline's heart foreboded
could only be Evan Cameron !

She snatched from the carriage-basket
or reticule a lorgnette, through which sho
could see that the girl was more than
pretty, very pale, and though plainly yet
fashionably dressed, with an undoubtedly
ladylike air and bearing.

Tf he was Evan she waited for, he did not
keep his appointment, for, after a time, the

stranger turned sadly, lingeringly away,
and disappeared.

A dancing-man, a popular young fellow
like Evan Cameron, in one of the most
popular of Scottish regiments, could not
fail to have many lady friends in Edinburgh
; but to have been seen twice in the
same place, with the same girl, at the same
time, and apparently expected there a
third time, was a little peculiar, and apt
to cause Eveline to speculate upon it
unpleasantly.

Was this companionship a matter of
daily occurrence ? Or was he, amid the
enforced separation from herself, beginning
to replace her image by another already
— already ?

The tenderness of their last meeting, in
the bay-window at Maviswood, seemed to
preclude this cruel idea, and to the hope

that tenderness inspired, lie clung most
lovingly ; thus, as yet, she did not speak
of the matter to her cousin Olive, who —
full of her own love-affair and her newfound
happiness — might not have sympathised
with her as once she would have
done ; and, to add to her trouble, in a
little time she would have her old admirer
beside her again, as the member for
Slough-cum-Sloggit was making arrangements
to pair off with another, and would
soon be able to leave London.

However, some happiness was in store
for her still.

Cameron, to do him justice, spent too
much of his spare time in hovering about
the vicinity of Maviswood not to be rewarded.
Thus, one clear, bright afternoon,
in a lovely and lonely green lane, where
the holly hedges grew close and darkly,
where the wood violets spread their velvet

leaves on the sunny banks, and where the
mavis and merle sang, they suddenly met
each other, as he came walking slowly
along on foot, leading his horse by the
bridle, which was flung over his arm.

His heart was so full of her that, when
he met her suddenly face to face thus, he
scarcely evinced surprise, while tremulously
she put both her hands . into
his.

evan!'

*My darling — at last — at last !'

No eye was upon them there as his
arms went round her, and in the great joy
of seeing him, of meeting him thus, the two
occasions on which she had seen him with
another, promenading slowly under the
trees in Princes Street, were forgotten
and committed to oblivion ; though erelong
they were to be roughly brought to
her memory.

Oh, Evan — such long looked-for — such
unexpected joy !' she exclaimed, as hand
in hand they gazed into each other's
eyes.

Joy indeed, my own one. I had begun
to fear we might never meet again ; and I
shall not leave you now but with the
assurance that we shall meet as often as

we can till — till '

'When, Evan?'

The regiment marches — marches for
the East, as it is sure to do before long.
Eveline, you must be out in the garden, in
the grounds often ; can I not meet you
there or here again ?'

She shook her head sadly, and looked at
him lovingly and imploringly.

^ The meetings in secret — without permission
— would be wrong, Evan,' said
she.

Permission — who will give it ? Whom

what have we to consult but our own
hearts ?' he continued, passionately. ' We
may have but little time — less than we
reckon on now — for the interchange of love
and joy, my dear one ; and meet me you
shall — you must,' he added, as he folded
her to his breast and covered her sweet
passive face with kisses, while something
of hostility and defiance at her whole
family and at Sir Paget welled up in his
heart. 'You will meet me again?' he
urged.

'Yes,' she replied, in a scarcely audible
whisper.

It could be no sin, no crime — if an error
to meet one who loved her so well as
Evan did, and whom she loved so dearly
too. It could not harm her elderly adorer,
from whose image just then she shrank
with intense loathing ; and, if it was a
wrong against her parents, surely they

were in error to coerce her, she thought.

On the other hand, the temptation was
great; the joy of meeting Evan would end
sadly and bitterly when, as he said, the
regiment departed, and after that they
might never see each other more !

Stolen waters are sweet, and bread
eaten in secret is pleasant,' say the Scriptures
; and not less sweet and pleasant were
the interviews that might be stolen thus
in a green and lonely lane.

God help me and direct me I' thought
the girl, as she nestled her face in Cameron's
neck, and, yielding to the natural
impulses of her own heart, promised to
meet him ao^ain and ao^ain, when time and
opportunity served ; and they did so in the
lane between the holly hedges, by the
rural woodland road that deep between
the hills, leads to Ravelston Quarry and
haunted Craigcrook ; and at times near

the old church, where the buried Foresters
lie under their altar tombs with shield on
arm and sword at side; and as the days
went on each meeting — as it seemed to
take place without suspicion or discovery —
served to cement their hearts together
more and more.

But once, when Evan was riding borne
in the dusk in the vicinity of Maviswood,
he passed a wayfarer afoot, in whose face
he thought be recognised — nay, was certain
be saw — the features of Holcroft.

Holcroft !' thought Evan ; * a man to
guard against, by Jove. What can he be
about in this neighbourhood — what but
mischief T

He wheeled his horse round, bub the
man he had seen, had stepped over a stile
and disappeared.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER IX.

ALICE !'

My Lady Aberfeldie was all unconscious
of the little romance that had been going
on for some weeks past in the green lanes
and wooded paths near Maviswood ; while
Eveline seemed now but to live for the
purpose of meeting Evan Cameron, and
her loving heart and busy little head were
full of cunning schemes and contrivances
to escape detection and achieve their meetings,
which now seemed to make the whole
sense of her existence ; and when not with
Evan, or if they failed (which was seldom)

to see each other, even for a few minutes,
her manner became abstracted and triste.

But a rude awakening from her joyous
dreams was at hand, and certain past
events that seemed trivial in themselves
were doomed to be recalled to her with a
new and terrible significance !

They had one more than usually tender
meeting and tender parting, because Sir
Paget Puddicombe — the here noir, the
bugbear of both — was certainly coming
to Maviswood, and Eveline was weeping
bitterly.

Take courage — take courage, my darling,'
said Evan, as he kissed the tears
from her eyes and strained her to his
breast before he leaped on his horse ; ' for
my sake and your own have strength to
resist, and all may yet be well — for my
sake and your own, dearest Alice,' he added,
with quivering lips, and was gone.

i2

Alice r

Another's name uttered by his lips involuntarily
while his heart seemed to be
teeming with tenderness for herself — uttered
in that moment of supreme sorrow,
passion, and endearment — escaped him
mechanically, as it were, yet too evidently
by use and wont !

What did it mean — what could it mean,
but one thing?

Her heart stood still for a moment and
then beat wildly; she did not hear the
noise of his horse's hoofs dying away in
the distance, nor did she see his lessening
figure, for the powers of hearing and of
vision seemed to fail her.

She had received a cruel and terrible
shock. Had she heard aright, or was it
all a delusion of her ear, yet she repeated
to herself with pallid face and quivering
lips the word ' Alice !' while memory flashed

back to the girl sbe had seen thrice — •
twice with Evan, and once evidently waiting
for him at what seemed their trysting-place.


She remembered that the second time
she had seen them they were walking
silently together — full of their own
thoughts apparently — and making no
effort to entertain each other, and she had
read that it is only ' the nearest and dearest
of kinships — the closest and sweetest
of human intimacies that could explain
such " wordless proximity." Strangers,
acquaintances, when thrown together must
politely talk ; brother and sister, husband
and wife, may be confidently, blessedly
silent !'

She remembered now, with ready suspicion,
that, when she and Evan first met
suddenly afterwards, he scarcely evinced
surprise. We have said that it was because

his heart was full of her image, but
this idea, this hope, did not occur to Eve-line
then — her mind was a chaos.

How she got through the remainder of
that day she never knew ; she had but one
wish : to shun her mother's eye. To seclude
herself in her own room would attract
attention ; thus she remained in the
drawing-room and affected to read. She
opened a book at the page and point
where she had last left off.

Alas ! it was beyond the power of books
to soothe or win her from herself now.
The Lethe power of the novelist had
departed, and her whole mind seemed out
of tune.

She threw aside the volume and took up
another, but a cry escaped her as it fell
from her hands. It was Buller's '■ Alice,
or the Mysteries;' the name seemed to

enter her heart like a knife, and she rushed
away to her room.

The dressing-bell for dinner, when it
rang, found her very pale, and wrestling,
as it were, with a strange and unusual
pain that was eating its way into her
heart.

She bathed her face again and again,
but failed to hide the dark shadows under
her eyes or the inflammation of their
delicate lids.

And at dinner-time that evening an additional
stab was given to her in the most
casual and unexpected way. Her father
had brought from his club to Maviswood
Carslogie of the Black Watch, a heedless
and thoughtless young fellow, of whom
she overheard Allan making some inquiries
concerning Cameron of Stratherroch.

Oh, Strath is jolly as a sandboy,' replied

Carslogie, 'but he has some mysterious
affair of the heart on just now.'

*How?'

In the usual way. There is a pretty
girl he goes about with to all public places,
but introduces to no one. She is without
a chaperone, and no one knows whether
she is maid, wife, or widow ; funny, by
Jove, isn't it ?'

Carslogie said this in a low voice to
Allan, yet not so low but that it reached
the ears of Eveline, who had some difficulty
in concealing her agitation.

With instinctive tenderness Allan glanced
at his sister and skilfully changed the
subject to the then invariable topic of
Arabi Pasha and ' the coming row in
Egypt.'

Times there were when she had thought
that she would condescend to go once
again to their try sting-place, and seek an

explanation ; but now, after what Carslogie
had said, wild horses should not drag her
there !

She would never upbraid Evan with his
baseness, never more would she go there ;
she would simply tear his image out of her
heart, and let the matter end. But this
was easier to say than to achieve.

Her soul seemed to have become numbed
within her — frozen, if we may use such
terms.

Even in the matter of Sir Paget, she
was conscious now of feeling neither repugnance
nor ridicule, though she felt a
little repentance at her opposition to the
wishes of her father and mother, and for
the duplicity of which she had been guilty
towards them in her love for an unworthy
object, and meeting him in secret, as if
she had been a sewing-girl or waiting-maid,
and not the daughter of a peer, and

putting herself, perhaps, in an equivocal
position.

She confided in Olive ; otherwise her
heart, she thought, would burst.

The heart is said to be '' deceitful above
all things, and desperately wicked," ' said
Olive, ' but I must confess that this affair
passes my comprehension. He cannot be
in love with two at once ; yet I have read
of such things. Forget him ; you must do
that — at least. You endure too much, Eve-line
; you believed in him too much, and,
I fear, hoped too much. Even friendship
has its limits ; how much more so love.'

And but yesterday I was so happy —
happy in a love the end of which I could
not foresee !' wailed poor Eveline, on her
cousin's bosom.

What was she like, this Alice ? Her
rival — oh, disgrace ! Fair or dark — she
remembered that she was pale and pretty

But what did it matter, thought the now
crushed girl, as she tossed feverishly on
her pillow in the gloom and solitude of the
night, when even our thoughts seem to
assume distinct outlines that become sharp
and vivid.

Night had passed — a new day dawned,
and how far, far off seemed yesterday !
The sun had risen in his glory ; the blackbirds
were singing in the dew-laden shrubberies
of Maviswood ; and the pale mists
were clearing off Torduff and Kirkyetton
Craig, the highest summits of the lovely
Pentlandss.

It was late ere Eveline had wept herself
to sleep ; but to her it seemed as if she had
not slept at all. Thus it was proportionately
late when she awoke heavily to the
morning of a new day.

She had given her whole soul with joy
to her hopeless love for Evan — hopeless,

but pure — though any happy end to it she
could not foresee ; but this was a bitter
collapse she did not anticipate, and now
her ' occupation was gone.'

Was she the same Eveline Graham who
but yesterday morning shook off sleep so
lightly, and rose fresh, strong, and full of
hope, with the conviction that her secret
lover was true to her and to this hopeless
passion ?

Her affectionate heart was crushed ; her
self-esteem was in the dust ; her proud head
lay low indeed; and for the first time in
her young life she had learned what it is to
be cut to the soul — to be completely humbled.


And Alice — who and what was she?

And oh, Olive, how am I to meet
mamma?' was the first exclamation after
they had got rid of Mademoiselle Clairette.

She knew she would have to join in the

conversation of the breakfast-table, when
all her vigilance would be requisite to prevent
her from pit-falls of suspicious silence
or confusion of manner, with the helpless
air and uncertain voice of one who seeks
to conceal a new and hitherto unknown
sorrow : and to undergo, with her sad,
white, humiliated face, her mother's critical
and observant eyes.

If, in desperation, she did not act a part,
that watchful mother would be sure to
detect a change, and that there was something
wrong.

Eveline knew well that she would soon
detect every flicker of her eyelashes, every
tremor of the heavy white lids, that would
droop in spite of her now ; but luckily
Lady Aberfeldie was busy in her boudoir
with the housekeeper and Mr, Tappleton,
the butler, giving orders ; for Sir Paget
Puddicombe would arrive ere long !

Oarslogie had gone back to Edinburgh,
of course, last night. He would be with
Evan Cameron this morning on parade and
so forth ; would the latter question lira
about his visit to Maviswood, about her
perhaps ? But what did it matter now
whether he did so or did not ? Nothing —
less than nothing !

How long the hours seemed now when
they were empty — quite empty of all but
bitterness.

Meanwhile days passed on, and Cameron
came, as was his wont, to the usual places
of meeting, but Eveline was never there.

What had happened — how was she detained
? Had an illness come upon her?
His mind was a prey to the keenest anxiety,
which he was without the means of allaying.
He could not write to ask for any
explanation, neither could he call at Mavis-wood
after the somewhat studied coldness

of his last reception there by her father
and mother.

At each place and spot where so lately
they had met and wandered, the thoughts
that found utterance there, and many a
tender caress came potently and poignantly
back to memory now. Where was she,
what doing, how engaged and with whom
in sickness or in health ? — he asked of
himself with endless iteration.

Trivialities are often associated with the
greatest eventualities in our lives. Thus
long in the memory of Evan would his last
visit to oue of these beloved spots be associated
with the shrill notes of a mavis
perched upon the topmost bough of a tree.

Ignorant as yet of what lie himself had
done, ignorant also of the mischief his
friend Carslogie had unintentionally done
him by retailing some mess-room gossip,
in the vagueness of his thoughts and ideas

of the whole situation, which we shall erelong
unravel, Cameron was inclined to attribute
the total cessation of Eveline's
meetings with him to some mysterious influence
of Hawke Holcroft — if Holcroft it
was whom he saw in the dusk.

From Carslogie he learned that ' she
was looking well and jolly,' as he phrased
it. When Allan rejoined he would hear
more of her, he hoped ; but Allan's sick
leave was protracted from time to time,
and none seemed to know ivheii he would
be with the regiment again.

Once these parted lovers saw each other
but for a moment only !

Accompanied by a groom, Eveline rode
at a canter past him on a lonely part of
the road near Maviswood, her eyes full of
unshed tears, her face pale with resentment,
and her veil in her teeth.

Past him, as if he was a stranger !

Why stop to speak or expect an explanation?'
thought the girl. 'In this
world do not actions speak louder a thousand
times than words can ever do ?'

She was a Graham of Dundargue, and
would show him that she was not of the
kind of stuff that facile Amelia or patient
Griseldas are made !

Yet to pass him by thus, cost her a
mighty effort, though to Eveline it seemed
that there was nothing left for her now
but to wrestle valiantly with that pain
which, in the world's eye, degrades the
woman who smarts under it — the pain of
an unshared love.'

VOL. II. K

CHAPTER X.

THE MYSTERIES OF Adolph.'

Young Stratherroch seems to have accepted
the situation. He is much too
sharp and well-bred a man not to have
seen that he was — well — in the way rather, '

said Lady Aberfeldie to her husband one
t/

afternoon. ' One thing is certain at least,
he has ceased to visit here.'

Dropped out of the hunt — yes,' assented
the peer, as he filled and lit his briar-root.
' Poor fellow ! he was — or is — undoubtedly
fond of our little girl.'

'Such fondness was folly in one so

poor; and now, as Sir Paget comes to-day,
I do not see why we should not have the
two marriages at once. I am most anxious
to have all this fuss ended and done
with.'

There are several deeds to draw and
60 forth in the matter of Allan and Olive ;
and as for Eveline she has not yet consented.'


She must do so now, I presume,' said
Lady Aberfeldie, impatiently wafting aside
with her white hand a cloud of smoke the
peer was creating.

Both marriages,' said he, reflectively ;
but how if the regiment goes on foreign
service — and the corps expects orders of
readiness daily, I understand?'

Allan can send in his papers.'

Impossible ! You do not consider
what you say.'

He is not well enough to go abroad.'

k2

He is too well to remain behind ; and
if well enough to marry I fear that F.M.
the Commander-in-chief will deem him
well enough to march.'

Anyway it will secure Olive's fortune
in the family.'

It is secured as it is by her father's
will so long as Allan is willing to consent ;
but as our loving daughter-in-law, there
will be no necessity for the enforcement of
the clause that is so grotesque. As regards
Sir Paget and Eveline '

Leave me to manage Eveline,' said
Lady Aberfeldie, bluntly and loftily.

The result of her management was soon
apparent, though she knew not that circumstances,
of which she was as yet unaware,
were playing into her hands, and
would yet more completely do so.

*Sir Paget, as you know, Eveline, will
be here to-day,' said she, with an arm

round her daughter s neck, ' and we — that
is, your papa and I — trust, child, that you
will receive him as you ought, and wear
the jewels he sent you.'

Lady Aberfeldie used her softest yet
firmest voice as she spoke to Eveline, but
it sounded to the latter as the voice of
one who was a long, long way off.

She made no immediate reply ; but with
her hands tightly interlaced, as if thereby
she would quell emotion, seemed to be
gazing down at her nicely pointed little
foot that rested on a velvet understood.


Why mope here, growing pale and
thin, for a things without substance — a
dream — a shadow, Eveline; you understand
me ?'

A dream — a shadow, indeed, mamma !'

You hear me, child ? ' said her
mother.

^ Yes, mamma replied Eveline, who
seemed to shiver with cold as her mother
left her, but with a long backward glance
that had more of menace than entreaty
in it.

^ He never loved me,' Eveline was
thinking. ' I have given my heart for
nothing, and am now cast aside for another,
like a broken toy discarded by a
child. He dared to trifle with me — my
father's daughter ! It is clear now that
he fancied, or merely pretended to be in
love with me, while all the time his heart
was given to — Alice P

And she would have been either more
or less than human, if with her just indignation
there did not mingle a certain sentiment
of revenge that bore her up in the
part she meant to act now ; though she
shrank as yet from the conviction that
when esteem dies, love dies with it.

So that evening Eveline wore the suite
of jewels — such jewels as Bond Street
alone can furnish — and Sir Paget, as he
sat by her side, jerked his little bald head
about, in the exuberance of joy, and in a
way that was really alarming.

Olive was looking radiantly beautiful,
in a brilliant dinner costume, with Allan's
Maltese suite of diamonds and pearls
sparkling on her neck and arms, which
Lady Aberfeldie had urged her to don in
honour of Sir Paget, and in defiance of a
moue and pitiful glance of Eveline, who
had no small difficulty in acquitting herself
at dinner in her new role of fiancee
but nearly broke down when she heard
Sir Paget raise his voice and say to her
father something that he was not sorry he
might say with a clear conscience, and asa
matter-of-fact.

Oh, by the way, Aberfeldie, when I

arrived at the rail way station this morning
I witnessed a very tender leave-taking
between a young friend of yours and a
most charming girl — gad, the fellow has
taste — a girl whom he was seeing off,
to London, I presume, by the Flying
Scotsman, it was quite pathetic, by
Jove ! '

A young friend of ours — who do you
mean, Sir Paget ?' asked Lady Aberfel-
die.

Cameron, of the Black Watch, whom I
had the pleasure of meeting at Dunbar
— you remember,' said Sir Paget, playing
with the stem of his champagne-glass,
and not daring to look at Eveline, whose
white hand he saw trembling as she toyed
with her grapes.

'Oh — oh — indeed — and the young
lady '

Had '' Mrs. Cameron " painted on all

ber luggage — great Indian overland, some

of it;

^ Mrs. Cameron repeated Lady Aberfel-
die, whose aristocratic face shone in spite
of herself at these tidings, while Lord
Aberfeldie looked flushed and perplexed,
and like Allan, who pitied his poor sister,
remained silent.

This astounding intelligence was to poor
Eveline as ' the last straw ' to the overladen
camel ; she betrayed no outward
emotion, though her heart and spirit were
completely broken down, for a phase of
duplicity which she could never have conceived
was now suddenly laid bare to
her.

When, with her aunt and cousin, she
retired to the drawing-room, the latter
pressed her hand affectionately and caressingly,
while the former, too proud or too
prudent to refer to what they had just

heard so greatly to her satisfaction, sat ina
shady corner and slowly fanned herself
in silence with a great round feather
fan.

An emotion of jealous spite at young
Cameron, with rivalry, passion, and ambition
to possess a young, beautiful, and
highly-born wife, all now inspired Sir
Paget, who, to do him justice in the anecdote
he had told, had told no more than
the truth, and, for the happiness of Evan
Cameron, we are sorry to say it.

But though now permitting herself
quietly to drift with the stream of events,
and to become a tool in the hands of
others, it was impossible for Eveline, when
with Sir Paget in the grounds, or when
alone in the drawing-room, not to shrink
from his now privileged caresses and
attentions ; thus once she shocked him by

saying, as she withdrew her hands from
his clasp,

Oh, Sir Paget, do you really mean to
marry a woman who does not and never
can love you ?'

'Do not say "never can." How can we
know what the future may have for me —
for us my dear girl P'

Who, indeed, save One !' sighed the
girl, wearily.

^ I would rather have half your heart
than the whole of any other woman's,' said
Sir Paget, gallantly, while recapturing her
hands, and jerking out his head in turtle
fashion.

My whole heart thought Eveline, ' is
oh, no — was full of Evan, but can have
no vacant corner for any other, especially
such a man as this.'

And even while she thought this she

shivered as if with cold, when in right of
his new position he caressed her.

How, with all their innate pride, papa
and mamma are content to abandon me to
this absurd little man Puddicombe, as they
do, passes mj comprehension,' said she to
Olive. ' Puddicombe — such an absurd
name too,' she added, with a little laugh
that was hysterical ; ' and what object can
the splendour of his settlements be to
them? They seem to ignore the fact that
the Grahams of Dundargue were barons of
the Scottish Parliament when the ancestors
of half the British peerage were hewers of
wood and drawers of water — peasantry
and artisans !'

So in the bloom of her youth and
beauty, the time ' when the light that
surrounds us is all from within,' Eveline
Graham was to become a victim at the
altar after all — after all !

j^nd Cameron seemed to have prepared
the path for her, for, stunned bj his too
apparent duplicity, she schooled herself for
the role of indifference to fate ; but this
was chiefly by day, for often at night she
would lie where she had thrown herself,
across her bed, forgetting even to undress,
her tear-blotted face covered by her soft
arm, and so in the morning the wondering
and sympathising Clairette would find
her.

June was creeping on now, with its
sunny, fragrant breath ; there were white
and purple blossoms in the parterres of
the garden ; the graceful laburnums were
dropping their golden petals in showers
over the rosebuds and green lawns that
were bordered by dark shining myrtles
and deep-tinted laurels and rhododendrons.


From the fields came the rasping sound

made by the mower as he whetted his
scythe, before which the rich feathered
grass and the wild flowers are done to
death; elsewhere the joyous haymakers
were hard at work, and the dust of June
began to roll along the roads before the
wind in the sunshine.

June !' thought Eveline. ' Where will
the winter find me ?'

The preparations for her marriage were
hurried on with a rapidity that appalled
her; but, dear as the scheme was to Lady
Aberfeldie, a somewhat unexpected event
delayed that of Allan and Olive Raymond,
and gave the Aberfeldie family once more
something else to think of.

One evening when all the others were in
Edinburgh save himself and Olive — for
Eveline's forthcoming marriage kept all
rather busy now — Allan, full of his own
happy thoughts, and the joy that would be

his ere long, was smoking in the grounds,
when he was startled by a shrill cry that
proceeded from an open window of the
house — a French window that opened to
the ground — and swift as light a man
dashed past him and disappeared among
the thick shrubberies.

A thief !' was Allan's first thought :
but whose cry was that?' was his second.

The face of the intruder, who passed
near him — a pale and familiar one, seen
just as Cameron had before seen it — seemed
to be that of Hawke Holcroft.

Impossible,' thought Allan, as he hurried
towards the house; but it was not until
he had further proofs that he became aware
that the face he had seen — the face of ill-omen
— was that of Holcroft !

He hurried into the 'apartment through
the open window, and was horrified to find
Olive prostrate on the floor, with her arms

outspread, and in a fainting condition.
He raised her up and laid her on a sofa,
withdrawing the yellow from under her
head, and looked round for water to lave
her face and hands, one of which clutched
a pen.

A large sealskin cigar case, with Rio
Hondo cigars in it — a case which he well
remembered to have seen in possession of
Holcroft — lay upon the floor.

How came it there, unless the man he
saw was, beyond all doubt, Hawke Hole
?

Olive's cheque-book — for she had a bank
account of her own — lay open on her
davenport, and Allan's eye caught the
counterfoil of one, dated that very day, and
almost wet still, for £400.

Four hundred pounds !' he gasped, and
tried to tear open his necktie, while the
room swam round him. ' Oh, God ! can it

be that she is playing fast and loose with
me and that double-dyed villain?'

That she should have any intercourse,
verbal or written, with such a wretch excited
in Allan a gust of rage and bewilderment,
disgust, horror, and intense perplexity.


Yet it might be all quite explainable —
even the cheque.

She opened her eyes and closed them
again, and pathetically he besought her to
tell him what had happened, but could
elicit no reply. Her slender throat seemed
parched, as she failed to articulate.

Oh, Olive,' said he, * if I alarm you,
forgive me. You know how I love you.
Why torture me by this silence — tell me
all — ivhat has happened — ivho has been
here ?'

But he urged and pled in vain ; her teeth
were clenched.

VOL. II. L

Is it some folly — some girlish imprudence
? ivhat is it ? Dear love, only tell me ?'

Still sbe was silent, and Allan's brows
knit darkly and ominously, while, in the
excited state of his nerves, he felt sharp
twinges in the arm that had been fractured,
and, when consciousness came partially
back to Olive, she covered her face with
her hands, and sobbed heavily and spasmodically.


What had happened? Why was she so
suddenly cast down, hurled, as it were,
from the joy, rapture, and repose of an
hour ago, to the apparent agony and shame
of the present ?

Nothing could be elicited from her, and
the next day found her in a species of
hysterical fever, and in the hands of the
doctor.

In a short time it was discovered that
her cheque — an open one — payable to Mr.

Hawke Holcroft, and duly endorsed by
that personage, had been presented and
cashed at a bank ; yet no explanation could
be elicited from her about it.

She had on the ill-omened diamonds,
mother,' said Allan, interrogatively. ' How
was this ?'

I lent them to her, as the bride of the
house, and doubtless she had been trying
them on when — when '

^ This scoundrel thrust himself upon her
presence ?'

I suppose so said Lady Aberfeldie,
weeping.

'Evil always comes of these accursed
stones !'

It is simply outrageous,' said Lord
Aberfeldie, sternly and loftily, ^ that even
the family of the most humble tradesman
should be haunted by a Frankenstein — a
swindler, and worse, like this — but that a

l2

house like mine — the house of a peer of
the realm — -'

And his lordship in his indignation
paused as utterance failed him.

'Mystery is involved here,' exclaimed
Lady Aberfeldie, ' and I dislike it intensely,
as vulgar and very bad style.'

'By Jove, I should think so,' added
Allan, gloomily ; ' but this affair, like
Cameron's marriage, beats the mysteries
of [Adolph !'

Chapter XL

And now, ere it is too late, to let a little
light on what must seem a mystery, and to
tell a story which Eveline was not to hear
until the fatal die was cast.

Dear Evan said a handsome girl, as
she interlaced her slender fingers on
Cameron's arm lovingly in one of the most
secluded walks of the Princes-Street Gardens,
and under the shadow of the towering
castle rock, ' I cannot bear to see you
looking so unhappy — what is the matter ?'

Eveline Graham has ceased to meet
me. She is ill — or — or I know not what 1'
Cannot you ascertain ?'

No. I have no means of ascertaining ;
moreover, only the other day she cut me.'

Cut you — passed you ?'
Cut me dead !'

Surely that was bad in taste.'
'And cruel too — so unlike her, Alice
darling, that I know not what to think.'

She has resolved to accept her rich old
baronet — that is all ; and I shall hear all
about it when I am far away from you in
India. How strange,' added the girl,
dreamily, while a great, yet pensive, joy
lighted up her blue eyes, ^ how strange to
think that I am still in Edinburgh, and sofar
away from him, when there was a time
when I wondered if anyone in this world
was ever so happy as I, when dear stupid
Duncan asked me to be his wife ! And oh,

Evan dear, but for you and your great
kindness to us, my heart must have broken
and I should never have seen Duncan
more I'

The fair speaker was the Alice whose
name had unconsciously escaped Evan, as
his heart was full of a great love and pity
for her — the wife of his younger brother
Duncan, from whom she had been separated
in consequence of a foolish jealous
quarrel, and having been, through that,
sent home by him from India, had no other
friend in Europe to whom to turn for
succour and support than the kind-hearted,
but half-penniless Laird of Stratherroch,
who had at last effected an explanation
and reconciliation between them.

When quartered in cantonments, in the
first year of their marriage, not far from
Hardware on the Ganges (where Allan got
the idol he gave to Olive) there seemed to

be no more loving and attached couple
than Duncan Cameron and his little wife
Alice, and both were prime favourites
with the garrison ; he, for his fine bearing
which made him the pattern officer of his
regiment — a Bengal Infantry corps — his
skill in horsemanship, as a marksman and
pigsticker, and his general bonhomie and
good nature. She, for her beauty and
sweetness, her great abundance of animal
spirits, and a charming espm/Ierie that
made her the object of attention from all.

Ladies were scarce in these cantonments
so far ' up country,' and thus Alice proved a
wonderful attraction to all the young subs
at the band-stand, or on the racecourse,
and elsewhere; and they hovered about
her rather more than Duncan Cameron
quite relished.

She was a leading feature at all the entertainments
given by Sir Bevis Batardeau,

G.C.S.L, the brigadier, and his wife ; and
indeed no ball, picnic, or dance was deemed
complete without the presence of Alice
Cameron.

Now, Sir Bevis was a notorious old roue,
and the cause of much ' gup,' as scandal
or gossip is called in India. He was a
middle-aged man of fashion, grizzled and
rather bald, with a reddish nose and wicked
eyes, while Lady Batardeau, his senior
by a year or two, was a kind and motherly
woman, who loved Alice dearly ; and ' gup'
of course asserted that the General did so
too, in a fashion of his own, and many
things were said that never reached as yet
the ears of Duncan Cameron.

The latter was sent to some distance
from the cantonments on a particular duty,
and poor Alice was left to mope in her
bungalow alone.

I often thought,' she said, * if anything

should ever separate us, I would die. The
fear smote me like a sword's point, Evan,
and the night Duncan left me a jackal
howled fearfully in the compound. "Was
it ominous of evil ? I fear so— for separated
terribly we were fated to be, through
no fault of mine.'

These forebodings made her pass sleeplessly
the hot and breathless Indian nights
while hourly the cantonment hurries were
clanged, and the jackals howled in the
prickly hedges, and the mosquitoes seemed
a thousand times more annoying — no
chowrie would whisk them out of the muslin
curtains ; and her breakfast seemed so
insipid now, and Gunga Ram, the kJiansa-
man, or native butler, could find nothing
to tempt her appetite ; yet Gunga, though,
like most Hindostanees, doubtful of the
virtue of every European woman, was
devoted to his own particular mem Sahib.

Every morning she had been wont to
watch at the open Venetian blinds of their
bungalow for the handsome figure of Duncan
returning from the early parade, while
the sun was yet on the verge of the
horizon ; and every evening was spent together
in delicious idleness — riding on the
course, promenading by the band-stand,,
or wandering among the groves where the
baboon breathes an exquisite perfume
from its bells of gold, as the oleander
does from its clusters of pink and white
blossoms, and where the lovely little tailor-bird
sews two leaves together and swings
in his sweet-scented nest from the bough
of some little tree.

Hourly she longed for the return of
Duncan.

She was a petted favourite with Lady
Batardeau, who, when calling on her one
day, found her asleep under the verandah

outside Cameron's bungalow on a long low-indian
arm-chair.

Thinking how charming the girl-wife
looked. Lady Batardeaii, in playful kindness,
slipped on one of her fingers a rose-diamond
ring, which had been in the past
time a gift to herself from Sir Bevis, when
she valued his gifts more than she had
reason to do now ; and, having done this,
she went softly and laughingly away.

To the joy of Alice, Cameron returned
suddenly while she was yet puzzling herself
to account for the presence of the
ring, and for a time, in the happiness of
their reunion, she forgot all about it, till
he, while toying with her pretty hands,
observed it on her finger.

A magnificent ring, Alice,' said he.
^ Where did it come from ?'

That is more than I can tell you.'

How ?' he asked.

I found that it bad been slipped on
my fiuo^er when I was asleep.'

By whom ?'

I cannot say, Duncan dear.'

On examining the jewel he saw graven
on the inside the name of that notorious
old roue and Lothario, the brigadier !

Lady Batardeau had left the cantonments
for awhile, and poor Alice could
give no explanation as to how the mysterious
ring with the name of Sir Bevis
thereon came to be on her finger. Duncan
loved her so trustfully, so utterly, that
doubt failed for a time to find a place in
his gallant heart ; but ' gup ' had playfully
asserted that the old brigadier immensely
admired young Mrs. Cameron— he recalled
some jests he had heard, and now the
poison they breathed was stealing upon
his senses, and his face grew white as
death.

Duncan mistook the genuine confusion
of Alice for guilt — her dismay for dread
of detection, and the whole affair for a
feature in an intrigue. He knew how
keen and bitter was scandal in India,
and already he saw himself a source of
mockery and disgrace, and figuring, perhaps,
in the columns of the Hurhara !

He saw it all now ! He had been sent
on duty to a distance for some days, as he
believed out of his turn, and by the express
order of the brigadier.

That circumstance had surprised him,
but he believed it was fully explained now
by finding the ring of Sir Bevis on his
wife's finger, and he became transported
with fury. Alice cowered for a time beneath
the expression she read in his face.

Could it be possible, he thought, that
she was proving as one of the * dead-sea

apples of life, wliicli a mocking fate so
often throws in our lap, charming to the
imagination, but bitter to the sense ?'

'Duncan !' said Alice, softly and imploringly
; but he felt all the mute despair of
a broken heart, the agony of a shaken
faith, and he put her soft white hands
gently from him, as if he would never
seek them in this life again.

He at once sought the presence of the
brigadier, who, on hearing what he had to
say, certainly — to do him justice — was
rather bewildered.

•' I beg leave, sir, to return to you this
ring,' said Duncan, tossing it contemptuously
on the table.

My ring — my wife's ring it was '

Was— eh ?'

'Yes, Captain Cameron. Adhere did
you find it?'

Where yoa placed it, I doubt
not

I do not understand your tone and
manner, Captain Cameron ; but I certainly
placed it on the finger '

^ Of my wife said Duncan, hoarsely and
scornfully. ' I thank you for your kind
attention, but trust that it will end here
ere worse come of it. I am not a man to
be trifled with, Sir Bevis.'

Now, Sir Bevis had no dislike to bethought
' a gay Lothario, a sad dog, and
all that sort of thing,' so he actually simpered
provokingly, shrugged his shoulders
and said, deprecatingly,

'Really, you wrong Mrs. Cameron.'

She has deceived me !' exclaimed
Duncan, furiously.

'If a woman can't deceive her own
husband, ivJiom may she deceive !' asked
the unwise brigadier.

In the clays of the pistol this matter
would not have ended here.'

Come, come, don't let you and I fall to
carte and tierce in this fashion,' said the
general ; ' it may be explainable '

^ I want no explanations !'

As you please. It seems there is a
little romance in most lives '

With your grey hairs you should have
outlived all that, I think.'

Now his years proved a sore point with
old Sir Bevis, and he became inflamed
with anger ; but, ere he could retort, Duncan
had jerked his sword under his left
arm and swept from his presence with a
rather withering expression in his face,
and that very evening saw Alice in the
train for Delhi, en route to Europe.

Innocent, I suffer all the shame and all
the agony of guilt ! Oh, it is hard, Duncan
— very, very hard,' were the last words

VOL. II. M

she said, brokenly, to her husband, who
heard her with a stern silence that astonished
her.

JN'ow that Lady Batardeau, on her return
to the cantonments, had explained the
whole story of the ring, Duncan was —
when too late, for his wife was on the sea
full of shame and contrition for his
suspicions and severity, and had written to
crave the pardon of Alice and insure her
return to him again ; hence the farewell
and departure of 'Mrs. Cameron with her
overland and other baofofaofe, as witnessed
by the sharp little eyes of Sir Paget Puddi-
combe at the Waverley Station, and thus it
was that, by an unexplained mistake, two
fond hearts were separated for ever ; but
separated they would have been eventually
by fate or fortune — the lack of fortune,
rather — as time may show.

But for a time poor Eveline had to ponder

bitterly on the humiliating tbonglit
that Evan Cameron had been thinking of
another face, form, and name while in the
act of caressing herself, and that the other
was — as Sir Paget had left them no reason
to doubt, and never himself doubted —
Evan Cameron's wife !

CHAPTER XII.

olive's visitor.

Another mystery has now to be accounted
for — the state in which Allan found Olive
when her cry reached him as he idled with
his cigar in the grounds at Maviswood in
the evening, when the rest of the family
circle were in town.

Olive was seated alone in one of the
drawing-rooms when a gentleman was
announced — a gentleman who no doubt
thought Allan was absent in Edinburgh
also.

Mr. Holcrof t;

*Mr. Holcroft!' A book she was reading
fell from the band of Olive, and she
started to her feet as that personage, hat
in hand, stood smilingly before her. Fora
moment she could scarcely believe her
eyes as they met the pale, watery, and
shifty ones of her unexpected visitor.

Terror and horror filled her heart on
finding herself face to face with this man
an assassin in intent ! It was too
horrible — too outre and grotesque to think
of.

But what was his intention now ? She
was not left long in ignorance. Why did
she not rush to the bell — summon the
household, and have the daring intruder
expelled or arrested ? But no — she felt a
very coward just then, with a great dread
of Allan discovering him, and a heavy,
sickening foreboding of coming evil.

There came dreamily to her memory,
too, some threatening words of his when
he had said that he would let no man come
between them, and that, though he might
fail to compel her to love him, he might
compel her to marry him : but neither love
nor marriage were in the mind of her
horrible visitor just then.

Mr. Hawke Holcroft seemed rather
down on his luck and looked somewhat
shabby and seedy. The last fragment of
his patrimony had been swallowed up ; his
betting-book had proved a mistake, as he
had for some time past backed the wrong
horses; cards had failed him and play of
all kinds ; in short, he was desperate, and
hence his appearance at Maviswood.

To attempt the role of a lover again,
after all that had passed, and after all that
he was aware must be known to Miss Raymond,
was, he knew, impossible ; but he

had a trump card to play in the way of
extortion — plain, blunt, rascally extortion ;
so, conceiving that the girl was utterly
aloDc, he could not for the life of him
resist bantering her a little, all the more
as the utter loathing and dread her face
expressed, enraged him.

Mr. Holcroft !' she exclaimed, in a
breathless voice, as she recoiled and became
white as a lily.

'Yes, Ilawke Holcroft, the man your
fatal beauty has made him,' said he, with
melodramatic gloom and folded arms ;
when I met you first T met my fate— a
love that was my doom. But for you,
would I ever have been mad enough to
attempt the life of Allan Graham ?'

How dare you come here— how dare
you speak to me thus !' said Olive, glancing
at the bell handle ; but he planted himself
between it and her.

The love of you came to me when first
you looked into my face,' he resumed, in
his melodramatic style ; * I remember it
was but a smile — a smile ; yet a mist came
before my eyes — a something stirred my
heart. Ah, Olive Eaymond, it was your
beautiful eyes that suddenly kindled new
life within me — that will only end with
the old.'

Olive was more irritated than alarmed
now.

How dare you come here ?' she asked.

I can t help it — needs must when old
Boots drives,' said he ; ' I came to show
you a work of art. Look here.'

From his pocket-book he drew out and
held before her at arm's length the cabinet
photo of herself in a ball-dress ; the photo,
or one like it, that she had the folly to
give him at Dundargue ; but to her horror
and dismay she saw that it had been

reproduced, reversed, and manipulated in
some way by some low photographer, and
combined with one of Holcroft himself,
posed as if in the act of embracing her,
forming a strange group of two, whose
likenesses there would be no mistaking,
more especially that of her, as it was a
miraculous v/ork of art in its truth and
individuality.

It was Olive to the life, with her
brightest and sweetest expression now
bent on Ms face !

I am glad you recognise us,' said he,
mockingly, as he replaced the photo in its
receptacle, and the latter in his breast
pocket ; ^ and now to business. What
would your drawing-room hero think of
this, if he saw it ? Ha, ha ! He did not
approve of Byron at Dundargue, I remember
— would rather we stuck to Dr. Watts'
hymns, I suppose — " How doth the little

busy bee," and so forth ; well, like that
industrious insect, I mean to improve ^'the
shining hour." How would he — how will
you and your family, with all their cursed
Scotch pride — like to see this photo in
every shop window exposed for sale to the
British public, among ballet-girls in snowstorms,
countesses swinging in hammocks,
bishops, and generals — murderers, too,
perhaps — eh ? In a week or two I may
have a million copies of this precious
photo for sale in London and elsewhere.
Do you realise the meaning of this, my
scornful beauty ? and the result it must
have on you, your name, your character,
your family, and your future — Miss Olive
Eaymond posed in the arms of Hawke
Holcroft ?'

Oh, heavens !' said Olive, in a low voice
like a whisper ; ' are you a man or a
devil?'

A little of both, perhaps — I am what
circumstances have made me.'

'Daring wretch — oh, what wrong have I
ever done you that you should cross my
path and agonise me thus ?'

Holcroft laughed ; he knew that she had
a more than handsome allowance at her
guardian's behest and her own bank
account. He was without remorse or
pity, for cowardice and selfishness were
alike the ruling features of his character,
and he thought to control the tongue and
action of Olive through her own pride and
her love of Allan with an eye to future
monetary extortions.

Pressing her left hand upon her heart,.
as if she felt — as no doubt she did — a
spasm of pain there, and, with her eyes
almost closed, she said,

In the name of mercy, give me back
that photo r

^ After I have had it so carefully improved
as a work of art ? No ; no, Miss
Raymond,' said be, in his detestable sneering
tone ; ' but I shall be content to forego
my interest in the copyright for a certain
reasonable consideration.'

A consideration. I do not understand
you, sir,' said Olive, faintly, and clutching
a table for support.

Plainly, then, I mean a cheque for three
hundred — no, let me say four hundred —
pounds, and you had better be quick
about it, as I have no time to spare, and,
truth to tell, have no desire to renew my
acquaintance with any of the Aberfeldie
folks again.'

Four hundred pounds?'
That is the sum, Miss Raymond.'
Like a blind person, she feebly and irresolutely
seemed to grope with her key about
the lock of her davenport, and Holcroft said,

Permit me to assist you.'

He unlocked it, and threw open the lid.
]mechanically she seated herself, and began
to write, while conscious that this bantering
villain was still addressing her.

And so old Puddicombe has come to the
front again,' said he. ' An odd marriage
it will be — his with Miss Graham — Brummagem
allying itself with the Middle Ages
the counting-house getting a line in
Burke's Peerage.'

'There,' said she, handing him the cheque,
which he received with a low mocking bow,
now give me the photo.'

Thanks, with pleasure, Perhaps you
may wish to frame it. Now, listen to me,"
he said, through his set teeth, 'if you divulge
a word of this interview, or make known
the power I have over you by means of this
photograph, "then and in that case," as I
believe your father's will is phrased, I shall

at once introduce it to the British public.
I give you this copy for your four hundred
pounds, but retain the negative !'

Then it was that, as he withdrew, a cry
escaped from her overcharged breast —
the cry overheard by Allan, and she had
only power left her to conceal the odious
photo in the breast of her dress, when she
fell fainting on the floor, where she was
found.

To destroy it was one of her first acts,
when consciousness returned, and she
was alone ; but what availed the destruction
of this one, when her tormentor possessed
the power of producing others without
limit ?

A great horror possessed her now — a
dread and gloom came over her, with a
painful nervous terror — a kind of hunted
emotion — a fear of what might next ensue !

Yet she took no one into her confidence,
not even Allan — on her part a fatal
error.

After all her past sweet intercourse with
him, their delayed marriage — delayed by
the illness incident to Holcroft's outrage —
and his too probable speedy departure on
foreign service, was she now to harrow
him up by a reference to her folly, her
petulance, and her silly degrading flirtation
with this man, who now proved such a
pitiful, such an unfathomable villain !

What if Allan should see suddenly that
fatal photo in a shop window ? This
possibility plainly stared her in the face ;
yet she was silent, and believed that ere
this issue came to pass, she was doomed to
be tortured and victimised by Holcroft
again ; and the thought, the fear of this,
gave her a kind of fever of the spirit, which

made her quite ill, and bewildered her
friends.

Money had evidently been given by her
to Holcroft — no small sum too ; and for
what purpose? Remembering his threat
if she exposed his rascality, her tongue
was now tied by a most unwise terror.
Ill and harassed, she remained much in
her room and avoided society.

Allan, as he said resentfully, failed ' to
see the situation,' and in a gust of pique
and anger, feeling himself somewhat degraded
by Olive's bearing, resigned his
extended leave and joined his regiment, as
Olive said, resolved to ' sulk in Edinburgh
Castle, rather than have an explanation,'
rather unreasonably forgetting that she
had steadily refused to give one.

She felt painfully that the mystery of
the money given to Holcroft was calculated
to compromise her with her kindred ; but

what was that when compared with the
awful thundercloud which hung over her,
if he made the public use he threatened of
the photo !

Her soul died within her. Meanwhile
Allan struggled hard to make himself believe
that he might yet be happy with
Olive ; that he had perhaps no solid reason
for being otherwise ; but it would not do.

Hang it, what does all this new
mystery mean ?' he would say to himself.
We seem fated to misunderstand each
other somehow. After all, she seems to
love her pride more than me, still 1'

And Olive knew that it was mingled
pride and fear that had opened a kind of
chasm between her and Allan again ; yet a
little sense, a little courage and candour,
might have closed it speedily enough, and
smoothed away the anger the complication
raised at times within her; while to Allan

VOL. II. N

the situation was certainly an intolerable
one, and Olive's silence or reticence made
it all the more so.

CHAPTER XIII.

WEDDED.

While baffled in her attempts to briuof
about an explanation between Allan and
Olive, and to smooth matters over with
that wilful young lady (as she deemed her)
and her naturally irritated fiance, Lady
Aberfeldie pushed on vigorously all the
arrangements for the marriage of Sir Paget
and the ill-starred Eveline — a marriage
for which there seemed then no other
reason than an avaricious desire of grand
settlements and so forth.

n2

All Olive's old pride and petulance (with
much of irritation that was new) seemed to
have come back to her, and, until the matter
was cleared up regarding that mysterious
visit of Holcroft to Maviswood, Allan
had ceased to speak of marriage, and thus
her spirit took fire at being doubted and
humbled.

She shrank, unwisely, from a simple
confession that might have obviated all
this, and from revealing the shame and
affront to which this man possessed the
power of exposing her.

I detest riddles, and care not to read
them ; but the mask she is wearing — if a
mask it be — may prove a costly one for
herself and us all thought Lord Aberfel-
die and his son too.

Be content, Allan, to know that I gave
that money — a trifle to me — to Mr. Hole
in the hope to save us all — especially

myself — from a probable public affront
which might destroy me,' said Olive on one
occasion, her eyes flashing through her
tears.

What mystery is this ? — what can you
have done? how be in his power? The
assertion is absurd !'

Allan, cannot you trust me ?' she asked,
fondly and sadly, yet proudly.

I know not what to think, but the whole
affair looks — looks to me '

'How.'

Well, devilish queer,' said he, as he cut
the matter short, and rode away, on which
Olive dried her tears, crested up her head,
and looked defiant.

If this tiresome couple, Olive and Allan,
continue to pout and sulk at each other,'
said Lady Aberfeldie ; ' and he should decline
to marry her, her money may be lost
to us by her twenty-fifth birthday.'

Unless ' the lord twisted his moustache
and paused.

Unless what ?'

Allan gets himself killed in Egypt replied
Lord Aberfeldie, grimly.

Good heavens, do not say such a thug,
even in jest !'

And now, perforce of their present situation,
a change had come over the two
cousins, Olive and Eveline — they never
read, studied, sung, rode, or walked together,
as they had been wont to do ; a
blight had come over both their lives
apparently.

Eveline only felt a little at ease when
Sir Paget was absent from her, and even
then she was pestered by his love-letters,
which, like those written usually by men
of advanced years, were of a grotesquely
impassioned nature. ^ Attachments at that
age are deeper, and less anxiety not to

compromise oneself is shown and felt,' sa^^s
an essayist. ' After fifty, men are often
wise enough to vote the writing of love-letters
a bore, but some carry on the
practice to a very advanced age. Their
protestations are then ingeniously flavoured
with touches of the paternal, which sometimes
entirely mislead the unsophisticated
recipients.'

But the mere sight of Sir Paget's cali-graphic,
and of his heraldic note-paper,
having a shield with some mysterious
design thereon, and the motto Puddicomhe
petit aJtaf (Puddicombe seeks lofty objects),
proved always enough for Eveline,
who tossed it into the waste-paper basket
unread, but torn into minute fragments,
while a sigh of weariness and repugnance
escaped her.

Evan Cameron loved Allan Graham
dearly as a friend, and had naturally a

desire to be on the best terms with him as
the brother of the girl to whom he had
given all his heart. Thus, while meeting
him daily on parade and at mess, he was
sorely puzzled to account for the change
he felt in Allan's manner to himself, as he
knew not that the latter resented the
Mrs. Cameron ' episode as an insult to
Eveline, his sister.

I presume you know that my sister is
on the point of marriage — indeed, that the
day is fixed ?' said Allan, rather grimly, to
him one day as he recalled the circumstance
of how Evan greatly admired, to
say the least of it, Eveline, and how her
heart had responded thereto.

Cameron made no reply, but a sudden
pallor overspread his handsome, bronzed
face, and all his studied calmness forsook
him, while the memory of past hopes and
joys shook his heart as if with a tempest

of remembrance ; but, stooping and half
turning away to conceal the expression of
his face, he attempted to light a cigar.

What a sly fellow — a cunning dog —
you are !' said Allan, with irritation of
tone.

In what way do you mean, Allan ?'
asked Cameron.

Mean ! How dare you ask, after your
open admiration of my sister. Miss Graham,
in a man in your position ?'

Cameron mistook his meaning ; but the
mistake failed to rouse any pride, as his
heart was too crushed and sore just then.

Allan !' he exclaimed, as tears almost
welled up in his honest eyes, ^ I loved her
I love her still — God alone knows how
well, how desperately, and how hopelessly.'

Hopelessly indeed responded Allan,
his cheek now aflame with anger ; ' and
you dare to tell me this after all that we

know of yourself and Mrs. Cameron

It was now Cameron's turn to look indignant
and astonished ; but in a few words
he explained all.

Poor Evan !' said Allan, as he wrung
the hand of Cameron, whose head sank
forward, so much was he overcome by
emotion ; ' I am glad of this explanation,
but it comes too late — if indeed it could
ever have served any purpose so far as
your hopes with Eveline are concerned. In
three days she is to be married — and now,
let us talk of the subject no more.'

But for a time black fury gathered in
the heart of Cameron at Sir Paget Puddi-
combe, whose deductions, however, from
all that he saw at the railway station, were
most natural.

In three days,' he muttered again and
again, ^ in three days, and she will be lost
to me for ever !'

Eveline as yet was ignorant of her
lover's purity and innocence, nor would
the knowledge of it have availed her
much. There was a meek abandonment
of her own will — of her own judgment,
and Lady Aberfeldie caressed her more
than she had ever done before, glad to find
that she had become — my lady cared not
why or how — compliant at last.

She seemed quite passive and supine —
resigned, Olive phrased it — and ready todo
her mother's bidding, for Evan Cameron
seemed to have quite passed out of her
life, though the name 'Alice' he had
uttered seemed to be ever in her ears.

She heard her mother speaking, and
felt her caresses, but her eyes were suffused
by a kind of mist. Yet more than
once she had started amid her apathy, and
thought, ' Why am I still here — why don't

I run away to moliere they will never find
me ?'

But she bad no determining motive to
decide her choice of place or scheme of
life, though she felt that ere long, when
these last three days were past, she would
have to reconstruct her entire future, and
from that future her heart recoiled and
shrank. Her temples throbbed as she
thought of this ; her heart seemed alternately
to thunder in her breast, and then
to become unnaturally still.

Again and again her mother told her
that she would be surrounded by such
wealth as falls to the lot of few ; but she
cared not for wealth, nor would it ever
remove her gloomy and bitter reflections,
and at the very name of her intended husband,
though she evinced no emotion, a
secret and involuntary shudder came over
her.

Society was intolerable just then, and
she bad much of it at Maviswood. How
intolerable seemed lawn-tennis amid the
bright sunshine, the soft thud of the balls
upon the racquets, as they were shot over
the netting from court to court, the laughter
of young and sweet voices, and the
cries ever and anon of 'fifteen,' 'thirty,'
'fault,' and so on, as the jovial game progressed
; and with evening came the inevitable
dinner-party, and at night the
dance.

Allan, fearing to lacerate his sister's
heart, knew not how to undeceive her in
the matter of Cameron's supposed duplicity,
though the truth or falsehood
thereof could not affect her fate or her
relations with Sir Paget now; but the
true story escaped Carslogie quite casually
when in conversation with Olive, who
in due time related it to Eveline, in whose

breast it created some very mingled
emotions.

So Evan was innocent, while she had
been feeling in her heart all the passion
and pain — yea, a sentiment of vengeance
which women will feel, when they believe
they have been loving unworthily.

Early on her marriage morning she left
her bed to think over all this. Wrapped
in a snow-white peignoir (or dressing-robe),
with all her undressed hair floating about
her shoulders and blown back by the warm
summer breeze, she sat at the open window
of her room, and looked dreamily outwith
sad, sad eyes on the sunny landscape
and the lovely hills all steeped in golden
haze.

How changed seemed its beauty now,
and how she longed to be away from it —
to be dead, in fact ! Yet she was at an

age when even to live, ought to be in itself
a jos.

The fragrance of the dewy summer
morning seemed to fill the outer world,
and amid the intense stillness she heard
only the voices of a lark high in the air
and of a cushat dove in the coppice.

Her marriage morning — what a morning
of woe to her ! Her cheeks were pale —
very, very pale ; but with her parted scarlet
lips, and her tangled waves of rich
brown hair, she was beautiful as ever.

The knowledge that her lover had not
deceived her, but was true, roused her fora
time, and filled her soul with a tempest
of unexpected sorrow, compunction, and
joy — sorrow that she had wronged him,
compunction for the cruel mode in which
she had treated him, and joy that his honour
was unstained, and that he still was

true ; but oli ! what must he think of her ?

Burying her face in her tremulous white
hands, she wept like a child — wept as weare
told ' only women weep when their
hearts break over the grave of a dead
love,' and threw herself across her bed.

God forgive me — God forgive me, and
bless and comfort you, my love she murmured.
' Oh, Evan, I have wronged you
wronged you ; but what does it avail us
after all — after all ?'

And she lay there crouched and gathered
in a heap, as it were, till Olive and others
who were to be her bridesmaids roused
her and lifted her up and summoned
Clairette.

So her marriage-day had come, and,
unless she fell ill or died, the ceremony
was to go inexorably on.

Olive was far from well ; every day she
expected to hear of Holcroft's photo being

seen ; her sole protection against that
catastrophe as yet, was the fear that ere it
came to pass, he would seek her presence
at least once again, on an errand of extortion.
But ill or well, she had to bear her
part in the ceremony as a bridesmaid, and
a charming one she looked.

Allan, of course, was there too, but not
as groomsman — a ^ fogies ' friend of Sir
Paget officiated in that capacity, and more
than once did the head of the latter jerk
about in a way that was quite alarming ashe
entered the church, which was en fete
for the occasion.

To the tortured mind of his bride, she
thought it would be a relief when the
ceremony was over, and the phantasmagoria
that seemed to surround her had all
passed away. ^ Is not certainty better than
suspense ?' asks Rhoda Boughton ; ^ night
better than twilight ? despair than the

VOL. II. o

sickly flicker of an extinguishing hope ?'

In marrying in this compulsory fashion,
I do this poor man a great wrong,' thought
Eveline, ^ and condemn myself to a lifelong
sorrow.'

And amid the sacrifice Lady Aberfeldie,
calm and aristocratic, stood with a great
air of dignity and grace peculiarly her
own.

She will love Sir Paget in time, if love
is necessary,' she was thinking ; ' he is so
good, so generous, and so rich.'

So rich — yes, with her — there lay the
magnet and the secret of it all !

The bridesmaids, all handsome girls,
were uniformly costumed; among them
amber-haired Ruby Logan, quite jubilant
with reviving hopes of Allan.

Eveline's cold and now white lips murmured
almost inaudibly the words she was
bidden to say — the few but terrible words

that made her a wedded wife — while her
pallid face was but half seen amid the
bridal veil, that seemed to float like filmy
mist around her. Allan alone, who knew
the real secret of her heart, looked pityingly,
darkly, and gravely on, for it was a
union of which — however his father and
mother desired it — he did not approve.

For a time Eveline had actually schooled
herself to think that marriage would give
her a species of vengeance on the man
who, she thought, had wronged and oppressed
her. But now, oh, heaven ! she
loved the lost one more than ever, while
death alone could enforce the fetters her
lips were riveting.

Was it ominous of evil that the ring
dropped from her wedding finger as Sir
Paget placed it there ?

At last all was over. The great organ
pealed forth the wedding-march. The

o2

bells rang joyously in the great spire
overhead, and she was led forth by Sir
Paget, leaning on his arm, a wedded
wife.

So time would pass on — days dawn and
nights close ; the moon would shine amid
the fleecy clouds on the quiet pastoral
hills, on the great castellated mass of Dun-argue,
the woods and waters of her old
home ; but never would she be as she had
been — as a happy, thoughtless girl — the
Eveline Graham of the past years ; nevermore
could joy be hers, or would she
know again the love she had lost, the
tenderness she had tasted ; and times
there were when, amid her general passive
appearance of numbness and indifference,
hot, scorching tears of utter despair
escaped her, and a passionate longing
seized her to take to flight, whither she
knew not, and to rend asunder the meshes

of the marriage net that bound her now ;
and in this frame of mind she departed
on her honeymoon !

On that morning, there lingered long
on one of the western batteries of the oldcastle
an officer who — if he was noticed
at all — seemed to be solely intent on
enjoying a cigar, and who seemed to
avoid the society of all.

This was poor Evan Cameron, listening
to the wedding bells in the distant spire,
and well he knew for what a tragedy they
were ringing ; and, each time their clangour
came upon the wind, they seemed to
find an echo in his heart.

So she was married at last, and more
than ever lost to him !

Cards came to him in due course, and
he tore them into minute fragments.

Evan did all his regimental duties and
daily work like a man — but as one in a

dream — all that was required of him, with
more than ever, if possible, strict punctilio ;
yet he felt himself a mere machine, without
heart or soul ; and had only one
longing, for the time when he might turn
his back upon his native country, and find
himself face to face with the enemy, no
matter who, or where, that enemy might
be.

CHAPTER Xiy.

MISTRUST.

Now that dear Eveline is off our hands
said Lady Aberfeldie, ' I cannot help
thinking seriously of Allan's affairs and
those of Olive, and really some serious
advice should be given to the foolish

couple. Could not you '

No,' interrupted her husband ; ' I wash
my hands of lovers and their piques and
plans. You have managed the matter of
Eveline and Sir Paget — try your skill once
more.'

Neither Allan nor Olive is so compliant
as poor Eveline.'

No — poor Eveline indeed !'

You think of her marriage thus, now ?'

Well, there is no denying it is rather
a January-and-Maj style of thing ; but let
us not speak of it.'

Considering that her husband had from
the first given his full assent to the whole
transaction, Lady Aberfeldie could not
help glancing at him rather reproachfully,
but she only said,

Olive has, of course, many admirers ;
but the rumour of her engagement to
Allan keeps them all at a distance.'

Poor Olive ! Her fortune is almost a
misfortune to her.'

'Why?'

She imagines it to be the attraction of
everyone, rather than her own beauty.'

'And once she conceived it to be the

attraction of Allan ; but she knows better
now — that he loves, or loved, her for
herself alone.'

She has already had two peers and a
baronet in her train, all drawn thither, I
fear, by her money-bags alone, and young
Carslogie of Ours seemed desperately
smitten, too.'

'Ours?'

Well, I always think of the Black
Watch as * Ours ' — it is force of habit — a
good-looking fellow, well-born, well-bred,
with plenty of money.'

Allan is his equal in all these and more ;
but what he and she mean by dallying and
delaying as they do, I cannot conceive.'

Allan had looked upon Olive at the
recent marriage in her striking costume asa
bridesmaid, and thought she had never
appeared to greater advantage.

Why should she not have figured there

as a bride too? What was the secret
spring of this doubt and mistrust that had
come between them again, and which she
shrank from attempting to explain ?

To do her justice, she was often on the
point of doing so; but a sentiment of
miserable fear of what Allan might do,
think, or say, if made aware of the deep
affront Holcroft was capable of inflicting
upon his future wife, tied her tongue.

Better would it have been a thousand
times had she trusted to Allan fully and
implicitly, and to the means he might put
in force to procure or purchase the silence
for ever of such a reptile as her tormentor.

The knowledge in the minds of both,
that a time for separation must inevitably
come soon now, if all the rumours of war
proved true, softened their emotions, and
drew the cousins towards each other again.

The intercourse between them had, as

of old, its usual charm, but was strange
and constrained, for as Allan did not
attempt again the role of lover, but seemed
to ' bide his time,' Olive felt her pride
alarmed, and would often reply to him
coldly, with a straightening of her slim
form, and a cresting up of her graceful
neck and handsome head.

Time passed on ; she heard nothing of
Hawke Holcroft or his threats, and the
courage of Olive rose ; but it was awful to
think of her name being at the mercy of
such a creature, even if she were married
!

Once the love that was really smouldering
in the hearts of both nearly burst into
a flame again.

Olive was seated in the garden at Mavis-wood
so deeply lost in thought that she
was unaware of Allan's approach until he
overhung the rustic sofa she occupied.

A penny for your thoughts, Olive,' said
he.

The sum usually offered for what might
prove a perilous secret to know.'

Well ?'

'My thoughts were of many things till
your voice scattered them said she, twirling
her sunshade on her shoulder.

^ I was in hope they were of — me.'

Olive only smiled, and remained silent,
while he looked into her eyes with a curiously
mingled expression, which seemed
to be both imploring and commanding, but
she only said,

They were not of you — why should they
be?'

Allan drew back a pace, with a cloudy
brow.

Forgive my being playful for a moment,
Olive — I shall never in this way offend you

She gave him a sweet and deprecating
an entreating, glance; but Allan
did not perceive it ; his face was turned
angrily and sadly from her, so her pique
ever so ready — became roused.

Olive,' said Allan, after a pause, ' love
should always be stronger than pride.'

Of course — when love exists she replied,
turning a shoulder from him.

And with you, Olive, do not let it stand
between us as before. If your father's
will is again the cause, let me tell you
once more that I refuse to have any share
in that lunatic arrangement, and will not
marry you on any such conditions.'

*Who is thinking or talking of marriage
?' said she, sarcastically, yet making
an effort to restrain her tears ; ^ moreover,
I fear that as a husband you would be very
tyrannical and cruel.'

*My character in the present and the

past does not bear out this, I think

Suspicious, then ?'

Not without extreme and just reason
replied Allan, as his mind flashed back to
the Holcroft episode.

She strove to glance at him defiantly,
but failing, smiled, though his handsome
face had in it an expression of sorrow and
anger.

*Ere a month be past, Olive, an Egyptian
bullet may make you every way a
free woman, so far as regards your father's
will.'

I do not wish to be free from it,' she
was on the point of saying passionately,
but controlled her speech and remained —
unwisely — silent.

Allan regarded her wistfully.

'Are injudicious reticence and a little
aversion the best beginning of a true love T
he asked.

Perhaps — I am no casuist,' said she,
tapping the ground with a pretty little foot
impatiently.

Lovely, pouting, and wistful, her face
was now turned to his with a mixture
of petulance and shy reproach as she
thought,

Oh, why does he not take me in his
arms, and kiss and make a fuss with meas
he used to do.'

But, repelled by her curious manner,
Allan had no intention of doing any such
thing, and thought her a curious enigma.
So thus the chance of a complete reunion
ended, and ere long the luckless Olive
was to have cause for repenting most bitterly
her lack of candour and perfect trust,
and the force of the overweening pride
which engendered mistrust in one who
loved her so well.

CHAPTER XY.

THE BLACK WATCH.

Wae with Egypt had been declared, and in
the Castle of Edinburgh, as in every other
fortress and barrack in the British Isles,
the notes of preparation were sounding,
and the Black "Watch, ever so glorious in
the annals of our army, was among the
regiments bound for the land where, eighty
years before, it had gathered such a crop
of laurels under the gallant Abercrombie,
in conflict, not against a feeble horde of
Egyptians, but when encountering forty

thousand of the veteran infantry of
France.

From that day in the October of ]739
when the companies of Freicudan Dim, or
Black Watch (so called from their sombre
green tartans), drawn from the Monroe
of Loss, the Grants of Strathspey,
and the Campbell of Lochnelland Carrick,
were first enrolled as a regiment on the
Birks of Aberfeldie, near the southern
bank of the Tay, by the gallant old Earl
of Crawford, the 42nd has been second to
none in peace and war, and its very name
and number are rendered dear to the people
of Scotland by innumerable ties of
friendship and clanship, by traditions and
glorious exploits in battle.

In almost everything that has added
strength or brilliance to the British Empire
the regiment has borne a leading part,
and to attempt to trace its annals would

VOL. II. P

be to write the history of onr wars since
the days of the second George.

Suffice it that the second year after the
companies were constituted a regiment,
saw them fighting for the House of Austria
against France and Bavaria, and
covering the rear of that British army
which was hurled from the heights of
Fontenoy by the bayonets of the Irish
Brigades, and where, we are told,
the gallantry of Sir Robert Munroe of
Culcairn and his Highlanders was the
theme of admiration through all Britain

So it was with them in the old Flanders
war, till 1758 saw them attacking Ticonderoga
in America, where, rushing from
amid the Reserve, where they disdained to
linger, they hewed down the dense abatis
with their claymores, and, storming the
breastworks, ' climbing up one another's
shoulders, and placing their feet in the

Holes made in the face of the works by
their swords and bayonets, no ladders
having been provided exposed the while
to a dreadful fire of cannon and musketry,
under which six hundred and forty-seven
of them fell ; and hence a cry for vengeance
went through the country of the clans,
procuring so many recruits, and another
battalion was formed, and fresh glories
were won in the West India Isles, whereat
Martinique and by the walls of the
Moro, their pipes sent up the notes of
victory.

In the fatal strife of the American revolt
they were ever in the van, and the first
years of the present century saw their
tartans waving darkly amid the battle-smoke
of Aboukir, under the shadow of
Pompey's Pillar, and on the plains of
Alexandria, where they cut to pieces the
French Invincibles, slew six hundred and

v2

fifty of them, captured their colours, which
were delivered to Major Stirling, together
with the cannon they had also seized ;
and ere long the mosques and towers
of Grand Cairo echoed to their martial
music.

Who can record the brilliance of their
valour in the long and glorious war of the
Peninsula — that war of victories, which
began on the banks of the Douro and
continued to the hill of Toulouse ? And
anon, their never-to-be-forgotten prowess
on the plains of Waterloo, when, under
Macara, they formed the flower of Picton's
superb division, and where, with the Greys
and Gordon Highlanders, they sent up the
cry which still finds echo in every Scottish
heart, the cri-de-guerre of ' Scotland forever
!' while plunging into those mighty
French columns, which rolled away before
their bayonets like smoke before the wind.

There their total casualties were two
hundred and ninety-seven of all ranks.

The fought like heroes, and like heroes
fell — an honour to the country,' to quote
the War OjBBce Record, page 145. ' On
many a Highland hill, and through many
a Lowland valley, long will the deeds of
these brave men be fondly remembered
and their fate deeply deplored. Never did
a finer body of men take the field ; never
did men march to battle that were destined
to perform such services to their country,
and to obtain such immortal renown.'

But equal renown did their services win
on the banks of the Alma, when old Colin
Campbell led them into action, exclaiming,

Now, men, the whole army is watching
us ; make me proud of my Highland
Brigade !'

And reason indeed had that grand old
soldier to be proud of his lads in the kilt,

as they swept up the green hillsides to
glory. ' The ground they had to ascend,'
says an eye-witness, the author of ^ Eothen,'
was a good deal more steep and broken
than the slope beneath the redoubt. In
the land where those Scots were bred,
there are shadows of sailing clouds shimmering
up the mountain side, and their
paths are rugged and steep, yet their
course is smooth, easy, and swift. Smoothly,
easily, and swiftly the Black Watch
seemed to glide up the hill. A few minutes
before their tartans ranged dark in
the valley ; now their plumes were on the
crest.'

Into the dense grey masses of the Kazan
column, over which towered the miraculous
figure of St. Series, their steady
volley swept like a sheet of lead ; anon
their like of bayonets was flashing to the
charge like a hedge of steel, and a wail of

despair broke from the Muscovites, worrying
that ' the Angel of Death had come
threw away all that might impede their
speed and fled.

Then,' says the brilliant author we
have quoted, ' rose the cheers of the Highland
Brigade. Along the Kourgane
slopes, and thence west almost home
to the causeway, the hillsides were
made to resound with that joyous
and assuring* cry, which is the
natural utterance of a northern people so
long as it is warlike and free.'

Their furious onset struck terror to
many an Indian heart during the dark
years of the Sepoy revolt, and like sweetest
music their pipes were heard by that
desperate and despairing band who fought
for their wives and children in beleaguered
Lucknow ; and as, of course, the old Black
Watch must be in everything, they bore

their share in the conquest of Coomassie,
and were the first men in the sable city,
as their pipes announced to the army of
Wolseley.

While on this subject, we cannot help
quoting a Frenchman's estimate of the
Scottish troops. In the moniteur de Soir
for 1868, a writer says,

The Scottish soldiers form without distinction
the cream of the British army,
and the Highlander is the prototype of
the excellent soldier. He has all the requisite
qualities without one defect. Unluckily
for Great Britain, the population of
Scotland is not numerous. Saving, it is
true, to the point of putting by penny after
penny, the Scotsman, for all that, is honest,
steadfast, and amiable in his intercourse
with others, enthusiastic and proud,
most chivalrous when the question is
about shedding his blood. The old traditions

of clanship subsist, each company
is grouped round an illustrious name, and
all and every man is sure to be the captain's
cousin. The Highlanders have a
strange sort of bravery, which partakes of
French fire and English phlegm. They rush
with impetuosity, they charge with vigour,
but are not hurried away by anger. In the
very hottest of an attack, a simple order
suffices to stop them. Formed in square,
you would take them for Englishmen, butin
the bayonet charge you would swear
they were French. For the rest they are
of Celtic origin, and the blood of our
fathers flows in their veins. In the eyes
of the Turk, the Scots have one enormous
fault— that of showing their bare legs.
In our eyes they have but one defect, but
still excessively annoying — their depraved
taste for the screaming of the bagpipes.
We know that the Highlanders would not

get under fire (with elan) without being
excited by their national: airs being played
on this discordant instrument. One of
their generals having put down this piercing
music, they attacked the enemy so
languidly that the bagpipes had to be restored
to them, and then they took the
position. In a word, we repeat that the
Scots are magnificent soldiers.'

We may smile at the Frenchman's idea
of the pipes, for as the old piper said of
Count Flauhault when he expressed his
disgust thereat, ' Maybe sbe heard owe
muckle o' them at Waterloo.'

And now once again the Black Watch
were going to the land of the sun and the
desert, where Abercrombie received his
death wound while calling to them in the
charge, ' My brave Highlanders, remember
your country — remember your forefathers
!' And these glories, with all ' the

stirring memories of a thousand years
were not forgotten on that day in the
August of 1882 when, under the scion of
a gallant house, Cluny the younger, the
regiment received its orders of readiness
and began to prepare for its departure
from the Castle of Edinburgh, while a
mighty throb seemed to pervade the heart
of the city as its hour of departure approached.


All in its ranks, of course, had friends
whom they sorrowed to leave — all save
poor Evan Cameron ; and all were impatient
and full of ardour to join in the
coming strife ; but none, perhaps, were
more impatient than he, for he had to seek
forgetfulness — oblivion from his own
thoughts — a refuge from his futile regrets
among other scenes for the lost love of
one who could never be more to him thana
tender memory now.

CHAPTER XVI.

IN THE Belvedere.

Shakespeare tells us that men have died
and worms have eaten them, but not for
love. So Evan Cameron did not die, nor
had he any thoughts of dying; but it
seemed to his young and enthusiastic
heart just then that all which made life
worth living for, and all its fulness, splendour,
and joy, were over and done with
for him.

Of the movements of the Aberfeldie
family he knew nothing at that time.

Allan was again on leave, and vas to
join the regiment on the day of its embarkation
in England.

Evan bad a longing to see the place
where he had last seen Eveline, as her
lover, at Maviswood. Memories of the
past days at Dundargue came vividly upon
him now — of the times when they had
wandered in the leafy woods near the oldcastle,
talking sweet nonsense, with happy
hearts and laughter that came so readily;
when eye spoke to eye and hand thrilled
when it touched hand with lingering pressure,
and glances were exchanged that, if
they meant anything, meant love.

Lord Aberfeldie had been ever kind to
him, and a friend of his father ; he thought
he would like to press the good peer's
hand once more before he departed, for
the regiment was going far away, to a
land from whence he might never return ;

SO, as Evan was an impulsive young fellow,
he repaired at once to Maviswood.

He found Mr. Tappleton, the old family
butler, airing his figure at the front door
when he approached.

Lord Aberfeldie, he was informed, was
in London — his lordship was residing with
Miss Raymond at Southsea, and Sir Paget
was not at home.

Sir Paget — is he living here ?' asked
Cameron, with a start.

Yes, sir, for a few days.'

'And Lady — Lady ' He paused,

unable to pronounce the name.

'Is also here,' replied Mr. Tappleton,
knowing instantly who he meant ; ' but
she is out somewhere walking in the
grounds.'

Evan gave the butler a couple of cards
and turned away. He felt quite startled
to find that Sir. Paget and his bride were

resident at Maviswood, and thought that
he could not get away from the vicinity of
the house too soon.

Proceeding down the avenue, he passed
a narrow, diverging path between high
old holly-hedges, the vista of which was
closed by a belvedere, or species of pillared
alcove, built upon a grassy knoll, and
therein, as if in a shrine, stood Eveline.

To pass was impossible. For a moment
he stood rooted to the spot, and then, as
one in a dream, approached her. To meet
her face to face thus, was like something
of a dreadful shock to both now.

Eveline was deadly pale and trembling,
while her graceful figure looked very
slight and girlish in her fresh cambric
costume and gipsy hat.

At the very moment of their meeting
there, her mind had been full of him.

How had door Evan borne the tidings

of her marriage, and with. it the total
destruction of their mutual wishes ? —
mutual hopes they had none.

She had often pondered on this, and
wondered how he had heard it, who had
told him of it, or if he had seen it in the
papers, and how he looked when the sad
tidings came. Of the cruel mockery of
sending him wedding-cards she knew nothing.
Was he striving to forget her ?
perhaps learning to hate her — oh, not
that ! — to despise her ? nor that, if he
knew all.

But they were nothing to each other
now, and never could be anything more.

Anon would come other thoughts that
were perilous to a young and enthusiastic
girl.

Evan Cameron had given himself to
her with all his heart, and with all his
soul, and he loved her with all the strength

of both ; and now — now, with another
man's wedding-ring upon her finger, she
felt unprepared to relinquish that love,
for she could not doubt that it must still
exist, though he had been cruelly and
selfishly treated.

And while all these thoughts had been
coursing through her brain he came suddenly
before her.

I pray that he may soon forget me
poor Evan !' had been her frequent
thought. ' Why should he think of me
more, when he knows of my marriage,
and must deem me a pitiful creature.'

Each caught their breath, each clasped
their hands as if in mute misery, and the
eyes of both were strained, as if the pain
of recognition was mingled with the peril
of the situation.

Evan thought how pale and transfigured
looked the soft face of his lost love !

VOL. II. Q

*I knew not that you where here — I
came to visit your father — we march tomorrow
— and — and '

Evan paused breathlessly, though his
voice seemed to thrill with passion, and
his lips, when they touched her hands
even the hand with the obnoxious
wedding-hoop — trembled and quivered
like those of a girl.

Evan she said, softly, ' Evan !'

My darling — my lost darling !' broke
from his lips, as he clasped her in his
arms, and her slender fingers softly and
tremulously caressed his dark and closely-curling
hair with something that was
almost motherly, or sisterly, in the intensity
of its tenderness.

Oh, Evan,' she whispered, ' may God
watch over you, spare you, protect you,
and give you some other heart to make
you happy.'

It was some solace to Evan's wounded
spirit that she had been in a manner —
apart from her temporary doubt of himself
— forced into her marriage; that her
own free will, poor girl, had no hand in
the matter.

Clasped to his heart, hers was beating
for some moments ' with the wild music
of recovered joy, her great dread silenced
by her greater passion

But to what end was it all?

This is madness !' exclaimed Evan, as
they stood for a minute, hand clasped
in hand, and gazing into each other's
eyes.

Madness indeed !' moaned Eveline.

I am going far away, my darling, and
shall never see you again. That I may
find a grave in Egypt is the kindest wish
you can have for me ; and that you will
never think but kindly of me in the time

to come, is my only and my dearest hope
now.'

She was in his arms again — the girl,
every tress of whose brown-golden hair
was dear to him — every expression of
whose eyes and lips, every tone of whose
voice, every charm and grace of whose
face and form were graven on his inner
heart ; but what availed all that now ?

You know all now — my secret, and
that I was not false to you, Eveline?'
said he.

All,' she replied, hollowly.

'Poor Alice could not come to my
quarters in the Castle, consequently I
had to meet her somewhere — where you
saw us. Poor little soul, she had no
one to trust, to — to confide in, save me.'

And now '

She has gone back to her husband —
back to my brother in India.'

Desperate with the idea that you,
Evan, had deceived me, I was blind
careless — passive in their hands, and
heedless what became of me ; and Sir
Paget bought me of them — bought me
of papa and mamma — as a slave who
loathes her buyers and her slavery !'
exclaimed Eveline, wildly.

Such a fate, my darling !'

Such a fate, indeed !' she whispered
through her set teeth. ' But we must
part now,' she added, but without withdrawing
her hands from his firm clasp.

A parting bitter as death, Eveline.'

And as hopeless,' she said, now sobbing
heavily.

Yet, with all its bitterness, this has
been a great, an unexpected joy to see you
here, to embrace you once again.'

Of one grim fact they could not be oblivious.
She was another man's wife, and

he had to tear himself away ; to lose forever
the sight of that sweet, afflicted face,
the tones of that beloved voice, to long
again for both, with eager eyes and ears
in the time that was to come.

Though parted thus, Eveline, you will
think of me sometimes — you will remember?'


For ever and for ever, while my miserable
life lasts, Evan.'

My poor darling ! To remember me,
to be constant to me in memory, while another's
wife.'

^ I cannot realise that even now, still
less what my life will be in the future, with
you not in it.'

A long, clinging kiss and he was gone,
while Eveline sank down on the stone
seat within the belvedere in a state of
semi-consciousness, in which she was discovered
by Sir Paget.

CHAPTER Xiii.

THE Route.

Few scenes are more stirring than the departure
of a regiment for the seat of war,
in Scotland, perhaps, more than anywhere
else, when it is the departure of a
national regiment endeared to the people
by historical and warlike associations,
combined with those of clanship and kindred.


The last toast at the mess, ere it was
broken up, was ^ Tir nam Beam, ncm Gleans
nan Gaisgaich ;' and now, till more peaceful

times, its magnificent and trophied
mess-plate was stored away, among it that
gigantic silver tripod, with its fluted bowl,
weighing eighteen hundred ounces, bearing,
with other mottoes, these : — Na Tir
liaison Barth son Eipliart 21 Mar, Island
— ' O'Chummin Gaidhculach cT on Frei-
cuban Dim, na 42 Regiment.'

About seven in the morning the pipers
of the Black Watch blew the gathering,
waking the echoes of that grand old fortress,
which is the focus of so much Scottish
history, and from the gates of which
by sword or spear the tide of war was so
often rolled back in the stormy days of
old ; and now the sound of the pipes
found a deeper echo in the hearts of the
thousands who were mustering in the
streets below to bid the regiment farewell,
and wish it God-speed in the land it was
going to.

The August morning was a lovely one,
and the " shadows formed by the golden
sunshine lay purple and deep in the glens
of the Pentlandss, and in the valleys and
hollows spanned by the bridges of the city
and overlooked by the towering edifices
of its terraced streets, amid which rose
every spire and pinnacle tipped with ruddy
splendour.

The woods and gardens were still in all
their summer beauty and greenery, and
the corn-fields in the distance were ripe
with golden grain over all the sun-lighted
landscape. Ere that corn was all gathered,
many of those who came gaily forth,
mustering to the sound of the joipes,
were to find their graves in the sand of
the Egyptian desert, where the Black
Watch had gathered so many laurels in
the wars of other years.

All the city was astir as it had never

been since^the King's Own left the same
fortress for the shores of the Crimea,
and the hum of the gathering thousands
filled the clear air of the dewy morning.

Cluny trusted in his men, and thus, on
this conspicuous morning, no man failed
him, and no man was absent from his
place in the ranks. The bustle of departure
was past ; stores had been
issued ; the grey tropical helmet, with a
little crimson hackle worn on the left
side, was for a time to supersede the
graceful bonnet with its black plumes ;
valises and haversacks had been packed ;
rifles and bayonets inspected ; the baggage
selected and forwarded ; and nothing
remained now but to march, after sixteen
months' residence in the city of the
Stuart.

Cluny had kindly given ample opportunities
to his men to take leave of their

friends, and it was only for a short time
before their departure, that the great palisade
barriers of the Castle were closed at
the tete-dupont against all comers, and the
human surge that pressed against them.

At last the pipes were heard echoing
under that deep archway through which
millions of armed men have marched ; the
brass drums rang under the grim ports of
the Half-Moon Battery; the barriers were
rolled back, and, with dragoons clearing
the way, the Black Watch, in their fighting,
kits, with greys helmets, white jackets,
and dark-green tartans, their colours cased,
and all their bayonets glittering in the
sun like a rippling stream of steel, came
marching down the slope, while cheers
rent the air, cheers and shouts, though
doubtless many a heavy heart was therefor
wives and sweethearts, children and
parents, alike were being left behind by

those on whose faces they might never
look again.

Each man had on his back a valise, tin
canteen, and great-coat ; his haversack and
water-bottle were slung, and attached to
a lanyard at his neck, each carried a large
knife — like the genuine jockteleg of the
days of old— and right service-like and
purpose-like they all looked.

The oJBBcers, who were in blue patrol
jackets, with kilt, claymore, and dirk, carried
knives of the same kind, together
with a haversack, field-glass, and water-bottle.


Dense were the crowds occupying every
street, every window and balcony, every
coign of vantage, and the whole area
through which the regiment marched to
the sound of its national and martial
music seemed instinct with life, ardour,
and enthusiasm.

Many veterans were in the ranks of the
regiment — men who had served in Ashanti,
and not a few who, as Albany Highlanders,
had marched to Kandahar and
fought in Afghanistan. Their colonel —
Cluny the younger, son of that venerable
Clay who is chief of the Macpherson or
Clanvurich (the second tribe of the great
Clan Chateau), and was once a Black
Watchman — rode at their head, and near
him marched his favourite sergeant-major,
MacNeil, a tall, stately, and tried soldier,
who, though he knew not the fate before
him, when the hour came, had no fear of
facing death, as became one of the Frei-
cuban Diu.

Evan Cameron, as he marched on, claymore
in hand, had a shrewd idea that
among the many there whose tender hearts
were filled with pity and enthusiasm, would
be one who was secretly and inexpressible

dear to himself ; and yet, though a kind of
mortal pain was in his breast, his heart,
despite it all, beat responsive to the cadence
of the old familiar march — the regimental
quick-step — the same air to which
he had so often trod in past times and in
other lands ; and now, as one in a dream,
he saw the seething crowds, the forest of
waving hats and handkerchiefs, and all the
glorious view on which he was probably
looking for the last time — the noble line
of Princes Street, steeped in the morning
sun, the Calton Hill with its line of towers
and battlements, its temples, great stone
obelisk, and reproduction of the classic
Parthenon of Minerva, Arthur's Seat, and
the Craigs, and the old city with its ten-storey
houses — each a stone record of the
historic past.

He was suddenly roused on seeing Cars-logie

playfully kiss the basket bill of his
claymore, and wave his hand to a young
lady who sat by the side of an elderly gentleman
in an open barouche.

She was closely veiled, but Evan's heart
leaped in his breast when he recognised
Eveline— Eveline by the side of Sir Paget,
who waved his hat occasionally, and
jerked his bald head about as usual.

Why was such a girl as that, Allan
Graham's sister, sacrificed to that old
devil of a fogies ?' asked one of the Black
Watch of Carslogie, a high-spirited young
fellow, who thought it very nice to be in
the 42nd, but very nasty to be also in debt,
and was now right glad to find himself en
route for Egypt.

Why, indeed ? you may well ask,' he
replied ; ' simply because her father is one
of the upper ten, and, like all that lot,
selfish to the backbone.'

And Cameron s heart endorsed his answer
to the full.

Eveline saw him, and for a moment —
but a moment only — raised her. veil.

The tale of all she had endured was
written in the wistful and mournful expression
of her soft hazel eyes, and all
who knew her now remarked that, though
she sometimes smiled, she never
laughed.

She felt her lips quiver and the lines of
them tighten, for we may control deep
emotion in the eyes, but on the mouth,
never.

Her whole heart and soul were concentrated
in the effort to appear calm and
look on, though her eyes were dim with
the tears in which she feared just then to
indulge.

Oh, my darling !' she whispered to herself,
again and again, but voicelessly, in

her heart. ' M}^ dear love — my brave
Evan — T shall never see sou again !'

Surreptitiously she concealed her tear-soaked
handkerchief in her pocket, and
drew forth another — a fresh one redolent
of eau-de-cologne. Quickly though she
did it, Sir Paget saw the act, drew his own
conclusions therefrom, and thought himself
an ass for having accorded her
permission to see the Black "Watch
depart.

Their recent brief meeting — the memory
of the passionate kisses that should
never have been given or taken — added
now to the supineness of the present
moment.

He only appeared to bow to her ; but ashe
gazed with eyes of passionate yearning
on her flower-like face, the lips he had
kissed so often, the eyes that had so often
looked with love into his, and did so now,

VOL. II. R

his heart filled with a wild and desperate
longing to take her to his breast and cover
her face with kisses again.

But the drums beat, the pipes played
loud and high, the crowds cheered, and
the forward march went ruthlessly on.

All this fuss of Eveline's, thought Sir
Paget, could not be merely for the departure
of her brother's regiment !

At last to Eveline's ears the sound of
pipe and drum died away in the distance
as the barouche was driven homeward to
Maviswood ; but now the despair in her
face and attitude was too palpable not to
attract the attention of Sir Paget, who
jerked his face forward quite close to
hers and regarded her gloomily and in
silence.

In all that followed now, Evan Cameron
seemed to act mechanically, and to do that
which was his duty by mere force of

habit, as the regiment marched into the
resounding railway station, where he saw
the men of his company told-off to compartments
; saw the sergeants marking on
the footboard of the carriages with chalk
the letter of the company ; saw the men
take off their valises ; and ere long the
swift special train was sweeping through
the dark tunnel that pierces the rocky
bowels of Calton Hill, and the Black
Watch were fairly off for Egypt again.

How to bear his loss in the long years
that were to come, if the fortune of war
spared him, was the thought that tortured
most the mind of Cameron then, and gave
him an emotion of despair.

He remembered the fixed and agonised
gaze of Eveline ; he remembered, too, the
manner in which her spouse had looked
grimly on, with an angry, yet not unsatisfied,
jerk of the head, as he, no doubt, was

k2

thinking they ' had seen the last of Evan
Cameron.'

The future ! All that was vague to the

latter indeed.

CHAPTER XVIII.

IDIOTS ONLY WILL BE COZENED TWICE.'

It was on an August evening — the sun
had not set, but the sky was cloudy and
gloomy ; the wind was high, and a heavy
sea was on at Spithead, and the conservatory
in which Olive was lingering and
selecting a button-hole of violets and
maiden-hair fern for Allan was so dark
already that the lamps were lighted in it.
She was dressed for a dinner-party, and
was looking charming — her best and
brightest — as she sang softly to herself

and wandered from one shelf of potted
flowers to another, when Allan suddenly
joined her, with an expression in his face
that was full of mingled sadness and excitement,
and with a telegram in his hand.

^ Allan, what has happened ?' she asked,
changing colour, and with dire forebodings
in her heart.

He caught her hands in his and tried to
smile.

Tell me, why are you so sad ?' she
asked again.

Darling,' said he, as he drew her to his
breast, * compose yourself ; I have just had
great news — bad news you will deem them
to tell you.'

From these few speeches it may be
gathered that the cloud that hovered between
this pair of lovers had passed away,
and that sunshine had come again.

They were at Puddicombe House, a villa

of Sir Paget's, which he had lent to Lord
Aberfeldie, and from the windows of which,
as it overlooked Stokes Bay and Spithead
from the Clarence Parade at Southsea,
they could daily see the departure of great
white ' troopers,' crowded with soldiers —
Highlanders, Rifles, and Marines — steaming
past the long line of the sea-wall (withall
its naval trophies and monuments) en
route for the shores of Egypt.

There, too, were in view the three forts
in the Channel, with Puckpool Battery at
Spring Yale, which, with the other in a
line on the mainland, would effectually bar
an enemy's ship from reaching Portsmouth
Harbour. Ponderous indeed are these
forts — one in particular, a mass of circular
masonry, girt by a black belt of iron armour,
pierced with port-holes, through
which the great guns of ' the period ' may
spit out shot and shell ; and beyond lies

the peaceful Isle of Wight — a charming
stretch of sloping land, wooded to the
water's edge, and studded with beautiful
mansions.

You have bad news to tell me ?' said
Olive, as the haunting terror that was ever
before her struck a pang to her heart.

I must rejoin my regiment at once ; it
leaves the Castle of Edinburgh tomorrow
for Egypt, and I am to meet it at Wool-with,
where the transport awaits it. Oh,
how hard it is to part with you — even fora
time,' he added, caressing her, as her
head dropped upon his breast ; ' to part
thus, and unmarried yet, Olive — after all
our past folly, jealousies, and waste of
time. Speak to me, darling !'

What can I say, Allan ?' replied Olive,
piteously, as her tears fell fast.

'We shall not go to this dinner-party
at the Port Admiral's, of course. Our

last evening must be spent together.

Oh, Allan, Allan !'

^ Take off those evil diamonds, darling
those stones of ill omen. Why did
the mater let you wear them ? They
are never produced without something
happening.'

And the transport sails — when ?'

On Tuesday evening.'

So soon — so very soon !'

My darling' — my own — don't weep so,'
said he, pressing her closer to his breast,
and nestling her face in his neck, while
he caressed and tried to soothe her ; but
the impulsive Olive would neither be
soothed nor comforted for a time.

When, however, she became calmer, he
said,

I must leave you for a few minutes.
I must telegraph to the adjutant, see the
mater, poor soul, and send apologies, as

we shall not go to the admiral's to-nights
He left her; and, sinking into a sofa,
she abandoned herself to a stormy fit of
weeping and to sad and bitter reflections,
and to many unavailing regrets —
unavailing now, as they were to be parted
so soon ; and one grim and harrowing
fact stood darkly out amid them all — her
affianced lover was going to the seat of
war and disease, to face unnumbered perils
in that fatal land of Egypt !

A slight sound roused her, and drew
her attention to a glass-door of the conservatory
that opened to the garden.

A man's face .seemed glued against it —
a face white and ghastly, apparently regarding
her fixedly — the face of Hawke
Holcroft, emaciated by dissipation, want, or
disease — probably by all three — his shifty
eyes bloodshot and wild in expression.

Id another moment she would have
screamed with terror ; but he opened the
door, entered, and stood before her.

*I never thought — at least, I was in
hope never to see you again,' said Olive,
starting up, and recoiling from him.

Ha — indeed. But in this world are
not those always meeting who are better
far apart ?' was his mocking response.

What brings you here — what do you
want ?' asked Olive, gathering courage
from desperation, and trembling in her
soul lest Allan should return and find
this villainous intruder there.

What do I want ! Money. I am, and
have been for days, starving.'

Money I shall not be weak enough to
give you again, under any threat or any
pressure. The last I gave you cost me
dearly,' said Olive, firmly, though terrified

to find herself face to face with this
would-be assassin again.

You will not ?'

No;

Then give me these jewels — these diamonds
he said, hoarsely ; and, ere she
could move or speak, he snatched up the
necklace and pendants from a pedestal
on which she had placed them, and thrust
them into his breast-pocket. ' For a time,
now, the work of art I possess shall be
withheld from the British public — but fora
time only — and in the memory of the
time when you loved me, or led me to
believe that you did

Insolent — how dare you say so ?' she
exclaimed.

*You tried to win my heart, and won
it, too — you played with me fast and
loose, as you did with your cousin, for *
whom you did not care one doit, then at

least, and for whom I believe you care
nothing now.'

Olive glanced round her in dismay, for
should such words as these, and others
that followed them, reach listening ears,
she might be lost, and she was powerless
to stay the impetuous current of his
studiously mischievous speech. Moreover,
she did not see what Hawke Hole
saw behind some towering ferns and
other plants — a form, with firm-set teeth
and flashing eye, transported by fury,
while his feet were rooted to the spot —
the face of Allan Graham, who saw and
overheard, yet failed to comprehend the
situation !

A vindictive desire to separate the lovers
if he could, and to humiliate the man he
hated, took possession of the diabolical
mind of Holcroft, who said,

Let me kiss your hand, Olive, but once

again, ere I leave you — I, whom you loved
Once so well !'

'Insolent!' exclaimed the girl, impetuously.


But, ere she could resist him or escape,
he threw his arms round her, pressed her
to his breast, kissed her many times, and
then — as Allan sprang forward — he quitted
the conservatory, and vanished into the
gloom outside, while, with a low wail of
horror and distress at the shameful affront
put upon her, Olive covered her face with
her tremulous hands, and murmured,

Oh, this is too much to endure !'

Too much, indeed,' said a voice, as a
heavy hand grasped her shoulder, and she
was swung round with a force that was
almost rude, to meet the white face and
flaming eyes of Allan.

'Allan,' she exclaimed, piteously, and
held out her hands.

Stand off and touch me not,' he cried.
Idiots only will be cozened twice he
added, unconsciously quoting Dryden.

He gave her an awful and withering
glance, and, snatching up a heavy stick, he
dashed into the garden after the intruder,
whom he saw in the act of escaping by a
gate that opened upon the common, across
which he fled like a hare, pursued closely
by Allan Graham, whom, as an active
mountaineer and trained soldier, he was not
likely to escape.

The sun had set amid dim and lurid
clouds ; the evening was gloomy, close, and
stormy ; the bellowing of the ocean could
be heard along the whole line of the sea-wall,
from the Spur Redoubt to Southsea
Castle. A heavy gale from the offing was
rolling the waves in their force and fury
upon the shore, where, in anticipation
thereof, the boats and bathing machines

were all drawn up high and dry upon the
shelving shingle. The shipping at anchor
were straining on their cables, and sheet
lightning, red and fiery, threw forward in
black outline from time to time the undulating
curves of the Isle of Wight.

But Allan Graham saw none of these
things ; he only saw the fugitive Holcroft,
who ran madly towards the sea-shore, and
disappeared round the angle of the East
Battery that overhangs the sea, closely
followed by his infuriated pursuer.

What has happened, Olive — speak ?'
said Lady Aberfeldie, who was completely
bewildered by the condition in which she
found Olive, and bitterly regretting the
absence of her husband, who was then in
London; and Olive, feeling now the
unwisdom and futility of further concealment,
told her all about the power
Holcroft had wielded over her by working

on her pride, shame, and fear, and bow,
by direct acting, lie had too probably
achieved the very end which the evil
prompting of a moment had doubtless
suggested — the placing of herself in a
false position with Allan, and causing a
hopeless quarrel and separation between
them.

And now that he has left me thus,
auntie, I shall never see him again !' cried
Olive, while, burying her face in her hands,
she wept bitterly. 'I shall never forget
how pallid his poor face became, and how
his eyes glared with fury through their
unshed tears ; and never shall I forget the
gaze of tenderness, astonishment, and reproach
that came into them as he turned
from me in bitter silence.'

It is very unfortunate,' said Lady Aber=-
feldie, with difficulty restraining her own
tears, though buoyed up by indignation at

VOL. II. s

the daring and insolence of Holcroft; ' but
Allan will return in a few minutes, and I
shall undertake to explain the whole
affair.'

But the time passed on ; hour succeeded
hour, till midnight struck, and aunt and
niece sat watching each other with pale
and anxious faces, for there was no appearance
of Allan.

They supposed that in his first gust of
anger he had gone to some club or hotel,
and would, when in a calmer frame of
mind, return on the morrow ; but the morrow
had passed into evening, and he returned
no more !

Olive felt that he and she were roughly
rent asunder, and likely to drift further
and further apart on the stormy sea of life.

And now to account for his non-appearance.


Aware that he had no mercy to expect

between the bands of x\llan on one side,
and those of the police on the other, Hawke
Holcroft thought only of escape, and,
dreading flight towards the town, in the
blindness of his terror or confusion he
turned towards the sea, and ran along the
summit of the steep, rocky, and abruptly
shelving bank that is overlooked by the
low earthen-works and square, squat
tower of Southsea Castle.

Finding Allan close upon him, so close
that he could almost hear his footsteps,
amid the bellowing: of the wind and booming
of the sea that rolled in white foam
against the stone parapet wall which was
bordered by the narrow pathway he was
compelled to pursue, he suddenly turned
in blind desperation and levelled a revolver
at Allan's head, while a tiger-like fury
filled his sallow visage.

It snapped, hung fire, and was struck

s 2

from his hand bj Allan, on which he turned
again and fled into the grey obscurity,
whither Allan could not follow him now,
as the sea with a succession of angry roars
was lashing the steep stony bank and
hurling its spray over the parapet wall,
while wave after wave boiled over all the
path the fugitive had to pursue.

Again and again he saw the miserable
wretch lose his footing, while the waves
tried to suck him down, and again and
again, clinging with despairing energy to
the edge of the stony path, he strove to
recover it.

A low wailing cry of despair escaped
him as one wave towering fisher than all
the rest — perhaps a tenth wave, if there be
such a thug — enveloped him in its foamy
flood and sucked him furiously downward
in its back-wash, amid which he seemed to
struggle feebly as a fly might have done.

Once or twice Allan saw his head bobbing
amid the white foam and his thrown
hands, that had nothing to clutch at, till
the waves dashed him again and again, as if
in wild sport, among a row of great wooden
dolphins which are placed in the shingle
there to break the hire of the incoming sea,
and stand up like a line of gigantic teeth,
and in less than a minute Hawke Holcroft
vanished from sight !

Then a long breath escaped Allan.

The sea has done it not I, though richly
did he merit at my hands the fate he
has met,' thought he, as he hurried away
to alarm the sentinels and castle guard ;
but all too late to succour Holcroft in anyway
or even to search for his body.

Darkness had set in now, the fury of
the sea was increasing, and if Hawke Hole
was found at all. it would be as a
drowned man, with the fatal diamonds in

this possession, when the tide ebbed and the
long stretch of seaweed and shingle was
left dry.

But he might never be found at all,
and lie, as the skeletons are still lying
there, among the timbers of the Royal
George.

Allan knew that he was due with his
regiment at Woolwich on the morrow, and,
being full of rage and bitter disappointment
with disgust at the whole of this
recent event — too full to have explanations
with his mother, or hear aught that Olive
Eaymond might, as he naturally thought,
be artful enough to advance, perhaps to
brazen out — intent only on quitting the
scene and, if possible, of forgetting a situation
so degrading and repugnant to his
pride — he resolved to write to his father
renouncing his cousin for ever ; and, throwing
himself into a cab, drove straight to

the railway station and took the first train
to London.

Hence it was that he returned to Puddi-
combe House no more.

And as the train swept clanking along
the line, amid the monotony of its sound
the words of Olive's song, with what he
deemed her accursed raillery underlying
them, came gallingly back to his memory,
with painful reiteration,

I know a maiden fair to see,

Take care !
She can both false and friendly be,

Beware, beware !
Trust her not. She is fooling thee.'

And for what a wretched creature she
has dared to fool me !' he thought, while
a bitter malediction hovered on his lips.

In due time, with all his comrades of
the Black Watch, he found himself onboard
the Neimid, and, after she had steamed

out of the Albert Dock, amid the deafening
cheers of thousands, even amid all
the bustle and high military enthusiasm
that surrounded him, he felt half mad with
grief, mortification, and fury.

Night and day his mind was full of
angry and bitter dreams ; a conviction of
Olive's guilt and the shame of her discovery
were ever before him.

Brave young Allan Graham was stricken
to the heart ; yet he bore himself graciously
and gallantly, though a conviction
grew strong in his mind that he would
find his grave in the land he was going
to. •

Chapter XIX

IN THE LAND OF THE PHARAOHS.

IsMAiLTA, by the Lake of Timsah, lay
steeped in sunshine, while the regiments
of the Highland Brigade, for the second
time, after the lapse of eighty years, lauded
upon Egyptian soil again.

Built equi-distant from Port Said and
Suez, this new town protects the outlet of
the second canal, which carries the supply
of fresh water from the Nile near Cairo to
the Isthmus. In 1862 the place where it
stands was a scene of sandy desolation.

Seven years later saw a brilliant little
French town in existence with a broad
quay, bordering the lake, with hotels, cafes,
a theatre where vaudevilles were acted, a
street of well-stocked shops, a public garden
with a fountain spouting Nile water
in the Place Champollion, the telegraph
wires overhead, and the bells of a Christian
church ringing, where, but a short time
before, the wandering Bedouin, the nomadic
dweller in tents, the child of the desert,
with glittering spear and floating burnous,
surged his camel on its solitary way from
Eames to Seraphim.

The heat was intense, and to the eyes
of the Scottish mountaineers the scenery
about Ismailia seemed intensely monotonous.
Cloudless skies of the deepest and
richest blue formed a contrast to the vast
expanse of yellow sand that stretched far,
far away till lost in hazy distance, but the

desert is susceptible of many shades and
changes of colour.

It is said that at Ismailia the stranger
can very f ally realise the purity, the balm,
and beauty of the Egyptian night, especially
if seated over wine and a cigar in the
Hotel des Voyagers, where he may watch
the Lake of Timsah, and so varied are the
tints of the latter in the light of the red sun
setting in the west, amid a lurid glow of
gold and crimson, that it looks like three
lakes ; towards the canal that leads to
Serapium it seems a deep blue ; where the
ships are grouped near Ismailia, its wavelets
seem silver with gold, while the moon
comes slowly up like a silver dawn, and
rosy tints yet linger when the sun has
gone abruptly down.

But no time was given to the Highlanders
either to study scenery or artistic
effects, even if so disposed. Each regiment

was rapidly formed in column —
every officer and man in this fighting kit,
with tropical helmet, haversack, and water
bottle; the men with their valises and
greatcoats, and the march began towards
the desert where the Egyptians of Arabi
awaited them at Tel-el-Kebir.

Little was talked of then but the recent
cavalry fight at Kassassin, where our Life
Guards swept the ranks of Arabi's infantry,
and where a horde of wild Bedouins,
who had been hovering near the
field like birds of prey, after their departure
poured in to strip and rob the dead
and wounded of both armies, killing all
who were able to resist.

The mess — or regiment rather, as there
was no mess now — saw that Allan Graham
had come back a sorely changed man, who
had hours of evident depression alternated
by furious hilarity— not the man's old

style at all ; but his world, like Hamlet's,
was ' out of joint.' The conduct of Olive
Eaymond yet remained a profound, an
unexplained and exasperating mystery to
him ; but he felt, how bitterly, that love
lives even after trust and faith are dead
and buried ; and now that he was so far,
far away from her, dreams of a yearning
and sorrowful kind, with many stinging
thoughts, that he feared would never leave
him, filled his mind as he marched at the
head of his company towards the darkening
desert.

In his looks and manner, Evan Cameron,
like others, read a marked yet undefinable
change ; his bearing now was occasionally
haughty and reserved ; at other times his
eyes seemed strangely sad. What could
have happened ? Cameron did not ask,
and as yet Allan said nothing about it;
and, sooth to say, in his own thoughts of

Eveline, the former had cause to be sad
enough too.

His memories were ever of the days at
Dundargue, and the chance parting in the
belvedere at Maviswood ; and again her
kisses, the touch of her little caressing
hands, with her voice came vividly to
him.

In some of the last papers that had
reached the transport, vit the Continent,
he could see that she was leading a life of
outward gaiety. Could he doubt that it
was otherwise than outward ? He gathered
a sombre satisfaction from the
thought, and then strove to set it aside
as selfish.

Why should she not enjoy balls and
flowers-shows, races and regattas, the
drawing-room at Buckingham Palace, and
other brilliant gatherings ? Yet as he
read of these things a frown of mingled

anger, sorrow, and even mockery gathered
on bis brow in spite of himself.

In the same papers Allan could discover
no trace of any body having been cast upon
the beach either at Southsea or the shore of
the Isle of Wight, and hence he supposed
that the remains of the drowned Holcroft
must have been taken out to sea.

The Highland enthusiasm, the warlike
spirit that blazed up within him, kept him
from a great despair, for latterly his love
for Olive had become a part of his own
existence.

The novelty of the land in which our
new campaign had opened, the incessant
watchfulness, the time and attention each
duty brought with it, all gave him a
recklessness as to life and as to fear of
death, that after a time won him the
involuntary admiration of the Black Watch
and the whole Highland Brigade.

Just as the sun set, the bugles sounded
a ' halt ' after a march of six miles, but six
terrible miles they were, for at every step
the Highlanders sank ankle-deep in the
soft and sun-dried sand.

All around that halting-place a sea of
the latter seemed to stretch in every
direction, bare and desolate, save where
Ismailia lay, its edifices looking inky,
black, and opaque in outline against the
orange and primrose sky ; and black
looked the masts of the transports as they
rose like a forest amid the waters of the
Lake of Timsah.

When the first bivouac was formed at
El-Magfar, the bare-kneed Highlanders,
each rolled in his blanket on the soft
sand, slept comfortably enough ; but with
morning came the first instalment of
misery, when the heavy dew that soaks
everything left them cold and stiff, and

longing even for the fierce unclouded sun
again.

'A devil of a country this,' said Cars-logie.
'By day it is too hot to eat, to
act, or even to think ; and at night it is
too cold to sleep or think of anything but
the bitter cold itself.'

And but for the hot tea made for all
over-night, when the brigade first came
to its campiug'place, some injury to health
must have ensued ; but the men were too
weary to eat even a biscuit, of which each
carried a two days' supply in the canvas
haversack that formed his only pillow.

Before the sun was up, Allan rose from
the sand and looked about him. Under
the starlight the Highland bivouac — for
camp it was not — presented a curious
sight, as the men lay in ranks, each rolled
in his blanket, beside the piles of arms ;
the sentinels of the out-piquets on the way

VOL. II. T

to Tel-el-Maliuta standing dark and motionless
against the blue of the sky, looking
in kilt and helmet like the statues of
ancient Romans.

To get a little warmth ere the pipers
blew the ^ rouse he walked a short distance
from where the men of his company
lay, and near a fragment of ruined wall,
beside which grew a patch of those prickly
plants (round which hillocks of sand occasionally
gather), and a solitary gum-tree
grew, he found, rolled up in a burnous,
and evidently concealing himself in dread
and fear, a Bedouin. There was a small
palm-grove near Magfar ; why did he not
seek hiding there ?

Hallo, my man,' thought Allan, ' what
are you lurking here for? — mischief, no
doubt;

He drew his claymore, supposing the
lurker could be but a spy who had crept

swithin our chain of sentries ; but the wild
son of the desert raised his hands deprecatingly,
and, opening his burnous, showed
that he was perishing from a dreadful
wound — a sword cut that had laid open
his right shoulder and breast,

Allan put his brandy-flask to the
sufferer's lips, raising his head as he did
so, and then addressed him inquiringly.
Allan had picked up some Arabic in India,
and thus could understand the Bedouin,
who informed him that he had been wounded
thus, by one of those sons of Anak, our
Life-guardsmen, in the charge at Kassassin.

'An Egyptian, by jingo!' exclaimed
Carslogie, who came up at that moment.
'Are you about to become a studier of
humanity ?'

'Well, Cuvier was great in the study of
wasps, and so forth. Why shouldn't I
study Egyptians?' replied Allan, grimly,

T 2

and this poor devil seems to have been
wounded in the affair at Kassassin the
other day.'

You understand him, then ?'

Perfectly. Please bring one of the
staff surgeons quickly ; he must have been
lying here when we took up our ground
over night.'

The Bedouin, whose astonishment that
he was not butchered on the instant was
great, stared alternately at Allan and at
Oarslogie, who was a young fellow of the
best style, one whose fine face even the
hideous tropical helmet (which is such an
appalling substitute for the graceful feather
bonnet) could not spoil. His figure was
slight and elegant, his features clearly cut
and refined, and his bright brown chestnut
hair was close and curly.

The Bedouin was a perfect type of his
race, and, save that he had a good Lexington

rifle slung over his back, was not
much changed in habit, nature, or turn of
thought from his ancestors of the tribe of
Ishmael

Though weakened now by suffering and
great loss of blood, he seemed spare of
figure and light of limb, well-formed and
active, tall, but whether thirty or forty
years old it was impossible to say. He
had a long, thin, and expressive countenance,
with glittering black eyes and teeth
of pearly whiteness. His colour was a
dusky brown, his hair black and wiry.

He was evidently a Bedouin of the desert,
as the two ends of the scarlet shawl which
formed his turban hung down upon the
shoulder, to distinguish him from the Arabs
of other tribes. He was clad in a thick
dark brown saracen of wool, which served
as a dress by day and a bed by night, over
which was a robe with wide sleeves.

When the doctor was dressing his wound,
which was certainly a terrible sword-cut,
his richly embroidered girdle was seen,
and this announced him to be a sheikh,
and such he was proved to be, as Allan
gathered from him that his name was Zend.
el Ourdeh, the sheikh of a tribe near Jebel
Dimeshk, between the desert and the disused
railway to Heliopolis, ' the City of
the Sun ;' and as he lay there in his picturesque
costume, with a group of wondering
Highlanders, in their dark kilts and
white helmets, gathered round him, and
the blood-red sun in the distance, coming
swiftly up out of the dry sand of the yellow
desert, as it seemed, Allan thought what a
subject was the whole for the pencil of an
artist.

The Bedouin was on the point of fainting,
so great was the agony occasioned by
the dressing of his wound ; but a mouthful

from Allan's flask revived bim more
than it would have done one usually accustomed
to such stimulants.

Some sick men are going back to the
rear at Ismailia,' said Allan. ' Carslogie,
please to order the ambulance people to
come this way. I'll send this unfortunate
creature to the Third Field Hospital.'

Carslogie paused to scrape a vesta and
light a cigar, which he proceeded to puff
with a sigh of satisfaction.

'Quick, Carslogie,' cried Allan. ewe
have no time to lose. The bugles will
sound immediately.'

And Carslogie went on his way with the
air of a man who thought the world would
be none the worse for having a Bedouin
the less in it.

In his own language, and in terms peculiarly
his own, Allan could make out that
the sheikh was thanking him in a low and

earnest voice, and adding that while life
lasted he ^ would always deem him as a
brother. You infidels are powerful as the
genii of old ; you can flash a light at night
brilliant as that of the sun ^ at noon ; you
have another light that springs from the
unseen air. T have seen it in the streets
of Cairo' (no doubt referring to gas) ; sand
you can send your thoughts from land toland
under the sea more swiftly than even
the Afrite did in the days of Solomon ;
and I fear that from your hands the Egyptians
will suffer such chastisement as fell
on the people of Noah, of Ad, and of Than
he added, wearily and sadly, as his
head fell on one side.

A party of the ambulance had now come,
and Allan informed him that he was to be
sent to Ismailia. He did more ; he placed
some money in his hand wherewith to procure
necessaries, and, while the eyes of the

Bedouin gleamed with gratitude, his brown
mahogany and attenuated fingers closed
avariciously and tightly on such an unusual
gift as coins.

'Ton my soul, Allan Graham,' said
Carslogie, ' considering how these rascals
treated our wounded at Kassassin, your
humanity, to say the least of it, seems tome
to be a little misplaced.'

Perhaps ; but I cannot help ifc. I feel
a little tender-hearted just now said Allan,
with a smile, as the wounded Bedouin — of
whom he had not seen the last — was borne
away.

The pipes struck up, and once more the
columns began a ten-miles' march to Mah-
same. The Gordon Highlanders where in
advance, the Cameronss next, then came
the Highland Light Infantry, and then the
Black Watch, all toiling through the soft,
deep sand. These splendid regiments were

all marching in massed columns, at one pace
interval, the cavalry moving with them
collaterally on one flank, and the artillery
on the other, clattering along, with sponges,
buckets, spare wheels, and forge waggons
all forming a grand, impressive spectacle
in the midst of the wide Egyptian desert.

To Scottish soldiers, who are usually
so well-grounded in their Bible history,
the soil they were treading, if the toil
made it disgusting on one hand, memory
made it full of deep interest on the other.
They knew that they were already in, or
were approaching, the Land of Goshen
where, by the tasks they had conned at
school and those which their ministers
superintended, they were aware that they
were nigh unto the place where Jacob
dwelt of old, that he might be near to
Joseph, who lived at Pharaoh's court ;
near to the place where father and son

met, and where we still find Rameses,
which was built by the Israelites in the
days of their bondage ; and, as our soldiers
marched on, some there were who recalled
these things to each other, as their
minds went back to the village kirk, whose
bells awoke the echoes of green and lonely
glens, and to the firesides of their fathers,
when expounding on these things on
Saturday night, when the ' big ha' Bible '
was produced ; and, though they might
yawn wearily over such matters at home,
these scriptural names and localities had
a very different effect upon them now.

CHAPTER XX.

THE MARCH THROUGH GOSHEN.

Oi>% and on, and on, through the same
kind of Egyptian landscape — tame, barren,
and insipid — so terribly vapid and flatly
horrid, when compared with the Salvage
hills and glens of their native
land — the naked plain, bounded by occasional
hillocks at vast distances — the toilsome
march of the Highlanders continued.
Yet there are luxuriant plains in some
parts of the Land of Goshen.

Sometimes date-trees were seen, with

trunks bare and slender, or mud-walled
wigwams on the causeways ; but it is a
land that, with all its vast antiquity and
religious associations, of which no poet
has ever sung. ' What, indeed, could an
Egyptian sing on the reed of Gesner or
Theocritus ?' asks Volley. ' He sees
neither limpid streams, nor verdant lawns,
nor solitary caves ; and is equally a
stranger to valleys, mountain-sides, and
impending rocks.' Miss Martineau is
almost the only traveller who claims for
Egypt the attributes of the picturesque
and varied in beauty !

And there were incessant swarms of
scorpions, gnats, and more especially of
flies — one of the many plagues of Egypt
which were so numerous that it was
impossible to eat the dry ration biscuits
without the chance of swallowing these
pests also.

More than once, on the summit of a
sandy hillock, there would appear, sharply
defined against the clear blue sky, the
picturesque figure of a mounted Bedouin,
with his white burnous floating about him,
a tall, reed-like spear, or a long musket
slung by his side — a man unchanged in
aspect or ideas from his nomadic forefathers,
who saw the mailed Crusaders
toiling on their way to Jerusalem — gazing
with stolid wonder at the marching
columns in a costume so strange, with
bare knees, white sporrans, and kilts of
dark-green tartan waving at every step ;
while on the hot and breathless air there
was borne towards him the hoarse and
shrill music of the pipes — the same wild
music that, eighty years before, woke the
-echoes of the Pyramids and of the streets
-of Grand Cairo.

But what land in the world has not
echoed to their music ?

All our soldiers were more or less full
of enthusiasm — anxious to get at Arabi
to grapple with the enemy, ' and get
the business over,' as they phrased it ;
though it is doubtful if they quite believed
in Sir Garnet Wolseley's apparently boastful
prediction that the war would be
ended by the 16th of that month, September.


In the exuberance of their spirits, many
choruses merrily when the pipes ceased,
which was seldom, lilting as, a writer says,
only ' the song-loving Scots ' can do, as
in the days when their country was redolent
of song, when the milk-maid sang
some old chant to her cows in field or
byre, when the house-wife span at her
ingle-neck, when the reapers filled the

harvest-field witch melody, and the ploughman
in winter when he turned the glistening
furrows over the lea.

And now and anon the Bedouin scouts
would wheel their horses round and vanish
ere our cavalry could reach them to bear
to Tel-el-Ivebir the terrible tidings, as
some said, ' that devils in petticoats ' were
coming, and, as others asserted, ' devils
with beards down to their knees

Every man had one hundred rounds of
ball-cartridge and his bottle filled with
water from the Canal, called by the soldiers
jocularly ' Egyptian soup,' from its
hue and quality; thus a ration of rum,
when it was served out, proved very
acceptable, though some there were who
did not much affect the cold tea, and Allan
could not help smiling at a little argument
that ensued between Corporal MacSnish
of his company and one of the Scripture-readers,

who, to their honour, be it said,
kept up with the troops, went under fire
with them, and after the conflict did all in
their power to alleviate the sufferings of
the wounded. .

Don't grumble, corporal,' said the
Scripture-reader, ' though I know it is a
soldier's privilege. He who paints the
lilies of the field and feeds the sparrow
will supply all you want.'

Rich, I hope so, wbateffer ; but a corporal
of the Black Watch is worth a good
many sparrows, I can tell you, and as for
the cold tea — ugh !'

'Better for you than all the liquor in
the world, my man,' said the Scripture-reader.


Even the worst whisky, whatever,
would be better to my mind ; and we have
Scripture for it that we should not drinkwater
alone.'

VOL. II. u

Indeed !' said the reader, doubtfully.

Yes,' urged the corporal, who knew his
Bible well ; ' are we not told in Maccabees,
chapter xv. and verse 39, that *' it is hurtful
to drink wine or water alone, as wine
mingled with water is pleasant and delighteth
the taste ?" '

For all that,' replied the Scripture-reader,
'I agree with Sir Garnet that
water is alone the drink for man.'

Yet the only man that Holy Writ
records as ever asking for it, didn't get it.'

Who was he T

Dives, and we all know where lie was
then. Scripture again !' said the corporal,
with a smirk on his sharp Highland face,
and thinking he had decidedly the best of
the argument.

During a mid-day halt on this march,
some of the troops constructed out of
blankets and rifles with fixed bayonets

erections like gipsy tents, to shelter them
from the blazing heat of the sun, and a
singular kind of encampment they presented.


With ship biscuits and tinned meat and
some brandy to flavour their cold tea,
Allan Graham, Cameron, Carslogie, and
some other officers of the corps made
themselves as comfortable as they could
under shelter of their impromptu tents,
and many were even jolly, especially Cars-logie,
who was rather a noisy and irrepressible
fellow.

Stretched on the sand with his tropical
helmet tilted back on his head, he drank
his 'cold tea,' as he called it, though it
was stiff half-and-half grog, and proffered
his cigar-case to all.

Isn't this jolly !' he exclaimed. ' Instead
of this, we might have been out in
the blazing open.'

u2

Then he struck up a verse of a song to
the air of the 'Garb of Old Gaul and
composed by an anonymous writer, though
he hinted it was Mr. John Bright : —

They talk of a good time, when Warfare shall cease,
And the nations hobnob o'er a big pipe of peace,
And the lion and the lamb in auriferous mead
On bills of exchange in beatitude feed.
But keep your powder dry, my boys, and keep your

bayonets keen ;
The world can't do without us yet, nor will it soon, I

ween !
Then stern and true, where work's to do, we'll do it

as we can.
And shoulder to shoulder still march in the van !'

The good time predicted seems a long
way off yet,' he added, with a sigh, to find
that the last of his grog was gone, for
after a hot morning's march it was, as he
said, ' quite a Sybaritish luxury.' ' Well,
well, a little time will find us face to face
with Arabi, and we shall exchange the

flesbpots of Egypt for those of the old
country.'

This was the 11th of September, and
the march was resumed at five in the
evening for the head-quarters at Kassassin,
where the column found its tents pitched.
Allan shared his with Cameron, and, like
their comrades, they proceeded to make
themselves as comfortable as they could ;
but it soon became known that on the morrow
the Highland Brigade was to lead
in the night attack upon the formidable
entrenchments of Arabi Pasha at .


The last bugle some of us may ever
hear will sound at six tomorrow evening
said Allan, as he and Cameron, after a
picnic kind of repast, lay on the floor of
the tent and smoked their Havana, with
their jackets open, and minus collars and
ties, for the evening was hot then, though

cold and dew came together the moment
the sun went down, and then there was no
light in the tent save those of the stars.

Listen to Carslogie singing in his
tent ; no sombre reflections seem to come
to him,' said Cameron.

Some of us, of course, will lose the
number of our mess, as the sailors say,'
said Allan again, after a pause.

Well, it is not a cheerful thought,
Allan,' said Cameron ; * but life is not particularly
rosy with me just now, so I am
just the fellow to have a charmed one when
under fire again tomorrow.'

There is a history in all men's lives,
Cameron, it is said. Well, there is a devil
of a lot in mine — more than I care for.'

You have long seemed rather low inspirit.'


I have reason,' replied Allan, while
that inexpressible longing to talk of himself

and his sorrows, which seizes upon
men now and then, came upon him, and he
related to Cameron the whole story of his
engagement with his cousin, his doubts
and fears — the intrusions and outrageous
insults put upon them both by Hawke
Holcroft, who seemed to wield some degrading
and mysterious power once — a
power that was ended now ; ' and,' he added,
after his narrative was ended, ' I trust
under heaven never to look upon her false
fair face again !'

Cameron heard his strange story in silent
amazement.

Can all this not be explained ?' he
asked.

I want no explanation ; I have been
degraded enough,' replied Allan, bitterly.

Cameron, strangely enough, had never,
as yet, even to his early friend and comrade,
made any reference to what the latter

fully knew — his love for Eveline : and
never once had her name escaped him
during the long voyage in the Nepaul
from Woolwich to Ismailia, nor even on
the march towards the enemy.

Poor Cameron had thought, what was
the use of speaking of that matter now,
when all was hopeless — all over, and forever,
between them ? But now, encouraged
or melted by Allan Graham's new
confidence in himself, he said,

With reference to the risks we run tomorrow,
I am glad that I set my house in
order, did so, indeed, before wo marched
from Edinburgh

How ?'

About Stratherroch, or what remains

of it;

In what way, Evan ?'
We must all die sooner or later — a soldier
sooner, perhaps, than a civilian ; so

by will, if aught happens to me— I have
left the old place— tower and hill, wood,
glen, and water, to— to Eveline— I mean
to Lady Paget.'

Good heavens ! To Eveline !' exclaimed
Allan, his face full of a surprise that
was unseen in the starlight and darkened
bell tent.'

Yes.'

Have you no one else ?'

'None save my brother Duncan, who has
himself a large fortune — none whom I love
as — as I love her,' added Cameron, in a
very broken voice.

'Poor Evan! I always suspected — indeed,
knew of it.'

'You did?'

Yes, Evan.'

And — and your sister.'

She loved you.'

My God ! — yet was sacrificed to another.'

They wrung each other's hands in the
dark, and both remained silent for a time
each full of his own thoughts, and in the
gloom seeing nothing but the end of
the other's cigar.

Sir Paget is so rich that he will think
little of Stratherroch, even when cleared
of its heavy encumbrances,' said Evan.

But he may think rather wrathfully of
the donor, though I trust and hope he may
never get it. And now, good-night, Evan.
I have to parade the lying piquet. Get
some sleep if you can, old fellow — we'll
need all our metal on the morrow.'

And Allan, taking his dirk and claymore,
hurried away full of thought, for, if
his friend really fell, this odd bequest of
Stratherroch might compromise his sister
with her elderly spouse, and it was impossible
to make any change, circumstanced
as they were then.

It is said that " every man has a history,
and that every man outlives it," '
thought Allan; 'I wonder how it will be
with poor Evan and me. And now to
parade the piquet, with that paragon of
sergeant-majors, M'Neiil. Pickets parade
at sunset — here, however, the sunsets
before we have time to think of it.
But the fight tomorrow will be to Evan
and me — for a time, at least — what opium
was to De Quince and the author of the
Ancient Mariner." Fool, fool, fool that
I am, to think of her here at all !'

He left Evan Cameron inspired by a
mingled emotion of gratitude and satisfaction,
for Evan now knew and felt certain
that, bad Eveline been in Allan's gift,
sbe might have been his bride ere this ; and
with this conviction in his mind he store to
.court sleep, while roused ever and anon, as
in India, by the wild cry of the jackal.

Sir Garnet Wolseley lead now come up,
the brigade of guards also, and the whole
strength of the British force was concentrated
at Kassassin, the place of our cavalry
victory, where our horse so gallantly
charged and swept, sword in hand,
through the brigades of Egyptian guns in
the dark.

With the next day's dawn those officers,
who, like the Master of Aberfeldie, Cameron,
and others, advanced beyond a palm
wood that grew near the camp, could distinctly
see with their field-glasses, against
the bright orange tint shed on the sky by
the up-coming sun, the strong earthworks
of Tel-eUKebir crowning the hillocks, and
manned by more than twenty thousand
regular troops — the flower of the army of
Arabi, who commanded them in person ;
and when the sun rose higher the infantry,
could be seen liuino^ the trenches, with all

their serried bayonets flashing in the
sunshine.

Beyond these formidable earthworks the
Egyptian camp could be seen in the distance
spreading far away an almost unbroken
line of tents, which, if they had all
occupants, betokened the presence of a very
great force indeed, as more than one reconnoitring
officer remarked to another.


Many were full of disappointment lest
there might be no fighting after all, as the
preceding morning the sound of heavy
firing had been heard in the rear of the
Egyptian position, and there seemed a
prospect of internal dissension facilitating
a dissolution of the whole enemy's
force.

Others more wisely suggested that Arabi
was only practising his artillery to obtain
the range in case his position was

turned and attacked in the rear, though
some asserted that the deep booming of
the guns was too steady and continuous
for mere practice of that nature.

The British troops had only a five days'
reserve of provisions, but it was generally
known that the country was rich and full
of subsistence beyond the lines of ,
and that wee would carry these no
man under Wolseley doubted. Moreover,
he had with him sixty of the finest pieces
of cannon in the world.

The day passed on, and evening drew
nigh, the eventful day of the 12th September,
when every man was prepared todo
or die !' Higher and higher beat
every heart. At six p.m. the ' fall in ' was
sounded far along the lines, and quietly,
as if upon parade at home, that stately
soldier M'Neill, sergeant-major of the
Black Watch, paraded and posted the

markers for the various companies of ibis
corps, ' dressing' them with his usual accuracy.


The orders were brief but emphatic.
Perfect silence was to be maintained for
the march, and, as the place was to be
carried in grand old British style at the
point of the bayonet, on no account was an
order to load to be issued.

Each man carried a hundred rounds of
ball with one day's provisions, and his tin
water-bottle filled with cold tea. The
tents were struck, and the baggage piled
for conveyance to the rear, in case of a
reverse, which no man thought possible.

The blood-red sun went swiftly down
westward of the point of attack beyond
Zagazig, darkness fell as swiftly over the
desert and the triple lines of canal that
flow between both Mahsameh and Bassa,
and then our army, fourteen thousand

strong, including foot, horse, and artillery,
began in silence the midnight; march for
Tel-el-Kebir, the last march as it proved to
many a brave young fellow.

As the regiment moved off, Allan
thought of Evan Cameron's communication
over-night, and an irrepressible regret and
anxiety took possession of him, as he had
an unaccountable presentiment that his
friend was doomed to fall in the coming
strife. Of himself he never thought at all.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNdVN ilACDONALD, Blended HOUSE.

■«**jew*M«*?^:.

m

immimmf,

fH:'( '

t

i.

'*%'/ll:f

^\!l^

wM^M^0mi^^^

m

#)^*>

w *

ii ^

U^

\ *,f

•fer.#^Vv

1^11

,^J»: >

^ <i(^v V

Theft mutilation, and undermining of books are reason,
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

HAR G 15

m

L161— O-1096

VOL. m.

BY

JAMES GRANT

AUTHOR OF

THE ROMANCE OF WAR," " THE Cameronian,'
THE SCOTTISH CAVALIER,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. Il

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

THE MASTER OF ABERFELDIE.

CHAPTER I.

SUSPICION.

Many a wife, mother, and maid watched,
the progress of our troops from point to
point in Egypt, from the bombardment of
Alexandria, with the subsequent landing,
up to the last telegram which announced
that the army had begun its auspicious
night march from Kassassin towards ,
but none could do so with more
anxiety than had Olive Raymond and
Eveline.

VOL. III. B

To them and to how many loving hearts
at home were the next telegrams fraught
with terror and anxiety !

Ove was free to rush to the newspapers
as soon as they arrived. But not so Eve-line,
for so suspicious of her secret interest
in one who was far away had Sir Paget
become, that he absolutely kept them out
of her sight as much as possible ; and she
had a terror in her heart that Evan Cameron
might be killed in action, and, for a
time, all unknown to her.

Great was her craving for intelligence <
She could not, like a man, go to clubs or
newspaper offices, when the latest telegrams
— often false ones — were posted up ;
and often nightly she went to bed with the
agonising yet unasked question on her
lips, ' Oh, what has happened to-day in
Egypt ? — what is happening now T and she
had to scan the morning papers, if at all,

surreptitiously, eagerly, and feverishly, for
what she did not want to see.

How would she have suffered the old
Peninsula war time, when news and battle
lists appeared in the weekly and bi-weekly
journals more than a month, yea, sometimes
two months, after victories were won
(we had no defeats in those long-service
days), and after the grass was green above
the graves of our gallant dead — the men
that knew how to die, but never turn
their heel before a foe — when our regiments
fought for the historic glory of their
number, as steadily as for king and country !

Sir Paget knew the source of his young
wife's anxiety, and watched her grimly.

How dull my life is with him, kind
though he tries to be,' thought the girl ;
we have not a thought, feeling, or inspiration
in common. When with Evan, it
seemed all inspiration, and thoughts came

band

went so fast. He always brought
brio^bt ones to me.'

He was her first and only love — the
love that leads a girl to see only ideal
perfection in the object so beloved. Their
passion had been like the dream of a midsummer
night, and now they were to meet
never more — never more !

She recalled the words of the song he
was wont to sing to the air of ' Rousseau's
Dream ' —

See the moon o'er cloudless Jura
Shining in the loch below ;
See the distant mountain towering
Like a pyramid of snow.

Scenes of grandeur, scenes of childhood,
Scenes so dear to love and me !
"Mien we roam by bower or wild wood.
All is lovelier when with thee /'

And, as she touched the piano, his voice
seemed to come to her ear again.

Eveline !' she would murmur, dreamily,

*he called me Eveline — his own — yes, I
can hear his voice plainly now — plainly as
I heard it at Dundargue, and on that last
evening at Maviswood/

Then her eye would fall on her wedding-ring,
and a kind of shiver passed over
her.

She strove to read, but that was almost
impossible ; her mind wandered from the
story, or sometimes certain passages struck
her painfully. In a novel (' Out of Court*)
one ran thus : — * She married him ; she
ceased to love him, and she died, which,
on the whole, was a better fortune than
generally befalls the women who make
this irretrievable stumble on the threshold
of life;

Oh ! would I but die too ; but I am
too young, and too strong !' she thought,
bitterly. ' Our hearts choose for us, in
spite of us, and I chose Evan.'

Bound though she was to a husband
beyond her years, uncongenial, and, in
some points, unappreciative, she could
respect him, but she could never love
him ; that was impossible. Her love was
far away, where the shadows of the Pyramids
fell on the sands of Ghizeh, and the
pipes of the Black Watch sent up their
wild war-notes in the desert of Goshen.

She had still the companionship of
Olive, who, with her aunt, Lady ,
was lingering at Southsea.

Take care, Eveline,' said the former,
warningly, 'lest this useless and hopeless
regret for Cameron becomes too apparent
to Sir Paget;

I cannot help it, however wrong and
sinful it may be,' she replied. ' I do my
best. I let myself love him from the first
moment I met him, and knew that he
loved me — loved me well— before the secret

escaped him. Many have admired me,
but she added, simply and sweetly, * no
one ever spoke to me before as Evan
spoke, and I gave him all the love of my
heart ; but to cherish it is, I grant you,
hopeless now.'

Hopeless as mine ; for now Allan, I
fear, loathes me, if he thinks of me at all,'
said Ove.

^ I am very tired, Olive,' observed the
other girl, ' of trying to compel duty to
triumph over sorrow.'

In her soft hazel eyes there was the
expression of one who was always looking
far away at some horizon unseen by others.
Sir Paget was not so dull or so slow as
not to perceive all this, and to draw his
own deductions therefrom. A change had
decidedly come over him since he detected
her emotion on the day the Black Watch
marched, and he had become captious,

fractious, jealous, and inclined to be
sneering, while watchful of every expression
in her face.

In the library one day she was looking
at a terrestrial globe on a tall and handsome
stand. She saw that, as the crow
flies, the distance was two thousand five
hundred miles at least to where the Black
Watch were face to face with the swarthy
followers of Arabi; and, stooping, she
pressed her lips to Egypt in general.

He is there — I here ! On the globe,
how short the distance seems !'

What are you about, Lady Puddi-
combe ? said a voice, sharply, behind her
the voice of Sir Paget, who was jerking
his bald head forward most alarmingly.
' Kissing a globe L — what tomfoolery
■ — what strange fancy is this ?'

• I was only examining it she faltered.
'Only examining it !' he snarled ; ' very.

closely apparently, and in "^'bat quarter did
your geographical studies lie ? Why, your
lips were absolutely upon it.'

A giddiness came over me,' replied Eve-line,
ashamed alike of her sudden emotion
and enforced duplicity.

He eyed her viciously, and his eyes glittered
dangerously.

At luncheon this afternoon you were
more dull and distraite even than I have
seen you before,' said he, peering at her
through his gold pince-nez. ' JSTou^ pray,
what was the meaning of that ? What ails
you — what oppresses you ?'

It is very wrong. I cannot help it,'
urged the girl, desperately.

Like all the rest of the world, you were
thinking of — I suppose, Egypt?'

I was, Sir Paget.'

D — n Egypt, and everyone there !' exclaims
the baronet, coarsely and savagely.

What is Egypt to you, madam, in particular
?'

My brother '

Your brother — bosh, madam, bosh !
Don't think to hoodwink me. A youn
married lady should always make herself
agreeable, especially to her husband ; it is
one of the first principles of good-breeding
and of wifely quality.'

Eveline coloured with pain and keen
annoyance at what these remarks implied ^
but Sir Paget in his anger was not disposed
to content himself with them
alone.

Kissing a globe, indeed ! To my mind
it is evident that you think less of your
brother than of your brother's friend — that
fellow Cameron,' he exclaimed, giving full
swing to his jealousy. * He comes, I believe,
of a decent stock enough ; but that
should not have encouraged him to act like

the other adventurer Holcroft with your
cousin, and dare to raise his eyes to
you.'

A decent stock — an adventurer !' repeated
Eveline ; and then, as she thought
of Evan Cameron's long line of warlike
and heroic ancestors, as compared with
the peculiar line of the Puddicombes, she
laughed bitterly, while Sir Paget eyed her
questioningly, and said,

It is fortunate you were separated.
Yell, I suppose you won't die of a broken
heart, and all that sort of thing, like the
girls we see on the stage and read about
in novels.'

Roused at last by these coarse taunts
Eveline said,

Sir Paget, I thought you were ignorant
of the ways and meanness of the fashionable
world ; don't, please, adopt those
of sneering and being jealous — if, indeed,

that world is ever jealous, or can love
enough to be so.'

AdcI, turning away, she took refuge ina
gush of tears, inspired by intense mortification,
while Olive caressed and strove
to soothe her.

An absurd old man !' exclaimed Olive,
angrily — ' a widower, too, who began life
by loving and marrying another — how dare
he treat you thus ?'

Oh, Olive,' how shall I ever pass all the
long years before I die, and with him, not
Evan ?'

My darling — hush — this will never do,'
urged Olive, who became alarmed by the
chance of some new esdandre,

I don't understand all this, Lady ,'
said Sir Paget, greatly ruffled, when
he saw that handsome and always serenely
calm matron; * your daughter is an enigma
to me,' he added, ashamed to acknowledge

Avbat he suspected and sbe perfectly knew.
I sometimes surprise her in tears, and, if
I ask the cause, lie pleads a passage in a
novel, or that her music made her sad.
Stuff and nonsense ! I should like to seethe
book or hear the music that would
wring tears from me.'

Try change of scene,' said Lady .


Daily Eveline's hazel eyes seemed to
become larger and brighter, while her face
grew paler, and all the delicate rose-leaf
colour and complexion faded out of it.
The lines of her young features, if sorrowful,
were very sweet, and her eyes, if
somewhat sad, seemed calm in expression
now. Yet the girl had ever before her
the last haunting look that Evan gave her
as he marched past, amid the wild hurly-burly
of the dense crowd that surged
around the departing Black Watch — the

long, silent, and indescribable look of those
who gaze their last upon the silent dead ;
for dead she was to him !

At times, when quite alone, she would
linger on her knees, in prayer for his
safety, and that his days should be ever
happy — often with her open Bible before
her, but without looking at it, like many
honest folks, as if to have it there would
work a spell.

Her life, as yet, was one of constant
dread — the effort to hide her anxiety and
sorrow, with her recent love for another,
under a hollow smile. She feared even
to sleep, lest in a dream the name of Evan
might escape her.

She would get over all this nonsense
in time, her mother thought ; for in time
people get over everything.

Sir Paofet thought he would take that
lady's advice, and try change of scene ;

and conceiving, not unwisely, that she
would be infinitely better away from the
military associations of Portsmouth — the
incessant arrival and departure of crowded
transports, the marching in and out, the
bungling, drumming, and drilling daily and
hourly of ' those infernal soldiers ' on
the grassy common between Puddicombe
Villa and Southsea Castle, he resolved to
take her abruptly to his house in London,
though the season was long since over,
the town and the parks empty — not that
the latter fact would affect Eveline in the
least.

He is taking me to London, Olive dear,
away from you,' said she, sadly ; for with
Olive alone could she commune in secret,

He is wise. London will not be associated
with Evan Cameron. You cannot
thick so much there as here by the seashore.'


'I shall think of him, anywhere and
everywhere.'

'Change of scene, faces, places, and
people will do much. Try, dear, to forget

But poor Eveline only looked yearningly,
and kissed the soft cheeks of her handsome
cousin, with much caressing and many
tears.

CHAPTER II.

AT TEL-EL-KEBIE.

A LETTER from Allan Graham to Lady
Aberfeldie proved, by its introduction, a
very bitter one to Olive, and the source
of many tears.

Belbeis, September.

My DEAREST Mother,

But for Evan Cameron of Ours
saving my life at the risk of his own inaction
two days ago, I had not been alive
to write you this letter — the first I have
had time to attempt since we landed.

VOL. III. c

Poor Evan !

'Whatever the mysterious influence was
that that scoundrel Holcroft possessed over
Olive is ended now, as I saw him fall
into the sea, where he was drowned like
a dog. I could not help him or save
him, even had I been disposed to do so.
Strange it is that a blacken, a sharper,
and worse, for such lie became, should
have been preferred by her at Dundargue
to me, the companion and playmate of
her childhood — her cousin, lier affianced
husband under her father's will, absurd
in its tenor though that document be ;
and now, neither verbally nor in writing,
shall I ever refer to her again. My pride
if I ever had any — has indeed been
humbled in the dust, and by her !

'After quitting our camp on the evening
before last, we moved to the sandhill
above Kassassin, where we piled arms, and

the men lay upon the sand or sat in
groups, all chatting gaily and hopefully
of the coming conflict at Tel-el-Kebir.

Carslogie, who was always in wild
spirits, was busy spouting Shakespeare —

Thus far into the bowels of the land
Have we marched on without impediment, — "

and so forth, and I overheard some of our
men remarking that he " was surely fey,^'
when word was passed to stand to our
arms, unpile, and advance at one in the
morning.

Never before, perhaps, did fourteen
thousand men get under arms so quietly,
so softly. The orders were now issued
in whispers, and, noiselessly as an army of
phantoms, we moved off, our footfalls
muffled by the soft sand. No moon was
visible, but we had a clear, starlit Egyptian
sky overhead. No man was percy



mitted to speak or smoke, and our brown
helmets, red serges, and dark kilts seemed
to blend with the gloom.

If the silence of that weird, solemn,,
and impressive time were broken, it was
by the occasional ramble of an artillery
wheel or of a commissariat waggon, the
clatter of a rammer or a steel scabbard
against a stirrup-iron, as we advanced
through the gloom, expecting every moment
to hear the explosion of a musket
or a shrill shout from the scattered Bedouin
horsemen, who were alleged to be
scouting in the vicinity — men belonging
to the band of the Sheikh Zeid-el-Ourdeh.

Dear mother, our Highland Brigade
led the advance — thank God for the
honour ! — with the Indian contingent
under Sir Hugh Macpherson, having the
veteran Albany Highlanders as our support.


Ever and anon there were brief halts
to enable the regiments to maintain touch
on the flanks.

I cannot describe the order of our
advance as jet, nor "would you understand
it if I did so.

A silence that seemed something awful
reigned over the vast plain, and none save
the initiated could have imagined that,
formed in a species of semi-circle, fourteen
thousand men were approaching the
enemy's earthworks, ready to dash at them
like hounds at the deer when the leash is
slipped.

Arabi's lines consisted of solid entrenchments,
bound together with wattles,
four miles in extent from flank to flank,
heavily armed with cannon, and having
ditches about nine feet deep.

The ruth Highlanders were next the
canal, opposed to the most formidable

part of these works, where many of their
dead are lying on their faces shoulder to
shoulder, shot down in the act of charging;
next them were the Cameron, the
Gordon Highlanders, and then ourselves,
the Black Watch, each company with its
piper in the rear, ready to strike up the
onset when the time came.

Every heart was swelling proudly and
wildly then, with the grand conviction
that every heart at home in Britain — and
dearer still among our native hills — would
exult in our triumph, for a triumph it was
sure to be.

'Silently, swiftly, and noiselessly we
swept forward to the attack. Sto word
was spoken, no command given save in a
whisper, and not a shot was fired, as, with
fixed bayonets, we came within three hundred
yards of the Egyptian batteries, and

even then the soldiers of Arabi seemed
unaware of our presence.

Suddenly an alarm was given, and a
terrific fire — a literal garland of flame —
flashed along the bulwarks, a storm of
lead went whistling over our helmets,
and the air seemed laden with the singing
and whizzing of bullets, while cannon
boomed hoarsely, and the roaring rockets
screamed high in the air.

The pipes struck up along the Highland
line, a wild cheer burst from every
man, and we advanced with a furious and
headlong rush, flinging ourselves into the
ditches and climbing up the scarp ; all
weariness after the toilsome night-march
was gone ; sore feet and thirst were alike
forgotten.

And now for the first time the voices
of the officers were heard : " Come on,

Cameronss — this way, the Gordon — forward,
the Black Watch !" The marines
and the Irish regiments were on the righfc,
and bravely they went at the trenches,
too ; but the first within them were the
Highlanders, and the first of these was
young Donald Cameronss, of the Cameronss,
who, as he leaped in with bayonet fixed,
was shot through the head just as we
carried the first line of works.

The dim light of the early morning enabled
the enemy now to direct their fire ;
for a minute or two we drew breath, poured
in some heavy file-firing, and again dashed
on, while one portion of our forces that
had passed between the redoubts now
opened a flank fusilade, which proved too
much for the Egyptians, who — all save
their wretched gunners, who were chained
to the cannon — fled wildly across the open,
where our fire mowed them down in hundreds,

while they rent the air with cries
of, " Ya Allah ! ya mobarek !" (0 God !
Blessed !)

Then it was that our brigadier rode
up and said to the 79th, "Well done, the
Cameron men ! Will not Scotland be proud
of this day's work !"

So much for our share of it.

On the other flank of the works, the
Horse Artillery were pouring in shell, till
the Royal Irish carried them at the bayonet's
point, after a regular hand-to-hand
fight, in which Major Hart shot an Egyptian
leader, who endeavoured to wrest
away his revolver.

Our troops swept over the batteries on
every hand, and the enemy fled as rapidly
and hopelessly as those on the other side
of the Canal had fled before the Highlanders,
whose costume and fury alike terrified
them. Arabi, we are told, informed

his people that " the Scottish soldiers were
only old women ;" but now they dub us
demons.

To hear our pipes send up their paean
of victory over the battered and corpse-strewn
trenches of Tel-el-Kebir, was to feel
for a time that exultation of the soul which
is said to be worth a long life of dull and
sluggish quiet.

The Egyptians did not present the least
appearance of order, but fled, a demoralised
rabble, at the top of their speed, flinging
away everything that might impede their
flight, and pursued by our cavalry and
Horse Artillery, who mowed them down
like sheep.

As one battery swept past the flank of
the Black Watch, the gunners brandished
their swords and shouted ' Scotland forever
!^ and then we knew them to belong
to the new division of Scottish Artillery.

To hear that cry in such a time of
supreme triumph was to make oue feel
what those must have felt, who heard it
raised by the Greys at Waterloo and by
the Albany Highlanders at Kotah.

The total casualties of the Highland
Brigade are two hundred and twenty of all
ranks.

One of the first we lost was poor Cars-lose,
the life of the mess. He was shot
by a wounded Egyptian, to whom he had
just given a mouthful from his water-bottle,
and I blew out the miscreant's
brains.

We have also to sorrow for our noble
Serjeant-Major, John McNeill, whose tall
and soldierlike figure was long a feature
at the head of the column. He cut down
several Egyptians with his claymore, but
fell at last, pierced by three wounds. He
was, we know, the sole support of a

widowed mother, to whom he was tenderly
attached.

The fight was fought and won in the
good old British fashion, with the cold
steel ; the breech-loader has not yet rendered
the bayonet obsolete.

The Guards and Highlanders made
themselves ret home among the tents and
spoils of the Egyptians ; but our soldiers,
flushed with glory and fresh from conquest,
no more spoke of the Gordon, the
Loss-shire Buffs, or the Black Watch, but
of Donald Cameronss of the Cameronss — the
young hero from the Braes of Angus, who
was the first in Tel-el-Kebir !

Who could say what heroic blood was
in his veins, for his name was old as the
hills, when the Cameronss were known as
the children of the Follower of Novi.

^ I had some narrow escapes. A ball
carried away the pommel of my dirk. I

had a bayonet thrust through my kilt, and
two shells exploded near me, covering me
with sand ; but I had a closer shave than
that. In the rush as I led on my company
two powerful Egyptians in white uniforms,
with scarlet tarbooshes, seemed to devote
their energies to killing me, as an officer
or prominent leader. Both attacked me
with their fixed bayonets. By a circular
parry of my claymore, I turned one of
them aside, and ran the man through — or
near — the heart. He screamed and grappled
me by the throat, dragged me down
amid the blood-soaked sand. So savage
and powerful was his death-grip that had
he failed to strangle me, I must have perished
under the bayonet of the other, whom
Cameron cut down, through tarboosh and
bone to the chin, and then released me. A
third who came up he pistolled, and I hope
Evan will get a clasp to his Y.C. for this.

^ The papers will, of course, tell you all
the rest — how we captured the standing
camp and immense stores of provisions
and plunder; how the victorious troops advanced
with tremendous cheers across it to
the railway station, where soon after Sir
Garnet came up ; and how Drury Lowe
with his cavalry cut across the enemy's
line of flight, killing and capturing on
every hand.

I know how my father, with his great
love of the old Black Watch, will appreciate
the story of our glory at Tel-el-Kebir ;
but the aspect of the place was awful after
the firing ceased and the sun came up in
his morning splendour — a sight never to
forget, though I have seen some terrible
work in India.

The dead lay about in scores and hundreds,
many disembowelled by shot or
shell; some with brains oozing out; others

with their heads literally blown off; and
some were scorched to death by their
clothing becoming ignited by the flame of
an exploded shell. There were wounds of
every kind — by the bayonet, the rifle-butt,
and sword ; and many of the maimed were
seen to cast aside their tarboosh and bury
their head in the sand for coolness, while
the cries for water were simply agonising.

^ I found the third Egyptian from whom
Cameron's pistol had saved me. He was
dying. " Turn my head towards Mecca,"
I heard him say faintly to a comrade who
lay near him. The fellah did so, and the
poor wretch passed away in peace. I saw
some who died making signs of the cross,
but these, of course, were Coptic Christians.


Two ill omens, it is said, occurred before
the conflict to chill the ardour of the
Egyptians. In the fight of Kassassin a

man was shot through the heart by a rifle
ball, which pierced a copy of the Koran that
he carried there as a charm, and took a
part of it into his body. The other was
the crescent of the new moon, which encircled
a star and sank with it below the
horizon just before the attack, and this,
being emblematic of the crescent and star,
was deemed ominous of defeat and destruction.


/Arabi has fled towards Belbeis, pursued
by Drury Lowe.

The canal is filled with dead and dying
men and horses, yet our men are fain to
fill their water-bottles from it.'

This letter concluded with kindest regards
and wishes to everyone he knew and
loved, by name — Olive Raymond alone excepted
; and keenly and with tears she resented
the omission.

In hot haste Lady Aberfeldie wrote to

Allan, explaining the story of Hawke Hole
surreptitious visits, his fancied power
over Olive, and the abstraction of the unlucky
diamonds ; but owing to various circumstances
— the fortune of war included —
the letter was a considerable time of
reaching him to whom it was addressed,
and some stirring events occurred in the
meantime, before he could reply to it.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER III.

AT GRAND CAIRO.

The Black Watch had barely buried their
dead at Tel-el-Kebir before they were
sent by railway to Zag-a-zig ; a breakdown
occurred on the line, and the regiment
slept for the night on the slope of the
railway embankment. On reaching Zag-zig,
more fighting was expected ; but the
Egyptians did not show face, so the Highlanders
were marched to Belbeis, froDi
whence Allan despatched the preceding
letter.

Belbeis is now a little town, about forty
miles from Grand Cairo, situated on the
borders of the desert, famous in the
Crusade of the twelfth century as the first
place captured by the Saracens, and held
by them as a fortified magazine for supplies,
and to this day it has a trade in
corn. In the same century it made a
vigorous resistance to Amaranth of Jerusalem,
and in more modern times it was
occupied by the French army to keep open
the communication between Cairo and the
coast. Here a junction takes place of the
canals derived from different parts of the
Nile.

It had been reached by our cavalry on
the evening of the da^^ Tel-el-Kebir was
captured, and after a slight skirmish was
taken possession of by Drury Lowe.

The Black Watch was eight days at
Belbeis, during which they had scarcely

D 2

any other food than hard biscuits and a
small supply of tinned meat, with muddy
water from the canal to wash them down
with ; and as the knapsacks did not come
in from Tel-el-Kebir for five days, neither
officer nor private could have any change,
but slept in the kilt without blanket or
other covering, while nearly driven mad by
mosquitoes, sand-flies, and other plagues
of Egypt.

Arabi and Toulba Pasha had been
taken prisoners, and nothing was spoken
of now but the advance on Grand
Cairo.

Meantime the surrender of the Egyptian
position at Kafir Dower took place. On
its frowning batteries white flags in token
of peace were everywhere displayed, and
our troops entered without resistance.
The terrible lesson taught the enemy at
Tel-el-Kebir was not likely to be soon

forgotten. Moreover, the firing of the
Egyptian infantry was always rather defective,
their Remington rifles being sighted
much too high for short distances ;
thus, at the long range, their firing was
always better than at close quarters.

From Belbeis General Lowe pushed on
towards the capital, keeping on the borders
of the desert. At every village he passed
through, the swarthy population came
pouring forth waving white flags and declaring
themselves faithful to the Khedive,
while masses of flying fugitives, on seeing
our cavalry overtaking them, threw down
their rifles and made signs of submission.


Galloping on without drawing rein, our
cavalry entered Grand Cairo, after a forced
march of fifty miles in thirty hours in
heavy marching order, and by that act
practically ended the war, and our troops

had no adversaries now but the savage
and plunder-loving Bedouins, who hovered
and hung upon their skirts intent upon
rapine and murder, as Allan Graham
and some others ere long found to their
cost.

The advance to Cairo was headed by the
Bengal Horse, led in person by Sir Hugh
Macpherson, though General Lowe was in
command of the whole.

On the 22nd of the month the Black
Watch left Belbeis for Grand Cairo, where
the corps arrived in the evening, when the
last rays of the setting sun tinted with
the hue of blood and saffron the water of
the Nile as it wound past the islets near
El Ghizeh — flushed and red, as on the
evening when, in long ages past, according
to Mohammedan legends, Joseph sank
Jacob's marble coffin in the stream ; and it
was with no ordinary emotion of admiration

and interest that Allan and this comrades
beheld the capital of Egypt basking
in the sun ere he went down beyond the
hills.

Skirted by groves and gardens,' says a
writer, ' its light airy structures seem to
be based upon a mass of verdure ; long
lines of buildings, white, glittering, and
infinitely varied in form, rise beyond each
other, and the palace and citadel, cresting
a steep projection of the Mokattam ridge,
conduct the eye to the vast rocky barrier
which protects " the victorious city " from
the blasts of the desert.'

Streets of lofty and latticed houses
abounding in carved balconies and florid
arcades ; the mosques, with delicate domes
and airy minarets, covered with tracery
and arabesques ; the houses of beys and
grandees ; the fortified abodes of the stern
old Mameluke now those of Egyptian

nobles, recalling in their architecture the
Moorish glories of the Alhambra and the
Alcazar of Cordova — a perpetual dream of
the Arabian Nights.

Even with night the bustle in its streets
did not cease ; the coffee-houses and hotels
were filled with light, and, in the warm
atmosphere, teemed with outdoor life, for
there all who are afoot have lanterns, and
there were the tellers of Arabian tales, the
Nubian singer with his mandoliu, and the
Egyptian magician performing such tricks
as one might think the devil alone could
do ; and now once again, as in the daj^s
of General Hutchison, the walls and
towers of Hie Queen of Cities 'sel Kahira
of the fatalistic caliphs — re-echoed to the
British drum and the Scottish warlike, as
the Highlanders defiled round it to their
camp, where the tents were pitched outside
the walls.

The soldiers were not allowed to enter
the city, except on duty or with a pass, and,
as a general rule, the latter was chiefly
given to sergeants. This plan did not, of
course, apply to officers, thus Allan, Evan
Cameron, and some others lost no time in
making their way to an European hotel,
where something better than the repasts
they had partaken of at Belbeis and elsewhere
could be procured, and where, amid
a somewhat polyglot society, consisting of
-Greeks and Egyptians, Hungarians and
Cypriotes, they supped at an open window
on a balcony overlooking a street
abounding with bazaars, and lanterns
swinging to and fro, crowded by people
and innumerable vendors of street goods
turbaned or tarnished — the water-seller
tinkling his dishes and quoting the
Koran ; the sellers of melons, of cresses
and lily roots, of flowers of henna, wherewith

to dye the nails of copper-coloured
damsels; little donkeys ambling everywhere,
and now and then a huge camel
swaying along; and more than once the
procession of a harem returning from the
evening bath — the women enveloped in
black garments and veils, with masks of
white linen.

Amid the scenes of warfare the organ
of wonder becomes blunted considerably,
and thus after a time Allan, soothed by the
fames of a fragrant savannah, and weary,
perhaps, with the events of a long day —
the entertaining and detaining of the regiment,
its baggage and stores, and so
forth — fell sound asleep in his chair
oblivious of the clatter of voices in
the large room of the hotel, and the
many sounds in the street below ; while
Cameron, re-entering the room, idled over

an album of views of Grand Cairo and its
vicinity.

Allan's short sleep was a restless one,
for there came before him a vivid recollection
or vision of Hawke Holcroft. and his
pale face, with its last expression of horror
and despair, as the waves closed over
it and sucked him down.

A little cry that escaped him made
Cameron look his way, and he saw a
man, in the dim light without, regarding
Allan with a fixed and hostile expression.
He was clad somewhat like a European,
but wore a tarboosh, with a blue tassel,,
and had a voluminous beard ; and his eyes
seemed savage and sinister in expression.

It is said that there is some mysterious
and magnetic force in a long and fixed
stare or gaze ; and there is, it is also
said, ' within us some vigilant quality that

is only exercised when every other faculty
is at rest, that permits all ordinary sounds
to pass unheeded while we sleep, but that
instinctively sounds the alarm when anything
unusual or fraught with danger is
at hand.'

Be all that as it may, Allan suddenly
awoke, and started up, and the watcher
as suddenly vanished, but not before his
pale and sinister face had been seen by
the wakened.

Cameron sprang out on the balcony.
There was no one there, save his comrade,
and it was evident that the lurker must
have passed into the hotel by some other
window.

A dream,' muttered Allan, looking
rather confused, ' a dream of that wretch
Holcroft. Why should his face haunt
me ? I did not kill him — he drowned
himself ; and I need have no more remorse

for that affair than for pistoling
the fellow who shot poor Carslogie.'

Whether the cause of your dream or
not,' said Cameron, who was too genuine
a Highlander to be without a considerable
spice of superstition in his nature, ' a
fellow lurked beside you whose look I
little liked;

What was his appearance ?'

'Difficult to describe in the dim light,
but the gleam of his eyes was sinister.
Some disbanded Egyptian turned thief,
most likely. But he bolted the moment
I approached, and you awoke.'

'AH this is a strange coincidence,' said
Allan, as he lit another cigar ; and they
turned their steps towards the camp without
the walls. ' But I am not much given
to dreaming, and our work has been too
hard for some time past for indulgence
in long naps, yet I had a strange and-creeping

sense of some evil presence near
me, with a pain that was strange and
intolerable.'

But Allan had not seen the last of the
man with the tarboosh.

Before returning from history to our
narrative and the adventures of our
friends, it is impossible to omit reference
to the impression made on the population
of Alexandria by the warlike aspect
and stately bearing of the Black Watch
and other Highland regiments at the
review, in the great square before the
Abdin Palace, the official residence of* the
Khedive, whom our forces had now restored
to place and power.

To see our eighteen thousand troops go
past, the palace was crowded, not only
at every window, but on its flat roof, and
the Viceroy's wife, who had shared all
his perils, was there with her children,

and the closely veiled ladies of the harem.
The streets were lined by multitudes of
curious but stolid Egyptians, not more
inclined to hiss than cheer, feeling no
sense of shame for their recent defeats
and humiliation, but only one of quiet
amusement and desire to behold a spectacle
that did not cost them a piastre.

After the blue jackets, the Guards, and
others had passed, the brass bands stopped,
and then were heard the pipes and
drums, as, led by its one-armed general,
the Highland Brigade, every company
steady and straight as a wall, the ranks
well ' locked-up,' every officer and man
looking stately and graceful in his waving
tartan, came on at a swinging pace, amid
muttering of Scozzezi diabolic niidi.

Their general. Sir Archibald Alison, in
honour of the occasion, wore a sprig of his
native heather in his helmet. The idea

had got abroad, said the Tires ' that the
Highlanders, who bore the brunt of the
fighting, who were the first in the trenches,
and who suffered most severely, had been
rather ungenerously ignored in official
despatches. At all events, the crowd
seemed disposed to grant unofficial honours,
for the second cheer of the day was accorded
to the Black Watch, easily distinguished
by their red plumes, and led by
Colonel Macpherson, also sporting the
heather,' and exciting more interest even
than our brown-clad Punjabees or the
Brooches, in their black and red uniforms,
tall and strapping fellows though they
where ; and with them came the heroes of
Kandahar, the Seaport Highlanders, wearing
Mckenzie tartan, covered with medals,
and marching past as old Scottish soldiers
can.

Then it was that the Times reporter

heard an Italian say, ' Poveri Egiziani ! If
you had only seen them before, instead of
after !'

The Black Watch were halted for a
minute or two, prior to marching back to
camp, when suddenly Cameron said to
Allan, in a loud whisper,

Look — there is the fellow I saw on the
hotel balcony.'

Allan turned, and amid a crowd of
Egyptians, Italians, and jabbering and
gesticulating hheesties and sykes (water-carriers
and grass-cutters), belonging to
our Indian contingent, he saw a man with
a fair beard and a pallid face regarding
him steadily with keen eyes and knitted
brow ; but, the moment he turned towards
him, the stranger shrank back amid the
crowd, and disappeared.

Hawke Holcroft, by heaven,' exclaimed
Cameron.

VOL. HI. E

Impossible ! He is dead,' replied Allan,
feeling curiously uncomfortable nevertheless.


I would I were as sure of a thousand
guineas said Cameron.

One reads of such things only in romances
— yet the eyes and beard were the
colour of those of Holcroft.'

Truth is always strange— ^' stranger
than fiction," as Byron tells us.'

Stranger, indeed, should this prove the
case. But, if alive, how comes he here,
and why does he seem to dog me ?'

I regarded him at first vacantly, then
with indistinct recognition, and anon with
certainty, though the beard and red tarboosh
disguise him so much !'

Allan Graham knew not what to think.
If the man referred to was actually Hole
by what miracle was he then in
Grand Cairo, and how was he rescued from

the sea? Strange it was, indeed, that if
the lurker at the hotel was he, Allan
should dream of him at the moment of his
appearance in the balcony.

'There is always a skeleton in every
fellow's cupboard, and Hawke Holcroft
was the skeleton in mine, poor devil !' said
Allan.

'You are still disposed to think and
speak of him in the past tense ?' observed
Cameron, whose mind was made up as to
his identity.

I cannot do otherwise, but the moment
the parade is dismissed we shall make inquiries
at the hotel.'

They did so, but in vain. No person of
that name or appearance was known there.

Instead of being put into the comfortable
barracks of Kasr-el-Nil in the city, the
Highland Brigade was kept in camp while
October and November crept on, and this

E 2

time was not entirely a peaceable one ; for
in the former month the Bedouins, who
were greatly puzzled with their garb, and
conceived them to be the English soldiers'
wives all camped in one quarter, thought
to make a dash there, and secure a few
moon faces ' to embellish their tents in
the desert.

A body of them belonging to the band
or tribe of Zeid-el-Ourdeh, the sheikh of
Jebel Dimeshk, a mountain range that lies
north-eastward of Grand Cairo, came
swooping down upon the Highland lines
with this view, and a result which very
much bewildered them, for the Scottish
forces turned out with rifles and fixed
bayonets, and in a very few minutes more
than forty amorous Bedouins bit their
native dust.

On several other occasions the spiteful
natives amused themselves by firing at a

distance among the tents at random, and
one evening a bullet whistled through
Allan's tent within an inch of his head,
thus necessitating some severe patrol
duty.

It was while encamped here that he received
Lady Aberfeldie's letter explaining
the apparently false position in which the
villainy of Holcroft — combined with his
spite, avarice, and desperation — contrived
to place Olive Eaymond.

'Look here, Evan said Allan, to his
nidus Achates, in a grumbling tone, ' read
this letter from the mater. I don't know
what to think of this strange story ; but,
without some other proofs, if she thinks
we are going to kiss again with tears as
the poet has it, she is very much mistaken.
The mater says that Olive's own
unruly heart has perhaps made a shipwreck
of her life, whatever that may mean.

Poor girl, what a fool she was not to confide
more completely in me !'

In his tone tenderness was blended with
bitterness and regret.

From this little speech Cameron was
hopeful that all would come right in the
end ; but a short time was given them to
think or talk over the matter, as both were
hurriedly sent with a detachment consisting
of about half-accompany — Allan, of
course, in command — to a place called
Matarieh, near Heliopolis, to take part
there in a demonstration against the prowling
Bedouins among the mountain ranges
that overlook the desert traversed by the
disused railway that ran from Cairo towards
the plain of Muggreh.

And for this place, which lies some miles
north-east of Cairo, they marched accordingly,
taking with them provisions, ammunition,
and tents, for the modern village

was a small one, situated among the ruins
of the ancient town, which was deserted
far back as the days of Strabo, and is now
to be traced only in extensive mounds of
earth and a noble obelisk nearly seventy
feet in height ; and there disasters occurred
which Allan Graham was fated never
to forget.

CHAPTER IV.

THE TELEGRAM.

By Jingo, there is old Pudd's carriage at
the door, and his wife in it — a deuced fine
girl, a stunning girl indeed !'

Queer time this, to bring her up to
London, when there is not a soul in
town.'

Perhaps that is the very reason he has
done so.'

I'll invite old Pudd down to the cub-hunting,
and, if he brings her with him,
won't I improve the shining hour !'

The speakers were two very hlase but
good-looking young men, who were lounging
in the bay window of the otherwise
empty room of a stately club-house overlooking
Pall Mall, then lonely, dusty, rather
sun-baked, and the chief figures in
which were the sentinels of the Guards at
the "War-Ofl&ce and Marlborough House,
and who, with no small interest, had seen
Sir Paget Puddicombe's open carriage drop
him at the door, where he waved his hand
to Eveline as she drove away to shop or go
round the park.

Now, Sir Harry Hurdell, a sporting
baronet, well known on the turf and at
TattersalFs, and his chief chum, Mr. Pike
Poole, a famous hand at billiards, more
skilled with the cue than any marker in
London, were not Sir Paget's style of men,
for both were horsey, fast, given to gambling
and loose living, but both were anxious

to stand in the good graces of one
who, as tliej phrased it, * was proprietor of
such a devilish handsome girl.'

They had not seen him since his marriage,
on which both complimented and
congratulated him in such well-chosen
terms that he felt quite flattered, and his
heart warmed to them.

It flashed upon him that by the society
of other young men it was possible to
neutralise — if he did nothing more — the
recollection of Evan Cameron in the mind
of Eveline, and thus it was that he said,

'We are quite alone in town, but will
you dine with us to-day ?'

With pleasure —-delighted — charmed to
be introduced to Lady Puddicombe,' said
Sir Harry, with a swift glance at his friend
Poole.

Sharp eight, then. I daresay our chef
will not fail us

All right;

Good-morning,' and away be went.

The friends looked at each other, each
with an eye half closed, and then laughed
heartily.

I'll have him down at the Hall for the
cub-hunting,' said Sir Harry, ' and have
other sport than that. She'll soon get
tired of her fogies — is bound to do so.
"What young girl could tolerate such an
old pump, and why shouldn't I go in and
win at a canter ?'

Hawke Holcroft knew her people,
didn't he ?'

'Yes — before he came a cropper altogether.
When last I heard of him he was
actually a visitor at their place, Aberfeldie,
wherever that may be.'

Eveline heard with total indifference
that they were to have guests that evening,

and with all his admiration of her Sir
Paget thought,

What a fool I was to marry her, knowing
or suspecting what I did — that she
loved that fellow — loved him first (me she
never loved at all) and last, and loves him
now, no doubt. They say no woman ever
forgets her first love, simply because he
was her first. Pleasant for me !'

Like the hero of a recent novel, ' he
could not forget that his wife had loved
another man better than she ever loved
or even pretended to love him. It washer
candour he felt most keenly. Had she
been willing to play the hypocrite, to pretend
a little, he would have been much
better pleased.'

She loved Evan still ; but it was with a
love purified of every sensuous thought,
of every earthly hope.

To Sir Paget the story of how Allan's

life had been saved at Tel-el-Kebir by
Cameron was a source of profound irritation,
annoyance, and mortification, as be
knew but too well bow the event must
enhance the latter in the estimation of
Eveline, in whose heart gratitude and admiration
for hio^h courage would now be
added to love. He would rather have
heard that the two friends had been shot
down together.

With all her secret love for Evan, she
was too wise and modest to desire ever to
be face to face with him again. She felt
that they had parted in the belvedere at
Maviswood never to meet again ; that
henceforward he was as if dead to her ;
but it was a delicious privilege to hear of
him and of his bravery, and that her dear
brother owed his life to Evan's courage
and Evan's sword.

She felt that a change had come over

the tenor of Sir Paget's ways of late, rare
especially since the episode of .


Not a day — scarcely an hour — passed
over her head in which she was not made
to feel keenly the utter want of sympathy
that existed between herself and the man
to whom she had been married by her
parents — sold by them — as in the bitterness
of her heart she thought it.

He said sharp things to her, and made
bitter asides when Egypt or the war there
was casually mentioned, as, of course, it
constantly was ; he shot many a poisoned
arrow ; but Eveline never blushed, though
she felt a calm, cold scorn at the cruelty
and injustice of such conduct.

So here were a couple bound together by
the strongest of all the legal ties, yet
utterly unsuited to each other by age,

thought, and habits ; yet most punctilious
was poor Eveline in the performance of
every wifely duty she owed her captious
old man ; but a sickly dread of coming
sorrow pervaded the girl's mind every
morning she quitted her pillow, and it
came sharply and surely at last.

To dare to look at a newspaper was
sufficient to worry him.

So, so,' he would say ; ' thus it is — is
it? Egypt and the Black Watch. D— n
the Black Watch, I say ! Where is the
affection that you as a good woman '

I am only a girl,' she urged, piteously.

As a good woman, say I, should feel
for her husband after marriage, even if
she felt none of it for him before that
little ceremony — for little and trivial
doubtless it may appear to you, madam —
and your regard for me should be all the

deeper and more lasting that no vain
protestations preceded it.'

Eveline made no response, but resumed
her occupation of gazing listlessly from
the back window of the drawing-room
into one of those dull and flowerless London
gardens which a writer has truly
described as looking ^ like a burial place
without any graves ;' so Sir Paget returned
to the charge.

'It is said, when love fails to beget
love, it often engenders hatred. Is it so,
madam?'

*Not in our case, I hope,' said Eveline,
wearily, as she sighed, and her slender
foot in its satin shoe began to tap the
carpet with nervous impatience. ' Why
did you marry me — buy me from papa ?'
she asked, with a tone and bearing a little
unusual in her, she was ever so gentle and
meek.

I married you because I admired your
beauty, and believed in the love that would
come after marriage — the love that is
grounded not on childish fancy, but on
tried friendship and esteem

Then you believed in too much,' said
Eveline, driven desperate.

Too much ?' he repeated, changing
colour, and jerking his head forward.

•'Yes, Sir Paget.'

Indeed ! I asked you to be my wife in
full assurance that I should never find my
confidence in you misplaced.'

You asked mamma rather, and your
confidence has 7ioi been misplaced.'

Then she paused and coloured deeply
for the first time, as she recalled that
painful and passionate interview in the
belvedere at Maviswood, and Evan Cameron's
farewell glance ; two episodes that
seemed to have happened years ago.

VOL. III. I"

Thus had a life of jealousy and ' nagging
' begun for poor Eveline — a life that
was ere long to become almost insupportable
— for the most trivial matter was liable
to misconstruction, or to excite suspicion.


If her eye followed a soldier in the
street, which, as the daughter of a line of
soldiers, was in her not unnatural ; if she
ventured to speak of the news of the day,
or glance at a public journal, he watched
her; it was 'Egypt again!' that she was
thinking about; and, sooth to say, in that
suspicion he was not far wrong.

Punctually a few minutes before eight,
Sir Harry Hurdell and his friend Mr. Pike
Poole were ushered into the drawing-room,
and she received them with as much
sweetness, ease, and grace as if no gloomy
conversation had preceded their appearance,

and she and Sir Paget billed and
cooed from hour to hour.

Fresh from the clever hands of Clairette

»

her toilet was perfection, and her appearance
excited the admiration of her husband's
friends, who were both connoisseurs
of female beauty, and disposed to be all
the more appreciative that the husband
was, as they thought, 'such a devil oE a
fogies.'

I mean to have Sir Paget down at my
place for a little cub-hunting,' said Sir
Harry, glancing in a mirror at his occurs
fair hair and pointed moustache
; ' and, if so, I hope you will
accompany him. My sister Lucretia will
make you most welcome, Lady Puddi-
combe.'

Ere Eveline could respond, Sir Paget
warmly accepted for both, again believing

F 2

much in change of scene and change of
society.

'I can mount you to perfection, Sir
Paget, or you may send down your own
horses,' said Sir Harry, his eyes wandering
in secret admiration over the fair
face, the soft, hazel eyes, and delicate
contour of Eveline's head, neck, and little
white ears.

Sir Paget thought he would prefer his
own. Strange horses had often tricks
that might prove troublesome to a cavalier
of his years and proportions, and it was
carried that the first week of October
was to find him and Lady Puddicombe
at Hurdell Hall. But Sir Paget could
little foresee the terrible and startling
events to which the apparently simple
acceptance of a hospitable invitation was
to lead.

You have just come from the club, I

presume ?' said Sir Paget to his brother
baronet.

*Yes; just waited to see the last telegrams
in the reading-room.*

Anything fresh from Egypt ?' lisped
Mr. Poole, with his glass wedged in his eye.

Only a single telegram, which, by the
way, must interest you Lady Puddicombe,'
said Sir Harry, with a most serious inflection
of his voice.

*Me — how?' faltered Eveline, feeling
herself grow paler, if possible, than she
really was.

It refers to your brother.'

My brother !'

She was pale to her quivering lips now.

Yes ; it states that an officer of the
Black Watch had been killed in action
with the Bedouins, and was buried in the
sand of the desert by his friend, the
Master of Aberfeldie.'

And the officer's name ?' said Sir Paget,
icily.

Was Evan Cameron.'

Cameron !' repeated the dry lips of
EveliDe, who suddenly felt as one in a
dreadful dream.

Dead and buried ; buried in the sand
of the Egyptian desert ! Did she hear
aright — was this happening to herself or
to some one else ? She made an effort
to speak, but her tongue had lost its
power.

^Eveline/ she heard her husband say,
your wits have gone wool-gathering.'

*I beg your pardon, Sir Paget. What
is it ?' she asked, faintly.

Sir ! Can't you call me Paget ?' said
he ; and the two guests exchanged glances
as much as to say,

What is up now ?'

At that moment the dirtier-gong sounded,

and giddily and mechanically she took
tip proffered arm of Sir Harry.

Never while life lasted would Eveline
forget the grotesque horror of that little
dinner, with the solemn servants in attendance,
and all its splendid yet, to her,
sickening details and talk, the references
to marriages and races — hurdle, steeple,
and others — on the tapis of flirtations and
gossip — how terrible, how ghastly they
all sounded to her, who felt as if in a
mist, out of which their voices seemed
to come hollowly, and from a vast distance,
and she was compelled to listen with one
face — a dead face — coming out of that
mist before her !

CHAPTER V.

DEAD AND BURIED IN THE SAND.

How she acquitted herself as hostess, how-she
got through that dinner, with its
many entrees and courses, from the soup
to the fruit, she never knew. It passed
like a phantasmagoria — a dreadful dream
but it was over at last; and, as one
in a dream, while Sir Harry held open
the door for her, she passed from the
table, not to the drawing-room, as he
naturally thought, and where he meant
speedily to join her, but swiftly to rush

to her dressing-closet, to tear off her
ornaments, and fling herself despairingly
upon a couch.

She recalled her strong but daily presentiment
that something was about to
happen, though now the war in Egypt was
virtually over, and that terrible something
had happened at last.

Could the telegram have been a mistake
? Improbable and impossible !
Though brief, it seemed too distinct in its
grim details.

She felt as if suffocating with grief, and
her brain reeled at the feeble prospect of
concealing it from the already exasperated
Sir Paget.

She recalled Evan's words when he parted
with her at Maviswood, and how
prophetic they seemed now,

• I am going far away, my darling, and
shall never see you again. That I may

find a grave in Egypt is the kindest wish
you can have for me.'

And now he had found that grave, and
he was buried by the hands of her brother
Allan, not on the sunny slope of a dear
highland hill, or in the grassy glen where
his forefathers lay in Stratherroch, within
sound of the waves of Lochiel, where the
summer breezes and the summer birds
would be about his tomb, and the clouds
and shadows of a Scottish sky flit over it,
but in the desolate sand of cruel and barren
Egypt !

There had been no solemn ceremony by
his grave ; he had not even a coJB&n, perhaps,
but was buried, as she had read of
others being buried, in a blanket only, and
there to lie in the wilderness, traversed by
the antelope and jackal, till the last trumpet
sounded.

She remembered his song at Dundargue.

Could it be that the maDly and bright
young face, the love-lit eyes, were dulled
by death now, and that his fresh gay voice
was hushed for ever?

Dead !' wailed the e^irl in her heart.
Oh, God, that he might be raised up as
Lazarus was, even though we should never,
never cross each other's paths again.
My love — oh, my love !' she murmured
in a hushed voice, as if the walls might
hear her.

Only to the dead,' says the author of
Mount Royal,' ' to the utterly lost and
gone, is given this supreme passion — love
sublimated to despair. From the living there
is always something kept back, something
saved and garnered for an after-gift, some
reserve in the mind or heart of the giver ;
but to the dead, love gives all — with a wild
self-abandonment which knows no restraint
or measure.'

She bad felt at first a dull, vague, sensation
which became an acute pang when
certainty came upon her ; but she dared
not as vet shed a tear.

Henceforward, as before, she had a part
to act — that of indifference. If possible,
there must be no pallid face shown, no
haggard eyes ; no tell-tale sighs must
betray the agony of heart — the great sorrow
that consumed her for the loss of her
dead love ; and wonderingly she looked at
her white and already worn countenance
in her mirror.

Oh, that Allan were returned ! from him
she would know all. Allan knew the
secret of her heart, sympathised with it,
and would relate everything ; but she could
not divest herself of an awful and haunting
fancy that this tragedy — beyond the
chances of military life — was her fault ;
and that in the recklessness and despair of

his heart, Evan Cameron had risked his
life too rashly and lost it.

When this conviction came upon her,
tears streamed down her cheeks — hot salt
tears — which she made no effort to restrain
; and on suddenly discovering her
thus — after the departure of his guests,
Sir Harry Hurdell and Mr. Poole — Sir
Paget felt his soul stung with jealous fury.

He regarded her sternly rather than
lovingly, and puffed out his chest with
what he deemed an air of offended dignity.
Yet he attempted to take her hand.

Do not touch me said Eveline, imploringly
; ' at least not just — just now.'

Upon my word, madam ! Do you understand
what your romantic pity for
this — this person implies ?' he asked,
grimly, while polishing his bald head with
his handkerchief till it shone like a billiard
ball.

He has no father or mother — no sister
to weep for him — none but myself to
sorrow for him.'

'Well?'

And he died like a gentleman, upholding
the honour of Queen and country, and
the name of Cameron,' said Eveline, a little
defiantly.

• Bosh ! I suppose he was paid for all
that ? But enough of this. May I ask,
have you no home interests and home ties
like other married women ?'

Eveline made no reply; so, with a violent
jerk of his head, Sir Paget spoke

adam.

Listen to me, Lady Puddicombe.'

I am doing so.'

To me you seem like one of those
oddities or evil spirits one reads of only in
novels.'

'How?'

Having had a romance in your life, or
fancying you had one, and believing you
have married the wrong man, and all that
sort of stuff, you like to live and brood on
a memory. Is it so, Lady Puddicombe?
Answer me — did you actually love this
fellow Cameron ?'

Yes,' she replied, wincing, as he laid
his coarse hand rather roughly on her
delicate shoulder.

'Indeed. And you love him still ?'

He is dead — he is dead — and perhaps
it is a sin to brood over the past.'

An infernal futility, at all events. All
this is pleasant for me, madam,' said he,
applying himself to polishing his pate
again.

A wiser man might have partly ignored
the affair, in the hope that it must in time

pass away ; but her unmistakable emotion
of grief for Cameron's death proved somewhat
beyond the patience of Sir Paget,
who recurred to it warmly.

His demise, if untimely, is very natural ;
to face death and meet it was the trade he
chose, and for which the country paid him,
and well, too, as we shall find by next
year's income-tax. What more would
you have ? Others quite as good as he —
better perhaps — have fallen in this grotesque
war, which, the Ministry tell us, is
no war at all, though it will be deuced
expensive work to us who have to stumped
for it,' he continued, waving his hand
as he had done when addressing the same
words to his constituents at .
' Moreover, madam, we can only
die once, which is just as well. Who is it
that likens the race of man to leaves on
the trees T

But the leaves fall in autumn, not as he
has done — my — my '

Love ?' he suggested, with a gloomy
sneer.

No,' replied Eveline, quivering with
anger.

What then, madam ?'

My dear friend — my brother's comrade,
and the saver of his life at Tel-el-Kebir.'

For some days the matter was not referred
to ; Sir Paget sulked a good deal,
and dined often with his friend Hurdell at
the club, while Eveline, in her dumb grief,
felt like some piece of strange machinery
that must go through the evolutions for
which it was framed.

To Sir Paget she was an enraging
enigma. Dead or alive, what was this
Highland fellow now to her ? But ^ who,'
asks a writer, 'in middle age, when the
sordid cares of every day life are para-vol.

III. G

mount, can comprehend the young heart's
passionate mystery — the love which, like
some bright tropical flower, buds and
blooms in a single day — the love which is
more than fancy V

But a fresh impetus was given to Sir
Pages jealous anger, and a keen edge put
upon it, when a letter addressed to ' Lady
Puddicombe' arrived one morning from
Messrs. Horning and Bailie, Was., Edinburgh.
anent ' the will of the late Evan
Cameron, Esq., of Stratherroch,' informing
her that by that document, he had bequeathed
his estate of that name to her
and her heirs, whom, failing, to those of
his brother Duncan. The letter then proceeded
to detail the encumbrances on the
estate, which was rapidly freeing itself ;
that besides so much arable land there was
fine grouse-shooting, extending to about
eight thousand acres, yielding in favourable

seasons about nine hundred brace of
birds, besides black-game, snipe, ducks, and
plover; that there was excellent trout-fishing
in the river Errol. It then described
the mansion-house, stables, kennels,
and so forth, and wound up by asking for
her ladyship's instructions.'

There was a postscript, saying that ' the
late Stratherroch seems to have been a
prime favourite with the crofters on the
estate, and they all deplore his untimely
end, even with tears.'

Oh, what does it all mean ?' sighed
Eveline, in utter anguish and bewilderment.
The ' late ' — how horrid — how awful
did that single word look, when she
recalled the yearning eyes, the farewell
glance of Evan Cameron, as he marched
past her on the departing day.

Transported with anger, Sir Paget
snatched the letter from her hand, and,

g2

adjusting his gold pince-nez on his nose,
focussed the lines and glared at them ;
and after he had read he tossed it from
him.

An insult, by Jove, Lady Puddicombe
a deliberate insult !'

Sir Paget began Eveline, but paused ;
she knew not what to urge or say, though
she knew but too well all the bequest
implied.

^ Who wants his dirty acres of Highland
bog and rock ? Not I — the presumptuous
fellow !'

Presumptuous !' repeated Eveline, with
a bitter smile, as she thought of the antecedents
of the baronet of .
* Cameron's descent is as old as
the hills ; bis ancestors have hunted with
James Y., and in battle were the comrades
of Montrose and Dundee.'

What the devil is all this to me — or to

you for the matter of that ?' snarled Sir
Paget, puffing out his chest. ' I am at
liberty to reject this bequest on my own
part.'

• But not on mine,' replied Eveline,
quietly yet firmly.

The deuce — you will accept it ?'

^ Why should not I — if I do injustice to
none ?'

'And degrade yourself in the eyes of
the world !'

'How, Sir Paget?'

What was this man to you ? every man
will naturally inquire.'

None can know that he was ever even
a friend to me,' said Eveline, with difficulty
restraining her tears.

It must be rejected, I say !'

But the estate is not left to you, Sir
Paget.'

Estate !' said he, scornfully. ' A few

acres of bog and heather, and a mansion
that probably keeps out neither wind nor
weather.'

So no action was taken in the matter
for a time, and the letter of Messrs. Horning
and Bailie, "Was., remained unanswered,
much to the surprise of these
gentlemen (who deemed themselves persons
of no small importance), and was to
remain so until the return from cub-hunting
at Hurdell Hall.

Sir Paget was sorely ruffled by this new
event, and felt himself at liberty to sneer
vulgarly at Eveline's former lover, and at
her shattered fidelity to any vows she
made by her marriage with himself ;
whereas the poor girl had never made
one.

She felt that — as a wedded wife — she
must stand alone in her secret grief, and
beyond the pale of human succour or sympathy,

and the sweet words of ' Auld
Kobiu Gray ' occurred to her :

I daurna think o' Jamie, for that wad be a sin.'
Times there were when she dreamt of
Evan vividly, and that he was with her
again. 'Why should it be a miracle that
the dead come back ?' asks an author ;
'the wonder is that they do not. How
can one go away who loves you and never
return, nor speak, nor send any message
that is the miracle ; not that the heavens
should bend down and the gates of Paradise
roll back and those who have left us
return.' At such times he seemed near to
her, and his voice was in her ears — more
near to her than he had ever been. He
loved her, but he was gone — gone, and
the grey day was stealing slowly in !

Olive, she thought, she must see Olive ;
doubtless Allan must have written home
to her, and his letters misfht contain some

details of this catastrophe that sbe would
learn nowhere else, so she contrived a visit
to Puddicombe Villa at Southsea on their
way to Hurdell Hall. But she gained
nothing by this.

Lady Aberfeldie had heard of the late
event in Egypt, and saw in a moment how
it had affected her daughter.

She is a very sensitive girl, Sir Paget,'
said she, deprecatingly, in reply to a
somewhat stinging remark of his ; ' and
thus you see the sudden death of this
young man, so recently our guest at Dun-argue,
and so long her brother's tried
friend and comrade, and one to whose
courage that brother and all of us owe so
much, has — not unnaturally, 1 think —
greatly shocked her.'

Shocked her rather too much, apparently,'
jerked out Sir Paget, with a grimace.
"Who could have supposed that so brief

an acquaintance — shall we call it an acquaintance
? — could have produced an impression
so deep.'

Lady Aberfeldie bridled up a little and
crested her handsome head ; for, like Sir
Paget, she had her own thoughts on the
subject.

Well, he is gone now,' said she, after a
pause.

And a devilish good thing, too added
Sir Paget, roughly.

She made no rejoinder, conceiving that
the less that was said on the matter the
better.

Eveline found Olive in a very crushed
state.

Allan had never written to her, and, as
yet, even his mother's letter of explanation
had not been replied to. Perhaps he did
not believe in it. He bad left her abruptly
and passionately and with a sore heart.

Many such hearts are caught by others on
the rebound, for the void in them is more
easily filled up, and often requires to be so.

Oh, heaven,' she thought, ' if such
should be the case with Allan — not in
Egypt, for that was very unlikely, but at
Gibraltar or Malta, where English ladies
were to be met with.'

Even if married, I fear sou would never
win the Dunno Flitch,' Lady Aberfeldie
had said to her angrily on one occasion.

'My unfortunate money has been the
cause of all this,' replied Olive. ' It excited
the cunning and cupidity of that unfortunate
man, Holcroft, and has led to the
saddest misconceptions and misconstructions
from the first between dear Allan and
myself,' she added, in tears.

Most true.'

Olive knew that the doubtful position in
which she had been placed with reference

to Allan had, as she thought, been fully
explained away in writing by his mother,
and his father too ; but from Allan there
came no letter to herself.

What did his silence mean? Even
anger were better than nothing.

'My unfortunate money,' she repeated:
my golden chains have proved a curse tous
both. He has ceased to love me now,
and, loving him as I do, what can my life
be to me ? And how shall I live on through
all the months and years of it without him ?
What if we never meet again ! He may
fall in this war as his friend Cameron fell
oh, my love — not you — notyou — not that''

And the luckless girl wept bitterly.

CHAPTER YI.

A SKIRMISH IN THE DESERT.

Buried in the sand !

Yes — it was all true — too true ; the gay,
handsome, and usually light-hearted Laird
of Stratherroch, one of the most popular
fellows in the Black Watch — he who had
won the V,C. in battle with his good claymore
— he whom Eveline had known in the
heyday of his life, when the world seemed
so fresh and fair to both, whom she had
last seen as a despairing and brokenhearted
lover, was gone — struck down by
a bullet of some nameless Egyptian savage,

buried in the desert, and lie would never
see him more, though the poignancy of his
farewell would haunt her for many a day.

And thus it all came to pass.

A band of Bedouins had been hovering
in the vicinity of Matarieh, plundering and
looting. These Allan, after a consultation
with Cameron, resolved to make a demonstration
against, and with Farquharson,
his sergeant, and thirty picked men, in
light marching order, they quitted the village,
and about an hour before sunrise took
their way towards the desert.

The light of the coming day shone along
the latter, a sandy waste, overlooked by
Jebel Mokattam, a chain of rocks abrupt
and barren that extends from Cairo to the
cataracts. They are generally flat, with
beetling summits, while below, on the
face which fronts the Nile, they are furrowed
as if water-worn by the rain of ages.

On the other flank, towards Jebel
Dimeshk, rises a ridge of sand-hills that
follows in the same direction at an equal
distance, all the windings and sinuosities
of that which lines the eastern bank.

Between lay the winding line of the
disused railway. In front the horizon
seemed foggy or dusty, and along the
desert the sun shone for a time, as he
rose, like a red ball, shorn of his rays.

In rear the party left behind the village
of Matarieh, with the clumps of palm-trees,
beyond which, with the tall obelisk
and the ruins of several sphinxes, rose
the great mounds of earth that mark the
site of Heliopolis, Hie City of the Sun
the inhabitants of which worshipped a bull
called Nevis, with the same ceremonies
as the Apis of Memphis, and where Apollo
had an oracle.

Over the same found where in IS 00 a

battle was fought between the French and
Turks, in which the latter were defeated
with the loss of eight thousand men and
all their cannon and baggage, Allan's little
band marched merrily on towards the
desert in hope to * polish off ' a few
of the Bedouins before returning to
quarters.

They were well supplied with ammunition
; each man had a day's rations in his
haversack, and his water-bottle filled with
the red sandy fluid of the Nile. In Exodus
we are told that the Egyptians loathed
to drink the waters of that river, and, as
Cameron said, ' the men of the Black
Watch were much of the same mind.'

]sow, in making a reconnaissance, Allan
Graham was a trained soldier enough to
know that cover from view is important,
as it enables troops, whatever their
strength, to form for action ; thus he

hoped to utilise the railway bank, or, if
not that, some of the sandy undulations
around it.

As the first object in reconnoitring is
to get observation, with his sergeant, who
was a sharp fellow, he went at some distance
in front of his men, field-glass in
hand, and looked sharply about him.

He continued to move in a northeasterly
direction for nearly ten miles ,
till mid-day, but saw nothing of Bedouins,
and then, halting amid a clump of palms,
threw out some sentinels towards the
front, piled arms, and the Highlanders
in their kilts and red serges threw themselves
on the grass and prepared to make
a meal of what they had brought with
them, washed down by Nile water.

There he remained till noon was long
past, and he began to think of falling
back on Matarieh.

Even under the shadow of the palms
they were tormented by gnats and sand-flies.


We are in the land of the "Arabian
Nights" — the land of giants, fairies, and
genii, and all that sort of thing,' said
Cameron, as he lit a cigar ; ' but, if a little
picturesque, Allan, the discomforts are
abominably real.'

Surely water is lying yonder, sir,' said
Sergeant Farquharson, ' and we might get
our water-bottles filled.'

All looked eagerly in the direction indicated,
towards the base of the Jebel
Dimeshk range. The sun was clear,
bright, and powerful now. Amid the
silent waste of sand a long, narrow lake
seemed at no great distance.

• If water it is,' exclaimed Cameron,
there are certainly men moving through
it.'

VOL. III. H

The Bedouins, by Jove !' cried Allan.
'Down, down,' he shouted to his sentinels,
lie down, under cover if you can.'

They lay down flat, and Allan, adopting
the same position, turned his field-glass
towards the mirage, for such it was — that
beautiful optical illusion produced by the
sun's rays reflected from the heated sand,
and which raises before the eye of the
thirsty wayfarer the tantalising but perfect
representation of distant lakes or pleasing
sheets of water.

About eighty Bedouin horse were moving
slowly from the direction of the Jebel
Dimeskh range towards the line of the
railway. Whatever their object was, from
a description given to Allan, he was certain
they were those of whom he was in
search, and that their object was to turnup
in the vicinity of Matarieh after sunset,
intent on plunder, as everywhere these

lawless sons of the desert were taking
advantage of the confusion of affairs in
Egypt.

Some were armed with long muskets of
antique form, but b}^ far the greater number
had Remington rifles — flung away by
Arabi's fugitive soldiers — slung over their
backs, or at their saddles, weapons that
had superseded the javelin, the bow, and
in many instances the spear. They where
clad in barracks of dark brown wool, with
floating burnouses, many of them spotlessly
white ; and as they seemed to be making
slowly, for shelter doubtless, towards the
clump of palms occupied by Allan's party,
which was yet beyond their range of vision,
he drew the whole off and took post behind
the bank of the abandoned railway, a movement
which was fortunately quite unseen
by the foe.

Formation against cavalry would be use

2

less, as these wild horsemen have no idea
of tactics ; and, to deceive them as to his
force, Allan formed his men in extended
order, three paces apart, each man lying
on his face, close under the line of the
embankment.

Allan knew from experience how fire
from a steep slope becomes plunging ;
thus he congratulated himself that the
slope for his musketry was one that was
parallel to the trajectory of the rifles.

By a single word he could, if necessary,
form his men in a rallying square on the
crest of the line. As the Bedouins came
riding forward, in a disorderly group, at
an easy, ambling pace, Allan, by means of
his field-glass, was certain that in their
leader he recognised the Arab, Zeid-el-
Ourdeh, whom he had succoured after his
wounds at Kassassin, and sent to the hospital
at Ismailia.

He was wearing the same robes with
wide sleeves, and the richly embroidered
girdle he wore when found near the camp.

Steady and still, men cried Allan,
and we'll play old gooseberry with these
beggars, as we have done everywhere
else.'

They were about five hundred paces
distant, a range for which the rifles were
sighted, when suddenly a Bedouin uttered
a shrill cry of alarm, and all began to unsling
their firearms. His eye had detected
a clay-coloured helmet with its red hackle
on the left side.

Ere they could fire a shot, the Highlanders
from their cover poured in a
deadly fire, and more than twenty men
and horses went down in confused heaps ;
the latter, in the agony of their wounds
and terror, kicking and lashing wildly outwith
their hoofs, raising clouds of sand,

while braining the skulls and breaking the
limbs of the fallen riders, whether dead or
wounded ; then shrieks and groans, cries
and curses loaded the air, as all who were
untouched or able to keep their saddles,
after firing, half at random, a ragged volley,
wheeled round their light chargers
and went off with the speed of the wind.

Cease firing !' cried Allan Graham ;
we have taught these fellows a lesson
severe enough for the day, and I don't
think they will venture near Matarieh
again.'

In that, however, he was mistaken, ashe
afterwards found to his cost.

'And now,' he added, as he crossed
the line of railway, sword in hand, 'to
give water to the wounded, succour any
we can, smash all their weapons, and leave
them to fate or their returning friends.'

He, with most of his party, approached

the place where the victims of the fusilade
lay, and, so far as blood, wounds, and
agony went, they presented a very dreadful
scene, and yet a trifling one when compared
with that witnessed so lately in the
trenches of Tel-el-Kebir.

Many were shot outright ; others, severely
wounded, lay wallowing and choking
in their blood, and they regarded the
victors with a firm, scowling, and defiant
expression in their long, thin, tawny faces,
and black, bright, glittering eyes, that
made them look, as Allan said, like dying
eagles.

But, before anything could be done for
the survivors, the fatal episode of the day
took place.

A little way apart from the group of
death and agony, lay a Bedouin, who,
though untouched, was partly under his
horse, from which he freed himself, and

then Cameron advanced to take him
prisoner. He was an athletic and gigantic
fellow, all bone and sinew, lithe asa
serpent, and active as the antelope of
his native deserts.

Drawing a long pistol from his girdle,
he levelled it at Cameron, but it snapped,
on which he flung it furiously at the head
of the latter, who ducked, and escaped it.

Several Highlanders now rushed forward,
as he had drawn a large and heavy-damascus
sabre, but they paused with
their hands on their locks when Cameron
cried,

Stand back, my lads, and leave him
to me !' And in a moment both their
blades were flashing in the setting sun,
for Cameron fell upon him claymore in
hand.

May your head be covered by a whirlwind
of fire !' hissed the Bedouin in Arabic,

through his clenched teeth, while he hewed
away without the least intention of surrendering.
The hood of his red and white
striped burnous had fallen back, and his
whole head and face, with flashing e3^es and
gleaming teeth, were displayed to view.

Cameron was a skilful swordsman, but
so was the Bedouin, who was his superior
in height and muscular power. Their
blades struck red sparks from each other.
Cameron forgot to draw his long dirk ;
but he had ' Sir Garnet's ' ugly jack-knife
in his left hand, for parrying purposes.
How the combat would have terminated,
it is difficult to say, but a vile Bedouin,
who lay wounded close by, armed with a
long, straight sword, with the last effort
of expiring nature, writhed himself up
from the sand, ran poor Cameron through
the body from behind, and fell back dead.

With a hollow groan, Cameron fell

backward across him, and was about to
receive a finishing stroke from his antagonist,
when the latter was shot through
the head by Sergeant Farquharson.

This catastrophe rather cooled Allan's
humane ideas of succouring the wounded.
Very few of the Highlanders had been
touched, and these buff slightly. However,
it seemed as if Cameron was dying.
He was speechless, and his mouth at
times was filled with blood. It was impossible
then to ascertain the exact nature
of his wounds, or what part of the body
was injured. Allan, full of tenderness,
anxiety, and the deepest commiseration,
formed a pad of his handkerchief, and,
using his sash as a bandage, endeavoured
so far as in him lay, to stop the bleeding,
while a litter was improvised by a couple
of rifles, with a blanket stretched over
them; and the party began to fall back

on Matarieli, but often had to halt, for
the agony of Cameron was great, and
Allan began to despair of getting him
conveyed in life to Matarieh, which, as
we have said, was nearly ten miles distant,
while, to enhance their difficulties, a troop
of nearly a hundred Bedouins were visible,
pouring down a rocky gorge of the Jebel
Mokattam range ; so nothing was left to
Allan but to continue his retreat, which
they seemed slow or disinclined to follow
up.

Yet their presence was fraught with
danger, especially after the sun, with its
usual rapidity in these regions, went down
like a red, fiery ball, and the lurid haze
exhaled from the flat desert on which the
darkness fell.

The stars were coming out in the blue
zenith ; the dew was already beginning to
fall ; long and dark shadows lay across the

plain, but the Hue of the railway was a sure
guide back to Matarieh and the vicinity of
Heliopolis.

Every step of his bearers elicited a moan
of pain from Cameron, and these went to
the heart of his friend as if they had been
the utterances of a brother, while now and
then the sufferer muttered his thanks to
the soldiers for their care and kindness,
and his regret for the trouble he gave
them after a day of toil, and his fears that
he was retarding their retreat and thereby
involving them in danger. Of his own
pain or peril he never uttered a word.

Constellations new to him and his comrades
were in the sky now — a vast blue
dome that stretched far, far away, all
bright with glorious stars.

At last it was absolutely necessary to
halt for a time, for all thought the sufferer
was dying, and the Highlanders said that

if the Bedouins came on again they would
form square round him ; and soon it became
too evident that Evan Cameron was
lying ' on the bleak neutral ground between
life and death.'

Accustomed though they were to suffering
and slaughter, the Highlanders stood
around him leaning on their muskets, full
of commiseration, and looking attentively
at the pale face of the dying officer
and back to the desert where they had last
seen the enemy hovering ; and more than
one wished that the Bedouins would only
come on again.

Has no man among us here any water ?'
asked Allan, for by this time the tin bottles
of the detachment were empty.

A man who was in the act of taking
the stopper out of his, paused instantly.

captain Graham, here is mine,' said
he ; * there are only a drop or two left, but

if it was my blood I'd give it for Evan
Cameron,' he added, emphatically, with
that familiarity which is peculiar to the
Highlander, and has no rudeness in it.

Donald, thank you,' said Allan.

'My mother bides nigh the braes of
Stratherroch, and I am not likely to forget
that to-night,' said the soldier, with a
break in his voice.

Raising Cameron's head gently, Allan
put Donald's water-bottle to his lips, and
he drank thirstily of the fetid and odious
water it contained, ' the Nile soup,' as our
men called it.

Refreshed even by it for a few minutes,
Evan Cameron spoke to Allan, but in
whispers, and, as they seemed to be
meant for the ear of the latter alone, the
soldiers with one accord drew back a little
way.

I knew from the first that I should

never pull through — nor do I wish to do
so, Allan,' said he, speaking at long intervals
and with a husky effort.

We have faced death together in
many ways, but I wish your case had been
mine, Evan, even if it is to be a fatal
one.'

Don't say that, Allan, dear fellow,' replied
Evan, with that strange, far-off
expression of eye which belongs alone to
a fast-ebbing life — an expression which
Allan could see even in the starlight as he
stooped close over the sufferer, ' my sight
is failing me, yet I can in fancy see Eve-line
— oh ! so distinctly, Allan — and I seem
to hear her voice — you don't mind me saying
this noir, lying, as I am here, face to
face with God — the voice that seemed to
whisper to my heart.'

Allan could only press the clammy hand
that never again would grasp the broad

claymore. Evan spoke again, but still
more brokenly,

I am not jealous now of my married
rival ; I only sorrow for the lost future of
Eveline ; married to an old man whom she
may respect but never love, and with whom
she cannot have a sympathy in common.'
'You are talking too much, Evan.'
^ And thinking of her rather than my
prayers. When I am lying here in my
long and peaceful sleep, far from my
father's grave in bonnie Stratherroch, she
will live all the years of a young life, and,
in the time to come, will — of course,
forget me.'

His voice was almost gone now, yet
his eyes dilated when Allan said, with
sorrowful emphasis,

Evan, she will never forget you.'
Nearer me — come nearer, Allan ; I — I
want you to tell her — tell her '

"What "he was to tell x^lan never heard,
as the voice of Cameron ceased ; a change,
perceptible in the clear starlight, was
passing over his face ; a dew was gathering
on his forehead, and dark shadows
under his eyes.

He's gone, sir,' said Sergeant ,
lifting his helmet for a moment
in mute reverence. 'Well, Captain Graham,
the golden gates have never closed
upon a better officer or a braver man !
Poor Evan Cameron,' he added, stooping
over the body and looking at it earnestly.

Allan cast a long and sad glance at it
too ; then he laid a hand on the heart ; it
might be only syncope — no, it did not
seem to be that.

The profile of his face in its stillness
looked like a classic cameo cut in high
relief. His fair, almost golden, hair,
clipped close with military precision, re-vol.

III. I

gained still its crispy ripple. The brown
moustache shading the short upper lip
had been somewhat untrimmed of late ;
but he looked so life-like that Allan
almost shuddered as he spread the blanket
over him and covered him up — for
he felt that in that wretched substitute
for a shroud lay one whom he knew his
sister — married albeit as she vas to
another — loved better than life !

It was hard to think of so young and
gallant a life being cut short thus by
the inexorable scissors of Fate ; but he
was gone to the * Land of the leal,' where
there can be no sorrow nor thought of
sordid things.

We cannot leave him lying here thus ;
neither can we carry him off ; while there
is a chance of these Bedouin devils coming
on again. Besides, there are always jackals
about,' said Allan, as he took possession of

Evan's claymore, dirk, and ring. ' Scoop
a hole — a temporary grave in the sand —
and cover him up, till we can return by
daylight, and bring him into quarters for
proper interment.'

The soldiers, with their hands, bayonets,
and rifle-butts, hollowed a trench some
three feet deep, and therein, rolled in a
blanket, they reverently deposited the yet
warm form of Cameron, and covered it
up with sand.

Allan maintained a grim silence, and,
though his heart was full of genuine grief,
the remarks of his soldiers pleased him.

Those who have lived with us and died
as he has done will never be forgotten
in the regiment, sir,' said Sergeant .


'Mourn for the mourner, I have heard
my mother say in Gaelic, and not for the
dead, as they are at rest and we in tears

I 2

said Donald, as lie hooked-on his water-bottle.


He has none to mourn for him now
but one, and she is far away,' remarked
Allan, with a swelling in his throat. ' And
now fall in, lads.'

The Highlanders marched on their way
back to Matarieh in silence, impressed by
the recent episode ; for, if gallant and
reckless fellows in battle, they were
thoughtful and full of sorrow for the
brave young officer they had lost.

A shot or two, fired apparently at random
in the distance, sparkling out redly
amid the obscurity, showed that the Bedouins
were following them up, and must
have passed over the very place where
Cameron lay.

The silence of the starry night was
upon > the world then — upon the ridgy
summits of Jebel Mokattam, and darkness

now enfolded the desert where Evan
Cameron lay in such awful loneliness,
without even the grim companionship of
the dead — the last Cameron of the old
fighting line of Stratherroch.

Two days after, with an ambulance
waggon, Sergeant Farquharson, and some
of his men, Allan went along the line of
the old railway from Matarieh to the place
where they had left the body — a place
marked in their memory by the presence
of two large stones and some shrubs near
the embankment — but of these they could
find no trace, though they searched for
hours, believing they might have passed
them or miscalculated the distance.

Nothing was to be seen about the real
or supposed spot but sand, smooth and
drifted sand everywhere. Thus Allan
could but come to the sorrowful conclusion
that some species of sand-storm must

have swept from the desert south-eastward
between the mountain ranges, and buried
every trace of the hastily-made grave.

CHAPTER VII,

Purcell HALL.

Welcome to Hurdell Hall ! My sister
Lucretia — LadyPuddicombe and Sir Paget,
Lucretia — Sir Paget, our mutual friend
Poole, you know.'

Thus did Sir Harry Hurdell introduce
Eveline and Sir Paget, with much empressement
and effusiveness, to his home in
Hampshire, when the carriage duly deposited
them, with Mademoiselle Clairette,
Sir Paget's valet, and ' no end ' of trunks
and boxes in a van, at the porte cohere.

Situated in the northern district of the

shire, where the woods are chiefly hazel,
birch, alder, and willow, where flocks of
deer scour the coppice, Hurdell Hall is a
fine example of the old Tudor architecture,
and, as Eveline saw it for the first
time with the rays of the evening sun
casting dashes oE golden light upon its
ogee gables, mullions bay-windows, its
long gravelled approach, and stately terrace,
she thought what a charming picture
it would make, with its background of
oaks, which in Hampshire seldom rise into
lofty stems, but have branches that are
usually twisted into picturesque outlines.

Below the terrace lay a kind of pool, in
which a couple of swans were floating
lazily, each with one leg tucked up under
a wing, and where the snow-white water-lilies
gleamed in the sunshine.

Nor was the inside of the Hall — which
was to be associated with events never

to be forgotten by Eveline — any way
inferior to the outside. There were
stately apartments furnished with every
modern luxury in the way of upholstery,
and others where the furniture spoke of
an old, old past, and of generations
of Hurdells who had long since been
gathered together in the old family vault ;
panelled corridors adorned with busts of
Roman emperors and gods ; stuffed tropical
birds and horns of gigantic size ; cabinets,
swords, daggers, helmets, and armour ;
and where portraits were hung of, knights
and dames in brilliant colours ; one of Sir
Harry, who accompanied the Royal Bluebeard
to the field of cloth of gold ; another
who had been the comrade of Sir Horace
of Tilbury in many a field in Flanders ;
and the Hurdells of later times in powdered
whigs, toupees, and long stomachers.
There was also a charming; little Gothic

private chapel, which had now a luxurious
divan around it, as the present Sir Harry,
not being much addicted to devotions, had
turned it into a billiard-room, and a most
commodious and excellent one it was, as
the niches were tall enough to hold cues
and the basin of the font was admirably
calculated to hold the balls.

Sir Harry was rather handsome, but
blase in aspect and bearing ; there was an
indolent and rather lascivious expression
in his eyes, the light colour of which it is
difficult to define ; he had a transparent
nostril and short upper lip, with long
tawny moustache, and a face which, though
difficult to say why, was not a pleasing
one.

His sister Lucretia, his senior by several
years, was somewhat his counterpart in
appearance, and, nearer her fortieth than
her thirtieth year, was still very handsome,

but handsome in a faded way ;
and she received the young wife of old
Sir Paget with considerable effusiveness,
kissing her on both cheeks a la Franchise ;
though Eveline, fair, soft, and timid even
in friendship, felt oppressed rather than
soothed or pleased by the society of this
somewhat hlase and disappointed woman
of the world, with her cold, steely eyes,
ashy-tinted hair, thin lips, and caressing
manner ; and Eveline soon discovered she
was vain, shallow, selfish, and not un-addicted
to white lies when they suited
her purpose.

Perhaps the creature she cared most
for in this world, after herself and her
brother, was a little, wheezy ' King
Charles,' with a blue ribbon and silver
bell adorning its neck.

While the gentlemen were smoking and
idling in the billiard-room — the same place

where Philip of Spain, en route from Southampton
to marry Mary, had made his
devotions — she entertained Eveline with
afternoon tea in a charming little room
dark with oak-panelling, with rare old oak
furniture, and hangings of ancient tapestry
that testified to the industry of white-handed
Hurdells in generations past.

Something of ennui at least, in the
young face of her new acquaintance did
not fail to catch the attention of the sharp
Lucretia, who knew from the first that
Eveline's marriage had been an ill-assorted
one ; yet, she said, after a pause,

You long to join the gentlemen, I
think ; they are not far off — only at the
end of the corridor

'Pardon me, I am more pleased to be
with you

Thanks, dear ; but I fear that you and
Sir Paget are a pair of regular love-birds,

and must go tlirongli a systematic amount
of billing and cooing every day.'

Eveline smiled faintly, but made no
response. Did Miss Hurdell mean this
as a sneer? she thought; it seemed so.

'Dear Sir Pa2:et!' said Miss Hurdell
again, a little irrelevantly. ' I thought
love-matches were out of fashion now.'

She is mocking me,' thought Eveline,
yet the rather aristocratic face of Lucretia
was as inscrutable as her manner was
suave to sweetness.

All who know Sir Paget respect him
he is a thoroughly good man,' said
Eveline, feeling the necessity of saying
something.

"Women always like wicked fellows,"
says Lefanu, in one of his novels. It is
contrast ; but it has been my experience
that they do.'

/No right-minded woman would endorse

this opinion of our sex, I am assured.'

Miss Hurdell laughed at Eveline's
gravity, and refilled their cups of dragon-blue
china.

I always hated the idea of being married,'
said she.

Why ?' asked Eveline.

Because it would make life — I thought
so tame.'

show odd!'

'Ah, no doubt you think so. I didn't
care about being engaged and all that sort
of thing ; but no, I never would have
married.'

Sooth to say, she had never had an
offer, or been engaged, in her life.

It is so nice to be a fiancee — the object
of daily attention.'

Then you must have been engaged to
know all this, Miss Hurdell.'

Like yourself, dear, of course — but call

me Lucretia. A girl has more freedom
when engaged than before it ; though the
envy of her female friends, she can be
more natural with her gentlemen friends,
and may say many a merry and rantipole
thing she dared not have said before.
Goldsmith was right when he makes Dr.
Primrose declare that courtship is generally
a happier state than marriage. Tome
it seems to turn the butterfly into a
caterpillar.'

Eveline knew what to think of these
novel views, but she sighed as she thought
of what her own existence was now.

To me,' resumed the fair Lucretia, ' it
always seemed as if, when the wedding-ring
was slipped on my slender finger, I
should have nothing left to live for; that
my existence would belong wholly to another
person.'

Eveline set down her tea-cup and looked

at the speaker with something of mute
wonder. In society she had met with many
strange persons, but none who had such odd
views as the mature chatelaine of Hurdell
Hall.

But you would have your husband to
live for,' she urged gently, but certainly
not thinking of her oivn.

^ A very commonplace style of living, I
should think.'

JSFot if one marries for love,' said Eve-line
softly.

As you married ' (old was on her lips)
as you married dear Sir Paget.'

Eveline felt her colour rise, yet she only
said, *But — but to marry with any doubt
in one's heart would be deception.'

'Well,' said Miss Hurdell, raising her
eyebrows, 'if a woman may not deceive
her own husband whom has she a right to
deceive ?'

This was a new view ef the matter to
poor Eveline, who began to have rather a
horror of her hostess.

There goes the dressing-bell, dear — we
dine at eight,' said Lucre tia, rising ; 'let
me conduct ^^ou to your room.'

Once there, Eveline was free to give full
vent to her own thoughts. She would
never see that lonely grave in the desert
where Evan Cameron lay ; but to her
mind it was sacred, as of old was the place
whereon the angel of the Lord alighted.

Oh for some news — news of how it all
came about ! If Allan would only write tome
— or to Olive; he surely will tell her.
This is more than I can bear !' and interlacing
her slender white fingers — a way
she had contracted now when alone — she
pressed them with palms outward, against
her throbbing forehead, as if she meant to
break them.

VOL. III. K

Alas ! she was to learn too soon tidings
of another dire calamity, and v)hy Allan
was unable to write to any one.

There was no trace of all this deep
emotion in her soft face when she descended
to the drawing-room, with a
Velvet dress of that blue which so suited
her pale complexion, cut square at the neck,
and having elbow sleeves with lace, and
rich mosaics set in gold clasping her
white neck, and exquisitely rounded arms
that were so white and taper.

There could be no two opinions about
her rare beauty, and Sir Harry Hurdell
and his fast friend — fast in more ways
than one — both acknowledged it at a
glance, as their sharp and critical eyes
took in every detail of her witching face,
her rounded girlish cheek, her sweetly
curved mouth, with its short upper lip, her
nose and delicate nostrils.

Sir Harry Hardly was very sceptical
of the purity of all women. He would
not have believed in that of his own
mother had she been alive ; so he was
perhaps to be pardoned for deeming that
Lady Puddicombe ' was just like the rest,'
whatever that might mean.

He was intensely gratified and glad that
the girl was so young and lovely, and that
her husband was so old and so commonplace
: thus he resolved, in his own phraseology,
' to enter stakes for the filly — to
make his innings if he could, or the devil
was in it !'

K

CHAPTER Vii.

SIR Harry,

There was an air of lassitude, of settled
melancholy, and at times of abstraction,
apparent about Eveline, which she could
not always successfully conceal, that did
not fail to impress and surprise the baronet
of Hurdell Hall and his sister, and the
latter observed her narrowly when they
were together in the drawing-room.

I have heard that you sing beautifully,
Lady Puddicombe,' said she, opening the
piano.

^I used to sing — a little replied Eve-line.


Used to sing ! Why drop so charming
an accomplishment?'

I have had thoughts of late that make
me sad.'

We must cure sou of all that. What
style of music do you love most ?'

I love all music that is beautiful.'
And songs ?'

That are melancholy.'

Then sing me some favourite thing
before the gentlemen join us — there is a
dear, do.'

Thus urged, and fearing to appear ungracious,
Eveline seated herself before the
instrument — a grand and very stately one
it was, and began to sing in a voice that
became tender, passionate, and beautiful,
touching: even the somewhat arid heart of
her listener — by two of the verses especially


Perchance, if we had never met,
I had been spared this mad regret,
This endless striving to forget,
For ever and for ever !

Ah me, I cannot bear the pain,
Of never seeing thee again,
I cling to thee with might and main.
For ever and for ever !'

She felt as if she were singing to Evan,
who, perhaps, in spirit was hovering near
her ; for Eveline was beginning at times
to have strange fancies now. There were
tears in her voice as she sang, and there
were tears in her eyes too ; but she paused
abruptly as the gentlemen came in from
the dining-room, and the eyes of Sir Paget
were fixed inquiringly and reprovingly
upon her. Her voice seemed to pass
away, nor could any entreaties of Sir
Harry and his sister make her conclude the
song — a well-known one.

Hah — thereby hangs a tale !' thought

the fair Lucretia, as Sir Harry conducted
Eveline back to her chair, and took a seat
by her side.

No idle or constitutionally dissipated
man can withstand the temptation of attempting
to fascinate a pretty woman, and,
if possible, of eclipsing another man, and
to eclipse one like old Sir Paget would
seem no very difficult task ; so, while talking
quietly with Eveline on the last play,
the last news, or any current subject. Sir
Harry was thinking to himself, while
admiring the contour of her head, her rich
brown hair, long eyelashes, and lovely
little hands,

By Jove, if old Pudd would only go off
the hooks, anyhow! She can't care a
straw for him, don't you know, with his
old bald pate that he is always jerking
forward like a hen when she has laid an
eg-o;. She was in love with some fellow

who has gone to Egypt — so Holcroft told
me — been engaged to him perhaps; but
her mother was set upon her marrying old
Pudd's coin, and among them all they
talked her into it. no doubt. Poor little
girl, I must try to console her.'

Lucretia Hurdell, who at times affected
girlish airs, now brought that piece of
drawing-room foolery, her * Confession
Book,' upon the tapis.

You must positively write me yours,
dear Lady Puddicombe,' said she.

^ Or permit me to write there for you,'
suggested Sir Harry. ' Now to begin —
*' Were you ever in love ?" '

The idea of asking a married woman
that,' exclaimed Miss Hurdell.

If so, how often?' continued her brother.

I would say " never," according to the
novelist's idea of it,' replied Eveline, with
an air of annoyance.

Don't know what that idea is,' said Sir
Henry, eyeing her askance and admiringly.

I should rather say I have been in
love, but never mean to be so again.'

Eveline shivered as she said this, for
while conversing apparently with Mr.
Pyke Poole the cold eyes of Sir Paget were
upon her again.

She felt the rashness of her speech. It
was offensive to him, and was not without
some point in the mind of Sir Harry.

The cub-hunting was not to begin for a
few days yet, and meanwhile the master of
the house followed her about pretty persistently,
so that she had, ere long, a restless
feeling about it. When departing on
a riding-party he anticipated Sir Paget by
swinging her into the saddle, adjusting
her skirts and reins, leaving Pike Poole todo
that office for Miss Hurdell, to whom,
in return for pleasant quarters, he usually

devoted himself, while she, with all her
alleged indifference to matrimony, was not
indisposed to receive his attentions.

There was something in the occasional
gaze of Sir Harry that puzzled the innocent
Eveline and made her feel restless
under it, especially when he hung over herat
the piano, as he constantly did ; and now
she played more than she cared for, to
avoid conversation and have freedom to
indulge in her own sad thoughts.

Surely you must be tired of standing
there so long, Sir Harry,' she said once,
with surprise.

^ Tired of what — listening to you or
gazing on you?' he replied, lowering his
voice for her ear alone ; * either were impossible.'


If he had been addressing a barmaid he
could scarcely have made a more pointed
remark ; but so full was Eveline of

thoughts too deep for words — thoughts of
the untimely fate of one who loved her so
dearly — to whose fate or past existence
she dared not refer, and for whom she
dared not wear even a black ribbon — that
she did not perceive the admiration she
was exciting in the breast of Sir Harry
and in the quiet purity of her own heart
that such sentiments as his could exist,
never occurred to her.

He ventured on one occasion to say
something very pointed about the beauty
of her hands as she idled over the piano
keys.

As there are other ladies in the room,
I cannot compliment you on your discrimination,
Sir Harry,' she replied, coldly.
'But what do you mean by saying such
things to me ?' she added.

She began at last to perceive that there
was a meaning in his voice. She felt offended,

and wished the cub-hunting would
begin, that the visit of herself and Sir Paget
to Hurdell Hall might come the sooner
to an end.

'If I could only achieve a good long
and quiet walk and talk with her grumbled
Sir Harry to himself; 'but in this
cursed place we are always interrupted
can't attempt to make my innings or be
with her alone. Lucretia, Poole, or
some one else always turns up, and she —
herself — never gives a fellow the chance
wanted.'

Though innately wicked in heart and
rejoicing that the poor girl had made
or been compelled by others to make
an ill-assorted marriage, something of
pity for her began to mingle with his
nefarious ideas and hopes, and that pity
was as much akin to love as his blase soul
could feel.

It is a regular case of Beauty and the
Beast, this marriage of old Pudd's,'
thought he.

Finding her promenading on the terrace
alone one evening overlooking the pool
where the swans swam among the
snow-white water-lilies, he hastened to
join her.

I don't think you have seen our conservatories
he said. ' Permit me to show
you them.'

Thanks, I do so love flowers.'

They entered the long glazed avenues
of potted plants and rich exotics, where
rustic sofas with luxurious cushions were
placed under the feathery foliage of
acacias, and after idling a little, admiring
flowers that were of great beauty and the
perfection of professional gardening, Sir
Harry brought her a tiny bouquet of
beautiful and sweetly-scented violets

which, thoughtlessly, she placed in the
bosom of her dress.

His eyes gleamed as he saw her do this.
He said,

So charmed to see the place assigned
to my gift.'

^ Why?'

When I know what the flower imports
in the language of flowers.'

What does the violet import ?' asked
Eveline, shortly.

Is it possible you do not know ?'

'1 do not;

'It means eternal love and constancy.'

Indeed,' responded Eveline, with a tone
of indifference. She felt inclined to detach
the bouquet from her dress, and
restore it to the giver or deposit it on one
of the iron shelves, but as that might have
implied that she understood too much, she

simply quitted the conservatory and went
once more upon the terrace.

The air is chilly here after the hot atmosphere
of the conservatories said Sir Harry,
greatly encouraged by the acceptance of
his flowers ; * and that Shetland shawl is
only an apology for a wrap over your
head, though you look charming in it —
permit me,' he added, as he drew it closer
round her.

Their eyes met as he did so, and she
read an expression in his downward gaze
that made her pale cheek crimson, and
then grow pale again ; and to avoid anything
more she re-entered the house.

It is because I am married to an old
man that he dares to treat me thus, and so
thinks little of me,' she began to reflect —
an old man whose eyes are ever full of
angry reproach about poor Evan, who
never wronged him, even in thought. Oh,

how hateful, how loathsome my life is ! If
luxurious it is duplicity, all !'

She actually began to think she would
go away somewhere — where her father
and husband would never find her — change
her name and be a governess or something
of that kind. The idea of suicide or
anything so dreadful, in all her sorrow,
bitterness, and humiliation of spirit, never
occurred to her for a moment. She only
hoped that God would direct her, pardon
her for these rebellious feelings against
fate, and let her live her own way and
then die.

Why did she not run away before her
absurd marriage ? she thought now, and
before her young life was so utterly
wrecked by it? But she forgot how,
under the motherly care and authority of
Lady Aberfeldie, she had always been in a
certain constraint and awe, and how her

own sudden jealousy of Evan Cameron had
helped to bring that catastrophe about.

But this growing admiration on the part
of Sir Harry Hurdell was a new experience
in life to her.

She was justly incensed by it, and knew
that he was presuming upon her youth,
her husband's age, and the too apparent
aspect of an ill-assorted marriage. Their
visit must be cut short at all risks ; but
what excuse was she to make to Sir Paofet ;
for, with her knowledge of his jealousy of
one who was dead, how was she to enlighten
him on the subject of Sir Harry,
whose manner proved to her somewhat
obnoxious.

The truth was that he was so much in
the nse and wont of having ' sherry-glass
flirtations ' at railway buffets, and so forth,
that he was quite incapable of showing his
admiration or regard in a subtle or pleas-vol.

III. ^

ing, respectful or cavalier way, and even
his own grooms might have been better
hands at it than he, the lord of that grand
old ancestral home.

CHAPTER IX.

THE Cub-hunting.

The gone' for breakfast sounded betimes
at Hurdell Hall on the morning of the
first day's cub-hunting, as an early hour is
always most favourable for scent, and, as
several guests were invited, an ample meal
was spread in the great dining-room, the
several bay windows of which overlooked
the terrace and stately chase that spread
far away beyond it.

Sir Harry and his sister were the first
who appeared, and the latter looked round
for the morning papers, but could see
none.

L 2

Now, though the ' fair Lucretia as her
friends frequently called her, cared nothing
about the war in Egypt, she liked to read
about the movements of 'the upper ten
thousand ' — their births, marriages, deaths,
and so forth — to all of which she addressed
herself first, as a City man does to the
money article.

'Where are the papers, Harry?' she asked.

I have ordered the butler to take them
all away,' said he.

Even the Morning Post T
Yes ; even the Most!

Why ?'

Look here. I do not wish Lady Puddi-
combe to see this,' he replied, taking a
newspaper from his pocket, and indicating
a paragraph — another brief telegram from
Egypt — which ran thus :

The detachment of the Black Watch
which was sent to Matarieh to make a

demonstration against the Bedouins of
Zeid-el-Ourdeh has been ordered back to
bead-quarters, and seems to have lost its
other officer — a very distinguished one —
Captain Allan Graham, the Hon. the Master
of Aberfeldie, who is supposed to have
fallen into some of the same butcherly
hands amid which Professor Palmer and
his companions perished.'

Good heavens ! her brother !' exclaimed
Miss Hurdell, actually changing colour.

Yes ; and it must be kept from her —
to-day, at least,' said Sir Harry, concealing
the fatal newspaper.

Taken by the Bedouins — but she must
learn it some time.'

Well, I don't want her to learn it just
now, poor girl, at all events. I can't make
a mull of the arrangements for the day,
and I don't want her to learn it here, if
possible.'

Why not here ?'

Certainly not from me.'

Why not from you T

I hate to be imparted of evil news.'

Oho,' said Miss Hurdell, elevating her
eyebrows ; ' sets the wind in that quarter ?'

What do you mean, Lucretia ?'

Well, that she is not the first married
lady you have taken a tender interest in.'

Lucretia !' exclaimed the baronet, in a
tone of angry expostulation, as some of
their gentlemen guests came noisily in, in
Russell cords, top boots, and spurs, some
in pink and some in black coats.

At that moment elsewhere were others
who were more deeply and terribly interested
in the startling tidings from Mata-rich,
flashed by the same electric wire.

Lord Aberfeldie was leisurely opening
the Times, which Mr. Tappleton had duly

cut and aired for him, with the other
morning papers. His eyes ran rapidly
over the columns for the last, news from
Egypt, which seemed very tame now, as
all the fighting and excitement were over ;
so Lady Aberfeldie was not watching him,
as she used to do, with anxiety, and neither
was Olive, who was already deep iu
the pages of the Queen, when an exclamation
that escaped him made them both start.

What is the matter ?' cried Lady .
' You look ill, dear.'

Uncle, what do you see ?' added Olive.
•' Is anything wrong with — with '

Allan — yes.'

He was pale with a strange grey pallor,
totally unlike his usually sunburned and
healthy tint, and he looked dazed as his
face sank forward on his breast.

Our poor boy — our poor boy !'

God help us, Aberfeldie ! What is it ?'

Olive snatched up the paper, and, after
reading the paragraph we have copied,
reeled into • a chair. And now a great
horror fell upon all the three, the mother s
memory flashing back to the baby-boy
that had crowed and smiled upon her
knee, and whose first tottering efforts to
cross the nursery floor she remembered
yet.

Lord Aberfeldie, after recovering a little
from the shock, telegraphed to the War-office
for further information, but could
obtain none. They read the fatal paragraph
again and again, till every word of
it seemed to be burned into their brains,
and could but indulge in endless surmises,
and hope against hope ; for had not the
public prints been teeming with the harrowing
details of the capture of Professor
Palmer, Captain Gill, and Lieutenant
Harrington, and of them being pitilessly

slaughtered by the Bedouins of the Aligal
tribe ?

As Olive recalled all this, her blood
grew cold with apprehension. The paragraph,
though a terrible one, was frightfully
vague. He was ' supposed to have
fallen ' into the hands of the Bedouins
all events, his party had come into
Grand Cairo without him I

She, like Lady Aberfeldie, could not
realise it for a time. Alternately she sat
like one stunned, and then walked up and
down the room with her slender fingers
interlaced tightly and clasped upon her
head, as if sbe would thereby still the
trouble that throbbed in her brain and
repress her heavy sorrow.

In memory and imagination how often
did she rehearse her angry parting scene
with poor Allan and the last time she saw
him — the forcible embrace of Hawke Hoi-croft

; the latter's mocking love-making ;.
the horror and loathing with which his
touch inspired her ; and Allan's terrible
glance as he flung away and left her —
left her for ever, as it seemed now.

Allan taken captive ; he was sure to be
slain like those of whom she had read so
much lately. He was gone from her, and
never more — never again could she show
her repentant love for him, or make up
for the omissions and follies of the past
by days of tenderness in the time to
come.

All was over now !

Profound was the speechless grief of
his parents, and she was past attempting
to console them.

Oh, Olive darling, don't look so
strange !' said Ruby Logan, who had
come on a visit to them at Puddicombe
Villa.

The tears were rimuiDg down Ruby's
cheeks, while those of Olive were strangely
dry, as if her fount of tears was frozen
as yet.

Of Evan Cameron, if they thought at
all amid this home calamity, they knew
the worst — that he was dead and buried
like so many of his brother soldiers who
fell at Tel-el-Kebir ; but of Allan they bad
yet the worst to know, if aught was ever
known at all, which was extremely improbable.


So the long day passed on and night
came, and Olive stood at the open window
looking out at the waters of Spithead, the
cold air from the sea blowing upon her
face. She was in a kind of waking trance
rather than deliberate thought, and strange
figures like a phantasmagoria seemed to
evolve themselves out of the darkness.

But to return to the hunting breakfast
at Hurdell Hall.

All unconscious that a fresh sorrow
would fill her tender heart ere long, Eve-line
came down in a charming morning-dress,
looking pure and pale as a young
arum lily, and was at once the cynosure
of many admiring eyes ; for, in addition to
Sir Harry, Sir Paget, and Mr. Poole, there
were seven or eight others present, all in
high spirits and eager for the sport. Not
that Sir Paget affected field sports much,
but he thought that it became his position
to do so, and more especially as he was
the husband of so young a wife, to display
a certain amount of juvenility.

All present were ruddy-featured country
gentlemen of various ages, and while discussing
an ample and genuine hunting-breakfast,
though some who were connected
with the farming interest spoke

of the weather and the turnip-fly, of
the Devon shire breed and short-horns, of
mangold-wurzel and the rotation of crops,
matters about which, sooth to say, Sir
Paget and Mr. Poole knew no more than
they did about the philosophy of the Infinite,
the conversation chiefly ran on the
matter in hand that day — the disadvantage
of having the dogs' collars too tightly
buckled, of coupling a young hound* with
an old one, and so forth.

'A very bad plan,' said Sir Harry, 'as
the older dogs always vent their spite on
the younger by biting and rolling over
them.'

Because the pulling on both sides is
not even,' said the Squire of Furzydowns,
a noted old sportsman, ^ and, if a pair of
dogs so coupled come across a donkey,
there is sure to be a row, for. when a
bullock will look round in stupid wonder,

a donkey is apt to % at hounds with tooth
and hoof

A glorious morning this for the scent,'
said Sir Harry ; ' a dry autumn one. And
now let us be off. The advantage of
hunting early is that cubs or foxes,
after a late supper or early breakfast, are
seldom in a condition to run long, and
o^et blown, as we all know.'

Tor Sir Paget, who had neither heart
nor interest in sport, and was rapidly
discussing the weather in all its probabilities,
as to whether there would be a
change or continuance of its present
aspect and condition. Sir Harry said,

Puddicombe, are you still determined
to ride that bay horse with the white
star ?'

'Yes,' replied Sir Paget, with just the
slightest soupqon of bravado.

Remember, I have warned you that he

is rather a vicious brute, and apt to shy
his fences.'

'Please, do not ride him. Sir Paget,'
urged Eveline, in a whisper ; ' do not, for
my sake.'

I should rather think of ray own, if
I do it for anyone's sake at all,' he snarled.
He could not forgive her the general
pallor and sadness of her face. Death,
it is said, hallows the dead anew to the
living. So it would be with the memory
of Evan Cameron in the mind of Eveline,
thought Sir Paget bitterly, nor was he
far wrong. And, no doubt, it tuas rather
hard upon him to know that his wife's
thoughts were all of another ; but how
innocently !

'As regards the bay horse,' he added,
I will take my chance.'

He was loth to appear unable to do
anything, and always deemed such advice

as the present an imputation on his age
or capability; thus, he did many a thing
he would not have done had Eveline been
twenty years older.

After a few words aside with Sir Harry,
Eveline turned again to her husband, who
had now left the table, and was finally
adjusting his tan-coloured boot«tops.

*Do not ride the horse,' said she, entreatingly.
' From what I hear, he is
beyond you.'

Is he ?' snarled Sir Paget, who was in
one of his worst humours this morning.
But let me tell you, Lady Puddicombe,
that I know something about the choice of
a horse, if I don't about the choice of a wife !'

Eveline shrank back at this rude speech,
and thought that, sooth to say, he knew
little how to choose either.

*Well — ride the horse, if you will,' said
she, resignedly.

^ I shall !' be replied, sharply.

Lucretia detected that something was
wrong, and, raising her voice in reply to
something the Squire of Furzydown had
said, she exclaimed, laughingly,

'Ah, yes, the country is indeed glorious ;
for here you can have eggs to breakfast
that are laid while your hair is being
dressed, and flowers on the table fresh
with the morning dew on them — yet, I
love London most, after all, especially in
the season. And now,' she added, ' shall
my Charlie have its nice, nice breakfast
of cream ?'

And she emptied a silver jug of the
latter into a china bowl for her wheezy
spaniel.

What's up with old Sir Peter Teazle ?'
whispered her brother.

that is more than I can tell you,
Harry.'

VOL. III. M

The two ladies came forfch to the door
to see the gentlemen mount and depart.

Sir Paget got into his saddle with some
difficulty, as the bay hunter swayed round
and round, laid its ears back, and looked
askance at him, with red and bloodshot
eyes.

Eveline knew not of her brother's
calamity, and neither did Sir Paget, for
none had spoken of Egypt or Egyptian
news, and no one at Hurdell Hall was
particularly interested in the Black Watch,
herself excepted ; but she felt a mysterious
and unaccountable prevision of coming
evil, and once more drew near to offer
her pretty hand to Sir Paget, doing so
with affected playfulness, as the eyes of
others were admiringly upon her ; but he,
giving full rein to his thoughts about
that dead Cameron, whom she had loved

and he hated, stooped from his saddle,
and said to her, with a bland smile meant
also for other eyes,

'I have read, Lady Puddicombe, that
^' nothing exalts a man so much in a
woman's mind as his dying. Look at the
affection of widows as compared with that
of wives." Ah, you are sorrowful, no
doubt; but sorrow takes a long while to
kill anyone.'

She knew well what he meant. Her
pale cheek crimsoned, and she turned
without a word, deeming it both absurd
and cruel that he should thus be retrospectively
jealous.

The hunters rode merrily ois, all in high
spirits, save Sir Paget, who jerked away
with his head and was disposed to sulk,
for the visit to Hurdell Hall had wrought
no change on Eveline ; thus he did not,

M 2

like his companions, enjoy the delightful
sense of rest and peace in the cool morning
ride to covert.

The country was silent ; ploughmen and
shepherds were, as yet, scarcely abroad ;
and the full-fed cattle lay couched on the
damp grass that glistened with dew, and
from amid which their breaths rose like
silvery steam, and ere long the pack was
in sight — Grasper, Pilot, Holdfast, Catch,
and all the rest of them —

\ With tails high mounted, ears hung low, and throats
With a whole gamut filled, of heavenly notes '

at least in the estimation of the huntsmen.


Ere long the pack was put into the
covert, and stirrup leathers were tightened
and readjusted in hot haste, but with the
hunting, the whipping of unbroken hounds
that took to running after sheep, the
gallops over a few fields to get up an

appetite for an early luncheon at the
Squire of Furzydown's, the 'chopping' of
cubs, our story has nothing to do, save
in so far as one episode of the day is
concerned.

Sir Paget in his heart wished ^ the
whole affair at Jericho,' or in a warmer
latitude. To him it was no amusement to
set out without time for shaving, to breakfast
at an untimeous hour and before he
could get up an appetite, and to ride
through the morning mist, with icy feet
and grasping reins sodden with dew, with
the certainty of an attack of rheumatism,
when he should have been cosily nestling
in bed; and in addition to all these, having
a terrible conflict ever and anon with the
bay hunter. Sir Harry thought him 'a
silly old fogies, who hould go cub-hunting
to show the world how juvenile he
was,' and he was now beginning to console

himself with the prospect of a luxurious
luncheon at Furzydown and the long, lazy
afternoon he would enjoy there before
riding leisurely back in the evening to
dinner at Hurdell Hall, when Sir Harry
would be sure to sing them the old Coplow
hunt song —

Talk of horses and hounds
And the system of kennel,
Give me Leicestershire nags

And the hounds of old Wendell !'

To Eveline the long day after the early
breakfast passed very slowly at the Hall.
She was in no anxiety for Sir Paget's
speedy return, especially after the cloudy
manner of his departure, but there were
no other lady visitors there just then, and
she and Lucretia Hurdell had not a
thought, sympathy, or topic in common,
and she sighed in utter weariness of spirit
as the October day drew to a close, and

the brown and purple shadows of evening-began
to fall.

She thought how many such empty days
as this were before her, as autumn passed
into winter, winter into spring, and the
joyless summer — joyless at least to her —
would come again. Every morning with
its hopelessness, every noon with its listlessness,
every evening seeming more blank
than the one that preceded it. Would she
ever more feel bright and merry as at
Dundargue, and regain her sweet and
playful habits of caressing affection ?

And for whom ?

She stood in one of the many beautiful
Tudor bay windows overlooking the terrace
and chase, idly and full of her own
thoughts, and curiously enough, to her,
the rustle of the ivy on the painted panes,
of leaves as they fell from the trees, the
stillness of the evenings hour, and the

cawing of the rooks in the old belfry of
the house seemed ominous of coming
evil.

Dusk had come on, the trees were taking
strange shapes against the sunset sky,
a bat circled noiselessly before her, and
the silver crescent of the moon came out
above a coppice.

A few of these trivial things were, by
after events, fixed in her memory, and
associated with that calm and almost sultry
October evening — the lurid brightness of
the sun as he set beyond the black stems
of the trees of the chase, the perfume of
roses from a majolica jardiniere in the
bay window, and the angry hum of a great
bee entangled among the lace of the curtains.


Suddenly she became aware that a group
of men, some on horseback and some on
foot, was slowly approaching the house

by the avenue. Amid this group were four
carrying a burden — a ran apparently — on
a door, or some such improvised litter.

Then appeared a groom leading a horse
by the bridle — the bay hunter with a white
star on his forehead !

A gasping cry escaped her; her poor,
torn heart leaped, and then seemed to
cease beating, with the dreadful certainty
that something — a new calamity — had
happened.

CHAPTER X.

Allan's adventure.

Evil tidings travel fast in these our days
of electricity, and true it was that the unfortunate
Allan* Graham had fallen into
the hands of the Bedouins, but nothing
more was known.

He had disappeared from Matarieh !

When his detachment marched into
headquarters, Sergeant Farquharson reported
that the Master of Aberfeldie had left
the village for a ramble in the vicinity one
evening, so far as could be known, and had
not returned. After a careful search by

the Highlanders at a certain spot, a cigar-case
which had been given to him by
Cameron of Stratherroch had been found,
and in the immediate vicinity the soil bore
the impression of foot and hoof marks, as
if a struggle of some kind had taken place.
If killed he had not been killed there, as
his body could not be found.

Beyond these meagre and unsatisfactory
details nothing more was known, save
that the Bedouins, intent on plunder and
outrage, had been daily hovering about in
the vicinity of the mounds and ruins of
Heliopolis.

Allan had felt very lonely after the loss
of his friend Cameron, all the more lonely
and full of tender interest for the general
circumstances of his life and fate, and
thus — as the sergeant reported — he had
rambled from the village where his men
were cantoned, a little way into the vicinity

to smoke and to ponder over the past
and future.

After Cameron's catastrophe he felt
himself more disposed to think of Olive,
and to think kindly and tenderly, and of
his mother's explanatory letter concerning
the extraordinary conduct of Holcroft and
Olive's love and grief ; for we are told that
'among all the many kinds of first love,
that which begins in childish companionship
is the strongest and most enduring;
when passion comes to unite its
force to long affection, love is at its
spring tide,' and in childish affection had
the love of Allan Graham and Olive Raymond
begun.

He lay stretched on a patch of grass,

where two or three banana-trees grew near

a ruined wall. The setting sun shed its

red light far along the desert that stretch

^d to the land of Goshen, with its

luxuriant plains — yea, to the far horizon —
and Allan, a thoughtful and a well-read
man, as he looked around him, reflected,
as he often did, how strange was the land
where just then his duty led him — how
strange that the Egyptians were there,
without a tradition of a parent stock or
of another land ; that it was only known
that a regeneration after the Deluge they
had become a great nation. In the words
of Apologies Rhodes :

Oldest of mortals they who peopled earth,
Ere yet in heaven the sacred signs had birth.

Ere men the lunar wanderings learned to read.
Ere yet the heroes of Deucalion's blood
Pelagian purpled with a glorious brood ;
The fertile plains of Egypt flourished then,
Productive cradle of the first of men.'

Allan thought as he manipulated and lit
another cigar, that the Egyptians of Arabi
Pasha must be of different and inferior

stuff from those to whom the poet of the
Argonauts referred.

And there, but a little way off, lay
Heliopolis and Matarieh, two places of
great and solemn memories — Heliopolis,
where Herodotus sought the wisest men in
Egypt ; where Strabo says they pointed
out the house of Plato, where he then
resided ; where Potiphar lived, who bought
Joseph from the patriarch ; and Matarieh,
a spot where the Blessed Virgin, St. Joseph,
and the Holy Child Jesus tarried, including
a well under a withered sycamore in
which — according to the legendary — the
Holy Mother washed her Divine Infant's
linen ; a spot the turbaned Mussulman
still view with respect ; and thereby was
the piper of Allan's company playing ' The
Evening Retreat,' and from the distance,
over the flat ground, came the sound of

bis pipes, as he played ' The Birks of
Aberfelclie.'

Perhaps it was that his reflections were
not of a very lively nature, or that he was
wearied by a long reconnaissance that
morning in the direction of El Khaa-Kah,
but be, perilously for himself, dropped insensibly
asleep, all unaware that a party of
Bedouin horsemen, with hoofs muffled in
the soft sand, bad formed a kind of semicircle
round him, cutting off all chance of
escape.

He could not have been asleep more
than five minutes when the little prick of
a lance which drew blood roughly roused
him. He started to his feet and found
himself confronted, surrounded indeed, by
some twenty dusky sons of the desert,
with hawk-like features, eyes that gleamed,
and teeth that glistened exultantly.

Their weapons — E-emington rifles or
swords — were all pointed at him, and he
could but surrender his sword and revolver,
but with a sigh of despair and mortification.
He might have slain one at least,
but to what end ? as the next moment he
would inevitably be cut to pieces himself,
while, perhaps, by not courting death
then, he might only be delaying a cruel
and unknown doom.

These Bedouins could see that Allan
was a magnificent specimen of manhood —
a man born to command. They did not
further molest him, save that one suddenly
threw a looped cord over his right arm,
and secured it to the bow of his saddle,
thereby indicating significantly enough
that he was to consider himself, in the first
place, a prisoner.

One who rode a camel, and seemed to be
in authority, pointed towards the hills —

the Jebel Dimeshk range — and they got
into motion at once, rather roughly dragging
Allan after them. His proud heart
swelled at this indignity; he felt all the
danger of his position, and knew that, if he
would escape death or some strange and
protracted captivity, it was necessary to
temporise and dissemble.

Mustering all that he knew of Arabic,
picked up in the Punjab and beyond the
Indus, after a few moments of agonising
reflection, he said to the man whose special
prisoner he was,

Now that I am your captive, what are
you going to do with me ?'

Take you to the hills,' replied the
Bedouin, surprised, and not ill-pleased to
hear a Frank address him in his own
language.

For what purpose ?'

To keep you till ransomed — perhaps.'

VOL. III. N

The adjective had rather an unpleasant
sound just then, so Allan said,

And if not ransomed ?'

The Bedouin slapped the butt of ibis
Remington rifle and grinned, showing all
his pearly teeth, with fierce signification.

Who is your leader ?' asked Allan, after
a pause.

That you will discover when you see
him.'

I trust he will spare my life, at all
events.'

What does your life, or the lives of all
the accursed Franks in the world, matter ?'
exclaimed another Bedouin ; ^ may you all
perish by the hand of God by drowning,
as Pharaoh and his host perished, or by
His causing the earth to open and swallow
you up, as, the Koran tells us, happened
toKorah!'

Whether a rumour had reached them of

the sharp manner in which Colonel Warren
overtook and punished the Arabian assassins
of Professor Palmer and his companions
in misfortune, Allan knew not. One
fact was evident, that the were resolved
to lose no time in carrying him off to their
tents among the sandy recesses of Jebel
Dimeshk.

They ambled on their way so fast, keeping
him at a species of run, that he was
on the point of sinking, and besought them
to spare him a little ; so, at the command
of their leader, they halted for a little time
in the starlight, and, weary and worn with
toil and many emotions, he threw himself
on the ground to rest.

He closed his eyes, not to sleep, but to
think over his new and calamitous position,
and the chances of achieving an
escape from it. If money was required —
unless the sum demanded proved too enor-

n2

mous — he could produce a ransom, and lie
turned uneasily on his sandy couch as he
thought over all his chances of success.

How like a horrible dream — a nightmare
it all appeared — as those terrible hours
spent in the vault at Dundargue had done.

What would be thought of his disappearance
by the regiment, and at home,
and memory flashed back to his soldierly
father and tender mother — for, with all
her aristocratic pride, tender she had ever
been to him — so his first thoughts were of
her. ' In the man whose childhood has
known caresses there is always a fibre of
memory that can be touched to gentle
issues ;' so — a captain now, and in such
savage hands — his first ideas were of his
mothers grief, rather than of poor, repentant
Olive.

He might be butchered in the desert,
and never heard of aofain, for his life was

at the mercy and caprice of the most
lawless people in the world.

His disappearance as a mystery would
soon become public property at home.
There would, he knew, be all manner of
newspaper paragraphs, suggestions, and
surmises for a few weeks, and then, when
these ceased, his story and his fate would
be as much forgotten as last year's snow.

Again his captors began their march
towards the mountains ; and times there
were, as he struggled forward to keep pace
with them, when, in fierce revolt against
the whole situation and its dreadful uncertainties,
he felt as if his heart would
burst, and a kind of agonised hopelessness
crept into it.

The Bedouins conveyed him some five
and twenty miles or more into the mountains,
till they reached a kind of oasis,
where their tents, which were very numerous,

stood. Day was on the point of
breaking, and Allan was utterly worn out.

However keen excitement may be, Nature
will demand her due, so he slept on a
dirty Bedouin barracks and ere he did soso
great was the mental and bodily toil
he had undergone, that he felt a kind of
pleasure as drowsiness came upon him — a
happiness to find oblivion — oblivion for a
time even. To forget was a species of
joy. And so he slept, despite those plagues
of Egypt, the gnats, mosquitoes, and sand-flies.


In the morning he was informed that
the chief of the tribe, who would be the
arbiter of his fate, was as yet absent ; and
that, if he made the slightest attempt to
escape, he would be shot down without
mercy.

God is great,' added his informant, who,
like most Mussulman, interlarded his

conversation with pious allusions and quotations
from the Koran ; ' and whatever
He has decreed will and must come to
pass.'

For breakfast they brought him a few
dates soaked in melted butter, a little
sweet milk and curds. So simple are the
habits of the Bedouins that one can subsist
for a whole day on such a repast, and
deem himself happy and luxurious if he
can add a small quantity of corn-flour ora
little ball of rice. Meat being usually
reserved for the greatest festivals, they
rarely kill a kid, save "for a marriage or a
funeral, though some tribes eat the flesh
of the gazelle and the desert cow.

A couple of days on such food, with
rough usage and toil-for they compelled
him to groom their horses — a toil degrading
to a man of spirit, rendered Allan
somewhat faint.

He learned incidentally that there was
another Frank a prisoner in their hands,
who no doubt, like himself, was anxiously
awaiting the return of the Bedouin chief.

CHAPTER XL

AMONG THE DWELLERS IN TENTS.

With waking each morning Allan's miserable
thoughts returned, and, undeterred
by the threat of being shot if he attempted
to escape, he thought of nothing else, and
closely inspected the Bedouin camp and
its vicinity with that view, despite the
warning of the principal Bedouin, whose
name he ascertained to be Abdallah, or
the servant of God,' who repeatedly told
him that he hoped ' the English would
have their faces confounded,' the exclamation
of the Cano-el Gabriel when he

threw a handful of gravel against the foe
at the battle of Bear.

As the Bedouins never reside in towns
or occupy houses, they live in encampments,
pitching their tents wherever they
can find pasturage for their horses and
camels, changing the site of their abode
as often as the support of their cattle or
the vicinity of a more powerful and hostile
tribe may compel them. Sometimes they
sow a little Indian corn, and return to
reap it when grown. The milk of their
cattle and a few esculents found in the
desert are their chief food.

All are trained to the use of arms, and
are skilled in horsemanship, and Allan
could perceive that the care of the flocks
and herds was committed mostly to the
women, while the youth of the tribe — all
fellows spare of form, light of limb, and
active as their native gazelles — were in

their saddles scouring round the camp,
and practising the use of the javelin, the
spear, and the Remington rifle, with which
many in Lower Egypt were now armed,
as they had been flung away in thousands
by the fugitive soldiers of Arabi.

The innate love of freedom which is
fostered by the facilities for a nomadic
life, and the desert-locomotion which his
horses and camels afford him, impart to
the Bedouin a dignified and haughty bearing,
which contrasts powerfully with the
servility and pusillanimity of the rustic
sons of Egypt.

Unchanged from unknown generations,
they are the same as when Yolney wrote
of them — ' Pacific in their camp, they are
everywhere else in a habitual state of war.
The husbandmen whom they pillage hate
them ; the travellers whom they despoil
speak ill of them ; and the Turks, who

dread them, endeavour to divide and
corrupt them.'

Their wandering life affords more freedom
to their women than usually falls to
the lot of 'Moslem females, and the wild
desert, where they always dwell, becomes
in many cases the actual scene of those
keen and passionate love adventures which
are depicted in the tales and poems of the
Arabians.

If Allan would escape from these Bedouins,
he would require to have all his
wits about him, and not risk the slightest
mistake.

The child of the desert, reared in continual
wandering, possesses in the fullest
degree the activity of sense,' says a writer.
^ His spirit is all abroad in his perceptive
organs ; he is voluble and sagacious, quick,
passionate, and sympathetic, but by no
means intellectual. Quickness of perception

and strength of imagination are
mental characteristics of the Bedouin, and
superstition, the child of ignorance, is
nowhere more powerful than among the
wanderers of the desert.'

But in what direction was Allan to bend
his steps, if he contrived to elude his
captors ? He might only wander into the
barren desert — a sea of sand — there to
perish of hunger and thirst, or be overtaken
to suffer a cruel death.

Reflection showed him that it would
be better to temporise— to await the
return of the sheikh, and endeavour to
treat about a ransom.

Beyond the encampment of rude tents,
which they carry with them from wadi
to wadi — the male portion employing their
horses and camels in the transport from
one oasis to another — Allan could see the
desert, traversed by the camel-route to

Suez by Regum-el-Khel, spreading faraway
to the north-east, the horizon enveloped
in fog in the morning and
evening, for the season was moist now.

Near the camp was the tomb of a
wanton, or holy man, surmounted by a
little white dome, and shaded by date-trees.


Had the camp been pitched on higher
ground, instead of in a green hollow, Allan
might have known his precise whereabouts,
as he would have seen in the distance to
the south Mount Mokattam, crowned by
the citadel of Cairo, with the many minarets
of the great capital at its base.

On the third day, a commotion was
caused by the arrival of the sheikh, who
rode in, accompanied by an escort, all
well armed and mounted. Allan was at
once brought before him, full of natural
anxiety to learn his fate, and great was

his satisfaction to discover in bim Zeid-
el-Ourdeh, the Bedouin whom he had
found wounded and bleeding near the
camp of the Black AYatch, and whom
he had succoured and sent rearward to
the hospital at Ismailia.

The recognition was mutual. He sprang
from his horse, tossed the bridle to an
attendant, and welcomed Allan to his tents,
adding,

'I called you my brother when, after
Kassassin, I thought the hand of death
was upon me ; and you are not the less my
brother now that you have eaten bread
and salt with my people.'

He had quite recovered from his sword-wound
apparently, and as he moved about
in his long, flowing dress, with the ends
of his shawl-turban floating over his
shoulders, his bearing and aspect were
stately and graceful.

Allan, encouraged to find that his personal
safety was now so far secured, ventured
to speak of his liberty ; but Zend
shook his head, while a glitter, suggestive,
not of cruelty, but unmistakably of greed
and avarice, came into his eyes ; and he
informed his prisoner that he would have
to accompany the tribe further into the
desert, to another oasis, where the grass
was green.

His heart sank on hearing this.

Whether Zeid-el-Ourdeh meant to retain
him as a species of hostage, in the
hope of a ransom, or in the absurd idea
of attaching him to his own fortunes, as
useful from his knowledge of arms and
European tactics, Allan could not divine.
Anyway, his life for the present was safe
in his hands, though Zeid's power might
fail to protect him from other Bedouins, or
the exasperated fellaheen of Arabi Pasha.

Zeid gave bien back this claymore, wbicli
Allan greatly valued, as it was a family
heirloom — an old Ferrara blade, which his
father and grandfather had worn in the
Black Watch honos" before him.

Zeid's own sword was a very remarkable
one, which he had found in the sand
near the Red Sea. It was long, straight,
and double-edged, with a cross-guard of
the middle ages, and had evidently been
the trusty blade of some pious crusader,
who had lost it, with his life perhaps, on
the way to Jerusalem ; and, like the sword
of the Cid, it was inscribed, Ave Maria
gratia plena dominus tecum.

*You look half-starved!' said Zeid, ashe
regarded Allan's face.

I am wholly starved. I have had only
some dates and milk for three days,' replied
Allan, who, with some satisfaction,
heard him order a kid to be killed, that

VOL. III. o

they might have a repast together, and
then he ordered the other Frankish
prisoner to be brought before him.

Holoroft !' exclaimed Allan, in a breathless
voice, and scarcely able to believe his
senses, when one, who seemed undoubtedly
that obnoxious personage, was dragged
before the sheikh with a sullen and defiant
air scarcely suited to the situation. His
European surround trousers were discoloured,
tattered, and torn ; he had on a
scarlet tarboosh, and wore his fair beard at
some length now.

'Holcroft !' exclaimed Allan again, 'you
here ? Here in Egypt — what miracle is
this?'

'Your words express more surprise than
pleasure,' replied Holcroft, while Zeid-el-
Ourdeh looked from one to the other in
some surprise at their evident sudden recognition.
'Ah,' he continued, with a

malevolent grimace, you thought I was
drowned, no doubt, and feeding the fishes
in the Solent !'

You are reserved for a drier and more
deserved death, I presume,' said Allan.

Sneer as you may over me and my
misfortunes '

Misfortunes, you miscreant ! But how
in the name of wonder '

If you care to know how I come to be
here, in the same unpleasant and unsavoury
hands with yourself — a gunboat picked me
up off Southsea, for I am a strong swimmer,
but, for all that, was too exhausted to
be sent ashore. I was put into the sick-bay
and brought on here, all the way to
Ismailia, and then turned adrift to live by
my wits. I made my way to Cairo, and
was fain to become billiard-marker at the
hotel where I saw join, and once again at
the review before the Abdin palace. The

o2

hotels, and cafes too, tired of me. I was
setting out on foot to overtake some of
your invalids en route to Ismailia when these
infernal Bedouins nabbed me, and I am
here.'

And now that you are here, may I inquire
what you mean to do with your
precious self?'

Take office under the Khedive's government.
There will be no end of nice pickings
for Europeans now that the shindy is
over.'

Office — as what ?'

Oh, anything — I am not particular —
Inspector-general of Harems would suit
me to a hair — down to the ground, in fact.'

Bantering villain ! And how about
those diamonds you stole from Miss Raymond
— a luckless heirloom in our family,
always bringing evil to the holder or
swearer ?'

Well, they have brought no evil to me
yet,' replied Holcroft, with a defiant grin —
a dogged one too ; ' I have them safe here
he added, slapping his breast pocket, ' and
don't mean to part with them. They are
quite a fortune to me.'

And he had the folly, the madness, in
mere bravado, to show them for a moment.

Keep these, fellow — they are certain to
bring you ill-luck in some way.'

Allan was nearer the truth than he
thought, as the sharp eyes of the sheikh saw
the flash of the stones, and the spirit of
acquisition was instantly kindled in his
breast.

*Well,' thought Allan, 'this unexpected
meeting is a strange coincidence ; but, as
Miss Brandon says, " life is made up of
curious coincidences"'

CHAPTER XII.

KISMET.

Allan was aware that the sheikh had seen
the jewels, though for a moment only, that
were in Holcroft's possession. He knew
that greed and the Lex Talionis or law of
retaliation, are distinctive marks of the
Bedouin character ; but he also knew that
their regard for hospitality is not a less remarkable
characteristic, and that even an
enemy is secure if he can obtain refuge ina
tent.

Ali Bey (otherwise known as Don Pedro
de la Bahia) relates that when a Bedouin
heard that his wife had given food to his

mortal foe, who bad sought charity at his
tent, not knowing who or what he was, observed,
' I should probably have slain my
enemy had I found him here ; but I should
not have spared my wife had she neglected
the sacred laws of hospitality.'

But Allan felt doubtful how the sheikh
might be disposed to respect these laws
in the case of one like Holcroft, who
had not fled to his tents for succour,
but been brought there a captive, and had
comported himself in a dogged and defiant
way.

And you had actually sunk to being a
billiard-marker ?' said Allan.

For a time — yes ; nothing comes amiss,
so money comes withal. When taking
stock of my affairs I found them shady — •
very ; my assets falling far short of my
liabilities. Thus I was forced to play
out the only card left me, and put

the screw upon your wealthy cousin,
Miss Raymond. Sorry I can't give you a
copy of that remarkable photo of Olive
and myself, of which, no doubt, you
all know now.'

All,' replied Allan, amazed that the
man could exult in his utter and degrading
villainy. To him it seemed almost incredible
that one who was by birth a gentleman,
the son of a gallant old officer, and
had been the associate of gentlemen, could
fall so low as Holcroft had done, and be so
callous and shameless.

Oh, for a glass of bitter or Burton and
a good cigar !' said Holcroft ; ' and, by the
way, as you seem to speak his lingo, will
you ask this old nigger in the striped counterpane
why he keeps me here, and what
he means to do with me.'

Allan inquired this of Zeid in Arabic ;
but to him it seemed that Hawke Hoi-croft

totally failed to comprehend or to
take it in that be was in any peril at all.
As an Englishman he thought that no
dashed foreigner ' dared meddle with or
molest him, yet these Bedouins had him
at their mercy sure enough ; and to judge
of matters or chances by the standard of
Regent Street and Piccadilly, would hardly
do under the summits of the Jebel Dimeshk.

Remarking the tarboosh worn by Hole
and using Allan as an interpreter,
the sheikh asked,

Are you a Mussulman ?'

No,' replied Holcroft, with a laugh.

A Christian, then ?'

No,' was the strange response.

You must believe either in the Prophet
or Christ ?'

I believe in neither.'

Unhappy wretch !' exclaimed the sheikh,
with astonishment in his tone.

Men may believe in both, yet follow
neither.'

So do the devils believe — and like devils
tremble,' said the Bedouin.

Well, I do not.'

Do you feel no trust in God ?'

None !' was the blunt and defiant
reply.

'Why?'

He has always left me to myself.'

Allan sighed at this hopeless response,
while the blasphemy of it filled the Bedouin
— who, whatever his shortcomings in
the way of meum and tuum were, was pious
in his way — with horror and indignation.
After a pause, he said,

Look at his eyes— they are grey ; and
does not the Koran say that on the last
day " we shall gather the wicked together
having grey eyes." '

The twentieth chapter certainly has that

curious remark, for with the Arabs — a
black-eyed race — to have grey eyes is the
ruark of au enemy or a person to be avoided.

You knew this man in Franciscan !'
said Zeid.

Too well,' replied Allan.

Then he has wronged thee ?' was the
sharp question and suspicion of the
Bedouin.

Deeply ; he tried to kill me, indeed.'

Yet he lives ?'

Yes.'

Why is this ?'

I thought he was dead — drowned,' replied
Allan, evasively.

Take this sword and smite off his head.
The blade is sharp enough.'

Allan shook his head and drew back.

You Franks are fools !' said Zeid, while
the miserable Holcroft, though he knew
not a word of what passed, guessed the

terrible import of it, and glanced imploringly
at Allan.

Do you think,' said Zeid, after a pause,
that his neck is turned to ivory, as the
Koran tells us that of Moses was, when
he was about to be beheaded for slaying
an Egyptian ?'

The Koran — always that weary Koran!'
thought Allan, impatiently.

Will you tell him,' said Holcroft, ' that,
if he expects a ransom from me, I have
neither a friend nor a farthings in the
world.'

Allan did so.

Liar ! may God burn thee !' exclaimed
Zeid, as he thought of the diamonds, and,
acting in obedience to a sign from him,
Abdallah, unknown to Holcroft, was stealing
behind him, armed with a heavy and
deeply curved Damascus sabre of the
keenest edge.

There was a flash in the sunshine as
the blade was swept round by a swift
back-handed stroke, and the head of the
miserable Hawke Holcroft rolled along
the ground, as his body fell prostrate on
it in a heap, with the red blood welling
out from every vein and artery of the
neck.

He has met his kismet' said Zeid, complacently.


At this sudden catastrophe, Allan turned
away horrified — utterly appalled. He had
seen men wounded in every way, and
mutilated too by shot and shell, but had
never seen aught like this — and in cold
blood, too !

He believed neither in the Prophet
nor in Christ,' said Zeid, complacently ;
now that he is in hell, that cemetery for
lost souls, he may learn the truth.'

And, torn from the pocket of the wretched

creature's tattered stout, the fatal
diamonds were placed in the hands of
Zeid-el-Ourdeh.

Allan, as he saw them sparkling in
the sunshine, thought of all he heard his
father say of them, and marvelled to whom
they would bring evil next. If to the
sheikh, he was fated never to know.

It was some time before he recovered
the shock this scene gave him, but it rendered
his desire to be gone — to be free —
irrepressible ; yet he dreaded just then to
approach the subject with Zeid. Whether
it was the excitement of a blood-shedding
or acquisition of the diamonds, or both
together, Zeid was in high good humour,
and about noon gave Allan a dinner unusually
sumptuous in his own tent.

Upon a tray of tinned copper were
placed saucers of pickles, salad, and salt,
with thin cakes of bread, and in the centre

a dish of rice, highly seasoned with spice
and saffron. Neither forks nor spoons
were there, and he had to use his fingers.
Thus it made him shiver to see the sheikh
plunge his copper-coloured digits into the
dish one moment and thrust them halfway
down his open throat the next.

He always clapped his hands when he
wanted any attendance.

A cotton towel surrounded the tray on
the. ground, on which they occasionally
wiped their hands ; then pipes of tobacco
followed, and the sheikh became sociable,
as he reclined back against a saddle over
which some shawls and a barracks were
spread, and Allan began to cast about in
his own mind low to approach the subject
of his departure.

He gathered courage from the knowledge
that, after eating bread and salt
together, or even salt alone, in the East,

produces mutual obligations of friendship.


The sheikh was a man of great piety,
after his own fashion. He said his prayers
five times daily, the first time being between
daybreak and sunrise, turning towards
Mecca, and five times daily he
washed his hands. He was a firm believer
in magic, and that there existed
somewhere in Upper Egypt, Ishmonie, or
the Petrified City — so called on account of
the great number of statues, representing
men, women, children, and animals, with
which its silent streets abound— all of
which he believed to have been once
animated creatures, miraculously changed
into stone by a whisper of the prophet,
in all the various attitudes of standing,
sitting, or falling, but none of which are
ever visible save to true believers.

He also firmly believed in the miraculous

egg laid by a ben after Tel-el-Kebir,
on which was inscribed the words — ' Arabi
has lost the battle because he mutilated
the corpses of the enemy. Allah has punished
him, but He will give victory to him
in the end, if he will keep the commands
ia the future.'

Hah !' said he, after a long pull at his
chibouque, ' at Tel-el-Kebir your barelegged
men came on as hell will come at
the last day.'

How is that?'

As the Koran tells us, with seventy
thousand halters, each dragged by seventy
thousand angels — a power nothing can
withstand.'

Accursed as you unbelievers are,' said
he, after a pause, ' God seems to give you
a wondrous power, even as he gave Solomon
the gift of miracles in a degree greater
than anyone before him ; the animals and

VOL. III. p

the vegetables obeyed him, and he was
carried by the winds of heaven above the
stars therein, and his power over the genii
was by a seal ring, of which one part was
brass and the other iron, and upon it was
graven the great name of God. Yes,
though unbelievers, you are swift in action
as the pigeons of Aleppo ; not like the
Osmanli, who would catch hares in waggons,'
he added, with reference to the
proverbial slowness of the Turks.

Sheikh,' said Allan, in his most persuasive
manner, ' you know that I befriended
you when in sore peril.'

*Yes, as my brother would have done,'
said Zeid, his expressive face lighting up
and his black eyes sparkling under the
hood of his burnous, as he pointed with
his left hand to his right shoulder, which
had been slashed by the long sword of one
of our Life-Guardsmen.

Well, in memory of that you will allow
me to depart home freely to my people ?'

Why ? Are you not comfortable enough
here ? Is not one place that God has made
as good as another ? And who and what
are your people ? With all their skill and
power, they are but wretched unbelievers,
who go to battle with their legs bare, accompanied
by bags of devils, that squall
and groan, like those who strove to defame
Solomon.'

Do be just, sheikh !' urged Allan.

^ I shall — is not justice the sister of
piety r'

'You will allow me to go, then ?'

I have not said so. Why leave the
desert and go back to cities, where men
become intoxicated with the pleasures of
this life, and forget that which is to

come ?'

Allan sighed. By this time he was weary

p2

of the sheikh and his stilted conversation.

Beginning with the inevitable aphorism,
There is only one God and Mohammed
is his Prophet,' the sheikh, after a pause,
continued thus between long whiffs of his
cherry-stick pipe : ' Stay with us and pray
with us five times a day, each time turning
to the Kebbah ; eat not in the daytime
during the whole feast of Ramadan, make
the pilgrimage to Mecca, give alms to
the widow and the orphan. These are
the sources from which all goodness
springs. Stay with us and do all these
things. Become ray brother indeed — a
son of the desert. Why go back among
the accursed Franks ? You know how to
use the sword, the spear, and the rifle.
Stay with us ; we shall give you a rich
pelisse, a good blood mare, and a Bedouin
girl, beautiful, good, and virtuous.'

This programme scarcely suited the

views of the Master of Aberfeldie, but the
situation was such a grave one that he
dared not laugh at it.

But you need not go to Mecca said
the sheikh, as an after-thought.

Why ?'

God is every where — why seek Him at
Mecca, when we have Him here in the
desert ?'

Allan pled hard, and spoke of bribes
and ransom, but apparently in vain, and
he began to get sorely perplexed by the
prospect before him, especially if the tribe
took their departure — of which there was
every prospect — in search of ' pastures
new ' further from Grand Cairo, and towards
the plain of Muggreh.

He was obliged to dissemble his disgust
and mortification, and could only hope of
finding an opportunity of ' making,' as he
thought, ' a clean bolt of it.'

A few uneventful days passed, and during
these he could not help being struck with
the simplicity of the domestic life and
manners of the Sheikh Zeid-el-Ourdeh
and his family.

Though the commander of more than
six hundred horse, he did not disdain to
saddle and bridle his own steed or to give
him his barley and chopped straw.

In his humble tent his wife made the
coffee, kneaded the dough, and cooked all
the victuals, though a kind of princess in
the desert and among her people. His
daughters and kinswomen attended to the
linen, and, closely veiled, went to the wells
or springs for water, with classic-looking
pitchers of brown ware balanced on their
gracefully-carried heads — in ways, manners,
and ideas all unchanged from those
described by Homer, or as we find them in
the history of Abraham and in Genesis.

It was while a prisoner thus with Zeid,
that Allan heard the strange story promulgated
by Arabi, that all Egyptians who
fell fighting for the faith would come
back to earth as spirits mounted on snow-white
horses and armed with miraculous
swords to completely exterminate the
British — an idea evidently borrowed from
the Koran, which ascribes Mohammed's
victory at Bear to his having as allies
three thousand spirits led by the angel
Gabriel mounted on his horse Haizum.

On this subject the Paris Temps recorded
that an Arab servant belonofino- to their
correspondent asked the latter whether he
had seen any of the returned spirits from
Kassassin in recent encounters, and, on
being answered in the negative, declared
that the correspondent could not see them
because he was not an Englishman.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE LAST OF SIR PAGET.

And now to glance homeward at more
civilised scenes — to the catastrophe at
Hurdell Hall.

The terrible tidings were soon made
known to Eveline that Sir Paget, on the
homeward ride from Furzydowu, had been
suddenly seized by an unaccountable fit
of irritation, and, in defiance of all advice
and entreaty, though a bad horseman, had
lashed and spurred the bay hunter — a
vicious brute — while needlessly rushing it
at a high fence, and been thrown with
terrible violence.

Iq short, bis neck was broken, and be
bad died on the spot witboiit pain. A
door bad been procured from an adjoining
barnyard, and on this bumble bier the
body bad been brought to the IlalL

As one in a dreadful dream Eveline
listened to all this, and the awful shadow
of something — something, as yet unthought
of and conceived, fell blackly and bleakly
across the dark horizon of ber life, as
sbe saw the body borne past ber — the body
sbe shrank from touching— borne past
ber indoors ; and a darker shadow would
yet fall, when sbe learned the news from
Egypt.

Weakened by all sbe bad undergone
hitherto, and overcome by the sudden horror
of the present event, Eveline could
scarcely stand.

You cannot go up the staircase to bed
said Lucretia Hurdell, kindly.

Oh — yes ; yes, I can,' replied Eveline,,
with dry lips.

But she sank in a heap on the Persian
carpet.

Lift her up, Harry,' said his
sister.

Harry was only too ready, and raised
her at once in his strong arms.

Oh, please to put me down,' said
Eveline, imploringly ; ' don't touch me — I
can walk.'

'Nonsense, dear Lady Puddicombe —
you must permit me,' he urged.

And holding the helpless girl close to
him — so close as to preclude all attempted
resistance on her part — he bore her steadily
upstairs, and past the room where it lay,
covered with a sheet, and straight to a
new apartment prepared for her, followed
by his sister and Olairette.

The fast, horsey baronet's breath mingled

with hers, but unconsciously for her,
poor girl ! Her soft face reclined on his
shoulder, and he saw just then, more than
ever, how fair and delicate — how very
lovely she was ; and he began to develop
or scheme out — some very ambitious
plans of his own.

Hurdell Hall and the Hurdell estates
were rather deeply dipped, and thus ' Old
Pudd's money, even if encumbered by
such a lovely bride, would be very acceptable
when the time came.'

So thought Sir Harry, with the man —
but a few hours dead — lying stark and
stiff within a few yards of him.

Fortunately for Eveline, ' Nature's innocent
opium, fatigue' — with her it was
fatigue of mind — procured her some sleep;
thus she was supposed to be the better
able for what she would be compelled to
hear on the morrow, as a telegram had

arrived from Lady Aberfeldie — addressed
to her — a document that, as Sir Harry
said, ' proved a regular floored, by Jove !'

In the morning, he said,

She must not be told, as yet, of what
yesterday's paper contained — the mysterious
disappearance of her brother, to whom
she seems most tenderly attached

^ But how about the telegram from
Southsea ?' asked Lucretia. ' No doubt
it refers to that event. Indeed, we do
not know what it contains, good or bad
news. It must be given to her; we have
no right to conceal or keep it back, and
may commit mischief by doing so

Sir Harry tugged his straw-coloured
moustache with an air of perplexity, and
said, while busy with coffee and game-pie,

By all means, then ; if Lady Puddi-
combe is to know about her brother —
which, I fear, will cut her up more than

poor old Puddicombe's catastrophe — there
is no one who can break the news to her
better than you, Lucretia

'How?'

You are such a precious cool hand,
don't you know.'

Miss Hurdell looked as if this was not
very flattering, but quitted the luxurious
breakfast-table, saying,

Poor thing, she is not fit to hear anymore
bad news ; she has such a worn-out
look already.'

The telegram did refer to Allan — a most
unwise mode of breaking such terrible
intelligence — but Lady Aberfeldie never
doubted that her daughter must have seen
the public prints.

Eveline uttered a low wail, and fainted.
A cry of terror escaped Clairette, who
drew away the pillows from under her
mistress's head, opened the collar of her

laced night-dress, to let the air play freely
about her delicate neck and white bosom,
while she bathed her temples freely with
Rimmel and Eau-de-cologne ; and Miss
Hurdell, whose nature was somewhat hard,
and who had never seen anyone faint
before, looked on with some fear and
suspicion, as animation slowly came back
to the lovely face, with gasping sobs on
the lips and heavy respirations, which
made her bosom heave and fall.

George Eliot says, with truth, ' It is
a wonderful moment the first time we
stand by one who has fainted, and witness
the fresh birth of consciousness spreading
itself over the blank features like the
rising sunlight on the Alpine summits
that lay ghastly and dead under the
leaden twilight. A slight shudder, and
the frost-bound eyes recover their liquid
light, for an instant they show the inward

self-consciousness of an infant, then with
a little start they open wider, and begin
to look, the present is visible, but only
as a strange writing, and the interpreter
memory is not yet there.'

The dull mental agony that comes after
acute anguish or a great shock, proved too
much for Eveline now, and she became
prostrate, seriously ill in the hands of her
new friends, and Clairette wrote instantly
to Olive Raymond.

Eveline at times burst into passionate
sobs, then she would lie very still with her
long lashes closed and the tears oozing
from under them, slowly down her pale
cheeks, though her slender throat would
be agitated by those after-sobs that
seem so uncontrollable. Other times she
would lie perfectly still, lost in deep
thought, as she pictured all the past and
tender love her manly brother had ever

borne lier, and how gently he pitied her,
when he discovered her love for the lost
Evan Cameron.

The devil !' said Sir Harry to himself,
as he smoked a cigar on the terrace under
her windows, and looked up there from
time to time and twirled his long fair
moustache ; * who could have imagined all
this ! She must have loved that old fellow
after all.'

'In the light of a father, perhaps,' suggested
Mr. Pyke Poole.

'Of course — you are right; how else
could "she have looked upon him. Her
sorrow must be for her brother.'

Perhaps both.'

Who the devil are all those cads cross



ing the park ?' exclaimed Sir Harry, with
sudden anger, perhaps at his friend's mild
suggestion.

The coroner's inquest.'

The latter was ' a thundering bore ' to
Sir Harry, who was provoked to see ' a
parcel of louts in half bullet hats ' gaping
about the Hall. However, the matter was
soon over, permission was given for the
interment, and, after unlimited 
in the butler's premises, they all
departed in high good-humour with themselves.


Lord Aberfeldie came to attend the
funeral, and brought with him Olive to
remain with Eveline. Lady Aberfeldie
did not think the Hurdells 'good form,' so
she remained, as yet, at Southsea.

Eveline's father and cousin where shocked
by the expression of her face. Intense
mental pain seemed written on her brow ;
and her eyes, if sunk and inflamed, seemed
to have gathered much of intensity.

The stipulated number of days allowed
by custom to elapse between the day of

VOL. Il Q

death and that of interment were over,
and the funeral too ; Lord Aberfeldie, Sir
Harry, Mr. Pyke Poole, and many others
in scarfs and husbands of wonderful length
had departed with the remains for 
by train, and some of their
carriages were now returning through the
sunshiny park, where the soft rain was
falling, and, as the clouds were breaking
up, bright gleams of radiance danced along
the sward.

Unused to death and unsympathetic, Lucretia
Hurdell felt intense relief.

The great Tudor hall, with all its window
blinds down and shrouded in silence
and gloom, had seemed to her for all these
days like one large sepulchre, though an
odour of hothouse flowers was everywhere
as the gardener brought all his treasures
hyacinths, waxen amelia, gardenia,
faint Dijon roses, and so forth — to decorate

the corridor, the death-chamber, and
the coffin, while, unconscious of all the mischief
he had wrought, the bay hunter enjoyed
his corn and beans as usual.

So the coffin was laid in ' the family
vault,' where lay the first baronet of the
House of Puddicombe and the first wife of
Sir Paget.

I shall never lie there,' thought Eve-line,
with a shudder, when her father, before
returning to Southsea, gave her the
final details.

Poor Sir Paget was gone, but no one
seemed sad about it, and everyone seemed
to grow bright now that he was gone finally.
Sunshine and air came freely into
the house through the open windows
now, and the nameless hush that for days
had pervaded the vicinity of the dead was
no longer necessary. The decorous sadness
that was acted, even in the servants'

q2

hall, imposed by the presence of death —
especially the death of a very rich man —
was no longer required. The butler
might whistle as he cleaned the place, the
housemaids might laugh freely now, and
Mademoiselle Olairette indulge in a merry
little French chanson unchecked by that
rigid matron in black moire, the housekeeper.


CHAPTER Xii.

THE YOUNG WIDOW.

So one of the closing scenes of a sudden
tragedy had been acted in that fine old
English manor-house, standing amid its
richly Vv'ooded chase, the undulating sward
of which was of such a brilliant emerald
that it reminded those who saw it that
Hurdell Hall stood in the most fertile part
of Hampshire.

When Sir Harry invited Sir Paget to
visit him and join him in the fatal — as it
eventually proved — cub-hunting, his object
had been a nefarious one, but quite adapted
to the tone of a hlase man about town

like himself, the hope of engaging the
beautiful young wife of his elderly club
friend in a very decided case of flirtation —
so ignorant was he of Eveline's character,
and how her ill-assorted marriage was
brought about.

Now he hoped by a more honourable
course to secure both her purse and
person.

By will, however, it was soon known

«

that Sir Paget, to prevent a younger
successor enjoying any of his pelf through
her, had stripped her of everything but
what he had been compelled to settle upon
her for life.

However, Sir Harry thought she was
every way a most desirable widow to win,
but her sorrow and sadness were a sore
worry to Lucretia.

Don't weep, dear,' she would say, in
that hard, sharp tone peculiar to some

selfish women. 'It is the worst possible
thing for one's eyes in every way.'

And, sooth to say, Miss Hurdell's cold,
steely orbs did not seem even to have
been much afflicted with the weakness of
weeping.

Ah — we all have our trials, dear Lady
Puddicombe,' she resumed, after a pause.
Do try to bear this patiently, and believe
it all for — all for '

All for what ?'

Well— the best.'

The best— how, Miss Hurdell ?'

Well — he was so old and you so young,
don't you see,' replied this very matter-of-fact
person.

Free — for whom and to what extent?
Eveline never viewed the dispensation of
Providence thus ; but till Olive came with
her soothing presence, every night amid
the darkness of her room, the pent-up

tempest in her bosom — the tempest of unavailing
regrets — would burst forth with
loud whispers and sobs till sleep came, as
it always did, at last.

Before Olive arrived, Lucretia was ever
by the bed-side of her 'sweet Eveline,'
sitting for hours together, putting Eau-cologne
on her handkerchiefs and Simnel
on her temples, arranging her pillow or
her footstool if she left her couch for a
chair, telling her stories of foreign life at
Naples, Homburg, and Monaco, and so
forth, for she believed that Eveline had
been left with a splendid jointure, and a
Scottish estate by a former lover; while
Sir Harry lounged about impatiently in
the stables and kennels, with his briar-root,
and thinking ' when will all this end ?
And lioiv can she go on as she does about
that old pump ?'

But a little time before Eveline had been

unconscious of any special blessedness in
ber life ; now — with regard to the fate of
her brother and Evan Cameron — it seemed
as if the restoration of the past, even while
encumbered with captious, fretful, and
jealous old Sir Paget, would be worth
years of happiness.

Oh, my brother — my brother Allan ?
Were there not wicked people enough in
the world to be taken, that you must bereft
from us ?'

And these words found a terrible echo
in the heart of Olive. More weary and
empty than ever did life look to both these
girls. Everyone seemed to have some one
to love them — some object in life to
engross them — but neither of them had
any now.

If I could only die — if I could only
die !' Eveline would murmur, as she tossed
her sweet face and dishevelled hair on her

pillow, and thought of that grave in the
desert, and betrayed a frame of mind beyond
the conception of mundane Lucretia
Hurdell.

And her mind would go back to the old
days with all their brightness at Dunbar
and in Mayfair, before Sir Paget came
into the family picture, and when pleasure
seemed all her thought and occupation,
and care quite beyond her province !

And the girl lay there thinking — thinking
— it was impossible for her not to
think and surmise. But for this sudden
accident, how long might Sir Paget have
lived at his years ; and how long would he
have tormented her about Evan ?

As if to infer that she desired his death,
how often had he said in the bitterness of
his heart, before the news of Cameron's
fall in action came, that die would cheat
her yet, and live as long as she could do !'

She was free now, and not past her
girlhood ; and, if in life, Evan would be
loving her still. But she thrust that
natural thought aside ; why brood over it
now, when Evan was no more, for somehow
there seemed in it a species of treason
to her dead husband — little as she had
loved lira — now that he too was in his
grave.

If this was her mode of viewing Evan
Cameron, how little chance had Sir Harry
Hurdell of affecting her heart !

Now that Sir Paget was gone, Eveline
repented that his last thoughts of her as a
wife had been bitter, and tried to think of
him as a friend who had been kind at one
time, a husband whose settlements had
been generous, and would have been
greater but for the jealousy that made
him alter his will.

She now recalled with something like

an emotion of pleasure, or certainly of
satisfaction, that though she did not love,
she had ever respected him, though his
references to Evan Cameron had always
made her wince and shiver.

^ Poor man !' she exclaimed ; ^ and his
soul went out into the night — in a moment
without time for a prayer or supplication
to God !'

So did the souls of our brave fellows
at Tel-el-Kebir and elsewhere,' replied
Olive, who had rather more metal in her
composition than the softer Eveline.

Olive knew enough of life and of
human nature to feel certain that her
cousin was too young to relinquish all the
hopes and fears, the many vague and
brilliant dreams of girlhood. Another
would come, but who ?

Time would show that.

She'll get over all this nonsense ,

poor little thing,' said Sir Harry
bis cliurD, Pike Poole, as tliej knocked
the balls about in the billiard-room, trying
canons and so forth for practice. ' She is,
by Jove, the best groomed woman in the
whole stud of our acquaintances — perfect
in all her points. I'll go in for her, if I
can — but it is too soon to besoin the running
yet. Girls' fancies are, however, easily
drawn from one object to another.'

And I don't think she could have
fancied old Pudd much,' said Poole, ashe
mixed himself a glass of .
' I've seen many a rough spill in
the field, but never such a devil of a
cropper as he came !'

'You know I might do worse than
marry such a sweet girl, Pyke ?'

You might, by Jingo !' replied Mr.
Poole, with a knowing wink, and thinking
'Why should not he himself enter stakes
for such a prize ?'

Paddicombe's settlements are splendid,
I hear, but xjass away if she dies without
an heir. No chance of that, I think ; and
then some soft-headed Scotch fellow — if
there is such a thing in the world — who
loved her, has left her a place in the
Highlands, where one could knock over
the grouse and black cock every year.
We'll get married before the Derby. She'll
have had plenty of time to air her grief
and her weeds — Jay's " unutterable woe,"
no doubt — for old Pudd by that time.
I've a heavy bet upon Dasher, and I'll
have her in the grand stand on Cup Day,
with my jockey's colours somewhere about
her dress. She'll look, as she always does,
a stunner !'

Poole could not help laughing as his
friend ran on thus, in perfect confidence,
and stroked his long yellow moustache.
Though rather a bit of a reprobate, Sir

Harry looked every inch a gentleman, a
long-limbed sanguine blond, alternately
blunt and overbearing, resolute and indolent,
with the general air of a man who
has seen everything that was to be seen —
done everything that was to be done, and
had found nothings in it

To speak to her for a space would never
do. I'll take my time,' he resumed ; ' none
but a fool meets trouble half-way.'

She would learn to love him in time —
hang it all, how could she resist ! This
comfortable impression made him feel
quite easy on the subject, and by degrees
the satisfaction that always accompanies a
weak mind took possession of him.

Olive never doubted that when Eveline
got over the death, not of Sir Paget, but
of Evan Cameron, she would marry again.
She was too young to treasure a morbid
grief; but Olive would not like to have

seen ber Larlj of Hurdell Hall, for, withall
a woman's sharp instincts, lie bad indefinable
doubts about Sir Harry.

After Olive joined ber, the two girls
were never weary of comparing their
hopeless notes and sorrows, and of searching
the public prints. Eveline could do
so freely and unbidden now for any further
meagre tidings that might come of
the lost one.

An unexpected and startling event — to
be detailed in its place —c/zcZ happen, and
was duly recorded, but was unnoticed by
them; and those who did see it, cared not
to speak or write of it, while others were
unaware of the deep and vital interest it
possessed for them both.

Dear Olive, but for you coming to me
I think I might have lost my life — my
reason — certainly my peace of mind —
everything!' exclaimed the affectionate

and effusive Eveline, wreathing her soft
white arms round her cousin's neck, and
nestling her face therein.

The first day she was ' downstairs ' was
quite an event at Hurdell Hall, so great
was the fuss made of her by the baronet
and his sister.

In her dressing-room she had been fully
attired in her crape dress by Clairette, who
might as well have dressed a lay-figure for
all the apparent power of volition there
was in Eveline. Again and again she had
tried to bathe her cheeks into some colour,
to smooth her hair, and went with slow
reluctant steps to the drawing-room at
last ; and there the extreme depth of her
mourning, her girlish face and figure, and
her pure whiteness of complexion — the
soft white of the arum lily — made her
delicate beauty seem more striking than
ever.

VOL. III. R

Sir Harry was beside himself with
pleasure, and when he rejoined the ladies
in the drawing-room after dinner, and
after all the champagne he had imbibed at
table, his attention and extreme effusiveness
were such that Eveline was compelled
at last to say, coldly,

Sir Harry, I wish you would go away
and leave me — leave me to my own
thoughts.'

He urged his extreme joy at seeing her
again after her long seclusion.

Eveline had now a horror of Hurdell
Hall. It was associated in her mind with
three dire calamities — Evan's death —
though she had first heard of that from
Sir Harry in London ; Sir Paget's terrible
catastrophe, and, collaterally with it, the
strange disappearance of her darling
brother.

She must get away, without delay, she

thought, as the atmosphere of the place
seemed to oppress her. So, in a few days,
arrangements were complete for her departure
to join her parents, who were still
at Southsea.

"Well, that was not a thousand miles
from Hurdell Hall, thought Sir Harry ;
and it was too soon to venture on the
subject of love or marriage yet ; but a
time would come, and a jolly one he
doubted not it would be.

But, ere that time came, some very unforseen
events had come to pass with reference
to Eveline.

r2

CHAPTER XV.

IN THE Desert.

Ar.LAN had heard of Private Thomas Keith
of the 72nd Highlanders, who, after being
taken prisoner in Egypt in 1807, rose to
the rank of Aga of the Mameluke and
Governor of Medina ; but the prospects of
promotion in the desert, held out to him
by Zeid, did not prove very attractive ;
and here we may mention that the name of
Zeid is of great antiquity, for it was that
of the adopted son of Mohammed, whom
he placed on the Black Stone of the Caaba,
and to whom he gave a wife named Zinab.
Zeid's wife had already suggested that

Allan should have his head shaved, and
that a turban or tarboosh should be substituted
for his tropical helmet, with its
red 42nd hackle ; so he began to think
that something must be done to put an
end to this life of idleness and annoyance.

At times he thought he would affect to
fall into the views of Zeid-el-Ourdeh ; get
the blood mare and put a burnous over
his regimental jacket and kilt, and — leaving
the ' Bedouin girl ' out of the category
take an opportunity of trying the speed
of the said mare, and escaping.

But the time for departing further into
the desert drew near, and no mare was
given him ; he had, however, the offer of
a camel, but that would not do at all.

He thought of the distress his disappearance
must cause his family — if deemed
dead, their sorrow; and ere long the deletion
of his name from the army list, and

from his position in what he deemed a
family regiment, and the whole complication
of the situation maddened him.

In that Bedouin band were hundreds
of dusky robbers with whom he had not
eaten the mystic bread and salt of the
East, and who owed him neither favour
nor protection ; and thus the grotesque
views and oppressive friendship of Zeid
might fail to secure his life at their
hands.

He knew that they would think no more
of killing him than of killing a kid, and
he recalled with sufficient disgust the swift
catastrophe of the wretched Holcroft.

When rambling on the skirts of the
black tented camp, under close surveillance,
however, Allan observed that the
tomb of the Canton had a remarkably
broad and peculiar cornice round its dome,
that it was curved upward like the rim of

a billycock bat, and that a vine tendril of
considerable strength had ascended, in
the lapse of years, from the base to the
summit of the dome; and thus he conceived,
if he could ascend thereinto unseen,
he might lie en ]oe7'due, till the
tribe departed, and then he should be
safe.

The day before the tents were to be
struck, Zeid ordered some food to be procured
by his huntsmen, who — though the
food of the tribe was generally farinaceous
succeeded in capturing some of these
gazelles that live in the open plain, where
they browse upon the saline and pungent
herbage.

Fully experienced in the haunts and
habits of these animals, Abdallah . and
others concealed themselves in a hollow
dug out of the sand and carefully covered
over with brambles, and there they captured

their prey by means of a rude
network attached to stakes — the former
being slightly concealed in the sand, and
raised by means of a rope pulled when
a number of the herd has ventured
within its precincts. Thus twenty or
thirty of these beautiful creatures, with
their bright hazel eyes, spiral horns, and
slender limbs were taken at a time.

The gun was used only when other
means failed, as ammunition is too costly
for ordinary occasions in obtaining the
supplies of food. Allan, while hovering
about the huntsmen, effected a final reconnaissance
of the Canton's tomb, and
resolved to make the attempt that very
night.

When sudden darkness fell as usual,
instantly after sunset, and no moon as
yet had risen, while Zeid and his family
were busy with their final ablutions and

prayers, Allan — this bold bears beating
wildly the while — crept softly out of the
tent, under the uplifted canvas wall thereof,
and crawling flatly on bis bands and
knees, with the blade of bis drawn sword
in bis teeth, began to leave the bated
encampment behind him.

It was a time of keen and poignant excitement.
Every moment be expected to
bear an outcry announcing that he was
missed from bis place, or seen even amid
the gloom and obscurity, by the keen eye
of some practised son of the desert.

Fortunately all were at their prayers or
engaged in preparations for departure on
the morrow, and, as the distance increased
between himself and the dark camp, ibis
spirit began to rise, and be thought to
himself, why bad he not made this attempt
before ? But, sooth to say, it would
have been impossible, as be was less

watched latterly than he had been at first.

Even at the distance of half-a-mile he
did not assume an erect attitude, lest his
figure might be seen between the sky and
horizon, but continued to creep steadily
on, till at last he ventured to rise from the
ground, and strode swiftly towards the
tomb of the Canton, which was about two
miles from the camp.

The stars were coming out now, and a
sigh of relief escaped him as he reached ita
sigh that ended in an exclamation of
dismay as a tall Bedouin, who seemed to
spring from the ground, so sudden was
his appearance, stood face to face with
him, and in a moment he recognised Ab-dallas,
the second in command under
Zeid !

He perceived Allan's sword in his hand,
and, knowing that he was escaping, drew
a pistol from* his girdle — a pistol the explosion

of which would have proved most
disastrous, but by one trenchant stroke
Julian hewed the Arab's left hand off by
the wrist, and hand and pistol fell on the
sand together.

Muttering a terrible malediction, the
Bedouin, wrapping the bleeding stump in
the folds of his burnous, furiously assailed
Allan with his formidable sabre, shouting,
as he did so, something to this purpose: —

Unbelieving wretch, you shall go from
hence to hell, where your hands will be
chained to your neck, and you will be
compelled to oppose your face to the
flames.'

'Oho !' thought Allan, ' the Koran again !'

If he had time or means to give an
alarm, all would be over.

It was a life for a life now, and both
men fought desperately ; both were expert
swordsmen, and both were filled with

blackest fury — the Bedouin by the agony
of his wound, and Allan by the peril which
menaced him.

After pausing to draw breath for a moment,
Abdallah came rushing on with blind
rage ; Allan warded a cut, and, closing in,
caught his sword-hand by the wrist and
held it with an iron grasp ; then, adroitly
dropping the basket hilt of the claymore
from his rio'ht hand, he caught the shortened
blade and plunged it, dagger fashion,
into the breast of the Arab, who fell at his
feet and expired.

Inspired by an instant thought, he
dragged the dead body away, and the
hand and pistol also, to some distance
from the vicinity of the tomb, and, returning,
proceeded stealthily and speedily, if
worn, breathless, and feeling rather sick
by his recent work, to climb by the
branches of the vine up the wall of the

circular edifice, and over its heavily curved
cornice, behind which he crouched down
flat, and there he lay for hours, exposed
to a shower of rain, the fall of which he
hailed with thankfulness, as it would obliterate
any traces of blood in his vicinity,
and also his footmarks from the bruised
brandies of the vine which he had used asa
ladder.

He knew that, if retaken now, the discovery
of Abdallah's fate would seal his
own ; so, if found, nothing was left him
but to die sword in hand.

Each respiration came heavily, as he lay
there listening for every passing sound,
and wondering how he had achieved the
first chapter of his escape, and all the
bloody and necessary work so well.

Strange it was that his hand should
avenue the miserable Holcrof t ; but he did
not think of that till afterwards ; nor did

he think of the too baleful effect the wet
and damp of the Egyptian night might
have upon his own health.

At length the rain ceased, and the blue
dome of heaven appeared in all its wondrous
beauty — for wondrous indeed it is
by the shores of the Nile, though this
was in the first season of the Egyptian
year, when the weather is generally moist.

But the sky is so cloudless, and the
brightness of the moon so intense, that
the natives, when sleeping in the open
air. as they often do, cover their eyes,
as the effect of the moon's rays upon the
sight is more dangerous and violent than
that of the sun.

No sleep, however, visited the eyes of
Allan that night ; he remained without
desire to close them, preternaturally,
acutely, and painfully awake, and watchful
as a lynx.

It was all as Allan anticipated. Day
bad scarcely dawned, and the striking of
the tents begun, ere he was conscious
that his absence was discovered, and more
than a hundred swiftly-mounted horsemen,
with, cries and shouts, darted from
the camp in every direction around it
in search, and, if afoot, he must inevitably
have been overtaken ; but, concealed
where he was, he lay in safety, though
his heart throbbed so violently that he
seemed to hear its pulsations, as he heard
the Bedouins, at full speed, pass and repass
the Canton's tomb, with guns and
rifles unslung, intent on his recapture and
destruction.

He clenched the hilt of his claymore.
If traced to where he lay — if discovered —
he could but sell his life, and dearly did
he resolve to do so !

He heard their voices, their surmises,

their suggestions, and their threats ; and
lucky it was for him that the rain and
subsequently the heavy dew, of the past
night had obliterated the traces of his
footsteps near the tomb and on the tendrils
of the vine, also the traces of the
blood of Abdallah, the discovery of whose
body was greeted by yells of rage that
pierced the air; but the rain and the
dew were ere long to have a baleful effect
on Allan in the time to come.

At last the riders seemed to give up
the search as hopeless, and by twos and
threes came slowly back to camp, with
horses weary and bridles loose. After
mid-day, the tents were finally struck,
stowed away, with all household utensils,
on the backs of camels and horses, and
the whole tribe of Zeid-el-Ourdeh took
its departure in a north-easterly direction,
towards the great desert, through which

lies the route taken by Bonaparte in 1799,
and, before evening fell, the last of them,
like black specks, were alone visible, and
ere long they quite disappeared from view.

Now Allan, worn and weary, after a
day without food or drink, slept for a
time, and the moon, clear, bright, and
refulgent, was high in the heavens when
he prepared to descend from his lurking
place.

He looked keenly, anxiously, and carefully
round him, as it was possible that
some of the Bedouins might return to
their late camping-ground for some object
of their own ; and, moreover, others were
to be avoided quite as much as they.

No living thing was visible, and the
most awful silence seemed to reign around
him.

Allan descended from his perch, stiff,
benumbed, and well-nigh powerless, to

VOL. III. s

begin his lonely and perilous journey ;
but whither ?

Ignorant of the country and of the
way to pursue, he knew not that the
canal which leads from Belbeis to Grand
Cairo lay on his left ; and after toiling
on without adventure for a few days and
nights, subsisting on dates, wild-beans,
and locus-roots, with a little water from
an occasional spring, he found himself,
weary, worn, and faint, with pains in
his head and loins, and shivering in his
limbs — the forerunners of a deadly illness
crossing what is the camel-route to
Suez, as he ]Penetrated into another portion
of the desert.

He saw occasionally vultures, storks,
and pelicans ; and now and then a herd
of beautiful antelopes swept past him ;
but — as he thanked heaven — no Bedouins.
More than once he came upon nitre

springing up in the sandy waste, like
crystallised fruit. At times these spots
seemed as if overgrown by moss and
coated with hoar frost — hoar frost under
a fervid Egyptian sun ; and according to
the quantity of the nitre, their fantastic
shapes were either a dazzling white, or
more or less tinted by the yellow hue
of the sand.

More than once in his fitful slumbers
by night under the baleful dew, there
came before him in a dream the agony of
his lurking on the summit of the tomb in
momentary dread of discovery, and then
he was again closing in combat hand-in-hand
with Abdallah, the aspect of whose
dark face, with gleaming eyes and glistening
teeth, curiously blended with an idea
of Holcroft, came vividly before him ; and
then, when just in the act of plunging in
his shortened sword-blade, he would awakes

2

with a nervous start to find himself still in
solitude with quiet stars looking down
upon him.

At last when about to sink he saw before
him the well-known fringes of greenery
and foliage that indicate the line of a
canal, and it proved to be a portion of
that of Moses, and a cry of joy escaped
him when he heard the whistle of a locomotive
and saw the welcome smoke of a train
running westward.

How much the sound and sight we deem
alike so hideous spoke to his heart of home,
of ease, of peace, safety, and civilisation.
In short, he soon discovered that he was
midway between Kassassin and Mahsameh
and by a liberal promise of backsheesh to an
Egyptian labourer whom he met, and whose
assistance he solicited, he reached a railway
station and obtained all the succour he
needed from the European officials there.

By them he was placed in a train for
Ismailia, and ere long he saw once more
those places which were familiar to him as
having passed them with the troops —
Kames, Tel-el-Mahuta, and El-Magfar,
where the Black Watch had encamped, and
where he had befriended Zeid-el-Ourdeh ;
and ere long he could recognise, when he
had left the sea of sand behind him, the
white-walled houses of Ismailia against the
deep blue of the sky, and the tall forest of
masts, those of our transports and warships
in the adjoining lake of Timsah.

He had no recollection of more, or even
ol reaching the railway station. His heart
beat wildly, his head swam round him, and
a darkness seemed to envelop him. He
had fainted.

On partially recovering he found himself
in bed, but he knew not where, and
dimly seen, as in a glass, he thought he

saw Evan Cameron bending over him — >
Evan looking pale and wan as when he
buried him in the sand.

Oh, God sighed Allan, as he closed
his eyes to shut the vision out, * is this,
madness or delirium that has come upon
me?'

CHAPTER Xii.

EASTWARD HO !

Lady Abeefeldie was a Scottish Episcopalian
of the first class ; one whose boast
it was that she always distinguished
Christmas and Easter by mince-pies and
cheesecakes ; and who rather looked down
on English Ritualists and Tractarians as
second chop ;' and who never saw a
Michaelmas without its goose ; but she forgot
the Michaelmas of this year, and with
good reason too.

The sudden arrival in the hospital at
Ismailia of Captain Graham, the missing
officer of the Black Watch, who had been
carried off by Bedouins at Matarieh, and

who was supposed to have shared the terrible
fate of Professor Palmer and his
companions, was duly ' wired' home, like
many other items of Egyptian news, and
caused no small excitement among the
inmates of Puddicombe Villa, Southsea.
The telegram added that he was without a
wound, but was supposed to be dying of
enteric fever, the result of all he had undergone
when in the desert.

Dying !' exclaimed his mother, pale asa
lily ; ' oh, it cannot be.'

And Olive looked the picture of mute
misery.

Lord Aberfeldie telegraphed to the chief
of the medical staff at Ismailia for distinct
intelligence, and the reply — waited for
with intense anxiety — came in its usual
orange-tinted envelope.

Not dying yet, but recovery very improbable.'


Lord Aberfelclie. with the promptitude
of an old soldier, and full of affection and
anxiety, wished to start at once for Egypt,
and alone ; but the three ladies of his
family insisted on going also, so he yielded
to their tears, entreaties, and importunities
especially those of Olive, whose misery
was very great ; and he had much sympathy
with a young and loving heart. 'Let
no one decry the suffering of the young
because they are young,' says a writer;
as we grow older we get used to pain, both
mental and bodily.

Olive passed the hours, previous to departure,
pretty much as we do those which
precede a funeral ; everything was done asa
duty, dressing, undressing, sitting down
to meals, and so forth — seeming to have no
interest in anything, as if for the time, life
and all its interests was over and done
with.

Oh, Eveline,' she exclaimed, ' what advantages
men have over us in this world.'

Of course they have replied her
cousin, * but to what do you refer in the
present instance ?'

'Now, if we were men, we could start
for Egypt alone ; as it is, we can only go
with your papa.'

If you were a man, Olive, you would
not think of going at all.'

Indeed — why r'

Little goose ! If a man, would you be
engaged to Allan? Are you going to
become an advocate for women's '^ rights "
whatever they may be ?'

*No — but it is tiresome to have to run in
the grooves of life that men lay down for
us. Poor creatures, we are only in their
eyes the weaker vessels after all.'

But weaker vessels they make a great
fuss with J but how we chatter ! Oh,

heavens, if Allan's peril — dear, dear Allan
should be so great !'

Olive shivered at this exclamation, as
she alternated — like all girls of a delicate
and nervous organization — between high
spirits at the prospect of going eastward
and the awful dread of what tidings might
await her there.

Going to the East — actually to Egypt !
Darling papa, how shall we ever be able to
thank you ?' exclaimed Eveline, as in her
energy she locked her slender fingers so
tightly together that the great diamond in
one of her rings — a gift of Sir Paget — was
cutting into her delicate skin, and yet she
felt it not.

And great was the disgust of Sir Harry
Hurdell, when eventually he heard of this
sudden disposition to travel, the precise
object of which he failed quite to understand.


Apart from anxiety about lier brother,
Eveline bad another thought, and she kept
repeating to herself,

I shall see the land where Evan died —
the land that holds his grave! It is a
pilgrimage of love — but one that is without
deceit to him.'

Him meant Sir Paget, or ' Old Puddles
Sir Harry called him.

Allan might die ere they arrived, or
after they did so. In either case, the
famous will of Olive's father would be as
only so much waste paper, so far as the
Aberfeldie family was concerned ; but at
this time of trial no one thought of that
feature in the terrible contingency.

Their whole idea was to see him ; to be
with him ; to know the best or worst ; to
nurse him well, and to bring him home
with them to the soft breezes of the Sidlaw
Hills, and his native place, Dundargue.

So Tappleton and Mademoiselle Clairette
received their orders ; packing was proceeded
with ; the Continental Bradshaw
consulted, and all arrangements made fora
speedy departure for Egj^pt, via Paris ;
by rail then to Marseilles ; thence by
steamer, Messageries Imperial Company,
to Alexandria, when the train could betaken
for Suez.

The night before their departure Olive
was so excited that she could not go to
bed, but sat listening to the booming of
the waves as they rolled on the stormy
bluffs of Southsea Castle, while all the past
returned upon her, and when she had last
seen the face of Allan.

As she was heard moving about in hero



room, Clairette was sent to inquire for
her.

'I have a dreadful head-ache,' said
Olive.

Mon Dieu, mademoiselle, why are you
not in bed, instead of shivering there in
your night-dress, at an open window, too !
This will never do ; let me coil up your
hair and cover you up.'

Dear little Clairette, I shall be good
and go to bed — yes, to bed.'

Clairette, who knew all about it, kissed
her lady's hand ; but Olive pressed her
lips to the cheek of the French girl, who,
in the impulsiveness of her nature, burst
into tears, and then, instead of leaving
her mistress to repose, had a long gossip
with her about Allan, for whose safety
she said she gave up a prayer every night.

Appliances for travel are so great and.
ample now that a few hours after soon
saw the whole party on board the Marseilles
steamer, and traversing the Mediterranean.


Many officers were in the saloon making

their way to join the various regiments,
and to these Eveline — so young a widow
was an object of no small interest. She
seemed to have ripened into the bloom of
early womanhood, though all her girlish
manner remained with its softness and
grace.

Her fissure had become more rounded
and developed ; her step was firm, though
elastic as ever ; and she carried her head
with an air of stateliness that was somewhat
belied by the occasional sadness of
her expression and lassitude of demeanour.

To her and to Olive, ever-recurring was
the thought, when fairly off the coast of
Egypt, how strange it was from the
steamer's poop to look upon those places
of which they had read so much of late
in the newspapers — Alexandria, Suez, Port
Said, and so forth — all ' household words '
at home now.

At the first-named place they saw ample
traces of the terrible bombardment, with
the details of which the were more familiar
than with those of its marble palaces
and porphyry temples of the times of old ;
or of the golden cofl&n of its young hero,
who emulated being a god ; of its streets,
two thousand feet in width ; and its Pharos,
whose mirrors of polished steel reflected
from afar the galleys of Cleopatra.

Suez, with its mosques and caravansaries,
its houses of sun-bricks, amid, or
rather bordering on, a desert of rock,
slightly covered with sand, and where
trees, gardens, and meadows are almost
entirely unknown, was soon left behind
as the train bore them on by Shalouffe,
Genere, Fait, Serapium, and Nefishe, to
Ismailia, so named after Snail Pasha, and
which deems itself the most aristocratic
or respectable place upon the canal, as

the Khedive erected a palace for himself
at the east end of it, and the houses have
all a substantial appearance, with neat and
trim gardens ; and the appearance of its
harbour reminded Lord Aberfeldie of that
of Balaclava in the time of the Crimean
war ; and still the Lake of Timsah was
crowded with vessels of all sorts and
sizes.

Despite the deep and keen interest of
the matter nearest their hearts — the object
which had brought them so far from home
it was impossible for Olive and Eveline
not to be occasionally drawn from their
own thoughts, and impressed by the novelty
of the new sights, scenes, and certain
memories of the land they looked on, for
the crossing of the Red Sea by the children
of Israel took place somewhere near
where Ismailia stands, and certain it is
that, at no great distance therefrom, it

VOL. III. T

was at El-Khantara-el-Khazneli, the Virgin
Mother and the Holy Child passed when
Joseph arose by night ' and departed into
Egypt.'

The wide lake looked now like a landlocked
harbour crowded with shipping.
Great steamers, magnificent ' troopers,'
all painted white, colossal men-of-war
lay like leviathans there, while gunboats,
launches, and steam-tugs were for ever
shooting to and fro.

In the streets invalid soldiers of eyevy
kind, in tattered karkee uniforms or red
serges, Guardsmen, Highlanders, Dragoons,
Artillery, and Rifles, were creeping about,
some propped on sticks and crutches,
awaiting their transmission home ; and
there, too, might be see, occasionally,
stalwart Bedouins, dirty Jews, and sable
negroes, howling Dervishes, and many
breeds of Arabs, Italians, and Frenchmen ;

the Turk, with his smart scarlet fez ; the
Egyptian, with tarboosh and a turban
twisted round it ; and in some instances
Moors, with embroidered jackets, white
turban, crimson sash, and trousered to the
knee, with yellow shoes, a scimitar and
antique gun of enormous length ; and
though last, not least, the English Jack-tar,
rollicking about and eyeing curiously
the closely veiled women.

The novelty of these sights and scenes
in the minds of Olive and Eveline became
merged at last, especially when they saw
our wounded redcoats and blue jackets, in
absorption about Allan, who, dead or alive,
was then in that place, Ismailia.

And, in dread of the tidings that might
await her, Olive already began to pray and
wrestle, as it were, with anticipated despair
and dread of how Allan, if in life, might

T 2

receive her. Until novo this idea had never
occurred to her.

Oh, my lost love — my lost love !' she
whispered to herself ; ' what shall I say ordo
to convince you that I love you, and
you only? If gone — oh, my God! — no,
no, no — but if gone, I cannot call you back
to me — and I cannot go to you. In another
hour we shall know all — all!'

Aware, as an old Crimean campaigner,
that shocking scenes might meet their eyes
in the vicinity of a military hospital, Lord
Aberfeldie took the three ladies of his
party to the chief hotel, and then, with a
heart full of the liveliest anxiety, set forth
to make inquiries about Allan, to whom
we shall now return.

CHAPTER XVII.

AT ISMAILIA.

The putrid water lie bad drunk on many
occasions, the stone-fruit on which he had
been compelled to feed, the damp sand on
which he had lain under the night dews —
the watching, fatigue, and depression of
spirits he had undergone — had served to
prostrate Allan now, and even his magnificent
constitution failed to resist such a
combination of evils.

At times he was in a burning fever ; at
others in cold, shivering fits, as if his
limbs would go to pieces. These were
succeeded by feeble listlessness and indifference

to all around him, and then lie
seemed as if about to die.

He first became quite conscious of where
he was on being roused from a species of
waking dose by voices near him.

Captain,' said an Irish Fusilier, one of
Sir Garnet's own, ' I want ten shillings
from you.'

^ For what purpose ?' asked the officer,
sharply.

To bury my brother.'

Bury your brother, d — n it ! I gave
you ten shillings for that purpose two days
ago.'

To bury his leg that was, your honour.'

^Welir

And now I want another ten shillings
to bury the rest of him.'

Have you a non-commissioned officer
with you ?'

*Yes, sir — Sergeant Carey.'

'Well, you and Sergeant Carey had better
be off, or I'll make the place too hot for
you. As for your brother, you can bury
him for nothing beside the tent-pegs outside.'


Every other morning some poor fellow-was
reported as dead in the wards, and
they were buried in a little strip of ground
near the canal, a tent-peg, with a label
fluttering from it, alone indicated, in the
meantime, the name and rank of the
deceased. ^

As Allan glanced around him, he saw-cheeks
that were pale, eyes that where sunk,
and forms emaciated by wounds, loss of
blood, and fever like his own of the worst
enteric form.

A somewhat oppressive odour of hot
soup and poultices seemed to pervade the
wards of the hastily improvised hospital,
where, though wounds were dressed on

Lister s antiseptic system, with a care and
minuteness never before seen on a large
scale in war, yet it was reported, and with
justice, in the public prints, that through
the meanness, economy, and incapacity of
the Government, or the Government
officials, 'the enormous hospital at
Ismailia was opened without drugs, instruments,
provisions, or stores, and was unable
to supply the front with any medical
essentials, and that there was also an extraordinary
lack of hospital attendants.
Officers who lay in the wards tell stories
which are ludicrous though painful, of
neglect and want of common food. All acknowledged
themselves grateful for the kindness,
sympathy, and skill of the doctors.
The fault was not theirs ; but iced-tape finished
what incompetence began.'

As Allan looked around him, a familiar
figure in the undress uniform of the

Black Watch caught his eye — it ^as that
of an officer conversing in a low voice with
one of the staff-surgeons, and he gave a
nervous start as he muttered and closed
his eyes.

It is a chance likeness, and the world
is full of chance likenesses

He looked again ; the figure — the man
was still there, and he could see his full
face now, with its light brown moustache
and head of close-clipped golden hair.

Great heavens, it is a day-dream of
Evan Cameron !' said Allan to himself in a
whisper.

The blood in his veins seemed to congeal
or to circulate like water that was icy
cold. He had heard that we cannot look
upon the supernatural and live, and so
Allan believed that his hour had come.

Feeling that it might be only a powerful
but optical illusion, he continued to gaze

fit the figure with incredulity and awful
dread.

Cameron !'

The name escaped him, while a strange
sensation crept over Allan, and his voice
as he spoke sounded thick in his own
ears.

But it was no optical illusion — no disembodied
spirit he saw, as he thought he
had done before, but his friend and comrade
still in the body, but pale now and
barely convalescent after the dreadful
wound he had received.

He grasped the hand of Allan, and
laughed at the mingled expression of
blank amazement and dismay he read
there, emotions which were gradually
replaced by those of satisfaction and
delight.

I was supposed to be dead and buried
in the sand, like Lieutenant O'Brien in

*^ Peter Simple," but, unlike Lieutenant
O'Brien, I was not discovered by a pretty
girl treading on my nose,' said Cameron,
laughing, and in reply to some inarticulate
words of Allan, on the side of whose bed
he seated himself.

Tell me — tell me about it,' said Allan,
huskily.

You could scarcely have left me ere I
began to recover from the syncope — for a
syncope it was — only you and Sergeant
Farquharson were not doctors enough to
discover that it was so. A sense of suffocation
made me struggle up and throw off
my blanket and the covering of light sand
in which you had so kindly tucked me ;
and as the blanket fell from my face the
dew refreshed me, and I perceived in a
moment the fatal mistake into which you
had all fallen. Dark though it was, the
detachment was still in sight, and I could

hear jour voices ; I tried to call out, but
lacked the power to do so, and a horror
fell upon me, with insensibility after a
time, and, when I recovered, I found a
group of mounted Bedouins gazing at mein
stupid wonder to see a living man half
buried in the sand

'But how was it that we totally failed
to find all trace of the spot where we interred
you ?'

How strange the question sounds as
you frame it,' said Cameron, smiling. ' A
sandstone came on, and must have obliterated
the landmarks.'

We heard shots as we fell back.'

The Bedouins fired at something — I
kuovT not what. They proved to belong to
a friendly tribe — Bedouins of that kind
who become petty merchants wandering
over the country, trading in such goods as
they can easily transport from place to

place, and fortunate — most fortunate — was
it for me that I fell just then into the hands
of men so peacefully disposed.'

And your wound ?'

Is healing fast, thank Heaven ! They
carefully redressed it, put me in a camel
litter, and conveyed me to Abu Mabel on
the canal, from whence I was sent, with
others here, by boat to Ismailia on sick-leave
for home. I heard of your having
been carried off at Matarieh ; some of our
fellows who are in the wards told me so ;
but I was powerless to attempt your discovery
in any way — too feeble almost to
think, but the idea of your peril and too
probably helpless butchery cut me to the
heart.'

Any news from home ?'

Home ?' repeated Cameron.

I mean of my people.'

None, Allan, how should I hear of them ?'

True,' said Allan, wearily and sadly,
and in the miserable weakness of this body,
as a paroxysm of shivering came over him,
almost doubting the evidence of his own
senses.

Hawke Holcroft had turned up in the
camp of Zeid-el-Qurdeh — that was startling
enough in all conscience; but that Evan
Cameron, whom he and Sergeant 
had so regretfully buried in the
sandy grave — the grave of which no trace
could be found — should be alive, well, and
chatting with him there, and manipulating
a cigar, outheroded fiction !

The wonderful reappearance of the supposed
dead Cameron was the intelligence
in the papers which Olive Raymond and
Eveline did not see.

Little could Cameron imagine that Eve-line
was so near to him as she was then !

Often had he dreamt of her face — not

when lie longed to do so, but when visions
of it came upon him unbidden while he lay
asleep on the deck of the transport, in the
bivouacs in the desert, amid the wards of
the hospital at Ismailia and elsewhere, and
it always came before him with a sweetness,
a loving expression, and a strange spiritual
charm impossible to define or describe.

After the mutual revelations of the two
friends, the intermittent fever of Allan
seemed to become more deadly, and by the
time that Lord Aberfeldie arrived at the
hospital he almost failed to recognise his
son, so much had the latter sunk ; for, the
temporary excitement consequent to the
meeting with Cameron having subsided,
Allan's health seemed visibly to retrograde,
and each fit of shivering rendered him
weaker than the last.

A staff-surgeon had prepared Allan for
the visit of his father, who was manifestly

shocked when he saw how prostrate he was,
and, as they pressed each other's hands.
Lord Aberfeldie perceived how thin, bony,
and wasted those of his son had become.

My poor boy,' he exclaimed ; ' how is
this I find you?'

Not dying, father, but very near ifc, I
fear,' replied Allan, with a sickly smile.

Lord Aberfeldie gazed lovingly and sadly
into his son's wasted face, and thought
of all his mother, his sister, and Olive
would feel on seeing him thus, and in such
a squalid place.

Amid the suffering and misery they were
enduring, Lord Aberfeldie thought it strange
to hear many expressing regret that the
war was over so soon, and ^ Arabi snuffed
out.'

The realisation of Sir Garnet Wolseley's
confident prediction that all would be ended
by the 16th of September, put an abrupt

and speedy end to all chances of promotion
and glory, and now everyone thought
only of going home as fast as possible.

In the huge improvised military hospital
much existed, as in every such place, that
proved rather repugnant to the ideas of
a fastidious man, so Lord Aberfeldie resolved
upon having Allan removed to another
place — a hotel or villa — whither, when
the surgeon would permit it, he would
have him conveyed by soldiers in a dhoo-
ley ; and, full of this purpose, he rejoined
the ladies, who awaited his return with the
keenest anxiety.

His hopes of Allan's recovery proved
balm to their hearts, though he sjDoke more
confidently of it than his own observations
warranted.

At the story of Cameron, Eveline sprang
from her seat, while a little gasping cry
escaped her, and Lord Aberfeldie was

VOL. iir. u

rather sorry to see ber mother's face
darken.

Evan Cameron — Evan Cameron alive !'
exclaimed Lady Aberfeldie, incredulously.

'Alive, and well ! Old Stratherroch, his
father, used to say that the men of the
Black Watch were deuced hard to kill,
and, by Jove ! he was right. For the
old man's sake, I am glad that God has
spared the boy !'

Unable to realise the situation, poor
Eveline felt stupefied !

CHAPTER XVIII.

CLOUDS AND SUNSHINE.

Olive heard all her uncle lead to relate
of the condition in which he found Allan,
and, stealing away, she assumed her hat
and sunshade, and, accompanied by Clair-este,
undeterred by any risks she miojht
run in a strange place, issued into the
somewhat European-looking streets of Ts-
mailia, over which she could see the great
palace of the Khedive looming in the distance,
about two miles off ; and obtaining
the guidance of a passing soldier — a Sea-forth
Highlander — she bent her steps
direct to the military hospital.

u2

In the depth of her love, in the keenness
of her anxiety — her remorse, too,
for all she had, in some sense unwittingly,
made Allan endure — she cast the idea of
strict propriety and the amenities of
society to the winds, and, following the
generous impulses of her own heart, resolved
to see Allan, if she could, without
delay.

She passed the temporary burying-ground,
with its rows of labelled tent-pegs,
without a shudder, as she knew
not what lay there ; anon past wards
where lay patients suffering from sunstroke
and ophthalmia, as she could see
by the sufferers wearing blue-veils and
dark glasses, till she was ushered into
a species of office, where a staff-surgeon
in undress uniform greeted her with some
surprise and e?npresseme?it.

He had not seen an English girl —

especially one of Olive's style and beauty
for a considerable time past, perhaps,
and be looked with genuine interest on
Olive, her half-opened mouth, her soft,
earnest eyes, her trembling lips, and the
tears that clung: to her honor lashes.

Shyly she asked if it were possible to
see Captain Graham, of the Black Watch,
who was a patient.

He smiled, and shook his head.

Do permit me, sir,' she asked, with
half-clasped hands and her eyes full of
entreaty.

Do be reasonable. Miss — Eaymond,'
said he, glancing at her card, which an
orderly had given him. ' Your presence
• would but excite him too much. It will
be folly on your part to undo all our
precautions simply from a mere desire,
however natural, to speak with or see
Captain Graham.'

Oh, sir, if you knew all !'

All that can be done for him is being
done. Besides, there is danger in being
near him.'

Danger !'
To you.'

^ I care not. Why ?'

Enteric fever takes a typhoid form at
times.'

Fear not for me — I am his cousin — his
promised wife !' urged Olive, piteously.

Come with me, then, but softly ; this
way,' said the surgeon, and, taking her
hand, he led her across a corridor, where
hospital orderlies, men of the Army
Hospital Corps, nurses, and others were
hovering, and where Olive narrowly escaped
the shock of seeing a fever-stricken
and attenuated corpse carried out, and
into a plain, white-washed room, whereon
a camp-bed — one of those brought

from Arabi's camp — Allan lay asleep.

Olive, in obedience to a mute sign from
the doctor, made do nearer approach, or
attempt to touch or wake him, but she restrained
her heavy sobs with difficulty,
for the sight of how wan and worn, hole
and pale he was, and how
every way wasted, wrung her loving heart
to the core.

Kneeling down by his bedside, she
lightly touched with her lips his thin
white hand that lay upon the coverlet,
a mute action which, in one so charming
as she looked, stirred even the heart of
the staff-surgeon, and then she stole softly
away.

Is there any hope ?' she asked, in a
choking voice.

As the doctor did not speak, she looked
in his face and seemed to see her answer
there.

lie cannot recover, you fear ?' said she.

I fear not, Miss Raymond,' said the
doctor, in a low voice.

She leant for a moment against the
table, and felt giddy.

Then, bowing to the staff surgeon, she
drew her veil close over her face, took the
arm of Clairette to steady her footsteps,
and quitted the sad place in a tumult of
grief and horror.

Night came on — the hot Egyptian night
and Allan as he tossed restlessly on his
pillow, all unconscious of ivho had visited
him, as he looked wearily round his bare
and strange-like apartment by the subdued
light of a shaded lamp, pondered doubtfully
whether it had been a dream or a
reality that he had that forenoon spoken
with and seen his father, Lord Aberfeldie,
and, in the weakness and confusion of
his mind, he was somewhat inclined to

think the whole thing was the effect of
fevered fancy.

Ere long Olive was to have him all to
herself !

In a beautiful little villa near the Lake
of Timsah — one built for the famous
Toulba Pasha, the friend of Arabi — in
view of all the fleet that lay anchored
there, Allan, after a little time, found
himself in a luxurious apartment, furnished
in European style, yet fitted up and decorated
in the Egyptian manner, with gaily-painted
arabesques.

The windows opened upon an arcaded
verandah, the slender pillars of which
were rose-coloured marble, with quaint
capitals of purest alabaster, from which
sprung horse-shoe arches elaborately
carved, and inscribed with verses from
the Koran.

Palm-trees, feathers branched bananas,
and arched rows of orange-trees shaded
the lovely garden walks, all mosaic with
polished pebbles ; and there, amid the rose-trees
and beds of tulip bordered by myrtle,
a white marble fountain spouted, the very
plash of its ceaselessly falling water
seeming to cool the heated air ; and, in view
of all this, Allan Graham lay od his couch
in the care of his mother and sister, but
more often with Olive alone, for she had
constituted herself by right his nurse,
and ere long Eveline found a sufficient
occupation for herself. How, the reader
may guess.

As for Allan and Olive, their reconciliation
came speedily about, as such things
never take long in real life if they are to
take place at all ; and the few minutes that
followed are not very describable, as they
remained, hand clasped in hand, in silence

but with a happiness and content that were
inexpressible, — ' one of those rare periods
in life when we forget our mortality and
believe that heaven has begun for us.'

At first Allan, fearful of some infectious
nature in his ailment, had implored Olive
to leave him.

Go — go, Olive !' he exclaimed, faintly ;
do not come near me.'

You dislike me so — so much ?' said
Olive, more faintly still.

Oh, no, obj no — not that, not that,
when I now know all.'

Why then, Allan ?'

'Because all the doctors tell me that
there is something typhoid in this Egyptian
enteric fever, and if it were to affect

you

Allan !' she exclaimed, reproachfully ;
and, pressing her lips to his, added, 'if you
die, let me die too.'

Olive !'

Do sou doubt me now ?'

Oh, no — ob, no, my darling ; but do
leave me.'

Why ?'

Because this sick-room is no place for
you.'

But Olive in the depth, of her love was
resolute, and kept her place as a watcher
by his pillow, and day after day, with only
short intervals of rest, was she there
unvaryingly ; and as she bent over Allan's
sick-bed she felt how true it is that * all
the forces of our nature rush towards the
channels of pity, of patience, and of love,
and sweep down the choking drift of our
quarrels, our debates, our would-be wisdom,
and our clamorous, selfish desires.'

Allan's life was for a time hovering in
the balance, and Olive, as she sat by his
pillow looking out on the Lake of Timsah,

recalled the pleasant days of their childhood
at Dundargue, where they had
plaited rushes beside the trotting stream,
and he had garlanded her hair with scarlet
poppies and yellow cowslips, and he used
to call her his little queen and wife,
while the great clouds cast their flying
shadows over the green Sidlaw hills and
the bOnnie Carse of Gowrie.

Days gone beyond recall, save in memory !'

But, when she feared he might be going
out from her sight for ever, her heart
ofrew cold and seemed to die within her.

She watched him when he lay motionless
and asleep, when his irregular breathing:
stirred his sunburned throat and broad
chest, when the perspiration of fever rolled
in globules over his forehead, and when
the cold shivering of the ague followed,
till by watching and confinement her cheek
grew pale as Allan's.

There was always a profound and oppressive
stillness about the house and room.
She heard no sound but his breathing and
the ticking of a French clock upon a
console table.

Her hand it was that was ever ready to
give the compounded drinks the doctor
ordered, and when ere long he became
convalescent, to her joy, she accompanied
him in his drives around Ismailia, to
Is'efische and Serapium, and along the
banks of the Great Bitter Lake, where the
lofty white Indian ' troopers ' could be
seen under steam, and boats like those
that are to be seen on the Nile at Cairo in
hundreds — elegant barques with long sail-yards
and fantastic canvas that fly with
wonderful velocity, and are so ingeniously
carved and painted, fitted up with carpeted
cabins, and deck awnings of brilliant
colours as a protection from the heat.

So the clays stole on, and, as Allan s
fever seemed to pass away, he and Olive
became supremely happy — she all the
more so that she had been his chief nurse.
Nothing,' says a writer, '' tones down a
young girl's passion into apparent friendship
like nursing the man she loves in illness.
Of course it is there, ready to break
out with the old strength hereafter: but
for the time the sense of utter weakness
on his side, of protection on hers — the
perfect unquestioned familiarity, the constant
companionship — have done away
with all the old reserve, and doubt, and
mystery which to unsophisticated young
women is the very food of love.'

We have said that while all this was iu
progress Eveline had found an occupation
for herself.

It was very natural that Evan Cameron
should call at the villa by the Lake of

Timsab to inquire for his friend and comrade,
and it was also natural that he
should meet, incidentally, Ladj Puddi-
combe, which event came to pass on the
very day that Lord and Lady Aberfeldie
had taken the train to Grand Cairo, to be
present at the St. Andrew Festival, held
by the Highland Brigade in the magnificent
restaurant in the Zeb Keyah Gardens.

Evan was suddenly ushered in upon herby
old Mr. Tappleton, the butler, who had
charge of the household at Ismailia, and
whose rubicund face became quite radiant
when he saw the familiar uniform of the
Black Watch.

A little cap of snowy white lace rested
on her soft brown hair ; all the rich beauty
promised but a short time ago had been
amply fulfilled, amid the sorrow she had
endured, or in the dignity of her girlish
widowhood.

A film seemed to pass over Evan's handsome
eyes ; a tremulous sensation, hitherto
unknown, seemed to thrill over his nerves,
and he was for a moment more full of
emotion than herself ; but he did not, as
she expected, hasten to take her in his
arms.

Lady Puddicombe !' he exclaimed, while
playing irresolutely with the red hackle
in his tropical helmet.

I am not the wife of Sir Paget now,'
said Eveline, sweetly and simply.

What then ?'

'His widow. Is it possible you did not
know ?'

He is — dead then !'

Yes, Evan — killed by a fall from a
horse. I am in weeds, don't you see ?'

And, if a tearless, a very peerless little
widow she looked.

Then a half-stifled cry escaped her as

VOL. III. X

she fell upon his breast, and her white
hands groped feebly, as one might do in
the dark, about his shoulders, as her arms
sought to go round his neck. In her
crape dress she seemed to appeal to him
and to his tenderness, more eloquently
than she had ever done in the past time,
and he gazed into her delicate face, as he
took it caressingly between his hands,
with a growing intensity that showed how
he had hungered for the sight of it.

The j&rst strong tide of emotion swept
over that parted pair, meeting now so
differently from how they had ever expected
to meet again.

In the intensity of her joy, Eveline had
closed her eyes, as if the light of day had
proved too much for them ; then their
long lashes began to quiver, the lids unclosed,
and the dear eyes were again
turned wonderingly, searchingly, and lovingly
on Evan Cameron's face.

She was free.

His pulses quickened at the thought.
He had never ceased to love her — never
ceased to wish she should be his. Sir
Paget was dead — dead as Julius C^sar —
and he, Evan Cameron, had been in possession
of a treasure without knowing it
the free and unfettered love of Eveline !

Dead fires are difficult to re-light,' said
she, waggishly, while twirling the ends of
his moustache with her fairy fingers.

But, Eveline, with me the fire was
never dead — as I loved you with a love
that partook of adoration in the dear past
days at Dundargue, so I love you still !'

'My poor, dear Evan !' cooed the girl.

Yes — poor indeed — without you.'

So true it was that ' the thing we look
forward to,' as George Eliot says, ' often
comes to pass ; but never precisely as we
have imagined it to ourselves.'

x2

Could Eveline ever have looked forward
to this when at Hurdell Hall — to see
Evan Cameron in life again, and feel his
tender kisses on her lips and eyes ?

Evan had loved Eveline as a maiden ;
he had trained himself to suffer, endure,
and think of her as a wife ; but now he
thanked God that he had not to think of
her as a mother — the mother of a wretched
little Puddicombe !

Lady Aberfeldie, who had fresh views
concerning her daughter, was somewhat
irate when — on her return from the city
of the Caliphs and Khedive — the latter,
with perfect deliberation, informed her
that Evan Cameron had been at the villa
to see Allan, and had paid her a long
visit.

He spoke of his old fancy for you,
no doubt?' said Lady Aberfeldie, rather
freezing.

He did, mamma was the candid reply.

He had not the hardihood to ask you
to marry him ?'

'Mamma!'

Already — I mean.'

Of course not.'

But I suppose he will presume to do
so in time ?'

I have no doubt of it, dearest mamma
replied Eveline, attempting to kiss her ;
but my Lady Aberfeldie was in no fit of
effusion, and coldly tendered her cheek.
"Was not his escape miraculous, mamma?'

I admit that it was ; and now '

Just learn this, dearest mamma \ I
married a short time ago to please you,
and, now that God in His goodness has
spared and restored Evan to me, I shall
marry next to please myself.'

It is very strange how some girls get
it into their head that there is a special

virtue in a man because he is poor

Evan isn't poor now,' replied Eveline,
stoutly. ' Stratherroch is nearly free, and,
if it were not, I have enough for two.'

'Your jointure dies with you,' said Lady
Aberfeldie, sourly.

Dear Evan will never think of that,
mamma ; and long before that day comes
every acre, every tuft of heather in Strath-errol
will be disencumbered and free.'

You have schemed out the whole programme.
But as your father's daughter,
and the widow of Sir Paget Puddicombe,
Baronet, you are entitled to look higher.'

I don't want to do so, mamma,' said
Eveline, coyly and laughingly ; ' you see,
it is only a case of " heaping up riches,
and ye know not who shall gather them"'

Eveline was in a kind of triumphant
and defiant mood, such as her mother had
never seen her in before, for she added,

The whirligig of time brings curious
things to pass, so Lady Puddicombe will
be Mrs. Cameron of Stratherroch after
all;

So the days stole on pleasantly by the Lake
of Timsah. Allan grew well rapidly, and,
now that she was free and under better
auspices, Evan Cameron daily discovered
in Eveline some new trait of character
that rendered her more worthy of his love
and esteem — or indicative that those qualities
of passion and tenderness that first
excited his interest in her had ripened
under all she had undergone — the sorrow
and separation that had tried and purified
their mutual love, as gold is tried by fire.

We have said that the reconciliation of
Allan and Olive came about, and rapidly,
too.

Only love me, Allan,' whispered the girl,
as she nestled her sweet face in his neck j

only love me as you did iu the old days
at Dundargue, and I shall be so happy.
Without your love I could not live.'

By your strange actions you destroyed
my faith in you, darling — and yet I loved
you still. Oh, think over it all, and consider
if you did not try me sorely, for there
was a powerful appearance of deception
that was unworthy of us both.'

Her beautiful eyes were moist with
tears ; her hands stole into his, and he
took her in his arms and kissed her passionately,
while a torrent of thankfulness
and joy overwhelmed her heart.

And so that wretched photo was the
key to your apparently inexplicable conduct
?'

Yes,' replied Olive, weeping, while Allan
kissed away her tears.

Why did you not confide freely in me ?'

I was too terrified — too mortified todo

SO, and you were so proud, so suspicious
of me. I writhed in secret under the
imputation that that man had it in his
power to cast upon me with the tampered
miniature. I was weak, foolish, Allan, and
every act of mine seemed to be a mistake
and misplaced ; but now '

All is over, and all forgotten.'

Thank heaven for its goodness, Allan.
You never wrote to me after that parting
at Southsea. Save in your letter to your
mother after Tel-el-Kebir, you never once
referred to me, and then only in terms of
scorn and invective. Oh, Allan, Allan, all
that was very hard to bear.'

But Allan found ample means of consoling
her now.

How happy I am,' said Lady Aberfeldie,
as she nestled both their heads together
on her motherly breast ; ' ever since you
two were little children, how I prayed for

this ; I reared and taught you to this end,
and God has seen fit in His goodness to
accomplish it.'

And now, having brought our * heroes
and heroines,' to use the old novelist's
phraseology, to this point, need we follow
them into the region of wedding-bells,
wedding-cakes, favours, rice, and old
slippers ?

We think not.

THE END.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, Blenheim HOUSE.

mi

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 046409949
