- 4

dh (2^ ■ eLn^^i.

L I B Mary

OF Thou

N Diversity

or Ill Noise

vel

>r

Return this book on or before the
Latest Date stamped below.

University of Illinois Library

^'^'^ 2 0[)G3

L161— H41

OR

JOHN WEST'S COLONIAL EXPERIENCES

BY

A. C. Grant

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. L

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXI

All Rights reserved

K



TO

MY BELOVED Mother

WHO AT AN ADVANCED AGE CROSSED THE SEAS TO
ASSIST HER SONS IN SUBDUING THE WILDERNESS,

AND IN REMEMBRANCE OF
HER DEVOTION, COURAGE, AND STEADFASTNESS ^
IN EVERY TRIAL AND DIFFICULTY,

THIS BOOK
IS DUTIFULLY INSCRIBED.

N

i

\ 200849

CHAP. PAGE

I. JOHN WEST SETS OUT ON HIS TRAVELS, . . 1

II. ON BOARD THE MARIE HAMILTON, . . . 10

in. IPSWICH IN THE OLD DAYS A " JACKAROO "

ON HORSEBACK, . . . . . 26

IV. A START UP-COUNTRY, . . . . . • 35

V. ROADSIDE SCENES NIGHT AT A STATION Arrival
AT CAMBARANGA, . . . . 41

VI. NEW ACQUAINTANCES AND NEW WORK A VISIT

TO THE BLACKS* CAMP, . . . . 52
VIL OLD JACKY IN A FIX — SHEARING AND Washing,
76

Vii A DESPERATE RIDE ON A STRANGE STEED —

HORSE-BREAKING, . . . . . 89

IX. HORSE-BREAKING — RUNNING IN THE YELLOW

MOB, 106

X. A HARLEQUINADE — BETYAMMO AND THE GRAYS, 123

XI. EARLY MORNING AT THE GRAYS' A RIDE TO

UNGAHRUN THE CATTLE-BUYER, . . 145

XII. THE cattle-buyer's YARN, . . . .164

XIII. THE cattle-buyer's YARN CONTINUED, . . 172

XIV. MUSTERING FATS FOR THE BUTCHER — DRAFTING

ON THE CAMP, . . . . '. .188

XV. OUT AFTER SCRUBBERS THROUGH THE BUSH

THE SOLEMN SCRUB CAMPING OUT, . . 204

XVI. A SPURT AT DAWN A FAIR HAUL — CUTTING

AND BRANDING, . . . . .218

Evil CAMBARANGA AGAIN — A WET ADVENTURE A

HOSPITABLE REFUGE, . . . . .231

XVIII. THE LAMBING — SWINDLING A NEW CHUM, , 247

XIX. THE LAND - FEVER — Half COSGROVE RETURNS

TO THE COLONY, . 262

XX. AN IMPUDENT INTRUDER, 269

CHAPTER I.

JOHN WEST SETS OUT ON HIS TRAVELS.

The good ship Marie Hamilton, an Aberdeen clipper,
700 tons burthen, bound for Sydney, is forging he?
way down the Channel with a fair wind in her topsails.
The pilot has gone on shore, and with his departure
the last adieu to England has been spoken. The
green slopes of Sussex are sinking over the quarter.
Beachy is already behind, and it is doubtful if the
passengers can catch the Needles before nightfall.
Most of them are too full of the parting to speak
much. Remembrances of friends left behind crowd
their memories, and the receding shores give a point
to the poignancy of their parting regrets. To-morrow
it will be different, when there is only the wide seato
greet the eye on coming on deck. Then men's

VOL. I. A

minds must turn perforce to the new land whither
Fortune has beckoned them with smiles that, in too
many cases, may turn out to have been delusive. Then
the life of the voyage will have begun : friendships
will be formed, the seeds of enmities sown, and the
social organisation of the floating microcosm will enter
upon its three months' course of development.

John West leans over the side ; and as the lights
fade in the loom of the darkening coast, his whole life
seems to come up before him and fade also into the
past. He thought of the fond mother who had been
called away too soon, before she could see her boy
ripening into manhood ; of the father whose naturally
feeble constitution had scarcely rallied from the shock
of his wife's death, but whose tender affection and care
had been exerted to their utmost, so that John might
never feel his loss. Though of a good family, the Ev.
Ambrose West had been only a poor curate in a manufacturing
town, who had all his life to struggle with
poverty, and who had been indebted for the means of
giving his son a good education to the bounty of a
female relative, who had accidentally seen the handsome
young lad, and had bequeathed his father, intrust
for him, a sum of £1500. How he might best
turn this legacy to his boy's account was a thought
ever present in Mr West's mind ; and his anxiety was
quickened all the more by a consciousness that his

own end was rapidly approaching. That his son
should not have to live like himself — a penniless
scholar — he was determined : and his acquaintance
with an old schoolfellow who had made a fortune
in Australia led him to think of a career in that
country for John. This gentleman, Mr Cosgrove, who
at first had been inclined to throw cold water on the
clergyman's scheme, readily undertook to be John
West's patron when he heard that the lad would
have some small capital to invest in the colony.

"Australia is the finest field in the world for a
young man with a little money," Cosgrove had said
with enthusiasm. "You buy your sheep or cattle,
travel them on to a magnificent country, lease it from
the Government for a mere trifle, and in a few years
your sheep and cattle will have multiplied six or
eight times over, and you are a made man. Mere
accumulation will make you rich. You live the life
of a prince, — out on the green downs all day, riding
through the forests, and home at night to your comfortable
bunk, turn in, and you sleep like a top."

This prospect did much to reassure Mr West of his
son's future, and he could look forward to the end,
which was now close at hand, with a feeling of more
cheerfulness. There were many points in Mr Cosgrove's
character that did not recommend themselves
to Mr West ; but he could make allowances for his

neighbour's roughness and vulgarity, as the crust
under which lay a spirit of honesty and fair dealing.
When Mr West died, John was scarcely seventeen,
and he at once passed under the guardianship of Mr
Cosgrove. Neither John West nor his father had
much knowledge of Mr Cosgrove's colonial career, or
of the way in which he had accumulated his fortune.
But while John is thus leaning over the side of the
Marie Hamilton watching the night settle down upon
the bank of gloom which is all that is bv this time
left of the English coast, we shall give a few particulars
refi^ardinfTj the man who is now our adventurer's
guardian.

Mr Cosgrove had, as a boy, been a schoolfellow of
Mr West, and had gone out to California when the
discovery of gold first attracted a rush of emigration
in that direction. He had made money, but had been
victimised by a partner of superior cleverness if not
of more honesty than himself. Attracted by the 
accounts of the wealth of New South Wales which
followed the famous discovery of gold by Hargrave
in that colony, Cosgrove was next drawn towards this
new El Dorado, taking with him about nine hundred
pounds — the proceeds of his Californian enterprise.
In the new colony his previous experience stood him
in good stead ; and after engaging in many operations
of land-jobbing, money-advancing, and other dealings

of doubtful character, lie soon found himself fairly on
the road to wealth. He had married meanwhile ; but
his wife had died and left him with one son — a boy
called Ealf; and soon after, Cosgrove once more
looked around him for a mate by whose means he
might manage to raise himself another step in the
social ladder.

His choice fell upon a young widow lady of good
family though rather slender means. Her husband, a
young and promising Government official, had been
accidentally killed by a fall from his horse, leaving
his young wife and her little girl Ruth, an infant in
arms, to make the most of the small sum he had been
able to save. She was received in the best society
which the capital of New South Wales afforded ; and
in marrying her, the wily squatter looked forward to
a more extended field of labour than he had as set
been able to operate upon. His wealth, address, and
heather presentable appearance, procured for him a
favourable termination to a suit which, as far as the
poor lady knew, she had every reason to regard as a
desirable one, but which could only have an unfavourable
ending. Not long after the marriage, he induced
through his wife, a cousin of hers, a young man of
considerable wealth, to emigrate to Australia. Cosgrove
had shortly before this sold his original property
and bought another, much larger, chiefly on bills, his

money having been mysteriously disposed of, no one
knew how. His name could have procured advances
from the banks to an almost indefinite amount. He
had laid a trap for some one, and his wife's cousin
walked into it as soon as he was asked.

Greed of gold, and Cosgrove's specious arguments,
induced him to place a large amount of cash in the
farmer's hands as part payment of a half-share in
the station, which had never been paid for.; and the
utterly inexperienced one hugged himself in the expectation
of untold wealth. To his intense astonishment,
he was awakened from this delusion about a
year afterwards by his partner, who coolly announced
himself a ruined man ; and finished up by informing
him that he could not meet his bills — that the mort-street
had foreclosed, and were now about to take
possession. The unsuspecting youth at first thought
a joke was intended, and some time elapsed before he
actually realised the ghastly truth.

Do you mean to say that the station was not yours
when I bought half of it ? "

Well, it was mine to a certain extent. I bought it
on advances from the banks, hoping to clear ofi' the
debt by degrees. Depreciation in wool, interest and
compound interest, have not only prevented that, but it
has put me some thousands in debt ; and as I told you,
the mortgagees are sending up to take possession."

But they shan't get possession," returned the young
man, alarmed and growing angry ; " I own an interest
in the property. I won't be swindled out of my
money. Let them pay that back to me, and I'll go.
I hold your bond of partnership. I dare them to set
foot on the place while I am here."

Listen," said the other ; " you had better destroy
that little paper."

"I shall do nothing of the kind. I shall publish
it in every newspaper. Though you have married
my cousin, I'll proclaim your treachery everywhere.
I'll "

"Hold on," rejoined his quondam partner, serenely
surveying his victim ; " I have no money — overdrawn
my account long ago — every one knows that. I owe
about £10,000. The mortgagees are willing to give
me a clearance when I give up the station. Should
it come to their ears that you are my self-acknowledged
partner, you will find yourself compelled to pay the
remaining money you possess into their hands to
liquidate my debts. Now hold your tongue, and burn
your bond — first loss is best loss."

The force of this argument struck the dismayed
young man so strongly, that, feeling himself quite
helpless, though raging inwardly, he submitted to
his fate.

Cosgrove retired for some time into private life.

but before long emerged again, brighter and evidently
richer, as the possessor of a station in the
more northern portion of New South Wales, which
subsequently came to be known as the colony of
Queensland.

In his new property he may be supposed to have
succeeded; for on his return to England, after the
death of his second wife, whose gentle heart had
never been able to get the better of her husband's
unscrupulousness, he was apparently a wealthy and
prosperous gentleman. In Mr Cosgrove's house John
had spent a few weeks after his father's death, and
had learned to like Ruth — who had all the sweetness
and affection of her mother's character — and to
thoroughly detest Ealf, who, to a naturally vicious
disposition, developed among the rough characters
of a bush-station, had added still more objectionable
qualities, caught up from the society of stable-helpers
and betting-men, since his arrival in England. John
West's intercourse with the young Australian had been
far from pleasant, and he had had on one occasion
to enforce good manners upon him by a sound drubbing.
But Mr Cosgrove was anxious that he should
start ; and the days of mourning were scarcely accomplished
when John found that his passage had been
taken on a Sydney ship ; and he himself was hurried
off, in company with his dog Spot — the gift of a lad

who was Eutli's groom, and whom John had protected
at his own personal peril from the tyranny of her
brother. He was furnished with a letter to Mr Cosgrove's
superintendent at Ipswich, in Queensland, and
with a draft, payable to himself, on Messrs Bond and
Foreclose, Mr Cosgrove's agents in the capital of New
South Wales. As for his money, Mr Cosgrove had
undertaken to invest the sum in the way most profitable
for giving him a start when he had learned his
duties.

And so John looked over the side of the Marie
Hamilton, and thought of his dead father and of
Ruth, to whom he felt all the fervour of a boyish
attachment, and of Cosgrove and Ealf, of the old
life that he was leaving, and of the wonders of the
new world that was before him, until the light was
swung from the mast, and the watch was set, and
passengers were beginning to go below and make for
their berths. The wide ocean was around, night was
above, and Old England was now far away on the lee.

CHAPTEK II.

ON BOARD THE MARIE HAMILTON.

The chief mate of the Marie Hamilton was a hearty,
coarse, pushing man, and a good sailor. He soon put
John in the way of getting things in order, and managed,
as there were not many passengers, to let him
have a cabin to himself ; and he also extended his protection
to Spot, for which John was very grateful.

How new were these experiences ! how many
things were to be learnt ! Everything he saw tilled
him with surprise ; and next morning John, who had
never lived on the sea-coast, was aghast as he watched
the active sailors swarm up aloft and shake out the
white sails. There was a stiff breeze blowing, and
poor John experienced all the customary sensations.

He lay aft, dreadfully sick, and could not be prevailed
upon to move. The sailors, who every now
and then came aft in a party to haul on the braces
as the ship was put about, walked over him, but he
did not mind it. One of them drew him a little on

one side, but it was like moving a corpse — in fact,
John would not have minded being a corpse just
at that moment. The steward had been up several
times with offers of food, which his soul abhorred,
and now brought round a blanket with which he
covered the wretched youth. The warmth did John
good, and towards midnight he managed to crawl
down and get into his bunk. In a few days, however,
these feelings were a thing of the past, and
the warm, sunny skies began to exercise their genial
influence on our young traveller. How delicious to
move about in the month of January with summer
clothing; to bask in the warm rays of the sun,
watching the snowy-winged sea-birds poising themselves
on the yards ! Now they dash like a streak
of lightning round the quarter of the vessel, circling
gracefully up into the air again ; and now they
dropped on the water, falling gradually behind, until
one could scarcely note the tiny white speck on the
boundless blue of the rising wave. How charming
to watch the minute "Portugal men-o'-war," each
little bark cruising on its own account, and commissioned
ill the Admiralty Court of Nature, in the
name of Nature's God ! How delightful at night to
lean on the quarter-rail and look over into the wild,
whirling eddies of dark, deep water, sparkling with
phosphorescent fire; or to note the ship's bow as it

ploughed its way through the solemn main, furrowing
its track in living fire 1 How glorious to
sit and watch the golden sunset, the sky at first
fretted with a network of gorgeously tinted cumuli,
then dissolving into less bright but more delicate
and not less beautiful shades of colour, till at last
the great light sinks — a living, burning, glowing
sphere — behind the vast waste of waters, to give
place to the "gentle Lady Moon," which, rising ''full-
orbed in silvery majesty," casts her fairylike enchanted
light in a bright chain athwart the darkened
rippling sea, until, rising on high, she watches
with " her silent eye " the universe below, causing
the masts and cordage to stand out in alternate light
and shadow ! What a glamour steals over the heart
of man at such a time ! what a desire for solitude,
for communion with one's own heart — the hour of
faith, of prayer, of love ! Who of those that have
gone down to the sea in great ships have not felt
the sad, inexplicable yearning of the heart for the
higher, purer life, when watching the star - sown
heavens, or contrasting the insignificance of themselves
and their bark and the huge immensity of
space around them ?

The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God."
But " the heavens declare His handiwork."

John West felt all this. He thought he could never

tire of the voyage ; but after a time, the continual
sameness and monotony became irksome.

There were a few other passengers, but none \vith
whom he cared to become intimate. One was a
young man of the name of Boyle, on his way out, like
himself, to learn sheep-farming in Australia. Boyle
had rather exalted notions of his destiny, for he frequently
informed any who would listen to him that
he was going to manage a large station belonging to
his uncle. The young man had a natural taste for
low company, and his greatest pleasure lay in playing
cards with the sailors in the forecastle.

There was also a travelling bagman for some London
firm on board — a Jew named Cohen.

It so happened that Boyle had in some manner
made himself obnoxious to the " son of Moses ; " and
one night, when he was returning from the forecastle,
a bucket of bilge-water, emptied on him by an unseen
hand in a lofty position, drenched him to the skin.
Boyle vowed vengeance. The perpetrator of the trick
was not to be discovered, but in his own mind he was
convinced that to Cohen the debt was due. This
little affair happened when the Marie Hamilton was
about crossing the line; and the weather being very
hot, the passengers were accustomed to go forward before
sunrise in order to bathe, the water being played
upon them through the hose of the fire-engine.

A few mornings after Boyle's little adventure, the
passengers went as usual for their early refresher; and
West, who was first ready, was about to advance, when
a meaning look and wink from the man who held the
hose made him draw back. He noticed that this morning
the brass nozzle was screwed on to the canvas-pipe,
and that two men were working the pump instead of
one, as was customary. Cohen now stepped forward
he was a big, stout, fat man — completely undressed.
The two sailors at the engine set to work with all
their might, the third directed the nozzle, and in an instant
the unfortunate bagman was covered from head
to foot with tar. In vain did he turn his back, he
only received on it the remainder of the dose which
had been ingeniously concealed in the nozzle. Consternation
was depicted on the faces of some, while others
greeted the unhappy victim with shouts of laughter.
No one enjoyed the affair more than his enemy Boyle.

But he laughed too loud. Cohen's eye settled on
him. Suspicion flashed across his mind like lightning,
and rushing at the unsuspecting and wholly
naked youth, he seized him in his arms, and rubbed
himself all over him, causing the bystanders to shriek
with hysterical laughter. The infuriated young man
struck out right and let, a successful blow lighting
on and " bunging up " the eye of his antagonist,
who retaliated with great spirit, until the combatants

resembled a pair of North American Indians. Just
then the chief officer came up. His appearance was
a signal for the sailors, who were looking on with
pretended amazement depicted on their faces, to
disperse.

A few words in his rough, imperious tone of voice
sufficed to part the coloured gentlemen, who now became
alive to the intense absurdity of their position.
Boyle made his way in safety to the cook's galley,
where, with the assistance of some of the men, he got
slashed down and cleansed.

Cohen, however, was not so fortunate. His cabin
was one of the stern state-rooms, and to reach it he
had to pass through the whole length of the saloon.

It was obviously impossible to put on clothes, ad
nothing remained for it but to clear the coast and to
make a desperate rush. So turning to John, he begged
him to act the part of advanced-guard and reconnoitre
ahead. John returned with the welcome news that no
one was to be seen, whereupon Cohen made a frantic
effort ; but, alas ! " the best-laid schemes of mice and
men," as Burns says, "gang aft a-glee." He had
barely got half-way down the companion when he was
met by a middle-aged married lady from Ireland, of
the name of Sullivan — who was returning with her
husband to the colonies — and a Miss MacFagg, a sentimental,
long-bodied Scotch maiden of forty, with a

partly lackadaisical, partly sanctimonious, expression
of visage, and a long thin head, sparsely covered with
a crop of wiry sandy hair, who was on her way out to
a relative in Sydney.

They had emerged from their cabins to enjoy the
morning air just as West left the saloon, and in consequence
a meeting on the companion was the result.
Owing to the impetus, caused by the rate at which
he was travelling, Cohen hurriedly swept past Mrs
Sullivan, liberally besmearing her hands — which she
had stretched out in front of her to protect herself —
with the sticky pigment which covered his own skin,
and almost rushed into the arms of Miss MacFafj^,
who was a step or two lower down, and who saluted
him with a piercing shriek. In vain he turned to fly ;
his self-possession — bewildered as he was by the
shouts of Mrs Sullivan, who kept bawling at the top
of her voice, " Murder ! savages ! the bloody, thirty
villain, he's ruminated my thresh intirely ! " and hewing
at him with her sunshade, and the shrieks of
Miss MacFagg, who on her knees entreated him to
spare her innocence and her scalp — completely deserted
him. In vain, covering his face with his hands,
he endeavoured to pass on either side of his strong-minded
Irish adversary. She set to him with the precision
of a dancing-mistress, until a heavy and well-directed
blow from the sunshade sent him rolhn

CT

down the cuddy-stairs into the saloon, bringing the
terrified Miss MacFagg along with him.

The whole scene had not occupied a minute, and
John was the only bystander who had witnessed it.
The other passengers and stewards, who had hurried
to the spot on hearing the noise, had arrived only intime
to see the half-maddened Jew disappear in his
cabin, and they now surrounded West in order to get
an explanation, and the saloon resounded with uproarious
merriment as Cohen's awkward situation became
known. Miss MacFagg retired to her cabin, from
which she did not emerge until the afternoon of next
day ; but the dauntless Mrs Sullivan appeared at
breakfast, at which meal she narrated the adventure
to the much-amused skipper, who absolutely shrieked*
as she finished by saying, " The thirty blackguard ! I
threw out and I hit him across the shoulders and
knocked him down."

This and one or two other little occurrences served
to break the tediousness of the trip, which was beginning
to tell upon all, especially the more experienced
travellers ; and the near approach to Australian
shores was hailed with delight, and by none
more than John. Why was he glad? He had no
friends awaiting him. He did not know, he never
even asked himself the question; but the feeling of
delight was almost ecstatic as the glittering coast

VOL. L B

shone under their lee ; and universal enthusiasm existed
as the Marie Hamilton ran close in, affording
her passengers and crew a view of the beautiful panorama
of wooded hills and blue mountain-peaks, and
grassy slopes running down to the open sandy beaches
or rock-bound shores of the sea. " That's ' Kama,' "
said the skipper to John. John did not know what
Kama " was — he had never heard the name before.
He stood leaning on the rail, watching the shore, and
lost in thought. In imagination he peopled those
green hills with a savage, bloodthirsty race, whose
ancestors had gone on the war-path, and followed the
chase over those silent valleys and rugged mountains
for hundreds, ay, perhaps thousands, of years. He
thought how, when all Christendom was convulsed
with strife and war, the inhabitants of these dark, rolling
forests had lived on calmly, pursuing their own
primitive mode of life. What they were at the time
of the advent of our Saviour, that they were still.
It had wrought no change for them. Their life was
what it had been, it might be, in Moses' time, or
still further back in the obscurer ages of the world's
history. It seemed almost like paying a visit to one
of the planets, approaching a country whose people
were utterly ignorant of the commonest European
information.

As the day wore on and the glorious sunshine came

to an end, bets were freely offered and taken as to the
hour of arrival at Sydney Heads.

The moon was at the full, and the Marie Hamilton
sailed merrily onward, — just as if the " Sydney girls "
!had hold of the tow-rope, as the boatswain cheerily
Remarked. About ten o'clock in the evening they
passed Botany Bay, and soon the perpendicular cliffs
which line the shore between it and the entrance to
the Cove towered above them in the clear moonlight —
the abrupt, rugged harshness of the rocky wall seeming
more awful as each lofty headland was thrown
forward into bold relief by the dark-shadowed clefts
and chasms behind. They passed the dreadful Gap,
the scene of a shipwreck, the harrowing details of
which will never be forgotten by the inhabitants of
Syndey ; and shortly afterwards the pilot came onboard,
and the Marie Hamilton entered the Heads and
cast anchor for the night.

But whose pen can describe the fairy-like beauty of
the scene next morning, when the steam-tug towed
their floating home up the glorious harbour to Sydney,
the Queen of the Southern Seas ?

The clearness of the atmosphere, and the deep blue
of the sky, in which blazed a semi-tropical sun ; the
smooth water ; the charming little coves and sheltered
bays ; the wooded shores ; the splendid villas crowning
the rising slopes and embosomed in luxuriant verdure ;

the trim little yachts ; and the noble aspect of the city
from the harbour, which was crowded with steamers
and ships, a perfect forest of masts rising close to the
shore, — enchanted John beyond measure.

Garden Island and Pinchgut are passed, and the
towers of Government House rise imposingly over the
waters of Farm Cove, where two or three men-of-war
lie serenely at anchor, their union-jacks hanging lazily
from the sterns of the vessels ; while the beautiful
Botanic Gardens lend a tropical character to the whole
which absolutely transports the beholder. No wonder
the Sydney people are proud of their City by the Sea,
for there are few spots more lovely.

John soon got his things on shore ; and having fixed
on lodgings, he went for a stroll. He found out Mr
Cosgrove's agents, Messrs Bond and Foreclose, who
honoured his draft, treating him, however, with a
business-like off mindedness which rather took him
aback ; for he had expected, from the familiar way in
which Mr Cosgrove spoke of them, that a friend of his
would be a person of some consideration with them.
A walk about town filled him with surprise. The
puggaree-encircled hats and helmets were to him a
novel sight. The Chinese stores in the lower part of
George Street, and the diggers (in coloured flannel
shirts and long boots), some of whom he saw loitering
about the booking-office of a coaching firm, were also

new and strange ; and he listened in puzzled wonder
to the quick sharp cries of the omnibus cads as they
rapidly uttered a string of foreign-sounding native
names.

The long wooden drinking-troughs for horses outside
the doors of many of the suburban inns, gave an air
of rustic simplicity to the long one-storeyed buildings,
with which the presence in town of innumerable
horsemen from the neighbouring country was quite
in keeping.

At the same time, John was much impressed with
the architectural beauty of some of the newer streets
and public edifices, and with the evidences of wealth
and prosperity which greeted him everywhere.

He found his way to the office of the Australia
Steam Navigation Company, and having taken his
passage for Brisbane, Moreton Bay, he returned to his
lodgings. On the evening of the next day he went onboard
the ses. Telegraph, and soon afterwards the
countless lights of Sydney twinkled in the gloom
behind them and were lost to view.

Here he met a different class of people from any
he had hitherto come in contact with, and he did not
at first exactly know what to make of them. There
were a number of stout, bearded, and very much
bronzed men, who looked like gentlemen : and yet
there was an off mindedness and air of recklessness

about some of them which he had never perceived in
those with whom he had associated at home ; and he
noticed that the hands of nearly all, although in some
instances decorated with rings, were rough and coarse.
They appeared to have much to say ; and from the
familiarity with which they treated one another, John
at first inclined to think that they must be members
of what he had heard termed the swell-mob. Occasionally
a few words of their conversation came to his
ears : and the expressions " new country," " account
sales," " horses and cattle," " pound a-head all round,"
up at my place," &c., reminded him of Mr Cosgrove's
conversation, and he made up his mind that these
must be Queensland squatters returning after a trip
to Sydney. When John in the course of time came
to know this class better, he found that among them
were to be met numbers of men of first-rate education,
gentlemanly manners, and high principles, as well also
as those of a rougher stamp ; but nearly all were ,
shrewd, practical men, devoted to their independent
bush-life, and bearing about with them a frankness
which seemed born of the rough-and-ready stirring
life they led. There were also a few younger men of
the same stamp, some of them looking rather unwell,
as if recovering from the effects of Sydney dissipation.
John's fellow - passenger Boyle was also among the
number. He had managed to introduce himself, or

had been introduced, to a circle of ladies, and was
evidently affording them amusement, as could be seen
by the endeavours which some of the younger ones
made to draw him out, and the merriment which followed
each sally. There were also some who looked
like city business men, and one or two travelling bagmen.
The passengers seemed to agree very well, and
there did not appear to be any of the stiffness which
characterises English travelling at home. The captain,
a polite, highly educated seaman, made himself agreeable
to all, and was especially attentive to the ladies
and children. John mentioned Mr Cosgrove's name ;
and the captain, who knew everybody, was quite interested,
and inquired in the most particular way after
Ruth, who was, he said, a charming child, and a great
friend of his. The table was well supplied, and the
scent of pineapples seemed to pervade the saloon :
the whole surroundings called to John's mind descriptions
he had read of steamer-travelling in the Southern
States of America. Two days' rapid steaming along
the coast brought them in sight of Stradbroke Island ;
and shortly afterwards, passing several islands, they
entered the mouth of the Brisbane river. The shores
were low and uninteresting at first, and devoid of all
life, except where, here and there, a group of native
companions stalked solemnly or played fantastically
on the mud among the mangroves ; but as the steamer

tore the placid waters, and forced her course onward,
the banks gradually rose, and became densely covered
with vegetation of a tropical character. The river
bent and twisted in many a romantic winding ; and
as each corner was turned, a still more beautiful scene
than the last lay before the travellers. The long
reaches of deep, calm water, fringed with dense groves
of plantains and bananas or tall graceful bamboos,
delighted John's gaze.

Here and there were passed beautiful verandah
cottages covered with creepers situated in the midst
of luxuriant gardens and orange-groves, from which
little jetties or boat-stairs led down to the water's
edge. Numerous buildings announced the approach
to the city, as it is called, of Brisbane. The steamer
was soon made fast alongside the jetty, and it being
a moist wet day, there were few people to witness its
arrival.

John got his things ashore, and set off to find
accommodation. Both the principal hotels were full,
and he turned away in search of a third, where he was
fortunate enough to secure a small room.

It rained all day, and when towards evening it
ceased for a time, and our " new chum " went out to
explore, he was astonished to find that the city was
almost entirely built of wood, and that it was scarcely
bigger than many villages at home. Since then a

great change for the better has taken place in the
capital of Queensland, both in size and architecture.
He returned to an early supper and bed, but, alas !
not to sleep. He suffered the tortures of the Inquisition
from a numerous and active body of mosquitoes,
who, having discovered the treat awaiting them in
the person of a new arrival, obstinately defied all his
efforts to dislodge them from the positions they had
taken up within the curtains, and prosecuted their
investigations with the most pertinacious perseverance,
discovering the tenderest portions of his body with a
scientific skill which said much for their vast experience
and interest in the matter on hand.

Towards morning he fell into a feverish sleep, on
awaking from which he resolved that from Brisbane
he should depart that very day : so having finished
breakfast, he had his things put on board the river-steamer
Ipswich, bound for Ipswich, an inland town
about thirty miles distant from Brisbane, and the
place where he expected to meet the horses which
were to convey him to Mr Cosgrove's station, Cam-banana.


Chapter III.

IPSWICH IN THE OLD DAYS— A '' JACKAROO " ON

HORSEBACK.

The river-steamer Ipswich was not long in conveying
our "new chum," like hundreds of others previously,
and thousands subsequently, to his place of
destination. The river scenery appeared even more
beautiful than on the preceding day, for on three
parts of the days of the year in Queensland the sunshines
brilliantly.

He found, on inquiry, that Mr Cosgrove's agent
knew nothing about him or horses ; so taking up his
quarters at one of the hotels, he despatched a letter
to Mr Cosgrove's manager, acquainting him with his
arrival, and then proceeded to survey the town. This
he accomplished in a very short time ; but, nevertheless,
much was occurring around of a novel and interesting
character.

Numbers of bullock-waggons, each drawn by ten or
twelve great, bony-looking, large-horned oxen, lined

the streets, their drivers sunburnt, healthy - looking
men, in home - made flannel shirts and moleskin
trousers, and cabbage - tree hats, mostly engaged
with others similarly attired in either unloading
bales of wool or loading supplies at the various
stores, the occupation being interrupted every now
and then by what John soon learned was the great
national pastime of Queensland — viz., having a drink
all round.

Laden teams, groaning and creaking, slowly made
their way into or out of the busy little town,
among clouds of dust, with much cracking of whips
and shouting of bullocks' names by the drivers,
who walked beside their teams, carrying over their
shoulders a long-handled whip with thong of raw
salted hide, called in the colony " greenwich."

In many instances, when two or three teams travelled
together, one or more were driven by blackboys
that is to say, aboriginal natives — the term being
invariably employed by colonists towards the blacks
in their service, no matter what age they may be.
These were attired similarly to their white companions,
in shirt and trousers — but the shirts were, as a rule,
of a more gaudy pattern ; and a bright-coloured handkerchief
as often as not encircled their waists or was
bound round their heads.

They seemed very proficient in the vocabulary necessary

to the professed bullock driver, and thorough
masters of the formidable cowhide, and, on the whole,
were happy, merry fellows, with dark shiny complexions,
bright eyes, and strong white teeth. As a
rule, they had beautiful curly hair, and some of the
more civilised among them seemed to bestow great
care upon their personal appearance. Horses of all
kinds, and ridden by men, women, and boys, passed
continually up and down the streets, or stood tied up
at the doors of stores and private dwellings. Everyone
seemed to ride who had any business to do. Each
house had its stock-yard, or enclosure of posts and rails,
for the purpose of holding horses and cattle when
driven in from the surrounding bush, where they pastured.
Men kept arriving from the country or departing
thither chiefly on horseback. To a practised eye
it was an easy matter to determine the calling or profession
of each from his appearance. The old shepherd
generally came slowly along, mounted on some
long tailed, quiet mare, or good-looking but aged and
broken-down hack, sitting on a stained, patched, old
saddle — a huge bundle of clothes, wrapped in a well-worn
blue blanket, strapped in front of him; a dog-chain
or two fastened on one side of his saddle, and a
quart-pot and pint rattling together on the other. An
old, worn, blue-serge shirt on his back, a pair of dirty
white moleskin trousers covering his nether man, and

a battered old felt hat on his head, completed his
attire ; while his pouch containing his knife, matches,
and tobacco, together with his last agreement of service,
a few old receipts for horses bought, and, in all
probability, a considerable cheque — a sensible collie-dog
or two generally bringing up the rear.

The splitter and fencer or the shearer presented a
much smarter appearance. Strong, muscular, bearded,
in his prime, clad neatly and comfortably, sometimes
with a spare horse carrying his baggage, he came into
town hearty and jolly, to leave it, alas ! too often, with
an emptier pocket, and a bloodshot eye and shaking
hand.

The neat, smart-looking, well-mounted stockman
passed quickly along, sitting his horse with an easy
grace, the result of many a long overland journey or
sharp mountain gallop. Now and again a squatter,
mounted on a well-bred, active hack, moved by, a
spare horse or two being driven by his attendant black-boy.
The public-houses presented a very busy sight ;
and judging by the bars, it seemed that when men
were not eating, sleeping, or working, they were drinking
grog and boasting (or blowing, in colonial parlance)
of some feat which they had performed, or of the particular
merits of some horse, bullock, dog, or man. Asa
rule, the conversation was very horsey or bullocks.
The bar parlours seemed to be quite as full as the taprooms

; and squatters, merchants, and professional men
transacted their business, or amused themselves, very
much in the same manner as their inferiors.

'No bargain could be completed without a "wet"
over it, and no friendship formed or enmity forgotten
without recourse to the bottle. Many of the shepherds
and other bushmen, indeed, considered it the correct
thing to put their year's wages into the hands of the
publican whose house they stayed at, with the request
to inform them when the money was spent — until
which time they themselves drank, and treated everybody
else who would drink with them. Indeed they
not unfrequently annoyed those whom they might
chance to fall in with by insisting on standing treat
a refusal being very often answered by a show of

anger and an indignant '' Oh, you're too proud

to drink with a poor man ! " Quarrelling, singing,
riding furiously, a night spent in the lock-up, a recovery
of misery, perhaps a touch of delirium tremens,
in this way many of these men spent their short
holiday in town, and the money they had laboured so
hard for.

John soon got tired of these scenes, and took
his way back to his inn. On the road he passed
numerous parties of aboriginal — the men in tattered
shirts and trousers, mostly without hats, their heads
covered with a huge mass of tangled ringlets, — for the

black fellow who lives in the bush bestows but small
attention on his " cobra," as the head is usually called
in the pigeon-English which they employ. The women
sometimes wore merely a shirt ; and a favourite article
of apparel was the skirt of a white woman's dress, the
band fastened over one shoulder and under the other
arm, the opposite arm passing through the slit. Sometimes
they used cloaks made of opossum-skin, and
many carried children on their backs.

John afterwards learnt that it was compulsory for
them to appear clothed to a certain extent in town, their
own natural inclination being the other way. They
seemed to loiter about without any particular object.
Occasionally one of the men might be seen chopping
wood or fetching water, and some of the gins as the
women are called, employed in assisting at housework.
Many begged, on the smallest opportunity, for 
(tobacco) or " white money ; " others were seated
or stretched lazily along the shady side of some building,
incessantly singing a monotonous ditty, or enjoying
a snooze. On the whole, they seemed a merry, happy,
careless, tolerably well-fed, dirty, greasy set of black
people, with a peculiar smoky, overpowering smell
about them.

These were part of the Ipswich tribe, and knocked
out a precarious living by hunting in the bush and
begging in the town.

The enforced stay at Ipswich wearied our friend
exceedingly ; he found himself the only aimless person
in the place. All day long there were arrivals
and departures on horseback. Bullock-drays came
and went ; supplies were landed from the steamers,
and wool was despatched.

Among others, John's shipmate Boyle made a start
up-country, his departure giving rise to an episode of
considerable interest. He had been staying in Brisbane
for a day or two, and had there purchased a handsome,
though somewhat shy, black mare to carry him
to his destination. This animal he had caused to be
caparisoned in front of his hotel with the paraphernalia
which he had brought out with him from home,
thinking that in a colony so remote all saddlery was
difficult to procure. His steed looked brilliant, in all
the shining glory of new furniture, a glistening new
bit in her mouth, and a martingale half-a-dozen sizes
too big round her neck ; while a huge-sized valise,
sufficient for a family, crossed the pommel of his
saddle, and occupied almost the entire seat. A stiff,
ill-made English stock-whip hung on one side, and
an apparatus containing a multitudinous assortment
of knives, forks, spoons, dishes, tumblers, &c., as supposed
in England to be necessary for people who eat
in the open air, hung on the other. Everything about
the whole bespoke "new chum," and accordingly a

crowd of amused bush and town people gathered round
to see the mount made and the start effected.

Presently the new arrival issued from the veranda,
dressed, according to his own ideas, as much like a
bushman as possible, in a thick coat and waistcoat,
heavy enough for an English winter, and a pair of
thick, baggy cord breeches, with long, heavy-soled
Napoleon boots, garnished with formidable long-necked
spurs. A brand-new cabbage-tree hat protected his
head ; his waist was confined by a broad leathern belt,
supporting on one side a revolver, and on the other a
large butcher's knife.

It was a matter of no little difficulty for him to
mount his steed, partly from his cumbrous attire and
the huge " swag " which lay across the seat, as well as
from the unpleasant way in which the newly panelled
saddle kept slipping over the fat round back of his
mare whenever his weight bore on the stirrup. Intime,
by dint of one man holding to the opposite stirrup,
another keeping back the swag, a third holding
the bridle, and a fourth pushing him behind, Mr Boyle
gained a romantic and picturesque perch, much to his
own satisfaction, amidst shouts of " Stick to her, squatter
! " from the deeply interested spectators, whose
amusement was, however, soon to be changed into
consternation; for when they had followed the cavalier
a short distance to an open space, it entered into

VOL. I. c

his head to see how his mare stood fire in case he
might be placed in some of the perils which he fancied
beset his journey. Accordingly, he drew his trusty
and much-valued "double action" out of its bright
new pouch. It had been loaded with much attention
that morning ; and aiming at a stump, he fired. He
had no time to witness the effect of his shot. With a
bound his charger flew round, and getting amongst
the small crowd of onlookers, she put down her head,
and executed in a circle a series of remarkably active
buck-jumps. Her rider could not fall off. He"" sat
there, trussed by the swag in front of him, desperation
in his face, his long spurs jammed well into the sides
of the mare, his hand mechanically holding the pistol,
and with each succeeding jump involuntarily pulling
the trigger, causing the bullets to fly in every direction.
There was no more laughter from the spectators.
With one impulse they threw themselves on the ground,
preferring the chance of being trampled on by the
horse to being subjected to the erratic fire of the equestrian
acrobat. On the chambers being all discharged,
the mare ceased bucking, and no one was more astonished
than the rider to find himself still in his saddle.
And he departed, much to the relief of those who had
thus stood, or lain down to, powder for the first time.

CHAPTER IV.

A START UP-COUNTRY.

An evening or two after Boyle's departure John was
sitting in the veranda, when a nondescript-looking
vehicle, drawn by two horses tandem-fashion, and containing
a very stout woman and a stockman-looking
man, drove up. John had the pleasure of meeting the
stout woman at dinner, and she turned out to be the
proprietress of a hotel in the neighbourhood of Mr
Cosgrove's station. When she heard John was going
there, but detained from want of horses, she kindly
informed him that he might ride one of her two back,
as she intended remaining some time in town, and was
about sending back horses and man.

Our hero gladly accepted the offer ; and next morning,
after many preparations, in close imitation of his
friend Boyle, he made ready to start. His guide was
the ostler of the hotel, who, being from home, was consequently
on the spree. He called on John to make
haste, sprang on his own horse, and in a few minutes

both were galloping out of the town. The ostler proceeded
in the most correct bush style. Every now and
then uttering a wild cry and dashing his spurs into
his nag's sides, he would fly along at his topmost speed,
only to pull up again at the nearest public-house, to
the veranda of which his horse's bridle was hung until
he had imbibed a nobler or two. John's horse seemed
rather astonished not to find his rider executing similar
war-cries, but he nevertheless tore after his companion
with a desperate energy, which showed the interest
he took in the proceeding, and pulled up at the
doors of the bush inns with a suddenness which, but
for the swag in front of him, would have sent poor
John, who was rather aghast at this desperate mode of
travelling, sprawling.

They reached their destination towards evening — a
pretty, quiet little inn, the stout motherly landlady of
which conducted our friend to a neat small parlour,
and gave him a snug supper, — after which he betook
himself to bed, feeling, after his twenty-five-mile ride,
as if every bone in his body was broken.

Next day the travellers proceeded in a much more
orderly manner ; and about mid-day a man was descried
coming towards them, leading a horse. This
proved to be one of Mr Cosgrove's men with horses for
the young traveller.

John enjoyed this journey through wild woods beyond

measure; and when, after passing through many
a dark ravine, and climbing the green slopes of the
great ranges, they gazed on the distant shining peaks
standing out against the blue sky, while all around
rose silently tall straight-stemmed trees, whose leaves
whispered away above them at an immense height,
the first feeling of that love of the wild bush, its silent
calm, and its eloquent beauty, began to dawn on him.
His spirit welled up within him, and he felt, and
rejoiced in, his strength — he revelled in the enjoyment
of life. An unknown future lay before him, but he
had no care as to what that future was ; he lived in
the present, and all was new and fascinating.

The startled kangaroo flying through the forest glade
the harsh-voiced, big-headed, laughing jackass — the
bright-hued paroquet — the screeching cockatoo — and
a hundred other forms of life, — amazed and delighted
him.

How picturesque the encampment of bullock-drays
looked on the roadside, when, the day's work being
completed, the bows and yokes were taken off the
necks of the great oxen, and varied-toned sonorous
bells fastened round them instead, and the jangling
crowd was driven by a man on horseback up the creek
to some well-known spot, where the pasturage was
particularly good, the deep knell of the stock-whip
reverberating through the forest every now and then !

How pleasant to see the preparations for the evening
meal, the huge fire of logs, the galvanised-tin bucket
full of tea, the smoking dish of beef and potatoes,
which, together with many other comforts and luxuries,
proved that the Australian bullock-drivers have
a partiality for good living, and indulge it ! At last
they arrived at the end of their day's journey, an inn
similar to the one they had spent the previous night
at ; and John's romantic imagination received a considerable
check, owing to the exquisite pain which an
alarming abrasion of his cuticle caused him. Indeed
he almost feared that the end of his journey would
find him minus the greater portion of his outer man.

He slept that night the sleep of the wearied " new
chum," and with his companions was on the road next
morning early enough to come upon a camp of fat
cattle travelling down to market. The haze of the
night had scarce lifted from the dank grass of the
wide rolling downs. The smoke of the camp-fire rose
lazily through the mist-laden atmosphere, at some distance
from the road. A mounted horseman, enveloped
in a large blanket from head to foot, emerged from
the fog, and, as if out of the earth, there rose up
slowly and deliberately bullock after bullock, to the
number of forty or fifty, and took their way towards
town, the horseman moving quietly after them in a
zigzag manner. The mist clearing off soon after, disclosed

a second horseman at the fire, apparently engaged
in packing the food and cooking-utensils upon
a spare horse, his own grazing beside him, the bridle
between its legs.

The scene which now met their eyes was one of
the greatest beauty; and John wondered at the unsympathetic
manner with which his fellow-travellers
listened to his raptured expressions of delight, as he
viewed the vast extent of undulating, richly-grassed
prairie, lovely valleys with timber - crowned ridges
varying the beauty of the whole, while sharp wooded
promontories here and there ran far out into the wide
sea of plain, ranges of blue mountains forming the
frame of this enchanting picture.

The lowing of the distant herd fell soothingly upon"
the morning air as, grazing slowly, the sated cattle
made their way from the open country to the shady
camps under the trees, beside the cool waters of the
creek which flowed through this pleasant land.

As they proceeded they passed camp after camp
of bullock-drays, the drivers and assistants all busy
in yoking-up for the day. This cannot be effected
without much running about, shouting, swearing, and
use of the whip, which weapon the practised bullock-driver
wields with the most severe effect, each lash
leaving a long cut on the hide of the devoted beast,
who cringes under it. As bullock drivers are continually

breaking-in young cattle, there is a constant
freshness in this work, which is by no means devoid
of danger, many of the young bullocks — and indeed
some of the older ones — being of uncertain temper,
and prone, when opportunity offers, to charge and
gore any unhappy wight unable to get out of their

way.

As the day wore on, they overtook bullock-drays
lurching along heavily in the ruts of the road, the
little keg of water at the tail-board swinging as if it
would wrench out the staple it hung by, and the driver
appealing occasionally to some bullock or other byname,
following up his admonition by a sweeping cut of
his " gully-raker," and a report like a musket-shot. The
intelligence displayed by the leaders and powers was
very great ; and they obeyed the word of the driver,
coming to him or moving from him, with the utmost
docility. The pace they travelled at barely exceeded
two miles an hour ; and the mite of a small boy who
in some instances drove the spare bullocks behind,
found relief from ennui in addressing imperious words
of command to them, couched in the strongest language,
with as big a voice as his small lungs could
produce.

Chapter V.

ROADSIDE SCENES — NIGHT AT A STATION — ARRIVAL

AT CAMBARANGA.

The travellers proceeded along the road, their horses
walking or jogging, which are the customary paces
when journeying.

They encountered and overtook many teams, their
drivers exchanging a morning salutation and a few
words of greeting with John's two friends, who seemed
to know, or know of, everybody they met. Occasionally
a horseman or two, or a pedestrian carrying his
worldly goods rolled up in his blanket and strapped
on his back, a billy (that is, a round tin pitcher with
a lid) in his hand, and with a dog or two at his heels,
met and passed them, exchanging the usual "good
morning."

These men all seemed to go without coats or waistcoats,
or braces, a waist-belt confining the trousers at
the girdle. Indeed, so much did this seem the fashion,
that partly induced by it, and partly by the heat, John

soon followed suit, and rolled his upper clothing in the
swag in front of him.

Traces of favourite camping-places met their eyes
at every water-course they came to. Each lagoon or
water-hole had innumerable round spots of grey ashes,
with a few black embers lying among them, all around
it. Many of the surrounding trees were cut down for
fuel; and great numbers of empty jam-pots, salmon,
lobster, and sardine tins, broken brandy-bottles, perhaps
an old boot or two, and part of a rotten old
saddle, lay scattered about. Soon they passed a head-station,
as the homestead and main buildings of a
station are invariably called. It belonged to a very
rich squatter, whose name was a power in the country,
and was beautifully situated. The houses were comfortably
built and of handsome design. A large garden
adjoined them ; creepers covered the verandas
and outbuildings, of which there were many; and
several paddocks of great extent, encircled by substantial
posts and rail fences, surrounded the whole.
They shortly afterwards crossed a small running creek ;
and it being almost mid-day, a halt was called for the
purpose of giving the horses a spell and having a " pot
of tea."

Accordingly, the horses were unsaddled. They
were then taken down to the water and had their
backs washed, to prevent the sweat hardening under

the saddle and causing sores ; after which each had
a pair of hobbles fastened round his fore-fetlocks, a
proceeding which he quite seemed to expect ; and they
hobbled off in a series of short jerks, with their noses
to the ground, seeking for the softest spot in the
vicinity. This was no sooner discovered than they
dropped on their knees, and thence on their sides,
testifying their satisfaction by rolling over and over
repeatedly. Then springing to their feet and shaking
themselves free from dust and dirt, they set to work
to crop the grass. John was so much interested in
observing this that he forgot his own duties. However,
his friend the ostler unstrapped the quarts and
filled them with water, the other man having made a
glorious fire in a few minutes. The quart-pots were
now put on to boil, swans were opened and food produced.
John, unused to the ways of the bush, and
feeling, after the good breakfast, as if he never would
want food again, had neglected to take anything with
him for lunch, and now looked with considerable dismay
at his own bulky but at present useless swag.

Ah," said the ostler, " I know'd as how you new
chums never thinks o' nothing, so I brought snuff for
both of us."

Look out there ! " he continued ; " quart-pot corroborate,"
springing up and removing with one hand
from the fire one of the quart-pots, which was boiling

madly, while with the other he dropped in about as
much tea as he could hold between his fingers and
thumb. Then stirring it with a straw, he set it aside
to draw. The other quart-pot was served in a similar
way ; but John's, although in a hotter spot, showed
no signs of boiling. In vain he applied more fuel, the
fire seemed to have no effect.

It's no use," said his friends ; " them new quarts
takes a month o' Sundays to bile. Ye see, ours has
been used many a day, and they're battered and black,
and takes kindly to it ; but them new ones don't like
it, somehow."

And so it was, for they had almost finished their
meal before the new quart " corroborated," as the
stockman phrased it. It came in handy, however,
with the after-dinner pipe which both the men indulged
in.

Horses were now caught and saddled, swans were
strapped on, and they travelled onwards in the same
manner as in the morning. They had not gone very
far when Spot — the little bull-terrier pup which John
had brought with him from home, and which was growing
rapidly into a very handsome young dog — made a
rush at something in the grass, and shook it violently.

What is it ? " shouted John, greatly excited.

Snake," returned both the men in a breath.

*' Oh, my dog, he will be bitten ! " cried poor John ;

and throwing himself off his horse he seized a bullock's
shin-bone which happened to be lying handy.
He struck the snake (a long, lithe, flat-headed black
one) such a blow on the head as to deprive it of
power. Bully rushed in again before John could prevent
him, and crushed its head between his jaws.
Do you think he's hurt ? " asked John, anxiously.
Well, if he ain't, it won't be long before he will
be," said the ostler ; " but, Lord, you never knows
when a beast gets bitten. Just the other day I was
a-ridin' along, and I notices a snake — the same kind
as that un — under my horse's feet, and I thought I
felt her give a bit of a kick with her off hindoo,
but I wasn't sure like. Howsomever, she went along
picking up a mouthful of grass now an' again quite
lively like, when all of a sudden she stopped and
trembled, then she lay down, and she died in half an
hour in mortal pain."

Ay, sometimes they dies in five minutes," said the
other. " I think it all depends on whether their blood
is hot or not. If so be as they are warm, the poison
tells very quick ; and I think that 'ere dog is again' to
croak."

John's distress was very great at seeing his faithful
little companion move about uneasily, lie down, getup,
whine, lick his hand, then look up in his face as
if mutely asking help. Once or twice he returned to

the dead snake and shook it, and John hoped they
were mistaken in the symptoms. But it was not so :
poor Bully shivered, drew up his limbs, became rigid,
recovered, whined again, kept licking his master's
hand, and at last died in great agony.

It was with a sore heart that John mounted his
horse to continue his journey. The dog had proved
a loving companion, and was growing very dear to
him ; besides which, he was very valuable on account
of his pure breed, and was generally admired.

That evening they reached the hotel to which
the ostler was bound ; and after spending the night
there, they bade him farewell next morning, the man
refusing to take the gratuity which John offered
him.

A similar day's travelling through forest - country
brought them at night to a station called Cooranilla.
They had struck off from the main highway early in
the morning, and had passed over many miles without
meeting a single traveller. Part of the distance lay
over poor country, covered with ti-tree, box, and iron-bark
saplings, with here and there heavy timber growing
on sour-looking ridges. Lignum vitae and bastard-mall
bushes were very common ; while huge, dense
scrubs, composed chiefly of bungalow-trees and undergrowth,
lined the road in many places. In the neighbourhood
of these scrubs the game was especially

plentiful ; and kangaroos, paddy - melons, fallacies,
and kangaroo-rats crossed the road continually. Sometimes
an iguana, disturbed from his siesta, would hurry
quickly to a tree at some distance off, which he would
ascend carefully on the opposite side to that on which
his enemy appeared. Just before reaching the station
the country improved.

In accordance with his mentor's advice, John rode
up to the main building of the station, hung his horse's
bridle to the fence, and walked to the house.

A lady came out to meet him ; and John, mentioning
his name and destination, requested hospitality for
the night. He was most kindly received. The lady,
who was the wife of the owner of the station, calling
to a young blackboy to bring water for the horseback,
showed John the entrance to the paddock, into
which he turned his horse. She then brought him
inside, and asking if the man who accompanied him
had gone down to the travellers' hut (a building
especially destined for the accommodation of the
labouring classes), she ushered him into a neat little
bedroom. Soon afterwards the clatter of horses' hoofs
announced the arrival of her husband — a big, bronzed
man, with a fair beard and a bright laughing eye.
He welcomed John in the most hearty manner ; and
before many minutes had elapsed, the young emigrant
found himself talking, laughing, and relating adventures

to his new friends as if he had known them all
his life.

Dinner over, the rest of the evening was spent on
the veranda in pleasant conversation. His entertainers
earnestly pressed their guest to rest the next day ; but
John, who was anxious to get to the end of his journey,
declined. " Well," said the kindly squatter, " ' Welcome
the coming, speed the parting guest ' is the rule
of the bush, you know. Breakfast will be on the table
at six tomorrow morning, and the horses in the yard
ready for you. Good night. "

Next morning, after breakfast, and bidding farewell
to the kind owners of Cooranilla, the horsemen proceeded
to complete their last day's travel. The roads
were almost as deserted as on the preceding day.
They sometimes, though rarely, passed a footman
coming or going, or a tilted cart drawn by a couple
of horses, and occupied by the driver's wife, children,
and household goods. Towards the middle of the day,
they came upon cheerful-looking iron-bark ridges;
while on the right, green apple-tree flats bordered on
a well-watered creek, along whose banks numbers of
sleek, quiet, well-bred-looking cattle grazed. Occasionally
they passed through a "mob" standing on
the roadside, and John was greatly amused at seeing
some of the young calves and steers advancing boldly
to them with many airs of assumed anger, tearing

up the ground with their fore-feet, and shaking their
heads — only to scamper away, kicking their heels in
the air, on a movement being made towards them.
This, his companion informed him, was a part of Mr
Fitzgerald's run — Un-gal run; and pointed out, at
the same time, that the cattle had all, even to the
smallest, the letters FGD burnt into the skin of the
near-side rump. They were also all marked with a
peculiar slit in the off ear, — it being customary, and
indeed compulsory, as regarded protection of property,
for owners to brand and mark all their stock in a
similar manner.

After some miles they came to barer-looking country.
The grass did not seem so green, and was fed down
much shorter, and innumerable little paths ran leading
in the same directions. Towards evening they overtook
a flock of sheep, greatly scattered, and slowly
feeding towards a small hut which, with two large
yards, occupied a rising ground about half a mile
away.

The sheep seemed to have had plenty to eat during
the day, for their sides were very much distended, and
they moved slowly and steadily. The shepherd had
left them to find their way home themselves, and had
gathered a few sticks to make up his evening fire,
when, hearing the horses' feet, the two black-andaman
collies which followed at his heels turned and barked,

VOL. I. D

causing the sleep in their immediate neighbourhood
to rush suddenly and look round, and the shepherd to
set down his load and wait for them.

Holloa, Tom ! " he shouted to John's guide ; " got
back again ? How are things looking down in Limestone
? " 1

Tom gave a short description of what was going on,
and of the people he saw there, and of the appearance
of the country generally — all of which was listened to
with much interest by the shepherd. They now
pushed on at a faster pace, and the horses themselves
seemed anxious to get over the ground. It was dark
when they arrived at Cambaranga, as Mr Cosgrove's
station was called. The night hung heavily on the
dark forests which shaded each side of the road, but
above, the heaven was unclouded and bright with
stars. At last they saw a twinkling light in the distance.
As they approach nearer, a dog, hearing the
tread of hoofs, barked sharply, causing numerous
others to take up the chorus. The dogs then made
a rush in concert (yelping all the time) to meet the
new-comers ; and satisfied on hearing the well-known

^ The name Ipswich bore before it received its present appellation.
It is common for the older hands to retain the use of the name to
which they were first accustomed. Many of the Queensland towns
have these double names. For instance, Trowoomba was called the
Swamp ; Drayton, the Springs ; Darby, Mall creek ; Roma the Bun-gill,
&c., &c.

voice of the stockman, they joyfully bring up the
rear.

John and his companion now arrive at the little
paling-fence which encloses the main buildings. Two
or three men come out and shake him by the hand
and ask a few questions. The stockman gives a short
account of his proceedings ; the unsaddled horses are
turned out free into the bush to find their favourite
haunts, and recruit after the journey ; and John is
brought through a veranda, thickly covered with
creepers, inside the house.

CHAPTER YL

NEW ACQUAINTANCES AND NEW WORK — A VISIT TO THE

blacks' camp.

The room John West now found himself in was
small, but comparatively comfortable. Chinese matting
covered the walls, which were of hardwood slabs
let horizontally into grooved upright posts. A large
fireplace, or open hearth, occupied the greater part of
one side of the room. The mantelpiece was covered
with odds and ends, such as pipes of all sizes and
shapes, a spur or two, specimens of gold-bearing
quartz, lumps of galena and copper ore, and other
samples of minerals. A rough sofa, a few primitive-looking
hardwood stools, and what is known in the
colonies as a squatter's easy-chair, together with a
table laid for dinner, completed the furniture of the
apartment. It could be detected at a glance that no
female held sway over the arrangements of the interior,
everything betokening bachelor untidiness.
"Now then, sit down to dinner," said a grizzly-bearded

stern-looking man, with a gruff authoritative
voice, who was, as John guessed, Mr M'Duff, Mr Cosgrove's
superintendent. " Let me give you some salt
junk." John was hungry, and rather enjoyed the salt
beef, which was not very old. Some boiled pumpkin
and bread-and-butter completed the entertainment.


The two other men lit their pipes, M'Duff stretched
himself on the sofa, and John took possession of a
squatter's chair. Conversation was carried on for
about an hour or two, and John was shown to the
room which was to be his, one of his new acquaintances
telling him, " You'll have to do without sheets,
old fellow, till your own come — that is, if you have
any — or else you'll have to send down to town to
buy some; the station doesn't provide unnecessary
luxuries."

The young Jackaroo^ woke early next morning, and
went out to look around him. Early as it was, he
found that Mr M'Duff and his two friends of the
former evening were already abroad. M'Duff gave
a grunt of satisfaction at seeing him up so early.

"Well, young man," he began, "so you don't like
lying abed, eh ? "

John modestly gave him to understand that it was

^ The name by which young men who go to the Australian colonies
to pick up colonial experience are designated.

very agreeable to him sometimes, but that this morning
he felt more inclined to satisfy his curiosity.

You won't be troubled with much of it here," said
M'Duff, grimly. " Shearing is about to commence."

"You can spell to-day and look about you," he
added, "and tomorrow Stone here" (pointing to the
youngest and best-looking of the two men) " will put
you up to it. He is going to take charge of the wash-pool.
I shall be in the wool-shed all day. Come
along and look at the store."

They all proceeded to the store — a large wooden
building filled with an immense variety of goods, from
meerschaum-pipes and bottles of eau-de-cologne, to
blankets and all sorts of slops. Large boxes stood in
the inner store full of jams, pickles, confectionery,
preserved apples, raisins, and almost everything one
could mention. A door opened into a little side-room,
fitted up as a meat-store, containing a salting-table
and meat-blocks, while all around meat-hooks hung
from the walls.

Just at that moment a woman came to the store-door
and asked for the storekeeper. "Now," said
M'Duff, "watch Mr Stone, and you'll see what your
work will be."

"I want my husband's rations for the week," said
the woman.

Stone proceeded to weigh out 8 lb. of flour, 2 lb. of

sugar, and J lb. of tea, with a rapid, practised hand,
and to empty each quantity into the respective bags
which the woman had brought with her.

"Now," she said, "I want a pair of boots for
myself."

Stone brought down the articles in question, and
with many compliments on the shapely foot which
was being shod, soon satisfied the demand.

Now let me have some beef," she said.

"All right. Go round to the window of the beef-store,"
replied the seller. Here he plunged his arm
up to the elbow in the brine of the meat-cask, which
stood in a cool part of the store, and weighing out
the required quantity, he entered the different articles
against the woman in the day-book, and also in her
own pass-book, and returned to the party.

Now," said M'Duff, " you'll find the price of every
article on a list in the desk : anything you want to
know about, ask Stone or me. You will have to be
up every morning before sunrise, attending to the customers,
and be here every evening about five. During
the day you can go with Mr Stone to the wash-pool,
and learn to wash sheep. I give him over to you,
Stone; make the best of him."

John took a fancy to Stone, who was a man of intelligence,
of a quick decided character, and of gentlemanly
upbringing, though considerably roughened by

constant bush-life. He was one of that numerous
class who have no capital to start with, and who
spend almost all they earn in a generous, careless way.
After breakfast, the other man, who was considerably
older than either M'Duff or Stone, and whose name
was Graham, caught and saddled his horse.

M'Duff had his brought down by a blackboard
having saddled it himself, he rode away with
Graham to search for a flock of sheep which were
reported as lost. Stone then took John round the
buildings of the head-station.

These were all built of wood, forming a square, a
court occupying the centre. In front was a large,
low-verandah cottage, thickly covered with roses and
vines, one room of which was occupied by Mr M'DuJff.
The sides of the square were formed by the store, with
its offices on the one side and the kitchen buildings
on the other; while the fourth side was filled up by
the building John had dined and slept in, and which
was called " The Bachelors' Hall." A stable and cart-shed,
and a dry store for the reception of flour, salt,
and other commodities, lay on one side in a line with
the bachelors' quarters ; farther away was a hut for
the use of the men; and a substantially-built stock-yard,
or enclosure for cattle and horses, occupied a site
still more remote.

A paddock-fence wound away across the creek

which ran at the back of the station, and enclosed a
piece of ground about a mile square, well grassed, and
sheltered by many trees. An ample garden lay on
the other side of a little creek which joined the main
or Cambaranga creek just below the kitchen. Above
the garden, on an eminence, was situated a substance
commodious wool-shed and wool-store, with
several conveniently arranged yards for working sheep,
and with a number of men's huts.

"There," said Stone, pointing to the big house,
"nobody has lived in the cawhawn humpy — that is
what the blacks call it — since Mr Cosgrove went
away. That old cove M'Duff is a methodical old
Scotchman, and I believe if you saw the inside of it
you would find the tables and chairs in the saiTie
places they occupied when Mr Cosgrove departed."

They looked into the dry store at the immense
quantities of flour and salt which were piled up there,
and then proceeded to the stock-yard. " There is the
slaughtering-yard," said Stone, pointing out a small
enclosure where two high posts supported a tumbler
with long arms, having ropes hanging from them.
This is the gallows for hoisting up the slaughtered
bullocks. You, as storekeeper, will be head-butcher."

Many heads and feet of defunct bullocks, in various
stages of decay, lay about ; and on the branches of the
neighbouring trees, and in endless rows on the caps

of the stock-yard, sat innumerable gorged kites and
crows, waiting until their repletion should abate sufficiently
to allow them to partake of another meal.

The two returned, crossed the creek, and entered
the wool-shed. It was an immense building on piles ;
compartments with grated flooring, and little doors
leading into and out of them, lined the sides ; pens
for sheep occupied the middle and one end. A lane
went down on either side, between the compartments
and the middle pen, floored with smooth planks for
the shearers to work on. At the other end a long
grated table, on which the fleeces were rolled up,
crossed the room from side to side. Bins for holding
different sorts of fleeces were ranged against the wall,
and a large wool-press stood near the door.

This building cost £2000," said Stone, " and it was
cheap at that. In a few weeks' time you will see it
fall of shearers and sheep, and the interminable click-click
of the shears will be going on for nearly three
months."

Mr Cosgrove must be a very rich man," said John,
wonderingly.

Oh yes," said the other ; " I suppose he could sell
this station for about £50,000. There are 60,000 sheep
on it, and about 300 head of cattle, and lots of horses —
and the improvements, you know ; besides which, he
has had a splendid income from his wool for some

years past, and I am told he does not spend much.
But you know him better than I do. I only came
here by chance about six months ago."

Is this a large station ? " inquired John.

** There are about eleven hundred square miles, good,
bad, and indifferent on it, and it all belongs to Mr Cosgrove
— at least he pays a nominal rent for a lease of
it to the Government for a term of years. Should the
Crown require the land at any time — as, for instance,
for a gold-field, or to build townships on, or for reserves
for any purpose — the present lessee would have to give
it up, receiving as indemnification only the price of
the improvements he has made, — that is to say, the
buildings, stock-yards, fences, and other permanent
works. Should the land be required for agricultural
purposes, he has the right of pre-emption over a portion
of it at the Government upset price. They are
always changing and altering the land-laws in Brisbane.
They never get one to their mind. There is
a constant war between the small farmer and labouring
classes — who desire to own small pieces of
land — and the squatters. The little fellows want to
be allowed to spread themselves all over the country,
and pick out any piece of ground they may fancy, no
matter how prejudicial to the squatter's interest ; and
they dab themselves and their families down in those
spots to maintain a precarious existence by growing

whatever will grow, breeding a few scrubbing horses
and cattle, stealing the rich man's stock, and endeavouring
generally to make themselves as unpleasant
as possible, with a view to compelling the squatter,
in self-defence, to give them a large price for their
holdings ; and when they have got that, they light,
like a blow-fly, on some other choice central piece of
ground, or around some water-hole which it is essential
for the squatter to possess. So say the squatters.
The cockatoo settlers, or free selectors, on the other
hand, fight desperately for the privilege ; and having
numbers on their side, and a certain amount of right,
they make a good fight. This run has as yet escaped.
It is, if anything, too far away yet; but in a few
years, no doubt, selectors will be scattered over it
and the neighbouring stations."

And the sheep are spread over this immense territory
? How do you manage with them ? " still pursued
the astonished new chum.

We divide them into conveniently-sized flocks, from
1000 up to about 3000, but generally the number is
about 1800. It depends greatly upon the class of
sheep. ^ Strong sheep may go in greater flocks than
the weaker ones, but the great object is to combine
economy with the health of the animal. Huts and

1 Of late years sheep are not often shepherded, but are enclosed in
paddocks and left to themselves.

yards are built at selected spots all over the run. Two
shepherds usually live together at a hut. Each flock
occupies a yard. Food is sent out once a-week to
these men. The overseer visits them once a-week,
and counts their flocks to make sure that they have
not lost any — although they generally know themselves,
and come in to give notice when this is the
case. They bring in their flocks once a-year to be
washed and shorn ; the rest of the time they spend in
shepherding, and accumulating a cheque, which they
will knock down at the first public-house they arrive
at after leaving the station."

And how far away from the head-station are their
huts ? " asked John.

"It depends upon the country. If the country at
the far end of the run is well grassed, it will be occupied
by a flock of sheep or two. Some of them are
twenty-five miles away ; others twenty, fifteen, seven,
nine, one, two, five, and so on. I am going out this
afternoon to count the sheep at about seven miles away,
and if you are not too tired you can come with me."

I shall be very glad," returned John ; " but tell
me, have you any head - stations in the immediate
neighbourhood ? "

None nearer than fifteen miles. It is a station of
the name of Betyammo. A very nice old fellow, who
has a very kind wife and two daughters, owns it, and

they will be glad to see you over there. Further round
this way, thirty miles away," continued Stone, shifting
his hand over about a quarter of the horizon, "you
have Bashan Plains — a very swell station, owned by
an old fellow who lives almost always down in Sydney,
hanging about the clubs. He is a member of
Parliament, and I don't know what all. He has a
swell superintendent, — owner gives him £1000 a-year
for doing nothing. The station is so good that the
sheep almost manage themselves. The ' super ' drives
four-in-hand, wears kid gloves on the run, keeps racehorses,
and leaves the work to a couple of overseers.
Pound this way is Ungahrun, a cattle station owned
by a Mr Fitzgerald, and managed by his son, the
smartest young fellow in this part of the district.
He has about 8000 head of cattle. It is distant
about twenty-five miles. Then here you have, twenty
miles off, Mosquito Creek — a sheep - station with
about 10,000 sheep, belonging to two young fellows
who bought the place lately. Then, lastly, we come
to Bindarobina, twenty - five miles distant — a large
station, with about 50,000 sheep and 10,000 head of
cattle, belonging to the United Australian Pastoral Co.,
a London firm. It is a fine run, but expensively managed
; and of course the shareholders are far away, and
understand nothing about station-work, so the manager
does pretty well as he likes. He is a great friend of

the manager at Barham Plains — the two run in couples ;
and here we are back to Betyammo."

Now," said John to his friendly companion, " I
want to go and look at the blacks I see camped over
there in the paddock. Do they belong to this place ? "

Yes," replied Stone, " they are part of the Cam-banana
tribe ; but I believe great numbers are expected
tomorrow. In all probability we shall see
them camped a few miles from here this afternoon ;
that is the road they are coming by."

They recrossed the creek into the paddock, and
made their way to a little encampment of small
conical huts, made of the bark of trees. A few
sticks burnt slowly, and with much smoke, in front
of two or three. Inside, dirty 'possum - skins arid
ragged shirts and trousers lay on the ground, making
a bed for numbers of blear-eyed hairless dogs, whose
skin showed pink, or blue, or mouse colour. Outside,
a middle-aged, not untimely-looking black " gin," sat
roasting a bullock's bone on the embers, and picking
off such parts as she conceived were cooked enough,
then thrusting it amongst the ashes for a further
period. An old man or two, with snow-white hair,
completely naked, lay stretched in the sun, and lazily
turned over when the new-comers approached them''

What is your name ? " asked John of one of them.

Me Jacky, — old man," replied dark.

Where is your country ? "

Heal country belonging' to me ; this one — Cam-banana
— my country."

"What for bail you look out kangaroo to-day,
Jacky ? " said Stone.

"Oh, me poor fellow"' (sick), returned Jacky, addressing
a few words in his own language to his sable
brother, and going off into a fit of laughter, showing
his strong white teeth ; then producing a pipe from
the middle of his shock of white curls, and inserting
his finger into the bowl, he held it out to John,
cleverly detecting his inexperience at a glance, and
in a whining tone said, " Poor fellow Jacky ! bail got
it tobacco — bail 'moke " (got not tobacco — nothing
to smoke).

Stone threw him a small piece of Barrett's twist,
apologetically remarking to John, " He's a dreadfully
lazy old vagabond, but occasionally he comes in handy
to shepherd an odd flock for a few days, when there is
no one else about."

The old gin and the other old warrior, on seeing
their compatriot successful in his appeal, clamorously
begged a small donation of the blessed weed ; but
Stone, disregarding their prayers, walked off.

What a peculiar smell there is about these creatures
! " suddenly said John.

Oh yes, every nigger has that distinguishing quality

very strong, more especially when hot. Cattle
dislike it exceedingly — so much so, that I have known
a whole mob stampede merely from crossing the tracks
made by niggers a few hours previously. Some years
ago, before the blacks were allowed to come in about
these stations, they revenged themselves on the white
men who occupied their country by killing their cattle,
as well as a man or two occasionally. They do so
sometimes still, when they think themselves safe from
observation, and the cattle never forget it. Even those
who never saw blacks before get frightened or enraged
at their appearance. It would seem as if they have
some way of communicating their hatred and fear to
one another."

"What makes the dogs so blear-eyed and hairless
? " asked the new hand.

Sleeping under 'possum cloaks and blankets.
Blacks think as much or more of their dogs as
they do of their children, and the great heat in the
gunyahs (bark huts) causes an unnatural perspiration
to break forth, which soon deprives them of hair and
makes their skin wrinkle up as you saw. A black's
dog soon loses the distinguishing characteristics of a
white man's dog, and acquires others peculiar to its
mode of life; but they are useful to the blacks in
hunting the game upon which they depend for a
living, and they cherish them accordingly.

VOL. I. E

Don't these black creatures wear clothes ? " inquired
young Avert.

"Well, they do occasionally, but only when compelled
to, or when the fit takes them. The blackboys
working about the station like to wear trousers when
riding, to protect their legs ; besides which, clothes
make them more like white men, and some of them
have a great idea of their dignity ; but when they
get to the camp in the evening they take off everything.
You may bring them up with the greatest
care," continued Stone, " educate them, and show them
civilised life, but when they return to their old haunts,
off go the clothes and they take to the bush. The
wild nature seems exceedingly strong in them."

In the afternoon the two young men saddled horses
and rode out to a sheep-station called the Seven-mile
Hut. About three miles from the station they came
upon some more blacks who were engaged in making
a camp for the night. This they did by simply lighting
a fire and disposing of their few effects around it :
the men stuck their spears in the ground, each in the
vicinity of his own fire. Nullah-nullahs,^ paddy-melon
sticks, boomerangs, tomahawks, and heelimen or shields,
lay about in every direction. The men employed themselves
in roasting fallacies, 'possums, kangaroos, and
other game ; the gins were engaged in bringing up

^ Native weapons.

water from the creek in their wooden coolamen. Picca-
ninnies of all ages played about: some chopped the
bark off trees ; others were climbing saplings, or chasing
each other about the camp. All were perfectly-nude
and happy. As Stone and West proceeded
further along the road they met small parties all
making their way to the camp, hunting as they went.
These were chiefly women and children, the men
having gone in a body together for the purpose of
assisting one another to surround the game. These
parties seemed to fill the forest on each side of the
road, no party following the path another had gone
in. Thus each had a similar chance of finding game
as they moved forward. The regular sharp chop-chop;
of the tomahawks could be heard here and there where
some of them had discovered a sugar-bag ^ or a 'possum
on a tree.

There were piccaninnies of all sizes. All the
very little children were round and fat, big-eyed,
curly-haired, and pot-bellied. Some of the younger
women and girls were passably good-looking, with
bright eyes and white teeth; but their short-cropped
hair, flat noses, and small limbs were much against
them.

Where are they all bound for ? " asked John.

Oh, there is a corroborate on the boards in the

1 A nest of honey.

neighbourhood, and these blacks are making to it'
returned Stone.

"A corroborate ! what is that ? "

It is a meeting of the tribes to dance and sing ;
they are passionately fond of both. Some black fellow
at a great distance, it may be, composes a new air,
of only a couple of bars most likely, and sets some
words to it. His tribe go into ecstasies over it. They
send runners to the neighbouring tribes, inviting them
to come over and hunt on their grounds, and listen to
the new corroborate. Great numbers arrive ; the cor '
roborree is danced night after nisjht with the utmost
enthusiasm ; the game gets scarce, and all the tribes
move forward in a direction determined by them in
council. These corroborates travel for many hundreds
of miles from the place where they originated. The
original tribes fall off and return to their respective
territories ; but new ones take their place, and the corroborate
is carried away to distant tribes speaking a
totally different language, and utterly ignorant of, and
totally indifferent as to, the meaning of what they
sing, provided the air catches their fancy. These
composers pretend that the Spirit of Evil originally
manufactured the corroborate, and that, owing to their
magic arts, they were enabled to get into his vicinity
and overhear the air. No corroborate is thought anything
of which has not some superstition to recommend

it. At some of these corroborates is held the
secret ceremony of the hora, to which no white man
has ever been admitted, and about which the blacks
themselves are particularly silent."

And what do they do at these ceremonies ? " questioned
John.

Oh, they admit boys among the warriors, and girls
onions the women."

"And has no white man ever seen the ceremony?"

Never to my knowledge," said Stone. " Many pretend
that they know a good deal from the young black-boys
with whom they have been brought up in childhood,
but the fact is, that until initiated the boys are
themselves ignorant. It is well understood that they
have certain trials to undergo in order to prove their
fortitude, patience, courage, and endurance ; but beyond
that, little is certain. The blacks select an exceedingly
flat piece of ground in a remote locality for
the purpose, and take care, by posting circles of sentries
around their camp, that they shall not be disturbed.
In some districts the neophytes have a front
tooth knocked out of the upper jaw."

They now approached the sheep-station, and, meeting
the shepherd, Stone signified his intention of
counting the sheep. Tying up their horses, therefore,
they proceeded to the gate of the yard, which they
fixed firmly, wide enough to allow about three sheep

abreast to enter. The shepherd brought the sheep
up, and they passed in rapidly, each hundred being
called out by Stone, and notched on a stick by John,
who kept the tally. The deaths were then given in
by the shepherd, and the total number having been
found all right, they returned home, reaching the
station about an hour after dark, there being little
or no twilight.

As they passed the camp of blacks the scene looked
highly picturesque. Tires dotted the forest, lighting
up the trees, and shadowy forms moved from one light
to another, while the gabble of tongues was incessant.
The horses they rode seemed to know the way perfectly,
and walked very much quicker towards home
than they did when leaving it.

During supper M'DufF and the overseer gave an
account of how they had searched fruitlessly in different
directions for the missing sheep, whose loss had
taken them away in the morning. They had been
foiled in their endeavour to follow the tracks several
times, owing to the fact that some one of the flocks in
the neighbourhood (through whose grazing-ground the
lost ones were wandering) had passed over and obliterated
their footprints. There seemed to be no fear of
losing them altogether, it being considered almost certain
that some one of the surrounding shepherds would
come across them in the course of the next day ; still

a good deal of uneasiness was expressed lest the unprotected
mob should be assaulted by the native dogs.

M'Duff accordingly gave instructions for poison to
be laid by John on every opportunity. The conversation
now turned on dingles, the Australian name for
the wild dogs so destructive to sheep. They were — so
M'Duff said — neither more nor less than wolves, but
more cowardly and not so ferocious, seldom going inlarge
packs. They hunted kangaroos when in numbers,
or driven to it by hunger ; but usually preferred
smaller and more easily obtained prey, as rats, bandit
and 'possums. Many were run down by men on
horseback for the sake of the sport, — the horseman
undoing his stirrup-leather, and slipping the iron to
the extreme end, knocked out the brains of the aninrnl
as he galloped past. Some are caught in traps made
of gigantic hollow logs, with hanging doors fitted to
them, after the common mouse-trap fashion ; but most
are destroyed by poison.

Each man on a sheep-station carries, or should
carry, strychnine, in order to poison the carcass of
any dead animal he may chance to find on his wanderings
through the bush; also a pouch attached to
his saddle, containing small pieces of meat already
poisoned, each bait wrapped in paper. These dingles
break into a fold of sheep at night, and often bite and
kill scores of them, generally endeavouring to tear out

the liver. Their bite is poisonous in a great measure,
and very difficult to heal. They are usually of a
yellow red colour, with a white-tipped bushy tail.
Some few are black.

M'Duff soon left the little company to retire to his
own room. He was a man of few words, his taciturnity
being rather caused by long residence among
the bush solitudes than from disposition. His whole
thoughts were wrapped up in his sheep. He seldom
took interest in anything except station-work ; and as
long as he had good lambkins, and got rid of his old
ewes and wethers at a high price, he cared little about
the world. He had a keen eye for a bargain; and
certainly Cosgrove pitched upon the right man to put
in charge of his affairs when he selected M'Duff, for
the old Scotchman laboured and slaved away from
morning until night. He never spared himself or
others when station-work had to be done. Old
Graham, the overseer — a rough, hard-working bushman,
though a confirmed drunkard when grog was to
be procured — had the highest opinion of the ability of
the " old man," as he called him.

He has been pioneering on the frontier for the last
twenty years," he said, *' and there isn't his match in
the country to judge sheep, or cattle either."

He must be pretty well off," said Stone. " The
old fellow does not drink, and he never goes to town,

SO he can't spend any money. What does he do
with it?"

'well," said Graham, who had been on the station
for many years, "it was about five years before Mr
Cosgrove went home that the ' old man ' came here, and
he had a good bit of money then, for he once spoke tome
about investing it ; but it strikes me that he has
purchased a share in this station, for you may depend
Cosgrove would never go home and leave everything
in his hands without having a guarantee of some sort
for its proper management."

Like enough," returned Stone. " That accounts
why he has the credit of being such a ' nipper.' "

Of course, any profit that accrues to the station
he has a share in. By the way," continued Graham,
we got a regular ' sell ' at the ten-mile sheep-station
to-day."

What was that ? " inquired Stone.

Well, you know how often passing travellers have
robbed old Jones of his rations. The hut is close to
the main road, and easily found by the sheep-tracks."

Yes."

"Well, I happened to grow very hungry to-day
about one o'clock, and being close to the ' ten-mile ' I
made for it, to have a search for old Jones's rations,
and a feed if possible. When I got there I saw the
old man's horse tied up to the door. He had come on

a similar errand. Well, after searching some time in
vain, I found, planted away among the sheets of bark
of which the roof is composed, a stunning-looking pie
no crust, you know — soft bake. We sat down, and
there was only a small corner of it left when we got
up, and we put that back in the old plant. The old
man liked it A 1, and, says he, 'We'll come back here
to-night and count the sheep, to see whether he has
picked up any or not of the lost ones, and will tell him
to order plums or currants, or something out of the
store, to make up for what we've eaten.' So when we
came to the hut at night old Jones was growling a
hurricane. Before we could say anything he roars
out —

' Them dogs of travellers have been 'ere again,

but they didn't get none of my rations this time.'

' What did they find ? ' asked I, looking at the boss,
whose face grew as long as my arm suddenly.

' Why says he, ' I've been collecting all the rags
of meat and chewed gristles I couldn't smaller, ye
know — my poor ole teeth ain't as good as they worst
was — and I fried the hull lot up wi' some perkins for

the dogs, you see, but there ain't much left. D

them, these wretches, they won't even give the

dogs a chance ! I'll putt poison in it next time.' "

Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed the others. " How did the
old man like that ? "

'' Oh, he never said a word, but counted the sheep,
and came home as sulky as a bear. Every now and
then, however, I could see him shake his head as if
disgusted, and say ' Bah ! ' "

"Well," laughed Stone, "after that I'll go to bed.
You must have the stomach of an emu to tell the
story."

CHAPTER VII.

OLD JACKY IN A FIX — SHEARING AND WASHING.

Next morning John commenced his duties as storekeeper,
and found that he had to be up early to get
the people on the station served, and all the rations for
the various sheep-stations which were to be taken out
that day weighed and made up in bags before breakfast.
M'Duff and Graham started away, taking with
them a blackboy to follow up the tracks of the sheep
when they found a difficulty in so doing themselves;
and Stone went out with the stockman to get a bullock
in for killing.

John had to lay poisoned baits on the roads near
the station. Late in the afternoon, on returning, he
heard the sound of a whip two or three times, and
shortly afterwards a mob of about ten head of cattle
came over the ridge towards the stock-yard. They
seemed rather frightened at suddenly coming on the
buildings, and made two or three attempts to turn and
gallop off; but each time they were wheeled back by

the two men who rode behind them, and whose horses
seemed to take as lively an interest in harding them
as their riders felt.

As soon as the cattle entered the great stock-yard
they were driven into a smaller enclosure, thence up
a narrow lane of high fencing into the small square
slaughtering-yard. John now came up to look at
them. In appearance they were just the same as English
cattle, but much wilder, and bore the station brand
and ear-mark. They stared and tossed their heads as
John advanced on foot, but took little notice of a man
on horseback. None of them had ever been handled in
their lives except when they were branded and earmarked,
and none had ever seen the inside of a stall.
An old red cow, with one horn cocked and the other
turned down over her face, seemed to dislike being
looked at very much. She was very hot, having run a
good part of the way home, as her panting sides and
protruding tongue betrayed. Her temper was also of
a rather infirm character, for John had not been a
couple of minutes at the rails before she charged up in
his direction with a savage ferocity which quite frightened
him.

However, his equanimity being restored on contemplating
the strength of the yard, he waited for a little,
observing her motions. Sometimes she would rush in
amongst the others as if endeavouring to hide herself ;

then she would make her way round the yard as if
seeking an opening for escape, when, seeing John, she
would again rush at him with her head low, uttering
an angry and baffled roar. Then she would back
towards the rest, tearing up the dust with her feet,
time about, and shaking her vicious black-horned old
head.

Now the knives having been properly ground. Stone
came up with some men, bringing a bucket full of
water, an axe, a clean cloth, and the steel. The blacks,
who are always exceedingly active on these occasions,
were all ordered to keep away until the bullock was
shot, and the rest of the cattle let go, their presence
only serving to madden the uneasy animals. Jacky,
the old black fellow, who had begged tobacco from
John the previous day, and who was a privileged
person, was alone permitted to accompany the butchers
as a great favour. Accordingly, to be out of the way,
Jacky took up a position in a neighbouring yard,
leaning against a tree which grew in the centre of
it, knowing from former experience that it was not
required on such occasions for cattle.

Stone now approached to shoot the beast chosen
for beef, but the wildness of the old cow prevented
him from obtaining a steady aim ; so, calling upon
the stockman to open the gate of the narrow lane
through which the cattle had been allowed to enter.

he drafted the old cow back. He was, after a few
minutes' delay, about to fire, when a wild yell from
Jacky caused all hands to look up and shout with
laughter.

The cow had managed to make her way into Jacky's
yard through a gate which had been left unfastened,
and noticing the black fellow, who was unconsciously
gazing at the beast which was before long to provide
him with an unlimited gorge, she made a desperate
rush. Jacky, hearing the noise, and feeling her warm
breath on his naked skin about the same instant, gave
utterance to the shriek which had startled every one,
and making what looked to be Herculean strides up
the tree, just saved his bacon.

The disappointed " milky mother of the herd," sill
thirsting for his blood, kept watch below, no one feeling
inclined to alleviate Jacky's terror or spoil the fun.
The bullock was now shot, and the other cattle let out
into a neighbouring yard. A rope was put round the
horns of the prostrate animal, and dragged by three or
four white men and half-a-score of blacks, all the 
tailing on with many a jest. It was soon
pulled under the gallows, to which, after being bled
and skinned, the carcass was hoisted, and left for the
night. The blacks received the paunch, head, and
feet as their share. The hide was taken to the hide-house,
spread out, and salted. Old Jacky was released

from his lofty position, and the cattle were turned out
into the bush.

Mr M'Duff and his overseer returned home that
night in good spirits, the missing sheep having all
been found.

In this manner the days passed for a week or two,
when signs of the approach of the grand event of the
year began to make themselves manifest.

Men singly, or in twos and threes, kept arriving,
inquiring as to the terms of shearing and washing.
The washers were, as a class, considerably below the
shearers. They were composed chiefly of what is
called in the bush "knock-about men" — that is, men
who are willing to undertake any work, sometimes
shepherding, sometimes making yards or droving.
They are paid about the rate of five shillings per day,
besides their food.

The shearers, on the other hand, were often small
settlers from some little township, who came up at
this time of the year to earn a cheque, so as to enable
them to eke out the scanty subsistence their farms
afforded — for most of them were but young settlers,
and had a heavy expense in getting things in order.
Some were what is termed, par excellence, bushmen —
that is, men who split rails, get posts, shingles, take
contracts for building houses, stock-yards, &c., — menin
fact, who work among timber continually, sometimes

felling and splitting, sometimes sawing — an intelligent,
hard-working body of men, who number amongst them
some of the very best specimens of Australian workmen.
An odd shepherd or two — who shepherded at
other times of the year, but were allowed as a favour
to make their flocks over to some one else, while they
earned rather more than their regular occupation could
give them — and perhaps a stray stockman, were to be
found among a crowd.

The washers came up in a body, and signed their
agreement, " to wash one and all of the sheep on the
establishment," without any fuss ; but the shearers,
being skilled workmen, hummed and hawed about
their engagement as being more important. The
question as to whether they would accept a certain
amount per score and find their own rations, or a less
amount and be found by the station, had to be discussed.
Then another serious consideration was as
to whether the station should find a cook for them
during shearing, or whether they would have to provide
one for themselves. These matters, however,
did not take very long in settling.

A couple of days before commencing, the agreement
was signed. Shears had been served out ; the cook
had his arrangements complete for accommodating
upwards of twenty men with seats at a rough table,
under a rough shed covered with leaves. Each man

VOL. I. F

had put himself up a bunk in the large hut specially
devoted to shearers ; their horses were all driven into
some well-grassed quiet " pocket," from which it was
unlikely they would stray; and everything was in
readiness.

Meanwhile the wash-pool arrangements had been
going on with great vigour. Stone and John, occasionally
visited by old M'Duff, had got the permanent
yards on the big water-hole put in order. Hurdles
for gates had been carted down. Parallel poles, resting
on forks driven into the bed of the water-hole,
were run out on the surface of the stream, forming
square soak-holes, a long narrow lane leading out to
the dry land. A stage was built, from which the
sheep could be allowed to slide easily into the water
of the first soak-hole. A Californian pump, worked
by horses, and ready to fill a huge tank — the water
from which, issuing from two long slits in the bottom,
was intended to gush over the sheep, and give them
the final cleansing, after they had been sufficiently
washed by hand — was erected, and in full working
order, and every other arrangement completed.

A cloud of dust and the barking of a dog announce
the arrival of the first flock to be washed. They are
counted into the yard. The overseer compares notes
with Stone, and the number is found to be correct, —
none dropped on the road in. Next morning a certain

number are counted out and taken early to the wash-pool.
The yards are arranged in a circular form, so
that sheep may not get into corners, and remain without
moving. They are then plunged from the stage
into the water, and are passed one by one through the
soak-hole under the poles dividing the soak-holes, and
up the-narrow lane. The washers, some of whom
have taken up positions in the lane, standing up to
their waists in water, roughly squeeze the wool as the
sheep pass ; while others, standing on the poles of the
soak-holes, crutch them with a long-handled wooden
crutch. Some blacks have also taken their places in
the lane, and are in some instances an example to their
white brethren in the matter of squeezing out the dirt.
After this process, called " soaking the sheep," has
been gone through, they are allowed to stand packed
closely together for the purpose of sweating the wool
and softening the dirt, when they are once more
passed through the water. This time, however, each
sheep is thoroughly well washed by each man in succession,
until it comes to the tank, where the animal
is seized by two men, and turned over and over under
the strong head of water issuing from it. It is then
allowed to make its way on to the green feed, wherein
company of its fellows, it is taken charge of by the
shepherd. In about three days' time the sheep are
dry, and an oily exudation called the 'yolk," which

was washed away by the water, lias again risen, soften
the fibre of the wool and rendering it more brilliant
and heavy.

The sheep are then brought at night to the woolshed
yards ; as many as possible are packed inside the
building, and the rest in convenient yards outside, so
that the shearers may not be kept waiting. The hurry
which infects every one during the shearing season is
one of its main characteristics. The owner is anxious
to get the wool off as soon as possible, in order to
shorten the knocking about the sheep receive, and get
them back to their quiet pasturage, as well also as to
get rid of the expense and trouble connected with the
shearers. He is further alarmed in case wet weather
may come on and delay the proceeding. The shearers
wish to get through with this shed in order that they
may proceed elsewhere and get another. The shepherds
long to get home to their solitary huts, where
they are their own masters, and where their flocks are
undisturbed. The storekeeper groans under an increase
of work, and longs for its close. So the moment
the dawn breaks, all hands are at work, and sheep are
seized, denuded of their fleece, let go, and others are
caught. This goes on until after sunset, with a short
intermission of half an hour for breakfast and an hour
for dinner. The noise in the shed is a continuous
click-click of the shears, accompanying a running fire

of rude jests and pithy yarns from the men, and occasional
shouts of "tar" from some one who, in his
haste, has clipped a portion from the skin of the poor
animal along with its coat. Boys run about gathering
up the fleeces as they come off, and carrying tar when
desired.

The fleece, gathered carefully with both hands, is
conveyed to a long table-screen, and, with a sudden
jerk, is flung out at full length. The roller-up, with
a rapidity which is the result of long practice, separates
the skirtings — i.e., the inferior portions of the wool
rolls up the rest carefully, and the sorter classes it
under its description ; a boy then takes it to its particular
bin. The wool differs very much in quality,
and many various qualities may be found in a flocks of
the same description.

As the bins fill, the wool-presser packs the press
with each particular kind, and compresses it into a
neat bale about 5 feet 6 inches long, by about 2 feet
9 inches wide, and the same deep. It is then branded
with its owner's name, its description and number, and
the date, when it is rolled away and stored for transport
to market.

The men, for the most part, wore flannel shirts with
short sleeves, their trousers fastened loosely under the
knee with a string, and confined round the waist by
a handkerchief. Most of them went barefooted, and

wore little caps made of calico, or had handkerchiefs
tied round their heads ; and many had leather straps
buckled round their wrists to strengthen the muscles.
They worked hard for their money, which some of
them, unfortunately, spent almost as soon as earned.
So the routine of work went on for nearly three
months. Sheep came and went daily. Sheep were
washed and sheep were shorn, the process being
occasionally varied by sheep getting lost. This,
with a perversity apparently inherent in their nature,
they managed to do generally on Saturdays,
so that Sunday, instead of being a day of rest, was
usually as hard a day as any other. The shearers'
cook had a very bad time. He had many masters,
each of whom had a peculiar taste, which imperatively
required satisfying. There were so many faults found
with the style of cooking (the true shearer being quite
a gourmet in the matter of doughboys and duff), there
were so many demands for food and drink at irregular
hours, that, notwithstanding the good pay which this
functionary gets (he receiving generally a certain sum
from each man, besides a subsidy from the owner of
the station), two or three tried the office, and either
resigned or were dismissed. into one would take the
job. The shearers were getting alarmed. They would
have to cook their own food. This was a prospect none
of them relished. It was time lost, a waste of material,

bad prospect for puddings, and no servant to
order or complain about. A negotiation was opened
with the washers, some of whom, no doubt, tempted
by the high wages, would be glad to undertake the
office. The shearers were right. A washer — a dogged,
determined-looking man — accepted, and commenced
operations. That night, on their return from the shed,
each pannikin and knife was laid on the long bark
table, the buckets with the tea placed handy, and a
huge duff and pieces of boiled beef in tin dishes
graced the board. As usual, no sooner had the
men taken their places than arose cries of, " I say,
cook! do you call this duff?" "This tea isn't
sweet enough ! " " Tea's too sweet ! " " Cook ! "
Doctor ! " The doctor quietly made his appearance.
Rolling up his sleeves, he marched up to the biggest
and strongest of the bullies, and pointing with his
strong stump of a forefinger at the pudding on the
man's plate, he said, "Now then, mate, is that 'ere
duff the right thing?" The battered prize-fighting
look of his bullet-head and flattened nose was quite
enough. "I ses it's must-rate," was the reply. "All
right," said the cook, walking slowly along the table,
his eye glancing fiercely round to find a victim.
"Any one of you gents as ain't satisfied can gimme
a lesson outside, you know." It was sufficient. A
stillness almost supernatural followed. The cook

afterwards said he couldn't imagine how any one
could disagree with such a quiet lot of men.

The eye now got quite accustomed to the flocks of
sheep coming in continually : round, with full fleeces,
and panting slowly in the heat, to return bare, leggy,
roach - backed - looking objects, covered with shear-marks,
and the raddled signs by which each man
distinguished his own shearing, with here and there
ominous - looking patches of tar covering a gaping
wound, — racing gladly towards their accustomed
feeding - grounds amongst clouds of dust.

John had his hands full. His morning work in the
store over, he had to attend at the wash-pool, where
he took his place amongst the other men in the water,
and worked till evening, when he had some hours'
heavy duty attending to customers in the store. Even
Sundays were seldom days of respite. Sheep lost on
Saturday imperatively constrained every one on the
head-station to look for them, or a small unshorn
portion of sheep had to be shepherded apart, or a
bullock had unexpectedly to be got in for killing, or
something interfered with the repose so urgently required
; and no one felt better pleased than he did to
see the last lot of " monkeys," as the shearers usually
denominated sheep, leave the head-station.

CHAPTER VIII.

A DESPERATE RIDE ON A STRANGE STEED — HORSE-BREAKING.

The shearing was no sooner over than everything took
quite a different complexion. Mr M'Duff started on
an expedition to look at some new country away in
the far north, which he thought it might be advisable
to buy, and stock with his surplus sheep. Stone had
also left temporarily, having business, he said,' in
Sydney. Only old Graham remained at Cambaranga,
with John, and his time was chiefly occupied in visiting
the different sheep-stations and counting the sheep.
This slack season on the station was usually devoted
to mustering all the quiet horses on the run, branding
up the foals, breaking in the young colts and fillies,
and making attempts to get in the wilder mobs on
the outskirts of the station. Two horse-breakers were
engaged to assist the stockman, and John was nominally
in charge of the proceedings. The horse-breakers
were slight but clean-limbed active young fellows, having
that peculiar look about them by which Australian-born

sons of Europeans are so easily distinguished from
people of any other country. Both were very quiet
and self-possessed in manner, but an experienced eye
could detect in a moment the tendency to " freshness "
which seems inseparable from their occupation. They
were well known in the district as " Jack the Native "
and his mate Charley ; and no sooner were the proceeds
of one job dissipated than a new one was sure
to start up on some neighbouring run, notwithstanding
various reports that got afloat taxing them with
planting " horses and with occasionally taking a few
strange ones to a distance, and there surreptitiously
disposing of them.

Two better riders could not be found ; and the
Native was always open to " ride anything with hair
on it' as he expressed himself, " for a ten-pound note."

Indeed, not long before this, when engaged on the
Ungahrun run, Mr Fitzgerald had brought some very
wild scrn.b cattle into his yard, and amongst them was
a savage old scrub bull who had for years baffled all
attempts to run him in or destroy him. He had had
many a bullet in the most vital places — so said the
stockmen on the run ; and although he might disappear
for six months or so, he invariably turned up
again as well and savage as ever. So knowing had
he become, that if, in the excursions which he was in

^ Hiding horses for the sake of the reward sure to be offered.

the habit of making from his home in the scrubby
broken country, down among the quiet herds on the
plains, any of the men endeavoured to drive him with
a mob to the yards, that instant he stopped, then turning
his head towards the nearest scrub, he trotted off
with a surly defiant air, the huge hump at the back
of his head giving him the appearance of a buffalo.
How it happened that he came in at all was quite
inexplicable : the other cattle gave the men much
trouble, but the bull " went like any old milking cow,"
as Jack the Native, who was one of the party, afterwards
said.

Of course all hands crowded to look at old " Razors
Jack," as he was called, after a particular mountain
which he usually frequented. Old Eazorback* did
not seem to realise what had happened just at first.
The contemplative mood which had betrayed him did
not pass off until some one attempted to cross the
yard. Then the old outlaw stepped out with a low
roar, and desperately rushed at the intruder, who
bounded lightly on to the cap of the stock-yard, sitting
on which he addressed, in the calmest manner, a
variety of insulting and defamatory personal remarks
to the infuriated savage, who, kneeling down, tore the
ground with his horns, lashed his sides, and roared in
impotent fury a few feet below him. A hat thrown
into the yard from the opposite side had scarcely

fallen, when Eazorback Jack's vigilant ferocious small
eyes, which were watching everything, made him
aware of the fact. In an instant he was down on it,
transfixed it with his horns, and tossed it a dozen
times round the yard, leaving it occasionally for a
minute to return again and again to repeat the scene.
It was now that some one, remembering Jack the
Native's favourite boast, asked him how he would like
a mount on old Eazorback. " Well," said the Native,
I'll ride him for a ten-pound note."

I daresay you would," said the other. " Hope him,
haul him up to a fence, leg-rope him, so that he can't
stir. I'd do that myself"

I'll tell you what I'm game to do," said the Native,
quietly : " I'll bet you a £20 note that I ride him
without saddle or bridle, loose in the yard."

Done ! " shouted the other. " Remember, if he
slings you, you lose the bet."

"All right," returned Jack; "but if he falls, of
course that doesn't count to me as a spill."

Young Fitzgerald, who was looking on amongst the
others, now remarked that he thought it rather too
dangerous a joke ; but Jack was determined, and he
was allowed to have his own way. First of all, opening
the gate of the pound — a small enclosure with several
gates leading into other yards — he managed to drive
the cattle into it, and separate the bull from the rest.

The bull now rushed round the sides of the strong
high pound seeking savagely for some opening. Ashe
came round to the gate leading into the yard in
which he had previously been, the Native dropped
quickly on his back. The gate was pulled open by
one of the men, and the strange pair tore through it.
None of the bystanders knew how it was done. So
quickly and quietly had it happened, that the first
glance revealed the pair flying madly round the yard
amid clouds of dust.

The roars of the terrified brute were perfectly appalling,
but above them now and then rose the voice
of the Native as he shouted to his steed. He was
lying on the bull's back, holding a flank of the animal
with each hand, his long legs pressing the reeking
sides of the infuriated brute like a vice, with a foot
under each of its shoulders.

Eound they flew, now plunging wildly in the air,
now rushing np against the yard, until Fitzgerald
feared that both man and bull would be dashed to
pieces. Running to the gate, he threw it open, and
out flew the ancient scrubber, instinctively making
towards his own wild domain, bearing with him the
stronger-nerved rider, whose iron sinews bound him
as firmly to his grim charger as did the cords Mazeppa
to the untamed steed.

Several men jumped on horses, which still remained

saddled and hung up to the fence, and pursued the
fast disappearing pair. The bull's fierce rage had now
almost expended itself, for when they came up with
the chase, Jack was sitting up, using his spurs freely,
and chatted gaily with his mates ; but how to get him
off was the question.

Old Kazorback paid no attention to their efforts to
make him turn towards the yard. Steadily, his head
bent low, his chest heaving, his laboured breathing
sounding like choking sobs, he pursued his plodding
path ; and Fitzgerald, who now came up, began to fear
that he "would assail resin his wind and elude them
yet. Shouting to Jack, he desired him to throw himself
off, in order that he might shoot the brute, with
which intention he had brought with him a breechloading
carbine.

"No, no," cried the bull-tamer; "I should lose my
bet ! Shoot him ; never mind me — I'll chance it ! "

Luckily at this moment old Eazorback made a rush
at one of the other stockmen who had ventured too
near him, stumbled, and rolled with his rider in the
dust. A fallen log came in very handy for the Native
now. He rolled himself nimbly under it, and soon
afterwards his namesake's career was ended by a
couple of Snider bullets behind the shoulder.

Such was the man who, with his mate, undertook
the job of mustering and breaking in the Cambaranga

horses. These men seemed to find a pleasure in mounting
the worst horses on the run, and it appeared to
give them no trouble to hold on. They led a much
pleasant life than the other men employed on the
station did. It involved no hard work or dirt, while
their character for pluck caused them to be treated
with a certain degree of respect.

John was astonished to find how suddenly a wild
untamed colt in their hands acquired a totally different
nature ; and the Native, who had taken rather a
fancy to him, offered to teach him to break horses in,
provided he would ride, or at least mount, any horses
he might desire him to back. Our hero agreed, well
pleased, and his spare time for a month or two Meas
passed in the Native's company. The morning alter
the bargain, on his going up to the yard, he found the
Native and his mate drafting out some horses from a
mob they had got in the day before.

Ah," said Long Jack, " you're just in time. Charley
and I are going to start breaking this mob in, and I'll
give you a lesson. Charley is going to take those two
in hand, and I'll take the black colt here and the
chestnut mare."

The horses in question were each in turn driven
through various yards until they came to the " crush
lane." This is a lane wide enough to permit only a
single bullock or horse at a time to make his way up

it. It is used for branding full-grown cattle, and the
fences are made of the strongest timber, and are very
high. Generally at the end of it there is a bail for
the purpose of spaying. Up this lane, therefore, the
colt was urged, despite of his attempts to the contrary,
until he came to the end. Two or three rails were
then fastened behind him, to prevent his making his
way backwards out of his close prison. The fences
touched his sides. In front of him the end of the lane
barred his progress.

Wildly the terrified animal reared and plunged in
the confined space when he saw beside him, for the
first time, a human being. The beautiful eye, glittering
with fear, dilated, and every nerve trembled and
shook, while every unexpected motion produced a
plunge and kick. With rapid and practised hands
Jack and Charley threw the surcingle round the now
sweat-dripping body, hooked up the end of it under
the belly by means of a bent wire, and had it buckled
in a brace of shakes. Standing high on the fence,
holding the long sweeping tail, tangled in a huge
bush-knot in one hand, Jack put the crupper round
the butt and buckled it with the other, explaining to
John that in putting the crupper on any horse not
particularly quiet, it was the safest plan to hold the
tail up until the completion of the operation. A
strongly plaited greenwich - halter was now slipped

over the head, after which the headstall with the
large breaking-in bit followed. Side reins were attached
to the headstall, and loosely buckled to the
surcingle, which was once more tightened up. A
gate which formed at this place one side of the crush
fence, was thrown open, and the now tackled colt
allowed to escape into an adjoining yard.

This it signalised by putting its head down to the
ground, in close proximity to its forefeet, and in
making, with humped back, a series of active vicious
jumps or springs, varied occasionally by a lash-out of
its hind-legs, winding up by galloping round the yard,
and kicking at the halter which trailed alongside it.

"That's the way, my little boy," said the Native.
"That fellow will turn out a nice horse, I'll bet. I
like to see them have their fling when first they get
into the yard — it shows they ain't sulky, you know.
Now, you watch the chestnut mare. She's a sulky
devil. She's too old, any way, to break in. Shell
never be any good."

The chestnut, a handsome mare about sixteen
hands high, now underwent the same process ; but
with the exception of a vicious kick or two when
being cropped, she showed no sign of fright. Her
head she held so low that it was almost impossible
to put the bridle on. Indeed, so immovable was she
when tackled, that the Native, climbing up the rails,

VOL. L G

coolly stood on her back and performed various circus
antics.

Now," he said, getting down, " let her out."

The gate was accordingly thrown open, when the
mare walked out, and moved away to a corner of the
yard, where she stood quietly, bearing all the weight of
her rather coarse-looking head upon the bearing-reins.

That's a bad lot," said Long Jack, decisively.

His mate went through a similar process with his
two, which he drafted into separate yards.

The black colt was now driven into a small yard by
himself, round which he galloped unceasingly.

"Now," said the horse-breaker, "just sit on the
fence there and you'll see me make that colt come
up to me when I call him, and follow me all round
the yard before long."

John, who had heard of this, but had never seen
it practised, did as he was bid.

With his usual calm, self-possessed manner. Jack
let himself quietly through the gate and stood in the
middle of the yard, causing the young horse to fly
round faster than ever. This the breaker permitted
it to do until want of breath compelled it to move
at a slower pace. Its hind-feet treading frequently
upon the trailing halter, and consequently jerking the
head back sharply as often as it did so, also contributed
greatly to this result.

"Why don't you tie up the halter?" said young
West.

"Well, I could make him come up just as well
without it," said the Native; "but, you see," he explained,
" it's a saving of time in many ways. First,
it is handy to get hold of him by — for the halter is so
long that I can reach it without coming close to his
legs, and can thus always keep his head to me, which
is the part I must first get at in order to let him smell
me, and be sure that I won't hurt him ; and secondly,
it is good for him to tread upon it. It teaches him,
by jerking his head, to give way to a pull on the
bridle. It is the first step in teaching him to lead.

He finds that by slackening his head he eases the

•

pain he would otherwise suffer. Now I'll take up the
end of the halter and make the colt come up."

So saying, he lifted the plaited hide-rope and pulled
sharply on it, causing the colt, whose nose was now
rather tender, to stop, on which, getting in front of
him, he made him go round the opposite way. This
he continued doing for about half an hour, by which
time the colt had become so far accustomed to control
as to turn and move in the other direction upon seeing
his master's uplifted hand and hearing the commanding
way.

Now the Native confined the horse's movements in
either direction to a few paces, stopping him almost

as soon as he had begun to move, touching him with
the whip in an irritating manner, but without severity,
whenever the animal presented any portion of the
body but his head to him. The colt now learned
that upon facing his enemy all irritation and annoyance
ceased, he was addressed in soothing terms, the
jerking of the halter was discontinued, and also the
motions of the whip ; but that upon endeavouring to
turn away, or gallop round the yard, a severe jerk
of the nose, a cut of the whip, and an angry raising
of the voice invariably followed. The consequence
naturally was, that he preferred standing watching
the being who exercised such power over him. But
although this compliance was rewarded by a cessation
of his trouble for a short time, he was not allowed to
enjoy rest for a longer period than about a minute —
merely enough to mark approval. The Native irritated
him to move afresh, merely to stop him again,
at the same time pulling gently but steadily on the
halter, repeating the process over and over again until
the perplexed animal made a step in his direction,
upon which the voice again became soothing, all
motion ceased, and the animal began to perceive
that in the neighbourhood of the man was peace
and rest. Again and again the same operation was
gone through, until suddenly the colt trotted up and
stood trembling within a foot of its now acknowledged

master, who, gently extending his hand, allowed him
to smell it all over.

The same thing was repeated frequently, each time
the breaker succeeding in getting a little more into
the confidence of the horse, which seemed unwilling
to leave the proximity of the man. Several variations
of the procedure were now executed. Retiring a little
distance, the Native called on his steed to " come up
here." The unaccustomed distance producing some
disinclination to comply, a shout, accompanied by a
rapid motion of the whip, again compelled obedience,
when the same method of reward restored the dumb
treaty which had been concluded, of petting for obedience,
and punishment for disregard of orders. Little
by little the Native succeeded in gently stroking the
animal over the head and neck on both sides, sometimes
startling the creature slightly by touching a new part,
but succeeding in restoring his faith by patiently commencing
afresh, and repeating every movement anew,
taking care to gain ground as he did so. Indeed such
a glamour had he apparently cast over the colt, that,
walk where he liked, to any part of the yard, the
kindly-natured though high-spirited creature followed,
and stood patiently waiting, champing the large break-inhabit
in its tender gums, and flinging snow-white
flakes of foam over its noble breast.

The chestnut mare was now taken in hand, but

with a very different result. She proved, as Jack
the Native had foretold, unusually sulky - tempered.
She could scarcely be got to move round the yard
unless stimulated to do so by a pretty free use of
the whip ; nor would she show any signs of giving in
by the time the men generally went to dinner.

Late in the afternoon the men were again at work,
and John could not help admiring the steady patience
and gentleness by means of which the Native gradually
acquired such an ascendancy over the colt as to
be able to handle him all over on both sides, and lift
his feet all round.

"There is nothing," he said, "like handling; you
can't give them too much of it. All depends on your
making a horse know he has nothing to fear from
you. Now I could have tied this fellow's leg up,
saddled and ridden him this morning, but ten to
one he would have bucked all the time, and been
bad to catch, hard to mount, and unsafe for all but
tip-top riders ever after. Now if he is treated with
steady consistent kindness and firmness, and does
not get frightened, he will turn out a good quiet
horse. He may perhaps buck a little at first, or
after a long spell, but nothing to speak of Everything
depends on handling. I shall ride that fellow
tomorrow evening. Of course, if it paid me to spend
longer time over him I could make him so quiet that

he never would buck at all ; but I can't afford to keep
him on tackling longer than two days. Horses in
England and other parts would buck just as ours do
if they were treated in the same way; but there
colts are handled from the time almost when they
are foaled. I have heard young new chums from
England, who sat on their horses like so many bags
of flour, blowing how they used to ride the unbroken
colts at home. I never see them getting on our unbroken
colts — not to say but that some of them turnout
pretty good riders after a bit. We'll go now and
see how the mare is getting on."

But the mare maintained her sulky, vicious stubbornness,
and a couple of hours were vainly spent in
trying to make her give in. She allowed herself to be
rubbed over with a long stick, kicking occasionally as
it touched her rump, but obstinately keeping her head
turned from her breaker. It was getting late, and the
Native, waxing impatient, thought he would try what
effect the whip would have on her.

So flicking first at one hind-leg, then at another, he
succeeded, after some savage kicks, in getting her to
face him. But his rewards were not acceptable. She
turned because she escaped the whip ; but her sulky
nature would not allow her to give in altogether.
Anxious to get her right before dark, and feeling sure
that she would soon come up after facing him, Long

Jack gave her another cut or two inside the knee.
She came this time, but not as he expected. Throwing
her ears back, she rushed fiercely at her tormentor,
open-mouthed, and struck furiously at him with her
fore-feet. Indeed, nothing but the whip-handle, which
he held crosswise in front of him, could have prevented
his being knocked down and badly hurt ; as
it was, she drove him backwards through the gate of
the yard, which luckily chanced to be a little ajar.
Jack instantly returned ; but no sooner had he entered
than she once more charged savagely at him.
This time he was prepared, and met her with a sharp
blow on the nose, stepping, at the same time, quickly
on one side. Darkness coming on, the horse-breaker
resolved to let her go that night ; so, driving her up
the lane where he had tackled her in the morning, he
took off the breaking-in harness and turned her into
the paddock. Very differently did the colt behave.
Coming up, he rubbed his head gently on his trainer's
shoulder, allowed him to take off the crupper, surcingle,
and head-gear, suffered it to be thrown over his
back carelessly, and followed him to the slip panel
of the paddock, trotting off rejoicingly to find his
mates.

Well," said the Native, " I've seen a good many
horses, but I never saw such a determined sulky devil
as that mare in my life. She never will be any good.

I knew it as soon as I saw her. However, we'll try
what we can do with her in the morning."

They now went to look at the horses Charley had
charge of, and found they were both as quiet as the
black colt.

You see," said Jack to our hero, '' these two are all
right. I scarcely ever came across a horse that this
style of breaking wouldn't suit, provided he hadn't
been humbugged before ; and the curious part is, that
the higher-spirited the horse is, the sooner he gets to
understand you. The wildest generally become the
soonest tame."

Chapter IX.

•A

Horse-BREAKING — RUNNING IN THE YELLOW MOB.

Next morning the blackboy, whose business it was to
collect and yard all the horses that happened to be in
the paddock, reported that one of them was lying dead
in a small water-hole. On going down to the spot
with his tutor the horse-breaker, John found it to bethe
chestnut mare which had given so much trouble
the day before. She was lying in a shallow pool of
water not more than eighteen inches in depth, with
her head completely immersed. They had her dragged
out, and examined her carefully, but could discover
no injury which would account for her decease. Jack
the Native declared that she had drowned herself
deliberately, and related several curious instances
concerning sulky horses which had come under his
own notice, some of which John West heard confirmed
by other experienced bushmen. However, no one
seemed to regret her loss, Old Graham, who had a
detestation of unruly horses, remarking that "it was

\

a good job ; it would save some fellow's neck." A
new two-year-old supplied her place in the yard, and
soon succumbed to the treatment she had resisted
unto death.

This morning the black colt, after having gone
through his lesson of the previous day several times,
was fastened to one of the rails of the yard by the
halter. Finding himself fast, he endeavoured to break
the rope by straining on it with all his force. In vain :
he only compressed his jaws with each struggle. The
greenwich - halter was strong enough to hold a bull.
He reared and fought with his feet in the air, the
halter being judiciously slackened to allow him room,
and again tightened on his coming down. Gradually
he found that, by coming close to the fence, the rope
relaxed and relieved his aching jaws, upon which
he gave over struggling to free himself, and remained
still.

Now," said the Native, " after a lesson or two of
that sort, you'll never break a bridle, my boy."

All horses, he explained to John, should be thus
treated when broken in. They learn easily a lesson
then which saves infinite annoyance afterwards. The
black colt was now driven about the yard in reins in
order to mouth him until he understood how to turn
to the right or left when desired, after which, another
quiet old horse having been procured and mounted by

Long Jack, he was taught to lead alongside. This he
picked up in the course of half an hour. The breaker
then rode into the paddock, leading him, walked,
trotted, galloped, took him round the buildings of the
house, and back to the yard again. In the course of
the evening the colt's breaking-in tackle was exchanged
for a riding - saddle and bridle ; he then
received a short lesson in leading on foot, which his
previous experience with the trailing halter had prepared
him for, and all that now remained to do was
the mounting. This was accomplished in the same
cautious gentle manner which had distinguished his
previous education. First the saddle received a few
pats, then it was moved backwards and forwards ;
then a foot was quietly inserted in the stirrup, and
weight put on it, the colt being made to stand still ;
then the right leg was slipped over, and the rider sat
on the back which never before had felt a burden.
Dismounting, the same proceeding was repeated again
and again. John was now made to mount the other
horse, and riding side by side the pair moved round
the yard. The colt broke into a jog once or twice,
sawing a little at the bit and shaking his head, but
one steady firm hand kept him to the walk, while
the other caressed him soothingly, his rider addressing
him in various terms of horsey endearment. This
lesson over, he was again allowed his freedom in the

paddock. Charley's horses were both pretty quiet
also. One of them gave a few bucks, but went
steadily afterwards.

Next day John found himself called upon to accompany
the breaker when riding the young horses ; and
with the exception of a sudden kick or buck when
startled, they behaved very quietly. The men seemed
to have a habit of sticking tight to the saddle intuitively
when the animal they bestrode gave the slightest
indication of restiveness. The saddles they rode
on were very well adapted for breaking-in purposes
and John did not recollect ever having seen any of the
kind in England. They were made of what is called
bag leather," with the rough inside of the skin outwards.
They were well cut back on the pommel, to
allow the withers of any horse plenty of room. The
knee-pads were very large and strong, covering the
front of the knee completely ; and a pad behind the
thigh fixed the leg as in a vice. The pommel was
also furnished with strong iron dees driven firmly into
the woodwork, for the purpose of holding the straps
necessary for fixing on a swag. The Native explained
that second or third rate riders very often made up a
bundle of twigs, rolled up in a piece of cloth, which
they bound across the saddle by these straps. This
kid, as it is called, pressing firmly on the front of the
legs, assists immensely in keeping a rider down in the

saddle when a horse bucks heavily, but is at the same
time dangerous. The easy grace with which the Native
and his mate sat on their horses was a source of
constant admiration to the young Englishman. The
inimitable elegance which constant practice had lent
to their slender, well-knit figures characterised every
motion, especially that of mounting.

John soon learned sufficient of the breaking in
business to enable him to practise it successfully ; and
stimulated by the Native's praises, he hardened his
heart and mounted several of the young horses for the
first time. Gradually gaining confidence, he tried his
hand at sticking to some of the more notorious youngsters,
not without receiving many tumbles in the soft
sand of the creek, whither he prudently conducted
such animals as were of a lively disposition.

And now an attempt was about to be made to run
in a mob of horses whose favourite pastures were in a
remote part of the run. This particular herd of wild
horses had amongst its numbers many fine animals
which had escaped from servitude, and for which a
standing reward existed. They had adopted all the
characteristics of their wild brethren, and were quite
as wary and watchful, and equally hard to turn in
the direction of the yards, when they set their faces
towards their mountain fastnesses. It was ruled by
a stallion of unusual size and beauty, of a peculiar

golden yellow colour, with waving long black mane
and tail. He was a thorough-bred horse, son of a horse
imported at great expense from England, out of an
imported mare of equal breeding, and when a colt of
about eighteen months, had by great negligence been
allowed to wander from Bindarobina, the station of
the United Australian Pastoral Company. For several
years his whereabouts remained undiscovered, until a
solitary stockman, tracking some cattle into this unfrequented
spot, dropped across the tracks of a herd
of horses, round a small water-hole at which he had
stopped to water his own nag. Following up the
fresh tracks for about half a mile, the stockman came
suddenly upon a mob of nearly thirty horses, feeding
up a pleasant valley, covered with delicate yornig
burnt feed. A loud snort from one of the mares
announced their discovery of him; and the yellow
steed, galloping round his harem, drew them off to
a little distance, and advanced with proudly arched
neck and floating tail at a high - stepping trot, to
examine the intruder. One by one the rest trotted up,
and caracoled in a circle, shaking their heads, plunging
and kicking playfully at each other. Most of the
foals and young horses were of the same rich golden
yellow as their sire, and the beauty of their appearance
plainly betokened noble pedigree on the father's
side at least. A movement on the part of the man

sent the whole mob flying through the forest glades.
Several years had passed since then, and many attempts
had been unsuccessfully made to get in the
yellow mob as they were called, but in vain. Whether
it was that those who first attempted it were inferior
riders, or poorly mounted, or mismanaged matters,
none had ever succeeded in capturing the fleet monarch
of the woods. The frequent attempts to run
in these animals had served to make them unusually
alert, and the chief difficulty lay in keeping them
together, it being their custom to split in every
direction .when pursued. Most men who had tried
their luck with the yellow mob came home unsuccessful,
with horses knocked up, or perhaps ruined for
life ; and those thought themselves fortunate who
managed to cut out, and bring home, a few mares and
foals, — unable to keep up with the better-winded and
lighter-heeled steeds. The Native and Charley had
heard many tales of these outlaws during their residence
in the neighbourhood, but had never had an
opportunity before of measuring themselves with the
mob, and both ardently longed to attempt the difficult
and arduous undertaking.

The day came, and mounted on the picked horses
of the Cambaranga station, the Native and his mate,
accompanied by the stockman and our friend John,
started to find, and if possible capture, the yellow mob.

John, who was in high spirits, determined that at all
events no one should have it to say that he was afraid
to ride, and resented highly Charley's depreciatory remark
that "he wouldn't see the way they went."

The little party followed a narrow track, which,
winding through some scrubby thick country, led
them over a small range into the watershed of the
creek, on the head of which the horses were usually
found. The creek was at this time of the year merely
a succession of huge water-holes and beds of sand.
The country on its banks for some miles was of an open,
ridgy, lightly timbered description ; then, as the party
pushed further up, it took a different character, — the
soil became poor — a mixture of pipeclay and sand ;
the trees grew tall and straight, while thick underwood
and saplings here and there gave a gloomy look
to the whole. Further on the creek grew more confined.
Edges came close into it of a stony, broken,
difficult nature, and at last, after about four or five
miles of this kind of travelling, the country opened
out again. Sandy, apple-tree flats, and iron-bark
ridges, lined the creek here on either side ; while at
no great distance ranges bounded the view.

All now became interested in inspecting the ground.
Horses' tracks, though old, could be plainly seen everywhere.
A mile or two was traversed cautiously, the
stockman assuring the party that if " Yellowman got

VOL. L H

wind of them that night, they might say good-bye to
their chance of getting a run out of him." Accordingly
a convenient spot was chosen for a camp, the
horses were hobbled and turned out, and matters discussed
with the assistance of the pot and the pipe.

John thoroughly enjoyed this camping out. The
red sun was sinking behind the dark mountain-range,
throwing a warm glow over the western sky. Not a
cloud was visible. The horses revelled in good sweet
pasture. The fire was lit and pots boiled merrily,
while overhead the laughing-jackass choruses out
in discordant union their strange greeting to the evening.
Clouds of white cockatoos flew screeching one
after another in the same direction, like flakes of snow
upon the sky; gentle little squatter pigeons cooed
lovingly in answer to their mates on all sides, or flew
rapidly up to a branch of one of the old trees which
overhung the pool at which they were accustomed
to slake their thirst. Sometimes a kangaroo would
come down with measured thud, thud, and drink, and
then return without noticing the human beings ; or
seeing them, would swerve suddenly to one side,
and disappear with flying leaps. Certainly it was
the elysium of rest. The recumbent position gave
thorough ease after the long ride, and the friendly
pipe produced a soothing effect on minds free from
care, which those only know who have experienced it.

How little sufficed them ! — a scanty supper of beef
and bread, with a quart of tea ; a thin half-blanket
apiece under them, and their saddles for pillows.
John would not have bartered his peace of mind to
be a king.

Presently Charley commenced a yarn, which drew
another from the stockman, followed in turn by the
Native, after which the entire party dropped off to
sleep.

John had not, as it appeared to him, slept more
than a few minutes, when he was awakened by one
of the others, who, calling to him to get his bridle,
started off towards where the horses had been feeding.
Hastily snatching it from the ground, he followed, and
soon came upon Charley, who told him that a wild
mob had come down to their horses, and they feared
that their nags might be taken away by them. Now
they overtook Jack and the stockman, who had succeeded
in catching their animals, and stopping the
others, which were hastily bridled. John had not got
the sleep quite out of his eyes, but soon the noise of
many hoofs awakened him completely.

In the clear starlit night he saw plainly a dark mass
circling rapidly round them, while the tramp of the
wild squadron sounded like thunder. Suddenly there
was a pause, then came a loud fierce snort like a trump
then another short interval of silence. Once

more the angry defiance broke upon the quiet night,
then a rush — a breaking of saplings, the galloping of
many feet — becoming fainter and fainter until lost in
the distance. Sleep was now out of the question.
The Southern Cross sinking to rest betokened that the
night had almost passed. Soon the bright morning-star
ushered in the calm sweet dawn. A few birds
began to whistle. The laughing-jackass simultaneously
unite once more in offering their grateful but
unearthly hymn of praise. Ear down the creek, on
one of the river-oaks which grow in its bed, a swamp-pheasant
utters its rapid coo-coo-coo-coo- coo-coo-cook.
Once more the cockatoos fly screeching across the sky
towards their feeding-ground beside a distant stream.
A huge crow, with a knowledge of their whereabouts
truly supernatural, flies up and alights heavily on a
branch above their heads, with a loud hoarse caw of
satisfaction, echoed a moment afterwards by his mate.
And now the glorious southern sun arises above the
horizon. The air resounds with the joyous melody of
birds, among which is heard clearly the rich full note
of the organ magpie.

A hasty breakfast is soon over, pipes are lighted,
horses saddled, and the party proceed on their search.
How exhilarating is the morning sweetness ! a brilliant
fresh beauty pervades everything, — the leaves
the flowers, the grass, glisten with dew. As they

cross the creek the horses stand with their fetlocks
in the clear limpid water and sip it luxuriously, now
and then raising their heads to look about them with
their mouths full, a little stream escaping from their
lips where the bit parts them. Now they follow the
tracks of their midnight visitors. Occasionally they
pass in close proximity to some old-man kangaroo,
who, surrounded by his does, sits upright watching
the small party as they go by, until, reassured by the
gradually increasing distance, he again drops on all-fours,
and slowly hops from one sweet patch of 
to another, interrupting his breakfast now
and then to scratch himself with one of his short
human-like arms, much after the manner of a monkey.
Frequently they come to a bare patch of ground under
a few shady trees, with horse-tracks more or less fresh,
and heaps of dung.

Horse - camp," whispers the stockman to John.
"We may come on them any minute now."

John's heart flutters with the excitement caused
by the stealthy approach, and the knowledge that
the first glimpse will send them all away at a wild
racing pace. The others take things more coolly.
!Now and then one gets down to examine a track
which puzzles him. Now the tracks split and look
as if going in all directions. At this moment Charley,
who is leading, stops short, and holds his head in a

listening attitude, lifting his hand as if enjoining
caution.

All stop, and standing in their stirrups, crane their
necks to discover the mob they are in search of, —
but a patch of scrub lies before them. As they cautiously
creep up to Charley, he whispers that he heard
a foal whinnying not far in advance. It is fortunate
that they are to leeward of the mob. They all alight
and settle their saddle-cloths, tighten their girths and
belts, pull the chin-straps of their cabbage-tree hats
down, and mounting, move towards the scrub. For
one moment John caught sight of a mob of horses,
some black, a few bays, a grey or two, and a number
of yellow or golden chestnut hue, — the most prominent
figure, however, being a noble upstanding
yellow horse, with a rich golden tint lighting up the
otherwise rather ugly colour.

He stood a few yards nearer to them than the rest,
gazing with uplifted head. Then seemingly comprehending
what they wanted, he snorted and dashed
off furiously. There was a confused noise, a few
neighs from mares and foals, a huge cloud of dust,
a rapid trampling, and John found himself galloping
close to a number of mares and foals, streaming in a
long line after a cloud of dust in the distance. John
now realised what Charley meant by saying he would
never see the way they went ; but pushing his horse

to its best, he flew on, hoping to overtake his companions.
The mares and foals broke behind him in
various directions, but still he pushed on ; now some
broken-looking gullies with huge rocks rose in front,
and dashing down them at the imminent risk of his
neck, he found still worse before him. This was
rather different to sailing over the open level country.
Here he was stuck at these gullies, while no doubt his
companions were straining every nerve in pursuit of
the famous Yellowman. Scrambling sometimes on
foot, sometimes on horseback, he came at last to a
standstill, and recognised all his efforts as useless. He
was clearly not destined to be the capturer of any of
that wild lot.

Turning his horse's head, he followed, not without
a good deal of trouble, the broken gully to its junction
with the creek, coming upon the tracks of a mob of
horses heading down it as he did so. Disgusted and
ashamed of his failure, John pushed on with hopes
of not getting in very much behind the others. Ashe
passed through the thick country on the banks of
the creek, following as much as possible the tracks of
the horses, he came to a spot where the broken and
bent saplings gave evidence of their furious speed ;
and on the ground he was shocked to see a man lying.
Dismounting hastily, he found it to be the stockman,
who had met with a disaster amongst the thick timber.

Recognising John, he faintly whispered " Water."
John procured some in his quart-pot, which the poor
fellow eagerly swallowed, and coming round a little,
with difficulty gave him to understand that he had
struck against a large bough, which had knocked him
off his horse, and he thought had smashed in his chest.
Getting some more water, and propping his head up
comfortably, John left him, promising to bring the
buggy for him ; and pushing his horse along at a
gallop, soon reached the range dividing the creek
from that on which the station stood.

As he turned round a patch of scrub he fell in with
about a dozen horses coming towards him, and by
their knocked-up, draggled appearance, guessed them
to be part of the mob his companions had followed.
Something had occurred to prevent them being larded,
which gave him a chance to distinguish himself, and
redeem his failure. Shouting at them, and cracking
his whip, he found little difficulty in heading the
jaded animals towards home. His own horse was
comparatively fresh, and he had nearly brought
them in sight of the yard, when Charley came up,
overjoyed to find that West had turned up in the very
nick of time. The horses were now securely larded, and
to John's intense delight and pride he found that the
Native had run in the yellow stallion. Singling out
from the mob, of which he was the leader, the powerful

thorough-bred had stretched himself to his utmost,
as he raced along, followed closely by the hawk-eyed
active Native, on a steed whose Arab sire had bequeathed
to him an iron-hearted stoutness and endurance
which a Bedouin might have gloried in.

Alas, Yellowman ! the soft, young burnt feed thy
soul loved is now telling against thee. Still, with
reeking flanks and sobbing breast, over gullies, creeks,
and through scrub, the noble animal carried his wearied
body, the pure blood sustaining the fearful pace, his
wily pursuer edging him nearer and nearer home. A
few miles more and a mob of quiet mares and foals
are fallen in with, and surrounded by them, the conquered
wild steed entered the yard and became a
prisoner. It was at this moment that Charley, whose
horse had knocked up with him within a mile of the
station, made his appearance.

Hastily catching the horse which the unlucky stockman
had ridden, and which had galloped in with
the others, he started back to try and overtake the
horses he had been compelled to let go, when he met
our hero bringing them in.

No sooner was the accident made known than the
greatest sympathy prevailed among all the station
hands. One started at once for the nearest doctor,
some seventy miles away, while the others busied
themselves in harnessing horses to the buggy, and

in getting it made comfortable for the sufferer, and
starting back to the place where he lay. They returned
late at night, bringing the man with them.
A large poultice of marsh - mallows had been prepared,
which was applied at once, and afforded much
relief. This simple remedy was used until the arrival
of the doctor next morning, he having ridden hard
all night ; and under his skilful treatment the poor
fellow progressed rapidly, and eventually recovered,
although a deep indentation in his chest showed how
severe the accident had been.

Chapter X.

A HARLEQUINADE — BETYAMMO AND THE GRAYS.

The news of the capture of the yellow stallion and
some of his mob soon got about the district, and induced
a good many to visit Cambaranga from various
motives. Some there were who owned horses in the
mob. or who believed, from descriptions given of
horses seen amongst the wild ones, that they did ;
and there were others who were ready to claim any
horse for whom no owner could be found.

Among the the former was young Mr Fitzgerald,
from Ungahrun station, a tall, fine-looking young
fellow, of whom John had heard Ruth speak as a
kind friend of her childhood. A short, glossy, blackbeard
and moustache added much to the manliness
of his honest open face. Living chiefly in the bush,
away from the gaieties and temptations of town, he
had retained the simple open frankness of manner
and cheery nature which had always made him popular
in his neighbourhood. Always ready, as he was.

to afford hospitality and do a poor man a good turn,
the working classes spoke well of him ; while his skill
as a horseman, and his intimate knowledge of bush-sonship,
together with the influence he possessed as
the son of a large proprietor, secured the goodwill and
respect of all, both rich and poor, in his district.

Old Graham was not at home, so having hung his
horse up to the railings of the fence, Fitzgerald walked
up to the stock-yard, where he met our hero, to whom
he introduced himself, telling his business in a few
words.

A number of men were gathered round the yards,
in which were still the captured horses. The yellow
horse stood by himself in a small high yard, surrounded
by other divisions of fencing.

The dry white respiration dimmed his golden sides;
the want of food and water had tucked up his belly;
his huge tail, draggled with sweat and dirt, and matted
in great bush knots, swept the ground ; his long mane
hung in thick tangled masses on either side of his
huge bull-like crest. Imprisoned and captive as he
was, the wild eyes gleaming with unquenched fire
from among the black locks which half hid his forehead,
bespoke an indomitable savage spirit. Proudly,
with uplifted crest and arched neck, he trotted around
his small prison with grand high action, snorting loudly
ever and anon.

What are you going to do with him ? " asked Fitzgerald.


Oh, 1 believe he belongs to the Company's station,"
returned John ; '* they have sent over for him."

You have a treat before you there, Dick," remarked
the young squatter to the Company's stockman, who
was looking on. "How are you going to manage
him ? "

That's just what I don't know," said the man, who,
though a good enough hand among horses generally,
seemed rather frightened. " He's a bit of a man-eater,
this one," he grumbled, climbing into the yard, and,
cautiously approaching its occupant, who wheeling
round, and raising himself on his haunches, struck
savagely two or three times at him. " I've be at
him all day, and that's how he treats me now. He's
a regular Felicia Boy," he continued rather ruefully
; " but I'll put the tackling on him in the crush
tomorrow, and see how he'll shape with that."

Fitzgerald's attention was now directed by one of
the men to a particular horse in the other yard, which
he at once recognised.

By Jove! " he said, "there's a ten-pound note reward
out of my pocket. I've not seen that grey horse these
two years. I made sure some one had stolen him."
Going into the yard, he endeavoured to drive the
grey into a corner by himself, and catch him. In

vain ; round and round flew the mob like wild deer,
the grey as wild as any of them.

Getting a light, long, greenwich - rope, and asking
two or three men to help him, the young man gathered
up the slack in one hand, and holding the noose in
the other, whirled it two or three times round his
head, and sent it circling in the air after the excited
horses, who kept flying round. Hovering for a portion
of a second over the grey's head, it settled round his
neck with wonderful precision, the rope was tightened,
and, after a plunge or two, the horse, obeying his old
education, made towards them, still straining slightly
on the rope.

The rest of the mob were drafted into another yard.

Fitzgerald sent for his bridle and saddle, and had his

horse turned into the paddock. With a long stick he

now rubbed the grey gently over the head and body,

then, gradually approaching, he slipped on the bridle.

The rope was taken off and laid on one side. Giving

the bridle to one of the men to hold, he approached

the horse carefully from the shoulder, and endeavoured

(vainly for some time) to put on the saddle ; but it

was not until the animal's fore-leg was strapped up

that this could be accomplished and firmly secured.

The crupper now caused some delay owing to the

plunging of the animal ; but all was satisfactorily

managed at length, the men all left the yard, and.

seating themselves on the top-rail of the stock-yard
fence, prepared to enjoy the coming scene with true
bush zest. Fitzgerald, after fixing the reins to the
saddle, undid the strap which held up the creature's
foot, and allowed him to run loose, in order that,
if disposed to buck, he might do so before being
mounted.

But Harlequin, as the grey was named, did not
seem inclined to waste his energies on pigskin merely,
although he moved about very stiffly, with slightly
humped back, and his tail held closely to his body.

"You better mind that fellow, Mr Fitzgerald," said
the Native ; " he's sure to buck a docker."

All right, Jack," said Fitzgerald ; " he looks ugly.
I'll give him a few turns round the yard before getting
on."

Accordingly the horse was driven at a canter half-a-dozen
times round the enclosure, occasionally testifying
his disapproval of the unaccustomed harness by
humping his back, or lashing out with his hind-legs.

"Way, Harlequin, way, old boy," said the young
squatter, stopping him at last, and catching him.
"We'll try now whether you or I can hold out
longest."

Leading him into the centre of the yard, he gathered
up the reins in his left hand, and raising his cabbage-tree,
allowed the chin-strap to drop to its place.

Standing close to the horse's shoulder, and catching
the stirrup-leather in his right hand, he was about to
make a spring when a violent plunge from Harlequin
prevented him.

This was repeated two or three times, until Fitzgerald,
shortening the reins, and slipping them up the
horse's neck until his hand reached the animal's head,
seized and held the near-side ear along with them ina
grasp of iron, declining all offers of assistance from
the onlookers. This plan answered. Placing his toe
in the stirrup, he was on Harlequin's back in an
instant, — a proceeding which that noble creature
instantly resented by making a furious plunge halfway
across the yard, alighting with all four feet on
the ground at the same time close to each other, his
head between his fore-legs, his tail well in, and his
back bent like a boomerang. A series of similar movements
followed with the rapidity of lightning, the
vicious brute squealing all the time like a pig, and
confining himself to a small corner of the yard.

Eound and round he spun like a top to the right,
then with a sudden prop he lashed out and bucked
round and round in the opposite direction. Now he
flew partly across the yard, bucking from side to side,
and leaning over so much in doing so that it appeared
to John a miracle how he recovered his gravity. Well
did he maintain the title to his very appropriate name.

for seldom did horse buck harder than did the grey
that day. Fitzgerald sat leaning well back, his legs
rigid, his body above the hips swaying to the motions
of his horse. After the first violent shock, which
shifted him a little in his seat, he recovered his balance,
and John could hear him mutter between his
set teeth as he passed near him once, — " No, no, Mr
Harlequin, we don't get on the like of you to come off."
But, alas ! the best of riders sometimes come to
grief. The next time he passed John, the latter
noticed a strap flying loose about the cantle of the
saddle, and heard the Native remark, — " He's slipped
his crupper; he's bound to come off now." And
so he did, but not ingloriously. Each succeeding
buck shifted the saddle further and further on to the
horse's withers, now that nothing held it back, still
the young man kept as firmly to his seat as ever ; at
last a furious buck and rear sent the plucky rider to
the ground, still clasping the saddle between his legs,
and holding the reins of the bridle, which had also
been dragged off, in his hand ; and away flew the
horse, smashing the saddle with a kick which was
intended as a parting salute for his owner. Loud
applause and much encouragement had been bestowed
during this scene on the young man, who, now picking
himself up, examined his tackling. Not a strap
was broken, not a buckle undone; the mischief had

VOL. L I

all been caused by the animal managing to slip his
tail out of the crupper.

This saddle is done for," he said ; " who can lend
me one ? "

Four or five were instantly at his service.

Now then, old man," he observed coolly, turning
to the horse, who stood watching the proceedings
from a corner of the yard, " we will try another dodge
this time."

This dodge, which was put in execution upon the
animal's being saddled the second time, consisted in
tying the crupper to the horse's tail with a piece of
twine.

Once more springing to his seat, the contest recommenced,
Fitzgerald, whose temper was ruffled, freely
using whip and spur. This fierce paroxysm lasted
about as long as the former one ; then gradually subsiding,
the exhausted bleeding steed acknowledged his
efforts as useless, dropped into an ordinary canter,
and came to a standstill at his rider's bidding.

John gazed with admiration on the handsome,
graceful horseman as he leant back on the saddle patting
carelessly those hind-quarters to approach which
had been so dangerous a few minutes before, and
listening to the remarks of the spectators.

Well," said one, " that fellow went to market like
a bird."

"Yes," echoed another. "Bucked a blessed hurricane."


Buck a town down," cried a third.

Never see'd a horse strip himself naked quicker,"
muttered a fourth.

"Good job for you, you didn't catch that kick,"
congratulated Jack. " It was as close a thing as ever
I saw."

"Well, a miss is as good as a mile," laughed the
young man.

So saying, he unsaddled Harlequin, and turning him
into the paddock, walked down to the house with John.

The pleasant open frankness which characterised
young Fitzgerald won our friend's heart at once ; and
before long, the infection communicating itself, he
found himself talking away as if he had known the
other all his life. There was also an open simple
manliness about John which was agreeable to the
other, who begged that he would return with him
to Ungahrun for a short visit. There being little
to do at Cambaranga, and old Graham offering no
objection, the young men started next morning,
making a detour by Be ty ammo station, at which
place Fitzgerald was desirous of calling.

Among other topics of conversation, the character
of the Cosgrove family came briefly under discussion ;
and it was easy to perceive that Fitzgerald entertained

no feelings of love towards the father and son, although
he spoke very kindly of Ruth.

She was a dear good little girl before she went to
England' said Fitzgerald. " I found her once lying
upon her mother's grave, crying as if her heart would
break, and I thought I would never get her comforted
and taken home. But her brother Ealf was a black
sheep. Before he left this he had surpassed in mischief
all the blackguard boys in the surrounding
stations. He once tried to steal a black colt of ours
which had never been branded, and which he had
managed to drive into the Cambaranga stock - yard
among a mob of wild horses. If he hasn't mended his
manners since he went to England, I should say he
will get into trouble some day."

John assured Fitzgerald that to his certain knowledge
there were no symptoms of reformation visible
in young Cosgrove, but warmly re-echoed the other's
praises of Ruth.

After travelling for about fifteen miles through a
sandy, rather uninteresting, thickly timbered country,
they arrived about mid-day at Betyammo.

Thick timber and wattle - bushes hid the house
from view until the travellers were quite close to it ;
and for a mile or two back, huge trees, denuded of
their bark for roofing purposes, held up their gaunt
bleached arms to heaven, as if appealing against the

cruelty which had thus condemned them to decay in
the full vigour of their strength.

Everywhere were scattered stumps of large trees,
mostly sawn down by the cross-cut saw, and their
trunks had been split up for building purposes, as
the chips and splinters lying about betokened. The
buildings were enclosed in a paddock, one side of
which ran parallel with the road for some distance.
They presented a ragged, patched, rather tumble-down,
yet on the whole comfortable, appearance.

The house never had been good, and its constant
patching and repairing had probably cost as much
as would have built a new one ; but the family loved
it, and in spite of the fits of new house building
which periodically attacked Mr Gray, the owner of
the station, they continued to dwell in the familiar
old bark " humpy," so full of happy memories. The
roof was covered with sheets of bark, held down by
large wooden riders pegged in the form of a square
to one another. The veranda extended the whole
length of the front ; but the two ends were closed up,
and formed charming, ragged-looking, but exceedingly
comfortable little rooms, covered by gorgeous creepers,
except where, through the open windows, one caught
a glimpse in passing of snow-white mosquito-curtains,
and walls papered with illustrations from some of the
pictorial journals. The veranda looked out on a pretty

little flower-garden, its bright beds telling of much
tender care and attention. A row of large-leaved
tropical-looking arrowroot plants surrounded the little
enclosure, beyond which the eye took in a considerable
portion of the paddock. The greater part of the trees
had been carefully felled and stumped; while those
remaining, spared evidently with a view to shade and
effect, imparted a noble park-like appearance to the
view, rising as they did in tall clumps out of the thick
short sward of couch-grass, green with the summer
thunderstorms. Morning glories wound their graceful
stems round the battered old posts of the veranda ;
and a huge vine spread its large leafy branches over
the entire back of the house, tenderly covering from
sight the nakedness and defects of the friend who
sheltered it from the cold and rain, acquiring itself
a double gracefulness in the gentle act. The buildings,
nearly all bearing the same time-honoured look
which a bark roof so readily bestows, stood, like those
of most other stations, in the form of a quadrangle.

The centre of the court was occupied by a large
tree, around which a handsome gigantic convolvulus
twined itself in many a fold, its large, green, plate-like
leaves almost concealing the knotted stem and
lower branches, from which long sprays trailed downward,
swaying slightly in the morning breeze.

In the shade of this old denizen of the woods sat

a merry circle of young black girls in picturesque
though rather scanty attire. They were amusing
themselves after the fashion of their light-hearted
race, by singing one of their never-ending corroborates.

One or two had gathered a quantity of the golden
everlasting flower, with which they were decorating
the short, shiny curls of their playfellows, now and
then interrupting the singers with some sally, which
would provoke an uncontrollable burst of laughter
from all, causing a great display of bright dark eyes
and pearly teeth.

As the young men approached, three or four fine
kangaroo - dogs, which had been lying asleep in the
shade, started up, barking furiously.

Exclamations of greeting broke from the girl as
they recognised Fitzgerald, whom they had known
since their infancy ; and as the young men dismounted,
old Mr Gray came out bareheaded with a
hearty welcome, and a running fire of conversation,
orders, and reproaches.

Ah, here you are at last, Fitzgerald ! Pretty time
you've been about coming over, after all your promises
! Kitty " (this to one of the girls), " you jabber
Bobby come up, take 'im off saddle, and give 'im
yarraman water. Merry micky now.^ Mrs Gray was

^ " Kitty, tell Bobby to come and water the horses and unsaddle
them. Make haste now. "

talking of you only this morning," he continued, " and
the girls are dying to give you your revenge at
croquet. You were beaten shamefully last time you
played."

Fitzgerald had only time to introduce young West
to the friendly squatter, when he was surrounded by
Mrs Gray and her two daughters, who welcomed him
with an unconstrained warmth which revealed a long
and intimate acquaintance.

Not less sincere and scarcely less warm was John's
welcome as a new neighbour, and chatting gaily, the
whole party entered the house, and going out on
the veranda disposed themselves in various squatters'
lounges and easy-chairs, old Mr Gray taking possession
of a string hammock which hung suspended
between two rafters. An animated conversation was
kept up by the party until, lunch being announced,
they made their way to one of the buildings close
to the house, which was used as a detached diningroom.


The meal was plain but good. To John, indeed,
after his hard fare of salt-junk day after day, it
almost seemed luxurious — and yet it owed all its
nicety to a little feminine supervision of culinary
affairs.

After dinner more conversation on the veranda was
followed by an adjournment to a spot sacred to croquet.

which game had penetrated the forest depths thus far,
and which exercised as great a fascination over the
minds of the bush-maidens of that time as perhaps
lawn-tennis does now.

The sisters differed considerably from one another,
but both were charming, frank, natural girls. They
spoke as they felt, honestly, and openly ; and while
carefully trained by their mother in the usages of
society, their fine open air and self-reliant life had
done away with all stiff conventionality without bestowing
the fast air which those city young ladies
who despise its precepts frequently acquire.

Phoebe, the eldest, was petite in figure, and a peculiar
neatness and deftness characterised her form and
actions. She was clever, and had read and understood
more than many older women with better opportunities
; still with all, there was an innocence
and simplicity about her that was most attractive.
She was so unselfish, so completely without egotism,
that she never seemed to think about herself or her
acquirements at all. A humble, guileless, bright,
loving little girl she was, and dearly loved by her
own people, and indeed by all who knew her. Bessie,
who was two years younger, was a little taller, and
rather rounder and fuller in figure. A merry, laughing,
roguish girl, who found amusement in everything,
but with an earnest, sympathetic, true soul beneath

the surface. Perhaps better fitted to withstand a
contrary fortune than her sister, her spirits seemed
to rise above any difficulty, and conquer it by force
of her strong, faithful, loving nature. Both were
cheerful, happy girls, with fair hair and blue eyes,
learned in the mysteries of housekeeping, fond of
riding, loving a dance with all their hearts, and as
much interested in the latest fashions as the rest of
the female world in general.

They had known Fitzgerald for many years, and
were never better pleased than when he managed to
ride over for a few days. His appearance was always
a signal for some unusual little dissipation, and many
a scolding did he undergo from light-hearted Bessie
when he delayed his coming.

"Come along, Willy," she called now, addressing
him, as she nearly always did, by his Christian name.
"I never knew any one so tiresome. You declare
you must go home to that horrid mustering tomorrow,
and you are wasting the whole of the sunshine ; we
have only two hours until sundown. Come along,
Phoebe, do ; Mr West, do hurry them up."

Bessie's energetic commands soon brought the party
together, and declaring that Fitzgerald played wretchedly
the last time he was her partner, she announced
her intention of joining forces with John. Soon the
party were engaged in the now disregarded and despised

game. Bessie was the life and soul of it, and
in spite of all Fitzgerald's efforts, she croqueted her
ball through the hoops in a masterly manner, time
after time, returning to send his one way, and her
sister's the other, while assisting John, who, to tell
the truth, was rather a muff with the mallet. Game
after game fell to her and her partner; and at last,
satiated with victory, she proposed returning to the
house.

The utter want of female society had never made
itself so apparent to John as now when enjoying it,
and he felt quite disgusted with the desolate dreariness
of the life which he had lately thought so fascinating.
As they approached the house, several black
fellows came up expressing delight in their usual
demonstrative way at seeing their old acquaintance
Fitzgerald, and inquiring as to the whereabouts of
friends whose nomadic habits might have led them
into his neighbourhood. The girls went in to assist
in preparing tea, while Mr and Mrs Gray joined the
young men in the garden. Soon Bessie's merry voice
was heard summoning the party in, and the evening
meal was disposed of amidst much cheerful talk, and
pleasant sallies of fun. A smoke on the veranda followed
; after which Phoebe, seating herself at the
piano, struck up one of Strauss's glorious waltzes,
marking the time with much precision ; and Bessie,

calling upon John to assist her, cleared the broad
floor of the veranda of the chairs and lounges which
filled it, and ordered Fitzgerald to come and dance.
He pretended lameness. " Can't, Bessie. Bad spill ;
hurt my knee."

Oh, what a story ! " and seizing his hand, she
insisted on his making an attempt. Eound and round
they floated until Fitzgerald sank exhausted.

Well, I never did see any one tire so soon," she
cried. " I know you are only lazy."

John now begged for a turn, and acquitted himself
to the satisfaction of the vivacious girl, who unhesitatingly
declared that he was much better fun than
her old friend — and "waltzes much better, too," she
added, poutingly. She then took her place at the
instrument relieving her sister, who was solicited
for a dance by Fitzgerald ; and John fancied that her
quiet manner had a slight touch of shyness in it, and
that her colour slightly rose as she smilingly assented.

After some time, Bessie, declaring she was quite
weary, ceased her dance music, and striking a few
chords, sang a sweet old ballad, and the whole party
entered the little drawing-room, which was really surprisingly
pretty for such an out-of-the-way habitation.
The slab walls were lined with calico neatly papered.
A few good engravings, and a couple of old oil-paintings,
representing Mr Gray's father and mother, were

hung round, with some local sketches in water-colours,
executed by Mrs Gray, who had much taste that way.
Magazines and novels lay on the little table, on which
stood a handsome heroine lamp. A book-case, containing
a capital selection of standard volumes and
works of reference, occupied a corner opposite to the
piano ; while a sofa-lounge and a few chairs completed
the furniture. Tanned native dog skins served as
floor-rugs ; and tanned and coloured sheepskins looked
very handsome on the backs of the easy-chairs.

Fitzgerald, who had a good baritone voice, joined
the ladies at the piano, and John and Mr Gray
conversed.

About ten o'clock the ladies retired, and the gentlemen
withdrew to that apartment in the house specially
devoted to bachelors. Brandy was produced,
pipes lighted, and conversation returned to the grand
staple Australian subject — "stock."

Mr Gray was a pleasant, frank, 
squatter, with a kind word for everybody, and
a keen eye for the merits or demerits of sheep, cattle,
or horses. In early life he had served in the army,
but seeing no prospect of marrying the girl he was
attached to while remaining in her Majesty's service,
he sold his commission, and marrying, sailed for Australia,
where, after some years of hardship and ill-luck,
he bought Betyammo, upon which he had lived ever

since, well to do, if not rich. He was fond of retailing
stories of his adventures in early life ; and this
evening, on John's remarking the gratification he
received from the delightful hospitality exercised in
the bush, he said : " Well, yes, it is one of the pleas-attest
features, I think, in a squatter's life, being ina
position to afford a welcome to those in want of it ;
and indeed the favour very often is conferred by the
visitor. From him we derive information as to the
doings of our neighbours, and much general news
which could reach us through no other channel."

But do you not meet with very strange characters
at times ? " questioned John."

Occasionally," answered Mr Gray ; " but they invariably
behave themselves with propriety. Should
they not do so, they would at once be requested to
remove themselves to the men's huts."

"When I was much younger," he continued, ''I
was travelling in the New England district, in New
South Wales. I spent a night at a bush inn, and
there fell in with a tall, soldierly-looking Irishman.
He had served as a soldier of fortune in more than
one Continental army, and his conversation was exceedingly
amusing. A sort of devil-may-care recklessness
seemed to sit on him with a jaunty air, and one felt
rather inclined to like the fellow. Our roads lay the
same way, and we jogged along together for a couple

of days, when we arrived at a station owned by an
old bachelor. He received us very hospitably, and
sitting in the evening over our pipes and brandy-and-water,
just as we are now doing, the Irishman happened
to make some remark about Spain.

"have you ever been there?' interrogated our host.

' Oh yes,' returned the other ; ' I served a considerable
time in the Carlist army during the war

' Indeed ! ' replied the old man, with much interest.
' I had a nephew,' he said, speaking slowly,
a very dear nephew in that army. I wonder did you
ever meet him ? I have not heard of him for years.'

"what was his name?' inquired the ex-Carlist
officer.

*' ' His name was Nugent,' responded the squatter.

' What ! Francis de Burgh Nugent ? '

' The same.'

' God bless me ! ' ejaculated the soldier, in a tone of
surprised and rather curious interest ; adding, ' WJiy,
I shot that fellow ten years ago /' "

What a brute he must have been ! " broke from
both John and Fitzgerald.

How did the old man take the information ? "
queried the latter.

"He got up," answered Mr Gray, "and without
saying a word left the room."

*' And the Irishman ? "

"Oh, be wondered what was the matter with the
old fellow, thought him very strange in his manner
to his guests, and could not be brought to see that he
had outraged propriety in any way by his indecent
and cruel confession. We left next morning at daylight
; I for one had no wish to meet our host again ;
and soon after I lost sight of the easy-minded mercenary.
Now I'll show you to your rooms ; breakfast
will be ready tomorrow at eight, so you need not turnout
early. Good night."

"Good night," "good night," returned his guests,
retiring to their room.

CHAPTER XI.

EARLY MORNING AT THE GRAYS' A RIDE TO UNGAHRUN

THE Cattle BUYER.

Notwithstanding that no duty called them forth, both
the young men were up by daybreak. Early habits
are so general in the bush that breakfast is usually
over by seven, and all hands at work. They strolled
up to the horse-yard, into which all the horses contained
in the paddock had been driven by a blackboy.
A yard full of horses or cattle is irresistible to a bushman
: if he has the time to spare, he cannot pass until
he has examined the animals, deciphered their brands
and criticised their merits, and in all probability stowed
away in his mind the images of some of them so accurately
as to be able to recognise them after months
and even years have elapsed. After an hour spent in
this manner they returned to the house, where they
found the young ladies busy in their morning duties.

Bessie had first come out with a plateful of food for
her fowls, and as she raised her voice greeting her

VOL. I. K

friends, a handsome tame " native companion' which
had been stalking about picking up insects, drew near.
Opening his large slate-coloured wings, and dancing
grotesquely, the interesting bird approached his young
mistress, bowing gracefully from side to side as he
hopped lightly along; then running up, he laid his
heron-like head lovingly against her breast.

What a nice bird ! " said John, who had no idea
they made such capital pets.

Yes ; isn't he a dear ? " returned Bessie. " Davy,

our blackboy, knocked him down with a stick when

little, and brought him home to me, and now he will

not go away although he has his perfect freedom."

"I don't wonder at it, Bessie," said Fitzgerald;

'slavery to such a charming mistress "

"Now keep your compliments for a native companion
of your own, Mr Fitzgerald," said Bessie laughing;
"you will be taking one some day, you know,
unless you marry an English wife. Come and look
at my Joey, Mr West; and oh, Willy, we have got
the most darling little humming-birds you ever saw !
Phoebe has them in a cage, and she doesn't know what
they live on, and she wants you to tell her."

All right," returned Fitzgerald, entering the house.

The lively girl now opened the door of a small room,

and a young kangaroo came hopping out. His pretty

head, with its longish ears, and full, soft, lustrous eyes.

looked something like a fawn's, as he sat up and ate
bread from the gentle hand of the Australian girl.
"There, Joey. Now look, Mr West, he follows me
everywhere. I shut him up at night because I am
afraid of some of the dogs chasing or killing him. Go
away, Smoker, now ! go away, Spring ! " she cried, as
two tall, rich, tawny-coloured kangaroo-dogs with black
muzzles jumped up and raced round the terrified Joey,
who hopped close to his mistress's skirt for protection.
When he grows a little bigger he can hold his own
with the dogs," she said ; " for they often seem afraid
of touching a tame kangaroo, although they kill great
old-men every day."

The native companion and the fowls, which had
now flocked up, were fed, and Bessie and John went
in and joined Fitzgerald and Phoebe on the veranda.
They were standing close together, near a cage which
hung half hidden among the foliage of a beautiful
creeper. The rising sun was yet low in the heavens,
and shone full into the veranda, causing the dewdrops
on the short grass to sparkle like innumerable diamonds.
A beautiful little blue mountain-parrot flew
from spray to spray, alighting ever and anon on the
head or shoulders of its mistress, uttering, in a whistling
tone, " Pretty boy, pretty boy," and John thought
he had seldom seen a lovelier picture. At this moment
one of the little humming-birds fluttered out of its cage

to the ground ; and instantly, before any attempt at a
rescue could be made, it was seized and gobbled up
by a great red cock that happened to be prowling
about in search of what might turn up.

Oh the horrid creature ! he has eaten alive my
little darling humming-bird ! " exclaimed Phoebe, ready
to cry.

An attempt now made by John and Fitzgerald to
catch the marauder and make him disgorge his prey,
served only to produce a wild cackle and desperate
exertions to escape on the cock's part, which it
eventually did by taking to its wings.

Phoebe was inconsolable for a time ; and Bessie,
though grieving over the loss of her sister's pet,
could not help sometimes seeing the comic side of
the accident, and laughing at the instantaneous and
unlooked-for manner of its disappearance. Mr Gray
and his kind wife now came, and the party adjourned
to breakfast; after which meal, horses having been
brought to the door and saddled, the two young ladies
and their father accompanied the young men a portion
of their journey, bidding them at last good-bye, with
many hospitable invitations for an early repetition
of their visit.

What a nice family ! " said John to his friend.
I had no idea that such ladylike accomplished
women were to be met with in the bush."

I believe you," returned his companion ; " English
people are so conceited. They seem to fancy civilisation
cannot exist much beyond London. I suppose
you fancied we were a community of convicts ? "

Well, the truth is, I had no very distinct notions
on the subject. I always thought that the term
native' was applied to the aboriginal, and now I
find that it really designates the native-born white
population."

"It is applied to both. I am a native, and am
proud of it. I would not change, even if I could,
to be an Englishman. It sometimes surprises me to
meet with Englishmen, educated men of the world,
who display an amount of ignorance about the extent,
resources, and geography of the most important of
British colonies, that one of our little schoolboys
would be ashamed of."

"Well," confessed John, "I must frankly say
that I knew nothing of the true state of affairs. I
believed three parts of the people were convicts and
bushrangers, and that the rest reared stock in some
barbarous way, and picked up gold in the rivers or
on the surface of the ground."

"Most of your countrymen have the same opinion
when they come out," replied Fitzgerald, who seemed
rather sore on this subject. "The fact is that, since
the gold-fields were discovered, the convict element

has been lost sight of and almost flooded out by the
immense influx of population. You do come across
it in various ways, but it is now a considerable time
since the Eastern colonies refused to allow transportation
of criminals to their shores, since which time
most of the ' old hands,' as they are called, have died
out; and although the disgrace clings in a certain
measure to their descendants, yet they are comparatively
so few in number to the bulk of the population,
that they are quite lost sight of ; and besides, some
of the convicted felons were men transported for
political offences, and other causes, which carried
no degrading taint with them. Others, sent out for
very trifling misdemeanours, were probably much
honest than many who occupy respectable positions
at home. A great number, I am quite willing
to admit, were deservedly sentenced for their crimes ;
but I daresay, could the statistics be procured and
published, it would surprise one to find how many
reformed under the influence of kind treatment, a
ticket-of- leave, and prosperity. And to say the
least, the manner in which our society gathers its
skirts-together for fear of contamination from the
children or grandchildren of one who made but a
single error, and spent the rest of an honest lifetime
in endeavouring to redeem it, is most deplorable, and
uncharitable in a Christian people. As for you English

people, you don't take the trouble to make any
distinction at all. Everybody is either a convict or
perhaps some relation to one."

The travellers now emerged from the sandy, wooded
country through which their road had hitherto lain,
and entered upon a large extent of richly-grassed
rolling downs and plains. Herds of cattle grazed
quietly about or lay camped under the shade of
clumps of trees, which here and there dotted the
prairie. A chain of beautiful blue-peaked hills
stretched away in the distance, bounding the view;
while in the immediate neighbourhood of the road
there arose abruptly from the surrounding plain
a large, isolated, fiat-topped mountain of imposing
appearance, its rugged sides clothed with dense
scrub.

The way seemed much longer across the plain than
it had done through the forest country, and John was
not sorry to see a thick belt of timber, which they
at first could only distinguish by its blackness, becoming
more and more distinct, A couple of miles
beyond the edge of the timber brought them to a
large gate in a paddock-fence, entering through which
they made their way up to the station.

Ungahrun was one of the finest stations in the
district. The elder Fitzgerald had taken it up
twenty years previously, when the country was

entirely unknown, except to a few hardy pioneers
who, like himself, had pushed beyond the frontiers
of the gradually extending civilisation, and had
braved the dangers of want of food, sickness, and
hostility from the aboriginal ; and his son, who
now welcomed John West so heartily to its hospitality,
had imbibed a love of its sylvan beauties with
his mother's milk. On the soft flower-strewn sward
he had rolled bareheaded, barefooted, a rosy, chubby-checked
child. On the banks of the creek which
flowed past his father's door he had sat for hours
watching the finny inhabitants of its waters as they
darted to and fro ; or plunging head foremost beneath
its cooling wave, imitated their motions with almost
equal dexterity. Every spot on the large tract of
country included in his father's run was familiar to
him, and associated with some early memory. Up
by that clump of river-oaks he stole quietly, when,
possessing himself of a gun for the first time, he
slipped out, determined to demonstrate his ability
to use it. That was the very tree he fired from.
How proudly his heart beat as he picked up his
wild ducks, and returned home with the spoil !
Down in the sand there he had mounted his first
buck-jumper. And as he grew older, action succeeding
action, and memory following memory, contributed
to endear its scenes to his mind.

The house was the finest that John had yet seen
in the bush. It was built, like all the others, of
hardwood slabs, but considerable trouble had been
taken in the erection. It was one-storeyed, but twice
the length of the Cambaranga house, and a splendid
broad veranda ran round the whole building. Its
doors and windows were of that kind known in the
bush as French lights. The iron roof was raised on
double wall-plates, to allow a constant current of air
to pass through, thus securing thorough ventilation
and coolness.

Fitzgerald led the way past the house to a little
cottage beside it, covered in bush fashion with roses
and other creepers, saying, with a half laugh, "I
daresay you will think it funny that we don't live
in the cawbawn humpy (big house) ; but you see,
after my father built it, he could not make up his
mind to quit the little one in which he had lived so
many years ; and now that he and my mother have
gone to live in Sydney, it is too large for my use."
Dismounting at the door amongst greetings from dogs
of all kinds, and the inevitable blacks, they unsaddled
their horses, and after washing their backs, turned
them loose in the paddock. A man now came out
of the cottage and bade good evening to Fitzgerald,
who welcomed him heartily.

He was, as John soon discovered, a buyer of fat

cattle for a boiling down company, which consumed
most of the Ungahrun fats.

Well, Thompson, back for more cattle ? "

Yes ; how are you off? "

"Oh, T think we can let you have a draft of a
couple of hundred pretty fair."

Well, I'm glad of that, for we are running short.
I was half afraid that you might have disposed
of this year's draft as the Bindarobina and Bar-ham
Downs people have done. Some of these
gold-field butchers have been round, I know, buying
up."

They came here, too," said Fitzgerald ; " but they
wanted to buy on bills, and I didn't quite like the
look of things, so I stuck to the bullocks."

All right," said Thompson. " Can you go out
tomorrow ? "

Oh yes, as soon as you like ; but come in now."

The cattle-buyer was a strong, bronzed, intelligent-looking
man, with a long beard. He was dressed
in moleskin breeches and "jockey" boots. A crimson
shirt, open at the throat, completed his attire.
His brawny arms, which the robed-up sleeves of his
shirt disclosed, were as black as the dark sunburnt
neck and throat.

Oh," he said, " there's another fellow here also :
I don't know who he is ; but I picked him up on the

road, and he came with me. He's a queer looking
stick, but not a bad fellow."

The person alluded to now came up, and introduced
himself to Fitzgerald by the name of " Williams." He
said he was travelling down the country, and begged
for a night's entertainment, which the kind-hearted
young fellow willingly accorded.

The party entered the little paling-enclosed veranda
of the cottage, and discussed matters pending the
preparation of the evening meal.

It presented a very bachelor-like appearance. On
the floor in one corner lay a saddle beside a heap of
horse-hair, intended for the stuffing of its panel. A
number of horse-shoes lay in another ; straps and surcingles
dangled from various pegs ; a half-completed
stock-whip hung beside the door; and odd spurs
and different kinds of bits and stirrup - irons lay
about in every direction.

The stranger made himself rather agreeable. He
was an Englishman, and had been a few years in the
colony. He said he had been employed on a station
further north, and was going down for a spell. He
looked yellow and unhealthy, and occasionally was
attacked with some nervous disorder, which made
him contort his face in the most dreadful manner,
and throw his arms wildly about — after which he
would go on talking as if nothing had happened.

Having betaken themselves outside to inspect the
station, John and Williams were immediately accosted
by a great hulking black fellow, who, detecting a raw
look about them, came up begging for "tobacco."
John had none to give ; but Williams, who was a
smoker, put his hand into his pocket, and was about
to bestow a small piece on the sable beggar, when
suddenly his infirmity came upon him with great
force. Twisting his face diabolically, he waved his
arms round like a windmill. The black fellow
merely gave one look, then taking to his heels he
fled, glancing over his shoulder occasionally, and
spitting, as their manner is when followed, as they
think, by evil spirits.

In spite of his feeling for Williams, John could not
avoid being much amused at the precipitate action
which had followed the lazy, listless manner of the
aboriginal, — and indeed, on recovering, Williams
joined heartily in the laugh. A bullock-bell rung
by hand, now announced that supper awaited them ;
and soon the small party, being joined by a young
man, who acted as a kind of overseer on the station,
gathered round the table in the unpretending little
room.

Boiled salt-junk, with fat hun (a kind of indigenous
spinach) and potatoes, washed down with copious
draughts of tea, poured out of a huge tin teapot,

formed the supper, and was much appreciated.
The guests, following the example of their host,
sat, as is customary at a bachelor's table, in their
shirt-sleeves, or rather with them rolled up.

I say, West," said Fitzgerald, " we had better
luck last night. I don't know how it is, but I can
never get a cook to make up anything but salt-junk.
Now these Miss Grays, they knock up something
good in no time."

Here Thompson, who was on intimate terms with
his host, advised him to go in for an assistant manager
to look after home affairs. " By Jove I Fits,
it's a shame to see that house empty and you a
bachelor."

Very good advice, old boy," returned the latter ;
go ahead with a good example — I'll follow ; " so
saying, he got up and commenced tilling his pipe.

Very soon the little room was filled with heavy
clouds of tobacco-smoke, the position of each being
only to be guessed at by the voice.

"Did you hear of that murder by the blacks on
the Nelson Ever the other day ? " asked Williams,
addressing Fitzgerald.

No," said he ; " what was it ? "

"Why, they stuck up Wilson's station there, and
murdered the man and woman in the kitchen ; they
then planted inside the house, and waited until

Wilson came home at night with his stockman.
Then they rushed out, knocked old Wilson on the
head, and drove a spear through the man's side.
He managed, however, to jump on a horse which
happened to be handy, and escaped to the next
station. Some of the men got together and went
over, but the niggers had gone, after gutting the
store. They found the bodies frightfully mutilated,
and buried them."

They're a bad lot of devils those Nelson blacks,"
remarked Thompson. "Did the native troopers go
after them ? "

"Yes, they had started when I left, but I didn't
hear how they got on."

How far is it from here ? " asked John.

"About three hundred miles."

"And do the blacks come in about the stations
as they do here ? "

"Oh dear no," answered Thompson. "After you
get out about one hundred and fifty miles beyond
this you won't see a nigger unless it be a civilised
fellow with his master."

"You see this is the way of it. West," explained
Fitzgerald. " When a squatter goes into new country
he is very often short-handed, besides which, on a
sheep-station, the shepherds are scattered in ones and
twos over an immense extent of country. Now the

blacks are numerous. They have nothing to do but
to fight and hunt ; and if they knew the actual state
of the white man's affairs, they would take advantage
of it to come down at any moment and massacre all
hands. On that account it is highly necessary they
should be kept in the dark as to what is going on in
the run. They are therefore driven back to the mountains
and scrubs ; and it is only after ten or twelve
years have elapsed, when they have learnt to dread
the white man's arms, and have become more tolerant
of his presence, that they are cautiously admitted on
the stations. Of course there is a constant state of
simmering warfare between the two races. The black
kills a white man, or a number, when he gets the
chance, and the white man revenges it by going out

•

alone, or sending out a force of black fellows, mounted
and trained as irregular cavalry, under the command
of a European officer, to shoot down as many of the
offenders as they can. Every one carries firearms of
one sort or another. They may never in their lives
have occasion to use them, or they may be attacked
on the very day when they have incautiously laid
aside the hitherto constantly carried revolver."

And do the native troopers fire willingly on their
countrymen ? " questioned John.

Nothing can afford them greater pleasure," exclaimed
Thompson ; " and Government takes advantage

of the hatred they bear to one another. For instance,
men enlisted in this district are always employed in
one at some distance away."

Do they never unite against their officers ? "

No, I never heard of a case," answered the cattle-buyer.
" They sometimes desert singly or in a body ;
but as a rule, a troop contains men from half-a-dozen
different tribes, who, notwithstanding that they may
have been comrades for many years, still secretly
cherish their old tribal hatred for one another. The
officer is, or should be, the friend of all, and in this
way comes to the knowledge of any little plot that
may be brewing in his camp ; and besides which, he
has a certain source of information in the police gins —
i.e., the men's wives ; they generally discover what is
going on, and, woman-like, cannot rest until they have
told it."

"Are there many of these men employed in the
country?" pursued John.

I think," replied Fitzgerald, " there may be
from 200 to 250, but not more. Each detachment
of eight or ten troopers has a white officer and a
white camp-sergeant, who superintends the distribution
of rations, has charge of the barracks when the
officer happens to be away on patrol, and whose wife
usually cooks for him when at home. These detachments
are scattered over an immense extent of territory.

The police districts into which the country is
divided are enormously large, a patrol having often to
travel many hundred miles before it returns to its barracks.
On this account," continued Fitzgerald, " it
frequently happens that when some aggression has
been committed, the police are at a distance from the
scene, and much valuable time elapses before they
can arrive."

"And how do they proceed when they do arrive?"
persisted young West, much interested.

"They inspect the scene of the outrage," said his
friend, " and discover the foot-tracks made by the
wild blacks. These they follow with the pertinacity
of bloodhounds, and almost invariably overtake and
punish the offenders. It sometimes occurs that other
blacks join the original criminals after the perpetration
of the crime, in which case, it being utterly impossible
to distinguish the guilty from the innocent,
all suffer alike."

But," said John, " a single black fellow may alone
deserve the punishment which, it seems, is inflicted on
all indiscriminately."

"Yes ; unfortunately it is so," said the young squatter.
" In unsettled districts the wild aboriginal are
seldom seen except accidentally or in a case of this
sort. They, as a rule, confine themselves to those
portions of their wilds which, on account of their

VOL. L L

barrenness, are useless to the white men as pasture-grounds
; and the principle we go on is to make a
tribe responsible for the behaviour of its individual
members. In truth, their almost communistic style
of living utterly precludes the idea that any of their
number could undertake any enterprise against the
whites unknown to the others. The squatter and
native police officer therefore condemn the whole."

I should think," remarked John, " that under this
system tribes are being gradually annihilated."

Oh, not so much as you would think," broke in
Thompson. " The niggers are so active and cunning
in making use of trees, rocks, and long grass as
shelter, that very many escape altogether, after which
the tribe remains quiet, probably for a considerable
time."

'rare they very savage in their natural state?"

They are ; and yet when the humour seizes them
they can be kind enough," returned the cattle-buyer,
who had large experience on the outside country.
I've known men who were well treated when found
by them utterly exhausted from want of food and
water. I myself," he continued, "have reason to
speak well of their kindness, for some of them suffered
me to escape once when I had got among them,
and showed me all the attention which lay in their
power'

Give US the yarn, Thompson," urged Fitzgerald ;
"here's West dying to hear some romantic adventures."


"All right," said the other; "it will give him an
idea of what may happen to himself some of these
days." So saying, he filled his pipe and began his
tale.

CHAPTEK XII.

THE cattle-buyer's YARN.

I WAS * Super ' of a sheep - station up north two
years ago, and had got along very well without having
come into collision with the blacks. The station
had been formed for about six years, and those who
had taken it up and managed it before my time had
been equally fortunate. Some of the neighbours had
had men killed and sheep driven away, but we always
escaped. We had grown so careless as to have given
up carrying firearms about the head-station ; and even
the shepherds were in the habit of going unarmed,
although living far away from each other.

Having gone out one evening to count the sheep
at one of the sheep-stations, I was surprised to come
across a strange flock, evidently unsheltered, grazing,
and scattered through the bush in the vicinity of the
yard. On examining them, they proved to be a flock
which had been shepherded by a man living with his
wife and child at another hut eight or ten miles away.

I guessed that something had gone wrong : the
man had gone to sleep perhaps, and the flock had
gradually fed away without his knowledge, and on
awaking he had not been able to find them ; or he
had got separated in some silly way from his charge,
and they having been shepherded at this sheep-station
before, made their way back to their favourite old
beat. The thought of blacks being on the run never
entered my mind.

As soon as I had counted the sheep and secured
the strange flock in an empty yard, I started down
the creek to the sheep-station hut where lived Donnelly,
the shepherd of the wandering flock, with his
wife and child. It was a calm, balmy, moonlit night,
and as I rode through the silent bush no sound was
heard save the mournful wailing shriek of the wild
curlew as it rose, shriller and shriller, until, fading
away, its plaintive cry was lost in the forest-depths ;
or, when startlingly near, arose the prolonged howl of
the dingjo, echoed back aojain on all sides.

"There was something in the air as I approached
the hut which caused my heart to sink. A foreboding
of evil seized me as I rode up to the little dwelling
which looked so weird-like in the ghostly moonlight.

' Are you in, Donnelly ? ' I shouted.

' Oh ! ' said a feeble voice, inside ; * who are you ? '

' Thompson. Don't you know me, Mrs Donnelly ? '

' Have you seen my husband? '
My heart felt like a lump of lead. ' No I said,
speaking as cheerfully as I could. ' Isn't he here ? '
"'I haven't seen him since Monday morning' (this

was Thursday night), 'and oh, I fear — I fear '

Here her sobs interrupted her.

I still sat on my horse outside, for the conversation
was being conducted with the door barred.

' Did you hear or see anything to cause you
alarm?' said I.

' No ; nothing. Only on Sunday night — the last
night I saw him — the dogs howled the whole night
through ; and I was frightened, and he kissed me,
and told me no harm should befall me while he was
near. I fear — oh, I do not know what I fear. A
snake may have bitten him, or he may have had sunstroke,
or perhaps blacks may have been around the
house watching him depart on Monday. My dear
kind fellow ! ' Here she broke once more into a fit
of weeping.

' Now, Mrs Donnelly, you must hope for the best,'
said I, not knowing well what to say ; for the woman
was distracted with grief, and half maddened with the
weary watching of these awful days. She knew not
the way through the trackless bush and over the mountains
to the head-station. Her only hope was to sit
still and wait ; but oh, the agony of that waiting !

' Oh, there is no hope, no hope ! I knew it ; I felt
it when his sheep came home on Monday night without
him, and the dog that loved him so brought them
to the yard and went away ; and she only came back
to-day, wherever she has been. Oh, if she could only
tell ! I kept the sheep two days in the yard and then
I turned them out up the creek, in the hopes that they
might go back to their old run, and so give notice of
something being wrong.'

' Now, Mrs Donnelly,' said I, ' if you like I'll ride
in for help and be out the first thing in the morning,
and track and find your husband ; or if you feel frightened,
I'll just lie down here and go in the morning.'

* Don't wait,' implored the poor creature. ' Oh, goat
once ; it will save time, perhaps his life ! Oh, pray,
go ! Never mind me. I'm not afraid for myself .

* Well, good night, and God keep you,' I uttered
in a broken voice ; for I'm hanged if the whole thing
wasn't rather too much for me."

** No wonder," ejaculated his audience.

' Well, I pushed home that night and roused up
the overseer, got fresh horses up and firearms cleaned
and loaded. We took a man with us to shepherd poor
Donnelly's flock, which we counted when we arrived
at the yards. They were seven short. From that time
I had little hope, although I said nothing.

We called at the sheep-station hut just to give the

poor woman the comfort of knowing we were doing
what we could. Then we searched until we found
the tracks of the shepherd as he followed his flock
out to pasture on that Monday morning. The sheep
in coming home had, as their nature directs them,
chosen a different route, so that the tracks were not
obliterated. Slowly keeping on the track (for a man
does not make much of a mark on hard ground, and
we had no blackboy), we followed until we came to a
large river, into which the sheep-station creek emptied
itself, considerably lower down. ' Ah,' thought I,
they came here to drink. Yes, here's their camp :
they camped here during the heat of the sun.' The
tracks now led down to the bank of the river, where
I lost them among the hard shingle and gravel. My
companion and I searched carefully along the banks,
but there were no tracks of the man returning ; then
they led down to the water's edge, and there we lost
them. The river was here broad and rocky ; a waste
mountainous country lay on the other side. There
was no inducement for him to cross. Suddenly the
overseer raising his head uttered a short ejaculation.

' Found anything ? ' I asked, quickly.

*' Silently he pointed in the air. Words could have
conveyed no more significance than that gesture.
Circling in the air were numbers of carrion - kites,
while others sat on trees, either gorged, or waiting to

commence a banquet of horror. What that meant my
throbbing heart only too surely told me. A long
island, clothed with thick vegetation, lay between us
and the other shore ; and it was above the furthest
channel that the birds of evil omen flew.

Hastily stripping, and tying up our horses, we
grasped our revolvers and forded the first stream. We
searched up and down the island, looking for what
we feared to find. Nothing was to be seen. At last
I cast my eyes on the other stream. Something there
was there. Yes — something. What is it? Is it a
sheep ? No. God ! now I see. It is a naked
body, on its face, jammed in between the rocks, the
poor stiff legs moving up and down with the rapid
current. I covered. The overseer came hastily. My
face told him.

' Where is it ? ' he breathed, in a fearful whisper.

*' I pointed at the dreadful it.

' The head ! Look, it has no head ! " he cried.

I looked again. It was true. The bare neck-bone
stood out several inches above where the flesh had
been cut. Somehow I felt relieved. It was bad
enough to have to view the swollen, festering, sun-blistered
corpse ; but at that moment I felt that to
look on the sodden, water - bleached face, with the
ghastly goggle eyes and tangled dripping locks, would
have been more than I could stand.

Well, we cleared out of that fast enough, you may
depend. I sent my companion to bring in the woman
to the head-station, while I myself rode off to despatch
letters calling for the assistance of the native police.
I then got a couple of more men, and taking a woolsack
and pick and shovel, we went back to give poor
Donnelly Christian burial. We waded out and managed
to slip some bagging under the corpse, and
brought him ashore. Alas ! he was shockingly mutilated.
And there, on his left side, the little round
hole too surely told where the deadly spear had penetrated.
His head we could not find. We buried him
under a river-oak of that darkly timbered island. And
the dense underwood, amid which had lurked his
savage slayers, now shelters the lonely grave where,
unheeded by all save One, that disfigured clay lies."

What became of the poor woman 1 " asked his
hearers.

"The overseer brought her in. She received the
news of her husband's death in a dull stupid sort
of manner, as if hearing without understanding. She
had apparently lost all interest in life. She sat all
day by herself, rocking to and fro, with the poor
fatherless child clasped tightly to her bosom. We'
made a subscription for the poor creature, and sent
her down to her friends, who lived in Sydney ; but
since then I have heard nothing of her."

Now, then, have some more Hennessy," said Fitzgerald,
pushing the brandy-bottle towards Thompson,
and tell us how you got mixed up with the niggers ;
and after that I'll tell you of an adventure which befell
me about three months ago."

Chapter XIII.

THE CATTLE-buyer's Yarn CONTINUED.

I TOLD you that I had sent off for the native police,"
commenced the ex - Super after a deep draught of
three-star," judiciously qualified, though by no means
drowned, with water. " Well, they came after about
a week had elapsed. I might have followed the trail
myself, with some of our men : but in the first place,
I feared that we were not strong enough for the
natives, who were evidently in large numbers; and
in the second, I could not be certain that my own
men would not report the occurrence to Government,
in which case, supposing any of the wretches to have
been knocked over, I would in all probability have
had to stand my trial for murder.

The detachment came at last, and although officers
of police are supposed to allow no whites to accompany
them, yet being well known to the sub-inspector
in charge, he was only too glad of my company for a
few days.

"The boys of the troop, on arriving at the spot
where I had lost the tracks on the shingle, spread out,
and their acute eyesight enabled them to read the
characters on the earth as one would a printed book.

' Here, Mahmy,' said one to his chief — ' here that
been cut him head off. You mil-mil (see) blood.'

I shuddered. There, now that it was pointed out
to me, on the very stone I had sat down on when
stripping to search for the body, the blood-stains were
plain. They spattered the dead leaves, and stained
the grass-stalks.

"Well, we started on the tracks, overtook the retreating
tribe, gave them a sound punishment, and
returned home. Other duties soon effaced the memory
of the affair, and we concluded that for some time
at least nothing would be heard of the offending braces.
The season proved a very dry one, and I found myself
obliged to erect temporary yards and huts on the very
outskirts of the run, in order to make use of hitherto
unoccupied ground. One station in particular I had
caused to be built several miles up the river, beyond
the spot now known as 'Donnelly's grave.' It was
difficult of access. A short distance above that well-remembered
spot, the mountains closed so abruptly
on both sides of the creek, that the only passage lay
among the rough boulders and shingle of the riverbed.
I had been up counting the sheep, and left the

hut at dark on my road home. The distance before
me was about sixteen miles. I rode along, my mind
occupied with conjectures as to the best disposal of
my sheep during the trying drought. The road now
turned down into the river-bed, and picking his way
the best he could, my horse cheerfully jogged on his
homeward path. The mountains towered in shadowy
gloom on either side above me as I rode along the
side of the river, which, although considerably shrunk
by reason of the summer droughts, churned and foamed
as its rapid current forced its way through its rock-barred
channel. Occasionally the track led through
clumps of river-oak saplings and bushes, emerging from
which I could discover a bare patch of sand, and beyond
that shadow. My horse knew the road, however,
and I cared not ; half my time was spent in
similar lonely rides, and I was not nervous. I was
getting mightily hungry, however, besides which, the
mail-man was expected at the station, and I longed
to read my home letters. My horse's shoes clattered
against the stones as I stuck my spurs into his sides
to urge him onward. A sudden turning in the road
now showed me a number of small fires glowing
ahead. But that they were stationary, I should have
been inclined to think them caused by fireflies. On
my left there were more. The sudden turning of the
river had placed some in front and some behind, and

hitherto the thick groves of flooded oak had hidden
them from my sight. On my right frowned an overhanging
crag. I drew my rein ; perhaps (for blacks
often chatter loudly in their camps) they had not
heard me. I listened. Not a sound save the rushing,
tumbling, river - current. It was, after all, perhaps
only the remains of a bush-fire. Some of the logs
were still alight, and the night air had fanned the
embers into a glow. Again I listened intently. If
blacks really were in the camp, they must have heard
me coming ; no doubt they had barred the way ahead
and behind. The broken river-channel forbade my
trusting to flight. What should I do ? Not three
miles away lay poor Donnelly their victim, in his cold
grave of wet river-sand. What was his fate then,
might be mine in a few minutes. I determined to
keep still and wait for what might turn up. Presently
I heard bushes rustling some distance behind, and the
voice of a black fellow, uttering, in that strange tone
in which the wild savage first pronounces English
words, ' Boodgeree ; ' and again ' Boodgeree, white
fellow ' (good, good white fellow). The sound startled
me. They were here, and looking for me. I drew
my pistol. Some of them should have daylight
through them, I inwardly vowed, if it came to a final
struggle. Now I heard their low rapid utterances, in
various excited tones, in front, behind, and above me.

the word ' white fellow ' being repeated often.
Escape was hopeless. There was one chance for life
in the inconsistency of their behaviour. I determined
to put a bold face on the matter, appear at home,
laugh and talk with them, and if the worst came, sell
my life as dearly as possible. Accordingly I shouted,
Hey ! come on boodgeree you, my boys, come along ! '
and a great deal more nonsensical talk, which they
could not have understood, but which served as well
as anything else to show the confidence which I tried
to gull them into believing I yet possessed. The
effect was magical. A simultaneous shout came from
those nearest. All around, in fifty different places,
as many voices broke into an unintelligible jargon ;
while from the camp, the noise of women's voices
could be heard as they shrilly inquired what was
going on, and tendered advice or admonition.

Knowing how useless it was to do anything else, I
sat still on my horse, and in a few minutes was surrounded
by a dense crowd of dark, savage-eyed, wild
men, all fully armed with native weapons. More kept
coming. There was a perfect Babel of sounds. The
gloom was so great that I could only distinguish the
dark moving figures and the long spears, or occasionally
the glint of a pair of fierce glittering eyes, shining out
of a paint-bedaubed visage. Now they felt me allover.
On feeling the pistol, which I had returned to

my belt, the man who discovered it said something to
the others, who became still more excited. They now
led me, still sitting on my horse, across a ford of the
river to their camp. And now for the first time I
could see the faces of my captors ; and wild and
devil-like they looked as the fires threw their light
across them. Thick masses of curly black hair, low
foreheads, short noses, large white teeth, and short
beards on the upper lip and chin, seemed to strike
me most; their eyes gleamed in the fire-blaze like
burning coals. A tall man, looking at me earnestly
for some minutes, now commenced an animated harangue;
pointed to me several times, then pointing
up the river, imitated the sound of a gun being fired,
pointed to himself, and finished by addressing me
rapidly at great length. From his manner I guessed
that he was friendly to me for some cause or other,
why, I could not make out, but I determined to take
advantage of the turn in my favour. My tall friend
now made signs that I should dismount: this I did
at once. I had made up my mind to trust my protector
implicitly, and at any rate not to show fear.
I was by no means easy, however, as my sable friend
led me through the scattered fires, surrounded by
a number of blacks, who, as far as I could guess,
seemed to coincide with him in his views regarding
me. Most of the mob had departed to the fires

VOL. L M

which appeared behind me when I first came upon
the natives.

I found that there were two camps at a distance
of about two hundred yards apart, and my people
belonged to the small camp. We now arrived at a
fire which, from the signs made, I found was owned
by the tall fellow with me. He made a series of
gestures, by which I understood him to intimate that
I was to partake of his hospitality. The only word
of English he knew was ' white fellow.' This he repeated
many times. Sometimes he pointed to me,
then to himself, patted his breast and smiled; then
he would point to the distant camp, and shake his
head, and frown. Sometimes he pointed to himself,
imitated the sound of a shot, pointed to my pistol,
then up the river, then again to me, looking eagerly
at me to see whether I comprehended him or not. I
knew not what he meant, but I feigned to understand
him, and nodded, smiled, patted him, and repeated the
word ' boodgeree ' two or three times. He at once
caught up the word and pronounced it distinctly, and
seemed much pleased. Things now seemed on a much
more satisfactory footing. My entertainer produced
some black-looking kangaroo-meat, which he warmed
on the hot ashes, then tearing off a piece with his
strong teeth, he offered it to me. Knowing how
necessary it was to keep up the terms of friendship,

I accepted it with much cordiality, and though almost
sick, managed to eat a portion of the dirty-looking
food. A drink of honey and water was now offered
me in a coleman, which I also politely accepted.
After the repast a number of aboriginal from the
neighbouring fires gathered around me, and from their
language seemed to be making fun of me. One fellow
especially seemed a great wit. The slightest word of
his sufficed to set the others in a roar of laughter.
Still it all seemed to be of a good-humoured nature.
Presently my tall acquaintance, pointing over to the
other camp, made signs that there was a corroborate to
be danced. I understood, and nodded. Then he gave
me to understand that he and I would go together;
to this I also assented. Soon after this a long clear
cry arose from the other camp like pir-r-r-r-r-r-r. *A
general movement now took place among the men
and women of the camp in which I was. They
gathered in a body, each one covered from head to
foot in a 'possum-skin cloak. I arose with my host,
who bestowed on me a cloak, and we took our places
a little on one side of the rest. Another signal arose
from the distant camp, and, as if in obedience to it,
my neighbours commenced to march slowly forward
towards whence the sound proceeded. Slowly, silently,
solemnly, they marched, their bodies bent almost double,
which position my friend signed me to observe. There

was something very unearthly in this phantom-like
procession, — the dusky, indistinct, muffled forms gliding
noiselessly forward through the midnight woods,
sometimes entirely lost in the shade of a large tree,
and again emerging, to be lost again.

Fears began to take possession of me. Why was
this singular method of approaching the corroborate
ground observed ? I had heard of ceremonies of
a dark and secret character being practised amongst
those tribes at which no white man ever was present.
Was such a one to take place now ? Was my life
only spared before that it might be sacrificed now?
My blood began to curdle, and my flesh to creep.
I thought of flying, forgetting for the moment the
utter impossibility of getting away from the nimble-footed
sharp-eyed savages. My tall friend, however,
seemed to divine my intentions, for he patted my
breast, then pointed to himself assuringly, then to
the large camp of natives which we were nearing,
and shook his head, spitting with apparent disgust,
and once more patted himself and me. I could not
exactly tell what he was driving at, but it seemed
to indicate friendly intentions towards myself, and
that the other camp was occupied by a hostile tribe.
This I afterwards learnt was the case. We had
approached within about a dozen yards of the dim
fires towards which we had been making our way,

when a similar signal to that already given was
uttered by some one in the other camp. Upon
this my companions, still retaining their bent position,
turned their faces towards their own camp,
and remained waiting, and of course I followed
their example. Another cry succeeded, and almost
immediately a bright blaze followed, illuminating
the dark woods in a ruddy circle. Flinging off
their coverings, and turning simultaneously round,
the crowd of blacks about me gave vent to a
general deep ' Ah ! ' of wonder and surprise, not
unmixed with a superstitious fear.

I understood it all now. The tribe were being initiated
in a corroborate they had never seen before. At
the same time it commenced. A half-circle of fires
burned brightly in front of us. Between us and the
fires were seated rows of women, across whose knees
were lightly stretched their 'possum cloaks. They
held boomerangs in their hands, which they beat
together as they sang, keeping the most exact time,
occasionally varying the accompaniment by beating
on the skins, producing a drum-like noise. On the
far side of the fire a row of forked stakes had been
driven into the ground, and poles laid on the forks,
about six feet above the ground. About twenty
savages, painted in the most grotesque fashion,
were seated all round this rail. Their long hair

was tied tightly in a knot on the top of their
heads, from the middle of which rose a tuft of
cockatoo crests. The soft white down from the
breast of the same hard clung to their eyebrows,
moustaches, and beards. A red fillet passed round
the forehead and encircled the head. Their bodies
were painted with pipeclay to imitate skeletons.
Boomerangs, stone tomahawks, and knives hung
from their girdles. Holding their elbows close to
their sides, they moved their forearms and hands
in a segment of a circle from their waist to their
ears, first the right, then the left, in time to the
barbarous chant. Beyond these, the chief figures
in the assembly, stood a dense crowd of fierce-eyed
sable warriors leaning on their spears. Looking
round, I found that the men of my party had
assumed the same attitude, while the women had
taken up a position a little apart.

"In spite of the feeling of insecurity and alarm
with which my position filled me, — for I knew that
all present would think nothing of knocking me on
the head if the whim seized them, — I felt rather
amused at the absurd climax of their preparations,
and its monotony soon got tiresome to themselves.
Jumping down from their perch, the painted savages
cleared away their posts and rails, and commenced
one of the usual corroborate dances of the country,

in which they were joined by many others, who had
taken no part in the first performance.

My tall friend, spreading his rug on the ground,
planted a spear at each corner and sat down, motioning
me to take a place beside him — all the others
following his example. The dance was now most
vigorously prosecuted, and it carried with it a
certain amount of dramatic effect. Issuing from
the dark background of solemn gloom, the mass of
vague dusky shadows danced their way into the
circle illuminated by the fire, their hands held in
front of their breast, after the manner of kangaroos,
their bodies bent, and their feet stamping. As they
got nearer the fires which divided them from the
orchestra, the singing and dancing became more
energetic, till at last a brilliant blaze having* been
produced, by means of dry leaves kept on purpose,
the whole culminated in much stamping, quivering
of legs and shaking of heads, winding up with an
almost instantaneous disappearance of the whole
party into surrounding darkness. This was repeated
for hours, and I thought they never would leave off.
At last all seemed to weary, and my tall friend and
his followers returned to their own ground, taking
me with them. Here I found my horse ready. After
a good deal more of talk, and many gestures, he signified
that I might go. I stripped myself almost naked

in making presents. Then seizing his weapons, he
called on a friend to accompany him, and both came
with me as an escort. I had little difficulty in
persuading them to proceed all the way ; and they
were so much pleased with their treatment that
they asked permission to bring their tribe in, which
they did, and we had no more difficulties afterwards."

That was a capital fellow, that long nigger," said
Fitzgerald. "Did you ever find out why he took a
fancy to you ? "

"Oh," said Thompson, laughing, "that was all a
mistake on his part. It seems that when up the
river in pursuit of the tribe which killed poor Donnelly,
he happened to be among the crowd we
attacked. He had hidden himself under a log upon
which I had taken up my position. He said that
I kept looking at him, but allowed him to escape,
and it was in gratitude for this supposed service
that he saved my life."

Then you did not know that he was under the
log?" asked John.

Not I," returned the other. " It would, I am
afraid, have been a bad day for both of us had I
done so. And now, Fitzgerald, give us your yarn."

It's getting late," the young man said, " and you
know we must be up early ; but the story is a short
one." So saying, he narrated as follows.

I suppose you know that I'm a beak — I mean, that
I'm on the Commission of the Peace. I was appointed
about two years and a half ago. Shortly after my
appointment I was over in the little township of Yering,
not far from here, and a desperate row occurred
between two men. One of them seizing an axe struck
the other on the head, causing instantaneous death.
I happened to be near the scene of the fatal struggle,
and made one to seize the murderer ; and being very
zealous in the discharge of my duties, like most young
hands, made myself perhaps too officious in the matter.
At any rate, on leaving the court, after committal for
trial by my brother magistrates and myself, the murderer
vowed to be revenged on me for the share which
I had taken in the business. I thought nothing more
of it, and time passed on. About four months* ago
I was obliged to start from here up north on some
business connected with a station belonging to my
father. It had been only recently formed, and the
natives had the reputation of being very treacherous
in the district. My business led me to a neighbouring
station, and as I believed that the way by the road
was very much longer than the actual distance as the
crow flies, I determined to hit out straight across the
bush. It was nearly dinner-time when I set out, and
I had about forty miles to go. I had gone about
twenty miles, when I got into a nasty intricate country,

with a good deal of thick scrub, in which I got
entangled, and it was a couple of hours after dark
before I got clear. I now pushed on as well as I
could in the dark, but got so very sleepy that I had
made up my mind to lie down until morning, when
the sound of voices made me prick up my ears, and
on moving forward a little, found myself close to a
large camp of niggers. Well, I was luckier than yon,
Thompson, for I managed to get away without their
hearing me, and I pushed on, for sleep had fled. I
had gone about ten miles further when my horse
struck into a little path, and the smell of sheep convinced
me that I was near some sheep-station hut,
or hark gunwale. Dogs now barked furiously, and a
man shouted, which I immediately answered. I rode
up, unsaddled and hobbled my horse, and walked in.

Who do you think the man was ? It was my
friend the homicide. The meeting was startling to
both. The wild look of the man, with his gun in
his hand (he had seized it on hearing the noise made
by the dogs), at first led me to believe that he meant
to fulfil his vows of vengeance ; but suddenly flinging
it into a corner, he sat down, covered his face with his
hands, and wept. When he grew calmer he told me
that he had been sentenced to nearly two years' imprisonment,
and had come straight here from prison ;
but he begged my forgiveness, and said I had only

done my duty. I camped with him that night, and
next morning made the station."

By Jove ! " said John, " I think it must have been
horrid to meet that fellow in such a lonely place."

Well, yes, I didn't like it," returned his friend.

The party now separated to obtain some sleep before
the arduous work of mustering commenced.

CHAPTEK XIV.

MUSTERING FATS FOR THE BUTCHER — DRAFTING ON

THE CAMP.

The dawn was barely visible when our hero was awakened
by hearing a sound of conversation near him. It
was Fitzgerald giving orders to one of the blackboys.

Horses in the yard, Peter ? "

Yohi."

Bugler and Gaylad in ? "

Yohi."

"All right. Take down my bridle and the bridle
which belongs to that gentleman who came with me
last night, and send them up."

Yohi, Missa Fitzgell. Me ride 'im, Charcoal. That
fellow boodgeree gallop."

Very well ; and tell one of the other boys to catch
Forrester for Mr Thompson."

John now jumped out of bed, and hurrying on his
things, made his way outside. The sun had not risen,
but everybody was astir. Blackboys were bringing up

horses from a yard in the paddock, into which they
had all been driven. Breakfast was being carried in,
and every one was preparing for the day's work. After
a hasty meal was disposed of, the horses were saddled.
The little court in front of the houses was crowded
with horses awaiting their riders. The party consisted
of Fitzgerald, Thompson, West, two white stockmen,
one of whom was Fitzgerald's lad Tommy. Besides
these and their horses, Mr Williams's saddle and packhorse
swelled the number.

A general mount was now effected, and, bidding
good-bye to his entertainer, Williams started on his
way down country.

"Now, Tommy," said Fitzgerald, speaking to the
youth just mentioned, "we are going to divide. You,
with Mr Thompson and Billy Barlow, can go up to the
Peaks, then start down, bringing all you see worth
taking along with you. Send Billy over to Oakley
Creek, and let him meet you down at Plumtree Camp.
You can clean out the middle branch of the station
creek, and then bring all you find down to the main
camp, where you will find us."

These directions, which, perhaps, may seem unintelligible
to the general reader, referred to the manner
in which the young squatter proposed to gather together
the cattle among which he expected to collect the bullocks
he required.

The two parties now separated — Fitzgerald with his
assistants to examine the southern branch of the main
creek, together with the country lying between the
many tributaries which flowed into it ; while the
others were to direct their attention to the opposite
side and the surrounding country. It was most exhilarating
riding along in the cool morning air. How
pleasant the fresh smgU of the grass ! Now they pass
through a small patch of Bungalow scrub. Some one
has split a piece from the trunk of a small tree. What
a scent the dark-grained wood has ! What numbers
of fallacies ! They start out in every direction, and
flying across the path swiftly disappear. We are in
grass once more. Whirr-r-r-r — a covey of quail start
from under the horses' feet, fly a short distance, and
alight on the thick grass. There are some cattle
standing in their camp on a small patch of scrub.
We don't want them, however — we can get them any
day. Here is one standing by himself It is a two-year-old
steer — a white one. He stands perfectly still ;
his hanging head and tucked-up body betray his want
of health. As we ride past he shows the white of his
eye, and gathering up his strength, he gives a deep
hollow cough which rakes his whole frame. " Pleura,"
said Fitzgerald, reading John's inquiring glance ; '' we
always have it more or less on the run."

Does it not carry off immense numbers of cattle ? "

Well, it has done so ; but for some years past we
find its ravages have been nothing to speak of. A
great deal has been written on the subject. Some
have proposed preventing the attacks of the disease
by inoculation ; others, again, laugh at the idea. For
my part, I am convinced that pleura lurks in every
herd in the country, and that it only wants favourable
conditions to make its appearance."

What are these conditions ? " asked John.

Much knocking about invariably produces it ; for
instance, it often breaks out amongst cattle on a long
journey, or that have been herded long. It is also
much more severe among cattle feeding on rich swampy
pastures than on the high hilly stations. Besides
which, there is no doubt, I think, that it is both contagious
and infectious, and, of course, some constitutions
have a hereditary tendency to it."

Now they emerge on a plain bounded by scrub,
with openings between the patches, and vistas of
plains and more scrub in the distance. On the plain,
about half a mile away on the right, a large herd of
cattle are scattered, gently feeding towards their camp.
What a delightful spot for a gallop ! How fresh the
horses are ! Gaylad feels as if he could devour the
space between him and that beautiful blue chain
whose distant peaks glitter in the morning sunshine.
Way, horse ; steady, Gaylad, — you'll have your work

to do by-and-by." See, there is a plain turkey, quite
close; he walks steadily along, keeping his head up
and his eye fixed on us. He is quite within shot.
There, there, unobserved before, but almost under your
horse's feet, is his mate. Startled by the horses, she
quickens her pace, breaks into a run, opens her large
wings, beats the air two or three times, and rising,
wings her way heavily off, followed almost immediately
by her companion, uttering a kind of hoarse
croak. There they light again, not a quarter of a
mile away. Now we come to a water-course. It is
a succession of longish holes filled with clear water.
Trees, with drooping branches like willows, fringe its
sides. The broad leaf of the lotus, amid which rises
here and there the beautiful flower, floats on the surface.
Look at the wild ducks swimming in twos and
threes. Stay for one instant. There, on that broad
lotus-leaf, two or three little mites of wild ducklings
are sitting. Their mother, with the rest of the family,
is floating calmly beside themes Her quick eye notes
us ; she moves away, her little brood following. Now
those on the leaf plunge in and swim bravely after
her, shaking their little tails. The other ducks,
catching the alarm, at once detect the cause. A sudden
splash, a few frightened quacks, and away they
fly, the water dripping brightly from their webbed
feet as they rise, with the sunlight glinting on their

dark-brown bodies and blue and bronze wings. There
they go, out of sight in a minute. The mother and
her brood have vanished in the same instant. You
may search, but you will not find them. The little
things understand diving as well as their mother, and
the banks of the creek are one mass of sedges and
long grass. Watch, here come the ducks back again.

High in the air they approach, following the course
of the creek with the rapidity of lightning. Here
they come, right overhead ; a confused whizz denotes
the speed they are travelling at, and down the watercourse
they take their way to alight in some undisturbed
spot.

As you leave the water, pigeons of all kinds, from

the strong beautiful bronze-wing to the gentle squatter

and little dove, fly from under your horse's feet, \7ith

strong rapid flapping noise, or sit crouching on the

ground, humbly hoping that their insignificance aud

homely plumage will not attract attention. A white

crane, and a few dark-feathered water-hens, at the far

end of the water-hole, seeing you moving, conclude to

stay. Here is the half-dried carcass of a beast. It

died here on the camp near the water. "Whew, what

a smell ! Any one who wants more than one whiff

of that is a glutton. Look at that " booming 'guiana ! "

He has been feeding sumptuously on the carrion. He

is watching us with his " glittering eye," his head up,
VOL. I. N

Lis vicious tongue darting out now and then like a
serpent's fangs. He knows we are observing him ;
off he scuttles at an incredibly swift pace, making for
that big iron-bark tree. Gallop after ; hit him with
your whip. Ah, you are too late ! he has reached it
before you ; he is away up lying flat on a high branch.
You can just see the end of his tapered tail hanging
over, or his head, the tongue still striking venomously.
Now we emerge on still larger downs, dotted prettily
with cotton bush. Cattle-tracks converge from all
points to the water. They are quite narrow, like little
footpaths. The ground bears on its surface the impressions
of many feet. You cannot find a foot square
without the print of a hoof of some age or another.
The grass must be sweet here, the cattle keep it
cropped down so closely. That long line of tall
white stemmed gum-trees marks the banks of the
main creek ; here is the junction of the southern and
northern branches. We must cross and follow up
this branch next us. Yonder is a mob of cattle ; they
are not so quiet as those we have already seen. Two
or three old cows nearer us than the others lift their
heads, smelling our approach. They turn and run.
The old brutes, they know quite well what it is to be
rounded up ; they have been hundreds of times in the
yard ; it is all roguery. Now that some of the rest
notice them running, they run also : had the old cows

remained quiet the others would have been stationary
too. Now they are making off in a body. Sam, the
white stockman with the party, and Peter the black
fellow, mounted on Charcoal, spur after them, get in
front, and heading them, bring them to a stand-still.
There are a dozen nice bullocks in the mob. After
making them stand a little to cool them, Peter is sent
to take them over the river to a camp, where they maybe
picked up by the party on their return down the
other side. The party divide once more in two. Sam
and Peter go one way ; John still remains with his
friend, and they have two or three exciting gallops after
different mobs. Gaylad is sweating now. What a
little stunner he is ! It will not be his fault if the
cattle get away. He watches their every movement
with a personal interest. Fitzgerald and John have got
a good mob together. They have taken them across
the creek, and are bringing them down the other
side to pick up the cattle on the camps there. The
bullocks and steers and heifers go along without
much trouble ; but some of those old cows with
calves try all sorts of dodges to get away. They
fear that we are mustering for branding. It will
come soon enough. Let us get through with these
fat cattle, then we shall set to work branding. There,
that cunning old wretch of a cow has managed toto
slip away with her calf, and she is making off for

some scrub in the distance. Now, Gaylad ; now, boy,
fetch her back. Indeed Gaylad wants no bidding,
but is flying over the ground at his best. Now he
reaches the cow and her calf, a good strong 
bull. She swerves away as the horse approaches.
Now is your time, John ; close on her, turn her, keep
her head to the mob ; give her a cut or two with your
whip, and she will be amongst them once more.
Ah ! you do not know how to manage your rein :
your bridle-hand is fumbling with it ; it is too loose ;
your whip is in your way. Gaylad flies past the cow
about twenty yards ; she once more makes off in her
own direction. Once more John charges her with the
same result, only that this time, as he holds the rein
tighter, Gaylad, obeying the check, props round at the
same instant the old cow does. John finds himself
sitting on his horse's neck ; it is a miracle how he
holds on. He manages to get back to his seat, and
confining operations to a trot, succeeds in heading the
chase back towards the mob. He will punish her at
any rate for the trouble she has given him. Two or
three desperate cuts at the cow fall harmlessly, another
only gets the lash under Gaylad's tail, who resents
the indignity by kicking once or twice, humping his
back, and nearly upsetting his rider. Now is a good
chance ; hit her hard. A vicious cut follows. Something
catches the fall. " heavens, my eye ! " shouts

John, with one hand up to that organ, which has
suffered instead of the guilty animal.

Now a camp with a good many cattle on it has been
reached. Sam and Peter have evidently been here,
and are away after more. The cattle stop of their own
accord, mingling with the rest, uttering many bellows
of greeting. Fitzgerald proposes to wait for a little.
What a thorough master of his work he looks, as with
careless ease he sits side-saddle fashion on Bugler, his
long whip hanging festooned round him ! Hark !
there goes a whip ! The cattle on the camp recommence
bellowing. Here they come down this gully —
the bullocks and young cattle ahead, running towards
those on the camp, roaring as they run. A mixed lot,
with many cows and calves bring up the rear, after
which come Sam and Peter, riding side by side.
There are so many cows and calves, it is not advisable
to drive them as far as the main creek. We
don't intend taking them home for branding to-day.
We cannot draft the bullocks out properly here
though ; we require all hands for that. Let us keep
as many as we can of the others back on the camp,
therefore, when they start. It is not quite easily done
either; for with stranger perversity those even who
wanted to stay behind previously now desire to go
along with the mob, and insist on following up, until
they are effectually driven back to their camp. We

have yet a large number, and still pick up more as we
go along. Gay lad makes himself very busy in assisting
to drive. Should any beast in his vicinity lag behind
to crop a sweet morsel he marks him ; then laying his
ears back, with outstretched neck and open mouth, he
rushes at the offender, inflicting sometimes a rather
sharp bite. The loud pistol-like report of a stock-whip
is heard again, this time ahead. The leading cattle
quicken their pace. Bellows in the distance are
answered by bellows from the mob. We come insight
of a large number of cattle standing close together
on an open yet shady camp ; and some distance
apart, under a shady tree, are three horses. Their
riders are lying on the ground. The two mobs mingle
now, amid terrific roaring, as we ride up to the little
party under the tree.

Well, Thompson, had much luck ? "
Got about sixty or seventy head, I think."
There are forty or fifty in our lot," said Fitzgerald ;
*ewe had better set to work at once. It will take all
our time to get them drafted and larded before it gets
late."

Now they prepare for work. John, with the lad
Tommy and Billy Barlow, is told off to ride round
the cattle, and prevent them straggling off the camp.
Peter is to look after the bullocks when separated from
the main crowd ; and Fitzgerald, Thompson, and Sam,

'are to draft. A few very quiet animals are driven
out, and placed at about one hundred and fifty yards
from the rest, to form a kind of nucleus mob for the
bullocks to run into. Peter is in attendance to receive
them when they come, and prevent their making
back, or running away.

Now, threading his way through the masses of
cattle, Fitzgerald selects one which his practised eye
tells him is of the kind wanted, and, riding behind it,
urges it quietly to the edge of the mob. Bugler knows
his work, and loves it with all his heart. His undivided
attention is given to the animal in front of him.
He is aware that it is his duty to separate him from
the herd, and he is determined to do it. Any dodging
movement on the part of the bullock, as, looking from
side to side, he approaches the outside ring, is met
with a corresponding motion to balk it on the horse's
part, revealing the intense interest he takes in his
work. A slight raising of the bridle-hand, and Bugler
makes a desperate rush. Startled, the beast singles
out from the rest, but immediately tries to double
back, and mix up with his fellows. In vain — Bugler's
quick eye watches him too narrowly ; he has turned
in the same instant, and is racing alongside, between
him and his bellowing mates. Now, so suddenly as
to be almost instantaneous, the determined brute has
stopped, wheeled round, and is going at a headlong

pace the opposite way. But it is all of no use. The
practised stock-horse props at the same moment, and
still at speed bars the way. A few sharp cuts from
Fitzgerald's whip decide the question, and the conquered
creature joins a couple of his mates who have
been taken out respectively by Thompson and Sam, and
who are now running to mingle with Peter's charge.

Hiding back slowly to breathe their nags, the rafters
single out more of the particular class wanted,
and the scene is repeated. The ground resounds with
the rapid battering of the horses' feet, as, stretched
at their utmost speed, the intelligent creatures assist
their riders with all their might. It is a stirring
scene, full of healthy enjoyment and wild excitement.

How these Australian fellows do ride ! " thought
John, as he notices the sudden dead-stop and sharp
wheel, the rider sitting unmoved in his saddle. Look,
there is a bullock which has proved too much for
Thompson single-handed. He is a large roan bullock,
with a red neck, and long, sharp, cocked horns. He is
six or perhaps seven years old. He is one that has
been missing from the run for the last year or two,
and has been seen to-day for the first time during that
period. Most probably he has been away in the scrub
with a wild mob, and in an evil hour has taken it into
his head to revisit his old haunts. His temper has not
been improved by his association with the scrubbers.

See, he turns on Thompson. What a narrow escape !
Forrester manages to get out of his way, but receives
an ugly scar on his thigh, which he will carry while
he lives.

Sam now bears down to Thompson's assistance.
Eoaney is once again cut out of the mob. Watch —
now — here ! here ! here they come ! The wild-looking
roan bullock endeavours to break back, while Sam
races alongside, his body bent forward, uttering short,
fierce, quick shouts, as, waving his hat in his hand,
he seeks to intimidate the savage scrubber into sheering
off from the main mob. What a pace they are
going at ! There they pass side by side between two
trees, that barely allow them room. The leg of Sam's
white moleskins brushes the fire-blackened trunk, and
adopts its colour. A sudden fierce prop, and Eoaney
has shot behind Sam's horse, and succeeds in burying
himself among the many - coloured bellowing herd.
Sam rides slowly back, and, dismounting, slackens
the girths of his steaming horse, who, with hanging
head and quickly-heaving flanks, betrays the exertions
he has made.

Thompson and Fitzgerald come up. " That's a nut,"
remarks the former.

"He's the dead finish — go right through a man,"
rejoins Sam, rather sulkily. "Blessed if he didn't
near skiver my loss ! "

Well, Sam, as soon as your horse gets his wind,
you and I will tackle him," says Fitzgerald. "Our
horses are the handiest. I wouldn't lose that fellow
for a trifle. Ten to one, if we don't get him, after
this knocking about he'll make back for the scrubs
again."

In about ten minutes' time Sam and his master ride
side by side through the crowded camp. At last they
notice their savage friend pushing his way through
a thick mob of cattle some distance from them.

"Now, Sam," says Fitzgerald, "as soon as we get
him fairly out, I'll ride alongside and shoulder him,
and you must keep close up and play on him with
your whip."

All right," growls Sam.

One or two essays are ineffectually made to rush
out into the open the huge beast, whose hot blood is
now boiling within him. At last he is out, and is
again racing, with Fitzgerald alongside this time, to
get back into the mob.

Now, then, Sam ! " shouts the squatter, as the
clever bold horse, in obedience to his accomplished
rider, closes on his horned antagonist, and, leaning
over, presses all his weight against the scrubber's
shoulder, edging him towards Peter's mob as they
fly along. Sam, galloping at the creature's heels, has
been waiting the word, and now commences a flagellation

with his long twelve footer, which compels the
red-necked savage to keep his pace up, and gladly
seek refuge among those already out.

It is now time to be making homewards, and the
selected fat cattle are driven steadily in, and larded
for the night.

Chapter XV.

OUT AFTER SCRUBBERS THROUGH THE BUSH THE SOLEMN

SCRUB — CAMPING OUT.

Daylight once more saw the Ungahrun household
up and busy. Once more there was saddling in hot
haste ; a hurried meal ; blankets and provisions
strapped on to the pack-horse's saddle. Thompson
was starting down with a draft of 110 head for the
pots — prime fat cattle. Fitzgerald and John, with
one of the men, accompany him for a few miles. The
cattle are going quietly ; even Eoaney, who made one
or two determined efforts to break away on his road
in the previous night, is marching along steadily, now
that he is off his own beat.

I think you can get along all right now, Thompson,"
remarks the squatter. "I'll leave a man with
you for to-day, and you can send him home tomorrow.
Your own man and blackboy will be sufficient then."

Good-byes are exchanged — arrangements as to further
drafts once more hurriedly gone over, and the

Australian and his guest turn their horses' heads
homewards. And now there is nothing to hinder the
commencement of the usual half-yearly muster to
brand. Fitzgerald is most anxious to try his luck
amongst the scrub cattle, of which great numbers infest
the vast scrubs which clothe the steep sides of the
distant blue ranges. He has information that at one
point many of these scrub cattle come out at night to
feed on the open plains, and he is desirous, if possible,
of making a haul amongst them.

He explains to John that the scrubs are pieces of
country, thickly covered for the most part with a luxuriant
vegetation, affording an almost impenetrable
shelter to the wild herds. Some of these densely timbered
tracts enclose within their recesses a sufficiency
both of water and feed to pasture considerable numbers
without rendering it necessary for them to seek
a livelihood outside its limits. It often happens,
nevertheless, that, driven by drought, or tempted by
the young and tender burnt feed, these denizens of the
wood are found grazing on the clear country, but never
at any great distance from cover, to which they can
make on being disturbed.

These cattle are invariably part of a herd, or the
descendants of a herd, which, neglected by its owners,
was suffered to stray over the country at its pleasure,
gradually becoming, owing to the absence of the rei



straining influence of the white man, and the onslaught
of the black, as wild and fierce as the untamed bison-herds
of America. Their instinct teaches them to
select the most inaccessible fastnesses of the forest as
their favourite haunts. Caution and cunning develop
hand in hand with ferocity and fear. Their very appearance
changes ; and the second or third descendant
of the well-bred, quiet, symmetrically-shaped favourite
of the milking yard is almost always a long-legged,
big-headed, coarse-horned runt.

These wild herds are justly considered as being a
constant source of nuisance in the proximity of a cattle-run.
Numbers of ill-shaped, badly-bred bulls wander
among the quiet cattle, and the presence of the wild
herd induces the desertion to the scrubs of many of its
members. The raids made by the owners of stations
on these outlaws depend very much as to the vigour
of their prosecution on the value of cattle at the time
being ; and when the market price of ordinary quiet
stock is low, the scrubbers have little or no value ; but
should a demand arise, every cattle-owner makes desperate
exertions to capture them. These clean-skins,
as they are often called, to distinguish them from the
branded cattle, are supposed to belong to the cattle-owner
on whose run they emerge from their shelter;
but when a large scrub is situated in the centre of
several cattle - stations, they may be the property of

any one. In fact, it seems to be a recognised axiom
that "the smartest man gets the most." They are,
nevertheless, the frequent cause of many heart-burnings
and much jealousy.

Neighbours who have only sheep - stations, and
therefore can have no right or interest, make descents
on the scrub when out of beef; or perhaps, more trying
still, an unprincipled publican, who has only been
permitted by an act of courtesy on the squatters' part
to erect a so-called hotel on the run, takes advantage
of his being allowed to keep a few milkers, to claim
an interest in the unbraced ones. The result is
almost always the same. A few dashing, reckless,
unprincipled horsemen, lured by his strong waters,
collect about the house. Moonlight expeditions. are
organised ; a herd of cattle is formed ; and the almost
penniless publican eventually finds himself in a position
to lease land from the Crown and start as a
squatter himself. Many different modes of operations
are required in this kind of work, and much strategy
and fearless horsemanship in the execution of them.
This is occasioned by the nocturnal habits of the scrub
herds — as they almost invariably remain concealed in
their woody strongholds during the day, and only venture,
into the open after sundown, making good their
retreat by earliest dawn. It is therefore a favourite
plan amongst the bold scrub-riders to take advantage

of the bright moonlight nights, when, shrouded in the
misty light, and undistinguishable from the surrounding
shadows, they burst on the unsuspecting mob ;
then urging their horses through the trees with utter
recklessness as to the safety of life or limb, they gallop
between their prey and the dark scrubs. The riders
understand their work ; each one carries out his part,
and, from long experience, knows exactly when to
shout or to keep still, when to drive the captives on or
to round them in a ring. They, on the other hand,
are taken by surprise ; they are frightened and confused.
The start caused by the sudden appearance of
the shadowy horsemen, the fear of man, the clattering
hoofs, and the suppressed shout, are all against them.
A few of the fiercest bulls break away, and are allowed
to go ; the rest rush forward through the gap purposely
left open for them, and are skilfully steered into a
herd of quiet cattle which has been stationed at a
convenient spot. Once among the couches, as they
are called, it is comparatively easy to bring them
home.

Our hero, who was much fascinated with the
delights of a cattle-station life, willingly accepted his
friend's invitation to join him in the projected expedition.
It was still early when they returned home,
and the men were waiting. Mounting fresh horses
they start for the scrubs. The day was one of those

glorious bright days of which nature is so lavish in
Australia. The skies were without a cloud, and the
air balmy and pleasant, notwithstanding the heat,
which had none of that tropical moistness so productive
of languor. What an exhilarating effect it
has on the spirits ! Even the horses feel it. They
know quite well that sharp work lies before them, and
they step forward to it with pleasure.

All hands are anxious to try their luck with the
clean - skins. " The Barham Downs people were out
for a whole month lately, and didn't get as many as
would pay for the rations used by the party. But
what can you expect from a kid-glove super that
isn't game to let his horse out at speed on the bush ?
We'll show them a dodge this time. It takes us 'to
wipe their eyes."

It is Fitzgerald's intention to intercept the wild
mob as they seek cover at earliest dawn. By doing
this he will have the whole day before him to take
them home ; besides which, the moon doesn't answer
yet for night work. The party, therefore, carry with
them a light blanket apiece, stowed away in the folds
of which is each man's supper and breakfast. Hobbles
and Jack Shays hang from the saddle-dees. The
bush is as full of life as ever. Hark to the ceaseless

^ A tin quart-pot, used for boiling water for tea, and contrived so
as to hold within it a tin pint-pot.

VOL. I.

sin<][incf of the cicala ! It almost drowns one's voice.
How the grasshoppers rise and fly in front of our
horses ! Fallacies hop swiftly past. Mobs of kangaroos
sit watching as the party pass, or bound away,
their long thick tails beating heavily on the ground,
and acting as a counterpoise to their bodies. Swarms
of bright noisy parrots of all sizes dart from one tall
tree to another, or play among the branches, sometimes
chasing one another, anon hanging head downwards
and holding on by one foot, or watching us with their
bright eyes, as with saucy mien they sit, their heads
on one side, discussing sweet morsels held up in pert
little claws.

We pass through timbered country this time — short,
sweetly-grassed iron-bark ridges ; then over some box-tree
flats, and again over more ridges. Here and there
red clay mounds, made by the white ant, alternating
with the little, conical, inverted, funnel-looking nests
of the soldier, meet the eye. Fitzgerald stops suddenly,
and points out two emus to John. They are stalking
along very quietly, about one hundred and fifty
yards away. They resemble ostriches, but are not
so large, and the tail droops more. One of the black-boys
whistles in a peculiar way. The emus crane their
necks and listen. Their curiosity is excited. See,
they are approaching slowly ! They come within
about thirty yards, and John can distinguish every

point about them, from their black cast-iron-looking
legs, to the bare neck and small head, with its bright
eye and strong fiat beak. One has a white ring of
feathers around the throat. How they run ! Ah, they
have stopped again, and gaze once more ! Come along,
we have no time to wait. There they go, their feathers
rustling like dried grass. Yonder is a native dog.
What has he been up to, eh ? He sees us, and,
standing, looks for a moment. Hey, Ginger ! here,
boy ! That startles him. He takes to his heels, his
tail between his legs, looking quietly over his shoulder
every minute. Let us ride up and see what he
was after. Here it is. Just like him. A dead calf
newly born. Its mother must have hidden it herein
the long grass. She has gone to slake her feverish
thirst at the nearest water, and the cowardly brute
has awaited her departure to tear the helpless little
innocent to pieces. Fitzgerald swears vengeance ; and
producing his little bottle of strychnine, he baits the
calf in various places. That will settle the murderer,
he says, with venomous satisfaction. A quarter of
a mile farther on we met the poor mother. She is
quite a young heifer. She is running back to the spot
where her little treasure lies, mooing tenderly as she
hastens along. Her drawn sides and bedraggled coat
betray her exhausted condition ; but she cannot spare
herself, she must hurry back. Poor thing ! her heart

will be torn with grief when she discovers the fate of
her little pet. How faithfully she will watch over the
mangled remains for days — yes, even when they are
black with ants and flies, and offensive with corruption !

Once more we get into plains and scrubs. A half-grown
kangaroo flies past, making for the scrubs with
incredible swiftness — and never had he more need. A
few feet above his head sails, with black outstretched
wings, with fierce relentless beak and talons, a large
eagle-hawk. His consort skims the ground in a
parallel line between him and the timbered country.
Should their prey once reach cover, they will
lose their expected repast. It is now close at hand ;
the straining animal is almost at it ; but, alas ! it is
already too late. The swoop is made. The talons
sink deep in the lustrous eyes, the black pall like
wings are flapping wildly about the gentle head, and
the strong remorseless beak sinks deep into the brain.
The hunt is over, and now comes the gorge — days of
inert repletion and listless torpor — and then another
glorious cruise in the bright blue sea of heaven overhead.
But Nemesis once more follows on the wake
of murder, and the little poison-bottle again prepares
a banquet of death for the destroyers.

The plain we are crossing is covered with old tracks.
When this old feed was young, it also was a favourite
feeding-ground of the scrub mobs. Look at the small

paths leading up to the scrub; they are still quite
distinct. Now we approach the scrub. It is necessary
for us to make our way through a belt of
about two miles in depth, so that we may take the
clean-skins in rear, without disturbing them, should
they be preparing to feed out on the plains. We
enter along one of the cattle-tracks, riding one after
another. It runs out in a short time, and under
Fitzgerald's guidance we make the best of our way.
How close the trees grow to one another ! It is quite
dark overhead. The soil is a decayed vegetable deposit.
What an earthy smell ! Fallen trees stop the
way everywhere ; bushes and undergrowth mask the
view. How the vines twist round the trees, or hang
festooned from the branches ! Ferns, mosses, and
lichens, with fungi of all sorts, are to be met with
on the fallen logs and old stumps. Look at that
gigantic bottle-tree ! It is small below, then, widening
gradually, it contracts at the top. It is something
like a huge radish. The inside is soft pulp,
and when very young, can be eaten. Hark ! there
goes a " tonga - tonga," high up in the topmost
branches of that great cedar. How solemnly quiet
it is here ! It puts one in mind of a Scottish Sabbath.
Listen to the bell-bird ! Ping, ping, sounds through
the last hushed temple of nature. Now one hears
the pat - pat - pat of a wallace. That is the coach-whip

bird. There again. Whew - ew - ew - ew - whit.
How sharply the last note comes ! Look at this
immense mound ! It is a scrub-turkey's nest. Thirty
or forty lay their eggs in it. One could hardly imagine
they could gather such a huge pile of sticks and
earth and leaves. They bury their eggs, and heap
up the nest until the laying time ceases. The moist
heap heats and inculcates the eggs. The young turkeys
spring out of the shell, covered with a thick
warm coat, and scratch their way into daylight,
strong and able to provide food for themselves.

What numbers of cattle-tracks there are ? This
place must be swarming with cattle. Look, high
up in the branches of that tall tree is a native bear !
It sits motionless. It has something the appearance
of a solemn old man. How funny his great ears
and Woman nose look 1 He sits on the branch as
if it was a chair, holding with hand-like claws the
surrounding twigs.

At last they succeeded in making their way out,
and emerge on a little creek which runs close by
the edge of the scrub. Small plains intersected
by strips of scrub lie in front of them. Fitzgerald
determines to fix his camp here. They will be near
enough to hear the lowing of the cattle during the
night, and in a good position for intercepting them
at dawn.

Asking John to accompany him, he starts to reconnoitre.
The others build a small fire inside the
scrub, and turn out their horses. The two scouts
ride cautiously along the edge of the scrub for about
a quarter of a mile, keeping well out of sight. A
large plain lies before their gaze, but as yet the sole
tenants are a few kangaroos. It has been lately
burnt, and the tender young grass growing on it
shines between them and the great red ball of fire,
sinking in the western horizon like a sea of emerald.
Down at the far end of the plain a few white and
dark spots appear on the edge of the scrub. They
were not there a minute ago. Keep your eye fixed
on them. Yes, they are cattle; they move, they
increase in numbers. It is a mob coming out of the
scrub. A bellow is now heard a couple of hundred
yards off. Hush ! keep still. A heifer makes her
appearance, looks around, and feeds slowly and quietly
out on to the open burnt feed. A few young cattle
follow. Now comes an old cow, with long, black,
many-ringed horns, and many a scar on her dingy
white skin. Close behind her issues an old bull.
He is an ancient warrior. Gracious ! what a hump
there is on the back of his neck ! He is of a dark
brindle and yellow colour, with a white face, and
curly hair on the broad truculent - looking forehead,
on each side of which depends a little loose snails

horn; large yellow circles surround the small savage
eyes. Now come a number together. There are some
branded ones. Several have Fitzgerald's brand FGD
on the near-side rump. They number in all about
fifty head. It is quite dark by this time, and the
two spies return to the camp, and turn their horses
out for the night. . .

All are anxious to hear the result. • Every one
speaks in a whisper. Supper is partaken of almost
silently. The water the tea is made of tastes of the
smell of cattle. Put a sprig of sweet marjoram in the
boiling tea — it will improve the flavour. • The little
fire in the dense thickets, with the dark. forms gathered
round it, gives one the idea of a robbers' encampment.
At last all hands turn in for. a few hours'
sleep. John closes his • eyes in vain. He is too
excited ; he cannot rest. How picturesque the vague
undefined forms look in the dim firelight, rolled up
in their red blankets ! ■ •

What a noise the opossums make chattering and
squalling up above ! Hark ! that was a child crying.
It startles him : he gets up. Sam is also awake, and,
lighting his pipe, sits crouching over the fire with the
blanket drawn round him. Again the wailing cry
of the child: " What on earth is that ? " asks John.
"Oh, one of them native bears," says the stockman,
carelessly. . . '

Distant bellows come from the plain. In the immediate
neighbourhood of the camp the horses are
heard feeding as they jump along with difficulty in
their shortened hobbles. "Hadn't you better turn
in ? " suggests Sam. " We've good three hours yet
by the Southern Cross." John lies down close to the
fire, and. is lucky this times

CHAPTER XVI.

A SPURT AT DAWN — A FAIR HAUL — CUTTING AND BRANDING.

Our hero slept sweetly, with his head on his saddle ;
so soundly, indeed, that when awakened he can hardly
believe he slept at all. It is still black night, but the
air is cold with the dews of morning, and every one is
up. A hurried breakfast is hastily eaten, blankets
are strapped in front of saddles, and the horses are
sought for and saddled in the dark. They shiver with
the cold. The morning star has been up some time.
The leaves are stirring with the morning breeze.

Now they mount and ride along the edge of the
scrub. Presently they come in view of the large
plain. It is nearly quite light now. The darkness of
night is fast hastening away, and the bright pale dawn
pursues it with incredible swiftness. The zodiacal
light is beginning to show. Far away at the lower
end of the plain a long string of cattle are disappearing
within the black line of scrub. Are we to be
unlucky after all ? No ! Hurrah ! A mob of about

fifty or sixty head appear from behind a patch of
scrub in the middle of the plain and make their way
at a steady walk towards shelter. They are nearer
the long, dense, frowning scrub-line than we are by a
good deal. Now is the time. " Come along, boys ! "
shouts Fitzgerald, as he dashes along at his utmost
speed, followed closely by his men, Indian file. What
a glorious burst ! The cattle see us, and start at a
gallop for the nearest cover. It is an exciting race,
winding up with a dead-heat. Horses, men, and cattle
plunge into the dark thicket at the same moment, with
a noise of crashing branches and smashing saplings,
and are instantly lost to view.

John arrives at the scrub as soon as the rest. He is
determined to keep up with them. He will not* lose
sight of the cattle, even if he cannot do much towards
getting them. " Way, way ! " he shouts. His horse has
run him into a clump of lawyer-thorns, and he tears his
shirt and his hands and face in getting clear. Never
mind — push on. The cattle are smashing everything
before them in front, and he can hear the voices of his
friends shouting to them and each other. " Heavens I "
he nearly got dashed against that tree. " Confound it ! "
a vine has entangled itself round his neck, and he has
to draw his knife and cut it. Now he nearly tumbles
over a huge fallen log. " What an infernal place ! "
Which way did they go ? " Pull up an instant and

listen. "Not a sound. They must be ahead. " Get
along, horse." " Holy St Denis ! " he utters, as a long
dead sandal-wood stake, with a hard sharp point like
a bayonet, drives itself between his saddle-flap and
the panel, and, breaking short off, remains there. It
is a mercy that it did not enter his horse's chest.
In the name of goodness, where have they got to ? "
Which is the way out ? " Everywhere the scrub
looks the same — fallen timber and thick undergrowth,
and trees growing close together. The smell of cattle
is very strong, as is also the scent of the sweet marjoram,
which, growing in vast abundance, has been
trodden on and bruised by the hoofs of the hurrying
crowd. Listen ! there is a whip away behind in the
opposite direction. " How did they get there ? "
Hurrying back, sometimes jogging, sometimes trotting
a few yards ■ — stopping here to tear himself through
the vines and thorns, lying flat on the saddle thereto
pass under an overhanging bough — John succeeds
in getting on to a cattle-track, along which he travels
a little faster, till at length, to his great joy, he finds
himself clear of the scrub — scratched and torn, indeed,
but glad to come out with his eyesight intact. A
whip is heard faintly ahead, and spurring his horse,
he tears over the plain towards the sound. The plain
is full of deep melon-holes, and the ground is rotten
and undermined by rats. Should his horse put his

foot in the wrong place, it will be a case of smash ;
but he doesn't care, and at last pulls up beside his
companions.

They have succeeded in running out about forty
head. Fitzgerald and Tommy the white stockman
ride ahead, keeping back the furious crowd as much as
possible. A man rides on each wing, allowing plenty
of room, and another brings up the rear. It is in vain
to think of steadying them just yet. "Just keep them
together, and do not close on them." Now they are
well away from the scrub. "Eound them up if possible,
and let them stand a few minutes to breathe."
They will not steady. Again they break and dash
off. " Keep them back in front." " Use your whips."
Gradually they drop into a steadier pace, ami at
last, with panting chests, lolling-out tongues, and
glaring eyes, are driven into a mob of quiet cattle,
which are found feeding handy. "Being them up."
Mix them well with the quiet ones, and let them
stand a little."

How did you manage to get the cattle out of that
awful place ? " asks John of Fitzgerald, who happened
to be next him as they sit, forming a ring around the
captives.

Oh, that was only a belt about half a mile thick,"
replied the young man. " After getting through that
we came upon another plain. We headed them there,

and driving them down it, we found an opening through
the scrub on to this side."

How do you manage to gallop in that frightful
thicket of trees and logs ? " questioned West, with
wonder. "I was nearly dragged off a dozen times."

*' Practice," said the squatter, laughing. " I thought
you would find it a little stiff at first."

Now they move along once more. " Keep them well
in the quiet cattle," shouts Fitzgerald. " Round them
up every time they seek to break. They'll soon steady."

How delicious is the bright summer morning ! The
horses' feet are wet as they brush away the shining
diamond-like drops of dew in front of them. The
men light their pipes, and the little blue clouds of
smoke float daintily on the soft breath of the morning.
What a fragrance the air is filled with ! Now
the watershed into the creek is crossed, and the party
halt at a camp, while Peter and John go up a neighbouring
gully to search for cows with calves to brand.
There, among the wattles, almost hidden from sight,
is a small mob. The sweet-scented yellow mimosa-blossoms
fall like rain as they push their way through
the grove, and drive the lazy quiet cattle down towards
the large mob. Many cows with unbraced calves are
drafted out on the various camps, and they approach
the yards with a considerable number. Near home
they pass a small mob of horses, amongst which Fitzgerald

points out to John an exceedingly handsome
and well-bred-looking black colt, saying, rather drily —

"Your guardian's son, Mr Half Cosgrove, admired
him once very much."

The tone struck the young Englishman as meaning
more than the words conveyed, although he could not
have conceived that Ealf when a boy had made an unsuccessful
attempt to steal the animal. He remembered
that on several occasions Fitzgerald had evaded criticising
Mr Cosgrove or his son, although he had inquired
after Ruth in a kindly and even affectionate manner,
and John made up his mind to ask his friend's opinion
about them. However, the hurry and bustle of the
mustering caused him to forget his intention. After
a good deal of shouting, cracking of whips, and galloping
after odd breakaways, the cattle were larded
amid clouds of dust, and all hands betook themselves
to supper and bed, it being imperatively necessary
that the next day's duties should commence by daybreak.
A loud coney awoke John from dreams of
chasing scrub cattle, and turning out hurriedly, he
found all hands down at the drafting yards. Black-boys
were covering to one another instructions as
to the carrying down of brands and ropes, and the
noise of the imprisoned herd was terrific. Following
the example of the rest, John entered the great receiving
yard on foot, and assisted in driving the cattle

into a lesser yard. This was not accomplished without
much shouting, and throwing of sticks. The cattle
breaking back in a body once or twice previously
to entering, rushed to the far end of the yard, raising
dense clouds of dust, through which occasionally could
be seen forests of horns, and hundreds of quickly moving
feet, or the dim outline of a beast or two. Now
and then an infuriated animal would single out and
charge down on one of the men, amid a shower of
sticks and stones from his fellows — the assailed one
meantime making his escape in the best way possible.
To assist in this as well as for shade, trees had been
left in the centre of the enclosure. At last they draw
into the other yard. Once they start there is no
stopping them. What a crush ! Some of their ribs
must crack between the posts. " Stand near the gates
and keep them back if possible." "Fill up the yards
ahead." " Now put up the heavy rails, and shut all
the gates."

Each successive yard up to the pound is full of
cattle. Drafting now begins. Three or four are driven
into the pound. They are all cows whose calves are
to be branded. They are let out into another yard,
through one of the numerous gates in the little pound-yard.
This time, four animals take their place. Two
are unbraced calves, and are let out into the branding-pen.
Of the other two, one is of the same class as the

first lot, and is allowed to join them, the fourth is a
full-grown scrubber. It is drafted into a different
yard, reserved for that description of animal. So the
work goes on.

The beasts passing through the pound are then
divided according to their various classes. Meantime
all hands are busy. Some are filling up out of one
yard into another, others keep the cattle from crushing
each other in corners. Fitzgerald stands in the
lane leading up to the pound, near the gate, with a
stout stick in his hands, and regulates admission
into it, shouting his orders to the men in charge of
the various other gates. His work is by no means
a sinecure. The cattle are rushing and crowding.
Many of them, more especially the scrubbers, are
maddened at being cooped up in the yard, and
charge at every one with the greatest ferocity.
Now he slams the gate in the faces of a squeezing
crowd, that would fill up the little yard entirely,
did they enter. A moment afterwards he opens it,
and dexterously admits a couple of the proper sort,
and shouts out their class, as, jumping on one side,
he eludes the desperate charge of an infuriated animal,
dealing it in the same moment a couple of rapid blows
with his stick. Now he opens the gate once more.
Every one is active, and every one is on the look-out.
It is surprising how coolly they work among the

VOL. I. P

furious animals. Every now and then, some one
makes a couple of strides to the top of the fence,
leaving a disappointed enemy below; and at last,
after two or three hours' hard work, the calves are
all drafted into a yard by themselves. The large
scrubbers occupy another. Fitzgerald intends keeping
them in one of the large paddocks on the run,
until he can sell them. Their calves will be put in
the weaning paddock along with the rest, and in
the course of time will forget all their wild habits.
An adjournment is now made for breakfast, after
which branding commences. The young stock were
in two yards adjoining one another, — that devoted to
branding purposes being considerably the smaller;
the other served to feed it with calves as required.
The branding-pen was half filled by a number of
rushing, squeezing, kicking, charging, calves of all
ages, from about fifteen months old downwards. The
larger unbraced cattle are kept in reserve to be
branded at more leisure. Fitzgerald and Sam jump
quietly into the yard. The former takes the noose
end of a long, thin, but exceedingly strong, green-hide
rope, and dexterously lasses a yearling scrub
bull, who, from his colour and general appearance,
must be a son of the animal they saw coming out
of the scrub the other night. The rope after passing
through two or three pulleys is fastened round the

barrel of a windlass outside. It tightens. The
Micky feels the strain, and gives a great leap.

Take in the slack there," shouts Fitzgerald. Into
comes the tug of war. Straining, roaring, jumping,
dashing violently against the rails, the yellow
brindled Micky is dragged up, in spite of a determined
resistance, to a corner-post of the yard. Meantime
Sam has caught the tail in one hand, and with the
other lasses the creature's hind leg, passing the end
of the rope at the same moment outside, to a man
whose duty it is to hold it. "Pull up there," he
shouts. The fore leg is served in the same way.
The leg-ropes pass under the lowest rail, and are
held outside. The struggling, bellowing animal is
now sideways to the fence, its head held close to
the corner-post by the head-rope. Sam again seizes
the tail and gives a sudden jerk ; the leg-ropes take
the creature's legs from under it, and down it comes
on its side with a heavy flop. Need-hot brands are
now brought from the fire, and in less time than it
takes to tell it, the whole affair has been begun and
concluded. Another is caught and hauled up at the
instant when, jumping up, the first victim rushes
with blind rage at his tormentors. The branding-pen
is getting particularly lively now. There are three
or four Mickle and wild heifers who are determined
to have their owner's heart's-blood. " Open the gate

there," shouts Fitzgerald. Sam cleverly avoids a
sudden charge, and obeying the command, allows
a singed and blood - streaming Micky, followed by
two or three other raging spirits, to dash past into
an adjoining yard, in the seclusion of which, they
may safely indulge in any amount of bellicose
demonstration. The smaller calves are scruffed,^
and soon finished, and a fresh batch takes the
place of the first detachment. In this manner the
whole of the calves are soon got through. The
larger clean - skins pass through the same ordeal ;
but it is a work of more time, not unmixed with
serious risk.

All now bear about with them an indisputable
testimony of ownership. The cows belonging to the
quiet herd are turned free into the bush. Such as
have young calves are allowed to take them away
visit them. Any calves over six months old, however,
are kept back for weaning. This causes much
grief on both sides. The bereaved mothers hanging
about outside make day and night hideous with their
bellowing lamentations, answered every now and then
by a plaintive chorus from the yard. So passes the
day, and preparations are made for a fresh day's work
on the morrow. It is, however, necessary that John
should return to Cambaranga ; so bidding farewell to

1 Caught bv hand.

his kind entertainer, and after promising another
visit when possible, he started for home.

How much more self-confident he feels now than
when he first landed in Brisbane ! He cantered along
the road as if he had been accustomed to the surroundings
of a bush-life all his days. Half-way to Carne
he met the " Bindarobina " stockman on his
road back, leading the yellow stallion. He was in
high spirits at having brought him so far. A pair
of draught-horse winkers kept the animal from observing
what occurred around him, and had a considerable
effect in cowing his temper ; but notwithstanding
the unsightliness of the head-gear, his presence
was most stately. The simple surcingle and crupper
served to set off his finely-shaped proportions in a
manner far superior to what any more gorgeous trappings
could have done ; while the reins, though loosely
buckled, kept the noble neck with its waving mane ina
superb arch.

Mind you don't loose the rein off him yet," said
John, warningly.

The man, satisfied of his ability to take him home in
safety, boastingly remarked that it would take a better
horse than " Yellowman" to get away from him. But
he hallooed before he was out of the wood ; for John
learnt, to his great vexation, some days afterwards,
that he had not proceeded more than a few miles

further on his road, when, falling in with a mob of
bush-horses, the yellow steed Set to work rearing and
pulling on the halter, and in spite of the efforts of
the man, who was dragged out of his saddle in the
struggle, he succeeded in getting free. All attempts
to recapture him proved unavailing.

It may be as well to mention here, that the animal
in question has been since then occasionally seen by
a stray shepherd or stockman, in some of the most
inaccessible parts of the wild broken country between
the Cambaranga and Bindarobina runs. The surcingle
and crupper remained buckled on his body long
enough to produce an abrasion of the skin, — their
places being now indicated by a growth of white hair,
producing a remarkable effect. He is invariably attended
by a harem of mares, as wild and untamable
as himself

CHAPTER Evil.

CAMBARANGA AGAIN — A WET ADVENTURE — A Hospitable
REFUGE.

On his return to Cambaranga, John found that Mr
M'Duff had come back from his northern tour, and
did not appear over-well pleased that he had taken a
holiday in his absence. M'Duff was one of those men
who think they never can get enough work out of
their subordinates. A hard worker himself, urged on
by the stimulus which the immediate prospect of making
money usually confers, he required that none of his
people should do less than himself. John was kept at
work from morning to night ; and very often midnight
saw him returning from business at one of the far outlying
sheep-stations. For these exertions he received no
pecuniary return, it being the opinion of Mr M'Duff, as
well as of many other proprietors of "Dotheboys Halls "
in the colony, that the acquisition of a knowledge of
bush-life, or "colonial experience," as it is termed,
amply compensated for the arduous labours performed.

On one occasion when he had spent the whole of
the morning and forenoon in the saddle, he was requested
by Mr M'Duff to count the sheep on a distant
station, and return that evening. A dull uninteresting
ride brings him to the sheep-station. It is just time
to count the flock : they are correct. The rainy season
has begun — and the sky is heavily overcast. It will
be a black, dark, and possibly very wet night. He
hates the idea of riding home, but he knows that
M'Duff makes a point of his returning in order to have
him at work early.

This is the black swamp, only seventeen miles distant
from home. Still eight miles to go. It is spitting
rain as he canters along. It must now be sundown.
It will be a frightfully dark night ; now it sets
in for heavy, settled rain. There will be no moon to
illuminate, however opaquely, the heavy, dense clouds.
It becomes quite dark. Still he jogs along, looking for
the welcome light, longing for the music of the dogs.
He feels his horse is crossing deep, sharp gullies, —
surely he cannot be on the road. Now he passes a
stream of water, and the animal's hoofs crunch the
stones and gravel. There is no stream to cross on the
road. He gets off" and alights in grass. He knows now
that his horse has left the track. He leads his horse,
feeling for the hard smooth road with his feet. Is this
it ? He takes out his match-box and strikes a light.

The sudden glare in the dark causes his nag to throw
up his head with a jerk, and all the matches fly out on
the ground — not one left. His horse has travelled this
road hundreds of times — perhaps he was only taking
a short cut. He mounts again, loosens the reins, and
makes up his mind to trust entirely to the animal.

On they go slowly. The creature, finding the reins
loose, walks away readily, tearing up large mouthfuls
of grass. He must evidently have some place in view,
he goes so cheerily in one direction. Perhaps he
is making back to Cambaranga ! How cold it is !
Where on earth can he be going to now? He is climbing
up steep ascents — so steep that John has to hold on
by the mane ; now he is descending a slippery, steep
bank, and he slides yards. The trees and bushes have
been very thick for some time past, and long wet
branches drag themselves across John's face and neck.

He is so wet by this time that he makes no effort
to keep himself dry. The ground is streaming with
water, and there is a continual sound of swash, swash,
in his ears. What a night ! Even the native dogs
and the curlews have shelter. What would his mother
think, were she alive, and did she know of his condition
? He is crossing flat country now. The heavy
rains have saturated the poor soil, — it is quite rotten,
and the horse bogs deeply at every step. Oh, he is
down, and struggling violently ! John frees himself

from the saddle. His feet sink in the soft mud upto
the ankle. He extricates the animal, and leads
him, bogging heavily, for some time. The mud
splashes over his back and head. The country seems
to be quite flat : occasionally the ground is hard, and
he rides a little ; then comes more bogging. He is
fairly worn out ; and on arriving at the next hard
patch he makes up his mind to camp, in spite of
the rain. Here is one. He gets off, and ties his
steed to a tree. He has no hobbles, but a stirrup-leather
answers as well. The ground is two inches
under water, but he is so knocked up he cares not.
He spreads the saddle-cloth and lies down, with his
saddle for a pillow. How his teeth chatter? All
around there is heard one continued croak, croak,
croak, from the throats of countless frogs. Fatigue
nevertheless compels sleep, and when he awakes it
is breaking day. Saddling up his shivering horse, he
prepares to start, not to Cambaranga now, which he
should have reached last night, but towards the overseer's
station, whither Mr M'Duff had asked him to
follow him that morning. Which way shall he go ?
The country is a dead level; he cannot tell north
from south, east from west. The sky is one vast
leaden cloud. He recollects hearing of a vast box-forest
between the Betyammo run and this part of the
Cambaranga station.

The horse he is riding was bred on it. Now it
dawns on him why the brute left the road : he wanted
to make back to his own old beat. What course shall
he steer ? He endeavours to follow back his tracks of
last night, but the water is so deep in places as to
prevent his seeing them. He keeps on in the direction
he started in, and gets along at a pretty fair pace, considering
the soft ground. In about two hours he falls
in with fresh tracks. He is relieved. Some one
passed this way not long ago. The tracks of the
bogging horse, though filled with muddy water, are
distinct enough. On he goes with spirits quite refreshed.
Holloa ! there are tracks of two horses
now, both about the same age. He passes a bent
tree and thinks he has seen it before. Now he comes
to a fallen log which he remembers. Heavens ! he
is following his own tracks in a circle. He begins to
get frightened : he has heard of men perishing in the
box-forest before. He carefully selects a tree ahead
of him and makes for it, noting the place he started
from. On arriving at the tree he selects another in
front, keeping the last tree in a line with the first, and
by repeating the plan he succeeds in travelling pretty
straight. He has at least the satisfaction of knowing
that he will get out of the forest eventually. The
sun glimmers faintly, a pale round spot in the clouds.
It is pretty high ; it must already be the afternoon.

Chop, chop, chop, chop," in the distance, faintly.
John pulls up and listens eagerly, but there is no
sound. He must have been mistaken. There again !
He stops immediately, and pricks up his ears. Yes,
he hears it distinctly. Blacks. Now he will find out
where he is. Guided by the sound, he rides up and
discovers a black fellow of the Cambaranga tribe, who
rejoices in the, at present, very appropriate name of
Stick-in-the-mud."

Hooray, Ginty, Ginty. Which way you have come
up, Missa Less ? ''

*' Me loose em road," returned the latter.

Tut, tut, tut," responded the black, with a piteous
look, shaking his head.

Cambaranga close up ? " inquires West.

Bail good way."

The same answer is returned as to the distance
from the overseer's place. Betyammo is described as
little bit, good way," and Stick-in-the-mud promises
to show him on to a track leading there. John, who
is faint with hunger, asks his sable friend to procure
him some native honey, of which the bush is full.

Too much big fellow water, bail ply (fly) come up
bail pint (find) him," answers the aboriginal, adding,
however, the question, " You patter (eat) potchum ? "

"Yohi" (yes), said John, rather doubtfully, for he is
not sure how his stomach will agree with the strange
meat.

All rigli ; me look out." He now went from tree
to tree examining carefully the bark, and at last, after
inspecting a large gum-tree he remarks, curtly, " Pot-chum
sit down." This he seemed to detect by the
fact that there were fresher scratches on its trunk, of
the kind made by the animals when ascending than descending.
The tree was a very large one. Its bark was
smooth like glass. Cutting a notch in the bark, and
embracing as much of the huge trunk as possible with
his arms, the black fellow mounted the height of the
step, then standing with his toe in the notch, with his
tomahawk he proceeded to cut another, about the
height of his waist, which he also ascended, keeping
his body flat to the tree. Step by step he gradually
rose, looking like a fly walking up a window-sane,
until he reached the first fork, nearly forty feet above
the ground. A sudden twist enabled him to surmount
this difficulty, after which he walked among the
branches with the activity of a monkey. Selecting one
with a hole in it, he dropped two or three small stones
which he had carried up with him down the hollow,
listening intently as they rumbled down the pipe.
They all stopped at a particular place. Descending
to the spot, Stick-in-the-mud cut into the hollow, and
inserting his hand, drew forth a large opossum, its eyes
blinking in the daylight.

A few knocks against the tree deprived it of life,
and throwing it down, its captor descended, grinning

from ear to ear his appreciation of the white fellow's
compliments as to his dexterity. Blacks never move
without a fire-stick ; and soon the opossum, divested
of its fur, was roasting on a fire, emitting a most
inviting odour under the circumstances. It makes
Stick-in-the-mud, who has only lately despatched an
immense meal, hungry again ; and John has some
difficulty in persuading him not to seize the half-roasted
creature and bite out a piece.

The black fellow looks astonished ; the prohibition
is quite against the customs of his race ; however, he
gives in, contenting himself by throwing the entrails
on the fire for a moment, and soon, to his guest's horror,
he commenced despatching yards of the scarcely-warmed
intestines, at the conclusion of which operation
his face presented a sickening spectacle.

Were it not that he is almost fainting with hunger,
the Englishman could not touch the black rat-looking
animal, roasted in its skin, its' tail curled round and
round, and its paws drawn up by the heat.

Stick-in-the-mud fancies the delay is caused by
ignorance as to the proper method of carving, and once
more stretches forth his wet and highly odoriferous
fingers towards the 'plat." Shuddering, John snatches
it away, and dividing it, presents him with half. On
tasting his own he finds it by no means to be despised,
and even longs for a little more.

Stick-in-tlie-inud watches him. With the acuteness
of his people he had noticed the fastidiousness which
characterised the first few mouthfuls, and he roared
with laughter as he saw it disappearing. " Cawbawn
potchum boodgeree, bail gammon. Black fellow, caw-dawn
patter, my word." ^

They now started for Betyammo. With wonderful
instinct the black fellow found his unerring way
through the bush. The country was still the same
flat forest. No watercourse intersected it which
could act as a guide ; no mountain rose for a landmark.
Mile after mile the same interminable box-forest
was traversed. Overhead the clouds hung
blackly, but with unhesitating confidence the child
of the woods walked ahead in the direction which he
felt within him to be the right one. Now and then
he stopped to ascertain whether or not a bandicoot
was in its nest ; and once in passing he gave two or
three cuts with his tomahawk to a tree, out of which he
dragged an immense maggot, which he swallowed with
great relish, after politely offering it to John, and laughing
heartily at his face of disgust. Now they fall in
with a small track, and Stick-in-the-mud halts, saying —

This one wheelbarrow yan long o' Beetyammo ^

literally: 'opossum very good, no gammon. Black fellow
plenty eat, my word."

2 Tills road goes to Betyammo.

intimation at the same time that he himself is a
postman black fellow," travelling on a special mission
from one tribe to another, and that his business
will not permit him to go any further. Our friend
rewarded his guide by giving him a handkerchief
which he wore round his neck, and promised a liberal
supply of tobacco on his coming to Cambaranga ; and
setting spurs to his horse, pushed along smartly, striking
at last the main road near Betyammo.

Here he overtook Mr Gray, who was returning from
a visit to a sheep-station.

Guessing the young fellow's plight, the kind-hearted
old gentleman hurried him home, made him drink a
couple of glasses of hot grog, and brought him in
dry clothes. John West had grown very much since
leaving home. He was now nearly six feet high,
and a strong, active, muscular fellow. Mr Gray, on
the contrary, was short and very stout ; and his guest
could not help laughing as he surveyed himself in his
host's short inexpressible, the legs of which failed to
cover his ankles, and were a world too wide around
the waist. A coat to match completed his equipment;
and he joined the ladies, who welcomed him
with much pleasure, wicked Bessie slily complimenting
him on his appearance.

Once more the rain deluges the country, and John
congratulates himself upon having met .

As the party are about sitting down to dinner,
horses are heard trotting up, and soon a drenched individual,
enveloped in a huge oilskin poncho, is standing
at the door, shaking hands with Mr Gray. It is
our friend Stone. His horses are turned out, his swans
brought inside, and in a short time the good-looking,
honest, careless fellow joins the party. He is an old
acquaintance. He has just come up from Sydney,
and he has news for every one.

He describes the cattle at the great Agricultural
Show to Mr Gray, and relates with much enthusiasm
how the black and yellow colours of " Old Tait " were
once more borne to victory by the little Barb ; and,
for the ladies' benefit, he gives an account of a ball 'at
Government House, and other gay festivities in which
he took part.

He describes the appearance and breeding of the
latest imported horses and cattle, and the shape of
the greatest novelties in fashionable dress. In fact,
he is a fund of information and amusement. He is
acquainted with the probable price of store wethers
in Victoria this coming season ; and the gossip of
Sydney and Brisbane is at his finger-ends. Moreover,
he interests Mr Gray very much by giving him some
information about new country. When in Sydney
he met some fellows who had been out exploring
lately, and they gave him an account of lands away

VOL. I. Q

to the northward which must ultimately be of great
value; and he himself has an idea of joining a party
which is about to be formed in order to examine and
secure some of them.

And in the room at night, which they shared between
them, he told John of a small windfall which came to
him lately in the shape of a few hundred pounds.

"I'm going to turn over a new leaf," he remarked.
I'll go out with this expedition, take up some country,
and either sell it and go out again, or try and get someone
to join me in stocking it. I wish you would come
too, West," he continued. " You have got some cash.
You can easily double it this way, without loss ; and
you will pick up colonial experience in shifting for
yourself far sooner than in working for others."

I wish I could," said John ; " but my money is in
my guardian's hands, and I have no command of it."

That's a pity," returned Stone. " Well, it can't be
helped ; but just let me give you a bit of advice. Get
hold of your money as soon as you can yourself, and
stick to it. Remember it is very hard for a gentleman
to get along in the bush without capital. As for the
labourer, he is a thousand times better off. He lands
here, and he is sure of better wages than he could
expect at home. His food is found. His expenses
are reduced to a minimum. Every step he makes is
one in advance. There are openings here for him

wliicli do not exist at home. In a couple of years
he buys a horse-team ; next year he has two. A small
farm or a public-house follows as a natural consequence,
and he is almost immediately a moneyed man, provided
he does not drink, which is the rock he splits on too
often. I consider that when an intelligent, sober, and
hard-working young man lands in this colony, it is as
if he had a legacy of £500 put into his pocket at home ;
but the gentleman's son, without capital and without
a profession, is in a far different position. He works
often for less wages, in a highly responsible position,
slaving hard to amass sufficient to make a start. He
is in charge of valuable herds, and a vast property. He
cannot begin in a petty way. His mind revolts from
making a commencement as a carrier, or a travelling
hawker, or a publican, and associating with the people
that kind of work would cause him to live amongst.
Should he commence business as a storekeeper even,
he is dependent upon favour for custom ; he must
conciliate the lowest classes often, and always on a
digging township. The masses cannot bear to find
any man with more refined thoughts or manners than
themselves. They will not tolerate independence. It
is not enough to give value for money. To succeed,
he must slap ' Jack ' on the back, and be poked in the
ribs in return. He must drink a nobler with ' Tom,'
and be ready to 'shout' for all hands at least once

a-day. Nor must he be annoyed if he finds ' Bill '
lying on his bed, with his dirty boots, scrutinising
his most cherished photographs, and commenting on
them in his delightfully brusque, frank style. It is
not," continued Stone, "that a man wants to keep
himself aloof from a snobbish feeling of superiority,
no sensible fellow would ; but at the same time, one
likes to be independent, and live among one's equals
if possible. That is the reason why you find so many
fellows go away down to town and spend their money.
It seems so utterly hopeless, that what they can manage
to save out of their small screws will ever grow
into a sum large enough for them to make a beginning
with, in the way they have been used to, that the
natural desire for a visit to town after the seclusion
of the bush, with its constant hardships, merely
affords them an opportunity of spending what they
have earned. They know few towns-people. They have
no pleasant houses to visit at. They take up their
quarters at a hotel frequented by squatters — men in
whose society they have lived in the bush, and whose
habits and ways are like their own, but whose purses
are longer. They go from one place of amusement to
another, longing for the rest of a pleasant home, sighing
for the society of well-bred women in vain. Their
own homes are like mine, in most cases, away across
the water in Old England, and so they get into a

fashion of spending their money and their holidays
in this manner as a matter of course. There are,
however, many who like nothing better; and some
young Australians, with happy homes to go to, choose
rather to spend their time in a rowdy, fast way, than
among their own circle, but three-parts of the bush-fellows
would be glad of the chance they throw away.
It is jolly enough while one is young, but it can't last
for ever, you know. West; so when I dropped into
this little thing I put the drag on, rolled up my valise,
and took my passage for Brisbane. I was sorry to
leave, too. A number of northern men were in Sydney
at the time, and came to see me and two or three
others, who were cleaned out, off. As we steamed
away from the quay, by Jove ! I envied them all
standing in a body there, shouting and chaffing remarks
about ' Old Queensland,' and sending messages
to chums up in the bush ; and when I thought how
they would return to a good dinner at ' The Eoyal,' or
Petty 's,' or ' The Metropolitan,' and then stroll on to
the theatre, and so on, while I had to cut away back
to hard work, I almost felt inclined to stay ; and indeed,
an hour afterwards, as we passed through the
Heads, and the old Clarence snorted away northwards
through the dirty black night, and over a chopping
cross-sea, if I could have returned I believe I would.
I don't think," said Stone, ruefully, " anything can be

worse than coming out of Sydney Heads on a squally,
dismal evening, a little upset after a spell in town.
That feeling, however, soon goes off ; and as Fortune
seems inclined to do the right thing this time. 111
give her every opportunity before she has time to
change her fickle mind."

So saying, he turned over, and was asleep almost
immediately, leaving John to ruminate on what he
had said with regard to his money, about which he
somehow could not help feeling uncomfortable.

Chapter Xvi.

THE LAMBING — SWINDLING A NEW CHUM.

Next morning John returned to Cambaranga, leaving
Stone, who had accepted Mr Gray's invitation to pass
some days there, to spell his horses. In a fortnight's
time, however, he passed on his road north, accompanied
by a Betyammo blackboy, driving a number of
Betyammo horses.

During the night he spent at Cambaranga he acquainted
John with the fact that he had, since last
seeing him, entered into a partnership with Mr Gray,
who had agreed to stock any good country which he
might eventually secure, and meanwhile share his expenses,
and the profits on all country he might take
up and sell.

It must not be thought that during this time John
West had forgotten Ruth, his guardian's step-daughter,
or his affection for her. He had not long been at Cam-banana
when he sought out her mother's grave, and
found it a mere mound of earth — forgotten, uncared

for. The cows browsed over it, and the rats burrowed
into the soft soil. ISTo stone or cross marked the spot
where that gentle heart slept peacefully, but a great
currajong waved its beautiful leaves lovingly as a
shelter from the fierce noonday sun and the chill
night dews, its perennial greenness emblematically
showing forth the eternal life into which the soul of
the sleeper had entered.

He asked permission of Mr M'Duff to enclose it and
put it in order, and received from him a rather coarse
reply', that he might, if he chose, make a stock-yard
round it. His finances were by no means in a flourishing
condition, but he gladly expended the greater portion
of them in causing a neat fence to be erected
around this spot, so dear to the little friendless heart.

One of the men, a mason by trade, had managed
to cut a neat headstone from a flat block of sandstone
found in the creek, and John very often made a pilgrimage
to the place, which recalled the one love-romance
of his life.

It surprised him a good deal that, although he had
written two or three letters to Kuth, she had never
taken any notice of them, and he puzzled his brains
often to find out the reason. He had always taken a
brotherly care of her, and he knew she liked him.
What could be the cause ? Mr Cosgrove wrote once
or twice, but his letters were harsh and cold — mere

exhortations to work. And of work he had enough.
Sometimes John had to cro out and assist in cutting
down trees, and making bough-yards ; at others, his
assistance was needed in sinking post-holes and putting
up fences ; or he had to drive bullocks and bring
in firewood.

It was perhaps fortunate for John that he learnt
these rough experiences while still young ; and in a
great measure they kept him from dwelling on his
lonely lot. His happiest moments at this time were
those passed in slumber, when his mind reviewed the
most cherished recollections of his more youthful days,
and revealed to him again the loved features of his
sainted mother, his grave father, and Kuth, with her
wavy brown curls, and sweet sad face.

At last lambing-time came round, and he received
instructions from Mr M'Duff to join a party of three
men who were being sent out to take charge of one
of the flocks. Their destination was a distant creek.
The spot selected for a lambing-ground is always
chosen with the object of having plenty of green feed
for the ewes, so as to produce abundance of milk ;
but even to John's inexperienced eye this one did not
at all look promising. Part of the grass had never
been burnt, and the remainder had been set on fire
so recently, that it looked like a mere black waste.
Surely a better place could have been found than this.

If rain fell immediately, the grass would spring ; and
although at this time of the year the cold would keep
it back considerably, still one might manage to get
along ; but there was no prospect of a change from the
bright, cold, sunny weather. A black look-out, indeed,
for a good lambing.

If the men grumbled at the wretched pasture, they
broke into open mutiny when they saw the condition
of the flock they had to attend to, and the want of
comforts for themselves and necessary articles for their
work. The hurdles which are required to make folds
for holding sheep, and small pens to imprison such
refractory ewes as will not own and " mother " their
young, were few in number and of bad quality. The
bark gunyah the men lived in was made of poor and
rotten bark ; and as for the ewes, they were enough in
themselves to insure the failure of a lambing, even on
plentiful feed.

"Toothless, ragged, old grannies," muttered the
hurdle-mans

It is customary to divide a reward of sixpence per
head for all lambs reared over 80 per cent of the total
number of ewes sent to the lambing, among the men
whose exertions have contributed to the result. This
sum is in addition to their wages. Besides this, at a

1 The man who has charge of the young lambs for the first three
days after they are dropped.

lambing where the sheep are fat and the grass abundant,
very little trouble is required to make things go
smoothly ; whereas a bad lambing makes every one
working at it discontented, listless, and dissatisfied
with himself, his mates, the sheep, the grass, and
above all, the boss or super, whose the responsibility
or loss is.

It certainly did not look like M'DufF's good management
sending this large flock (over 1500) to such a
wretched spot. John had often heard him speak of
the necessity of parting with old sheep. What could
he mean by sending them here ? A younger flock
could stand it better. He was aware that good grass
was scarce just then, but it surely was more necessary
for these poor creatures to have something to lanlb on
than stronger ones. The overseer who attended to the
wants of the men seemed glad to get away from the
desolate spot as soon as he could, and M'Duff never
came near it. There was clearly no hope of a percentage,
or even of a tolerable lambing, and the men, disheartened
and disgusted, took no interest in their work.

Day by day matters grew worse. Lambs were
dropped in numbers ; but so old, and weak, and
hungry were the mothers, that they rather ran seeking
food for themselves than " took " to their helpless offspring.
Piles of lambs lay around the hurdle-yards
each morning dead — with their eyes picked out, often

long before death, by the cruel crows, of which, and
carrion-hawks, hundreds could be seen sitting on the
neighbouring trees. All day long numbers of motherless,
deserted, helpless creatures, with tucked-up bodies
and humped backs, barred with faint weak voices their
desire for a little food. Dead sheep lay everywhere.
Not one ewe in a score cared for and nursed its lamb.
Those were lucky who recovered the prostration of
lambing. They had no love for their young, and no
milk to give them if they had. Still lambs kept
increasing by hundreds. The men did not know what
to do with them. It was a mercy to kill them. There
were lambs everywhere, and almost all without
mothers. Lambs in the yard — lambs down at the
water-holes — in the bush — in the hut, — everywhere.

It distressed John to see such a loss of property,
apart from the misery of the poor, weak, starved mites,
that cried their little throats so dry, and their mouths
so sore, as to be unable to swallow the nourishment
which he sometimes procured for them from ewes
who had a little milk.

It was impossible to do anything for the whole
body, yet he could not sit with his hands folded ; and
many were the different plans which, under the guidance
of the experienced old shepherd, he adopted. He
made little pens of hurdles, into which any ewe that
showed signs of having milk, and that would not

fondle her lamb, was put with it — both being marked
with raddle in a similar way, in order that they might
be detected easily in the crowd, when allowed to feed,
and imprisoned again — until at length the mother got,
by very force of habit, to love her young. Others,
whose lambs had died, were penned up and respectively
accommodated with a motherless one, on whose
back was fastened the skin of its foster-mother's deceased
little one. In many cases this met with success.
Numerous plans were tried, some mothers being
coaxed, others cajoled, and others intimidated. Some
were kept on purpose to feed the poor little hungry
orphans, who had been deserted by their own parents
after suckling them for a few days, and who tried their
puny utmost to prolong existence.

It was throughout a most painful business. Often
during the night John would be awakened by a thin
treble baa from some little lost waif, which had fallen
asleep during the day, and which, unsought for by its
mother, had lain in the bush, unnoticed, by itself.
This appeal he never could withstand; and, seeking
the homeless solitary one, he would endeavour to
assuage its young grief by giving it a drink from one
of his penned-up milkers.

At length it was over, and the last ewe had lambed.
All the mobs of different aged lambs which had been
hitherto kept apart were boxed up together, the sheep

were made over to their shepherd, and the men rolled
up their swans, and tramped into the head-station to
get paid.

The latter part of the lambing had not been so trying
as the first half. Vain had fallen, and grass was
comparatively plentiful; but the poor condition and
age of the mothers had operated fatally against its
success. There were about a hundred lambs saved,
but over six hundred of the mothers had left their
bones to bleach on the fatal spot. It was indeed a
bad business, and John was thankful it was over ; but
he did not care to face the old superintendent with the
fatal tally of survivors.

On describing what had occurred, however, Mr
M'Duff did not seem to take it very much to heart,
merely remarking that John was exceedingly unlucky
with his first lambing.

Father surprised to find his boss in such a gentle
mood, the latter added a remark, to the effect that had
the sheep been on better pasture the result would have
been more favourable.

It is not likely," returned his superior, " that jour
sheep are to have the pick of the lambing-places.
They are hard enough to find of any sort this year."

**My sheep!" ejaculated the young man, wonderingly.


"Yes, of course, your sheep. You were looking

after your own ewes lambing, and you are fortunate
in being allowed to keep them on the station at a time
when we require all the grass there is for ourselves'

"How did they become mine?" inquired the surprised
new chum, bewildered about his new property.

Become yours ! Well, I — I — I " stammered

M'Duff, who, notwithstanding his greed and selfishness,
had the grace to feel ashamed of the cheat which,
under the direction of his unscrupulous senior, he had
unhesitatingly played on the trusting lad. " The fact
is, your guardian invested your money in them nearly
a year ago, just after last shearing. I've got the receipt
somewhere ; I'll find it and give it you."

"You do not mean to say that Mr Cosgrove has
sold me that flock of ewes which are dying sofas,
and paid himself with my money ? "

That is the flock he chose for you, and he cannot
help the seasons. He received you on his station;
invested your money for you. You have been taught
colonial experience " (John laughed bitterly) ; " and
you have had the use of the run for your sheep."

John had not sufficient knowledge of business to
understand the nature of the transaction thoroughly,
but he knew enough to feel alarmed.

Will you show me the account against me in the
station books ? " he said, desperately, as if doubting
the evidence of his ears.

He had worked so faithfully — his whole soul had
been in doing his duty — that he could not believe so
true an adherent and so enthusiastic a servant could
have been treated so treacherously.

They proceeded to the little office, and John read
against his name, in M'Duff"s scrawling characters, a
blotted, jumbled-up statement, which gave him to
understand that almost immediately after last shearing
this flock had become his. The original number
(1700) was charged to him at the unusually high figure
of 15s. per head. Two hundred had died during the
cold, wet season.

John knew too well the enormous number of deaths
during lambing, and he found himself now with 900
old ewes and a few lambs, at the mercy of his untrustworthy
so-called guardian, or his managing partner,
for grass to feed them with. Another glance at the
books showed him that, after payment of passage-money,
shepherds' and lambert' wages, there stood buta
slender balance in his favour.

He said nothing : his soul was too sorely hurt to say
much. Truly he had fallen among thieves ; and those
who ought to have protected him had made prey of
him. Verily M'Duff had known how to get rid of his
old ewes with a vengeance.

Mechanically rolling up his receipt for " money received
from Mr John West, price of 1700 ewes, aged,"

he left the office, his breast swelling, more with grief
at the base duplicity of the transaction than for the
loss of his small fortune, which, as the money never
had been in his possession, did not come home so
acutely to him as it might have done. That he, who
had worked so honestly, whose thoughts and energies
day and night were how he might best please the man
under whose roof Ruth lived, should have been made
the victim of so vile a swindle, so cowardly a deception !
Now he understood Stone's hints about getting his
money into his own hands. Now he knew the meaning
of the sneers which were coupled with the names of
many squatters as the proprietors of "Dotheboys Halls."
At last he believed the stories of Australian wool

•

princes, living in England, graciously undertaking the
charge of young men of capital who desired learning
the art of making a fortune by sheep-farming, in order
to be able to charge them an exorbitant premium for
the pleasure of acting as a grocer's apprentice in their
stores, combined with that of a butcher's boy at their
slaughtering-yards, and finally winding up by selling
them their surplus stock at prices above just rates.
He had heard that the pin-money of some ladies travelling
in Europe with their spouses, the lords of cattle
on a thousand hills and of flocks innumerable, was
derived from this source.

As he lay awake all night on his hard bunk, he
VOL. I. K

passed throiigli a " colonial experience " wliicli opened
his eyes wider to the ways of the world than they had
ever been before. He had cherished the hope of rendering
himself so useful to his employers as to make
it worth their while to retain him in their service,
under a salary which, saved with care for years, might,
joined to his own little inheritance, make him an independent
man, — and now that dream was over. The
next feelings was one of bitter answer and hatred to all
concerned. He recollected his dislike to Mr Cosgrove,
on first seeing him. He remembered the continual
drudgery of his life under M'Duff. How differently
he had been treated by kind old Mr Gray and his
friend Fitzgerald ! He would not stay another hour
under the roof of the men he hated. He felt inclined
to throttle the first of them who came in his way.
And he consigned to the depths of eternal punishment
Cosgrove, and M'Duff, and the hopeful Ealf, and

Eu No, not Ruth, — he could not include her.

His fierce emotion softened as he thought of her : she
was virtually alone like himself ; she had none of the
cheat's blood in her veins : and then his father's imasje
rose up before him ; and the thought of how he had
striven to secure the boy's future welfare, and that he
should have died, trusting to the assurances of a wolf
in sheep's clothing, nearly choked him. A fierce
burst of tears relieved his pent heart ; and he calmed

down, wondering at the violent sobs which shook his
frame and the bed he rested on.

He was resolved now — that very morning, as soon
as light should come — he would go over and ask
Fitzgerald's advice; but whether he advised it or not,
he would stay no longer on the Cambaranga run.
Sooner would he travel his sheep from one station to
another than be under any obligation to his robbers.

Accordingly, avoiding M'Duff, who, to tell the truth,
was not very desirous of meeting him, the lad saddled
a colt, which he had bought some time before, and
rode to Ungahrun, getting there about lunch-time

Fitzgerald was not in when he arrived ; and he had
time to cool down a little before his host came home,
which he did about sundown.

Holloa ! West, my boy ! awfully glad to see you !
I've been looking for a visit this good while ; but I

suppose lamb But I say, old fellow," he broke

in, concernedly, as he noticed John's twitching features,
" what's the matter ? eh ? anything wrong ? "

John stammered out some unintelligible, broken,
excited words about M'Duff, old ewes, and Cosgrove.
Fitzgerald perceived that something must have been
radically wrong to disturb the lad's generally quiet
spirit in this fashion ; but he could not as yet understand
what it was all about. So bringing out some
brandy, he made John swallow a large glassful, and

then, sitting down beside him, he gradually mastered
the details of the affair.

Just like that fellow Cosgrove. Couldn't have expected
anything better from him. As for old M'Duff*,
he is a tool — a willing tool — and will be used by Cosgrove
until he has grown useless, when he will have
to pass under the harrow himself. I feared something
of this sort before ; but having heard that Cosgrove
was your guardian, I was inclined to think that he
would be manly enough to act fairly by you."

The honest young squatter sympathised deeply with
John, more especially as he knew himself how much
interest the latter had taken in his employer's service.
They talked over the affair that night, and it ended by
Fitzgerald's inviting John to bring his sheep over to
Ungahrun until they finally made up their minds
what to do in the matter.

Gladly did our friend accept the kind offer ; and a
week afterwards he arrived at Ungahrun with his forfeited
property, like a patriarch on a small scale.

Old Mr Gray, whose judgment on matters relating
to sheep was very sound, rode over, at Fitzgerald's
request, and on examining the little mob, gave his
opinion that they were " culls " — that is, sheep drafted
out of other flocks for some fault, or on account of age.
They were not a very bad lot, which he put down to
the fact that the worst of them had died ; and lastly,

he thought they might, in the present state of the
market, bring five shillings per head, and considered
that it would be advisable for John to part with them
after shearing, offering him, at the same time, the use
of his wool-shed for the purpose.

This view of matters having been also adopted by
Fitzgerald, our hero succeeded in getting his old crawlers
stripped of their coats, about a couple of months
afterwards, by Mr Gray's shearers, in the Betyammo
shed, and eventually had the pleasure of parting with
them to a buyer who, having sold his station at a high
price per head for the sheep on it, was on the lookout
for stock at a low figure to increase the purchase-money.


A letter which West wrote to Mr Cosgrove, prompted
by Mr Gray, merely drew forth a reply to the effect
that all business matters were in the hands of Mr
M'Duff, who had been commissioned by him to invest
John's capital. This both Mr Gray and Fitzgerald
translated into watching the means by which he might,
at the most favourable opportunity, appropriate it to
the station use. Young West was now offered a home
by both of his kind friends; but he decided upon
choosing to stay at Ungahrun, having taken a great
liking to its open-hearted young master.

CHAPTER XIX

THE LAND-FEVER — Half COSGROVE RETURNS TO THE COLONY.

The next three years of John West's life passed with a
rapidity unequalled in his former experience. Trusted
and esteemed by his friend Fitzgerald, he set his mind
to work on the one great object of making himself
useful to his employer, and of fitting himself to play
his part in life; and so thoroughly did he succeed,
that he soon learnt to manage the station as well as the
young squatter himself He speedily became a good
judge of stock, and an excellent bash-rider, if not a
first-class rough-rider — for there were few horses he
dared not back with a fair chance of remaining in
the saddle.

Emigration had in these years immensely increased
the population of the colony ; and the eager desire to
become landowners on the part of all who had saved
enough to take advantage of the very liberal terms
which the land laws of the country offered, had caused
most of the squatters to exercise their pre-empire

privileges largely, and Fitzgerald found himself obliged
to sink all his available capital in the purchase of those
lands which were his pride and boast, and of which
hitherto he had only been a lease-holder. The same
reason, and the higher price which wool had maintained
so long, caused the eyes of the Queensland squatters,
and of those of the still more crowded-out southern
colonies, to turn to the great unexplored and unoccupied
lands of the far west and north, and exploring
parties were being constantly organised and sent out.

Among the explorers none had done better than
our old friend Stone. His push and reckless cheery
nature, joined to an unusual development of the organ
of locality, fitted him especially for the work of a
pioneer. It was fortunate for him also that his exploring
fell in the comparatively early days of the
land-fever. Under the Crown Land Regulations which
then existed, it was possible for any one riding overland
which had never before been occupied, to obtain
a lease of it from the Government on giving a rough
description of the boundaries, and paying a trifling
rent. This lease was sufficient to secure the tract of
land, no matter its extent, against the intrusion and
claims of all others ; and explorers having taken up
much country in this manner, found the sale of some
of it to stock-owners in search of " pastures new " a
most profitable business.

Stone had been down staying at Betyammo once in
the course of the last three years, and during his visit,
which lasted several months, had managed to secure
the affection of pretty lively Bessie, among other pieces
of good fortune. He had again gone out on an expedition
towards a river, on whose banks he was under the
belief that magnificent country was to be met with,
and he intended securing some of it for himself and
his future father-in-law, if possible.

John would sometimes ride over with Fitzgerald to
Betyammo for a day's amusement, or to spend Christmas
; but the other was so much engaged with difficulties
about land and his business generally, that his
recreation time was limited. Occasionally John would
chaff his friend quietly about his feelings towards
Phoebe ; but it was plain that, much as he liked her
and the rest of the Betyammo party, he had never
thought seriously of her as a wife. He had clearly
never looked down into the depths of that transparent
and pure nature, nor had he the slightest idea that
Phoebe regarded him in any other light than that of
an old friend, — almost, indeed, a brother, — for, despite
his many advantages of person and station, Willie
Fitzgerald was not a vain man. Meantime the Cam-banana
station had received a temporary addition to
its staff.

This was Ealf Cosgrove, the scapegrace son of

«

John's unprincipled guardian, who had at last been
sent out by his father to the colony, but who spent
more of his time in the congenial atmosphere of fast
life in Sydney than in looking after business on the
Cambaranga run. Although still little more than a
lad, he had been initiated in England into the ways of
flash " society. He had felt it indeed an honour to
be on familiar terms with some of those celebrated
individuals whose evil fame rested upon an ability to
maintain a balance, with one foot on either side the
line which divides the square from the cross sections
of humanity. He felt pride in clapping the shoulder
of Jack Pelham (who was credited with having several
times " got at " horses before the race they were entered
for came off) and taking a drink with him; and he
was on the best of terms with Captain Poole, the
notorious billiard-player, whose success had estranged
all his old companions.

He gratified his father by picking up a betting
intimacy with Lord De-la-Turf and the Hon. Mr Eing-
bone, the latter of whom speedily managed to ease him
of £1000 at one fell swoop, which his father, with
many conflicting feelings of anger and pride, paid, and
for some months afterwards walked about with the
stump of the cheque in his pocket, as a proof of the
pluck his boy had exhibited in gambling with a real
nobleman.

It was not long, however, before claims of a similar
sort showered in on all sides — for Ealf, taking a onesided
view of the case, looked upon all gains as being
exclusively his own, while his debts were as entirely
his father's.

The scamp who had been his father's stable-boy,
and whom John West had once soundly thrashed,
was his most favoured companion. Mr William Cane
had long ago discarded his earlier profession as being
unworthy of his genius, and had adopted the more
congenial one of living on what he could pick up in
general, and from Ealf in particular, who was cajoled
and sneered at, bullied, and coaxed or flattered, as
best suited the purposes of the leader under whose
guidance his career in vice had been fostered and
furthered. In outward appearance there was much
dissimilarity between the two. Ealf, about two or
three years the younger, was of the middle size, slight
in figure, with sharp features, and a long, prominent
chin ; his forehead was low, and he wore his straight
black hair long. Cane, on the other hand, was stout
and broad, rather short, with a thick bullet-neck, a
remarkably heavy, lowering expression of countenance,
and a square, thick jaw. His manners had acquired
a certain amount of flash polish from contact with his
betters, but his vulgarity and brutality of speech
and mind clung to him like a garment.

I As may be imagined, the elder Cosgrove found that
this drain on his purse was by no means desirable.
In vain, however, he stormed and swore, — the calls
became only the more urgent. Debts privately accumulated,
to be found out when their magnitude no
longer permitted concealment ; and at last he decided
upon sending his son back to Australia, hoping that
station life and new duties would induce him to adopta
more sober style of living.

One of the chief objects which Mr Cosgrove had in
view in shipping his son back to his native country
was to break the various connections which the young
man had formed. And he was so far successful. Even
Mr William Cane, who was at that time much immersed
in business (having two or three good lays on
hand), suffered his patron and dupe to depart unheeded.

Arrived in Sydney, young Cosgrove at once plunged
into the same sort of society as that from which he
had emerged in the mother country ; and he found the
capital of New South Wales so much to his taste, that
it was not until his money was spent, and further advances
from Messrs Bond and Foreclose became necessary,
that these gentlemen were able to persuade him
of the propriety of paying a visit to his father's station.

At Cambaranga, Ealf did not increase his popularity.
He avoided Fitzgerald and John, and sought congenial
society in the little township of Yering, where he

managed to while away a few days in the company of
Mr Dowlan, the sub-inspector of white police stationed
there.

Dowlan was an Irishman, rather well set up in
figure, but with a coarse vulgar face, and a snobbish,
sneaking nature. He fawned on any one who was
possessed of money or influence, and felt no more
shame in turning his back on those to-day whom he
had helped to drain dry yesterday, than he did in
filling himself with drink at the expense of any one
fool enough to pay for it. Even Ealf soon got sick
of his fulsome toadying and constantly repeated yarns,
and at last, on the plea of ill-health, once more took
his departure for Sydney, where he entered upon a
lengthened career of dissipation.

CHAPTER XX.

AN IMPUDENT INTRUDER.

Some six or eight months after this, on a hot afternoon,
several horsemen, with a number of pack-horses,
arrived at Cambaranga. They looked like gentlemen,
and as Mr M'Duff and Graham were from home, the
woman in charge of the cooking department went out
to meet the new-comers, and ask them inside. * By
their dress and inexperienced ways they seemed late
arrivals in the colony, and a good deal of fuss and
bustle was the immediate result of their unsaddling
and unpacking.

People living in the bush get quickly into the habit
of forming a very correct idea of the breeding and
social status of those applying for hospitality, from
outward appearance and manner ; and the kitchen-woman
soon settled in her own mind that one at least
of the strangers did not come up to the mark. His
habiliments, &c., were the same as the others', though
perhaps a trifle more outre ; still she was accustomed

to such variety of style, that her attention was more
attracted by his contemptuous, overbearing manner.
He had remained sitting on his horse, and on seeing
her approach, struck an attitude meant to convey an
idea of much dignified authority, and asked —

Hi say, mistress, his M'Duff hin ? "

No, sir," replied the woman, resenting a little the
familiar address, "Mr M'Duff is not at home. Who
shall I say has called ? "

*' Never you mind, hold girl; 'ere, take hoff my
saddle" (alighting).

Me take off your saddle ! " said the woman, feeling
her dignity much hurt. "No, sir; ladies doesn't do
such things in this ver country."

your pride ! Tell the groom to come

hand hun saddle my 'loss," he continued, marching coolly
past her into the house, whence he issued shortly afterwards,
and invited the rest of the party to walk in
and make themselves at home.

The " haughty stranger " was our former acquaintance,
Mr William Cane, who, having been engaged in
professional business — which, while it filled his pockets
considerably, at the same time imperatively demanded
that he should, for a season at least, relieve the
mother country of his valuable presence — had turned
his attention towards the home of his friend and pupil.

On board ship he had given out that he was the

part-owner of a considerable station in the bush, —
and the scraps of information which he had picked up
from Ealf, and his knowledge of horse-ties, materially
assisted in the lie.

Some of the greenest youths, on their way out to
the land of promise, admired and courted this knowing
man of the world, and paid for their admiration accordingly
— for Mr Cane understood tricks of cards and
dice, as well as other descriptions of gambling. He
had heard nothing of Ealf since parting with him, but
determined to go to Cambaranga on the chance of
finding him there, or, at any rate, of getting reliable
information as to his whereabouts.

A short stay in Brisbane impressed him with the
dignity and importance of the larger squatters-He
found that Mr Cosgrove was a considerable personage
in the colony, and accordingly his own influence over
Ealf induced him to take quite an authoritative interest
in the Cambaranga station. There was only a superintendent
there, while he was the intimate friend and
tutor of the heir. He had some intentions of managing
the place himself. He might perhaps, for convenience'
sake, retain the old manager as overseer, but
that would depend on circumstances. Such was the
general purport and tone of his meditations and conversation
to all who would listen. It afforded amusement
to those dio knew the true state of things ; but

the boundless arrogance of the man deceived himself as
well as some admiring greenhorns. On the whole, he
made a considerable sensation, and at last started upcountry,
in company of a few young friends who were
en route for their various destinations, and who were
invited by him to " spell " a few days at Cambaranga.
Mixing worldly shrewdness with the most consummate
ignorance, blending the grossest vulgarity with a certain
experience of manner, something of a coward, yet
not without a kind of bull-dog pluck and ferocity, he
was by turns admired, laughed at, and feared ; but on
the whole, as a man of influence in the country, his
fellow-travellers regarded him with deference.

No one appearing to unsaddle his horse but an old
black gin, who had not as yet mastered the art of undoing
a buckle, Mr Cane was forced to do the degrading
work of taking off his horse's accoutrements himself,
relieving his feelings by swearing volubly at the
ancient black female, who kept begging " tobacco "
in the most pertinacious manner.

Reentering the house, and ringing the bell, he
demanded that dinner should be prepared ; and as the
servant banged out of the door, by no means pleased
with the liberties taken by the stranger, he called after
her —

Hi say, you, what's yer name ? Mother Igh-an-
mighty, 'oose 'ouse is that one hover there ? "

If 'ee speaks civil, sir, I'll answer 'ee ; but I ain't
again' to put up with inference from 'ee or any other
pusson, I ain't, and so I just tell 'ee," replied the
woman, indignant at "being " called out of her proper
name."

"Well, don't go hand get yer back hup hover it.
Hill 'ave a look myself. Hi'm at 'one 'ere, you know,"
and so saying, he marched over to the large house
and entered M'Duff's room.

Ah ! 'ere we har', what's this ? Hold boy's papers,
rubbish ; my eye, what a lot of hold 'hats hand 'helmets !
I think a 'helmet just suits me" (trying one on and
looking at himself in the glass). He then amused
himself by tumbling the various simple toilet articles
over, snapping the Colt's revolver which lay on the
table, and suddenly observing a bath, decided upon
indulging in that luxury, which the state of his cuticle
rendered highly necessary. With his usual free-and-easy
habits, he helped himself to two or three different
towels, leaving them lying on the floor when done
with, and also coolly exchanged his own tarnished socks
for a fresh pair, the soiled articles keeping the used
towels company. He next proceeded on a search for
liquor, and in one of the toilet drawers came upon a
key which opened a small closet in the room containing
M'Duff's private store — for, as may be imagined,

Mr Cosgrove was not the man to supply any luxuries
VOL. I. s

free of charge to those employed by him. While 
in this manner, the kitchen-woman came over
to see what he was about, and she could hardly believe
her eyes when she met the stranger carrying out some
bottles from the sacred store — for M'Duff was a perfect
autocrat on the place, and his room forbidden to
all.

Don't 'ee take they bottles, sir," she cried ;
"they be Mr M'DufF's ; he won't like 'ee touching
'em."

Now mother Igh-an-mighty, clear out o' this, or
maybe you'll get the sack, and M'Duff too. Hi'm
again' to be master 'ere. Hi'm Mr Cosgrove's friend."

The astonished woman, not being able to do otherwise,
therefore allowed the audacious stranger to pass,
and he was soon the centre of a thoughtless and boisterous
circle.

Just before dark M'Duff rode up. The travellers
were gathered in a group outside, and his authoritative
manner at once intimated who he was, and even
Cane felt a little awe of him. Bronzed, weatherbeaten,
and "bearded like the pard," he dismounted from a
very noble-looking steed, which he commenced unsaddling,
after bidding a cheerful good evening in his
gruff voice to the strangers, — for he rather liked the
prospect of hearing the news of what was going on
down below. Advancing with as dignified an air as

AN IMPUDENT INTRUDER. 275

he could assume, Mr Cane opened conversation with a
remark about the horse,

"Hi say, mister, that's a right 'un. 'As 'e lever
done anything ? "

Now M'Duff knew quite well that the question referred
to his horse's performances on the turf; but
taking in the appearance, and measuring the experience
of the group at a glance, he pretended innocence, and
replied simply, " Oh yes."

Ah ! wot 'ave 'e done ? "

"He has carried me for the last ten years," answered
the bushman, chuckling, as he bore his saddle past into
the harness-room, and then made for his own apartment.
Amazed at its condition, he called the female
attendant, who volubly described what had happened.
Keeping his temper, although much enraged, M'Duff
was about returning to his guests, when he once more
was accosted by his cool visitor.

"Hi say, mister, perhaps you don't know 'oo hi
ham ? "

M'Duff now had a shrewd guess, for in several
letters the elder Cosgrove had warned him to keep
a look-out for his son's acquaintances. Nevertheless,
he shook his head, not trusting himself to speak.

Hi thought has much. Well, hi ham a most petick-
lar and very intimate friend of your master's, hand hi
hexpex you to show me every attention."

The grim Super's choler was only kept down at this
stage by the bitterness of the surprise with which he
meditated overwhelming the self-sufficient snob.

"Oh, indeed, sir; I beg your pardon. You have
not given me the honour of your name."

"My name his Cane — Mister Cane."

Very good, Mister Cane, we'll attend to you," said
the Boss, walking over to the bachelor's quarters,
followed by the "peticklar friend."

Graham shortly afterwards came in, and was surprised
at the comedy which was being enacted before
him. A coarse, vulgar-looking, youthful stranger was
doing host, entertaining his audience with stories of
his intimacy with celebrities of doubtful reputation,
and patronising M'Duff, who seemed determined to
allow things to take their course.

This strange farce was carried on until bedtime, when
M'Duff, whose fierce rage had nearly choked him, got
up and proposed to retire. All rose to prepare, with
the exception of Cane, who, pouring out another glass
of spirits, asked —

Where ham hi to be disposed ? "

Come here," said M'Duff, gently, and leading him
to the door before the company, he pointed to the
bright moon and the dusky bush. " There," he said
"there is your candle, and that is your bed."

What do you mean ? " asked the surprised youth.

"I mean this," said M'Duff in determined tones,
"that you don't sleep under this roof, and that you
had better never show yourself here again, if you don't
want to be arrested on a charge of housebreaking."

A scene now ensued, Cane furiously indignant, cursing
and swearing, protesting his influence, and at last
offering to fight everybody. Every one, however, supported
grim old M'Duff, who adhered to his policy of
the moon and bush.

"Hi can't sleep there," expostulated at length the
mortified and humbled boaster.

Then you may go to the blacks' camp, where you
will find society to suit you," growled out the ruffled
old man," as he assisted Mr Cane outside.

Whether he passed the night there, or caught his
horse and rode away, none of them learnt ; but next
morning no traces of him were to be found, and considerable
amusement resulted from a comparison of his
speeches and the real state of the case. Cane found
his way down to Sydney, where he was not long in
discovering his friend among the associates they both
delighted in, and soon the old influence reasserted itself
stronger than ever.

Mr Cosgrove, senior, still remained at home. His
crafty counsels, together with M'Duff's vigorous management,
and a favourable state of the wool market,
contributed to keep his affairs in a prosperous state.

He had got into a kind of society which he enjoyed
money-making sporting-men, among whom the possession
of money and worldly experience gave him a
position.

He had never married again. He did not care for
domestic life, and his stepdaughter Ruth saw but
little of him. Nevertheless he was fond of her ina
way, and always left some means at her disposal.
Perhaps it was the memory of her gentle mother ;
perhaps the cold, unscrupulous man sometimes felt
a sting of remorse when he remembered the bitter
agony of that passing spirit leaving behind her the
unprotected little one. Whatever it was, he never
was unkind to his step-daughter, who would willingly
have loved him in return had he given her the opportunity.
She had grown exceedingly pretty, and promised
a further development of loveliness ; but her
chief charm lay in her gentle composed manner.
Early thought and suffering had much to do in bringing
out the better part of her self-reliant nature, and
the lady under whose tuition she was placed had skilfully
trained that which she found so ready to bend
to her will. She had few companions, and the greater
part of her time was occupied with work and reading.

It was a great relief when her step-brother Ealf took
his departure for Australia. His irregularities and
coarse ways distressed her, and the scenes between him

and his father often rendered the house unpleasant.
Her thoughts often reverted to the happy hours she
had passed with John, but she had never heard
anything about him since he left, except through Mr
Cosgrove, who had mentioned his safe arrival at the
station, and his having heard once or twice from him.
After a time he replied to her inquiries rather gruffly,
that John had behaved very ungratefully, and had
taken his departure from the station. Since then his
whereabouts had been hid from her, and she feared to
ask her step-father further ; but the memory of John's
gentle brotherly attention and manly kindness were
among her most cherished recollections. She much
wondered that he had never written to her. She
would have done so herself, but she feared he would
think her forward. Yet she was not without hopes of
seeing him again ; for often when he received reports
of his son's unsteadiness, Mr Cosgrove would threaten
a return to Australia.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

■■ "^'K •V-'*. . fi-!>-■■ 'wajiBMM

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 046410285

t-j:;!

."".if.?;

i" !'>.'■ ■;•-■•• ''V '■?:-,

J- .■•■J 'jJs^«; .

"J- '7r^-

-•.%'-eft" il ' f*''~ 't ■"<''■ '■■ •'*»*w^??59P

;;'tA3.^:i^j,;^-'■*-■■

-'''' ■;* Vi'j'^-&?'-■■'' ■^ ■•j^-i

■w.

pfi|^:^

■^ ■■rVv-5£iJ

%]^>'A^^<

1-^

■ f^'

MM

OF THE
U N 1 Ver S City
or Ill Noise

V X

University of Illinois Library



JUL



fr

L161— H41

OR

JOHN WEST'S COLONIAL EXPERIENCES

BY

A. C. Gelatin

TWO VOLUMES
VOL. IL

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXI

All Rights reserved

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAP. PAGE

XXI. A CHAPTER ON EXPLORING, ' . . . 1

XXII. CHARLEY STONe's EXPEDITION, . 7

XXIII. PREPARING FOR THE Bering MEETING Ein

BEY — Fitzgerald's Sydney adventure, 27

XXIV. BUSH HOSPITALITY THE Man-trap A

DANCE IN A Wool-shed THE RACE-BALL, 41

XXV. THE RACE OLD GRAHAM's FATE, . . 62

Xxvi EVIL COUNSEL AND EVIL DEEDS m'DUFF's

DEATH, 77

XXVII. A FEARFUL JOURNEY HIDING GUILT, . . 92

XXVIII. Bessie's marriage — mustering for new

COUNTRY THE HON. MR Demand, . 101

XXIX. OVERLAND WITH CATTLE — THE START THE

STAMPEDE, 118

XXX. ON THE ROAD ABORIGINAL INNOCENTS A

WET NIGHT ON WATCH DODGING COWS, . 134

XXXI. FORMING A STATION TRIALS AND TROUBLES

OP A PIONEER, 146

I 203850

XXXII. LILIANFIELD — FETCHING A DOCTOR A RAID

OF THE JIYALLS, . . . . .165

XXXIII. THE BLACK TROOPERS — PURSUIT AND ATTACK, 180

XXXIV. DEPARTURE £)F THE STONES STRUGGLES

LOVE IN THE BUSH, . . . .196
XXXV. AN OLD FRIEND — TO THE DIGGINGS, . . 225
XXXVI. THE GOLD QUEST, . 244
XXXVII. PROSPECTING THE BOWERS OF THE BOWER-bird
DANGERS NEMESIS, . . .253

XXXVIII. EXPLAINS MATTERS IN GENERAL — Conclusion,
280

CHAPTER XXL

A CHAPTER ON EXPLORING.

It has been mentioned that John's old friend, and

Bessie's accepted lover, Charley Stone, was absent on

a second exploring expedition. The experience and

confidence which he had gained during his frontier life

had determined him to make the next trip on a less

extensive scale than the immediately preceding one,

for several reasons. One of these was, that he did not

care to go out again under the leadership of the chief

who had had command of the former party, and who

was also preparing to start ; the next and most potent

being that he was exceedingly anxious if possible to

reach the country he had in view, and secure the pick

of it before the rival expedition, which was being fitted
VOL. ir. A

/

out with the express purpose of doing the same, could
arrive there.

The previous party, of which Stone had made one,
had started from the newly-formed township of Southampton,
which was then considered the ultima Thule
of civilisation. There were six members in all, each
providing a certain number of horses, and contributing
his share towards the purchase of rations sufficient to
last them during the period they expected to be away.
Two black boys accompanied them — one being the
boy which Stone had taken with him from Betyammo.
All were well armed, and a leader was chosen whose
orders the rest agreed to obey, under pain of expulsion
from the expedition. It was further agreed upon, that
every piece of good pasture-country they came across,
suitable for a run, should be examined, and have
trees marked upon it, its landmarks noted, and general
description written down, in order that leases might
be applied for at the Crown Lands Department ; and
to prevent jealousy, and allow each a fair chance,
these pieces of country were to be balloted for on
their return journey.

Accordingly they started, the cavalcade consisting
of nearly forty horses, of which number about twenty-four
were packed with flour, tea, sugar, dried beef,
coffee, plums, and currants, &c., &c. ; medicines, ammunition,
tents, blankets, clothes, and tomahawks, and

other necessaries. The leader, with his blackboy, rode
some distance ahead, then followed two of the party,
after whom were driven the spare and pack horses.
The distance travelled each day, until they got quite
clear of all civilisation, was about fifteen miles, after
which they moved according to the discretion of the
leader — sometimes remaining camped in one spot for
two or three days, while country in the neighbourhood
was being examined and marked off; and at others,
making a march of ten, or twenty, or even twenty-five
miles. Each one was told off for some special duty.
For instance, the worst bushman had to undertake the
charge of the camp, cook the provisions, and look after
the horses, during the absence of the rest on flying
excursions. It was especially necessary that this
particular charge should be in qualified hands, for the
natives were both numerous, and, in some instances,
hostile, and made more than one attempt to burn the
camp and stores by setting fire to the long grass. The
country through which they passed, though here and
there good, did not come up to expectation ; still they
managed to make up in quantity for what was deficient
in quality ; and the knowledge that a great
demand was about to spring up for pasture-lands,
which they believed would cause almost any kind
to sell, kept them in good spirits. It was, however,
nearly impossible that they could live in familiar

intercourse with an almost despotic leader, without
having disagreements and causes of complaint. Continual
daily annoyances begot pettishness of temper,
and there were some who took advantage of a more
intimate acquaintance with the chief to shirk the
more disagreeable parts of the work and shift it onto
others. This Stone especially disliked, and rebelled
against; and being in all respects as good, if not a
better pilot and bushman than the leader, he became
the chief of the opposition in the little wandering
community, in which heartburning and jealousies
were as bitterly felt about trifles as they were in
greater circles about matters of more importance. It
thus happened that whatever Stone advised or proposed,
the leader and his backers objected to; and
although in point of numbers the party was equally
divided, yet the opposite faction, having authority on
their side, always carried the day.

When the explorers had been out about four months,
and were thinking of returning, in following up a
river, the country on whose banks was by no means
first-class, they came upon the junction of a large
tributary with it, and from the description of dead
timber which its waters during previous floods had
carried down with them. Stone was of opinion that, by
tracing it up for some distance, they might expect to
discover better country than they had yet seen. All

bands shared in this view; and an attempt to carry
it out was decided on, and some progress made.

In a day or two's time the scrub which lined the
banks of the river became so thick and dense, that
half the party were employed in cutting a track
through it for the pack-horses, who often tore off
their now greatly diminished loads against the trees.
Before lonsj it was evident that the leader was against
further advance, and the arguments which he used had
certainly much to recommend them.

The rations were running short, and for some time
back the whole party had been on half allowance only.
They were a long way out, in a country swarming with
natives, owing to which game was both scarce and shy.
The season was a most unusually dry one ; the grass
was withered or burnt by the bush fires which raged
around them ; and, most serious of all, the water in
the river which they were following up was very
scanty, and might fail them altogether.

In vain that Stone pleaded for an advance of three or
four more days. The leader was inexorable. Whether
convinced that the safety of his expedition depended
on a speedy return; or whether, as^Stone privately
conjectured, he was desirous of getting back to secure
for himself and his own friends at a more favourable
season the fair land of promise, of the existence of
which he was probably convinced, it was hard to say.

He had his way, however, and the little band turned
their horses' heads homeward. The night before they
struck occupied country, they drew lots for the already
discovered and marked pieces of country, and Stone
found himself remarkably well oiF.

It now became necessary to proceed at once to Brisbane,
and send in the descriptions to the Crown Lands
Office, together with an application for licences ; and
these arrangements having been successfully concluded,
most of the adventurers found ready purchasers for
them. Among the rest, our friend Stone parted with
his share of the spoil, and made his way up to Bety-
ammo with a considerable credit to the joint account
of Mr Gray and himself.

CHARLEY stone's EXPEDITION.

Our exploring friend stayed with the Grays at Bety-
ammo during the remainder of the season, and the
end of the following wet weather found him once
more at Southampton, arranging matters with the
two companions of his former journey, whose confidence
he had secured. Eockhampton at that time
was, although very small, by no means a dull place
of abode. Situated on the banks of the Fitzroy
river, and within easy reach of Brisbane and Sydney
by steamer, it formed the depot of supplies for the
country which was being taken up and stocked all
around. It had also been the port for a " diggings "
in the neighbourhood, to which false report had lured
thousands some time before, and which, turning out
a failure, had caused much distress and misery among
those who flocked there, depending on what they
could extract from the earth. Just now it was
swarming with young men belonging to the new

stations which had been formed in the neighbourhood,
and who had come down to port to see about
supplies, or engage teams or men. Others there were
who, having been out exploring, and having discovered
country, were waiting in town until the Crown Lands
Commissioner, who resided there, should have leisure
to accompany them back to these wilds, and report
upon them for Government information. Many young
men had driven mobs of horses overland for sale :
others had travelled up with large herds of cattle, or
flocks of sheep, to stock country previously secured,
and had, for convenience' sake partly, and partly from
ignorance of a more direct route, taken Eockhampton
on their way. Crowds of shepherds, stockmen, drovers,
bullock - drivers, shearers, bushmen, &c., were spending
their hard-won cheques ; and swarms of loafers
hung about sponging on their more manly brethren.
Besides these, the little town had its own complement
of Government officials, bankers, merchants, storekeepers,
publicans, &c., who were all more or less
known among the pioneers. Money was exceedingly
plentiful, and business both brisk and sound.

The young men, who for various reasons were doomed
to a certain period of enforced idleness, contributed
much to the evil notoriety which the youthful city
had acquired for rowdyness. Being mostly high-spirited,
reckless men, drawn together by a special

fitness for undergoing hardship, and surmounting the
dangers and difficulties of an outside life, it was to be
expected that they should possess an unusual amount
of vitality ; and consequently the aspect of the town
was an exceedingly lively one. Drinking, fighting,
practical joking, blowing (that is, talking loudly and
boastingly on any and every subject), horse-racing, and
gambling at all hours of the day or night without let
or hindrance, intermixed with business matters, formed
the occupation of the inhabitants ; and Stone was not
sorry when, his arrangements having been concluded,
he slipped away quietly, having managed, as he thought,
to keep his destination a secret.

Their journey was of an uneventful character until
they reached the spot where they had turned back on
the previous expedition, the only break to the general
monotony being an accident which happened to one
of the little party, and which they had reason to be
thankful turned out a slight one. The horse ridden
by the gentleman in question, a very fiery and rather
vicious animal, having had the misfortune, in passing
through some bushes, to disturb a large nest of wasps
which had there founded a colony, became so maddened
and ungovernable under the stings of his assailants,
that, unable to throw his rider by fair means, he dashed
himself furiously to the ground, crushing the unfortunate
young man beneath him. Horror seized upon

the rest. Rushing up, they succeeded in restoring
suspended animation, but it was some time before they
ascertained whether or not the thigh-bone was intact.
Fortunately this proved to be the case. At such a
distance from medical aid, an accident of this nature
meant a lingering and painful death. The sufferer,
however, was able, after two or three days' rest, to
renew the journey on a quieter steed.

Just before reaching the large scrub through which
they had been cutting their path, previous to retracing
their former steps, they came upon several mobs of
natives. It was Stone's endeavour, if possible, to avoid
a collision with the aboriginal, and they had therefore
frequently to camp without lighting a fire, in order to
remain as unobserved as possible. Having one night
come upon a little plain surrounded by dense scrub,
they ventured on making a small blaze, in the belief
that the thick vegetation would prevent the glare of
the flames from being observed. Merrily they ate their
frugal supper, and all were enjoying the solace of that
sweet "soother," the evening pipe, and 'speculating
as to the whereabouts of the other expedition, when
Stone's blackboy, who had been gazing fixedly in the
distance for some time, suddenly pointed to a light on
the edge of the scrub, about one hundred and fifty
yards away, and excitedly asked in a low tone, " Essay,
Missa 'Tone, you think that one fire-stick ? " The quest

'

tion — especially coming from the blackboy, experienced
in all the ways of his treacherous brethren — naturally
caused a start. There was a bright steady little light
moving slowly in the direction pointed out, just about
the size of the "lowing end of lighted bark, which
natives invariably carry by night. Were there blacks
about ? All knew that some natives have the habit of
tracking up their foes at night by the aid of fire-sticks.

Another now joined the first, and the doubt of the
travellers was fast merging into certainty, when one of
the lights slowly rose in the air and floated upwards,
followed at a little distance by the other. Now they
sank, and again they rose, chasing each other through
the silent nio-ht — wandering fires in the " blackness of
darkness."

All breathe more freely. The blackboy burst into
a laugh. " My word, me been think black fellow come
up. What for reply walk about, gammon you and
me like it that ? " ^ But the alarms were not yet over.
Scarcely half an hour had elapsed, and the tired bushmen
were thinking of turning in, when one of the party
uttering rapidly the warning, "Look out!" seized his
carbine, and dropped on his knees behind a large tree,
close to which he had been lying. The effect was
magical. In less than a minute each one had done
the same, each grasping a weapon. Nothing now

^ Thy do the fireflies travel about, deceiving you and me thus ?

could be seen of the little group which, a moment
before, were quietly lying and chatting together. The
small spot, illumined by the light of the fire, was now
empty. Dead silence reigned, amid which could be
heard footsteps stealthily approaching. Click, click,
click, click, went the hammers of as many carbines.
An instant more, and a fitful gleam from the fire has
thrown a dim uncertain light on an approaching black
figure, discovering its legs, breast, and eyes, with a
white mark on the forehead, after the manner of the
aboriginal ; and in the same moment, Stone, who is
nearest, shouts, " Hold on, boys ! don't shoot. It's
the old mare's black foal ! " and so it was. The
creature, whose maternal parent was grazing in the
vicinity, had (attracted by the fire) approached cautiously,
sniffing curiously as it advanced ; and the
start it had occasioned now caused many a hearty
laugh from the much-relieved little band, each detailing
his own personal feelings during the crisis.

About a week's hard work enabled them to pierce
the dense scrub, and the sight which then met their
eyes was in itself a sufficient reward for their determination
and perseverance. Apparently limitless
downs, clothed with the richest grasses and herbs,
rolled away before them. A range of noble, curiously-shaped
peaks and hills stretched away on their right,
while every few miles they crossed running brooks of

clear water. They had indeed discovered a land, the
existence of which would prove not only a mine of
wealth to themselves, but also to the colony at large.
Mounting a high hill near their camp, they gazed with
enraptured eyes on the far-stretching plains melting
away in the distance, until they were lost in the hazy
sky-line, crossed by belts of timber and intersected by
streams, little knolls crowned with clumps of scrub
varying prettily the undulating downs and swelling
timbered ridges. How their souls bounded 1 Oh the
glory of being the first white men to tread what might
be the future home of thousands of their race ! It was
a moment worth living for. All was theirs. From the
blue mountain-peaks here, where the thin, grey, spiral
signal-smoke of the wild man curled away aloft to
the far horizon, ay, and for hundreds of miles beyond
(for who could predict its limits ? ) — all was theirs.

Setting to work briskly now, they surveyed roughly
the features of the land, and daily became more aware
of the importance of their discovery. They appeared
to have struck the rich country at its junction with a
poorer tract — what seemed also the index of a vast
extent of country of a similar character. Several large
runs had been measured off in the usual manner, whenas
they were proceeding one day to commence on fresh
ground, they were astonished to come upon the tracks
of shod horses. There were a large number, evidently

being ridden and driven, and going in the direction
they had come from. All stopped aghast. It was
without doubt an exploring party. On that soft virgin
soil no horse's foot had ever before trodden down
the succulent grasses. A shower of rain which had
fallen here rendered it difficult to determine the precise
age of the tracks ; but ten days had already
elapsed since then, and it .was possible that a fortnight
or three weeks had passed since they were made.
It was not to be supposed that their own tracks could
have remained unnoticed, and already their rivals
midst be straining their horses in the endeavour to
reach the settlements, and forward their applications
for the country.

It was a great blow to the plucky little company.
The direction they came from puzzled them most.
Ashen refusing to proceed further during the former
expedition, the thought of an easier and more expeditious
track into the unseen country must have
occurred to their leader. Doubtless he had found it
on the other side, and probably was as much surprised
to see their tracks as they were to find his. Had they
met, they might have made a compromise ; but, under
existing circumstances, each party's thought must be
how to turn matters to their respective advantages.
But what was to be done ? Hastily returning to campa
special council was held. Everything depended on

getting down before the others. It was true that their
rivals had had no time to make such a survey of the
country as they had done, but to their experienced
leader nothing was easier than to take the bearings of
the most remarkable points from some unmistakable
spot, and define vaguely the boundaries of runs by
compass, which would answer his purpose almost as
well. Their hopes of reward hinged upon getting their
applications into the office, and marked with the day
and hour of their receipt, before the others could
arrive. How was this to be effected ? A stern-chase
is proverbially a long one, and the members of the
other expedition were quite as alive to the necessity
for haste as they themselves were. It was maddening
to think that they should be deprived of what they
had undergone so much to secure.

They could not remain to look for other country.
The ration supplies would not admit of a protracted
stay ; besides which, many different parties were out ;
and without information as to the routes taken by
these, they might only incur a similar mischance.

At last Stone broke silence. "I think," he said, "I
know a way to manage — that is, if they have not got
too much the start of us."

What's your idea ? " eagerly asked the other two.

Well," he returned, " down on the sea-coast, straight
down from here, there is a Beche-de-mer fishing-station.

I know the men well; they have two or three fast-sailing
whale-boats. What I propose is to push down
there, and offer a fifty-pound note, or a hundred, if
need be, for a passage to Eockhampton, and chance
finding a steamer from there. It is our safest plan.
I will go with the blackboy. You two can start down
overland. I do not think it possible, should they
have started, that you can overtake them ; still something
may occur on the road to delay them ; and we
must neglect no opportunity. I won't promise," continued
he, "that I can get down from the Beche-de-
mer station, for their boats may be absent, or the men
may be away on the ' ketch ' which they belong to.
All I will say is, that if there, for old acquaintance'
sake and a good cheque, they may be induced to go."

After some deliberation this plan was adopted ; and
a couple of hours later saw Stone commence his journey.
It was by no means an easy task which he had
set before himself, and it was fraught with hazard to
both him and his boy. He had the knowledge that a
Beche-de-mer fishing-station existed somewhere near the
mouth of a large river, the estuary of which he had observed
a considerable time before, during a short cruise
which he had made along the coast : but no one knew
the country inland ; and so many rivers took their rise
on the coast-range, that it was quite possible he might
follow down the wrong one to the sea-coast, and then

crew entangled in a labyrinth of salt-water inlets, mangroves,
and vine-scrubs. He had only taken one fortnight's
rations ; but this he intended to spin out by
putting himself and his faithful attendant on alterations,
in case the worst should happen.

He must succeed. He shut his eyes resolutely to
the dangers which a well-equipped party might escape,
but which were magnified a hundred times in his
case ; and equally cheerful and determined was his
companion. Each leading a spare horse, they pushed
on until darkness compelled them to stop. Guided
partly by compass, and partly by that curious and
infallible instinct which some men possess in so very
remarkable a degree, they made their way at considerable
speed for some days until they arrived at the
high coast-range. In doing so, some country was
passed over which, with an explorer's eye, the white
man mentally resolved should be examined on a future
occasion; at present, time did not permit.

From the range, the sight of the hazy sea, at a
distance of seventy or eighty miles, cheered them ;
and Stone fancied that he recognised the towering
peak of an island near their destination.

After descending the coast side of the rancre, the
grass became longer — reaching, indeed, sometimes over
their heads on horseback. It was armed with a barbed
seed nearly half an inch in length. These grass-seeds,

VOL. II. B

being ripe, adhered in such profusion to their persons
that they felt like immense porcupines ; and the seeds
working into the flesh in a thousand directions, also
caused acute pain and irritation. The great size of the
seeds enabled them to extract them more easily than
the smaller and infinitely more troublesome ^ kinds
which grew inland ; but nevertheless the annoyance
was extreme. The horses also suffered much inforcing
their way through the long wiry grass, which,
cutting their fetlock-joints, caused each step to be
made in pain.

The tarantula spiders — heavy, fat-bodied, horrid
creatures, almost as large as small birds, with legs
fully two inches long — spread their webs everywhere
between the trees ; and, in their haste and preoccupation
of mind, the travellers frequently ran into the
snare, their heads getting covered with the strong,
sticky structure, like a veil. The disgust was enhanced
by feeling the hateful architect run swiftly
across their faces as he made his escape. Millions of
flies and insects of all kinds were sheltered and protected
by the long grass. The common fly covered
their persons, seemingly enjoying the pleasure of
travelling on horseback. Little groups of them
buzzed in front of the travellers' eyes, alighting on
the corners of them, and renewing their attacks, when
driven away, with a pertinacity only to be overcome

by death. The well-known blight-fly intimated his
unwelcome presence by stinging the blackboy in the
eye, the lids of which instantly swelled to the size of
a hen's egg, and remained so for the next two or
three days, causing intense irritation. Tiny sand-flies
swarmed in myriads about 'the horses' ears, or
sat in patches over their bodies, goading them to
distraction; and at night the mosquitoes united in
one continual hum of joy as they pursued their philanthropical
investigations.

Pushing along, they came at last to the banks of a
broad river, which, from its size, Stone felt assured
must be the one which debouched into the ocean near
the spot he was desirous of attaining. The top banks
were nearly 100 feet above the level of the water.
About half-way between the water and the highest
banks a broad terrace ran, forming a second band.
Along the water's edge, noble ti-trees, whose drooping
branches swept the stream, formed a fringe, the dark
green of their thick foliage being relieved now and
then as the white cockatoos flew among their branches,
or rose in a vast cloud of spotless purity but with unearthly
noise.

The river's bed is full of large sandbanks, upon
which alligators may be seen lying motionless with
widely distended jaws. Native "companions" and
brilliantly plumaged cranes and herons stalk about

in the shallow water. Pelicans with huge beaks sail
about majestically, surrounded by smaller fry of all
sorts. New descriptions of water-fowl are met with
here and there. A little distance further on they
come to a camp of flying-foxes. The huge trees on
both sides of the river are actually black with them.
The great bats hang by their hooked wings to every
available branch and twig, squealing and quarrelling.
The smell is dreadful. The camp extends for a length
of three miles. There must be millions upon millions
of them. Wild figs grow plentifully, as also do the
beautiful plum-trees covered with fruit, and flowering
vines twine themselves gracefully round their stems.
Sometimes groups of natives are seen fishing in the
river. They must be numerous about here. The
trees bear the frequent marks of their stone tomahawks,
and little beaten paths lead down to the water's
edge. They have hitherto, as far as the travellers are
aware, evaded being seen by them. They each watch
half through the night. The blackboy is invaluable
from his cool courage ; and on one occasion, when
Stone's excited fancy led him to believe that he actually
heard the rustling of the grass as the savages
stole up, he remarked with a grin, alluding to the
clouds of mosquitoes and the naked skins of the aborigines,
" Supposing black fellow come, you hear him
like it that," slapping his own shoulder at the same

time in the act of killing a mosquito, which from
their numbers, he probably did.

They have now to cross the river ; and they succeed,
after being nearly swallowed up in the treacherous
quick-sands, of which it is full. 'Now they approach
the sea, and the cycas-palms so common on the coast-range
disappear. The iron - bark and gum trees are
mixed with stunted ti-trees, grass-trees, and curious
weird-looking pandanus trees. Impenetrable vine-scrubs
line the river-banks at intervals.

Hurrah ! a salt-water creek. The travellers rejoice ;
they feel they are approaching their destination, but
still their troubles are not over. The salt-water creeks
are numerous. They are slimy gulfs of oozing mud
when the tide is out, and alligators lurk in their sluggish
depths when in, and crossed they must be. 
must be got round. The white man is
to be pitied who gets lost in one of them. They are
the home of alligators, poisonous reptiles, leeches, frogs,
and other abominations — a bottomless pit of stinking
deep slime, swarming with sand-flies, mosquitoes, centipedes,
and scorpions. Now they ride down to the
beach, passing by a platform erected on four tall forks,
on which lie exposed to the wind and sun the dried
remains of some dark warrior, and they eagerly gaze
for a sign of the presence of white men.

Some distance down the coast Stone joyfully recognised

his island, and they pushed along the sandy
beach until evening, when, to their great relief and
delight, they found themselves at the fishing-station
which it had been their object to reach.

The hardy sailors were no less surprised than glad
to welcome their old acquaintance at their out-of-the-way
home, and readily agreed to take Stone down ina
whaleboat, and allow the boy to remain at their
camp with the horses until he could be sent for.
They were engaged in smoking a large haul of " tit "
fish which they had made on a neighbouring reef.
Their " ketch " was beached high and dry near the
camp ; and, on the whole, they had very comfortable
quarters.

That evening the boat was got ready to start, and
long before day broke she had left the hospitable
camp far behind her, and was running free before a
favouring breeze, with Stone sound asleep (the first
time in security for many months), wrapped in a
spare sail. A good rest refreshed him greatly, and
the invigorating sea-breeze, together with his successful
trip, emboldened him to hope for a favourable
termination to his enterprise. The whale-boat cut
along merrily, never shipping a sea. Oh the mercy
of the open ocean breeze, and the companionship of
his own people after his late sufferings ! The sapphire
sea, out of which rose innumerable little fairy islands,

some clothed with dark cedars and pines to the water's
edge, others mere spots of emerald sward, washed a
silver beach-line. Piercing the clear waters, the eye
could discern forests of branching coral, through which
the fish darted in shoals, or fed motionless on their
marine pasture. Stow and then a sea-snake is passed,
coiled with his head erect on the top of a crested wave ;
or the fin of a shark is seen as it cruises after its prey ;
or a little bark-canoe darts from one island to another,
and is lost to view among its verdure.

But what pen can describe the glorious beauty of
evening, when the setting sun, amid a blaze of gold
and purple, dipped beneath the waters of the Pacific,
gilding far and wide the glowing sea and the dark
mountain - tops ? or the tropical beauty of the night,
its stillness unbroken only by the roar of the tire-fishing
breakers as they boomed on the sunken challenges,
or rolled in waves of light towards that unknown
shore ? They had a capital run ; and as they
approach the entrance of the Fitzroy, the black smoke
of a steamer making her way down from the flats is
seen above the trees. This is indeed a piece of luck.
It is the Australian Steam navigation Company's
steamer the Boomerang, bound south. Another half-hour,
and it would have been too late for another
week. She stops ; and as the whale-boat runs alongside
and lowers her sail, Stone, who is in the stern-sheets,

recognises many a familiar face and voice among
the thrones who lean over her side looking down on
them.

His own ruLigh appearance for a time protects his
identity. His hair and beard have grown long, the
wide brim of his soft felt hat has lost its stiffening, and
hangs limply on his shoulders ; his shirt and trousers
have become of no particular hue, and bear the mark
of many a thorny struggle ; while his revolver, carbine,
and red blanket impart a picturesqueness not uncommon
in these parts.

Bidding a hearty good-bye to his friends in need, and
handing them a handsome cheque, he climbed up the
ladder. The little whale-boat filled her sail and stood
away for Eockhampton, where her crew will yet be intime
to get a skinful of f^ro^j before ni ^ht.

Once on board he is surrounded by friends. Naturally
he is asked whence he comes from ; and he has
barely given a vague account of his journey, when he
is informed of the wonderful discovery which has been
made by his rivals, whose party was about arriving
when the steamer left. His hopes, so bright a while
ago, sink. He asks why none of them are on board,
and is informed that the mail-man to the few stations
on the other side of Eockhampton has brought in the
news, having out-travelled the explorers.

He breathes once more. Xo doubt their applications

are with the mail the vessel carries. Should he
present his own before the delivery of the steamer's
letters, the victory will yet be his. A friend supplied
him with the necessary outfit ; and when the old
Boomeransj makes fast to the Australian Steam Navigation
Company's wharf on the Brisbane river, he
hurries off to the Crown Lands Office, which is fortunately
open, and, presenting the papers which he
has had time to make out on board, has the satisfaction
of learning that no other applications for country have
arrived from that quarter.

He has gained the day. Hurrah ! Nothing like
push. Back to the steamer. Champagne all round.
He tells his story. Hurrah for the north ! More
champagne. Away up to "Rasher's" now. What
a huge town Brisbane looks after the wild, solitary
bush ! It is a kind of London. One can never tire
of walking up and down Queen Street watching one's
fellow-creatures, and staring at the shops. The sight
of so many human beings causes a wild excitement,
heightened at night when the lamps blaze and glitter.
It is not altogether to be wondered at that the " bushman"
should commit excess after his silent life of
rigorous self-denial and privation.

How strange is the feeling of walking up-stairs and
viewing one's figure in a pier-glass ! How glorious is
the return to a land of plenty — a land of fresh vegetables

and properly cooked food ! One looks upon the
black-coated waiter with a kind of respectful awe, and
feels quite thankful when he quietly pockets his tip
without upbraiding one with an attempt to purchase
his sympathies. The dark, bronzed face, and the
rough hands, mark one out to the store-keepers and
other leeches as proper prey : but never mind ; what's
the odds ? It is not every day one sees a town.

Every bushman has experienced these feelings on
his return to civilisation after a long absence, and so
also did Stone, his delight being much increased by
his triumph. He had, however, a stronger attraction
at Betyammo, whither he hastened as soon as possible.

The following mail took back the welcome intimation
to his companions, one of whom returned to the Beeches
station and brought home overland the horses
and boy, whose arrival was hailed with much rejoicing
by his tribe, and with no less cordiality than sincerity
by his master.

CHAPTER XXIII.

PREPARING FOR THE Bering MEETING — Ein BEY Fitzgerald's

SYDNEY ADVENTURE.

Stone's stay at Mr Gray's station this time was productive
of many results. In the first place, he arranged
with his future father-in-law to stock the newly discovered
country as soon as possible. His own marriage
was to take place in a couple of months' time, and
he had promised Bessie a short trip down to Sydney
afterwards, to which she looked forward with excited
delight. Fitzgerald had also been much oftener at 
since the explorer's return than for some time
previously; and on returning to Ungahrun he frequently
expatiated on the happiness of the little party at Mr
Gray's to John, and sometimes he wondered, musingly,
why it was that Phoebe refused all offers of marriage.
He thought she was far more suitable for a wife than
wild, merry Bessie. He evidently liked riding over to
Betyammo very much more than formerly, whatever
was the cause.

Stone's description of the country, and of its probable
future value, had weighed so strongly with Fitzgerald,
that, on his representations, his father had bought a
run from one of the explorer's companions. This,
while it adjoined the fine downs country belonging
to Mr Gray and Stone, was, he thought, although of
a poorer character, more suited as a cattle - station,
from its being timbered and better watered ; and it
was proposed that John should go up in charge of the
cattle to stock it, as a managing partner. The money
saved from the wreck which Cosgrove and M'Duff had
made of his inheritance, together with his salary since
he joined Fitzgerald, formed part of the investing
money, and his kind friends gave him liberal terms, and
plenty of time to pay off the rest. This was too good
an offer to be neglected ; and the belief that the station
would soon double its value, with the rapidly increasing
population of the colony, once more restored his
fervent hopes of success in life.

All went merrily, therefore, after Stone's return.
Sometimes some of the girls of the neighbourhood, of
whom there were not many, would gather at Betyammo,
around the bride-elect, excitedly interested in the coming
event ; and then it curiously happened that a number
of gentlemen found that business of importance called
them there also, and picnics, junketings of all kinds,
and riding parties, were the inevitable consequences.

Great doings were looked forward to at the forthcoming
races. The little township of Yering was the
headquarters of a very well supported racing club, and
the squatters and landowners round about had much
pride in boasting that the liberal prizes offered at their
meeting had the effect of attracting first-class cracks
from Eandwick and Homebush.^ At the race-ball,
which took place there, all the beauty of the district
delighted to meet, and it was arranged that this should
be Bessie's last public appearance before her marriage.
The Ungahrun people had also much interest in the
comines struo-rde.

Fitzgerald had long had a notion that his black
horse was possessed of a great turn of speed, and John
had determined to test his merits thoroughly. With
this view he had entered him for the Yering Cup,
and another race or two to be contested for at the
same time.

The meeting was fast approaching, and every morning
at earliest dawn John might be seen with his
enthusiastic assistant Tommy, as they gave the animal
his morning gallop on a nice level bit of plain just
outside the paddock.

'•' Emin Bey " — for so John had christened him,
after one of his heroes, the bold Mameluke, who
leaped his charger over the blood-stained walls of the
^ Noted race-courses in New South Wales.

Cairo citadel to the dizzy plain below — was really a
noble creature. His head showed, in the deep cheek,
wide forehead and throat, full soft eye, long delicate
ears, and general leanness, the unmistakable traces of
his sire's Eastern origin. Long-bodied but short-backed,
with round, well-sprung barrel and powerful
hind-quarters, the veins standing out like network on
his shiny satin-like skin, his appearance justified their
faith in him. He was perhaps a trifle loose in the
couplings, but that, at any rate, was no bar to his
travelling qualities ; and a glance at the muscular
fore-arms, short clean cannon-bones, broad flat hocks,
and long lathy yet iron - sinewed pasterns, assured
them that the freedom from work which he had
hitherto enjoyed, had materially assisted in developing
those powers on which rested their hopes.

Watch him as he stands there, trembling all over
with excitement, every nerve quivering ; the beautiful
creature knows that in another instant he will be
eating up the morning air as he tears his lightning
path through it.

Tommy mounts lightly, for John has grown much
too heavy. Off ! away he flies ! see how the supple
back curves with every stride ! He is like a huge
greyhound. Here he comes ! John times him as he
arrives. If he does equally well on Yering course, it
will take a good horse to beat him.

Ealf Cosgrove has also an interest in the Yering
meeting this year of no common order. His demands
upon Messrs Bond and Foreclose during the last two
years had been so heavy, that his infuriated father
had peremptorily forbidden them to advance one
shilling more, and Ealf's affairs looked desperate.
Surrounded on all sides by men who understood the
art of plucking, in its nicest sense, he could not
exist without money. Once that failed, his importance
went with it — for Ealf, with all the will in the
world, was not possessed of sufficient skill to turn
hawk himself. He owned money everywhere. Creditors
began to dun him, and at last, at the instigation
of his evil genius Cane, he drew a cheque on. the
station agents, which he signed in imitation of
M'Duff's crooked, twig-like characters. It was a
capital imitation, and so easy, — the two young
men roared at the perfect resemblance. Ealf found
no difficulty in writing off one after another of
them, and it answered well, for Messrs Bond and
Foreclose paid them without scruple. Once more
afloat, his usual recklessness returned, until the breakdown
of the favourite on Eandwick again upset his
equilibrium.

He and Cane had some time previously purchased
between them a well-known Sydney horse, whose
performances, although a shade too slow to secure

him first - class honours on the metropolitan turf,
were nevertheless considerably better than those of
any horse he might expect to contend against at an
up-country meeting, and the animal had been bought
chiefly with the view of entering him for the coming
Elinor races.

Ealf was well acquainted with the capabilities of
the various horses in the district; indeed there was
only one to fear, — a horse belonging to the Bindaro-
bin station, brought out and raced at the expense
of the shareholders in that concern by its aristocratic
superintendent.

Cosgrove's affairs were so desperate now that a
desperate effort was required to set them straight.
To meet the Eandwick losses Ealf had been again
necessitated to use M'Duff's name — this time to a
set of bills which his creditors held in security — the
first of them beinoj due a short time after the Yerin^ij
meeting. Accordingly they resolved to risk all upon
the success of their horse.

He couldn't fail. They would take every ]Precaution.
The Yering people knew nothing of the
thousand and one dodges of the great courses, and
Cane and he had not served a good apprenticeship to
the craft without as yet profiting by it.

The affairs of the former worthy were quite as
desperate as those of his patron. His brutal, domineering

vulgarity had made him hated by those whose
interests it had formerly been to cultivate his company.
Insolent and overbearing, his own proper
crowd " detested him. During the last twelvemonths
he had given himself greatly up to drink, which had
by no means improved him ; and although he had
made a cat's-paw of his friend in the matter of
forgery, he would not have hesitated in entering
upon any desperate attempt to possess himself of
funds.

It was at this stage of their history that they
started up to Brisbane, and thence made their way
to Yering township, with their confidential following
of "jock" and stable-helps. Here they took up their
residence for the time being, much courted and flattered
by Mr Sub-Inspector Dowlan, who felt it quite
an honour to walk about with such well - known
turfites, and whose cordial sympathy and co-operation
they had bought, by taking him, to a certain extent,
into their counsels. To his disparaging shrugging of
the shoulders and contemptuous nodding of the head
they were obliged for much long odds laid against
their horse by the confiding sheep and cattle men of
the district, who all "knew Dowlan." He was a
real good fellow, and would give them the straight
tip. He managed, however, to back the Sydney
crack quietly, right and left ; and as the Bindarobina

VOL. II. c

horse was the favourite of the district, he found nota
few takers.

About a fortnight before the races came off, Fitzgerald
was called to Sydney to confer on urgent
business with his father. It was rather annoying to
miss the fun which all looked forward to at Bessie's
wedding, and he had also grown much interested in
the success of his horse ; but it could not be helped.
The days spent in Sydney were to him a very weariness
of the flesh. He had no sympathies in common
with the office and general pen-and-ink style of men
who swarm in every city, and there were but few bushmen
in town at this time of the year.

His father and mother occupied a beautiful residence
at Pott's Point, looking out on the sea. A
charming garden, laid out in terraces decorated with
statues, fountains, and shady bowers, ran down to a
snug little yacht anchorage, in which a trim, rakish-looking
cutter, with an immense tapering mast, rode
securely at anchor, — for Mr Fitzgerald, senior, although
stiff and well up in years, still retained that
love of outdoor amusements which had ever characterised
him.

From the marble-pillared verandah on one side a
full view could be had of the harbour right up to the
head ; and it was a glorious sight, when blowing fresh,
to watch the white horses rearing their watery crests

as they charged madly into the very heart of the city.
On the other side of the house a not less beautiful
scene met the gaze. The broad expanse of " Wooloo-
mooloo Bay" ran into the town in the shape of a
crescent, of which Pott's Point and another beautiful
promontory formed the horns ; while still further overlay
another yet more lovely little cove, surrounded
by the enchanting Botanical Gardens and the pleasure-grounds,
from amid which the castellated towers of
Government House looked down upon Garden Island,
the little island-tower of Fort Venison, and the men-of-war
at anchor. On the opposite side of the harbour
could be seen the north shore, dotted with handsome
villas and gardens, Neutral Bay, and the dark-timbered
eminences stretching away towards Middle
Harbour. Hundreds of ships lay at anchor ; steamers
came and went ; yachts glided, fairy-like, in and out
of the most beautiful nooks, or tacked about with
their freight of pleasure-seekers ; and a multitude of
smaller craft covered the water.

Any man might have enjoyed a stay in such a home,
fitted with every comfort, and encircled by troops
of friends, but Willie Fitzgerald's tastes did not lie
that way. He would not have exchanged one hour of
the free, healthy, bush-life for a month of Sydney's
delights and dissipations. Obliged by business to
stay a certain period in town, he found time hang

very heavy on his hands. He wandered into his club
and read the papers listlessly, and wandered out again.
Sometimes he would stroll along George Street to the
"Eoyal," in the hope of catching a stray bushman
down on business like himself, but at this time of year
the city was always bare of that lively class. He had,
in desperation, commenced a flirtation with one of the
fascinating damsels belonging to the bar of that much-frequented
establishment, when a trivial event completely
changed his thoughts, and gave a new impetus
to his existence.

Calling late in the afternoon to pay a farewell visit
at the house of a gentleman, with whom, in the course
of his business, he had become acquainted, he was
shown into a large and tastefully furnished drawing-room.
The chairs, ottomans, and sofas, &c., as well
as the window hangings, were in amber satin. The
floor was of inlaid Zurich wood tiles, of particularly
fine manufacture, and arranged in carefully chosen
colours. Articles of virtu of all kinds, Parian marble
statues, ormolu clocks, antique vases, ivory carvings,
Chinese embroidery, old china, and a thousand and one
expensive and useless articles of the Western and
Eastern worlds, lay scattered about. An immense
window, looking out upon the sheltered cove and the
Botanical Gardens, occupied nearly all of one side of
the room, the beautiful view being reproduced in huge

mirrors, skilfully arranged with that design on the opposite
side. Large plate glass folding-doors led into a
spacious and elegantly-fitted-up conservatory, on the
third side, the pillared supporters of its roof being
twined round with graceful and rare creepers. This
tropical display of broad-leafed plants and glorious
flowering creepers and shrubs was also made by an
ingenious adjustment of mirrors to multiply its
beauties, A few choice landscapes, in oil and water
colours, adorned here and there the harmoniously
papered walls, while the ceiling w-as toned and decorated
to match the rest of the apartment.

As Fitzgerald entered, his eye fell upon the figure
of a lady standing near the window, gazing upon the
calm glassy sea and dark Norfolk pines of the gardens.
The flood of evening sunset bathed her figure in light,
and, reflected by the mirrored walls, caused the room
to shine in a perfect blaze of warm golden light. So
deep had been her preoccupation of mind that she
did not hear the announcement of his name, and continued
her meditations. As Fitzgerald approached he
became aware that she was much younger than the lady
he had called upon, although her back was as yet turned
to him. The figure, though not exactly tall, carried
with it an idea of height. The form was exceedingly
graceful ; and the attitude of pensive thought, as she
leant slightly upon a marble pillar of the window,

contrasted strongly, as did her dark, quiet dress, with
the gorgeous richness of her surroundings.

A premonitory hem from Fitzgerald drew her attention
towards him, and as she turned round her great
beauty became apparent. The contour of the head was
of a purely Grecian type. Large masses of brown hair
were done up simply, and formed a great shining
knot behind. Her eyes were full and large, and
rather oblong, the soft brown pupils relieved by the
china-like purity of the white. A delicate bewitching
nose, and a pair of arch lips, which ceaselessly
formed themselves into those enchanting curves, so
common in childhood and so rare in after-life, together
with rows of little pearly teeth, and a rounded chin in
which lurked a roguish dimple, ever and anon appearing
to hide itself as quickly, completed an oval face
of a loveliness never before observed by the squatter,
who stood bewildered.

With perfect self-possession, but quietly, and with
a modest, maiden-like grace, the young girl received
the stranger, and explained that the lady to whom he
was desirous of paying his respects was from home,
but would shortly return; and Fitzgerald, more and
more struck with the sweet, sad expression of the
features, and the composed manner of his entertainer,
took advantage of the opportunity to prolong his visit
and improve his acquaintance. Her conversation had

no less charm for him than her beauty. She spoke of
England and its scenery as compared with that of
Australia, until Fitzgerald thought it the most delightful
place in the world. She praised the beauty of the
scene before them, and it instantly acquired tenfold
more loveliness than he had noticed in it before.
She spoke of Tennyson, and Browning, and Longfellow,
and poor Willie Fitzgerald felt himself on
unknown ground, and mentally resolved to give up
several hours each day to their study. An hour flew
past. It was time to go, but he could not wrench
himself away. The long dark lashes which fringed
the expressive eyes rested on a cheek on which the
lich colour, mantling through the dark yet transparent
skin, came and went with every emotion.
Willie Fitzgerald had discovered a new world in the
calm dark depths hidden by those drooping lashes.

The lady not arriving, he was at last obliged, for
very shame's sake, to rise and take his departure.

His mind dwelt upon the dark beauty of the young
crirl he had left. He could not rest. AVho was she ?
What was her name ? ^Yhy was it that he only met
her on the very last day of his stay in town ? He
had hated Sydney, and longed for his bush home.
Now he would have given the world to stay.

^Yhat an ass he had been ! Invited over andover
again to visit the house he had just left, he

had put off doing so until the last moment, and had
thrown away chance after chance of seeing the being
whom of all others he felt he loved most. He had
only seen her for an hour. He would think of her no
more. He sought out his old haunts, but could find
no peace.

The sad quiet face with the expressive eyes
haunted him. He returned to the house that night,
and several times was on the point of ringing the bell
and making a second visit, but felt that they would
think it strange in him doing so, and he wound up
by walking up and down in front of her window. He
had to leave next morning early, and did not even
know her name. He started once more into town,
and searched among the men at the club for one who
could give him information on the subject nearest his
heart, but without success for some time.

At last one who had overheard him making inquiries
remarked, carelessly, "Oh, you mean that
pretty, quiet-looking girl at Mrs Berkeley's ? She is,
I think, some relative of hers. She is a Miss Bout
and has only lately come to Sydney."

That was all he learned about one who had made
a stronger impression on him than any one ever had
done before ; and when next morning he stood on the
deck of the steamer gazing at Mrs Berkeley's fast receding
mansion, he felt he had left his heart behind him.

CHAPTER Xxii.

BUSH HOSPITALITY THE Man-trap A DANCE IN A

Wool-shed THE RACE-BALL.

While at Periwig township, Ealf thought proper to
take a run over to Cambaranga, to see old M'Duff,
and discover if possible whether or not any intimation
of the free use which had been made of his name had
as yet reached him.

He found the old superintendent raging. His Sydney
letters had that day brought him the intelligence ;
and so much put out was he about the circumstance,
that had it not been for the expected visit of a gold-fields'
butcher, who was desirous of buying a large
number of fat wethers, he would have started down
to town at once.

Ealf's heart quaked when he saw the fearful rage
and determined anger of the man who had law on
his side. He did not dare to think of what might
happen should his plans fail, and his bills be presented
and left unpaid. He rejoiced that no suspicion

of his guilt had crossed old Muffs mind,
and he hastened back to Yering, more resolved than
ever to effect a success, whatever the cost might be.

About a week before the eventful day, John had
sent Emin Bey, under the careful charge of Tommy,
to a station within a couple of miles of Yering. It
was owned by a jolly, bluff, hearty squatter, with a
great taste for field-sports of all kinds. His motherly
wife, and a large family of sons and daughters, contributed
to keep up the reputation which the hospitable
establishment had earned for itself, even in
this land of unlimited hospitality ; and an invitation
had been sent to the Betyammo people, together with
those at Ungahrun and Mosquito Creek, begging them
to make " Oorgootoolah " their home during the race-week.


The Betyammo station seemed the acknowledged
rendezvous of all living in that part of the district ;
and three days before the festival commenced, a large
party, who had mustered there, and who, to tell the
truth, had been holding a small carnival of kangaroo-hunting,
impromptu racing, dancing, croquet, and picnics
(the excuse, of course, being Bessie's approaching
wedding), set out on horseback for Oorgootoolah. Mr
Gray and his wife, indeed, travelled in the buggy, but
the younger members of the joyous band preferred the
more exciting mode. Much laughing and amusement

■\vliiled the time away. The gentlemen rode their
finest steeds, and many a one felt a gush of everlasting
gratitude, as the hot or wicked-tempered creature
under him gave him an opportunity of displaying
before the bright though rather critical e3"es of the
admiring ladies, the art he especially plumed himself
on.

A merry laughing throng, they arrived in a body
at Oorgootoolah, where the hearty old squatter, with
his stalwart sons and bouncing, fresh, happy-faced
daughters, received them heartily.

The house was not a large one, and under ordinary
circumstances the family were quite sufficient to fill
it ; but, " God bless me ! " cries the large - hearted
squatter, " it's made of elastic. There's room for any
amount more." Mr and Mrs Gray are accommodated
with a chamber, the daughters run off laughing and
whispering with Phoebe, Bessie, and the other girls,
to some mysterious quarters in the friendly old house ;
and the men, after turning their horses into the paddock,
carry their saddles and valises into a large store
prepared for their reception. There is room here for
fifty, rolled up on the floor; and should that fail them,
there is no end of other places ; or the bush, as a fall
back, where, indeed, some of them prefer camping as
it is.

John found his horse thriving well under Tommy,

who is SO careful of him that he will not leave him
day or night.

You see, sir," he explains, " there are no end of
loafing vagabonds about that 'ere Yering ; who knows
but what some of 'em might take it into their heads
to get at him ? "

ISTot much fear of that, Tommy," said John. " Go
into the town, my lad, and look about you : the horse
is a dark one ; no one but ourselves knows anything
of what he can do." But Tommy preferred staying
with his idoL

No, no ; he wouldn't give any one the chance."

John took a ride in during the course of the day,
and found the little place in great excitement. Men
from all parts of the district were congregated together,
spending money recklessly, and the usual scenes were
occurring. He had hardly got off his horse at the
door of the hotel, when Dowlan came up to him, in
an unusually friendly manner, and offering his hand,
winked knowingly. " I say, West " (whispers this
in John's ear), " I can put you up to the right thing
this time, — give you the straight tip, old man."

John, who detested Dowlan, coolly walked past him.
He had learnt to despise the man's venality during
the period of this sheep disasters. At that time Dowlan,
who, with the district in common, had learnt the
story, and who had formerly been a trusted ally of

simple-hearted Jolin, bad mortally wounded him by
cutting him sedulously in public. It was beneath the
dignity of the sub-inspector to know a man who " had
had losses." He had crawled his way up in "the
force " to his present distinguished position from obscurity
; he could not tarnish its brightness by any act
of disinterestedness. Since John had been taken in
hand by Fitzgerald, he had steadily endeavoured to
propitiate his goodwill, but ineffectually ; and Fitzgerald
himself, although not so bitter as our hero,
had the lowest opinion of him as a cad.

Pocketing the affront, Dowlan once more approached
and obtruded himself upon John, who was standing
talking to the two Mosquito Creek squatters, offering
to introduce him to Ealf and Cane. " Very intimate
friends of mine," he added.

John shook his head. " Don't want to know them,
thank you," he said, walking away. It was useless.
Dowlan turned his attention to others. His voice,
with its rich accent, could be heard among the rest,
praising loudly the style and action of the Bindarobina
horse, as well as those of the district generally.

Much drinking was going on in the bar parlours, and
more in the bars. The little township was afflicted
with no less than five large public-houses, two of them
devoted to the entertainment of the better classes ; the
others being patronised by the inferior grades.

Having some business at the far end of the long,
straggling street — the only one the place could boast
of — he had occasion to pass one of these, the Bushman's
Arms, when he heard his name shouted out two
or three times in a half-drunken tone, and looking up,
he saw his old friend Graham, the Cambaranga overseer,
standing on the verandah, which was raised on
piles some distance above the ground, swaying unsteadily,
with a bottle in one hand and a glass in the
other. Two or three dirty-looking fellows were in his
company, and the bar looked pretty full of men, more
or less under the influence of drink.

Old Graham had long before confided to John his
history. It was a common one in Australia. Married
to a respectable woman, by whom he had several children,
some of them by this time nearly grown up,
he was compelled to leave a good situation in the
vicinity of a large town, owing to the cursed habit of
drinking which he had acquired. A loving husband
and a kind father when sober, he became a madman
when drunk. Once " on the burst," as he phrased it,
money, horses, cows, furniture, even his wife's wearing
apparel, went to feed the insatiable and cruel demon
who possessed him ; and his poor wife, after hard
struggling, and battling bravely with her shame and
misery, had, for her children's sake, to insist upon his
departure.

Being a first-class sheep-overseer, and when away
from liquor a highly trustworthy man, he easily got
a situation on a station, where, having no opportunities
of gratifying his propensity, he was soon able to
remit some money to those whom he dearly loved, yet
whose blight the cursed habit had made him. He had
essayed several times to pay a visit to his loved ones
since his banishment, but in vain. The first public-house
he came to proved a man-trap which never
failed to ensnare the unhappy man, who spent a wild
delirious week of excitement, to awaken to a weakened
frame and an agonised paroxysm of remorse, compared
with which his other sufferings were as nothing.
Moneyless and on foot, with trembling limbs and
nerves, gazing fearfully around him at the dreadful
forms stealthily tracking him up, or the gibbering
faces, mowing and grinning behind every bush and
seated on every tree, he would creep back, abased,
wrecked, and shorn of his self-esteem, to commence
afresh in desperation, develop afresh into good resolutions,
strengthen afresh into firm determination, and
succumb at last to the devilish wiles of the soul and
body destroyers, who neglected no device to lure him
into their nets.

Many were the plans formed by poor old Graham
to elude his tempters and succeed in reaching a
town. Having, after steady laborious work, once

more amassed a good round sum, he would again
plan his hitherto unaccomplished home journey. He
would travel through the bush. He would not go
along the road. He would not even suffer his eyes to
rest on the building containing the liquor which exercised
its fearful influence so terribly. Night and day,
as the hour of his departure drew nearer, he would
scheme and plot. He yearned for home. He purchased
his presents for the dear ones over and over
again in thought. He even contemplated remaining
with them altogether — for, indeed, if he could resist
these public-houses on his way down, might he not
fairly claim to be reformed ? . And yet, when the day
of settlement came, he would indignantly reject the
offer of a cheque payable only in Sydney, where his
family lived. That was an insult to him. He could
surely take care of the money himself. He wanted to
buy some things on the road. Already he felt excited
as he prepared for his start. Already his stomach
began to burn and gnaw. Already the evil spirit
dwelling in that swept and garnished habitation has
roused up his seven sleeping brethren, more cunning
and devilishly malicious than himself, and who, rushing
to their respective posts, stir the senses with
insidious suggestions and imaginings. And the great
fiend, their master, seizing the opportunity, would
(inciting another willing slave by the equally accursed

love of money) cause him to employ one of
the many devices of which, alas ! his poor victim was
not even ignorant, so barefaced were they, to upset
the firmly formed resolutions, and drag him once
more, capering in senile folly, to the mouth of the
yawning pit.

Managing to keep himself well informed as to the
state of old Graham's finances, the publican in the
neighbourhood would time it exactly that business
required his presence in the vicinity. A few pleasant
stories, and a drink or two out of the fatal bottle,
invariably carried, proved sufficient — the bird was
snared ; the taste was in his mouth ; he was booked.
Or he would profess an anxiety to see him, in order
that he might settle an account which left some
trifling balance to the lost one's credit ; or he would
give a long price for a horse ; or it was some miserable
shallow pretext, through the flimsiness of which the
unfortunate man could plainly detect the hellish
dangers below, and yet which proved strong enough
to cage his soul in iron bands.

Thus it ever happened to the poor old man. This

time he had exercised a rigorous self-restraint. John

had much compassion for him, and supported him to

the utmost during his stay at Cambaranga ; and old

Graham even now, although no longer much in his

company, looked upon him as a helper and adviser.
VOL. II. D

He had been his confidant in this last great effort.
For two years the old man had carefully saved. Nota
drop of the poison had during that period gone over
his lips, and John actually believed that age had
weakened the disease.

He was aware that the old overseer intended making
a visit to his family, and he earnestly begged him to
allow him to forward his savings, which amounted to
nearly two hundred pounds (for Graham was enabled,
by shrewd bargaining in horse-flesh, and strict economy,
to amass yearly a large sum), to Sydney through
the bank, — but no. The old fellow was obstinate on
that point ; he would put the money himself into his
wife's hands, and telling her how he had borne it with
him through the manifold temptations of the journey,
he would beg her forgiveness with humility.

Accordingly he started, and the reader may imagine
the pang it cost our hero when his eye fell on the reeling
form of the old man, hiccupping out gleefully in
his drunken idiocy, over and over the same two lines
of a senseless ballad, his grey beard and shirt-front
alike stained and wet with the deleterious compound
spilt by his trembling hands.

John jumped on the verandah. Perhaps he thought
he might find some one among the crowd who would
take the old fellow away. He was well known and
very popular in the district, and was instantly assailed

by a dozen different individuals, all clamorous to have
a drink aloncr with him.
What are you going to drink, Mr West ? "
'* Come along, Mr West," another shouted ; " I'm
a-going' to shout ; what's yours ? "

A third inebriated, long-legged, stockman-looking
fellow, in boots and breeches, his cabbage tree hat
hanging far back on his head, lurched up, and with
maudlin fun in his watery eyes, asked —

Izay, yunkplo', avyou washy neck jishmorn ? "
John, Who had much tact and good-humour when
managing men under all circumstances, and never
stood on his dignity foolishly, returned laughingly,
feeling the part in question —

I believe I have. Does it look particularly dirty ? "
Not s'hout'shide, yunkplo' ; 'shin'shide, I meant.
Comenave a b-b-b-ball."

Our hero was not a teetotaller, although a disapprover
of the vice of drinking, and the men knew it.
He was aware that most of them take a refusal as a
direct personal insult; and accordingly, on the principle
of doing in Rome as the Romans do, he agreed.
Drinks all round " are ordered for those in the room.
At the well-known sound, the two or three drunken
dirty brutes surrounding old Graham came staggering

m.

One of them shouting, " Belly up, boys ! I'm in for

this good thing," made his way to the bar to be served
along with the rest, when the shorter, who was an
excellent manly fellow, although unhappily given to
drink, and who despised all such loafers, roared out —

Clearest 'shish yo sneaking, loafing dead-heads
! Cantyoget'nuff oushat poo ole oushi ? "

Then turning to the barman he said, warning,
Doncgo sherv none shem sponging shentemin wimy-
money, I shut warnyo."

The drink was scarcely down his throat when another
rather bumptious and over-familiar style of man
staggered up, pretending to be more drunk than he
really was. " Essay, young un," he said (laying his
dirty paws upon John), "will y'ave drink along o'
me ? "

John refused repeatedly. He didn't like the manor
his impudent manner, and turned his back on him.

You , you're too proud to drink with a

poor man," shouted the enraged ruffian.

John, who was watching a drunken horseman forcing
his steed up the steps on to the wooden verandah,
on which the hoofs sounded like thunder, took no
notice ; but one of the crowd, turning roughly on the
coarse blackguard, threatened to stuff his fist down his
throat, and managed to quieten him, upon which he came
up begging John's pardon, and entreating him once more
to have a drink, which John once more refused.

All classes of labouring men crowded the building,
singing and talking.

A small party of Cambaranga shepherds near John
were discussing the merits of their dogs, and one of
them had almost succeeded in silencing the rest, when
an old grey-headed " superintendent of grass-cutters "
an " old hand," broke in —

"Look hear, matey. I don't call that 'ere dog o'
your anything out o' the common, you know. Now
I had a dog as was a dog. I had to take a small lot o'
sheep once from Jeeburrina on the Darling, about three
hundred miles away to another station, all by myself,
you know, and I had the dog with me. Well, when
I got within a hundred miles o' home, I goes on ahead,
and by-and-by the dog brings home the monkeys. Well,
mates, I counts 'em. There was two short. 'Spanker
says I, ' where is the odd two, old man ? ' He looks
at me and wags his blessed old tail, and away he
slippers. In a day or two he comes back with a couple
of sheepskins. The beggar had killed them on the road
for rations, and brought the skins to show it was all
regular fair and square."

Ha, ha, ha 1 " roared the crowd. " Good for you,
Yorke."

Have another drink, boys," says the chuckling old
hand.

Old Graham had meantime staggered into the room,

and was vainly essaying to string a few words together
consecutively, but the paralysed brain and swollen
tongue refused their duty. He was quite aware of
John's identity ; but beyond that his reason refused
to carry him.

Observing among the crowd one whom he knew to
be a sober man, comparatively speaking, John drew
him on one side, and asked if he could manage to get
the overseer away, promising to reward him liberally.

It's a difficult job," said the man. " He has been
carrying on awful for the last ten days. I was doing
a job of bush-work here, and I see'd him when he first
comet up. He wouldn't touch nothing ; and the publican,
he comes up and wishes him good-day, and talks

so politest to him, and asks if he oughtn't have

the pleasure of a drink in his company. And the old
un, I could see, was burning inside ; but he ses ' !Neo !
I'm again' home to my wife and kids this time, — first
time for nigh on twelve years.'

"well,' ses the publican, 'here's success to the journey,
and the missis, and the young ones; — you won't
refuse that ? I'll bring it out to you, — you needn't
get off your horse,' he ses. And then he watched the

poor old drain it up to the last drop, and kept

him yarning until it commenced a-workin' on him,
and by-and-by the old fool gets off, and hitches up
his horse, and goes inside.

"Well, afore night, old Graham was as drunk as
ever he was in his life ; and I see'd him pulling out
a handful of cheques, and heard him a-saying' to the
publican, as he handed them across the bar, 'Take
care o' my money for me.' How much it was, I
dunno, but it looked a good bit ; and since then he
hasn't been sober for an hour together. He have been
a,-shoutin' champlain all round for days. He'll kill his-self
this time, I do believe," continued the man. " He
had a bad fit of the devils last night." John hereupon
arranged that the speaker should endeavour to
coax Graham away, and look after him, promising him
a five-pound note should he succeed in getting him
sober, and wages during the time spent in recovering
him, — and with a heavy heart he left the den of death.

On finishing his business, and returning up the
street, he fell in with the Barham Downs Super, walking,
as usual, with his inseparable companion, the
gentleman in charge of Bindarobina, and Dowlan.
They were about visiting the Bindarobina horse. Sir
Eustace ; and on their invitation John proceeded with
them to the stables.

Sir Eustace was in a large loose-box; and as his
master undid the surcingle, and stripped the clothing
off his beautiful form, he uttered a low whine of greeting,
rubbing, at the same time, his soft velvet muzzle
gently on the familiar shoulder. A more beautiful

horse never carried jock to victory ; and as the bystanders
gazed at him, the conviction was impressed
upon them that he " looked a winner all over." He
was of a bright bay colour, with a small spot of white
on his forehead ; standing a trifle lower in front than
behind, with a grand shoulder and glorious propelling-power.
His lean head bore gameness unmistakably
stamped upon it.

"He's a knowing old rascal," said his doting master.
He knows quite well that he is going to race soon,
and he loves it. "We never require to muzzle him
before the race day. He is quite aware when the
struggle is to come off, from having his racing-plates
put on, getting his mane plaited, and doing no work
the previous day; and he wouldn't touch a bite for anything.
What a surprise these Sydney fellows will get !
They think nothing can touch their horse. I am going
to send this fellow down to Eandwick next spring."

John had no idea that the horse was really so good.
He had heard much talk about him, but had set a
great deal down to "blowing."

How will your horse shape alongside, West ? "
asked the Bindarobina man.

*well," returned the latter, "I certainly did not
expect him to have to travel in such company, I confess;
but although untried, he is, I think, a good
horse, and a fast one too."

"Now I'll put you three up to something," said
Sir Eustace's owner, confidentially. "We're all old
friends ; and you, Dowlan, I know, are backing the
old horse. The fact is," he continued, looking around
and lowering his voice, "this fellow has been doing
the same distance every morning as that Sydney horse
in a couple of seconds less time, with half a stone to
spare on his back — for one of my men has a chum in
their stable, and I can depend on what he says."

"By Jove !" ejaculated John, "it's lucky I'm not a
betting man."

Dowlan shuddered inwardly as he thought how differently
his book looked now. He felt that he had
been too cunning, and had over-reached himself with
a vengeance. Excusing himself on the plea of duty,
he hurried off to find Ealf and Cane, in order to communicate
to them what he had heard.

"Don't bother yourself," said the latter worthy;
'' I can put that all square."

"How do you mean?" asked the sub-inspector,
anxiously.

Did you never hear of a horse going wrong ? "

Oh yes— but "

But I suppose you would rather lose your money
than not," sneered the other.

I don't see what is to be done."

I'll tell you what you can do. It's customary, is

it not, to station one of your men on duty at the
stables the night before the races ? "

It is."

"Yell, haven't you got some duffer or drunken
devil you can put there tomorrow night, and leave
the rest to me ? "

Dowlan hesitated. He was not afraid of doing so,
but he feared the consequences. Supposing anything
went wrong, and his share was discovered ; but then,
supposing he lost his bets. It was now too late to
hedge.

Well," he answered, " mind, I know nothing ; but
■ I'll manage that for you."

So they parted. John returned to his quarters at
the hospitable station, where fun and jollity were the
order of the day and night. The floor of the woolshed
had been swept clean, and the walls hung with
rugs and blankets of various gay colours. Numbers
of lamps occupied every available position. These
were improvised for the occasion, and really looked
elegant. A wide-mouthed French prune-jar of clear
glass, half full of bright water, formed the stand ;
down the mouth of this was inserted the neck of an
inverted clear glass whisky-bottle, which had been cut
through the middle, and a wire fixed in the cork,
which still remained in the whisky-bottle, served to
sustain a wick. The inverted half of the whisky-bottle

was partly filled with water and partly with
strained liquid fat, which of course floated on the
water and encompassed the wick. Here the whole
party assembled after dinner and danced to the music
of an accordion, flute, and violin, the players being
members of the orchestra band, hired by the race-ball
committee to perform at the great gathering next
even in fy.

It was a thoroughly enjoyable affair, especially for
the ladies, who, being much fewer in number than the
gentlemen, were consequently in great request. Even
the young damsels of eleven and twelve years were
eagerly sought after as partners, and picked and chose
among their suitors with a discriminating dignity
worthy of London holes. Old and young, not even
excepting Mrs Gray, and their kind though immensely
stout hostess, — none of them missed a dance ; until
the orchestra, fairly overcome with the joint fatigues
of eating, drinking, and performing, declared that they
must reserve their energies for the following evening.

The next day was spent in a somewhat similar
manner to the former one by the men. The ladies,
however, had much mysterious confabulation together
about dresses, &c. Little knots of them were clustered
here and there, discussing matters, or busily at
work, until lunch-time ; after which, some on horseback
and others in buggies, they made their way into

the township, where they settled themselves according
to invitation, at various friends' houses, or at hotels,
to prepare for the ball.

This being the only event of the kind held in the
district, and its occurrence being only once a-year, it
naturally caused great excitement. For months in
advance it was anticipated, and dresses were discussed
and prepared by the fair devotees of Terpsichore; and
for months afterwards it served them as a theme of
conversation. All the ladies of the neighbourhood
attended it, as well as those of the town. It was unfortunately
quite impossible to keep the assembly as
select as the more aristocratic of the female portion
of the community would have wished, on account of
their small number as compared with that of the
gentlemen ; and the success of the affair depending
upon the largeness of the attendance, it was arranged
that, as usual, one portion of the hall of the courthouse
in which it was held should be reserved for the
"nobs," and the other part for the public generally.
Still a line had to be drawn. Discrimination had to be
shown somewhere. A number of Chinamen who had
induced white women to participate in their joys and
sorrows, had settled in the little town, and the committee
were sternly severe in refusing to issue cards to
the mottled population.

The much-longed-for hour arrived at last. The

ladies were dressed with considerable taste, but much
diversity existed in the gentlemen's toilets. Some,
indeed, appeared in rigorous black ; there was also
a uniform or two, the resplendent owners of which
never failed to secure partners ; but others there were
who, not having visited town for some years, had long
forsworn the ceremonial evening attire, and, unwilling
to miss the fun, came in white. All, however, enjoyed
themselves greatly. The bar-girls, bullock - drivers'
wives, and servants, kept themselves at the lower end
of the room, where perhaps the dancing was of a more
vigorous and less ceremonious character than that
which characterised the other part, still the utmost
decorum prevailed ; and although some irritation was
excited among the more select, owing to the desertion
of two or three gentlemen who, after supper, sought
relief from the conventionalities of high life among
the less fastidious classes, yet everything, on the whole,
went off with much success, and the Yering race-ball
and its incidents were the subject of many a fair head's
thoughts as it sought its pillow for long afterwards.

John left earlier than the rest to attend to his horse.
He had not much hope of securing the Yering Cup
since his visit to Sir Eustace, but he nevertheless looked
forward to a fair chance for the Maiden Plate.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE RACE — OLD GRAHAM's FATE.

He was astir early, and after effecting his arrangements,
rode into town, followed by Tommy, leading
Emin Bey in clothing.

Yering wore its gayest dress. Every one seemed
on the spree ; and from an early hour saddled horses
in groups were hitched up to every door, or stood in
stock-yards awaiting their riders.

John went straight through to the race-course, which
lay about two miles out of town on the other side, and
soon the Bey was accommodated with a stall in the
shed which ran around the saddling-paddock, among a
crowd of others, closely attended by Tommy.

Humours were flying about that the Bindarobina
horse had broken down, but as yet nobody could tell
anything with certainty.

Horses in clothing were being led up and down,
or ridden gently by young lads, who strove hard to
assume a knowing turfy look. A few o'f the most

enthusiastic sporting men were here and there discussing
the qualities of the various competitors, or
scrutinising their appearance, or endeavouring to pickup
the latest intelligence about them.

Presently the grand stand began to fill, and rumour
resolves itself into certainty. Sir Eustace is unfit to
run. Gone in one of his feet. ISTobody knows exactly
what it is. Supposed to have had a sudden strain, or
given himself a knock. What a pity, thinks John,
that such a noble creature should be crippled ! however,
it gives him a better chance, and he may yet win
the Cup himself.

By-and-by the inhabitants of Yering stream out ina
long line, — mostly on horseback, some in buggies,
and a few on foot. Who would have believed that
there were so many in the little place ? Even the
blacks are dressed out, for the nonce, in battered old
hats, and tattered old garments, and hasten to join in
the " white-fellows' " holiday.

Mr Gray's party have arrived in a buggy, and
Bessie is wild with excitement. Phoebe also feels
enthusiasm welling up within her ; and although, for
reasons best known to herself, she does not, like Bessie,
wear Fitzgerald's colours — magenta and buff — she is
quite as anxious about the Bey's success. Stone is
now down in the saddling-paddock talking with John
or some other of his friends ; now at Bessie's side

giving her information, and taking a manly pride in
proclaiming to the assembled multitude the tender
relationship about to exist between them.

Dowlan, who is extremely vain, takes advantage of
his duty as policeman to display himself to the public,
and moves about on a capering horse, smirking to the
rich, and growling at the poor. The Clerk of Petty
Sessions officiates as Clerk of the Course. He is not
much of a sportsman, and he can barely hold on to
his quiet cob ; but he loves to attire himself once a-
year in his red coat, velvet cap, boots, and breeches.
This is his gala-day ; he has no other opportunity of
displaying his glories : during the rest of the year he
has to content himself with occasionally donning the
scarlet in his own room at night, when Yering is
steeped in slumber. As he jogs past, with his toes
turned out, and his elbows looking like the handles of
a pitcher, his " military " seat is the theme of much
jocular comment.

The upright old police magistrate, a very distinguished
retired officer, is judge. The stewards
bustle about with much importance.

Many of the swell-mob have found their road to
this out-of-the-way meeting; and some members of
the ring make themselves conspicuous, as, surrounded
by a circle of constituents, note-book and pencil in
hand, they shout the odds, — Two to one bar one!

Two To one bar one ! Take the field bar one !— and
so on, in their 'rapid jargon. Nor have the bookmakers
alone journeyed up to the carcass. Other
birds of prey, in the shape of roulette-table owners,
thimble-riggers, card-swindlers, and the host of other
thieves who ply their calling on the various courses,
are busily at work. A few of the fair sex, attended
by their cavaliers, have a spurt round the course ; a
drunken bushman gets a spill off his horse before the
crowd, near the grand stand, and is carried away with
a broken collar-bone.

The Yering lawyer, who is by no means a popular
individual, drives up the course in his new buggy.
He leaves the horses standing in front of the grand
stand, while he renews an old-standing acquaintance
with '•' Mr Jas. Hennessey's battle - axe ; " but the
horses, frightened by the unaccustomed noise, move
off. Now they trot. The lawyer rushes out bareheaded,
with his tumbler in his hand, shouting to
the people to stop them, but no one puts out a
hand. Now they canter, with the reins trailing.
In vain he runs hollowing ; they break into a gallop,
which grows into desperate speed. They come to a
hurdle. The crowd cheer, and roar out " Over." They
take the sticks together in gallant style; but the
buggy, smashed to atoms, remains on the other side,

and away they go with the pole between them.
VOL. II. E

Hurray ! its only the lawyer's trap. Now a bell
rings, and the jocks, with their saddles, &c., over
their arms, get weighed ; the horses are saddled,
and the boys mounted. Once more the bell rings.
Now they are led out. Look, there goes one ! How
the green-and-gold silk jacket shivers as the horse
rushes past in his preparatory canter ! Here's another.
Oh, what a darlings of a horse ! " cries Bessie, as a
beautiful chestnut filly tears past, ridden by a tiny-looking
child in pink and silver. Now some more
go to the post. Now they are marshalled. The
starter lowers his flag. Off! Away they fly, —
there they speed altogether. At last they round
the corner and come up the straight. The tiny
boy, sitting well down, his hands low, occasionally
glances warily over his shoulder at his nearest rival,
whose horse's head, extended to its utmost, cannot
draw up farther than the handsome chestnut's girth.
Hark ! how the hoofs thunder for a moment as they
fly past !

Hurrah ! Cheers. A general relief ; and as the
chestnut with her rider is led a winner past the
grand stand, Bessie feels inclined to run down and
kiss the child.

"You're better where you are," gravely returns
Stone. " He's a perfect young imp."

Now the excitement increases. The Maiden Plate

is to be run for. Tommy's youngest brother, Dick, a
knowing, cool little fellow, is to steer the Bey to
victory if possible; and many an injunction he
receives from his big brother, which he faithfully
promises to observe.

The weighing is over ; the little mite of a saddle
is girthed on, its white web bands showing distinctly
against the glossy black satin skin. Now the boy is
lifted on, and John leads his horse down the course
a little, watched by more than one pair of bright eyes,
who take an interest in the creature for his master's
sake. There he rushes past. 'that's the Ungahrun
horse — that's Emin Bey," is heard on all sides ; and
clannish Ungahrun stockmen osier to back him for all
they are worth.

Ealf and Cane are also there. They do not intend
to race their horse until the morrow, and are eno^afjed
at present with their books. Presently Ealf catches
sight of Tommy, whom he recognises as a servant
of Fitzgerald's, and a memory comes across him.
He surely knows that black horse also. He remembers
him when a colt, and gets deeply interested. A
sinking, foreboding feeling of evil steals over him.
He has laid heavily against Emin Bey, chiefly from
a feelings of dislike to Fitzgerald.

Listen! The race is an exciting one. "Emin
Bey-tropic!" "Antoinette!" "Emin Bey!"

tropic!" "Emin Bey!" "Emin Bey!" "Emin
B-e-e-e-y ! " Here they come ! The Ungahrun horse
has freed himself from his antagonists, and wins ina
canter, hard held.

Much acclamation is heard on all sides, and the
Ungahrun men are jubilant over the victory of the
station horse. Tommy busies himself in rubbing the
Bey down, and leads him off home. The Betyammo
party are in high spirits, and John is congratulated
many times. A few more races are run, and all
return to town. The road is a long string of galloping
horses — all the Yering fair sex, like most
of their sisters in Australia, caring nothing for any
other pace. The buggies drive swiftly home, each
escorted by two or three sportsmen.

John had observed Sir Eustace's owner and the
Barham Downs Super on the course, but he had then
no leisure to inquire about the horse's accident. Ashe
now rides np to the stable there is a small crowd
round it. The groom is declaiming violently against
some person or persons unknown : he is of opinion
that his horse has been wilfully hurt, and various
opinions are expressed. No one knows exactly what
is wrongs. It is a hurt in the foot. The noble creature
lifts his foot for each one to examine it. He is shorn
of his glory. How changed he looks with his piteous
expression and his foot held up, shrinking from the

smallest touch, from the form which he showed the
day before — gallant, bold, and reckless 1

Something seems to have penetrated the foot ina
downward direction from the coronet," says John ;
but he cannot detect an orifice or a drop of blood,
yet the hoof is extremely sensitive. It is quite clear
that he cannot race tomorrow ; if so, and the Sydney
horse wins, more money weill change hands than has
done so on Yering course for many a year.

John rides back to more merry-making ; round
games are being played, in the soft bright moonlight,
on the thick sward. An impromptu dance
is got up by some insatiable spirits dio are not
knocked up with previous exertions, but the turf
is scarcely springy enough, and vocal music is
tried instead.

John awoke next morning in a state of much
anxious excitement. He found that the hopes of
his district rested upon the Bey as a last resource,
for so firm a favourite was Sir Eustace, that Ealf
and Cane got any odds they chose against their
horse. Tommy, on the contrary, vas perfectly calm.
He was quite aware what was to be done, and he felt
convinced that the Bey had the right stuff in him.
He was indeed so great a believer in the animal, that
he would willingly have become a martyr at the
stake for the sincerity of his opinion.

The day wore on ; the first few races had been run,
and now the grand event of the meeting is going to
come off — but under very different circumstances to
what was expected. It is now almost a foregone conclusion,
and ruefully does many a one think of the
emptiness which will fill his pocket presently. Besides
which, they hate being cleaned out by these
Sydney turfites, with their bumptious self-assertion.
The Bindarobina man and his friend assist John and
Tommy as far as they are able ; and if good wishes
could make his horse win, theirs would soon enable
him to distance all competitors.

The Sydney crack, Errol, a fine golden-brown horse,
the picture of a racer, is being attended to by a party
of horsey cads, who pique themselves on their knowledge
of town racing, as compared with this bush
affair.

The bell rings — the jocks are weighed ; and as it
rings again, they make their way to the post. Dick,
who has unlimited faith in himself and his horse, sets
his face like cast-iron, — he is resolute to uphold the
credit of the district. Several other horses are to start
also, but none of them have a chance. Errol is a steady,
quiet-tempered horse, too honest for the crew who own
him. He is ready to start at the word ; but Cane
knows that Emin Bey's temper is an irritable, nervous
one, and his jockey has received instructions to make

a false start or two if lie can. The Bey is unaccustomed
to being checked in this way, and rears the first time
in a manner perfectly appalling to behold, while Tommy
grinds his teeth and swears inwardly.

The Betyammo party are once more in the grand
stand, and the enthusiasm has increased to the highest
pitch. Old Mr Gray would sooner than a hundred
pounds that the Sydney horse should be beaten. Bessie
is breathless, and Phoebe says nothing ; but her face is
white. The Sydney men make sneering remarks as
they stand in a little group, feeling secure of victory.

OS"! Away they go at last, on the wings of the
wind, with the noise of the whirlwind ! They are past.
Dead silence reigns.

It is not reality. We are looking at one of the great
paintings of the turf The same scene, — the horses
stretched to their utmost, the many-coloured jockeys
standing up in their stirrups, their backs bent, their
heads low. It seems an age until they turn the far
corner. Two are now racing side by side, — the rest
are away behind, yet still holding on at their best
speed. Now a murmur is heard, and it increases
into excited shouts as each second varies the fortunes
of the race. The horses are so close together, no one
can tell which has the advantage. Ears of encouragement
from the backers of both greet the riders. Errol's
jock calls upon his horse as he passes the grand stand,

and making a determined spurt, the generous steed
succeeds in getting a head's length in front of Emin
Bey, but only for an instant. .

Dick feels what his horse is capable of, and, pulling
him together, wakens him up for a final effort, and
lands him a victor by a short neck, amid deafening
applause from the excited crowd, who toss their hats
and helmets into the air and kick them about, shake
hands with each other, and cheer as if each one had
attained the wish his heart most desired.

Dick receives a perfect ovation as he is led back
bareheaded to the scales ; and Bessie finds, to her
astonishment, in the midst of her smiles, that her face
is quite wet ; while Phoebe, so pale a minute before,
is now as red as any rose. Not less delighted and
excited is John, who has his hand nearly wrung off
by numerous enthusiastic individuals, who at this
moment are ready to devote their lives and fortunes
towards sustaining the honour of the district. Tommy
takes things more coolly, — he asks a question or two
of Dick, and leads the Bey off to be thoroughly strapped
and clothed ; but to-night in the stables he will throw
his arms round his beauty's neck, and whisper loving
words to him, as he makes up his bed with rather more
than usual care, in grateful memory of his achievements.
Cane is furious.

The race has been so fairly run that there is no

chance of protesting against the decision of the judge ;
and cursing his horse and its rider, his ill luck, and
himself and companion, he seeks consolation in the
bottle, assisted by Ealf, who is reduced to despair.
He is overwhelmed with the amount of calamity
which he feels impending, and the bitterness of defeat
has to him an additional poignancy when he
thinks of the impending exposure of his frauds in
Sydney.

Dowlan as usual has joined the winning side. He
has no fear that his share in Sir Eustace's business
will come to light, but he has been mixed up in other
underhand manoeuvres, and he has to crawl through
slime, and lie and fawn into the good graces of those
to whom his greed and foiled schemes have made him
a debtor. He must endeavour to work through somehow,
and already he has told a number of stories discreditable
to his former associates, placing himself in
the light of a victim.

The Barham Downs and Bindarobina men are almost
better pleased than if the race had turned out as they
had anticipated. Emin Bey's victory has saved them
each more money than they could well afford to lose;
and as John rides into Yering, they join Mr Gray and
Stone and the old honest Oorgootoolah squatter in
cheering him loudly. But alas ! his pleasure is not
unalloyed, for he is informed by the man who has

undertaken to look after old Graham, that his charge
has been missing since the morning previous.

The old overseer had been seized with a dreadful
attack of delirium tremens on the evening when John
had seen him, and was with much difficulty kept in
the house during the night. Towards morning he had
grown quieter, and his guardian had left the house in
which he was for a short time, to find on his return
that the old man was gone. Whither ? No one knew.
He had searched during the day himself, and having
got bushed in the intricacies of a scrub into which
the tracks of the missing man had led him, he was
unable to report the occurrence sooner.

The police magistrate at once despatched a couple
of white constables, with a black tracked, to trace the
footsteps from the place where they had last been seen.

John rode home with a depressed mind. As he
passed the public-house which had proved " the lion
in the old man's path," he saw the publican, a bloated,
greasy-faced man, With a villanous, low forehead, and
a prize-fighting look, walking up and down the verandah
in a " boiled shirt " (old Graham had worn flannel
since he left his married home), snowy-white trousers,
and carpet slippers, his waist girded with a scarlet
sash, narrating with coarse glee to a fellow-poisoner

how he had " cooped the old on the hop," and

"lambed him down to rights."

The bar was still thronged, and the effects of the
mixture of spirits of wine, blue-stone, and tobacco-juice,
were to be seen on a miserable wretch who lay
stretched in the courtyard, among a heap of broken
bottles, empty sardine-tins, and smashed-up boxes.

I'd like to have the punishing of you," thought
our hero. " I'd make you drink a tumblerful of the
dregs of one of your own casks every day for a week."

Next morning, on riding into the township to inquire
for the poor old man, he found the police magistrate
and one or two justices of the peace about starting
to hold a magisterial inquiry on his body. He
had been found late the night previous, lying perfectly
dead in a small gully in the scrub.

John joined the others, and was horror-struck at the
sight which presented itself on reaching the place.
Graham had evidently been dead nearly two days.
He lay on his back, swelled to twice his natural size,
his legs and arms drawn up tightly to his body, one
hand cleuchin(]j a butcher's knife. His eves glared
awfully. His mouth was open, out of which protruded
a swollen tongue, the centre of a thick mass
of crawling, creeping, burrowing, white maggots, some
of which occasionally tumbled over the swollen blue
lips, and rolled along the long grey beard. On opening
his shirt a similarly disgusting sight was to be
observed, — hateful of the hateful creatures were to be

seen under his arms, while millions of fearful-looking
flies buzzed around him. About his neck, a cord,
to which was suspended a small bag, cut deeply into
the swollen flesh. This, on being opened, was found
to contain, wrapped in numerous folds of paper and
oilskin, three or four locks of light-brown hair, and
one long tress of a darker shade.

Alas, poor Graham ! the adder that stung thee was
of thine own fostering.

Owing to the decomposed state of the body, no
further examination was effected, and the inquiry
came to an end, all being satisfied that drink alone
had brought about the dreadful results.

Another piece of intelligence was made public during
the day. On applying poultices to Sir Eustace's
wounded foot, the, broken end of a strong darning-needle
was discovered and extracted, upon which the
animal became very much easier. Suspicion pointed
to the Sydney men, but nothing was certain.

CHAPTER XX VI.

EVIL COUNSEL AND EVIL DEEDS m'dUFF's DEATH.

The next day saw Yering deserted of its visitors.
Almost all the station people wended their ways
homeward, and only a few of the labouring classes
remained to spend the small remnant of money which
they still possessed.

How Cane and Ealf staved off the most pressing
of their creditors' demands, they themselves only
knew. The horse had been seized at the instance
of the hotel-keeper with whom they boarded, and
they had apparently nothing to go upon except the
position of Ealf's father, which procured for them
some credit in the way of food and drink. This morning,
they sat together over a bottle of brandy, to which
both, especially Cane, had frequent recourse.

"Well," said half, sulkily, "you have managed to
get us into a nice mess."

Shut up, you growling . You're the biggest

sneak hi lever comet across. You always turns

round hon yer mates when things don't go just right,"
returned his amiable friend.

*'No wonder 1" answered the latter ; ^' you make yourself
out so knowing, and you let a bush-horse

quietly walk off with stakes big enough to put us on our
legs again, without bets. I wouldn't have cared so much
if it hadn't belonged to that stuck-up Fitzgerald."

D him !" echoed the other. "Hied sooner hit

'ad been 'im than that bother cussed pup what hi

saw a-lookin' hafter 'im. Hill settle that 's 'ash

yet, his hi gets 'als a slant, — hi will, s'elp me, for
the sake hof this business."

Bosh ! — you're always sky ting about what you'll
do. What can you do now, when we want some good
advice? That's more to the purpose "

Can't you get that 'ere hold M'Duff to lend

you some cash?" asked Cane.

*' He'd sooner give me his blood," returned Half;
besides, this forgery business is blown all over the
country by this time, and people will be shy of taking
his cheques."

Didn't you say has 'ow a digging's butcher wos a
coming' there to buy sheep ? "

"By Jove," uttered Ealf, a new light breaking in
upon him, "we might get any amount of gold, if we
could lay our hands on it ! Those fellows nearly always
pay in pure metal."

"You sed has 'ow the hold boy was agoiii' down
to Sydney about them 'ere forged whimsies. His we
could get 'old of 'is valise, we might put that little
business to rights too ; burn them, hand square ourselves
with the gold for a fresh start linn Sydney."

Right you are," returned Ealf, admiringly ; " you
have got a brain. I believe it's easy enough done."

"Hof course hit is. We'll cut away there. Hill
camp hin the bush. You stay hup hat the 'ouse, —
find lout 'is plans, and get 'old of the valise, 'and it
hover to me, hand hill stow hit away hall serene."

Accordingly, they both started for Cambaranga.
Half, who had an intimate knowledge of the country
around the station, pointed out a place to Cane, inclose
proximity to the head-station, where he might
remain camped for some time in secrecy, and then
made his own way to the house.

It was dark dien he arrived. Mr M'Duff was at
home, as well as a young man who had been engaged
to fill the position of overseer vacated by old Graham.
M'Duff was by no means in a good humour. Whether
he suspected Ealf as the thief who was preying on
what he worked so hard for, and loved so much, or
whether it was that he merely disliked and despised
the character of the young man, was Lard to say.
His manner was more than usually stern and gruff.
The news of old Graham's death did not seem to affect

him much. He knew his worth, and appreciated his
good qualities ; but he had expected the catastrophe
so long, that it was by no means a shock. His mind
was much more disturbed about the forgeries which
had interfered with the currency of his cheques ; and
he produced one after another, which had been sent
up for his inspection, until Ealf saw all the evidences
of his crime before him on the table. If he could
only get possession of them !

In the course of the evening he learnt that M'Duff
intended starting for Sydney next day, to give personal
evidence in the affair, which he was determined
to investigate thoroughly. The butcher from the
gold-fields had come, and only left that morning;
therefore his gold must still be in the house.

If Ealf could only lay his hand on that valise, he
would never get into such a scrape again, — never,
never 1

He could not listen to what M'Duff said, so busy
was he planning his measures. At last it was bedtime,
and all retired to their rooms ; but Ealf cannot sleep,
he sits and ponders. After a couple of hours' time,
he slips off his boots, and makes his way over to the
house in which M'Duff sleeps. The superintendent's
heavy measured breathing is heard from the bed.
Where can he have put his papers and the gold ? He
intends starting early ; he has surely packed his valise.

It is SO dark he knocks against a chair slightly, and
Muffs quick ear warns him. He opens hiS-eyes.
"Who is there?" he asks, in his stern, deep "voice.
Ealf is close to the door— he steps out, and hastening
over to his room, jumps into bed, and draws the
blankets over him as he is. Presently he notices a
light ; and M'Duff walks across the courtyard, comes
straight to his room, and looks in through the open
door. Ealf is breathing hard in apparently sound
sleep, and the superintendent goes away satisfied to
the other man's room, and then walks back to his own.
Ealf dares not try it again. He lies for an hour or
two revolving plans, and decides on consulting Cane.
Accordingly, he made his way out to the spot where
that worthy was camped. It was about half a mile
distant, in a small patch of rocky, broken country, beside
a little spring ; and awakening him, he narrated
what he had learnt.

Hit's hall no use," remarked Cane, on learning
full particulars. " The hold fellow 'as got everything
stowed away, so has yer can't lays yer 'ands
hon it. I votes we stick 'im hup hon the road."

Ealf frightened. " Robbery ! " he said.

"Robbery ! " sneered the other, mimicking the tone.

Wot was yer about to-night, eh ? Don't be a

fool now, and spile hall. Find lout which way he
means to take, hand come 'ere immediately hafter, and

VOL. IL F

we'll manage somehow. Now get along back before
ye're missed."

With this they parted, and Ealf had a good hour
in bed before daylight broke. M'Duff was up early,
and had his horse ready. Ealf, to blind him to the
real state of affairs, pretended laziness, and came in
late to breakfast, keeping his eyes and ears open all
the time. M'Duff tells his last night's adventure, and
persists in believing some one was in his room. The
new overseer laughs loudly, much to M'Duff's disgust,
for he is not given to creating false alarms. He informs
them that he is going down the "malian's
old track," which will save him twenty miles in the
journey. Ealf knows it well. It is a narrow bridle-path,
leading partly through thick scrubby country,
and partly over mountains. Here and there the track
is very indistinct, and in some places there is none.
It is only known to the older station hands, and is
seldom traversed now, although formerly the malian
used it; but his route is now changed. M'Duff knows
it well also. It would take him a day and a half by
the main road to accomplish what he can do by this
path in one. He brings out his valise. Ealf thinks
it looks heavy. M'Duff straps it on, and mounting,
nods a hasty good-bye, and is off. Ealf is on tenterhooks
to go to Cane, but the overseer is in the way.
The man is polite to his employer's son, and would

like to become acquainted with him, and therefore
delays his business to indulge in a chat. But Ealf's
gruff, uncivil answers drive him off; and catching his
horse, the sociable young fellow goes away whistling.

Ealf now gets his horse also, and is soon detailing
his knowledge to Cane, who, without a word, straps
his few effects on the horse which he has already
saddled.

Come hon," he said. " Lead the way hon to the
track, hand push along, his yer don't want to miss yer
last chance."

A roundabout way brought them to the " malian's
track," and soon they were cantering along it in silence,
glancing eagerly ahead of them for their prey. As
they hurry on, Cane explains his plan to Ealf. They
were both provided with revolvers, which many people
in the bush carry. These they slung in their belts,
to give them the appearance of bushrangers, while a
red handkerchief apiece, in which holes had been cut
for their eyes, was a sufficient disguise. Their clothes
were in no wise different from those of fifty others,
and they feared not being recognised. They hurried
on faster, — they are now about eighteen miles front
home, and expect to see the quarry every minute.
At last they notice him about a couple of hundred
yards ahead, as he leaves a small open space to enter
some timber.

Cane now takes the lead ; he hunts now by sight.
Making a detour to get in front, and whispering
fiercely to Ealf that, " should he fail to stick by him,"
he "will never see another day's light," he rushes out
on the unsuspecting man. "Bail up! bail up!"
shout the two red-veiled attacked, revolvers in hand.
Throw hup yer harms, or hill drop yer I " shouts
Cane, intimidating.

But M'Duff is not to be got so easily ; and hitting
his horse with the spurs, he tears along shouting
"Never!" and brandishing his stout hunting-crop.
Both men gallop alongside, threatening his life once
more ; and perhaps the determination of the Super
might have caused them to give up the attempt, had
not Ealf s handkerchief fallen off. M'Duff turning at
the time, recognised him, and uttering his name in fierce
tones, as he struck about him wildly with his whip,
vowed that he should hang for the attempt on his life.
" Shoot him, Ealf ! " cries Cane. " Shoot the hold

• , or he'll 'ave yer blood."

Ealf's trembling fingers might have obeyed the
fearful command, when a smashing blow from the
hunting-crop knocked the revolver out of his hand,
and saved him the commission of the dreadful crime.
But in the same moment " crack " goes one of the
chambers of Cane's six-shooter ; and he has rivalled
his great namesake and antitype, the first murderer.

The grim, money-loving old Super — so firm and fair
in some things — so heartless and lax in others — falls
from his saddle. His foot getting entangled in the
stirrup-iron, the body is dragged along by the frantic
horse, striking against stumps and roots, and being
kicked at furiously by the animal, against whose
hind-legs it is occasionally dashed with violence. The
road is strewn with little articles belonging to the
unfortunate man. His helmet lies at the spot where
the shot was fired, his whip farther on, then his knife
and matches, and then some plugs of tobacco ; a little
farther lies scattered some money, then clots of blood, —
and a mark of the trailing body runs all along the road.

Cane and Ealf were at first seriously alarmed lest
the animal should become maddened with fear and
make its escape, valise and all; but the stirrup-leather
comes off, and the body falls to the ground.
Soon after, they succeed in catching the frightened
steed, and lead him back snorting to where its master
lies a pitiful sight, with his grizzly hair and beard a
thick mass of dust and blood, his face almost undistinguishable
with bruises. Twenty minutes before, he
was in full vigour, his mind occupied with plans for
his earthly welfare ; and now his spirit, that " wandering
fire," has joined old Graham's in pioneering the'
dark, undiscovered shore " of that black river from
which no explorer's report has ever been received.

With eager haste they tear off the valise and examine
the contents. They pull out handkerchiefs and
collars, a couple of shirts, and some other articles of
clothing, a cheque-book, some papers (only accounts).
What ! no money ! none of the hated forged cheques !

Examine his pockets," says Cane.

Ealf shrinks from touching the fearful thing.

Curse your white liver ! " snarls the red-handed
man, fit for any deed now, — and, bending down, he
turns out pocket after pocket. Nothing ! (Indeed,
M'Duff had made up the post-bag before leaving, into
which he had put the forged cheques, as well as the
crossed cheque which he had received from the " diggings"
butcher, and by this time the malian was
hastening with them along another road down to
town.) In his rage he vents his resentment by kicking
the helpless clay, saying, "You put me lout hall
night in the bush worst — hit's your turn now."

Ealf is getting stupefied ; he is only now waking upto
what has occurred.

Come along, you fool ! " shouts the chief villain ;
let's get the carcass lout o' this somehow, hand then
we'll see wot's to be done."

A couple of deep round lagoons lay alongside of the
track ; and half carrying, half dragging the body between
them, they threw it into the black water on the
far side from the road. The water splashed and surged

in widening circles, wetting their feet as they stood
on the banks. What a relief to get rid of that evidence
of guilt — motionless, inanimate, but more terrible
than any living witness ! The valise and saddle
weighted with stones, are likewise flung into the pool,
and every evidence of the crime is carefully hidden
from sight.

And now Cane, whose mind seems to have grown
clearer and stronger with the emergency, gives instructions
to the trembling wretch beside him as to what
must be done. They had passed some miles back a
small gunyah and yard temporarily occupied by a
flock of " hospital " sheep, shepherded by an old black
gin.

Cane, alive to the urgent necessity of obliterating
all tracks, orders Ealf to go to the place and cause the
old woman, who knows him, and is likely to obey his
orders without hesitation, to drive her sheep out here
for a night, and camp near the water-hole. He is
aware that the tracks of the sheep on the road will
hide the footprints of the galloping horses and the
trailing of the body, and that as they crowd round the
margin of the lagoon in their anxiety to drink, all
marks there will be effaced. He impresses the necessity
on Ealf of getting home quickly and unobserved,
and of examining all M'Duff's papers. He himself
will cross the bush and make for another station

at some considerable distance off, so that lie may
establish an alii if necessary ; and in two or three
days' time he will return to the camp where he spent
the previous night. Ealf can meet him there.

Now that M'DufP is out of the way, Ealf will have
charge, and can easily put matters right as regards
business. But first of all, they must set this straight.

After undergoing much advising, threatening, imploring,
and sneering, Ealf is ready to start. Cane
then parted with him, taking the murdered man's
horse, which he has decided to shoot in the first thick
scrub he comes to at a sufficient distance from the spot.

Ealf rode as one in a dream. He succeeded in
finding the sheep, and, making some excuse, he started
the half-crazed old woman with them to the lagoons.
Then he galloped home half frenzied with fear, his
mind dwelling on the tragedy he had so lately borne
a part in. The young overseer had not returned, and
Ealf breathes more freely as he turned his horse into
the paddock and sought his room. There was something
clinging to him which he could not shake off.
Go where he would, something awful there was at his
elbow — a fearful load on his soul ! Outwardly he was
the same as this morning, but inwardly An indefinable
terror haunted him. He threw himself on
his bed. " God ! God ! God ! " He started
as he uttered the holy name. What had he done?

The whiteness of his soul had loncf, honos ago been
smudged with black dirt ; and now, after years of
absence, on the same ground he had changed its colour
to a brighter hue, but a darker stain. The overseer
rode up merrily. A happy, careless lad, he strode in
with a cheery remark, but suddenly stopping, asked if
Ealf was ill.

Only a bad headache," he was answered. " I'm
often like this." He could eat nothing. That night,
when all was silent, he stole over to the dead man's
chamber. How he abhorred the cursed money !
Sooner a thousand times over would he have appeared
before the world as a defaulter, or as a thief, than ashe
now was ; yet it must be done. Each article put
him in mind of his victim. Guiltily he glanced over
his shoulder, fancying that he heard stealthy footsteps,
or that a voice whispered something in his ear. nothing
could he find. ISTo money — no cheques ; nothing
of any value. And the deed had been done uselessly
uselessly. God ! what is that on the bed ? An
indistinct form shapes itself. He almost faints.
Tush ! it is only the washing, which the woman has
laid out there. Back to his room, where, amid incoherent
ravings and agonies of mind, he passed the rest
of that awful night. He wished Cane would return.
He wanted to look once more on the spot, to see that
all was right ; but he dared not. What if the old gin,

with the sharp eyes her race is celebrated for, has
detected the tracks ? Her instinctive sagacity would
enable her to follow up the clue. All the day succeeding,
and the night which followed, and the day
after, Ealf remained in a state of mind bordering on
insanity. The overseer and woman in the kitchen,
indeed, began to suspect that the brandy which he
had procured from M'Duff's store, and which he drank
in immense quantities, was about to produce a fit of
horrors ; but, strange to say, it had no effect whatever
on his agitated system. The day was now at hand
when Cane promised to return to the rendezvous, and
Ealf counted every minute until his stronger-minded
associate should assist him in bearing: a share of the
oppressing secret.

That evening a horseman was announced approaching
; and Ealf, concluding that Cane had changed his
intentions, and had decided upon staying at the house,
ran out to meet him. It was not Cane, however, but
Ealf's father, Mr Cosgrove, sen. He had, in consequence
of the unsatisfactory information which had
reached him, started out from home very suddenly ;
and leaving Ruth in Sydney, where he had received
further disquieting intelligence, he had continued his
journey to Cambaranga, to confer with M'Duff about
the very business which was taking the latter to few
South Wales, unknown to his employer and partner.

The unexpected face fell cold upon the guilty heart;
but there was something in old associations and blood
which, notwithstanding all his weight of guilt, gave to
him some measure of comfort. He felt a desire to
cling to his father ; he felt that there stood the only
one who would seek to palliate his wickedness, if possible.
His subdued and quiet manner, so different to
what his father had ever before noticed in him, struck
the elder Cosgrove very much ; and he felt that perhaps
the young man had seen the folly of his doings,
and was about to change.

He met him with a greater show of affection than
he had bestowed on the prodigal for some years, and
asked for M'Duff.

It was well for Ealf that the young overseer came
out just then to answer the question, for he only kept
himself from falling by clinging to the paddock-fence.
Cosgrove's annoyance at having missed the Super was
expressed rather loudly, and the bustle of unsaddling
the horse served to divert attention from Ealf, who
managed to get inside the house, where he fortified
himself by drinking a large quantity of brandy.

CHAPTER XXVII.

A FEARFUL JOURNEY — HIDING GUILT.

The activity and excitement consequent on the arrival
of Mr Cosgrove relieved Ealf from much observation,
and to a certain extent relaxed the strain on his mind.
His father's conversation, however, was full of poignant
bitterness ; and the arrows of remorse fell fast upon
him as the elder Cosgrove seemed willing to forget all
the old grievances and errors of the past. He would
possibly even have hushed up his ?ton's forging transactions,
and paid his debts once more, had he made
an open confession, and determined to lead a new life;
but now there was an impassable gulf fixed between
him and ordinary men.

The past life was over. A new life had begun.
Never again would men take him by the hand and
welcome him to their homes. Henceforth he was
worse than a pariah — he was a wild beast. As these
thoughts kept crossing his mind, a groan, occasioned

by his mental distress, would now and then burst
from him ; and at last, excusing himself on the plea
of illness, he again sought his room, to pass another
wretched night.

At breakfast next morning he received a still greater
shock, for Mr Cosgrove, speaking of his journey,
incidentally remarked, " By the way, I came along the
malian's track yesterday. They wanted to dissuade
me from doing so at the other end, for they feared I
could not find my way after my long absence; and
as I passed the Lilly Lagoon, I fancied I saw something
in the water like a dead body."

A dead body ! " laughed the overseer.

Yes," said Mr Cosgrove. " I did not go close toit.
It was something dead, I am sure."

Ealf said nothing ; he was pale and rigid, his fingers
stiff and cold, his hair rising on his head, his heart
beating violently.

It might have been a sheep, or a kangaroo, or perhaps
a calf," suggested the overseer.

"Ah, yes," joined in Half — "a calf, no doubt; there
are plenty of wild cattle in the scrubs there."
The conversation changed; but his nerves were
wrung worse than ever.

Twice he went to the rendezvous, but it was vacant.
How he longed for Cane ! He even prayed that he
might come. His father, noticing his careworn, haggard

look, felt alarmed, and proposed sending for a
doctor. To this, however, Ealf vehemently objected.

On going the third time, about sundown, to the
meeting-place, he saw his brother-in-blood dismounting.
He was much relieved. He rushed up, surprising
Cane with the fervency of his welcome, and made
him acquainted with the fact of his father's sudden
arrival, and his having noticed the body. These were
two pieces of intelligence which entirely took Cane
by surprise ; but, equal to the occasion, he spoke after
a few minutes' reflection.

*' Stow, look 'ere : we want to get rid of that carcass
that is the first thing to be done; hand hafter that
you can gammon penitent, tell hall to the governor,
hand get round 'im, hand you'll be has right has lever.
Ten to one 'ell give you charge 'ere, hand cut 'one ;
hand, my word, we'll commence then hon a new lay.
Hour luck his only just a-turning."

"But what shall we do about — about — I mean —
that thing over there ? " asked Ealf, his voice sinking
to a whisper as he pointed in the direction of the
lagoons on the malian's track.

"Hit's nigh full moon to-night," returned Cane.
'Ave yer got any quiet 'losses in the paddock ? "

Yes," returned the other. " Why ? "

"When they hall goes to bed, we'll get hup the
'losses, saddle a couple, hand lead lout another with

a pack-saddle, fish the stiff un lout o' the water, hand
hump 'im hoff the road somewhere, and make hashes
hof 'im. There's plenty hof time to get back afore
morning. Now, cut away back, and hill be hup hat
the 'ouse bv the time I thinks the rest 'as turned
hin. You come lout when you 'ears me a-whistling,
hand we'll set to work."

Ealf did as he was bid ; but he thought his father
and the overseer would never leave off talking, so
anxious did he feel to get away out to destroy the
evidence of his crime. He could not understand
Cane's coolness and indifference.

Just as the rest were rising to retire, he distinguished
a long low whistle, not far off. ISTo one
noticed it but himself He gave his stained hand in
friendly clasp to the others, and wished them "goodnight."


Again the whistle. This time he slipped out and
spoke a few words to Cane, begging him to wait some
minutes longer, until all should have time to fall
asleep. About the buildings a quantity of couch-grass
grew, which, although short from constant grazing,
still afforded very sweet picking to the horses, who
were accustomed to come up each night for a short
time and feed on it. A number of these were now
engaged cropping the short feed. After about a
quarter of an hour's waiting, they selected three

suitable ones, bridled, saddled, and led them out of
the paddock at some distance from the house, through
a gap in the fence, which a couple of loose rails
afforded. Then mounting, they made the best of their
way along the track.

Cane lit his pipe, and leading the pack-horse,
followed the shivering leader as if he had been engaged
in the most ordinary occupation in life. Half
could not speak. He made his way, as if under a
mesmeric spell, towards the object which fascinated
his mind. He felt that he must look upon it once
more, although he hated and feared it. They push
along, cantering when they can, for Cane perpetually
urges haste. Here it was where they saw him leave
the plain and enter the timber.

This is the spot. As they turn off the road and
approach the lagoons, a turtle drops off a branch of
a tree into the water with a splash, and a mob of
ducks fly up with an alarming quacking noise and
hurried flapping. It startles Half, and even Cane
loses his equanimity for a little. Now they look for
what they know only too well is there. Where is it ?
They walk side by side round the black pool, for Ealf
will not leave his companion's side for one instant.

It is not there. " Can yoio see the thing ? "

inquires Cane.

Ealf shakes his head ; but the next minute he

stands glaring fixedly at something on the dark water
half covered by the broad leaves of the lotus.

What's yonder floats on the rueful flood ? " Ah,
they need no one to tell them that !

Don't be a fool now," fiercely grinds out Cane

between his teeth. " Here, give us a 'old o' that 'erelong
stick, till I fish 'im lout." They had " good luck
to their fishing ; " and scarcely knowing what he did,
Ealf assists in dragducf the stiffened form out on the
bank and lifting it on to the pack-saddle, where they,
or rather Cane, who alone seems to have his wits
about him, fastened it as best he could.

A small range of hills not far away rose on their
left hand, and Cane directed Ealf to lead the way
across them. It was a terrible journey. Ealf feared
to ride on, and feared to stay. The curlew's mournful
cry chilled his blood, and the branches of the trees he
passed seemed to clutch at him with avenging hands.

'Old 'ard a bit," utters the man of blood behind ;

the thing's a-slippin' hoff the 'loss. Get hoff and

shove hit hover a bit." Ealf did as he was bid ; butin
the act of lifting the cold wet burden, his face
comes in contact with the weed-entangled, dripping
hair. Not for worlds would he touch it again, and
Cane is obliged to dismount and readjust matters.

The dead man is lying on his back across the packsaddle,
the moonlight falling full on the pale mangled

VOL. II. G

features, his stiff right arm pointing upward to the
sky, as if accusing his murderers before Him who set
that silent light above them in the midnight heaven.
The pack-horse is a bad leader, and drags behind,
compelling them to adopt a funeral pace. As they
cross the mountain-ridge, the moon reveals to them a
stretch of broken, mountainous, dark-looking country,
through which winds a tortuous line of silver water.
This place is seldom traversed, on account of the rocky
soil and poor pasturage. They descend, and after
travelling a mile or two into the heart of it, they come
upon a large fallen tree, whose limbs afford abundance
of fuel.

It will do," says Cane. " Get hoff and gather
some wood."

Ealf sets to work like a madman. Cane undoes the
straps, and giving the ghastly pack a push, upsets it
on the ground, where it falls on all-fours, — being supported
by the drawn and stiffened limbs. They now
cover it with limbs and logs of wood. Hide it from
light ; shut it out from view. They draw the horses
away ; and Cane at last, striking a match, sets fire to
a pile of dead leaves. There it burns ; now it seizes
the small stuff, and soon it roars up in a great blaze.
He fires the pile in several places. The heat is so
great that they are forced to retire for some time,
during which the flames rise higher and fiercer.

They sit together at the foot of a large tree. Ealf's
head is buried in his hands, which are resting on his
knees ; while his companion draws out a short black
pipe, which he proceeds to light, as he watches the
fire, from which fitful gleams fall, sometimes upon his
dogged bullet-head and heavy jowl, and sometimes
upon the three horses, as they stand tied up close at
hand.

At last the flames sink lower — the small stuff is
evidently consumed — and rudely pushing Ealf, he
orders him to " stick on some more."

As in a dream, his nostrils filled with the sickening
odour of the roasting flesh, the wretched man approached
the fire, a bundle of fuel in his arms ; but,
powers of mercy, what a sight met his gaze ! The
body had been turned by the falling wood ; the sinews
had contracted, and altered its position.

It was on its knees. The hair and beard were burnt
away, as well as the lips, revealing the grinning teeth.
The head had fallen back, and the arm still remained
pointing to heaven, as if the body, in the last moments
of its existence, obeyed the latest desires of the immortal
spirit it had clothed, and implored divine vengeance
for blood spilt.

His nerves could stand the strain no longer, and the
criminal fell to the ground in a fainting-fit before the
dumb accuser.

Cane sprang up, and dragging Ealf a little on one
side, muttered to himself —

If it wasn't that you might be useful some o'
them days, I'd shove you hon the coals also — ten
to one his you don't let everything lout."

In an hour or two it was all over. Charred bones
alone remained; and making a huge fire above them,
which would continue to burn for some hours, they
once more retraced their steps through the dismal
forest, arriving at Cambaranga about half an hour
before daylight.

Chapter XXVIII.

Bessie's marriage — mustering for new country —
the hon. mr demand.

On the return of the Betyaramo party from Yering,
Bessie's wedding took place without delay. The
clergyman had accompanied them back, everything
was in readiness, and the affair passed off quietly.
There were many present ; but most of them came the
day before, and left immediately after the ceremony.
Fitzgerald had returned just in time to be present,
and rode over with John, who acted as grooms-man.
Stone looked very well, with his honest, manly countenance,
and robust, athletic figure, beside merry-faced
Bessie, whose eyes sparkled like an April day.

Phoebe was of course the principal bride-maid,
and felt much at parting from her only sister, — the
playmate of her childhood's days, and companion of
her more advanced years. Mr Gray, with his kind,
motherly wife, went about cheerily, as usual, and
seemed to realise the fact that a son had at last been

given to them ; and Mrs Gray especially appeared nota
little pleased as she contemplated her daughter's
bearded protector.

It was, however, over at last. Mr and Mrs Stone
took their seats in the buggy — for the ceremony had
taken place in the morning early — and bidding goodbye
to all, started on their wedding-trip to New South
Wales, amid a shower of old boots and slippers.

Most of the guests left after lunch, among them
Fitzgerald and John, the latter of whom now had
some busy work before him. The scene they have
just witnessed has struck a chord which kept vibrating
in Fitzgerald's breast ; and as they ride home, he
made a confession of his adventure in Sydney, and of
his having at last fallen in love, in the most unexpected
way.

Most romantic," replied John. " I was not aware
that so much sentiment existed in your nature."

I daresay not," returned his friend. " I was not
aware of it myself. I cannot account for it. I know
absolutely nothing of the lady. I only saw her fora
few minutes, and yet I cannot forget her. You
know how I used to laugh at spoony fellows. Well,
I can understand that now."

But," urged John, " you don't know whether she
is engaged or not. She may be unamiable — stupid."

It's no use, West. You may be right, but I feel

drawn to her. I believe in her. I can read a noble,
constant faith in her high brow and steadfast eyes —
truth and reverence in the ]madonnas shaped head —
sensibility in the delicate nostril — and child-like
purity in the beautifully-formed lips and dimpled
chin ; while her air, figure, and conversation bespeak
the cultured woman."

"Ah 1 it is plain you are in a hopeless way. Is it
not strange," he questioned, rather musingly, " that all
the charms and virtues you describe with such enthusiasm
have been before your eyes for many a year, and
that you failed to notice them when displayed to you,
and yet invest with them a perfect stranger whose looks
may belie her ? It is not an uncommon circumstance."

"AYhom do you speak of?" demanded Fitzgerald.

I mean Phoebe Gray."

Phoebe Gray ! " echoed the squatter.

"Yes," said West. "You have not mentioned a
beauty, or charm of mind or manner, which Miss Gray
does not possess in a large degree. But it is ever the
same," he continued, speaking more to himself than the
other. " We rarely appreciate sufficiently what we are
familiar with ; and as frequently as not, we go to the
opposite extreme, and overestimate what we do not
possess or know. You seem to have endowed this
young lady with every virtue under the sun, after an
hour's conversation."

''I am sure — that is, I think she has a gentle, charitable
disposition."

So has Phoebe Gray."

She is refined in her tastes, sensible in her conversation,
elegant in her manners."

Phoebe Gray certainly has not had the advantage
of mixing much with society ; but as far as manners
may be acquired without that, she is all you have
described."

She is witty and well read, — at least I think so,
for she had me out of my depths before I knew where
I was."

My dear Pits, go and talk to Miss Gray ; she will
open your eyes. You are blind. She does not indeed
make a parade of knowledge, but few of her years
have read so much or thought so deeply ; and she is,
besides, what your town beauty may not be — a clever,
active little housewife, with a bright interest in the
everyday affairs of life, a good devoted daughter, and
a loving sister."

"I say, West," said Fitzgerald, abruptly turning
round on him, — " I do believe you are struck."

"Yes, I am," replied John— 'struck with admiration
for her good, endearing qualities of mind and
person ; but not in love, if you mean that. I am not
rich enough to allow myself to indulge in the luxury."
"Well, never mind, old fellow; who knows what

the new country will do for you ? You'll come down
a rich squatter before long."

This conversation awakened Fitzgerald to a sense of
the many excellences in Miss Gray's character, which
he had never before perceived ; and often afterwards
he thought, as he reflected on the truth of what John
had said, it would be well for him if he could love
her ; but that, he felt, was impossible. The face with
the brown hair, and soft dark eyes with the long
lashes, haunted him.

Next day mustering commenced for the new country.
A mixed mob of cattle — cows, steers, and heifers
had to be collected, to the number of one thousand
head ; and before the ensuing evening, the usual sound
of discontented, reproachful, remonstrating, or angry
bellows, came from the yard in which the nucleus of
the herd about to be sent away were confined.

The stocking of new country afforded Fitzgerald an
opportunity of eliminating from the general herd such
members of it as were troublesome from one cause or
another ; and all cattle whose favourite feeding-grounds
marched on the large scrubs, together with such as associated
with the wild mobs, were condemned to recommence
life under different auspices. All cattle,
moreover, which, from their knowledge of the country,
and their wild nature, made themselves leaders of the
rest, were picked out and brought home to the yards.

Thus his own herd became free of many animals which
were an unceasing source of annoyance ; while the
long overland journey, and the daily supervision exercised
over them in order to keep them upon their
new pastures, together with the change in disposition
which their constant contact with the men engaged in
looking after them was sure to bring about, could not
fail to be productive of the greatest good to the creatures
so culled out. Many there were whose constitutions
required change of pasture. Some were lean,
and would never fatten upon the run to which they
were accustomed. Others were so fat, that calves
were not to be looked for from them; while a few
were determined rovers on neighbouring stations.

Fitzgerald and John had ridden up to the house
after harding their first draft for the north, and were
preparing to partake of their evening meal, when the
former, who happened to glance out of the window
looking up the road, said quickly, " Come here, West ;
look at this fellow riding up. Keep back a little ;
don't let him observe you."

The new-comer was indeed an object worthy of observation,
and both the young men mentally ejaculated
the words, " New chum."

He was an extremely nice-looking young fellow,
with a high-bred, intelligent face, shaved, with the
exception of a fair moustache. His dress and horse,

however, attracted attention, owing to the singularity
of both. The steed was one whose great age was not
less remarkable than his extreme leanness. He was, in
fact, a mass of bones and long hair, but had doubtless,
many years ago, been of indisputable gameness, which
was evinced by the constant motion of the pointed
ears surmounting the brave, wrinkled old head, and
the undiminished fire of the bold eyes, above which
were situated deep cavernous hollows. A single tusk
stuck out, wild-boar fashion, on one side of the withered
upper lip, whose fallen-in appearance betrayed
the want of teeth in the poor old gums. Still his step,
as he bowled up to the slip-panel, was brisk and energetic,
though slightly tottering ; and the stump of
his docked tail stood up fiercely erect, bristling with
short hair.

The dress of his rider betrayed something of the
romantic imagination which colours the actions of so
many new arrivals from Europe. A scarlet shirt and
Garibaldi jacket, together with white breeches and
Napoleon boots, and a helmet from which depended
the gay ends of a silken sugared, formed his costume.
His waist was confined by a snake-skin belt sustaining
innumerable snake-skin pouches ; a revolver in its
pouch was slung on the left hip, while a formidable
silver-mounted bowie-knife with ivory handle depended
by silver chains from the other. In addition to

this, lie carried in his hand a very fine-looking .


By Jove, old fellow," muttered Fitzgerald, " you'll
never be taken alive ! "

Presently one of the station black boys, who happened
to be loitering about, entered with what perhaps
had never been seen on Ungahrun before — viz., a ,
on which was printed, " The Hon. Adolphus
Maurice de la Chapelle Demand."

*' Oh, hold me up ! " groaned the squatter, handing
John the pasteboard, and going to the door, where, in
spite of the grotesque attire, he could not help being
favourably impressed with his. visitor's gentlemanly
bearing.

The new-comer's address was likewise <]:ood, although
somewhat marred by a drawling form of speech.

Ah — Mistah Fitzgerald — ah — I conclude."

"That is my name," said the squatter, bowing
slightly.

Ah — I — ah — heeah you are about — ah — sending
some cattle northwards, and — ah — I came up — ah — to
make some inquiries about them. The fact is — ah — I
would — very much like to — ah — accompany them."

I shall be most happy, Mr Desmard, to give you
any information you require; but in the meantime,
please to turn out your horse and come inside. Weare
just about sitting down to dinner."

The young man managed to unsaddle his old horse,
though with considerable awkwardness, and turned
him into the paddock, stroking his hog-maned neck,
and patting his lean sides — the hair on which, from
its length (the result of great poverty), bore a strong
resemblance to fur — remarking, —

Wonderful cweateah ! Surprisingly intelligent 1
But — ah — I am inclined to think him — ah — aged."

So am I," returned his host, smiling.

He — ah — requires no looking after whatever ;
neva stays; always chooses the wivah-bed, or bed
of a week — ah — to pasture in. He — ah — is very
deal to me. He — ah — in fact, saved my life."

Did he indeed ! " said Fitzgerald, looking at the
ancient one with more respect than he had at first
exhibited. " Well, we'll find some more tender grass
for him tomorrow than the paddock affords ; meantime,
bring your things inside."

This Mr Desmard did, having occasion to make
two journeys in so doing. His valise was twice the
size of an ordinary one, and many articles hung to his
saddle, after the manner of his tribe. The old horse
must indeed have been a game creature to struggle on
under so heavy a burden.

In the course of dinner — which meal Mr Desmard
sat down to in his accoutrements, considerably to the
uneasiness of the other two, who were not at all fond

of being in the neighbourhood of new chums' revolvers
he gave them a short account of himself and his
intentions.

"My — ah — father is Lord Bartlett. Perhaps you
know the name."

Fitzgerald did not, but John recognised it as that
of a popular, though by no means wealthy, peer in
one of the adjoining counties to his own.

"Well — ah — when travelling by wail, my — ah —
father met by accident a gentleman who — ah — described
himself as — ah — Mistah Bosterre, of Blows
Downs, in Queensland; and my — ah — father,
who is not a wich man, and — ah — has a numbah of
ah — children (I am the third — ah — son), was delighted
to heeah of an opening in — ah — this country
for a young man. He — ah — made some inquiries,
and — ah — found that — ah — Mr Bosterre was — ah —
really the — ah — man he represented himself to be,
and — ah — had him to Desmard Castle, wheat he was
ah — very kind indeed to him.

The end of this — ah — was, that Mistah Bosterre
agreed — ah — to give me — ah — an appointment on his
estate ; and — ah — my father agreed to — ah — pay him
a premium of — ah — three hundred pounds for — ah
the first year.

I — ah — do not know much of — ah — business, but
I thought it would — ah — look better were the — ah —

money paid quarterly ; and — all — I proposed this to
my — all — father, who at once agreed, as did — ah —
Mistah Bosterre, after some — ah — objections.

Well, when I awived at Blowaway Downs, I — ah
really did not see how I was to — ah — make any
money. I had — ah — to sit all day with — ah — Mrs
Bosterre in the — ah — parlour, and be introduced by
her to — ah — her visitors as — ah — the son of her — ah
' deal friend Lord Bartlett ; ' or I had to wide
into town with — ah — old Bosterre, and undergo the
same.

It was about this time that — ah — I became possessed
of — ah — my horse. He is called Jacky-Jacky,
after a celebrated bushwanger who — ah — owned him
about thirty — ah — years ago ; and — ah — although I
have been led to doubt some — ah — at least of the
statements which — ah — have been made to me, I
understand — ah — from various quarters, that — ah —
such is really the case."

I quite believe it also," said Fitzgerald.

"Ah, glad you say so. Bosterre sold him to me.
Well — ah — I found my first quarter's premium was —
ah — paid, and my second was begun ; and — ah — I
thought — ah — I would ask old Bosterre about — ah —
my appointment, and — ah — he chute agreed with me
about the — ah — necessity for work, and — ah — brought
me down next morning to the ram-yard, and — ah — gave

the rams into my change to — ah — look after. The
cweateahs were enorasjed in — ah — knocking their heads
together in — ah — the most painful way ; and — ah —
during my connection with them, which — ah — was
only during one day, I may remark, I — ah — found
that — ah — they resorted to it — ah — as a recreation
when not particularly engaged — ah — otherwise.

On returning to the house I — ah — adored the
groom to — ah — saddle Jacky-Jacky, and I — ah — wide
down and took my change away to the — ah — woods.
We — ah — soon lost sight of — ah — habitations, and the
solitude was dreadful. I began to — ah — remember
those unfortunates of whom — ah — I had head as lost
ah — for ever. I looked around ; there was — ah —
no watch. I had — ah — nothing to eat. There was —
ah — no game to be seen, except — ah — a few small
birds in the tops of — ah — a very high tree ; but — ah
although I fired all my cartridges except one — ah
at them, I — ah — missed them. A revolver is — ah
father difficult to manage, when — ah — shooting at
ah — very small birds, I find."

It is indeed," agreed the other two.

I became alarmed. No — ah — watch ; no — ah —
food. Only one shot in my revolver. I — ah — did
not know where to turn. The sun was blazing ah —
hot. Was I — ah — going to perish alone, with — ah —
hungah and — ah— thirst ? My throat got parched.

I felt — ah — already the agonies of — ah — death. I
determined to — ah — make one attempt to — ah — save
my life. I resolved to — ah — kill a ram, and — ah —
drink the blood of the cweateah. I — ah — dismounted
and — ah — tied up Jacky-Jacky, and — ah — seeing one
lying down not — ah — far off, which I had noticed in
the course of the — ah — morning, from the great size
of his — ah — horns, and his very woolly body, I
approached cautiously, for I — ah — expected every
moment that — ah — he would wish to examine the — ah
strength of my head ; but — ah — he merely wrinkled
his nose and — ah — showed his teeth. I — ah — kept
my eye upon him, and — ah — I put the ball wight in
the — ah — middle of his forehead, upon which he — ah
turned over and — ah — died. Very simply, I assuah
you. The west of my change — ah — scampered away,
but — ah — I could not follow them. I — ah — drew
my bowie-knife, and — ah — cutting off the hideous
cweateah's — ah — head, I commenced drinking his
blood ; but — ah — strange to say, I did not feel at all
thirsty after the — ah — first mouthful. Indeed, 1 became
— ah — quite ill, probably from the — ah — several
mental strain. I — ah — lav down for some time ; and
as it — ah — grew cooler, I resolved to abandon myself
to — ah — Jacky-Jacky 's sagacity, who — ah — wonderful
to relate, took me through — ah — paths known to himself,
to — ah — the society of my fellow — ah — beings.
VOL. II. H

But more singular still was — ah — the fact, that when
I — ah — got home, the rams were — ah — home before
me. And when — ah — I related the story of my — ah
pevvil to Mistah Bosterre, he was — ah — most unfeeling.


He wished away down to the — ah — yard, and on
returning he — ah — used the — ah — most frightful
language, and — ah — said that I — ah — had killed his
imported Saxon ram — ah — Billy — who was — ah —
worth two hundred — ah — pounds; and — ah — he indulged
in — ah — so great an amount of — ah — critical
licence, and — ah — deprecatory general remark in
reference to all — ah — late animals, that I felt my — ah
self-respect would not admit of my — ah — continuing
to — ah — beside at Blowaway Downs ; and hearing
of your — ah — intended journey, I thought I would —
ah — call upon you."

Bursts of laughter occasionally interrupted the
speaker, and as his hearers looked at one another,
again and again they exploded with merriment.

JSTeither liked Bosterre, who was a well-known character.
Boastful, purse-proud, a toady, and a knave,
he made a regular trade of entrapping " new chums,"
and getting premiums from them, and then suffering
them to waste their time in idleness, and their means
in folly.

With regard to the overland trip, Fitzgerald referred

Desmard to John, who, having taken rather a fancy to
the lad, agreed to this forming one of the travellers,
promising him at the same time a remuneration equivalent
to his services, — a proposal which much delighted
the new hand, who had never known how to
earn a shilling in his life.

Mustering now proceeded with steady vigour, and
Desmard was allowed to gain experience in tailing ^
those already brought in, along with two old and
experienced hands, who were much amused with their
companion's eccentricities, and who never tired of relating
his peculiar sayings.

A few eveniuQjs later, the news of old M'Duff's disappearance
and rumoured murder struck astonishment
and horror into the hearts of all in the district, which
gradually increased as, step by step, suspicion fell, and
eventually fixed itself firmly, upon Ealf and Cane.
Many there were who remained incredulous to the
last ; but on hearing the report of Cane's having been
seen in the neighbourhood, John felt a steady conviction
of his guilt, while Fitzgerald was no less sure of
Ealf's complicity — a belief which was also strongly
shared in by the stockman, Tommy, who calmly remarked
that he knew " all along Ealf was born to be
hanged."

1 Herding.

On the morning of the day after the burning of
the body a playfellow came in from the bush, and
happening to see Half first, coolly addressed him
with —

"I say, me been see-em two fellow whitefellow
burn-em 'other white fellow lasniyh."^

*' You see them ? " utters Ealf, looking for nothing
but immediate detection and arrest.

Yohi, me see 'em ; bail that fellow see me. Me
sit down good way ; me frighten ; by-and-by me track
'em yarraman, that been come up here." ^

Look here," said Ealf, quickly, " bail you jabber
'other white fellow. Me want to man 'em that one
two fellow white fellow. By-and-by you and me lookout."
^

Giving the nigger some rations and tobacco, and
enjoining further secrecy, Ealf made for Cane's retreat,
and informed him.

^'You fool, why didn't you bring the nigger

'ere ? we might 'ave knocked 'im hover, hand made
hall safe."

No, no," said Ealf, decisively ; " no more blood.

■^ " I saw two white men burning another one last night."

^ "Yes ; I saw them. They did not see me ; I was a long way off.

I was frightened. Afterwards I tracked their horses; they came up

here."

^ "Look here, don't tell any other white man ; I want to catch

those two white men. By-and-by you and I will search for them."

By this time all his tribe know it. We can, perhaps,
get away now if we start at once; but sooner than
shed more blood, I'll stay and give myself up."

Cane could also see the futility of endeavouring to
hold out longer against fate ; and that night, after
laying hands on whatever could be got of use to them
in the house, the two disappeared, taking with them
four of the best horses in the paddock.

A few days afterwards, police arrived from Yering,
headed by Dowlan, who made himself very active in
his investigations.

It was a simple matter to trace the horse-tracks
from the lagoon to the fire. Blacks diving in the
former brought up some of the dead man's effects,
and the charred bones at the fire spoke for themselves.


This, with their flight, and the statement of one of
the men, who swore that he saw Ealf and another
returning to the station some days previously, just
before dawn, and the testimony of the playfellow,
formed a chain of circumstantial evidence which left
no doubt in any one's mind as to the perpetrators
of the deed, and a pursuit after them was at once
instituted.

CHAPTEK XXIX.

OVERLAND WITH CATTLE — THE START — THE STAMPEDE.

At last the mustering was completed. The stores
and rations necessary for the requirements of the
journey, and the supplies for the new station during
the first six months, were all packed upon a
great bullock - dray, to be drawn by twelve huge
oxen. The men had been hired. They were six
in number, of whom one was a bullock-driver and
another a cook. Two black boys were also to be
attached to the expedition, thus making the total
number ten. They were, — John, in charge ; Desmard
; four drovers; a bullock driver; a cook, and
two blackboys.

As it was highly necessary to watch the cattle at
night, the party were told off into regular watches,
with the exception of the bullock-driver and cook,
whose duties exempted them from this part of the
work, and of the two natives, on whom little or no
reliance could be placed, the temptation to sleep

proving sometimes too strong for them. The night
was thus divided into three watches of four hours
each, each watch consisting of two men. Twenty-two
horses had been shod, and were divided amongst
the party, in the proportion of one each to the
bullock - driver and cook, two night - horses, and
two to each of the other members, with two spare
ones.

Of the two native boys who were anxious to follow
John's fortunes for a time, one was about fifteen years
of age, the other about fourteen. The eldest," Blucher,"
was rather an uncivilised lad, not having been much
in contact with whites, but of an energetic disposition.
The other, whose appellation was " Gunpowder,"
was a gentle, quiet boy, with a mild face, large soft
eyes, and curly hair. Blucher, indeed, had only
made up his mind to go with the cattle a day or
two before they started, owing to an altercation
which had taken place between him and the Ungali-
run cook. Native boys employed on a station are
almost always fed by their master's hand, or from
the kitchen. The employer cuts off a large slice of
bread and beef, and pours out a liberal supply of tea ;
and the boy seats himself outside on the ground, very
much more contented with this meal than if he
had had the trouble of cooking it himself. This is
often done to protect him from the rapacity of his

friends, with whom he is bound by his tribal laws
to divide his food, and partly to save the time they
invariably waste in cooking.

The black boys are quick at appreciating differences
in the social scale, and a single look enables them to
distinguish between a master and a mere whitefellow.
It pleases them to have their food from their master's
table, or cooked in the kitchen; and as they are
throughout their lives mere children, they are much
humoured, and their presence tolerated about the
head-station buildings.

The kitchen-woman on UnGjahrun had but a short
temper, and the boys having been brought rather
much forward during the mustering, through which
they had been of the greatest service, got into the
habit of walking into the kitchen for the purpose
of lighting their pipes at the stove, notwithstanding
that a large fire burnt under a boiler outside. To
their minds, the fire inside the house gave a much
sweeter taste to the pipe they loved.

Blucher, as usual, had marched into the room on
the morning in question, coolly ignoring the remonstrances
of the irritated woman, when her passion
getting the better of her, she made a rush at him
with the poker, which, perhaps, she had heated on
purpose, and touched him on the bare leg — for, like
all his race, when not on horseback he doffed his

trousers and boots, and wore nothing but a Crimean
shirt. The pain of the wound was as nothing to the
indignity. With a bound he rushed into the " Caw-dawn
Humpy," his eyes flashing, with insulted pride
exclaiming, " Missa Fitzgell, White Mary cook's
me," pointing to his legs Nor could Fitzgerald's remonstrances
or condolences avail anything ; Blucher
tendered his services to Jolin, who, finding that Fitzgerald
did not object, exchanged him for another boy
whom he had purposed taking.

Blacks are excitable to the last degree, extremely,
fond of change and adventure, and, in their own wav,
brave enough. Blucher and Gunpowder, on the eve
of their departure for a new country, where they would
be certain to come in contact with myalls," were looked
upon as embyro heroes, and entertained their admiring
tribal brethren with much boastful promise of future
daring — indeed, so much enthusiasm sprang up in
the tribe, that even the grey-headed old men assailed
John to be allowed to accompany him.

The day of departure came, the gates of the herding-yard
were thrown open, and Fitzgerald sitting on his
horse on one side, with John opposite, counted out
the squeezing, roaring, many-coloured crowd ; and the
number being ascertained, a start was effected. The

1 All white women are termed "White Mary " by the natives.

2 Wild, uncivilised aboriginal — jangalis.

men mounted, and the overland journey to the new
home, nearly 600 miles away, commenced.

During his stay on Uiigahrun, John had made two
or three short trips with cattle, and the experience thus
gained gave him much confidence. His measures
were carefully weighed beforehand ; and his knowing
exactly how to meet any difficulty which might arise
assisted greatly in making matters smooth and pleasant
for all parties. The bullock-dray with the cook had
started very early, and the driver was ordered to halt
at a certain spot about thirteen miles distant, where
John intended making his first camp. The usual
travelling distance for cattle is from seven to nine
miles per day ; but being fresh, and not inclined to
eat, they could have gone considerably farther. They
march along evidently very much displeased with
having their long-accustomed habits broken into.

On the run, when left to themselves, they feed the
greater part of the night ; now they have to learn
to sleep during the cool dewy darkness, when the
grass is sweetest, and march, march, march during
the hot dusty day, picking up a scanty meal by
the roadside, off what has probably been walked
over by half-a-dozen mobs of sheep and cattle
within the last fortnight. They dislike exceedingly
feeding on ground over which sheep have grazed:
they cannot bear the smell left behind them by those

animals; it disgusts them; besides which, the sheep
crowd together in great numbers, and tread down and
destroy more than they eat. Now and then a roar
breaks from one of the exiles, who remembers an old
mate left behind, or perhaps two or three grown-up
members of her family ; or some hobbledehoy of a
steer cannot forget his mother, or they think in concert
of the sweet wattle-shaded gullies and rich pastures
of Ungahrun, and bellow disconsolately a bovine
version of " Home, sweet home." The men are disposed
in a half-circle behind the cattle, at some distance
from one another. The pace is very slow ; and
although for the first day or two they cannot well do
their work on foot owing to the unsteadiness of the
cattle, they allow full rein to their horses, who graze
contentedly as they walk behind the mob, managing
to chew the grass almost as well with the bit in their
mouths as without it.

The cattle will not camp in the middle of the day
yet; and the men, who are old drovers, have taken
care to provide some food with which they satisfy
themselves, washing it down with cold water from
the nearest water-hole. About four or five o'clock
in the evening, they come in sight of the camp
chosen for the night's resting-place. It is a pretty
timbered ridge, covered with green grass. The 
is drawn up at a convenient spot, near

^vhich a large fire burns, its smoke curling away up
among the dark-leaved trees. The bullocl^driver and
cook are busily engaged in erecting a couple of tents,
the smaller of which is to be occupied by John and
Desmard. The men are to share the other, and the
immense tarpaulin which covers the bullock-dray
with its load, and extends on each side of it propped
up by forks, between them.

The deep-sounding bullock-bells jangle down in the
creek, and the spare horses have been hobbled out,
and feed all round. It is too early as yet to get into
camp, for the cattle have walked unceasingly. In a
few days they will be glad to graze, and then the
arrival at camp can be timed properly. The feed
here is good, but they will not look at it. They turn
and march homewards in a body, on being left to
themselves for a moment, and are continually brought
back. A coney from the cook announces supper, and
half the men start for the camp to make a quiet meal
before dark. This will probably be the worst night
during the whole journey. The second half of the
party are afterwards relieved by the first ; and as they
discuss the evening meal, they discuss also the likelihood
of a quiet camp or a rush off it.

Cattle are very liable to be frightened off their
camp during the first few nights on the road; and
when this occurs, a tremendous stampede, with serious

consequences sometimes, takes place, and ever
afterwards the cattle are on the watch to make a
similar rush. This is more particularly the case with
a mob of strong, rowdy bullocks ; and some breeds of
cattle are naturally wilder than others, and therefore
more inclined to start.

The Ungahrun herd had a considerable strain of
Hereford blood running through it, as any one might
discover by the numerous red bodies and white faces ;
and the cattle, although very fine and large-framed,
were characterised by the rather uneasy nature of that
celebrated breed ; besides which, the presence in the
mob of the wildest animals on the run and a number
of scrubbers might lead to a stampede at any moment,
and on this account great precaution and vigilance
were maintained.

Fires had been lighted at stated distances, in a
circle large enough to permit the travelling herd to
move about easily within it. Horses ridden during
the day were exchanged for fresh ones, and the cattle
were slowly driven into the centre of the fire-enclosed
ring. Night comes on, but they think not of lying
down. Incessantly moving, they keep up one continuous
roar, and endeavour to walk off in every direction.
All hands are busy keeping them back. The night is
very dark, but one can see the forms moving out
between the fires. When one goes another follows.

and so on in a string. It takes the men all their time
to keep them in.

West had just made his way from one fire to
another, meeting Fitzgerald there, who had come from
his sentry-duty between it and the fire beyond, and
they have driven in the cattle as they came ; but
looking back again, they each see the determined
brutes stringing out as fast as ever. They turn their
horses, and with suppressed shouts force them back,
and returning, meet once more to repeat the same
over again. Between almost every fire the same thing
is going on.

The night is quite dark ; the uproar is tremendous.
One or two men have already mistaken their comrades'
horses for stray cattle, and have called forth
a volley of curses by using their whips.

Way ! " " Look back ! '^ " Head on there ! " " Come
out o' that !" " Way woh ! " " Look out ! " are heard in
all directions.

I'll tell you what, West," says Fitzgerald, " you'll
have to ring them. Pass the word round for all hands
to follow one another in a circle, at a little distance
apart."

This plan succeeded admirably. 'No sooner does a
cunning beast try to make its way out after the sentry
has passed, than another sentry, moving up in the
circle, observes it, and is immediately followed by a

third and fourth, and so on continually. The cattle
rin£f also. The at last set tired of the continual
motion and bellowing, and some lie down, but not
for long. They are up again, and the same thing
occurs once more. After about four hours they
become a little quieter, and half the men are despatched
to the camp to get some sleep, leaving the
other half on duty. The watch who have turned instill
keep their horses tied up in case of accident, and
their comrades on duty are obliged to be very active ;
but a number of cattle are now lying down. About
half-past two in the morning the first watch is called,
and the rest obtain a short repose until a little before
daybreak, when they are roused by the cook, who has
been preparing breakfast during the last half-hour.

After the morning meal, they proceed to catch their
respective nags from among the horses which have
been brought up by Gunpowder, whose turn it is for
that duty, and follow the cattle, which have been
making the most vigorous efforts to leave the camp
since the rising of the morning star. They head them
northwards, and once more the creatures are lining
each side of the road in a long string. The rest of
the men having finished their meal and changed their
horses, follow them, leaving the bullock driver and
cook to bring up the rear with the baggage, and one of
the black boys to follow with the spare horses. The

cattle are inclined to feed this morning; and about
eleven o'clock the dray and horses come np and pass
on ahead about a mile. The cook makes a fire, and
has dinner ready by the time the cattle come np.
Each one fills the quart he carries at his saddle-dee,
and helps himself to bread and beef; and the dray
starts on ahead for the appointed camping-place, arriving
there about half-past two or three, when the
preparations for the evening meal are again commenced.
The cattle camp very much better the
second night, and half of the men turn in immediately
after supper. In a night or two the ordinary watch
of two men will be quite sufficient. Fitzgerald takes
leave of the party next morning, and returns, after
shaking hands with John and cordially wishing him
prosperity. Desmard is also made happy with an
assurance that Jacky-Jacky shall be shifted on to
the tenderest feed on the whole run.

And now John is in sole charge. Upon him
depends the responsibility of the whole undertaking.
Desmard's society is a great boon to him ; for although
he mixes freely and converses familiarly with
his men to a certain extent, the maintenance of
authority demands that he shall live apart from
them ; and without the young new chum he would
have been very lonely in his camp. The weather is
gloriously fine, as usual, and the travelling is quite a

pleasure-trip. John rides on ahead, selects a suitable
spot for a camp, examines the watering-places,
and the cattle graze leisurely along.

Some of the men walk, leading their horses, in
order to spare them as much as possible, the loosened
bits enabling them to browse as they follow behind
the mob. Here a drover sits side-saddle fashion for
the sake of ease, idly flicking at the grass tussocks
with his long whip ; there one snatches a few moments
to read a page in a yellow - bound volume,
lifting his head now and then to observe how his
charge are getting on. The blackboy with the cattle
has fastened his horse's rein to the stirrup-iron, and
allows him to feed about, while he moves from tree
to tree, his hand shading his upturned eyes as he
scrutinises each branch in his search for the tiny
bee which manufactures his adored cluwgali-hag ; ^ or
with cat-like stealthiness, waddy in hand, cautiously
stalks the unsuspecting kangaroo-rat or bandicoot.

The cattle have quietly selected their respective
places in the line of march ; a certain lot keep in
front as leaders, and the wrings, body, and tail are
each made up of animals who will continue to occupy
the same position all the way, unless compelled by
sickness to change it. The sharp-sighted experienced
drivers already know many of them by sight so accuse

Sugar-bag — the native pigeon-english word for honey.
VOL. IL I

lately, as to be able to detect the absence from the herd
of any portion of it. At sundown they draw quietly
on to the camp, and are soon lying down peacefully,
and the two men appointed for the first watch mount
the night-horses, and allow all hands to get to supper.
At ten o'clock they call West and Desmard.

John has taken the young man into the same
watch with himself, partly to guard him against any
practical joking which his simplicity may give rise
to, and partly to supply any want of precaution, or
remedy any inadvertent neglect occasioned by his
inexperience.

They come out of the tent. All is dark night.
The fire burns brightly, and throws a ruddy glow on
the white tent. The dim outline of the bullock-dray,
with its tarpaulin - covered load, looms against the
dark background a little way off. The two black-boys,
stripped naked, lie almost in the ashes of the
fire ; their clothes are scattered about ; their new
blankets, already spotted with grease, dirt, and ashes,
are made use of by a couple of dogs who belong to
the bullock-driver. Buckets, pots, and camp-ovens
stand together in a cluster. Everything is hushed
and quiet. As West and Desmard stand at the fire
filling their pipes, they can detect dimly the extent
of the great cattle-camp by the reflection of the
various fires on the tops of the trees. How quiet the

cattle are ! not a breath is heard. The sound of the
large variously-toned bullock-bells conies melodiously
from where the workers are feeding half a mile away.

Now a horse's tread is heard, and the figure of a
horse and his rider issues from the darkness into the
bright firelight. The man dismounts. " All quiet ? "
asks John. " Yes," answers the watch ; " not a stir out
of them yet." Another watchman now rides up on
the other side, his horse shying slightly as he nears
the tent, and makes a similar report. John and
Desmard mount, and make their way round the mob
from fire to fire, until they meet on the other side.
Some of the cattle are lying down, almost in the path,
and they nearly stumble over them in the darkness.

"How — ah — very interesting this is!" remarks
Desmard ; " quite — ah — romantic, keeping midnight
watch. The — ah — deal cweateahs seem to have — ah
made up their minds to — ah — behave themselves."

*' Yes," said John, " for a little ; but in about half
an hour's time you will find that it will take you all
your time to keep them in the camp, and perhaps
they may trouble us for nearly an hour, but will then
settle down and (unless disturbed) remain perfectly
quiet until morning. I chose this watch on that very
account. About eleven o'clock every night they will
rise, and move in the same manner all through the
journey."

How — ah — very singular ! "

It happened exactly as John had said. One by one
the cattle rose and stretched themselves, until the
whole camp became alive with a moving, bellowing,
dusky crowd, incessantly endeavouring to straggle
away. It required much vigilance and activity on
the part of both West and Desmard to keep them
together, and the latter proved himself a very efficient
assistant.

At last the cattle becran to settle once more. Oneby
one they selected new sleeping-places, and, dropping
first on their knees, they lazily sank down on
the ground with a flop, emitting a loud sigh of content
as they did so.

John had stationed himself on the side of the cattle
nearest home, leaving the most easily guarded side to
Desmard, and was congratulating himself at hearing

the welcome si<di heaved all around him when a

sudden rush — a whirr — a tearing, crashing, roaring,
thundering noise was heard ; a confused whirl of
dark forms swept before him, and the camp, so full
of life a minute ago, is desolate. It was " a rush," a
stampede.

Desperately he struck his horse with the spurs, and
tore through the darkness after the flying mob, guided
by the smashing roar ahead of him. Several times
he came violently into collision with saplings and

branches, and at last, in crossing a creek, he fell headlong
with his horse in a water-worn gully, out of which
he managed to extricate himself, happily without having
sustained any ins fury. But not so with the horse —
the creature groaned and struggled, but could not rise.

Undoing the bridle, John climbs out again and
listens. The noise of the retreating mob can still be
heard in the distance, and he thinks he can also distinguish
shouts. Horses are grazing near ; and hastily
catching the first he came to, he jumped on its back,
and had proceeded nearly a hundred yards before he
recollected that he had forgotten to remove the hobbles.

In remedying his mistake, he now observes that the
animal which he has chosen is the most noted buck-jumped
in the mob — one that few would venture to ride
saddled, but not one barebacked. He does not give the
matter a second thought, however, so intent is he on
pursuing the cattle. He flies along, urging the creature
with the hobbles in his hand. He does not know
where he is going, but keeps straight ahead on chance,
and at last has the satisfaction of hearing the bellowing
once more in the distance. He gallops up and
finds that one of the men, mounted on Desmard's
horse, has managed to stop the break-always. Presently
another man and Blucher ride up. They watch
the cattle together until morning, for the animals are
terrified and ready to stampede again.

CHAPTER XXX.

ON THE ROAD — ABORIGINAL INNOCENTS — A WET NIGHT
ON WATCH — DODGING COWS.

By daylight the rest of the men came up, and the
cattle were driven back, and once more started along
the road. As they returned to camp broken saplings
and branches attest the force of last night's flight, and
some of the cattle appear more or less disabled. It
had been most fortunate that they were stopped so
quickly, for in a short time they would have split up
in many directions, and the mustering of them afresh
would have caused much delay.

At breakfast John asked Desmard if anything had
occurred on his side of the camp to start the mob,

"Well — ah — no," said he. " I really am ignorant
of any cause. Just — ah — before they went, all was — ah
quiet. One — ah — pooh cweateah neal me lay down
and — ah — uttered a most heart-wending sigh. She — ah
seemed most — ah — unhappy, so I^ — ah — dismounted,
and — ah — walked up to her, and — ah — she really was

most ungrateful, she — ah — actually wished at me,
and — ah — very nearly caught me, aod then — ah —
something frightened the rest, and — ah — some one
took my horse'

The men roared while John explained to the well-meaning
cause of the trouble, that the cattle being
totally unused to the sight of a man on foot at night,
his near approach to them had caused the alarm ; and,
indeed, quieter cattle might have objected to his richly
coloured garments.

West's horse lay where he fell. His neck was
broken.

They are now on the direct track of travelling mobs
of cattle and sheep, on their way to stock new country.
They camp each night where some other mob have
rested the night before them. The stations they pass
are mostly worked by bachelors. The roughness of their
surroundings indicates the want of feminine influence.

Blacks are being allowed in for the first time at one
station they pass, and some of the young men employed
on it amuse themselves in a good-humoured
way with the unsophisticated aboriginal, to whom
everything is perfectly new and strange. The natives
especially admire the short-cropped hair of the white
man, and make signs expressive of the ardent desire
they possess to wear their own in a similar fashion.
They have never seen a pair of shears, and shriek with

childish joy on noting the rapidity with which an
amateur barber, holding his patient at arm's-length,
crops his long curly hair to the bone, tastefully leaving
a high ridge from the forehead to the neck, after the
fashion of a cook's-comb. All must be shorn in turn,
and ingenuity is taxed to multiply new and startling
fashions. Another begs to be allowed to fire off a
gun, and receives an overloaded one, the result being
a sudden upset, and an increased reverence for the
white man's strength. A bottle of scent is held to
the nose of a wild-looking fellow who has just been
christened by the name of "Bloody-bones," of which
he is immensely proud. He cannot endure the smell,
and turns away, expressing his disgust by holding his
nose and imitating sickness. One pertinacious black-fellow
insists upon being permitted to smoke, and is
handed a pipe in which has been artfully concealed
below the tobacco a thimbleful of gunpowder, occasioning
of course an explosion as soon as the fire
reaches it, to the surprise of the savage, who thinks
himself shot.

Horse-exercise is also greatly sought after, and one
powerful middle-aged man entreats so persistently in his
own language, and by signs, that the favour is granted.
An old race-horse with a peculiarly hard mouth and
spirited action is tied up hard by. A brilliant idea
enters the head of a genius who is plagued beyond

endurance by the would-be cavalier. He saddles
old Chorister," and undoes the throat-lash, so that
should the horse get away the bridle may be easily
rubbed off by him. The grizzly warrior is assisted to
mount. The reins are put in his hands, but he prefers
clutching the mane. One — two — three — off! The old
hurdle-horse receives a cut across the rump, and perhaps
remembering past triumphs on the turf, he makes
a start which would have done credit to his most
youthful days. Unguided, he gets in among some
broken gullies, and clears each in gallant style, the
black man sitting like a bronze statue. In an instant
he is out of sight, leaving the tribe in a whirl of admiration
at his rapid disappearance, and the whites
convulsed with laughter at the old fellow's surprise,
and monkey-like seat. By-and-by the rider comes
back on foot, bridle in hand, shaking his head, and
saying, " Tunnel down." He is offered another mount,
but declines for the present.

Day after day the routine of work was unchanged.
Sometimes the pasture over which they travelled was
very bare, and the water bad and scarce. Dead animals
were passed every mile or two. Most of the ordinary
operations of life had to be got over under difficulties.
When the beef ran short, a beast had to be shot on
the camp, and salted on the ground, its own hide doing
duty as the salting-table.

Every alternate Sunday, when the state of grass and
water permitted, the cattle were halted, and clothes
were washed. All hands had got thoroughly into the
work, and the change for the better in Desnmrd, who
had discarded his gorgeous apparel after the night of
the rush, became very marked. He grew more useful
and practical every day.

Sometimes men from the camps ahead or behind
stayed all night at West's, when looking for stray cattle
or horses.

One evening a playfellow rode up. He wore
neither hat nor boots, and his wild look, and inability
to speak English, denoted that he was a mall of one
of the tribes lately let in at the stations they had just
passed, who had been induced to accompany some
travelling mob, the owner of which had not been able
to procure a boy when farther south.

Desmard happened to be alone at the camp, the rest
being all engaged elsewhere. The grotesque-looking
savage jogged up, all legs and wings, and dismounting
pointed to his horse with the words — •

Gobble-Gobble "

Gobble — ah — Gobble ? " interrogated Desmard.

The niger nodded his head with its shock of
tangled curls, and grinned, showing a set of strong
white teeth, like a dog's.

You are — ah — hungry, I suppose ? " said the white

man, producing a large plate full of bread and beef,
which the sable stockman soon disposed of, and rising,
once more uttered the words —

Gobble— Gobble, Gobble— Gobble "

Gobble — ah — Gobble ? " repeated Desmard, with
surprise.

The playfellow nodded.

Desmard returned to the dray, and produced an
additional supply, which was also despatched.

Once more the savage grinned and pointed to his
horse.

Gobble, Gobble."

"Gobble — ah — Gobble," again repeated Desmard
reflectively, offering more food, which the playfellow
lovingly looked at but rejected, pointing to his distended
stomach.

** Gobble — ah — Gobble — singular — but very — ah —
suggestive. I — ah — rejoice Jacky-Jacky is not heal."

The playfellow now put his feet together, and
jumped about imitating the action of a hobbled horse,
upon which light at once dawned on the Englishman,
who provided the delighted mall with the articles in
question. He had, it turned out, been sent by his
master to look for a stray horse, and had been ordered
to borrow hobbles at every camp he stayed at, they
being scarce at his own.

Desmard began to acquire habits of observation

about this time, and among other things, by watching
the cook, he discovered the art of making a damper.
This interested him greatly, and he confessed to the
*' doctor "the ill success of his own first attempt in the
baking line, the night before he arrived at Ungahrun.

"I — ah — had camped out for — ah— the first time,
in order to — ah — inuah myself to — ah — hardship, and
ah — wished to make a damper — which I — ah —
heard was most — ah — delicious. I — ah — made a large
fire, and — ah — mixed up the — ah — flour with some —
ah — watch in a quart-pot, and — ah — after stirring it,
I — ah — made a hole in the — ah — ashes, and I — ah —
poured in the mixture, but — ah — though I was nearly
blinded, I — ah — covered it up, and — ah — waited, and
ah — waited, — but very singular to say, when I —
ah — looked for the damper, it was — ah — not there;
but I see now that I — ah — went the wrong way to —
ah — work."

Shortly after this the travellers experienced a change
in the weather. Frequent thunderstorms came on, and
lasted all night, occasionally continuing during the day
also. It was a most miserable time. The wretched
cattle kept moving about on the puddled-up, muddy
camp, bellowing out their discontent, and desire for
higher and drier quarters, their unhappiness being
only exceeded by that of the drovers. The watch,
clothed in oilskins, or with blankets tied round their

necks, splashed and bogged their way around the
restless brutes, who constantly endeavoured to steal
away on the dark nights, the broad lightning glare
alone revealing the fact to the much harassed sentries.
Unceasingly, mercilessly, down poured the heavy
rain. The men on watch get wet through almost at
once, and sit shivering on their shivering horses.
Every five minutes they bend their legs to allow the
water to run out of their long boots.

How they long for the slow hours to pass, so that
they may get under the shelter of the friendly tarpaulin
! At last the hour arrives, but there is no
time to stand at the fire as usual this nijj'ht. Indeed
there is none to stand by. It went out long ago.
One of them shouts out to the next men for duty,
and hurries back to assist in looking after the barely
manageable crowd.

The relief now turn out of their blankets and look
outside. Everything black, a steady downpour of rain.
Everything dripping, — the very ground under their
feet oozes out water. They light their pipes hastily,
and fasten their blankets around their necks. Splash,
splash, — splash, — a horse comes up, and one of the
watch dismounts.

How are they behaving ? "

Bad. You've got your work before you," answers
the other.

Whereabout is the camp ? they seem to be roaring
everywhere. I'm blowed if T can see a yard in front
of me,"

"As soon as you get clear of the dray, stop a
moment, and the lightning will show you."

No. 2 rides off, cursing the day he took to cattle-driving,
and No. 1 turns in, dripping wet, boots and
all, like a trooper's horse (his other clothes were
soaked the day before). Still he is under cover, which
he feels to be a mercy. His comrade is relieved in
like manner, and follows his example, and before long
they are both sound asleep.

Daylight breaks upon an equally wretched state of
affairs. The black boys have indeed managed to light
a fire in a neighbouring hollow tree, and the cook
has with difficulty boiled doughboys, which, although
tough and indigestible, are nevertheless hot, and are
washed down with pannikins of steaming tea.

There is, however, no time to dry the soaking
clothes. The blankets, wet and muddy, are rolled
up in a hasty bundle and tossed on the dray. ,
when the sun comes out, the blow flies will
deposit their disgusting eggs upon them, which the
heat will hatch. The trembling horses, whose hanging
heads and drooping under-lips and ears bespeak
their abject misery, are saddled. Many of them suffer
from bad saddle-galls, which are rendered excruciatingly

tender by the constant wet, and in spite of every
care they bend in acute agony under the weight of
their riders as they are mounted.

A few cows have calved since they started, but the
number increases as the calving season approaches,
and causes much trouble, labour, and loss.

As it is impossible for the young things to follow
their mothers, they are knocked on the head as soon
as observed, but the mothers insist upon returning to
their dead offspring. They are sent for each day, and
are driven after the advancing mob, merely to steal
back again on the first opportunity. Many of them
make back, and are recovered two or three times
before they cease to think of their young ones.
Various expedients are adopted to obviate this, but
all fail. An old hand, however, whose life has been
spent on the road, has recourse to a plan which he
confidently affirms he never knew to fail, if properly
carried out. He watches until a calf is dropped, and
after allowing the mother to lick it for a short time,
causes her to be driven away. Then killing the little
creature, he skins it carefully; and turning the skin
inside out, so as to prevent it coming in contact with
anything which can alter its smell, he ties it behind
his saddle.

On coming into camp at night, the skin is stuffed
hastily, and laid at the foot of a tree. The mother

is brought up quietly. She is thinking of her little
one. She sees the dummy. She stops, and gazes.
Moo-oo-oo." She advances : it is like her own.
She smells it : it is the smell. She licks it : it is
her very own. She utters a tender "moo-oo-oo," and
contentedly stands guard over the stuffed hide, to the
intense satisfaction and joy of Blucher and Gunpowder,
upOn whom most of the trouble of tracking
and recovering the mothers of former calves has fallen.

"My word," says Blucher, in an ecstasy of sly merriment
to the old drover, as he watches the fond
and deceived parent lick the semblance of her young
one — "cawbawn you and me gammon old woman." ^
And indeed it is a blessing that she stays, for the
constant fetching back of the straying cows is telling
severely upon the jaded horses.

The plan is adopted, and succeeds in every case,
saving a world of trouble ; and every night two or
three cows may be seen watching as many calfskins,
while the drowsy watchman sits nodding on a log by
the fire.

Day by day they continue their weary pilgrimage.
Sometimes they follow the banks of a clear running
stream, in whose limpid waters the travel worn animals
stand drinking, as if they would drain its fountains
dry. Sometimes they wend their toiling path
^ "You and I deceived the old cow beautifully."

over rugged ranges, grinding down the shell of their
tired hoofs on the sharp cornered pebbles and granite
grit. At times they feed on the luscious herbage and
luxuriant blue-grasses of a limestone country, and
anon they make the most of the kangaroo-grasses of
the poorer sandy lands : but onward still they march
for their new home in the " never, never " country.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXXI.

FORMING A STATION — TRIALS AND TROUBLES OF A PIONEER.

About this time John received a batch of letters from
the south, by a gentleman who was travelling out to
a station lately taken up by him, and who had kindly
undertaken the duty of malian en passant, no postal
arrangement having been as yet made for this unsettled
part of the country.

Among others is one from Fitzgerald, detailing
various items of local news, intermixed with business
matters. Nothing further had been heard of Ealf
or his fellow - criminal Cane, and the pursuit had
apparently been given up. It was conjectured that
they would endeavour to make their way down to
New South Wales, and perhaps join some of the
various bushrangers who were infesting the gold-fields
of that colony.

Cosgrove senior had taken the matter very much
to heart, and had gone to Sydney, after appointing
a new superintendent to manage Cambaranga, and it

was supposed that he would return to England. Stone
and his father-in-law, Mr Gray, had changed their
minds about sending out stock to the new country
at present, and would in all probability wait until
after the wet season had passed by. Stone and Bessie
were enjoying the delights of Sydney. All were well
at Ungahrun and at Betyammo.

In a postscript Fitzgerald added that his endeavours
to find out further particulars about Miss Bout
had proved unavailing : all he could learn was
that she had accompanied Mr and Mrs Berkeley to
Melbourne, and no one knew when they purposed
returning.

One letter, from the smallness of its size, escaped
his notice until he had finished with the others. To
his surprise it was addressed in the handwriting of
a lady ; and hastily tearing it open to learn the
signature, he was no less surprised than enchanted
to read the words, 'your affectionate friend Ruth."

She still remembered him, then ; and with affection
! He was so much pleased with the thought,
that some time elapsed before he read his 
letter. It was dated Sydney, and commenced
as follows : —

"My DEAR Mr John, — You will no doubt be
surprised at receiving a letter from me dated as above.

We arrived here about a month ago, and I only discovered
your address within the last few days from
Mr Cosgrove's Sydney agent, Mr Bond, a very nice
man. I do hope you will answer this letter. I
am afraid you did not receive the letters which I
continued to write to you for some time after your
departure, because I never received any in return."

Indeed Ealf had taken care that she should not do
so ; for, hating the intimacy which he saw existing
between John and his half-sister, as he called her
an intimacy which his mind and habits rendered
him utterly incapable of participating in — he made it
his business to intercept and destroy the few letters
which John had written, managing, at the same time,
to possess himself of Ruth's correspondence, which
offered a similar fate.

The letter went on to say how sorry she had
been to learn that he had left Mr Cosgrove's station,
for her step-father spoke of his ingratitude with much
bitterness ; and although she could not believe him
ungrateful, perhaps, if he made her aware of the
circumstances, she might mediate, and put things
once more in proper train.

She recalled the days of their past lives with
much affectionate remembrance ; and the whole letter
breathed a warm sympathy which, considering the

length of time that had elapsed since they last
saw each other, awoke many a cherished feeling in
John's breast, and he read and re-read it until he
could have repeated it word for word; and on the
very first opportunity he wrote a long letter in return,
detailing all that had happened to him, — how his letters
had remained unanswered, and how his memory
of her was as fresh this day as when he last saw her.
He could not bear to mention Ealfs name, however;
for he knew that by this time she must have learnt
the dreadful story, which would have the effect of
publishing his crime throughout the land.

Desmard had also a numerous batch of letters, both
colonial and English — one of the former containing
an advantageous proposal to join, in taking up 'new
country," a squatter who was under an obligation to
the young man's father, and who had only lately learnt
of his being in the colony.

The country about them now presented daily evidences
of its unsettled state. The travellers pass
camps of sheep and cattle spelling on patches of good
grass to recruit, or waiting for supplies to proceed
further. Every one carried a revolver or carbine.
Stories of attacks by blacks — many of them greatly
exaggerated — are rife ; and the talk is all of taking up
and securing country. Humours fly about fine tracts
of hitherto unknown land, of immense areas of downs,

and splendid rivers still farther out, and so on. Empty
drays pass downwards on the road to port for supplies.
Occasionally a yellow fever-stricken individual pursues
Lis way south to recruit, or is seen doing this " shivers "
under some bullock-dray camped beside the road. At
length they come to the commencement of the fine
country discovered by Stone and his companions, and
arrive at the camp of Mr Byng, the gentleman who
sold to Fitzgerald the tract of land they intend settling
on. Bvncr himself has brought out stock, and has
settled on a portion which became his by lot. It is the
very farthest spot of ground occupied by white men.

The cattle are now halted, and left nominally under
the chancre of Desmard ; while Bvn<:^ rides ahead ^^•ith
Jolin to point out to him the country, and the best
road to it. Blucher accompanies them, and greatly
amuses his master by the excessive sanguinariness of
his disposition. They cross the fresh tracks of blacks
frequently, and each time Blucher begs that they maybe
attacked. John, who is bv no means of a bloodthirsty
nature, and rather shudders at the idea of a
possible encounter with the savages, endeavours to
explain that, when no aggression has taken place, the
natives must be left alone ; but Blucher cannot see
things in that light.

That fellow — rogue, cawbawn no good," he urges.

"What for you jabber (talk) like it that?" asked

John. "Bail (not) that fellow been try to kill you
and me."

Nebber mind," returned the savage youth, his eyes
nearly starting out of his head. " Come on ; me want
to chest (shoot) him cawbawn (much."

This amiable desire not being gratified, Blucher
would fall back sulkily, evidently setting down John's
refusal to a dread of the aboriginal.

They pushed their way over the lovely country
which Stone had undergone so much to discover,
passing through part of the run about to be stocked
by him and Mr Gray ; and in about seventy miles
they " made " a mountain, from the top of which Byng
pointed out, in a general way, the boundaries of that
portion of the wilderness which they had come so far
to subdue. It was by no means as fine a country as
that which they had lately passed over, but seemed
well grassed and watered, and was darkly clothed with
heavy masses of timber.

John's heart beat high as he silently gazed on the
vast territory over which he was to rule as absolute
monarch. The future lay wrapped in impenetrable
mystery; but whether success or misfortune should
be the ultimate result of his labours, of one thing he
was determined — no efforts on his part should be
wanting to promote a favourable termination to the
undertaking.

On returning to camp the march was once more
resumed ; and at last our hero had the satisfaction of
knowing that his nomadic life was at an end for a
period. The cattle, although poor and weary, had on
the whole made an excellent journey, and the deaths
were by no means numerous. John's troubles, however,
had only begun. He had calculated on securing
the services of some of the men who had driven up
the cattle in putting up huts, making a small yard,
and in looking after the stock. This he found them
ready enough to do, but at such an exorbitant price
that no arrangement could be come to. They organised
a small trades-union of their own, and united in
making demands which West felt, in justice to his
partner, he could not accede to. He offered higher
wages than were given by any one of the squatters
whose stations they had passed. Sto ; they would
accept nothing less than what they demanded.

They were well aware that he was alone with his
two black boys — for Desmard had announced his intention
of going south. The two boys were not to be
depended on, and might bolt home to their tribe the
moment the thought entered their heads. Upwards
of a thousand head of cattle had to be looked after
on a new run in a country infested by wild blacks,
the very smell of whom crossing the - animals' feeding-ground
might stampede them. The wet season was

almost at hand, and a hundred little things had to
be attended to, the neglect of which might result in
serious loss, and danger to life. But they stuck to
their decision, and rode off in a body, — for John had
resolved to perish rather than to submit to their
extortionate demands.

In this strait Desmard's manly generous disposition
showed itself. He flew from one to another, arguing,
persuading, and upbraiding by turns, but in vain ; and
finally, relinquishing his own intended journey, he
made known to John his intention of sticking to
him until the end of the wet season should bring
fresh men in search of employment. It was useless
that the departing drovers reminded him that a long
stretch of unoccupied country lay between him and
the nearest habitation, and that in their company
he might traverse it in safety : he merely turned his
back contemptuously on the speakers, muttering to
himself —

"I — ah — would not b^ seen in — ah — the company
of — ah — such a set of native dogs."

So they went away, and John grasped, with gratitude
in his heart, the hand of the brave young fellow,
whose faithful, honest help was, notwithstanding his
inexperience, invaluable at such a time.

Not a moment could now be lost. Everything
depended on themselves, for a large river and several

wide creeks, winch, in a short time, would be flowing
deep and rapid, intervened between them and Byng's
station. The cattle were turned loose on some fine
grass in the space formed by the junction of two large
creeks, and all hands set to work to build a bark-hut.
This had to be done during the hours which could be
spared from looking after the cattle. Each morning,
by daylight, the horses were brought up, and all hands
went round the farthest tracks made by the scattered
herd.

Desmard was on these occasions always accompanied
by one of the boys, for John feared that he might
get bushed ; but he himself, and the other boy, went
separately.

The creatures were inclined, on the whole, to stay,
and chose out two or three shady camps to which they
nearly all resorted as the sun became strong. On these
camps it was their custom to lie until about four in the
afternoon, when they would gradually draw off in all
directions, feeding through the entire night. Many
calved about this time, and such as did so usually
took " to the vicinity of the place where the calves
were dropped. Some of the leaders, however, caused
much anxiety and trouble, owing to their determination
to make back to Cambaranga, and a strict lookout
had to be kept that they did not get away unobserved.
Day by day the cattle on the camps were gone

through, and absent ones noted and searched for until
found. In this duty the black boys yere simply invaluable
; and their interest in the work, and untiring
skill in tracking, contributed chiefly to the success
which attended the pioneers in keeping the herd together.
No sooner did a mob of cattle make a start,
than some one in going round the " outside tracks '*'
was sure to discover the fact, and instant pursuit
never failed to result in the return of the deserters.
The horses gave less trouble, and contentedly stuck to
a well-grassed flat near the camp.

The departure of his men gave John no time to
seek a suitable situation for a head-station, and the
approaching wet weather warned him to make hasty
preparations against it. His tents had been destroyed
by a fire which took place some time before, during
his absence from the camp, owing to the carelessness
of the cook in not burning the grass around his galley.
The tarpaulin was needed for the stores, and he was
therefore under the necessity of building a hut. Setting
to work with Desmard, he soon had the frame up,
while the boys endeavoured to cut bark. This latter
proved to be a peculiarly difficult job, owing to the
season of the year. Ashen the ground is full of moisture,
the trees are also full of sap, and most kinds of
bark come off easily ; but in dry or frosty weather,
when the sap is in the ground, the very opposite is

the case. The method of stripping bark is as follows :
A straight-barrelled trunk is selected, and a ring cut
round it near the ground, and another about six feet
higher up. A long cut is then made perpendicularly,
joining the two rings, and the edge of it is prised up
with the tomahawk, until a grasp of the bark can begot
with the hand. If inclined to come off, the whole
sheet strips with a pleasant tearing sound, and is laid
flat on the ground to dry, with a log as a weight above
it. In two or three days the sheet becomes somewhat
contracted in size, but lighter and tougher, and thoroughly
impervious to moisture. It is used in many
ways. It makes a capital roof, and for temporary
walls of huts it is excellent. Bunks to sleep on,
tables, and other articles of furniture, are improvised
from it, and, on a new station, nothing is more useful.
Owing to the long dry season, the boys found bark-stripping
exceedingly arduous work ; and after exhausting
all the artifices used by natives in the task,
barely enough was secured to cover in the roof of the
little hut. One gable-end was shut up by a portion
of a partly-destroyed tent, the other by a couple of
raw hides tied up across it. The walls were of saplings,
stuck into the ground side by side, and confined
against the wall-plate by another long straight sapling.
When finished, the little hut was certainly not
much to look at, but the builders congratulated each

other oil having a roof of some sort over their heads ;
and in the not improbable event of an attack by
blacks, it would prove a shelter in some degree. With
this object in view, and to prevent their movements
inside being detected through the interstices of the
saplings by the sharp eyes of the prowling savages, all
the spare bags and pieces of old blanketing which
could be procured were fastened around the walls.

They had barely completed this apology for a dwelling
when the tropical rain commenced, apparently
timing its arrival to a day. Down it poured, in one
continuous deluge, for hours. It was almost invariably
heralded by thunderstorms, and beginning in the
afternoon, lasted till evening. This permitted, them
for a couple of weeks to make their usual grand tour
around the cattle ; but as the rains extended their
period of duration, the ground became exceedingly
boggy, and the cattle were, perforce, obliged to remain
about the sound sandy country on which their instinct
led them to select their camps.

During the short intervals of hot, steaming, fine
weather, the pioneers would endeavour to go through
the herd; but the undertaking was toilsome and
severe. Plodding on foot through the heavy black
soil or soft boggy country, from one hard sandy tract
to another, — for in such places riding was out of
the question, — they would lead the plunging, sweating

horses along a few steps at a time. Water lay in
great lagoons over the surface of the country, covered
with flocks of duck and ibis. The grass grew rank
and long, and sorely impeded their movements. It
was, moreover, by no means a pleasant reflection that,
should they, when thus singly toiling through these
swampy bogs, drop across a party of aboriginal (than
which nothing was more likely), certain death would
ensue, bringing with it disaster upon the rest of the
little party.

As it was utterly impossible to muster and make a
count of the cattle, John was obliged to content himself
with paying occasional visits to them ; but notwithstanding
that a marked improvement was visible
in the condition of those he saw, the anxiety told
heavily upon him.

Apart from the miseries of mosquitoes, sand-flies,
and blight-flies, the little community passed their
spare time pleasantly together ; and Desmard manufactured
a chessboard of a piece of bark, marking its
squares with charcoal, and he and John fought many
a good fight on it with their primitive-looking men.
John also took much pains to instruct his friend in
the art of cutting out and plaiting stock-whips from
the salted hides, — an accomplishment which the latter
picked up rapidly, besides acquiring much other practical
knowledge ; and he was afterwards accustomed

to say, that the necessity for exertion brought about
during his pioneering with John, and the self-reliance
thus gained, had made a different man of him.

Game was on the whole scarce. Plain turkeys and
ducks were numerous, but the kangaroos had been
kept under by the aboriginal, whose old camps lay
thick around the hut. It certainly surprised the white
men that the natives never made their appearance
openly. Sometimes Blucher or Gunpowder would
detect their tracks in the neighbourhood of the hut,
but as yet they probably entertained a superstitious
awe of the owners of so many huge horned animals.

The rain continued to deluge the flat country about
the little head-station, and the creeks began to overflow
their banks. The wet soaked up through the
floor of their abode. The walls were covered with a
green slimy fur. Even the inside of the gun-barrels,
cleaned the night before, took on this kind of rust.
Percussion-caps and priming had to be renewed everyday.
Minor trials and discomforts were also not
wanting. The close, damp weather, causing the flour
to heat, bred in it innumerable weevils; and the supply
of tea and sugar failing (much having been destroyed
by wet), the party had to depend chiefly upon
the everlasting salt junk, eked out with what they
could shoot. At last fever began to make its unwelcome
appearance, and John, whose mind was most harassed,

became the first victim. No proper medicine
being to hand or procurable, he accordingly suffered
much.

It was miserable at this time to look out of doors
at night. Far and wide nothing could be seen in the
bleak clouded moonlight but water, through which the
grass stalks reared their dismal heads in the most
melancholy manner, and a dark mass of trees occupied
the background. The croak, croak of the frogs was
sometimes broken by the distant bellow of a beast as
it called to its fellows.

The occupants of this little outpost of civilisation
were indeed isolated from all others. For countless
miles to the north none of their race intervened between
them and the Indian Ocean. To the west a
still more dreary and still wider expanse of unknown
territory ran. To the east, a heche-de-mer station or
two along the coast alone broke the otherwise inhospitable
character of the shore. Southwards, for nearly
three hundred miles, the blacks were still kept out
like wild beasts ; and their nearest neighbours, seventy
miles away, were not in a much more enviable plight
than themselves.

The incessant rains now caused the floods to increase,
and gradually the backwater approached the
little dwelling. The bullock-dray had sunk so deep
in the soft soil that there was no hope of shifting it

until fine weather came, and in any case the working
bullocks could not have been mustered. Nearer
and nearer rose the water. The country behind them
for several miles was perfectly level. Rations were
stowed away on the rafters, and preparations made
to strengthen the little hut, when fortunately the
waters subsided.

Day by day John's fever increased, and matters
began to look very gloomy, when a change in the
weather took place. It became possible to move
about, and the cattle were found to be all right. One
or two men pushed their way out in search of employment,
and were at once engaged. Medicine was procured,
and John speedily improved as his spirits rose.
The black boys, who had undergone suffering and
privation in the most cheerful manner during the wet
season, now revelled in sunshine, and their camp-fire
at night resounded with hilarious laughter or never-ending
corroborates. The horses had grown fat, notwithstanding
the attacks of their enemies the flies, and
now kicked like Jeshurun when ridden. Numbers
of young calves could also be seen in every mob of
cattle, necessitating the erection of a branding-yard.
Nations were borrowed, pending the arrival of supplies
ordered previously, and soon neighbours began to
settle around, and a travelling mob or two passed by.
Desmard took his leave of John with much regret on

VOL. n. L

both sides, their acquaintance having ripened into firm
friendship, and started on their southern journey. A
proper site for a head-station was decided on, and
before long a small though comfortable little cottage
sheltered our hero, while a small stock-yard and paddock
afforded convenience in working the run.

About three months after the close of the wet
weather, Stone arrived on his country, bringing with
him upwards of 10,000 sheep. He was accompanied
by Bessie, who could not be prevailed upon to stay
behind. They travelled much in the same manner as
did 'John with his cattle, but not having the same
necessity for economy, they" were provided with many
little luxuries and conveniences, which rendered the
journey more endurable.

The sheep camped in a body at night, and at daylight
were divided roughly into mobs of about 1500,
which were driven along the road by the shepherds.
Much annoyance was sometimes caused by the unaccountable
stupidity of a few of the drovers, who never
failed to take the wrong road when such an opportunity
presented itself. Others distinguished themselves
by dropping mobs of sheep in the long grass,
many animals being thus irretrievably lost. On the
whole, however, the quietness which characterised the
camp at night compensated for the labours of the
day. Bessie's light-hearted gaiety and continual 

made all around her happy, and she bore the
hardships of the first few months in her new home
most uncomplainingly. Much had to be effected.
Yards and huts had to be built for the sheep and
shepherds. A head-station had to be erected. Supplies
were wanted, and had to be brought up, and a
paddock was also necessary. Preparations for the
various lambkins were urgent, and arrangements for
shearing had to be considered. It was no easy time.
A scarcity of labour was constantly followed by a
demand for increased wages. The positions of master
and servant became often inverted, and the latter
sometimes gratified his malice by taking his departure
when his services were most required.

John had a busy time likewise. The facility of
moving about offered to them by the fine weather
induced his cattle to stray. Hunting-parties of ab-originals
crossed their feeding-grounds, causing some
of the mobs to start and leave the run, and occasionally
a few spears were thrown at the frightened
animals.

Holm would willingly have paid several beasts
yearly to the original possessors of his country, were
it possible by such means to purchase their goodwill ;
for the damage done by a few blacks walking across
their pasture can scarcely be appreciated by those who
are unacquainted with the natural habits of cattle.

Negotiations, however, would have been fruitless, and
watchfulness was his only remedy. A single start
sufficed to make the creatures alarmed and suspicious
for weeks. Continually on the look-out for their
enemies, they took fright and rushed for miles without
stopping, on the occurrence of the slightest unaccustomed
noise ; and even the smell of Gunpowder or
Blucher, when passing on horseback, was sufficient to
cause a mob to raise their heads inquiringly.

CHAPTER XXXII.

LILIANFIELD FETCHING A DOCTOR A RAID OF THE

MYALLS.

The months flew round, shearing had come and gone,
and things were beginning to assume a more homely
appearance on " Lilianfield," as Stone had called his
station in compliment to his wife's mother, whose
Christian name was Lilian. John frequently rode
over and spent a day or two with his friends, and
Bessie was obliged to him for many little acts of
courtesy and. kindness which carried with them a tenfold
value under the circumstances. He it was who
took care that Lilianfield should never want ,
which it probably would often have done
but for him. This is saying a good deal ; for it almost
always happens that on sheep-stations milk is a rare
article, time and expense forbidding the luxuries of
the dairy. He it was who continued to send over a
welcome change to the everlasting mutton, in the
shape of choice pieces of beef whenever slaughtering

day came round ; and many other little attentions lie
was enabled to show his old friends, who became
much attached to him, and reciprocated his kindness.

One piece of loving devotion, indeed, Stone never
could forget, and Bessie ever after spoke of it with
tears in her eyes. The wet weather was about commencing,
and having a few idle days before him, John
promised himself the pleasure of spending them at
Lilianfield. As not unfrequently happened, they
were short of men there, and consequently everybody
was unusually busy ; and in addition to this, the man
and woman in the kitchen (having for some unexplained
reason taken offence) had left a few days
before. This was the more distressing, for Bessie's
confinement was shortly expected, and she and her
husband depended much upon the assistance of the
woman in question. Another female attendant had
been sent for, but had not arrived, and Stone feared that
she could not do so in time, for the creeks were swollen
with the rains which had already fallen, and were at
present impassable for all except daring swimmers.

It was dark when John rode up, for he had
made a late start, and the rain fell heavily as he
dismounted from his horse. The usually cheerful
little place wore a garb of desolation. Bessie's bright
cheerful face was not there with her gay welcome.
He was soon informed of the cause by his distressed

friend, who looked upon him as a Heaven-sent helper.
Bessie had been suddenly taken ill, and there was no
one to assist her but her half-distracted husband. It
did not take John long to decide upon his course of
action. About fifty miles away, near Byng's station,
a little township had been formed. John was aware
that a very skilful although dissipated surgeon had
settled there, and he determined to go for him in spite
of all obstacles. Hastily eating some food, he caught
two of Stone's best horses, and soon he was on the
banks of the river. It was moonlight, but through
the cold dismal light John could discern the yellow
turbid current foaming and churning its broad deep
belt between him and the further shore, which he
could but indistinctly make out. He never hesitated.
Spurring his horse, he plunged in at a considerable distance
higher up than the crossing. In a moment the
cold water is up to his armpits, and his horses are snorting
and puffing away, their heads only visible above the
surface. It needs all his skill to keep them from making
down stream, and at the same time save himself
from capsizing. His head becomes giddy as the flying
water sweeps past him. Suddenly his horse strikes
against a snag, and wildly rearing, falls backwards on
the rider, who, in case of accidents, has been sitting with
his feet out of the stirrup-irons. Under they go together ;
all is blackness and confusion; at last he rises to the

surface, separated from his steed. Swusli ! — the current
fiercely sweeps him along, and the horses follow him
at a fearful pace. He is afraid of their disabling him
with a stroke of their fore-feet, and turning, he splashes
the water in their faces. This has the effect of frightening
them a little ; and as they pass him he succeeds
in laying hold of the mane of one of them, and swimming
alongside, with much exertion he at last gains
the longed-for shore. The other animal (his saddle-horse)
makes the bank some distance down. Everything
is right, with the exception of one stirrup-leather
which is missing, probably torn off by the river snags.
He is wet, cold, and miserable, but he does not nnnd
it. Fifty long miles, and three or four swollen creeks,
smaller certainly, but not less disagreeable, lie between
him and his destination ; but he heeds not the distance
or the danger, and soon he is cantering along the road,
slipping and bogging at times, but pushing on with
one object in his heart.

In spite of the rain, of swollen creeks and difficult
travelling, John arrived at the township. As he expected,
the doctor refused to come. John patiently
sat a short time, drank some grog with him, listened
to a yarn or two, and at last excited the maudlin
admiration of the inebriated practitioner to such a
degree, that his desire to return in John's company
became as vehement as the other could have wished.

Packing up the doctor's travelling medical-case, for
lie was too far gone to attend to it himself, and getting
a fresh supply of grog for the road, John started.
Once mounted, the doctor was in no humour for delay.
A fresh draught now and then from the bottle kept
the steam up, and with the aid of fresh horses kindly
lent by the officer in charge of a " native mounted
police" station, recently erected near the road, they
arrived by sundown at the river opposite Lilianfield.
A couple of drays are camped near to the crossing,
and quite a young lagoon of rain-water is lying in the
hollows of each of the huge black tarpaulins which
cover them. As they ride up, a savage-looking half-bred
bulldog yelps hoarsely, and two or three men
creep out from underneath the tarpaulin of the nearest
dray, where they have been playing " Any-up " (a
favourite game with cards) for tobacco. John recognises
a teamster who has been employed by himself.
Good evening, Mick," he says ; "how's the river?"
"Very high still," answers Mick, "but falling. It
fell a good three feet since last night. You're not
thinking of going across, are you ? "
Oh yes," returns John ; " must cross."
Then," says Mick, " you might let Mr Stone know
that the woman he sent for, and her husband, are
camped here with me. They're there," he added, nodding
with his head in the direction of the other waggon.

All right — but I'll be back again to-night ; " and
with that, John and the doctor moved on.

They crossed the river once more : the force of the
current, though still strong, had abated greatly, and
they arrived safely to John's relief. With the assistance
of a station hand or two, and his friends at the
bullock-waggons, the wise woman was ferried over the
dangerous stream in a washing-tub, protesting all the
time with much clamour that " she was a-going fur
to be drownded ; she know'd she was ; " but the exhilarating
effects of sundry long swings at a square
bottle of gin, and the force of her own compassionate
though slightly rough nature, bore her triumphantly
through in safety. The long ride had produced
an unusual degree of sobriety in the doctor, and by
judicious management, he was kept in a proper state
of temperance, until every danger had passed by, and
Bessie was pronounced to be in a fair way to recovery.

As before said, John frequently rode over to Lilian-field
during the wet weather; and with the intuitive
quickness of her sex, Bessie guessed before long his
love for some one ; and he at last confided to her his
secret, feeling much relieved in being able to talk
about Ruth to one who could understand his feelings.
How different was the aspect of things this wet
season compared with the last !

Stations were formed for nearly a hundred and fifty

miles outside John's run, and he began to regard himself
as quite an inside squatter. His neighbours
greatly assisted him in keeping his cattle together,
turning them back, and sending over notice whenever
they were discovered making away; and, in like manner,
he performed the same good office for them.
Things soon began to wear quite a settled look.

He had also been most fortunate in his relations with
the blacks. From the outset it had been his principle
to leave them unmolested unless provoked to adopt
severer measures ; and he had been enabled as yet to
keep them away without bloodshed. A more intimate
acquaintance with the ways and customs of the
whites had produced a certain amount of contempt
for them among the Myalls ; and here and there a
murder of a white man or two in the district, or a
wholesale spearing of cattle, announced that a war
of ai^^sression, and also of retaliation, had commenced.
Indeed the behaviour of some of the whites was reprehensible
in the highest degree ; and a few of the more
brutal spirits thought as little of "knocking over a
nigger " at sight as they would have done of shooting
a kangaroo.

This was, however, far from being a general feeling ;
and notwithstanding the charges brought against the
pioneer squatters in the southern newspapers, by, for
the most part, ignorant and sentimental writers, those

who were acquainted with them, and with the dangers
and provocations of their daily lives, will admit that
the greater number acted with temperate forbearance
towards those tribes of aboriginal with whom they
came in contact.

It was indeed both instructive and amusing to investigate
the surroundings of some of those who espoused
most loudly the cause of the " poor black."
Some were comfortably settled southern squatters,
whose fathers or predecessors had once been pioneers
themselves, and who, in bequeathing to their followers
the country they had wrested from the original inhabitants,
had, along with it, transmitted to them a complicity
and share in any injustice and guilt exercised
in its acquisition. Others were blatant town politicians,
anxious to develop the " resources of the country,"
who, by neglecting no opportunity of furthering
immigration, discovering new gold-fields, and exploring
fresh pastoral country, urged the energetic white
men to seek their fortunes in places where they must
of necessity come in contact with their black brethren,
a contact which history shows to have been ever
attended with conflict.

A few were ministers of the Gospel, who, although
shaking their heads in sorrowful disapproval of the
manner in which the " poor blacks " were driven from
their hunting-grounds in order to make room for the

white man's sheep, never hesitated to acquire, if possible,
on favourable terms, land thus appropriated, —
or who were to be seen, armed with carbine or pistol,
making their way from one little bush community to
another, for the purpose of collecting money. The
majority, however, were well-meaning men, but thoroughly
ignorant of the state of matters, and of the real
feelings and behaviour of most of those whose actions
they condemned.

Things, as we have said, bore a cheerful and bright
aspect ; and the rapidly increasing number of his
young stock led our hero to look forward hopefully
to the time when he might clear off the heavy debt
which at present embarrassed him, and settle down
into a breeder of pure stock, after the manner of his
friend Fitzgerald. Stone had also done very well:
his lambkins had been good, — indeed they could
hardly have been otherwise on the splendid country
he owned ; but the heavy expense of carriage, wages,
&c., materially affected his profit. He felt that the
roughness of the life was by no means suited to his
young wife, and he made up his mind to sell Lilian-field
on the first fair offer.

In pursuance of this scheme he had started on a
trip down to the coast to meet a would-be purchaser,
leaving Bessie with her infant at home. A married
overseer, whose wife attended to the cooking, resided

in a cottage close by, and Bessie's plucky heart would
not permit her to detain her husband from his important
business. The overseer was a good enough servant
under the direction of his master, but foolhardy,
and totally incapable of being intrusted with any
charge by himself. Stone left with the intention of
returning in about ten days, or twelve at the most.

Everything was safe ; there seemed no possibility
of anything going wrong at home ; and if Bessie was
in want of advice or help of any sort, she could send
over for John.

So thinking, and hoping the result of his journey
would render all fears unnecessary in future, Stone
had started. John had been made aware of his
friend's intended absence, and would have ridden over
to see Bessie, but had been prevented owing to the
sudden appearance of blacks on his run, who not only
disturbed his cattle, but speared a number of them,
and, among others, a valuable herd bull.

He had just returned from viewing the remains of
the slain animals, and was sitting musing on the best
course to pursue, when Stone's blackboy, a little fellow
about twelve years old, dashed up on a reeking horse.

"Missa Less, black fellow kill 'em altogether.
White fellow 'long o' Lillanfill ! "

"What name?" (what do you say?) roared John,
jumping up.

"Yohi," said the boy, still sitting on Lis horse,
altogether bong " (dead), " one fellow bail bong " (one
not dead).

Which one bail bong ? " demanded John, in terror.

Missis bail bong, ony cawbawn frighten " (Missis
not dead, only dreadfully frightened).

Blucher ! " vociferated John at the top of his voice.
(Gunpowder had been sent home to his tribe at his
special request.)

Blucher appeared in a moment. He had grown to
be a smart, active, intelligent lad, with his energies
always strung to the utmost, as if waiting to dash forward
and execute his master's orders as soon as communicated.


Blucher," said John, " black fellow kill him white
fellow."

Blucher's eyes glistened and started forward, the
whites of them becoming ominously bloodshot.

Which way ? " he asked.

Along o' Lilianfield. Get up the horses."

In a moment Blue was mounted upon the other
boy's horse ; and soon gathering up the paddock
horses, he caught and saddled his own and his
master's.

Arming himself with Snider and revolver, and providing
his attendant with the same, Holm mounted,
and with his two companions was soon galloping towards

the scene of the disaster. As they proceeded,
the usually smiling downs seemed to tell a tale of
horror and bloodshed. Between the road and the
blue mountain-ranges a huge bush-fire raged fiercely,
the smuts from which, though many miles away,
floated down upon them as they tore along. The sky
was lurid, and a dull roar struck their ears, intimating
the extent and fury of the conflagration.

Blucher spurs alongside of his master, and points
out that the road is covered with naked footprints.
Presently they come across scattered mobs of sheep,
apparently lost, and approach a sheep-station hut, to
which the flock evidently belongs. John, still at a
gallop, turns off the road to examine the hut, and
Blucher draws his carbine, looking: about him eagerly.

Yes ; it is just as the blackboy expected. There
lies one old shepherd on his face, across the threshold
of the door, pierced b}^ a couple of spears, and his
head ofhastlv with tomahawk-wounds.

John does not feel at all surprised. Somehow it
seems quite natural He has no time to do anything
at present, and is about riding away, when the little
boy calls from the gateway of one of the yards —

Here 'other one white fellow."

Yes, so there is, — it is the mate of the first man.
He lies doubled across a log, his head battered in in a
most frightful manner, his old blue-serge shirt thick

with gore, the jagged " nullah-nullah " which had been
used in the atrocious deed broken on the ground near
him.

Come along ! " shouts John, and once more he is
hastening on towards Lilianfield.

As he dashes up to the door of the barred-up house,
it opens, and Bessie rushes out dishevelled and pale,
with her infant in her arms. She holds out her hand,
but she cannot utter a word, and John has to lead her
to a seat, where her feelings relieve themselves in a
flood of tears. As soon as she could speak, she explained
to John that soon after her husband left, the
overseer had met some blacks on the run, and in opposition
to the treatment adopted towards them by
Stone, he had encouraged them about the head-station.
For a few days they had behaved themselves with
propriety; but Bessie, fearful for the life of herself
and child, had barricaded the house she resided in, and
determined to await her husband's return. The overseer
and his wife, on the contrary, saw no danger, and
the woman could not be persuaded to sleep in the
same house with Bessie. What occasioned the outbreak
Bessie did not know, but a number of savages
made a rush upon the unfortunate woman, killing herat
once. They then tried to enter the house in which
she herself dwelt, and were only deterred upon her
firing two or three shots from her husband's revolver,

VOL. JI. M

which, urged by desperation, notwithstanding her total
ignorance and dread of firearms, she succeeded in
doing. The little blackboy had been away playing in
the creek ; and frightened b}^ the wild shouts, which
enabled him to guess what was being enacted, he lay
hidden among the long-bladed grass tussocks until
night, when, stealing out quietly, he made his way to
the house, and finding his mistress alive, was directed
by her to seek out John.

Bessie had seen nothing of the overseer, and feared
that he had also paid for his foolhardiness with his
life.

John soon made up his mind as to what had to
be done. Writing a hasty note requesting the presence
of the detachment urgently, he despatched the
boy to the "officer in charge of the native mounted
police barracks," near Byng's station, trusting that
he might not be absent on patrol. Inditing another
to the manager of an adjoining sheep-station, he put
it into the hands of Blucher, instructing him to return
with all haste.

He then set to work to dig a grave for the poor
woman who had fallen a victim to the bloodthirsty
aboriginal, with Bessie, whose nerves were dreadfully
shaken, for a companion. So much occupied was
he, that he did not hear her joyous exclamation of
surprise as her husband galloped up furiously, and

springing off his horse, folded her to his heart ; and
his happiness was scarcely less than Bessie's when
Stone stepped to the edge of the grave and called to
him. Something had made Stone uneasy — what it
was he could not say ; but without waiting to finish
his business he had hurried back, unable to rest until
he had once more seen his wife and child. As he
drew near his home his vague fears grew stronger,
and the smoke-laden atmosphere seemed to fill him
with a dread, to which the body of the overseer,
lying a mutilated trunk on the road, gave only too
fearful a reality.

All was well now, however, Bessie thought ; and
that evening, late, they had plenty of assistance in
the shape of the Super of the run to which John
had sent Blucher, who came over with three or four
men.

'Next morning early. Stone put Bessie in the buggy,
and started over with her for the friendly manager's
dwelling, where he had arranged she should remain
for a week or two. John and the rest busied themselves
in burying the overseer and the poor shepherds,
and in collecting the sheep, which, fortunately, had
remained in the vicinity of the yard. These they
left in charge of three of the men, well armed, and
then returned to Lilianfield head-station.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE BLACK TROOPERS — PURSUIT AND ATTACK.

They had not been long back when two or three
laden pack-horses passed the window, and, going to
the door, they saw a body of ten native troopers
drawn up in a line, and heard the command, "Dismount,"
from the officer in charge, who thereupon
came up and shook hands with John and his friend,
with whom he was a favourite. He was about
twenty-seven or twenty-eight years of age, by birth an
Irishman, very gentlemanly in his manners, and of good
family. Judicious and firm in the management of his
command, he was one of the best officers in the service
of Government, and his tact in managing his boys prevented
desertions and kept them in a state of constant
efficiency. He had been transferred to his present district
from a barracks near a large gold-field, where a
slight hauteur of manner had rendered him somewhat
unpopular among the roughs, who believe in the glorious
maxim of "Liberty, fraternity, and equality."

*' Very glad to meet you, West, but sorry for the
occasion. Nothing happened to Mrs Stone, I trust ?
I don't see her about."

No, thank God ! " said John ; and he gave a short
account of what had occurred.

"Ah! just so," returned the mounted trooper ; one-half
of the murders are occasioned by foolhardiness
and an overweening trust in the generosity of the
blacks. I'll just walk down and see the rations
served out, and return." So saying, he walked down
to where his men had erected their tents.

Stone returned late in the evening ; but as he
felt the urgent need of looking after his other shepherds,
and as their friend the superintendent could
not longer spare the time from his own business,
it was arranged that John alone should accompany
the troopers in their pursuit. To tell the truth, John
was not sorry for the opportunity thus afforded of
striking wholesome terror into the tribe, which, notwithstanding
his peaceful behaviour towards them,
was beginning to cause him serious trouble and loss.
The troopers were, of course, delighted at the prospect
of a collision with their countrymen, and an
unusual degree of activity prevailed in the camp,
so much so, that next morning before sunrise, while
Stone and his guest were getting through their hasty
breakfast, the corporal of the troop made his appearance

at the door, and stiffening himself into an erect
military attitude, saluted gravely, reporting at the
same time, " Every sing all right, Mahmy." ^

Very good, Howard," returned his superior, whose
name was Blake.

All were soon in readiness to start, and Blucher
brought up his master's horse and his own, his eyes
glistening with envy as he noted 'the pomp and
circumstance of glorious wear" which attended the
marshalling of his sable brethren.

The black troopers presented a very warlike and
efficient front, as they stood up in line, each one by
his horse's head, awaiting the order to mount.

The blue jackets, with their red collars and cuffs,
became the dark complexions exceedingly well, and
their wild faces were brought out into fierce relief
by their curtained white cap-covers. White riding-trousers
and serviceable leggings protected their extremities,
and black leathern belts with large 
hung across their shoulders. Under
each saddle lay a large blue military saddle-cloth
bound with red. A change of clothing and a blanket,
rolled in a strong piece of American duck, were strapped
over the pommel of their saddles, and a Snider
carbine hung on the rifj^ht side.

^ Mahmy or Mammie, the name given by" black police to their
officers.

Blake took his horse from the orderly who stood
holding it, and walking forward a little, quietly gave
the command —

"Prepare to mount — mount," — motioning them at
the same time in the direction in which they themselves
knew they had to go.

After the first hundred yards the men broke the
stiff cavalry order which they at first preserved, and
rode at ease — two being, however, specially detailed to
look after the pack-horses bearing the rations and
spare ammunition, with the tents of the troop.

John and Blake brought up the rear at some distance.

The sub-inspector was a good-looking young man,
with refined features and a dark complexion. A short
moustache shaded the upper lip, and an occasional
lisp gave a piquancy to his modulated voice, indicating
a boyishness which its owner was far from possessing.
He wore no uniform, with the exception of a
white-covered forage-cap ; but his horse was accoutred
in a similar manner to that of his men, and in addition
he wore a revolver in his belt. They made their
way towards the sheep-station where the unfortunate
shepherds had been killed — all the tracks having been
ascertained to run in that direction. It soon turned
out, from examination of circumstances, that the men
were slaughtered merely because, in their retreat, the
blacks had happened to drop across them.

Blake now halted his men, and ordered two to the
front for the purpose of following up tracks, desiring
the others to keep behind him and John with the
pack-horses. It would have been a work of some
difficulty to trace the retreating mob from the hut,
owing to the bush-fire which had swept over the
country, but for the fact that the tracks of two or
three who had lagged behind were discovered making
over the burnt ground after their tribe.

The soft, powdered, black and grey debris of the
long grass revealed the naked footprints distinctly;
and steadily the advanced-guard followed them over
the wide plain, and on to the banks of the river, where
it issued from the hilly country, nearly fifteen miles
above Lilianfield, and not very much farther from
John's own run.

The tracks were two days old, and the boys pushed
on rapidly but cautiously — eagerly listening to the
slightest sound, and examining, with the most careful
scrutiny, the leaves and twigs disturbed by the light-heeled
Myalls in their retreat. Nothing escaped
them ; and whenever an important fact was discovered
tending to throw light upon the particular tribe of
blacks, or their numbers, or motives, the trooper who
observed it would ride up and report the matter to
his officer.

In about five miles farther they came upon a deserted

camp. The numerous fires proved-that it had been
occupied by a large number of natives ; and the bark
gunyahs, and the heaps of ashes, denoted that they
had resided in it for some time. Many trees were
stripped of their bark in the neighbourhood, and
beaten paths ran down to the water. Circular ovens,
formed of large stones, for roasting meat, were in
plenty; and here and there the presence of bullock-bones
told John that his herd had supplied the camp
with several good feeds. Smaller heaps of grey ashes,
and heaps of mussel - shells surrounding the main
hearth, pointed out where the warrior's wives and
children had slept around him ; and in the neighbourhood
of each lay a big round stone or two, for the
purpose of pounding up the kernels of the nuts, whose
husks lay in small piles about the camp. A few
broken gourds, a broken spear or two, and a cracked
coolaman^ were to be seen here and there ; and small
irregular pieces of the soft, thick bark of the ti-tree
were scattered round the fires, on one or two of which
a brand still smouldered.

The detachment halted and camped for the night
about a mile farther on. There was a certain amount
of romance about the pursuit of the savages, which
awoke a sentiment of pleasure in John's nature ; and
the feeling of being the hunter was much more agrees
Native vessel for fetching water.

able than that of being the hunted one — a position
which, in connection with this very tribe, he had
experienced several times.

The night was bright and clear, and the moon was
at the full. The fire-lights falling upon the stacked
carbines and military accoutrements, formed a fitting
background for the circle of wild-eyed and fiercely
whiskered and moustached troopers, and gave a picturesqueness
to the camp. Blucher sat in the centre,
an entranced listener to endless stories, the drift of
which John could guess from the oft-repeated sounds
of " Poo'oh, poo'oh," — as the narrator imitated the
firing of carbines, amid roars of laughter from the rest.
John shared Blake's tent; — their conversation was
prolonged until near midnight, and on going outside
before preparing for sleep, they were astonished to find
that a total* eclipse of the moon had taken place. The
boys were all asleep, but were soon awakened by the
orderly who answered Blake's summons. They stared
at the moon in wonder, and discussed matters in awestruck
whispers.

Ask them," said Blake, " what has occasioned this
darkness."

The man left, and after some time returned, saying
the rest were unanimous that the " devil-devil "
had caused it, in order the more easily to catch
'possums.

''Xo doubt," returned Blake; and soon John and
he were fast asleep.

Next niorninf]^ all hands were in their saddles by
sunrise, and the pursuit was recommenced. The
travelling was in some places very difficult, it being
necessary to cross the river frequently, owing to the
tortuous nature of its course ; and the fording of the
stream was made very dangerous by the large rocks
and slippery boulders which lay in its bed, causing
the horses to stumble or their shod hoofs to slide.
The numerous tracks in the river-sand plainly showed
that the main body of the retreating natives had followed
the water-course ; and the peculiar smell from
the small fresh-burnt patches of river-grass here and
there, told that they could not be very far away.
Camps of small parties, all making after the main
mob, were frequently found ; and the heaps of mussel-shells,
fish-bones, and remains of freshwater turtle
about them, proved that it did not take them long to
provide a liberal supply of food for a mid-day meal.
That they were in dread of being chased was evident
by the long stages between their principal resting-places.
The troopers' excitement now gave them
much the air of kangaroo-hounds looking about for
their game ; and one of them, after staring fixedly
ahead of him for some time, rode up and reported that
he saw a camp - smoke in the distance. Blake now

called a halt, and took the opinion of the troop. They
were all keen bushmen, and acquainted with every
artifice of bush warfare.

Do you all see the smoke, boys ? " inquired Blake.

Yes, sir ; good way oval dere," answered the
corporal, Howard, a large-bodied, active, bloodthirsty-looking
man, with a long drooping moustache. John
followed Blake's gaze, and shaking his head slowly
from side to side, in imitation of the troopers, was
thereby enabled clearly to discover a faint column of
smoke rising afar off. They now proceeded more
cautiously, passing as they did some places wherefrom
the fresh wood-shavings from newly-made nullah-nulla,
and recently-cut holes in trees covered with
'possum-hair or owls' feathers, they felt assured the tribe
had passed that morning early. Numbers of crows also
indicated that the offenders were not far ahead, these
birds always following in the wake of a native camp.

Blake once more commanded a halt, and ordering
two of his most intelligent boys to strip naked, he
sent them ahead to scout, their uncovered forage-caps,
however, being carried in their belts, to serve if necessary
as distinction between them and the Myalls.

Pushing rapidly onwards, the spies disappeared in
the forest, and the troop moved slowly after them. In
about an hour's time they were met returning, and in
excited whispers reported that they had come in sight

of the wild men's camp. They further stated that their
presence had been observed by the watchful eyes of
one of the natives, who, however, mistook them in the
distance for two of his own companions, signalling to
them with his hand to join him, which they, however,
managed to avoid ; and under the pretence of looking
for cheivgah-'bag, they made their way into the riverbed,
and thence back to the troop.

A rapid description of the situation of the camp enabled
Blake to make a proper disposition of his menin
attacking it. The Myalls were, it appeared, settled
for the night in the sandy bed of the river, which there
flowed between the rocky eminences, densely clothed
with scrub.

First of all dismounting and turning out the horses,
the troopers stripped themselves of everything but
their shirts, caps, and cartridge-belts.

Then addressing them shortly, Blake rehearsed his
plan of attack. Pour boys were to advance stealthily
on each side through the scrub and occupy the rocky
heights. One of the four on each side was then to
make his way to the river-banks, taking the camp in
rear. As soon as these had effected a junction they
were to advance, driving, if possible, the unsuspecting
savages down the river into the teeth of Blake and John,
who, with the two other troopers, were to bear the
brunt of the shock.

This arrangement being thoroughly understood, the
party started on foot, and shortly afterwards the faint
cooeys and shouts told them that the cruel murderers
were all gathered together and resting after the toils
of the chase, which, notwithstanding the rapidity of
the retreat, they had not neglected. The thick bushes
and shrubs growing in the river afforded a shelter to
the small party who there awaited the signal which
was to tell them that the camp was surrounded and
the hour of retribution arrived.

At last it came. Boom — boom, broke upon the still
evening air, and in a moment the river-gorge resounded
with the wild war-cries of the men and the terrified
clamour of the women and children.

Look out, West ! here they come," shouts Blake,
as a dozen black figures, with hideous features under
their streaming locks, burst upon them, armed with
spears and nullah-nulla.

Bang — bang, go a couple of carbines, and two of
them drop on their tracks.

Hu — hu — hu — hu — prrrrrrr ! — hah — hu — hu — ho
prrrrrrr!" yell the Myalls, sending two or three
volleys of spears and boomerangs at their unexpected
assailants.

They have as yet had no experience of the superiority
of the white man's weapons, and make a stand for a
little, but they soon perceive that it is futile. Here and

there the carbines crack among the rocks and bushes,
and at last cease. The black fellows have succeeded
in getting away or in hiding themselves in the crevices
of the rocks. Blake and his party advance to examine
the camp. As they go along, Howard, the corporal,
who has distinguished himself particularly, almost
stumbles over a little, fat, round pickaninny (child)
rolled up in a bundle of bark ; and picking it up
hastily, he carries it along with him. Here are a
group of ugly old black hags on the ground, clamorously
yelling, and gashing their heads with sharp
stones. "It is a pity," says Blake pointing to them,
"that their sex prevents their punishment; they are
always the instigators of any outrage committed by
the men." Howard deposits the infant in the lap of
one of them, admonishing her to look after it and cease
her roaring, and makes off to join his fellows in pursuit
of other male blacks. Everywhere are children
and gins sitting among the bushes, or endeavouring to
steal away with all they can muster together. Ordering
a trooper to collect them and stand sentry, Blake
directs John's attention to a couple of buckets and
some tin billies, besides axes and tomahawks, which
have been carried away from Lilianfield. One demon-like
old woman wears a small shawl tied round her
loins, which John recognises as having belonged to
the overseer's wife. Their own dilly-bags have nothing

of value or interest in them. Some locks of hair
rolled up in thin slips of bark, probably belonging to
a deceased friend ; a piece or two of crystal for magic
purposes ; two or three bones and some fat, which the
troopers, who, from their own upbringing, are authorities
on such things, pronounce human ; a primitive-looking
bone fish-hook or two, and some string, made
of opossums' hair, — that is all.

Shouts of laughter are now heard from the rocks on
the opposite side of the river, and John and Blake
make their way over to discover the cause. Now and
then there is an interval of silence, which is immediately
followed by an uncontrollable scream of hearts
laughter from several voices.

Just before John and his friend reach the spot, two
shots are fired in rapid succession, and on joining the
police they find them standing round the body of a
native.

What are you laughing at, Howard ? " demands
his officer.

Oh, Mahmy ! we find this one wild fellow lying'
down ammonia' dead. I know that one not dead.
I no see hole belonging' to bullet ; and Jack and Turkey
here " (pointing to two other troopers), " been take
a long piece grass, and tickle that one along a inside
loss, and then dead black fellow been ' see, see ' "
(imitating sneezing), " and me an' altogether cawbawn

lass. By-and-by that fellow get up an' want to runaway,
an' me been client him."

Blake turned away, muttering, " It's no use saying
anything to them, they wouldn't understand it." A
search resulted in the discovery of eight dead bodies.
Some more had probably been wounded, and had
escaped.

The slain aboriginal lav in various attitudes. Here
was one stretched on his back, his spears in one hand,
and his stone tomahawk in the other, the small pupil
yet gleaming from amid the yellow whiteness of the
half-closed glassy eye — the little hole in his dusky
bosom indicating the road which his wild spirit had
taken on leaving its earthly habitation. There another
on his face, hands and legs spread out; a third had
rolled to the bottom of a ravine, where, still clutching
his tomahawk, he retained a diabolically hideous and
truculent expression of countenance.

All articles of any value were by Blake's orders
collected.

A large fire having been lighted, the spoils of the
camp were by its means destroyed : spears were broken,
and stone tomahawks gathered and carried away, to
be thrown into the deepest pool of the river. These
arrangements having been carried out, the party returned
to where their horses had been turned out, and
camped for the night.

VOL. II. N

With dawn, all hands were once more astir, and
again the inexorable sub-inspector continued his chase,
and by dint of persevering tracking, and much climbing,
he succeeded in discovering and again surprising
the encampment, which had been shifted much farther
back, in a wild and almost inaccessible part of the
mountain-range, — explaining to John the great necessity
there was for convincing the natives that it was
possible to follow and harass them in their most formidable
strongholds.

In rushing this camp one of the boys was wounded
by a spear, which, penetrating the thick part of the
leg, nearly cut the main artery ; another received a
large gash on the thigh from a boomerang ; and John
himself narrowly escaped death at the hands of a
big black fellow, who was shot by Blake. Blucher
behaved with much pluck, and earned great praise for
coolness from his companions. Once more the camp
was sacked, and the spoil destroyed ; and mounting
their horses, the avenging band began their homeward
march, and next evening, about sundown, came insight
of Lilianfield. As soon as the buildings were
observed, the corporal rode up to Blake, saying,
"Please, sir, boy want to sing out."

Very well, Howard, they may do so," answered the
former.

Presently arose in concert a tremulous cry, gradually

increasing in intensity, and winding up with fierce
whoops. It had a horrible blood-curdling effect, and
the black horsemen kept it up until their arrival —
such being the customary announcement made by them
and their fellows of having returned covered with the
blood of the slain.

CHAPTER Xxxi.

DEPARTURE OF THE STONES — STRUGGLES — LOVE IN THE BUSH.

In a short time things resumed their wonted appearance,
and the excitement consequent on the attack by
the aboriginal had passed away. John felt himself
quite happy in his new home, and looked forward
with certainty to making a competence. The only
thing which troubled him was, that he had never received
an answer to his last letter from Ruth. He
seemed fated to be kept in a state of uneasiness about
her, and although he made strenuous exertions through
Fitzgerald, he could not even discover her whereabouts.
Stone had never ceased to keep his station in the
market, and at last his perseverance had procured for
him a purchaser. The new owner of Lilianfield came
from Eiverina in New South Wales, and his eye was
at once taken with the glorious extent of downs and
plains, country the value of which he knew by experience,
and he cheerfully paid the somewhat long price
demanded by Stone. The latter made his way down to

Betyamrao, where, leaving Bessie and her infant, he set
out to look about him for a new investment.

John felt their departure to be a severe blow, their
kindness had endeared them to him, and indeed had
they been of his own blood he could not have loved
them better. His attention, however, was much taken
up with his own affairs, for about this time old Mr
Fitzgerald, who was chief owner, formed the idea of
transforming the run into a sheep-station. In vain
he wrote to dissuade the old gentleman, in vain
he beq'G^ed his friend to exert his influence with his
father. The old squatter, never very easy to persuade
at any time, remained inflexible ; and even young Fitzgerald
answered, that although he himself preferred
cattle, he thought that more money could be made of
sheep, and strongly advised John to follow the advice
of his father, whose great experience had ever shown
him the safest and shortest road to success.

For some time our hero hesitated as to his course
of action, but at last, partly out of deference to his
partners' opinions, and partly from a desire to remain
connected with them, he reluctantly consented to the
change. Xothincr could have been more distasteful
to himself personally, for cattle were his hobby, and
he would willingly have been contented with a very
much less profit than his friends looked forward to, in
order to have retained them.

The weary day came at last. John had had yards
built, and huts erected in carefully selected positions
on the run, and soon the baaing clamour arose amid
clouds of dust, as the icelanders arrived with their
fleecy charge. Good-bye now to the shady cattle-camps,
and the quick thunder of the hoofs on the short greensward,
as the eager stock-horse rounded-up the panting
mob. The cattle were mustered and sold, and John
viewed their departure with a full heart.

Once more came days of lost sheep, of anxious care,
and uncertainty. Once more came long midnight rides
and thunderstorms, the carrying out of rations, bad
lambkins, and harassing shearing. Once more he was
dependent upon the supply of labour, and he had to
fly about humouring the discontented, praising the
lukewarm, arguing with some, and taking the law into
his own hands with others, the recipient of all complaints,
and the bearer of every one's burden.

If success had depended solely upon his own individual
exertions or knowledge, he would not have been
without his share of it ; but alas ! such was not the case.
The fact was, as he himself suspected, the country
upon which the hardy-natured cattle throve, was not
suited to the delicate merino, and consequently his
was a constant strife against nature. On the other
hand, it was most trying to remark how the flocks
increased and fattened on the luxuriant pasturage of

Liliaiifield, which station was under the management
of an inexperienced youth, a relation of its owner. It
was aGr^ravatincy in the extreme to have on occasions
to listen to the self-adulatory remarks of this conceited
youngster (in point of management or knowledge little
better than a cipher), who took to himself the credit
due to the rich grasses of the station, which, with all
his folly and ignorance, he could not ruin.

For the first year things went pretty well considering :
although but few lambs were weaned, yet John hoped to
be able, before another year passed by, to induce his
partners either to sell the run or the sheep, and return
to his favourite pursuit of cattle-breeding. This hope
might also have been realised had colonial matters continued
in their former state ; for a visit paid to the new
station by the younger Fitzgerald, had brought him entirely
round to John's way of thinking, and on leaving,
he promised to urge his father to carry out John's wishes.

Sheep-farming, however, had a dark time ahead of
it. For some time past wool-growers had been made
uneasy by the constantly falling prices of the English
and foreign wool markets, and truly did the lowering
pulse indicate the sickness and depression gradually
stealing over the whole country. Lower and yet
lower sank the quotations, until nearly all sheep-owners
were reduced to the very verge of despair.
Three parts of the squatters were men who had been

encouraged by the former high value of wool, and
the apparently steady demand which existed for it,
to hazard their all in acquiring sheep and country.
Scarcely had a station been discovered and stocked,
when the unlooked-for heavy expenses connected with
it, compelled its unhappy owner to seek aid from the
hands of the Sydney bankers and commission agents.
A mortgage on the run immediately followed, and
interest at ten per cent was soon brought up — by commission
upon goods supplied, wool-brokerage, compound
interest, and the hundred other charges and
devices so well understood by the human ghouls who
fatten upon the decay of their fellow - creatures — to
seventeen per cent, or in some cases considerably
more.

The sheep had been bought at high figures, the fall
in wool had of course reduced their price, in many
cases to one-sixth of their original value, and in
others even more. Wages were also high in the outlying
districts settled by the pioneers, who, for many
reasons, were the heaviest sufferers by the crisis.

John West suffered with the rest. The younger Fitzgerald
had indeed succeeded in gaining his father
over to the views held by himself and John, but it
was then too late to sell, except at such a sacrifice
as even all were unwilling to make, and John consented
to hold on if possible, and await better times.

His future seemed at this period one of peculiar
darkness, but he struggled along, urged by the desperate
hope which enables some men to cling tenaciously
to the faintest chance of recovery. But his case was
even worse than those of many around him. His
sheep did not thrive, things were daily growing worse
and worse, and sheep were a drug in the market.

He struggled on bravely. What a life it was ! After
the wet season the long grass sprang up, and quickly
seeding, caused his sheep to resemble pincushion. It
was impossible to grasp a handful of the wool owing
to the millions of tiny needle-like seeds with which it
abounded, say, the very mutton itself was full of
them, and it ever remained a mystery to West how
sheep could exist in the misery which they must have
suffered. The inside of every sheepskin appeared
black with the sharp needles which had penetrated
it. In every portion of the animal's body they were
to be found, those penetrating to the heart, of course,
occasioning death. The swampy pastures also introduced
foot-rot among the flocks, and his spare time
was always occupied in cutting and dressing hoofs,
the very smell of which made him ill. Other diseases
also were not wanting, and his sheep decreased in
numbers rapidly. The lambing seemed to be a farce,
which custom alone rendered it necessary to undertake.
The bleating of a lamb jarred painfully ou his ears,

its plaintive cry too surely foreboding the end awaiting
it.

He had parted with the cattle about two years, and
was in the middle of his sheep struggles, when the
malian one day rode up, bringing him a letter from
the younger Fitzgerald. Expecting to find it as usual
relating to station affairs, he threw it aside to peruse
at leisure, and continued the work he had in hand.
That evening, drawing his correspondence towards
him with a sigh, he tore open his friend's letter first,
and commenced to master its details, much after the
fashion of a boy learning his lesson. But his stolidity
passed away ; he gradually became excited ; and eventually,
passion overcoming his accustomed composed
and self-reliant manner, he started up, dashed the
letter to the ground, and stamping on it furiously, he
stormed up and down the room, raving out incoherent
threats and wild upbraiding.

What was the cause of his emotion ? Simply this :
The letter from his friend contained the announcement
that Mr Cosgrove had returned to Cambaranga, and
that, in the person of his stepdaughter, Fitzgerald
had discovered Miss Bouverie, the lady to whom he
had lost his heart in Sydney, and whom he was now
determined, if possible, to make his wife.

To account for John West's surprise, we must now

give a brief summary of events at Cambaranga and
Betyammo during the years that he had been struggling
in the new country.

The old house was again occupied, and had assumed
a look of cheerfulness which it had not worn for many
a day. Cosgrove himself took little interest in anything.
He had changed greatly within the last two
years. His figure had lost its elasticity, and his voice
was no longer cheery and loud ; while his hair had
grown grey — almost white. Plis son's frightful crime
had, with the discovery of his other misdemeanours,
given him a shock from which he never recovered.
Soon after Ealf's flight he had left Cambaranga for
Melbourne, where he was joined by Ruth. She had
been staying during his visit to Cambaranga with Mr
and Mrs Berkeley, relatives of her mother and her
own, who gladly would have kept her altogether, for
they were childless, and both were proud of their
young kinswoman's beauty and accomplishments.

When the details of the murder first became known,
Mr Berkeley instantly made preparations for leaving
Sydney for some time, to escape the disagreeable
scandal to which his relationship with the reputed
sister of the murderer might give birth.

Ptuth was happy with her friends, and grew to love
them much ; but when she saw Cosgrove haggard and
miserable, cursing the fate which had left him a childless

man, she could not bear to desert him, — he had
always been good to her, — and she determined (to her
friends' great indignation) to make her home with her
step-father. He now began to value her companionship.
He did not talk to her much, but he took
pleasure in being near her, and would remain for
hours wrapped in thought while she sat at her work
or her studies.

Cambaranga was being managed by a superintendent,
and Cosgrove and his daughter where consequently
free to roam where they liked. Part of
their time was spent in Tasmania and part in New
Zealand, for Mr Cosgrove had given up all intentions,
if he ever had any, of returning to England ;
and although he never spoke on the subject to Kuth,
it seemed to her as if he wanted to be near his son,
should his aid ever be required. The fall in wool had
compelled him, with many others, to return and look
after his business himself, and he found that owing
to the incompetence of his manager he had suffered
severely in his means.

In fact, it was a toss-up wdi ether or not he could
weather through the storm. His mind, formerly so
clear, had become clouded and hazy, and the difficulties
out of which at one time he would have
threaded his way with ease, threatened to overwhelm
him.

riLitli Lad not been long at Canibaranga when
Pliocene Gray, who felt much for the lonely girl, rode
over to make a call, and conceived a strong liking
for her. She contrived to excite an equal amount
of enthusiasm in the breasts of her father and mother ;
and notwithstanding the dislike of the former for Mr
Cosgrove, she induced him to drive over with her to
Canibaranga in order to bring Ruth back on a visit.
Her step-father, although demurring at first, yielded
eventually to Mr Gray's representations, that so
continual a life of solitude would prove injurious
to her health ; and she returned with them to
Betyammo, where her unaffected gentle ways and
ladylike manners speedily made her the favourite
of all.

AYilly Fitzgerald had, since his friend's departure,
thought much on what he had said in reference to
Phoebe Gray, and during the many opportunities
which he had of watching her, he was forced to admit
that she was all John had described her to be; but
he could not forget the face or conversation of his
unknown love, and were it not for his eminently
practical nature, he might have been tempted to start
on an expedition in search of her. Time, however,
had begun to weaken the impression, and of late he
had been a more frequent visitor at Betyammo, and
had taken much pleasure in the time spent there. His

visits to all were most acceptable, and to none more so
than to demure little Phoebe, whose fluttering heart
told her the reason why, whenever she heard his
manly voice exchanging greetings with her father,
or his firm quick step on the verandah. Her
fancy for Ruth amused him much, and he was accustomed
to tease her about the enthusiasm with
which she spoke of her new friend. He himself had
not as yet ridden over to Cambaranga, partly from
his old detestation of its owner, and partly from a
delicacy connected with the dreadful career of his
son. He had consequently had no opportunity of
seeing Ruth.

It happened one evening that Ruth, who was staying
for a few days with her new friends at Betyammo,
was standing in the doorway at the back of the
picturesque old cottage. She leant slightly against
the signpost of the door, and mused quietly with bent
head, as she traced lines on the sandy floor with her
little foot. The setting sun was bathing everything
in a sea of golden mellow light, and the heavy bunches
of grapes glowed under their leafy shade. The calm
stillness of evening was unbroken, save for the 'murmured
cooing notes of the squatter pigeons, as they
followed each other down to their favourite water,
and the happy utterances of the bright-winged little
parrots, half-a-dozen of which had nests far down in

the hollow trunk of the gnarled old monarch of the
forest, from whose branches the gigantic convolvulus
hung in richer and more graceful festoons than ever.
Occasionally the lowing of cattle fell faintly upon
the ear, and the smell of wild-flowers became perceptible.
Ruth was suddenly awakened from her
reverie by hearing the peculiar warning cry of Bessie's
old pet, the Native Companion, who came dancing
along with outspread wings, uttering a startled coo'-
oorrrrrooor, coo'oorrrrrooor. On looking up hastily
she became aware of the presence of a gentleman
who had dismounted from his horse, and who was
gazing eagerly upon her with an earnest wondering
expression.

Good God, Miss Bouverie ! " he said, " when did
you come here ? "

For a moment she started. She remembered having
seen a face somewhere like the one now before her,
but she could not recall where. It was a pleasant buta
faint memory, yet she failed to recollect the circumstances.
" I came here to-day from Cambaranga," she
replied ; " but who are you ? "

From Cambaranga ! " uttered Fitzgerald — for it
was he — still more perplexed, and somewhat piqued
at not being recognised. " Is it possible, Miss Bout
that you do not remember me at Mrs Berkeley's
in Sydney ? "

She smiled ; she knew him now, — his A^oice had
been recalling him. It was her turn now to be surprised
and glad, for she had liked the young man,
whose visit had been driven out of her memory by
subsequent painful events. One other explanation,
which Fitzgerald scarcely needed, unravelled the
whole story. Ruth's father's name was Bouverie,
and in consequence, the misapprehension had arisen
which had mystified him.

The sun of nature was sinking to rest amid its
opal and golden glories ; but Fitzgerald's sun had
appeared, and blazed with a splendour and brilliancy
only the more intense for the long night of darkness
which had preceded it. While he gazed on Ruth's
beautiful animated features as she spoke of her childhood's
days, Willy Fitzgerald felt intoxicated with
love. The dark shaded eyes glistened with a moisture
which deepened their soft earnestness, and the
innocent childlike lips trembled as they returned
the thanks of the maiden for service rendered to
the child.

Phoebe coming out of the house at this moment,
curious to know what could have loosened the strings
of Ruth's quiet tongue, took in the situation at a
glance, and a bitter pang filled her straightforward
honest heart. She little guessed how deeply Ruth's
memory had been graven on Fitzgerald's heart;

but she lead heard John West, a day or two before his
departure, make a laughing allusion to some Sydney
lady, whose beauty had exercised a magic influence
over him, and she had ever since cherished a secret
desire to know more of her. She knew now. Unconsciously
she began to hate her friend. A tearing,
burning, horrible feeling took possession of her breast,
which was not lessened when the squatter, after greeting
her kindly, turned once more to Ruth with an
Cedent admiration which betrayed too truly how he
hung upon every word her lips uttered. Poor Phoebe
struggled hard to suppress the anger which had taken
possession of her.

During the evening meal, instances of blind adoration
were multiplied before Phoebe's understanding
eyes, and what appeared to her father and mother
as only natural interest in a pretty girl, bore a
very different significance to her. She passed a
miserable evening, and when she retired to her
room she struggled for hours in prayer against the
horrible feelings which she was amazed to find
deep - rooted in her breast. She slept but little
that night, and awoke next morning to endure a
fresh series of mortifications and unintentional slights,
which lacerated her wounded spirit. And yet in
honesty she could not charge Ruth with behaviour
unbecoming her self-respect. She made no advances

VOL. IL o

unworthy of maidenly modesty, and adopted none
of the little artifices or tactics calculated to excite
a lover's admiration. Her manner, after the first
moments of surprise had passed away, returned to
its accustomed quiet and repose. Unconscious of the
admiration she excited she could not have been ; but
whether it was that she was accustomed to the effects
of her own beauty, or that she valued not the conquest
she had made, Ruth sought not to improve
her triumph. Phoebe observed all this, and still
found it a hard matter not to detest one whose very
indifference was prized by the man she herself best
loved in the world.

Phoebe herself seemed to have faded out of Fitzgerald's
memory, for during the two days that he
spent at Betyammo he was seldom absent from Pith's
side. Inspired by her presence, he became brilliant,
sometimes even witty; his bearing grew more erect
and his gallantry more marked. It was with difficulty
that Phoebe restrained herself from allowing the
state of her soul to become apparent. These were
hours of the acutest agony; but after much fierce
wrestling with herself, she subdued the wild torment,
and schooled herself to bear her lot in silence at least.
It was, however, unavailing. Ruth soon discovered
a difference in her, and for some little time was at
a loss to guess its cause. Phoebe's eyes occasionally

bore traces of weeping, and the calm, well-regulated
mind betrayed signs of an unaccustomed agitation.

A few evenings after the owner of Ungahrun left
Betyammo, the Gray family had separated to retire
for the night, and Ruth, who had sought her own
room, felt impelled to seek out Phoebe, and if possible
discover the cause of her unhappiness. Entering the
little bright chamber, so neat and trim, and suggestive
of maidenly purity, she saw Phoebe kneeling by the
side of the white - curtained bed, her head buried
in her hands. Her knock had not been heard, and
she could plainly distinguish the sobs of the kneeling
girl, as she poured out supplications for aid and
guidance.

Ruth's first impulse was to return as quickly as
she had advanced ; but yielding to second thoughts,
she moved forward, and, sinking beside her friend, she
stole her arm around her waist silently, offering up
her own requests for the direction and assistance of
the suppliant. Together they knelt for some time in
silence ; then rising, Ruth led the agitated girl to a
seat, and sitting down beside her, commenced, without
exactly knowing why, to tell the story of her
own griefs and sorrows. She became aware, as the
history advanced, of an increased interest on the part
of Phoebe when she spoke of John's kindness and the
affection she had entertained for him, and intuitively

she began to suspect the origin of her friend's distress.
Delicately she enlarged upon her own feelings, and
gave utterance to hopes and thoughts which till then
had never shaped themselves in words ; and she felt, as
Phoebe drew closer to her, and laid her sobbing head
trustfully upon her shoulder, that she had been enabled
to administer a degree of consolation which acted in
some measure as a healing balm to the stricken girl.

After this evening they became firmer friends than
ever, but a tacit understanding forbore further approach
to the delicate topic. Fitzgerald was a constant
visitor, but his devotion awakened no response
in Ruth's breast. She endeavoured to time her visits
to Betyammo when business was most likely to keep
her adorer at home : so that, if possible, Phoebe should
be spared the sight of what could not be otherwise
than painful to her.

Fitzgerald himself was at a loss to account for
Ruth's behaviour. He knew that she was intelligent,
and gifted beyond the average, but her brightest moods
were reserved for others ; and exert himself to please
her as he might, he was unable to obtain the smallest
encouragement. Indeed he could not help suspecting
sometimes a desire on her part to avoid his notice;
but he had been so general a favourite, and so much
sought after, that he never for a moment contemplated
rejection.

Stone's search for a home had terminated in the
purchase of a very fine freehold property of over
seven thousand acres in extent, about one hundred
miles distant from Brisbane, and contiguous to a
growing country town. He and Bessie established
themselves here, surrounded by pleasant neighbours ;
and the ex-pioneer devoted his time to the fattening
of store cattle purchased from stations at some distance
up-country, combined with the formation of a
pure-bred herd of shorthorn cattle, — in which pursuit
he took much interest, and which promised him
a most profitable return on the money invested in it.

A visit from Bessie assisted greatly in keeping
matters straight, and a few whispered words of encouragement
in Ruth's ear were a sufficient reward
for her self-control. The latter had feared lest the
stigma attached to the crime committed by her stepfather's
son mio'ht have included her within its with



bring shade, and she felt that, without further evil,
enough had befallen John through his connection
with Mr Cosgrove. On this account she had refrained
from answering his last letter, which, notwithstanding,
she prized as one of her greatest treasures
; and it pained her to think that he might
ascribe to disinclination and incertitude a reticence
which resulted from a desire for his welfare. But John
West had no such ideas ; and at the moment when

Fitzgerald's letter had roused all the latent passion
within him, he loved her with an intensity which-surprised
himself. It was a strange, faithful love —
imaginative indeed, but not the less pure and sincere.
Seeing few of the opposite sex, his mind ever
reverted to the one bright type of it which had captivated
his boyish fancy. The realising of his dreams
one day was his greatest incentive to struggle through
his hard life. Lying down or rising up, his most
secret and cherished thoughts were of Kuth. It was
therefore he rejoiced in his early successes ; they
brought him nearer to her : on her account he fretted
over his disasters ; they removed from him his hope.

Days elapsed after the receipt of the news which
had affected his peace of mind so violently, before he
recovered any degree of serenity. In vain he argued
with himself ; in vain he compared his prospects with
those of his more fortunate friend. The latter was
everything she could desire. What had he himself
to offer ? Even supposing that her love still remained
his — and he laughed bitterly as the thought struck
him — what would he do with her ? He had no home
to offer; and were he indeed to obtain a situation as
manager of a station (a very remote contingency at
this time, when the ruin of hundreds filled each journal
with advertisements from well-known and capable
men, clamorous for employment), what kind of home

would it be to her, brought up in luxury and accustomed
to refinement ? How could she, tender and inexperienced,
encounter the coarse everyday realities
of hard practical life, which were the portion of an
underpaid and overworked superintendent's wife ? He
might at any moment be thrown out of his situation
at the caprice of some arrogant, self-made, vulgar rich
man ; and Ruth's delicate susceptibilities might be
shocked at having perforce to mingle with coarser and
baser natures. No ; it was all a folly. He was mad
to think of her at all. He was worse than mad to feel
as he did towards the friend who had shown him
kindness of the most disinterested kind. What a
docs in the manner would he be to stand between
her and that comfort which goes so great a way in
promoting the happiness of married life !

With these feelings he turned once more desperately
to work, and strove, by the violence of his exertions,
to blunt the sharpness of his reflections ; but
little satisfaction could be derived from the contest
in which he was engaged. It seemed as if the very
forces of nature were arrayed against him; for the
season proved one of the driest which it had been his
fate to witness. A scorching heat withered up all
green-feed, bringing numberless miseries in its train.
The wretched condition of the sheep betrayed their
unhappy state, and their fast-decreasing numbers were

only too sure an index of the utter unfitness of the
country on which they depastured. Scarcely three-fourths
remained of the original number which had
been delivered to John. Vast bush-fires sprang up
in all directions, devouring the dry tinder-like grass,
and filling the air with a smoky haze. The waters
dried one by one. In some there remained a
small quantity of thick, green, watery slime, encircled
by tenacious fathomless mud, out of which the weakened
limbs of the animals, who were attracted by the
smell of the precious liquid, failed to draw their water-swollen
bodies ; and around most of these water-traps
(for they were nothing else) lay embedded helplessly
a ring of slowly perishing, despairing-eyed creatures,
famishing with hunger and dying with thirst under
a blazing sun.

Sheep were lost daily, and wandered about at their
will, all the efforts of the worn-out shepherds failing
to keep them together ; and indeed, in most instances,
it was as a great personal favour to John himself
that the men remained with him during the fearful
drought. Lean, disease-stricken native dogs dragged
their mangy bodies along beside gaunt tottering kangaroos,
without strength or courage to assail them ;
and dead fallacies and other animals lay about
everywhere.
AVhat misery it was 1 Exertions were fruitless to

alleviate suffering or prevent loss, and John felt his
heart hardening; his soul began to rebel, and bitterness
to flow from that inward fount from which
had welled a spring of love to all.

He had returned to his hut after an unusually
fatiguing day of useless labour. He ate his lonely
meal of salt junk and damper, and lighting his
pipe, he paced up and down in front of his solitary
abode. It was one of those* beautiful moonlit nights,
which were without beauty to the owners of the
parched, fatherless pieces of territory, on which they
could behold their stocks dying without being able
to assist them in the slightest. The heaven was
without a single cloud. The sweet influences of
Pleiades had no power to modify the sufferings on
earth, and the red Aldebaran looked pitilessly with
an eye of fire upon a fiery world. All around, the
horizon flared with the reflected glow of hucfe conflagrations.
As he strode up and down in his bitterness
of soul, he realised more acutely the great
weight of the burden which bowed him down. Descending
from the branches of an iron-bark tree
beside him, a beautiful little kangaroo ^ floated
downwards on outstretched wings to the foot of a
tall sapling at a little distance away, and nimbly ass

A description of the small flying squirrel, with exquisitely fine
far. ,

sending it, was followed by his mate, who, quickly
imitating the example set her, perched herself on
a branch adjoining. There they chattered and played,
frolicking among the branches, through which the
white moon shone with cold hard loveliness. As
John watched their merry gambols, some sympathetic
chord of his nature was touched. How gladsome
and joyous they looked ! They were content with
their humble lot. Some degree of their happiness
radiated into his own heart, and he "blessed them
unawares." A feeling of hope sprang up in his soul,
and his fast-waning faith and trust in the good providence
of God struck a deeper root and found a richer
soil. He went about his cheerless work with a renewed
strength ; and shortly afterwards, to his great
joy, a change in the weather brought with it a cessation
from his hardest toil.

'Not very long after the drought had passed away,
John received a letter from young Fitzgerald, enclosing
one from his father, which intimated that arrangements
had been made for selling the run for what it
would bring by auction. The letter went on to state
that, as the speculation had proved disastrous to all
concerned, and as John had lost the capital which he
had invested in it, he was authorised to draw the sum
of £300 as some compensation for the exertions he
had made when in charge.

The younger Fitzgerald's letter merely congratulated
Ills friend on having ended his slavery, and, apparently
taking it for granted that he would make his way
straight to Ungahrun, concluded by saying that they
would there talk over his future plans. These Fitzgerald
had already arranged in his own mind. John
was to manage Ungahrun at a liberal salary, which
would be some indemnification for what he had
already gone through ; while he himself would marry
Ruth, and with her visit the much-talked-of Europe.

The sale was concluded ; John had given delivery ;
and he and his faithful Blucher, now almost out of his
senses with joy at the thought of returning to his tribe,
were on their way down to Ungahrun. The undertaking
of the journey had been a subject of much
inward conflict with John. He told himself how
much better it would be to keep away, and never
look upon Ruth again; but with curious inconsistency
he brought forward stronger arguments, which
proved how ungrateful he would appear to his other
friends should he not return amongst them, if only fora
short visit ; and at last he started with an uneasy
conscience.

Many a well-known spot he remembered as he
travelled along. Here he had camped with his cattle
during the rain. Into these lagoons they rushed when
parched with thirst. This is the identical gully into

wliicli he and his horse fell headlong during the stampede
of his cattle. !Now he is on the Cambaranga run.
He is strong still in his resolution to keep from temptation,
but one look at the homestead and the house
she lives in he must have, if it costs him his life.

They come to a spot where a short cut strikes off
for Ungahrun, and sending Blucher with the packhorses
along it, John keeps towards his own early
home. He experiences somewhat of the feeling
which may torture a condemned spirit roaming in the
vicinity of Paradise.

As he rides through the thick wattles which line
the road, he meets a man with a pack-horse. It is
the station ration-carrier. John has too often performed
the same work not to know his appearance.
A few hasty questions are answered in a manner
which relieve and yet disappoint him. Mr Cosgrove
is at home, but his daughter is not. She is staying at
Betyammo, and the man does not know when she will
return.

John rides on with less interest and a slight attack
of his old gnawing pain. Fitzgerald is doubtless at
Betyammo. Now he is in view of the well-known
head-station. There is the well-remembered woolshed.
It seems only yesterday since he and Stone
visited it for the first time. There lies the garden,
and the little creek which joins its waters with the

main stream. Can so many years have flown by since
this eyes first rested on the scene ? Yonder is Kuth's
mother's grave, — she must often go there. He will
for once kneel where she has knelt, and then he will
depart. He will risk his peace of mind no further.
Quietly he crosses over to the spot which his memory
inseparably connects with her he loves. It is much
the same as when he left it. The railing and headstone
which John had put up about her mother's
grave are still there, but there is a look of trim neatness
about it which shows that loving hands have
been lately at work. How rapidly his heart is beating
1 His boyhood's memories flow over him. He
remembers how fervently his own father strove toward
from him the ills of life, and as he kneels
under the great currajong - tree his mind becomes
absorbed in the past.

Fitzgerald had in vain sought an opportunity to
converse with Ruth in private, for with an amount
of clever tact and skilful manoeuvring which astonished
herself, she had hitherto managed to evade and
put off" the scene which she felt was inevitable. She
liked the Ungahrun squatter much as a friend, and
the thought of the pain which she knew was in store
for him distressed her greatly. Day by day she felt
that the approach of the dreaded hour was drawing

nearer, and that the crisis was alone postponed by
herself.

She had one day taken advantage of a rumoured
absence of Fitzgerald from home to canter over and
visit her Betyammo friends, when to her surprise she
found her lover there before her. He had turned up
in some unaccountable way, as he often did about
that time. Strange coincidences seemed to multiply
themselves in connection with him. This time, his
face wore a look of resolution, and his general air
gave so much evidence of determination, that Ruth
trembled. She felt sure the time for an explanation
had come. Still she struggled to delay it. Insisting
that her step-father could not spare her, she announced
her intention next morning of returning to Cam-banana;
and waylaying Mr Gray privately, she
begged that he would accompany her back. It was,
however, no use. Fitzgerald saddled his horse, deaf to
all hints, and joined the party. Ruth resolutely kept
by Mr Gray's bridle-rein most of the way, and it was
not until within a short distance from the station that
the casual encounter of an intimate and loquacious
friend of the old squatter's gave Fitzgerald the opportunity
he sought for. In a few straightforward and
manly words he said all he had to say ; and earnestly
he made offer of his love, and promised to shield and
guard her, as his heart's most sacred treasure, through

life. His utterance had been so rapid that Ruth,
whose tears fell fast, was quite unable to stem its
torrent. She shook her head, and was endeavouring
to decline the offer as gently as she could, when the
loud greeting whinny of a horse startled them both.
It stood tied up to a sapling near her mother's grave,
and the sound had the effect of causing its owner to
rise hastily from where he had been kneeling and gaze
in their direction.

He stood bareheaded — a tall, muscular, well-built
figure, in rough bush attire, his auburn beard and hair
powdered with the dust of travel, gazing at them with
a frightened stare on his bronzed aquiline features.

"John West !" cried Fitzgerald, in delighted surprise.

Darkly red flushed the weather-beaten face, a tempest
of rage for an instant seemed to pass over the
strongly marked countenance, but only for a moment.
The next minute he had sprung on his horse and was
galloping away, excitedly waving his hands. Whither?
he knew and cared not.

Ruth's tears had stopped with the surprise, but now
they welled faster than ever ; and Fitzgerald's surprise
at his friend's strange conduct but increased their flow.
Attributing her emotion to the same cause which had
first occasioned it, Fitzgerald would have renewed his
suit, but was excitedly, almost passionately, interrupted
by Ruth, who incoherently begged him to

desist; and on reaching the head-station she hurried
to her chamber, in which she shut herself up, resolutely
refusing to see any one, not excepting her stepfather
and old Mr Gray, who feared that she had been
attacked by a sudden indisposition.

fitzgerald wandered about in a maze of astonishment,
at one time canvassing his friend's behaviour,
and next moment that of his mistress.

Nio'ht, however, brought counsel, and in the 
Ruth met him with a calm face ; and while
stating her appreciation of the proposal he had made
to her, and her own deep sense of his private worth,
firmly declined accepting it, causing that gentleman's
visage to assume an expression of more puzzled amazement
than it had ever worn before. In vain he would
have expostulated. Mildly, but decidedly, she put an
end to further entreaties by informing him that to her
the subject was of so painful a nature that its further
discussion could only wound without changing her
feelings.

In desperation Fitzgerald applied for advice, first to
Mr Gray, and then to Mr Cosgrove, the latter appeal to
him a most distasteful proceeding.

Both shrugged their shoulders helplessly, and Fitzgerald
rode home by himself that afternoon, a very
much sadder man than when he left it, vainly seeking
some explanation of so bewildering a state of things.

CHAPTER XXXV.

AN OLD FRIEND TO THE DIGGINGS.

Instinctively the old UnG^ahrun horse bore his rider
along the road towards his home, and several miles
were travelled at the rapid pace they had started at,
before John West's mind returned to its former
balance. His travel-worn nag, however, giving signs
of fatigue, induced him to draw the rein, and proceed
at a more rational pace. A whirlwind of various
emotions had swept over him within the last half-hour,
and revealed to him the true state of his feelings.
Peace of mind was only to be obtained by
flight. He dared not stay. He could not bear it.
Philosophy was nowhere. As he rode along, he overtook
a young man on horseback driving a couple of
pack-horses before him, in company with Blucher.
He had no wish for conversation, and calling to
the latter, was about to pass with a quiet good-day,
when the blackboy, who, having partaken of

VOL. 11. P

the stranger's mid-day meal, had all at once become
on very intimate terms with him, remarked, —

"This one white fellow been know you along o'
England, Missa West."

John looked at the stranger, but failed to recognise
him.

"It is so long ago," said the traveller, "that I don't
wonder at your forgetting me ; and indeed, but for
your blackboy, I would not have known you. I am
Ned, the boy that was in Mr Cosgrove's service, whom
you protected from that bully Cane, the stable lad."
John's thoughts flew back to England, and he remembered
a lad, whom he had often saved at his personal
peril from the rough bullying of Bill Cane, and who,
on his departure, had presented him with his faithful
Spot, — the poor dog whose death by snake-bite
has already been related. " I have been round
here two or three times to ask for you, sir, since I
came to Australia, which I did about five years ago,
for I kept thinking of you, and wishing I could
meet you, but you always happened to be absent
when I passed."

West felt much gratified that the boy's love should
have remained so true, and kindly shaking hands
with him, inquired his history.

It turned out that, from the time of young West's
departure, one thought had taken possession of Ned,

and that was to go out to the country where his
protector resided, and if possible join him there. An
opportunity as a stable-boy in charge of some stud
cattle on board a ship had offered, and Ned had
jumped at the chance. A year or two had been
spent in station work, but a gold-field having broken
out, the lad had forsaken steady employment to become
a " wandering digger."

Two or three attempts he had made, when travelling
across the country from one rush to another,
to find his patron, but hitherto he had been unsuccessful,
and at present he was on his way forth to
try his luck at a fresh field, the report of which
had lately reached him in a letter from one of his
former digging mates.

He had been doing very well on the field which he had
just left, his claim was turning him in about an ounce
and a half of gold a- week, but the "yellow fever"
proved too strong for him, as it did for most diggers.
The news of the distant rush left him no peace.
With the digging community green fields are always
at a distance, and the further away the greener. He
felt constrained to go, so selling his claim for what
it would bring, he started for the hitherto but little
known regions in which the "new rush" was situated.

John had been tempted more than once to visit a
gold-field, and seek his fortune in the bowels of the

earth, but had hitherto refrained, from the feeling
that such a life, once begun, would be difficult to
relinquish. He knew that men slaved away all their
lives in seeking for the big prize which never turned
up, and in following the Will - o' - the - wisp light
which induces them to forsake settled homes, and
comforts, for the phantom of independence. He had
often been warned that a digger's life once commenced
left a man unsettled ever after. He knew
that for one lucky individual there were three or
four hundred unsuccessful ones, and that the gold
extracted from the earth is acquired only at the
expense of an equivalent, and often much larger
sum, brought on to the field, by those who seek for
it, and who lose their little all in doing so. He was
acquainted with all this, but in his present desperate
condition he reasoned not. He had no ties to keep
him back. No one would grieve, should he disappear
amonfj the crowd of miners whose ranks were bein^^j
swelled day by day by individuals such as himself.
He had some money. He had found an experienced
and faithful workfellow. He would try digging.
He could not be more unsuccessful at it than he
had already been.

He camped with his newly found companion, and
after a sleepless night, spent in debating with himself
on the wisdom of the step he meditated taking, he

astonished Ned with the information, that he had decided
to go to the rush, and offered to join him as a
mate.

Ned, to tell the truth, was so taken aback by the
suddenness of the intimation, that at first he almost
doubted whether his old friend and protector was
in possession of his senses ; but on finding nothing he
had to say could shake the resolution which the other
had formed, he expressed his satisfaction, and eagerly
welcomed him as a companion.

He was aware that his diggings' experience had
put him in a position in which he could be of much
use to his new mate, and he longed to make a return
for the kindness shown to him in former days, the
memory of which continually called forth his gratitude.

Blucher was sent home with a short note for Fitzgerald,
announcing that circumstances had arisen to
prevent John's return to Ungahrun, for some time at
least, and the two diggers struck aside into a road
leading northwards towards the " New Rush."

The change of life and the fresh hopes by which he
was animated, helped our hero greatly in overcoming
the troubled state of his mind. His failing courage
revived, and newer and grander castles in the air built
themselves up, step by step, as he approached the El
Dorado of his hope. Somehow he felt as if he really
was to be a lucky one. Others might fail; he met

hundreds who had been digging all their lives, and
who had not yet found the big nugget which they
had never ceased looking for since first they began
their wearisome labour, nevertheless it did not come
home to him. He felt that it would be different with
him. Confidence once more steeled his nerves, and
glorious hope pointed onward to renewed struggle and
victory. Ned had treated him with much respect
from the beginning, and would have constituted himself
a kind of body - servant, but that John firmly
resisted such deference, and stipulated that their conduct
to each other was to be based on terms of
brotherly equality, — terms which Ned found it very
hard to observe, but which John was inexorable in
maintaining. Indeed, as they journeyed along, their
mutual liking increased with the necessity for little
kindnesses and attentions, and Ned's enthusiasm
would have led him almost to death's door to serve
his mate and friend, who never spared himself in anywise.


Fresh horses and pack-saddles had been bought ;
rations, picks, shovels, and tin dishes purchased ; j^nd
they made their way very comfortably among the
crowds steering along the roads, all bound for the new
diggings. Outfits of all sorts, and of the strangest kinds,
could be seen in the motley throng. Here a party
of footmen tramped along with their swans rolled

up on their backs, and their tiu-billies in their hands.
There half-a dozen followed in the rear of an old horse,
bearing the united packs and rations of the party.
Now and then a tilted cart, drawn by three or four
horses, would be overtaken, containing the owner's
family and effects, and followed by a few gaunt-looking
kangaroo dogs. Sometimes they passed a drove of fat
cattle or a few laden teams, all making their way towards
the common focus. Occasionally well-mounted
and equipped diggers, with plenty of spare horses,
pushed rapidly along ; and now and again a helpless-looking
creature, without blankets or food, and evidently
depending upon what he could beg or borrow,
was left behind by them. Once or twice they came
upon a couple of stalwart navvies, carrying their possessions
on a hand-barrow between them, and on one
occasion they passed an eccentric individual, wheeling
his worldly goods in a barrow, his nether man enveloped
for the sake of coolness and ease in a woman's
petticoat. All carried firearms of one sort or another,
from the ancient Queen Anne musket and flintlock
pistol to the latest invention in breechloading and
repeating rifles and revolvers, and every one seemed
animated by the desire to reach the new field as soon
as possible.

Each night the neighbourhood of the water camped
at assumed the appearance of a little canvas village,

which disappeared like magic with the morning's light.
Daily, return diggers were met who, after having
overcome every obstacle and travelled the weary
journey, became disgusted with the unfamiliar outward
look of the country as soon as they arrived, and
turned their backs on it, without ever having put
pick in the ground or washed a dish of dirt, convinced
that, because the features of the land were unknown to
them, it was impossible that gold could exist. The
unfavourable reports of these turn backs were, however,
little heeded by the still onward pressing stream,
who possessed more or less reliable sources of information
in the shape of private letters from trusted
and experienced mates, or relations and friends, — for
diggers keep up a constant communication with
each other.

After about a month's steady travelling, they arrived
at the outskirts of the chief township of the diggings
to which they were bound. For a few miles before
the travellers caught sight of the buildings, trees
denuded of their bark for roofing purposes had warned
them of their proximity to the main camp. Innumerable
horse - bells tinkled everywhere, and here and
there little white tents marked the temporary habitations
of men whose business had led them to the
township.

Descending a cleared ridge, dotted all over with the

stumps of trees whose trunks and branches had been
used for firewood, the two mates came in sight of a
miserable, dilapidated - looking village, composed of
one wide street, full of tree stumps, enclosed between
two rows of rickety, patched, tumble-down dwellings,
the " harpies," for houses they cannot be called, are
of all shapes of architecture, and are formed of the
materials which come readiest to hand. The great
object seems to be the securing of a dry roof overhead.
Most of them have their walls formed of saplings, and
are covered in with bark. Many there are, however,
roofed with calico. Some, indeed, are composed of
calico altogether, and one or two of the more pretentious
are protected overhead with sheets of zinc,
which has done duty on half the cornfields in the
colony. A long strip of white calico on most of the
buildings in the place bears, in black letters, the
intimation that the miserable apology for a dwelling
to which it is affixed, rejoices in the sounding title
of the " Great Australian Hotel," or the " Eoyal," or
Empire," or some other such name, and that its owner
is licensed to sell all kinds of wines and spirits, &c.
The rest of the town is made up of " General Stores,"
a couple of butchers' shops, and a couple of horse-shoeing
forges, built in the same style, together with
a number of peculiar looking tenements, consisting
partly of tilted carts, sheets of bark, calico, &c., the

whole having a tattered, dirty, rabbit-hutch air about
them. Many of these are sly grog shanties, doing a
thriving trade, — for it is a peculiarity about some men
that they rather drink inferior grog at a high price
in opposition to the laws of the country, than consume
their liquor in comparative safety, in accordance
with existing regulations.

The little township is very full of men at present,
but only few are to be seen on the so-called " street."
All hands are either in the public-houses, stores, &c.,
or are at work in the neighbourhood. In each of
the miserable-looking horse dockyards, at the back
of the various hotels, are standing a few saddled
and bridled hacks. The tucked-up bellies and sick
looks of one or two of them, betray that they have
been awaiting thus their owners' pleasure to depart
since morning, perhaps all night. The rickety enclosures
which surround the back kitchens and outhouses
are one mass of broken bottles and sardine
tins, over which run in some instances large pumpkin
vines, thriving luxuriantly among the filth and rubbish
out of which they have sprung. Now and then
a dirty drunken individual, with disordered dress,
and uncovered unkempt hair, bleared eyes, and sodden
vacant features, staggers about unmeaningly, or
stretches himself on the ground. Two or three horses
saddled and packed stand hitched up to the posts in

front of the various stores and public-houses. Sitting
on a bench outside the principal hotel are three or
four hopelessly abandoned loafers, wearing plainly the
stamp of "deadhead" on their shameless features,
waiting to be asked to drink, or listening eagerly for
the not infrequent, " shout for all hands." Inside the
bar stands in front of a row of brilliantly labelled and
capsule bottles and gorgeously painted kegs, a rough
knowing-look ini^ fellow, exerting himself to the utmost
in supplying the wants of a crowd of customers who
fill the rude drinking shop. The few spare moments
between the different orders for drinks he devotes to
giving the already used " nobler tumblers " a slight
rinse, and a hasty wipe with the corner of a much
used towel, or in adroitly pretending to undo for the
first time the capsule of a bottle of 'martel," or
'' Hennessey," which in all probability he himself has
fastened on a day or two before, after filling the
empty bottle with some noxious compound of his
own manufacture. He knows every one, and everyone
knows him by his Christian name. Each time
drinks are called for, he is included. He cannot
drink "hard stuff," however, always. His business
would suffer. He has a private bottle filled with tea,
from which he fills his glass after receiving payment.
He is the centre of information. He is able to tell
every one about their old mates and acquaintances,

how they are doing, where they are working, and
when they are likely to be next in the township.
Most of the disasters are discussing: the merits of the
various creeks and gullies where they have been at
work. One or two are exhibiting a collection of
nuggets and rough gold, which they carry about with
them in chamois-leather bags in their trousers pockets.
At the other end of the bar, the publican's wife,
tricked out in her best, is displaying her charms for
the benefit of a horsey-looking sharper, who has earned
a doubtful reputation for pluck and fastness. He has
already "done" his two years for horse-stealing, and
one or two partners in mining speculations and other
enterprises curse the hour they came across him. He
is sitting on a cask in a corner, his expensive and
beautifully-coloured meerschaum in full swing, playing
on an accordion, at which accomplishment he is somewhat
of a dab. The publican himself is too busy to
attend to details. He is constantly on the road between
the diggings and the port, getting up supplies,
or taking down gold to the bank ; he leaves his business
at home to the bar-keeper and his wife.

Some day there may come a smash. The business
may fail, and the barman may set up a more flourishing
trade himself; and the gay wife may disappear
into obscurity with the horsey accordion-player. It
has happened before. In a little adjoining room, half

filled with casks, some men are playing at cards, and
in the doorway two are quarrelling over some bygone
grievance. Presently their mutual recriminations end
in a fight, and all hands rush outside to see the combatants.
Strong muscular fellows, stripped to the
waist, slogging away at each other with determined
fury, and rolling on the hard ground and tree roots
with their tender white skins, as the chances of the
fight vary.

Everywhere the same scenes may be observed. Men
keep coming, and others departing. Bullock drays
arrive laden, and depart empty. The first place newcomers
make for is, in nine cases out of ten, one of
the public-houses. A few of the steadier go to the
stores. These are also full of men, some preparing
for a start out to the workings. Others there are who,
having a day or two to spare, prefer the quiet of the
stores to the noise of the public-houses ; and there are
one or two yellow-looking fever patients, who have
come to the township to recruit on fresh beef and
vegetables after a severe attack of illness. Every
kind of article likely to be wanted by a digging population
is kept in stock. Picks, shovels, tin dishes,
quart-pots, sardines, jams, pickles, potted meats, blankets,
bellows, hats, boots, slops, flour, tea, sugar, rice,
tobacco, salt, gunpowder, and a hundred other necessaries,
are piled up in heaps. Diggers are busy buy-iii

what they want, paying at the counter for their
purchases in gold dust, of which each seems to possess
a stock more or less. Others are discussing the particulars
of various rushes to different parts of the field,
or narrating to each other the history of the patch
which "Jim the Sailor" dropped on to so unexpectedly,
or which 'brandy Bill" struck, with his
persistent good luck, — for there seems to be a prevailing
feeling that good fortune always attends the most
worthless and reckless characters. The two blacksmiths'
shops which the little place boasts of are full
of horses waiting to be shod. The butchers are busy
cutting up into steaks the' last pieces of the bullock
they have hung up in their shops. There are two
rival meat establishments, and they have already disposed
of two whole carcases each this morning, in the
form of steaks and roasting-pieces, and they are again
preparing to slaughter another apiece this evening to
supply the demand for beef. In fact, everybody is
busy, and the signs of bustle and drunkenness denote
that all are doing well, and that gold is plentiful.

Ned and West dismount at the door of one of the
largest stores. It is kept by a young fellow who has
followed the business of a diggings storekeeper for
many years, and whose cautious industry has been
rewarded by much patronage and popularity among
the miners. It is no easy matter to keep on good

terms with so arbitrary aud independent a set of customers
; and diggings storekeepers, who, as a rale, area
persevering, straightforward, honest set of men, earn
hardly all they make. Ned has known and dealt
with the storekeeper on several other fields, and receives
the welcome of an old friend. The storekeeper
informs them where they may find a good patch of
feed for their horses, and insists on their putting up
the first nio'ht with him in the store. Swans are
brought inside, horses are hobbled out, and the travellers
have barely time to put things in order, when a
great bell is rung at the door of the chief hotel next
door, and a crowd of hungry miners make their way
into the large apartment used as an eating-room. It
is rather a picturesque sight to see so many rough
bearded figures, each dragging a gun or rifle about,
which he leans against the wall close to him. Nor
is the display of firearms a mere show. Only last
week a man was speared and killed in returning to
his tent from the butcher's shop, where he had gone to
buy meat for his supper. A second and third dinner
is served before all the ravenous constituents are supplied,
and the afternoon is spent sitting on the flour
bags in the store, listening to those details of the
peculiarity of the goldfish, and the character of the
workings, so interesting to all diggers. After supper
they stroll through the buildings, and visit one public-bouse

and store after another. All are full of men
drinking and smoking.

This is the "Diggers' Arms." A group of miners
are collected at the bar, listening to the singing of a
rather good-looking but dissipated and reckless character.
He is well known all over the country. He
distinguished himself in early life as a brave sailor,
since when he has had numberless good chances offered
to him, but has ever disgraced himself and his patrons.
He trolls out a rollicking sea song, in a 's
voice, fur the benefit of the company, in expectation
of the "shout" which is sure to follow. In
another, the only hotel which boasts of a billiard-table,
John recognises with extreme pain, in the
bloated face of the billiard-marker, his shipmate
Boyle," who came to the country as " manager of a
station." He has sunk low enough now. He taps
Ned on the shoulder, and they leave the place together.
Nearly all the " harpies " and huddled-up hovels have
an open fire burning near them, encircled with pots,
buckets, and dishes, for the purpose of cooking. As
they pass one of these shanties, from which proceeds
the sound of drunken merriment, the noise of uncontrollable
laughter from the fire attracts their attention.
It is very dark, and standing in the shade they observe
the prostrate figure of an intoxicated white man on
the ground, among the cooking utensils. In his

maudlin restlessness he turns ever and anon, allowing
his nerveless arm to stretch itself so that the
fingers fall in the red hot embers, from which he
rescues them with a sudden shake, caused by the
intense pain, which provokes a burst of amusement
each time it is repeated from a delighted blackboy,
who is comfortably ensconced in his blankets a little
way off enjoying the scene. It is useless to say anything
to the boy, so dragging the unhappy man to a
safer distance, they pass on.

This is the " Emerald Isle Hotel." They glance in
at the door to observe a broth of a boy from County
Tipperary squatted on his hams on the floor, in which
position he is executing, amid fearful howls and encouraging
exclamations, a kind of war dance, which
requires no small degree of agility and strength. " Go
it, Jerry ! Jerry's a terror! " shout the admiring crowd.
Come aloncr " says Ned, "we've had enough of that."
The next place they enter is a rather quiet public-house,
kept by a Chinaman who has acquired the name
of selling good liquor. He is patronised by the authorities
of the goldfish, when they leave the Government'
camp and pay a visit to the township. To-night the
commissioner of the field and one or two friends sit
at the little table in the quiet bar-parlour. There has
been a meeting for some purpose, at which he has

presided, and he is surrounded by a number of diggers,
VOL. ir. g

who enjoy being in the society of the great man, who
is also nothing loth to purchase popularity cheaply.
He is telling them a story about his own digging life.
Listen ! He and some of his mates discovered a good
payable creek on a diggings many years ago, and to
prevent others following his tracks, and participating
in the spoil, he set fire to the grass behind him. (He
will give his audience a classical allusion, it will raise
him in their estimation.) It puts him in mind of that
great general of old, who on invading an enemy's country
set fire to his shipping. *' Who was it ? " he asks
himself, tapping his forehead for inspiration. One voice
suggests Julius Caesar, another Cortes. " No," says the
scholar reflectively, — " no, it wasn't either of them ; "
then, as if a ray of light had suddenly fallen upon him,
he inquires, " Wasn't it Apollo ? "

Returning to the friendly storekeeper's, the two mates
are about to turn in, but alas ! they woo Morpheus in
vain. They are situated between the chief public-house
and the abode of a rival storekeeper, who is subjected
to periodical fits of intoxication, and he has just
entered upon one of these paroxysms. He invariably
commences, so their host states, by driving his wife
out of doors, and to-night the poor woman is seeking a
home where she can. He is particularly distinguished
for the marvellous facility with which he can coin
strange oaths and wicked expressions, as well as for

the enduring loquacity, which characterises him day
and night, without intermission. His conversation and
remarks are chiefly addressed to his wife. He is at
present sitting with a rifle at the open window, upbraiding
her with not having courage enough to come
and be shot. Occasionally he relieves his feelings by
howling after the manner of a native dog. The noise
from the public-house on the other side is almost
equally loud, though of a more varied character, and
John West vowed that his first night passed in the
midst of a digging township should be the last, if he
could help it.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE GOLD QUEST.

The alluvial ground in the immediate vicinity of the
township had been worked out over and over again,
and was now haunted only by the few who had
neither means nor spirit to enable them to pierce
the as yet unexplored regions farther away. It was
therefore decided upon by Ned, who had been indefatigable
in collecting information from all sources,
that he and his comrade should make their way out
to the outskirts of the goldfish, and try their luck on
some of the latest discovered gold-producing creeks.

There being as yet no other spot at which rations
could be procured, they replenished their stock from
the friendly storekeeper's supply, and loading all their
beasts, including even their own riding horses, to the
utmost, they started on foot for the particular creek
on which they had resolved to set in to work.

Wild and savage the country looked as they pursued
their solitary way along a little path for some

distance from the township, and still wilder and more
inhospitable it grew, as, leaving the traces of human
existence, they plunged into the rocky mountainous
barren forest, in which signs of animal life were rarely
met with. Now and then they encountered small
parties of miners, rough, bronzed, and ragged looking,
making their way towards what to them, after
their silent solitary lives, must have appeared a stirring
busy city.

Following the directions given them, in a few days
they arrived at the particular creek for which they
were bound, a dark uninteresting little valley, through
which ran, in a chain of shallow waterfalls, a small
sandy creek. Ou a little flat were pitched a few tents,
and the banks of the creek were being broken into by
a number of stalwart diggers, armed with picks and
shovels. Here and there might be seen men sitting
at the edge of waterfalls, tin dish in hand, willing:
the wash-dirt round and round, with the object of
allowing the golden particles from their weight to
sink to the bottom, and thus get separated from the
earthy matter, which was permitted to escape over the
side of the dish.

Their tent was soon erected, and a piece of ground
selected and pegged out, and daybreak next morning
found them hard at work, and hard uncompromising
work it was. The banks of the stream had to be cutaway

with solid heavy pick-and-shovel labour, until
the wash-dirt (lying upon the clayey substratum) containing:
the gold was reached. This had to be carefully
bagged up and conveyed to the water's edge, after
which it had to be washed in the manner previously
described, and which required no little skill and endurance,
the whole day's work very often not producing
enough to pay for rations. A succession of weeks of
unrewarded labour decided them upon striking their
camp and wooing fortune on fresh grounds. Their
intention was no sooner known in the little camp, than
the deserted spot occupied by their canvas habitation
was measured off and appropriated by some fresh
arrivals, who at once commenced to sink a hole for
luck as they phrased it, on the very site hitherto used
by them as a fireplace, and where they had sat together
night after night discussing their cheerless
prospects. Away they wandered again without having
any definite place of residence in view. Sometimes
they tried one place, anon another, as fancy led them.
In one gully success in a limited degree would keep
them working for weeks, in the hope that by dint of
persistent work a reward for their labour would ultimately
await them. In another and more likely
looking spot, utter barrenness seemed to prevail.

John West's hopes had brightened up exceedingly
on seeing the evidences of so great a plenty of the

precious metal at the Township, but he forgot that
only the lucky ones could afford a visit to that centre
of the hard-working community, and that hundreds
upon hundreds earned barely enough to keep them
going from day to day.

His digging experience was so limited, that he was
unable to believe it possible that poverty could exist
on a great goldfish. He was unaware that, on the
celebrated fields of "Bendigo" and "Ballarat" (where
large fortunes were made every day by the turning of
a shovel), as much misery and want could be witnessed
as in any of the great cities of Europe.

An extract, dated June 8, 1878, taken from the
'Queensland,' ^ will illustrate the kind of life they
led at this period : —

** . . . The country itself and the population peculiarly
favour the raids of hostile blacks. Geologists tell us
that northern Queensland was once covered by a dense
coating of desert sandstone or conglomerate. On the great
watersheds of the Flinders and Cloncurry this overlying
mass has been denuded by the currents and atmospheric
agencies of bygone ages. Downs which rejoice the heart
of the pastoral tenant, nourish on their monotonous surface
fat beeves, where once the wallace and wallaroo coursed
through rocky defiles ; but the source of the Gilbert more
slowly yields to the same influences, and maintains its
primeval character of sterile rock and savage grandeur.

^ Published weekly in Brisbane, Queensland. An ably-conducted
journal, of which the population of the colony are justly proud.

The river itself is a fit prototype of its innumerable
branches. A broad bed of sand winds its tortuous course
through overhanging cliffs of conglomerate, falling here
and there, where the process of disintegration has been
more complete, into low rises, covered with pebbly wash,
and intersected by veins of the strata underlying the conglomerate,
slate, diorite, &c. Sometimes on the banks of
the main river, more frequently in the ravines running
therein, nearly always at the heads of the tributaries and
lesser creeks, wherever the slate has been exposed, and the
auriferous strata are uncovered, the colour of gold is found.
Under favourable conditions — that is to say, where the denudation
has been complete, the process of removal extensive,
and the bars of diorite supposed to contain gold-bearing
leaders sufficiently pierced, and the slate fully bared —
payable deposits of gold are struck, rarely, if ever, bearing
any similarity except in the conditions under which they
are found. In size, form, and value, the precious metal
within a limited area will present great diversities. Sometimes
the leader from which the gold is presumably discharged
could be identified if it were not that specimens
of entirely opposite character, embedded in distinct forms
of quartz, were found lying side by side. Sometimes the
gold is free from quartz, sometimes embedded in greenstone,
sometimes combined both with greenstone and quartz,
sometimes with quartz alone. Often it is as fine as flour;
again it will range from ' colours ' to nuggets of several
ounces. It may be worth only £2, 18s. per ounce ; it may,
and does, assay £3, 18s. and £4. No rule can be laid
down ; and in one case at least the purchaser has one invariable
price, which protects him from much loss on the
inferior samples, and leaves an ample margin of profit on

the better class. The best patches are got in ravines a few
hundred feet in length, where a narrow gutter of two or
three feet contains the payable gold. The mouth is not
unusually poor ; the extreme head of the ravine is also
worthless ; but occasionally the gold is traced through the
exposed slate right up to the conglomerate — in fact, to
points where the beetling cliffs have covered the bed with
such masses that the labour of removing them could not be
paid by the gold won. In no instance has the discovery
of gold in the conglomerate in situ been authenticated,
though careless observers who have got gold in conglomerate
debris may deny the assertion.

"In this region nature maintains a fitting solitude. The
glaring cliffs drop down from a table-land where the
cypress pine surges mournfully in the breeze, half-starved
dingles wake the echoes of the hills by their nightly serenades,
and a few blacks roam from creek to creek and
gorge to gorge, finding, in the innumerable caves into
which the soft substance is excavated, safe harbour and
concealment after a raid on the plains below. To this
region must one come to see the fossieker in all his miserable
state. Travelling in pairs, but usually working separately,
the true gambusino of the north is found. Each
boils his separate billy and provides his frugal fare ; each
pitches his solitary tent ; each works when and how disposed
; each roams the ravines adjacent in search of some
hidden store ; and only when an abundance of water and
cradling dirt convenient points out the mutual benefit do
the two combine and share the joint proceeds. Inducement
for such a life is hard to find. Every pound of food
has to be packed from fifty to a hundred miles. Salt meat
is necessarily the sole form in which meat can be provided.

Day after day, week after week, the patient fossieker tries
creek after creek, gully after gully, ravine after ravine,
with the same result ; the monotonous * colour,' or, worse
still, the occasional presence of a coarse speck, encouraging
the delusion of better things. But allow unwonted success
to have attended research. The dirt is payable, the site
not more than a quarter of a mile from water, and, by unremitting
toil, from two pennyweights to a rarely-attained
millennium of an ounce a-day can be made. What is the
rationale of proceeding? No sooner has a permanent camp
been pitched than watchful eyes have marked the smoke.
Every movement from the camp is noted. Every dish of
dirt has to be picked in a hollow admirably adapted to
conceal approaching footsteps. Huge masses of rock hang
within spear's throw of the unsuspecting miner. The
hard and stony ground hides all vagrant tracks except to
the most experienced. Every pound of dirt has to be
borne on the back over spinifex, or through grasses shedding
barbed seeds directly they are touched. It has to be
washed beneath a glaring sun, aided by all kinds of winged
tormentors ; and hour by hour, nay, every second, there is
the same uneasy consciousness that bloodthirsty and vengeful
eyes are upon you, and that to relinquish your gun fora
minute may cost you your life."

Such was the nature of the arduous unrewarded
pursuits which the two companions carried on at
this period. They had been nearly twelve months
seeking their "fortune" in this manner, and what
little gold they had succeeded in obtaining had
melted away, along with a large portion of John's

slender capital, in providing rations and in replacing
a couple of horses which had fallen victims to
the spears of the aboriginal. Our hero about this
time had undertaken a journey into the township
to purchase a fresh stock of rations and necessary
supplies, leaving his mate alone behind him in the
desolate wilderness, whither their work had drawn
them, to find him on his return (about ten days
afterwards) prostrate, a victim to a severe attack of
malarious fever. How miserably wretched everything
looked. The fire had been out for nearly a
week. The unfortunate man, utterly exhausted by
the enervating disease, had been unable to procure
a draught of water, after exhausting the quantity
which had filled the bucket when he was first taken
ill, and had been at least a couple of days tortured by
excruciating thirst. Utterly debilitated, he had looked
forward to nothing but death as a release to his sufferings,
when the arrival of John again restored a
spark of hope to his breast. Unable to move or
speak, his eyes, dilated by illness to double their
natural size, followed the form of his companion
;ivith a trustful look of confidence and affection,
which revealed that the drooping spirit had once
more taken root and was reviving. The next morning
he was better, and some doses of fever mixture,
together with his friend's society, restored the sick

man in a few days so far that he was able to sit
up and partake of a little of " Liebig's extract," — a
preparation invaluable to those beyond the reach of
fresh meat.

During the periodical attacks of delirium which
accompanied the fever, Ned had spoken much of a
creek beyond the mountains in which he felt sure
a rich patch of gold was awaiting them, and which
he begged John to join him in prospecting as soon
as the weakness which at present prostrated him
should allow them to move. West was at first inclined
to treat these often-expressed wishes as the
whimsical fancies of a sick man which would disappear
with renewed health and vigour ; but in
this he was mistaken. Each day the desire grew
stronger in the now convalescent patient; and as
the spot in which they were then working offered
no great inducement for them to prolong their stay,
they started, making towards the distant range of
high hills, which were visible from the pallet where
Ned had lain during so many weary days alone in
this despair and misery.

Chapter XXXVII.

PROSPECTING THE BOWERS OF THE BOWER-BIRD

DA N GERS — NEMESIS.

Os all diggings there is a class of men who, impatient
of steady, constant labour, devote themselves to the
exploring of hitherto worked and untrodden ground.
These men are distinguished by the name of " Prospectors,"
and to their indefatigable energy and experienced
skill has been due, in many cases, the opening
up of new and valuable auriferous tracts. Among
these men are to be met some of the most intelligent
and brave of the hardy miners of the north, and very
frequently they earn but a poor reward for the perils
and hardships which they undergo. Too often it
happens that they act the jackal's share in pointing
out the prey to the lion "population," and that in
the rush which follows they come off but second best,
notwithstanding the regulations of the gold-fields, by
which the discoverers of a new and payable field are
entitled to a certain reward, sometimes in money,
and at others in extended claims, or both, according

to the ideas of the Government which at the time
may be in power. These prospectors go in well-equipped
parties of from three to six, horsed, armed,
and provisioned at their own expense, and make flying
tours over a vast extent of territory, working a day
here, another there, settling for a fortnight at times
in one place, and again travelling without intermission
for weeks over unlikely-looking ground. Supposing
them to have been successful in discovering
a tract containing, to the best of their belief, payable
gold, it is required of them, in order to obtain the
Government reward and protection for the area chosen
by them to be worked on their own account, that they
shall, on coming in, make a full report to the Gold
Commissioner nearest to the spot, whose duty it is
at once to start back with them, to examine and
report on the field for Government information. An
immense number of eager diggers follow the return
party, all flushed with the hopes of gain. Should
these prove fallacious, and the workings be found
poor, an excitement more or less tumultuous generally
succeeds, and the unreasoning and disappointed
crowd usually turn their thoughts towards hanging,
or at least lynching, the unfortunate prospectors,
who in all probability have been the greatest losers
by the transaction themselves.

Other prospectors there are of a less ambitious

nature. They have no desire that their names shall
descend to posterity in connection with their discoveries.
They are secret and cautious. They confine
their explorations within a circle of from fifty
to a hundred miles outside the known area of the
diggings, and mostly go in pairs. Should they chance
to alight upon a payable creek, gully, or ravine, they
set to work quietly to extract as much of the precious
metal as possible from the soil before they can be
discovered, preferring the chance of what they can
get to the questionable benefit of a Government reward,
with its contingent annoyances. Sometimes
it happens that a few of the roughs and horse thieves,
of whom there are always plenty about every diggings
township, make up a party to prospect, in the hope
of alighting upon some easily-worked heavy deposit
of gold, or discovering a camp of men who have done
so, and thus sharing cheaply in the benefits resulting
from their skill and research. It does not take this
class of prospectors long to equip themselves. They
are acquainted with the whereabouts of almost every
horse of any value on the field. Their nights are
spent in driving them away and hiding them, and
their days in bringing them back after a sufficiently
large reward has been offered by the anxious owners.
They easily get a supply of rations on credit from
the various storekeepers, who, fearful of their possible

resentment, are glad to get rid of them for a
time on any terms. Horses begin to disappear, and
all of a sadden the little township is forsaken temporarily
by a number of scoundrels who have infested
it, and made honest men uneasy about their property.
It is impossible to follow them : they are thorough
bushmen, and have taken every precaution against
pursuit. The white constables, stiff and slow in their
movements, are nowhere beside the quick-witted rogues
who, once mounted, defy the clumsy horsemen of the
law. Now and again reports are brought into camp
about them by men who have seen them in various
places, and a general uneasiness as to horseflesh and
security of property prevails.

John West and Ned were prospectors of the secret
and cautious class. Our hero could not bear the idea
of working among the common herd for a bare livelihood.
He had set his all upon the hazard of the die,
and he felt that on working on the outside there was
a chance which possibly might turn up trumps some
day. He was, in fact, leading a gambler's existence ;
and the expedition on which they had just started,
although Quixotic from many points of view, afforded
them quite as good an opening for success as any
other they might undertake. In this spirit he pursued
his way, quietly listening to, though without
participating in, the sanguine prophecies of his companion,

who, since his attack of fever, appeared to
have acquired a double stock of energy. In one or
two places they came upon ravines which gave promise
of returning a substantial and easy reward for labour,
and John began to doubt whether it was wise in him
to pass them unheeded. Some one might drop on
their tracks, and in following them, discover and
profit by their folly and neglect. Any suggestion,
however, to halt for a few days produced such an
agony of impatience and annoyance, that John, although
feeling strongly convinced of the folly of
doing so, never failed each time to give way to the
imploring entreaties of his comrade, whose great desire
appeared to be to get on the other side of the mountains,
on whose dark and rugged tops his eyes had
dwelt during his recent extremity. Each day as they
approached the great range Ned grew more and more
silent ; and John sometimes felt inclined to think that
his mind had become somewhat deranged by his sufferings.
With difficulty they surmounted the dark,
cypress clothed, conglomerate hills, and with equal
difficulty descended the precipitous rocks on the other
side, into a savage, barren, narrow valley, hemmed in
between two steep mountain-spurs, the sides of which
were covered with stunted palms, grass, trees, and
coarse high fern grass. Making their way slowly,

they at last emerged upon the half dried channel
VOL. II. R

of a creek, crossed in places by great bars of slate.
The bent and twisted ti-tree and river-oak saplings
reveal the fierce character of the mountain torrent
during the rainy season. At present its bed is buta
glaring, burning ribbon, relieved at intervals by a
deep water-hole, which some strong eddy has scooped
out of the sandy bed. The surface of the country
is strewn with quartz pebbles and boulders; and
although not as auriferous looking as some of the
places they have passed by, is nevertheless promising.
As they prepare to cross the creek, their attention
is attracted by a neat little structure under a few
bushes close to them. John recognises it at once,
but Ned has never seen one before. It is the bower
of the bower-bird. It is a most interesting little
building, and Ned dismounts to examine it. In
length it is about two feet. It is open at either
end. The walls are composed of small twigs beautifully
and carefully interlaced, and 'are three or four
inches thick, rising, and becoming gradually thinner
as they do, until they almost meet where they arch
overhead. The width of the little summer-house is
about a foot. It is not a nest for breeding purposes,
but simply a playground — a bower for social intercourse
; and here a number of the skilful little architects
meet together to amuse themselves. "With the
view of beautifying their retreat, the bower-birds have

collected a large quantity of white pebbles, snail shells,
pieces of quartz, crystal, &c., which they have arranged
in neat plots at either entrance, and also on the floor
in the middle. Suddenly Need, who has been kneeling
down examining the wondrous little edifice, gives a
great cry, and starting to his feet, rushes to one of
the pack-horses, from the back of which he tears
his pick, shovel, and tin dish, and hastening down
to the creek, he commences scraping up the drift which
has collected in one of the hollows of the slaty bar
which crosses its bed. In another instant he has
swilled away the sand in a small pool on the rock
close by, and is glaring dazed upon at least an
ounce of bright yellow gold at the bottom of his
dish. John, who has remained sitting on his horse
in a state of speechless surprise at the unaccountable
behaviour of his mate, now dismounts and approaches
him. Ned hears him not ; he is still gazing stupidly
on the yellow heap at the bottom of the dish, one
glance at which reveals all to John. Without a
word, as if stung by some insect, the bite of which
compels frantic exertion, he has rushed to the horses
and possessed himself of his implements, and in
another instant is washing dish after dish of the
golden sand, until he has quite a little heap beside
him on a flat stone, and the sun is sinking low
in the western sky. He looks up. Ned is hard at

work, and the horses are gone. A sudden exclamation
to this effect breaks the spell which has bound
them, and urged by the necessity of attending to their
safety, they both arise and look about them. Their
hearts are too full to speak. Their horses are discovered
grazing a few hundred yards off, and mechanically
the companions unsaddle their animals
and fix the camp.

Once more they descend to the scene of their
labours. They can hardly believe the evidence of
their eyes. Again and again they wash dish after
dish, with the same happy result, until darkness compels
them to desist. As they sit in their tent after
their frugal supper, examining the produce of their
day's work. West, who can hardly realise yet that
everything is not a dream, suddenly asks : " What
made you so determined to prospect over on this side
of the ranges, Ned ? "

"I don't know," answered the other. "I can't
account for it, but when I was lying on my bunk,
slowly perishing with fever and thirst, I kept hearing
a voice in my ears saying, 'Over the mountains there
lies your luck,' until I felt convinced that, could I but
once accomplish the journey, I would at last drop on
the spot we have been seeking so long. The weaker I
grew the stronger became the belief, and at last, with
your return, the hope of gratifying the intense longing

enabled me to cast sickness behind me. I had
thoughts of nothing else. The voice kept ever sounding
in my ears, ' Over the mountains,' and as we made
our way here, I felt certain that step by step we were
nearing our luck."

But," said West, " what was it that made you try
the creek so suddenly ? It was a likely enough place,
but we have tried hundreds of similar patches unsuccessfully."


Well," returned Ned, " as I was examining the
bower of those wonderful birds, and remarking their
taste in laying out their little play-house just like
human beings, I happened to take up some of the
quartz pebbles which ornamented the entrances to
the little wicker abode. Each one, almost, had a few
specks of gold in it. I heard again the voice, ' Over
the mountains there lies your luck,' and then I seized
the shovel and dish. I knew I should find it ; but
it almost took my senses away for all that."

The two friends, excited by their good fortune, continued
talking long into the night, and next morning
daybreak found them once more working with furious
ardour. Day by day the same work, varied with more
or less success, caused the hours to pass with the
swiftness of minutes, and the little chamois-leather
bass were filled to bursting. The first week's work
had produced upwards of 250 ounces of a very rich

sample of gold. The discovery of a rich ravine, debouching
upon the river just above the slate bar
they had first set to work upon, proved of the utmost
importance. If they could only work it out in quietness,
they would have sufficient to satisfy themselves.
It had always been a rule of the two comrades, as indeed
it is of most diggers, to rest from their labours
on the Sabbath ; and in accordance with their usual
practice, on the first Sunday after their discovery of
the golden bar, they had, after resting during the forenoon,
strolled out for a walk. Instinctively they
bent their steps towards the neat little bower, to
whose busy and tasteful builders they owed so much.
There it was, a perfect marvel of ingenuity. As he
stooped down to examine the shells and quartz collected
with so much care and labour, it occurred to
John that, where the quartz specimens were found,
others were to be met with. The character of the
quartz bore a great resemblance to that of much lying
on the ground and filling the mountain gullies around.
Breaking the quartz boulders here and there, they
soon collected a heap of specimens of a similar character,
all indicating that the main reef or vein from
which they had been hurled, or from which the gradual
process of denudation had washed them, lay at
no great distance. Following these evidences up the
mountain slope for about a couple of hundred yards,

they j^ame upon a large " blow " or outcrop of quartz,
sticking out of the earth, over the surface of which
were scattered detached blocks of the same substance.
Gold was everywhere embedded in greater or less
quantities on the matrix, and valuable specimens
were picked up by the friends as they casually
explored the ground about.

Returning next morning to the reef, they collected
and bagged up the most valuable pieces which they
could find, and betook themselves once more to their
work in the ravine, determining to return, if spared,
at some future period, with the necessary tools and proper
appliances for the opening up of the great vein.
Nearly three weeks had been passed in uninterrupted
labour, and the results of their work had assumed very
considerable proportions, when the prospectors were
disagreeably disturbed one morning by the presence of
natives. They had hitherto been remarkably fortunate
in escaping the notice of the denizens of the wilds in
which they lived; but on this occasion they received a
no less startling than unwelcome notice of trespass in
the shape of a spear, which, hurled from behind a few
bushes, at a distance of about eighty yards, passed
within an ace of Ned's head, as he brought up a
bucket of water from the water-hole below the camp.
A bullet instantly fired at the treacherous foe, and
which struck a tree close to him, causing large pieces

of bark to fly off it, had the effect of making hiig. beat
a hasty retreat, ducking his head in the most ludicrous
way as the reverberations of the report among the
ranges assailed him on every side. From this time
forward, however, they had no rest ; a horrible uncertainty
kept them ever on the watch ; and even when
reassured to a certain extent by a complete cessation
of all annoyance for a couple of days, engendering
the hope that their bloodthirsty enemies had left
the vicinity of their camp, a copy on the mountains,
answered in the distance by two or three more, would
again awaken the harassing dread which continually
haunted them.

The experience of native habits which John had
acquired during his squatting life became very useful
in this emergency, and enabled them to take measures
which had the effect of keeping the blacks at a distance,
and of estimating properly their chances of
safety and danger. As a matter of precaution, a hole
had been dug in the floor of the tent, in which all
their treasure had been stowed away, and each night
the day's earnings were secretly added to the hoard.
Digcrinf;^ became a much more arduous task than formerly.
The necessity for being constantly on guard
obliged each to take it in turns to act as sentry,
day and night, — besides which, their horses proved a
source of incessant trouble. Some days before the

appearance of the blacks, one of the animals, a restless
wandering mare, had strayed away, leading the
others with her, and at about six miles' distance had
dropped across a patch of young burnt feed, which
had ever since remained an irresistible attraction to
them. No means adopted to keep them in the neighbourhood
of the camp having the desired effect, the
searching for them on foot became a really dangerous
duty, it being highly imperative that one man should
remain to guard the household gods. On discussing
their position one evening, after a peculiarly distressing
day, and finding that their horses had once
more cleared out, the comrades came reluctantly to
the conclusion that they could no longer remain in
their camp with any degree of safety. The natives
might at any moment take it into their heads to
spear their horses, in which case they would have
but a slender chance of ever reaching civilisation ;
or an accidental spear might, causing the death of
one of themselves, render the escape of the other
next to an impossibility. All things considered,
then, they resolved to be contented with what gold
they had already secured, and to return as soon as
possible, in order to open up the quartz reef, which
they regarded as the most valuable of their discoveries.
Next morning, therefore, Ned, whose turn
it was for that duty, started in order to recover the

truant nags, leaving John behind him to guard the
camp. Down the rocky creek he took his way, his
bridle on his left arm, and his carbine over his shoulder,
keeping a sharp look-out for natives. He came
to the spot where the horses usually ran ; but this
time they were not to be seen, although the tracks
and manure indicated that they could not have left
the place long before. Up and down he searched
unsuccessfully, and at length, following the creek
some distance down into unknown ground, came
upon the junction of a small tributary with it.
Fagged and vexed with tramping so many miles
over a broken, grass-seedy country, he seated himself
to rest for a few minutes on a large granite
boulder, but had hardly done so when the approach
of a horseman from behind startled him.

"Good day," said the stranger, gruffly. "Prospecting?"
"Yes," returned Ned.
"So ham I. Camp hup the creek?"
Yes," again replied Ned. " Seen any horses ? "
No," answered the new-comer shortly, turning his
horse's head up the little creek which sanctioned with
the larger one near them.

I'm looking for some horses," said Ned, " and I'm
fairly knocked up over it. If you see any tracks up
the way you're going, you might fire off your carbine
to let me know, and I'll come up."

The man rode away, and Iste remained where he
was, though without expecting much from his meeting
with the horseman, who was evidently a surly-tempered
man of few words. Ten minutes had
scarcely elapsed, however, when the report of a rifle
sounded up the little stream, followed at intervals
by half-a-dozen others, and pushing hurriedly along,
he caught sight of, and made his way to, his new
acquaintance, who was sitting on his horse, on a
little knoll some distance above the bank of the
creek.

Where are they ? " eagerly inquired Ned, who saw
no sims of the wanderers.

I got two of the ," returned the man, with a

grim, self-satisfied sort of air.

Where ? " asked Ned, looking around. " I don't
see any."

"There's one," replied the new prospector, pointing
with his carbine to the still warm and bleeding
body of a black man lying among the long grass beside
him ; " the other's in the creek. I came across
them unawares, hand 'ad the first hon 'is back afore
'e know'd where 'e was, but this un giv' me a good
deal of bother afore I dropped 'im."

Ned had no great sympathy for the blacks ; he had
suffered too much from their enmity, and, if necessary,
would not have hesitated in taking their lives in defence

of his own ; but this cold - blooded procedure
tilled him with horror.

Did they not attack you first ? " he asked.

They didn't get the slant this time. The

wretches always does when they can, hand I always
serves 'em same way. There's nothing I likes
better nor shooting a good hold stinking buck nigger."

Ned looked at the speaker. There was. something
about him which recalled some vague recollection,
some undefined misty memory of bygone times. He
was mounted upon an exceedingly handsome chestnut,
with a thorough-bred look, which bespoke pedigree
and speed. His air ' and manner proclaimed
him a self-reliant, determined man, unaccustomed to
control; but a glance at the coarse round head, and
repulsive animal features of the face, revealed the
presence of the brutal type of mind of which they
are the certain indications. Comment on the action
would have been as imprudent as useless, so, with
a short farewell, he once more started in pursuit of
his stray property, not at all relishing the parting
words of the black slayer, who shouted after him
that he would look him up at his camp. He had
not gone far when he fortunately fell in with the
fresh tracks of horses, and shortly afterwards, coming
upon the stragglers themselves, he started for the
camp.

The announcement to John West that their whereabouts
had been discovered was as unwelcome as
startling, upsetting, as it necessarily did, all their
previous arrangements. It had been their intention,
after securing their gold, and providing the necessary
tools required by them in quartz-mining, to proclaim
the discovery of the golden region, and secure the
advantages of the Government reward and protection.
It was a simple plan, and one which could not have
failed in obtaining for them every advantage they desired,
provided that the knowledge of the auriferous
country remained their own. It was not to be expected
for a moment that any one with the smallest
experience of digging could remain ignorant of
the rich nature of the alluvial deposits; and it was
equally natural to suppose that the new-comers would
endeavour to be the first in announcing the find, and
claiming the consequent advantages for themselves.
On the other hand, it was just possible that a compromise
might be effected, and that by the amalgamation
of both parties, all might participate in the golden
harvest.

What was to be done ? Ned was strongly against
having any connection with the bad-featured stranger,
for whom he had imbibed a strong dislike. The question
was argued in all its bearings by the excited comrades,
whose agitation was by no means allayed on

seeing a couple of horsemen, with a spare horse or two,
arrive about sundown, and proceed to erect a small
tent a couple of hundred yards distant from their own.
Uneasily after supper they lay for a couple of hours
revolving what plan to adopt under the circumstances.
Night had a^^ain drawn her dark veil across the dismal
gloomy territory, upon whose silence the noisy bustle
and activity of a practical, self-seeking, struggling
world was about to break.

I'm uneasy about this gold, Ned," said West. " I
think we ought to set to work and bag it up properly,
so that we can strike carp and be off the moment we
choose."

I think so, too," returned Ned. " The sooner we
have it wrapped up the better. I wouldn't like that
ugly-looking fellow 1 came upon to-day to get a look
at it."

"Well," proposed John, 'let us start to work at
once. We can't have a much quieter time."

In a few minutes the precious, store was brought
forth from its hiding-place, and lay displayed upon
the large piece of strong canvas which was intended
to envelop it. A noble sight it was, and deeply it
stirred the emotions of the men, whose manifold sufferings
and labours it but inadequately represented.
Silently they gazed for a time, recognising, as they did
so, many a well-known piece of coarse metal which

had rejoiced their eyes in the finding. Heaving an
involuntary sigh, West broke the silence.

"What was that fellow like you met this morning,
Ned?"

His companion was about to reply when a step was
heard outside the tent, and pulling aside the flap the
man himself appeared.

Hi say, mates, you 'ave a nice little 'heap of the
right sort there," he remarked, directing a burning
look of cupidity towards the yellow pile on the canvas.

Springing to his feet, and grasping his loaded carbine,
with jealous rage depicted in his features, John
shouted, " Stand back ! What do you want ? "

Oh, nothing," said the intruder ; " only I com'd
hon a visit."

"Then," sternly rejoined the young man, by whose
side Ned now stood, weapon in hand, " back you goto
your own camp. If I catch you about mine after
nightfall, I'll drive daylight through you. Those are
my rules. Away you go."

Cursing deeply, the surprised and discomfited visitor
slunk back to his quarters, the friends watching his
retiring figure through the trees by the light of the
now rising moon.

Ned," said West, " that man will never rest until
he becomes possessed of the gold there by some means
or other, if possible. He's a more dangerous enemy

than any black fellow among these ranges. I knew
it the moment I saw his eyes fixed on the canvas. I
don't know how it is," he continued, " but the sight of
him set my blood boiling within me. I seem to know
his devil's face somehow."

So do I," returned Ned ; " but I can't think where
I saw it."

Well, no matter; there's but one thing to do now,"
replied John, whose decision always rose to meet any
emergency. "We must endeavour to get away from
here to-night, unawares to that fellow. We'll makeup
the gold and pack the horses (it's lucky you got
them to-day), and start back the way we came. We've
moonlight ; and I'll defy them, or any one else, to track
us over the rocky road we made our way here by, without
a blackboy, and then they'd have no easy job."

Armed with his carbine, our hero kept careful watch,
while his companion hastily completed the necessary
preparations, and by a couple of hours after midnight
they had started, leaving the tent standing and a good
fire burning beside it, to deceive their neighbours.
Slowly but steadily they made their way over the
stony precipitous mountains, and only halted for a
short time next morning in order to partake of a hasty
meal. Daylight enabled the travellers to continue their
journey with greater comfort, but their rate of speed
was much reduced, owing to more than one of their

horses having torn off their shoes in the rocky conglomerate
defiles. They camped that night, feeling tolerably
secure, from the distance accomplished and the
difficult nature of the country they had passed overtaking,
nevertheless, the precaution of keeping watch ;
and three days more brought them by mid - day to
a little permanent mining camp, where, for the first
time since the night of their flight, they experienced
a thorough feeling of safety.

With the absence of the sense of danger, and the
return of confidence, a suspicion began to creep over
John that perhaps he had been too hasty in his conclusions.
How absurd it would look should it turnout,
after all, that the man was a well-known character,
and as honest as himself! He felt ashamed almost of
his behaviour, and was taxing himself with a want of
coolness, when Ned, who had been getting the horses
shod at the forge, came up, almost breathlessly excited.

Any thing wrong ? " asked John.

Only this," answered his mate : " I saw that fellow
who found us out over the mountains, a few minutes
ago."

Are you certain, Ned ? " inquired John, all his old
suspicion flooding on him in a moment.

Quite sure," returned he. " I had been speaking to

an old acquaintance, and on returning to the forge I saw

him for an instant, talking to one of the men. I could
VOL. II. s

not be mistaken about the face. The moment I entered
he went out the back way, and although I followed him
instantly, I could not see which road he took."

Did you ask at the smithy about him ? "

"Yes," said Ned; "but nobody knew. All they
could tell me was that he inquired when we intended
starting."

I'm more certain than ever that fellow is after our
gold," remarked John. " I wish we had it in the Commissioner's
strong box. Are the horses finished ?"

Very nearly."

"Well," replied John, "wait here. I'll go up and
fetch them, and perhaps I may get a sight of him up
at the camp."

He made his way to the forge and got his animals,
but no further information could he glean on the subject
which disturbed him. As he left the smithy deep
in thought, leading the horses along, the loud hearty
Good evening, mate," of a couple of horsemen awoke
him from his meditations. The speakers were a couple
of burly, bearded miners, their long Californian hats
nearly covering their features from view. Each man
was leading a spare horse, packed with a small compact
swag, and both, it could be seen at a glance, were
on their road into town. At first sight John failed to
remember under what circumstances he had seen the
men before; but at last it flashed upon him that these

were the miners who had occupied their deserted
ground on the first camp they had settled on, and who
had started sinking a shaft in their fireplace for luck.

Holloa ! " he cried, his interest becoming awakened.
" Is that you ? AYhat luck had you with that
old claim of ours ? "

Well," returned one of the diggers, " Bill here and
me have been mates this many a year, but taking up
that old ground was the best day's work ever we done
together. AVe took a couple of hundred ounces out of
that fireplace, and ever after we couldn't go wrong
somehow. They've given us the name of the 'lucky
mates.' "

"Many's the time," broke in the other, "Tom here
and me said we wished we could come across you
and your mate, in case as how we could give you a
bit of a lift, if so be as you wanted it, for we've had
plenty ever since."

John thanked the speaker heartily, and informed
him that he had done well himself, and was even now
on his road to the Commissioner's camp with some gold.

We are going there ourselves," replied his friends ;
we might as well go together. Where's your camp ? "

This accession to their strength was a most welcome
addition to our prospectors, whose story was
listened to with great interest by the off-handed,
honest-hearted diggers.

The night passed by quietly, and next morning the
.travellers prepared to accomplish the remaining distance
which lay between them and their destination.

A considerable portion of the road wound through
narrow, rocky defiles, hemmed in betwixt precipitous
cliffs, and was infested by a tribe of savages whose
treacherous ferocity had procured for it a reputation
of the very worst description. Many a time the
spears of the ambuscade natives had been dyed
red in the heart's blood of the gold-loving invaders
of their sterile domains ; and notwithstanding all
the exertions of the native police stationed in the
vicinity, the spot maintained its evil character. The
united party, keeping a careful look-out around them,
had almost reached the most intricate portion of the
stony pass in safety, when wild yells some distance
ahead, together with a shot and the shrieks of a
white man's voice, warned them that once more the
vindictive Myalls were engaged in their bloody work.
Drawing their firearms, they pushed rapidly forward,
and turning a corner, saw, not far in front of them, a
white man rapidly bounding down the rocks on one side
of the road, closely pursued by three or four totally
naked aboriginal, who, with terrific yells, hurled their
spears at their shrieking victim. Several more of
the tribe were congregated on a rock a little higher
up, clamorously engaged over some object on the

ground. The unexpected arrival of the new-comers,
together with half-a-dozen well-directed bullets, had
the instant effect of dispersing the natives, of whom
in less than a minute there was not a vestige to be
seen,

Leavings Ned and one of their difroincrs friends to
look after the man to whose rescue they had so opportunely
come, and who now lay in a fainting condition
on the ground, John, with the other, climbed towards
the rocky shelf where they had noticed the group of
aboriginal collected. A fearful object met their eyes.
It was the orinnincr head of him whose lust of gold
had impelled him to pursue the owners of the golden
heap which had excited his covetousness on the
distant creek, and who had evidently selected this
difficult gorge with a view of " sticking up " and robbing
them, only to fall a prey to the countrymen of
the beings he had himself slaughtered with so little
compunction. As John West gazed on the dreadful
sight before him, awe-struck at the terrible and swift
retribution which had overtaken the hardened villain
in the midst of his crimes, the likeness which had so
puzzled him in life became explained, and it was with
a feeling of the deepest horror that he recognised in
the pale and death-stricken face the battered, lowering
visage of Bill Cane, the murderer of M'Duff. A
thick beard, hiding the lower part of his face, had

concealed this identity, and produced the alteration
wliicli had hitherto proved an effectual disguise. The
mutilated trunk lay some distance off, torn and hacked
by blunt weapons, and in spite of the short time at
their disposal, the eager cannibals had carried away
several portions of the body, for what purpose there
was but little doubt. Descending to their companions,
they found them engaged in doing what they could
for the relief of the unhappy being, who recovered
from one fainting fit merely to fall into another. The
first glance assured John that it was the miserable
Half, but so changed, so cadaverous and wretched
looking, that Ned, who had not seen him for several
years, entirely failed to remember him.

A spear head had penetrated his shoulder, but beyond
that no wound could be discovered to account for
his prostration. Suddenly, as if recalled by the sound
of John West's voice, the eyes of the wounded man
opened slowly, and fixing them steadily on the
speaker, he seemed animated by a desire to say
something. Bending down. West approached his ear
to the lips of the miserable creature, and barely distinguished
the whisper, " I— did not — want to — kill
him," when the relaxed jaw and a rattle in the throat
announced that he had passed away, — M'Duff's murder
being evidently the subject of his thoughts in
this solemn hour. The sudden terror had been too

much for him. His enfeebled constitution was unable
to bear up against the effects of the shock ; and in death,
as in life, the brothers in guilt remained departed.

This awful climax to the lawless lives of the slain
men impressed the onlookers greatly, and all felt
relieved when the arrival of a body of police, who had
been sent for, allowed them to leave the blood-stained
pass. But little notice was taken of the event by the
public in general. Murder by blacks was too common
an occurrence to cause much surprise ; and the report
of the new field discovered by John West and his
mate, together with the amount of gold brought in by
them, created an excitement before which everything
else paled in interest ; and but few days elapsed when,
accompanied by the principal Government authorities,
and followed by an immense concourse of miners, they
returned to the scene of their successful labours.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

EXPLAINS MATTERS IN GENERAL — CONCLUSION.

Willy Fitzgerald, we have already mentioned, returned
to Unoahrun a sadder man than he had left it,
and not less sad than puzzled by the events which
had occurred around him. He could not account
for Ruth's agitation, or for the abrupt and decisive
manner with which she had intimated her refusal of
his offer. Even now he could scarcely realise that
his hopes were for ever at end. He had made so
certain of success that the probability of rejection
never suggested itself to him. Could it really be the
case ? He had surely committed some blunder unawares,
— perhaps he had offended her womanly sensibilities
in some stupid way. He was so utterly deficient
in tact. What else could it have been ? Then
the recollection of her calm, determined manner would
rise, bringing with it a sense of hopelessness, and also
a touch of bitter indignation and resentment, for poor
Fitzgerald had undoubtedly loved honestly and sincerely;

and rejection of love is a sore trial to bear.
What could have been the matter, too, with John
West ? He seemed to have gone out of his senses.
Everything was at sixes and sevens. He would, however,
find his friend at home, and discover that part
of the business.

In this, as we know, he was mistaken ; and the
short note which Blucher handed to him explained
nothing ; nor could the blackboy, who was as perplexed
as himself at his master's disappearance, throw
much light on the subject. What could have made
him behave in so wild and extraordinary a manner on
meeting them the day before ? Was it possible — and
he started as he remembered Ruth's emotion — that
she could have been the cause of the remarkable
excitement which had disturbed him? Had there
been anything between them previously ? The question
threw a new light over everything, — the place of
meeting, — the kneeling posture, — everything seemed
to point to the fact : and then his sudden departure.

It accounted for all.

But did Ruth love him ? Ah ! that question pricked
him with sudden sharp pain. It was true that she
had never given himself any great encouragement ;
and he remembered feeling at a loss for a reason why
she should at times appear anxious to avoid his company.
He had consoled himself at the time by attributing

it to her woman's coquetry, and it had piqued
his fancy rather than otherwise. What a blind fool
he had been ! Gradually it dawned on him that he
had been inhabiting a fool's paradise; and the more
he thought on it, the wider his eyes opened to the
truth, and the surer grew the conviction that his
rejection was final. His reflections, however, did
him good on the whole, for love cannot exist unless
it has love to feed upon ; and the knowledge that he
had wasted his affection on one whose thoughts were
bound up in another was as gall and wormwood to his
self-love.

Kuth, the unwilling cause of his misery, was by no
means very happy herself. She was not at all proud
of her conquest. It only added to her embarrassments.
She was troubled about her step-father, and troubled
about John. Each mail brought worse news than the
last from Europe; and in proportion as wool fell in
value, so did the sheep which produced it. Daily Mr
Cosgrove's affairs grew more hopelessly involved, and
his health worse. Who could have foreseen a few
years ago that such a change could have come over
the strong, selfish, hard man of the world? The
terrible disappointment which his son's career had
wrought had given the first o'veat stroke, and from that
date forth he had gradually begun to sink. The question
of what she should do in the event of his death

not infrequently presented itself to Faith's dismayed
mind with appalling intensity. The Berkeley, it is
true, were her blood relations, but they had been so
incensed with her election to reside with her stepfather,
that she could hope for but little sympathy
from that quarter ; and she knew not where else she
could look to. As to John West, Ruth wept with
vexation when she remembered the pained despairing
expression which had swept over his features as he
noticed Fitzgerald bending over her in the earnestness
of his entreaty. She had longed to see him once more,
and what had come of it? She knew somewhat of
his struggling life, and how unerringly he had
battled for success ; and she trembled as she thought
what utter despair might urge him to. She bore her
troubles, nevertheless, as she had learned to do lon^-
ago, with outward calm. Whatever might have been
the conflict and distress of her soul, no one knew it.
As for the Grays, they lived very much in the same
humdrum style they had done since Bessie's marriage.
The fall in sheep considerably affected the old squatter's
income ; but he had money put by, and owed no
man anything, and hoped by strict economy to tide
over the crisis which was ruining the money-borrowing
sheep-owners all around. Phoebe had seen but
little of either Ruth or Fitzgerald since the event
which had so greatly disturbed the latter's equanimity;

for the former was too busy at home attending to her
step-father's ailments, and the latter would rather
have gone anywhere at this period than to Betyammo.
His self-esteem had been wounded, and he fancied
himself humiliated in the eyes of the world ; and
somehow he felt as if he could willingly have faced
any one rather than Phoebe. She had come out of
the struggles which had tried her so bitterly as gold
comes from the fire. Her unselfish cheery little spirit
arose from the burning flames like a Phoenix from the
ashes. She had bravely done battle with herself; and
although the old wounds rankled and bled afresh now
and asjain, she went about her household duties with
a somewhat unreasoning but fixed belief that whatever
is is best, and that everything is ordered for the best,
cheering and comforting her parents, and shedding
happiness around her.

Stone and Bessie were very comfortable in their
new home, and prosperity still smiled upon them.
John's sudden disappearance had perplexed Stone
exceedingly ; and Bessie's mysterious nods and " I
could if I would " served only to mystif}^ him more.
"Now, Bessie," he would say, "you're just like all the
rest of your sex. I'm sure you think that some love
affair is at the bottom of it ; and how on earth was
the fellow to fall in love ? He hadn't the chance."

Then Bessie would nod her head more sagaciously

than ever, and her husband would give up the conundrum
in despair. Ruth's . rejection of Fitzgerald
]had by no means taken her by surprise, and, to tell
the truth, she rather enjoyed the unexpected discomfiture
of her old friend than otherwise. "It won't
do him a bit of harm," she frequently told Charley.
She was very fond of Ruth, and honoured her for her
consistent character and her devotion to her now
broken-down stepfather, and would willingly have
shown her all the kindness that lay in her power,
but the distance was too far, and Ruth was tied down
to her duties.

At last, however, a day came. On going into Mr
Cosgrove's room one morning to inquire for him, Ruth
discovered him sitting by the window-seat, a letter
spread before him on his knees. The bed was unpressed.
Startled, she approached, and found him a
corpse ! The candle by his side was burnt down into
the socket. He had evidently been dead some hours.
She had long looked forward to the possible occurrence
of the event; but still the suddenness took her by
surprise, and the shock was a severe one. She had
never loved her step-father with the love which most
children bestow so unconsciously on their parents ;
but never having known her own father, and having
lived all her life with the dead man, who had treated
her even in his successful days with a certain amount

of kindness, she could not but grieve for him. Where
he was had been a home to her, and latterly he had
softened and chastised very much in his manner, as he
became more infirm and dependent. The letter which
had engrossed his latest moments was from his agents,
Messrs Bond and Foreclose, and contained an intimation
to the effect that the very unsatisfactory nature of
his account had compelled them to take the disagreeable
step of putting the estate into liquidation, and
the dreaded announcement had probably killed him.
Mr Gray, who was sent for, came over in the afternoon
with Bessie, who had arrived on a visit the day
before ; and Phoebe and the sisters sympathised with
the lonely girl, and carried her off to Betyammo, where
Mrs Gray received her like a daughter, and where they
made much of her, and consoled her with a hundred
womanly little attentions and kindnesses. ]mr Gray
remained at Cambaransja, setting things in order; and
Willy Fitzgerald, on hearing the news, mounted his
horse and galloped over too, taking care not to go near
the house until he ascertained that Ruth had gone
away, after which he stayed, assisting Mr Gray in
putting things to rights, and in endeavouring to do
what they could. Poor Pith ! they soon saw they
could not do much for her. The letter she had herself
seen acquainted them with that. There was absolutely
nothing left. Both men knew that Mr Cosgrove's affairs

had been long in a bad way, but neither had any idea
of their being in so deplorable a state ; and Willy Fitzgerald
implored Mr Gray to accept a sum of money
which would at least keep Ruth from present inconvenience.
She might be allowed to believe it came
from the estate, — " anything she liked," he urged, " provided
she had it ;" but old Mr Gray would" not hear of
such a thing.

"jSTo, no, Fitzgerald, my boy. It won't do. It's
like your generous nature; but it won't do — won't
do. AVhat if she ever came to know about it ? No,
no, it won't do. We'll see about her ; she'll be all
right, make your mind easy."

So having nothing more to do, Fitzgerald rode
home, and busied himself about his work, and endeavoured
to forget the existence of Ruth Bouverie.

When Bessie left Betyammo, she carried Ruth with
her in spite of kind old Mr Gray's entreaties to make
their house her home ; and Ruth, determined not to
eat the bread of idleness, put into execution a little
scheme which she had evolved when staying with
her friends. She qualified as a Government schoolteacher,
and, through Stone's influence, got herself
appointed to the little Government school in the
township near his property ; and on it she expended
all her energies, riding in early in the morning, and
returning again at sundown, to be a companion to

her friend, and gladden the household with her calm,
sweet presence.

The public papers had apprised the colony at large
of the important discovery which had been made in
the shape of a new gold-field, and of the exceedingly
rich prizes which some of the fortunate finders had
drawn in the great lottery, but as yet John had kept
silence about his share of good fortune. He stood
almost alone. He had no one to rejoice with him
except Stone and his wife, — and the Grays, perhaps ;
but they lived too near Ungahrun, and he did not
care about going there. He could not bring himself
as yet to face Ruth as another man's wife. His success
had not come unalloyed by pain. How differently
would he have felt a couple of years earlier!
Then, perhaps, he might have had a chance against
the rich man ; but now — now that he cared comparatively
little for success, everything went well
with him. Ned and he received a considerable
money reward from Government, as well as an
unusually large area along the line of reef they
had opened, and which from the first yielded rich
stone. The gold-fields had proved a success; much
alluvial gold had been taken out of the ravines and
gullies, and many new quartz reefs had been found
out, and where being worked. Machinery had been
attracted to the field at an early stage, and one of

CONCLUSION. 289

the results of the " crushing " was to fill the pockets
of John and his mate over and over again. It was
no doubt a great triumph for him, but on the whole
he found it wearisome. The excitement was passed
away, and he grew sick to death of the bustle and
push around him. He sighed once more for the quiet
bush-life, the lowing of the peaceful herd, the scent
of the trampled sweet marjoram, and the blood-stirring
gallop through the pleasant pasture-lands. The memory
of former days grew irresistibly strong. There
was nothing to detain him. Ned, who had become
a person of considerable importance, undertook the
management of the claim, so, saddling his horse one
morning, he abruptly took leave of his friends, including
the "lucky mates," whose favouring genius had
enabled them to secure the adjacent ground to his
own, and who were in a fair way to become independent
for life, and started south for Brisbane, whence
he made his way up to visit Stone and Bessie.

It was a soft pleasant evening, and Stone, who had
been round the stables and outhouse buildings, superintending
personally the feeding and watering of a
number of choice young pedigree stock, came up and
joined Bessie, as she stood on the grass-plot in front of
the house, nursing her baby. It was her second child,
and the first, a sturdy little man, ran to meet his
father, clamouring for a ride upon his shoulder.

VOL. II. T

Come along, then, old fellow," said Stone, lifting
him up ; " we'll go and meet Ruth, and you shall ride
back with her."

As he opened the little garden-gate leading down
the road he became aware of a horseman riding
towards the house.

"Holloa, Bessie ! " he remarked, calling attention to
the fact, " we are going to have company to-night."

Who can it be, I wonder ? "

No idea : some stranger, I suppose."

Nearer and nearer the horseman drew, until at last,
springing from his horse amid loud exclamations of
delight and surprise, John West stood beside them,
shaking hands and answering a hundred questions.

Indeed, so busy and excited where they all, that no
one noticed Ruth as she rode up, and, dismounting,
entered the little gate, but Mr Stone, junior, who setup
a shout of welcome.

Do you know who this is ? " inquired Bessie.

West turned round, and his heart stood almost still
with the suddenness of the start.

Don't you remember Ruth Bouverie ? " said Stone,
hastily.

Ruth Bouverie ? " returned John, with an unmistakable
emphasis on the surname, and an ashen face,
which caused that of the person in question to grow a
deep crimson.

Yes, of course ; what else ? " answered the settler,
going over to his wife, who had been making a series
of telegraphic signals to him, and accompanying her
inside the house, leaving Ruth and John standing
together on the grass-plot.

What is the matter, Bessie ? " asked the mystified
man. " Anything wrong ? "

"No," she said, laughing; "only you are such a
great stupid, and can't see one inch before you. I
always told you I knew more than I cared to tell
about the cause of John's disappearance, didn't I ? "

"Whew!" whistled Stone. "Oh! that's it, is it?
and my lord here was jealous of Fitzgerald and "

"Something of that sort," returned Bessie. "That's
all right now, though, thank goodness ; and mother
says that Willy has got over the disappointment completely,
and is more there than ever. Now you know,
and just leave them to themselves. They'll be all
right directly."

And apparently knowing, shrewd-witted Bessie was
right, for that evening at supper John West's face
wore a beaming look of happiness, such as had not
lighted it for many a day, while Kuth, filled with
sweet content, listened to the narrative of his adventures
with mingled pity and amazement, weeping at
the last tears of sorrow over the fate of the unhappy
Ealf, with a sincere grief which was undeserved.

But little now remains to be told. Yielding to his
inclinations, John West purchased a compact, well-grasped
cattle station in a favourite part of the country,
where, surrounded by pleasant neighbours, he literally
lives under the shade of his own fig-tree, and drinks
the j nice of his own grape. Ruth, now his wife, moves
about, imparting to everything a feminine grace and
elegance, with a magical touch, which to her husband
is simply marvellous ; and as he rests his eye on her
figure, and the fragrant blossoms of the flower-garden,
which it is her special delight to tend, the recollection
of days of unrewarded toil, and misery, and
danger, fades away, as does an unsubstantial dream
of the night before the brightness of the golden
morning.

As already related, Fitzgerald recovered his soundness
of heart, but not for long. His renewed intercourse
with the Grays brought him once more into
contact with Phoebe, and day by day he became more
and more impressed with her charming character and
sterling qualities, until at last, wondering how he
could have been so blind as to prefer any one before
her, he begged her to become his wife. For some
months Phoebe held out, in order, as she said, to give
him time to know his own mind, but eventually yielding
to his repeated solicitations, she consented, and
the new house at Ungahrun opened its doors to receive

a throng of rejoicing friends and neighbours, eager to
welcome the advent of its new mistress.

Desmard is succeeding well as a squatter out west,
his father having advanced a sufficient sum to purchase
a share in what will, with time, become a valuable
station.

Ned has developed into a machine owner, and bids
fair to become one of the largest mining capitalists in
the colony.

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLJLCKVfOOD AND SONS.

NEW AND RECENT PUBLICATIONS.

This day is Published.
AT HOME IX FIJI. By C. F. Gordon Gumming,

Author of ' From the Hebrides to the Himalayas.' Two Volumes,
post Svo, with Illustrations and a Map, 25s.

She has an artist's eye for the details of scenery and colouring, and her descriptions,
even of subjects so well known and often handled as the coral-reef,
have a freshness which is all their own ; while by the kindred power of instinctively
seizing on the most effective points, she carries her readers with her through
many a quaint and picturesque scene of native life, with the ever-varying and
beautiful background of sea-coast or forest or river-bank, and enables them to
realise her keen sense of enjoyment in it all. She gives us interesting details of

the potters' work, in which Fiji stands pre-eminent throughout the Pacific

From Fiji Miss Gordon Gumming visited New Zealand, and saw the wonders of
the great volcanic and geyser district of the North Island. Her account of her
adventures here, though the journey was hurried, is excellent, and has nearly all
the merits which give their peculiar charm and interest to the letters from Fiji."
A theme.

This day is Published,
THE LIFE OF Colin Campbell, Lord Clyde.

Illustrated by Extracts from his Diary and Correspondence, By
Lieut-general SHADWELL, Cab. In Two Volumes, Svo, with
Portrait, Maps, and Plans, price 36s.

The appearance of the book before us has been looked forward to with much

interest Utterly unselfish in every respect. Lord Clyde's motto through

life was duty. How well he did it, what an admirable example he set, this book
shows, and we therefore hail its appearance." — Times.

The writer's style is uniformly clear and easy. He gives very lucid accounts
of individual military operations, such as the relief of Lucknow; and his pictures
of the more complicated campaigns— the pacification of Oudh and Rohilcund,for
example — leave a vivid impression on the reader's mind"— Si James's Gazette.

"The work is one which will give every satisfaction, and will be eagerly read
in all military circles. No better man could have been selected for the task than
General Shadwell, to whom the bio;,'rapher'3 labour has been — as he himself acknowledges
— a labour of love." — United Service Gazette.

'sin all the annals of 'Self-Help,' there is not to be found a life more truly
worthy of study than that of the gallant old soldier whoso story is now for the
first time told. The simple, self-denying, friend-helping, brave, patriotic soldier
stands proclaimed in every line of General Shadwell's admirable memoir"—
Blackwood's Magazine.

'TWIXT GREEK AND Turk. By M. Valentine

Chiron. With Frontispiece and Map. In One Volume, post Svo.

Thomas Carlyle. An Essay. By General Sir
E. B. Hamlet, K,C,M,G, Second Edition. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

"The principal charm of the book will be the singularly agreeable narrative of
a journey through regions more replete, perhaps, with varied and striking associations
than any other in the world. Practical observations on the resources of
the country, witty and animated descriptions, and ingenious topographical speculations,
are judiciously leavened with personal adventure and original reflections."
— A thence.

The interest attaching to Eastern Palestine is not confined to its ruins, its
topography, and its associations ; the reader will find in this book a vast amount
of most curious and valuable information on the strange races and religions scattered
about the country We thank Mr Oliphant for making us acquainted

with a strangely neglected country, whose charms and capabilities seem to have
escaped the notice of all previous travellers"— Saturday Review.

"A most fascinating volume of travel, and there is as much freshness in the
style as in the subject." — St James's Gazette.

THE TRANSVAAL OF TO DAY. By Alfred Ayl-

WARD, Commandant, Transvaal Republic ; Captain (late) Lyden-
berg Vohmteer Corps. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo,
with a Map, price 6s.

"This is an exceedingly clever and spirited vindication of the Boers of South
Africa— often paradoxical, often defiant, but always bright, graphic, and uncommonly
clever. Mr Awkward suggests some very real dangers which the English
Government is too apt to ignore. " — The World.

BY THE AUTHOR OF 'Julia,' ETC.

THE NEW Virginians. Ey the Author of ' Private
Life of Galileo,' ' Julia,' &c. Two Volumes, post 8vo, 18s.

A bright, chatty, and entertaining 'book"— New York Tribune.

"the New Virginians' is beyond all question thoroughly amusing A

singularly fresh and lifelike book"— Pa Z^ Mall Gazette.

"Decidedly livelier and more entertaining than most no\e\s."— Manchester
Examiner.

THE WORKS OF GEORGE ELIOT. Cabinet Edition.

Printed from a new and legible type, in a convenient and band-some
form. 20 Volumes, price £5.

•' A delightful edition of George Eliot's Works In size, type, and paper,

everything that could be wished." — Athenceicin.

"Nowadays publishers appear to vie with each other in giving to their issues
of books at low prices all the characteristics of true excellence ; and, so far, nobody
has succeeded better than Messrs Blackwood in their Cabinet Edition of

George Eliot's Works A clear and well-arranged page, fine paper, and sound

binding, make this edition so good a one that it would be pronounced excellent,
apart from all considerations of cost." — Pall Mall Gazette.

New and Cheaper Edition, with 19 Illustrations.
TOM Cringe's LOG. By Michael Scott, Author of

The Cruise of the Midge.' New Edition, crown 8vo, gilt cloth,
price 5s.

JOHN MANNERS, M.P., G.C.B. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

CAMPAIGNING IN SOUTH AFRICA. Reminiscences
OF AN Officer in 1879. By Captain W. E. MONTAGUE, 94th
Regiment ; Author of ' Claude Meadowleigh,' kc. Post 8vo, 10s. 6d.

He brings to his task of authorship grim satiric humour, ease and liveliness
of description, and unrestrained richness of observation N(' book has been
published for some time which gives a more natural, unforced, life-like picture
of the soldier's life as it is in these modern days"— I'll Mali Gazette.

"These reminiscences of campaigning in South Africa are written with a dash
and spirit that carry the reader's attention by storm, and keep uj his interest to
the end." — Broad Arrow.

THE HANDY HORSE-BOOK ; or, Practical Instructions
IN Driving, Riding, and the GKNf:RAL Care and Management
OF Horses. By A CAVALRY OFFICER. Ninth Edition,
revised and enlarged. Crown Svo, with Engravings, 4s. 6d.

As cavalry officer, hunting horseman, coach proprietor, whip, and steeplechase
rider, the author has had long experience in the management of horses,
and he now gives us the cream of his information in this little volume." — Athenaeum.


He propounds no theories, but embodies in simple and technical language

what he has learnt practically So skilfully is the matter condenser, that

there is scarcely a single sentence which does not convey sound and valuable
information"— Spoj-iin^r Gazette.

THE OPERATIONS OF WAR Explained and Illustrated.
By Major-general Sir E. B. Hamlet, K.C.M.G.,
late Commandant Staff College. Fourth Edition, revised throughout.
Small 4to, £1, 10s.

"A work of deep scientific research, which needs no commendation of ours to
maintain the high place it has assumed in modern military literature." — Saturday
Review.

It is this science, and the use of those scientific appliances, which Colonel
Hamlet teaches, and teaches better than any living man. His book has come to
be a manual with everj- stat viajeur in Europe, as well as in the staff colleges of
the English Slimy." — United Service Gazette.

No English work has yet at all matched General Hamlet's ' Art of War.' "—
Twines.

THE STORY OF MY LIFE. By the late Colonel

MEADOWS TAYLOR, Author of ' Confessions of a Thug,' ' Tara :
a Mahratta Tale,' &c Edited by his Daughter. With Preface
by Henry Reeve, Cab., and Portrait. Third Edition. Post Svo,
9s.

The autobiography has the interest of an exciting romance, while it abounds
in information, and exhilarates like a tonic our entire moral nature, and gives
us faith in the moral sympathies of humanity. It is a book for young men to
read and study, if they would know the secret of success in life"— British Quarterly
Review.

The career of Colonel Meadows Taylor was almost as romantic as one of his
own novels, and a great charm is imparted to the work }>y the very natural manner
in which the whole of his most useful and eventful life is gi\6U."— Vanity
Fair.

of the Crimean War.' A New Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s.

"We must not linger over the striking scenes that abound in the rides through
Syria and Palestine; the account of the visit to Lady Hester Stanhope; the
Rembrandt-like study of the kindling of the fire in the traveller's first bivouac
on the banks of the Jordan, the first rest under the black tents of the Bedouins
when he became 'the life and soul of the ragamuffin party.' No scene is more
characteristic of his mastery in his own peculiar manner than his graceful study
of the maiden of Bethlehem." — Quarterly Review.

THE ABODE OF SNOW. Observations on a Journey
FROM Chinese Tibet to the Indian Caucasus, through the
Upper Valleys of the Himalaya. By ANDREW WILSON.
With Map of the Author's Route, &c. New Edition. Crown 8vo,
lUs. 6d.

"A thrilling story of adventure, and an instructive account of picturesque
regions which are very little known to Europeans." — Times.

"One of the most attractive books of travel it has been our fortune to meet
with in a long course of years." — Major-general Sir F. Goldsmith in the 'Academy.'


Cervantes. By Mrs Oliphant. Being Yoliime XL
of 'foreign Classics for English Readers." Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Mrs Oliphant has written for English reader's the best life of the author of
Don Quixote ' that has appeared up till now Her conception of his character
is rendered with a clearness, a vigour, and an accuracy that will quake the
hero of Lepanto, the captive of Algiers, and the author of ' Don Quixote ' as well
known as any one of the heroes of her own novels." — Athenaeum.

FOREIGN CLASSICS FOR ENGLISH READERS.

MADAME DE Seine. By Miss Thackeray.

Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

VALLOMBROSA. By W. W. Story. Reprinted from
'Black-wood's Magazine.' In One Volume, crown 8vo.

\ Nearly ready.

Missing PROOFS. A Pembrokeshire Tale. By

M. C. STIRLING, Author of 'The Grahams of Invermoy.' In
Two Volumes, crown 8vo. [/w the press.

ORELLAIN-A, AND OTHER POEMS. By J. Logic

ROBERTSON. In One Volume, cap. 8vo, printed on hand-made
paper. [In the press.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS, Edinburgh and London.

^

■^

UNIVERSITY OF H-UNCJIS-URBANA

3 0112 046410293

r ^"!*

nt****'-"

:ef

i».-w*pi'."r*^"-

'.;- (—•>■

■ < ' "■.>

■''■• '''^**
